He flexed one huge hand, and Rags sensed him gathering magical power. The Ogre was bleeding deeply; he had worn no armor and the Redfang had honed his sword with Skills until it was a razor. But he waited, looking expectant.
Dolom reached out. His eyes glowed and he inhaled hard.
“Hm! Merrha doon!”
He put his hand over the cut, pressed hard. The smaller Ogre hissed and Rags saw steam rising. But when the Ogre Mage took his huge hand away—all that was left was closed, fresh skin.
Redscar’s jaw dropped. Rags stared as Dolom kicked the healed Ogre. She pointed.
“Healing?”
“Potions no need. Magic potions better. Give true power.”
Dolom gave her a triumphant look. Rags had heard no spell. That was…Ogre magic. Her eyes narrowed.
Why did Ogres have abilities most [Mages] could only dream of? But she didn’t ask that question. The fifteen Ogres pledged to the Flooded Waters tribe prepared to move with their families. Redscar would get the task of navigating them back towards Goblinhome if Wyverns couldn’t help with the journey.
“Let us meet again. And give gifts. Okay?”
“In the Highest Mountains. Yes.”
Invek touched her fist to Rags’ tiny one. The Goblins got on their Wyverns and the Ogres waited. They didn’t wave. But they nodded, watching the Goblins take flight. Rags looked back. It was done. The pact established. She closed her eyes. So surprised that another race could be—
Friendly to Goblins.
 
[Great Chieftain Level 34!]
[Skill – Natural Allies: Ogres learned!]
[Spell – Ogre’s Strength obtained!]
 
She didn’t miss the unusual word there.
Interesting.
 
—-
 
In Riverfarm, there was an uneasy meeting of…liminal groups. Peoples who stood on the edge.
Monsters. Goblins.
And [Witches]. Both were welcome here. More [Witches] were coming; a school had already been set up. Or rather, a semi-permanent coven.
Laken Godart was aware the [Witches] had wanted the pact with him badly, but not why. Now he understood. They wanted a base. Somewhere [Witches] could go to for safety and aid, to trade, to meet more of their kind.
There were…more such bases. Not just on Izril. But predictably, the [Witches] were close-lipped about the entire thing. They had loyalty—but only to their own kind.
“We need safe places like everyone else, your Majesty. We had more areas like this before—based around places of power. They’ve waned. But that’s why the covens wanted the pact. Do the numbers of [Witches] bother you?”
Wiskeria consulted with the [Emperor]. He sighed.
“Not at all. I agreed to this. I regard [Witches] as a boon, not anything else. I’m just curious, that’s all.”
He was rewarded with a smile from Wiskeria—one he heard in her voice.
“Well, you’ve impressed Witch Agratha, as well as the others. Most of the new [Witches] are low-level; if any of the…serious ones come, I’ll let you know at once.”
“How many are like Belavierr?”
Laken turned his head and felt Wiskeria hesitate.
“…My mother is unique. Even among other [Witches], she’d stand at the very top. But if you mean—like Mavika?”
“Ah. So she’d be second-best? Yes, how many like her?”
Wiskeria counted on her fingers, biting her lips.
“Mavika’s one of the strongest. And oldest. It’s close to the same thing for [Witches]. I know of about five more between Izril and Terandria, but a lot of the old ones stay to themselves. Mavika is one of the more social [Witches], if you can believe that.”
“Mavika.”
“Well…yes. The only other [Witch] who matched her besides mother was Califor. And she…”
The two fell silent.
“Who is taking care of Nanette? Hedag and Eloise still?”
“I help. But…mostly Eloise. Mavika offered, but I don’t think Nanette wants to walk down that road. She could—but it would change her. She needs to leave Riverfarm for a while, I think.”
Laken nodded. He hadn’t heard Nanette much. But he sensed her, a quiet [Witch] who stood alone even from the ones her age. There wasn’t much…he could do for her. Even with all of Riverfarm’s resources at his disposal.
“Whatever she needs. One last thing, Wiskeria. Mavika. Do you know where she’s got to? Her flock is still flying about Riverfarm keeping the farms clear. But she herself is missing. Someone said she was seen entering the Goblinlands yesterday.”
Wiskeria made a sound.
“I don’t know. Mavika comes and goes. What did she do? Er—I don’t know what she did, your Majesty. Eloise and Hedag might.”
“Ask them. I don’t know either.”
They didn’t know. Or at least, refused to speculate. Laken was left to wonder and the Goblins weren’t cooperative, for all they were trading the ore they mined for luxuries the Humans could provide. Steel nails, potions, soap—Ulvama wanted that—cooking supplies.
But they weren’t the point. The answer as to where Mavika was—well, only Ulvama could have answered that.
 
—-
 
The air was hot. The land cracked with heat. Not dry though; the volcanic activity of this region of Izril was something that would give most geologists from Earth conniptions.
If there had been eruptions in the past, they were few and far between these days. But the igneous rock remained. As did lava.
Something—converted magicore and stones affected by the intense heat—had created a semi-permanent river of molten rock in this region, which in parts was accessible from the surface. The entire region was thus far hotter than the rest of Izril.
Largely barren closer to the dangerous hotspots for the same reason. Flora and fauna adapted to the heat, the boiling hot springs—which weren’t pleasant to reside in given all the detritus and soot—had reclaimed this place. [Alchemists] demanded a number of heat-resistant ingredients from this place.
But few people lingered. Which was how the real inhabitants preferred it. Now—a figure landed out of the skies filled with smoke and ash.
Shapes flew higher, cawing. But the crows of Mavika’s flock kept back, out of the toxic fumes. This was not a place for them.
Mavika landed alone. Alone, but for the raven who flew with her. For a moment—a huge bird, some ancient crow-creature of an age when they had been a true predator—folded its wings.
Then the [Witch] hobbled forwards on two feet as her raven perched on her shoulder.
She walked into a pit hollowed by some huge impact. In the center was the remnants of cooled lava that had blasted upwards centuries ago. A volcano with only traces of the fury that had shaped it. The [Witch] walked slowly.
She knew she was being watched. But the [Witch] did not look around. Her pointed hat, her beady eyes and hunched, bird-like figure…the watchers lowered their bows and withdrew.
They knew better than to attack a [Witch] of her caliber.
The obsidian volcano was a fortress of kinds. Nothing moved and no one had constructed anything on the outside that was immediately visible. Safety first lay in the remote nature of this place, the fact that it was so unobtrusive. Death came for the inquisitive. Like the Flooded Waters tribe, the Molten Stone tribe preferred to hide first.
Mavika had made this journey before. She was expected. Even so—the [Witch] was on her guard.
Wisely so. Because as she entered the Goblin tribe’s base, she raised her head.
A Goblin with a pointed, black hat lined with bits of fiery gemstones sat in an alcove. Watching her.
“Tell her I am coming.”
Mavika looked at the little Goblin [Witch]. The Goblin had been holding a wand, aiming it challengingly at Mavika. The older [Witch]’s eyes flashed and the little Goblin fled.
A child. It was rare to see a Goblin who took to witchcraft. But now there were at least…six. Mavika counted six. Five smaller ones, the best of Wiskeria or Alevica’s level at most.
One fiery power who knew she was coming. But predictably, she let Mavika walk with no signs of greeting.
They were both [Witches]. And it was only a fool who considered that [Witches] could only be Human. But a Goblin [Witch]?
There was exactly one great [Witch] among the Goblins. Normally she sat on her throne. Mavika knew more of Goblins than most due to the connection between [Witch] and Goblin. She had never met the Great Chieftain of the Mountain, but the comparison between the Goblin [Witch] of fire and Tremborag would have been somewhat accurate—
And aroused the ire of both. The Molten Stone tribe’s base became much more livable once Mavika had passed the threshold. But unlike the Mountain City tribe—very little of what they had was pilfered.
They had created the hammocks that kept them off the hot stone floor at night, the vents in their fortress that was essential to let the toxic fumes rise higher. Indeed—this tribe had adapted themselves with the uniqueness most Goblin tribes enjoyed if given the chance to survive for decades.
The Molten Stone tribe wore masks. Wood, or even stone or bits of metal combined with the strongest of reeds. They could cover the mouth and nose or entire face; they were decorated to look like biting fangs or menacing helmets.
It protected them from the toxins in the air. Let them breathe, even deep underwater. Master ambushers. Deadly poison users that even Poisonbite would have been in awe of. Archers—few great warriors, though.
Magic-users. [Shamans] stood among [Mages] and yes, two [Witches] in pointed hats, watching Mavika pass.
She ignored them all. Goblins had little her flock wanted, even if the crows could have lived here. Her raven cawed once.
“Where is your Chieftain? I seek Witch Anazurhe.”
The Goblins looked at Mavika. They slowly pointed. The [Witch] turned her head. Walked on.
She ran into trouble before the grand room where the Goblin [Witch] worked, ruled, and cast her spells. A group of huge Goblins were standing in front of the entrance. And they were not of the Molten Stone tribe.
“Human.”
One whirled. Mavika stopped. This Goblin was…not…a Hobgoblin. He was far too large. She knew his kind.
“Goblin, step aside. I seek the [Witch] of the Molten Stone tribe. Answer me with violence and die.”
The Goblin warrior was one of half a dozen. For answer, they reached for their weapons. The one who had seen her didn’t even have an enchanted blade. Like his Chieftain—he used his bare fists.
Mavika made a sound. The raven, Sephraic, cawed, flapping his wings. Growing larger. The shadows…flapped their wings. The Great Goblin hesitated as the smaller Hobs warily checked their flanks.
The [Witch]’s fingers were like talons. She was growing too. The Goblins watched her, warily, not afraid. They were the third type of Goblin. But before either side could do battle—
The doors blew open. The largest Goblin that Mavika had ever seen charged out of the doorway and rushed at her.
The [Witch]’s eyes widened. She leapt, fluttering backwards. The Chieftain threw a punch. Sephraic dove from Mavika’s shoulder.
The air shuddered with the impact. The raven fell, stunned, and the Chieftain recoiled. Mavika made a sound. This Goblin was dangerous. She reached for him as the shadows leapt—
“Stop.”
Fire shot from the open doors the Great Goblin had come charging through. Arrows made of purple fire lanced into his back. The huge Goblin warrior turned. Grunted.
“She is my guest.”
A voice from beyond. Mavika landed, still furious. She saw the Goblin Chieftain reply in their language. She heard another reply. He grunted impatiently. Without another word he stomped off.
The [Witch] had a guest. Two Chieftains waited for Mavika as she entered the private lair of the [Witch] of the Goblins. The giant Chieftain eyed her.
Two powers of the north. The last two great tribes, with the end of the Redfang and Mountain City tribe. Mavika hissed at the Chieftain.
“Anazurhe. You play too many games.”
The Goblin turned her head. Her eyes gleamed crimson. Like her kind—she had a hat. She bared her sharp teeth.
“I am Goblin as well as [Witch].”
She spoke clearly, with a perfect mastery of the common tongue. The huge Goblin [Warrior] was not so eloquent.
“You trade with Humans?”
He scowled at Mavika, completely unafraid of her. Just…annoyed. Anazurhe corrected the other Chieftain.
“With a [Witch]. Do not anger her or she will eat your eyes. Now. Mavika, why do you come?”
Mavika and the Goblin traded looks. The Chieftain rumbled.
“I was here first.”
Annoyance crossed the Goblin [Witch]’s face.
“You are not a [Witch]. You come to me for a favor. Be silent. Mavika?”
The crow-[Witch] suppressed her annoyance. It was always like this, treating with Anazurhe. She was strong. Wiskeria did not know her, but she would have named her with Califor and Mavika in the same breath. But Anazurhe had not gone to Riverfarm. What might have happened then? Well—the Goblin [Witch] preferred secrecy and the [Witches] had been understandably reluctant to bring a Goblin to negotiations with an [Emperor] they wanted the favor of.
“I bring you two things. Anazurhe. The lesser is a message.”
“From who?”
“The [Shaman] of the Mountain City tribe.”
Mavika offered Anazurhe a letter written on parchment. The [Witch] took the scroll. She opened it, read. After less than a minute she laughed.
Fire blossomed from her hands and ate the parchment away. The [Witch] turned away.
“One [Shaman] does not interest me. Worthless. Why did you really come?”
The huge male Chieftain grunted; whether that was an affirmation or condemnation was unclear. He was impatiently staring into the basin of black liquid in the center of Anazurhe’s lair. Potions, ingredients lined the throne/workroom that the [Witch] possessed.
Mavika nodded. She had done that as a favor. The second thing was just as simple, if…far more urgent.
“The second thing I bring is news for all [Witches] this world over to hear: Belavierr the Stitch Witch has betrayed her kind. She has slain Califor for her own ends, unprovoked. She is a [Witch] alone. Let no one give her aid. Hound her wherever she hides. The Spider has transgressed.”
The Goblin [Witch] swung around slowly. This time—there was no mocking smile, no relaxed look.
“Califor is dead? Belavierr killed her?”
“Yes. If she comes to you—drive her away or kill her. She has lost many of her protections. But she is still Belavierr. A second thing—Riverfarm is now friend to [Witches]. The pact is made. There is also a colony of Goblins there. Treated…well. For Goblins.”
“Ah. So that was why the [Shaman] begged.”
Anazurhe smiled. The other Chieftain looked interested.
“Goblins in Riverfarm. Which tribe?”
Mavika ignored him. Anazurhe did too. She tipped her hat.
“Stay a day, Mavika. My tribe welcomes you. Tell me how Califor died.”
Mavika nodded. She produced a single bag and offered it to Anazurhe. With ritual and spell, she offered the gift. Old magic—just to make the value more.
