It began with gambling.
Numbtongue was sipping from a cup of Blue Tea while he read the morning’s newspaper. The Liscorian Gazette delivered to The Wandering Inn, and he’d gotten to love reading it, especially with the crosswords that Erin had helped Olesm make. There had been an incident with a [Librarian] in Pallass—but that was below the level of ordinary events in The Wandering Inn. He was relaxing.
Blue Tea—an Erin invention that only someone like Magnolia could love.
At least it was blue. Also, possibly poisonous. Previous experiments had not gone well.
It was a low-effort addition to her ‘magical foods’ menu. Blue Tea…gave you a super-blue tongue for about a day. Erin had made it to prank Lasica. The [Chef] had not been amused. Saliss, and many others, had.
As the Hobgoblin drank, someone walked up to him and handed him a card. Mrsha. The Hobgoblin [Soulbard] took it and read.
You’re mean.
He turned the card over and looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll girl scowled up at him. She was holding her head, which still hurt. She glared up at him and the Hobgoblin saw two more little glares from Visma and Ekirra.
“You asked for it.”
He gave Mrsha a singularly unsympathetic look. As was her wont, the Gnoll had decided that along with being a [Druid] and [Wizard] and possibly a [Princess], she also wanted to be a fabulous [Warrior].
She had asked Numbtongue to train her. Which he had, in the way of the Redfangs. He had gently hit Mrsha and her friends until they decided that they really didn’t want to level that badly.
“[Warrior] class is not for you. Redfang Goblins hit and get hit. Cute Gnolls are too weak.”
Mrsha glowered at Numbtongue. She walked off in a huff as the [Bard] went back to his post-breakfast reading and drink.
He was getting soft. Used to the comforts of the inn. For instance—Numbtongue of last year would have been on edge all the time. Even with Headscratcher, Badarrow, Bugear…
No, Bugear had never made it here. Numbtongue blinked. Even with Rabbiteater and Shorthilt—he had never been completely relaxed. But these days?
He didn’t even blink when the Silver-Rank adventurer slid into a seat across from him. It was still rare, but Captain Earlia of Gemhammer wasn’t exactly new to The Wandering Inn.
“Hey Numbtongue…er, you have a minute?”
“Sure.”
He put down his newspaper. The former [Mining Leader] shifted in her seat. She looked—embarrassed, but she came out with it quickly, looking around for watching eyes. Few people gave Numbtongue a second glance except for the newcomers. They tended to be directed to the dozen or so signs that hung around the inn that all said the same thing.
“Er—it’s just that we’re on break. From the dungeon, I mean. Fea slipped when we were removing this trap; laid her arm open to the bone and we ran into some Armorbite slimes. Nasty. Our gear’s getting repaired, so we’re sick of the dungeon for a while.”
“Mhm.”
“So…we were thinking about doing some old-fashioned mining. There’s plenty of deposits if we stick to the area around Liscor’s valley. Uh—we were wondering if you had any good spots?”
The [Bard] blinked. He glanced at Earlia. The Human woman looked embarrassed.
They had traded mining talk a few times. Gemhammer, along with a small group, was aware of Numbtongue’s uncanny mining ability. Well—anyone who saw Mrsha’s silver ball, which was literally silver, or Numbtongue tossing uncut rubies at Octavia knew the Hobgoblin had talent.
Pyrite’s talent. Decades of knowledge given to Numbtongue. Earlia swallowed.
“We’d uh, give you a fifteen—twenty percent cut of what we mine. And if we could borrow that door of yours…”
“Sure. Good vein in the cave next to door. Watch out for something in the cave. Think it’s acid maggots or something.”
Earlia blinked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin nodded to her.
“Wh—really? We’ll go in hard. Might not leave you much. Twenty percent?”
“Sure. I can always find another cave.”
The Silver-rank Captain blinked, but then she was rising, shaking Numbtongue’s hand. He repeated the warning about the maggots—he thought they were the junior version of Acid Flies and he’d been watching out for the Acid Fly Mother, which was apparently…big. But a team of adventurers could handle that, especially [Miners] who knew the dangers.
Earlia promised to tell him what they found later that day and headed off. Numbtongue sipped from his tea. He saw Mrsha sticking her tongue out at him. He stuck out his blue tongue and she giggled so hard she fell onto the floor.
His days were like this. Placid. But Numbtongue had…ambitions of his own. He had developed a hobby. An expensive one, such that he actually wanted 20% of whatever Earlia dug up. After he finished his leisurely cup of tea, the Hobgoblin rose.
And walked into the inn’s new recreation room.
The rec room had been one of the unused rooms, formerly just a private dining area that Lyonette had asked for when the inn was built. Like Octavia, it now had a purpose.
There was a weights room, a private chapel for the Antinium, Stitchworks, an in-progress small bathing room, if only for the aforementioned workouts and so Mrsha stopped bathing in the garden’s pond, and the rec room.
The rec room had a pool table. No ping pong table yet. But a pool table, and a table where cards, dice, was all encouraged. No magical cards yet. Erin had commissioned a deck based on Earth’s world, as well as some lovely bone dice. The rec room had a pair of Humans from Celum in it this morning, playing a Drake—Menolit.
The Humans gave Numbtongue an odd look, but just watched him go over to the table. Menolit ignored Numbtongue as he lined up a shot. Numbtongue sat at the gambling table. And he opened a purse and dropped an ante into the center.
Two silver coins and a rough sapphire sat on the table. The Human’s eyes locked onto the gems and some of the guests in the hallways were drawn by the glitter. Numbtongue smiled to himself.
Gambling was his new hobby. He was no [Gambler]—yet. He was unlikely to get the class, although he was open to it—for him it was an expensive pastime. Not because Numbtongue loved games of probability either. Erin was more suited to the games than he was, for all she didn’t like it. She had taught him all about how to play poker, or count cards, all the unsporting tricks of someone who wanted to win.
Money was of no object. Numbtongue waited for his first opponents, who weren’t long in coming. He reassured them he was fine with downgrading to a four-copper ante—but he left the sapphire in. For ‘fun’.
And soon—he had a game. With Humans. Drakes. Gnolls. Even Dullahans and Garuda from Pallass, on the rare occasions they came in. That was the secret.
Even now, people rarely approached Numbtongue. Earlia was a good example of that. He had few friends, and most of the people he knew weren’t regulars. The Horns were far away. The Hobgoblin was fine with that, but he sometimes wished for Erin’s instant approachability, or Mrsha’s way of endearing herself to people even when she stole food.
He was a Goblin so it was harder. The [Bard] had thought about the issue and he had borrowed a trick from the famous Golden Goblin of the High Passes.
He lost the sapphire in the first bet, but the others stayed in the game. Because every dozen rounds, Numbtongue would add a lump of something—silver, some ore he’d picked up—the iron interested [Smiths]—and in doing so, bought company.
Everyone wanted to win money off the Goblin, who obviously didn’t know how to gamble or what money was worth if he was just throwing it around. They became friendlier, whether genuinely or just so they could sit around. They chatted, and Numbtongue usually won more than he lost.
“So—you’ve been staying here a few months. Er—ever tried Rock Crab?”
A Drake coughed as he looked at the Hobgoblin. Numbtongue regarded his three 2’s and raised his brows.
“Mm. Once. Not very good.”
“Ah, well, they’re not like saltwater crabs. The trick is the blood. Blue, right? You have to bleed ‘em or it’s as foul as Shield Spiders.”
“Really? Fold.”
A Gnoll sat back, looking interested. Numbtongue made a note to try some. The Drake launched into a story as he upped the ante. Numbtongue was fairly certain he would win. And he liked this table so he wasn’t going to cheat.
Sometimes he cheated.
 
—-
 
At the same time as Numbtongue was enjoying his new pastime, a duo with hats entered The Wandering Inn from Invrisil. They were both yawning; they’d had a late night of it.
“Oh! Ratici and Wilovan, right? I can sit you down—anything to eat?”
“Er…perhaps some tea with a sandwich, Miss? And we should be exceptionally grateful for the strongest pot you have.”
Wilovan tipped his hat to the Gnoll [Server]. She knew him; the Gnoll and Drake were regulars at this point. Ratici did the same, despite his foul mood and exhaustion. There was such a thing as good manners and no excuse for lacking them.
The two Gentlemen Callers seated themselves. Ratici yawned into a claw. Wilovan sniffed the air. It was the Drake who said it.
“Wilovan, you know I’m not one to complain…so I’d appreciate it if you were to take my next words with that in mind.”
“I have seen you stabbed and say nary a word, Ratici. Go on.”
The Drake [Thief] nodded, looking reassured. He drummed a claw on the table as their food arrived, hot, fresh, and fast. He enjoyed that.
“I have to say this inn is a fine place, Wilovan. A fine place. One I’d not mind visiting on our regular rounds about Izril. However—a fine place can grate on the nerves, especially with nothing to do but sit and eat.”
Wilovan adjusted his tall hat as he looked around.
“I take your point, Ratici.”
They were…bored. They had to sit here, day in and day out. They could engage in extracurricular activities, as they had last night in Invrisil. But their time was mostly devoted to getting fat and sitting here.
“Of course, we are being remunerated in no small way to sit and eat, Ratici. One might feel that it’s unfair to complain.”
Ratici made an uncharitable noise.
“[Lords] get paid to sit and eat, Wilovan. Are we that sort? I’m saying—the Tallman is paying well, but this is ridiculous.”
The Gnoll [Thug] had to agree. The pay was good, excellent, even, but the problem was…
“If we could just split up, and make this a proper security operation, I’d be fine with leaving a Brother here. Even five. But…”
The Drake nodded. They looked around for Erin Solstice; the young woman wasn’t immediately visible. And they shared a thought which was too ungentlemanly to voice aloud.
But this inn was insane.
When they’d accepted the Tallman of Baleros’ invitation to guard the inn, the Gentlemen Callers had assumed there was some ongoing threat. Monsters? No problem. Rival gangs? Well, they’d done for that small group in Liscor. But the two had learned to their displeasure that the problem wasn’t one thing—it was Erin Solstice.
She…attracted trouble. Normally, the callers would leave the inn, stay in the city, and only come running if someone screamed for help. But in The Wandering Inn—trouble could appear in five seconds, especially with the magic door.
“Perhaps we should tell the Tallman we’re cancelling the contract. Return the remainder of his fee.”
“It’s a thought, Ratici. Let’s eat first. No sense deciding on an empty stomach.”
The Drake nodded restlessly. He had vouched his displeasure and his partnership with Wilovan was such that the Gnoll took it seriously. They’d make a decision today. They weren’t ones to wait about.
The cup of tea woke both men up—and their bladders. Ratici stood.
“Excuse me. Be back in a moment. Wilovan, if you’d care to trade off, we could take turns having a nap…”
“I wouldn’t say no.”
The Drake [Thief] nodded and walked out of the inn. These days they had to have one person right in the inn at all times. The riots had proved that Erin Solstice was beyond willing to risk her neck. It hadn’t gotten to the point where they wanted to sleep under the same roof; they could attract trouble themselves. But it was boring.
The [Thief] noticed everything as he walked past the other guests, through the inn. He was a master-class, a [Gentleman Thief] beyond compare. He could tag almost everything.
Concealed acid jar in that table leg. Better not break it in a fight.
Crossbow in the hidden wall-compartment there. And there.
Block of cheese the Gnoll had hidden and forgotten. Ants were into it. Actual ants. A pity.
Dagger under the floorboards. Dead gods, that Goblin was paranoid.
He sensed these things. He couldn’t help it. The only thing Ratici couldn’t see through was the door to the Garden of Sanctuary. It drove him crazy. That—and the Named Adventurer’s bag of holding. Ratici was frankly amazed at some of the levels of people who came through this inn. But boredom was b—
Gold nugget on the table. He backtracked and stared through the open door. He saw Numbtongue tossing down his cards.
“Anyone for another game?”
“I’m out.”
Menolit collected the gold nugget with relish. Numbtongue reached for his bag of holding for something else to offer. Some of the others were rising too, grumbling and checking their money pouches.
He looked around—and there was a Drake with a cap.
“Me, sir. If you’re willing to play a game, I should be quite delighted to play cards. What’s the game?”
Ratici appeared at the table before the rest of the gamblers had even made up their minds. He smiled at Numbtongue and didn’t look at the Hobgoblin’s bag of holding, which had—
If it was possible for a [Thief] to be in hell, it was Ratici, knowing he couldn’t steal that bag of holding the Goblin was carrying. But, dead gods, he was going to get some of that if he had to win it! The Drake produced a worn set of magical cards and Numbtongue sat forwards.
“You have magic cards?”
“I do indeed. And you are…Numbtongue?”
They had never really met. The Hobgoblin nodded.
“I don’t know magic card games. But I can play…”
He placed a silver coin on the table. And after a moment, added a little stoppered vial.
Full of gold dust. Instantly, the table was full. Ratici’s grin widened. He was going to get that gold. And the blue diamond the Hobgoblin was carrying. To that end, he showed the Hobgoblin all the cards.
“Let’s play Seaman’s Vault. You know all the cards? Same commands. You say Ivet to activate this one—see? Invisible card in your hand, free to play…you can keep it between rounds…”
