“I will tell you of her death and what came after. Of an [Emperor] who sees nothing and all. Of Belavierr’s death that Califor took for her child. We will speak for a day, Anazurhe, then I leave you to your tribe. But first, a gift from the [Witches] of the Human tribes.”
The Goblin’s eyes brightened. She took the little sack and opened it. The Goblin [Warrior] wrinkled his nose. He sniffed.
It was tea.
“Ah. Eloise’s tea. Good. This is a good gift.”
“Anazurhe.”
The Chieftain had lost his patience. He brought one fist down on the basin containing the black liquid. It jumped and both [Witches] turned.
The Goblin [Witch]’s eyes flashed with fury. Fire roared around the Great Goblin, but he was unmoved. It burned at him, but his skin was like steel.
“Cast your spell for me now. Or I will become angry.”
Anazurhe pursed her lips, but she nodded. Mavika stepped back. She had come on [Witch] business. But this…this was a Goblin’s matter with [Witch]’s magic.
“Give me my price.”
The [Witch] addressed the Chieftain. He curtly pulled something out of his bag of holding, tossed it at her.
“From adventurers.”
Three magical rings, each of strong power. Anazurhe made a sound of delight. She inspected each one and then nodded.
“For you, one ritual. What do you want?”
“My tribe was captured in battle. Warriors. Show them to me.”
The Goblin [Witch] walked over to her basin and peered into it. A shape emerged as the Chieftain described them. The [Witch] nodded as Mavika waited.
“There they are. Far and not far. What is your wish? My magic is not limitless. I can cast one thing. Do you want their freedom? Safety? Location?”
The warrior folded his arms. His eyes glowed as he thought for a second.
“Freedom.”
He waited as Anazurhe cast her spell, drawing on the power of her tribe. Then he turned and walked away, satisfied. His tribe left with him; they had marched for over a hundred miles for this one purpose.
Mavika watched him go. Then she saw the Goblin [Witch] massage her back. The two looked at each other. Then they sat to have tea while Mavika told Anazurhe all that had passed.
They said nothing of what had happened. Nor did they interfere with each other’s business overlong. Their species mattered, and did not matter.
After all. They were both [Witches].
 
—-
 
You could arbitrarily categorize Goblins into three types. The first, was the Goblin that had not learned fear.
The second was the Goblin who had learned to be afraid. And the last…
The menagerie came to Invrisil with fanfare and as part of a larger circus. Of course, they didn’t call themselves that. Igil’s Illustrious Izrilian Illusories was a known troupe which toured with ‘wonders’ on display, and a lot of alliterative references.
It was the kind of thing that attracted money from people who hadn’t the coin to go out and see all these amazing things in person. The production had everything from a caged Griffin to [Mages] specializing in illusions, [Acrobats], [Bards]…
Of late, the fair had been doing well. If they toured correctly, north Izril had enough money to keep them going and visiting cities which had never seen (or forgotten) the fair. Everything had been going really well in fact, and Igil the 3rd had been counting his coins and looking forwards to this leg of the trip.
…Right up until he ran into the Players of Celum.
The turnout for the travelling fair was low. Invrisil was more used to the fair, but the population of the city should have earned quite a large number of attendees with the show of setting up. But—something was wrong.
“Where are all the guests?”
Igil demanded in bewildered hurt. For answer, he was directed to the Players of Celum and the Season’s Theatre, which now had three different teams of [Actors] all dedicated towards putting on shows nonstop.
“Theatre? Well, we have [Bards]. Let’s put on a performance! Better yet—what if we combined our businesses? Some kind of joint effort? Dead gods, I’ll buy them if they’re that popular.”
That statement made everyone within earshot of the [Fairmaster] burst into uproarious guffaws and earned him eighteen coppers and two silvers in tips for the joke. Igil stomped off.
The truth was that the fair had a lot to offer—but the play was new, and new trumped Igil’s performers. Added to that—some of the ‘exotic sights’ like the winged Garuda performer who flew with some of the [Acrobats] and [Tumblers] performing death-defying stunts at altitude, even from rooftop to rooftop…didn’t impress Invrisil’s people.
“We have Garuda in Invrisil. And I visited Pallass just yesterday to see what the fuss was about those skating boards. Garuda everywhere.”
One of the visitors was singularly unimpressed. Igil stared at him.
“Pallass? Yesterday? Do you have a magical carpet or something?”
A lot had changed that he wasn’t aware of. The magical door, for one. But—it wasn’t really important. Igil’s woes, the circus coming to grips with acting…
What mattered was that as the [Fairmaster] cut the price of admission and desperately advertised with his fair just outside the city proper, he had some of the caged ‘wonders’, which were actually monsters, brought into the city to show off. Among the wagons were the monster train, which had horrifying creatures designed to terrify those who saw them.
No Crelers. There had been…an incident. But huge bug-monsters, colorful slimes. The Griffin, an exceptionally angry natural Ice Golem who needed magically-reinforced bars—
And the Goblins.
They sat in the caged wagon, unmoving, shielding their faces from the rocks and other things the fair offered people to throw at them. The announcer who was advertising shouted.
“Captured in battle near First Landing! Fierce Goblins—look at the Hobs, but stay back! Don’t throw rocks—don’t give ‘em anything to throw back!”
The Goblins didn’t move. The menagerie keepers were quick to remove anything the Goblins could use as a weapon, but the Goblins just sat there. There were eighteen of them, five Hobs. All of the same tribe. Their heads were bowed and even when someone drew blood, they didn’t move.
They were waiting. And they were a third kind of Goblin. In fact—the pedestrians grew tired of venting their fury onto the unmoving monsters and moved on. There were plays to see, and the Goblins refused to do anything, even when the keepers tried to rouse them with spells or sticks from afar.
The Goblins waited, patiently. They had waited for a long time but they knew they would have a chance. They knew about the Molten Stone tribe. They were a third kind of Goblin. And then—
The smallest of them was a full-grown Goblin adult. Just small. He was picking at some dried blood on his side when his ears heard something. Something so quiet that none of the other menagerie keepers or audience detected.
The slight click of the tumblers turning in the strong lock on the cage he’d been unable to open. The Goblin’s head rose. He nudged the others.
And grinned.
 
—-
 
Numbtongue found that Wilovan and Ratici were quite affable. They chatted for a while about weapons. Wilovan claimed that a good club could beat a sword or spear or anything else—in the right circumstances. Numbtongue had debated asking him to prove it—and decided against.
It was a peaceful day for him. Right until someone mentioned the menagerie.
It was a thoughtless comment. Erin Solstice was debating going into Invrisil. She still had yet to use the Solstice Booth herself and Grev was bored.
“Wesle and Jasi’re preparing to perform for all the hoity-toity nobles. Well, nuts to ‘em. Why don’t you let me show you around Invrisil? It’ll probably be hil—I mean, fun! Honest. I wouldn’t let you get into trouble. Not with me about.”
“Yeah, you say that, Grev, but didn’t you lead me into an ambush with [Thugs] the first time we met?”
Grev looked hurt and guilty. His eyes shifted sideways as Numbtongue, Lyonette, and Mrsha all peered at him.
“That was ages ago. I’m changed, Miss Erin! I owe the world to you! Tell you what—why don’t we go to the menagerie? The fair’s in town. Igil’s Illusory…something.”
“The what? The fair?”
Mrsha perked up. Grev began to explain.
“It’s got [Tumblers], [Acrobats]—all kinds of shows! Mind you, I don’t think it beats the Players, but it used to be the biggest thing a small village’d see. There’s even the menagerie! All kinds of monsters in it. A wild Griffin, slimes, other things…”
“I’ve seen slimes. Poo slimes especially.”
Grev grimaced and picked at an ear.
“Right. I forgot you lived near Liscor. Er…but there’s always new monsters. Hey—anyone know what the fair in Invrisil has in the menagerie? Any new acts?”
He shouted around the inn. There were murmurs.
“The Ice Golem? They feed it water and you can get shavings.”
“There’s a Garuda doing an act…”
No one wanted to say the obvious bit. However—Ratici did. He called out as he looked at Numbtongue.
“They have some Goblins from up north. In cages.”
The Hobgoblin dropped the cloth he’d been using to polish the sword Pelt had made. He nearly cut himself. Erin looked up.
“What?”
The [Thief] tipped his hat. Wilovan smacked him on the shoulder. But it was too late. Erin Solstice’s eyes narrowed.
“They have Goblins in cages?”
“Er…why don’t we not visit Invrisil? It’s boring. I’ve been there too often. Tell you what, I’ll take a look, report back…”
Grev tried to soothe Erin. Lyonette walked over. She looked at Numbtongue, Erin, and then addressed them both.
“You two cannot cause an incident. Whatever you do—think about it first.”
“What? I would never cause an incident. You know me. I’m calm, right, Numbtongue? Calm Erin. That’s what they call me. Yup, yup. Where’s my frying pan?”
Erin got up. Lyonette looked around for reinforcements. Numbtongue was caught in indecision. But—again—
It wasn’t his call to start what happened next. He was just an observer. As Lyonette tried to drag Erin back with Ishkr and some of the staff and Erin just ‘wanted to go for a walk’ while Wilovan hit Ratici again on the shoulder—
They heard the first call to alarm coming from Invrisil.
 
—-
 
Their tribe was small. There were eighteen of them. Five Hobs, thirteen Goblins. Malnourished. Unarmed.
They casually stood up and stretched. Some of the bored audience brightened. A few more objects flew. A Hob batted a stone out of the air with an ease that unnerved some of the Humans. He looked around as the [Beast Tamers] and other workers stirred themselves.
“Hey. They’re getting restless. Make sure they don’t have anything to throw.”
One of the senior workers poked a junior member forwards. Grumbling, the young man walked around the cage, safely out of arm’s range with a long stick. He saw a Goblin, one of the smaller ones, standing by the door.
It was staring at him.
“Hey, get back you damned Goblin.”
The man poked at it with the stick. Calmly, the Goblin grabbed the stick mid-poke and snapped it against the bars of the cage. It regarded the pointed stick.
“Hey! Watch out! Drop the stick you fucking Goblin.”
One of the guards pointed a wand at the Goblin. They’d blast it down before it got a chance to throw the stick. The Goblin regarded the wand. Then it casually pushed at the door to the wagon.
The wagon hadn’t been opened since they’d been tossed inside so it stuck slightly. But the door…swung open.
The Humans froze. The Goblin calmly stepped out of the wagon. It looked at the young man who’d tried to poke him with the stick.
The Goblin grinned. He planted the stick in the Human’s eye and grabbed the dagger at his belt.
The scream—the shocked silence was broken as one of the Hobs stepped out of the wagon. He took the blast of magic on his chest and then lunged. The Goblins leapt from the wagon as the audience fled. The guards rushed forwards—
The eighteen Goblins stood in silence a minute later. Now they were armed, albeit with the menagerie’s limited weapons. The Goblin who had used the stick looked around.
“Coming that way.”
He pointed. One of the Hobs shouldered the sword he’d taken, and nodded at the others. They walked down the street.
A group of Invrisil’s [Guards] were first on the scene. They saw the Goblins walking towards them. Five Hobs and thirteen Goblins. The Humans were twenty in all—equal numbers. They faltered as half of them felt their [Dangersenses] go off.
The Hob in front grinned. Now they had armor and weapons.
 
—-
 
“The Goblins have escaped! They’ve killed the guards and they’re slaughtering the Watch!”
Someone shouted from Invrisil’s side of the door. Everyone stopped restraining Erin and turned to look at her. Erin hesitated.
“That wasn’t me. P-probably.”
Numbtongue felt a surge in his chest. Yes! But—then he heard more screams, horn-calls in the distance. And he realized—something was off.
These Goblins weren’t running. They were—
 
—-
 
Advancing. Thirteen Goblins were left after two clashes with the Watch. It made no sense—if you understood Goblins.
They should have waited for nightfall and quietly made a run for it after exacting vengeance. That was what Numbtongue, most Goblins would have done.
But this group had attacked in broad daylight. They were heading further into the city, having escaped before even being wheeled back to the fair.
They did not care about running. Nor had their Chieftain paid the [Witch]’s price for mere flight.
All five Hobs walked down the street, backed up by the smaller Goblins. They were banging their weapons on their shields, roaring. They were—speaking.
“Adventurers! Come!”
The people fled ahead of them as one of the Goblins shot a crossbow, reloading. The Hobs stopped as the first team appeared.
Silver-ranks. One of the Hobs raised his stolen shield.
“[Magicbreaker Bl—]”
The [Fireball] detonated. The other Goblins braced. But the fire had stopped; the blast only travelled in front of the Hob. The [Mage] lowered her staff. A bolt appeared in her forehead and she fell down.
The Goblins charged. The five remaining adventurers saw the first Hob swing his sword up and bring it down on their leader’s head.
One Goblin died. The rest moved ahead. Further into the city. Looking for the Adventurer’s Guild, the Mage’s Guild—or the gates. Whichever came first.
They were so relaxed. Vengeance didn’t move them. They were…
Unafraid. But they halted when the screams took on a different note. One of the Hobs spotted a unit of more elite [Guards] pulling back from a pincer move. He held up a hand, sensing something.
And there she was. The twelve Goblins saw her round the corner down the street. Just one face among many. But the sight of her made fear flicker in their minds. In their souls.
