“Wh-what’s—”

Rika was stirring more, seemingly unable to sleep through all of this commotion, even on a bed so comfortable.

“No.” Markus stopped, he unballed his fist, and he leant against a nearby wall, staring into space. “No, you’re right. How could you know. How could you know that I didn’t know? It’s my fault. I could’ve asked more questions. I didn’t. I didn’t ask…”

He crumpled to the floor. He brought his knees to his chest.

“H-hey,” Rika started, slowly rising. “What’s going—”

“I didn’t wanna know,” Markus said, his eyes vacant and grey. “I didn’t wanna know, so I didn’t ask. I didn’t wanna worry about it. I needed to just focus on my task. I just wanted to get stronger…”

Markus sighed, his breath skipping as he tried to get a handle over his tremulous chest. He needed to stop. He needed to get over this. The world was still fucked. Nothing had changed. Those creatures down there, they—

“Were… were they all—”

“No,” Abrah said, shaking his head. “Just some of them.”

He began to walk past Markus, then stopped short.

“I think they were in pain.”

He placed a hand on Markus’ knee. He looked at him.

“I’m gonna try and get that chest open, okay?”

“Okay,” Markus replied, staring off into space.

Some time later, Rika came to sit next to him.

He barely noticed her, even when her body brushed against his.

She spoke, but her words were a mile away.

“Hey, Markus.”

It was maybe the third time she’d tried that he managed to answer. Somewhere in the corner of the room, Abrah was fiddling with the chest.

“Yeah?”

“What are we doing down here on the floor?”

“This place…” Markus was empty. His words rang hollow. “This place is so fucked up…”

“Yeah,” Rika nodded, grabbing his arm and holding it. “We play with the hands we’re dealt in a place like this. Even if that hand is super shitty.” She shrugged, brushing against him as she did. “I don’t know what happened, but I’m sure you did your best. You seem like a good person. Inediwn weref flksd astals—”

The words lost meaning after a time.

He could feel her warmth against him. It was like an island he could never reach.

He felt a creeping loathing beginning to settle within his chest.

He didn’t deserve this. He hadn’t earnt this.

“You should leave.”

He interrupted her mid-sentence. He felt her bristle against him. She recoiled at his words.

“Markus?”

“You should leave. You don’t know me, and I’m dangerous, and you could get in trouble for trying to help me. You shouldn’t be wasting your time with me.”

“You shouldn’t say things like that. I wanted to help you, and I can do whatever I want to d—”

“Just get out,” Markus said, the words spilling from him like blood. “Go find something better to do. I’m not worth your time.”

“Markus…” She sighed. She glanced at him a long while.

Markus said nothing. He felt like a hole.

Rika eventually stood. “Thanks for reading to me.”

Her voice was shaky. Markus wanted to ask her to stay. To tell him everything would be alright.

Markus said nothing.

“I’m sorry what this place is doing to you. If you change your mind…”

She hesitated. She left it at that.

She walked out the cell.

Markus sat for a long time. The sounds of metal scraping against metal were horrible, grating, sickening. Almost cathartic.

“Why’d you choose to fight?” Abrah asked, finally, after minutes, hours, fuck knows.

“I dunno.”

“You just do it so you could be the man? Be honest.”

“...”

“You just proving something to yourself? Is that it?”

“...”

“I used to be a dad.”

Markus blinked.

“I thought kids learned better if I was hands-off. I let ‘em take their licks. I did everything I could to try and make those kids strong for when I weren’t around no more. Didn’t listen to a word their mother said. Why would I? Bitch reminded me of my own. Stinking fucking waste of a parent she was.”

Markus shifted a little. A light drip sounded in the background.

“I did everything how I knew best. Made every decision. Did it all without a second thought, because I knew best and I wouldn’t hear a fucking word otherwise. Thought I was doing a good job for a while.”

Drip. Drip.

Drip.

“Now those kids ain’t around no more. I’m still here. All the learning in the world won’t bring ‘em back.”

The lock finally sprang free. Abrah placed a hand on the chest.

“I didn’t curl up and die, though. I’m still fighting for something. Might be fucked up but it’s what I’ve got left.”

“I…”

“You fucked up. Maybe more than once, I dunno. But you ain’t dead, and it ain’t over. ”

Markus shuddered; Markus sighed.

Markus rose to his feet.

He felt wobbly. Like he might fall over at any point.

“Hey. This is a fucking score. Come check this out.”

Markus ignored the chest, walking over to the bed and slumping. “I still feel like a monster…”

“Then you ain’t a monster. Least not yet.” Abrah crossed the room. “You should hold onto that feeling. Use it to get right.”

“How do I…”

“You just get on with it. Even when it’s fucking tough. You do it. It’s all you can do.”

Markus settled into the bed, unwilling to check the contents of the chest. Not yet.

After a time, a fluffy hellhound appeared behind him, and Abrah freaked the fuck out.

She licked his face. Markus sighed.

He ran a hand through her fur.

Her and the snoring orc next door were worth fighting for. Hell, even this so-called piece of shit traitor imp almost felt worth fighting for at this point.

He couldn’t lay here and wallow. He had too many people depending on him.

He hadn’t come all this way to give up.

But he needed to own that there were things he could be doing better, even if this place was rough as fuck to traverse, even if Markus had so many emotions and constraints assailing him—he needed to rise above it all.

For all of them; for himself.

Ask difficult questions. Learn what you’re doing and why you’re doing it. Don’t let emotions rule you, but don’t be afraid to feel either.

Be more willing to compromise.

Accept who you are, and fight for what you believe in.

“Alright…”

“Fuck, you’re still awake?”

“Yeah.”

He wasn’t surprised at the response. It’d been a good thirty minutes.

“Okay… I’m ready. What’s in the chest?”
