Ceria shook her head and sighed.
“Unless you’ve created one of your freakish leveling undead that you keep saying is possible, forget it. Even a regenerating skeleton won’t be that useful when we fight something like a Rock Crab.”
Pisces sniffed.
“No need to mock. Toren is a perfectly capable construct. Very well though. If not him, then who?”
Erin thought.
“Ryoka?”
“Hah!”
Ceria laughed out loud and even Yvlon smiled. Erin looked confused.
“Why? What’s wrong with her?”
“Frankly, Erin, even Pisces is a better choice than Ryoka.”
“Thank you for that.”
Yvlon nodded.
“Capable though she may be, she has no levels and her skills at fighting aren’t adequate for killing monsters. No.”
“Then how about me?”
This time Erin was the one who jumped. She looked around at blinked.
“Olesm? When did you get here?”
“Just now. I uh, was dodging Zevara but I knew you were going to discuss this today. Ceria mentioned it.”
The Drake looked proud as he took a seat at the table. Erin went back into her kitchen for more pancakes and Ceria covered her face with a palm as Pisces and Yvlon glanced at her expressionlessly.
“I mentioned that? When?”
“Last night. I…want to join your group.”
Pisces raised an eyebrow as he took a drink. Yvlon was silent, but Ceria could read the mood. She sighed. This was hard.
“Olesm—”
The Drake looked around the table, and he raised his voice slightly.
“[Tacticians] are very useful! Didn’t I prove my worth down in the crypts?”
“You did. I’m not saying you’re not useful. You can save lives. It’s just—”
“The class of [Tactician] is quite useless in small groups. Your skills are best used to aid large formations, not individuals. Unless you have adequate combat skill, you are relatively useless.”
Pisces delivered the explanation flatly while looking away from Olesm. The Drake stared at the Human.
“I want to become stronger.”
“Then by all means, join an army or play games of chess. But I would vote against your inclusion into any adventuring team.”
Yvlon sighed. She didn’t look too kindly at Olesm, but she nodded.
“So would I. I’m sorry Olesm, but Pisces is right. Rude, but right.”
“Ceria?”
She couldn’t meet his gaze.
“I—you’ve got your job, Olesm. This is what I do for a living, but you—I’m sorry.”
Olesm looked hurt and angry. Ceria’s heart hurt. Without a word, he stood up.
“Hey Olesm! I’ve got pancakes! Well, some are more like crepes, but—”
Erin paused as the Drake turned and strode out of the inn without another word. The innkeeper looked at the table, confused.
“What happened?”
“It’s nothing. We just…Olesm can’t be an adventurer. He took it hard.”
“Oh.”
Erin paused, and then set the pancakes on the table. Pisces grabbed another one, and Ceria sighed. The silence lengthened.
And then the door opened again.
Ceria looked up hopefully, expecting to see Olesm coming back. She could apologize—
But it wasn’t Olesm. It was an Antinium who walked in, but one Ceria only vaguely remembered. It wasn’t the one called Pawn, or the one called Klbkch. Erin recognized him. She gasped.
“Ksmvr? What happened?”
The Antinium was wounded. He stumbled into the inn, bleeding green. Ceria half-rose from her table, the spell for [Ice Spike] coming to her mind as Yvlon did likewise and Pisces shoveled down his pancake. Halrac had turned in his seat, and the party of Drakes and one Human had frozen.
Ksmvr didn’t appear to hear Erin at first. He stumbled a few more steps into the room, pausing as she rushed over to him. Toren was at her side, but the skeleton was clutching the sword hilt at his waist.
“You’re hurt!”
Ksmvr nodded. He had several deep cuts in his exoskeleton, but the worst of his injuries was his arms. One of them was missing. His lower right arm was a jagged stump of exoskeleton. It had been patched with some kind of grey goo, but traces of green still seeped around the bandage.
“I have been…relieved of my duties.”
He wavered, and nearly collapsed into the chair as Erin rushed him to a table near the three adventurers. Ceria and the others turned back to their meal, but everyone was listening as Erin and Ksmvr spoke.
“What happened? Did something attack you?”
Ksmvr half-nodded and shook his head as Erin snapped for water and cloth. A shrinking Lyonette brought the items to another table and Erin began making a messy tourniquet.
“I am no longer the Prognugator for my Hive. Or rather…I am, but I am no longer required to fulfill my duties.”
The Antinium said the words dully as Erin fussed over his injures. She looked at him with genuine concern in her eyes. Ceria had trouble doing the same; despite his wounds and the Antinium she had met, she still had a hard time forgetting what they had done. By the looks on Halrac’s and Yvlon’s faces, they felt much the same.
“What? So there’s no Prognugator? But I thought that was important.”
“Revalantor Klbkch will fulfill my duties in the interim. He…is far more qualified than I.”
“But what did you do? What happened?”
“I failed to hold the line.”
Ksmvr said nothing more as Erin bandaged him and offered him food – raw meat and fish, the things Antinium could digest. Ceria eyed his injuries. It looked like he’d been in combat from the wounds, but something was missing. What was it?
His weapons. Yes.
He was missing his two swords and daggers. Without them, Ksmvr looked naked and smaller.
“Looks like the Antinium have their own battles. Intriguing.”
Pisces didn’t even bother to lower his voice. Ceria glanced at him in irritation, but the mage was studying Ksmvr with interest. The Antinium was nodding as Erin hovered around him, asking if there was anything he needed.
“I am fine. I am…fine. I have no purpose. I came here to…to…”
Ksmvr looked at Halrac.
“My Queen will begin negotiations for the immediate excavation of the ruins. The entrance is known to the Antinium. There are many…many monsters guarding it.”
Halrac hesitated. He frowned at the Antinium, but eyed Erin and just nodded.
“We might talk.”
“Good. That is good.”
Ksmvr sat in his chair, head bowed. Ceria tried to talk more with Yvlon and Pisces, but her attention was totally on the conversation the two were having.
“So, uh, first missions? Where should we go first?”
Yvlon shrugged.
“If we can, I’d like to find a good job here, but the odds are slim. We’d have to go either north or south.”
“North.”
Pisces said it firmly.
“I have dealt with Drakes and Gnolls; they don’t trust humans. Given that we are almost all human, or have human heritage, we will find better employment north of here. In Esthelm, perhaps.”
“It’s a long trip, though, and it will take a while to get off the ground. We’d be earning only a few silver for the safer quests, and there’s not even a guarantee of getting a decent-paying one against tough monsters. Either way, it will be a struggle. What do you think, Ceria?”
“Hmm? Yeah…”
Ksmvr was talking to Erin. Ceria’s ears were better than a Human’s, and she could hear him as he spoke in a low voice with her.
“I came here to find you. You gave Pawn purpose and Klbkch thinks highly of you. I…don’t know what to do. I am a failure.”
“Don’t say that! You’re got tons of skills! Like…chopping things off. I mean, you can fight, right?”
“Revalantor Klbkch is by far my superior, despite his reduced levels. I am worthless. I cannot—”
“Springwalker? Are you even listening?”
Ceria looked around.
“What?”
Pisces gave her a pained look.
“Money. Where will we find it, pray?”
“I have no idea. The last mission the Horns of Hammerad did – well, before the ruins – was digging through the Ruins of Albez, near Celum.”
“Albez?”
Yvlon wrinkled her brow.
“That’s a risky endeavor. There’s not much to find there and a lot of strong monsters. Was it worth it?”
Ceria smiled.
“Pretty much. We got a few enchanted items – mundane stuff, like spelled cooking equipment, and an old recipe book and a few really expensive plates. It was enough to cover the healing costs and put us ahead in quite a bit of gold. But it’s risky.”
“Still, if we knew there was treasure…”
“We don’t. I’ve led several expeditions, and I’ve come up empty-handed often as not.”
Yvlon shook her head regretfully.
“If we’re going to risk taking a dangerous mission for rewards, I’d like better odds than that.”
“Yeah.”
Ceria looked back at Ksmvr and Erin. She was talking intently to him, but glancing over at their table every few seconds. What was she…?
Just as the half-Elf was frowning, Ksmvr stood up and followed Erin over to their table. Ceria looked up at him, unsure.
“Ksmvr?”
“Greetings.”
He nodded politely at Yvlon and Pisces. The mage just grunted and Yvlon inclined her head stiffly. The Antinium’s early unsteadiness was gone; he seemed stable on his feet again, despite the blood loss and missing arm.
“Erin?”
The young woman smiled nervously at the three.
“Um, well Ceria, I just had a thought. You’re looking for an adventurer, and Ksmvr sort of got kicked out of his Hive for a while, so I thought…y’know, why not? He’s a fighter, and he’s pretty good.”
All three adventurers sitting at the table exchanged a long look. Pisces coughed and shrugged. Ceria fiddled with a fork, and Yvlon frowned. It was the blonde-haired woman who spoke.
“No offense Erin, but your friend Ksmvr is injured. And we’re looking for a capable fourth member, not—”
“I am considered to be a Silver-rank adventurer’s equal within my Hive.”
Ksmvr looked at Yvlon. He indicated his missing arm.
“This will not slow me down. I am capable of using many weapons.”
“Like a bow?”
Ceria was still frowning, but she stared at Erin and then at Ksmvr, thinking hard. The Antinium nodded.
“Archery is among the skills I have acquired. I have no Skills, but I am competent with every common bow type.”
“But you got kicked out of your Hive because you weren’t good enough.”
Again, Pisces was as blunt as a mace. Ksmvr hesitated, and Erin jumped in.
“Yeah, but he says it was because he’s not as good as Klbkch. And that’s not exactly fair, right? I mean, Klbkch is Relc’s partner, and Relc—”
“The Drake is at least the equal of any Gold-rank adventurer.”
Pisces frowned and nodded.
“I saw him dueling one of those adventurers before. He managed to force him back without any magical equipment. If that is the standard—”
He eyed Ceria. She could tell what he was thinking, but she wasn’t entirely sold. Yvlon was still frowning too. She sighed. Just when they needed something, Erin came up with it, albeit in the oddest way possible. She usually had good ideas, but—
An Antinium? Really? Ceria had journeyed with Calruz, and that had been fine, but the memory of the Antinium Wars still sent shivers down her spine. She hadn’t been on the continent, but she’d heard the stories.
Freaks. Monsters. But wasn’t that what people said about half-Elves? Ceria was still frowning when she heard the shouting from outside.
“Tree rot, what is it now?”
She stood up as a Drake burst into the room. He was panting, and wild-eyed. He wasn’t wearing armor; in fact, he wore what looked like farming clothes. He stared around the room.
“Please, is there any adventurer here? There’s a Goblin army attacking our village!”
Halrac was on his feet at once. Ceria blinked—she’d nearly forgotten he was here, but now the adventurer was a focused arrow. He strode towards the Drake.
“I’m a Gold-rank adventurer. Lead me to your village.”
The Drake nodded gasping with relief.
“Please, hurry! One of my friends is gathering the Watch, but there are hundreds of them!”
He ran out the door. Erin wavered, staring at it. Ceria grabbed her by the shoulder.
“Don’t even think about it. Close up your inn. Get upstairs and have your skeleton guard the door. Pisces, Yvlon—”
“You can’t be serious!”
Yvlon scowled and grabbed Pisces by one arm, lifting him up.
“This is our job. We defend people from monsters, even without a request. Come on!”
He grunted, but yanked free of her arm and moved towards the door with surprising haste. Ceria was going with them when Ksmvr spoke.
“Please, let me help. I am bound to defend Liscor in any case.”
She hesitated.
“You have no weapon—”
“Here! Here, take this!”
Erin burst out of her kitchen, juggling several bottles and a knife. She handed the knife to Ksmvr.
“It’s sharp. And these are the potions I have. Two healing potions—”
“You might need them.”
“Take one, at least!”
Ignoring Ceria’s objections, Erin thrust the bottle into the half-Elf’s hands. Ceria hesitated for only one more second and then nodded. They might need it.
“Thanks, Erin. Stay safe.”
She looked at the others. Yvlon was already at the door, her eyes following the Drake and Halrac as they sped across the snowy landscape. Pisces was waiting too. For all he groused, the mage wasn’t evil, and he was serious for once. And Ksmvr—
The Antinium held the knife, looking as poised as an arrow. So different from when he’d come in. What had Erin said to him? There was no time for thought. Someone was in trouble. Goblins. An army?
Ceria took a deep breath. She opened the door.
“Let’s go.”
 
—-
 
Everything an adventuring party was depended on their group composition. You had to move as a team; Ceria knew that. The Horns of Hammerad had been built for close-range engagements and rapid movement; Calruz had formed the group out of warriors and mages who could keep up. This new group was different.
Yvlon was quick and fast, and Ceria had known that she would be an excellent member of any party. It was one of the reasons why she had decided not to join the Halfseekers; she had the makings of a strong team already. Pisces was another powerful mage, possibly better than she was, but he was out of shape and gasping as he ran through the snow. But Ksmvr—
The Antinium plowed through the deep snow like a horse, relentless and tireless. Ceria eyed him warily as she ran. He was an unknown quantity, but they needed every hand they could get. Halrac was already far ahead of them, but if this was a Goblin army, all they’d be doing was getting their attention and running for their lives.
The village appeared in the distance as the four crested a hill. Ceria shaded her eyes and Pisces muttered a spell as both mages surveyed the scene.
“That’s no army.”
Yvlon couldn’t see the details, but she nodded.
“It’s just a raiding party. Two hundred, possibly three hundred Goblins.”
“Oh, wonderful. Nothing to worry about, then.”
