Yvlon watched Lyonette stomp back into the kitchen as Pisces sank back in his chair, sulking. Ceria sighed as she began to cut into her pancakes. Her stomach was already growling happily.
“That’s a charity case if I’ve ever seen one. I don’t know how Erin puts up with her.”
“She reminds me of children of the aristocracy.”
Ceria eyed Yvlon.
“Like you?”
Yvlon shrugged.
“If you want to put it that way, yes. My family isn’t as rich so I never grew up that way, but some of the richer houses…I wonder where she’s from.”
“I don’t particularly care, so long as she brings us food before I starve to death.”
Pisces grumbled as he saw Toren walk over to another table and point to the menu so the startled Drakes and Human could order. It was rare to see other people in Erin’s inn, but she’d been having more and more customers of late. Not many, true, but he supposed she was earning something.
Yvlon had noticed Halrac now. She stared at the [Scout], who looked over at her and then back at his drink, expressionless.
“Is that…?”
“Don’t stare. I think he’s got a Skill that can tell him when he’s being watched. Yeah, that’s Halrac of Griffin Hunt. Apparently he likes this place and Erin serves some kind of drink he loves.”
“Will wonders never cease?”
Yvlon shook her head in amazement as the innkeeper of The Wandering Inn came out herself, balancing a hot pizza on a platter.
“Pizza? Which one of you wants the pepperoni? How about the sliced fish…?”
Pisces raised his hand, but Erin ignored him and went over to her other table of customers. He scowled, but then Lyon was walking towards them, holding a plate full of pancakes awkwardly.
“It’s heavy. Here. Take it.”
She nearly spilled the plate on the table, but Pisces and Ceria both pointed, and the dish stabilized before it could spill its precious cargo. Lyon sniffed.
“There.”
She walked off. Pisces and Yvlon began to eat, and then there was silence for a few minutes. Ceria looked at the two, and after she’d eaten her second pancake she cleared her throat and spoke.
“I’m not sure if it’ll work. That’s all I’m saying.”
Pisces snorted into his meal. Yvlon eyed him with a frown.
“Why wouldn’t it work? You have two mages and a competent warrior. We should be able to deal with any number of monsters.”
“You say that, but you’ve never been an adventurer, Pisces. Yvlon and I have, and we both know that a good team needs more than three people.”
“Safety in numbers? Bah.”
“Silver-ranked adventurers are often called on to clear entire infestations or caves by themselves. You want to fight an entire pack of Carn Wolves with only three people?”
Pisces stopped chewing and eyed Ceria with momentary concern.
“That’s a Silver-rank threat?”
“Surprised?”
Ceria smiled at him, although privately she considered that it would be rare for a single Silver-rank team to try that alone. The Horns of Hammerad would have stocked up heavily and maybe even teamed up with another team or a few independent adventurers before trying that.
The Human mage swallowed and looked thoughtful.
“Ah, well, perhaps you have a point. But increasing the numbers is by no means a guarantee of success. Smaller parties do better, they have less loot to split, and they can perform the same task as a larger group if they have the prerequisite levels.”
“That’s a bold statement to make.”
Yvlon looked at Pisces skeptically, but he only sniffed.
“Not at all. I attended a class in Wistram which looked into adventuring trends among other things. Smaller groups of higher leveled warriors are better than a large group. Why do you think most Gold-rank teams are comprised of six adventurers or less?”
Yvlon opened her mouth, and fell silent. Ceria sighed.
“Assuming you have a point, I still say the optimal number of people is four. We need another party member. Someone who doesn’t rely on magic, preferably.”
Pisces shrugged.
“You may be right. But who—”
He broke off as Erin bustled over, this time carrying several mugs. She beamed at the table, or rather, at Ceria and Yvlon.
“Hey, it’s great to see you all! Here’s water, Pisces. Do you want something stronger, Ceria, Yvlon?”
“I’m fine, Erin.”
“I as well. Thank you, Miss Solstice.”
“Oh, call me Erin. Just call if you need anything, okay?”
Erin smiled at Yvlon. Then she looked towards the stairwell and her tone altered.
“Lyon, I told you that you can have one break. One. And not for an entire hour!”
She bustled off. Pisces glumly looked at his hot water but drank it anyways.
“As I was saying, very well, a fourth member – assuming they are able-bodied and sound of mind – may be useful. But unless I miss my guess, aren’t we in more dire need of arms and supplies?”
Both of the other women nodded reluctantly. Yvlon tapped the table with one finger.
“That’s a serious concern. We might have the levels, but I’ve never gone on a mission without healing potions, and I don’t have the coin to buy even a poultice. And Ceria, I know you broke your wand—”
“Not an issue any longer. Turns out I can still cast magic.”
Ceria held up her skeletal hand with a rueful grin. Pisces stared at it with interest.
“Any reduction in magical ability? You were using quite a cheap wand before, but it was attuned to ice-type spells.”
Ceria glared at him.
“Hardly. I can cast at the same level of efficiency—possibly even higher. There’s no latent boost to the mana I can draw on without a wand of course, but I can still cast with the same speed.”
“Fascinating. But of course it would also help with the backlash on direct-contact spells, wouldn’t it? I imagine you wouldn’t have to incorporate the shielding effect when using [Icy Grasp] for instance…”
“That does help with the mana, but I can still freeze my skin. It’s not something I’d recommend freezing your skin off for, but you’d never believe how useful it is to have five digits. You can actually simultaneously cast the [Icy Shard] spell among each finger and the mana cost—”
Yvlon cleared her throat politely as the two mages began to engage in magical discussion. They looked at her, and she politely nodded.
“I’m sure this is important, but if we can stay on focus?”
Ceria looked abashed and even Pisces nodded reluctantly.
“Sorry, Yvlon. You’re right. Well, like I was saying, I can still cast magic.”
“What about you? Ah, Pisces, was it?”
Custom dictated that Yvlon would use Pisces’ last name, but he didn’t seem to notice the invitation to introduce himself fully. He nodded.
“Do not worry yourself. My magic is fully unhindered by my lack of a wand.”
Yvlon looked at Ceria. The half-Elf explained.
“He has a skill. But I worry about equipment, too. I’ve got my robes and they’re enchanted with good magic, but Pisces has no items whatsoever.”
“I could use a robe like yours. Something with defensive enchantments might be nice.”
“And something that resists stains.”
Ceria stared pointedly at Pisces’ dirty robe, and the mage sniffed.
“Very well. Healing potions, mana potions of course, and magical items. How, pray tell, will we pay for that? I have a few silver coins to my name.”
“I’ve got some money from helping Erin with the inn.”
Ceria sighed as she pulled out a very flat money pouch from her belt. She upended it and came up with one gold coin and a few coppers.
“That’s one potion and supplies for a few days, maybe. Not nearly enough. Pisces?”
He stared at her. Ceria stared back.
“Your pouch. Come on.”
“I don’t see why I have to contribute my savings—”
“You’re the one who wanted to join up. We’ll reimburse you.”
“Naturally.”
But even with Pisces’ coins, they only came up to just less than two gold coins. The three adventurers stared at the money.
“Well, if we take a few safe jobs…”
“Risk is not something I enjoy, Springwalker.”
“A loan?”
“Do you want to have to repay one of those merchants?”
“How much do we realistically need?”
“I’d say…fifteen gold coins for a full supply? That would do for a fourth adventurer as well. We’d have potions, one or two magical items…at the bare minimum, probably six gold coins.”
“Wonderful. And we have no mounts, should I mention that detail.”
“That’s limiting, yeah. Jobs around here are scarce with all these new adventurers.”
“What if Springwalker sells her robes? That would more than cover the startup cost?”
“What if I hit you?”
“I see I’ve touched a nerve. Well, you two sort it out. I must occasion to the outhouse.”
Pisces stood up and pushed back his chair as Erin reemerged, holding an overly-frothy mug of beer that she gave to a dismayed Drake. The mage wandered over to the door, turned, paused, and looked back at Yvlon and Ceria.
“Ah, I should mention this fact. I’ve been informed that any raising of the dead using bones of Drakes or Gnolls will not be allowed while I reside in Liscor or the surrounding area. So unless you plan to slay the monster and have me reanimate its corpse, I fear many of my spells will be unavailable to me.”
Ceria didn’t look surprised, but Yvlon frowned. Pisces walked towards the door and left the inn as the two adventurers talked.
“Sorry about Pisces, Yvlon. I told you he was annoying, but words don’t really cover it, do they?”
The blonde-haired woman shrugged.
“I’ve worked with difficult adventurers before. But I’m concerned. You said his main class is [Necromancer]. If he can’t use most of his spells, can he really fight with us?”
“Unless he’s lost his touch, I think he’ll be fine, even without magical items.”
Ceria replied drily as she took a drink of water and grimaced. Hot, boiled water wasn’t exactly her idea of a good drink. Yvlon looked towards the door to make sure Pisces hadn’t returned and lowered her voice.
“Is he any good?”
“Pisces? He’s an excellent mage, as much as I hate to say it.”
“Really?”
Both adventurers jumped. Erin was standing behind them with another plate of pancakes.
“Oops, sorry, sorry! I just overheard…what’s this about Pisces being good at anything?”
Ceria smiled as Erin put down the plate and pinched the topmost pancake for herself. She shrugged.
“Look, I know you two have your doubts, but Pisces is a strong mage. He’s got more levels than I do.”
“Yeah, but he’s…Pisces, y’know?”
Erin looked skeptical as she hovered next to the table. Yvlon had the same expression on her face, although she was polite enough not to say anything. Ceria sighed as she tore the pancake into chunks and popped them into her mouth.
“Look at it this way. He might be an arrogant loner who scared people out of coin, but he survived by himself for this long, didn’t he? How many people do you know who could live by themselves in the wilderness of Liscor?”
Erin raised a hand, and Ceria smiled and Yvlon had to laugh.
“Yeah, but I mean alone. I don’t know when he got to Izril, but he must have made his way to this spot pretty much by himself. He got past bandits and monsters and I know he killed at least a hundred undead in the battle for Liscor. Olesm says he even downed a Crypt Lord by himself.”
“That’s impressive, but not exactly difficult for a [Necromancer].”
Ceria nodded. And then she made a face again.
“Look…he’s nothing special now, but he was once, alright?”
She looked towards the door, but Pisces still hadn’t returned. Ceria sighed, and looked back at Erin and Yvlon.
“Okay, no jokes or sarcasm. Pisces is a powerful mage, especially for his level. His focus is [Necromancy], but he knows a lot of other spells; far more than I do. And he can use them well. He was an excellent duelist back in Wistram. One-on-one battles are his specialty. He knows a Tier 4 spell – [Invisibility] and he can conjure a small army of minions. He’s a better Silver-rank adventurer than we are.”
Erin’s jaw dropped. Yvlon’s eyebrows rose, but she didn’t oppose Ceria’s statement.
“Well then, why hasn’t he become an adventurer before? And why didn’t you want him on our expedition? I recall—”
“I know. But he wouldn’t have joined, and he’s not a good adventurer to journey with. The only reason he’s with us now is that he’s desperate for money.”
Ceria scowled into her drink. Then she looked up.
“The problem with Pisces is that he doesn’t obey people he doesn’t like, and he won’t follow any orders he thinks are stupid.”
“Will he obey you?”
The half-Elf grimaced.
“He’d better. But Pisces makes his own decisions. That’s why he’d have never worked with Gerial and Calruz. But we might be able to get him to cooperate. Maybe.”
“Oh—”
Erin looked up. Pisces walked back in, washing his hands with some snow that he casually tossed back outside as he shut the door.
“Back to work! Where’s Toren…?”
The innkeeper left and Pisces took his place. He looked at the two.
“Talking about me?”
“Just wondering if you can pull your weight without a zombie to do it for you. Look, okay, maybe we get enough money somehow. Erin might spot us some coin.”
Yvlon hesitated.
“I’d hate to bother her—”
“What choice do we have? We can offer to repay her double, but we need potions. And items. Hey, Erin!”
Erin poked her head out of the kitchen and walked back over.
“What? Need anything, Ceria?”
“Maybe. You wouldn’t happen to have some deadly weapon in a bottle we can use, would you?”
The girl stared at the half-Elf as suspiciously as the others at the table.
“…Like what?”
“I don’t know. A deadly poison? Some kind of spell scroll?”
“Why would I have anything like that?”
Erin propped her hands on her hips, but Ceria was unmoved.
“At one point you were selling jars of acid to Goblins. And you built your house out of a tree that explodes when anything gets near it.”
“Oh. Right. Well, I don’t have any more acid, but you could get some of that boom bark.”
“Boom bark?”
“Krakk trees.”
“Ah.”
“Aside from the fact that I’d prefer not to carry around an unstable explosive like that…I checked. Looks like someone cleared out the entire forest.”
“Weird. Huh. But I don’t have anything else. I’m sorry.”
“Hmm.”
Ceria shook her head. Erin hesitated.
“I know you guys are going to adventure again. You know, if you need help that bad, I could lend you Toren…”
Ceria looked over at the skeleton. She thought for one second and then shook her head.
“No.”
“I also must refuse.”
Yvlon looked at Toren as the skeleton walked across the inn, shepherding Lyon by poking her repeatedly in the back. Pisces just shrugged.
“He is quite competent, but I will abide by the majority vote. Unless your objection is because you doubt my abilities as a [Necromancer], Springwalker?”
