Erick smiled at that. “I’m pretty sure some of your people want civilization, and I have no problem with raising other people to power, so yes. You can ‘go’ wherever you want, as long as you do what you normally do and bring peace and prosperity to all. In order to do that, it will require your people interfacing with all the other people of this world. Which means my Gate Network.” Erick added, “Though it’s kinda Kiri’s now, or at least it will be soon enough. You can make your own Network too, if you want. I think all of my daughters and my brother are on the Worldly Path too, right now.”

Avandrasolaro regarded Erick, and then nodded. “I am also on this... ‘Quest’, right now.”

Erick smiled, and continued, “I’m rather glad you’re sticking your flag into an unclaimed part of the world. It would have been messy for you to try and integrate with any other society with a direct move into their territory.”

Avandrasolaro nodded, satisfied with that answer.

“So what are your first moves going to be against the Forever War? Have the Angels and Demons contacted you for real talks yet? Or are you still in preliminary talks?”

“Both have contacted me halfway. It was… An enlightening experience, to say the least. I will not say that their problems are minor and completely of their own making...” Avandrasolaro discarded whatever complicated thought he had, and said, “This world has many different problems, but I truly enjoy the prospect laid before me, that ‘Everything can always be made better’.”

Erick smirked. “I believe that, too.”

They spoke for a little while longer regarding actual plans, mostly involving the city Avandrasolaro wished to build, but soon the conversation wound down.

Avandrasolaro said, “I believe I will be accepting Solomon and your daughter’s offer to ‘dungeon delve’ with them, as will many of my people.”

“Good luck. The dungeons that actually give base mana production require you to risk your life. Magic is apparently the same everywhere, but it’s also different. Don’t go in unprepared.”

Avandrasolaro smiled. His wings spread a little, but they were still trapped at his back because they were in a building. “I am prepared.” And then he lifted a hand and conjured an orb of power that was almost frost, but not that at all. It was Time Magic. “I may not have met with the Angels and Demons as much as I would have liked, but Phagar was very helpful.” He crushed the spell in his hand, and let it dissipate as fractured white-gold light.

“Congratulations. He doesn’t approve many people for that.”

Avandrasolaro looked at Erick, and said, “I know.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. “Phagar was controlling Time even before the Sundering?”

Avandrasolaro huffed a small laugh, as though Erick’s suggestion was so far outside the realm of possibility that it became hilarious. “No. But his church was the only one you could learn proper Time Magic from.”

“Ah. Well that makes a lot more sense; yes.”

- - - -

Three days later, with Avandrasolaro and his people hovering high in the air with Erick and a thousand others in attendance either physically or through [Scry] eyes, Erick prepared to work some magic, using Ophiel to cast his gaze wide and deep, into the northern peninsula of the northeast island of the Three Sisters. Unlike Dungeon Island proper, this place was a wild monster-covered land, with unknown dungeons and unknown beasts everywhere, and it changed with the months. Nothing was permanent. Between months, sometimes even the trees moved. Other than all that, this place was a good spot to make a new city, in this new land, in this new world.

Through Erick, this new city would have good access to the three cities of Dungeon Island and thus Candlepoint, and thus all the rest of the world.

It just needed some prep work before people could live here.

And so, Erick leveled the land with Ophiel and [Physical Domain], pummeling stone, trees, monsters, and every living thing to dust within a 200 kilometer diameter space, mostly nestled to the coast on two sides. He had done extensive [Cascade Imaging] to make sure no people or sapient living things were down there, but he was destroying a whole lot of wild monsters. Treants, slimes, oozes, monkey-like things, deadly and peaceful birds, and even just the local wildlife. A small part of Erick didn’t like ‘nuking’ the land from ‘orbit’ to make way for people, but people mattered more than animals, and this land was beyond deadly unless such massive steps were undertaken.

Ophiel finished flattening the land after ten minutes of easy work.

All the land was dirt and rock and mulched trees and biomass. It would be rather fertile land, but that was for later. For now, Erick [Cityshape]d the land, erecting a simple city, separating biomass from stone and solidifying stone into proper strength. He made apartment buildings instead of individual houses, and then he added basic city infrastructure like roads and gathering yards and a courthouse, along with walls to guard from monsters and tunnels for sewer systems, which would be installed later by a professional sewermaster. That took another half hour. When he was done, a city stood strong upon the coast, made of white stone and grey rock. It was not perfect. It was not ready for habitation right now.

But it would be.

The final thing Erick installed was a Gate which connected to Aniduun. It was not a part of the local area network; it was a simple, permanent portal from here to there.

Erick set down on the ground, and Avandrasolaro joined him.

Erick turned to the angel. “By right of power, and with no other people to gainsay my actions, I bequeath this land to you and your people. It is yours now, and I am a guest, if you would have me.”

Avandrasolaro breathed deep, and surprise showed on his face along with the faces of his people. “You know some impressive words, Wizard Flatt.”

“Guile told me what to say for a proper ceremony that might mean something to you.”

Avandrasolaro chuckled. “I accept your gift, and invite you and yours as guests to our home.”

Erick smiled. “Excellent! I was hoping you would.” He opened a [Gate] to the side, where a small parade of people marched on through with Solomon in the lead, floating an entire roast cow behind him and ten barrels of different wine and beer. It was a feast coming through, made special for the day. Guile carried a plate of mashed potatoes above his little foxy self that had been sculpted into a grand castle ten times the size of the fox; it was a display piece almost too big and too piled high for any party to finish off. At Avandrasolaro’s open stare, and slight upturn of his lips as he looked upon his old friend, Erick added, “Guile suggested a commemorative feast, but I had to tell him to stop telling me what to do because Solomon was already on this part. He did want to give you a castle, though, but this one is made of potatoes.”

“Solomon is certainly competent, and Guile...” Avandrasolaro’s voice trailed away as he grinned.

Erick nodded, and then he walked forward.

Solomon rapidly began adding decorations everywhere, as he set out one roast cow and then ten more, [Duplicate]d from the same perfectly cooked meal, each with their own small firepit to keep them warm, while Lorizal and others from the Church of Peace began organizing everything else, for real. Guile was quick on the instructions, and it seemed he had somehow hired even more caterers than Erick had imagined he would have; the little guy was very into parties, it seemed. Where had he gotten the money? Probably from Solomon, actually.

Erick had nothing to do with any of that. He was just the provider of the venue.

Avandrasolaro sighed in contentment as he watched his people watch the feast take hold, under the bright light of the sun. All of the former kings and queens and even some of Avandrasolaro’s children were checking out the place, all of them having fallen into groups of their own making since the rescue a week ago. Most of them had become different species from human, too, and from there they fell into groups either mixed or not. All of them were talking of what they had learned, and how they would be moving forward in order to fulfill the Wizard’s request of Avandrasolaro, but also what came afterward. There was talk of business opportunity, and how most of them had met with Benevolence dragons and other titans of creation and industry.

Erick got the rapid impression that, through proper machinations, that all these people felt they could peacefully end the Forever War within a decade, and make sure it never came back within 50 years. But that would not take up all of their time; so what they were going to do the rest of the time was regain power, among other things.

Avandrasolaro took it all in, and said to Erick, “This Forever War is not going to be solved through violence.”

The angel had a drink in his hand by now, and the Wizard did, too.

“I would hope not,” Erick said, feeling unexpectedly good at hearing Avandrasolaro actually say that.

“When you first charged me with this Quest, and after I discovered some of the lay of the land, I thought the Forever War might be best solved through supreme violence, through cutting the heads off of the Crown of the Host and the Demon King and his entourage.” Avandrasolaro continued, “But that is not a solution here. There is no real Contract Magic, enforcing rules down lineages; there is only Elemental Vile, which is easily worked around, comparatively. There are no real demons anymore. The Angels are fueled by simple hate which is —at most— a thousand years old. That hate has been renewed through constant sabotage and terrorism, which is a problem, but nothing overly difficult to solve. There are no old monsters making sure that nothing ever gets better, for you have already dealt with all of those.

“This world is not capable of seeing an end to the Forever War, because they cannot envision it. But I can. We can. And yet...

“This is simultaneously one of the easier tasks than I have ever been given, but harder, because I am so unfamiliar with the cultures here. I am unfamiliar with the actual problems that keep the cycles of violence going. And I have no real power yet…” He looked at Solomon, copying a whole bunch of vegetables and fried things and cornbread and sauces and otherwise, and said, “But I will be gaining power again, and going forth, to complete this task. Solomon and your daughters have been very helpful in dungeonwork.”

Erick smiled. All was good; all was getting better. “I’m happy to hear all of that, Avandrasolaro. I’m glad we brought you back. I’m still sorry I couldn’t get more—”

Avandrasolaro waved a hand. “It is fine. My harem… Not many know this, but it had become a political thing long ago. In truth, there was very little love in my life, so there is no real love lost…” He wiped away a tear, mumbling about how physical bodies were strange, then he continued, “All is good, Wizard Flatt.” He sniffled, then banished his harder thoughts, and whispered conspiratorially, “Is Solomon spoken for?”

Erick froze and thawed at the same time. He muttered, “I’m so glad you didn’t ask about my daughters.”

Avandrasolaro raised an eyebrow. “Would they be interes—”

“Solomon is probably interested,” Erick said, “He can probably overhear us, too. So there’s that.”

Avandrasolaro smirked. “This is good to hear. I can’t have my people be the only ones going at it like 20 year olds.”

“Oh yes. A common side effect of being young again… And one I have not tried to curb. Probably do more harm than good to try and stop that phenomenon.”

Avandrasolaro smirked—

Guile stepped out of the air near Avandrasolaro, his foxy tails swishing. “I have heard there is a party going on in Fairy, if you’re interested, Avandrasolaro. I’m trying to convince Solomon to take me, but he seems averse to a good time.”

Erick laughed at that. “Do you want more party here, Guile?”

“Yes,” said the little blonde fox, absolutely resolute in his decision.

Soon, Erick was asking Solomon what he wanted to add to the party, and Solomon had a whole bunch of ideas, but no ability to execute those ideas. The loss of [Gate] in a world without [Teleport] was a big deal. Solomon seemed to be adjusting to that new world of his, though. It seemed that Solomon was really taking up this mantle of Peace, and making actual ties with the Church of Peace. Erick approved.

He also opened [Gate]s to all the world.

And soon, the little no-named city near Dungeon Island had people from all over the world, showing up for a good time. Fallopolis appeared, bringing shadeling assistance with her in the form of bands and entertainment, though they only had to fly over from Ascendant Mountain. Clan Void Song showed up from Songli, along with Nirzir, and Erick was happy to introduce one of the world’s best Songstresses and Archmages to Avandrasolaro and his collection of kings and queens from another time and place. Nirzir had long outgrown her child infatuation with Erick, and now she was just a good friend. House Benevolence appeared with Aisha taking the mantle of diplomat for this meeting. She was a good choice of diplomat, because Avandrasolaro and Aisha seemed to hit it off well. Both of them were very into Book Magic and prognostication… and Aisha was made of celesteel.

… Oh.

Well.

Avandrasolaro and Aisha looked… like they might get really close, really fast.

Prognostication was probably involved there.

Well good for them.

Somehow Solomon was a big black dragon, drinking beer and downing kegs like they were nothing, and that was fun.

Fairy Moon showed up, somehow, for someone must have called her, maybe, and suddenly the party was city wide and then wider.

Some monsters got into the party, but instead of raging and eating people, they danced along to Fae music, which was quite strange.

Erick realized as the sun set, and with Melemizargo as a witness on the edge of town, 50 meters tall and outsizing both him and Solomon many times over, that Erick had transformed into a dragon at some point too, trying to win a drinking game against his ‘brother’. The two of them had stopped copying keg after keg of basic-bitch wine and whiskey, and simply copied some free-flying divinely-silver-shimmering Peace wine. Koyabez was there, which explained the wine, for he had blessed all the wine at the party, which turned out to be quite amazing.

Over there was Rozeta and Kromolok, drinking Peace wine, too.

