Atunir was talking to Avandrasolaro, speaking about kids and stuff like that, with Aisha standing in the background a little. Erick realized in that moment that of course the man with a thousand kids would be kinda put out that he could no longer sire children, since the Script wouldn’t allow it because of what the Old Demons had done. So of course he was looking for ways to actually make that happen.

Phagar was chatting with Sininindi by the stage with the band… One of the bands.

There were all the girls, here and there among the crowds, talking to whoever they were talking to. Abigail was talking with Sitnakov for obvious reasons, and both of them seemed to be laughing and smiling. Beth and Candice were having an exhibition match against each other with limited powers, using just swords, or something like that; they weren’t spiders so it wasn’t anything approaching their full power at all. Emily was talking with some of the people from the Bisection who had chosen odder [Reincarnation] forms. Two people who had been demons had chosen to become minotaurs, male and female, joining that very small group of people who were minotaurs here on Veird. From Erick’s understanding those two new minotaurs had already been welcomed to ‘the herd’. Another of the odder selections was a man who had asked if there was a way for him to be a mother, too. After some very personal questions, and then a cast of [Reincarnation], Erick felt he had succeeded in granting that desire. Or at least the man could grant himself that wish later, with whomever he wanted.

Debby was somewhere… Somewhere.

She was fine, wherever she was; Erick was sure. But to be sure, he contacted Poi, and Poi pointed out Debby at the party. She had been playing around with red magic on the coast. Maybe she wasn’t directly at the party, but that was fine. She seemed to be having fun with some people, and also Fairy Moon. Well that was fun.

And the night partied on.

Turns out Melemizargo could outdrink them all.

Erick and Solomon both called him a dirty cheater, but he just laughed at that.

- - - -

The party lasted for a few days, but eventually Erick had to get back to work.

Fairy Moon took her people back through Springtime, into Fairy. All of the semi-sapient monsters went with her because they had found sapience in that party and they did not want it to stop. A few of Avandrasolaro’s people went with her, too, even though Erick had thoroughly explained what was happening. Those people were in a lot of pain, and they wanted the Fairy Party, and it was still hopping in Ar’Cosmos, and so they went. Erick felt he would probably have to rescue them later, except the Queen of the Fae appeared to Erick, and explained a few things.

He was Fairy Moon’s husband, her Queen, just like she was his King, and Erick had only seen him once, when all the other fae had been released from the Bands of Intent of the Script. He was every bit the dark, handsome man to complement Fairy Moon’s pastel coloring, and his name was Greg, short for gregarious. He was not a gregarious person. Erick had named him without really knowing who he was.

With dark seriousness, Greg said to Erick, “We take them to a time of less troubles and more merriment, but we do not harm them or hamper their rightful returns. So carry on with your causes of sundering the Sundering, our Wonderful Wizard of Benevolence.”

And that was that. The guests were gone.

Cleaning up took a day, and then the real work began, but Erick was not a part of that.

Solomon worked closely with Avandrasolaro, setting up the city with a node network, getting them some starter gold, showing them how dungeons worked, and a whole bunch of smaller things that Erick wanted to be a part of, but he could not. All the world was moving with the news of the return of an ancient demigod of ‘Angelic Peace’, as they were calling him, and Erick needed to fend off worrying questions from the Angels, the Demons, and their mortal counterparts. Thankfully, they were all just tiny questions; nothing big and direct from either House Dinnamoth, with the King of Hell, or the Crown of the Host, with Adavido. They were all gathering their wits right now to try and understand what Erick was doing.

Blood-On-Hell got a meeting with Erick, though. It was not a very big meeting, but it was still important. They simply wanted clearance from him to ‘set up shop’ in Avandrasolaro’s new city. Erick gave them his blessing, but told them that they’d have to speak to Avandrasolaro about all that. And then they asked for what they really wanted, which was a direct-access Gate from Avandrasolaro’s city to their holdings in the Wasteland. There was more to their question than what met the eye, but Erick eventually agreed that as soon as he got clearance from Avandrasolaro, then he would set up a Gate between the Wasteland and Avandrasolaro’s city, which he still had not named.

Avandrasolaro’s official request for that very same Gate came to his office ten minutes after the meeting.

The angel got his Gate to the Wasteland after another ten minutes.

Trade flowed.

- - - -

“Dad,” Debby said, as she stepped into his office. “I need to tell you something.”

Ophiel chirped on his perch beside Erick’s desk. “Debby Debby!”

“Of course.” Erick set down his pen. “What is it, Debby?”

“I’ve tried to say this a few times, and I think I might have finally gotten it right. This is going to sound mean and cryptic, but it’s none of those things. I love you. I have to drop out of the Sundering Search program. Please don’t ask me why.”

Erick was a little stunned at that. A thousand thoughts condensed to one. “I have to ask you a few questions, Debby. You can’t just drop that on me and expect me to say nothing.”

“I know. Don’t ask me about the Sundering Search.”

… Oh.

A lot of very different thoughts passed in that moment.

If she was telling him not to ask about the Sundering Search, then this was obviously about the Sundering Search. But she had specifically told him not to ask about that. So of course he wanted to ask about that.

This was the anti-meme.

Erick didn’t let his emotions show as he realized that Debby had probably tried to talk to him a lot over the past few days or even weeks. It had been about 2 weeks since they had brought Avandrasolaro out of the Dark. How long had Debby been trying to talk to him about this? She was not worried, though. Heartbeat fine. No sweating. This was rote trial and error for her. No one was in any true danger. She didn’t even expect this to work this time, because… Well it hadn’t worked yet, had it?

This had to be the anti-meme of the Sundering, or something nearby the Sundering.

How many experiments had she gone through? Jane had always been very experimental with her magic until all her experiments failed and she latched onto Prismatic Polymage, but she kept her physical approaches to various circumstances experimental when normal approaches did not work. She had never lost that particular spark for life.

Debby had inherited all of that, and so she had probably tried…

Debby was wearing the Bracelet of Memory; that Mind Magic artifact made by some Wizard in the past which ensured the wearer remembered everything they experienced. How long had she been wearing it? The physical object was a slave shackle, and it reddened her skin a little. She had to have been wearing it for a while. Why was her skin red, though—

Erick hadn’t noticed that before. And now he did.

Erick rapidly compartmentalized his thoughts. He turned off his mana sense and stopped looking at the Bracelet. The Bracelet vanished to his side-vision. Erick even turned away from the Bracelet, from Debby, and looked at the wall.

Debby’s heart beat hard. Erick had turned off his mana sense, but he could still hear heartbeats. He could still hear Debby’s deep breath. She was seeing hope in her father’s averted gaze.

Erick stared at the wall, not looking at his daughter, hoping that Debby would understand what he did next, as he said, “I’m disappointed, Debby. I don’t want you to explain yourself. I want you to leave, and return when you figure out what your problem is.”

Debby’s pulse raced. “I will, dad. I promise. I love you.”

“I love you, too, Debby.”

For a long moment, Debby stood there, on the other side of Erick’s desk. She wanted to say something more. To maybe discard this experiment and try again, to give him more information now that she had found a proper path forward. But. No. Debby breathed a few more times, her heart settling down as she made peace with what was happening.

Erick was still looking at the wall when Debby left. Tears stained his face. He didn’t have to fake that pain for whoever might be watching, and there was certainly someone watching, wasn’t there.

Erick learned one important thing.

Whoever was suppressing information about the Sundering was actively suppressing that information, and it was both stupid and strong. That the Sundering Source could drive Debby to enact multiple tests against him and yet not actually harm him or those around him meant that it had vast power, but little nuance; little ability to actually affect the world. Perhaps it had wiped certain people from his memory? But probably not. If it were capable of that, then it would have wiped Debby from his mind. So it wasn’t nearly as powerful as a basic Mind Mage, and—

… Erick learned two important things, for the corner of the room he was staring at held the Dark within.

Melemizargo was watching all this happen, but he didn’t show himself until ten minutes after Debby left, and after Erick’s tears dried. He whispered, “It’s hard to have those difficult conversations with daughters sometimes. I know I’ve tried a thousand times before, but sometimes the information just doesn’t stick like you want it to stick.”

“Heard and understood, Melemizargo. I’m not in the mood right now.”

The shadows bobbed and left, leaving Erick with even more questions and precious few answers.

Maybe this world was a liferaft and a cage.

- - - -

Later, but not much later, Erick had one test he needed to run himself.

He wrote down his interaction with Debby, sticking to specific words said only, and then he copied that letter a hundred times and sealed them up with some Privacy magics, before he sent those letters out to the mailroom, with orders to give him one every day, starting with one letter in the next ten minutes. Maybe it would work. Maybe it wouldn’t. No way to know until he tried.

And then he called Poi into his office.

Poi stared at Erick, already understanding what had happened. “… Well those are some big changes.”

“So you understand.”

“I understand that I understand nothing, except that it’s vastly powerful and yet weak.”

And that it can’t read minds, but the Mind Mages could.

Poi nodded.

Erick nodded. “Should we inform the Crossing?”

Poi went still. He said nothing, because to speak about the problem was to highlight the problem, and there was no way to know the outcome of spreading this fragment of knowledge too far. Perhaps the Crossing was infected.

“Not yet, then. Not until we’re ready,” Erick said.

Poi nodded.

It’s not like they actually knew anything that they didn’t already know…

Except it hurt a bit more, this time.

The letter system he had set up earlier deposited his letter to himself in his inbox. It said exactly what he remembered Debby saying.

- - - -

Later, on his way back to the dungeon, back to the girls who remained, Erick searched for Debby with every normal sense he could manage, but not with magic. If he searched with magic, then… Well he wasn’t sure what would happen. But he decided to trust his daughter, and leave her to it.

He could not find her with normal senses.

Debby was gone.
