By the next morning, the rains had finally come to an end. Then, as the sun climbed over the horizon, the clouds broke and scattered beneath its brutal gaze. The day promised to be hot, but after so much rain and gray, it was a welcome change. The mood in Remera gradually improved, even with the threat of conflict hanging over them.

There had been no other signs of the shimagu—so far, but no one was willing to accept that. Still, duty cycles were important—Ranthia had gotten some sleep, at least. Avyna had been… less than amused that Ranthia had charged off to fight without her armor, but she was thankful that Ranthia made it home safe and sound.

Ranthia just had to leave off having to fight with her shoulder disabled by an arrow when she recounted the story to her lover. Though, in all honesty, she gave it even odds on if the arrow would have been just as debilitating had she been in her armor.

“—which is why I shall be staying here, even if an army of the enemy comes, my love.” Avyna boldly concluded.

She was confident in her enchantments and… less than confident in Reman inscriptions, which was fair, but… Ranthia just struggled with the idea that cloth could provide as much protection as one of the armored shelters—even if the shelters would likely be wildly unpleasant with multiple people in them with how hot the day was getting. Still, she was willing to trust Avyna’s judgment—the woman couldn’t have survived for a fraction of the time she had by being foolhardy.

They were talking while they ate a light lunch of cured meats, Avyna’s latest seasoned bread creation, cheese, and a shared bowl of seared veggies. Ranthia was still trying to make her mind stop screaming at her that she had brought the love of her life to the site of an actual war. It was something she had thought she was comfortable with—Avyna could make her own decisions in life—but with the threat hanging over their heads…

Still, she didn’t want to invite trouble before they even knew the shape of it. She stabbed another crunchy vegetable that she had no idea of the name of—it was elven, it was good—with her crystalline knife and popped it into her mouth.

Only to be interrupted mid-bite by the gentle bell-like music that meant someone had pulled the ‘knocking’ rope outside their tent. Ranthia grumbled, swallowed the piece almost whole, and grabbed her blindfold so she could see who it was. At least she was still wearing her tunic—Avyna was dressed in a robe, yes, but Pallos’ most beautiful elf saw no reason to tie it shut. Not that Ranthia was ever going to get tired of the view, but she didn’t know anyone else in the base well enough to trust them.

“Sir!” The messenger saluted when she opened the flap.

“At ease, what is it?” Ranthia answered with false cordiality.

“For you!” The messenger held out a scroll.

If it was another scroll telling her to go somewhere to get a scroll, she might have to stab someone.

Ranthia still took it and read. In short, the base commander wanted to request her assistance for a wider range patrol. They needed to scout for other signs of the shimagu, but he was also concerned about the effects of the flooding on the area and how they might affect ground-based convoys and caravans. Ranthia was a bit less enthusiastic about the fact that she’d need to meet with the man to go over the details and get the team, but—well, that was part of life as an arm of the government and a Sentinel on loan to the Legions for base security.

Ranthia rolled the scroll back up and opened her mouth to confirm receipt and tell the messenger that she would meet with the base commander after she finished eating, but Avyna spoke up first—from right behind her.

“Oh, it is that cute messenger from Coalition City!”

Ranthia blinked—she wasn’t even surprised anymore that Avyna could be sneaky enough to get right behind her unnoticed—and eyed the woman in a Legion uniform. The differences were subtle, but the color of the trim denoted that she wasn’t with Ranger support staff—which the messenger from Coalition City had been.

“…It is?” Ranthia asked.

Okay, yes, that was incredibly rude—the messenger was standing right there!

“Oh, my love, your eyes are entirely too focused on me! You should pay more attention to those you interact with.” Avyna chided, though her tone danced between playful and pleased.

The messenger held her salute, but the young woman was clearly fighting her eyes’ desire to wander toward the under-clothed elf behind Ranthia. The woman was turning red.

“Um, yes. I requested a transfer and got here just before those damned rains. My uh… girlfriend! Yes, my girlfriend was assigned here! So um, I wanted to come out here too so I…” The poor woman was plainly flustered, but she kept speaking. “I am very sorry, Sentinel Grace, but I indicated that you had requested my presence to serve as your personal messenger in my transfer!”

Ah, so she’s flustered out of guilt for using my name to stay close to her girlfriend, not because of Avyna. Honestly, she was kind or relieved. But as far as being used as an excuse by the woman went…

“It’s fine. If you ever need it, I can write something for you that says as much.” Ranthia assured her.

Honestly, she could do worse for a personal messenger. The girl had been obnoxiously peppy before, but she seemed to be competent at her job. The fact that she was another woman who liked women—or at least one woman—was another point in her favor too. Ranthia didn’t feel as much a need to keep her at a distance.

The young woman sagged with relief, though she still held her salute.

“Oh! The two of you should come over sometime. I would love to host a small get together some evening when your schedules allow it!” Avyna offered.

“We couldn’t! You’re a Sentinel’s…?” The woman trailed off uncertainly. She was probably unsure of exactly what their relationship was.

“You can and you must! …If you refuse me again, I shall have to inform your girlfriend exactly where your eyes continue to steal glances to.” Avyna threatened, her voice colored with mirth. The quiet, yet unmistakable sound of the fabric of Avyna’s robe being moved followed.

Ranthia blushed and mouthed a silent apology to the messenger for her lover’s antics.

“…Very well then, my lady. It would be our honor.” The messenger managed to speak with remarkable clarity, in spite of the alarming blush that had covered her upper body.

Ranthia wasn’t entirely certain that the woman had noticed her apology—her eyes were kind of absurdly unfocused.

“Ahem, at any rate… Please tell the Commander that I will be there as soon as I finish my meal.” Ranthia saluted the messenger and spoke using her best authoritative Sentinel Grace voice. She hated to use it, but the poor girl probably needed the mental reset it should carry.

The young woman nodded—somewhat stiffly—then took off at a speedster’s run.

After she was gone, Ranthia shot a glare at Avyna once the entrance to their home was closed. Not that the elf showed the slightest hint of remorse for her behavior—she simply smiled affectionately at Ranthia, slipped the robe back over her shoulders, and sauntered—with plainly exaggerated hip-sways—back to the table to resume eating.

Which defanged Ranthia’s annoyance quite effectively.

It was wildly unfair that mud could still exist under the intense heat of the returned sun. Sure, most of it had dried, but it was impossible to tell when a footfall would crunch through a seemingly solid layer of swept dirt and sink into mud. Mud that would immediately soak through their sandals and dry into an irritating coating. Worse, it tended to splatter all over Ranthia and the other three scouts that were teamed up with her—where it would become uncomfortable, itchy patches of dirt that remained unerringly cemented to their skin and gear.

Remera was far enough out that an enemy could, theoretically, approach from any direction. Plus, they legitimately did need to ensure that the area around them hadn’t become impassable due to the flood, which meant the entire region needed to be checked. Ranthia’s team divided the task in half with a second—larger—team. Ranthia’s group was moving north and would sweep down to the west before they returned.

As much as the journey was miserable, it was kind of beautiful to see the wasteland in an aggressive bloom. Ranthia had never seen so much greenery and life in all her time in the Unbreakable Image.

Except for the bugs. They could have all done without the dramatically increased bug population.

Two of the other three scouts had Skills that helped them with bad terrain. Ranthia was fine between [Rhythmic Grace] and her dexterity—even if she drew amused looks every time she had to dance through the worst of what they moved through. The last man seemed to be part monkey, he—seemingly quite happily—dropped down and started crawling on all fours with surprising speed when he needed more stability.

Whatever worked for people; the System enabled all sorts of nonsense.

Fortunately, the flood didn’t seem to have wrecked things too badly. Once the area finished drying out, it would be about as passable as it ever had been. Ranthia had never paid much attention, but there were subtle grooves in the rock that allowed the bulk of the water to flow out of the area—natural drainage worn into place over the years. Rainstorms like that were obviously rare, but they presumably weren’t unheard of. That said, there were still uprooted plants scattered about and the odd waterlogged carcass, but that wasn’t surprising.

The most interesting thing they found was a white branch from some sort of supposedly ‘rare’ tree that the monkey man was extremely excited about. The rest of the group was fine with him claiming it—no one else seemed to know or care what it was.

“That’s… odd.” Ranthia whispered.

The drying mud was easy to spot—its topmost layers were forming large, curling ‘flakes’ on top of the cooler mud (or, preferably, dried dirt) beneath. Yet there seemed to be none of it ahead, just the same dusty dirt that usually could be found amongst the rocky terrain. Similarly, there was a dearth of greenery in it.

They had spotted the oddity from a distance and were approaching it stealthily. …Well, as stealthily as four dirt-caked people in broad daylight could move across a fairly open area.

“Don’t like this. Doesn’t feel right.” One of the scouts whispered.

Ranthia nodded her agreement with the woman—weird was always worrisome when enemies were in the vicinity.

“Oh, come on, it’s just a spot that got missed or had better drainage or something. There’s nothing here.” The most generic scout grumbled. He was a guy, he was a scout, and he had no real distinguishing features—also, he was being far too loud.

Then, without warning, the monkey man tackled him to the side. The arrow that so nearly took the scout through the heart instead slammed into the meat of the monkey man’s thigh.

By the time Ranthia’s knives were formed, the other scouts were reacting. The tackled man started to swear—still loudly—at the monkey man, but he saw the blood and the arrow before he finished the first word. The other scout had an arrow nocked and was starting to draw her bow. The monkey man stayed down—teeth gritted—and was trying to apply pressure to his wound.

At the first sign of movement, the scout next to Ranthia loosed her arrow, before her compatriot even found his feet.

[*ding!* Your allies have slain an ogre [Bird Hunter] (Gale, level 365), [Rock Climber] (Earth, level 301)!]

The ogre fell from the mesa he had hidden atop. A second notification came when his body struck the ground.

[*ding!* Your allies have slain a shimagu [So I’m a Scout Now?] (Ooze, level 380), [Steady Eye] (Water, level 399)!]

The impact was not subtle. The hefty body of the ogre bellyflopped into rock with a surprisingly booming thud, followed by the telltale sound of the body coming apart. For an instant there was utter silence as everyone waited.

The silence was followed by a deafening roar of commingled voices that shook the area enough for dust to fall from the dry rock formations. Moments later, there was the sound of feet pounding against stone—entirely too many feet.

Once again, the foolish scout swore loudly. Not that stealth mattered anymore; their enemies plainly knew exactly where they were.

“Take him and go! I’ll buy you as much time as I can!” Ranthia called out as she stepped toward the oncoming noise. Dust was already being kicked up—soon the enemies would crest the short rise and see them.

“Ma’am, I’ll—” The female scout started to offer.

“That was an order; get your brother-in-arms out of here now, soldier!” Ranthia snapped.

The intact scouts, grim-faced, nodded and uttered “Sentinel!” in unison before they grabbed the monkey man and began to retreat.

Ranthia inhaled deeply through her nose and bounced between her feet as she readied herself to dance. She tossed her left hand’s knife to the side for the moment and reached down to her potion pouch. A moment later she bit the wax seal off one of the small clay vessels and drank the first enhancement potion, followed by two others. A little more dexterity, a bit more speed, and some extra strength—they weren’t much and they wouldn’t last long, but at least the Legions were providing them. Ranthia had a funny feeling she was going to need every advantage she could get.

Xaoc, I hope you enjoy the show. I know death isn’t great chaos, but I’ll visit what I can to the shimagu.

