It had nothing to offer her—she had exhausted it without realizing. Cold dread filled her as she sought the arcanite from her pouches—fused blocks of arcanite that Avyna had created for her. Most were like her armor—emptied. Her final pouch, the one that bore the arcanite that her fathers had left her, yielded only a small splash of mana—barely a quarter of her pool—before it, too, had nothing left to offer.

She hadn’t even noticed that she had come so close to running out of mana—she thought she had been minimizing what she used! A cold, dark pit formed in her stomach as she realized how close she had come—had Night been any slower…

With the shimagu, she would have been lucky if death was what had awaited her.

But she wasn’t safe yet. She was barely above half mana, and she was trying to follow a man that she could barely keep up with in ideal circumstances. They were tearing through the shimagu forces, but Ranthia was forced to spend precious mana as she desperately struggled to follow the faster Sentinel.

With the terror that hammered through her, the rhythm that usually felt second nature required almost all of her concentration to barely maintain it. She was struggling, but she raced. She raced after the obnoxiously fast vampire—her last lifeline—even as she raced her own dwindling pool of mana. If she didn’t use the Void, she lost precious moments and momentum to collisions.

A stone tore through part of her arm, but she could still move it. She could endure that, along with the other scrapes, scratches, cuts, and bruises that she collected. Shifting for anything more than an injury that made it impossible to follow Night was untenable. Each shift took entirely too much of her rapidly vanishing mana.

And she wasn’t convinced that Night would—or even could—get them both out if she proved unable to keep up with him.

Six digits of mana became five.

Night was pulling ahead, and a Skill-infused spear that seared through her leg forced her to shift again. It was the last shift that she had the mana for.

At least she caught up to Night again—but she was officially on her last four thousand mana. She had so little mana that the mana she regenerated with every heartbeat was starting to matter.

For Xaoc. For Avyna. For myself. The words echoed through her mind as an endless refrain as she drove herself forward. Injuries didn’t matter. She couldn’t let them matter—she couldn’t do anything about them anymore.

And then, she was through.

The final line of shimagu forces fell around her as Night covered her exit. The relief was so intense that she nearly stumbled—as idiotic as that would have been. But she wasn’t done; once she was free of the confines of the enemy forces, she finally could use the breadth of her speed.

Night contemptuously cut down the arrows that the shimagu sent after them, and the duo were off—at speeds that the army of ogres and other brutes chosen for their strength could never hope to match.
