“Yes. I have the power to stop time. And I have the power to teleport. I have, um…[Greatest Teleport]! [Super Teleport]! And because I do, you have all the time in the world, Erin. And you can go anywhere.”
“Neat! Then let’s go bother Fetohep. I want to hug him—”
Erin rubbed her hands together, and Bird held up a hand.
“No, wait. I don’t want to waste—you can’t go anywhere. Time’s stopped, and I can teleport you anywhere. Not just anywhere here—anywhere ever. Even back home. To Grand Rapids.”
The [Innkeeper] stopped rubbing her hands. Bird took a huge breath.
“There are three days left till the Solstice, Erin. You could run away. If you do, I’ll help you. Or—or hide here! If you never open the door on the Solstice, nothing can get in. Probably. Even if your inn blows up, maybe you’ll just be here, right?”
He stood up, spreading his arms. He looked around the dry garden. True, there wasn’t much, but—
“You can grow fruits in the other garden. And make a home. Pooing in a corner will be gross, but only for a bit. You can live here. And never come out again. And then you won’t have to face whatever is going to try to kill you.”
He looked earnestly at Erin, and her face was frozen over with something like fear. Like fear, but not quite. She gave him a grave look and seemed to grow more serious as she sat up. Now, Bird did feel it. An [Immortal Moment] passing over him.
These moments had changed his life. He pointed at her urgently.
“You can run away, Erin. Far away. Out of this world. Or hide here, can’t you? I can move in here. I don’t mind losing my tower. I’ll build another.”
She didn’t say ‘silly Bird’ or laugh at him. That was how he knew she was being serious. Erin’s mirth faded, and she looked around, but only once. For she had surely thought of this. She ducked her head, took a deep breath of the dry air, and coughed.
“I—could Bird. I probably could. But sanctuary can’t hold everyone.”
Something about how she said it…Bird hurried on.
“Then you can run away. Go home to Earth. Go home with Ryoka and Kevin and Joseph and Imani. Even Troydel. We don’t need him. Can’t you?”
He wasn’t sure if it was possible. Erin stared down at her feet. She seemed to waver, then admit something she was afraid to tell anyone else. Only him.
“I could run farther than that, I think. If I asked—Ryoka told me every single door is closed. But I think they’d let me leave. Maybe as many people as we could fit. I can imagine someone would hold a door open for me to take the Earthers. You. Maybe they’d be so brave they’d even hold it open long enough for me to grab Rabbiteater. To ask the ones like Fetohep and Niers and Elena to come with me.”
A week. A month. Maybe a year. She looked up, and Bird grew excited.
“Yes! Yes! Even if it takes longer—you can do that, right?”
“Maybe. And everyone I know would come with me. Then it’d be just ghosts I left behind. And everyone else in the world I haven’t met.”
Erin traced on the ground with one finger. Bird stared at her, then kicked dirt onto her.
“You don’t know them! You’re not their friend!”
“Yet.”
“You’re not that charming.”
He snapped. Bird went stomping away, and Erin got up.
“Bird. I made a promise.”
“I know. And I know you will never go. Which is why that was a stupid thing to say. I knew you wouldn’t. Take me back to the hill. Please?”
The Antinium came back, despairing. He felt like a bird, flying left and right, soaring in every direction, avoiding an arrow he knew would always catch him.
He knew Erin. She took him back to the statues. The ring of grey stone capturing Antinium perfectly. Capturing something of them—but the rest was gone forever. Bird knew that, and yet he pointed to the gap.
“Pawn is different. But Garry, Belgrade, Anand, and I? This is the moment we became us. I lived for years before this, but this moment made me Bird.”
He turned to Erin, and her eyes were wet. But Bird spread his arms defiantly, not wanting her to cry. She had to understand. He was sure she did.
“We are always right here. Every single second when I am singing or eating or laughing or crying. There is a part of me that is always right here. This is where it began.”
He thumped his chest with one hand.
“I am a silly Bird. I was always sort of silly and wrong. But I became sillier on purpose, afterwards. Just a bit, though. The me of now is still the me of then. See? I fit!”
He posed there, and Erin shook her head, not to deny that he was still the Bird who had fought for her.
“You were never wrong, Bird.”
The Antinium smiled.
“Maybe not. But I am happy to be that Bird, either way. I am happy in the inn. I am happy, even if Numbtongue is sometimes mean and Mrsha is silly and Lyonette is bossy and you are lazy. I am happy when bad things happen and when good things occur. But I am afraid, Erin.”
“Of what?”
Bird stepped out of the line and turned to face the statues. He reached out, took Knight’s hand, and looked at Erin.
“If I changed enough, would I no longer be me?”
She let out a silent breath. Oh…so that was it. Bird looked at her. Earnestly, not lying for once.
“Now here is my story, Erin. It is a good story, and I believe it is true even though I cannot prove any of it, and I made it up.”
He stared up at the sky, the winter snow coming through the dome, and almost on instinct, stepped—and walked into the hot garden again. Bird spread his arms slowly and looked up, up at a fake illusion of a sun, bathing in the light as it fell over him. Such a blue sky.
This is what he said:
“It’s a hot, summer day.”
He lied so well, because he believed it. An [Innkeeper] and a bee watched, and what the two saw…Erin shaded her eyes as Bird spoke upwards.
“—And I’m a young man in another world. I have a funny hat, and I love birds. And a stupid face with a nose. I think I’m playing baseball. I’m good at aiming.”
It felt right to say. He could almost see it. A hand with fingers wrapped around a ball, throwing it. He’d like baseball more than football. Baseballs flew. Bird went on.
“That’s where I am. I’m having fun at a game in some kind of…place where you play baseball.”
“A baseball stadium, Bird. No—a field outside a school I bet. For students in, what, middle school?”
“Yes.”
Bird saw it. A young man, a boy, really, looked up, and for a second, he stared upwards as a stand full of people waited for him to throw the ball. A hot day with a bird passing overhead and a hat filled with sweat. A perfect moment. Bird spoke as he stared up at that image of himself in his head.
“I’m right there. Then—time stops. The moment freezes. That moment goes on forever because if I get a second older, I’ll never be that happy again. Life will never be so simple. That’s the moment before something bad happens, when I’m young.”
He looked down at Erin, and she whispered.
“That’s your [Immortal Moment]?”
Bird nodded.
“Yes. The one I want. I never had that life here. It was easier for me. When I became three, I’d die in a collapse or a Crypt Worm would kill me or Klbkch would notice me singing and kill me. But that is the moment I would like, please. It is the moment I want and can never have, and…it is now.”
He pointed down, at the ground, and looked at Erin.
“Time’s stopped.”
Do you understand? She surely did and looked down, closing her eyes. Bird went on urgently.
“Can’t you run away? Then we could play baseball in another place. And someone would be mean to me, and you would save me. You would get into trouble, and I would be there…”
He could imagine it. He’d shoot arrows and get into trouble, and Erin would have to do something stupidly amazing, but it would work. Just like it had. Bird went on quietly.
“It would be the same story, only smaller. And I’d know the ending would be happy. I don’t know that here, Erin.”
She looked at him with eyes filled with heavy courage and remorse and fear. He saw the fear and uncertainty.
“Neither do I, Bird. I can’t run, though. You could do it.”
Her voice was tentative, and neither he nor she believed it. Bird hunched his shoulders sadly.
“I could. But I couldn’t without you. Either way, I wouldn’t be Bird. Erin. I don’t want to change. I don’t want to get older. I don’t want to ever not fit in that place.”
He meant the statues. Erin whispered.
“I’m sorry, Bird. No one is asking you to change.”
“No. No one but me is.”
No one would ever tell him he had to. Not Lyonette, not Erin, not Mrsha or Numbtongue or Yelroan or Nanette…Bird could do this forever. And the only person who would ever be the most guilty was him. He turned to Erin.
“I have never wanted to change, Erin. I only almost did it once. When you died. I was ready to change and never come back. I was going to kill all of Hectval.”
Her breath caught. He had never told her that. Erin searched for words.
“I’m glad you didn’t, Bird.”
The Worker nodded.
“I am too, now. But then? I was okay. I knew that I would be able to walk anywhere I wanted, afterwards. But the me that left wouldn’t be back. Even if he called himself Bird. I didn’t care because you were dead. I was okay with that until Selys made me wonder how you’d feel. She is a terrible person.”
“Yeah. She’s great. Thank goodness for her. I’m glad you didn’t leave—like that.”
Erin was rubbing her eyes. Bird could not cry, at least in her way, and he didn’t want to. Not now. He turned, kicked at the dirt.
“Now. Today. I would like you to be selfish. But you couldn’t, or you would not be Erin, and I would run away with a stranger. I would like to remain Bird forever. But if I remain, maybe that Bird is also fake. I am standing in the sun. It’s a hot day. Time has stopped, but I feel it moving.”
He held up his hand and tried to see it again. But the dream was gone. A boy stood under the heat of the sun, and a bee buzzed past his face. He looked around, and he was older and felt ashamed and hung his head.
“…I am sorry for being silly, Erin.”
At last, the [Magical Innkeeper] came over and hugged him fiercely. She squeezed, and he felt like the world could be alright. What a beautiful lie she told, even without the class, with just a hug. Erin muttered into his shoulder.
“No, Bird. It’s not silly. You understand what—what innocence is. Being young. Being—what this means. More than all the people who take it for granted, even me!”
She looked mournful, as if she could remember her own moments only now. Bird patted Erin on the head gently.
“Of course I do. Because I never had it to begin with; I had to earn it. You got yours for free.”
Erin Solstice’s laughter was rueful, regretful, amused, and filled with quiet wonder. She took hold of his hand, and Bird asked her his real question.
“I want to go back, Erin. Back, before I had anything to lose. Can you do that for me?”
She turned, and all the magic in her eyes sparkled sadly.
“Maybe someday, Bird. But I can’t right now.”
Maybe someday. Good enough. Bird sighed.
“I will wait, then. And I’ll give Knight my turn, then. Or Magnus. I am sure they will do it better. Or more interestingly.”
He stayed there a long time as Erin leaned on him. An [Immortal Moment] could last as long as forever, and it was so damn short. Bird looked up. And when, at last, he left the [Garden of Sanctuary]…he wondered who he was.
Then he looked in a mirror and knew he was Bird.
 
——
 
The Worker who left the garden in the morning looked a bit odd. He was Bird—but he gave orders to the Antinium Workers standing around the ballista.
“I have a job for you. You may say no, but it would be useful.”
They looked at each other. Bird had a job for them? One of them nodded.
“We will do anything you want, Bird.”
The [Hunter] heaved a huge sigh.
“That is what I was afraid of. Then can you get an axe and follow a silly [Mage] I trick into going over there?”
He pointed, and they stared into the distance. One of the Workers could just barely see the outline of some trees.
“What is over there, Bird?”
“Exploding trees. If you freeze the bark, they only explode when they get hot. Tie it to a ballista shaft and you get…something that explodes. Hurry up. I need them in…”
Bird stared up at the High Passes.
“…Now.”
Maybe he was too late. The Workers looked at each other, then Bird turned and raised his arms.
“Run! Someone help! I need more bolts! Montressa! Montressa! APPRENTICE!”
He was loading one into the ballista, turning it, swinging it around, and the Workers rushed off with axes towards the trees as Montressa came running.
“Bird! What’s wrong?”
“Go with them! I need to fire this thing!”
He pointed, and she hesitated, but he was already working on sighting. Bird realized he’d have to aim higher than he had ever thought before. He’d never tried indirect fire, and he had…thirteen bolts?
“I might fail. [Long-Range Shot]…[Homing Shot]. [Swallow’s Arrow]. If I fail, though, it’s my fault. Wonderful.”
He aimed high, pulled the lever, and the ballista fired. In the inn, someone dropped a plate, and everyone on the walls of Liscor ducked. But Bird just stared up and up, tracking something flying so far and fast through the sky that every single shot the ballista had fired seemed short. And he watched it fall and cursed.
“Poo. Four miles down. Four hundred and fifty-two feet left.”
“Bird! What are you doing?”
Lyonette shouted as she came out. The Watch was demanding answers, but Bird ignored her.
“I’m firing the ballista! Out of the way! It’s dangerous!”
“With what crew? Your Antinium went running off that way! Bird—”
“The crew’s coming! They’re two minutes away!”
Bird didn’t even look at Lyonette. His antennae were waving wildly, and the [Princess] stared at him. Two minutes—
Bird gave up winding the ballista. He just adjusted his aim and grimly stared upwards. He didn’t even look around as eight more Workers came rushing out of the basement and leapt into action. By this point, Liscor was fully alert, and the Pallassian army was taking cover. But the smart ones were staring at…
 
——
 
“What’s he firing at?”
Even with a spyglass, Yelroan couldn’t tell. Lyonette was putting Mrsha and everyone else into the garden, just in case. Several officers wanted Bird to stop; Jericha and a Pallassian [Major] were complaining, but Erin refused to let them interfere.
She might not have known what was going on, but she knew Bird. Yelroan looked around—then ran outside as Bird launched the third bolt and began screaming insults.
“Too low! Too—curve up, stupid arrow! I can’t hit it!”
“Bird!”
Yelroan charged towards him. The Antinium turned, and his mandibles opened.
