Xevccha’s voice trembled, but Bird just sat up and held the bow in his hands. A material from Rhir itself.
A promise indeed.
He left the Hive, but the Free Queen saw him step into the light of his inn and walk towards it. She was there, as his family ran around him, and understood why he could never live in the Free Hive. Not with his tower and family.
Bird raised his bow as the Antinium turned to him, and he looked to the ballista. Somewhere, the King of Minotaurs and a certain [Lady] were smiling. They saw Bird bend down and tentatively accept something.
He had no arrows…but a little Gnoll girl solemnly held something up. Questioningly, Bird looked at it. Then he slowly took the feather of a Creona Flashbird, huge and blue, and lifted it up.
No one could see when the feather changed, but he pulled the bow back, and when he let go—
An arrow streaked through the skies. It was blue and shining, and it seemed, to the citizens of Liscor who looked up, to the many observers, that it flew like that brilliant bird. The arrow arced through the skies, and Bird looked up, his mandibles open wide as birds rose above the Floodplains, taking wing.
“It’s perfect.”
That was all Bird said. He lifted the bow high overhead and saw something that no Bird before him had ever dreamed of.
Then he smiled.
 
 
Reward Item: Bow of Thiypc’s Promise.
Type: Chitrx-chitin bow enchanted with [Arrowform: Bird].
Description: Any feather placed upon the bow will become a magical arrow taking on the qualities of the bird it came from. This bow is made with Chitrx of the True Antinium, similar to the bow used by Thiypc the Spiteful, fallen Centenium whose arrows would pierce the shells of enemies from countless feet away. They swore to return to Rhir with an army to avenge the First Queen, a promise the Antinium of Izril may one day fulfill.
 
——
 
And lastly, Magnolia Reinhart poured syrup into a cup of Rxlvn and sipped it delicately. The clash of intense sweetness and diabolical alcoholism was as subtle as someone shooting her with a ballista.
But not even Ressa had the heart to stop her, and a Reinhart was proof against poisons. Magnolia lifted her cup, and the Minotaur King, Inreza, eyed the drink before sipping her own cup filled with a clear, heady liquid made of Minotaur-grown oat grains.
“Lady Magnolia Reinhart. It amuses me to speak to you plainly after so long trading deeds unspoken.”
Inreza spoke at length after sipping her drink, and Magnolia exhaled.
“One finds the strangest of allies, King of Minos. There was a time when I thought you and I would see eye-to-eye. Then we found ourselves squabbling over the most consequential of things, but for the silliest reasons in hindsight.”
“Yes. The finest and deadliest flower of Izril and the young Minotaur King. Times change. I take it, from your smile, you are as pleased as I? It was well done.”
“It was. It was more than I had hoped, but I did think that of all of the little Antinium, he might surprise us most. I never thought it would happen that way! Do you think that bow was a reward?”
Inreza was coy as she swirled the drink around, musing.
“The nature of levelling changes. Titles have sprung up across Minos and invigorated my people fiercely. They clamor to see the outside world and join the Beriad as never before thanks to the television, and my cousin, Prince Khedal, sees a thousand wrongs to right.”
Magnolia was savoring her own cocktail, but she crooked one eye open.
“Would that include the Free Antinium after today?”
“His eyes are poor. But he may learn to see, even so.”
That was all Inreza said. And Magnolia Reinhart laughed lightly.
“Oh, one can hope for anything. My dear cousin looks younger, head-over-heels, and I dare hope even stone can grow a brainstem. But allow me, please, King Inreza, to be a tiny bit smug. Slightly delighted.”
“It is warranted.”
So the [Lady] of Reinhart laughed and took another sip of her drink, and Ressa rolled her eyes at Magnolia’s face, but she smiled—when she thought Magnolia absolutely couldn’t see her.
Some days you felt like you were winning.
 
 
[Flower of Izril, Lady of the Dragon’s Promise Level 57!]
[Skill – Employees: Species Perks obtained!]
 
[Title – Triumphant Schemer of Izril obtained!]
[Title Skill – Assign Title (Reinhart Family) granted!]
 
[Virtuous King, Arm of Giants Level 61!]
[Skill – Kingdom: Verdant Growth of the Fields obtained!]
 
[Title – Meddlesome Interventionist of Four Continents obtained!]
[Title Skill – Recruitment: The Honorable Shall Seek Me granted!]
