Ballista. Based on the root Latin word of ballein, or ‘to throw’, at least on Earth. A huge, crossbow-shaped weapon that functioned off a similar concept to a crossbow, but actually had a completely different design when it came to the storage and release of energy.
If you were staring at one, say, in the snow, just outside Liscor, on a bed of wooden planks laid there to keep it from getting wet, with a shiny little pink bow on top of it, you might see a long, gleaming length of wood an arm span and a half across with a huge groove running down the center.
That neat groove was, like a crossbow, meant to hold the bolt and provide a simple launching point to send an object through the air and into a target with extreme force. Where a ballista differed from a bow or Greatbow was that, unlike the bows which you had to pull back and hold in place, crossbows and ballistae stored all the force, letting you hold your fire rather than demanding exceptional arm-strength.
However, where a crossbow would use a bow-design and pull a string back then lock it via a simple trigger mechanism, a ballista was more complex.
For one thing, Rags’ Thunderbows, which a Hobgoblin was propping up next to the ballista for comparison—even the emplaced, giant crossbows strung with Wyvern-fiber thread were tiny compared to this object.
Thunderbows had a tripod-like design to absorb the shock of firing. The ballista was mounted on a huge dais of wood that allowed it to swivel, then lock into place via gears. In fact, the astonished Drakes running around it and Riverfarm’s [Engineers], who’d come pouring out of the doorway and were being chased by an [Innkeeper] with a broom, had been trying to copy the impressive gears that few species could manufacture.
These, combined with a number of wheels that you could hand-crank, let the ballista move in every direction. Older models were more primitive and just had a simple support structure, but this one was new.
Polished. Each piece of wood was hand-cut and polished by Minotaurs, the trees selected for their strength and durability. Banded steel gleamed alongside rivets of metal that held each part together.
Oh, and it was huge.
“This is too big! Pallass’ ballistae aren’t—”
Watch Commander Venim was shouting as a single Antinium sat on top of the ballista. Which he could do because this was no two-man ballista from the days of the Roman Empire, again, on Earth. Smaller ballistae had been made such that you could port them around and set them up. This one, too, could move, but you’d need oxen, a bag of holding, and definitely [Engineers] to tear it down and set it up.
The huge, box-like ‘head’ of the ballista had two gigantic spindles of thread, like a bobbin, that were oddly twisted together like muscle fiber. In fact, the original inventors of the ballista had come across a technique known as ‘torsion’ wherein the bundles of fiber could be wound tighter and tighter together. Unlike a crossbow or bow which just pulled back, you tightened both spindles, and they stored the energy without the need to project all the force across the bow’s front.
That was what Rags, taking notes with her Goblins, had been trying to master and Kevin had told her about. Thunderbows, using Wyvernbone, had a set limit to how much force they could handle because they had to store it in the single ‘bow’ part of the weapon. But ballistae could store more force without needing to rely on one part to take all the stress.
Thus, the head of the bow was heavy, a giant rectangle of wood with two bow-limbs jutting out from each side, and when the ballista bolt—huge, iron-tipped, made of light balsa wood shafts, each one stamped with the House of Minos’ sigil—was placed in the rail, the ballista was ready to fire.
This was one of the largest products the House of Minos made. And they did not make these for sale, by and large. This ballista was the kind Rasea Zecrew had stolen for her Illuminary—a warship class ballista that had…
“—Effective range of two thousand feet for direct fire! Maximum range eight thousand! Artillery capabilities—nineteen thousand! That’s impossible!”
Someone was reading off the manual that came with it. Troydel raised his head in disbelief.
“Impossible? No. This is the House of Minos!”
Bezale roared with pride. She strode over and pointed to the gleaming contraption so they could see the varnished wood, the metal and painstaking work that had gone into making this device capable of taking the force of firing. It had to be two tons of weight! How had Magnolia even gotten it outside the inn!?
Well, the [Spies] had been watching her [Maids] setting up the foundation and then assembling it all evening while the party began. Bezale put her hand on the wood.
“This isn’t your Drake siege weapon, which they make with cheap lumber and magic. Each weapon from the House of Minos is meant to serve for decades—at least! Nations can buy one or two—if they’re approved! There is no finer weapon in all of Izril than this.”
“Hah. Now that’s where you’re wrong. Pallass has better.”
Someone, Chaldion, shot back. But even he couldn’t conceal the gleam of avarice in his eyes. The [Emperor], Laken Godart, was folding his arms, face mixed between a scowl and smile.
After all, this weapon put his newly-made trebuchets to shame. True, his trebuchets could fire farther, but this one could be aimed and didn’t need intensive calculations. It was a weapon for an archer, and the construction and expertise that went into it outstripped anything but a Walled City’s weapon with enchanted munitions.
The smile was because he was going to steal the designs. The House of Minos was one of a very small number of people who actually studied how things were made. Like the Drakes, they could reproduce siege weapons without relying on a class like [Engineer] and needing Skills.
But Laken’s people also believed that Skills were a crutch you could lean on—but not necessary. It would take time and effort, but Goblins, the Unseen Empire, both were learning just from observing this device.
And all of it, all of it was because Magnolia Reinhart had somehow managed to buy a Minotaur-made ballista and placed it here. She knew exactly what she was doing.
In fact, she really did know what she was doing. Right now, Lyonette du Marquin was screaming curses.
“Magnolia! You snake! You treacherous—you don’t give him what he wants! Bird, get off it! Bezale, tell your people to take it back! We cannot have this in the inn!”
“The inn can’t even support its weight. You put that on your roof and you’ll cave it in. Even with Erin’s Skills—that thing needs a foundation the kind this inn was never made in mind with.”
That was a warning from Hexel. Lyonette covered her face.
Yes, just firing the ballista had so many warnings attached in the manual that Felkhr, who was from the Engineering Guild, realized that this thing could shatter bones if you were too close. He flipped through the manual, which had come in triplicate.
Never fire this thing without something to hurl. Never aim it at anything you didn’t want to disappear. Maintenance routines alone had nearly a hundred pages of exacting notes.
The fact this ballista was here meant something. While Chaldion thought of the effective range of the weapon and how dangerous this might make Liscor’s ‘reach’, someone else thought about Magnolia and the House of Minos’ politics.
That someone was actually Archmage Valeterisa. She didn’t really care for machines. This one wasn’t even enchanted. But as the Archmage of Izril, she had a passing understanding of the principles that had gone into getting this here.
Forget the transport. Or the issues of cost. Magnolia Reinhart would find a way. The real challenge that should have stumped even her was…
The Minotaur King. The House of Minos had a working bureaucracy, but for matters like this, especially what had to be a custom-order and given the recipient, Valeterisa had no doubt that the Minotaur King herself, Inreza, would have had to approve this.
Which meant Inreza knew Bird was getting a ballista, and it also meant that some of the choices here were deliberate. Bezale, for all her posing as a Minotaur-expert, had missed the obvious. She was frowning at the bolts as if something in her mind had picked out an oddity, but she had probably just walked past the ballistae on the shores of the House of Minos, never operated one.
She was a [Mage], after all, and even if she had passed the trials of the Beriad, artillery-specialization was not part of that.
Chaldion noticed. Valeterisa noticed. Even Nalthaliarstrelous and Shassa noticed. Tyrion Veltras was looking towards Jericha with an unspoken question in his eyes, but no one said anything.
How interesting. Bird was lying on his backshell on top of the ballista, arms spread wide. He was laughing up at the snowy sky.
“This is the best Christmas ever! I have it! I have it! I will shoot every bird there was and ever will be! I am Bird! Ha! Hahaha—HAHAHAHAHA—”
He might have been going slightly insane with glee. Everyone else looked greatly concerned, from Liscor’s Council to Zevara, Venim, Lyonette—people who were responsible or might be affected by the ballista felt true fear on this great holiday.
As for Garuda? Bevussa Slenderscale slowly drank from a milkshake. Then she turned to her team.
“No one’s flying around Liscor for the near future.”
What a day. What a gift! People were still staring; others were going nuts, like Mrsha, who knew her best little brother would definitely let her fire that thing. Some, like Ryoka, were thinking of the Winter Solstice and wondering if that ballista would be overkill, needed, or worse, not enough.
And what did Erin think of all this?
Erin Solstice finished chasing away the [Spies] and [Engineers]. She turned and saw the massive contraption that she bet half a dozen Antinium or more would have to work together to even rotate, and her mind lit up a second with something like understanding.
Oh. Maybe…
She didn’t say what she thought. Rather, Erin walked up to the ballista the wrong way, facing the empty groove. Visma and Ekirra were trying to load a ballista bolt into it, and Erin asked one question to herself.
“I wonder if I’m immune to this?”
She decided not to find out. Tonight, at least. But Bird refused to go inside, even for cake, for over an hour. His ballista was here. He had willed it into existence.
This was the tale of a Bird and his new ballista as it happened up until the Winter Solstice.
 
——
 
His name was Bird, and he was the happiest Antinium in the entire world when he woke up. Bird was sitting in his Fortress of Fluff, a very good place to be.
The layered blankets and pillows were designed to be as comfy as possible. He had all kinds of comfy things around him; Antinium didn’t lie down to sleep, so the best ‘bed’ for them supported their shell as they passed out. He would pull a bolster of feathers in front of him and lean on them as he slept.
He even had a doll of himself that Visma had given him as a Christmas present, and so Bird had put the doll on his head to sleep. Sometimes, he would have company.
Mrsha would curl up next to him until Lyonette came in and tried to remove her, or Apista would land on his fortress and take a nap. Often, Bird found Reagen snoozing on his back, much to Numbtongue’s hurt, as Numbtongue’s cat liked Bird more than him on the grounds that Bird provided a more stable sleeping surface.
Bird liked life. He was first of the new Antinium: an Individual, and even more than that, he was one of the original chess players that had long ago met a strange [Innkeeper] and been granted a chance to become something more than what they were.
He, Bird, was even more different still, because he had quit the Free Hive entirely. He still visited, but Bird was a self-proclaimed Prognugator, known as ‘Bird the Hunter’ by the Drake cities. He was a [Bird Hunter], a [Liar], a [Revalantor], a [Singer], and a [Tactician].
He had hidden Niers in his hat. He had survived Liscor’s dungeon alone. He had killed giant Face-Eater Moths and Wyverns with arrows.
Sometimes, it amazed Bird the things he’d done, and he wondered if he’d dreamed it all. Today, he rushed to the window and put all four hands on the glass. His breath frosted the glass, and he wiped it away and saw—
“It’s real! I didn’t dream it! Huzzah! I am the happiest Bird ever! I have a ballista, and it wasn’t a dream! Lalala, Magnolia Reinhart is the best! Everyone else hates her, but I love her! Now I can shoot birds even in their nests! I wonder if I can hit Pallass from here? All birds must feel fear!”
He ran around in a circle in his room, arms raised, until someone shouted and rapped on his door.
“Bird! It’s barely past dawn! Stop shouting!”
That was Lyonette. She was a grumpy person. Bird opened the door meekly and beamed at Lyonette. She had a bushy head of red hair and looked bleary. Doubtless, she’d been up late for the party, and while she woke at dawn, she clearly regretted it today.
“I am sorry, Lyonette. But my ballista! Huzzah?”
He lifted his arms hopefully, and she made a half-hearted attempt.
“Huzzah. Bird—you can’t go outside and fire it.”
He was jogging down the hallway, but he slowed, reluctantly, as Lyonette called out.
“Why not?”
“We have to have a proper discussion about it. Bird, no. It’s dangerous, the Council and Zevara are both worried, and Erin—well, even she knows how insane it is! Magnolia Reinhart has lost her mind. You’re not to touch it until we set down a lot of ground rules, understand?”
Bird’s raised arms stopped waving. He lowered them.
“But—but it’s my present.”
His feet edged towards the hallway, and Lyonette glared.
“Bird! No breakfast if you touch it!”
The Worker thought about that. He was halfway downstairs when Lyonette chased after him.
“Bird! It’s a dangerous weapon! Plus—”
She seemed to have a thought. The thing was, you couldn’t threaten Bird like Mrsha. But you could reason with him.
“—It’s loud, Bird. You don’t want to wake up Erin, do you?”
The Antinium was almost at the common room door, and he paused. His entire body tensed up, and he hunched his shoulders.
“It’s not that loud. If I fire it once—”
“Erin will wake up, Bird. Plus, everyone else will get sad because they have no sleep. Remember how mad you were when Mrsha kept waking you up?”
Lyonette coaxed him, proving that she had lived with Bird for almost a year. The Antinium rotated slowly.
“But my ballista. What if I only sort of fire it?”
“How about after breakfast, Bird? And we have to make the rules. Come on, I’ll ask Calescent to make you some spicy bird nuggets. Breaded!”
Bird’s antennae drooped.
