“What if someone steals it though, Lyonette?”
She rolled her eyes as Ser Sest relayed her order to Calescent, who was cooking with a new spatula Pebblesnatch had gifted him, yawning but smiling. Lyonette rolled her eyes, exasperated.
“Bird. It’s a giant weapon. No one’s going to steal it.”
He reluctantly sat at a table, kicking his legs. Oh well. He was going to get to fire it soon. This was the life of Bird, after all. He had gotten his ballista. He was a liar and a clever Bird. There was surely nothing he couldn’t do. He wondered if he could hunt a Gargoyle. Sometimes, he saw them in the High Passes.
Calescent could cook a Gargoyle, right?
 
——
 
“Someone tried to steal Bird’s ballista, Miss Lyonette. I ran ‘em off with Dame Ushar. But that makes three. Most didn’t know where to begin, but I reckon a guard is going to be needed.”
Lyonette nearly spat out her breakfast, and Bird’s head rose. Before he had even touched his ballista!
Alcaz delivered the report in the morning. Alcaz was a nice man. Ballistae aside, Bird had a nice family, a nice inn, and his mornings were often with the rest of the family at a big table.
As he understood the inn, there was Erin, who was like…an Erin. She did things. Sometimes, she died and was frozen and everyone was sad. Other times, she did crazy fun things. Or sad things. But the one who ran the inn was Lyonette.
She was the boss. Erin was like a mascot. Bird had once said this, and Lyonette had laughed until she fell over. Mrsha was the mini-mascot and troublemaker. She was the kid. Bird was also a kid, but he had a job and got paid.
While he sat in his tower, Mrsha had fun and did kid things. Lyonette ran the place; Peggy, Rosencrantz, Calescent, and the Thronebearers were all mini-bosses who did bossy things and kept things running.
Then there was the staff. There were two pets, Apista and Reagen. And the bone rat in the basement. Bird had named him ‘Weirdo’. No one else believed he existed, even Mrsha, and Mrsha believed all kinds of silly things.
Now, there were lots of guests, but those were guests. Even the Horns were guests when they were here. Kevin and Joseph were sort of guests still; they had jobs outside the inn. But the two wildcards in the inn were Numbtongue and Octavia.
Octavia had been sort of like a separate person in her shop for a long time. Now, she was more like the family, but sometimes she wasn’t part of the group. And Numbtongue was like…an older brother type guy who played in the inn, sometimes helped, but often just had fun or kissed people in his room.
Bird had tried to define his role, which wasn’t Mrsha’s, and he had settled on the facts. Numbtongue played music. He ate, sometimes helped, but mostly just was having fun.
Numbtongue was the vagrant bum hobo. The Hobgoblin got mad whenever Bird mentioned his job. But since he didn’t have a useful role, Bird didn’t care.
Obviously, Alcaz was the security. He was reporting on the attempted thefts, and Lyonette massaged her head.
“No one could fit that in a bag of holding, right, Alcaz?”
“No, Miss Lyonette. But I bet someone could try. And as I happened to understand it—if you can disassemble the ballista…”
“We’ll have to secure it. Oh, dead gods! What are we going to do? Erin, we have to meet with the Council! They’re afraid Bird will hit the city! And he could! If he aims up, the bolt could come down and level a house! And what if he misses? Magnolia’s going to ruin us all!”
Erin Solstice opened her mouth as she took a bite of her breakfast roll. She looked blankly at Lyonette.
“I don’t wanna meet the Council. How about you—”
“No! Or you can tell Bird the rules! He was going to fire it at dawn!”
Bird kicked his feet at the table happily, and Erin stared at him.
“…I’ll go talk to the Council. You tell Bird the rules. Uh, what’re the rules?”
Everyone turned to Bird, who was beaming. He glanced over at where Normen and Jewel were sitting. They were now [Knights], so he supposed that was their role in the inn. No longer security and funny adventurer that people made fun of.
Things changed, but Bird did not. He bounced up and down in his seat, vibed from side to side, and sang. Ever just Bird.
That was what worried his caretakers, of course. Lyonette looked far older than the girl who’d come to the inn, calling everyone peon. Mrsha was super tall compared to the white rat she’d been when biting people and hiding under the tables. Numbtongue…Bird supposed he hadn’t grown in height, but he was different from the naked Hob hiding in Erin’s basement.
And Erin also looked older. She was twenty-seven and had aged, like, eight years in a single year. But Bird? No thank you.
“Do not worry, Erin, Lyonette. I never miss. Well, sometimes I miss, but I never miss badly. I will promise to shoot only birds. And bad people. And things I want to shoot for fun. Okay? Good talk!”
He got up, and Erin had to call him back.
“Bird! I know you want to use your ballista, but it’s a big responsibility. Magnolia gave you a huge gift. So you should thank her. Maybe write her a letter? And you will have to follow more rules about firing it.”
“B—but it’s my gift. You do whatever you want.”
Bird pointed accusatorially at Erin, and Mrsha snorted. Erin sighed.
“I know, but I don’t have a siege weapon, Bird. We don’t even have a place to store it! I need to talk to Hexel.”
As it so happened, the Lamia was breakfasting at Erin’s inn.
“I thought you’d need my services, Miss Solstice. I think we had better begin cashing in some of your gifts from your admirers. Thankfully…the Merchant’s Guild confirms I have access to some of the funds already.”
Funds? Bird’s antennae waved, and his mind connected the dots. Sometimes, he was a silly fellow, he rightfully admitted, but he was still part of Erin’s inn.
He bet Fetohep and Niers and maybe Altestiel and the others had paid for her inn behind her back. It was a very Fetohep thing to do, and Erin probably needed money for the Solstice. The [Innkeeper] looked resigned.
“Big day, guys. Okay, I’ll meet with Hexel, Lyonette to the Council. But we make rules for Bird now and tell everyone what’s what. So no one worries…much. Got it? And if you so much as touch the ballista or break any rule, I’ll send it back to the House of Minos, Bird!”
She pointed at him, and he shouted in horror.
“No! You can’t! It’s my gift! You couldn’t even send it, anyways!”
“I know like half a dozen Couriers! I’ll find a way, Bird. No. Touching. You can fire it, but after we agree to how it’s used. Got it?”
She met his eyes with hers, and he knew she was serious. Bird slumped in his chair.
“You used to be more fun, Erin. You look twenty-seven today.”
He was pleased by the way she clutched at her heart. Bird beamed—right up until he noticed Mrsha trying to nab one of his chicken nuggets. Then he stared at her, so hurt that she put the nugget back on his plate and gave him half a fried egg.
All these minor things were okay. Because in the end—it always came up Bird. That was the ideal way to live, you know. Bird all the way down. All your chips on Bird. Then at some point, a monster ate you and you died.
It had worked so far for Bird.
 
——
 
There was someone Bird had missed on his internal categorization of the inn’s inhabitants, and it was Ulvama.
He’d thought she was just a guest. Then she was a layabout like Numbtongue. But he was beginning to fear she was becoming a new boss like Lyonette.
The problem was, he had a feeling she didn’t have the same problem dealing with him as everyone else. As proof of that, he and Ulvama had never quarreled. She ate food, he ate food. She never lectured him or told him something he didn’t want to hear. That suggested she understood him.
Rather, she told Lyonette or Erin to do things. Bird saw her come over while Erin was pulling at her hair over the ‘ballista rules’. Erin was consulting with Selys, Lyonette, Ser Dalimont, Ulvama, and Halrac over the rules, and when Bird noticed the [Shaman] eying him, he eyed her back.
“Bird. We have a list of rules for you, okay? It’s not…the worst.”
“How is the list so short?”
Lyonette was half-screaming as she leaned on Selys’ shoulder, and the [Heiress] was patting her hand.
“It’ll be okay, Lyonette. It’ll be okay. I have to go. I’ll come back tonight if the inn’s still standing.”
Bird sat there as Erin came over to tell him the rules with Lyonette. He instantly stopped listening. Ulvama was watching him, and Bird’s head moved left, right, in every direction but the list of rules. Erin snapped her fingers, and he pretended to pay attention, but he just watched the other guests.
Oh! Oh! Here was another another person he hadn’t thought of! Yelroan!
The Gnoll hadn’t been anywhere during Christmas, and only Bird seemed to have noticed in the commotion. He wasn’t part of the inn yet, that was the problem. Even Ulvama had worked her way in, but Yelroan acted like he didn’t matter, so people treated him like he didn’t.
He was heading upstairs, eying Bird and the others, yawning. His fur had snow in it. Bird bet he’d been with the Silverfang Gnolls. He’d seen Yelroan heading out before showing up when the presents were being opened.
He waved at Yelroan, and Erin snapped.
“Bird! Were you listening?”
Bird turned. And to her surprise, he nodded.
“Yes, Miss Erin. Rule #3. Never point the ballista at Liscor at all excepting in times of extreme crisis or with the express permission of Watch Captain Zevara. I am listening, see? Hello, Yelroan!”
He waved again, and the Gnoll waved back as everyone looked at him.
“Hi, ah, Bird.”
The [Mathematician] escaped, and Erin gave Bird a suspicious look. She knew he hadn’t been paying attention. Bird knew he hadn’t been paying attention. But he had the ability to remember anything he wanted. Usually. Mostly.
He did not want to remember these stupid rules, but with a sigh, Bird committed them to memory. He ignored the stupid ones. Basically, he summarized them up.
“I am not allowed to shoot people. I cannot aim my ballista at Liscor or anything else like the inn. I should not shoot the ballista into the air if I do not know where it lands. I cannot fire the ballista at night or in the early morning or evenings. I must not do anything dangerous with the ballista. Only I can fire the ballista, or someone Miss Lyonette or Miss Erin has approved. No Mrshas are ever allowed near the ballista. All of these rules are stupid, and I will ignore them if there is an emergency. Is that right?”
Lyonette had a headache. But Erin gave him a long look and nodded.
“That’s mostly it.”
Mrsha was protesting the rule about her, but the rest of the guests, even the silly ones, seemed to think the rules were good. Bird supposed he could accept them.
After all, he could still use his bow. He hopped out of his seat.
“Now I get to fire it!”
“No!”
Lyonette screamed, and he looked at her.
“What now?”
“I just—is this real? Is this reality? Calanfer doesn’t have a ballista! And Bird just has a weapon of war, and we’re letting him use it?”
Selys’ patting of Lyonette’s shoulder intensified. Bird chirped happily.
“That is because Calanfer is a backwater, primitive kingdom unlike Liscor, which is far better now that it has a ballista. The world can be divided into two kinds of places. One has a ballista. The other does not. Liscor’s walls are better than the Eternal Throne’s.”
She got so mad at this it was worth it. Erin just gave Bird another look that was mildly unsettling. It was her serious stare that made him think she knew something he didn’t.
“Lyonette, Magnolia knows what she’s doing. Take it up with her. We can’t stop Bird. If we forbid him from using it, he’ll fire it behind our backs. Let him try. But Bird—”
She held up a hand, and he decided one more injunction and he’d ignore everyone. Bird turned his head.
“Whaaaaaaat.”
Erin’s eyes were serious.
“Read the manual first, Bird.”
The [Bird Hunter] stopped. And remembered there was one. He stood there a second. He’d never had a bow that had a manual. He supposed he could read it.
 
——
 
Two hundred pages almost exactly. Bird flipped a page, then stared at a diagram of how the ballista was cranked up and down with one of the levers. Kevin oohed.
“Dude. These Minotaurs made something amazing! They don’t really have heavy industry, but they have gears on the level of Pallass. This is—”
Bird flipped the page. Kevin shouted.
“Hey! Bird! Erin told you to read it!”
“I am reading it. You are slow, Kevin. That handle moves it up. That handle moves it left to right. This is very easy.”
Bird was flipping through the manual at about a second or two per page. He memorized the things he thought he’d need to use later; most of it was simple. The ballista moved! It could swivel around, come apart, and there were cranks you turned to make it pull the lever back to cock for firing.
It wouldn’t, shouldn’t, be able to fire without being fully drawn and loaded, and even then, you disengaged a safety first along with another one to prime it to be fired to begin with. Obviously, in battle it was faster, but Bird saw four handles for four people at once to crank the ballista back.
Too bad he couldn’t do all four with one hand each. The other complex levers and such allowed precise movement, and it even had ways of calculating how to hit a target with some measurements on the ballista’s front. You would line up a tiny crosshair with a magnifying glass lens and then calculate how far away the target was and adjust.
Bird did that all with his bow, so this part didn’t interest him. He flipped through the handbook and stood up.
“All done! Time to shoot it!”
And like that, guests hurried out of the inn to watch from a safe distance. Lyonette screamed into her apron, and Mrsha went running only to be caught by Ser Sest.
“Holy shit. This is going to be awesome.”
Not everyone was as worried as Lyonette, by the way. Someone came jogging out, barefoot save for her footwraps, and Ryoka shivered as her bare feet made contact with the snow.
“Agh! Agh—”
She ran inside and got some slippers. But then she, all the Goblins, Antinium, and more were gathered around as Bird ran up to his ballista.
It was still there, a huge, gleaming mass of machinery. Bird stopped, ran a hand along it, felt the wood, and hugged it.
“This is the greatest day ever.”
“Whatcha going to shoot at, Bird?”
Erin called out as she walked out of her inn. Bird looked around and stared at Ryoka. The Wind Runner looked puzzled until Lyonette shouted.
“Bird!”
“I wish to practice with it. I wouldn’t hit anything. Maybe I will hit a bird today.”
