The Void Eater Goat dodged the third bolt as Rafaema tried to exhale another storm over it. It was burnt, angry, and it practically spat at the ballista bolt that crashed down next to it. It ignored the projectile—then turned its head.
Rafaema blinked. Was that pink fire? What was—
Whumph.
The explosion kicked her in the chest, but it was nothing compared to what happened to the Void Eater Goat. Rafaema shielded her face with her wings. When she lowered them, she heard a scream and saw it bleed.
Black blood ran from a disbelieving goat’s side. It tasted its own blood and looked up at her. She blew a storm at it, laughing as she prayed for thunder.
“You or me, you wretched thing!”
 
——
 
He was standing there, and he didn’t have a minute to wait. He told them to reload it now. They told him it was impossible, that they were going as fast as they could.
But the Bird didn’t care. He shrieked at them, like a thousand voices. And his voice rose until a man heard those words.
Lord Xitegen Terland had been watching with urbane amusement, then a grudging respect. Then a kind of wary alarm. But his eyes opened now, and the [Lord] saw Bird raising a finger.
“Again, again, and ever again! Covering fire!”
Bird’s eyes glowed with a strange light. That genius of an archer. His mind was calculating an unimaginable trajectory that even a Golem would fail at. His voice rose, and Spearmaster Lulv, Lord Xitegen, and a Hive of Antinium heard Bird scream.
The [Lord] of House Terland looked up, shading his eyes, and thought he saw a shadow he recognized for a second. A figure standing upon a tower, daring a sea of green bodies and red eyes. He blinked—and the vision faded, but the archer remained. Bird pointed a finger upwards and howled those words.
“[Covering Fire]!”
The ballista fired—reloaded as Antinium combined their strength—and fired again. A curving, burning streak of pink fire that landed so far distant that the naked eye couldn’t even see what it struck. Yet they were sure it hit its target.
The hoarse Antinium had no confidence in the future or if he was changing. But he knew this was something only he could do. Perhaps…he was meant to do this.
Defend a bird.
And a Grand Design rejoiced and noted his every victory. His mind was open, and instead of hearing a Hive’s screams of misery, for once, they listened to him and saw his every triumph. Amidst it all, an [Innkeeper] stood outside her inn. She threw back her head and took off her hat and laughed and laughed. An endless cackle of delight.
Like a shooting star, Bird the Hunter struck the High Passes, and a Dragon lunged. She closed her jaws over a stumbling goat’s head and bit. Then she raised her head and roared. The Antinium threw up his arms, and a Hive exploded in cheers.
Victory.
 
——
 
A Brass Dragon and Unicorn kept staring long after Rafaema had finished kicking the corpse of the Void Eater Goat around. After she’d made sure it was dead, she had come to her senses and collected the fur and organs. She was flying wearily towards Liscor, and doubtless, she had a bounty in both experience and whatever she could use the body for.
But Teriarch’s and Taletevirion’s mouths were still open a good forty minutes later. After a second, Taletevirion spoke.
“Did she actually kill it?”
“She—she did! I thought—”
Teriarch had five Relics ready to toss at the damn goat. Taletevirion had been choosing his moment with the rapier. Both looked at each other. The Unicorn coughed.
“—Well, obviously it dies.”
“Absolutely. And she had help. When I was a lad…that is to say…”
“I mean, I’ve never had to kill one.”
“Me neither. But—”
They turned and stared at the bloodstain. Teriarch swallowed.
“Dead gods. What do you think it tasted like?”
 
——
 
Afterwards, he remained there. After all the shouting and confusion had ended, after Erin had shooed people demanding to know what had been done away, Bird went in the inn, then snuck back out in the night.
The Workers were gone. They had been celebrated, and everyone had stood around as Yelroan took a bow, and Bird had refused to even speak.
You see, he really was a good liar. Sometimes, you lied with words or by deeds. In this case, Bird pretended it was over.
He stood there in the night, patting the ballista now and then, waiting. And with each passing second, as he stared out across the Floodplains and saw a tiny shape growing bigger, his heart beat faster.
Silly people were running at it—her. A stupid Gnoll with his spear, some Wall Lord, soldiers, but she barely slowed. She kept coming, and Bird worried someone would see—but a strange thing was happening.
All of Liscor was under a heavy snowstorm, so thick it made seeing anything, even from the walls, impossible. Strangely, it didn’t really blow around the tower. All the scrying spells weren’t working either; it looked like a gigantic shadow of darkness had covered the area.
At last, she stopped and landed wearily, and he saw her scales were torn and had blood caked into them. She was filthy and weary, and the yellow Wyvern had too much intelligence in those mismatched eyes.
Manus behind her, warily staring at him. But the Wyvern lifted a wing to silence them, and Bird beamed at her.
“Hello. You are the prettiest bird I have ever seen.”
“Ah. Hello.”
She spoke! She spoke, and Bird did a dance of happiness, waving his arms around as Rafaema stared at him.
“I knew it! I knew you were no ordinary bird!”
“I’m not. Thank you for saving me. I wanted to meet you, even if—”
She half-turned her head, coughed, and looked at him.
“Don’t tell anyone you’ve seen me. Unless you already know…who I am?”
The yellow bird made it sound important. Bird paused and knew he might hurt her feelings, so he answered honestly.
“I don’t think you’re really a Wyvern. I have seen yellow ones, and your scales look fake. Also, you fly wrong in the air. All your balance is off. You’re probably heav—grander.”
He remembered Lyonette had once said not to call ladies heavy and use better words. The yellow bird grinned.
“I should have known Bird the Hunter could tell. But you know…me? The Queens? I am Rafaema.”
She was searching him up and down. Bird tilted his head.
“And I am Bird. Hello, pretty bird. I don’t know you. But maybe the Queens do? I only speak to the Free Queen. The others do not like the Free Antinium.”
He paused as she digested this. Rafaema nodded slowly, eyes on him. She had something in one foot, which she dropped.
“You helped me kill this.”
“Oh. The goat. Yes. It was very nasty. I don’t like goats. One killed a friend of mine that never was. His name was Bugear. I am glad it died.”
Bird studied the bloody carcass and black fur under moonlight. He looked up, and because he was a clever Bird, he met her mismatched eyes.
“Are you going to try to take me away, now? I accept your thank you. I am sure you would not be mean because I wanted to help. This is my home.”
He pointed down at his feet, and Rafaema hesitated. The stupid Gnoll hefted his spear, and Bird smiled and raised his voice.
“If I promise to keep your secret, will you be my friend? You cannot kidnap me because Erin will be mad. And you cannot kill me because I’ll be back.”
Probably. Rafaema exhaled slowly, and Bird waved away ozone from his face. She sounded amused.
“That’s what I said. There will be a lot of unhappy people that my city doesn’t want to anger. But they’re afraid.”
“Silly people often are.”
Bird observed sagely, and Rafaema grinned as her people stared at him. But then she rested, oddly, and he thought he sensed two limbs that were invisible, supporting her weight. He saw the depressions in the snow.
“Will you tell me something, Antin—Bird? What do you want? Do you have wants?”
He was glad she asked. Since she came from Manus, he didn’t think she was necessarily very smart. Bird nodded a few times, and spoke slowly.
“I am Bird. All I want is to sit in an inn and watch a silly Goblin, [Princess], Gnoll, [Innkeeper], and a hundred other people get older. I do not know about anything else. I am sure things will happen, but that is what I want. It is a very difficult dream. What’s yours?”
Rafaema stared at him and lifted her head to the sky.
“…Making sure my city endures. Making sure it is better. Answering hope for one, no, two peoples. Learning who I am.”
Some of that sounded like lies, or half-truths. Bird sat on his ballista, since his legs were tired from standing so long, and kicked his feet happily. He wondered what she would tell him if she was alone.
He stared at the lying yellow bird and thought she was learning, but she wasn’t as good as him. Her real hopes lay in those bright eyes, and he was reflected in them; things she had never thought to imagine. The little [Liar] chirped back.
“That is a nice dream. It is almost as ambitious as mine.”
She looked insulted, and Bird laughed at her. Rafaema bristled…then just looked at him.
“Why did you save me? You killed Wyverns at Pallass. Why save me? Was it because I was a beautiful bird you wanted to kill yourself?”
Bird shook his head instantly.
“No. I did a lot of thinking when I first saw you, a month ago. I saw you, the big, fat brown one—”
She snorted and choked. Bird nodded happily.
“—And many more. I have killed thousands of birds. And I thought about it. Then I saw the goat trying to eat you, and I wondered if I was like the goat. I thought…I was a silly Bird and didn’t help. But I had to.”
“Why?”
“Because if you vanished, there would never be a bird like you again.”
Rafaema’s eyes widened slightly, and Bird patted his ballista.
“If you are in trouble, I will try to help. That is my promise to you, pretty bird. And I would like it muchly if you wanted to talk to me. Now I remember you. You look prettier like this. I wonder what you really look like.”
She was staring at him as if she had expected something else, even knowing who he was. Rafaema hesitated.
“…Perhaps. I have much to learn and more to do than I initially thought. So that’s what he meant.”
“Who?”
She turned her head and picked up the bloody corpse of the Void Eater Goat.
“—Nevermind. I just wanted to thank you. I’m going. Thank you, again. I mean it. Oh. Do you want some of this?”
The yellow bird indicated the goat’s body, and Bird eyed it.
“Since it is not a bird, I do not want it. Thank you.”
She laughed in bewilderment. Then ducked her head one last time. Bird waved at her and the anxious Drakes and Gnoll with two of his other hands. His last hand held an arrow. He only put it away when they had all left.
Then he felt like that moment was over. It had taken hours since flying was slower than he thought, but he finally let out the breath he was holding.
But he had more to do. The night was long, and Bird was weary.
“…But I must fly before I sleep. And lie to the sky I’ve grown wings. These are the decisions I make. Very adult-like things.”
He hopped down the tower, step by step, and went inside to the inn. It was mostly quiet, but he realized they were waiting for him.
Erin, Lyonette, Numbtongue, Nanette, Mrsha, Yelroan, Ishkr, Ryoka, the Thronebearers, the staff—Peggy sheathed a sword, and Liska lowered a crossbow she really shouldn’t have been holding.
“Bird. Everything okay?”
Erin looked at him with a faint smile, and Bird took a second to think about it. He looked seriously around at the others and shook his head.
“No. I have come to a decision, and I wish to tell all of you about it first because you are my family.”
He heaved a huge, melancholy sigh as they looked at each other.
“…I’m going to stop hunting birds. At least, the ones I like. They taste like lost moments and never agains.”
“What.”
Numbtongue’s mouth opened. Mrsha fell backwards in horror, and no one caught her. But Nanette just gave Bird a small smile as if she understood.
“Bird! What is this about?”
Lyonette was incredulous, and Bird took a weary seat. He looked down at Mrsha and shook his head.
“I got old. Just like you, Erin. I knew it would happen.”
Bird stared at his hands as the [Innkeeper] made sounds of outrage. Ryoka laughed until Erin elbowed her. Mrsha crawled over to Bird’s legs. What happened to him? He looked down at her and ruffled her head.
“Look, Mrsha. Even me. Someday, it’ll happen to you, too.”
He pointed to his face, and Mrsha recoiled away from him and ran as if afraid the infection were spreading. Bird sat there and looked up at Erin. She seemed startled, understanding, and sort of sad. But Bird just smiled.
“Now. I have somewhere to be, and I will be back later. In the morning. Please have a cake for me when I wake up, Erin.”
“Okay. But where are you going, Bird?”
He got up, stretched, and yawned, spreading his mandibles.
“To do something I have been afraid to do.”
 
——
 
The Free Hive of the Antinium was waiting for him. The Free Queen had not sent Workers or Soldiers out to get him.
She knew where he was and was waiting. She knew he would come by as soon as he could.
Probably, she understood more of him now than she ever had. They all did.
When Bird set foot into the Hive, the Workers and Soldiers had already stopped. They had sensed him coming. It was familiar.
Like so many other times when a silly Worker made a clicking sound or hummed and disrupted everything. Only, this time, they weren’t looking at him as if he were wrong. They gave him the same stares he imagined he gave to Rafaema or any other bird. It was strange how similar it could be.
Part of Bird wanted to run away from those stares. Run and run. Go with the yellow bird or back to the inn and his tower and never return.
“But I have to be here.”
Slowly, Bird walked through the largest tunnel in the Hive, surrounded by countless Antinium. He knew, below his feet, the Free Queen was waiting with Xrn, Pawn, and all the other important Antinium like Garry, Yellow Splatters, and so on.
Even Pivr was there. But Bird didn’t go down. He could sense them there.
His head was overfull. His antennae kept twitching; he touched them and felt the minds about him. Too many emotions. Too many thoughts, even as quietly as they sometimes thought.
But they weren’t sad. There weren’t the screams of Antinium who didn’t even know how to scream properly. Was that what Aberrations had heard? How many, Bird wondered, were like him, pretending they couldn’t hear?
“It could be you. Or you.”
He pointed, and a Worker flinched. A Soldier stepped back, and Bird looked into their eyes. Then he sighed.
“You could do it. But it must be me. I am afraid, you know. But I feel better. This feels right. So this is how she feels.”
