The murals of the dead Antinium on the wall were still there, but they’d added a ceiling. The most vivid colors swirled above his head, so bright that he suspected the magical paints that Erin had given Pawn had already been used. But the colors were so bright, purchased in every pigment Pawn could find, that they created a glorious picture that was like and unlike any sky Bird had ever seen.
Unlike the sky because it had mottled greens, glowing yellows, and all the colors like the phantasmal purple of a sunset mixed with the vivid blue of a summer’s sky—conjoined into one experience overhead. Yet it still captured the wonder Antinium felt.
“You should take a picture of that. It’s like the silly art Lyonette loves to look at in Pallass.”
Bird hopped around the barracks, and a [Priest], adorned in robes, surrounded by his congregation of Antinium, looked at him.
Unlike Garry, or Belgrade and Anand, Bird always felt out of place around Pawn when all the Antinium stared at them. He was just Bird, but Pawn had become something else.
“Perhaps we should, Bird. But this is meant for us. I am glad you enjoy it. It is rare that you do visit. Have you come to pray?”
“Nope! I’m wandering around because I’m sad, and Lyonette is a bossy jerk, and I don’t want to practice or be bothered.”
Pawn digested this a second and dipped his head. He lifted a hand.
“I am going to give my sermon, but after that, we could play a game of chess?”
“If you like. Do I get free bread if I stay?”
“Yes.”
Bird decided to stay. He listened to Pawn’s sermon, only rocking back and forth a bit, and he hummed once—then stopped when everyone stared at him. There was something about Pawn’s speeches that Bird didn’t care for.
Then again, there was something about the solemnity of the barracks—which was now a ‘temple‘ according to Pawn—that Bird didn’t need. Everyone was so silent here.
“What happened to the sparring ring? The books?”
“Elsewhere. The Free Queen has allowed us to expand; this will be for prayer and reflection. The other rooms are more lively.”
The [Priest of Wrath and Sky] occupied one-third of the Free Antinium’s new distribution. As Bird thought of it, one third was the Free Queen and normal Workers and Soldiers. Another third was Pawn and his Painted Antinium. The third third? The [Crusaders] and Belgrade.
That wasn’t the actual distribution of the population of Antinium, of course; the [Crusaders] and Painted Antinium were still a minority by far, although their numbers swelled by the day. Yet Pawn had countless Antinium who flocked to him.
“When Erin is in danger, we will fight. I have been thinking, Bird. About our future. I do not see it here. At least, not under the Free Queen. She is respectful to us…but what are we?”
“…Workers?”
Bird nibbled on his free bread from Pawn’s Miracles, and Pawn paused.
“Yes, but we are also citizens of Liscor. I think we should all be above, under the sky.”
“Oh. Are you getting jobs, then?”
“I think so. We should be amidst the citizens. Not just laboring, but living. Many still do not like us.”
“They never will.”
Pawn nodded grudgingly.
“But we will become more if we have incomes, work. That’s what Erin has taught us. I want the Painted Antinium to all be like Garry. Those that don’t go to fight under Belgrade or Xrn. Anand…Anand keeps in contact, but he describes the Hivelands, and I don’t think our future is there, either.”
He seemed heavier to Bird, recently. Not that Pawn had put on weight—Bird poked him a few times to make sure he wasn’t getting heavy until Yellow Splatters glared at him. But he had what Bird would probably have called ‘gravitas’ if he had a dictionary and spoke like Mrsha.
“Seems like it needs lots of money. And food.”
“The Antinium make money. As for food—I was looking into buying more farmland. Liscor will approve a huge sale soon. Many of the investors have outbid us, but I have secured a large spot. We will start farming there after the rains. You’ve seen the apartments, haven’t you? This is all part of the plan. Antinium in the city. Antinium outside the city.”
That was interesting. Bird patted Pawn on the shoulder.
“Good. For you. It seems like too much work for me. Why do you do this, Pawn?”
The question flummoxed the [Priest] where his faith had stood firm before Facestealer and everything else in the world.
“Why? Because the Painted Antinium need hope. Because Erin is the sky, and this is our chance.”
“So you did it all by yourself? It seems like too much work.”
Now it was Pawn’s turn to have his antennae wave in disbelief as he eyed Bird.
“…Bird. Don’t you want to do more? I would have thought the ballista made you happier.”
He was just like Lyonette! Bird said so, slapping the table angrily.
“You and Lyonette are too responsible! The ballista sucks! I have to do too much when I want to be free! Why should I do more? This is why Lyonette broke up with you, Pawn. No, wait.”
He thought about it.
“She probably broke up with you because you were also boring. Or was she too boring? Maybe you’re just not a good person to love. You had your Painted Antinium and her, and you spent more time with them. She chose Mrsha and the inn over you.”
The Worker tried to think about it as Pawn sat there, trying to ignore Bird’s repeated stabbing attempts. After a second, the [Priest] managed to find his voice.
“Some might say you have faults, Bird.”
“Me? Sure. But I don’t have any responsibilities. Except the damn ballista.”
He was immune to Pawn’s comebacks! The [Priest] lowered his mandibles and closed them for a second in a scowl.
“What about your Workers?”
Bird paused.
“…I don’t have Workers.”
Pawn stared at him. Bird stared back. Pawn turned his head.
“Yellow Splatters. Does Bird have Workers?”
“Yes.”
The Soldier nodded. Pawn looked at Bird, and Bird stared.
“No, I don’t. Garry has no Workers either, aside from his two Flying Antinium helpers.”
“He does. Pisca and Runel are his assistants. But his followers often reside here. They’re part of the Autonomous Workers and Soldiers who haven’t yet become Painted Antinium, [Crusaders], or anything else. Your Workers are the most troublesome.”
Pawn had a hint of disapproval in his voice. Bird kept staring.
“What Workers? You mean Chippy?”
“No, Bird. Your Workers.”
“…What Workers?”
 
——
 
What Pawn meant was Bird’s followers. In the Free Hive, there were a number of factions, largely devoted to following one of the original Individuals.
Pawn’s Painted Antinium.
Belgrade’s [Crusaders].
Anand’s students had largely followed him to the Hivelands, and apparently, he was gaining in popularity there.
Even Garry had adherents. And then there was Bird.
Bird recalled, vaguely, announcing he had quit the Free Hive. He hadn’t realized that the Workers and Soldiers who’d followed him had developed an admiration and professed that he was their role model.
When he saw the Bird-aligned Workers sitting with copies of his bows and recognized the ballista crew, Bird stopped. He realized why they had appeared and were so willing to man the ballista, now. Pawn gave him a significant look as Bird stared at them and the other Workers and Soldiers following a ‘path’.
There were even the 7th Hive’s Antinium, a mix of [Crusaders] and Antinium, some chewing on Sage’s Grass and professing to magic. They talked more, now, too. There was even a discussion going on: someone had written on one of the walls in chalk.
Beef. Or? Fish.
There was a column running down the center, and Antinium had scratched a little ‘1’ tally to indicate which they voted for. There were over a thousand votes, and the distribution was leaning towards beef, but barely.
Bird heard a conversation between Autonomous Workers, where it would have been inconceivable last year. Even a new Soldier with vocal cords!
“Have you pet a cat?”
“I have pet.”
“This is good. You didn’t hurt the cat?”
“I did not hurt the cat. It meow rumbled.”
“…Meow rumbled? What is this? Please, explain.”
“In its chest. It is very nice.”
“I would like this. How did you do it?”
“Ksmvr taught the secret to a Worker. It is now mine. I will share it because I like you.”
“Thank you. I am grateful.”
It was still—off, at least to how Bird could talk with Pawn, but it was a conversation. The Soldier seemed to think he had to speak and uttered in a nervous voice.
“I. Like. Puppies.”
They turned to him, and he froze up, then both Workers agreed that puppies were also very nice. Indeed, Bird saw a little cat on a leash being held by a Worker. It wandered from table to table, but it had a handler. He peered at the holder.
“That’s not Furfur the Hated. Who is that?”
“One of Furfur’s followers. Silveran has a presence here.”
“So Workers and Soldiers follow the Antinium they like and copy them? Those are mine?”
Bird pointed to the Workers, and Pawn nodded.
“Yes. They argue you are superior. Often. And loudly. They seem to think it is also appropriate to sing even when other Antinium are resting.”
“Oh. I see.”
Bird stared around the room of Antinium. He nodded to himself a few times and backed up.
“I hate this place. I am now leaving.”
 
——
 
He didn’t manage to leave. Pawn insisted he stay and ‘guide’ his Antinium. He even put up a holy barrier to stop Bird. The [Bird Hunter] was tempted to try and shoot through it or run another way, but he eventually decided to watch.
The idea of Antinium copying another Antinium was familiar to him, of course. It reminded him of the Redfangs. Rabbiteater, Badarrow, and Numbtongue would have instantly recognized this and probably approved.
Bird thought it was a bad idea and said so. This was stupid. 
“We’re not Goblins. They should be them. Not copy me. Pawn didn’t copy anyone when he became Pawn.”
“It isn’t wrong to admire you, Bird. Even if you are silly. They do not know who they are.”
Yellow Splatters opined, and Bird poked him and got a swat for it.
“No one should admire me except me. If they admire me too much, how do they admire themselves?”
“Vanity is sinful. We must learn from other religions. That is the only way to make a proper Heaven.”
Yellow Splatters rumbled. Bird stared at him. Bird had forgotten how Yellow Splatters was one of the first believers. He threw up his hands.
“What does that mean? You don’t even know what that means! A vanity is a dresser! It has a mirror! Everyone looks in a mirror, or they don’t know if they have something on their face!”
The [Captain] ignored him. And yet, it seemed like the other Antinium were listening to this kind of debate, and it also seemed very common, here.
Garry might have only had two employees, but a lot of Antinium had pieces of food, even pans and pots, and were trying to learn to cook for themselves. Or make things. One was arguing with a Painted Worker as Bird turned and looked around.
“Food is better than praying.”
The two had an audience, and heads swung to the Painted Worker, who had the power of faith on his side. And blindingly good rhetoric.
“No.”
The Garry-follower paused, caught off-guard by this strong argument. He went for it again.
“It is. Or else how would you live?”
The Painted Worker thought about this.
“Praying makes bread.”
Got him. The audience susurrated, and it seemed like the Painted Antinium had won more converts. Distressed, the Garry-Worker backed up—and at the last moment came up with a trump card.
“Ah, but cooked food tastes better.”
What a comeback. The Painted Worker wavered, then almost ran to ask a more senior Worker, an [Acolyte], what to do. And the Garry Worker basked in victory. Bird’s mandibles opened, and he spat crumbs out.
“What.”
Yet then he realized his Workers were doing their best to shill for the way of Bird! One was pointing at him.
“Bird is the best.”
“No. Painted Antinium are the best. We have colors.”
A group of representatives from each faction appeared, even an Armored Antinium. No, wait, a Worker with self-made pot armor! The Worker folded his arms like Tersk.
“Armor is tougher. Armored Antinium have a nice Queen.”
“Silveran’s Cleaners get paid. We earn money.”
“Painted Antinium will soon earn money. And we have the power of faith.”
“No. Garry’s Workers will make food and make others happy. This is best.”
“Crusaders get free food in the army and armor. And faith.”
It was a tough debate, and Bird saw his lone representative hopping up and down and then shouting to get attention.
“Bird is free! Bird has freedom and happiness and—he doesn’t need to be part of the Hive!”
All the other Workers and Soldiers turned to stare at him and scoffed.
“But he has nothing. You have nothing for following him. Garry made me a whole pie.”
The Painted Worker nodded.
“I have my paint and faith. What do you have?”
The Bird-Worker stared around, then at Bird. He backed up and fell silent, and Bird nodded.
“Yup. This is why you shouldn’t follow me.”
He said it loud enough that all the Bird-Workers surely heard, and the ballista crews too. Bird stared at them, and they stared down at their bowls of Antinium food-paste. He noticed Pawn staring at him, and Bird had the urge to throw a snowball at him.
It had never occurred to him, but Pawn sometimes acted superior.
 
——
 
For some reason, despite not having to work on the Unitasis Network, Bird was even more upset after returning to the inn.
He found the ballista assembled and the Antinium Workers standing out with snow drifting down around them. They sometimes jogged around the tower to keep warm, but they stirred when he approached.
“I am not shooting anything. I am not paying you. I only have eighteen shots left, so I cannot let you fire that. There is no reward for being here.”
He called out, and they looked at each other. None of them moved. Bird stomped inside.
“Bird!”
Lyonette was there. This time, Bird thought he would lose his temper, but for once, the [Princess] wasn’t nagging.
“Bird, those Workers outside—”
“I did not tell them to be there!”
She flashed him a smile, if slightly harried.
“I know that, Bird. But they must be hungry! And cold!”
“It’s not my fault!”
He hunched his shoulders, and Lyonette took his arm and looked him in the eyes with her blue ones. The bossy [Princess] spoke gently.
“I know, Bird. I know it’s stressful but—I was just asking if we should give them a cloak and some soup? I’ll have Mrsha do it.”
“Oh.”
Bird relaxed slightly. That was when Lyonette was her most helpful: when she was thinking of someone else or momming. She did it well.
“That would be good. But how will you get Mrsha to do anything? She is a rapscallious rapscallion.”
