——
 
An hour later, a cold and tired Bird came over to the Workers standing around the ballista. They stood to attention, and he shoved something at the first Worker.
“Here. You. And you. And you—and take these to the other Workers. I do not have lots, so this is what they get. Do not pretend to be me.”
They stared at the floppy things he had given them. Then a Worker nervously put one on his head. The hats were floppy with a semi-wide brim, and upon request, the [Tailor] had cut holes in them for Antinium. It had a band around the hat’s base, though; that was the real value.
“You put a feather there. Or anything you want to hold. Like a snack. Here.”
Bird handed them all one of his lesser feathers too, and the Workers instantly donned the hats with every sign of joy and put a feather in their caps.
He had to admit, they looked sort of cool like that. Bird stomped away as the Workers looked at each other in delight.
 
——
 
He was so tired mentally after all that that Bird was ready to sleep. He hadn’t worked so hard since…since…
Even fletching ten thousand arrows wasn’t this bad. Bird hated it.
“Responsibility. Hiss. Hiss.”
He muttered in his room. But he decided he’d have fun and responsibly fire the ballista when he woke up. He’d spotted that grove of boom-bark trees, different from the one Erin had once used to make her inn. This new grove was small, but he bet if he hit it right, winter or not, the entire thing would kaboom in a funny way.
Plus, the yellow bird was on the mountain! The lightning Wyvern seemed to be having a bad time every time he looked out the window. Bird had angled his Fortress of Fluff so he could watch her; she looked very sad.
Also, the Void Eater Goat kept trying to eat her. It seemed to think she was good food, and Bird couldn’t deny she’d be a nice mouthful. He wished she’d survive, though.
She’d gotten a brief respite over Christmas; he hadn’t seen her then, and then the Void Eater Goat had found her lair. He winced as he watched lightning flare, tiny on the distant mountain.
“Poor yellow bird. It’s eating your lightning. Now you’re running away. Fly faster! It’s sucking everything in! Go, go!”
The yellow Wyvern was flapping hard and just managed to escape the gravity well the goat opened. Then it spat out the contents of its stomach, and Bird winced again.
“Ew.”
Someone else was having a bad day too. His gaze found the yellow Wyvern as she flew up, shooting more lightning, and tried to bury the goat in an avalanche! But it just sucked up the boulders and began shooting them back!
“That is one mean goat. Maybe it’s like me. I see a bird, I shoot it. It sees a nice yellow Wyvern doing nothing but trying to start a fire and crying and it eats it.”
Bird fell silent a second. He didn’t like that comparison.
“I am not a goat. I would not kill that bird. It is too smart. It was trying to make soup the other day.”
He thought and spoke after a second.
“…I probably wouldn’t kill that bird.”
Now he was second-guessing his reason to exist. Bird felt more tired. Was he a Void Eater Goat? That yellow Wyvern was special, he could feel it. He was almost sure it cried. When it stared at the sky or flew around in great loops, it looked free and happy. When it was sad, he saw it weep, and yet it was trying hard.
He had never seen a bird so inept before. Maybe that was why he liked it. It was a bird trying to figure out what being a bird meant. Sometimes it was hard.
“I would never kill that bird. But maybe I have. I love birds, and I shoot them. This is the duality of Bird. I’m tired. Stop thinking, brain.”
He began smacking his head lightly, trying to make it stop. He wondered if he could hit the mountain from here. Maybe—
Someone knocked on his door just as Bird was on the verge of something. Bird froze—and then huddled in his Fortress of Fluff.
No. No! Evil had come. And her name was—
“Bird? Do you have a moment? I’d like to consult with you about your ballista.”
He didn’t reply, but Watch Captain Zevara was cunning.
“I know you’re here. Bird? You’re not in trouble. If anything, the Council’s approved all your actions, and you’ve been quite responsible. I’d just like you to intercept some Snow Golems—large ones. Even Pallass doesn’t want to have to tangle with them, and we have reports of a twenty-foot ice one and a fifteen-foot snowman some idiot made. Can I review a few things with you? It won’t take more than twenty minutes.”
Twenty minutes! Bird wondered how badly hurt he’d be if he jumped out the window and fell off the roof. He tried to use Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary], but she was probably using it because it didn’t open. So he did the next best thing he could think of.
“Bird is not here right now. Please leave a message and go away after the beep.”
He called out, and Watch Captain Zevara hesitated. She knocked again.
“Bird, it’s not—”
“Beep!”
“Bird, if I read out the—”
“BEEP! BEEP! What part of beep don’t you understand?”
He threw one of his pillows at the door. Zevara retreated after a few minutes. Then someone else knocked on the door.
“Bird? Zevara’s waiting downstairs for you—”
“Argh!”
 
——
 
The worst part was that none of it was, by itself, arduous. That was why everyone told Bird it wasn’t ‘a big deal’ and it was ‘just a little thing’.
But Bird was intelligent. He knew the little things would become big things. Zevara would never quit. She would always come back with…something else.
He spent the next two hours taking pot shots at the Snow Golems until he gave up. He was trying to conserve ammunition by using round pieces of clay, essentially what Kevin called primitive cannonballs.
They actually flew if he made them just right, but they had to be baked, didn’t do much damage, and flew unpredictably.
To Bird’s intense annoyance, he lobbed three ballista bolts at the Snow Golem made of ice, and two missed and he shattered the third on its tough head. The huge block of ice given life lurched around, searching for who’d hit it.
“Can I try, Bird?”
Yelroan had come over and looked sheepishly interested in it. Bird nodded as he waited for the Gnoll to load the thing.
“I hate this stupid ballista. It doesn’t aim right.”
“Really? Oh—I see the problem.”
Yelroan was fiddling with the controls, and Bird nodded. In his mind’s eye, it was so simple.
“I missed. See where it is? It needs to go left—and hit that stupid crack in its neck.”
He had spotted it, and he pointed to the distant shape. Yelroan had to squint and pull out the glass magnifying sights, and he blinked.
“You spotted that?”
“Yes. And you aim right here if it’s here—”
Bird made a gesture, showing Yelroan where his intuition said to place the bolt. However, his aim was off when the ballista actually fired, and when the Gnoll excitedly took a shot, it went too high and to the right. The Snow Golem began to chase after the bolt and punch the dirt. Yelroan grunted.
“Oh, I see. How far off was I?”
“Ten feet. Eight up, six right.”
Bird muttered glumly. The Gnoll and Workers gave him an impressed look.
“You can tell?”
“That is my power. I see things and shoot them. But not this. Ow!”
Bird kicked the ballista and hopped on one foot. Yelroan, meanwhile, was doing rapid math on a napkin.
“…There’s even degrees on here. So one degree up and point six right…no. That’s not right.”
Shoot and miss. Fourteen bolts left. Bird knew the Gnolls were confident they’d be able to cobble together a bolt that would fly, but they’d told him they would have a bad wood head, or he needed to buy metal.
Buying a giant ballista arrowhead? Expensive! Even his stipend wouldn’t cover more than a dozen per month. Bird stared around.
“And it’s hard to hit things with this stupid thing.”
“Most ballistae have enchanted munitions if they’re not being used to crack walls. You know, explosive magic?”
“Oh. Really.”
Bird stared at something in the distance. He scratched at his head.
“…How mad would Erin be if I blew up her inn?”
Yelroan was half paying attention as he did figures. He had noticed that the intricate aiming calculations got into terminology even he hadn’t heard of.
“Half degrees…and arcminutes? Fascinating! I see. One arcminute is 1.536 feet at one mile…which means—okay. I need the distance to my target, and then it’s just as simple as…”
An Antinium carefully rotated the ballista using the smallest of dials as Yelroan called out improvised coordinates. Bird eyed the ballista.
“Yelroan, what about Erin’s inn?”
The Gnoll was having fun and scratched at his head as he double-checked his numbers.
“Hm? Well, she needs a new one, but we’re living in this one. I don’t think she’d be too impressed. Do, uh—do you want to try?”
He offered the lever to one of the Workers. Then corrected the sights left a bit as the Snow Golem moved. Bird stared into the distance.
“Yes, but it’s cold, so maybe it wouldn’t explode right away. Making it explode on purpose and not killing us all is…”
Whumph. Bird jumped as the ballista thumped and spun. Then his mandibles opened, and Yelroan peeked his head up. The Gnoll’s jaw dropped, and the Worker who’d pulled the lever fell over.
“We hit it!”
Square on the neck crack! Well, almost! Bird saw the Snow Golem trying to pick up half its body before it fell over. He stared at Yelroan, and the [Mathematician] beamed. He patted the ballista.
“Math wins once again! Minotaurs do respect it.”
Everyone was patting the Worker’s shoulder, the one who’d fired the ballista. Then they were clapping—and someone was cheering from the walls of Liscor. The Watch had seen it! In fact, they were already calling for a Silver-rank team to recover the snow and keep the Snow Golem from turning into mini ones! And there was a bounty, and Bird?
Bird got even madder, happy as he was for Yelroan.
 
——
 
It was evening, Erin was congratulating Bird on ‘his’ first successful shot, and Bird was accepting cupcakes. But he was dragged away from the party by, of all people, Yellow Splatters.
“Bird’s Workers are causing trouble in the Hive. Pawn wishes Bird to come.”
“My Workers? But I didn’t do anything!”
The [Captain] gave Bird a reproving look.
“Yes you did. You bought them hats.”
Bird stopped and then raised his arms overhead in sheer frustration.
“You say that like this is a bad thing!”
 
——
 
The Bird-Workers were bragging about their new hats—and the ballista shot. Bird caught the end of one of the arguments.
“I am a [Crew Operator]. I have a class.”
“It is not better than faith.”
“I have a hat.”
“It is not better than faith.”
“…It is.”
Two Workers began fighting as one went over the line. They punched and slapped each other’s chitin until they had to be dragged back. Pawn gave Bird a long look.
“You gave them something. So you do care. Cease fighting! We do not need to quarrel, and we are all rewarded in our own ways. Bird has given a gift to the Workers who helped him; there is nothing wrong with that.”
Bird had put his foot in it now. Pawn broke up the fight, but his Workers—and more, Soldiers and Workers without a hat—were looking at Bird expectantly.
Why did Pawn seem slightly triumphant? As if Bird had begun playing his game and it was clear that Bird didn’t have the money or time to outfit all his Workers. Pawn had prayers, books, the barracks, and his Painted Antinium would become a society.
Bird had bought eight hats. Bird was getting mad.
Bird was beyond mad, actually. Pawn was treating him like he was deliberately not doing anything for ‘his’ Workers despite Bird never asking for anyone to idolize him. Well, if he was going to be someone’s role model…Bird waited until Pawn was gone and then sidled over to his Workers and Soldiers. He counted.
“Fifty-three. Okay. Come with me.”
They looked worried, and Bird rubbed his hands together sinisterly. He tip-toed away as all the other Workers and Soldiers turned to stare at him. Pawn got word of what Bird was doing about forty minutes later, after one of his sermons, and lost his temper.
 
——
 
“Bird! What are you doing?”
Pawn came storming into The Wandering Inn with a host of Painted Antinium and nearly scared the Pallassian and House Veltras [Soldiers] out of their seats. But his attention wasn’t on them or establishing dominance. It was on Bird.
Bird, who wasn’t in the common room. Rather, he was in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. That massive room, which could have sat an entire movie’s audience, was being occupied by Bird and the Workers and Soldiers who’d declared their admiration of him.
Right now, his dinner consisted of popcorn, a lasagna slice, and blue fruit juice. Bird had spread out his plates, and he was sitting apart from the other Workers and Soldiers, who shrank back when Pawn looked at them.
But they weren’t the only ones. Mrsha hit ‘pause’ as the movie overhead froze. And Bird stood up.
“Hello, Pawn. I am being insolent and smarmy. What are you so mad about?”
Pawn looked around at the Antinium that Bird had treated to dinner and a movie. Bird waved a finger at him.
“Before you say anything, I paid for all of it myself.”
“You took them to a movie? I was going to ask Erin to borrow her theatre for one night! This—even her regular guests don’t come here!”
Pawn was appalled. Bird just brushed a crumb off his mandibles.
“So? She doesn’t use it all the time. Mrsha was going to watch a movie, and I asked if I could join in. It’s Hercules. Want to watch?”
He patted a chair, indicating the ample room. But Pawn just got madder. He hesitated as Erin came over.
“Hey, Pawn. What’s wrong? Bird asked if his group could come and watch a movie…did you want to join in and Bird didn’t invite you?”
She gave Bird a suspicious look, but Pawn bowed to Erin.
“No, Erin. It’s just—may I speak with you, Bird? Privately?”
That meant just the Antinium. Bird stepped to one side, but everyone listened in, including Erin, who looked at Pawn with a puzzled frown as he hissed at Bird.
“Bird! You are doing too much! The other Antinium will feel they’re being left out.”
“But aren’t they? These are ‘my’ Antinium. I have given them movie night, and they can come back every single night so long as Erin isn’t busy.”
“No! Bird—what about equality?”
Bird folded all four arms as he faced down Pawn. He did not like arguing with Pawn. But he was annoyed, and like with Klbkch…
“What about it? Maybe I will not do every night, but this was fine. Erin likes Antinium, you know, Pawn. I am not sure you realize this, but she is very happy to let them eat here or watch a movie.”
