“Um! You may all have a meal inside. I will pay for it.”
He thought Lyonette wouldn’t get mad if he did that. The Workers brightened up and began to file inside. Bird stood there a second.
“It is a good gift. All I need are lots of ballista bolts. Maybe I can make them cheaper? Out of…of…”
He scratched at his head. Dirt? Could you make a dirt…no, wait. Hadn’t Rags been muttering something interesting about her old crossbows? Yes, that’s right! She’d said she’d used clay and fired balls, which would probably fly if you launched them out of a ballista!
Bird decided to go find her. But before he could, some people found him.
Councilmember Lism, Zevara, and Elirr! Bird raised all four hands and made chopping gestures.
“Back! Back! I will not stop! It is my ballista! Hah! Hah!”
He chopped at them, and Zevara spoke.
“Bird—”
“Hiyah!”
Bird chopped Lism on the forehead. He’d sort of expected the Drake to dodge. Lism swore.
“Ancestors damn it—”
“Bird, can we have a word?”
Elirr tried, but Bird fled and tried to shield the ballista.
“No! You cannot take it! I will never stop! I’ll shoot holes in Liscor’s walls if you try to take it from me! It’s my gift! You cannot steal a Christmas present!”
He began shouting, waving all his fists. He was so angry and worried he almost pulled out his bow, but Lism shouted, rubbing at his forehead.
“This idiot—we don’t want to take it away, Bird! We want to hire you to use it!”
“Huh?”
Bird stopped flailing. Numbtongue, who’d been walking over to help defend the ballista, kept walking, tripped, and went tumbling down the hill with a shout. Even Lism seemed horrified by what he’d said.
“Dead gods. Has it come to this? Who am I?”
He stared at his reflection in a window and pulled himself together. Elirr took over.
“In truth, this was a long time coming. The Watch has asked you to help guard the road and shoot Garbichugs before, Bird. But some of us were resistant to offering you more.”
“Tismel.”
Lism ignored Elirr’s pointed glare. He brushed his claws on his coat, and Zevara cleared her throat. She, of all of them, looked the most resigned, but she gave Bird a searching look.
“Bird, with that ballista of yours, you could cover most of the Floodplains. If Hexel builds that tower or he makes the one I overheard him describing to Erin—”
She hesitated, fidgeted, and burst out with it.
“Liscor has no emplaced defenses. We have wall spells, but those are non-recharging, expensive weapons only to be used in battles. But a higher-grade city does have one or two siege weapons! Even with our development and Hexel, Liscor wouldn’t be approved by Manus for one for a decade! You having one…would be tremendous to the city’s defenses!”
He blinked at her.
“You like ballistae too?”
Zevara sighed.
“Any Watch Captain would love one. They’re a lot cheaper than wall magic! I don’t intend to steal yours, Bird. But we have to patrol to multiple farms and new buildings outside of Liscor. The Watch is fast, and we have [Riders] now in training, but that ballista is faster. Just seeing it will make a [Bandit] think twice. We’re here to discuss you taking on a contract. If you do, you’ll help clear the roads and take out hostile monsters.”
“At a reasonable fee!”
Lism added hurriedly. Bird looked at him, Elirr, and Zevara, and Lism gestured to the inn with a weak smile.
“May we discuss this, Mister Bird? I’m sure the funds would help the inn or you in your…aspirations. I can’t imagine this will be easy to maintain.”
Money for his bolts. And a license, nay, a need for him to shoot it? Bird stared at Lism as the Drake walked over. Then he pinched the Drake.
“Ow! What was that for?”
Lism roared, and Bird shrugged.
“I was checking if it was a dream. You are not dreaming.”
But maybe he was? He began smiling. Bird puffed out his chest as Zevara covered a snort, and Elirr laughed. By the end of the day, he had signed a contract that gave him full authority to fire the ballista and Liscor had promised to help with making more bolts! Things were turning up Bird after all.
 
——
 
Two days later, Bird was the unhappiest Antinium in the entire world. Even more than the ones who’d drowned at sea.
He was hiding in his room, under the desk, when Mrsha found him.
Bird! Bird, Watch Captain Zevara has a message for you! They want you to—
“No! I am not doing it! You go fire it! I hate the ballista! Tell them I died!”
Mrsha stared at him. She scribbled for a few seconds, then held up a card with an open mouth to convey her emotions.
How can you hate the ballista? You fool!
“It’s not fun! I don’t like it! It’s the worst gift ever!”
And he meant that sincerely. Magnolia Reinhart was a bad person. She had known what she was doing and granted him his dearest wish.
Only a twisted maniac could, in the giving of his dreams, twist the knife and plunge him into the cold reality of responsibility. Two full days of owning a ballista and Bird had realized that it was the most miserable experience of his entire life for three reasons:
One. Owning a ballista meant Bird had responsibilities. Unlike sitting in his tower, when he was manning the ballista, everyone suddenly decided to talk to him.
Random [Farmers] came by to the inn over the next two days to introduce themselves. There was the Gnoll [Farmer] who gave Bird some goat’s cheese under the misguided assumption that Bird wanted anything to do with cheese.
If it didn’t come from a bird, then Bird could take it or leave it. He gave it to Calescent.
Himilt came by with Colfa. A Drake [Pig Farmer] tried to tell Bird all about how raising pigs around the Floodplains was not only profitable, but doable because pigs were smart enough to notice Shield Spider pits by and large. The issue of quality pig feed was something that Bird had never thought of…and wished he could unthink.
They were only the locals. Zevara had more time since Venim was taking over a lot of the paperwork and such, so she came by sometimes just to stare at him. Every time he turned the ballista, someone came out of the inn to ask what he was shooting at.
Bird had never had backseat archers before. In his tower, he fired arrows, and that was that. But the length of the ballista’s loading and turning time meant that he got…critiques.
“Sure you’re aiming right? Looks low to me.”
Numbtongue was munching on an ice cream cone as Bird aimed the ballista at a Rock Crab scuttling around the val Lischelle farm. Bird ignored him. When he fired, the bolt passed just under the crab’s shell and hit the ground, making it scuttle away in terror.
“Ooh. Shame about that.”
“I was aiming for its legs. Killing Rock Crabs just makes spiders come out and eat them.”
“Hmm. Maybe.”
The [Bard] didn’t sound convinced. Bird slowly turned his head.
“Go kiss dirt, Numbtongue.”
“I’ll go kiss Octavia.”
Bird shook his fist as Numbtongue walked off.
“She’s too good for you. You are a stupid, jobless [Bard]! Every Goblin is better than you!”
 
——
 
Other [Archers] like Halrac, Badarrow, and so on knew better than to critique Bird’s aim. However, it was true that Bird had to now guard a substantial amount of land. Every [Farmer] had opined that it would be nice to have Bird chase away monsters like the Rock Crabs. Bird had a very limited selection of bolts, but the city and Laken had promised to help make more. The [Emperor] had lumber, although getting a straight section of wood the size of the bolts was still prohibitively hard.
However, Bird’s second problem was this:
He was having a hard time hitting things with the ballista.
It didn’t…fire right. He complained until Laken actually sent some [Engineers] to check the performance of the ballista and consult with the House of Minos, but they claimed it was calibrated right.
It was because Bird was using a device, rather than a bow. All of his intuition on how an arrow flew was off. The ballista required precise adjustments, so keeping up with a target in real-time was impossible.
He couldn’t hit a bird with this. Nevermind that he’d never get a carcass—the birds were far too fast! Bird went up into his tower and shot a Garbichug skulking around the plains; it had been trying to eat the bolt he’d shot over the top of its head. The stupid bird just pulled his arrow out of its side and ate that, too.
None of this was the worst. Okay, it wasn’t pleasant to have people annoying him, but Bird could have taken the long view that they’d get bored of his ballista and he’d improve his aim. Yet there was one real problem that outweighed the other two by far:
Three. The ballista could not be run by Bird alone.
 
——
 
It took four people, minimum, to operate the ballista at anything like a regular pace. By himself, Bird could laboriously load a bolt, wind the ballista, and turn it. If he worked hard, maybe he’d get a shot off every ten minutes.
Ten. Minutes. That was how long it took to wind the gigantic mechanism, and Bird got so tired that he could only do two windups by himself before he had to take a rest. Thankfully, he had help.
The same Workers who often came to listen to him on the tower, and had built the roof so long ago, had become an unofficial pit crew for the ballista. Every day, they’d loiter around, clearly hoping he needed to fire it, and scurry around and move it for him.
They already knew how to shift the ballista and would wind it up without complaint. That was good! But Bird hated it.
His tower was a wonderful place to be alone. This? Even when he wasn’t doing anything, just standing there, he was conscious they were all there. Not that the Workers were impatient—they would stare around, antennae waving, brush snow off the ballista, or join the work on the new tower that Hexel was making.
They were an odd lot. Now that Bird thought about it, they were fairly old faces at The Wandering Inn. Of course, when he said that, Hexel gave him an odd look.
“Those eight Antinium? I’m sorry, but unless they’ve got paint or something unusual like Silvermop, it’s hard to tell them apart.”
He nodded at the Antinium milling around his worksite. Bird supposed that for non-Antinium, it was hard even for Hexel to tell them apart.
“It is very simple, Hexel. You just look at the things that are different about each Worker. Like that one has a notch on his shell. There. See?”
He pointed to a tiny chip out of one of the Workers’ shells near his leg. The Worker waved. Hexel hesitated.
“Ah, of course. And does he have a n—”
Bird nudged him quickly. These Workers were neither Painted nor [Crusaders]. Hexel remembered the rules and shut up, but the Workers didn’t look like they were that worried by the question. In fact, Bird leaned over.
“They do have names. Nicknames. This one is Chippy. And that’s Ringy. And that’s Splashy.”
The Lamia’s face was colorful as he realized Bird had definitely nicknamed them. Chippy was obvious, but the other two?
“That one has a ring he made out of wood. And that one splashes paint and tar everywhere.”
The fumble-fingered Antinium shyly turned away and put his hands over his face, despite everyone liking him, and Ringy showed Hexel a little wooden ring around a pinky he’d made himself. The Lamia stared at them with a newfound appreciation, as if he hadn’t seen them before.
“I confess, Bird, I still never would have recognized them without you pointing that out. I’ll try to remember…”
Bird scolded the [Architect] gently.
“You must do better, Hexel. Everyone at the inn can do it. Right? Mrsha, Lyonette! Come over! Do you know these Antinium?”
He shouted, and a [Princess] sighed as she and Mrsha came over. The little [Druid] waved at Hoppy, who did a hop and waved back, his trademark, and Eclaircissement.
Eclaircissement had a dictionary. He might have been one of the reasons why Mrsha knew so many big words; he showed her his word of the day as Lyonette sighed.
“I recognize them, Bird. Please tell me you’re feeding these poor Workers who are helping you with your gift? I’ll make sure of it. Hello, Hoppy, Splashy, Chippy, Ringy…Eclaircissement…er, is it Nappy?”
She peered at the sixth Worker, and Bird put his hands on his hips. It was true, some of the Workers had no features to define them, but Lyonette should have picked up on his sleepy vibes!
“I suppose Lyonette is a bad example, Hexel. But Mrsha is perfect. See?”
She knew them all! Although, as Ser Sest pointed out with a cough—
“I believe Miss Mrsha cheats, Bird. They likely smell different, and Gnolls are very good at identifying one via their personal odor.”
Mrsha gave him a betrayed look, and sure enough, when Bird made her cover her nose, she had no idea who most were. He looked at the shamefaced [Princess] and [Druid] and stomped away.
“This is a racism!”
He went to watch the tower as the ballista crew went back to vibing. They were definitely not working, but standing to attention. After a second, one of them passed around some sticky molasses, and they began to chew it. Now that Bird thought about it, they often sat on the roof and listened to him. Maybe they were just all [Layabouts]. They certainly didn’t do much unless Erin needed repairs.
Compared to that, the Workers around the tower were nonstop in motion, and Bird grudgingly had to admit it looked nice.
The temporary tower was going up fast. The Lamia knew his work; he’d had dirt piled up by Antinium to elongate the hill while laying a thick foundation of stone. Antinium followed his blueprints without fail; by the time the first day had passed, he’d already set four massive stone foundations deep in the earth and begun working on the tower. It would be a very simple hexagon that you could climb with stairs on the outside; at the top, the ballista would be mounted, and a thin guardrail would keep people from slipping off.
Bird wondered how Hexel would get the ballista up there. He glumly reflected he’d have to teach people how to disassemble and reassemble it.
After two days, Bird had fired four ballista shots, three misses, one graze. Two at Rock Crabs, scaring them off from a farm and the road, one at a Garbichug, and the final shot had been for fun at some trees far, faaaar away.
The ballista could fire up, and Bird had actually grazed the copse of Boombark trees—though they had refused to blow up because it was winter. He had quite enjoyed that, and all the Workers had clapped. Right up until Zevara sent a trainee [Guardswoman] to ask if Bird had seen anything. Did he think the trees were a danger? How many ballista bolts did he have left, again?
 
——
 
“I’m sorry, Bird. But you got your wish. It’s a very expensive…a ludicrously expensive…Watch Captain Zevara is right to be concerned.”
“Watch Captain Zevara is a butt.”
