Bird muttered over breakfast on the third day. Lyonette frowned at him.
“Bird! Mind your manners!”
“You’re a poo-face.”
“Bird—”
“I am sorry. Do not punish me. Aaaah!”
He slapped his hands on the table, knowing that Lyonette was about to explode. She opened her mouth, ready to revoke some right, when Erin nudged her.
“Give him one more chance, Lyonette. Bird, don’t be mean. You know Zevara has to do it.”
The [Princess] looked exasperated, but she desisted. Bird poked at his eggs sullenly. He was relieved he hadn’t been punished, but he was mad. The ballista was no fun.
“At least Hexel’s going to finish the tower tonight. Your Workers are already disassembling it. They work hard. You want to call them in for breakfast, Bird?”
“They’re what?”
Bird ran outside and found the Workers hauling the ballista over to the new tower. It was made largely of wood and a cobblestone design, the cement the Lamia had laid already set and dried. Bird stared at the Workers, and one of them froze guiltily.
“Hunter Bird. We were just moving the ballista.”
“You know how to disassemble it!?”
Bird was astonished. One of the other Workers hid something behind his back. The manual. They’d read it. Bird stared at them.
“I don’t care. Go ahead and move it. Thank you.”
He stomped back inside. At least someone liked the stupid thing. Because it seemed like it’d take a while for the Workers to finish moving the ballista, Bird sat in his tower instead. There, he had a long think as he stared across the Floodplains. He didn’t shoot many birds; there were few given the cold, and frankly, he wasn’t in the mood.
Four days. The Solstice was coming up. In truth, the reason Erin hadn’t had a word with Bird and the ballista hadn’t had much action was because…this wasn’t the biggest thing happening around Liscor right now.
Everywhere Bird looked, he could see more activity on the Floodplains than he remembered since the Goblin Lord’s attack. He stared ahead towards the tiny copse of Boombark trees that he’d located, and across the Floodplains, he saw campfires, marching figures, and lots, lots of people with shovels.
“Damn Drakes. Get off my Floodplains!”
He shook a fist at them. In truth, it was Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and even some Garuda. The Garuda could stay. But mostly Drakes.
Pallass had arrived. They’d come down out of the hills surrounding the High Passes, to the surprise of everyone but Bird, Rags, and Erin. Bird, like Rags, had spotted the fires. He saw everything from his tower, and the sight of Pallass fortifying the ground past the inn meant the local monster population was, by and large, quiet.
They liked his ballista about as much as the idea of having to defend an Antinium-allied city. But the [Soldiers] had orders, and apart from a few officers coming to The Wandering Inn and receiving an Erin experience—which included a free pan to the face if they spat at a Goblin—things were surprisingly peaceful.
The sight of them made Bird’s stomach hurt. He tried to sing it off.
“La, rah, bah. Soldiers on the grass, soldiers are a pain in the ass. The Solstice is coming, it’s already snowing. We could all be dead, but hey, at least it’s not…blowing? Windily. This song sucks.”
Even his singing was off. Bird leaned on the tower and heard a scratching sound. He peered over the lip of his tower and saw Nerry hiding there, scribbling on a piece of paper with a piece of charcoal in her mouth.
She stared at him and ran away when she noticed him looking. Bird sighed.
“Even the pets are getting too smart. This sucks.”
He stared around and realized he could see his tower and the Workers setting up the ballista with a will. Bird wondered…what they got out of it. Not a single one had fired the thing. He would have let them if he had bolts to spare. Bird looked around and wondered when the Centaurs were coming.
“Centaurs. Rags’ Goblins. Tyrion’s stinky [Soldiers]…Liscorian soldiers. Antinium, I guess. Who else?”
Bird counted on his fingers. Then he wondered if anyone had actually told the Free Queen that there would be a huge battle on the Winter Solstice. Klbkch was gone, and Xrn wasn’t very talkative after she’d nearly had her head ripped off.
He was sure she knew. Bird sat down on a stool and kicked his feet a few times.
“Life was simpler before Erin had to go and die. I didn’t own a ballista. I got to sit here and shoot birds. Now, [Druids] lecture me about how many birds I shoot. And Zevara bothers me. Why did Magnolia have to make my dreams come true? No wonder nobody likes her.”
It was like the Free Queen, who wanted to make him practice the Unitasis Network. Because it would ‘save the Antinium’. Bird folded his arms, rocking back and forth.
“No one asked me if I wanted to be the salvation of the Antinium. No one asks how hard it is to be Bird. Well, sometimes it’s hard.”
He slapped the lip of his tower a few times. Everyone liked the cheerfully silly Antinium. Well, guess what! He wasn’t having a good day!
There was snow on the lip of his tower. Bird made a snowball, hurled it off the top, and beaned Kenva on the back of the head as she went skipping out the door with Mrsha and Visma. A wail arose, and Bird reflected indirect fire was a tricky thing to get right. He ducked down and pretended he wasn’t there until Lyonette stormed up the stairs.
Then Bird had a thought and realized he hadn’t seen the Free Queen for his regular Unitasis Network practice yesterday.
 
——
 
“—and then she took away my bird-eating privileges! As if I’m a Mrsha! I’m not. I can do whatever I want. Like go into the city and buy chicken. She treats me like a child!”
“Bird.”
The Free Queen, Xevccha, was trying to get a word in edgewise. She had a new trick today: a Worker would read from a book, and Bird would repeat what the Worker was reading.
In theory, at least. But Bird was ranting, and it had been about twenty minutes since he’d come down. The Free Queen checked an hourglass as Garry gave all the test-Antinium a drink. Bird stomped about.
“I am not a child. If I was a child, I wouldn’t have a gigantic damn ballista that I have to pay for! Mrsha’s not allowed to touch it, but she grounds me. She doesn’t ground Numbtongue even though he’s silly and hurts people’s feelings, like Octavia and Garia.”
“This sounds like an issue you might wish to bring up with Lyonette. Or…Erin Solstice?”
The Free Queen was doing her best to give advice. Bird paused mid-stomp.
“…Erin’s busy. She’s practicing for the Winter Solstice and meeting with Niers and other people. Because the Titan is so smart. He’s not smart enough to avoid a door. Harumph!”
He folded his arms and sat down. The Free Queen waved an antennae.
“Yes…do you know why Pallass is here, Bird? Xrn assures me they’re not searching for our Hive—much. A few sensor spells, but she has warded us.”
“They’re here for the Solstice when we all die.”
The Free Queen lifted a milkshake up and sipped through a gigantic straw.
“Yes. Yes…why are we all dying this time?”
Bird paused, turned to stare at her, and realized his intuition was right. Without Klbkch, there wasn’t someone to explain things to the Free Queen. For all that she ran the Hive, Klbkch was her only link to the above. She only talked to him, Xrn, sometimes, and Bird, he supposed.
“Ask someone else. Garry. Or Pawn. It’s just another thing where we all die horribly due to something if bad things happen. Or nothing happens.”
The Free Queen rubbed two palps together somewhat nervously.
“…What kind of bad things exactly?”
“Death. War. Ask them.”
Bird rolled over onto his side, and after a second, the Free Queen gently patted him with one gigantic feeler.
“I shall, Bird. I understand your frustrations. I often see little. Will you try to open a Unitasis Network again? In the past, I would know far more, but I can only give orders and receive basic knowledge from the Workers and Soldiers of the Free Antinium. When I was first created, I would wait for Klbkch to return in my hatchery with the other Queens under training.”
“…Why? No one likes Klbkch.”
Bird sat up a bit, and the Free Queen rubbed at some of her cracked chitin where she sat. She sounded surprised. Her pet Rock Crab, Deferred Sustenance, scuttled out as she petted it. The other Workers and Soldiers nodded as the Free Queen glanced at Bird. But the gigantic Antinium of Rhir seemed just as perplexed by the divide in opinions as the new Antinium of Izril.
“Why? Because each time he returned, his mind would join the Queens. War Queens at first, of course. We Shaper Queens and Queens-to-be were not the most important. Yet within a day, each Hive connected to the others, and soon, the ones out of direct link with the Unitasis Network would know where he had been and what he did.”
“Oh. Because you shared memories?”
Bird tried to imagine it. And he could sense the Free Queen’s pleasure and nostalgia and regrets. If he concentrated…or rather, stopped concentrating…he could feel her presence.
But too much, normally. Still, Bird tried, and he tuned out the other voices, the countless thousands, and felt a tinge of it. The Free Queen was happy as she remembered.
“Yes. The Silent Queen was part of my very crèche. She and I would feel Klbkch’s adventures. Not just memory; the Queens had a trick to it so we would see him as if from afar.”
“Like a movie?”
“Hmm. Yes. Just like the movies you and Garry describe. You see, we need not feel his pain. But we would sense his triumphs and know the many exotic places he had walked. That is why the Silent Queen loved him so. I miss that. Even if not him—I wish I could see this ‘sky’ that fascinates the Painted Antinium. It is the least of the Unitasis Network’s powers, but with it, even True Antinium who never moved from the spot they were created could feel like they had gone everywhere, fought side-by-side with other Antinium, and triumphed and failed together.”
Oh. That did sound nice when she said it like that. The other Antinium were transfixed as they always were when Klbkch or Xrn spoke of the past. Bird sat there a while, then pulled himself up.
“I wish I did not have to be the one to do it, Xevccha. It is too hard for me. It hurts my head.”
And my heart. The Free Queen bowed her head, and her antennae went still.
“—Then let us not do this today. You seem tired, Bird. Garry, bring him more to eat. If this ballista is so difficult, perhaps rest. Go through the Hive, Bird.”
She waved the Workers and Soldiers away, and Bird felt a bit bad. The Free Queen was nice to him. She had once tried to kill him, but she was lonely. And Bird?
He hesitated as she waved the Workers and Soldiers off. Instead of leave, he sat at her feet as Deferred Sustenance scuttled over. The Rock Crab tried to nip at his leg with a claw, and he slapped its tiny shell.
“Bird. Stop that! He is my pet.”
Xevccha got mad, and Bird shooed the Rock Crab back.
“I thought you were going to eat him.”
The Free Queen nodded, stroking the Rock Crab’s shell.
“I was…until I recalled that we had pets among the True Antinium. Of a kind. If not pets, useful non-Antinium. Allies, even.”
“Is this a story? Klbkch tells stories, or he used to until someone stole his sword, then he ran off. But they always revolved around himself.”
The other Antinium were loitering around the entrance as Bird sat with Xevccha, and she sighed.
“You should respect Klbkchhezeim more, Bird.”
“No. I do not like him.”
“He is a hero.”
“He is a meanie. And he thinks he knows what’s best even when he doesn’t. And he acts stupid and thinks he can get away with it because he has swords and can kill people.”
Bird sulked until the Free Queen gently pushed him over, and he lay on his back shell and wiggled.
“Meanie! You’re mean too!”
“Yes, very. He is the ancient hero, and you will respect him, Bird. Or else.”
“Or what? I am not part of the Free Hive. You can’t boss me around. I’ll leave.”
Bird scrambled back defiantly, and the Free Queen glanced at him. She could swat him across the room—but instead, she just tilted her head.
“Or else I will not teach you a True Antinium song, Bird. You like singing with me, don’t you?”
He hesitated.
“M-maybe. But I have lots of songs. Cara has many songs, and they are nice.”
“Yes…but you are not a good singer. I should teach you how to sing.”
The [Singer] stared at her, mandibles open in horror.
“You are mean!”
“I am truthful. If you wish to sing as True Antinium did, keep practicing, Bird. You must earn it. Now sit. Be kind to Deferred Sustenance. Sit, and Garry will read us a book. Or you may go visit the Hive.”
Bird hesitated and, after a long moment, sat quietly and patted Deferred Sustenance and scratched the Rock Crab as it scuttled over. Both sat, and he decided not to cause trouble. The Free Queen wasn’t like Erin who got shouty or mean, but sometimes he thought she had as much authority. Garry came out, and he had the book that made Bird groan.
“Not again. I don’t want to read—”
“Hush, Bird.”
The adventures of Thivian Stormless had captured even the Free Queen, and she had made Garry buy the entire set. Bird sighed, but he leaned against the Free Queen’s leg and listened for a while.
Then he got up and began to wander the Free Hive. Despite the nice storytelling and Xevccha’s kindness…his thoughts were running together unhappily.
Bird liked Xevccha. He didn’t like his ballista or the training, though. He didn’t want to be Erin. Erin had all kinds of people who wanted things from her. Bird enjoyed his tower because, when he was up there, he was free. No one wanted anything from the silly Antinium. Now, he sensed things changing, and he didn’t like it.
The Solstice made his stomach so upset he had to use one of the Antinium’s versions of a toilet. He didn’t want to think of it. What happened would happen. If it happened like last time, and Erin was frozen…no, there weren’t any second chances.
If it happened—it happened? Bird ducked his head and scuttled around the Free Hive. He was just Bird. He’d shoot arrows, and if Erin died, he had died first. That was how it would be. He’d make sure Mrsha was safe.
He’d…
 
——
 
Bird went to see Pawn. Pawn worked great wonders. But the [Priest] was showing up less and less around the inn. Probably because Lyonette had broken his heart. But also because, Bird thought, Pawn was being silly.
“Ooh. You made it nicer this time.”
When Bird walked into the ‘barracks’ where the Painted Antinium had first begun, he looked up and stopped.
