He stopped, spun, arms spread wide, and took in those silent souls watching him. Bird felt terrified. He was afraid and elated, and he was sure he was right—and some part of him wondered if he wasn’t. But he was also glad, because he understood what it was like to be Erin.
“Ah. Perfect. Now…how do you do it, again?”
The Worker realized he had no idea. Bird stopped, scratching at his head with all four arms. Oh. Darn. He should have asked Erin for tips. He decided to give it his best shot. So he raised one hand and made a fist. Bird planted his feet in the middle of the Hive, and those silly Antinium were probably waiting for him with the Free Queen.
But he hadn’t come for them. Bird thrust his fist higher into the air and raised his voice.
“Riot. Riot? Riot!”
The Antinium stirred. They heard Bird’s words, and then his voice rang throughout the Hive. Through the minds of the two Queens, the Painted Antinium, whose mandibles opened in horror, and the entire Free Hive.
It was the voice, cheerful and bright, that came to all monarchies and governments in time. Those words that were the nightmare in every absolute rule. They echoed. And the idea took the Free Antinium by storm.
Workers threw down their tools. Soldiers moved from their posts. They hesitated, and some stopped and went back. Some were afraid.
But for every one that held still, three, four, went running towards that mind calling them with the authority of a Queen.
Upwards.
 
——
 
“So this is it? I always knew it would be Bird. Alert the Queens. Prepare to hold this place.”
Pivr and his delegation of Flying Antinium were ready. He felt a moment of regret as he rubbed his feelers together. But the Free Queen refused.
“No.”
“My Queen, he cannot slay—”
The Free Queen nearly swatted Pivr. She was turning, raising her great head, and Xrn’s eyes were shining with a brilliant pearlescent white of surprise, disbelief, and exhilaration. She spoke.
“Can’t you tell? They’re not coming here.”
There was no malice, Pivr realized, in Bird’s words. Then he raised his head, fanning his wings uncertainly.
“But then—where—”
He began scuttling out of the throne room of the Hive without a word. And the Painted Antinium uncertainly followed. Not a single one had followed Bird’s orders. But Pawn was running, now, and they joined him. Pivr was gasping as he realized where they were going.
“Wait! Wait! Does he know what he’s doing? It’s almost the entire Hive—”
“He knows.”
Garry overtook Pivr, dashing upwards, joining a flow of Antinium heading towards Bird. And he? Pivr fanned his wings and leapt over the heads of the other Workers and Soldiers. He burst out of the tunnels, and his carapace froze with the cold. But then he halted.
And there was Bird.
 
——
 
The sky was filled with stars after the snowstorm ended. They glowed in every color. Even if they were fake, as Ryoka said, Bird craned his head back and thought they had been made of something real and true.
Copies of another brilliant sky. He spread his arms as he stood on a hill just past The Wandering Inn. One filled with flowers in the spring. Quiet, now. This place alone was untouched, and he alone stood there.
But the Floodplains were filled with Antinium. They ran out of their hidden tunnels. Emerged from the streets of Liscor and scared the poor Drakes and the armies. But the Drakes watched as Workers and Soldiers paused a second.
For many, it was the first time they’d seen the sky. A real sky, not Pawn’s. Bird knew Pawn had emerged from the Hive as well.
Someday, Pawn? Today is nice.
Bird’s arms were raised, and he was laughing almost innocently. But he knew what he was doing. He had always known he could do this. But he had been afraid of the idea.
Pivr buzzed around him, asking the same questions that silly people did. Bird, what are you doing? Nothing would ever be the same. Do you understand the consequences?
“I am Erin’s family. Of course I know.”
Bird spoke to the sky and sighed. Then at last, he looked down, and they scared him.
All those Workers and Soldiers. Thousands upon thousands. Tens of thousands. The Free Hive had always been bigger than they said. Because the Free Queen was also a liar.
They were all looking at him. Bird felt their wonder, and he showed them something in his head.
It was his first bowl of Acid Flies. His first taste of blue fruit juice. It was playing chess for the first time. It was seeing a bird.
As one, their heads turned, and they saw it standing there. An [Innkeeper] was standing in the open doorway, a pan raised to hit anyone bullying her Antinium. Bird waved his antennae, and they understood.
“That’s right. It means that much. Now, listen to me.”
He raised his voice, and his mind expanded, and they listened. The Free Queen below and Xrn, two great minds, hearing him and at least one approving. Bird looked about, and through a thousand eyes, he could see Pallass’ army encamped, wary. He could sense the walls of Liscor and the other defenders.
But what about the ones who had mattered? What about…
“Us? We’re the silly ones. We don’t come at the last moment. The last moment is too late. We are Antinium. We dig and build, and most of you have never met her. Most of you have never seen the sky or tasted blue fruit juice, which is sometimes more than it’s made out to be. Because we scare people. Sometimes, they should be scared.”
Bird told them all the truth. He looked at the inn and knew the Solstice was coming. He would be there, of course. But what could he, Bird, do?
This. Bird pointed at The Wandering Inn and spoke to the Free Antinium.
“We’re going to protect this inn. Okay?”
The Free Antinium looked at him and agreed.
 
——
 
It wasn’t even morning yet, and Erin didn’t have a cake. But Bird forgave her; he was yawning as he stood on that hill.
People were panicking. They always did. Maybe it was the sight of thousands upon thousands of Workers and Soldiers furiously digging. Bird knew that even the Free Hive had seldom engaged in a project of this magnitude.
But they were doing it. Hills were vanishing as Antinium moved dirt, making that flat plain that a certain Centaur had requested. More dirt was being pushed up, added to stones and compacted into walls.
Walls. Moats. That sort of thing. They were surrounding a certain inn, an ever-expanding network of defenses. It might just be dirt, but no [Geomancer] could come close to that many Antinium digging.
“Ants make anthills. Is this one of Ekirra’s racisms, Erin?”
That was the first question he asked her, but only because it was silly and made her laugh. The [Innkeeper] looked at him with wonder in her eyes. Even she hadn’t expected this. Erin put an arm around Bird’s shoulders and squeezed.
“You are amazing, Bird.”
“Whatever that means, I will take it. I realized I was not doing what I could. So I did. It was…very hard, Erin. Harder than I thought, and I thought it would be too hard for me. But I did it, so I think I was wrong. Or I’m not Bird. I still feel like him, but maybe he’d disagree if he was yesterday.”
Worriedly, Bird poked himself, remembering their conversation. Erin bent over, and her brown hair hid her face a second. Her arm tightened on his shoulder.
“Bird. You’re the most Bird I’ve ever known you, today. More amazing than yesterday, but, I think, the same.”
He beamed.
“That is good of you to say, Erin. But I will keep checking I am Bird, because you are a biased opinion. Do you like the walls? I miss the hills.”
All this flat ground looked silly, but he supposed it would help. Erin turned her head and smiled ruefully.
“Me too. But you’ve lit a fire under Pallass and the others. Did you see Tyrion Veltras’ forces getting here?”
“I thought about scaring them.”
Bird admitted. He saw Pallass’ army had grown in number, and they were setting up their area with a will. A fire had been lit under their tails, and Bird shook his head.
“Silly Drakes. But then, we were not working hard. Now—we are. You’re allowed to work hard even if no one else is. That’s what Pawn forgot. He is mad at me.”
“I think he’s jealous, Bird. Uncertain. You’re not seeing the same thing as he does.”
Erin looked at Bird, and the Worker stared around.
“No. But now, at least, he can know what’s in my head.”
They were connected. It ran through him and the Free Queen, but they were learning. It wasn’t as bad as Bird feared either. He could still keep himself amidst sharing. He didn’t have to become one of all.
It was more like being able to smile at someone and have them understand you meant the smile. That sort of thing. Erin looked at the Antinium and muttered.
“I’d better get back to giving out food. They are rotating out, Bird, aren’t they?”
“Yes. I am making the cold ones warm up. I am not that silly, Erin.”
Her eyes twinkled.
“I never thought you were. Do me a favor? Leave me an opening, Bird. Don’t surround the inn entirely. Give me a line of sight in every direction.”
“I can do that.”
In the distance, Workers were already adjusting their plans. Erin stared in marvelous amazement, and Bird yawned again.
“I must sleep, soon. But the consequences…”
He swayed on his feet. Oh, there was one last thing. Erin turned.
“Do you want me to go with you?”
He thought about it, then shook his head.
“No. I think they’re good consequences. And even if they’re not…they’re mine.”
 
——
 
So, the final thing Bird did was descend into the empty Free Hive and marvel how strange it was to walk down almost deserted corridors into the Free Queen’s chambers.
Xevccha was waiting. Patiently, a smile in her mind. She was not angry. She was happy, he realized, and very sad. Sad, like someone who saw a dream coming true. That kind of beautifully, painfully, happily sorrowful.
“Bird.”
Bird. Her mind thought at him, and he shyly waved at her and shuffled his feet.
“I am sorry, Xevccha. I am a [Liar]. I did not want to tell you or the other Queens…because it was a lot of work. And I thought one of you might take me apart.”
She didn’t lift him up as she had before. Instead, the Free Queen leaned forwards, and her mind was more honed than his, older by far, and her voice was very clear. Her tone echoed through the Free Hive, and the Antinium halted one last time.
“You are not a Prognugator, Bird. Nor a Revalantor.”
He had, after all, quit the Hive. Bird ducked his head as he felt the class vanishing. He waited nervously. A giant feeler touched his head, and his mind sparked as he felt the Free Queen’s joy and hope. A blossoming sky of respect and dreams.
This is what the Free Queen said:
“I, Xevccha, designate you as my replacement to lead the Free Hive of the True Antinium. You are Bird of the True Antinium of Izril. Second Queen of the Free Antinium’s Hive.”
Bird rocked. He felt the Antinium shake. He fell over on his back and lay there a second, stunned. The Free Queen offered him her feeler, and after a minute, Bird sat up and took it.
He didn’t know what to say. At last, he said a silly thing.
“I always knew I outranked Lyonette.”
She laughed. The Free Queen laughed, because she understood the joke! Bird sat there and decided that was too silly. Even for him.
“Is this a secret?”
“Oh, yes. But I am tired, and I need someone to guide this Hive. No Hive of Rhir was ever run by one Queen alone.”
“I was afraid you would say that.”
Bird glumly sighed, and then he got up fully. He dusted his butt off and thought for a second. The Free Queen waited as they had a silent conference. After a moment, Bird nodded.
“…Every single Worker and Soldier will see the sky before the Solstice. After that, we’ll declare independence from the Grand Queen.”
The Soldiers guarding the doorway turned, and the Free Queen raised her antennae.
“Truly?”
The [Liar]’s gaze twinkled.
“They’re just words, but someone will think they matter.”
She began chuckling again. And her approval flowed even stronger, and Bird stretched. So this was what would happen. He was so tired he thought he’d pass out and knew that if he did, she’d make sure he slept and got back to his inn.
But Bird had one more thought before he passed out.
“Oh. I remember now.”
He realized why he’d been so afraid of this. And why the Free Antinium would suffer more than they ever had before. Xevccha was curious, so Bird explained what was obvious to him.
“Before this, I could never dream of the past or have a memory that made me want to cry. I had nothing to lose. That’s what levelling is.”
His great fear might come true after all. But he would fight for it. Bird sat down, and he was drifting off. The Free Queen had lost so much it made him sad enough to cry. Those days had come and would come again.
Xrn. Pawn. The Free Antinium’s minds ran through Bird, and he spoke, dreamily, of the future. His greatest lie, and the truth that belonged to Erin and her garden and defined her inn to him:
“Everything we know and love will stay the same forever.”
Then—
Bird slept.
 
[Conditions Met: Bird Hunter → Bow-Warden of the Songbird Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Singer removed.]
[Bow-Warden of the Songbird Level 42!]
 
[Skill Change – Swallow’s Arrow → Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow (Lightning)]
[Skill – Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow (Lightning) obtained!]
[Skill – Ballista: Covering Fire learned!]
[Skill – Synced Aim: Ballista learned!]
[Skill – Song of the Clear Skies obtained!]
 
[Queen Class obtained!]
[Class Consolidation: Tactician removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Revalantor removed.]
[Queen Level 10!]
[Conditions Met: Queen → Antinium Queen Class!]
[Antinium Queen Level 18!]
[Conditions Met: Antinium Queen → Queen of Freedom]
[Queen of Freedom Level 22!]
 
[Skill Change – Unitasis Network → Unitasis Shared Skill: Flawless Shot!]
[Skill – Unitasis Shared Skill: Flawless Shot obtained!]
 
 
[Conditions Met: Bow-Warden of the Songbird → Bow-Singer Queen of the Free Antinium Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Queen of Freedom removed.]
[Bow-Singer Queen of the Free Antinium Level 40!]
 
[Legacy Skill – Wings of Escieda obtained!]
[Skill – Royal Robbery: Birds obtained!]
 
[Conditions Met: Liar → Amazing Liar Class!]
[Amazing Liar Level 17!]
[Skill – Truth is Never Certain obtained!]
 
[Title – First of Izril: True Antinium obtained!]
[Title Reward – Bow of Thiypc’s Promise assigned!]
 
A bow of silver fell from the air as Xevccha watched. It looked like silver, but her breath caught as the gleaming bow appeared. Clumsily, she reached for it, but a little Worker woke up, and his hand caught the bow.
He lifted it up, and it flexed in his hand. Bird ignored the scroll that fell next to it.
“Chitrx? It’s made of…”
