“That’s right. Pawn, it’s all cool by me. Whenever you Antinium want to watch a movie—feel free! It’s not like I can use the theatre all the time. Too much TV melts your brain, at least according to my mom. But what does she know?”
Erin called out, and Pawn hesitated, at a loss for words. Bird leaned forwards.
“I am not wrong, Pawn. You did not ask, and you come by less often. You know why? Not one of your Antinium thought to ask Erin. Because she’s the ‘sky’. She’s only the sky to you?”
“Bird—what do you mean by ‘only’?”
Pawn’s voice was getting dangerous, but Bird didn’t care. He was dangerous. They all were. He hopped over to Erin as the Painted Antinium slowly turned.
“I said only because I mean only. Erin, hold still.”
“Bird. Be nice.”
She looked warningly at him, but uncertainly at Pawn. Erin had always been bad with people who loved her unconditionally like Pawn. And Bird looked Pawn in the eye and raised his voice and knew this would be repeated throughout the Free Hive.
“If you only see a sky when you see Erin, you won’t ever be close to her. Just staring up from a long way away. The sky is bigger than you can imagine, Pawn. She’s only the sky to you. But she’s Erin Solstice to me. I can do this.”
With that—he reached up and ruffled Erin’s hair, messing it up. Erin yelped and then giggled.
“Bird! Stop that! My hair! I even undyed it—Bird!”
He kept giving her what Kevin had taught to Bird as the art of noogies, to be used to great effect on little Gnolls, and Pawn’s mandibles opened in horror. The Painted Antinium stared at Bird’s blasphemy, but Purple Smiles looked at Bird as if he understood something.
Bird laughed. Right up until Pawn pointed a shaking finger at him.
“Bird!”
Something struck Bird, and he went stumbling away from Erin. Then Pawn charged into him, and they went rolling down the theatre, fighting. Both sides of Antinium joined in until Erin stomped her foot, and the inn shook. All the while, Bird thought—
This is all Magnolia Reinhart’s fault.
 
——
 
“Bird. You shouldn’t tease Pawn.”
That night, Erin sat Bird down to have a word with him after she’d talked to Pawn. Bird was sitting, hunched over, all his arms folded.
“You shouldn’t not tease Pawn, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] paused, then looked guilty. She ducked her head.
“You’re right. I guess there were so many things going on that I didn’t focus on him. I never asked him to call me…the sky is weird. You’re right. But you hurt his feelings on purpose.”
“Yes.”
Bird stared down at the ground. Then he added the part that made him stressed, a huge roiling pit by now.
“And I have to let the Workers and Soldiers have movie night again. I did it once, and if I don’t invite them regularly, I’d be a bad Bird, wouldn’t I? A hypocritical one.”
Erin covered her mouth and laughed. But she gave him a look of understanding and squeezed his hand.
“Yeah. But you’d never do that because you’re thoughtful. That’s a good idea. Yelroan proposed a schedule so the Antinium can come by. Which means…I have to use Lyonette’s calendar. She always wins. You should have seen her face.”
She made a silly face, and Bird smiled. But he felt the same thing as Erin. He spoke, slowly, as he sat there.
“Four days left, right?”
Erin’s smile flickered out. She took a breath.
“Yep. I’m not sure when the Solstice will—yeah. Three days starting tomorrow. Niers says his people will be coming any day now. They’re Centaurs. Like Charlay, but less silly. I hope. It’ll be cool seeing them, won’t it?”
She looked so stressed out and nervous, even with her smile, that Bird went over and hugged her. Erin gave him a tight squeeze, and her hat burned dimly in her inn. He reached up for it, but it didn’t burn him. It felt like her hand the day he said goodbye.
There was something Bird wanted to say to Erin. But he didn’t want to give it voice at the same time.
Four days. Erin looked at Bird.
“Try to get along with Pawn, Bird. Please?”
“If he tries to get along with me, I will. But not if he makes me get along with him. I am sorry for fighting, Erin. Lots of things are happening, aren’t they?”
“Yep. But I’m glad you’re managing your ballista problem. Magnolia sent it like that on purpose, you know. Or the Minotaur King. Both, probably.”
Bird scowled.
“They are both bad people. What kind of person teaches someone a lesson rather than writing it down so they can just read it and understand it?”
Erin began giggling so hard she almost fell out of her seat. She wiped at her eyes.
“I think the kind of people who tried writing things down and telling people and realized no one ever learns that way. Not you, or me. I get why they did it. I respect her more than I used to, you know.”
She looked older when she said that. Twenty-seven? Older, maybe. But Bird didn’t say it out loud this time, even though it was more true. He nodded.
“I am managing my ballista. I can make it work. I even know how to make the ballista bolts, and I have an idea for the head. I will even ask Montressa to make sure we don’t all die horribly.”
“Ooh, smart, Bird! Especially that last part, whatever it is.”
Erin’s eyes twinkled. But she trusted him. If he never begged for help, she’d let him do it. Erin sighed.
“Zevara really is making you take charge of it, though. I had no idea the Watch was so many places!”
Bird had heard from her too. Apparently, some Carn Wolves had been preying on a flock far to the west—he hadn’t even known there was a village out there. But if he saw a wolf, would he mark it for adventurers or consider taking a shot? But they could only pay him at the base rate per monster, so it was up to his discretion.
He thought about that until Erin let go of him and told Bird that he wasn’t in trouble, and that she hoped he’d make up with Pawn soon. And Bird had a meeting with the Free Queen tomorrow for Unitasis practice and could he explain to her what was going on? Someone had to, and if he couldn’t, she’d send for Rosencrantz.
 
——
 
That night, Bird got up in the middle of the night and walked outside. He found something and got to work.
After about eleven minutes, Erin Solstice appeared out of her [Garden of Sanctuary], holding a knife and acid jar.
“Bird! You scared the poop out of me! What are you—Bird, stop!”
Bird had a hammer in his hands, one of the ones that Hexel’s [Builders] had left. He was trying to smash the ballista. He ignored Erin and kept hitting it.
“Don’t stop me! This is the only way! I have to do it before it’s too late!”
He was hitting it with all his strength. Trying to earnestly break it to bits. However, the altercation had attracted attention, and Normen, on night patrol, had been wavering between stopping Bird to begin with.
Even so, it took him, Numbtongue, Calescent, and Dame Ushar to finally wrestle Bird away. He really had tried to bust the ballista; one arm was badly damaged, and he’d messed up the pulley system.
Unfortunately, Valeterisa had it repaired by morning.
 
——
 
“Some days, I don’t know what goes through his head.”
Lyonette confessed to Mrsha as Bird sat in a corner of the inn, nursing a cup of coffee and looking more miserable than his family could remember him looking for ages.
Forsooth, he has experienced the pains of adulting. I would cry if I were him or had to be you, Mother.
Mrsha held up a card, and Lyonette sighed.
“Mrsha…maybe that’s true. I honestly expected Bird to throw a tantrum and give up halfway through finding the ballista bolt replacements, but he really stepped up. Erin was right. He did such a good job, despite the fight with Pawn! So why did he crack now?”
Silly Lyonette. The [Princess] understood so much and so little. Bird sat in his chair and knew exactly why he had tried to destroy the ballista.
It would have been better if he failed and Lyonette or Erin had needed to rescue him. He was tired. But not tired enough.
Did that make sense? Only Bird understood Bird. And he was fighting not to head to a conclusion he knew was inevitable. The worst part, though, was that, because he was Bird, the other part of him was fighting even harder. For better reasons.
He hated that.
Bird didn’t know what to do. Or rather, he did. He saw two roads in front of him, and one looked like how it had always been. But suddenly, it wasn’t the good road. But the other was terrifying.
So he did the only thing he could think of. He sat in his tower and pretended his problems didn’t exist. But they were even there.
“Poor yellow bird.”
She was running for her life. An army of about a hundred Eater Goats were boxing her in, throwing themselves off cliffs as the Void Eater Goat followed. Bird was sure she’d make it.
After all, the big bronze bird sometimes watched out for her. But he was a lazy bird and looked fat. Maybe he wasn’t paying attention? She’d make it, even so.
Unless she didn’t. Bird bowed his head and began hitting his head into the tower’s supports. Until someone caught his shoulder.
“Bird. Stop that.”
There she was. He had expected her to find him. After all, Erin Solstice saw people’s hearts like he could see tiny objects and birds.
The [Innkeeper] had come up the stairs quietly. She looked brighter, now. She wasn’t winded or panting from the effort of standing. She looked more energetic. Perhaps more than she’d been before she died. She did a little jump as he poked her.
“Bird! Are you okay?”
“No, Erin.”
The young woman with her hazel eyes still had a trace of red in her hair from Ulvama’s hair dyes. She was shivering in the cold breeze; she only had on a shirt and pants. Pajamas? The pants were silver, and the shirt had a huge fang.
Oh. Silverfang. Bird saw her lips curve upwards, and she lifted a hand.
“Well, then. Why don’t we have a talk?”
She turned, and a door opened into a warm garden. Erin leapt through, and Bird followed. She could dance now.
She could dance a month ago, but this time, Erin seemed to know it. Sometimes she would skip, getting out of bed, or do a little jig. This morning, she’d come down the stairs bounding and twirling off each step like she had feet made of rubber until she saw the guests watching her and wiped out on the bottom step.
In a way, Erin was Bird’s answer. She had changed. Ever so slightly, from dying. And also afterwards. But he didn’t know…
“Do you want to go up the hill?”
“Sure.”
They climbed the hill, as Bird did so many times, and they were there. They were always there.
The statues. Bird saw them standing in a ring just like they always had been. And when he walked forwards, forgetting Erin existed a second, he fit right in. Back to back with the others, staring down the hill as Skinner came up.
Not afraid. Not really. Knowing I was going to die and hoping Erin would live.
He still fit right there. Bird didn’t think Garry did anymore. Belgrade and Anand? No. They’d be too tall, even if they were physically the same height.
Pawn had never been there, but even if he had—the Worker would never be able to stand right here.
Bird could. He was sillier than the first Bird that Erin had ever met, but he could still be right here. And that…that was the problem.
Erin Solstice watched Bird step away from the statues. For the first time, he didn’t linger there, unmoving, but turned to face them. Then he slowly walked down the hill again.
“Can we…talk somewhere else, Erin?”
“Sure. How about—this garden?”
She chose the one that had been used by a Garuda. The dry, windy garden with the huge nests above. Apista was buzzing around, jetting using her wingflames. She stopped, as if embarrassed they had seen her training montage behind the scenes. She buzzed off as Bird lay on his backshell.
“I’m tired, Erin.”
“I often get tired, Bird. But I’ve never heard you say that. Is it hard running a ballista?”
He sat up slowly.
“Ballistae get moldy. The strings break. Even with [Repair], I’ll need to recalibrate it. The ballista bolts cost money. Oh, and I should pay the Workers. They’re gaining levels as [Crew Operators], which might turn into [Artillerists]. But I can’t use the ballista properly. And now I’m responsible for all the farms and Floodplains. If a monster eats someone, it’s my fault.”
“It’s the Watch’s fault. You’re not responsible for all of it—”
Bird flicked some dust at Erin.
“It is my fault because I said ‘yes’. Do not be silly like someone who uses words stupidly. You know what I mean.”
Erin ducked her head.
“I do, Bird. Sorry. If it helps—it’s a stressful time. After the Solstice, things will be better. I promise. Everyone’s getting ready, and I’m not counting—no, I’m sure the ballista will help. But if you think it all relies on you, don’t. This is my fight. I picked it up.”
She made a fist, staring ahead at a bad person that only she could see and know the name of. Bird was too weak. He was just a [Bird Hunter]. He wasn’t Level 40. Not yet.
“…I’m just a silly Bird. I’m a [Liar], Erin. I lie about everything. Including being a silly Bird. I’m such a talented liar I forgot where the lie started.”
“I bet you don’t fool Chaldion. He knows you’re talented. He never forgot you. He asks how you’re doing, you know.”
Bird sighed.
“No, I fooled him because he thought I was more than I wasn’t.”
Erin tried to work this out, and Bird tapped his head with one finger.
“See? He can’t know me if I don’t know myself. A fool is he. He thinks everything has an answer. That’s why the faeries laugh at him.”
Erin did chuckle at this.
“That’s fair. But Bird…tell me what you’re thinking.”
He looked up pensively, and his antennae waved until he grabbed them. Bird whispered.
“I am a great liar. I have been trying so hard, Erin. Oh, so hard. But I cannot lie to myself much longer. May I tell you a story, please? It is of a dream I have. No. First. I will ask you a question, and you must answer honestly. Swear, please? And then if I do not like the answer, I will tell you a story.”
Erin cocked her head to one side. She looked puzzled, but serious.
“Go ahead, Bird.”
He lifted his hand as some of the evaporated snow dried on his carapace. Apista buzzed by, pretending she wasn’t eavesdropping, and Bird could imagine this was a warm day, not winter. He waited until all was silence, then looked Erin in the eyes.
“Time’s stopped.”
Apista’s wings faltered mid-buzz. She checked herself, then buzzed around and flew through a little door and checked a timepiece, then buzzed back and gave Bird a suspicious stare. Erin raised her brows.
“You mean you stopped it? I didn’t.”
Bird nodded, lying.
