Bird craned his head back, but it was winter, so few birds were around. He sighed. Maybe a Rock Crab?
Teriarch was striding past Bird and half-dragging a pleading Drake that Bird didn’t know behind him. He paid attention because she had wings.
“Another day? Come on, Teriarch—”
“You got your day off. The wilds wait for no one. We will see you in a week, Master Lulv.”
Teriarch dragged Rafaema through the door, and the Gnoll tried to go after them. Bird hoped Lulv would trip on his spear. He decided now was the time.
“I am going to fire! Everyone stand back! Especially Mrshas!”
Everyone took a generous step back. Bird grandly found the sheaf of ballista bolts and hefted one. They were lighter than he thought. A bit topheavy, but he knew how to compensate for the drop. He loaded one into the ballista, or tried to.
“Oh. I have forgotten this is wound up. One second. I wind with these…”
Sure enough, there were four huge wheels you spun around to draw the ballista back and wind up the spindles of thread. Bird began to rotate one around and found it was a fairly intensive process. It wasn’t impossible, but he doubted Mrsha could move the lever. The hand-crank was big enough to put both hands on to spin; it was hollow, and you could attach these metal rods so you could use your height and weight to spin it with additional leverage.
Bird could move the wheel without, so he did. The physical challenge was nothing in the face of his good mood.
He ended up using two hands, and when his audience saw the ballista slowly moving, Numbtongue, Garia, and even Ser Sest volunteered to help. Lyonette shouted.
“Sest!”
They got the ballista pulling back at quite good speed, and apparently, it only took two minutes and thirty seconds if you were really fast, without Skills, for a team to load the ballista.
Which was silly slow. But Bird supposed, for such a big weapon, it was fast. It might have taken longer; he was admiring the click of gears and how the complex things inside the ballista turned.
“What are you doing, Sest?”
Lyonette was outraged, but the charming Thronebearer shot her an embarrassed smile.
“I’m sorry, Miss Lyonette. But I am a lad at heart, and I’ll wager any lad wants to see this thing fire once.”
Certainly, it looked like everyone standing there wanted a turn, boys and girls and Mrshas. Even Lyonette fidgeted.
“Well, of course it looks fun, but—we’ll all have a go after Bird is done. However many days that is.”
Bird heard a tremendous click as he realized it was done. He stepped back, and Garia wiped her brow theatrically.
“That’d be a good workout, like your gym.”
“Yup. All set, Bird?”
“I am. Please step back, Numbtongue! Side effects of being too near the ballista include death. If you are not standing where I am.”
Bird drew a line, and the others stepped back hurriedly as he slotted the bolt into place. Perfect! Then Lyonette called out again.
“Bird! Don’t aim that at the city! Understand?”
Wow. He was getting tired of her pointing out things he knew. Bird twitched his antennae expressively.
“I am going to aim it at something else, Lyonette. That Rock Crab, maybe.”
He’d spotted an innocent Rock Crab slowly meandering across the Floodplains. They usually hibernated, but this one might have been cold and looking for more warmth. It was well away from any farm, and Bird reckoned it was maybe a thousand and four hundred paces away.
Perfect. The ballista’s shots could curve, but anything in two thousand feet could be hit just by pointing and firing. He heaved on the ballista, and nothing happened. Then Bird slapped his forehead.
“Oh. Silly me. Lever.”
He had to find a hand-crank and turn it. Slowly, the ballista began swinging left, towards Liscor’s walls. All the Watch had been on the walls, staring at the ballista, and half took cover behind the battlements. Bird stopped, reversed the direction of the wheel.
“Oops. Haha. La, la, turning right. I should not have loaded this right now. I could fire it just by pulling this lever.”
He pointed at it. Lyonette did not continue screaming; she seemed to realize she was the one occupying that role, but she gave Erin a significant look.
The lever was, in fact, sort of odd to Bird. He’d seen crossbows work, and while he didn’t like the trigger mechanism, he could see pointing and aiming it. He wished the ballista had one, even if it would be comically huge or tiny compared to the thing. A lever was so…funny for a ranged weapon.
Oh well. He kept moving the ballista right…and right…and right again. After about a minute of watching it turn, Numbtongue called out.
“You going to take all day, Bird? I want a turn!”
“It turns slow. Help me turn that wheel. No, that one.”
Again, two people could manipulate the ballista at a time. Bird let Garia and Numbtongue take over and began fiddling with the base.
“Stand clear of that thingy or it’ll mash your feet.”
Since she had no feet, Charlay the Centaur peered around the ballista.
“Psst, Antinium fellow. What’s that lever do?”
“Up-down, strange Centaur lady.”
The ballista was aimed up. Bird had to dial it down…and down…and after a while, Sest joined in.
It was more fiddly than he thought. With enough people, he knew you could disengage the gear-system and move with brute force, then re-lock it, but this was fine. Bird shouted.
“Okay! We’re ready!”
About sixteen minutes had passed since he began the loading, and he finally had the Rock Crab in sight. Bird disengaged the safety-lever as everyone sprang back.
“Now, crab, is the day of your discontent. With life. Because I have a ballista. Heh.”
He put his hand on the firing mechanism and stared at the crab from the back end of the ballista. Then Bird paused.
“Oops. You moved.”
He began twirling a hand-crank and making a more minute adjustment to the right. Mrsha and the kids were dancing up and down. Ekirra had his paws half over his eyes, but he was peeking every two seconds. Erin was munching on some chips Ulvama had in a bowl, and the Hobgoblin was poking Erin because they were her chips.
Ser Sest was holding up a scrying orb to show someone, and Bird paused.
“Eat crab, Rock Crab! No, wait. Eat ballista…”
He paused. He needed the right words for this.
“You are not a bird, but my ballista doesn’t care for—hard shell? Meet bolt! No.”
“This is going to be crab-solutely amazing to see?”
Kevin shouted, and Bird gave him a long look, then a thumbs up.
“Yes. Good job, Kevin!”
He turned, and everyone tensed. Then Bird sighed.
“Stop moving!”
He fiddled with the controls and spun the ballista up—then down. Then it was moving left. Bird paused. Cranked the handle. Up, down…
The stupid Rock Crab didn’t have a deathwish or something! It was rushing around, likely chasing a rabbit or something. And unlike his bow, each adjustment meant Bird had to reach over and turn a crank. At least he had four hands; it was as if this mechanism had been designed for him, but it was annoying.
“Bird, just fire! It’s cold.”
Erin shouted, and Bird snapped back.
“I’m trying!”
“Curve the bolt! Don’t you have a—”
Bird didn’t dignify that with an answer. He had [Homing Arrow], which would work on the ballista, but obviously this one was going to travel so fast that he wouldn’t get much curve on it. If it was longer-range…
At last, the Rock Crab halted, raising two claws in victory, and Bird exhaled. Now! He stopped, pulled the lever, and the ballista fired at last.
How did you describe the ballista firing? Well, in a sense, it wasn’t the dramatic thing you expected.
The ballista barely moved, and there was no huge blowback; if there were, it’d be dangerous to the operator. In the same way, the sound of the two wound spindles of thread unleashing their energy was not the loudest sound in the world.
And yet—the arms of the ballista moved so fast from their taut position to spreading out, releasing the energy and dragging the string up to launch the bolt, that even Bird barely saw them move.
All that force propelled one single bolt, as tall as Bird, through the air. Enough power to send twenty, perhaps thirty pounds of metal and wood through the world and through anything it wanted.
The bolt travelled across the Floodplains and hit the ground with such force the whump of impact blew the top off a hill and created an explosion even the audience could see, dirt and snow flying everywhere. Mrsha’s mouth dropped open, and a huge cheer rose—then dwindled in confusion.
Bird himself had flinched from the force he felt in front of him. But as his eyes found the ballista’s trajectory, he stopped. And stared.
A Rock Crab was frozen, a claw raised, staring at the ground juuuust in front of it, which was now a crater. The splintered ballista bolt had hit the ground, torn out a massive chunk, and gone flying, sending shrapnel and dirt spraying for the next hundred feet. The Rock Crab stared at the hole, touched it with a claw, then went scurrying fast as it could in the other direction.
“Bird. You—missed?”
Erin blinked, then chuckled, and good-natured laughter arose. Ser Sest leapt up with a whoop.
“But the force of it! Did you see that, Your Majesties? Er, apologies.”
“I guess even Bird can miss with a new bow.”
Numbtongue commented to Garia, chuckling. Bird, though, frowned and realized he must have been a tad right. He bent over and went for another shot—only to realize he needed to reload. And the Rock Crab was running for its life. Bird stood there as Mrsha ran up, begging to try, and Lyonette let out a breath and decided Bird’s aim was good after all.
“Me next!”
Sammial charged forwards, but Ryoka caught him.
“Hey, Sammial, let Bird have his fun. We’ll be hours waiting for him—unless he wants to share before?”
She gave him a hopeful look. Everyone was excited, and Bird still felt the impact and shot, which had been everything he wanted. Even a Wyvern wouldn’t survive that…if you hit them in the head. Even that Wyvern Lord would be dodging those arrows.
He could hit the High Passes with this! Bird smiled. And yet there was some part of him. A small voice in the moments before he demanded a new target and for people to help him. And it said…
“Huh?”
Something was wrong. But he couldn’t put his finger on it just yet.
 
——
 
It was often said that Erin Solstice was the Human who was friends to Goblins or Antinium or just people in general.
And that was a stupid statement to Bird, because the truth was, Erin wasn’t friends with those people. They were friends with her. No one liked being condescendingly friended to. But they liked her and helped her and vice versa.
Erin unified people. But for all the [Innkeeper], the Goblinfriend, was said to be some grand link between species, she was half-baked. Second-rate.
What really unified people was a giant siege ballista. Or a soccer ball. Bird quickly realized that the ballista was unfeasible to load on his own.
The cranking took effort, and without multiple hands adjusting it, it sucked to aim. Happily, he knew how the ballista worked, and he had no shortage of people willing to help him load for a chance to fire.
In fact, the first group to appear was, predictably, the Antinium. Not just any Antinium, but the Workers who’d labored so long on the inn’s roof. Under Bird’s direction, they cranked the ballista’s arms back, wrestled the huge thing into place, all without begging for a turn in the line of people wanting to try it.
To these Workers, it seemed like just watching the giant contraption fire was enough joy. Indeed, more than one person just sat out watching the ballista fire for a good few hours, cold or not.
It was just as well Magnolia had installed the ballista on a heavy wood base. She’d known what she was doing. Hexel himself came out to observe the ballista with an [Architect]’s eye for it, and he pointed out what Bird had realized.
“This thing is going to need a heavy foundation. I can make a temporary tower, but it won’t be in the inn. How about here?”
He pointed to a place where the hill began to slope on the exact opposite side of The Wandering Inn from Liscor.
“I’ll need a lot of dirt moved, but with Antinium and an Archmage…give me three days, and I’ll get it done. [Rush Construction: No Mistakes]! Don’t worry, even if it’s a rush, I’ll get it done, and I have a [Head Builder] with [Instant Drying]. It’ll just be a huge platform on stone. Nothing fancy.”
The extra elevation would mean Bird could fire down as well as up, helpful for anyone sneaking up on the inn. It wouldn’t be as tall as his tower, so Hexel chose a spot that let Bird cover any spot but Liscor, on the assumption that Bird would not want to turn and fire at the city—or at The Wandering Inn.
“Go ahead!”
Erin had to shout because the crack of the ballista firing was followed by another cheer. Instead of Rock Crabs, which everyone agreed was slightly cruel to target when Mrsha pointed it out, Numbtongue had just taken a pot shot at a target they’d set up three thousand feet out on a hill.
“You do that, Hexel! I’m sorry—something’s on the news.”
Erin was distracted with Drowned Folk, and a few people peeled off when they heard something was going on. But Bird was busy managing the ballista, and it was management.
“No, no. You haven’t locked it into place! It doesn’t fire if you don’t. See?”
He slapped a lever and pointed out why the Workers were unable to reload. His skimming of the manual was important after all. In the same way, Bird stood back as the others wound the ballista up. It still took three minutes, even with energetic Workers hauling on the levers with all their might. They’d begun using the levers to put more weight onto the ballista.
“They’ve got a good rhythm going! Bird! Can I try?”
“Oh…sure, Joseph.”
“Don’t take Bird’s time, everyone! That’s fourteen shots, and he’s only fired it three times!”
Now, Lyonette was scolding everyone else, glancing at Bird to make sure he wasn’t too upset. But Bird waved a hand at them.
“I do not mind, Lyonette. I am figuring out the aim.”
He stood there, hands behind his back, proud as could be as people obsessed over the ballista. It was harder to aim than he’d thought. The ballista could be slightly calibrated, and he suspected the sights had been moved slightly in the long transit; when he’d adjusted it, he’d nailed the target, albeit just barely, on the third try.
Shot fifteen missed the target wildly, but the puff of snow made everyone laugh, and Joseph stepped back, patently sad about missing.
“You’ll get another try—after fifty more people! Let’s get those ballista bolts soon. How many do we have left?”
