Lyonette’s eyes twinkled.
“Like this. <Post: Basic Quest>! Mrsha! If you don’t do it, one of your friends will!”
A loud groan came from the common room as Lyonette posted a quest to all the children present. Ekirra was running for the kitchens like a shot to get a pail of soup and bowls and spoons. Mrsha charged after him. If anyone was getting a title, it was her! Mrsha of a Thousand Quests!
Bird had forgotten how valuable titles were. No wonder Lyonette could get children to do things. He patted her on the shoulder.
“I approve of your child labor skills, Lyonette. Thank you.”
He’d meant it as a compliment, seriously. He did not understand why the [Princess] looked funny or why Kevin started laughing. Kevin was an unserious fellow, anyways.
Actually, even Kevin had once been more carefree. Bird stared at him as he got his own soup for lunch. Kevin was pouring over an inventory, and he looked up as Bird put his food down.
“Bird. What’s up? Sticking it to the man?”
“I have let down the Free Queen.”
“All right. High five! That’s what we’ve gotta do.”
Lyonette rolled her eyes as Kevin grinned. Bird stared at Kevin’s notes.
“You are working hard.”
“Solar Cycles, Bird. It’s just inventory reports. We’re trying to upscale, and it’s hard—I’m coordinating a bunch of [Blacksmiths] in multiple cities. They’re all doing parts of more mundane bikes. Pelt is worried about quality control, but the Dwarves in Dwarfhome are going to eat our socks! They’re actually copying our blueprints! Damn Dwarves.”
Kevin looked exasperated, and Bird nodded wisely.
“Ah, you have been hamburgered.”
The [Mechanic] looked confused until Bird relayed the story of how Erin’s hamburgers had been copied instantly. Kevin laughed.
“Yeah, well, that’s how it goes, and copyright doesn’t exist outside of, like, Fissival. It’s fine. I just have to get this done. Did you need something?”
Bird ate hungrily and nodded.
“Yes. I wish to know how terrible you feel now that your freedom is gone. You used to be a carefree Kevin. Now you have so much work. Do you cry at night?”
Kevin choked on his food. He looked at Bird and then laughed.
“Cry? No! I mean, yeah, it’s not always fun…but it’s fulfilling.”
Bird gave him a blank look.
“Fulfilling like what? Food?”
“No. Doing something, man. I was more likely to cry before I came to the inn, or when I was here and Joseph was getting drunk and I didn’t do anything and I knew everyone hated my guts.”
“Including me. I hated you. Until you told me about birds. So I hated you for a few minutes.”
Bird wanted to reassure him on that point, and he saw Kevin grin ruefully.
“We deserved it. This is a lot better.”
“Even though you work so much?”
“Totally.”
The Antinium stared at Kevin. Then he put a hand on Kevin’s forehead to make sure the young man wasn’t sick. Then he got up and left.
 
——
 
It was a Lyonette mentality. The [Princess] worked and worked and complained about being busy, and then when she was out of work, she complained she had nothing to do.
Bird hated it. But he had to admit, Kevin looked sort of happy. And there was someone he did like, you know, who was always working. Yet he also seemed free.
Yelroan glanced up in his room as Bird poked his head in.
“Bird. Can I help you?”
“Yes. No. I am very sad, Yelroan. May I bother you?”
“You’re no bother.”
The Gnoll smiled politely as Bird walked in and sat down in a chair. Bird rocked back and forth a second, then burst out.
“Life is too hard!”
“The ballista giving you trouble? Has no one made a ballista bolt for you?”
“No! And the wood is expensive. And carving it is hard. And I hate people talking to me!”
Bird shouted, then lowered his voice, and Yelroan seemed sympathetic. He was doing something complex involving paper and writing. Bird stood up and stared at his desk.
“…Why are you calculating how many eggs to buy?”
Embarrassed and surprised, Yelroan showed him the ledger.
“It’s me attempting to tell Lyonette how many groceries to buy. There are thousands of [Soldiers] coming in, and the inn could sell at a huge profit. I talked to Calescent about foods he can mass-produce. Quiches.”
“Quiches. This is very boring work, Yelroan. Working with numbers.”
“I enjoy it. And someone has to do it.”
The [Mathematician] didn’t seem bothered by Bird’s comment. He had doubtless heard it before, and Bird sat down in front of him.
“But why you?”
“Excuse me?”
Bird nodded at Yelroan.
“Someone must do the boring things. But why you? Did you want to do the boring things?”
Yelroan coughed and turned red under his blonde fur. He adjusted his sunglasses, which he wore even indoors for the look, which Bird rather approved of.
“Well, not like this—but it’s what I’m good at, and I enjoy it. I like making Erin’s inn run behind the scenes. I hope you had a good Christmas?”
“Yes, until I had my wish come true, I enjoyed it very muchly. Did you have fun with the Silverfangs?”
The Gnoll’s hand slipped slightly, and he corrected his mistake with an ink blotter.
“I didn’t realize anyone had seen me slip out.”
Bird smiled.
“I did. Because I paid attention to you leaving. You do not celebrate with the others, so Miss Erin sometimes forgets you exist. Even Tessa she pays attention to more. Although that is because Tessa is dangerous and sad. But you hide.”
Yelroan was fully red now, and he muttered as he wrote faster.
“I—I’m new here, Bird, and I have a mountain of debts to repay. It’s less of me not wanting to be part of things, and more of me not wanting to become a burden.”
“Erin likes burdens. She likes you. I think. Mrsha likes you.”
“Mrsha shouldn’t.”
Yelroan’s paw stopped, and he looked entirely sad. So much so that Bird patted him on the shoulder.
“I like you.”
The [Mathematician] blinked. He stared at Bird, and the Worker went on.
“I like you. This is why I invite you for breakfast and share tomato soup with you. You must not run away for Christmas. I got you a special quill with a big green feather, didn’t I?”
He noticed Yelroan wasn’t using it. The Gnoll turned.
“Yes. I did like it. I don’t want to wear it out—”
“I will get you another if you do. If you do not like the gift, tell me, Yelroan. If it was a bad gift, I will take it back and give you money.”
Now, the [Mathematician] looked alarmed and hastened to assure Bird he did.
“No, no! I like it! Truly, Bird. It means a lot. I know how much you like feathers. If anything, I might get a silver nib so I can use it often!”
Bird relaxed slightly.
“This is good.”
After a few seconds of silence, Yelroan began writing, but seemed distracted. So he put down his quill.
“…Why do you like me, Bird? I appreciate the gift, but you don’t need to go out of your way for me. Truly, a roof over my head—Lyonette listens to and respects me.”
He smiled about that.
“That’s what I’ve always wanted. Managing Erin’s inn isn’t as hard as a Great Tribe, but it’s more of a challenge than I thought, and the math that Kevin and the others show me—if you’re worried about me, I am fine.”
Bird shook his head.
“I am not worried about you, Yelroan. I wish to be friends. I do not have many friends, and I am worried you will not be mine. Numbtongue is a friend. Mrsha is a good older sister. Erin is Erin, and Lyonette is sometimes nice, but I have…”
He held up his fingers.
“Kevin. Apista.”
He stared at his hand.
“Halrac? Bevussa? Badarrow? I need at least to use all my fingers. But not many people really like me. Because I am Bird and strange. But you do math. I like math, sometimes.”
The Gnoll was giving him a sympathetic look. One that said he understood something, but Bird didn’t want his sympathy. He wanted—
“I’m sure we will be—aren’t we friendly?”
“Maybe. I don’t know. Are we?”
Bird folded his arms challengingly, and it threw Yelroan. The Gnoll scratched at his head and pushed his sunglasses up.
“How would we know if we were friends?”
That was easy. Bird smiled.
“If we were friends, then I could sit by you and give you a big hug. This is the friend I would like to be. But I am worried you do not want to be my friend, so I have been afraid to ask if you will be.”
Yelroan looked at him.
“I don’t think you need to ask to be my friend, Bird. You’ve been very—you know, I used to think like that. I thought you asked someone to be your friend. And it, uh, never worked out. With one exception.”
He looked incredibly pained and embarrassed, as if reliving some kind of memory. Bird just tilted his head.
“That’s stupid. Why do you not ask to be someone’s friend?”
Yelroan hunched his shoulders.
“Apparently, it’s something you know. You get a feel for it. Then you confirm it, when you’re sure. Relationships are hard.”
Bird knew that.
“But couldn’t I just ask you if you wanted to be my friend? If you were silly, you would be confused. But you understand me. Which is why we want to be friends. Then we would know, and it would be easy.”
He paused.
“I need people who understand me. Erin does, but she cannot always be here.”
Yelroan gave Bird a long look, then a smile did light up his face. He lowered the sunglasses, then adjusted them so they caught the light. A distant Pallassian [Soldier] threw up his hands to shield his face as he stared at one of The Wandering Inn’s windows.
“I suppose you could ask.”
Bird turned to him and smiled.
“Then, Yelroan, do you wish to be my friend?”
“I would love to, Bird.”
Both Antinium and Gnoll smiled, and Bird sidled over. He hesitated, then gave Yelroan’s shoulders a squeeze. The Gnoll grinned, and this was good. Bird added something else.
“But we must try…try to be best friends, alright? Which is a superior kind of friend.”
“I’ll definitely try.”
 
——
 
Bird felt better after that. And as it turned out, Yelroan had also been thinking of his problem. He told Bird to consult with one group about his ballista woes that Bird wouldn’t have thought to go to: the Silverfang tribe.
They were still camped out around Liscor, but a lot had decided that, given the Walled City’s armies, they were not keen on being here. In fact, many were heading north, not south.
“Well, the Bloodfields are in the way south, no? We would have to march too far to find a nice spot with that there. I would rather head north past Esthelm. Or maybe a bit further.”
They were very casual about the fact that a Gnoll tribe was moving past Liscor, but Bird didn’t care because he wasn’t a Drake or Human. He sat in one of the Silverfang tents, nibbling on some silkap, as they consulted with him about the problem.
“I know Gnolls do not have ballistae, but the problem is very hard, and Yelroan says you can help. Since he is my new friend, pending best friend, I will believe him.”
The Gnolls were rather amused about this and grinned. And as it turned out, they had a solution!
“I cannot believe Pallass does not understand the answer. Perhaps they do and do not wish to help an Antinium. Humans, it makes more sense since few would think of how to make such gigantic bolts, and they have access to good woods. But the Great Plains are hard to get fletching material; it is one of the weaknesses of the landscape. We have learned to make do. Your bolts we cannot make out of steel or other metals, but the shaft, at least, is far easier.”
“How? Share with me your wisdom, please.”
The Silverfang [Shaman] grinned.
“Why, if you have the glue—and I am told Shield Spider parts make wonderful glue, yes—simply laminate pieces of wood together. You need not cut it all properly if you can shape it, hrm?”
Bird sat there and then perked up.
“Aaaaaaah!”
 
——
 
Wood lamination. If you lacked for arrow shaft materials, you could still glue together pieces of wood and sand them down or carve them to fit! Bird ran back to the inn so fast that the Gnolls had to catch up to give him an arrow so whomever he hired could do the work properly.
They were willing to give it a shot—if he had good lumber and gave them access to a proper glue. And as it happened!
“Rhaldon said he made a Shield Spider glue, Bird. He’s still about, I think. We’re working on his room and new cart.”
“Yay! Erin, can you get me glue? And wood from Emperor Laken and pay him for it? Maybe if I cut down a tree he will not notice. Because he’s blind. I have money.”
Erin laughed as Bird offered her his coins. But then she grew serious.
“Bird. This is your ballista. I think you’ve gotta do all that.”
“Me?”
“Bird? Erin, I’ll handle it.”
Lyonette had bossed up, but to help this time, which Bird was grateful for. Yet Erin put her foot down.
“Bird has to. It’s not hard. Just go talk to Rhaldon; he or Octavia can probably mix the glue up, Bird. And go ask someone in Riverfarm. Probably Mister Prost since Laken’s always busy.”
Bird stared at Erin. Then, with a sigh, he trudged into Octavia’s shop and found Rhaldon working on his new cart design and laboratory layout with her as Numbtongue played on his guitar, looking bored. It wasn’t hard to ask Rhaldon for glue, and the [Alchemist] cut him a great deal.
And it wasn’t that hard to go to Riverfarm. The instant someone saw him, they got Lady Rie, anyways, and she agreed to deliver the lumber to the Gnolls, who agreed a [Fletcher] would stay and work on the project for gold and deliver his creation to the inn.
None of this was as hard as Bird would have assumed. Everyone knew Bird, and he stood there, asking when they could deliver, how much, and thanked them.
But after he was done, he went to his room and lay on his backshell.
“Too much work.”
Once more, he resented his gift. Even if he did feel happy about the ballista bolts. Now he’d have enough to let the Workers fire s—
The Workers. Bird poked his head up and stared out his window and groaned. Now, the eight Workers had cloaks on, and they were sitting outside. They looked like they were playing cards. Bird decided they’d come in when they got cold. And it was probably their day off or they had dispensation to do this.
It was more fun standing in the cold with nice inn-food than digging in the Hive. So they were fine, and Bird owed them nothing.
He was not a Pawn with his…Pawn…ways. And yet, Bird thought about the Bird-Worker who had nothing. He went to take a nap in his Fortress of Fluff, but he was so restless he ended up remaking it twice. Then he grumpily got up and counted his coins.
He had lots of them from his allowance and selling his arrows back when he had been preparing to attack Hectval. Plus, he’d gotten a stipend from Liscor for the damn ballista costs. Bird separated out some coins and got up.
“I am only doing this to spite Pawn!”
 
