“Lots! But go ahead—no, wait, point it away! I’m not going out there and getting them until it’s not loaded!”
“We won’t load it until you come back!”
Fals jogged out as Kevin hollered at him. Bird didn’t really care if they loaded it or not; he had engaged both safeties anyways and confirmed it was impossible to actually fire the ballista without both being turned off. Yes…he stood there.
Life was good. Right up until Fals came back shrugging. He held up a deformed piece of metal attached to some wood.
“Sorry, Bird. That’s all that’s left. Wow, those things fire hard. The others were dug so deep in the dirt I only found this one.”
“That is alright, Fals. Would you like a turn?”
“You bet! Can I aim and see how far we can go?”
Bird nodded and watched as another ballista bolt was loaded in. He was feeling magnanimous today. It was only after they had gotten to evening—and people were still begging for a turn—when he realized the first problem.
 
——
 
Someone else who realized the truth of the ballista the moment he heard about it was the only Minotaur around Liscor with actual military training.
“Bird has a what? Dead gods. Which idiot gave him that?”
Calruz was eating at the army’s camp amid a flurry of activity. They were still stalled on the Hectvallian front, as the new Liscorian army thought of it.
Antinium, Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans were bustling around, and he’d been joining the digging for the last two weeks.
Commander Olesm should have been back at the inn, but he had elected to stay. Even his officers had encouraged him to take a break, but he seemed to be worried the Heckies were up to something.
Liscor had been moving in stealth for a while now, and Calruz had approved of the idea, even if he wondered if Olesm knew something they didn’t. As the de facto commander of the Beriad, even if his title was ‘prisoner’ serving his sentence as a soldier, he had been fighting here since the war began and Liscor’s army was mustered.
He looked impeccable compared to the miserable, scarred Minotaur in his cell. He had already been working out; now, he seemed like he was in better shape than he had been before he entered Liscor’s dungeon. His muscles stood out, and his fur looked tougher than steel, which it was. He was lightly armored and carried his battleaxe on his back.
His one good hand wore a new glove that the Beriad had bought for him, and the army had been exchanging gifts or getting them from home. Olesm had gotten an enchanted chess set from Erin so they could play remotely, and Calruz had gotten his own gifts. Even a healing potion from ‘Haldagaz and Rhata’, which was an expensive gift when potions were no longer being made.
Selys had an odd sense of humor, and he was meaning to write her back to thank her since she’d gotten him a gift under her own name as well.
This wasn’t about Calruz. This was about Bird, and Calruz looked up as the report was delivered. It came from one of the Beriad, who had been on holiday.
“Yes, Captain Calruz. The House of Minos sent it.”
“…What?”
He stopped chewing and looked up. Now intent, Calruz leaned over.
“Tell me more. Describe as much as you can remember, Beriad 75.”
The [Crusader] did, and Calruz resolved to help the others choose names. Many were taking good, Minotaur-style names, and any member of Battalion 6 tended to drop their Crusader designation and rename themselves. The other battalions, those not part of the 7th Hive exodus, were doing likewise.
“The House of Minos sent it? Magnolia Reinhart paid for…huh. Wait a second. Does anyone have a picture of it?”
The fact that Bird couldn’t just point and fire the thing himself didn’t surprise Calruz. Minotaurs drilled on the siege weapons for months before they were ready for battle. They took a team to operate.
“Wait a second. That is a Wallbreaker-class weapon. The kind we pull for cities, not conventional combat. Even the ones we placed against the King of Destruction were smaller. Bird doesn’t need anything larger than a Field-class ballista. One of those with his Skills could still hit any spot in the Floodplains. Why…”
Calruz knew that the House of Minos wasn’t stupid. He began to cotton on to what might be going on. Then Beriad 75 mentioned the bolts, and Calruz glanced up.
“…How many bolts? What color is the wood?”
“Um. I do not know, Captain Calruz.”
“Is it pale brown? Light?”
The Soldier, one of the new types with a voice, thought.
“Yes. And there were seventy of them.”
“Only seventy? That’s balsa wood. Balsa…and iron?”
The Minotaur rested his head on his fist, staring ahead. The other Antinium had no idea what was so odd about that, and one raised a hand.
“What is the matter, please, Captain Calruz?”
He smiled at their nervous looks and explained.
“Wallbreaker-class ballistae are a lot harder to aim than Field-class ones. Think about it. A weapon used in actual sieges has to be larger. A Field-class ballista can be operated by two people; optimally four or even eight. But Bird could swing one of those around, and with [Automatic Reload] or [Delayed Reload], he could conceivably use it. But that’s impossible to do with a larger ballista. He’s no [Artillerist].”
“Oh.”
Calruz nodded to himself.
“It could be a mistake, but the House of Minos always considers what weapon goes where. They’ve seen ‘Bird the Hunter’. The real clue is the balsa wood and iron tips. We don’t make those. They have to be custom-made.”
“Why, Captain Calruz? Sorry for my idiocy.”
The Minotaur looked over.
“Don’t insult yourself, Beriad 75. Ignorance is not idiocy. How could you know that balsa wood is light, flies far—it’s an excellent material for arrows. But it breaks no matter what it hits. We do use it for our ballista bolts! But not for training. And iron? Iron is heavy. A balsa-wood bolt is often enchanted or uses a lighter arrowhead. If this was someone else, I would expect steel tips. If it was a training bolt? A far stronger arrow wood. Cedar, maple, ash. Seventy shots? That’s criminally undersupplied.”
He sat back, smiling to himself.
“So that’s what our King did.”
The Beriad looked at each other, and Calruz began to explain with a smile. Because as he now realized, and the [Druids], Chaldion, Tyrion, and more had realized—
Bird was going to start running into problems.
 
——
 
He ran out of ballista bolts within six hours of using the ballista. Or rather, when they got down to six, his audience decided not to waste the last ones and asked if he had more. Bird investigated, but seventy bolts was all that had been delivered.
At first, he didn’t see the problem.
“Okay. Let us buy some more, then. Those ballista bolts were very fragile. The wood was. I will pay for some more from Pallass.”
“From where?”
Grimalkin was still at the inn, having his beach house to consider. He stopped mid-drink of a new protein shake, and Pryde stopped trying to gag down hers. Bird looked at him.
“Ballista bolts. Pallass has some, right?”
“We do manufacture them, but they’re not for sale, Bird.”
Bird tilted his head.
“Why not?”
Grimalkin scratched at his neck spines.
“…Because they’re not being commercially made, so no [Merchant] will sell them, Bird. There’s no market for them because only a major city has them. Manus has the largest manufacturing capabilities. They supply other cities. But to buy any, you would have to purchase them from Pallass.”
“Okay. How much?”
“They’re not going to sell them to you, Bird.”
Lady Pryde chimed in, looking awkward at even addressing him. Bird got mad. He slapped the table with his hands.
“Why? Because I’m an Antinium!?”
Pryde stared at him.
“Yes.”
Bird the Hunter hesitated. He lifted his hands, sat back.
“Ah. I see. This makes sense. Uh oh. Well, I will just have to make them myself.”
The Sinew Magus and Pryde stared at Bird as if he were crazy, but he was not. He made arrows all the time. He knew how it was done. Glue, feathers, wood; with a few tools, he could make decent arrows!
 
——
 
Bird could not make ballista bolts as easily as arrows. He realized that after about an hour.
For one thing, bolts were made differently than arrows. There were no feathers needed; they had fins on the back made out of wood for flight.
Second? Let’s assume Bird had a glue strong enough to secure a head to the ballista bolt’s shaft (he did not). He had a few pieces of the iron boltheads that hadn’t deformed too much.
…Where did the wood come from?
“You need a straight, pure piece of wood six feet long and how wide?”
“Only a hand’s width, please. And if you could make it perfectly round and smooth so it flies straight, I will be very happy.”
One of the few fletchers in Liscor stared at Bird. He stared at the diagram. He beckoned Bird over. The Drake leaned over and lowered his voice.
“Listen, fellow. I like Antinium. You’re decent people; saved me during the undead attacks twice now. You may not know this…Liscor doesn’t have trees.”
“I did know this.”
Bird listened as the Drake stared at him. The [Fletcher] scratched at his chin.
“Right. But how am I supposed to get the wood for this…this isn’t even an arrow. I don’t make arrows that big. Here’s my carving knife.”
He showed Bird a tiny knife. Waved it at the fragments of the ballista bolt.
“It’d take me a day to make—it’d take days. I’d need the wood cut specially, and—where are the trees? The cost! I’d charge you two gold coins per, not even with materials, just for the time!”
Bird stared at the Drake.
“That is very expensive. I would like to renegotiate the costs, please.”
“I don’t have a cost! I don’t even have the wood!”
“Please find the wood, then. No cost is very good, though. I will take two hundred at no cost. Thank you!”
At this point, Ser Dalimont and Mrsha took pity on the poor [Fletcher] and pulled Bird away. But no matter who he asked, the problem was the same.
“Ballista bolts? Sure, we have…say that again?”
Ser Dalimont was speaking to a Human man in Invrisil, a [Carpenter], as Bird stood behind him. The man stared at Bird.
“I’ve never made one in my life. I could make a round piece of wood, I guess. Perfectly round? That’s…I’d want to make a frame or something if you want lots.”
“Frame, sir?”
The [Carpenter] tried to explain.
“A piece of metal or wood so I know how large the object I’m making is when cutting and whatnot. You can size the wood to that, make sure it’s perfectly round. That’s metalwork, though. If you want, I can commission it…but that much timber? Perfectly round, a hand’s diameter, and six feet long.”
He stared at Dalimont to make sure he had it right. The [Knight] nodded slowly. The [Carpenter] wrote on a piece of paper.
“Here’s the cost per ‘bolt’. Can’t do the head or whatever that is. You want me to make up a wooden one?”
Bird stared at the number on the paper. He turned it upside down. It didn’t make him feel better.
“I believe I am not rich enough for that. Mrsha, give me your allowance.”
She glumly began to count coins into his palm when the [Carpenter] spoke.
“We don’t have the time to make it—if you put in an order, I’ll try to set up our workshops, but it’ll be two weeks.”
Two weeks? Mrsha and Bird stared at him. And the cost!
“Excuse me, but this is for two hundred bolts, isn’t it?”
Bird pointed at the number on the paper. The [Carpenter]’s mouth opened as Dalimont, despite his sympathies for Bird, tried not to smile.
“Two—two hundred? To begin with, who has a ballista?”
“Me.”
Bird stared at the man. The man stared back. After a second, Bird pointed down at the paper.
“This is very expensive, but if you can do it in two weeks, I suppose it is worth the cost.”
He slapped down gold and silver.
“I will send someone to pick up all two hundred. If I do not get them, I understand. It is only war.”
Bird began to hurry out of the shop as Dalimont tried to stop him. He knew the [Carpenter]’s price was for one bolt, not two hundred. But he was starting to get a tad bit upset.
 
——
 
“Bird, Bird. It’s not the end of the world. Please don’t drink that.”
People liked Bird. Bird didn’t know why, but they were nice to him. Even people that weren’t always at the inn, like Montressa du Valeross.
He was staring at a bottle filled with pitch-black liquid.
Rxlvn. Montressa knew of the drink by reputation and was trying to save him.
“Where did you even get that?”
“Klbkch gave it to me when he was trying to sell it. I am not trying to drink it, Montressa, thank you. I was going to sell it to raise money.”
“Oh. That’s clever. Bird, I’m sorry we wasted your bolts. I tried to help. I think I got sixteen back!”
“Really? How?”
Bird’s head rose, and Montressa smiled wearily.
“I went out and found as many parts as I could. Lots of them were lost—but I cast [Repair]. See?”
To his delight and gratification, he found sixteen of the bolts had been salvaged. Bird hugged Montressa and handed her the Rxlvn.
“You are a good person, Montressa. You may have this. It will kill you if you drink it! Do not drink it.”
She blushed a bit and told him it was nothing, but it meant a lot to him. Whew! Twenty-two bolts was a lot more than six.
He could buy more ballista bolts. It had occurred to Bird that the best place to ask was Riverfarm. They had the most loggable wood, their rates were cheaper, and if he got a wooden shaft, he reckoned the arrowhead could be wood too.
At the speed it hit most things, metal wasn’t even necessary. If he rationed his shots, Bird could order more and find the money somehow.
He wasn’t…pleased by realizing how expensive the ballista was. That was the real problem. But! He thanked Montressa and decided to spend one shot on a bird.
Maybe even that sad, yellow Wyvern he’d seen roaming the High Passes. It was back again; Bird had spotted it trying to start a fire outside its ‘camp’. Which was mostly a hole it had tried to pile branches up in front of.
He didn’t want to necessarily kill it, but Wyverns were worth lots of gold. Did he have to go out and haul it back? Then he needed Erin’s door…
His head hurt as he stomped back outside and found the Worker crew who’d been reloading clustered around the ballista. They weren’t firing it, but they were aiming it right and left and making ‘boom’ sounds.
They stopped when they saw him.
“That is okay. You may play with it. Just do not fire it, okay? I will let you all have one shot…once I buy more bolts.”
Bird promised the group of eight, and they clacked their mandibles happily. He hesitated and felt bad; not one had gotten a chance to fire it, but if he let them, he’d waste over half his supply.
