“Yelroan! Help me! I am a mile down, a hundred and twelve feet right! It’s so far that every time I move this thing—”
He gestured at the controls, and Yelroan scrambled to understand. He might not have known where or what Bird was doing, but the math was solid.
“I can’t pinpoint what you’re targeting—”
“All I need is within fifty feet and the [Homing Arrow] works. Moving up—fifty feet up. Make it a hundred feet higher. Now twelve more feet left…”
Yelroan wound smaller cranks, making the most minute adjustments as the panting Workers looked at Bird. He didn’t even touch the ballista, just shaded his eyes. Then he shouted.
“Now!”
Yelroan pulled the lever, and the ballista fired.
 
——
 
She was going to die. 
Rafaema was panting, trying to fly away. But no matter how fast or far she flew—the goat followed.
That cute, black-furred animal with its strange eyes, like a vertical line, glowing faintly yellowish-orange shouldn’t inspire such fear. But then it opened its mouth and ate everything.
At first, she had taken the run-ins as coincidence. Bad luck. She had had a string of bad luck. Trying to hunt to feed herself, build a shelter as the High Passes thundered and there were avalanches, mudslides—
Ants had eaten her food stockpiles. Ants. She had fought Gargoyles, not to kill them, just in territory squabbles. And just when she thought she was learning, the goat arrived.
It had been hunting her. She realized that now; she’d been in denial that anything could hunt her. But while she had lost it during the Christmas party, it had lain in ambush.
Eater Goats had been trying to chomp off her wings. The Void Eater Goat had been trying to down her with boulders it literally spat into the air like a living catapult. She might have escaped all that—but the Void Eater Goat, hungry for a meal it had never had before, had adapted in the worst of ways.
“Manus guard me!”
Rafaema turned her head as she heard a terrible roaring sound. A crack of air—and a thunderous feeling of air moving. She looked to the side and actually saw dust and debris kicked behind her pursuer. She was flying—
But so was the damn goat. Or rather, it had taken the largest gulp of air it could, turned, and spat the air behind it. Turning itself into a grinning cannonball that opened its mouth and—
A yellow scale ripped off her side. Her side was bleeding, torn by the intense gravitational pull the Void Eater Goat was projecting. Rafaema, panting, tried to dive, but gravity was no longer on her side. She had to fly down and cling to the ground, crawling away.
“Teriarch! Help!”
Either he couldn’t hear her, he was busy, or—Rafaema turned and did the only thing she could do to ward it off.
“Die!”
She exhaled lightning. Bolt upon bolt, crackling energy dissipating into that maw. As much as she could produce; quantity over quality. The goat sucked it up and up—and then finally the mouth closed, and it hopped back, landing hard and making a belching sound.
Smoke was rising from its maw. It looked slightly peeved, as if swallowing that lightning hurt. The Lightning Dragon tried to get away.
The goat hopped after her.
Every single species that saw the two coming ran for it. Rafaema had seen a two-headed Ogre, an Ettin, take one look at the goat and run screaming. Even the shapeshifter-thing had left; she hadn’t seen it in over a month.
I’m not going to make it this time. The goat refused to give her time to regroup. She’d tried burying it in an avalanche, blowing it off cliffs—it ate everything that came at it. Even magic!
An odd cracking sound made Rafaema spin, wary of an Eater Goat attack, but she saw nothing, just a gigantic anthill of thousands of yellow ants. They ignored her, but swarmed the goat, and it happily vacuumed them up.
The distraction let Rafaema gain another hundred feet—until she heard that terrible explosion of air, looked up, and reversed.
Too late—the goat landed on its hooves in front of her with a stylish clop. It did a happy backflip and grinned at Rafaema. As if to say:
Look what I just figured out. 
She snarled at it. Both she and the goat inhaled—and lightning met void. Rafaema’s Dragonbreath had grown immeasurably stronger just from having to match the goat.
Back up—her legs were moving. She was retreating away from the pull, exhaling as long as she could. Ten seconds. Fifteen…her claws slipped on the rocks, and she felt herself sliding forward.
The goat had a far larger lung capacity than she did. She wasn’t going to make it! Rafaema closed her eyes a second, then tensed. If it got her, she’d slash it once before she got eaten. Maybe there was a way out! She snarled—
And something smashed into a rocky cliff about fifty feet overhead. Both the Dragon and goat, trained from the High Passes to be alert to new threats, whirled. They looked up—and rocks showered down. Rafaema’s eyes saw something go splintering across the rocks.
What the hell was that? Both she and the goat looked at each other, and it opened its mouth again. Rafaema turned and leapt down the slopes. The goat hopped up to inspect the broken rocks, then seemed to shrug and followed her downwards.
 
——
 
“Fifty feet too high! Almost dead on!”
Bird was shouting. A sweating crew was reloading the ballista, but the happy-go-lucky [Hunter] wasn’t content.
“Faster! Go faster! Yelroan, you missed!”
“My calculations were—”
“Calculate the wind!”
Bird screamed at him, and Yelroan cursed. He was pulling numbers out of midair now, trying to calculate on the fly what wind speed was doing to the trajectory of—
Didn’t I have a paper on [Aeromancers] once? [Locate Number]! [Pragmatist’s Extrapolation]—[Check Sum]—
“Two arcminutes up, half a degree right—”
“Down a hundred and fifty feet! Twenty feet right!”
It was a flurry of shouts, and Bird was down to five bolts. He glanced over and saw Workers running back with a terrified Montressa.
“Where’s that laminate bolt? Someone get me glue, or twine, and Mrsha!”
Every head turned, expecting to see a [Princess] guarding her daughter with her life. But when Bird shouted, Lyonette stopped only one second—then dashed into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She tossed a white ball of fur, who exploded out of her arms like a shot and went running to Bird. Then she went running to get the twine. Ishkr was already lugging all the glue Rhaldon had made out with Liska.
There were hundreds of people trying to see whatever Bird was firing at. He was shooting at something that Chaldion could barely see, and the [Grand Strategist] believed that Bird’s eyes weren’t that good. He was aiming half on pure instinct at tiny moving blobs.
And he was scaring the hell out of a certain group in Liscor. They weren’t here for the Solstice. But they were present and had a Walled City’s full company. Ferris had been trying to convince Aldonss and Lulv that there was no way that Bird could be aiming at what they feared.
But when Aldonss finally spotted the teensiest yellow dot on the side of the mountain, Lulv went tearing out of the Tailless Thief. Someone sounded the alarm, and Senior Guardsman Relc went tearing down the street, swearing, calling an alarm up to The Wandering Inn.
 
——
 
The second ballista bolt landed as the Void Eater Goat leapt at Rafaema. She and the goat saw it this time. She was rearing up, slashing at the goat with her claws, and the goat tore a chunk out of her right foreleg, making her scream with fury.
Both were panting, recharging their breath attacks. The goat landed with a triumphant bleat, spun—looked up, and tried to hop out of the way.
The bolt struck it dead in the flank. Rafaema, wings raised to shield her face—jerked back, and her head spun around.
“What was that?”
There was no way! But she saw the unmistakable signs of a bolt before the wood shattered into a thousand pieces! The goat screamed—and lay on the ground, writhing.
It was hurt! Rafaema flew backwards, hoping it was dead. But her elation lasted about five seconds. Then she saw the tiny goat get up, inspect its side, and snarl.
It looked like the ballista bolt had hit it hard enough to bruise, but that was about it. The wind wasn’t even knocked out of it! It spun, then ran at her with an open mouth, no longer having fun.
“Ancestors take you!”
She dove down the cliffs, and now she was aware of it, she realized that the cracking sounds had been more bolts! Whoever was firing—she had to assume they were helping.
Is it those Goblins? I’ll make sure Manus never kills a Goblin again if it’s them! Yet the trajectory…wait.
The ballista. But how had the Antinium seen the goat? Her? Would one even reach this far with Skills? The aim!
It wasn’t a lucky shot that had hit the Void Goat. Rafaema landed on some flat ground and backed up. She blew apart the rock face with lightning, and the Void Goat stopped and sucked up the debris. It had to stop to do that, and Rafaema tried to keep it back with more breath attacks.
If only she had more tricks like Teriarch kept telling her! Dragons used magic! But here she was, like some kind of primitive lizard, only fighting with her claws, teeth, and the ability to spray lightning! Her frustration and helplessness grew as the goat advanced.
Then Rafaema heard the whistling sound, and another bolt came straight for the goat. Yes!
The goat twisted its head, gave the ballista bolt the evil eye, and backflipped over it.
“No! You damn monster!”
It could dodge? The bolt had lost some momentum, but the goat’s reflexes—Rafaema backed up again, and bile and outrage rose in her throat. The goat made a shrieking sound, and this time, she spat—
 
——
 
“…Was that a thundercloud?”
“Bird, did we hit?”
Yelroan’s fur was ruffled, he was sweating, and his sunglasses were askew. Bird just shook his head. He thought he had seen a thundercloud appear—before it vanished. And if that tiny dot was the goat, it had gotten a few shocks before it vanished.
The yellow bird was full of surprises! But he had one bolt prepared, and Bird had just seen the goat dodge his shot. He was standing there, as Workers lashed bark to several bolts. They were ungainly, top-heavy, unbalanced, and he pointed them out to Yelroan.
“We’re firing! When we put them in, they have to hit! Or else it’s too late! One shot every two minutes!”
“Is hard.”
A Worker informed him. Bird shouted back.
“I don’t care! When the bolt goes on, light it! Use that ember!”
He pointed at a lantern a little Gnoll had finished making, and it glowed with pink flames. The Workers looked at the fire, then the frost-covered bark. Erin Solstice was screaming.
“Bird! That’ll blow—”
“We load it, light it, and fire. If we do it wrong, we die.”
“For what?”
Yelroan was panting, looking at Bird, and at this point, even the Gnoll looked in fear of his life—for what? Bird stared up at that mountain, and he spoke.
“For a cute yellow bird. For levels! For a stupid ballista to earn its keep. Load!”
The Antinium loaded the bolt as a [Mathematician] closed his eyes and began to pray. Then he opened them wide and realized there was no dead god of math to pray to. The numbers would never lie.
“Something’s wrong in my calculations! Are we on target distance wise?”
“…No! It’s twenty-seven feet closer! It’s going to charge! Twenty feet left as well!”
“Move the ballista—”
Yelroan spun a crank up, desperately adjusting it. A Worker lifted the lantern.
“Light!”
The pink flames covered the bolt. Bird screamed.
“Loose!”
The ballista fired. Bird stared into the sky, and this time, a few people saw the pink explosion. Bird shook his head.
“It blew too early! More cold! And it was off! Over eighty feet too low and to the left! Reload! Faster!”
They were staring at him as he screamed at the Workers and Gnoll. He had an audience, and he didn’t care. He could see where the target was. But the ballista crew was firing blind. Even with Yelroan’s help, the adjustments…
He was squatting, his hands over his earholes, the other two holding his antennae so hard that they quivered. Yelroan put a hand on his shoulder.
“Bird. Are you alright?”
“No. No!”
Bird shouted it at the other Workers, Soldiers. Even the guests. Erin Solstice was there. Mrsha was in Lyonette’s arms, and he even saw Tyrion Veltras. Lord Xitegen. Chaldion.
But it wasn’t them he was screaming at. The Free Queen. Xrn, asking what was going on—confused, worried [Crusaders].
“Stop thinking!”
He screamed at them, and all the minds recoiled. Bird couldn’t hear himself think! He needed—
A Worker spun a handle on the ballista, then stopped. It looked up, hit the disengage, pulled the ballista left manually, and seven other bodies joined it. In perfect sync.
That was what they were firing at? A goat? And it was moving—Yelroan’s eyes widened, and he stepped back as, in dead silence, the Workers moved.
Bird’s mind was open, but it was filled with a thousand voices. He clutched at his head. Calmer, now. He could sense a thousand things at once.
Including the Gnoll charging up the hill with his spear. Lulv was howling, and Bird knew he was an idiot. He pulled his bow out, relieved. He was, after all, a [Hunter]. He spoke to the air, them all, and himself.
“My head hurts. Your souls are too loud. You all scream too sadly. I have to sing to stop hearing it.”
 
——
 
In the depths of the Free Hive, Xevccha, the Free Queen, looked up. Her mandibles parted.
“All along? From the day you were made?”
And she heard the truth in the [Revalantor]’s mind.
“From the start.”
She saw him/felt him turning. His aim was perfect. He loosed an arrow, and a Gnoll deflected the first. Then the second. He pulled two arrows out, loosed them one after another.
 
——
 
“I’m helping the yellow bird, you idiot!”
Bird screamed at Lulv, and the Gnoll hesitated. He drew his spear back to throw as the Gecko charged at him. Bird drew an arrow back as Lulv hesitated. And it was all so clear.
He was a good liar after all. The truth? The truth was just silly and stupid, and he didn’t understand why Klbkch and the Free Queen had never gotten it. But he had never known how True Antinium used the Unitasis Network.
“We always had the power to be True Antinium. At least, I did. Maybe there were others. But we were so sad—who would ever want to be sad together like that? One drop of hope fell into our Hive. Then we stopped dragging each other down and held each other up.”
Bird whispered. He thought he heard a gasp, but maybe it was just in his head. He closed his eyes, and both bow and ballista aimed.
“Fire!”
A bolt streaked into the air. Bird fired, and the Gnoll dodged—and Relc charged into his side. Bird turned and stared.
High, high—and falling.
 
——
 
