Though most Golemancy Skill Evolutions are focused on alleviating the logistical burden of creating a golem, certain Pathbearers who experience heavy combat alongside a single golem that they have poured their lifeblood and intellectual efforts into optimizing will gain more synergistic and combat-oriented Skill Evolutions. A few of these might be known to you thanks to the Titanwalker Knights that stand as the guardians of our borders.

It takes a very specific Golemancy skill evolution to become a Titanwalker Knight, along with years of martial and intellectual distinction. This specific Golemancy Skill Evolution, however, is the rarest requirement of all, and Pathbearers have dedicated their entire lifetimes and failed to achieve it, for that is how rare and difficult it is to attain. The Soulbound Puppet allows the Pathbearer to blend and synchronize their mind and mana with their golem. Effectively, this gives you the ability to project and wield your golem as if it were a set of armor, but it also allows you to channel a percentage of your golem’s capabilities through yourself as well.

This is what grants a Titanwalker Knight their prodigious strength and immense toughness, because they take on their golem skills as well, and their golems learn to fight and move in perfect sync with their user. But understand this inflicts immense strain on the user's mind, and so they dedicate themselves to a single golem. Additionally, every bit of damage unleashed upon the golem also comes with dire consequences. When a Titanwalker golem loses an arm, its user shares a similar fate.

For when someone invests a portion of their mind and soul in a golem, then they inherit both the triumphs and the dire consequences of defeat…

—The Paths of Ascension

297

Path of the Chefless (IV)

Golemancy 49 > 50 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Deepest Edge 90 > 96

Strider of the Unbending Path 181 > 183

The Creeping Void 147 > 148

Bifurcated Processing 82 > 84

Return to Sender 105 > 108

Inertial Overdrive 223 > 236

Pillar of Orichalcum 280 > 283

Aegis of Assimilation 134 > 140

Atlas of the Flesh Scrierer 117 > 120

Shape of Monstrosity 152 > 155

Pyromancy 24 > 33

As Gone reappeared before Shiv, she dropped severed tracheas at his feet and sniffled with a slight hint of nausea. "Plan worked, but I think I'm going to need a breathing mask or something next time. Smelled really bad. Also, I threw up inside your big corpse. Would say I’m sorry, but that wouldn’t be honest."

Shiv just laughed. Planting a foot on the face of a dead orc Vanguard, he wrenched his Last Morsel free from the grayskin’s chest and swept the blood away using his mana hydra. It had taken quite a bit of skirmishing, but they'd done it: They'd turned the fight around against the five hundred orc Heroes and won.

Approximately half an hour ago, things were looking pretty dire for Shiv and his allies. Now, the arena grounds were being slowly refilled from the crater they'd been turned into by Candles through the effort of dozens of Geomancers in the audience. At the center of the coliseum, being slowly lifted up by the rising sand like a pedestal, lay Candles, who slumbered in blissful triumph, his near-skeletal form spent of mana, reduced to dim embers. While the Pyromancer giggled between snores, Shiv and Gone finished off the last of the stragglers.

To the orcs' credit, they fought to the last. Their joyous spirits undiminished by grievous wounds and unexpected defeat, the orcs went to their deaths with the same glee they exhibited while hunting Shiv and the other former prisoners. All was fair in war and bloodshed, and all was beautiful because of war and bloodshed. Didn't matter if they won, didn't matter if they lost. This would be a fight they would remember. And when they started again in their next life, they would have something to talk about. And something to look forward to. Shiv had a feeling these orcs would be coming back to him real soon—and with the System's favor imparted upon them through this battle, he suspected they'd be growing pretty quickly as well.

With a fight against the five hundred done, Shiv began collecting some of the few more intact corpses. He needed ample donations of orc meat for what he intended to do after, and there was luckily enough left for Shiv to experiment with in his kitchen later. Moreover, he also reaped a plentiful number of orcish echoes; he would be able to task the slain orcs with cooking themselves after he infused the remnants of their egos into their own remains.

It occurred to Shiv that this might seem a strangely twisted thing to do, but these were orcs, and already the echoes were chuckling, telling him how funny it might be if he ordered them to participate in a post-mortem meal prep involving their own bodies.

Skill Gained: Comedy (Initiate) 1

The orcs in the stands chattered and cheered, amusing themselves during this intermission. As Shiv collected the bodies he needed, the audience stitched together massive banners commemorating this battle. Upon a kilometer-long canvas of midnight-black silk, Shiv saw detailed representations of himself, Gone, and Candles standing atop a small hill of orc corpses. Five was included too, but his depiction was more comedic, seeming like a wolf from a children's picture book that sported a massive lump on his head and a series of bruises all over his body, while having an X for each eye.

At present, Five was still chained to a long, upraised post held by an orc in the stands, but he looked more bored than tortured despite his many leaking wounds. "Deathless, Deathless," Five called out. "If you're done with all the corpse scavenging, could you perhaps put in a word with your orcs and have them let me down?"

Shiv ignored him for now. He was likely going to ignore Five for a moment longer. Maybe a moment that lasted anywhere from a few minutes to a few hours. Maybe he would let the orcs show the Aviary agent around. That might cure the poor coward’s urge to abandon his party in the middle of a fight.

"Is it an apology you desire?" Five shouted from high above. "If so, I am truly sorry, but you should have known better when you forced me into this endeavor as the only Hero among a group of Legends! Even ignoring this, I told you while we were escaping from the prison that I remain inclined toward diplomacy and intellectual pursuits rather than combat, and this remains true."

"Maybe we should just let the orcs keep him," Gone commented. She spat on the ground. "Trust the orcs more than I trust someone who kneels before the Stolen Throne. This fight was just for fun. Think if there was something in it for him, he would show just how much of a warrior he is. Think he has a lot more hidden in his fur than he's decided to reveal—pretending to be weaker and more vulnerable than he actually is."

Shiv got the same feeling, but ultimately wasn't sure. He agreed that Five probably had a lot more capabilities, but something told him the wolf-man wasn't lying when it came to how helpless he was in a direct fight. But that was just the thing. Life was so rarely a direct fight, and someone skilled in subterfuge and espionage could cause a lot more societal and structural damage under the right circumstances than some brute waiting around breaking things and butchering people.

But there was a reason why Shiv kept Five close. He owed Shiv his life. Shiv didn't think that fact did anything to change his true loyalties, but it did make him more reliable in certain ways, especially since he was lacking the Stolen Throne's favor, having retained some minimal contact with Aviary while in prison but being considered a burned asset overall. He had ultimately not given up his cell, judging from what Cripple had said, so he'd likely try to establish himself as some kind of direct liaison to New Albion, and at the same time, reassert his dignity as a spy. That would make him a defensive measure against the other Ravens and Owls, who might take a more subversive and threatening approach to Gate Piety’s existence.

Better the spy I know than all the spies I can't see, Shiv thought to himself.

Scheming Bastard 4 > 7

"Nah," Shiv replied after a few seconds, drawing out the tension. "We're keeping him. He can show me how good he is in the kitchen if he wants to redeem himself. If he fails there too, maybe then I'll consider letting the orcs eat him."

As if they had been preparing for this statement, a group of orcs around the pole holding Five up in the air put on aprons and produced condiments from unseen places. They then filled their hands with gleaming utensils, sporks, and knives raised high.

"Well, wasn’t that amusing?" The Culturist’s voice cut through the murmurs of the massive orc crowds. He projected his words with a bit of telepathic enhancement, and upon hearing his question, the others fell quiet immediately, their attention turning to the best among them, waiting for another brutal bout to begin. It was uncanny how fast the atmosphere changed, how quickly the other orcs responded. The makeshift coliseum was vast and wide, and the stands rose more like the city blocks climbing up the side of a sloped mountain rather than simply stacked steps that could be climbed with a few meager steps. Hundreds of thousands of orcs glowed bright in every direction, their biology emanating with life force and biological mana.

Shiv had been so focused on the 500 Heroes he was fighting earlier that he failed to fully absorb just how many people were here to witness this fight. Despite that, he felt more excited than tense. This wasn't like Blackedge, where too many eyes lingering on him meant an impending beating or at least a bottle thrown his way. Messed up though they were, the orcs liked him just the way he was, and cheered and booed him in equal measure, devoid of any rancor. In that respect, an orc was the ideal customer. He was intellectually engaged and personally fascinated, lacking that inherent tribal animosity which lurked inside certain humans and other Earth-based races.

A single orc might cheer your name and then curse you in the next second for the simple reason of you making a mistake or wielding a magical lore they didn't quite respect. But they also didn't linger in this state. When the moment passed, it was gone and done. They didn't have the urge to support any teams or to overly mythologize someone they liked. At the end of all things, orcs viewed themselves as Pathbearers and players in the System's scam game, and so they only saw the highest elevation of themselves. That meant all the world was an inevitable enemy. That meant there were no friends, no teams, no "we", only "I".

And that meant they admired Shiv and the Culturist as fighters of might and potential adversaries.

They're studying me, Shiv realized, trying to figure out how to put me down next time. Learning from the mistakes their fellows made, and learning from the mistakes I've made. Heh. Think I'm going to be in for a lot more sparring and general warfare in the future.

"So, have you had your fun, then, Deathless?" the Culturist asked. His voice alone rang out across the vastness of the Coliseum. He didn't shout his words; it simply felt like the winds obeyed him. Like the sound itself was his thrall. Shiv got the feeling the orc had some kind of vibrational skill, judging from how the air shivered around him.

Probably going to experience what kind of damage that voice can do first-hand in a couple of seconds, Shiv thought to himself. But in the meantime…

"I thought you were supposed to be the fun part!” Shiv shouted toward the Culturist. “Don’t tell me you’re backing out now!" He kept his talk quippy and playful, but deep inside, he had every intention of ruining the Culturist if he could. The bastard still infested the depths of Adam's soul, and if Shiv had any chance of resolving that, he would take it, even if Adam wanted to handle it himself.

"Oh, he's not afraid of you, Culturist. You gotta fight him now!" Bonk's interjection was followed by a resounding bellow of laughter. Shiv squinted, and he found the orc on the very edge of his perception, standing at the apex of the highest stand. He was holding some kind of magical device to project his voice all the way down, which he raised in salute. "Oi, Insul! I see you're down one killer. You need someone to fill in for the little puppy?"

Bonk’s offer was so earnest that Shiv nearly considered it. He knew the loincloth-wearing orc was always up for a good scrap, and he had a pretty good idea of how Bonk fought. However, he remained a mere Adept at present, not someone worth wasting against the Culturist. Frankly, Shiv doubted his own odds against the Culturist, even with Gone backing him up. Candles was effectively out of the fight, having spent everything he had to incinerate most of the orcs.

"Maybe next time, Bonk!" Shiv shouted back. "Right now, I think I want to do something real personal with the Culturist. Just him, me, a few golems, and Gone here."

"My, you're involving a great many people in this grudge match of ours," the Culturist said smoothly. A hint of wry amusement twinkled behind his eyes. He wasn't worried, wasn't offended. He was looking forward to this. "Perhaps you should call out to your lover and your friend. See them included in this little brawl of ours. You're not the only one I seek to train. It is a selfish thing to do, hoarding all this experience for your own pleasure. Or maybe that's not it. Maybe you're afraid to risk them, afraid I might take them from you permanently. And I cannot blame you. The shadow of the loss you suffered recently leaks out from the corner of your eyes."

