Unlike Gone, however, Shiv broke the strings of light with the flex of his might. His Magical Resistance worked in tandem with his Physicality as he burst free from his colorful cage—only to find himself face-to-face with the Culturist, who stepped out from seemingly nowhere, emerging from the folds of a mirage.

The orc's hands exploded into a blur of afterimages so fast Shiv couldn't even perceive them. He jabbed and poked Shiv all over his body, striking at his temple, between the eyes, down his chin, along his throat, across the torso, under his armpit, practically everywhere. None of the blows hurt. In fact, they left a strange throbbing sensation that wasn't altogether unpleasant. Vibrations of uncanny static pulsed across Shiv's insides. He tried to take a swing at the Culturist, but his arms wouldn't obey him. It felt like his muscles had turned to jelly and his arm bones into little more than soup. Contrarily, his legs went rigid, and every single muscle along his lower body cramped like never before.

As Shiv stood spasming, the Culturist placed a gentle palm upon his chest. "The hells did you do to me?" Shiv growled.

In response, the orc patted his chest once—and then he walked away as if his enemy was already beaten. Shiv's eyes widened. Was the bastard trying to mock him? Shiv struck at the orc using his Biomancy field. Where his body wouldn't respond to his commands, his mana was still his to direct.

Each of his hydra’s heads struck the Culturist—but inflicted no harm. Slowly, Shiv watched as the glass-like state encasing the Legendary orc's flesh faded, allowing his true Toughness to return. Weathering a brutal series of impacts from Shiv's Aegis like it was a pleasant summer rain, the orc simply chuckled as he strolled towards Gone.

"Hey! Hey, come back, you piece of shit!" Shiv called out. There was something building inside of him, however. There was a growing agony, a straining pressure that he couldn't describe. "Come back!" Shiv gagged. Something was wrong.

"Oh, don't worry, Deathless. I am not trying to insult you by walking away from our bout. It is simply that the fight has ended. You are already dead."

"What?" Shiv gasped, and that was the last thing he managed to say in that life as his body caught up to what had been done to it. As his arm twisted and bent. As his torso swelled along odd patches, growing large and bulbous. As his veins writhed and bent, inflating free from his skin. As his skull parted and his brain tissue expanded like a balloon.

And all at once, the pressure grew to be too much. Shiv's heart was the first to detonate. It had swollen to three times the original size, and when it went off, it went off with the power of a bomb, his brain and other organs following suit.

Shiv's body tore itself apart in a cataclysmic explosion. His armor exploded apart, and a small crater of gore formed upon the sands beneath where his feet used to be. A formless mass of Vitae that served as his post-mortem self splashed down into the puddle of blood. Not a few strides away, the Culturist fell into a crouch and whipped out his hands once more, unleashing a barrage of snapping strikes into Gone’s tiny body. Rather than blasting apart into a spray of gore, her body stiffened, and then she went limp. Her eyes were still open, still darting about, but it seemed like she was a prisoner inside of her own flesh.

The Culturist turned then and struck his fighting posture once more. "For a martial artist, unarmed combat is the finest thing. It is the most fundamental thing. It is the thing that all other martial arts and Weapon Proficiencies are built upon. We have our natural limbs, and with these limbs alone, greater geniuses than all of us here combined created kinetic art."

Interrupting the orc's words, Shiv's Vitae golem chose that moment to slam down from on high, smashing into the Culturist with an earth-shattering impact. The tower sank deep into the ground, sheathing itself through the sand for hundreds of meters in a second and throwing up a massive cloud of dust.

Shiv stared at where the last few dozen meters of the Pillar of Orichalcum stuck out. For a few heartbeats, nothing happened.

And then a sickening sound echoed through the world. It was the sound of bursting metal; it was the sound of detonating Vitae. And then the entirety of the pillar came apart in two halves, splitting clean in two to reveal the Culturist standing on a patch of sand with his back straight and a single Index finger raised high, the Vitae golem impaled upon his fist, a gaping hole through its chest.

Shiv's mind struggled to process what he was seeing, but it didn't take him long to make sense of what had just happened. The collective force of the Culturist’s being had become a concentrated needle, hollowing a safe path for himself through the entirety of the tower with a single thrust of an upraised finger.

As the last of the Pillar of Orichalcum dissipated and the golem dissolved into motes of vitality upon the Culturist’s hand, he once more resumed his fighting posture and continued his monologue from where he left off, "Though your Grappling is technically Legendary, you have done yourself a disservice, Deathless. You should never have let that skill fuse with your Physicality and your Magical Resistance. Now you are merely a brute with an intuitive understanding of leverage. Though this might grant you insight into how you may execute takedowns, or apply proper leverage to break bones or strangle one of your adversaries unconscious, this is not nearly the precipice of one's martial capabilities. Martial arts are the true expression of a sapient being’s fighting skill, and you have deprived yourself of such true pleasures. But just as well. Easy pleasures make for weaker Pathbearers. You do not need the System to gift you such a skill. You can learn the fundamentals on your own, and you can learn through facing a proper adversary who has walked the Open-Handed Paths, who has experienced the truth of martial enlightenment."

With that, the Culturist broke from his posture and made a gesture at the mess of Vitae that was Shiv. "And just as well, for though you are a Legend, you do not fight nearly well enough to be considered one. Where is your Footwork skill? Where is your Anticipation? Where is your ability to resist pressure point techniques? Without these things, you will be but a worm trying to fight an eagle against anyone with a measure of skill."

Shiv's mind twitched. The Culturist had many flaws. He was an orc that struggled against his nature, that loathed his cruel instincts, but always failed to overcome them. He was an orc that loved the sound of his own voice, who monologued endlessly and relentlessly, who tried to endear himself to Shiv and Adam, but also was open about how much he wanted to hurt them at times.

In spite of all that, Shiv had to admit the orc’s ability to make someone explode by poking them a whole godsdamn lot was pretty fucking awesome. Awesome enough that Shiv wanted to learn—or at least die so many times the orc couldn't do it to him anymore.

Shiv had already been motivated to fight on Adam's behalf. But now he was downright excited. Drawing in an influx of vitality from his Enchained Heart, Shiv resurrected, emerging from his Vitae and staring the Culturist down. Yet before he could say anything, another pressure built inside Shiv. Pressure Point, the Deathless thought. The orc's Pressure Point skill had truly become transcendent, affecting him the moment he returned to life. But then the notifications loaded. Shiv had resurrected far too fast this time, and didn't even get to review his gains while dead.

Then suddenly, Shiv's excitement turned two-fold.

"What's that on your face? Is that glee? Anticipation? No. I know that look. You've gained a Skill Evolution." The orc smiled and brushed at a non-existent beard. He was playing with Shiv, but also playing with himself. Shiv suspected that whoever the orc trained under to learn these skills had such a habit, and the Culturist was imitating them to pay homage.

"Yeah," Shiv breathed. "I got a Skill Evolution. You giving me a second? I want to see what this can do."

"By all means," the Culturist said politely, gesturing with an upward-facing palm. "But after this moment, you owe me pain, and you owe me every bit of fight you still have inside you."

The Legendary orc casually lashed out with a few punches and kicks, each one faster than Shiv could follow. Each one projected invisible blasts of pressure across the sand, painting a symmetrical pattern. Then the Culturist finished his kata, facing away from Shiv and thrusting a gentle palm into the distance.

That gentle palm unleashed a shockwave that caused a stretch of what a strange flicker of Non-Sequitur told him to be approximately five hundred kilometers of space to vanish into nothingness. A good few hundred thousand orcs were vaporized as a good third of the coliseum was wiped out of existence. All solid matter was disintegrated before it could remember to become debris, and only the howling of wind as air flooded back in to fill what the Culturist had displaced told of what had just transpired.

The winds calmed. Cheers erupted from all sides.

Shiv would have gawked at all that if he hadn't been so busy taking in the fusion happening between his skills, a fusion that wrenched at Shiv’s Vitae—causing it to stretch free from his body, commanding it to extend, to sink into the other skills, mutating them from within…

Deepest Edge 96 > 101 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Golemancy 50 > 52 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Vitaemancy 145 > 150 (Acceptable Skill Fusion Detected)

Skill Fusion: Deepest Edge (Adept) - Golemancy (Adept) - Vitaemancy (Unique) > This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul (Unique)
