Sage of the Enkindled Heart: He's been holding the Itch at bay, but it's getting the better of him again. Look at his face. He knows what's coming. He knows what you'll say. He knows that you can strike at his pride and his philosophical vulnerabilities deeper than he can tear at your open wounds. But he can't help it, and that just makes everything worse.

And so Shiv knew what to do as well. He knew how to hurt him most of all.

Shiv allowed that reflexive recoil of anger to pass through him, let it fade to sadness, and let it turn to nothing in the end. Through it all, though, he simply grinned at the Culturist, saying nothing, letting time pass. A tension formed between them. It was a tension that gnawed at the Culturist. That weighed upon him.

The other orcs didn't realize what was going on at first. But one after another, those who presumably possessed greater Psychology Skills started to laugh. Words were exchanged. Whispers speaking of how Shiv had led the Culturist into a most embarrassing trap. But that wasn't the truth. The truth was that the Culturist just couldn't help it. The orcs as a whole couldn't help it. The Itch compelled them to betray themselves. Cruelty was not a power. It was not a privilege. It was ultimately an addiction. And when someone else mastered your addiction, they could shame you.

And Shiv did just that by saying nothing, by keeping to his sacred and defiant silence. He could snap back. He could insult the orc. He could prod at how the Culturist couldn't resist his dark urge. But Shiv didn't, because he was above the need for cruelty. He was a real person, one who could offer grace and mercy not because it was in his nature, but rather to shape it into an insult, striking the Culturist at his fragile foundations.

"What's happening?" Gone asked. She looked between Shiv and the Legend orc and realized that something was unfolding.

The Culturist wasn't smiling anymore. His lip was nearly a straight line, one that barely hid his true displeasure. The emotional core in his chest, lacking any of Jessica's immovable tranquility, filled first with flame and then what seemed to be sand swirling about as if a storm of grit and misery.

"I've decided to be the bigger Pathbearer," Shiv explained, standing with his arms crossed. "Meanwhile, he can't decide much of anything at all. It's a real shame."

Serving as a wonderful bookend to Shiv's declaration, the Culturist's body turned brittle and bright. Flesh and attire turned to glass. And instead of continuing this war of words, the Culturist leapt down from the stand, descending fast but landing as if a weightless feather, with both fists clenched. He bore no weapons, but strode forth with intent. A crackle of lightning danced across Gone, but the Culturist came to a stop a few hundred meters away. He lowered his head in a disgraced bow.

"You are right. I can't help it,” he declared. “I confess to be your lesser by far in this war of hearts and egos. You may be a titan of combat, Deathless, but I believe you chose the wrong skill to turn Legendary. Someday, should you survive that long, your Psychology will be the undoing of far more adversaries. That a few words from you would prove as poisonous as the greatest of venoms, as treacherous as a lover turned foe. But until that point comes, until you can unmake my psyche with a phrase sharpened at the altar of your beautifully hateful mind, you know what must follow. You know that I must indulge. And better you than your friend. I seek to refine him, but he would not survive the depths of pain I will inflict upon you."

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 145 > 147

Rhetoric 19 > 23

Sticks and Stones 77 > 81

Slowly, Shiv’s sarcastic smirk went from prideful glee to a vicious expression of bared teeth. "Well, damn, Culturist, you took those words right out of my mouth. The part about the depths of pain, I mean. But you might be confused about who's going to be tearing into who, no? Considering you're looking awfully fragile right now."

The Culturist looked up and met Shiv's eyes. "Indeed. Even with my Toughness, I think a proper strike from you now would see me crack and shatter. To die at your hand, after this display, my humiliation would be complete, and my destruction would leave me unraveled and a pariah among my kin." The Culturist tutted, as if trying to admonish himself. But his words were subtly mocking. He didn't think Shiv had the ability to prevail in a direct battle, as he had in their psychological bout. "Well, come then, Deathless. Seize the moment before I regain my composure. Before your Sticks and Stones lose their bite. Free your friend from my wrathful grasp. Amuse the Challenger, as you are so desperate to do."

"Fuck the Challenger," Shiv said. "I'm doing this for me."

With that, Shiv extended a Bifurcated Processing tendril, creating another Bullet Golem. Infused with Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides and blessed with Pillar of Orichalcum, the golem rose high behind Shiv and prepared to charge toward the vulnerable Culturist. Golem, go up into the sky, wait for when his guard falls, and then smash him flat till his shards mingle with the sands.

Writing 14 > 15

The Vitae golem heeded Shiv's word without any protest. It twisted away from the Culturist and shot up high in the air, rising like a javelin painted red-gold, growing brighter with every passing second.

"Gone, I'm gonna play the vanguard. You skirmish. Tear him apart when he's busy with me, when he doesn't see you coming. Don't let him catch you."

The goblin didn't say anything. She just flexed her claws and allowed golden lightning to course through her.

Acknowledging their approach, the Culturist held out both arms and beckoned them to approach.

"Not gonna arm yourself?" Shiv asked.

"There is no need," the Culturist replied. "In fact, I think that it would be inappropriate for me. I wish to teach you a lesson. The first lesson that I seek to impart is a most useful one for you. The way of the Open Hand."

The orc shifted away from his sarcastic embrace and adopted a fighting posture that had his rear hand drawn close beside his face in a high guard, while his leading jab was left partially open with fingers extended, ready to snap out at any moment to seize an unprotected limb or pierce a vulnerable eye.

Shiv, meanwhile, thought himself above such flourishes. He stormed forward, one foot in front of another, and cracked his knuckles. He had a simple plan for the Culturist: pick him up and smash him down against the sands until even he couldn't tell where orc ended and sands began.

Would that plan work? Shiv heavily doubted it. But he had other things for the Culturist to worry about. That's why he declared his intentions out loud. He wanted to make the orc think, distract him before the fight even began. And when the Culturist inevitably pulled something out of his ass that Shiv couldn't anticipate, he would use his Non-Sequitur to out-cheat the Legendary orc before this could become anything more than a beating.

Something compelled him to look up before the fight began, and he saw Jessica and Valor staring down from just below the clouds. Well, Giantsbane, here's me thinking in twos.

***

"Fucking finally!" Jessica let out a breath of triumphant vindication. It seemed her teaching hadn't gone to waste after all. The damn boy could listen. And what a gift that was. “You're thinking in twos, kid. Now just keep it up. Come up with more plans on top of more plans. Just keep stacking them. You'll lose track, but so will your enemy."

"Is that how you deal with your adversaries, Legend Hawgrave?" Valor asked.

"Huh? Ah, nah. Usually, I try thinking in twos at the start, but then the strategy stuff gets really hard as the fight gets going and I end up just cutting them down because I'm a better swordswoman, or they turn out to be shittier than I expected, or I get lucky. A whole lot of different things happen, actually. Fighting's messy."

Valor considered her. "And you pretend to be a simpler and weaker woman than you actually are. It is not a sin to take pride in one's own mental prowess."

"No, but pretending to be dumber does throw the arrogant nobles off and makes killing them easier."

"Ah. I understand."

A tower of red-gold shot up through the clouds in the distance, interrupting their conversation. The Vitae Golem was about two kilometers away from them, and Jessica observed the construct with a dubious look. "It's not a bad idea, announcing all that out loud,” she noted. “It gets the Culturist paranoid, keeps him distracted a little bit. Pair that with the goblin, and he might have to make a few ugly choices. But something tells me the orc has this under control, that the kid needs to be much more unexpected if he wants to actually land a hit."

Twin dancing flames flickered behind Valor's mana-formed eyes. "You know what Shiv is going to actually do, then?"

Jessica snorted. "He's going to do what he always does when he needs to screw someone over. That weird technique where he can hop in and out of your consciousness. You forget him for a while when he does that, and then he comes back in, smashing into you or something. It's a pretty nasty skill to have. And once he gets powerful enough, it's probably going to be an absolute nightmare to deal with. But I think the orc's got enough Toughness to take a beating and a half. Besides that, he's probably going to make the first move. Expect this to go uglier than the kid anticipates."

"I concur. What do you think the Culturist will do?"

Jessica squinted at the Legendary orc and observed his myriad mana fields. The bastard had every magical lore Jessica knew and then a few she didn't. Guessing what kind of spell he might cast was beyond her. She knew enough about magical theory from all the mages she'd killed, but she wasn't a dedicated mage herself. Dimensionality was known to her intuitively, mainly due to her bond with Rusty, but her education when it came to the fine art of blowing people up using the elements was somewhat limited.

Besides magic, the Culturist definitely had any number of strange and rare skills to unleash, even Unique Skills, considering what had happened to Adam. But then she saw that slight bend of light curving around the orc, and she realized she faced an adversary who'd done this to her before as well. Light was a treacherous thing. Most human Pathbearers were vision-dependent, and even if you lost your sight temporarily, that was usually enough to destabilize your capability and leave you vulnerable. And if you were vulnerable while up against another Legend for more than a half second, that was certain death.

"The damn orc's probably gonna blast the kid with some kind of optical blindness spell. Then he's gonna hit him or something."

"Now, now, Legend Jessica, take your own advice. Think in twos. You're being too simplistic when it comes to the Culturist. He is going to blind Shiv. Of that I am sure. But he's also going to do far more than that.”

“Huh? Well, you know the orc better than I do. How about you tell me what he's going to do?"

The lich didn't respond, but his pupils grew small, became twin pinpricks of dark green. "Watch," Valor said. "Watch and observe. It will make your life easier when you intervene."

"Intervene?" Jessica said, not sure what Valor meant. But then came a brilliant flash that speared at even her eyes. Jessica let out a hiss of pain, and Rusty, to her surprise, barked a metallic groan as well. Before her vision cleared, she heard the unmistakable sound of a body tearing apart.

***

Shiv got within fifty meters of the Culturist before everything went to shit. The Legendary orc cast the spell so quickly that Shiv barely noticed, and then saw nothing at all as the shape detonated outward, consuming the world in a blinding canvas of white. Shiv realized he was blind in less than a quarter second. All the battles he'd been through had hardened him, honed his instincts to a razor-sharp edge. He didn't hesitate, reacting immediately by going Non-Sequitur. Shiv burst out from his body and found the blindness only temporary.

The whiteness faded. The Culturist remained where he had been, but in his grasp was Gone. Her head was folded back at a disgusting angle, and she was utterly still. Shiv couldn't see any life force inside of her. His mind went blank. He continued reacting.

The first of his mana hydra’s heads lashed out, sweeping over the goblin as Shiv went for the Culturist personally. His Last Morsel came cleaving up at an angle, Shiv trying to take the Culturist's head off in a single blow. But the moment his Biomancy field swept over Gone, Shiv realized the depths of his mistake. He felt nothing. No hint of flesh. No bone, no tissue, not even blood. Gone wasn't there. It was an illusion. Shiv discovered that far too late as he emerged from his Non-Sequitur state. His Last Morsel swept through the Culturist's head but passed without inflicting any damage, leaving only a faint distortion in the smirking decoy of the Legendary orc.

And then there came a sound just a few meters behind him. He saw a glowing replica of himself, forged from veins of optical illusions. Gone was there, trapped within those glowing tendrils, now unraveling from Shiv’s illusory twin. Her body crashed and thundered with Chronomantic lightning, but she couldn't break free. She was bound in place, captured by the Culturist’s trap.

The very same kind of trap ensnared Shiv as he was swallowed by a burst of light. What he thought had been Gone’s corpse unraveled in a blinding spill of colors and wrapped around Shiv.

