My ears folded down and my tail drooped as I thought it over. The lives of strangers were not the responsibility I wanted. I didn’t want to protect an empire; I just wanted my family. But I understood what Rin wanted from me, and for as horrible as her threat against Sakura was, it was still just a threat. She didn’t actually lay a single finger on her.

“But… I don’t get who she is, though,” I said. “Why did Sakura come here?”

“Well, I don’t know yet, but that is none of your concern, truly,” Rin said. “I’ll have my people get to the bottom of it in time. But she does have a very unique skill, so I’ll bring this up to the Emperor and see what he thinks about what use she might be to us in the future.”

“So what? You want to hire her now?” I asked. “Do you just employ everyone who comes waltzing through your city gates?”

“Anyone who seems like they have potential to be useful. In any case, I didn’t bring you in here only to talk about that girl. You still have a report to finish.”

I sighed, taking a moment to gather my thoughts. A lot of the immediate tension and outrage I felt towards Rin had faded, but the disgust still lingered. I couldn’t deny her logic, or that she’d managed to get what she wanted without actually harming Sakura, but it still felt pretty messed up to me. But I suppose actually torturing her would have been way more messed up.

“Okay… so, after we defeated that first group of bandits and got Sakura on her way back to the empire walls, we went back on the hunt. It was a little time before we found our next targets, but they turned out to be a part of an even larger group of bandits…” From there, I continued to tell about the entire fight, detailing how we picked off each Human and Drakewolf as Rin prodded for more details.

When she was satisfied, she let us know with a nod. “Very good. You’ve done well. As for this bandit camp, would you be able to find it again?”

“Of course,” I said.

“How about them?” Rin asked, gesturing towards Grick and Lily.

“Um…” My ears folded down as I looked to my pack. “I don’t see why not.”

Rin nodded. “I may send reinforcements to clean them up; it depends on what the next tier of your quest will be. Since you’ve only returned today, feel free to relax for a while. You’ll likely be summoned to meet with the Emperor tomorrow.”
