Grick stood up on his chair, leaning forward with one hand on the table and the other pointed back at Mei. “Why do that? Mei good human!”

Rin sat back and turned her attention to me. “So, you do know her. Start your report with how you came across her.”

I looked back to Mei, or Saku-something. She had her focus on Grick much more than Lily at first, but then she looked a bit confused as Rin seemed to address me over either of them.

“While we were out looking for bandits, we came across the scent of perfume,” I explained. “That led us to her, and she was being held captive by some bandits. They wanted to ransom her.”

Mei or Saku-something blinked, then practically jolted as the realization hit. “Y-You’re Puppy!”

I looked over my shoulder, ears folded down flat on my head. “Please don’t call me that.”

“Puppy no like being called puppy?” Grick asked, turning his head.

I folded my arms tight to my chest, holding back a grimace. “Uh… It’s okay for you, Grick. But that’s not my name.”

Fox raised a brow, now resting her cheek on her hand and looking between me and Mei or Saku-something. “Hmmm. Well, you should hurry up and come up with a name then, kid.”

“I know! I know!”

“Um…” Mei or Saku-something looked around, blinking, before turning her attention back to me. “So it… really is you.”

I turned away from her, putting a hand up on the table as I addressed Rin, trying my best to seem dignified. “So anyway, we saved her from the bandits, then led her to a road leading to the border wall. Why is she now in handcuffs?”

“Because she is not Mei Shuyin,” Rin explained. Then that infuriating smirk touched her lips as she placed her entwined metal fingers under her chin. “But she has a rather unique skill that lets her change what her stat screen looks like to other people.”

Saku-something (pretty sure she wasn’t Mei at this point) shook her head quickly. “Th-that’s not true! I’m Mei Shuyin. I really am and… I-I really don’t have a skill like that!”

Rin frowned. “Well, it’s a shame that it seems you can’t bring yourself to tell the truth. Maybe another week or so in the dungeon will give you time to reflect on the importance of honesty.” She then waved a hand, and Xiu began to pull her away.

“Wait!” I cut in. “Does a skill like that actually exist?”

“I was surprised to see it myself, but yes, clearly it does,” Rin answered.

“How can you know that she has it, though? If she can change her status screen, then wouldn’t she be able to make it so your Analyze can’t see that she has that skill?”

“Two reasons,” Rin said. “One, because that girl is a terrible liar. And two, because I happen to know for a fact that Mei Shuyin is dead.”

Well, I couldn’t deny that she was bad at lying. Even I saw through the fact that she wasn’t upper-class. Not to mention, she almost blurted out what I assume was her real name that one time.

“So what will happen to her once you figure out who she really is?” I asked. “If she’s not really Mei, that is?”

“That depends entirely on the truth of her situation,” Rin explained. “If I determine she is an agent working for the Iron March, then she’ll be interrogated in a different manner until we’re confident we’ve extracted all the information that we can. After that, it’s possible we’ll execute her.”

“Execute?” Grick slammed his little green hands on the table. “No can execute nice human!” Then he looked over to me and asked, “What is execute?”

“It means they’re going to kill her, Grick,” I explained.

“I-I’m not lying!” Mei or Saku-something insisted, going pale in the face.

“So you’re going to torture her?” I asked. “That’s what you mean by interrogate?”

“Unfortunately,” Rin said, then turned her attention back to Mei. “If you can’t give me a believable story, then I’ll have to assume the worst.”

“What if you’re wrong and she’s lying for some other reason?” I cut in once again. “Or what if she actually is telling the truth and your information is just wrong?”

“Neither my information nor my intuition is wrong,” Rin said confidently.

“B-But you're talking about torturing someone! What if you are wrong?” I sighed, dropping my gaze, then went on to say, “It wouldn’t make any sense. If she was an agent for the Iron March, why would she be captured by bandits?”

“Bad luck?” Rin shrugged a single shoulder. “Just because she has a rare skill doesn’t mean she’s competent. If all she was looking to do was replace a noble and live an easy life, then it was quite foolish of her to come here, of all places. Being that this is the most innocent explanation I can personally guess at doesn’t bode well for her. Any other theory quickly gets into the sphere of assassination, espionage, or worse.”

I looked back at Saku-something. Her eyes were wide, her face pale, and the way her wrists twisted against her cuffs made it obvious she was barely holding herself together.

She certainly wasn’t acting like some assassin or a clever spy who had been caught. She was acting like prey. Unfortunately, I understood better than anyone that prey could still be dangerous.

“In any case, you’ve confirmed at least one part of her story; that’s all I wanted here,” Rin said. Then she turned her attention back to Saku-something. “Since I hate having my time wasted, I’ll give you a clue to what’s going to happen now. That woman beside you is Xiu. She’s deaf, meaning she cannot hear you. In a moment, I’ll give her the order to bring you to a cell and spend a week having regular… ‘sessions’ with you. She is skilled enough to know exactly how far to go without killing you, and she’ll have enough healing potions at her disposal to keep bringing you back when your HP nears 0. She’ll do that over and over again.”

Saku-something’s eyes widened in terror. “W-What do you m-mean…” She looked over at Xiu, who remained as stoic as a statue, then back to Rin. “W-Why would you...”

Rin’s lips curved into that smirk that was suddenly seeming far more terrifying than I had ever considered it before.

“As I said,” Rin continued. “I hate having my time wasted. Once Xiu takes you to your cell, you will only be accompanied by her. You won’t be able to confess to her, because she can’t hear you. You won’t be able to beg, or… do anything, really, to make her stop. That will go on until she is sure you understand your situation, and then you’ll be given another chance to tell me the truth.”

I recoiled in disgust. Was this really the type of person I’d agreed to fight for? She was going to have this girl tortured for who knows how long, and not even as an interrogation. Just to break her so she could be interrogated later!

Then my ears perked in alarm as Rin made a gesture with two fingers.

Xiu nodded, grabbed the chains between Saku-something’s shackles, and yanked her towards the door.

“N-No, wait!” the girl stumbled forward as the chain between her cuffs jerked tight. Panic spread across her face and seeped into her voice. “Wait! Please wait!”

Grick looked between Rin and the girl with growing alarm, but not knowing what to do. On the floor between us, Lily let out a distressed whine. Fox remained silent for now, her golden eyes narrowed thoughtfully as she watched everything unfold.

“Don’t take nice human away!” Grick pleaded.

I wasn’t sure what to say. Was there any way I could stop this? And why was Rin displaying her cruelty in front of us? To send a message?

I used {Analyze} on Xiu, just to check the possibility of stopping her.

Human – Level ???

Damn, no chance there. That meant she was way higher level than me. But either way, it’s not like Rin couldn’t just stop me herself.

Looking back at Rin, the way she sat there so calmly made my fur bristle! Or, my fur would bristle if I weren’t in my human form. Her red eyes simply watched as Xiu dragged Saku-something towards her fate.

But then—

“Sakura Aoyama!” the girl screamed. “That’s my real name! And you’re right! I can change my status screen!”

Xiu stopped, looked at Sakura, then back to Rin, who made a different gesture with her metal fingers. Xiu released the chain and instead pushed Sakura back into the room. She stumbled a step but then bowed.

“I-I’m sorry I tried to deceive you. Please don’t kill me.”

Rin smirked. “Oh, we were going to do far worse than just kill you. You’ve made a wise decision in coming clean, Sakura Aoyama. Now, if you can deactivate that skill of yours so I can be sure that is who you really are.”

Sakura looked down, let out a breath, and then looked up again. I knew my {Analyze} couldn’t do as much as Rin’s, but I went ahead to see if her level was at least was still at 3, and I found that no, it wasn’t.

Human - Level 9

So she wasn’t some secret high-tier assassin, but she was at least significantly higher than level 3. That meant that she must have done a reasonable amount of killing in her life. I imagine even without ever killing anything, it would be possible to hit level 3 just from achievement bonuses and the like, but probably not much higher than that.

“As I thought.” Rin smirked. “But how can I know this isn’t a fake status screen that I’m seeing as well?”

Whatever relief Sakura had felt instantly drained along with the rest of the color in her face. “Th-This is real. This is the real me. I swear it!”

“Well, while I have no way of verifying that for now, you have earned yourself more comfortable arrangements. Go with Xiu. She’ll take you to a room and provide you with some writing material. I want you to write up a statement about who you actually are and… what?” Rin raised an eyebrow as Sakura shrank completely into her shoulders. The poor girl looked absolutely mortified.

“I-I…” She gulped. “I don’t know how to write.”

“Is that so…” Rin said dryly.

“I can read a little, but that’s it,” Sakura clarified.

Rin tapped a metal finger. “You’re telling me you were going to try to impersonate a noble and you can’t even write?”

Sakura gulped and nodded.

“How foolish…” Rin muttered under her breath. Then she said, “Very well. In that case, I suppose I’ll just have to question you in person later. Don’t worry, as long as I’m sure you are telling the truth, no harm will come to you. Even if you are an assassin or something of that nature, I’m willing to give you the benefit of the doubt that it’s not a path you wished to choose for yourself. So, going forward, just believe me when I say honesty is the best policy. Do you understand?”

“Y-Yes.”

“Do you know my title?” Rin asked. Sakura flinched as those words hit her, and she nodded slowly. Rin smirked. “Good. Then refer to me by it.”

“Y-Yes, High Regent.”

Rin signaled to Xiu, and the deaf girl led her to the door once again. This time, she wasn’t dragging her by her handcuffs but merely guiding her with a single hand on her back. When the door slid open and then closed again, I couldn’t help placing an intense glare on Rin.

“What the hell was with that? Why were you treating her like that? Even if she is an enemy… Is that what the empire does to people? Tortures them with no reprieve just to break them and get whatever they want out of them?”

“In the most extreme situations, nothing is off limits,” Rin said calmly.

“But she was obviously just a scared girl!” I felt my temper rising, and a cough from Fox reminded me to rein it back in. I remembered how Rin got the last time I challenged her too steadily and lost my temper with her, so I tried another way, calming the edge to my voice as much as I could. “You didn’t have to do that, you know.”

“Do what, exactly?” Rin questioned, with that infuriating, but now simultaneously terrifying, smirk on her lips as those red eyes remained locked on me.

“You know what! Torture a girl who was obviously not any kind of real threat!”

“And did I do that?” Rin pointed out.

I blinked. I looked at Fox, whose fangs flashed in a smile as she shook her head. Then I looked at Grick, whose ears were folded down alongside his temples.

Rin adjusted in her seat. “It was merely a threat, and one I suspected I wouldn’t have to see through. Mind you, if I believe it necessary for the security of the empire, nothing is off limits. Torture is evil, and it stains those who order it and the nation that permits it. But if I believe an act of evil can prevent greater evil against innocent lives, then I’ll do what’s necessary. In her case, you’re right, she was obviously a foolish girl in over her head. I wouldn’t cross that line just to uncover her fake story.”

Fox’s tail swayed lazily behind her. “You may not like it, kid, but I guess that was pretty well handled.”

I stared at Fox. “You think threatening to peel her apart over and over again is a point in Rin’s favor?”

Fox flicked an ear. “Well, there’s no denying Sakura was up to something, and Rin just got her to crack before a single hair was harmed on her. Things could have gone way, way worse for that girl.”

“That’s…” I looked away. It didn’t feel right. Yeah, it was better than actually torturing her, but I had memories of a world and a country where even that was crossing a line. There was such a thing as due process, and even the worst criminals were supposed to be treated humanely. It seemed that didn’t apply here. Rin could wave her hand at any time and order someone tortured until they broke. Something about that didn’t sit well with me.

“You seem conflicted,” Rin said.

I didn’t answer her. I didn’t know how.

Rin’s smirk faded as she studied me. “Then let me ask you something simpler. How far would you go to save your family?”

My ears twitched. “That’s not the same thing.”

“No?”

“I wouldn’t torture someone,” I said, but my voice came out quieter than I wanted. I would never deliberately draw out a kill, but there was still brutality in what I did. A quick clean kill was better, but there were times my prey screamed beneath me as my jaws ripped into their face and neck. Were the lines between torture and that really so far apart?

Rin’s voice softened. “Then imagine your family was not a handful of people, but an empire. Millions of people sleep safely because there is someone watching the dark for them. Fathers, mothers, children, sisters, and brothers. People who may never know how dark things could have been. People who will never know what you did for them, or even your name.”

“You’re talking about me now?”

Rin nodded.

“I don’t have a name.”

Her lip quirked. “All the better.”

My ears folded down and my tail drooped as I thought it over. The lives of strangers were not the responsibility I wanted. I didn’t want to protect an empire; I just wanted my family. But I understood what Rin wanted from me, and for as horrible as her threat against Sakura was, it was still just a threat. She didn’t actually lay a single finger on her.

“But… I don’t get who she is, though,” I said. “Why did Sakura come here?”

“Well, I don’t know yet, but that is none of your concern, truly,” Rin said. “I’ll have my people get to the bottom of it in time. But she does have a very unique skill, so I’ll bring this up to the Emperor and see what he thinks about what use she might be to us in the future.”

“So what? You want to hire her now?” I asked. “Do you just employ everyone who comes waltzing through your city gates?”

“Anyone who seems like they have potential to be useful. In any case, I didn’t bring you in here only to talk about that girl. You still have a report to finish.”

I sighed, taking a moment to gather my thoughts. A lot of the immediate tension and outrage I felt towards Rin had faded, but the disgust still lingered. I couldn’t deny her logic, or that she’d managed to get what she wanted without actually harming Sakura, but it still felt pretty messed up to me. But I suppose actually torturing her would have been way more messed up.

“Okay… so, after we defeated that first group of bandits and got Sakura on her way back to the empire walls, we went back on the hunt. It was a little time before we found our next targets, but they turned out to be a part of an even larger group of bandits…” From there, I continued to tell about the entire fight, detailing how we picked off each Human and Drakewolf as Rin prodded for more details.

When she was satisfied, she let us know with a nod. “Very good. You’ve done well. As for this bandit camp, would you be able to find it again?”

“Of course,” I said.

“How about them?” Rin asked, gesturing towards Grick and Lily.

“Um…” My ears folded down as I looked to my pack. “I don’t see why not.”

Rin nodded. “I may send reinforcements to clean them up; it depends on what the next tier of your quest will be. Since you’ve only returned today, feel free to relax for a while. You’ll likely be summoned to meet with the Emperor tomorrow.”
