“Do you just eat out of the vending machines when I don’t bring you things?” he asked curiously. “ ‘cause I was thinking about it in logographic torture class, and you can’t do takeout. Unless you call and say, ‘Bring food’ without requesting anything specific? I don’t think that would work well, and I bet you can’t order anything online either. I’m not really sure how magic works, but I’m betting the Artonans wouldn’t have left that kind of hole in whatever it is that binds you here.”

For the first time ever, Alden saw Gorgon blink. It was incredibly weird. His eyelids were translucent with dark veins.

“Go home, Alden,” said the alien. “You’re tired and punchy. You don’t need to worry about me.”

“Mmm…I’m not worried. I was just thinking it sucks to be alone sometimes, and you’re alone most of the time. Most people don’t even say ‘hi’ to you when they walk through the lobby.”

Gorgon looked back at his computer screens. “Plenty of humans come to the consulate specifically to see me. I have been extensively photographed, and I’m given to understand that there are plushies of me in at least one gift shop in the city. I’m practically a minor celebrity.”

There was something in his voice. It wasn’t at all the tone an upset human would have, but it was different than anything Alden had heard from Gorgon before. It made him concerned he’d stepped into more painful territory than he’d intended.

He’d only thought of all the social media posts with Gorgon in them as people being idiots. But it was darker than that. Gorgon literally couldn’t get away from a camera. It’s like he’s a zoo animal.

But he didn’t want pity. He’d implied he could smell it. So Alden tried to rein the sudden rush of it he felt all the way back in.

He stood up straight and cleared his throat. “Anywaaay…I’m gonna bring you some crickets next time. Live ones.”

“That will be noisy,” Gorgon said in a neutral voice.

“Not if you eat them quick.”

Alden waited in case Gorgon could drop some kind of a hint.

He didn’t.

“Hey…I don’t know if you can tell me this or not, but you won’t be offended if I bring you extremely weird stuff to eat, right? Because I’m assuming your natural diet must be pretty different from a human’s, and I want to find the right thing. But I don’t want to upset you.”

“Ah, the trials of a cross-species acquaintanceship.”

Gorgon glanced down at the backs of his hands. His wrists were raw beneath the magical bindings. Alden had never noticed that before. “I will not be offended. But, Alden, I truly did not mean to bring up sustenance with you at all earlier. I have appreciated and enjoyed your offerings. If nothing else, they are an amusement in a very un-amusing life. My declaration earlier today— ”

“The one about not being vegan?”

“Yes, that one. It was prompted by…a costly moment of melancholy. It is not a problem for you to solve.”

That was melancholy earlier? Alden had thought he detected sarcasm. And how was it costly?

Well, it would be costly for Alden if he had to start in on the more exotic items on his list of meats.

“I understand. But you really reached all the way for a word like ‘acquaintanceship’ when ‘friendship’ was right there for the taking?” he said lightly. “Maybe I should be offended.”

“You’re still bringing the crickets, aren’t you?” Gorgon said in that deliberately neutral tone.

“Chirp, chirp.” Alden winked at him. “Have a good night, Gorgon!”
