What if everywhere looks like this? he wondered again. It seemed impossible that the rest of the island could be untouched if this place was so utterly devastated.

How many people are gone?

“Should someone like you and Lind-otta be here just for the two of us?” he asked. “What about everything else?”

“You did enjoy your swim, didn’t you?”

Alden shook his head.

“Someone had to deal with the ocean in this area anyway. It <<encroaches>> too far too quickly. Lind and I can work <<unencumbered>> without so many <<hopeful helpers>> running around.”

Alden had recovered enough to have more questions, but one eclipsed the rest. And who would know better than this person?

“Is…is the Earth Contract going to fail?”

It didn’t matter if the System said the risk of chaos exposure was “negligible”. Too much had gone too wrong. He still wasn’t allowed to text anyone. And now that he wasn’t under imminent threat from the water, that fear could come to the forefront again.

It wasn’t quite as strong as it had been, but it still had the power to make his stomach twist.

“Not at the moment.” Esh-erdi’s face darkened. “This planet has revealed some <<fragilities>> that worry me greatly, though.”

Something about the way he said it stole the hard-won air from Alden’s lungs.

Before long, they were approaching the edge of Lind-otta’s magic. All around them, the world began to accelerate. Where the water hadn’t flowed away, it was just pools and puddles exhibiting normal puddling behavior.

“Does she slow time, or is it something else?” Alden asked quietly.

“This is the slowing of motion, not time,” Esh-erdi replied. “I’m sorry you’ve seen it under these circumstances, but I’m happy that you can witness her power at this scale. She approaches the limit of her abilities with this particular work. It’s mesmerizing, don’t you think?”

He looked around. “Where did that human flyer go…?”

The knight crooked the finger he was using to direct their platform, and they turned the corner of a building. A short distance away and below them, a black helicopter was parked in a surprisingly clear section of the street.

“There it is. Alden, the human pilot will carry you and the und’h girl from here.”

Alden was wondering why the helicopter hadn’t just flown closer to pick them up and save the Artonans some time. Then it occurred to him that it might not be able to get through Lind-otta’s pacification.

So far, only Esh-erdi and the things he’d interacted with seemed to be able to move normally.

Before he could even begin to figure that out, something else distracted him.

“Did you call Zeridee ‘girl?’” he said, a little surprise leaking through. “How old is she?”

“I don’t know her exact age. Before meeting her here, I was only vaguely aware of her. She is the relative of a friend. She was given her place here very young, but she’s really not a girl. I misspoke. She should be…twice your age? A few years more?”

Esh-erdi was obviously doing something back in the pacification area, since he had his head turned slightly and one eye pointed that way. But the eye still pointed at Alden shone with interest. “Why? How old did you think she was?”

“I didn’t seriously think about it.”

“I sense something humorous hiding behind your lips. You must tell me.”

“I just…thought she was older.”

“But how old?” Esh-erdi insisted.

Alden hadn’t had a specific age in mind. Zeridee looked quite young, but he’d learned not to put too much stock in that. And she’d just seemed like an older person. “Sixty in your years?”

“That’s boring,” the knight said in a disappointed tone. “When I tell her about your mistake, I will say you thought she’d seen the end of her first century.”

He lowered them to ground level, and Alden got his first good look at the side of the helicopter. A wide-splayed V formed from a network of geometric patterns was painted there in gold.

“Velra?”

It was impossible not to recognize Lute’s oft-maligned tattoo.

“Do you know Aulia? She <<donated>> this flyer and its pilot for evacuating people from this place. According to the Contract, there should be a few more after you.”

“I…have met her,” Alden said.

“Is she <<tender of feelings>>?” Esh-erdi asked. “I did not think so when we first met, but after I explained the nature of the crisis, she seemed even more deeply affected than the other humans.”

******

Well, thought Alden around fifteen minutes later, I did say I’d go to Matadero today.

He sat on a rolling gurney, Zeridee in his lap. It turned out that the least busy medical facility, and also the one that was best equipped for helping a seriously injured Artonan, was right here. Inside the cube. And now they had a grand total of one human and one preserved ambassadorial assistant as patients.

Two Avowed—a Healer and a Brute surgeon—were trying to get a word in edgewise while a very short and overbearing Artonan hopped right up onto the gurney beside Alden and started injecting him with one hand and spelling him with the other.

The extent of the wizard’s willingness to converse with everyone else was something like: Chant, chant, chant. My patients! Esh-erdi gave me these. I will tell you if I need assistance! Chant, chant, chant. Stab. Stab.

Behind them, the automatic doors were shutting off access to the helipad, and the pilot was already taking off again to pick up more people. She’d been very upset about what she’d seen of Apex in the pre-dawn light.

“I can’t believe they abandoned part of the island,” she’d said more than once on the way here. “This doesn’t look like home.”

They’d flown straight here, so Alden hadn’t seen anything but the ruin he’d already been in.

I can’t believe I survived it. I can’t believe the Longs did.

He’d given Esh-erdi the scratchart card before he left, and the man had taken it. Graciously, Alden now realized. A knight who had the System’s cooperation didn’t need a toy to find a bunch of lost Avowed.

As the gurney rolled down a bright hallway, Alden looked at the two human adults. “How many people are…?”

Hurt. Missing. Dead.

Before he could settle on which to ask, the feel of a hand going to the tie on his robe set an alarm off in his head.

“No!” he said in Artonan, clutching the fabric closed with his fist. All three members of the medical staff looked startled at the vehemence in his voice.

Alden was exhausted, and he was sure some of the things he’d just been jabbed with were making him even muzzier. But his auriad was tightening around his left bicep as he suddenly realized, for the first time since he’d been pulled from the water, that there was a risk of the casting tool being discovered. He was in a situation where people were going to want to take his clothing.

Doctors just loved to do things like that when you were injured. So busy trying to provide you with medical care that they never stopped to think for a second how depriving a guy of his shirt might ruin his life.

The Artonan healer blinked at him through a pair of glasses with tiny lenses and held up something that looked like a large silver fish scale. “I need to put these on your chest and arms for my next spell.”

“I’m too shy,” said Alden.

The humans looked even more confused than the alien. Maybe the System wasn’t translating Alden’s nonsense for them. Or maybe they were just wondering what kind of person was so shy that a near drowning wasn’t enough to make him expose his torso.

“I’ll be quick,” said the Artonan after a moment.

“I’ll put them on myself,” Alden countered. “In private. I need to use the bathroom anyway.”

“You don’t know how to sing the sticking song.”

There is a song to make them stick?!

“I’d rather you take care of Zeridee first. My skill could fail any second!”

“When it fails, I will help her. For now, I am helping you.”

The wizard and Alden stared at each other.

“If I can’t put those things on myself, then…I’ll be the one who moves my clothing around,” Alden said slowly. “However you need it moved. I’ll do it.”

“It’s easier if you—”

“The goodchild Klee-pak’s parents say we don’t have to be afraid of healers because they’re very understanding about our worries.”

The healer adjusted his glasses as if he needed to peer at Alden a little harder. “All right,” he said irritably. “But you are too old for Klee-pak. I recommend you view the stories of his cousin Kwoo-pak. They will help you to <<navigate>> the <<urges>> and struggles of adolescence.”

Alden’s relief was soon overwhelmed by the need to summon up the last dregs of his focus.

He auriad had been getting better and better about helping out when he wanted it to move around on his body. Thanks to that, the two of them managed an awkward dance with the robe while the healer applied the scales. The indigo loop changed arms twice, and by the time they all arrived in Matadero’s medical center, Alden had managed to get it to slide down his back and into his pants so that he could lie still and not act like quite such a menace to the people trying to help him.

Why is this place so huge? he wondered as the Artonan continued to cast spells on him.

Matadero itself was very large. It was hard to get a sense of its scale from pictures, since a shiny cube on the water didn’t really offer you much to go on. But as the helicopter had approached, Alden had been surprised to see how the walls loomed and how far below the pad the waves had been when they’d landed.

He assumed that the bulk of the structure was a big empty space of some kind. Very powerful Avowed killed very dangerous things here. He doubted they worked in a mop closet.

But however large that space he imagined was in actuality, it was leaving plenty of room. Because this med center definitely wasn’t the simple spot Alden had imagined. It spanned multiple floors, and it was basically a fully-equipped healing hospital. Just one devoid of patients and mostly devoid of staff.

I really don’t like the fact that this place is so huge. That can’t be a good thing.

You didn’t build entire hospitals in places where you didn’t expect to one day need them.

“You want to sleep?” the healer said.

“What?” Alden was pulled from his dark calculations about the number of beds they must have here by the question.

The healer was finally prying the scales off of his chest. His injured shoulder felt better, but nothing much had been done for his foot yet or for his hand or—

“Sleep will be good for you” said the Artonan. “It helps with the healing and with the healing.”

Alden could tell that was some common turn of phrase by the way he said it.

“And we may have more patients coming. And she will need a lot of help.” He was frowning at Zeridee. “Head injuries…”

He looked unhappy about it.

“Will she be all right?”

“I’ll handle her myself. She will be fine. You leave her with me and go to the shower.” He tapped on the leg of his glasses. “I’ve already ordered Shower 1 to deliver your potion sprays. Don’t stand on the leg that hurts. Just balance on one foot. I’ll tell one of the humans to put a <<squishboot>> on you when you are clean.”

Alden couldn’t imagine a human doctor telling him to just hop off on one leg to the shower. But then again, it wasn’t like he would have trouble doing it. And he was so, so tired.

“I want to sleep,” he agreed.

I want to sleep and not be afraid, for just a little while.

******
