Since stepping into office as Marshal of the North, Yuzhen had never taken a day off to rest, yet she still struggled to keep up with the workload. How her old man managed was beyond her comprehension, as dealing with the day-to-day routine left little time for the multitude of calamities crossing her desk. Defending her holdings, keeping her allies happy, and ensuring her enemies weren’t plotting her demise, these were merely the appetizers in her full-course meal of disasters, but the main course changed from day to day. Food shortages, dwindling funds, price gouging, and unruly bandits, there seemed to be no end to these tribulations in sight.

A small wonder her old man never had time for the Martial Path. Forget training, Yuzhen counted herself fortunate if she had time enough to sleep.

Being stationed so far away from her base of power wasn’t helping her efforts, but she understood the need. Without these new defences in place, a million-strong horde of Defiled could waltz into Central and the Empire would be helpless to stop them, and without Yuzhen here to supervise, thousands of unscrupulous parasitic merchants would bleed the Empire dry, too stupid, short-sighted, or conceited to care about the consequences of their actions. They were a few weeks into construction and Yuzhen had already executed over a hundred people for crimes ranging from simple thievery and embezzlement to all-out fraud and war-profiteering. She was happy enough to look the other way if an overseer pocketed a few silvers here and there, but the sheer audacity of some of these crooks and swindlers left her in awe of their stupidity. What did these merchants expect to happen when they delivered sub-par goods or shoddy materials? For her to shrug, open her coffers, and pay them what they were owed? Did they expect her to strip down and dance for them too? One enterprising con-man even tried to sell her the rights to a mine she already owned, a move which left her sides in stitches from the first real bout of uncontrolled laughter since her old man’s passing.

Grateful as she was for the much needed hilarity, she still had the fool hung by the neck until dead.

At least things weren’t all doom and gloom for Yuzhen, with more working in her favour than against her. In her absence, things had settled down back home, with most cities and factions falling in line. Shen Huo, Shen Yun, and the Bekhai all stood firmly in Yuzhen’s camp, and with Sanshu already in her pocket, this meant the peripheral cities reliant on them like Shen Bin and Jiu Lang had no choice but to follow. After Falling Rain absconded with their Guardian Turtle, the people of Ping Yao took it as a sign from the Mother above and pledged their eternal support to the Bekhai, leaving their Magistrate with little choice but to follow suit or risk bloody revolution if seen working against his city’s ‘Divine Attendant’. With everyone working harmoniously, construction on her section of the Wall was ahead of schedule and below budget, earning the North much vaunted praise from the Legate.

Security of the North was also well in hand. Reconstruction at the Bridge had finally finished, but now Shen Jin was the more concerning location. As the guardian of the passageway into the West, the Magistrate of Shen Jin set to reinforcing the pass at his own expense, filling it with pitfalls, dead ends, fire traps, and countless other defences. To hear him say it, the expense rendered him ‘without two coins to rub together’, and Yuzhen mostly believed it. She was less inclined to believe his claim that should the Defiled horde seek entry in the North through Shen Jin, then they would die to the last savage before seeing the city gates, but she appreciated his willingness to part with his fortune.

Then again, considering his family had amassed said fortune over multiple generations from collecting taxes on goods moving from the North to the West and vice versa, it was only fitting he foot the bill.

Unfortunately, most Yuzhen’s headaches arose from the Society, and by extension, Feng Huang. As the two southernmost cities, all of the North’s people, supplies, and resources funnelled through them to reach her here in SuiHua, giving them the upper hand in negotiations. One word from them and everything would go to shit as delays cropped up, shipments disappeared, and ‘evidence’ of smuggling, bribery and extortion would find its way into the wrong hands. To the outside world, it appeared as if Yuzhen had united the North, but more discerning individuals knew the Society bent her over a barrel and ravaged her at every opportunity.

Metaphorically speaking, of course. She actually found being bent over a barrel by Gerel rather exhilarating on those rare occasions she found time away from her duties.

‘Focus,’ she mentally scolded herself, returning to her present circumstances. Sitting across the table were three individuals representing the most powerful factions of the Society. The first two were Situ Rang Min and Han BoDing, the Patriarchs of their respective clans and a pair of greedy, self serving bastards. Long-time enemies always at each others throats, Yuzhen had had great success playing them off one another in the past, but recent events had changed the dynamic between them. Both Patriarchs were on the back foot regarding Clan politics now that their sacrificial heirs, Situ Jia Zian and Han BoShui, had risen to fame in the public eye, mostly thanks to their relationship with Rain and their success on the front lines, which in turn earned them support from their Clan Elders. Though both young men were overshadowed by Rain, his achievements were so far ahead of his peers most people placed him in a category all on his own, leaving the others racing for second place.

Having seen the writing on the wall, Rang Min and BoDing were desperate for a victory to tout before their clans, and thus they entered a shaky alliance to present a united front against Yuzhen. Today’s order of business was to demand she lower taxes on account of all the poor, destitute Society members struggling to maintain their decadent lifestyles. Jin ZhiYa, the third individual present and current High Elder of the Harmonious Unity Sect, was supposedly on Yuzhen’s side, but a reduction in taxes would be beneficial to ZhiYa’s faction, not to mention the woman was essentially a human puppet for her half-beast masters and had to check in before making important decisions. Since the two Patriarchs brought this issue up without warning, for the sake of this negotiation, ZhiYa might as well not be present.

Her eyes radiating cold fury, Yuzhen sat with hands folded in silent stillness, letting time and suspicion do her work for her as she Sent a message to Gerel. “Done sparring with Charok yet? Are you shirtless and sweaty?”

“We have yet to begin my love, but it could be arranged. Do you require my presence, or merely desire it?”

Cocky bastard. Don’t smile. “Neither,” Yuzhen Sent, studying both Patriarchs intently. “Just making noise for my troublesome guests, so stop being so damned charming.”

“Alas, if only I could,” came Gerel’s reply, deadpan and serious as always. “Such is my curse, but fear not, for I only have eyes for you.”

“Enough.” Yuzhen let her frustration show, a calculated ‘error’, then widened her eyes ever so slightly in feigned surprise. It all happened in the blink of an eye, but her guests missed nothing and the display left them wondering what fortuitous news she had just received. “I need to concentrate now, so shush. Love you.”

“Love you more.”

A genuine half-smile slipped out before Yuzhen caught herself, but the minor gaffe helped sell her story. Since everyone in the room could sense her Sendings but didn’t know who she Sent to, each Patriarch would believe she was communicating with the other and cutting him out of the deal, a ploy which worked like a charm. Rang Min and BoDing had grown up together as friends written rivals and there was no greater enmity than one between former allies. They’d been at one another’s throats for decades, and Yuzhen would dance naked in the streets if she couldn’t use it against them and shatter their flimsy alliance to pieces.

Truth be told, she found the idea of public nudity rather titillating, but sadly the trappings of office and easily identifiable fox-tail meant she couldn’t afford to risk it, which made it that much more enticing.

While her mind drifted and daydreamed, her opponents unmade themselves before her. Though Yuzhen’s Sendings had fallen silent, Rang Min and BoDing were deep in conversation as they fired silent messages at one another, each accusing the other of underhanded dealings. Neither Patriarch would believe the other was working in good faith, especially since they betrayed one another often enough in the past. They’d see their counterpart’s accusations as a sham to cover up their subterfuge, and soon, once all the accusations and insults were out of the way, one would take a step back and offer a counter-proposal, which they would both assume was what she was after. A smaller tax break, something Yuzhen could accept to avoid the bloody and costly struggle which would ensue should she back one Patriarch against the other.

Games within games, but unlike her opponents, Yuzhen had learned from the best.

Soon enough, the two Patriarchs reached a conclusion and they presented her with a new offer, quoting numbers Yuzhen was happy to work with. Unfortunately for the Society, her old man taught her how to squeeze blood from a rock. Chest heaving in false anger, she made eye contact with each Patriarch before raising her hand to slash at the air, leaving it up to them to interpret if she wanted to halve the new numbers or had just offered to decapitate a Patriarch. The temptation too much to resist, Rang Min and BoDing traded heated glances before grimacing in defeat, offering each other a quiet nod of respect before agreeing to halve their offer once more.

After finalizing their deal, everyone walked away a winner. Undoubtedly the biggest winner, Yuzhen decided to celebrate by watching her handsome future husband work up a sweat, then drag him away for a horizontal spar in their bed. Arriving home with her Honour Guard in tow, Yuzhen was surprised to see she wasn’t the only spectator present. While Gerel and Charok traded ringing blows in the courtyard, Rain’s harem and menagerie watched from the side with Charok’s darling twins, the white-haired sweetlings cheering their papa on with startling blood lust. Inwardly lamenting the loss of her alone time with Gerel, Yuzhen greeted Mila with open arms and grunted as the powerful young woman squeezed just a little too hard. “Had I known you’d all be here, I’d have brought something back to eat.”

“We’re showing Luo-Luo a real fight!” Knowing better than to get between them, Lin-Lin waited until Mila withdrew to step in for her hug. “We have leftovers if you’re hungry Yu-Yu. Fried rice, steamed chicken, and dumplings too.”

Yuzhen didn’t hate the girlish appellation so long as Lin-Lin remembered to call her ‘Marshal Yuzhen’ in public, but it was hard to say if she would. The sweet half-hare girl was just like her adopted father, intelligent but eccentric to the extreme. Whereas Lin-Lin merely liked to fly kites and climb trees, Taduk spent his days exploring the Azure Sea in a shabby dinghy, accompanied by a single guard, a rabbit, and an octopus in a cooking pot. What he was searching for was hard to say, but off he went every morning with the same lineup, though he often switched between the many rabbits hopping about Rain’s manor.

Accepting a bowl from Luo-Luo, Yuzhen’s gaze fixated on the girl’s new accessory, a long-handled mace whose weight threatened to tear her silk belt in twain. “Thank you,” Yuzhen said before nodding at the beautifully crafted Spiritual Weapon. “A marvellous piece. Did Mila craft it?”

“Indeed it is Marshal Yuzhen,” the Imperial Servant replied, her pale complexion and wan smile telling Yuzhen everything she needed to know. “Luo-Luo received it this morning and has yet to bind it, but she will give it her all and endeavour not to disappoint.”

Silly, naive girl, didn’t she know how dangerous it was to admit she carried an unbound Spiritual Weapon? Then again, Luo-Luo could strip naked and walk from here to the Arid Wastes and arrive untouched, such was the power of her Lord Husband’s backing. Thinking to help the poor girl escape this dire fate, Yuzhen turned to Mila and said, “Perhaps my request is too forward, but I have a talented guard in dire need of a Spiritual Weapon like Luo-Luo’s. Seeing how it’s unbound, would it be possible to sell this one to me?”

