There was no talented guard in need of a mace, but forcing Luo-Luo to become a Martial Warrior would be an utter waste of the girl’s talents in business and statecraft. Purchasing the Spiritual Weapon would buy Yuzhen time to dissuade Mila and the others from this foolish decision and save Luo-Luo, which might earn her a sizable discount from Rain’s budding merchant empire. Despite having released all his secrets to the world for free, Luo-Luo’s sharp business acumen had grown a minor partnership into a highly-profitable enterprise built around cast iron, with over two-dozen military contracts under their belt and still more yet to be fulfilled. Every facet of the company had been considered before their competitors understood the value of cast iron, whether it be purchasing pig-iron mines to ensure a steady supply, offering better wages and conditions to develop loyalty in her work force, selling at a discount to the army to build their reputation, or paying a premium weeks ago to settle a contract now worth ten or twenty times what they paid. They were even prepared to craft bells the same day the Legate announced his bell towers, which made Luo-Luo a once in a millennia genius of commerce who Yuzhen had to recruit.

It was even thanks to Luo-Luo’s ingenuity the wall was progressing so quickly, though where the young woman got the idea to insert metal rods through multiple layers of bricks for added reinforcement, Yuzhen couldn’t say. The girl was as ingenious as Rain and hardworking as Mila, and though Yuzhen once hoped to take both under her wing, they were too talented in other fields for her to poach. How could she let Luo-Luo slip out of her hands too?

“It’s not for me to decide,” Mila declared, wholly unconcerned with the issue. “I gifted the weapon to Luo-Luo and it’s hers to do with as she pleases.”

Perfect. Turning to the Imperial Servant, Yuzhen waited for her to nod and say yes, but Luo-Luo hesitated instead. Why? Didn’t she know the Bekhai meant exactly what they said and nothing more? If Mila said the weapon was Luo-Luo’s to do with as she pleased, then that’s exactly what she meant. Sell the weapon, gift it to another, toss it in the sea, whatever Luo-Luo did, Mila and the others wouldn’t care one whit.

Well... they might care if Luo-Luo tossed it in the sea. The Bekhai abhorred waste, especially considering Spiritual Weapons were both rare and vital for Martial Warriors.

After a long period of deliberation, Luo-Luo fell to her knees and kowtowed, a move which left Yuzhen bewildered and confused. “Luo-Luo offers her most sincere apologies, Marshal Yuzhen. This gift is too precious to sell for any price. Luo-Luo hopes to become a Martial Warrior worthy of the Bekhai and stand on the battlefield beside Lord Husband and Sister Mila.”

Even as Yuzhen rushed to help Luo-Luo up, she noted the flash of annoyance which crossed Yan’s fair face, surmising all was not well in Falling Rain’s happy harem, but this wasn’t the time for juicy drama. Brushing Luo-Luo’s forehead clean of dirt, Yuzhen hugged her and said, “No need to be so dramatic, girl. It was merely an off-hand request. The weapon is yours and I’m sure you’ll become a splendid warrior.” Damn the Bekhai and their Warrior idolatry. Damn the Empire for the same thing too. How long before the bureaucrats and bean-counters of the world were recognized for their work? If not for them, armies would limp into battle, naked and starving...

Her mood dampened, Yuzhen ate the leftovers and watched Gerel prance about the courtyard, swinging his heavy glaive about like a twig while Charok fended him off with his spear. A daily routine of theirs, the two rarely fought to a decision, always exchanging blows until both were too tired to continue. After the first time she watched them spar, she asked Gerel if he’d been taking it easy on his partner and her prideful man gave her a wounded look as if she’d called him a child rapist or worse. In Bekhai culture, going easy in a spar was apparently akin to wishing death upon one’s opponent, which explained volumes about Rain’s behaviour during his sparring matches.

Sadly, Charok was the closest thing Gerel had to a friend, and apparently, yet another hidden Bekhai Expert. Her pitiful, loner of a lover, she didn’t know why Gerel stood as a man apart from the otherwise close-knit community, but she reckoned it was their loss and her gain. A shame he wasn’t business savvy like Rain, Mila, or Luo-Luo...

Especially Luo-Luo. Though her eyes stayed fixated on the match, the Imperial Servant wasted no time by Yuzhen’s side, pitching all manner of goods from pots and pans to iron wagons and triple-crossbows. Though intrigued, Yuzhen feigned disinterest and nodded along, knowing if she appeared too eager, the shrewd beauty would take her for everything she was worth.

“Oh, by the way,” Luo-Luo remarked, her tone neutral and aloof as she handed a letter to Yuzhen. “Lord Husband has a gift for Marshal Yuzhen. Scholar Diyako and his team recently perfected a treatment to rust-proof iron, the process of which is detailed within.”

Yuzhen’s jaw dropped and shattered her indifferent facade, but she couldn’t be bothered to care. “A rust-proofing treatment? As in it can be applied to items which have already been crafted?”

“Indeed.” Her cherry lips pursed in a pleased smile, Luo-Luo said, “Lord Husband found it distasteful to sell so many iron products only for them to rust within the year, so he tasked Scholar Diyako to find a solution and is distributing it freely for all to use.” Glancing over the solution, Yuzhen grimaced and bit back a curse. The materials listed within weren’t too rare or valuable, but she had a sneaking suspicion Luo-Luo would have already secured large quantities to sell, a suspicion quickly proven by the crafty servant’s next sentence. “If Marshal Yuzhen would like to purchase the materials, then Luo-Luo would be happy to provide them.” For a price, no doubt. Brilliant. Utterly brilliant. Not only would Rain earn a fortune, he also earned the goodwill of all his previous customers by providing the rust-proofing method for free, something he wouldn’t have been able to keep secret regardless of his intentions.

“If you don’t ask her, I will.”

“I will, but later.”

“She’s right there. Just ask. How often are you going to meet with the Marshal?”

“I’ll handle it, so shut up and watch the spar.”

Though Yan tried to keep her argument quiet, the half-cat slave Kyung made no such effort. Needing time to research before butting heads with the master negotiator Luo-Luo, Yuzhen seized the opportunity to escape and approached Yan. “There’s no need to be shy. Come, tell sister Yuzhen what you need. More soldiers? So eager to return to the front lines, are we? I’ll take care of it forthwith.”

“Ah...” Flushed with shame, Yan shrunk back and shook her head, unable to look Yuzhen in the eye. “Er... no, I don’t need reinforcements. I... uh... I don’t think I’ll be going back.”

“What? Why?”

Mila and Kyung spoke with one voice and Yan flinched away, but the short-haired beauty soon rallied and answered, “Well... because I’m utter shit at command.” Giving voice to her fears seemed to help her accept it as Yan shrugged and continued, “I lost 40% of my retinue every time I set out on patrol, so I figured it’s time I stopped going out and getting good soldiers killed.”

“Tch. This is why I hate kids.” Grabbing Yan by the shoulder, Kyung spun her to face him, an utterly unthinkable act for most slaves. “Listen idiot, because I’ll only say this once. You did fine.” Hearing this, Yan rolled her eyes and opened her mouth to speak, but Kyung gave her no chance. “Shut up. I’m not trying to comfort you, I’m stating a fact. Your results weren’t great, but no one was expecting them to be. You set out with standard soldiers using standard-issue gear, an all light-infantry force with less than ten Spiritual Weapons. You had no dedicated scouts, no cavalry, no heavy infantry, nothing except a bunch of common grunts, a rushed education, and a dearth of experience. Of course you can’t compare to the likes of Falling Rain, who has everything you’re lacking not to mention the finest heavy infantry in the Empire under his command. Master figured you would’ve lost your entire retinue on your first time out, but you didn’t, so congratulations. You exceeded expectations.”

“...Grandpa wanted me to fail?”

Yan’s eyes brimmed with tears at the apparent betrayal, but Kyung snorted and said, “No, Master expected you to fail. There’s a difference. You’ve never been a five or ten-man commander, but Master has no time to coddle you, so he accepted my suggestion to send you out on a trial by fire. ‘Learn by doing’, and it was working, but now you want to laze around and shirk your lessons? Absolutely not.” Poking Yan in the chest, Kyung demanded, “Ask the Marshal for more fodder and get back out there.”

Trembling from head to toe, Yan snarled and grabbed Kyung by the collar. “So you’re telling me one-hundred and sixty-two soldiers died to teach me a lesson?”

“Yes.” Unperturbed by Yan’s wrath, Kyung stood hunched over in her grip and weathered her murderous glare without blinking. He made no effort to defend himself should she lash out, not that it mattered if he did. Yan wouldn’t even need to lift a finger if she wanted him dead, she only needed to speak the words and he would take his own life. After long seconds, Kyung sighed and spoke softly, a tone which ill-suited the blunt, no-nonsense slave. “Behind every Great General lies a mountain of dead soldiers. You think the likes of Nian Zu, Shuai Jiao, or even your admired Akanai never made a mistake? When officers make mistakes, soldiers die. Such is life little Yan, but as Master’s Terminal Disciple, you must become a Great General. One-hundred and sixty-two soldiers have already died to pave the way forward. Don’t let their sacrifice be in vain.”

A hard lesson for all youths to learn, but an important one. Yan’s compassion was admirable, but also a hindrance. Great achievements required great sacrifices, but the ones accomplishing the achievements were rarely the same people making the sacrifices. To build the wall, hundreds of slaves had already died, and thousands more would follow, but such was the price the Empire paid, lives spent now to save more lives later. The same concept applied to Yan’s training. An error now might cost her a few dozen soldiers, but as she rose in rank, those errors would only grow more costly, so better she make them now and learn from them. As much as Yuzhen wanted to comfort the poor girl, she knew it would be counterproductive to coddle her, a sentiment shared by Mila as she kept Lin-Lin from approaching. Instead, they all looked away and pretended not to notice Yan’s shaking shoulders or hear her quiet sobs, giving her the time she needed to deal with her guilt and grief.

Which was better than how Yuzhen had handled it back when she learned this lesson, kicking and screaming up a storm. She still remembered how, after all her anger was spent, her old man had pulled her close and patted her head, reassuring her with his soothing timbre...

After thirty minutes and countless exchanges, Gerel and Charok’s spar ended with yet another draw. Only then did Yan wipe her tears and approach Yuzhen, her eyes red and gaze determined. “Marshal Yuzhen,” she said, her voice trembling ever so slightly. “Warrant Officer Third Grade Du Min Yan requests reinforcements for her retinue, fifty-nine soldiers in total.” As an afterthought, she added, “Also, a billet for the forty-one soldiers still with me. They deserve a roof over their heads, at least until we head back.”

Resisting the urge to hug the poor girl, Yuzhen instead gave her a military salute. “Understood, Warrant Officer Du. This Marshal shall make it so.” Only then did she pull Yan into her embrace, a hug which Mila, Lin-Lin, and Luo-Luo joined soon after. “Everything will be all right child,” Yuzhen said, her chest tight and heart heavy as she repeated what her old man told her then. “Because you have family who love you to help you through this.”

Mother in Heaven, she missed her old man...

“Okay then,” Kyung said, ruining the tender moment. “That’s taken care of. My turn to spar now. Baldy, you rest up, I’ll warm up with your friend and we’ll settle old scores when I’m done.”

...Baldy?!

“Yan darling,” Yuzhen said, her voice loud and sickly sweet. “I never noticed it before, but don’t you think Kyung would look so handsome with a shaved head?” The half-cat warrior froze in place and Yan burst into laughter, but Yuzhen wasn’t joking around. If Du Min Gyu didn’t know how to keep his subordinates in line, then Yuzhen didn’t mind teaching Kyung in his place. After all, no matter how strong he might be, Yan held his chains and Yuzhen had no qualms against playing dirty. “Of course, we’ll need to shave his tail to match and give him a cute little outfit to show off in. Something short and tight to show off his abs and thighs, with plenty of colour and lace...”

Chapter Meme
