With all the grace of a king among blade masters, Eron sheathed his sword. The artifact hummed contentedly after drinking the blood of an Ascended. He let out an anxious breath.

“Neriad’s bollocks, that blow would have skewered a gods-cursed dragon.”

//Durability assessment: impossible.

He and Junior watched the human-fowl hybrid fly away on twilight wings.

“We can slow it down, but how do we even defeat that?”

//She will find a way.

//There is always one.

//Even if it means grinding him bit by bit.

Horns blew. In front of them, the Maranorians retreated, leaving many dead behind. The sun was setting on the first day of battle.

Param still stood.

***

It was night. Lak-Tak surveyed the battlefield in front of him with immense satisfaction. Where fallow fields waited before, now it was a pit of craters and corpses striated by the damage of potent spells and skills, a truly apocalyptic scar on the face of Nyil, a show of what destructive power left behind. And he was a major contributor. And it was just the beginning.

He ignored the squads of Sisters of Enttiku collecting the bodies, as well as the roving bands of hadals on their way to a good night out. They knew not to approach the central area of his main target.

The Maranorian army was camping five leagues away, covering the land like lice. He felt personally insulted that they would think themselves safe at such a short distance.

“What are we waiting for?” his second in command clicked.

Lak-Tak took a deep breath of smokey air charged with the pungent scent of human blood and offal.

“The empress reminded me that the Maranorians are starving, thus, we should wait until they are cooking but before they eat for maximum impact.”

His fellow yries nodded slowly, large eyes shining with the understanding of the empress’ endless petty malice. Truly a worthy leader. He had killed more humans under her command than the rest of the yries race had done throughout history, he believed. The world, the Deep One, was watching him. It was molding him, just like the dead god molded the humans.

“Report.”

His second bowed.

“Thermobaric shells loaded, sir. Calibrations required.”

Lak-Tak signaled to his radio girl. The shivering human looked at him with eyes full of fear.

“All batteries, fire spotting rounds. Sound alert!”

The radio girl and other human servants protected their ears. He pulled the cord of his own gun. A deafening explosion followed. Pretty little red flowers bloomed in the distance: a perfect triangle around that son of a depth worm Oleander and his disgusting tent. Gaudy thing. He sighed with satisfaction.

“Forward observers report that the target has been suitably surrounded, sir,” the radio girl squeaked.

Lak-Tak liked it when the humans called him sir. Also, he didn’t need the forward observers. The Maranorian shitstains were close enough that his eyes would do.

“My brothers,” he intoned. “The time has come! Join me in holy communion!”

With jolly hoots, the yries swallowed globules of blue rose and fire wasp honey — not much since the empress kept complaining. He shoved a clean spoon under the nose of the radio girl.

“Safe dosage. Try it.”

With widened eyes, the girl hesitated, but other human servants accepting the communion convinced her. She gasped after only a few seconds.

“By the light gods, it’s… it’s all around us! Is it the world? Is it alive?”

“Contemplate later, radio human. First, convey the rest of my orders.”

Extended arms reached for the sky to mimic the hallowed limbs of the deep one. A hooting cry pierced through the night. They were only waiting for him to announce the beginning. Lak-Tak grabbed the speaker with tears of emotion rolling down his hairy cheeks. It was the most beautiful moment of his life.

“My brothers, and you humans I guess, rejoice! All praise the deep one! All praise logistics! And all praise Harrak! All batteries,” he choked out. “Fire for effect.”

The night became day. Smoke trails turned the heavens above the Maranorian camp into a foggy cloud. On the third volley, the basic shield above Oleander’s massive tent failed. On the fourth, it was a raging inferno.

“Objective destroyed, sir!” the radio girl exulted. “Should we keep firing?”

“Of course we keep firing, but not on the tent. All batteries commence rolling barrage fire on scheduled positions.”

The concentrated fire stopped. Three wide bands of flaming death expanded in several directions away from the wreck of Oleander’s sleeping spot.

“A shell for every human,” Lak-Tak whispered. “A life for every bloom.”

***

The column of heavily armed temple guards walked quietly. It had been several minutes for the voices of dissent to quiet down, since those death tubes had started delivering carnage at the positions they’d just left.

The captain didn’t like where this war was heading, however, Neriad had always said that war was a terrible tool that could only be used for righteous causes. He didn’t feel qualified to criticize a nation fighting for its survival, especially since they had not targeted civilians yet. That aggression, however…

Sensing something, the captain raised a fist. His column stopped as one. Shields rose. Weapons were made ready. He looked around.

In a craggy hill in the distance, sisters of Enttikku piled bodies in a cart. They looked absolutely exhausted.

This wasn’t it.

Then he saw it. One of those bald fuckers in thin black armor was standing nearby, his yellow eyes impassive behind a stoic mask. A similar woman with thin black hair combed back joined him, then another. Several dozen of those hadal creatures popped out of nowhere all around.

The captain’s inspection revealed they were still young — mostly second and third steps. He was surrounded but not outnumbered, and certainly not outclassed. It wouldn’t matter if the death tubes spotted them. With a huff of annoyance, the captain stepped forward.

“I am Captain Jet, with the Sheem Temple of Neriad. My business is with your dark mistress. We are not here to fight. Let us through.”

For a moment, there was silence. Tension rose. Behind him, mana stirred as templars prepared their skills. And then the hadals started disappearing, again, one by one, until only the first was left. And then he, too, was gone. They hadn’t uttered a single word.

“Let’s keep moving.”

***

In the in-between, Viv shook her soul to find two hovering, planet-sized ones nearby. The first was immense and radiated golden light. The second, much smaller, shone a delicate purple. It was lean and sad but comforting, like a hug after grieving, like watching rain falling through a window. Both bobbed when she noticed them.

She found herself sitting in the middle of Neriad’s garden shed. The sun shone on his training arena right outside and the thousands of swords planted there. Efestar quietly poured her a glass of wine.

Viv crossed her not-arms.

“To what do I owe the honor?”

“Ahem,” Neriad began with obvious embarrassment. “You know I’m your patron god and I like you very much, yes?”

“Out with it.”

“I would like, that is, as the god of righteous war…”

“It’s about the gas isn’t it?”

“I would very much ask you to stop using mustard gas. Yes.”

“Goddammit.”

One could escape Earth, but not Geneva.

“Look,” Neriad continued. “It’s unnecessarily painful and horrible to behold, even more so than most other weapons. I know that you are fighting for survival but I know what your shell production looks like. You don’t need to gas the Maranorians. Even though it’s a little bit funny. The mages who live will block gas from now on anyway. Please? For me?”

“You’d better incarnate if all goes wrong or something.”

“Viv.”

He placed his massive himbo hand on her shoulder. His golden eyes shone with a benevolent radiance.

“You don’t need me. Kick ass.”

***

Viv had caught a wink — maybe half an hour of rest before her attention was needed again. Her monstrous stats meant she wasn’t tired yet and wouldn’t be for a long while. Nevertheless, she missed those days when disturbing her with bullshit was punished by a prompt defenestration. She was growing mellow in her old age.

“What is it this time?” she grumbled. “Are the yries off their tits again?”

“That would hardly be news, your majesty. No. Viziman templars of Neriad wish to talk to you,” Bes smoothly announced. “Since they appeared with their gear and part of their baggage, I assume they intend to switch sides.”

“Oh, well. Can’t look hundreds of third step career warriors in the mouth, really. Lead on.”

She walked outside of her bunker — clearly visible tents were for dumbasses. Her villainous vizier took her right side, hands folded behind his back like her cursed shadow. His and Lady Azar’s relationship was remarkably spiky, mostly because they didn’t trust each other at all.

“Squads of hadals are attacking peripheral army formations, milady. They report success.”

“I hope they don’t collect trophies. Rumors of cannibalism might start.”

Bes leaned forward, dark eyes peering into her soul.

“An excellent suggestion to lower enemy morale, milady. I shall convey your remarks.”

“Not but, like, seriously.”

It took a good five minutes to walk through layers of fortifications and security checkpoints simply because she couldn’t fly and leave Bes behind. The two of them arrived in front of the last layers of wall to find a good four hundred heavily armed warriors standing in sullen silence. Viv directly stomped towards the apparent leader — a grumpy old man with a mace as big as Marruk’s. He looked at her without fear.

“Good evening. You wanted to speak to me?” Viv asked in Viziman.

“Yes. I am captain Jet, elected leader of those templars behind me. All of us came here because King Oleander told us that you were a necromancer.”

Viv frowned.

“I’ve done some really dubious stuff in my days, but I never dabbled in necromancy. Unless you count regrowing limbs but then I can only do it with divine help from the light gods.”

“If the light gods allow it,” the Viziman replied with a little snark, “I believe I shall do so too.”

“Right. So, you joining?”

The captain’s brows rose. He exchanged a few whispers with his subordinates.

“Can you swear on your soul?”

“I never practiced necromancy in the sense you mean, with Enttiku as my witness.”

Technically it was the Goddess of Death who had reanimated Abe, not her. The oath settled easily. The temple guards exchanged glances.

“We thought it would be harder,” Captain Jet admitted.

“Oleander is a twat. We’re here to stop him. Welcome to the team.”

Suddenly, a cloaked figure appeared next to Viv. She wasn’t surprised, but Jet and Bes almost jumped out of their skin. The mask emerging from the darkness was one of contrition.

“Irao?”

“I made a small mistake.”

Viv gave a long-suffering sigh.

“You tried to stab Oleander, didn’t you?”

“... no.”

“After I expressly told you not to do it.”

“I didn’t stab him. I threw a knife at his back. While he was distracted putting out fires.”

There was silence. Viv crossed her arms, frankly unamused.

“Irao.”

“No time. It didn’t stick. He is on his way here.”

The old assassin’s mask turned thoughtful.

“He sounded in great pain.”

“Gods dammit Irao. Alright. You guys better go directly to the priest village with the other templars. Bes will show you the way. Irao, we’re not done with this discussion. Arthur? Arthur!”

She flew up. Captain Jet watched the empress’ advisor walk away.

It wasn’t what he had expected.

“Well?” the vizier asked, voice dripping with condescension. “Are you waiting for a formal invitation, perhaps?”

Above them, the two Ascended deadlocked themselves into a running duel until dawn chased the darkness away.

***

“Things went well yesterday,” Jaratalassi began. “Today we will face Oleander’s more experienced troops. I expect them to attack the more vulnerable elements of our formation: the wings.”

“My people will stand,” Marruk said with absolute certainty.

“I’m less worried about the kark. Barran and the merl endured the brunt of the enemy’s assault yesterday. The Hopecrusher will sense that blood has been spilled. We need to shuffle the formation a little.”

“If I may,” Orkan said.

The inquisitor now stood with confidence, his twin blades sheathed at his side. Viv appreciated how much he had grown since Denerim had become the avatar of Neriad all those years ago. Now, the Hallurian warborn had gained the serenity required to wield his talent with calm. Early gray hair at his temple served as a reminder of the cost of using his tattoos — though he seemed otherwise fine.

“The Templars of Neriad cannot give them their all in the streets of the priest village. The yries do not need us to hold it. We would perform better on flat ground. Baran could contract their formation to allow us to position ourselves between them and the merl, on the left flank.”

Viv watched the way the yries tribesmen’s ears twitched. Today, one of the larger female yries stood among their leaders. A powerful shaman, from her aura.

“We will honor the agreement,” she clicked. “We will fight. Help us if we bleed.”

“Then it’s decided. The templars will hold the flank of the merls,” Jaratalassi concluded. “Before we finish, do you have any comment on yesterday?”

“Our pakar need more water,” Marruk said. “The constant attacks make them overheat.”

“The artillery is too slow to answer attacks in our sector,” Queen Rosea added.

