Jaratalassi listened to all, backed by efficient administrators. Supplies were moved and formations were adjusted as the Paramese alliance learnt to work together better.

***

Nero has failed for the first time since the hangings. The thick cloud of disinterest he’d been cruising on opened and dispersed, but of course, this was no longer his home world and the clouds couldn’t get thick enough for that here. He had failed to defeat the witch decisively. He had failed to do so because… because…

Because it was two on one. It was unfair.

Here he was, fighting for the future of mankind, for order, for this light-forsaken world. Here he had sacrificed everything he had in order to make people stop squabbling, to unite them for a peaceful future where humans didn’t wrestle in the dirt with beastlings for scraps of what nature had to offer, and for what? He stood alone. Who could he rely on?

Absolutely fucking no one.

All those who followed him milled around doing fuckall while he flew in and fought. Their enemies were blind enough to ally with subhumans and flying lizards. They were unconscionable race traitors. And who did he have on his side to oppose that? Incompetent idiots. Well. That ended today.

“Is this the elite of humanity? Is this what the champions of Maranor aspire to?” Oleander spat at the assembly gathered before him.

Crest looked down with the rest of the leaders, except the sneering Shadowlanders who had yet to seriously fight. In a way, it was the most human Oleander had seemed in decades. That fire, that anger, albeit misguided. It was that old energy again. The same that had carried them through so much hardship. It had taken a lot to awaken it, but now it was there.

“They’re the last defenders of the last city of the last kingdom to resist us. They’re already doomed, so why are you hesitating?”

Crest knew why they were hesitating. The first day had gone catastrophically. They had no official numbers but there were thousands of fatalities and many more still wounded. The Enorians and some templars had defected, having been brought in by lies and coercion. More importantly, they had seen Oleander move in and he had not won. He had been pushed back. The two champions seemed evenly matched.

“Get out there and fight. Heroism will be rewarded in the kingdom, after we have peace. Cowardice will not be forgiven. When this is all over, I will remember each and every one of your contributions. This is your one chance to be on the winning side of history, so get out there and take it.”

And Crest would do his best for the last time. And after that he was done.

***

It was morning. The second day of the battle for mankind was about to begin. Viv didn’t have to wonder what was going to happen this time. There would be no probing attacks, no stupid tricks. No politics. Nero flew at the head of his army, his best soldiers carefully spaced and protected by elites and mages. Behind them, his own cadres had formed a tighter dome protection and this time, there would be no gas attack. The Maranorians still had faith in their cause. More importantly, they had no choice. Without supplies their backs were against the wall.

Viv had always been told to leave her enemies a way out, or the illusion thereof. No one fought as fiercely as a cornered rat. But she also needed Nero to draw the Slayer, as Judgment had advised, and for that, she had to squeeze him.

He flew closer and she rode out to meet him, clashing over the hellscape of the battlefield before the armies could. His armor was no longer as pristine as the day before. Ash tainted his appearance, perhaps from the destruction of his tent, or perhaps from a deeper, more metaphysical response. Paradoxically, he felt more alive than before, even in the way his mouth twisted into a rictus of hatred.

“How many more people must die before I can kill you?”

“You know, five more days like yesterday and I’ll have absorbed or killed your entire army.”

“I’ll rip your fucking head off.”

Viv’s face turned into a sneer of anger. She let that fury flow through her veins. Her intimidation spread like a wave of heat.

“Remember. You brought this upon yourself. The pendulum’s swinging back and I’m gonna ride it like a wrecking ball. Welcome to the find out phase, Nero.”
