Grand Magus Eldavin wanted an Archmage’s power behind him. Valeterisa didn’t need to be here to grant him that. If he continued to provide her with new magical theorems approximately every week and a half, her involvement here corresponded mostly to Wistram politic gains, information on Earth, and personal relationships.
Not magic. Valeterisa was reasonably sure the Terras faction would double or triple in value, so now she walked away from Eldavin’s quarters, routing a [Memo] spell at Viltach with the details about the inn.
She decided she would consider leaving the academy. Because she was…disappointed?
Disillusioned?
All information sourced from Wistram regarding Earth could be analyzed in any location. Spells, likewise. Valeterisa’s actual body could be put to use in more advantageous locations than here.
Especially since Eldavin had confessed he’d given her a sabotaged long-range teleport spell and helped her realize the true spell behind his tricky, flawed version.
Valeterisa stopped in the banquet hall. She looked around as [Mages] and students gazed at her.
 
[Information request // urgent, priority // anything I am forgetting?] – What did Valeterisa have to do in Wistram?
 
Short-term goals: Look into Troy Atlas’ golem. Research possible wind-magic regarding Ryoka Griffin.
Long-term goals: Learn magic from Eldavin. Acquire more funding and support for magical research. Continue researching Earth technology with links to magic.
 
Well, she’d crossed out a lot of things from that list. Valeterisa appended one more item to that list as she felt one of her thoughts ping her.
 
Eat food.
 
The Archmage of Izril was nothing if not direct. She reached out, and snatched the nearest object from a Golem walking towards the buffet line. She stared at a pizza slice.
“Possibly nutritious.”
She scarfed it down. Students watched in a kind of awe, and even Telim, the famous snatcher of entire turkeys and dishes, looked a bit impressed or appalled as Valeterisa gobbled down ‘sufficient nutrition’ with her bare hands. From the buffet table. Without a plate.
Then she grabbed the most convenient-looking foods, dumped them into her bag of holding so she wouldn’t have to do this later, and walked off.
Sa’la, the Selphid [Mage], leaned over to Telim.
“And here I thought you were bold. Think we should tell her about the Earther idea—that drink that contains all you need to eat in a day?”
Telim harrumphed.
“She might be blatant, but she’s no Archmage of Food. As for that drink—bah! I’ll see it dead before anyone produces it here. Takes all the joy out of life! It offends me to my core. So as I was saying, Sa’la—consider joining the Terras faction. I know, you’re independent and you’ve heard it all before, but here’s my rebuttal. Eldavin…”
Valeterisa walked off. She had made up her mind, and when she did…she acted. Many people wasted time with overthinking things. Valeterisa overthought everything, but she seldom wasted actual time on actions that could be simplified.
For instance—she rattled the doorknob as she came to a halt at her next destination. The door was locked. Valeterisa stopped stuffing the books she’d pulled out of the library into her bag of holding; all the books she hadn’t had copies of, that was. She pointed at the door.
“[Unlock].”
It unlocked. The Archmage walked in. She saw Troy Atlas and…someone she didn’t care about whirl.
 
—-
 
Trey Atwood had just been conferring with Calac Crusland about Amerys. The situation in Chandrar was looking bad, but they weren’t able to find her—yet!
“I’m Eldavin’s apprentice, Calac! Give me a bit more time!”
“We were told to move as fast as possible. The King of Destruction is wounded and you want to learn spells?”
“That’s why we’re here. Just—”
The doorknob rattled and both young men turned from their fierce argument. Trey saw Calac instinctively go for his sword.
“Who is it? I’m a bit busy!”
He heard no response as he called out. There was a muffled voice—and then Valeterisa opened the door.
“Archmage! What—?”
Both young men lurched to their feet, with the instinctive fear that she’d overheard. But Valeterisa didn’t look accusatory. She just looked, well, vaguely lost-in-thought as always. Her eyes focused on Trey.
“Ah, you are here. Good.”
“Archmage, can I help you?”
“Mm. No. Where is it? [Appraisal]. There.”
Valeterisa walked over. Trey saw her bend down—and a waist-sized Golem jerked upright. Minizi reached for her rather-more-dangerous claymore. She was being repaired after venturing into Wistram’s uncharted area, but she’d come back victorious after killing some kind of monster.
“Archmage, that’s—”
Valeterisa plucked a bit of Lifesand from Minizi’s miniature dreadlocks. She put it in her bag of holding and looked up. Trey stared at her. Minizi flailed, outraged.
“Oops. That was…accidental…”
The Archmage of Izril’s eyes flickered as she tried to come up with an excuse. Then she shrugged and gave up.
“Here you are.”
She put a handful of gold coins on the bed, turned, and walked out of the room. Trey and Calac stared at the Lifesand stealer as Minizi tried to totter after her, waving her sword. Calac turned to Trey.
“What was that?”
 
—-
 
Valeterisa had found that if you took what you wanted, you could get away with it in a statistically high number of scenarios. She walked through Wistram’s corridors, ignoring the looks, the muttering when she ate, or acted rudely…
She didn’t care. In a way, it didn’t matter. If she needed someone to like her, Valeterisa would make an effort.
I gave everything for magic. My youth, my health, friendships…I left Wistram because few [Mages] believed in that. I thought Eldavin—
Well. She was leaving. The Archmage’s thoughts kept drifting back to Eldavin. It was a curious flaw; she was actually a bit emotional about it.
“[Calm].”
She produced a wand, stuck it against her temple, and lowered her own defenses against the spell. A [Mage] passing by stared at her. Valeterisa nodded as her mind loosened its grip on the disappointment Eldavin had caused.
That was better. Time to pursue the most optimally advantageous activities. Not in Wistram. Ironically, despite Earth being present, every [Mage] was devoting their time and attention to researching and collecting more information about Earth.
Valeterisa could recognize when a research team was overstaffed. She would collect salient data after they had organized it for her. She had a simple formula she employed.
To further the understanding and depths of magic, one needed a number of factors.
Time. Funding. Knowledge.
No more than that. Of course, you broke down all three areas into subcategories; time meant safety, a research spot, like the island she had labored to secure and fortify. Also—a way to prevent oneself from dying of old age. She was working on that, and kept hoping someone would start selling Potions of Immortality or Reverse Aging. She’d worry more in ten years.
Funding meant influence as well as money. After all, to acquire knowledge, spellbooks, or resources like mana crystals, you needed support. Financial and political.
She was heading out of Wistram because they had nothing more to offer her. Izril did. Or Terandria. Baleros?
“Hm…I should set up teleport waypoints to travel easily between the island and Wistram first.”
Valeterisa left Wistram through the front doors. She nodded to some students going out to try fishing with magic, walked past some Golems unloading cargo from the docks, and down, to the pier.
[Sailors] and a [Captain] stared as the Archmage walked towards them; she hadn’t chartered a ship. Then Valeterisa stopped, mid-step as the [Captain] hurried down the gangplank.
“Archmage, can we help you?”
She stared at the Human man blankly, then snapped her fingers.
“Izril is that way. Of course. I’m not taking a ship. I should cancel my ship-boarding routine…”
She pointed. The [Captain] stared as the woman turned, reversed direction, and began walking around the isle, to Izril’s geographical location.
Valeterisa had been going on auto-pilot, but she remembered a ship would take…weeks, possibly. Unacceptable.
So she walked across the rocky terrain on the other side of the academy, around the citadel, the home of [Mages], past rocks, a camouflaged battle golem…Cognita…
Valeterisa slowed. She looked back. There was Cognita, sitting with her head in her arms halfway submerged in the surf. She’d barely noticed the Truestone Golem.
“Cognita?”
The Golem looked up. She’d been…making a strange sound. Muffled amid the crash of waves. Valeterisa would have called it crying. The Truestone Golem raised her head and Cognita saw her face was also distorted from normal.
“Archmage Valeterisa?”
The two stared at each other. Valeterisa’s thoughts jumbled together, and an automatic-reply one took over.
“Hello, Cognita. We are having wonderful weather today, aren’t we? So pleasant to meet you!”
Her mouth smiled. Cognita stared at the Archmage. Valeterisa decided that was good enough.
“Goodbye.”
The woman walked onto the surf, more heartless than the Golem she left kneeling in misery. Valeterisa began to walk…then stopped the pointless leg motions.
She began to fly. Cognita watched the Archmage of Izril cast [Levitation] and simply…fly off, towards Izril. Valeterisa began to rise higher. She was muttering automatic reminders to herself.
“Avoid low-flying over the sea; attracts Reefeyes and Sea Serpents. Cast [Haste]. Casting [Haste]…make sure you have magical barriers up…”
She levitated higher, speeding up. Cognita stared at Valeterisa’s back. Slowly, she reached for the sand and water flowing around her.
The mudball hit the back of Valeterisa’s barrier and she turned back. She stared at Cognita. Once again proving that barriers were essential to flight-travel. She waved and sped off.
 
—-
 
Valeterisa spent the time in flight doing a few things. Her body was actually relatively easy to leave with only a few thoughts running. A few to manage the [Levitation] spell, watch out for threats, eat, manage her basic functions—she’d heard you could teleport urine and feces out of your body, but Valeterisa had weighed the risks of such a spell and decided not to try it—and so on.
She only had to focus every hundred miles, which was thankfully rare, to create the ‘pylons’ she’d use to teleport-jump back and forth from Wistram to other locations from. Of course, there were actual teleportation spells long in existence in Wistram, but a personal network was far easier than a [Greater Teleport] spell, which even Eldavin claimed not to know.
She could efficiently move from continent to continent, depending on the mana costs! Valeterisa spent some time analyzing how this might change travel, concluded it would still mean only those with exceptional mana and spellcasting abilities would be able to use it—or the rich and powerful—and added a few magical locations to her immediate ‘to-visit’ list.
Like Khelt. Wasn’t that under attack? Drat.
Anyways, the point was that most of Valeterisa’s mind was free to be used on other tasks, so she happily devoted over half to understanding the magical theorems Eldavin had given her. Some might actually help her with the new magic she was working on.
…He had reacted to her project. Did he know the spell? If so, and if that meant she had spent over a decade of research trying to re-discover what he knew, Valeterisa would be genuinely upset.
Either way, she’d pursue it when she could devote 80% of her mind to the task. Never 99%. Never again.
It was to Izril that Valeterisa’s thoughts went. As she had observed, Wistram had little she needed to be there to pursue. She communicated that to Eldavin.
 
Valeterisa to Eldavin: Am in transit to Issrysil, setting up teleportation network for easy return. Please communicate any needs via [Message] spell with the following encryption—thank you for encryption theory. I will provide any necessary resources or communication for Terras faction remotely.
Eldavin to Valeterisa: Transit to Izril? WHAT.
 
She didn’t respond. If he messaged her again, she would elaborate. Valeterisa put all that aside; her work in Wistram was done unless she was contacted. She felt relieved about that; she had so much work piling up after her ten-year absence.
Let’s see. Communicate imminent arrival to priority list. Her lips moved as she cast [Message]; she found it helped her self-check the communiques, and misunderstandings caused so much trouble.
“Valeterisa to Ieka: Hello, Ieka. I am returning. I hope you are not hexed. I see from your reply all is well? Talk to me about quote urgent business unquote later, and Ryoka Griffin. My first destination is my research base.”
She nodded to herself. Ieka was one of her rare contacts that was neither business nor magically-related alone. Both, of course; she was aware Ieka was very helpful as their family, Imarris, provided her with resources, but Ieka was listed under ‘affection’.
It was a list of four—no, wait. Valeterisa discarded one name she’d forgotten to remove.
Three.
Next…let’s see.
“Valeterisa to Lord Deilan El…wait. Reroute through standard [Mage]…”
She sighed. She had to not only contact the House of El through the proper channels, but be more polite. Her lips moved and then, a surprisingly charming smile appeared on her face. No one could see, but she’d activated her ‘polite and social’ routine to compose the [Message].
“Lord Deilan El, I apologize for the delay. I am currently returning to Izril, and will of course communicate with you on further projects for the House of El at my soonest convenience. I regret to say that I am pressed for time at the moment, but delighted by the Kaalblade’s success. Please—”
 
[Major thought // self-introspection, calculation // banking, merchant’s guild] – Wait. What is the return on Kaalblade sales? Pertains to further work with House of El.
 
Valeterisa paused and checked her balance at the Merchant’s Guild. It was tiresomely slow since she had to ask the Merchant’s Guild to look up the information…her thoughts actually stopped on the figure.
…That was a lot of gold. Valeterisa had money, but even she could appreciate a sum like that. And—she was going over Lord Deilan’s correspondence.
A Kaalblade wielded by Ryoka Griffin? Valeterisa erased her last [Message] instantly.
“Lord Deilan El, apologies for the late response! I am returning from Wistram and was unavoidably delayed. I am delighted by the Kaalblades’ sales! I will communicate with you at my earliest convenience once I reach land, and would appreciate any further details on this mysterious Kaalblade. Sincerely…fill in salutations.”
