Valeterisa cut off her numbering system. She could have accepted most of that. She had even appreciated his willingness to talk actual magical theorems. But the last part—that had made her question him. And it was this. She knocked on Eldavin’s door.
“Grand Magus Eldavin. I would like to speak with you urgently.”
She opened the door without waiting for a response. She had found that saved time, despite people objecting to the ‘invasion of privacy’.
Valeterisa looked up and met Eldavin’s gaze. The half-Elf was lying in his bed, having guarded his privacy with a magical, floating cloud that obstructed vision. Nevertheless, she noticed the other half-Elf, Teura, duck under the cloud. The lack of clothing was apparent. Valeterisa saw Eldavin raise a brow.
“Yes, Archmagus?”
 
—-
 
Eldavin supposed it was Valeterisa’s way. Perhaps a power play, to keep walking in on him when he was—indisposed? The woman just didn’t perceive the rudeness.
There was something to admire there, actually. Eldavin certainly didn’t recoil in shame. There was nothing to be ashamed of, so he threw on a robe and dismissed the cloud illusion.
“Apologies, I should lock the door, Archmage. What’s this about an emergency? My dear, it seems Wistram’s ‘duty’ calls.”
He smiled at the half-Elf, who nodded to Valeterisa. The Archmage of Izril glanced at Teura, cataloguing her, Eldavin was sure, along with the other people she’d observed.
It didn’t matter. She was an ally, and it struck Eldavin that Valeterisa would not betray an alliance she’d made unless it ceased to become beneficial. She was a logical creature, unlike most Humans. So he bore her small interruptions well.
“What new calamity has Wistram uncovered? Has the King of Destruction healed himself? Is Ailendamus attacking another nation?”
He guessed; he genuinely didn’t know. Of course, Eldavin had his sources, but he had been—indisposed—more often than not some nights. Valeterisa turned as they entered into a more sociable sitting room; she had strode right into his personal bedchambers.
“So you do not know. The other Archmages believe you have permanent scrying spells or superior observation enchantments in place.”
“A reputation does that for you. Almost as dangerous to overestimate your opponents as underestimate.”
Eldavin waved a hand, sitting, and keeping his face composed. The half-Elf was in phenomenal shape, thanks to basic physical conditioning magic. He felt wonderful, and as he had once observed to Magus Grimalkin, there was no reason why a [Mage] should not have…everything.
He saw Teura hesitate at the bedchamber door, glancing at him. Eldavin made a little sign; this was a personal discussion. He’d catch her up later, perhaps hear what Feor had to say. Valeterisa’s eyes were locked on him.
“So you do not have observation spells superior to [Scrying]?”
“Ah, well.”
Eldavin just smiled. Of course he did. Wistram had forgotten more than he knew, and the school of physical combat magics was just one area. Divination—of course, yes.
Still, he wasn’t some omnipotent being. So Eldavin listened, and half-shot out of his chair.
“An attack on the inn?”
He remembered The Wandering Inn! The Grand Magus accepted Valeterisa’s copy of the battle, inscribed into a spell crystal, and watched it on fast-forward. He sank into his seat, slowly.
“Who is that [Witch]! That’s—she’s using a ritual summoning spell. I have no idea what that thing is—”
“You don’t?”
Valeterisa was eager; she leaned forwards like a schoolgirl. Eldavin glanced at her.
“It’s not a failing; there are any number of such things you could summon. But the scope! The scale! Did you see that? Grimalkin tried [Greater Dispel] on one of the cardinal links and it barely flickered. If that thing had come out, it might have leveled…all of Liscor. I can’t imagine it would stop after getting past the walls. Trees and Treants, that spell! That’s a [Thaumaturge]!”
He spotted Xrn. But his attention was all on Belavierr. Eldavin watched the rest of the battle, frowning mightily. He had a number of thoughts. But his priority after all was said and done was not for Mrsha, or the inn, but the [Witch].
“Who was that?”
Valeterisa paused. Her grey eyes, shot with what looked like jagged purple thunder—the first uncontrolled manifestations of magical alteration to her eyes from the sheer magical power in her body—focused on Eldavin, quizzically.
“You—don’t know who that is? Belavierr the Stitch Witch? Is this some kind of humorous pun or jest, Grand Magus?”
The half-Elf shook his head.
“I don’t care to waste time any more than you do, Valeterisa. Who? She was using a Naq-Alrama needle. Nothing else has that kind of piercing capability. We just saw—those fools. They were striking at a dimensional-protection enchantment. The sword, half those attacks that got through her [Spellguard] enchantment on the dress? They went into a pocket dimension. Like punching air.”
He could follow most of her spellcasting with ease, which made the lack of this powerful [Witch]’s identity all the more troubling. Valeterisa nibbled at a fingernail.
“Perhaps you know her by another name? The Spider of Terandria? The Witch of Webs? She is an infamous figure; most would recall her name. She is alive, unlike the famous [Mages] of old, or those whose works exist.”
Eldavin’s brows creased. He searched his mind and came up with…nothing. A disconcerting nothing, so profound he realized it was tied into the gaps in his memory.
“Nothing.”
“Intriguing. Do you know other recent [Mages] of old? Archmage Doorsa? Valmira—of the recent spell? Shoko, the Warlord-Magus? Warmage Thresk…?”
She named a number of influential figures, living and dead, whose works had endured. Centuries to decades to millennia. Eldavin’s look of blank incomprehension continued.
“Perhaps it’s a gap in my memory. I’ve—no, let’s put that aside.”
He rose, as much to hide the disconcerting effect the absence of any memory had had on him as to focus on the real issue at hand. The truth was, Eldavin didn’t want Valeterisa to know that he’d…lost…something after the near-death experience at Cognita’s hands.
That damned Golem. That ungrateful—he still remembered it. Eldavin had been going to free her, and then she’d resisted his spell! They’d fought, and he’d taken serious wounds.
Troy, that brave lad, had saved him. Eldavin had been wounded for four days. Cognita? No one had seen her, and the idiots didn’t think to worry when she vanished.
Well, Eldavin would offer her no more mercies. In a way, he was grateful to her. She’d woken him up. He’d had a good think while he lay, convalescing of his wounds, and he couldn’t understand what had gotten over him.
Senility. The half-Elf could recall more recent memories easier. Longer-term ones, like Belavierr’s name and anything about her? Gone. He worried about that and had been looking into memory spells—all the ones he’d cast and had turned up nothing. Perhaps the Truestone Golem had damaged him with an ability unknown.
Well, he’d live. He was living. Eldavin whirled.
“Witch of Webs and old legend or not, that inn is under our protection. A poor showing by those three [Mages]! What do the Archmages want to do?”
“Put the Earthers into our care. They were wary of your injunction, however.”
The half-Elf frowned. Grand Magus Eldavin poured himself a drink, then telekinetically whisked one to Valeterisa. She sniffed at the wine, and refused it.
“Water is satisfactory for my health and hydration.”
“Your choice. As for the Archmages…I don’t see why not.”
The Archmage of Izril eyed Eldavin, stopping in sipping from some purified water.
“You do not? You had been most strident on the issue of Ryoka Griffin and the inn before now.”
“Ye-es.”
Eldavin drew the word out as he sat back down. He glanced around the rather spartan living room; he’d have to get more decorations in. All of what he had were gifts right now. A rather lovely tapestry he’d accepted from Viltach with some Dragons casting fire down on a city—he didn’t know why he’d taken to it. A mage-window that reflected the air over a rather lovely Terandrian city from Feor, and so on.
“I don’t know why I thought that, Valeterisa. I was quite content to let Miss Griffin—a Runner who has impressed me now and then—race about. In light of recent events? I reconsider. Let’s pull them over to Wistram if they can’t be safeguarded. And that inn is not safe.”
Eldavin recalled the inn. Of course, he recalled Ryoka too. He remembered her reaching his cave, him dismissing her, messing with her memories—ah, the tricks one got up to! And him putting a [Geas] spell on her to deliver…well wishes…to Az’kerash?
For a birthday? Eldavin frowned. Yes, he recalled that. The half-Elf recalled…
 
He looked down at the dying Runner, mildly shocked at the blood. [Restoration]. There was only that spell first—he began casting it.
The Dragon spread his wings slightly and his forked tongue flicked out—
The half-Elf spread his arms slightly and pointed his wand—
 
And then of course, he’d gotten to know her more. That impudent, yet charming young woman who made acquaintances of the Frost Faeries. A brave girl…
Eldavin couldn’t understand some of the choices he’d made. Sending a birthday’s greeting to Az’kerash for his two hundredth? The [Necromancer] had shown just how honorable he was by going after Ryoka. No—Eldavin should have left well enough alone and supported Magnolia. Another brave girl.
Brave, and entirely right all those times she’d urged him to leave his cave—no, his laboratory to take a more active role in the world. He’d make it up to her. Eldavin was making up for lost time.
What he didn’t understand was why he’d left The Wandering Inn well enough alone. He recalled how much he’d admired that [Innkeeper] who’d died, mourned her, even. Erin Solstice.
Why? Because she’d bested him in a chess game? That no longer seemed—significant—as before. Eldavin shook his head.
“No objections, but let’s phrase this as the Terras faction agreeing to work together, Valeterisa.”
She nodded; she was a savvy expert in Wistram politics, for all her love of scholarly magic. That was why Eldavin had chosen her of all the Archmages to put his might behind. Plus, she was new to Wistram, another returning [Mage] with no true faction, like him. He rubbed his hands together.
“As for Belavierr? You don’t tackle someone like that without preparations. We’ll monitor her; I’ll look for improved spells on locating her. But let’s leave the Walled Cities to deal with her; there’s always favor to be curried among the Drakes. The Meeting of the Tribes is going on—damn. A shame Wistram can’t send an envoy over, but we’re at odds with them, aren’t we? I don’t understand where this idiocy around ‘Gnolls can’t be [Mages]’ is coming from.”
“It began when I was a student, I believe.”
“Hmm. Well, in that case—if you want to take the Archmages and this inn business—we’ll grab any of them who return, and one is already coming this way—I’ll scribe some more spells down.”
Valeterisa paid attention to that.
“Any ones I am unfamiliar with?”
Eldavin gave her an apologetic smile.
“None. Basic spells, Valeterisa. Well—I say basic, but no one knows how to summon elementals as familiars. Let alone form pacts! Not a single young student walking around with a Waisrabbit under their hat. The benefits—we’ll ‘leak’ it to our people later. I’ll copy over the advanced theorems to you…later this week.”
She nodded, disappointed, but Eldavin was feeding her spells slowly. She was brilliant, but give her everything and her investment in the Terras faction was limited. And Valeterisa had given him practically everything he’d asked for. All her lists of connections, all her secrets, everything for magic.
Well, he’d repay her. Eldavin stroked his beard. The Archmage of Izril bade him farewell, giving him another of her owlish looks. He glanced to the side when she was gone.
“Ah, you were here too?”
“I just came in. Reporting, Grand Magus.”
“Excellent. Then—shall we discuss matters over wine?”
The shy [Bard] ducked her head, but Eldavin ushered one of his apprentices in. Of course, it was a mix between individuals like Teura who had sought him out, throwing her old faction aside, and other [Mages] whose company was simply—beyond palatable. He taught them, advancing their spellcraft, and the half-Elf thought they genuinely enjoyed his company. If not, he wouldn’t have been as interested. And after all—one should prize mutually beneficial relationships.
He smiled, reclining. Fair company, influence over worldwide events, and a growing collection of small, useful artifacts…far better than that damned gloomy cave. He couldn’t remember if anything was in it. He remembered cataloging…what, air? Eldavin led the young, and quite charming lady, to a more personal, private setting, and remembered to lock the door this time.
He stopped only once, frowning, before following after the giggling young woman. The half-Elf touched his chest. He was fit, with a clean bill of health from all [Healers]. He’d looked into it, but he was without flaw. So why…?
Why did his heart hurt so?
Then he shook it off and got back to living.
 
—-
 
Valeterisa stopped outside of Eldavin’s door. She had not missed the [Bard] who’d remained. Nor Eldavin’s proclivities of late.
 
[Major thought // introspective, analysis // troubled, not exactly hurt] – But not me. I must not be attractive enough.
 
Troubled, yes. Not offended; Valeterisa was glad. She would have done whatever was necessary for magic and she was familiar with this kind of relationship. It might have entangled things had they split up, and that was needless work.
However. She felt—Valeterisa’s thoughts ran through over a hundred words and settled on the easiest.
Disappointed.
Yes, simply disappointed. In Eldavin. She had thought he was different. She looked back and uttered the words even she had known would be socially unacceptable.
“What happened to you, Grand Magus?”
He was the same. Still insightful, still genius, possessing knowledge long-lost, but something was gone. His values had changed. She did not know why. But it changed Valeterisa’s attitude towards Wistram.
The Terras faction was valuable. Eldavin? She would have followed him to Rhir to learn more. He was giving it to her, piece by piece, though. So…Valeterisa wondered if she was needed here.
