As for Esor? The Garuda was a ‘younger’ [Strategist]. In his forties, in other words. Sharp. He was being groomed as Chaldion’s replacement. The Assembly didn’t like him because he was a Garuda and Duln was a Dullahan. As if the two would form a coup and turn Pallass into Chandrar.
Chaldion snorted. He took another light sip.
“Esor. Pawn. Bump him up another ranking for the Eyes.”
The Eyes of Pallass. Their agents, some of whom were on the ground now, casting [Appraisal] spells for all they were worth. Esor consulted his list.
“That would place the Antinium Worker known as Pawn at…Galadz-threat, Grand Strategist.”
Shirka’s eyebrows rose. Chaldion gestured; he had one of Saliss’ cigars in his claw, another vice, which he was partaking of now because his nosy [Caretaker] couldn’t object in such company.
“Internal references, [General].”
He saw Esor duck his feathered head with brown running to red and orange as Duln took another serving of ssarish, the sliced meats. As if Chaldion hadn’t told him to accidentally use the phrase.
Shirka’s eyes brightened up. She was a [General], but Pallass’ Eyes were another division, and they liked to guard their secrets. Chaldion, of course, was in control of everything.
“Code?”
He shook his head, coughing slightly as he took another drag on the cigar. Interestingly, his head cleared. Saliss made some cigars to sharpen your cognition, and Chaldion liked those.
“A good guess. Each one refers to an incident, historically speaking. Known events or individuals. We don’t do a numbered system, but references. It’s a complicated chart; I’ll send you a copy.”
She nodded appreciatively, sitting straight, eyes on him. She was honored to be here, and she was an admirer of Saliss, who she regarded as a true hero from their past meetings. There were far worse candidates to be a [General] of Pallass.
In fact…all the worse candidates had not gotten to her position. Because Chaldion had picked Shirka. Or rather, he’d given her the same tests he gave a wide pool of hopefuls, and she passed.
Neat, orderly, and efficient. Chaldion had watched her career. He watched Liscor through the scrying spell. There was a reason they called him the Cyclops of Pallass. One eye he might have, but under him, Pallass had organization, competent leadership, and intelligence that didn’t fight with the military for seniority.
If I die, what will happen? Pallass had lived through poorer commanders than Chaldion, times when the Assembly was in charge, and times where the military ruled all. Chaldion wanted an heir; Esor would only be a fine [Strategist]. And his only heir was…Saliss.
Saliss, who bought Chaldion two more years. The Drake closed his eye. Something, he supposed. More than something. He wondered if the decade Saliss had bought was literally the decade he’d used up. He spoke, as much to keep his mind from wandering as anything. And it did wander far too much sometimes…
“Galadz, Esor. Right below Xrn and the other two Centenium. I am convinced there is something there worth more than the Grand Queen and all the other Queens’ plans.”
“A Worker has more effect on the Hives than a Queen?”
Duln murmured politely. Chaldion’s good eye turned towards him and his ruby one flashed.
“…Could one of the Queens make Belavierr retreat, Duln? Could you?”
Could I? The dinner party fell silent. Chaldion coughed again.
“The fact remains. Pawn is without an obvious class that could do that. Yet he uses Skills—also unknown.”
“Prime target for the Eyes to pluck. We don’t need that kind of variable in the Third Incursion War.”
Esor murmured. He glanced at Pawn uneasily. Chaldion made a slashing gesture with his claws.
“Knock some sense into your head—and anyone in the Eyes who thinks that. The instant one of them dies, the Free Antinium are hostile. More importantly? We don’t know what he does or how he got that class. What benefits Pallass in the long run is not another dead Antinium, but knowledge.”
The Garuda ducked his head. Chaldion eyed him, sucked on the cigar, and spat a cloud of shimmering yellow out.
“Stop thinking only in terms of war, Esor. Stop thinking a year in advance. Think of Pallass’ future. That’s why…well. You owe me a lunch at Tails and Scales, Duln. I’ll collect when they reopen, and that’s a silver lining at least.”
Duln nodded. Chaldion saw Esor focus on the scrying orb.
“The Titan of Baleros is at Liscor. Confirmed.”
“He could have been watching…”
Shirka ventured. Chaldion grinned.
“The Titan, watching from afar? I’ll bet he was somewhere unseen.”
“So we’re not reporting him to the Iron Vanguard.”
Duln looked at Chaldion for confirmation. He had no ties to the Dullahan company, but, well, a species was a species, even for a Dullahan born and raised in Pallass, Chaldion supposed. The Grand Strategist shook his head.
“The value is low. I’m entertaining keeping it secret—and calling in the favor of keeping it secret by putting a birdsong in the Forgotten Wing Company’s ear. Perhaps not. We’ll let it ride.”
“And not collect on the favor? That is to say, Grand Strategist, if the favor is not logged even in that small way, how will the Forgotten Wing company know they have one?”
Esor was struggling to keep up; he had just been attached to Shirka’s command, and was still in ‘combat-thinking’. Narrow, immediate…useful, but this kind of political strategy was new to him. Chaldion eyed him, amused.
“Why, because Niers Astoragon will go about his business—whatever it might be—and not have Pallass interfere. He’ll remember it and consider it a debt. A minor one, perhaps.”
“Pallass doesn’t interfere and that’s the debt…?”
Shirka, Duln, and Esor glanced at each other. Chaldion sighed.
“He knows I can tell he’s there. He knows that I know. If he asks for something, that’s different. The Titan’s not worth much to us here, and his company is infinitely preferable as an ally in Baleros. Tell the Eyes not to look for him.”
Look at how they stared at him. Learning, admiring, appraising…Chaldion felt old. It was like he and Niers spoke the same language that Esor was fumbling over. Why would Chaldion hunt Niers down, or make an enemy of the Titan—risky as it was to try to capture him—for little gain?
Focus on what mattered. Chaldion spoke around the cigar.
“Belavierr. In my city. I didn’t even detect her, with all my Skills. That’s the Witch of Webs, for you.”
The others nodded, uneasily. Chaldion looked at the scrying orb. The thing was…even Pallass would suffer the Witch of Webs’ designs, retaliate, drive her off—but even Pallass had trouble bringing her low. She was harder to defeat than an army. Better at running away than even a top-class [Rogue]. And her wrath when roused? He shook his head.
“Belavierr…I’ll think about what to do about Belavierr. She’s destroyed the inn. If the Brothers are pulling out—”
“The Goblins are on the move. Leaving the inn.”
“Mhm. No location on their base?”
“We haven’t been able to scry the location, even from Captain Bevussa’s descriptions, sir.”
“Well. Investigate. Magic only. I want someone monitoring their flight paths. The Brothers are gone, the inn’s in ruins. The Antinium are in chaos…”
Chaldion sighed.
“It’s time. Have Magus Grimalkin meet me at his convenience—but don’t let him leave the city. Make sure he recovers. It’s time. General Shirka? Duln?”
The two [Generals] looked at Chaldion. The Grand Strategist sat back, and blew another cloud of undirected smoke up, wishing he knew how the hell Saliss had once managed to create a dancing Drake. They all waited on his words, and he weighed them, trying to know if they were right.
He thought they were. They didn’t make him happy—but he spoke them anyways. Erin was dead, and after this?
“Shirka, Duln. Put together some of your best. Ones you can do without—combat leave. A little vacation with little work unless they actually have to fight…maybe a bonus? Volunteers, even. I want a rotation of sixty, all hours. Esor, offer them to Liscor, to secure the inn and watch for Belavierr.”
It was the kind of thing that made sense. The two [Generals] agreed instantly. Duln tapped his fingers together.
“Persuading Liscor might be important. They can…patrol the Floodplains?”
“After Belavierr, I don’t think it will be hard. Offer some of our [Sappers] or [Engineers] for that damn hole they have in the ground; even repairs for the inn. More fortifications? Don’t drop gold on it, and let the Antinium do what they want.”
“Yes, Grand Strategist.”
Chaldion nodded. He stared up at the ceiling and the smoke, beginning to disperse.
“…I want one of our best [Negotiators]. Not a [Diplomat]. No overt charm Skills. Someone who’s actually likable, not who can force a deal. Put them on Troy, Joseph. Extend an offer to Imani and Palt. Find them housing—get them into the city by nightfall. The inn’s in ruins anyways.”
Esor inhaled slightly. Shirka sat forwards, and Duln refastened his head.
“It’s time?”
Chaldion nodded.
“It’s time. The inn’s no longer safe. It’s proven that. Get me Kevin. Damn, I keep forgetting how many there are. No Rose…it’s time.”
He took another long sip of his drink. If Erin were here—it would be different. But she wasn’t, and this was the umpteenth time the inn had been attacked. It was time. The Cyclops moved. Because what he saw was what would come next.
“Esor, I want you to make them welcome. No questions. No prodding—genuinely get them settled in and make sure they’re happy. Questions can come later. I changed my mind. Get me Grimalkin, unless he’s too wounded to meet with me. Now.”
 
—-
 
She wanted to know what spells Belavierr had used. Exactly what the [Witch] had been trying to summon. How Xrn had used her spells—the nature of the Antinium’s ability to deflect a known Relic-class weapon.
All they wanted to talk about was politics. The woman chewed her lip, thoughts spiraling, going in tangents, running together.
“We simply must insist on it, I think. Go through the Scriptels. It’s a shame du Valeross is not part of your faction, Naili. An offer to recall her if…?”
“No.”
The silky, dangerous tone came from the Star Lamia. The woman glanced at her. Dangerous. Extraordinarily tight enchanting-work; little magical leakage. She was hard to get to share notes, however. Too flighty.
Viltach nodded. He was too focused on economics. Which…mattered, but he kept talking about politics. Too much; he was leading this discussion.
“They should all come to Wistram, preferably. I know there is an—agreement—but this proves even the Spider is aware of them. Why else would she assault the inn? Can you imagine what she would do if…? Do any of you know one of the Tricksters?”
Tricksters? A fragment of Valeterisa’s mind spun away and returned with the common slang used to refer to the Ullsinoi faction. List of members…exactly 2 confirmed, 31 unconfirmed or suspected duplicates, 8 [Mages] who were confirmed not to be part of their faction—
“Valeterisa, Valeterisa?”
The Archmage of Izril focused again.
“Hm? What, Feor?”
The half-Elf gave her a pained smile that they all assumed she ignored. Verdan Blackwood, the other Archmage, cleared his throat. The Archmage of Dullahans looked at her, wearing his ‘mage armor’.
“We are asking if you will intercede with Grand Magus Eldavin. We are aware of his—desires—regarding the inn, but this is clearly an exceptional event. I am sure he is aware of the incident…”
By now, the Terras faction led by Eldavin and Valeterisa was a wave within Wistram. It went without saying that Eldavin would know. Valeterisa’s mind hesitated.
 
[Minor thought // amusement, calculation // conversation possibilities, personal interest] — Odds of Eldavin being aware? Strange.
[Introspective thought // self-analysis // logical loop] – Query: why strange?
[Major thought diverted // apprehension, analysis // take it seriously, wider diffusion] – Until today, I would have given it…
            [Minor thought // calculation // guesswork] – 89%
…Likelihood that Eldavin was aware of this. Today?
            [Minor thought // calculation // guesswork, sadness?] – 62%
 
Strange indeed. Valeterisa’s thoughts were not all in one place. In fact, she had learned to sort them. Some thoughts, like her questioning herself, were tasked to do that. Constantly question her assumptions. Others fulfilled conversation topics; she felt her mouth move in response.
“I will inquire with him, Archmage Blackwood.”
…And thus required less intellect than others. She could ‘divert’ more thoughts to a task as necessary. This was just one level of her racing mind; another was figuring out what she wanted to eat, working on a spell, cataloging and sorting valuable memories and obliterating useless things, and so on.
She had nearly been trapped in her head, once. Ryoka had saved her from this, but Valeterisa would never go without her Skill of [Parallel Thinking]. It was too valuable.
The Archmage of Izril thought her peers could have used that Skill; they were too focused on the inn, acquiring other ‘Earthers’ at the expense of looking into the Antinium and Belavierr. She vouchsafed this, and Feor hastened to assure her the opposite was true.
“I am hardly unaware of the implications of all of the battle, Valeterisa. A [Thaumaturge]. A creator of spells, and one of the Antinium?”
“What will be done about Belavierr? A monster like that on the loose? We should inform the Walled Cities, even if Pallass is aware.”
Viltach licked his lips. Valeterisa searched for all the information she could on Belavierr, and it was precious little. Naili frowned.
“When there’s a Hydra in the swamps and you’re carrying a bucket of gold, you don’t go after the Hydra. Earth matters more, is what I’m saying.”
“If she’s aware of Earth…”
“Then we’re in a race with her. I’d rather not send [Mages] after her; you saw how well Montressa’s Shock Orb did. It was like spitting into a tidal wave. No thanks.”
Valeterisa looked around. She tapped the table hard. No one was listening. She tilted her head, and came to a logical solution. She slapped the table so hard all four Archmages jumped.
Ow. I regret that.
Valeterisa stared at her stinging palm, and dismissed the pain—although she filed a note not to do that again. Attention gained, she looked around.
“You have misunderstood my point, Archmages. I did not suggest merely interdicting Belavierr or countering her agenda in regards to securing Earthers. What I meant was…why are we not attempting to make contact with her to negotiate for her knowledge?”
