Like a great natural disaster, or powerful spell—or simply the clash of armies, the aftereffects, the fallout took far longer than the event itself. Processing that might take days, weeks…years…
If you could even piece together the full story. That was the challenge here, for all those aware of the event, even those tangentially related to the main players of the story. If you saw her from afar, that was not knowing what she was.
Belavierr the Spider. Belavierr, the Stitch Witch. Yet she had many more names. There were many titles that had been lost to time, stories in the depths of the secret libraries about her. Before you could process the impact she had made, how close Liscor had come to calamity—for all it had seen enough—you had to know her.
Which was impossible. So you didn’t know quite who had attacked, or what she’d done. Or why she’d done it.
The consequences were obvious. A child was kidnapped, an army had been beaten back, the dungeon’s threat resurfaced…there were wounds, recriminations, and it all spiraled around the inn, again. There were dead Gnolls that no one could identify, Goblins riding Wyverns, and so many dead monsters that the Adventurer’s Guild had hired every [Alchemist] in the city to help catalogue important parts before they went to rot.
That was…easy to deal with. The hard part was asking what had happened. Would it happen again? Was there any way to prevent it, make safeguards? And…where was little Mrsha? Was she in direct danger? Had a [Slavetaker] gotten her, or something darker?
Many people asked those kinds of questions. What had Belavierr wanted? What was that spell Xrn had cast? How had that single Antinium beaten her back? Would Hectval try again?
The question betrayed the goals of the individual involved, and their personality. Some—some asked no questions.
Lyonette du Marquin just screamed. Screamed, and ran for the gates, the walls, as if to run to Pallass, before they caught her. Numbtongue? He sat amid guilt and a second horror of failure—but not for long. Not this time.
Some were not able to process at all; the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings simply collected their dead. One of them tipped his hat to Ishkr as the Gnoll gestured at the four men, lying prone after the fighting had ended.
“Terrible business, sir. Happens to the best of us, though.”
“I—I—I don’t know how to thank you. I can’t. Someone should speak to you. To…they saved us all.”
Ishkr looked for someone else in authority to give the Brothers their due, but there was no one. Everyone else was busy or mourning or trying to find Mrsha, or—
The man had a tall cap and he looked as old as the Brother he was helping carry away. In…a bag of holding. He’d just bent down and the body had vanished. It seemed disrespectful, to Ishkr. Practical, yes, but for the dead?
“Don’t you worry, sir. We’re used to it. We’ll get these fellows in the right place. Among their kind. If I may say so—it was their choice. It was all volunteers and we appreciate the sentiments, but there’s little to say. We had a debt. A debt was paid. More’n paid, maybe.”
Two of the other three Brothers who had come by gave the third a significant look and he passed a finger over his mouth.
“Apologies. Not my place.”
“Are—what will happen now?”
The man looked at him as he bent over another body, inspecting the face, identifying him and writing it down, then collecting the body. He glanced up at Ishkr.
“Frankly, sir. We won’t be back. I’d like to say otherwise, but…a debt’s a debt and a man pays it in full, and adds whatever honor has him put over the top. This debt’s been squared, and the ones who called it’re gone. We’re not even Invrisil’s lot.”
He gestured to the other two. The other two men nodded, a grizzled, scarred man, and a young one.
“The Brothers of Invrisil are half gone. Reinforcements. The ones who thought we had business with the inn made their choice. But we can’t keep tallying up numbers. Thought we should break it, impolite as it is.”
“No…you’ve done more than enough.”
They had paid with their lives. Because the [Innkeeper] had died…Ishkr looked down. The Brother identified the last man. Ishkr hadn’t even seen where he’d died. He should have gone out in a blaze of glory. Instead, he had gone down in the shadows, holding the line with Numbtongue.
Crimshaw stared up at the ceiling. The Brother touched his eyes, closed them, and moved the bag of holding. Then he was gone.
 
—-
 
The dead and the living. Normen lived; he and another Brother were being treated for poison.
Along with Pawn. The [Priest] had survived the poisoned arrow, mainly because…it had happened before. This time, the inn and [Healers] were armed with broad-spectrum antidotes.
Antinium were resistant to poisons to begin with, and he’d taken a single arrow to the gut. He wasn’t able to move, though, and could only speak, lying on his back.
“Find Mrsha. I promised Lyonette. Do the Listeners have anything?”
Chaos in the Hive, though you would not know it. Antinium didn’t run around in a panic or raise their voices. They were just…aimless.
Xrn was wounded. She had retreated, and no one would breach the chambers where the Free Queen was working with Xrn’s magic and potions and her knowledge to mend the Centenium. In the gap of the Revalantor and Prognugator…
It was Tersk who eventually went to the Listeners and came back with an answer.
“South.”
“That’s all you know?”
Belgrade turned to Tersk. The Armored Prognugator opened and closed his mandibles at the brusque, even interrogatory question to a Prognugator, but he nodded.
“Yes. Half the Listeners are damaged beyond repair. They could only identify sounds, not pitch, tenor, or any other qualities. Something moving at intervals, southwards. At speed.”
“Damaged? Damaged from wh—”
Belgrade realized they must have felt the battle from Belavierr. He clicked his mandibles.
“What do we do? Go after Mrsha? For how far?”
He looked around but—Pawn had passed out again. There was no Klbkch, no Free Queen, no Xrn…the other Hives’ Prognugators were uncertain too.
 
—-
 
Uncertainty in power. Too much to do, too few resources. Here were the facts, as Drassi, one of Liscor’s most famous and esteemed individuals liked to say.
Drassi. That loudmouthed [Gossip] who’d been fired from her last four jobs in a row for talking too much when she’d been working?
Now a city-heroine, the kind you had on a shortlist. Famous; a name known around the world, who gave the city prestige, negotiating power at many tables. Who would have guessed?
Well, the former [Shopkeeper] on Market Street, the most generic street name in any city, supposed it was the same thing that had happened to him. Lism Swifttail, [Councilmember] and one of the few officials who could process this—this attack—thought about what he could do.
“Nothing.”
He struck the table. Jeiss and Alonna looked at him. Tismel, Zalaiss, and Elirr, the other Councilmembers present during the Meeting of Tribes, all looked up.
“Nothing? We have to rescue her!”
Elirr shot to his feet; his fur was practically falling out from horror. Lism corrected his words.
“I mean, Councilm—damn it, Elirr. What are we going to do? Send the Watch? Send a [Tracker]? How large a force? We are at war. Hectval just attacked us!”
“We can’t ignore that. But we can’t ignore Mrsha. Or the fact that this—this [Witch], Belavierr—nearly conjured something that might have caused untold devastation!”
Alonna snapped back at Lism’s perceived apathy. The [Shopkeeper] fixed her with an eye.
“Oh yes, Alonna? And let’s say we form a taskforce. Are we sending all of 4th Company? They took nearly a sixth of their number in casualties from one clash with her! All of the Watch? Could, if they even found her, and caught up, all of the Watch even scratch that—that thing? Olesm? Zevara?”
The two Drakes looked at each other. Zevara shook her head at the same time at Olesm.
“Not a chance.”
“She can’t just get away with this, Watch Captain!”
Jeiss rose to his feet, outraged. Lism snapped back.
“Oh yes she can, Councilmember Jeiss!”
Jeiss was astonished. The [Swordsman] looked at Lism.
“You want to let her go? And Mrsha?”
Lism was shaking. He stood up to pace and his tail struck the chairs, it was lashing so hard.
“Absolutely. Do you think I’m happy about it? But I just read the reports our [Librarian] dug up—Belavierr. Full power unknown. The kind of [Witch] who can raise the dead and apparently fight Xrn, Grimalkin, and three damn armies without being hurt! She’s the kind of thing that passes by a city, causes chaos, and they let her go. Maybe even Pallass. Do you know why? Because that is why.”
He pointed out the window. At the smoke still rising from the pyres outside the inn. The other Councilmembers looked out the window. Lism sat down. He couldn’t control his voice. It was shaking with fury.
“We let her go because if we make her an enemy, we vanish off the map. Hectval? Damn Hectval! I want Hectval torn stone from stone and their Council in chains! Belavierr?”
He shook his head. The Councilmembers looked at him, some shocked, but he was glad to see Tismel and Zalaiss nodding fervently. Their usual cowardice? It suited him just fine. He wanted all the Council on this page. They didn’t touch Belavierr. Lism would never forget.
“What about Mrsha?”
Elirr stared at Lism. The Drake managed a grimace, not a smile.
“Not the same, Elirr. A citizen of Liscor was kidnapped.”
“And you want to do nothing?”
For answer, the purple-scaled Drake leaned on the table. He looked at Elirr, not unsympathetically. He didn’t like the troublemaking little Gnoll, who made rude gestures at him whenever she saw him. But she was a child. Still—his objections there weren’t the same at all.
“I’d throw whatever we could at finding her—and identifying that Gnoll, Councilmember Elirr. I’m willing to entertain whatever suggestions the Watch Captain and Strategist Olesm have to locating and rescuing her. However. Do you really think we’ll be helpful compared to who’s going after her?”
The Councilmembers hesitated. They eyed the window, where a Wyvern was already taking off; and two more had already flown south. Wyverns, and multiple Gold-rank teams who had heard about the beloved child’s disappearance.
“So we do nothing. Just like you said.”
Alonna looked like she was eating grain mixed with rat feces. Lism already had a plateful, but he nodded.
“We focus on where we can make a difference. I know an impossible sale when I see it, Alonna. What can we make sure never happens again?”
He stabbed a map, and a list of troop details, battle plans. The others looked at him. Lism stabbed the table until he chipped the tip of his pointing claw.
“Hectval. Hectval. Hect. Val.”
 
—-
 
It was a strange day, the day that Thronebearers of Calanfer stared at a tribe of Wyvern-riding Goblins, Antinium, and a pile of dead monsters and decided they had more important things to do.
It was a dead-split between them. Lormel and Ushar wanted to go after Mrsha. It was Sest and, strangely, the wounded Dalimont, face white as a sheet, who wanted to find Princess Lyonette.
“Ser Dalimont, Ser Sest—if we were not fellow [Knights] sworn to brotherhood and cooperation, I would use language unbefitting of the lowest bar!”
Lormel shouted, face purpling; his armor was still battered and bloodstained. Dalimont answered, coughing.
“We are one of a number hunting for the girl, Lormel. We are not trackers. The [Princess] is alone in a city under siege. More importantly—she may know how best to find her. We do not know where one is—the other? We stand to lose both, so we find the [Princess] first. So we are charged. Only the throne can countermand our quest. Or…a [Princess].”
Lormel and Ushar considered that. Lormel paced back and forth, but there was no time to waste. They were just one of a number of groups that set out. Dalimont, barely able to stay in his saddle, looked at the other bands flowing mostly south.
They were all leaving the inn.
 
—-
 
The immediate concern of those on the ground was to go after Mrsha. To secure the area, or tell the others what had happened. Word spread, as it did, with some people learning of the event far too late.
Others had seen it live, albeit not broadcast via Wistram News Network. That was a good thing. No one needed to grow Belavierr’s dark legend. Besides—the sight of this kind of thing was destabilizing.
Most importantly, though, knowledge of the strange Skills used by Pawn should remain secret. Perhaps even the fact that those Gnolls had failed to kill Mrsha.
There were a lot of things to process here, and Chaldion began with reports of who was leaving the inn, individuals seen together, and of course, damage reports. He had people marking any number of valuable targets.
“Pawn, though.”
He eyed the pawn on the chessboard he’d fetched out. The symbolism didn’t escape him—but of course he knew Erin’s story of how she’d met Pawn. A Worker who befriended an [Innkeeper]—or the other way around.
“Strategist?”
Chaldion looked up. He was having his signature drink, the Chaldion’s Eye, and the sour had just entered the alcohol. It dulled his mind—but anyone could use a drink after what he’d just seen. Besides, this was aftermath. He nodded at his guests.
General Duln of 1st Army, General Shirka of 3rd Army, the newly appointed female Drake, youngest of all of them, and [Stormline Strategist] Esor Ventail were his guests in his private abode. Not including the personal [Caretaker] he now had to keep around.
The [Grand Strategist] grunted irritably at the thought of the annoying…helpful…considerate…Gnoll [Caretaker] who made living easier but somehow infringed on dignity. His three guests had all been served by her, and they were a carefully cultivated group.
Duln—you needed Duln on your side. Duln was always on Chaldion’s side; he had to be, or the commander of 1st Army and Pallass’ overall forces aside from Chaldion would be an obstacle. Chaldion didn’t need that kind of obstacle. Yes, Duln seldom left the city, but he had earned his rank and his forces went to all the other armies. Clout, a solid head, and loyalty; Chaldion had helped him get his position.
Shirka was new, but she was occupying Thrissiam’s old position. Chaldion needed a [General] who could take to the field and know extracurricular details. With the other armies abroad, she was a suitable candidate.
Of course, 4th Army and Edellein were here, but the older Blackwing was not Thrissiam, for all Edellein was Thrissiam’s uncle.
