The Archmage of Izril auto-tasked one of her thoughts to send and wait for a response. In the meantime, she sorted through the rest of her ‘inbox’.
She was delighted that Earth’s children had known some of the internal systems she was using, and the lexicon of words they’d provided had helped her immensely. She’d even optimized some of her own methods of thought based on their descriptions and these ‘computers’.
For instance, a ‘recycling bin’ that you used to double-check what you were erasing before consigning something like ‘what your niece sent you for your birthday’ to the void? Genius. And said long-term archival for useless data like that?
She read through her mail as she flew. Would you like a shipment of goods? No. Invitation to—deleted. Your relative has died—check the name, delete and omit further [Messages].
Of all the dross, only one recent [Message] stood out to Valeterisa not already on her list of contacts. She checked the sender identification, and saw it had come from a rarely-used area of contacts.
Southern Izril. That was to say, via Drake channels. Most of her clients were Human, and she had stronger ties in the north. Strange, since she had grown up in Fissival, but they had never liked her as much—until after she became an Archmage. And then of course, they hadn’t appreciated her statement of non-interference in the affairs of the Walled Cities…
This was interesting because the client could be important. The contents were interesting, however. Her thoughts skimmed out the superfluous details and presented her with the content. She began to respond.
“Archmage Valeterisa requesting [Message] spell to…fill in name…Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar. To Wall Lord Ilvriss, salutations to the City of Gems, I am Archmage Valeterisa, and whilst my schedule is busy, I am intrigued by any personal spellcasting employment you would like to offer, with sufficient remuneration. May I inquire about specific details, or is the content quote secretive, unquote…?”
It was so hard to get [Lords] and [Ladies] of any species to just tell you what they wanted. Ieka was so simple because Valeterisa had taught her niece how to be efficient.
True to form, Ilvriss’ letter had been frustratingly vague, but Valeterisa found he had a [Mage] close by, because he responded almost instantly after getting her [Message].
 
Ilvriss to Valeterisa: Archmage, I am honored to receive your correspondence. I realize you do not often visit southern Izril and you have been indisposed of late.
Valeterisa to Ilvriss: For ten years, yes. I would like to qualify, however, that I am Archmage of Izril, and my connections to the Drake cities are no less strong than to the north. My business is seldom as pressing in the south however, hence my residence and the rarity of contacts. However, I am delighted to speak with you! How may I help a Wall Lord of Salazsar?
 
Her sociable-side was working overtime, trying to pull salient details. Ilvriss…seen in company of Zel Shivertail, net worth…very appreciable for a possible job offer, one sister, father named Zail, etc. etc.
 
 
Ilvriss to Valeterisa: There is a matter of some delicacy which I would like to employ your services for. In person, if you would be willing. I am prepared to hire you at sufficient price.
Valeterisa to Ilvriss: …May I know the contents of this matter, or are the details sufficiently secretive that you would prefer a face-to-face visit? Travelling all the way to the south of Izril is something of an imposition—
 
Although she could probably set up more teleportation pylons. Valeterisa chewed her lip.
 
Valeterisa to Ilvriss: —so long as we understand that my time is limited. I do avail my services for hire as a spellcaster, but I should warn you the price may be extreme.
Ilvriss to Valeterisa: I am sure I can provide sufficient funding, Archmage, and would be willing to reimburse you for your time. However, I am currently indisposed at Oteslia, which makes travel somewhat impossible.
 
Why? Valeterisa consulted the news. Another siege? She sighed.
 
Valeterisa to Ilvriss: Delightful, Wall Lord Ilvriss! I accept, although I understand travel is limited. Perhaps we could coordinate a further time?
Ilvriss to Valeterisa: That would be most welcome. Could you travel to Salazsar, or would you prefer a more northern meeting spot? One closer to Zeres?
Valeterisa to Ilvriss: As I have indicated, my schedule does not allow for excessive gaps in my itinerary, but—this is taking too much time and effort. Sociability ended. I will visit you immediately if you wish, Oteslia or other locations. I can arrive within two weeks.
Ilvriss to Valeterisa: At your earliest convenience would do, Archmage.
Valeterisa to Ilvriss: Good. I will indicate travel time. Please quote remuneration.
 
The Archmage checked the figure after it came in a few minutes later. Ten thousand gold to set up teleportation pylons south and maybe investigate the inn and Ryoka along the way? She sent an acceptance and wrote him into her plans.
She sighed. Being sociable took so much work. Valeterisa flew on. Ieka, Ryoka, Ilvriss…and then she’d get back to the important work of magic. All the rest was just to further her ends.
It never really occurred to her that the people she was going to visit had hopes and dreams and goals of their own. Or that they seldom liked to sit still.
Or stay out of trouble.
 
—-
 
No emotion. The best answer was a calm, logical, rational one at all times. That was how Valeterisa lived. Even she couldn’t divorce emotion entirely, though.
Everyone else? The [Princess] screamed. She struggled, screaming for her daughter. Stolen away! Hunted by a [Witch].
All her fault.
“Let me go. I promised to keep her safe! I left her there to—”
Mivifa held Lyonette with Wilovan, and refused to let the [Princess] rush out into the siege encampment. She felt wretched for doing it, though. If she had doubted it when Lyonette claimed to be a mother—
They were dead. Ratici and Wilovan looked at each other. They thought of Mrsha—and Crimshaw, the other Brothers. They said nothing, focusing on Lyonette. If anything, the Gentlemen Callers surely rethought their presence in Oteslia. They kept doing it.
Thinking the inn was safe, just to see it destroyed again.
Mrsha was gone. Kidnapped. It was not the first time, but it hurt no less. It was no less dire. Lyonette, when she calmed down, rushed to the Mage’s Guild. To speak to the people in the inn. And…Mrsha’s other self-appointed protectors.
The Halfseekers, who were already returning to Invrisil. How did it hit them? Moore? Jelaqua? Griffon Hunt and Briganda, who was a mother herself?
There was nothing they could have done to prevent it. Unless they had never left, unless they had remained. That was the guilt. Intellectually, logically, you could know that it wasn’t your fault.
But people, real people didn’t look at it that way. You…you promised to protect Mrsha. You took her little paw, knowing all the horrible things that had happened to her, that might happen.
You swore you would keep her safe. And while you wasted time in the north, on vanity, on less-important things, the most important, dreadful event of all occurred.
And you. Weren’t. There.
 
—-
 
“Jericha! Jericha, help!”
The assistant jerked into action so fast her wand cleared its holster and was charging with a spell before she knew what she was firing at.
Hethon Veltras was shouting. In other times, that wouldn’t have provoked Jericha to charge out of her rooms where she’d been napping. She saw some of the other guards appear just as fast.
Who had gotten the ones on duty? Jericha stormed around a corner, ready to kill something. Anything. What she saw was…Hethon. Desperately trying to stop a crawling woman who’d gotten half way down the keep.
Ryoka Griffin.
She was leaving a trail behind her. Tangled bed sheets, bandages stained red—she was crawling. Jericha wouldn’t have believed she could leave the bed, but she had made it this far, despite Hethon trying to block her.
Sammial was holding onto the Wind Runner’s legs. Her face was twisted up with pain, but the wind was blowing like thunder outside.
“Let go of me. Where’s my glider. I have to—”
She was panting. Sweating—Jericha saw red liquid running down her cheeks.
“[Healer]!”
She snapped at the bodyguards. Hethon and Sammial’s escort hadn’t been taken out after all; they’d just been hovering, watching for enemies rather than interfering in the scuffle between the [Lords] and Lord Tyrion’s…lover?
That was the unclear part, but either way, Ryoka Griffin was an honored guest and dragging her back to her bed was a dubious task for one of House Veltras’ [Soldiers]. Even if she needed it.
Ryoka Griffin’s arms trembled as she tried to pull herself another foot. She was bloody. Jericha bent down.
“Miss Griffin, you’re in no condition to move.”
“Out of my way!”
The air in the keep moved and Jericha felt a push at her chest. She held her ground, despite the [Dangersense] beginning to go off. Ryoka’s eyes were crazed.
“Belavierr—Mrsha—I have to go to Liscor! I should have been there! I’ll kill her. I’ll—”
The words cut off because, even mad with worry and guilt, Ryoka couldn’t properly visualize killing Belavierr. However—Hethon’s look of terrified worry wasn’t misplaced, nor was Sammial’s attempts to stop Ryoka.
“You’re bleeding! Stop! I order you!”
The [Lord] shouted at Ryoka. He backed up as a [Healer] came running. The [Lord] looked down at his front and blanched.
It was covered with blood. 
No—not exactly blood. Jericha knelt, a potion in her hand. She saw Ryoka was…sweating blood. But it wasn’t quite blood. Sweat and blood. She had been leaking the liquid for the last three days.
The red lightning had done more than just strike her. The Wind Runner couldn’t move. To Jericha’s understanding of magic, it was an advanced curse mixed with lightning.
“I have to go to Liscor.”
“You won’t fly. I will inform Lord Veltras at once, Miss Ryoka. However, you are in no condition to move.”
Ryoka panted up at Jericha. The woman had the Wind Runner confined to her bed. Sammial hovered there with Hethon. Ryoka was muttering.
“Belavierr. Belavierr. Ivolethe will freeze you! Stay away from Mrsha. I invoke your name Belavierr! I’ll summon the Faerie King on your head! Oberon!”
She was raving, plagued by the curse as well as the news from Liscor. Hethon felt his skin prickling, and not just from the tone of Ryoka’s voice.
“Who’s Mrsha? What happened?”
Sammial earned a smack on the arm. He’d told Ryoka about the attack when Jericha and Ullim had both said ‘let’s tell your father first’. Ryoka’s eyes opened wide.
“She’s—I’m supposed to protect her. She’s just a kid. Sammial, Hethon. Are you there? I can barely see—”
Her head oozed a bit of that red liquid. Sammial anxiously looked for the [Healer], who had gone to get more healing potion. Hethon offered Ryoka some of the approved stamina-restorative. She gulped.
“We’re here, Miss Ryoka. Can we—do you need something?”
“Yes. Tell Jericha—get a [Mage]. Send something to Laken Godart. Riverfarm. Tell them about Belavierr. Tell them to find Mrsha.”
Ryoka’s eyes rolled. Hethon nodded and hurried off. Sammial stayed there.
“What is Belavierr?”
“A coward. Do you hear me, Belavierr? I’ll call on Teriarch! I’ll—”
Ryoka gagged on something, choked. She spluttered, and then rasped. If her threats were doing anything—choking on phlegm didn’t seem like a Belavierr move. Being strangled by your pillow? Yes. It might have been that she was too far—or that her threats were so pitiful that Belavierr just ignored them.
“Wiskeria. That’s it.”
Her eyes opened wide. Ryoka jerked up. Sammial screamed.
It had been four minutes and she’d passed out, then she’d screamed the name. She fixed him with a desperate look.
“Sammial, where’s Hethon?”
“Going to find Jericha.”
“Well, go find him. Tell them I want to talk to Wiskeria.”
“Um. Okay?”
The two boys found the woman and listened as Jericha bent over Ryoka. The young woman was rasping up to the [Mage], and all three of them found themselves listening. Ryoka’s condition was terrible, and Tyrion had put off his romantic pursuits to investigate another curse on someone close to him. He was actually coming back from First Landing, where he’d been petitioning House Terland for aid.
Yet as terribly as she was suffering, she was dropping names and secrets she normally kept guarded.
“Tell Laken he owes me. Mrsha—tell him I’m calling in—Wiskeria. Her mother did this. Call her off.”
“Call the Witch of Webs off?”
Jericha’s skin prickled. Ryoka was muttering.
“Her daughter. Tell Wiskeria to contact Belavierr and have her forswear…I know she can. Somehow. Tell them.”
“I am. I’m…”
Jericha was [Messaging] Riverfarm live. She spoke.
“Laken to Ryoka. We are now aware of the situation. Wiskeria has sworn to petition Belavierr regarding Mrsha. We will attempt to divine Mrsha’s location. What is her last name?”
“Stone Spears. Mrsha of the Stone Spears tribe? No, wait…Mrsha du Marquin?”
Ryoka didn’t even seem to be aware of how hard Jericha was locked onto her. Sammial and Hethon exchanged glances. They wanted to know about Ryoka too, but they were sort of on the Wind Runner’s side.
“How can a Gnoll have two names, Miss Ryoka?”
Jericha bent over Ryoka, urgently. Hethon danced on his feet.
“Um—um, Jericha. Maybe—maybe—”
He didn’t know what to say that was sufficiently distracting, but Sammial burst out.
“Maybe Ryoka should talk to Wiskeria! Do a communication spell like you did for father!”
Jericha glanced at him, annoyed, but Ryoka nodded feverishly.
In short order, Jericha had a scrying orb linked and Ryoka was muttering to a woman with a dark blue hat on the other end.
“Can you call her off? Tell her I’ll bring down the wrath of the fae on her. Tell her—”
“I can’t summon her, but she made my clothing…she doesn’t talk the same way you can to me, Ryoka. Let me—don’t threaten her.”
“I’m not afraid of her. I’ll—I’ll—grab Excalibur. I’ll get Arthur to get it and—”
Jericha was leaning in, through the doorway. Hethon bit his lip. He reached for the door.
“Lord Hethon! Please!”
Jericha reached to stop him. Sammial kicked her in the back of the knee and she fell down. The boys slammed the door shut and missed the rest as they were told off soundly.
 
—-
 
By the time they got the door open, Ryoka was passed out. Wiskeria, however, seemed to be in communication with Belavierr herself. Jericha froze as the [Witch] fiddled with her spectacles.
