Not everyone got Skills, it was true, but everyone leveled. Sometimes multiple times. It depended on what they had done. For those who had flung themselves at Belavierr—they had leveled almost by surviving, not doing damage.
Xrn had done damage. The Centenium was in no mood to appreciate her levels, however. Her arm was gone, and Facestealer had stolen it. The Free Queen looked down at the Centenium.
“There is no way to recreate your arm, Xrn. Even in Rhir—it would have been a task.”
“I know.”
The ‘voice’ wasn’t Xrn’s actual voice; her neck had been torn half-off. So it was a thought translated to speech via magic. She was unable to even move; suspended in a converted Birther sac to heal as best she could.
She was incapacitated, she knew. If she could make use of the new Skill and level—it would not be now.
 
—-
 
By contrast, Pawn was similarly incapacitated. However, he would live as indicated. And while he hadn’t gotten a miracle to cure poison…sadly…he had leveled the most of any one person on that battlefield.
For turning away the Witch of Webs, for defeating her with faith alone, the [Doomspeaker Priest] lay in his bed and heard the voice.
 
[Conditions Met: Doomspeaker Priest → Priest of Wrath and Sky Class!]
[Priest of Wrath and Sky Level 30!]
 
An odd class. He felt it should be unique, but it wasn’t. Yet what was…and what confirmed he had been redeemed came after.
 
[Miracle – Summon Workers (Holy) obtained!]
 
Somehow, still the same. Somehow, it still fit no matter that Workers had not come before. Yet Pawn did hear something. Like blood pooling in his mind, it came to him. He did not want it, but it was in him.
Great power to protect.
The wrath to doom a city.
 
[Miracle – Bane of Luck obtained.]
 
A Skill to take something away. To hurt. Pawn waited. Yet for his new class, and his battle with one of the things that would never walk in his Heaven while he existed—he was given three Skills.
The last was simply like a sigh. Like fresh air. The green of spring. Of reawakening.
Something new.
 
[Skill – I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky obtained!]
 
The [Priest] sighed and lay back. If he could have smiled, he would. Yet Mrsha was gone. For her, he would have traded it all. He prayed for her.
Pawn leveled up the most. Mrsha was third. The person who leveled up second-most was a [Blacksmith’s Apprentice] in Liscor, who had no idea why he had jumped so many levels.
He only made the connection with selling the Worker a club and shield he’d made when he checked his Skills.
 
—-
 
Rags had not slept since the battle. She had no time to investigate her Skills. Her Goblins were getting ready to leave.
Like the others. She growled at the watching Drakes and Gnolls and other non-Goblins. Her skin prickled.
Some of them looked ready to kill her. 4th Company and Embria were the nice-looking ones. She turned briskly to Badarrow.
“I will give you Snapjaw and her Wyvern. No more.”
“Not more, Chieftain? Might need.”
Badarrow and Rags kept their backs turned, and they spoke in Goblin tongue, with Goblin gestures. Let the others try to eavesdrop on that.
Rags made an apologetic gesture.
“If could, would. Needed. Also—lightning-rain-death city. Not good Wyverns. Fly-die.”
She meant Pallass. More than a single Wyvern would attract attention. One was more than enough, and she would miss Snapjaw…but she and Badarrow were a pair and Rags knew better than to forbid it.
“Come to Goblinhome first. Supplies.”
He nodded. Rags glanced around as Badarrow went over to join Snapjaw. Numbtongue would stay. Calescent? He was coming back. The Hob had made up his mind, and reluctant as he might be—he was a [Chef]. A battle-chef, but not suited to finding little Mrshas.
“Chieftain, can’t send more Goblins?”
She shrugged at him as he came over.
“Little Mrsha danger. But Gnoll fight for her. Less danger than us.”
He grinned ruefully at that. Rags had a different opinion of Mrsha’s kidnapping. It might be safer than here, frankly, and she couldn’t help. Mrsha had Goblin-spirit, which was the biggest compliment Rags could give. She would be fine, Rags hoped, and that was all.
Calescent knew Rags’ reasoning, and he was going with his Chieftain. Badarrow had disagreed. He would stay and join Numbtongue. And…Rags glanced sideways.
“Coming?”
The female Hobgoblin sat on the ground, arms and legs crossed. Ulvama didn’t look up. She had bent her head down, and sat there, ever since she’d heard about the Goblins arguing whether to help or go.
“Ulvama.”
The female Hob didn’t respond. She was blasted by Belavierr’s magics; most of her magical paint was gone. She muttered as Rags nudged her with a foot.
“Go away, stupid Chieftain. Always leaving good Goblins behind. Petty Rags, not bringing me along. Stupid name, too. Not real Goblin name.”
Rags raised her brows. So that was how it was. She shrugged.
“That’s right. Stupid Rags, leaves Ulvama behind. See you later…[Shaman].”
The Flooded Water Tribe’s [Shaman] glanced up. Rags looked down at her.
“Badarrow follows later. We fly!”
The Goblins flew, back towards the High Passes and Goblinhome. Leaving those who would head south, after Mrsha behind. As Rags flew, she looked back just once.
If she had any regrets—aside from all the stuff around the attack—it was that she hadn’t found that little man. He might be dead. Or hiding. She had looked quite hard, but he had vanished.
She wondered where he was.
 
—-
 
The Goblins weren’t the only group trying to figure out how to rescue Mrsha.
Selys Shivertail had missed all of it. So had Drassi and Olesm, although his excuse was he’d been fighting an army, so it was a good one.
She felt wretched. Worthless. Mrsha was gone. Kidnapped! And she couldn’t even go after her.
“Absolutely not. You’re not a fighter. Neither am I.”
Drassi had her arms under Selys’ shoulders and was holding her friend back. Selys whirled around.
“Then what do I do, Drassi?”
The [Heiress] whirled, shrieking at her friend. Drassi screamed back.
“I don’t know! Put up fliers! Ask around in the cities! Just don’t go off tracking! You know what I’m doing? I’m going to put out an announcement on Wistram News Network! Gnoll girl kidnapped!”
She blinked, catching herself. The [Reporter] looked around.
“I am going to do that.”
Selys blinked too, at Drassi.
“That’s…a good idea. A really good one.”
“Right. So what are you going to do?”
The Drake looked around. What was she going to do? She was—was—
She spotted Fierre, speaking with some of the others. The Human girl was standing in the shade of the inn.
“I’m going too. Ryoka asked me to come.”
“She’s not coming? Ryoka? I thought she’d be here! The Halfseekers are going to come and search as soon as they can! Griffon Hunt went the wrong way to Riverfarm—they’re trying to figure out if they can make it! Listen. I don’t uh—know you well. But how well is this thought out? Do you have a plan? You can’t go south. Not you.”
Snapjaw stared at Olesm. She had come back, panting, and her Frost Wyvern was lying on the ground. She’d found no tracks. But there was a scent-trail.
“You need a Gnoll to track them. It’s faint, Wing Commander, but it’s there.”
Captain Wikir reported, glancing sideways at the Goblins. Snapjaw glanced at him. Olesm turned back to 4th Company.
“Yet you didn’t pursue, Captain Wikir?”
“Sorry, Strategist. It passed the Bloodfields and that’s enemy territory. Hectval could’ve taken a shot. If you want scouts…”
That was the issue. Olesm turned back to arguing with Snapjaw.
“You don’t have tracking, and you’re Goblins. If you go south, every Drake city and Gnoll tribe will take a shot at you.”
The Goblin [Eater] bared her teeth.
“So? What’s new? Who are you, anyway?”
Fierre had no idea, but she thought Snapjaw had amazing teeth. The Goblin gave her a sidelong grin. The Vampire covered her own canines reflexively—then nodded at her.
“Snapjaw, right? Fierre. We met…I’m going after Mrsha too. I’m not sure if we’re going together or apart, but I’m going.”
“You? Miss…Fierre?”
Olesm turned just as skeptical eyes on the, what, eighteen-year-old girl who looked half as big as Wikir? She had no muscle, and up till recently she’d looked fairly sick. Very pale; she seemed a bit…taller…to him.
“Don’t you have a job?”
She gave him a closed-lip smile.
“Yup. But I’m not entrenched and Mrsha is missing. Do you think we’ll just leave her to be kidnapped?”
“No, but—! You have no funds, Miss Fierre. You might have to hire experts, provide for yourself.”
“I have enough money for quite a bit.”
“And I’ll cover all expenses. I’m putting a bounty on Mrsha! Her safe return, I mean! Anything you need for travelling—a carriage, food—it’s yours.”
Selys stalked into the conversation. Fierre glanced up. The Drake was agitated, near tears.
“Whoever’s going to find Mrsha—I’ll help!”
Olesm threw up his claws, but in the next breath, he turned.
“Alright. If you’re going south—at least let me get you a map. You do have a map, don’t you?”
Snapjaw glanced up at him.
“…Yes? No. Give map, blue Drake. Thank you.”
 
—-
 
Joseph Ortega watched Olesm argue with Fierre, Snapjaw, and Numbtongue. Well…Numbtongue just sat there. He had drying blood on his armor. He had cut down countless numbers of the monsters and soldiers in the hallway.
Joseph wondered what level he was. The [Bard] looked bleak, though. Yet he wasn’t a statue in the garden; he was going with the others.
To find Mrsha. Joseph on the other hand was aware of how Montressa and Bezale were fending off the others trying to get to him. The [Mage] was arguing, red-eyed and bleary with a Pallassian [Negotiator]. She was winning—mainly because the fumes of alcohol were half-choking the Drake.
“So—are you going with them? I’m…thinking about it, you know? Otherwise, we’re like, going with one of them, aren’t we?”
Joseph turned. Troydel walked over, hands in his pockets. Joseph, who had stabbed someone with a spear for the first time today, stared at the other Earther.
“Where the fuck have you been?”
“Pallass.”
The young man avoided Joseph’s look. He spoke, a bit too rapidly.
“Sorry I missed it. I mean—not sorry. This is all crazy. Did you hear? Everyone’s leaving the inn. They want me to go to Pallass. Where…where’re you going? Unless you’re joining the hunt?”
Joseph opened and closed his mouth. Troy stared at Numbtongue and the Wyvern.
“They’re going to jump on that thing and fly off? Like the Goblins? I didn’t even get to speak to the Goblins!”
He meant Rags and the others, especially the amazingly-cool wolf-riding Goblin with the twin swords. That was the kind of thing Troy and Leon had wanted to see. Joseph? He just stared at Troy.
“You want to go with them?”
“Why not? Hey, if you don’t want to go to Pallass, we can fight it! They can’t drag us off!”
Troydel made a fist and threw a jab, which told everyone who saw it, ‘watch out, this kid doesn’t know how to fight’. Joseph just looked at his hands.
He knew that he wasn’t a fighter when he tried to be an adventurer. Today had just confirmed it. Kicking footballs around was a lot more fun than holding a bloody spear as someone slashed at you with a sword.
“Are you really going to go with them after Mrsha?”
Troydel lowered his hands. He looked at Joseph, at the blood and corpses. He blanched at the sight of an adventurer disemboweling one of the dead monsters and comparing the organ with a sketch.
“No. I’m not. And I’m not staying here. I mean…look.”
He stared at the inn. Joseph saw the holes in the roof, the battlefield…Troy shook his head.
“We were safer with Magnolia.”
“We didn’t do anything.”
“Yeah. But we were safer. Right up until the [Assassin] attack, I guess. Well. Erin helped us and I’ve got my thing…”
Joseph eyed him, but Troy didn’t elaborate. The young man turned to Joseph.
“…But Galina was right when she went with the Players. Here isn’t where I want to be. I’m going to Pallass. You coming with?”
The [Football Coach] debated using [Power Kick] to boot Troy into a pile of corpses, but the fact was, he agreed with Troy. He shrugged.
“I’m going somewhere. Maybe Invrisil?”
He rose to say goodbye to Numbtongue and the others. To wish them well. None of them seemed surprised as the young man from Spain hung his head.
“I’d like to come with, but…I’m not a fighter.”
“No.”
Numbtongue raised his head. He looked at Joseph and said it clearly. But he did rise and offer Joseph something.
It was a hand. Joseph shook it. The [Bard] stood, looking exhausted, bloody, but he did meet Joseph’s eyes.
“Go. We will come back. With Mrsha.”
“If there’s anything I can do…money? I have money. I can help Selys. Just say it.”
The others nodded. Joseph stepped back—and all the agents clustering around the field surged forwards. Fierre herself broke off investigating one of the downed Gnolls who had gone after Mrsha.
“Wistram, Pallass…oh, hey. That’s someone from Roshal. Um…Terandrian?”
She was counting the people vying for Joseph’s attention. The young man backed up.
“Coach Joseph, Coach Joseph! Hear me out! Before you decide on a place—”
“—A home, fine accommodations—”
“You don’t want Pallass! Invrisil is full of your people!”
Most of them had no chance. Even if they were agents hired from abroad to keep tabs on the inn, you weren’t going to get Joseph to sail to Lailight Scintillation. They tried, though. Right up until Bezale blocked them with a [Wall of Stone].
“That’s enough! Joseph, you’re heading to Invrisil with us, right?”
The [Football Coach] nodded dubiously. Instantly, Pallass’ agents protested, but one of them was already hurrying after Troydel, as the young man tried to see if he could get a better offer—with few results.
The fact was that all that attention, the ‘circling vultures’ as Valeterisa, Chaldion, or Fierre might describe them, were various powers realizing the inn’s clients were up for grabs. Imani and Palt had already vanished under an [Invisibility] spell and were heading to Liscor.
Joseph on the other hand? They wanted Joseph. Some of the agents might not have even known the value of an Earther, hence Troydel being ignored.
Joseph was worth a lot no matter what you knew, and it looked like a showdown between Invrisil and Pallass over the [Coach]’s place of residence, for all he was contracted to teach both. Especially because Invrisil had beaten Pallass in their first matchup, much to the horror of the Walled City.
That was sports for you. Chaldion had told his people to get Joseph if possible.
