All four Archmages stared at Valeterisa. The woman stood up, unable to hold in her excitement.
“She demonstrated a superior knowledge of magecraft! To have such an experienced individual who predates Cognita and even Zelkyr many times over…regardless of the risk, and her divergent class, what we could learn is—”
She turned, eyes shining with the only desire of her life. Magic, and magic alone. Not politics or power. Oh, her fellow Archmages all wanted that.
Naili was ambitious and young. She wanted to be the greatest of Archmages.
Viltach wanted to be beloved among Terandria, a peer of royalty.
Verdan was too old. He…feared death and coveted ways to extend his legacy, and did not seek conflict with his position.
Feor? He was closest to her. He wanted magic—but he conflated it with respect, his faction.
Yet they all wanted magic. Just…she looked at their faces and hers fell. They gave her the same, disturbed look she had seen all her life.
“Belavierr is…not to be trusted, Valeterisa. You have read all the accounts of her deals, I am sure. They favor her to an extreme.”
“Yet if we could unlock spells and theories of old, Viltach. What would you not do to further magic itself?”
They looked at her, and Valeterisa saw it in their eyes. She opened her mouth and—
[Major thought // priority, regret, socialization // do not say it].
She closed her mouth. Yet what was stifled on her tongue was simply a question.
Would you not die for magic? Would you not dive into the heart of it, even if it meant your end? To see the truth?
They would not. So she sat back down, and stared longingly at the only other spellcaster who had leapt, like Valeterisa, into the very center of what she loved.
Magic alone. She had thought Grand Magus Eldavin understood.
He had, Valeterisa believed. Yet somehow, suddenly, practically overnight—
He had changed.
 
—-
 
Grand Magus Eldavin—well, why call him that? Already, some [Mages] were whispering he was the 6th Archmage of Wistram.
Nailihuaile, Verdan, Valeterisa, Feor, and Viltach—not including the last Archmage or the mysteriously absent Amerys that no one talked about—who could match Eldavin in magic?
They told stories to the newcomers about his battle on the first night with every Archmage where he’d held his own against half of Wistram. To hear his admirers tell it, Eldavin had spanked the Council of Mages and the Archmages with one hand while writing poetry and forgotten spells with the other for the [Mages] to catch up on.
The truth was obviously more complex, but the reason for all the adoration of Eldavin was that where many failed to produce the cake, and only provided the aroma, the Grand Magus was capable of producing the cake, the cutlery, and having both dance about on two legs. He knew old magic. His methods? They worked.
Not ‘hey, this is another type of spellcasting or magical practice’, but ‘this is superior to what we do.’ His students in his classes were showing exceptional magical growth. Leveling—oh, the leveling.
From his most advanced group, complaints had come in about screaming [Mages] breaking bones from jumping into the water. Over forty three broken bones in the first month. Torn sinew, even someone nearly losing an eye due to a wand hitting it from a fellow student mid-flight…
However, said injuries had also produced countless levels, and there were no less than three new [Aeromancers], graduated from the [Elementalist] class. Similarly, the students in Eldavin’s mana-intensities classes were rapidly expanding their mana reserves beyond what Wistram would have expected of them. Eldavin was literally increasing their potential as [Mages] beyond what they might have hoped for.
And that was only his fundamental classes. It had seemed, until recently, that Eldavin would refuse to do more than teach history and fundamental spellcasting. Valeterisa walked up, to his private quarters now at one of the highest points of accessible Wistram. He had one of the grand suites, which used to be reserved for visiting royalty—now, the most influential [Mages] fought for them.
Eldavin had been standoffish, despite his heavy involvement with Wistram’s politics. He took no direct apprentices; his classes were open to all, and he taught no actual spells, except to Valeterisa, as a kind of payment for her help. That had been, oh…three weeks ago.
Then something had happened. Eldavin had been—wounded. During a failed experiment, he claimed. Troy Atlas had been involved, and neither had said more than that. Yet when Valeterisa catalogued Eldavin’s behavior, there was a split in his actions after that day. There were a number of factors that had suddenly changed—

Him taking Troy Atlas and a few [Mages], students and older ones, as apprentices.
Eldavin informing Valeterisa they lacked authority, him changing his stance on Wistram’s involvement worldwide.
The Grand Magus passing out improved versions of spells to [Mages] in his faction—and his faction alone—bolstering the already high recruitment.
The half-Elf seeking to forge connections with [Merchants] and other historical donors—and new ones—to Wistram’s factions…

