“Mother. Mother, what’s this about? Calm down. I’ve never heard you actually raise your voice like this. Are you attacking little girls, mother?”
Her eyes flicked up as Jericha paused. Wiskeria listened to…something. Was her hat whispering to her? It had a sibilant tone, like the voice a spider might make, if only a spider could speak. Just hearing it made Hethon clap his hands over his ears and Sammial screw his face up. It was…
“Don’t use your voice on me, mother. I’m not a child! And this isn’t a girl who pushed me—”
To their amazement, Wiskeria held her aggrieved, arguing tone. Reply to the hiss of immortal wrath on the other end. She paced back and forth.
“Three relics? More? Your eye? Okay. Okay. No, I will not join you in vengeance. It sounds like your fault. I want you to call off vengeance on Mrsha. Forswear.”
The argument went back and forth. Wiskeria shot an aside to Jericha.
“She doesn’t like getting hurt. Someone—hurt her? What’s this about her eye? She’s angrier than I’ve ever heard her—hold on.”
She went back to speaking to her hat, staring up at the tip and sky.
“I’m asking you as your daughter. Yes. Yes, through Ryoka, who’s made threats…don’t you dare. Forswear vengeance! What do you mean, a ‘pact’? We’re family. Can’t you do one thing without—fine!”
Wiskeria threw her hat down and stomped on it. Then she picked it back up, set it on a stump, and glared at it.
“Forswear all harm to Mrsha, her friends, family, and no ill will for the rest of her life.”
The hat didn’t like that. It actually opened up a mouth full of stitched thread—a horrific sight—and spoke.
“I will not. More than one has offended me greatly.”
Wiskeria was folding her arms.
“Then—all physical, mental, and magical harm to just Mrsha.”
She turned to Jericha.
“Best I can do.”
Again, the hat didn’t like that, but the whisper became inaudible to the others. It seemed to Hethon like the…strings were whispering. He shuddered, but Wiskeria just rolled her eyes.
“Mother—mother—be quiet, mother. Your daughter is asking. So don’t say ‘vengeance without end or relief’, because we both know it’s about cost. I’ve heard you say that to that [Lord], remember? What’s the price?”
Sulkily, the hat responded. Wiskeria raised her brows.
“Absolutely not. At least…ten years. No, make it thirty. Thirty years.”
Thirty years? Jericha whispered incredulously, but Wiskeria flicked her a glance and shook her head. She walked over and whispered to the orb.
“That’s not a good thing. That means she’s going to hold a grudge forever. If she goes after Mrsha when she’s a hundred…I’ll get her to forswear thirty years and renegotiate when twenty have passed and add another thirty. She’ll forget Mrsha’s a Gnoll, not a half-Elf.”
“Does that…work?”
The woman eyed Wiskeria, who didn’t look more than twenty something herself. The [Witch] flipped her hat up.
“It’s worked for six people so far—and I learned the trick from an older [Witch] who knew Belavierr. It’s the best we can ask for. Alright mother, thirty years. Mrsha only. No harm. You can’t touch her, cast a spell, or even speak to her.”
The hat grumped. Wiskeria poked it.
“I know you, mother. Do we have a deal? What are your terms?”
She sat down, sighing. Ryoka began to come to. She stared, blearily, at Wiskeria talking to her hat. The [Witch] of law rubbed at her face, clearly annoyed.
“Fine. I’ll write you a letter. Two letters every four months, at least. That’s my offer. At least two hundred words each. Deal?”
Ryoka blinked a few times. She turned her head with effort to Sammial.
“Is Wiskeria talking to her hat?”
“Yes.”
Sammial could have elaborated, but the Wind Runner just nodded.
“Checks out.”
Her eyes rolled up in her head and she passed out for a while longer. Wiskeria was sighing.
“Okay. Okay. I’ll bake you something too. With love. Yes, mine. I’ll add a drop. Do we have a deal?”
She seemed to conclude whatever deal with the [Witch] by placing the hat on her head. Then it became silent—normal. Jericha stared in a kind of awe as Wiskeria turned, adjusting her spectacles.
“You…persuaded the Spider to leave this girl alone?”
The [Witch] shrugged.
“I did. On that note—oh. Ryoka’s asleep. We’ll try to help with that curse, but we’d need to be closer to her. Alevica could go if she’s in the area, but she’s hard to track down. Tell Ryoka that I’ll try to visit her. Right after I bake something.”
She sighed again. Jericha looked at Wiskeria. She had all kinds of notes and questions and this conversation had given her much to research.
Somehow, though, even Jericha didn’t quite dare to ask Wiskeria about her relationship with her mother. She nodded, and closed the spell, then hurried off to write down…everything.
 
—-
 
“Ter—him. Him. If I could just ask him…”
Ryoka was muttering when Sammial and Hethon came back. Jericha had gone off to put in an order for more researching with House Veltras’ contacts. She opened her eyes wide.
“Jericha. Did I say anything to her? I didn’t say…anything?”
“N-no…”
It was a sign of how sick Ryoka was that Hethon’s reply actually fooled her. She relaxed.
“I’ll tell him. And…someone else has to find Mrsha. Who?”
“Father will help. Unless she went south. He says sending soldiers past Liscor is an act of war.”
Hethon had heard Jericha sending [Messages] to Tyrion. Ryoka muttered a curse.
“Someone. Who? Klbkch is gone. Hawk? Where’s…she can do it.”
Her eyes opened again.
“I need to send another [Message].”
“I’ll get Jericha.”
Hethon looked for the door. Sammial stopped him.
“She’s just going to tell!”
“Don’t tell. Can’t. She’s important.”
The two boys looked at each other. Sammial scratched his head.
“Maybe Ullim?”
“I’ve got it!”
Hethon came to an idea. He darted from the room. Sammial stared after his older brother and saw Hethon race back in, furtively.
“What’s that?”
“Ullim’s [Message] book.”
“You can’t use that! You’ll get into trouble!”
Hethon knew that, but he wrote down what Ryoka told him to—then tore out one of the pages of the book of [Message] spells for those who used many such spells.
The message was short, and sweet, and Jericha didn’t know Ryoka had sent it. Hethon saw the Wind Runner smile before she lapsed into labored breathing, and that was worth getting in trouble.
He wondered who Fierre was, though. And why Ryoka had told her she needed Fierre to unleash…
Everything.
Sammial Veltras watched as Hethon helped Ryoka. Then as the [Healer] came back to help Ryoka. He waited for Ryoka to say something, ask for more help, but the female [Healer] ushered the boys out as she changed the red bedding.
Not blood, but still horrible. The Wind Runner was cursed. Hethon looked away, faint from the sight of the curse. Sammial looked back, not seeing the point of tasteful nudity yet and thus having nothing to be ashamed of aside from the grossness of it all.
Thus, it was he who opened the door right back up.
“Lord Sammial Veltras!”
The [Healer] shrieked, scandalized. Sammial marched up to Ryoka, who was nude. He stared at her as Hethon raised his fist to hit his brother.
“What’s that? I’ve never seen that before and I’ve seen her naked!”
He pointed. The [Healer] hesitated. So did Hethon. Then he turned beet red.
“What?”
“That!”
Sammial pointed just below Ryoka’s right breast. The [Healer] stared at it, and then Hethon. Both looked accusatorially at Sammial.
“There’s nothing there!”
Sammial gave his brother and the [Healer] a dubious look. No one could see it, not even Jericha. But Sammial did. It was a glowing red mark. And it looked like a familiar sigil. It was…pulsing. Of course, Jericha grew worried when Sammial told her about it and tried another [Dispel Magic], although she’d already cast it a few times since Ryoka had been hit.
She was aware of the power of auras, which were a natural counter to the most magical beings like Djinni; the reason the King of Destruction could fight them. Royalty was a counter unto great magic and even Skills. If Sammial saw something by virtue of his innate talent, it might be a manifestation of the curse. However, the odds were just as likely it was…
A beacon.
 
—-
 
Fierre val Lischelle-Drakle had never received a [Message] like this from Ryoka. It was short, simple, and to the point.
Please find Mrsha. Keep her safe. Bring her back. I need you to use everything. Everything. No matter what it takes. I will pay you back somehow.
It was the kind of favor only people like Ryoka asked. Ryoka, who was an all-or-nothing friend. Who’d go risk her life for a friend. Of course, that she asked it of Fierre was different than fulfilling that kind of thing herself, but as Ryoka had observed, she and Fierre were a bit alike.
And this was the kind of thing the Vampire girl had been waiting all her life for. Especially after she’d been cured. It was almost an excuse.
Just this once…because she had to…because she’d been asked…Fierre the Vampire would reluctantly use the full might of her heritage.
By the time Fierre got to the inn, it was emptying. She stepped around the monster parts still being dragged out, smelling the blood—
The inn was destroyed. And it was being abandoned, even as she watched. Oh, those were loaded terms. Fierre hadn’t seen the inn when it was blown up by a skeleton—or destroyed in the Creler fights. It was actually a lot more intact than you could hope for.
Sure, every window had been smashed in by monsters and [Soldiers] coming in. Okay, the top floor and roof were shredded by the arrow barrage, but the hallway was only filled with gore. The walls were intact. That was something! The…uh…blood would come off.
It was the fact that this was the eighth time or something that did it. The fact that Belavierr had gone into the garden. She hadn’t succeeded, but…she had gone in, in a sense.
Fierre saw the Earthers, the guests, milling about. Some had been on the way out, like Hexel. He was going to stay with Elirr, for purely business reasons since the Councilmember was kind enough to offer his shop to the [Architect].
Montressa and Bezale were both going to Invrisil. And they were taking Joseph with them. Already, the vultures were circling.
The vultures. A Pallassian official tried to cozy up to Joseph in the hubbub.
“Excuse me, Coach Joseph, we have your home ready as agre—”
She was practically kicked out of the way by a [Mage] who’d hurried through from Invrisil. She was checked by Bezale’s arm, but the Pallassian [Negotiator] wasn’t going to be stopped that easily. She strode forwards, and a whistling [Maid] swept her legs.
Fierre counted Wistram, Reinhart, Pallass, and that was just the groups with multiple agents on the ground. They were all trying to tug the Earthers this way, or that.
Why? Why now? Because…this was the first attack after Erin had died. Somehow, many had assumed they’d stop now that the [Innkeeper] was dead.
They had not. And some of the Brothers were dead. An army had broken on the inn, and they had been pushed back, yes. But the thought remained.
Who would be next? Imani and Palt were arguing.
“I’m not moving to Pallass. I could—work at Tails and Scales, if Rufelt and Lasica need a hand. Timbor’s promised us rooms, Palt.”
“He has steps. What about Invrisil?”
“I want to stay in Liscor. I told Erin I’d cook for her. I’m…I’m not going far.”
The two would leave the inn, though. Simply because Pallass’ [Soldiers] might have promised to help secure it, but that meant the Brothers were gone. Maybe they’d be next when Belavierr came back for round two with Facestealer and…and the Greater Frost Wyvern and two Adult Creler groupies just to fill out the set.
Perhaps they would have all stayed. If the inn were going to still have the regulars.
But they were leaving too. Not just Rags, who was standing apart with her Wyverns, far back from the Drakes casually eying her tribe, not just the [Mages].
Everyone.
Mrsha was gone. Rags stood, talking with those who would go after. Numbtongue was sitting down, broken twice by her loss. Empty-eyed—until someone grabbed his shoulder.
“Get up.”
He looked into crimson eyes. Badarrow hauled Numbtongue up.
“Stop sitting around. Why are you sitting? We—going after.”
He struck Numbtongue’s shoulder, then his chest, and pointed to the south. It was the most talkative Badarrow had ever really been. Numbtongue half-shook his head. He pointed at the inn.
“I have to stay. Erin…”
“Erin is ice.”
Numbtongue whirled. The [Bard] nearly struck Badarrow, but the [Sniper] caught the blow. The other Redfang snapped.
“Little Mrsha gone! You leave? Nothing gets in garden. Not even that—thing.”
He gestured, making a triangle over his head, the closest he could come in Goblin sign to ‘witch’. Numbtongue wavered, but Badarrow looked at him.
“You leave her?”
Mrsha? Mrsha, who loved Numbtongue, and called him a big brother even when they fought? The [Bard] looked at the garden.
Nothing had ever gotten in. Not even Belavierr. Only…the thing that he had never seen, and he had no proof it had ever existed after the statues had gone back to normal. Yet even it had never touched Erin.
His head bowed. Yet if Erin came back this moment, and he saw her wake up, what would he tell her about Mrsha?
They were all going. That was why the inn was truly broken. You could rebuild it a hundred times. It was just wood and stone and copper nails, for goodness’ sake. But if there was no one in it…
The [Soulbard] flexed his hand. Did he have the strength to bring Mrsha back? He had failed to harm Belavierr. And this—Wanderer—had her.
He didn’t know. The cruel irony was, though, that he was more qualified to protect Mrsha now than he had been yesterday.
He had leveled up. The [Soulbard] felt the new Skill burning in his claws, ready to be used.
 
[Goblin Soulbard Level 35!]
[Song – The Brave Fall First obtained!]
 
A song for men with hats. His first true song of war. Paid for in blood and loss. Numbtongue embraced the Skill and new level. It was a [Bard]’s duty to remember Crimshaw’s name.
He would use it to bring Mrsha back.
The Goblin had leveled. Numbtongue was not the only one. Everyone who had survived the battle, practically everyone had leveled.
Mrsha, being carried away by Wanderer, Wanderer himself, Rags, all the [Mages]—it was easier to name who didn’t level.
Like Niers. And…Niers.
And Belavierr.
 
—-
 
