But the real Human that the agents were looking for, saving their best offers for, charm Skills, was Kevin.
Kevin, who made bikes. You could take football or leave it, but bikes, skateboards, and Solar Cycles was transportation and anyone with eyes wanted Kevin. Fierre even saw a delegation from Esthelm—a bunch of [Miners]—fight through the crowd.
“Where’s Kevin? We’re just going to get him—”
“Excuse me, I represent—”
The [Negotiator] from Pallass, and a hired [Contractor] who was representing Khelt both lost to Esthelm. Not because the small city had better [Negotiators], but because they knew how to throw elbows. As Ilvriss’ uncle, Nerul, would have observed, that was why you had an anti-combat Skill—or a [Bodyguard].
They fought through the crowd, although Esthelm would have been mostly happy to let Kevin stay in Invrisil where Hedault was. However, the [Miners], despite their tremendous ability to shove people aside, didn’t get to Kevin first. They did a circle through the crowd, and Fierre looked up from where she was conferring with the hunting group.
This was all a sideshow to Olesm’s discussion with Snapjaw. They had to organize a route, supplies, and a team.
“Listen. If it’s Numbtongue, me, Badarrow, Snapjaw, um, your Wyvern—”
“Icecube.”
Snapjaw patted the Frost Wyvern affectionately. Fierre stared at it.
“…Yes. Well, I’m sure you’re all high-level. But those Gnolls were good. We need more than just four.”
“Badarrow will see. Otherwise…we go. You don’t need to come. Bloodbiters too much work. Scream under sun, scream when cooking with garlic, scream when someone sneezes in silver dust…”
Ulvama poked Fierre in the side and the Vampire girl went white with terror. Olesm just gave Ulvama a blank look.
“I don’t know what that means, but I’ll see what I can do.”
He walked off and Fierre stared at Ulvama. The [Shaman] just gave her a self-satisfied look.
“What? I wrong?”
“I—I—”
Before Fierre could shout or scream or run away, someone walked over.
“Excuse me, Sirs, Misses…heard you were heading after the young girl. Mrsha, as it were. Mind if we tag along?”
The group looked up. And there were two Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. Numbtongue’s eyes widened.
“You lived.”
Normen, the younger Brother, tipped his hat. He had a nasty scar down one cheek; a product of an enchanted blade. The other Brother had come from Liscor, having been arrested during the altercation with Wanderer. Those two alone had come over; the other Brothers had left.
“You want to come with?”
Snapjaw glanced at them, surprised. She had seen the dead hat-men. Normen and the older Brother tipped their hats.
“If we could be of use, Miss. The little Gnoll’s gone, and we were supposed to look after her. Doesn’t feel right, leaving her.”
Numbtongue looked at Normen and thought of Crimshaw and the others. The [Bard] spoke, slowly.
“You do not have to. All debts…you paid them.”
The younger Brother nodded. He reached for his side and produced something.
Crimshaw’s dagger. He’d collected it from his mentor. The one thing he would keep. Normen flicked it up, caught it. Then looked at Numbtongue.
“So you say, sir, and it’s appreciated. I just feel that Crimshaw would be going. Since he’s resting, I’ll come. If you need me.”
He held out his gloved hand. Numbtongue looked at it. Then he slowly took it. Fierre watched, eyes flicking to Ulvama.
The expedition grew. In the background, the susurration and arguments had grown quiet. The Vampire girl looked over, and someone raised their voice.
“Hey. Hold on. Stop elbowing me! Just—truce, alright?”
The factions ceased fighting, Montressa and Bezale with Joseph behind a barrier, Troydel shielded by Pallass’ [Soldiers]. The others looked around. One of the battered [Negotiators] stared about.
“Where is Kevin?”
The others looked, but they began to realize—in all the confusion, the person they were fighting over was…missing.
Kevin was gone.
 
—-
 
Below the city of Liscor, the Antinium were making plans of their own. The Painted Antinium gathered around Pawn, who lay, convalescing, but turned as a new Antinium walked their halls.
Bird stopped in front of Pawn. He looked down.
“You cannot travel, Pawn.”
“That…is probably true, Bird. Are you going? You?”
The [Bird Hunter] looked at Pawn.
“Of course. I am here to see who else will come. I know I am banned, but Klbkch is not here. So I poo on him.”
Belgrade hesitated. The [Tactician] tapped Bird on the shoulder as the others drew around.
“You mean, you poo-poo him.”
“Possibly I would do both if he were here.”
 
—-
 
In Goblinhome, as soon as she returned, Rags called the Goblins of her tribe to her as Badarrow stood before them. The [Sniper] leaned on his bow as Rags explained to the Goblins an abbreviated version of what had happened.
Most knew already, the Goblin social network being infinitely faster than most modes of communication. What they were curious about was…why their Chieftain had summoned them.
Also, who that was. Rags noticed the stares and turned her head. She jumped.
“What are you doing here?”
Kevin stared around. The [Engineer] scratched at his head.
“I uh…wanted to meet the Goblins that Erin was always talking about. He said it was okay. We’re all splitting up anyways, so…”
The young man gestured at the best [Negotiator], who had gotten him before anyone else. Rags turned to face Calescent. The [Spice Chef] looked smug as he waggled his eyebrows. In Goblin body-language, he was expressing immense satisfaction and hilarity at her reaction, and a slight shift of his head indicated the crossbows. And Kevin.
Eh, Chieftain? Seems like I did good, huh? Want to buy me that spice rack after all?
“How?”
Rags eyed Kevin, ignoring the smug [Chef]. Kevin scratched at his head.
“Well…I was looking at the Wyverns, and Calescent was like, ‘want to fly? Come with.’ So I did. Am I in trouble?”
Master-class negotiation. Rags looked at Kevin, and then turned back to Badarrow. That was not what mattered right now. It was simply this. She took a deep breath and began to speak.
 
—-
 
“Mrsha is gone. The inn is being abandoned. Erin is dead. For now. So, I am leaving.”
Bird spoke. The Antinium listened. The inn was…their heads swung back to Pawn. Yet the [Priest] just listened. His gaze was fixed on Bird.
The [Hunter] stood in the center of the Antinium, the Free Antinium, the Antinium from other Hives, looking around.
“Hello. I forgot to say this—I am Bird. You do not know me, I do not know you. Especially you.”
He pointed at Xeu. The Silent Antinium’s Prognugator clacked her mandibles. The others looked at Bird as he turned around.
“That is not important; I do not care. Mrsha is gone. I am going after her.”
Someone spoke.
“You will not survive.”
Pivr. Pawn had nearly forgotten the Flying Antinium’s Prognugator was here. Pivr stared at Bird.
“Are you suggesting leaving Liscor? That is not a sensible decision. To the south lies the lands of the Drakes. Gnolls. We are bound by our Hive’s pact with them. If any Antinium is found outside of Liscor or the Hivelands, they will be killed.”
“Thank you for telling me, not-bird Antinium. I like your wings.”
Bird looked at Pivr and turned away. He happily ignored Pivr.
“I have never been to the south. Yet some Gnoll has taken Mrsha. She is missing, and she is part of the inn. If Erin wakes up tomorrow—she will be sad. Lyonette will be sad, if Mrsha never comes back. I will be…sad.”
The Antinium listened. Bird looked around.
“So. I am going. I do not know where I am going, exactly. But I came here to ask if anyone is coming with me.”
They looked at each other, Belgrade, Garry, Pawn, Yellow Splatters, as the Antinium made his request.
 
—-
 
“Badarrow is leaving. So is Snapjaw. They go to find this Gnoll.”
Rags spoke. The Goblins susurrated, expressing their feelings in gestures more than words. Rags looked at Badarrow. He should say something.
“Am going.”
The taciturn [Sniper] glanced along the lines of faces. Towards the Redfangs.
At Redscar, the last leader of the tribe. Redscar folded his arms.
“Chieftain has battles to fight. You leaving tribe?”
“I give him permission. He comes back if not dead.”
Rags snapped back. Redscar shrugged. Badarrow looked around, and a sea of glowing crimson eyes met his. Kevin watched, fascinated, as a Wyvern sniffed him and drooled.
This is what they said.
 
—-
 
Bird looked at Pawn. Badarrow glanced at Rags as he leaned against the Wyvern ready to take him back to Liscor. And…further beyond.
“Will you stop me?”
Bird tilted his head, curiously, gazing at Pawn. The [Priest] looked up at him.
“Stop you? I would go with you if I could. But Bird—Pivr is right. We are Antinium. I cannot ask others to die. The Antinium are going to war. Is that not so, Belgrade?”
The [Tactician] walked forwards. He nodded slowly, looking at Bird, at the floor.
“We are to battle Hectval. I was asked by Olesm to take command—Bird, I promised.”
The [Hunter] just smiled.
“If you promised, Belgrade, you must fulfill your promise. Unless you lied. I am not stupid, Pawn. Just silly. I will tell them, properly, what will happen.”
The [Priest] nodded and sat back. It was up to Pawn. The Workers and Soldiers listened as Bird stepped forwards. He faced them, the Free Antinium of the Hive, and Xrn and the Free Queen both listened and watched through their eyes.
Bird looked around, at the room full of painted signs, Fortresses of Fluff, books and toys and things to make living…better. He looked at his kin, and then back up towards the ceiling. When he spoke, his voice was not as playful, not as relaxed as it normally was.
It was still both things. Yet Bird’s voice was…serious. Intent. Conversational, matter-of-fact, and determined. Even the first Workers, Garry, Belgrade, and Pawn, who had known him from the beginning, with the [Innkeeper], had never heard him speak like that.
“I have been to Pallass, you know. Someone once said Antinium would never take Pallass’ walls and I walked on them. It was okay. There were lots of bird-Wyverns, and I got into trouble. I nearly died. But that is normal.”
The Antinium listened. Pivr’s mandibles opened and closed. Bird had done that. The [Hunter] shook his head, his antennae waving.
“They say these things. Antinium are not allowed here, or there. We are on Izril, and Liscor and the Hivelands, but we never go anywhere else. Maybe because there is nothing to see. Sometimes, though, I think there must be countless birds I’ve never seen, if I walked north, or south, until I left Liscor behind. I never did, because I did not need to. Liscor is nice. The inn is nice. But now, it seems the inn has run away. A silly little Gnoll has gone missing again, and I must find her.”
He looked around. The [Sniper] spoke.
“Her name is Mrsha. She is part of the inn. That inn. I am going after. That is why I go. If I come back…I will rejoin tribe. But I am going. To find her. Or die. Numbtongue is alive. He goes too. And Snapjaw, Ulvama.”
The Goblins stirred. They knew all those names. Rags looked at Badarrow. She nodded to him.
“It is a thing Badarrow must do. So he does. If any Goblin wants to go with—they can. They will be part of the tribe. But. They will die.”
She did not lie to them. She did not promise them illusions. You should not, between Goblins. Goblinhome focused on Badarrow. Now, they knew what he wanted.
“I cannot promise we will come back. No…I promise the other thing.”
Bird stood in front of them. His head rose, and he looked upwards. To the sky he could not see, but had stayed so many days and nights under. This place? This hive was…cramped.
Pawn felt like he could…sense Bird’s thoughts. For a second. The [Hunter] spoke then, and looked at the Antinium.
“I am asking if you wish to come. But I will tell you this: if you leave, you will never come back. That is the truth.”
The Antinium stirred. Bird walked forwards.
“We are Antinium. All these things Pawn and the not-bird over there said are true. We go to rescue Mrsha, but we are Antinium. If you leave, you will die far from the Hive. With no one to write your paint on the walls. No one will make a statue for you. It may be painful. No…I am sure it will be.”
Rags bellowed to the listening Goblins.
“This is not for the tribe! It is not for the good of Goblins!”
Bird nodded.
“We are not meant to leave Liscor.”
Redscar spoke to Badarrow.
“They will hunt you across Izril! If you go with them, they will watch you and try to slaughter you with every step you take. So why do you ask?”
He bared his teeth. A challenge, a question. Badarrow met the older Goblin’s gaze, unflinching. He thought, and Bird replied. He looked around, having prefaced the journey with the truth. The odds against them. Certain death.
“I tell you this because it is true. And I am asking because I am going, not because I want more Antinium to die with me. That is not my goal. If you were wondering.”
“Didn’t say I wanted Goblins to come.”
Badarrow addressed Redscar. The Goblin raised his brows.
“Then what?”
Bird looked around, spreading his four arms to his Antinium audience.
“I am asking if you want to come with me. Because I am going. I must. So if you must—come. If you know you must go, even if you die, that is why you go.”
He lowered his arms. Looking at Garry, Belgrade, Pawn, all of whom knew what called him. Garry was opening and closing his mandibles, but Bird laid a hand on his arm.
“Pawn is hurt. Belgrade has a promise. And you are bad at fighting, Garry. I am going. Erin is here—you can protect her. Mrsha is different.”
“You cannot leave it to anyone else, Bird?”
Garry whispered. Bird just smiled. He shook his head.
“Mrsha is my big sister. She said that and I have no idea what it means, but it means something. I am the younger brother! Although she is sillier than even me. I must go.”
The Goblin nodded.
“A debt for the inn. It is still here. For the Redfangs who were there. Headscratcher. Shorthilt. They would go. So I am going.”
Badarrow looked around. There were not Goblin words for the specific meaning of ‘debt’. Not like this.
“How many times will you pay it?”
Redscar. He didn’t scoff, but the Goblins were curious. Badarrow just gave him a pointy grin.
“You never finish, until you die.”
The other Goblin thought about this. Then he laughed and nodded.
 
—-
 
They stood there, in a single rank of bodies.
Antinium.
Goblins.
Hobgoblins and regular Goblins.
Workers and Soldiers.
Painted and unpainted, [Shamans], [Warriors], Cave Goblins and Mountain City Goblins, Redfangs, Prognugators of foreign Hives, Individuals and not.
