“If you would join Bird, and leave us…”
Pawn raised his voice. Rags shouted.
“Goblins who will follow Badarrow—”
“Step forwards.”
The line of Goblins and Antinium moved. Thousands of Goblins and Antinium, as one, did nothing.
They did not volunteer. They had heard what lay ahead and decided not to. Bird smiled and Badarrow grinned.
Good. Because they didn’t want all of them. If all of them had volunteered to die, that was a problem.
Their eyes fixed on the ones who had moved.
They stepped forwards, in perfect synchronization with no one else, and looked around, hesitated, and began to step back.
Then stopped. Goblins and Antinium looked at each other. For reasons only they knew, they had left the others. Stepped out of line.
Fifteen Antinium. Twelve Goblins.
Badarrow nodded. The Goblins of Goblinhome were tired of dying. Even for the best of reasons. Yet twelve had come. Twelve, who thought they had a debt yet to pay. He saw only three Redfangs. The rest of the Goblins were all of one kind.
Cave Goblins. He nodded at them and they bared their teeth in reply.
Bird glanced at the Workers and Soldiers. The ones who had known Mrsha. Who had gone to the inn. He made to walk towards them and two of the Antinium who had moved blocked Bird’s path.
Xeu, the Silent Antinium, and Pivr, the Flying Antinium, Prognugators both. Pivr clacked his mandibles, looking around in agitation. He gestured at Bird, as Xeu rubbed her scythe-arms, just as perturbed.
“…We have orders not to let an asset to the Hive die. You should restrain him.”
Yellow Splatters had not moved. He leaned against one of the walls and spoke as he looked at Bird.
“You could try. We will watch.”
“We have authority. Over you. You will obey.”
Xeu whispered to Bird, one of the few time she had ever spoken. Bird blinked at her.
“No.”
The Silent Antinium stared at him. Bird peered at her.
“How about that?”
He began to walk past them, and the two Prognugators blocked his way.
“We have authority.”
Pivr looked confused. Xeu raised a scythe, hesitantly, as if wondering how to stop Bird without hurting him. It was one of the Workers who spoke.
“No, you do not.”
The voice was female. It spoke through the Worker. The Antinium fell silent. Bird looked up.
“Oh, hello.”
The Free Queen of the Antinium looked at Pawn. The Prognugators of other Hives knelt. It was the Free Queen who spoke. Just this.
“Bird. I name you Revalantor of the Free Antinium. Go. If you would protect him, Xeu, Pivr, you will bow to his will.”
The two Prognugators looked up. Bird smiled.
“Thank you.”
Then he walked out of the Hive. The Antinium followed.
 
—-
 
The Goblins came down from the mountains the next day. The Antinium left their Hives.
By that time, Selys had bought as many supplies as she could. Bags of holding, horses.
There was only one Frost Wyvern. Fierre had been fretting over sunproof cloaks, their route. And…the gathering.
“Antinium? I’ve never seen an Antinium ride a horse. Goblins too? This is suicide.”
Palt was trying to talk them out of it. Bird pressed a finger against his mandibles.
“Be shush, silly horse-man. Do you think we don’t know that?”
The two Brothers leaned against their horses, looking at their travelling companions as the Goblins stared at the Antinium. Bird? He just made a fist and bumped Badarrow and Numbtongue and Snapjaw’s fists all at the same time. Ulvama ignored his fist-bump.
“Who else is coming? Who’s that?”
Ulvama frowned, standing straighter and hefting her staff warily. More people were coming from the inn. Fierre turned. She blinked.
She had expected one, not the other two. They slowed as they came down the hill. Palt looked up and scowled.
“Absolutely not! You’re not fighters!”
“Yeah, but we’re Runners. And if you’re chasing someone—there’s no one better. Fierre, I heard you wanted Garia. Not me?”
Fals and Garia Strongheart trotted down the hill. The City Runner and [Martial Artist] gave Fierre grins. The Vampire blinked at Garia.
“He wanted to come.”
“What about you? You’re not a warrior either!”
Palt trotted over. Octavia bit her fingernails.
“But it’s Mrsha. Look—it’s Mrsha, Palt.”
“Are you sure?”
“Someone has to come who can go into the cities and such, right, Fierre? I mean, besides you.”
The one actual non-monster beamed around as she clapped Fierre on the shoulder. Fals looked at Numbtongue and Badarrow. The [Bard] and [Sniper] duo glanced at him.
“You coming for Mrsha?”
“Yeah. If it wasn’t her—but that’s a kid. Right? Ryoka’s always going on adventures. I figured…I might as well.”
The two Goblins eyed the unfamiliar City Runner, but they didn’t turn him away. Fierre stared at the eclectic group, as Garia looked at Pivr and recoiled.
“What are you?”
The Flying Antinium just tilted its head, looking at Ulvama.
“What are you? A Painted Goblin?”
They didn’t know each other, some of them. The Cave Goblins nudged each other as they pointed at Garia’s abs. Bird was introducing Fierre to Xeu.
“This is Fierre, Xeu. She is Ryoka’s friend. I have no more information about her.”
“What is…a Ryoka?”
Fals was eying the rescue party. He frowned, peering around at faces.
“Antinium. Goblins. Humans. The three most-hated species are going into Izril’s south. Are you telling me we don’t have one Drake or Gnoll?”
The others looked at each other. Numbtongue shrugged.
“Drassi can’t fight. Selys can’t fight. Olesm is going to fight Hectval. Relc?”
He glanced at Badarrow and the [Sniper] made a face.
“Mm. Maybe. He gone though, right?”
“Yup. Gnolls gone too. Krshia gone. Elirr old…Halfseekers? Too far.”
The Goblins halted in listing all the people who couldn’t join in. Because someone was trotting towards them. No—two people.
The token Gnoll and Drake came to a halt, regarding the group. The Gnoll woman just snorted.
“Uh—hi. Can we come?”
Fierre blinked at the Gnoll…she had never seen before in her life. Numbtongue frowned. He eyed the Gnoll’s armor and weaponry.
“Who are you? Why do you want to find Mrsha?”
For answer, one of the two just grinned, but the Gnoll strode forwards. She stopped, and snapped a military salute as she not-quite looked past Numbtongue.
“Sergeant Gna, at your service. Sir. Heard you needed someone who could actually smell the quarry.”
4th Company’s Gnoll looked at the company. Fierre had lost her eyebrows in her hair.
“You want to come with us? Why?”
The Gnoll hesitated. She chose her words carefully.
“Wing Commander Embria got an or…request from Liscor’s Council and the Strategist. Said it was looking for volunteers from 4th Company. I volunteered.”
The others exchanged glances. Snapjaw bared her teeth in an unfriendly way as she eyed Gna.
“Really. Why do you want to come?”
The Gnoll scowled at the ground and kicked at some grass.
“Because I…really want to go with you. Look, do you want me to help? I can go if you don’t.”
She looked hopeful, but after some silent thought, Bird and Numbtongue nodded. Gna sighed.
“Creler eggs.”
The last of the volunteers was the most confusing, although she at least, was recognizable. The onyx-scaled Drake had a pack on her shoulders and a horse. She kept glancing behind her.
“I’d like to come too! My name’s Salkis. Uh—are we moving fast?”
Numbtongue blinked at Salkis. The Drake shot him a grin and looked around, sizing up the others. Fierre frowned.
“Why do you want to join us?”
The Drake took a shuddering breath. She was practically dancing on her feet—not least because someone was going to notice her body-double soon. She’d run away from home. As to why? She looked at Numbtongue.
“Because this is the most fun thing I’ve ever seen in my life. I can help. I know how to fight. There will be fighting, right?”
He just shrugged, backing up warily. Salkis fell into place. Fierre opened her mouth, but she didn’t have the heart to say no.
…No. Rather, she looked at the group and felt like this was madness. Over six different species, with various levels of gear, experience, backgrounds—not all friends—
“This isn’t an army. We’re all going to die.”
“If that’s your speech, I hate it. Thanks.”
Sergeant Gna called back. The Antinium just hefted their packs, silently determined. The Goblins started laughing.
“What’s so funny?”
“Good joke.”
Snapjaw nudged Fierre, then looked confused when no one else started laughing. Snapjaw swung herself into the Frost Wyvern’s saddle as Badarrow joined her.
“Tracks go past Bloodfields. We go that way. Uh. We marching? You all slow.”
The others looked at each other. The craziness of this dawned on them—well, some of them—at last. Fierre glanced up at Snapjaw.
“You’re going to fly?”
“You want Icecube to walk?”
The Goblin looked offended. Fierre shook her head, trying to explain. She pointed at Liscor’s walls, and the inn, where the army of the City of Inventions was clearly watching their group. One of them was calling back towards another, unseen.
“They’ve marked us. Instantly. We might not get past Pallass alive; we’ll have to walk. They’ll be [Scrying] us everywhere we go. Maybe even sending people to kill us.”
Snapjaw glanced at the Pallassian Drakes. Ulvama just snorted.
“They will try to scry us. I am a [Shaman].”
She poked her chest importantly. Fierre gave her a dubious look, but they had few [Mages] and her artifacts didn’t pertain to a group. Salkis opened her mouth, hesitated, and closed it.
No one said anything. Snapjaw was looking around, ready to give an order. Numbtongue hesitated himself, and Sergeant Gna looked like she wanted to go back, throw the short straw she’d drawn in Embria’s face, and have a drink.
It was the Worker who walked forwards. He turned and faced the group.
“Yes. We will go and live or die. And it is time to go, I think. Follow me.”
Bird raised his voice, and the band of Goblins, Antinium, Humans, Stitch-Person, Drake, Gnoll, and Vampire, all looked at him.
The Antinium was looking ahead. He pointed to Snapjaw.
“You will fly and scout. Ulvama will cover you from scrying. We will all march together, those not riding.”
“Slow.”
Snapjaw objected, gesturing at the Antinium on foot. She didn’t care how long they could march; even Redfangs would fall behind the Brothers and others on horses. Bird shook his head.
“They will not be.”
The Goblin narrowed her eyes. She had served under Reiss, and she was as experienced as any Goblin Chieftain. Heck, she had been one until being subsumed into his army. Rags was one person to take orders from, but this Antinium? She leaned over Icecube’s neck.
“Oh yeah? Prove it.”
Bird tilted his head. He met Snapjaw’s gaze without flinching, and then raised his hand. He spoke.
“[On the March: Vigilance and Speed]!”
Fierre felt the Skill activate. She felt her body grow lighter, and she was suddenly aware of a Drake marking her from the inn.
The others felt it too. Snapjaw’s mouth opened wide, Ulvama started, and Sergeant Gna snapped to attention. They stared at Bird, even the other Prognugators and Antinium. Numbtongue looked at his friend.
“How did you…?”
Bird calmly looked about.
“You silly people. Did you think I did not have Skills? I learned chess from Erin. I beat Erin. I am Bird the Hunter. As Ksmvr would say—”
His mandibles paused. He opened and closed them. He tilted his head and waved his antennae.
“…I have no idea. I do not like Ksmvr. Here is what I will say: I am better than all of you. Follow my orders! Authority!”
They began to march. Fast, faster than anyone expected. Ulvama began casting magic as she rode, and Bird strode ahead of the Antinium, ignoring Pivr’s panicked questions.
Someone was laughing as they headed south, this war band of insanity. Insanity—bravery—it called to him.
Niers Astoragon had wondered if Bird could sell his Skills well. It turned out the Antinium was a natural. The Titan propped himself up, from the hiding place on Bird’s body.
He had been found. Not by Rags, or anyone else. Not the Eyes of Pallass, but by the Antinium, who’d stopped, following Apista.
 
—-
 
He’d reached down and pulled the needle out. Then crouched beside Niers.
“How did you find me?”
Bird glanced at Apista, who was buzzing around worriedly, looking for Mrsha.
“I am Bird. I stare at small things and you are very small. What are you?”
 
—-
 
So they rode. Bird tilted his head to the sky. He hummed as he left the inn behind.
[Revalantor Level 3!]
[Skill – Antinium Telepathy (Weak) obtained!]
 
[Liar Level 1!]
[Skill – Convincing Lies obtained!]
 
—-
 
Ishkr watched them go. First Mrsha—then them.
They were all gone.
The Earthers, the guests, the family who had lived there. Erin remained, but she was gone too. The Gnoll walked through the empty inn, ignoring the Pallassian Drakes securing it.
They were not the inn. Now…he ran his hand across the counter. Walked through the kitchen.
Into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The Gnoll walked up the hill, stopped at the frozen bier.
“They’ve all gone, Erin. What should I do?”
Without her, the inn was…drifting apart. The Gnoll sat down for a while.
“Until they come back.”
He rose, and walked down the hill. Until they came back…Ishkr realized this was the truth. He went to every shutter, and closed them. Boarded up the windows smashed in. He locked all the doors, and went to the front door.
They would move the portal door to Liscor. Unless Pallass decided to operate it here. But the inn itself?
It took him time to find a piece of wood suitable. And paint, a brush.
He found it in the basement, where an [Innkeeper] had abandoned it long ago. Ishkr wrote carefully, making the words larger. He put the sign up, over the door, and prepared to nail it in.
 
The Wandering Inn is closed. Please come back later.
 
He hesitated, as he took a few nails and a hammer. It was such a bleak message. It was—wrong.
The [Head Server] looked at the message. He thought of what Erin would write. Then he quickly reversed the piece of wood, and dipped the brush into the paint. He wrote again, and this time stood back. Satisfied, Ishkr put it up, nailed it into the door, and looked at it.
This was what the sign said:
 
The Wandering Inn is closed, sorry. Please return later. We’ll be back one day.
 
He read it again, and nodded.
“Yes. That will do.”
It was a promise. The Gnoll looked at it, and then turned his head. But they were already gone.
So he walked back into the inn, to serve the Pallassian [Soldiers]. To clean up.
But before it all, Ishkr paused by the bar. He looked around the empty inn, and found a good glass. He poured some liquid into it, went for the little lantern under the bar.
