It was a weird feeling when the words left my lips. I didn’t expect them, but they fit what was going through my head. Maybe it was the hormones talking too. At that point, it was hard to tell. A more surprising emotion was anxiety. All of the sudden, when I thought of my meeting with Yawm, it made me nervous. As I laid there with Althea, I reasoned through the sudden spike in dread. No matter how much I thought about it, it boiled down to one thing.

I had something to lose now. Up till this point, I didn’t have anymore family, friends, or anything really. Over time I built friendships, but friendships won’t stop someone from being reckless. All of a sudden I wanted to keep something. I wanted to protect something. My life wasn’t just some ploy for survival.

I owned a joy that I wasn’t about to let go. Althea loved me, and she was one of the few people who ever had. That meant I wasn’t about to let someone fuck up her future or my future with her. The more I dwelled on that, the more I wanted to get up and move. Whenever Althea drifted off to sleep, that’s exactly what I did.

I lifted myself off the bed. As I left Althea, my armor folded back onto me. As it did, the armor dug spines that connected back into my bones. The armor hadn’t disconnected from my bones or nerves, just my skin. The moment I left Althea, the armor refused to unlatch once more.

I could get my armor off my skin if I focus, but it didn’t want too. It would snap back the moment I stopped focusing on it. It was like how the armor let me eat and use the bathroom. When I needed to eat, my armor molded out of the way of my mouth. When I needed to shit, it molded out of the way.

It understood that I had needs. In this case, the armor bent out of the way and even protected Althea and I while we did it. I worried about that for ages during my free time. It turned out that my armor would block off everything to make sure the sex would happen. And to think, here I thought it would cock block me forever.

Refreshed and motivated, I left a note on Althea’s desk before leaving her room. It explained where I was going and what I was doing. It also let her know that I thoroughly enjoyed it, and that she better not cheat on me with someone else. I figured it was a clever way of saying we were dating.

I passed out of the room, reaching deeper into the mountain. Torix sent a map of the mountain base to me. Within the outline, it showed my own personal room. Wanting the quiet and calm, I reached my room before sitting down.

I focused my thoughts with a few deep breaths. A moment later, I pulled out my grimoire and set to work. Before I started, I opened my status screen and glanced at my armor’s stats. At the bottom were the upgrades from the dimensional cipher. I looked at them.

[Modifications - The dimensional fabric composing this structure has been modified with code fromthe dimensional cipher. The bonuses are as follows.

+72 Strength

+72 Dexterity

+20 Endurance]

They were solid bonuses now, with the strength and dexterity bonuses being higher. The difference was that I had had them for over a week to get the bonuses they gave. On the other hand, the endurance had only been on for less than one day. That meant I would be getting double the attributes.

It left a bitter taste in my mouth. Given time, I could stop Yawm with zero risk. That wasn’t an option anymore though. If the overseer discovered Yawm couldn’t escape, earth would be glassed. If Yawm had months of time to do whatever, he could have already destroyed earth.

Hell, Ajax didn’t seem like the most patient guy either. Letting Yawm continue without any kind of resistance was asking for death. It’s kind of like how the old saying goes, keep your friends close and your enemies closer.

First things first, we needed a bit more man power. I sent Torix a message.

(Dimension C-138, 9:46 P.M. 1/12/01) - Can you send me a list of the current steel legion members under our command? I’ll need to send them all a message about joining my new guild.

Torix replied in seconds.

(Torix Worm, of Darkhill, 9:46 P.M. 1/12/01) - You can create a guild? If so, I’d like to discuss the details of it. Regardless, I’ll forward the list. To shorten the process, simply go towards your messages and use thereply to all function. It will send a message to all of the list of names.

Make sure you send me a message as well. Knowing you and your build, your legacy gives endurance. It’s a stat I could use more of.

I grinned at the message, the idea of empowering our force more than just attractive.

(Dimension C-138, 9:47 P.M. 1/12/01) - Thanks for the tip. I’ll send the message right away.

I received a message outlining all the steel legion names used by Schema. Now I needed to make the actual guild. After a quick groan, I opened my legacy menu. Whenever I did, a message popped up.

You may unlock a guild. Do you wish to create a new guild? Y/N?

I pressed the yes button.

What is the name of your new guild? ___________?

After a minute or two of thought, I named the guild The Harbinger’s Legion. It wasn’t a complicated name, but it got across what I wanted. With that finished, I selected the finalize button.

Your guild, The Harbinger’s Legion, was successfully created. You may send invites to your guilds, set up quests and bounties, and claim ownership of a city. It is recommended that you only give out your legacy bonusafter the completion of an entry level quest. Otherwise the potency of your guild, along with its reputation, will spiral downwards.

In the case of most guilds, quality trumps quantity. Good luck with your new guild aspiring sentient.

Considering how impotent the steel legion had been at handling Yawm and the plague, I agreed with the message’s tip. With my guild finished, I sent a simple message to all surviving members of the legion.

(Dimension C-138, 9:47 P.M. 1/12/01) - This is the Harbinger of Cataclysm. We have slayed the four followers and now we must unite against Yawm. Before we go into battle, I offer each of you a reward. This invitation to my guild will reward you with survivability and strength. Each of you has earned it.

Enjoy the downtime as we prepare for the final confrontation. After we’ve recovered, we will make our final push. We will go and slay the destroyer of our homes and the killer of our families. We will go and tear Yawmapart. Rest well, warriors.

I sent the message, not dwelling on it too much. I figured giving it a larger than life tone would help the soldiers. If I was going to be a symbol, I needed to act the part. That included making my messages sound epic, at least in my mind.

With that finished, there was one last task at hand. I needed more mastery of the cipher. Everything else was out of the way, so I dug down into my work. That started by glancing at the rune for endurance.

It was a masterful character, the lines etched with certainty. It lacked any doubt in what it was, and I enjoyed seeing that in my own work. With that in mind, I worked on other runes using the same method.

First, I would think about whatever the concept was. Willpower, strength, it didn’t matter as long as it represented what I thought about the concept. After that, I sketched a few outlines of the character. I would compare these sketches with images of other eldritch runes, Baldag-Ruhl’s runes in particular.

He created the biggest incantation I’d ever seen by far, and it worked without a hitch. Yawm’s runes completely fucked the other followers up by comparison. With that in mind, I scoured the ritual that Baldag-Ruhl used, finding the runes fascinating. It used to look like gibberish, but with time, I realized the magnum opus that it really was.

From start to finish, the runes chained together a vast understanding of the universe. It was like staring at the Sistine Chapel. Finding a flaw was a hopeless endeavor. All I could do was marvel. Marvel and study.

So study I did. I jotted notes on the rock ground of my room, drawing lines and figures of how the runes connected. Each symbol related with the next, like a flowing river of knowledge. If I wanted the kind of power Baldag-Ruhl had in his runes, chaining my runes together was a must.

Making that happen was a different story altogether. Considering the runes responded well to my endurance, I used that rune as the base. I attempted carving an extra character to enhance endurance. This rune was about time. The way I saw it, staying power was a key part of having good endurance.

It was discipline, keeping to the difficult parts of life even if they dragged on. Pushing past those sticking points was essential for success. It was one of the most necessary aspects of enduring. If anything, that whole idea could be taken to an extreme. If someone was unstoppable and immortal, then they were something like gravity.

They would become a force of nature, something that others moved around. The idea of a perpetual existence reminded me of the Old Ones. I only knew two by name, Etorhma and Baldowah, but both of them left ripples around them. People spoke about them like black holes. They were things best left avoided and un-angered.

They were both perennial forces. In my mind, it was the perfect representation of endurance. Even after the earth was consumed by the sun, they would remain, unaffected and uncaring. There was something both majestic and frightening about that.

As I carved out the rune, these ideas took shape. With each line, they formed a firmer foundation of the letter. With each indentation, I filled out the concept, making it tangible. By the time I finished the rune, beads of sweat poured down my forehead as I grinned.

Working with the language was a challenge, but it was rewarding at the same time. I glanced at the time. It was nearly morning already. One day already passed since my meeting with Torix. Two remained. It was odd how time flew whenever I focused on a project like this.

It was like getting lost in a good book. With the rune finished, I channeled my mana into the endurance rune and the rune for time. I stood up and walked over towards Althea’s room. Since I couldn’t need quiet to focus on this, I might as well be there when she wakes up.

By the time I reached Althea’s room, I charged one set of the runes. I placed it over the endurance rune on the inside of my forearm. It consumed the lesser rune beneath it. I walked into Althea’s room, finding herstill laying in the white sheets of her bed.

Her chest slowly rose and lowered, her breathing steady. A tiny bit of drool leaked out of her mouth. It rose and fell with each of her breaths. I couldn’t help but snicker a little at it before walking over. I sat beside her bed, listening to her as I channeled my mana. After I finished the second rune, I placed it onto my other forearm.

With both of the dimensional characters finished, I channeled my mana into them. Just like the other runes, they gobbled up my mana like starving hyenas. With the runes completed, two arms wrapped around my neck. They pulled me against the side of the bed.

A pair of lips whispered into my ear, “That was amazing.”

A second later, Althea rested her chin on top of my face. My helmet peeled off, letting her rest on my tousled hair. Althea rubbed her chin in it, “I never thought your hair would be soft either.”

I looked up at her, a grin plastered onto my lips, “What did youexpect, metal cords?”

She lifted herself up, tugging on my hair with a gentle pull, “Not exactly...Let’s see...I thought your hair would feel like monster teeth or barbed wire.”

I rolled my eyes, “Really now?”

She grabbed the sides of my face, kissing me. Her soft, luscious lips were intoxicating. With her face upside down to mine, she smirked, “Yes. I did think it would be like that.”

I stood up, turning around towards her, “Well I thought sex with you would be hellish.”

Althea frowned before I leaned close to her. I pressed her chinup to me,

“I’m glad to see I was wrong though.”

She went for another kiss, but I pulled back, making her work for it. I dodged two or three other attempts before she jumped out of the bed. She wrapped her arms around my neck and her legs around me chest. With her voluptuous body pressed against mine, she kissed me again.

She pulled her lips away, “Want me to prove you wrong again.”

I shook my head, “I’d love too, but I’ve got about two more days before meeting the legend himself. I have a few more preparations left.”

Althea frowned, “Ah, really?”

I raised my eyebrows, “Yes, really.” I lifted her up before setting her onto the ground. As I did, her body bounced in the right places. I glanced away,

“Put on some clothes too. You’re distracting me.”

Althea raised an eyebrow, “What, really?”

I flushed, “Yeah, of course you are.”

She giggled, flushing back at me. After she got her clothes on, an awkward silence passed. I broke it,

“Hey.”

Althea grabbed her hands in front of her,

“What is it?”

I wrapped an arm around her, looking away while I spoke,

“I don’t do this kind of stuff with just anyone...and I uh, I just wanted you to know that this means we’re dating...right?”

Althea beamed, “What? Really? Wait, I didn’t meant that. I meant of course we are. Duh.”

I grinned back, “Good.”

I let her go before walking out of the room, “I’ll be in my room studying the runes. I didn’t want you waking up alone and get some misconceptions about anything.”

She looked up at me, “We’ll have lunch?”

With a glowing grin, I raised a fist, “Always. I’ll see you then.”

“I’ll see you too. I...I love you.”

A spark of lightning shot up my spine. After that passed, I replied, “I, uh, I love you too.”

