Althea giggled as I stumbled out of the room. I walked away from my room, a bit of euphoria overcoming me. I glanced around, making sure I was alone. After I knew I was, I shouted,

“Hell yeah.”

Althea was a sexy and fun woman. Getting someone like that as a girlfriend was epic, at least in my eyes. I was too far away from Althea to tell, but she might just be celebrating too. Even outside of the sexy part, it was nice having someone I could share my problems with.

Considering Althea wasn’t a normal person either, it meant we had a lot in common. Knowing there was someone I could spend my time with felt good. If I hadn’t succeeded in my fights or studying, Torix wouldn’t have been my friend or teacher for long. Our friendship was conditional. Althea and I were different though.

We didn’t get together for strength or for some alliance between parties. We got together because we liked each other. There was something deeply comforting about that, at least to me.

So by the time I reached my room, I was on cloud nine. Having sex for the first time in over a year was a plus too. Since I wasn’t focusing on my runes or studying, I noticed more of the mountain base this time around too.

The hallways were all jagged, like they were cut out in sections. It looked like Althea had sliced through the stone before Torix had minions carry the stone out. This meant any corners were razor sharp, enough to cut an unarmored person. I passed a few of the steel legion. The cuts on their shoulders verified my thoughts.

The fluorescent lights covered everything in a pale light. Since all the caverns were lit with bulbs on tripods, people and objects cast long shadows. The air was warm and smelled old. The walls of stone were almost all granite, the rock looking like splashes of salt and pepper.

As I reached my room, I forgot about my surroundings. I sat down on the floor, pushing those thoughts out of my head. I needed focus. With that in mind, I intended on adding other additions to the runes. For however long, I sat and studied and carved.

As time dragged on, the work weighed on me. There’s the kind of work you can do all day. This wasn’t that kind of task. My mind was numb after just a few hours. I took a break, having a pleasant lunch with Althea, but then I got back on the grind. It wasn’t like all progress came in bursts.

Sometimes it was the slow, relentless labor that got the most done. This was one of those times. With that in mind, I kept at it until dinner. Another break with Althea left me refreshed, but I went right back to my room and drilled. The minutes faded into hours. I fell into the runes, studying every part of them.

The runes were like a brick wall, but my mind was like a hammer. Eventually, cracks formed in the barrier. I mean, it wasn’t too bad. I would compare it with trying to break a brick with a flacid penis. Yenno, not too bad.

Just like that, the second day passed before I even realized it. As the third day dawned, the pressure of the situation hit its peak. I dug deep into the runic glyphs like they were my passion in life. In a sense, I put my back against the wall and thought of the situation as life and death.

In a way, it was. They day passed along with the night without any success. On the morning I would meet Yawm, I finally succeeded. I created a rune that summed up another facet of endurance. This was an odd one, but it was the idea of faith.

Whenever anyone tries to do anything, there will be people that doubt them. Doubt will infect their mind and paralyze them. In order to continue the endeavor, a certain level of faith was necessary. There had to be a belief in one’s self or one's actions. Otherwise that doubt will come in and crush the motivation to continue.

Adding this aspect of endurance was more abstract than longevity and unconditional persistence. Combining it with the other runes proved difficult, and it took many tries. I finally did it though. The dimensional rune was made of three different characters, every piece of it ornately crafted. It flowed together without any imperfection.

As I fed mana into my grimoire, an hour passed before a single copy of the rune generated. As I finished the second one, a guard of Torix knocked on my door. I let the glowing runes fall onto my forearms. They wrapped around my forearms, covering them in a complex spiral.

The incantation was well over double the length of the previous markings. As I stood up, I observed them over my arm. It surprised me that Schema let me do this. Schema was tight lipped about the cipher, and he ruined entire worlds over the secrecy of it. Prancing around with on me should be a capital offense.

After thinking of Yawm again, I remembered why Schema was takinga risk on me. There wasn’t much of a chance that we’d escape earth. Before leaving, I checked out the upgrades my armor gave me. They were growing.

[Modifications - The dimensional fabric composing this structure has been modified with code from the dimensional cipher. The bonuses are as follows.

+72 Strength

+72 Dexterity

+60 Endurance

+4% to effect of legacies]

The extra bonuses paired well with the creation of my new guild. It made me think about the others. Even though it wasn’t a massive boost of stats, my legacy would help some. Understanding that, I opened my statusscreen. I sent Torix, Althea, Kessiah, and Hod invitations to my guild.

They didn’t have to accept, but giving them the option was a good idea. With everything finished, I took a deep breath. I did all that I could think to do. I opened the door, a dried out corpse looking at me. Black fire was in place of normal eyes, giving his face a sunken in, eerie look. It was a classic Torix kind of look for a minion.

I pointed a finger at him, “So uh, Skelly I guess...What’s up?”

Skelly pointed towards Torix’s room, so I followed. We paced past a few hallways in the mountain before entering Torix’s base. As normal, maps, utensils, and runes covered the wall. It was like every surface was the page of a dense notebook. It was a sort of chaos that only Torix understood.

After walking into the room, the entire troop was here. Althea, Kessiah, Ajax, Hod, and Torix were standing in a group. They glanced at me as I walked in through an old, wooden doorway.

The scent of old paper and earth wafted as I paced up. I grinned at Althea and she grinned back. Ajax pointed at my runes, interrupting us, “You’ve advanced the runes already?”

I nodded, holding up a forearm so they could see it, “Yeah, it’s a work in progress.”

Torix spread out his arms, “Everything always is. Now, are you ready to go see Yawm?”

I sighed, clasping my hands into fists, “Of course.”

Torix grinned, “Perfect. Now, during your stay with the evil overlord, Althea and Kessiah will be focusing on rebuilding. We’ve eliminated as many of Yawm’s forces as possible. His remaining force is about 3% of its previous power. Unfortunately, Yawm can eliminate our entire army by himself. Therefore-”

Torix snapped his finger. A map made of white energy appeared at the center of the room. It was a three-dimensional structure of the mountain. Torix pointed at it,

“We will build this mountain into a new city.”

Torix pointed at me, “In fact, it will be considered your city.”

I pointed at my chest, “My city? Why?”

Torix pointed over his head. His titles appeared.

Torix Worm, of Darkhill(lvl 1702, The Harbinger’s Legion)

Torix raised both his hands, “Even I am a member of your guild. Unlike the rest of us, you can claim an area as your own, even by galactic law. That is not an opportunity we will waste.”

Torix spun around the 3-d map of the mountain, “We will build a fortress city. After that, we will create a new empire of sorts.”

I raised an eyebrow, “What the fuck...really?”

Torix grinned, “Yes, really. Your legacy and ability to create quality items gives us the ability to organize a country. The bonuses you’ve given are compelling. Not only have you given enchanted armors, but you’ve given raw stats as well.”

Torix looked around, gesturing at the entire mountain with a hand, “This is, without a doubt, the single most powerful fighting force on Earth. Every place on earth is relegated to dungeons of a much lower level. They don’t have access to the same high-level enemies that these members of the legion have.”

Torix raised his hands right in front of his face, “Therefore we can ensure humanity’s future after we’ve slain Yawm.”

I frowned, “What do you mean humanity’s future?”

Kessiah leaned her weight onto one hip, “Newer races have a really tough time in Schema’s system. It’s actually one of the remnants calling cards for why Schema’s evil.”

Torix nodded,

“Indeed it is. As you’re well aware of, Schema doesn’t offer a pleasant and smooth transitions for newer planets. Planets that develop slowly are overrun by guilds coming in, like the steel legion. In extreme cases, the guilds will fight one another and destroy a planet’s resources in the process.”

Kessiah grimaced, “Think about it like a bunch of scavengers fighting over a carcass. It’s not a pretty sight.”

I frowned, “Did the remnants ever do that?”

Kessiah gave me a look like I was ridiculous, “What? Hell no.”

“Why not? Considering how strong remnants are, why didn’t you guys just take some place over?”

Kessiah sighed, “Because we’ve tried. Anytime we get grounded somewhere, higher level sentients come in and start killing us. We’re all unknowns, meaning we all have bounties. That means we’re like a giant pack of high level eldritch that give extra rewards when you kill us.”

Kessiah’s gaze turned dark, “There’s even information brokers that sell information about where different remnants are. If we ever make a home on a planet, we turn into a hunting safari. They find us then hunt us down like animals. That’s why we’re always on the move, wandering around with no home.”

Hod replied, “Hod think that not fair. Lady Friend #2 deserves home.”

Kessiah looked up at Hod. At first, she looked like she was going to hit him, but then Kessiah sighed, “Thanks Hod.”

Torix nodded, “It’s a painful reality.” He pointed towards me, “However, since you can create a city and guild, you can grant a certain level of protection. If someone where to harm Althea, you may simply create a bounty for the killer’s head. That’s the case with anyone who’s been given your legacy.”

Ajax narrowed his eyes, “Bounty hunters are relentless. They won’t stop at something as simple as that.”

Torix pointed at Ajax, “Perhaps that might be true if the owner of the guild isn’t that powerful. The protection of an S tier guild can counteract S tier bounties, however. By itself, that’s an enormous utility. In our situation, we’re being granted the protection of a C tier legacy. While not enormous, it’s a world of difference when compared with no defense at all.”

Althea chimed in, “What would an S tier guild look like?”

Torix pointed a finger up, “A simple example would be the Overseers. They’re technically a guild with a ridiculous up-front requirement and an enormous legacy reward.”

Ajax crossed his arms, “This planet could be glassed or turned into a fringe world soon. Why would you spend all that time building a city you don’t even know you’ll be able to live in?”

Torix raised an eyebrow, “I just outlined the reasons. I could assume that Yawm will kill Daniel and that we all die, but that doesn’t do us very much good, now does it?”

Ajax tapped a finger against his forearm, “It seems like a poor way to spend your final days of life.”

I shrugged, “Eh, it’s a hell of a lot better than knowing you’re going to die. Besides, let’s not give up on me so soon. Wait till I’m dead first.”

Ajax spoke with a sinister tone, “What exactly are you going to say to him? Please teach me these runes? You’re going to need some kind of plan for facing off against him. Yawm is very...enigmatic.”

I tapped the side of my head, “Oh don’t worry about me. I’ve already calculated all kinds of scenarios and planned out responses. Besides, thinking too much about it isn’t going to help. It’s like thinking too much about a job interview. I’ll end up looking nervous. If anything, I just need to relax and look at ease.”

Ajax laughed, “Hah, you have the confidence at least.” He uncrossed his arms, standing up, “I’ll give you that.”

Torix turned towards me, “Then I suppose there’s no more reason to wait, is there?”

I nodded, “Alright, just as a recap, here’s the plan. I go in and warn Yawm that I have Ajax as a hostage. He gives me information on the eldritch runes, and I tell him that I’ll free Ajax from his grasp. Once I’ve learned what I can, I lure him into a trap that allows us to push him into another dimension.”

Torix frowned, “That is the core of it.”

I nodded, “Alright. Let’s go.”

Torix walked up to me, “We’ll travel together. I will be one of your advisors as you approach.”

Althea walked up, “Wait, why are you going with him? I thought you said you were planning on taking the route with the least risk?”

Torix turned towards her, “I thought about what you said. I believe my presence will enhance Daniel’s chances for success. Outside of that-” A sly grin crept onto Torix’s face,

“I no longer want to use Daniel’s build as an excuse to avoid danger. I’m not looking for a plan with the least risk anymore. I’m looking for a plan with the greatest chance for success.”

Althea ran up and wrapped her arms around Torix’s waist. Torix laid his hand on her head, “Thank you. If we don’t return, then don’t let Yawm find you. Do whatever you must to escape.”

