Torix hugged her back, “It would do my memory a disservice if your caught, so keep yourself safe.” Torix looked up at Hod, “You on the other hand, do fly into the sun. I’m sure you’d be more useful as grilled chicken then as you are.”

Hod shook his head, “But then Hod be dry like Dry Man. No one like dry chicken.”

Althea giggled as Torix released her and sighed, “I want you to know Hod, I hate you. If I die, I will haunt you until your untimely death.”

Hod scratched the side his beak with a three taloned finger, “Hod confused. If Dry Man hate Hod, why Dry Man stay with Hod even after death? Hod think that a sign of undying love.”

Hod raised his hand, “Ah, Hod understand! Dry Man feelings confused.” Hod grabbed his chin as he admired himself, “Hod understand. Hod have that effect on people.”

Torix dragged his hands across his face, “Let’s just leave.”

I neared Althea, “Wait a second.” I hugged Althea, lifting her off the ground. I whispered into her ear, “I’ll be back. I promise.”

She flushed, her blue gray skin taking on a hint of purple on her cheeks. She whispered back, “You better.”

I set her down with a smile before waving at the others, “See you guys later.”

We finished our goodbyes before Torix and I walked off. We reached outside the mountain, and we raced towards Springfield. Torix floated beside me as I shot in and out of the ground. If I went full speed, I outpaced him to my surprise. I kept my pace slow, letting Torix and I arrive at the time.

Once we arrived at Springfield, the city had changed. The gray mist returned where the world tree had been. The roots of the world tree already melted back into the ground. Lush forests sprouted up near these decayed roots. It was like painted streaks of a different world invaded our own.

Above these forests, Abstractions floated through the skies. Their reach was broad, covering more than just the city. Off in the distant skyline, abstractions were being sent. They would be opening up rifts elsewhere. Even if we killed Yawm, cleaning up his mess would take a long time.

Torix groaned, “There will be so many rifts to close when you’re finished with Yawm.”

I shot out of the ground, discharging my runes, “We’ll have to wait and see. I’m focusing on killing Yawm first.”

I shot through the air, Torix keeping pace.

“Are you nervous?”

I shook my head. I landed onto the ground, sliding through the earth before firing back up.

“No. It’s kind of like how a soldier gets used to killing someone during war. It becomes normal.”

We dashed across the suburbia. As we did, I erased all my doubts. There was no point in worrying. I did all I could do. This was it. It was now or never. I needed to be fearless. I needed to be unstoppable. There was no option to run or fail.

So I steeled myself as we reached the gray cloud of mist at the center of Springfield. Torix covered himself in a protective shield of mana as we passed through the mist. Once onto the other side, we entered a different world.

The yellow, sickly junglers covered the ground. They sky was a bloody crimson, bright and brooding. Beneath us, deformed monsters crawled around. No two abharitions were the same. Each of them were unique, a different nightmare given life. At the center of the rift, the lake from before remained.

Torix and I landed beside it. We walked up to it. Within it, there was a crystalline compound. Clear and opaque panels composed the structure, as if it was a building made of ice. One of the abstractions flew down, landing beside us. On the back of the abstraction, a named one rested.

It’s face was geometric, as if it was created from the abstractions. A permanent, eerie grin carved across its face. Its eyes were holes in its head, and its ears were massive like a bats. Covered in a gray skin, it’s thin, lithe figure looked creepy. It spread out its arms, its mouth opening. A dry, crackling voice spoke to us,

“I can tell by the might of your presence. You must be his visitors. Follow me.”

The abstraction beneath the named one crumpled up, like a ball of paper folding in on itself. It turned into a tiny ball beneath the named one. It picked up the ball before the named one walked to the water.

As it entered the lake, the water spread away from it. Torix and I followed him into the depths of the lake. The water dropped behind us, forming a bubble of air as we moved. The water solidified into ice beneath the named one’s steps, giving us a stairway to walk down.

We neared the crystalline structure beneath the lake. As we walked towards it, I recognized it all as ice. The named one walked through one of the walls, the ice melting. Steam poured up into our bubble and the room. The named one bowed towards us, placing a hand on his chest,

“You may come into his domain.”

Before we walked in, I identified the named one.

Keeja, the Corrupted Abstraction(lvl 1,500) - Yawm has taken ambient mana, coalesced enough to form a soul, then tamed the deformed spirit. This results in a creature that lacks the will to make its own decisions. It’s strength in magic allows it to be a threat despite this lack of reasoning.

It acts as the servant of Yawm, handling the miscellaneous tasks he needs done. You shouldn’t have any problems destroying it, if you choose to do so.

I kept my chest and head high, walking into the building. As we walked, I observed the building. The hallways were made of ice, some of it opaque and some clear. The clear sections showed the surrounding lake. As we paced inside, the animals outside shifted to life.

Creatures of the deep swam nearby, some of them odd and alien. Others were elegant and beautiful, awash in the phosphorescent light their body’s produced. Some of these glowing, undersea animals stayed near the clear sections of the walls. These sections acted like windows, shedding light into the room.

Since most of them were orange and yellow, it gave an almost sunny interior. They would brighten as we neared them then dim as we walked away. It made us a traveling ball of light in the ice structure. These lights would catch on smooth embroidering on the walls, shaping the light.

It was beautiful as anything I’d ever seen. It was hard not to be overwhelmed by it, but I kept my expression unimpressed. We reached the middle of a hallway. Within it, a door of pure white was present. It smelled like nothing, as if it was sterile. This entire time, there was no twisted experiments or lab victims.

If anything, it felt like Yawm had turned the eldritch into his playthings.

With its creepy grin, Keeja gave us another bow, “My maker is on the other side. May you enjoy the meeting.”

I glanced at Torix. He looked back at me. He frowned, as did I. We stared at each other for a second, an obvious tension. I turned toward the door, holding in the sight I wanted to let loose.

I pushed open the door, no sound ebbing from the hinges. As I did, the sight of books opened up to me. There were thousands of them lining shelves. Most of them were old, rare looking tomes. The ancient, yellowed look of the pages only made them that much more impressive.

Furs covered the floor, coating it in all kinds of animal skins. Some would have been vicious in life. Nearer towards the end of the room, a square table surrounded an old chair. The legs and panels of the chair where a dull white, contrasting the darker colors of the furs.

Pages were spread all across the desk. Littered on these pages were characters of the dimensional cipher. Hunched over this desk and writing with the runes was a giant. Covered in bark skin, its muscles rippled as it marked with a pen made of bone. The red ink covering the pen came from a bowl at his side.

It was the upper half of a skull full of blood. All along its shoulders, the eldritch runes were carved. They were like scars, each of them proof of a history and sweeping knowledge. As if utterly absorbed in his task, his hulking figure shook for a moment.

He lifted his head, a mane of green crawling across his back. As it turned to us, the green, vibrant glow of it reached towards us. There was a density to him, like he made of moving metal. It was as if he shouldn’t even be able to move, yet he did. And effortlessly so.

Unlike Ajax, this porytians hands and fingers were thick. Each would be like the branch of a tree. As his eyes set on me, a wave of fear crawled along my back. They were the eyes of a surgeon. They didn’t peer at me like I was a person. I was simply a set of muscle, bone, and skin waiting to be used.

I wanted to hold my breath. I wanted to scream. I wanted to cower and bow before this entity. It was so much more than I imagined. It was like looking at a god or an old one. An overseer was strong, but it didn’t have a will of its own. It wasn’t a self made monster.

This thing was. It didn’t even need Schema. It chose to defy convention, no matter the cost. That resolve saturated its frame. It opened its hand towards us, muscle under its skin rippling. It’s voice was ancient and mighty and immovable.

“I am Yawm. I’ve been looking forward to meeting you, Harbinger.”
