“Enter,” Dominus Illus said, seated at the broad metal table that dominated the receiving room. He was aboard the Heart of Adamant, in the quarters ceded to him by the ship’s Cento. Not looking up at the door’s motion, he continued studying the schematic of the vessel spread on the table before him. The annotations, written in the latest Imperial Coding, resolved themselves into common before his eyes. To most others, they and the schematic as a whole would read as complete gibberish.

When he finally looked up, it was not the Cento standing before him, but rather one of the man’s Sereni. Setting aside his annoyance, Illus gestured for the officer to speak. “Well? Do you have the information I requested?”

“Apologies, Dominus, but Cento Lenus first wishes me to—“

Illus merely had to narrow his eyes to stop the Sereni in his tracks. The man cleared his throat, seeming to shrink in on himself like a dog fearing the boot. “We have not been able to determine how they are blocking the core override.”

Illus clicked his tongue. “Unbend your spine. I am not Alarus, to mistake failure through opposition for failure through incompetence. However, if you continue to forget the pride of Adamant, you will wish that I were he.”

“Sir,” the Sereni said, rising stiffly. He took a deep breath, then composed himself, standing at attention.

“Better,” Illus said, settling back into the Cento’s padded chair. It was far too plush for his liking. “Their speed?”

“Still increasing, up by another three parts in ten. They are headed toward deep water.”

“Hmm,” Illus said, glancing at the time on his interface, then back down to the schematic of the Fist. “They are bold. I cannot deny that.” Two of the stolen vessel’s Domain Anchors were non-functional, they knew, but it made little difference. The Incarnations and the barriers would be drawing more of the ocean’s ire than the emissions from any journey core. He was surprised they hadn’t started attracting Whales already.

“Sir, Cento Lenus has authorized an increase of our speed to match and is continuing to pursue.”

“Good,” Illus said. His glorious ships would endure whatever came—Whales, or worse. What irked him was that the thieves had managed to repair the Fist’s core. Their ability to disregard the remote shutdown command simply followed from that first impossibility. They told him the Fist had been destroyed, cut cleanly in half through the core room. That the hull had been raised and repaired was possible, but the core? It was equally difficult to believe that the thieves had just happened to have a replacement core on hand capable of disregarding metallic interference.

Something does not add up.

Illus tapped his finger on the vessel’s heart in the schematic. “There is still no external magic that could explain their motion?”

The Sereni shook his head. “No, Dominus.”

Illus’s frown deepened. He supposed he would have to wait to learn the secret until the ship was retaken. He didn’t like waiting.

“There is something else, Dominus,” the Sereni said, clearing his throat, looking nervous again.

“Speak,” Illus said.

“The anomaly overcame Sereni Kemer’s Fourth. The Eyes say that he is now confirmed to be the leader of the enemy forces. His name is Rain, amongst other aliases.”

Illus narrowed his eyes. Their leader? Now that was surprising. Even more surprising than when the anomaly had survived the Recalled Meteor, earning himself that designation. That, in turn, had been more surprising than when he’d survived having his throat slit. It all came back to the failure of the Eyes in performing their primary function.

He would be having a conversation with them later.

Illus looked back up at the Sereni. “Any further details on the anomaly’s abilities?”

“The Mind says he is some manner of evolved Warder-Detonator hybrid. Sir, if you could—”

“No Beacon could defeat a Fourth,” Illus said, waving a hand dismissively. “Mind’s ravings.”

“Apologies, Dominus, but the Mind said you would say that,” the Sereni said. “She also instructed me to tell you he is using something called Prismatic Intent.”

Illus looked up sharply at the skill name. It wasn’t one he recognized, which meant the Mind should never have spoken it.

“It is an obscure manakata, allowing multiple Aura use,” the Sereni continued, mistaking Illus’s reaction. “The Mind says the observations are consistent with no less than six simultaneous workings. She also said that a Beacon displaying such skill and power is unprecedented in her Memory.”

Illus frowned. It was not just the Eyes he would need to speak to later. Minds were always peculiar, their sanity cracking under the weight of their knowledge and the potent restrictions layered upon it. Those restrictions were clearly not working.

This went too far.

Not only the Mind, but Cento Lenus as well would need to be reprimanded. The man had proven himself lax for his Mind to speak so freely. His Knives to be so dull. His Eyes so blind. His chair so unapologetically soft.

Does he think this a pleasure barge?

Illus clicked his tongue again, watching the Sereni squirm. He returned his face to a hard mask of impassivity. Knowledge was a treacherous thing. He would have no choice but to recommend Revision upon their triumphant return to civilization. Perhaps for not just the unfortunate officer before him, but for the ship’s entire complement.

Still controlling his expression, he returned to the matter at hand. “So, the anomaly is gold-level?”

The Sereni hesitated. “The Mind does not believe so, however—”

“It is not the place of a Mind to believe,” Illus said, again tapping the table. He used no force, but the gentle impact of his finger was enough to make the Sereni take a step back. “It is the place of a Mind to know.”

“Yes, Dominus. As you say, Dominus.”

The silence stretched.

Finally, Illus sighed. “I am satisfied with your report for the moment. Now, what did the Cento send you to ask me?”

The Sereni straightened again, somehow looking relieved and more nervous at the same time. “Cento Lenus asks that you authorize another Incarnation, Sir.”

Illus raised an eyebrow. “Because of a Beacon?” From the quiet lapping of the water against the hull behind him, Illus already knew the answer to his next question, but he asked it anyway. “What is the status of the goldwalls?”

“Holding, but the Tread of Industry is still sustaining a continuous assault. The enemy assailing the barrier is moving too quickly for the Eyes to track, and neither active Incarnation is available to deal with it. They are fully occupied by the Guilder Halgrave and the False Lilly. All other parties that we have sent beyond the safety of the barriers have been cut down.”

Illus continued tapping his finger against the table as he considered.

“Sir, please, if you could just come see for your—“

“Enough,” Illus raised a hand. “Cento Lenus must persevere with the resources he has been given. If he believes our situation is truly so dire, he can tell me that himself.”

“Dominus,” the Sereni said, lowering his eyes in compliance. “I shall carry your words.” He slammed a fist to his chest. “Adamant Unbending.”

“Adamant Unbending.” Illus made a shooing motion. “Leave me. I shall expect your return with news of any significant developments concerning the Fist. Do not bother me with trivialities.”

Not watching the officer depart, he looked back down at the schematic. He wished he could have given the Sereni what his Cento wanted, but as Dominus, he had his orders too, handed down from the Potentate himself.

If they could not retake the Fist before the Incarnations expired, they would have no choice but to abandon the chase. The loss of the vessel would be a personal insult, but he would not jeopardize the entire war for his pride. Three Cliffs was to be taken and fortified, a safe harbor past the badlands to serve as an anchor for the assault on Barstone. Deploying more Incarnations now would be risking disaster when the clash with the Citizens truly began.

For a third time, Illus clicked his tongue.

An entire Fourth defeated by a single Beacon. Absurd.

Metal thrummed beneath Val’s feet as he huddled in the command deck with the rest of the baggage. Above him on the lower crew deck, those who could actually fight were gathered in case of incursion. Below him on the core level were the Mages and Crafters who weren’t entirely useless in this situation; Ava and Kettel, hurling fire at the boiler; Clubbs, working to hold back the water; and Tallheart, doubtless the reason the ship was only leaking instead of resting on the ocean floor.

A massive jolt suddenly shook the hull, triggering a wave of screams. The battle between Halgrave and the Incarn was still raging, and from the direction, the two were fighting atop what was left of the outer deck. The level just below had been evacuated after the Incarn’s poleaxe had torn a gash through the ceiling.

“What happens if he loses?” Lana asked once the cries of alarm died down.

“He won’t,” Mahria replied, propped up against a crate with her hands pressed against her stomach. “He fought Westbridge, remember?”

Another concussion shook the vessel, preventing Lana’s reply, and the lights flickered.

“Westbridge won that fight,” Taron reminded Mahria, gripping a metal support beside Kalman and Gardener.

“Only because he tricked him,” Mahria fired back. “My dad’s an ass, but he’s untouchable on the surface.” She grimaced, taking her hands away from her stomach, then placing them back. Tahir had healed her enough to close her wounds, but no more. The Healer had already been almost spent after healing those who’d been on deck when the Fireballs had fallen. With his efforts and the exhaustion of Ascension’s potion stock, they’d managed to save most of them. Most. Kip and Telen were still missing, probably blasted overboard, and Mollo...

Val grimaced.

He didn’t deserve that. Raise a fucking jar.

“What if he gets tired?” Meloni asked as the tremors of another impact faded. Jamus was nodding beside her.

Mahria laughed, then winced. “Are you kidding? He’s a melee goldplate.”

“So is the Incarn,” Jamus said. “Depending on your definition of gold. How long do they last, anyway? Incarns. Does anyone know?”

No one responded, and before long, another jolt shook the ship. When the deck stilled, the silence lasted for another long moment until it was broken by an angry shout.

“Where the hells are they!?”

It had been Corrin, rising up from the crate he’d been sitting on to punch the wall. The Geomancer cursed, shaking his hand.

No one said anything, though they all knew who the Geomancer meant. They shared his sentiment, too. Rain, Ameliah, and Vanna were all missing. Worse, Rain’s armor had been found abandoned in his room. Not a single person seemed to know where they’d gone or had seen them leave.

“Nails?” Myth asked, standing beside Reason, not far from Jamus and Meloni.

The balding Mentalist shook his head. “Still blocked.”

“When did you last try?” Ruce asked. Like the Mentalist, several of the Diviner’s spells were less affected by the metal around, but that didn’t make him any more useful than the others. The one spell they could have really used in this situation, Scrying Pool, was out of his reach, despite him having reached level nine.

“I haven’t stopped trying,” Nails said, rubbing his head with a pained expression. “It doesn’t—“

Val stiffened as Nails cut off mid-sentence.

“What is it?” Ruce asked.

Nails shook his head. “I lost Vanna.”

“What?!” Meloni demanded.

Nails grunted. “The spell didn’t connect, and not because it was blocked. There was no response at all. She’s either out of range, or...”

Another impact rattled the hull, and half the lights didn’t come back this time. A wire must have come loose. Val summoned his Lunar Orb between his hands, keeping it close to shield it from the influence of the metal.

“Just lost Rain, too,” Nails said.

“Well, we’re fucked,” Corrin stated, matter of fact.

“Shut up,” Val said. He couldn’t say he disagreed, but the last thing they needed was a panic. He wasn’t overly worried about Ascension cracking under pressure, but there were others aboard. Many of the Vestvallan members had brought their families, as had a few of the latest recruits from Three Cliffs.

It was to one of these that he looked, daring to hope. “How fast would you say we are going, to already be a quarter-league from shore? That’s how far Nails can reach someone with Message. How long will it take us to get to Barstone?”

Shu remained silent for a moment before responding in that curious, thick accent of his. “I cannot say.”

“Take a guess, navigator,” Val growled. “It’ll be at least as good as any of ours.”

Shu shook his head. “Again, I cannot say, bearer of Light. I do not know our heading. I would need to see the stars.”

Bearer of Light?

Val narrowed his eyes. Not for the first time, he found himself thinking about the man’s accent. It seemed almost...fake. Exaggerated. As if it had been layered on thickly to hide something else underneath. Something vaguely familiar.

“Val, leave him,” Ruce said. “We’re not sending him up to take a look.”

Val grunted, fighting to keep his balance as another impact rocked the vessel. This one was worse than most, and someone somewhere behind them screamed so shrilly that he’d have believed they’d been stabbed. When the keen ended and the shaking stopped, he gave Ruce a look. “Nobody was suggesting that.” He glanced at Shu again, seeing the navigator watching him closely before he looked away.

The man was clearly suspicious of him too, but that was probably just reciprocation. Like many others, Val didn’t trust the recruits from Three Cliffs in general, and he hadn’t exactly been trying to hide that fact. Ultimately, though, while their new navigator was shiftier than most, he wasn’t awakened. The damage he could do was limited.

He was just as useless as the rest of them.

Damn it.

Val’s fingers flexed as he tried to strangle the empty space occupied by his Lunar Orb. Despite his wishes, the magic provided no resistance.

I need another blue.

As the darkness receded, Rain began picking his way toward Bakal.

His steps crunched.

The stone surface was brittle and pitted, shattering away with just the impact of his workman’s boots. His clothing, too, had suffered. Less from the Dark damage, from which it had been protected, and more from the abuse of the Adamants’ magic. It felt threadbare, tattered, and thin. So incredibly thin.

