“Captain Rain,” Bakal greeted him, shifting his wooden mallet to rest over one shoulder as he moved to meet him. “Nice work.”

The Sea King was still surrounded by a shell of water, quiescent now, like a soap bubble rather than the torrent of before. The watery tentacles sprouting from his back arched protectively over him, barely poking out through this liquid shell. The tentacles came from a skill Rain recognized, but the shell was something new to him. Perhaps it was tier four, or perhaps it was hidden, or perhaps it was simply expert Hydrodirection. Now wasn’t the time to ask.

Rain came to a stop at the same time as Bakal, taking in another detail. The enormous man’s flesh was sagging, his formerly plump face now creased and lined. His entire body, in fact, was shriveled like a flabby raisin.

Oh. Oh, I see. Wait, what skill is that? It’s not Internal Reservoir... Or maybe it is, just with some modifier. Is it even on purpose?

Rain shook away his questions, coming to a stop. “Bakal,” he said, nodding to the pirate, then turning to look out at the sea and the battle that yet raged. He didn’t reduce his Clarity, still leaning on it for regeneration. When his mana reached full, he shunted the excess to his Magewell, and it must have shown in his eyes.

Bakal reacted defensively, extending his tentacles and looking where Rain was looking. “What is it? Is something coming?”

“I’m just recharging my equipment,” Rain said.

“Oh,” Bakal said, relaxing and drawing his watery arms back in.

Rain glanced at him. “Do you need mana?”

“I need many things,” the Sea King said with a tired sigh. Stone cracked as he shifted his footing, and Rain noted that the bubble of water had thinned. One of the pirate’s tentacles was snaking its way along the ground for the dozen-odd meters to the ocean. As Rain watched, the magical construct plunged over the edge, then thickened, bulges of water traveling backward along it like it was some kind of enormous cartoon straw.

Again, Rain waved away his questions. “Brace yourself,” he said, then included Bakal in Winter. He held nothing back. The man was silver. He could take it.

Bakal inhaled sharply through his teeth. “Well, that’s more potent than expected.” Another of his tentacles writhed, gesturing at the devastated landscape. “Now I see why they call you Death Zone. Deny the name as you like, just as I deny mine, but it fits.”

Rain nodded slowly. He deliberately didn’t look at the shadowed forms of the fallen Adamants, barely visible through the downpour. He’d already seen all he’d needed. The bodies were little more than charred and frostbitten husks. Like soggy, burned-up matchsticks.

“Hmm,” Bakal said, lowering his mallet and letting the head thump to the ground. Already he was starting to plump back up as he stared out at the horizon. “Did you know your ship is leaving?”

“I’ve noticed,” Rain said, more concerned with the barely-visible shockwaves in the rain that told of Ameliah’s continuing battle. “Do you have Surf?”

“I do, but it isn’t what I would call efficient,” Bakal said. “Not at speed. Not for that kind of distance.”

“Not a problem,” Rain said, the blue rings of Essence Well appearing around the pirate, who again reacted with a twitch of his tentacles. Rain turned his glowing eyes upon him, expressionless. “Will you help?”

Bakal recovered from his surprise quickly, releasing a booming laugh that sent wobbling tremors across his now fully re-inflated body. “You are terrifying. Do you know that?” He gestured. “To not even be winded after this? And to still be using mana at that kind of rate? I believe I have been underestimating you.”

“Will you help?” Rain repeated.

Bakal grinned. “I expected to die today, you know?” He raised a hand. “I will help. I owe you that much. Tell me, though, just how much mana do you have, truly? I do not wish to die when you run out.”

Rain looked back out at the ocean. “I have enough.”

It was a lie. There was no such thing.

We need to go.

He took a step toward the ocean. “Come on, let’s—“

Hearing rapid footsteps, Rain stopped, then turned to see the remainder of his party approaching. They were joined by Thrast and a few more members of the local Guild, one of them bearing an Evertorch.

“Rain!” Vanna shouted, in the lead.

“Gods...” one of the local Guilders—Cessa—said, tripping over one of the shriveled swordsmen. That didn’t seem to have been the cause of her outburst, though. She was staring straight at him with an expression that said she was seeing more than normal sight could account for.

Thrast began laughing. “I never had a fucking chance.”

They can’t come with us.

“Everyone,” Rain said, nodding to Vanna before turning to Mereck. He needed to get to Ameliah, but since a small delay looked unavoidable, there was no sense not taking advantage of every resource he had. “Sorry, Mereck, but I seem to have lost some of that health you gave me.”

Mereck nodded, stepping forward, then placing his hand on Rain’s shoulder. “Try to keep better track of it this time.”

Rain inclined his head in thanks as he felt the rush of healing, then turned back to look at the sea. With a flick, he allowed Winter to flood over everyone there, though only at half strength. Thrast and the Guilders gasped, reaching for weapons, but his own people barely reacted, long used to the sensation. Except Dust, that was, who released an excited whinny.

“What now?” Samson asked, stepping up to join Rain. “Is that Ameliah, fighting up there?”

Rain nodded. “I think so. Captain Bakal and I are going to Surf out and help her.”

“Can he take us too?” Vanna asked, having joined Rain on his other side.

Rain shifted his gaze down to Temerity. The ship was still fleeing, and the two Empire vessels were still pursuing, surrounded by their barriers. If Halgrave and Velika hadn’t made a dent in those by now, there would be no overcoming them. If he and Bakal could get Ameliah, then get to the others, the best they could do would be to join them in flight.

Balls.

He turned, then pointed toward the lift. “No. I want all of you to get to the top of the cliff, then go north. We’ll pick you up when we can. Cross the mountains if you have to. Worst case, meet us in Barstone. And be careful. There are still Knives unaccounted for.”

Vanna shared a look with Samson, then looked back at Rain. “We refuse.”

Rain pivoted his glowing eyes to stare down at her.

She wasn’t fazed in the slightest. “We’re coming with you.”

Rain shook his head, sweeping his gaze over the others. “It’s too dangerous.”

Vanna simply stared at him in challenge.

Behind Rain, the Guilders were muttering to each other.

“Gods, it’s like ice in my veins.”

“Did you see the size of that spell he used? It covered the whole harbor!”

“Death Zone...”

“His eyes are shining...”

At last, Rain spoke, barely audible above the pounding rain.

“I am the real man...”

“What?” Vanna asked.

“Korpiklaani,” Rain said, song lyrics running through his head. “Don’t worry about it. It’s just the Clarity talking.” He glanced at Mereck, then Bakal before gesturing to the sea. “I’m full, Mereck. Let’s go, Captain Bakal, unless you need healing too.”

“Just the Clarity talking?” Bakal said consideringly. Slowly, a wide grin spread across the old pirate’s face. “Okay, I see what’s happening, yeah.”

You’re face to face with greatness, and it’s—NO.

Rain mentally slapped himself.

Stop it, brain. You can’t just change genre like that, especially not from Finnish metal to a Disney song. This is serious.

Bakal gestured at the still-rising rings of Essence Well. “How much mana you have is the wrong question. You can sustain this indefinitely, can’t you?”

Rain nodded, seeing no hope of a lie being believed. “I can.”

Bakal’s grin widened, his own eyes beginning to glow even more strongly than Rain’s. “In that case, we have...another option. Heal me, little Healer. This will take some time. Depths, I haven’t done this in an age.” He turned toward the sea, then raised his arms, water exploding upward at his call as the pressure of his soul flared upward. The exploding water began to flow in giant streams, coming together to form something. Something big.
