‘Thank you.’ Kromolok sent, ‘And with that, we’re all here.’

Sitnakov sent, ‘Aw! Now we can’t slag-talk him behind his back!’

Kromolok sent, ‘Eyes front. The guardians are done.’

The ten meter tall, white spiky guardians all stopped advancing at once. Then, they slowly took a foot backward as one, the single white eye at the tops of their chests never leaving the sight of the monsters they had chased off, or killed. Most of the monsters had managed to get away, for they were smarter than the average sort and they knew what the wall of advancing guardians meant. Some of those monsters tried to swarm forward, to occupy the land the guardians were about to leave behind, to swarm directly at Erick and everyone else—

‘The transition is the hardest part.’ Kromolok said, ‘We need to hold our ground and not attack the guardians at all. They’ll forgive smaller spellwork, but Domain magics will be retaliated against. Let them wash behind us while focusing spellwork forward.’

Erick was on edge, again, so it was good to hear a man with a plan.

A large part of him knew that he would be a lot better off surviving and thriving in this monster tunnel if these other people weren’t here, but another part of him was grateful not to have to go through this alone. One trip alone through darkness was enough, for sure.

The guardians stepped backward, while Erick and the rest waited for them to pass by on either side. Their white eyes flicked to Sitnakov, then Kromolok, then Tasar in turn, judging them for their power, and then they came to Erick and did the same. He waited for them to attack, but the attack never came.

And then the guardians were ten meters behind, taking their collective Domain with them. The monsters were in front, their Domains washing toward Erick and the others, falling upon them with too many mouths and claws and ripping, tearing spells.

Erick countered with brilliant, piercing [Luminous Beam]s, carving holes into monsters like a disco ball erupting. The only monster he didn’t target was the singular one that Sitnakov dove right into. Just! Straight though! Right into the red-tentacled monster like a reverse chest-burster!

By the time Sitnakov had killed that one, Erick had killed thirty.

Tasar killed her one, but her spellwork had continued onward and would have killed ten more if Erick hadn’t killed them a second before she could. Her spell continued outward, though, seeking targets and finding a few that Erick hadn’t fully murdered, turning those weakened beasts into cubed meat and then into fine, bloody mists.

Kromolok just watched, his eyes a bit wide like he was seeing what he expected to see, and yet he still couldn’t believe it. Sitnakov came out of the red-tentacled monster without a single scratch on him, but covered in gore. He had aimed himself toward the next monster, but Erick had already killed every single monster within ten kilometers, and he kept going. Tasar’s spellwork fizzled out after only one kilometer. Sitnakov, Tasar, and Kromolok just watched Erick’s decimation proceed down the tunnel.

Sitnakov stared. Then he exclaimed, “You held back on me, Erick!”

“Of course he did,” Tasar said, sending out a hundred small motes of Void, or Shadow, or Star; Erick wasn’t quite sure. The motes hung out around about 30 meters out, waiting for a target, but Erick had already killed them all. “I told you this a hundred times already.”

Kromolok had already gotten over his temporary shock. He began walking forward, asking, “Let’s hurry this up, then. I don’t want to tempt the Dark again.”

Erick said, “Then try to keep up.”

And then Erick started lightstepping forward, moving a kilometer with every step. Ophiel kept up with him, blasting as necessary, while Erick resummoned them as necessary, which turned out to be ‘whenever they got below half mana’. There was no way he would allow himself to get in a vulnerable position out here, not with these questionable people nearby.

Kromolok lightstepped with Erick, remaining within ten meters, while Tasar rapidly pulled her summons back to her staff and kept up... with some other sort of movement ability. Erick wasn’t quite sure how she was moving. Sitnakov was easy to understand; windstepping, all the way, alongside a bunch of wind-powered abilities. But Tasar’s magic was strange—

Erick was 55 kilometers down the tunnel when he realized what he was seeing from Tasar’s Domain. The roar of the monster killing and all his bright, burning light made it too hard to speak, so he spoke on the party chat, ‘It’s a Spatial Domain, isn’t it, Tasar?’

‘Yes,’ Tasar sent, ‘I spent some time on the Worldly Path a long time ago, back when I was a Spatial Mage. I managed to reach the last part that required a Wizard but I could go no further for several large and small reasons. I hopped off the Path and have tried a thousand smaller ways to understand Gate since then, but it’s been lost to me. My hope is that I can help you succeed where I failed and that we can do it in such a way that such advancements in magic harm the fewest people possible.’

‘That’s why you’re a Summoner, now,’ Erick sent, as they moved another ten kilometers down the tunnel. ‘You have to create a being that controls the [Gate] and you sought to solve that problem in the only way open to you.’

‘Summoning has never been my greatest strength.’ Tasar said, ‘But I’ve gotten rather good at it since I switched. Not as good as you, tho—’

Her eyes went wide as she watched Erick carve through a kilometer-tall spire of flesh and death that looked like it had been there for a very long time. None of the other monsters had been anywhere near the spire, but Erick wasn’t about to let such an obvious problem stick around, and so he went straight for it.

Tasar’s voice was small, “Oh, bright stars.”

Sitnakov and Kromolok had been prepared to go left, to go around the spire of false flesh and bone, but at Erick’s effortless killing of it, they had paused to watch even the remnants evaporate under bright white light.

Erick commented on the monster’s Kill Notification, ‘A Deepdweller Deathsoul Shroom? Can’t let any part of that survive. Let’s go around the remains while I leave this behind~’ He had an Ophiel cast a rarely used spell atop the formerly multi-kilometer domain of the giant soul-eating monster; a [Vivid Gloom]. As the very air of the Underworld cracked open and bright darkness poured forth, to fill the land where the shroom spores surely lay, Erick sent, ‘Don’t mind the utter blackness of this spell; it’s a light-trap spell filled with all the harmful light it traps.’

Erick was already three kilometers past the utterly dark sphere beginning to fill the false-gore filled former land of the Variant deathsoul shroom. Everyone else caught up soon enough.

Kromolok looked behind them, saying, ‘That one is a lot different in person, too.’

‘You’re not going to give me shit about how it looks, are you?’ Erick said, ‘It's a light-trapping spell. Of course it’s going to be blacker than black.’

Sitnakov smirked. ‘I’ll give you shit about it if he’s not.’

‘You have already surpassed your accepted shit-quota for the week,’ Erick said, ‘You’ll have to wait a week to give me more.’

Sitnakov laughed and it seemed genuine against the backdrop of all the roaring and fighting monsters all around, and all the flashing, bright spells.

Tasar eyed the world, looking for targets and finding none, her motes of … [Space Warping Summons]? Or whatever?— glittering on her black crystal staff like blackberry stars.

Kromolok said nothing, though he kept his eyes trained behind them on the very large black spot in the world until they were a good 20 kilometers away.

And Erick realized something. They were expecting to see Melemizargo. They were waiting for the Dark Dragon. They were impressed by Erick’s power a little bit, but they had seen more impressive things before. They weren’t worried about him, at all. They were high strung and ready for the hammer to fall, that’s what they were prepared against.

Erick almost told them that Melemizargo was already there.

But the Dark God kept to the furrows in the stone, on the other side of the wroughts’ collective sight. Kromolok likely saw the beast through Erick’s sight, while Sitnakov and Tasar piggybacked off of Kromolok, but none of them were looking at the Darkness like Erick was. Erick saw Melemizargo rather clearly. White eyes in the Dark. White fangs five meters long. A swishing tail covered in dark scales, as dark as the [Vivid Gloom] Erick had left burning way, way back there. Wings in the wind, shifting the air of the Underworld at his command.

Erick decided to set them at ease, while also telling Melemizargo to fuck off. He spoke loud, “I’m not at the end of my Worldly Path yet, guys. Melemizargo isn’t going to show.”

Everyone panicked, including Melemizargo.

The Dark God vacated the shadows.

Suddenly, it was just Erick and his various captors, each of their voices telepathically overlapping as they all tried to tell him how utterly stupid it was to call out the Dark God’s name in the Underworld, and how he was trying to get them all killed, and so on and so forth. Erick mostly tuned them out, for all of their words were underlain with a deeply appreciative and unremarked thanks.

They took a left when the tunnel branched.

Then a right, then another left.

Leaving was much quicker than entering, especially since all the major monsters with Domains were back in the main tunnel, and most of the monsters in the side tunnels didn’t have Domains, which made them rather easy targets. Erick knew what to expect, this time, and that made a world of difference.

The wrought did pull their weight here and there when the monsters got easier to handle, but only against the various metallic monsters, and only because those monsters survived the first few passes of a [Luminous Beam]. Spatial displacements turned monsters into fine mists, while air-powered swords vaporized monsters of all types and shockwaves eradicated the bodies. Kromolok mostly held back, like a proper Mind Mage—

A worm burst from the ground like a thousand maws with a hundred times that many slicing tendrils. Tasar was on it, already blasting the thing with spatial displacements, turning it from a coherent monster into millions of tiny cubes of displaced meat, and then into mist.

Tasar calmly told Kromolok, ‘Mana.’

Kromolok shone a beam of light onto her and Tasar inhaled deeply, looking restored with every passing second. Erick adjusted his theory on the man’s Class; he wasn’t an Inquisitor or a Mind Mage. He was something else.

Tasar said, ‘Good.’

Kromolok saw Erick’s questioning gaze, and offered, ‘If you’re low on mana I can give you some. I’m a Font.’

Erick remembered Fonts; they were the opposite of Mage Hunters. Instead of Draining people and taking their mana into themselves they gave their mana to other people. Erick had briefly looked into both of those Classes when he was researching [Renew], but neither of them dealt with the maintenance of current spellwork. They were a failed avenue of [Renew] inquiry. Erick said, ‘I’ll take you up on your offer when I’m replanting Yggdrasil at his appointed spot, but not now; no thank you.’

Sitnakov joked, ‘I bet if Kromolok put himself to it he could make your [Renew]. How’d you like that, Erick? Someone else invent your next big thing before you could!’

Erick leveled a glare at the man, and then he thought better of his first instinct and evaporated his own hostility, calmly saying, ‘I freely shared everything I had that I thought the world could handle, letting them do whatever they wanted with the knowledge of knowing how this cosmology actually works, and you think I would be angry if someone else invented one of my current goals out from under me. This is sad, Sitnakov, and reveals more about yourself than perhaps anything else you have said before. Reevaluate your life choices.’

Tasar’s eyes went wide as soon as Erick started talking, and they only got wider as more words poured forth. She began to smirk toward the end, but she wiped that mirth away as soon as it appeared.

Kromolok approved in a very quiet, almost invisible sort of way.

If Sitnakov would have been flesh and blood instead of black adamantium, perhaps Erick would have seen a blushing rage upon his face. Or perhaps not. Whatever emotion Erick did see upon the man’s face was quickly smirked away. And then Sitnakov had had enough of a break; he got back out there into the tunnels and rapidly sailed through a dozen monsters in a line, ripping them apart with shockwave blasts, shouting, “Come on then! We can go faster than this!”

And so they did.

- - - -

The tunnels narrowed. Soon, they had to walk along the stone ground to maintain distance from the mana stream up above, but monsters still came out of that ground like they always did. The third time a worm popped out of the tunnel walls Erick asked after their usual solution to ‘monsters in the wall’, to which Tasar said that any solution was usually too expensive to matter.

So Erick had an Ophiel open wide his [Unmoving Stone Aura], solidifying the ground as they walked, preventing further attacks from inside the stone.

Tasar’s eyes seemed to sparkle with hidden jealousy.

The tunnels narrowed.

- - - -

Several hours and a thousand kilometers later, they reached a point in the tunnels that was similar to where the mana stream spat Erick out, several days and ten thousand kilometers on the other side of the world. The mana stream was right up there, and the monsters were easy pickings.

The four of them passed that unremarked point, and kept walking.

They didn’t speak much, for everyone was occupied with killing and there wasn’t much to say that wouldn’t result in anger. And so, they were a four-person tunnel cleaning service, erasing every monster they found. Erick did ask if the tunnels were always filled with monsters like this, to which he got many different answers. Mostly, they were, but some tunnels were worse than others. The ones underneath civilization tended to be worse than the tunnels between an empty Surface and the Core.

‘Because of the [Cleanse] thick air falling to the Core?’ Erick asked, wondering if his own hypothesis was correct.

‘Correct,’ Kromolok filled Tasar and Sitnakov with more mana as he said, ‘The tunnels under Nelboor are particularly bad. When we heard of the circumstances around your disappearance at Enduring Forge we wondered if you had accidentally killed yourself, but no; you were just stuck in the stream for a long time.’

‘33 days, I was told.’

