“I admit,” Sitnakov said, “I don’t know how you got past the guardians. I would prefer to know that one before we get back to Stratagold. Was it a lucky guess? Or did you have help? One man cannot break them; of that, I am sure.” He asked the dark question on his mind, “Did the Dark God help you?”

Erick grabbed his baskets of copied metals and, fully dressed for war, he lightstepped into the air next to his hologram on the island; ten meters from the wrought. Kromolok, Tasar, and Sitnakov stared at him, then each relaxed in their own ways, judging him for how he appeared and for what he carried, sizing him up in case there was another confrontation.

He was dressed in a [Conjure Armor] set of lightweight armor that was similar to Jane’s, with overlapping plates of Force that covered his whole body, along with a full helmet, but done in white. He had forgone his usual robes because he didn’t want these people to see him bleed when he was inevitably forced to cooperative cast his [Physical Domain] with Ophiel, to escape this place. A spiky silver shield held on his left forearm, floating just above his gauntlets. His backpack was tight against his body while his sunform Ophiel hovered behind him and Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye held on his left shoulder pad.

“No,” Erick said, “Melemizargo did not help me, you pompous ass.” And then manually blipped the three baskets of metal onto the ground in front of their recipients, saying, “A gift of metals in case they were needed.”

Tasar leaned down and with a gesture began turning the knives into liquid adamantium, saying, “Thank you, Erick. I gratefully accept.” The dark metal flowed into her arm and she gave a soft sigh as it absorbed into her body. “And thank you for the assistance with surviving the Dark.”

Kromolok left his basket on the ground. “Unnecessary. And please take the shards of white metal out of your bag and set them on the ground. And the books need to go, too.”

Sitnakov twisted his hand through the air above the basket, ripping the adamantium knives into floating streams of metal that flowed into his chest. He sighed, and said, “Your tribute is accepted.” He said to Kromolok, “Let him keep his small trinkets.”

In that moment, Erick realized one thing above all others: These people absolutely did not give a shit about all of his accomplishments or his power. To them, he was an inconvenience to be solved using any number of methods, but he could not be left to his own devices; his accomplishments so far had decided that much for them, at least. But to make sure he was reading this correctly, he looked to Kromolok, the only one who truly knew everything that had happened in here because he was probably reading Erick’s mind right now.

Erick asked, “Are we going to have a problem, Mind Mage?”

Kromolok said, “That’s up to you. If you prove to be a danger to this world, then yes. If not, then no. That’s really all there is to it, and only time can tell either way.”

Sitnakov said, “It would have been great if you had accepted our offer to visit the embassy, Erick. We could have avoided all of this with proper introductions long before you got this far.”

Erick decided that he was going to do a few things from here until his visits ended with the wrought: not care too much about what any of these people said, get through this with as few further incidents as possible, and move on as fast as he could to get away from them. So, he looked around, asking, “Which cloudgate are we going through?”

Sitnakov frowned a little, miffed that his barb hadn’t drawn blood—

Erick had a realization. This guy got off on making people mad. Ah. Yes. That made sense.

Sitnakov, now firmly in Erick’s category of ‘idiots to keep at a distance’, said, “Take your pick, archmage. Let’s see what you can really do.”

Kromolok, gestured back the way they had initially come into the Outer Core, up past the curve of the blue Inner Core above, saying, “Any of the ones where we came in will lead to Stratagold.”

“Great!” Erick asked, “Are all the tunnels the same?”

Sitnakov narrowed his eyes a bit, saying, “More or less.”

“Then I’m going to go first. Don’t follow until I get a few hundred kilometers down the tunnel, because I’m going to blast my way out, killing all the guardians, too.”

Sitnakov scoffed—

Kromolok rapidly exclaimed, “We can walk past the guardians with the passwords so we would prefer to leave them intact.” A bit slower, he added, “And then we can avoid most of the major fights by sticking to the air, until we get to the smaller tunnels.”

… That was fine, too. Ah. Was Erick’s anger getting the better of him, again? Was he going to have anger issues from here on out? That seemed… Less than optimal. But, anyway. Perhaps it was for the best that Sitnakov would never find out exactly what Erick could do with a cooperative cast [Physical Domain]. In fact, was the large man’s goad an attempt to find out that sort of information? Or was the man simply a battle junkie?

Maybe a lot of column A, and a little of B.

Erick said, “Fine. I’m in your care. Lead the way to Stratagold.”

“I expect you to pull some of your weight,” Sitnakov said, with a smirk.

Erick narrowed his eyes. “You do know that I’m the one that invented the [Luminous Beam]s that your guardians use, right?” With his own nasty smirk, Erick said, “If you think about it, I’m the one that’s protecting all of the Core. Not you.”

Sitnakov blanked, unsure how to combat Erick’s sudden, aggressive idiocy.

Kromolok held a hand to his head, wincing in pain, saying, “That’s… That’s not how that works.”

Tasar just smirked, then said, “Of course it does! He made the spell. Therefore he’s protecting this land more than either of you.”

“Ah!” Erick said, “My overseer gets my humor! Fantastic!”

Tasar lost her smirk.

No one was happy.

Good.

Erick almost told them all off again, but he held that back, and said, “Lead the way. Someone.”

Sitnakov windstepped away first, followed by Kromolok doing the same.

Tasar stayed behind for a brief second, saying, “I’m sorry, Erick.”

“You have too much power over me right now for me to accept that apology.” Erick said, “I might accept it when we’re not at war.”

Tasar nodded, slowly and with understanding. “Then I look forward to that time, for I will certainly be trying to ensure good relations between everyone involved.” She stepped away.

Erick took a deep breath, and then he followed.

- - - -

Erick stepped down onto the same rocky land where the wrought had popped out of the cloudgate. Kromolok stood at the edge of the misty vale, waiting, while Sitnakov was already a meter into the white fog. Tasar stood to the side, waiting for Erick.

Erick asked, “How’s this going to work?”

Kromolok explained, “Sitnakov will go first, opening the path to the land behind the guardians. We walk onto the other side, then Sitnakov will close the cloudwall, and have the guardians clear a few kilometers into the path beyond. We follow behind the guardians and remain in the tunnel while they pull back to their normal positions. Then we make our way through the tunnel of monsters and eventually to a garrison with a t-station.” He asked, “Could you dismiss Yggdrasil once it looks safe enough for us to cross the cloudwall? Before Sitnakov closes the wall with us on the other side. A spell dismissal command has a high chance of failure as soon as the wall shuts.”

“I’ll dismiss him now.” Erick had already talked to Yggdrasil about this, and so, the big guy’s [Scry] eye flickered around to his front, as he said, “See you soon, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil’s eye bounced, and twirled.

And then, in the far distance, Yggdrasil began to break apart, slowly at first, like a bright light dimming, and then the erasure sped up. The massive tree revealed himself as an illusion made of light and air and breaking stone. Green leaves turned to green wind. White bark turned to motes of shattering mana. In three short seconds Yggdrasil was gone, and Erick felt exposed.

He looked to his ‘captors’, daring them to do something.

Sitnakov did nothing except look at Erick with a bit more respect in his eyes, or in his body language; Erick wasn’t quite sure. Wrought eyes were solid metal unless they made an effort to make pupils and irises.

Without preamble, Sitnakov said, “One minute,” and then walked down into the clouds.

It was a short minute before something else happened; maybe only 23 seconds. But who was counting? Erick was counting. He was worried of treachery—

The misty vale swirled directly where Sitnakov had vanished. That swirl opened up into a hole, that dilated to a ten meter wide tunnel through the clouds, revealing the beveled edge of the cloudgate on the other side and the guardians in the near distance. Their Domain flooded out of them and Erick felt a bit of a pushback on his own Domain, wrapped tight around his body. That wave of power flowed across the nine sunform Ophiel hovering behind him, sweeping them away briefly before they compensated. The little guy on Erick’s shoulder ruffled up in response.

Kromolok gestured forward. “Would you like to send some Ophiel through, first? To see there is no treachery?”

Erick sent three sunform Ophiel through. He inspected the other side, while asking, “Why not leave a t-station on that side, for easier access to the Core? Security issues?”

“The Core is not meant for easy access,” Kromolok said with a bit of force, as he started walking into the tunnel of clouds.

Well okay then.

Tasar followed Kromolok.

Erick touched the straps of his backpack and clenched his fists tight, and then he followed, back into the depths, back into the danger, not wanting to go yet but needing to anyway. He spared a glance backward at the Outer Core, and said, “Parted too soon.” Then he faced forward, and walked.

Tasar stood in the cloud tunnel in front of him, saying, “You can come back once you get proper permissions. Then you won’t have to blast your way inside.”

Kromolok said, “It will be almost impossibly difficult to do that, but coming peaceably does gain you some certain forgiveness.” He sighed out, and looked forward, seeming to relax with every passing second as they got further and further from the Core. “A great deal of forgiveness with the church and we Inquisitors, as well. If you choose to go through the proper paperwork and channels to return to the Core, then I will vote for you to be allowed to return. Your communion did appear to be true, and we interrupted something which we likely should not have interrupted. For that, I apologize.”

Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about the ‘apology’, but he’d figure out some words in response soon enough. He stepped out onto the other side of the cloudwall with the others. Ophiels spread out, but not too far, as the cloudgate closed behind them. Gravity was back to being weird, with Erick’s feet firmly planted on what would have been a vertical wall, if they were going by the shape of the Outer Core, a mere ten meters backward.

‘Up’, directly in the center of the 20 kilometer wide tunnel, was a kilometer wide streamer of thick rainbow air, passing out of the cavern, through the wall, into the Outer Core behind, to fall straight ‘down’ into the inner blue Core of Veird.

All that was behind Erick, now.

He looked forward and saw that the land was completely filled with monsters.

Erick gazed upon his tribulations, and said to Kromolok, “I’ll tell you what I told Tasar: You have too much power over me right now for me to accept any apology. I might accept it when we’re not at war.”

Sitnakov laughed. “You’d know if we were at—”

Kromolok snipped at the man, “Sitnakov. Stop.”

Sitnakov glared at Kromolok. “I’m not a bad guy, here.”

“Well I don’t know that, Sitnakov.” Erick said, “I literally have no idea who you are, or who—” He stopped there, before he got on a roll.

“Fine.” Sitnakov said, “You know what? You might be right. I haven’t been on the world scene in…” He looked around, searching for something in his memory— He froze. “Ah. It’s been 45 years. Oh. That’s been too long.”

Tasar tried some diplomacy, saying, “Everything is going to change soon enough, Sitnakov. Now is as good a time to get involved with the world as any. My long-term plans are to take back Quintlan from the oozes.”

Sitnakov frowned, disgust shaping his features briefly, before he dropped that expression and looked thoughtful. “Oozes aren’t that interesting. All the undead in the Fractured Citadels might be good to fight.” He scrunched his face a bit as he turned away and started walking toward the line of guardians, half a kilometer away, at the ridge where the cavern leveled out onto the main monster floor. He said to himself, “I could fight undead.” Then he called out, “GUARDIANS! ADVANCE!”

Erick’s heart did a jump in his chest as the hundred guardians encircling the entirety of the massive cavern all took a single step forward, all at the same time. Monsters started screaming. [Luminous Beam]s ripped out across the land alongside hundreds of other spells. Lightning and fire. Piercing Domains of shadow or ice. With his ten Ophiel, Erick saw as precise Domainwork flowed around the circumference of the cavern, like death prowling for weakness, breaking monstrous Domains like they were shattering glass with particularly large hammers, killing everything that didn’t get away fast enough.

Sitnakov, Tasar, and Kromolok walked forward, following in the wake of destruction, but keeping well distant from the front line. Erick had his Ophiel hug close to him as he kept up. Five Ophiel had their [Greater Lightwalk] switched out for [Physical Domain] and Erick prepared to switch too, if necessary to cooperative cast with all of them, but hopefully it wouldn’t come to that.

In a very short timeframe, faster than Erick was comfortable, the guardians had reached their kilometer forward distance and everyone in the group had cast their own spellwork, readying for the actual fight to get back to civilization.

Kromolok was wrapped in shimmering white-gold light, as he took second position in the middle alongside Tasar, who had summoned a collection of void-motes onto the head of her staff, turning it into something resembling a very large sparkler. Sitnakov took the forward position; he was wrapped in air with two swords in his hands and ready for war.

Kromolok asked, “Erick. I would like to include you in the party link. Will you accept?”

“Yes,” Erick added, “If only so we’re not overlapping on spellwork or accidentally hitting each other.”

