This Sitnakov seemed a lot different than the Sitnakov that wanted to battle, but Erick understood code switching between public and private well enough. Erick had wanted to poke fun at Stratagold obviously having [Duplicate] and using it to make these Teleport Stations, and what that meant for how Sitnakov had goaded Erick for his possession of that spell, but the time for that counter-goading had passed, apparently. Maybe Erick would poke at the man later, when they weren’t in the public eye.

[Scry] eyes of various sorts were already floating around the area, looking at Erick, and the wrought, and at Yggdrasil.

Kromolok said, “I would speak with you in private.”

Tasar said, “Me, as well.”

“Later, please.” Erick said, “What I’ve seen so far bodes well for continued interaction, but I need to talk to my people and be with Yggdrasil for a little while.”

“But of course, we should also take some time to decompress.” Kromolok said, “I have offices in the embassy, Erick, and guests are well taken care of in this land, but if you wish to be on your own then feel free to turn this cavern into whatever you and Yggdrasil desire. It’s a gift from the Goddess Rozeta and from the people of Stratagold, to you, for the possibilities you present. Please see me when you can.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Then that is what I will have to do.”

Kromolok walked away.

Tasar asked, “Want to talk about Spatial Magics? Or should I come back later, too?”

“Later. I need to… I need to have a nap.” Erick said, “But mostly I need to talk to everyone else. See how they’re doing.”

“Of course.” Tasar said, “The embassy knows how to get to me. Talk to you later, Erick.”

Erick nodded.

Tasar departed.

Erick rapidly lightstepped directly onto Yggdrasil. He plopped down on the safest part of his largest summon and began setting up temporary housing, talking to Yggdrasil all the while, asking him to start popping all the [Scry] eyes he saw—

“I pop them?” Yggdrasil asked, “I do this?”

“… You didn’t know you could do that, Yggdrasil?” Erick said, “I’m sorry, I thought you saw me and Ophiel doing that so you had learned how— Okay. I’ll show you how. It’s rather simple…”

After a short lesson, Yggdrasil was popping every [Scry] eye that came around, and there were a lot. Word had spread about the new occupant of this major cavern, and people wanted to know the truth behind all the rumors they had been hearing. Dealing with that was too much for Erick right now, though, but Yggdrasil seemed to have fun popping the eyes, and soon, a child’s giggle filled the cavern.

Yggdrasil said, “This easier than metal men!”

Erick said, “Considerably.”

Erick moved on to talking of responsibilities and being nice to people and what it meant to live in a world with others, hoping that Yggdrasil would get more experience out of his first encounter with the wrought than ‘they’re hard to kill, so I need to try harder’. Erick doubted that any other wrought would be nearly as tough as Prince Sitnakov, so if Yggdrasil tried hurting some random guy showing up in this cavern, then that random guy would surely die, and no one needed that to happen right now. Hopefully not ever.

Ensconced in one of a hundred smaller [Sealed Privacy Ward]s that dotted Yggdrasil like invisible bubbles, Erick sat down on a conjured chair that would probably pop if he moved too much and started sending out messages to his people. Poi was first.
