Sitnakov frowned a bit as he emerged from the center of a giant, now-dead lizard, spilling gore off of himself as he sent, ‘And he says it with such nonchalance. Like that’s what really happened.’

Erick returned the large man’s frown with one of his own. ‘What the fuck are you talking about?’

Kromolok said, ‘What Prince Sitnakov means to say is that you should have dropped off somewhere inside the tunnels within 8 or 9 days of the mishap at Enduring Forge. You’re missing around 20 days.’

Erick froze. ‘I’m missing 20 days?’

Tasar said, ‘Yes. But we can all see that you didn’t know this.’

‘I still don’t believe it,’ Sitnakov said.

‘And you’re the only one, Sitnakov,’ Tasar said.

Kromolok said, ‘That missing time is going to come up in your official inquiry.’

Erick unfroze and had some rather deep thoughts while he kept killing monsters. Kiri had lost time on the Worldly Path before and the question of that missing time was never solved. Had the same thing happened to him?

Tasar said, ‘If it’s any help, we expect the inquiry to go well.’

Erick looked to Tasar. She had thought that Erick was concerned about the inquiry, but he didn’t care too much about that. Whatever happened would happen, and if he needed to commit some genocide, then that option was still on the table.

While Kromolok briefly went still—

Erick sent, ‘I want to see Yggdrasil’s new spot and spend a few days resting before any of that, okay?’

‘Of course.’ Tasar sent, ‘I don’t foresee that being a problem.’

Kromolok sent, ‘The Church of Rozeta doesn’t want Sininindi’s World Tree to be the one that gets us to new worlds because then we’d have to go through her, so we’re already on your side, and will be speaking on your behalf. We would prefer peaceful cooperation, done through proper channels, though. Less vigilantism. Less unexpected surprises.’

‘I suppose I can get behind that.’ Erick sent, ‘Probably.’

Sitnakov exclaimed, ‘By all the bright gods… Is it really time to get back to politics? Already?’ He sighed, then asked anyone who could answer, ‘How much further to the nearest station?’

‘I suppose I could start looking for one.’ Tasar stopped spacewalking.

Everyone else moved to be near to her, maintaining the defensive perimeter without too much communication or grating. It was a bit odd to realize that Kromolok was making Erick part of the group, but the Mind Mages were an honorable sort, so there probably wasn’t anything untoward going on there. Anyway, this uneasy cooperation inside these tunnels should pass soon enough.

Tasar lifted her arms and her black staff. Ten shimmering motes broke away from the tip of the staff, blipping down the corridors. Erick almost missed their departure for they moved almost too fast to see. The four of them didn’t move while Tasar did her thing. except to ensure the security of the area, with Ophiel Beaming various monsters and Sitnakov diving straight into his opponents to rip and tear them apart from the inside out.

Erick kinda wondered how come Sitnakov had never attacked Yggdrasil in their confrontation—

Erick sent to Sitnakov, ‘You didn’t give me your all, either. Did you?’

Sitnakov laughed as he stepped out of the gore of a particularly large lizard, saying, ‘Of course not. I wanted to take you in alive and force you to be a friend. But I guess we gotta be equals! It’s the more dangerous route, for sure.’

Erick frowned at the man, but said nothing else.

After a minute Tasar lowered her arms. ‘143 kilometers further, left, left, right, left, right. 10 kilometers past that final right. It has a t-station. We can get there in an hour.’

Sitnakov led the way, happily wrecking-balling his way through every single monster that was large enough to be a threat. Erick allowed the man to believe that he was the faster combatant, keeping Ophiel back a bit and only killing the monsters that came for them, which was most of them. Some did run away, though, which Erick was glad to see, but perhaps he should have paid special attention to those to ensure they died. The smart monsters were the worst.

The mana stream above still pulled at Erick every time he tried to lightstep too fast, but he compensated for that well enough; they all did.

A short 30 minutes later, after a few turns down the appropriate tunnels, the mana stream was finally too thin to properly see. Aside from the flashes of light from Erick’s power or from Kromolok refilling Sitnakov and Tasar’s mana, the tunnel was near to full-dark. One more turn down another side tunnel and the mana stream was gone, completely.

Tasar sent, ‘Ten more minutes to contact. They know we’re coming.’

- - - -

The mana stream was gone, the tunnel dark and empty of monsters. And the tunnel changed. No longer was it a rough cylinder, but instead, it was a flat road, and an arch of stone overhead. Somewhere in the last kilometer it had changed from a ‘naturally occurring’ mana stream tunnel, to an excavated road with lightpoles on both sides, stretching from floor to ceiling.

Words left Erick as he saw this place. It reminded him of when he first drove onto Veird with Jane in the passenger seat… Except it was different. Smaller, for one. And the place was well maintained. That original tunnel had been too deep in the dark to see anything and the lightpoles had been mostly burned out.

In this place the lights were fully functional and the land was painted with a layer of white stone making the whole place that much brighter. It was also occupied. In a cavern to the side of the main tunnel, there were at least a thousand wrought. Erick couldn’t tell exact numbers, but he could see the large archway carved into the side of the tunnel, the guards posted there, and a bit of the land beyond. It was a bit hard to see, though, for the entire place was runed like Enduring Forge, and Ophiel’s [Scry] sight blinked off as Erick tried to get a better look. He probably could have forced his way inside but the guards were already watching Ophiel and they did not look too happy at the fluffy guy’s intrusion.

So, since the tactical necessity of getting an eye on what he was walking into was out of the question, Erick focused on the people who had come out to greet them, instead. The wrought were of every single race Erick had seen on the Surface, but done up in different metals. Mostly grey iron, if he was correct, but also shiny copper and silvery metals, along with blues, and green copper. No black adamantium, though; that color was conspicuously absent. Full-white, like Kromolok was absent, too. But every race was present; humans, orcols, incani, lots of dragonkin, a harpy, and some shifters of wolf and snake varieties but without the masks. A goblin—

The base shot to attention, with people rushing to fill posts and appear busy, as Erick and the other walked down the white tunnel, moving at a sedate and measured pace. People appeared on the walls with spells flowing around them, and around the runic web protecting the garrison.

Sitnakov led the way, shouting, “Haloo! At the garrison!”

A human man of grey metal stood in the center of the white tunnel, near the archway that led into the cavern. “Haloo! At the returning victors!”

Sitnakov walked right up to the man, saying, “Prep the station for transport to Stratagold, Property Ygg. It should be the new option.”

The man hopped to, banging a fist against his chest. He turned around and started shouting orders. People moved. Sitnakov followed the garrison leader into the cavern beyond. Kromolok and Tasar followed Sitnakov…

And Erick followed them.

He had many choices at the moment, but none seemed as good as going along with the flow, for now.

Once Erick was beyond the front gate he could properly see the cavern beyond. It was a rather nice place of columnar apartment buildings, tidy green spaces, and practice yards. Light was absolutely everywhere. It was pretty much exactly what Erick expected to find in an underground base, but done by people with a lot of time on their hands. Gravity seemed to all pull in one direction, though, which was unexpected but welcome, and may have had something to do with the various ‘[Gravity Ward]’ runic inscriptions in the metalwork that ran alongside every building’s base, and in the spaces between every tile on the ground.

The Teleport Station was at the back of the garrison, inside a protected building.

It was a simple, yet extravagant affair which hid a deep complexity inside. A meter-wide ring of brightly shining silverish metal surrounded a five meter wide circle of gold. In the center of the platform was a two meter tall spire of even more gold. The gold platform was a solid decimeter-thick, while the ring around it was slightly thicker, and Erick was beginning to suspect the bright silver metal was platinum. Both had to be amalgams, though, for they were much more solid than pure gold and platinum would have been… Unless there was physically strengthening runework inside the metals, and there very much might have been. The upper, flat surfaces were devoid of runes, but the undersides and the spire in the center were covered with so much ancient script that Erick had trouble understanding what he was reading. It was like looking at the adamantium crusher back at Enduring For—

“Are you done trying to figure it out?” Sitnakov asked him, “Because you can study any of them on another day. Probably when you’re waiting to speak to the tribunal.”

“Yeah, yeah. Fine, fine.” Erick said, “Let’s go already.”

He prepared for whatever trick they had on the other side of the blip, but there was only so much prep work he could do. For starters, Ophiel would get left behind, so that might be hard to come back from—

Without preamble or any obvious action from any of the people nearby, the world blipped.

And then came back.

Erick started resummoning his Ophiel right away—

But he guessed that there wasn’t going to be a problem.

They had reappeared on the edge of a massive, empty cavern that was practically a large beach like out in California, where there weren’t any monsters and the waters were great for fishing or relaxing. Indeed, Erick even saw some fish already out there in the massive cavern. The space they had constructed for Yggdrasil was practically the size of the largest caverns next to the Core. The world arched overhead at least twenty kilometers tall, and maybe 30 wide, while the waters ahead were at least half a kilometer deep and fed by waterfalls on the far edge that looked like Niagara Falls, but which spanned for a dozen kilometers to the left and right. The entire place was filled with light from a hundred skyscrapers-sized sun-like crystals shining in the ceiling above, and more than a few that poked out of the waters near the beach, and here and there among the lake. This land wasn’t the Outer Core, with so very much space and a lot more nice things besides, but it was more than enough space for Yggdrasil, and then some.

The beach with the t-station was a dozen kilometers long and half that wide, but it only took up a small portion of this side of the cavern’s circumference. To the side of this beach space a wide tunnel led away from the cavern, toward another place. Erick sent an Ophiel down that distant path. A few kilometers later Ophiel passed a checkpoint and some bowing guards, before exiting into a cavern much the same as the one that would hold Yggdrasil. But this one was populated.

A palace of white stone that was not a palace dominated the land with a hundred towers and a hundred keeps. Erick only knew it wasn’t a palace because of a large sign out front proclaiming it to be the embassy for Stratagold. Thousands upon thousands of people were everywhere, in every open courtyard or open air hallway of the palace, and probably in a lot of rooms besides, conducting business all over the place. From that embassy’s cavern three large tunnels, each at least three kilometers across and with archways to match, led away from the palace, becoming much more than simple roads that led deeper into the Underworld, though that function was clearly present in the people trundling up and down the central thoroughfares. There were houses and businesses and bars and restaurants and farms and playhouses and booksellers and civilization, all along all of those roads. One of those roads led to Stratagold, but that particular tunnel was highly protected; people weren’t allowed past that one.

This place was filled with light and people; it was populated. Only about a third of the people out there were wrought; most were of every other race Erick had ever seen before.

Kromolok offered, “Would you like some mana assistance while you resummon Yggdrasil? I have a [Restful Ward] as well, if you wish.”

Erick… Was starting to think that perhaps there would be no genocide today. Hopefully not ever. He stepped off of the platform, onto the sandy beach, saying, “Yes. I will… accept this assistance. Thank you.”

Kromolok cast a spell over Erick and he felt more Restful already. Sitnakov said nothing, except he did look up and across the blue waters. Expectation filled his face, though he took steps to try to remain impassive. Tasar wore her excitement openly in the small widening of her eyes, as she glanced from Erick, to the waters.

Erick sent an Ophiel into the waters, to the center, where a small rise in the cavern’s flooded floor stood, waiting for Yggdrasil. He cast. Yggdrasil rejoined the world, white branches fountaining out of the large lake like an explosion that only grew even larger, and more intricate. Kromolok poured mana into Erick while Erick opened himself to his [Familiar]. The drain this time was almost pleasant.

When Yggdrasil was fully back, with his massive rainbow crown and fiery green canopy, Erick welcomed him back to the world with a few short words, telling him that he’d be there soon enough. And then he turned to Kromolok, saying, “Thank you. That was much easier that time.”

Kromolok said, “You’re quite welcome, Archmage Flatt, though I did not expect that much of a drain.”

“Yeah.” Erick smiled a little, saying, “He’s a big guy.”

Sitnakov said, “Archmage Flatt. We shall depart here, to the embassy. We invite you to come along when you can, but do not take overlong. I expect you for Bright Tea as soon as you can. Feel free to study this Teleport Station at your leisure and know that we have many more secrets besides this small one.” And then, with a casual, kingly mien, Sitnakov departed, walking toward the archway that joined this cavern with the embassy’s. He hadn’t even waited for a response.

