The white city stretched out into the first three islands of a five-island archipelago chain. The first, largest island, held the kingdom castle. The second, the Grand Wizard’s Tower. The third, a small cathedral dedicated to many lost gods. The fourth was a simple forested island, but the fifth was little more than twenty meters of barren, half-jagged rock sticking out of the gentle surf.

It was in the jagged rocks that the wrought settled down. They had blipped nearby, and then flew the remaining dozen kilometers to come down atop this island and position themselves on the flattish, open space to one side. Each of them had changed from yesterday. All of them were fully healed, but beyond that, they had ‘dressed’ up for the occasion.

Kromolok had shifted his white incani form to include official-looking robes with badges of office pinned to his chest that shimmered with divine fire. He shimmered with divine fire, too, but that golden glow was only visible inside his white eyes. Tasar looked the most plain of them all, with her ‘clothing’ looking like simple black robes upon her human-shaped self, while she held her crystal staff in her offhand. Sitnakov was resplendent in leather-like-looking armor with embroidered finery everywhere upon those ‘leathers’. Was he showing off, for some reason? Or was that normal attire for him? Whatever the case, it made Erick feel angry for some reason which he chose not to investigate too deeply.

None of them were wearing actual clothes, though. All were wearing their flesh like it was fabric, as wrought usually did.

Whatever!

An Ophiel settled down on the other side of the small island, wrapped in protective spellwork. With a flicker of light, Erick’s hologram appeared before Ophiel.

Sitnakov frowned, saying, “You do us a disservice to not appear in person.”

“We did ourselves a disservice, Prince Sitnakov.” Kromolok turned back toward Erick’s form, saying, “Thank you for giving us the opportunity to pull back and reassess our battlefield diplomacy.”

Sitnakov rolled his eyes, but said nothing.

Erick said, “Thank you for accepting. It must have been difficult to be harried by Melemizargo like that. Anyone would be low on wits after such an event.”

“You have every right to be angry with us,” Kromolok said, “I would like to move past that, or at least try to begin to move past that.”

Erick decided to follow the obvious script Kromolok was setting down, asking, “How could I move past this, when you all attacked without warning, even after I revealed important strategic information in the form of [Duplicate] in order to ensure that none of you died? You even worked together, all three of you, attempting to attack from every angle in order to give Sitnakov an opportunity to murder me.”

Sitnakov scowled, saying, “It is always better to argue from a position of power and so that is what we sought to do, but I was never going to kill you. Not yet; not at this juncture.”

The man wasn’t lying as far as Erick could tell.

Kromolok calmly said, “Historically, Sitnakov is correct. We have both dealt with this exact scenario hundreds of times before. This would have been better for us to converse from a position where we are in power, since that is how it actually is, despite your personal strength. When these talks get like this, right here, this talking as equals when we very much are not equals, that’s when the escalation to actual injury and death occurs. I need you to understand: I am not being needlessly antagonistic. It would have been easier on all of us —and especially you— if you would have taken the loss, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick said, “All y’all are down here in the Underworld, keeping yourselves completely separate from the Surface world, until it’s time to come out and murder whatever or whoever threatens to upset everything, and I very much intend to upset everything.” He calmed himself, asking, “Why the fuck would I allow myself to be vulnerable around you? You should have come with an army, and you would have, if you actually held the full force of your society behind you. No. What you appear to be are vigilantes who wish for me to drop my guard, so that you can kill me at your leisure.”

Kromolok frowned a bit, then he wiped that away, saying, “We assumed that we would be enough. This was obviously a miscalculation, leading to this unfortunate state of affairs.”

“You know.” Sitnakov said, “We’re okay with the vast majority of those changes—”

“I don’t care if you’re okay with my changes or not.” Erick said to the large man, “You have no right to determine anything about my life, or my future. You have never been here for any of it, at all, and now that the danger has passed and the world is getting better because of my specific efforts you want to be a part of it? You want to decide how any of it goes down? At all? You want control with no investment? Fuck you.”

Tasar said, “Kirginatharp is willing to put in that investment, and he has been there from the beginning.”

For a long moment, no one said anything, for Erick was trying to process the complicated series of emotions displayed on the faces of everyone. From what Erick gathered, Tasar was a part of Stratagold, but a near-outcast.

Sitnakov gave a small frown at Tasar, then said to Erick, “Stratagold is willing to put forth an investment but you’ve problems in your foundation, and we must remove those problems before what you’re building is allowed to turn into yet another monster.” He added, “We’ve seen it happen too many times to count and we always have to come in and clean it up when it eventually turns bad.” He scowled, incredulous, and said, “And besides! You want to change everything! Of course we’re involved now! And it’s only been 6 months since your time in Ar’Kendrithyst! Have a little courtesy for the movements of entrenched immortals, please. And have a little more courtesy when it comes to tromping around in our Holy Land! Of course we’re involved when you come in here and defile our sacred spaces, while also threatening the security of the entire world. You are in the wrong, Erick. Admit that much and we can move on to actually solving the problems you have created.”

Erick swallowed his pride, and said, “I came in here wishing to learn of many great things, and I did. But I was not aware that this was a ‘holy land’ for your people. For that, I apologize—” He cut himself off there, for he had a lot more words besides an apology. Actually saying those words, though, would have been counterproductive no matter how true they were.

Sitnakov was prepared for Erick to say more but he had to pull his own response when Erick didn’t fight back. He didn’t lord his minor victory, though, which boded well. He even seemed to settle down; as though his world was starting to once again make sense. That part boded less well. Erick did not like this man thinking he was in control.

Kromolok remained impassive, saying, “Thank you. We also apologize for failing to approach you with a proper diplomatic response before your Worldly Path could take you this far into Veird, so that we could meet on better terms. That was an oversight on our part. We have had many oversights recently. Oftentimes, events on the Surface happen at a speed considerably quicker than we anticipate, and many of the usual threats against we wrought are not happening like they should. If it weren’t for this event right here, then I would likely be locked in a debate with any number of groups, discussing this missing attack or that cavern that is empty of monsters where it had once been filled to bursting. The world is changing, Erick, and you have made it happen, sending everything into an uncontrolled descent.”

Another silent moment passed as words sunk in.

Erick said, “I heard Melemizargo wasn’t attacking like usual.”

“Correct.” Kromolok said, “And the usual Dark Ancients are nowhere to be found, either.”

“Then it looks like I might actually be on the way to solving that second Ultimate Quest to make Melemizargo sane again. I’m already on my way toward the third; to open new worlds.” With a heavy seriousness, Erick asked, “So what is with these pathetic ultimatums?” He glanced toward Tasar, saying, “Hers is the only one close to being reasonable.”

Sitnakov readily said, “Good! Then you have chosen Tasar’s option, which is my option since Tasar agreed to that yesterday. In return, Tasar is to be elevated to Heavy at the end of this upset.” He declared, “And with that, we’re done with this tiresome talk. Let us leave this place to the ghosts.”

“… What?” Erick asked, looking toward Tasar.

This was moving too quickly. Everything was happening so fast. It had to be a trick and Erick didn’t like it.

Tasar stood strong, saying, “I have allied with Stratagold’s Heavies and they have agreed to some adjustments in their plans. To make a long agreement short: You keep your memories of this land, since Stratagold’s Heavies have the power to stand up to the Church of Rozeta, and you will not be forced off the Path, but you will be guided to end it as quickly as possible, and—”

“To make it even shorter:” Sitnakov said, “Tasar is now your keeper. She will accompany you on your Path and as soon as you get [Gate] from whatever non-Dark Wizard you happen to find, she’s getting elevated to Heavy. And, you’re replanting Yggdrasil outside of Stratagold. AND! You will come take Bright Tea at the Palace of the Eternal Light, inside Stratagold, before anything else happens.” Sitnakov said, “You will be introduced to wrought society and then we can be done with this silly notion that we mean you personal harm. We only mean harm for those who threaten to upset the world in bad ways, and while you threaten that path, we feel you can be pulled back from the edge. You are not beyond hope, Erick. You’re only beyond hope if you fail to choose the paths we control.”

Kromolok kept his frown off of his face, but with Erick’s various Sights and high Perception, the man was saddened by this decision happening in front of him. And then he shared that displeasure, by saying, “My offer is adjusted to this, Archmage Flatt—”

Sitnakov scowled. “Now Sight this, Krom—”

Kromolok spoke over the larger man, “I erase your memories of this place and you go back home, and nothing else changes. You can remain on your Path, and you can find your own way.”

Sitnakov pulled back his sudden anger—

Because Erick’s response to Kromolok’s ‘new offer’ was already set in stone, perhaps more than all the other possible options. Erick declared, “No. I am keeping my memories, and you can fuck right off.” He turned to Sitnakov, saying, “We have a deal.”

Sitnakov exalted, “Excellent! You’re to leave behind everything you copied or took and take down Yggdrasil right now. Let us leave this place.”

Before Erick could get mad—

Kromolok let his disappointment go, saying, “How about we put it this way, instead: If you take things from here, then other people will know you have [Duplicate]. We three will remain silent on that strategic truth of yours, but our silence means nothing if we allow you to bring forth mementos of your invasion.”

“I’m not protecting you and your loot on our way out of here,” Sitnakov said.

Erick calmly said, “If anything, I would be protecting you, for I can blast through every single one of those monsters out there. How long did it take you three to get this far? Oh, yeah. Would have taken you four more days, until Melemizargo decided to screw with me by chasing you into this land, messing up my Holy Communion with Rozeta.” Erick said, “I already said that once, but I feel you didn’t actually get how much you fucked up.”

Sitnakov laughed. “Fine! Let’s see how much you can actually do! You will lead the way and when you falter in the tunnels I will be there to rescue you.”

Tasar turned Erick’s anger away from Sitnakov, explaining, “All the stuff here is all decoration, Erick. All of it is holy but none of it is useful.”

Kromolok glared at Tasar, saying, “It’s—!” And then he stopped himself. He turned back to Erick’s hologram, saying, “Are you coming out from Yggdrasil? I would prefer to hurry and leave.” He added, “Also, to go back to an earlier point you made: we have had dealings before. Not directly, and not in any official capacity, but I am a Mind Mage, and I have already spoken with your man, Poi, before coming down here. None of these violent confrontations needed to have happened. There will be no Forgotten Campaign today, or tomorrow, due to your actions. We came in peace, Erick. But Prince Sitnakov was too eager to test you by far.”

“It would have been a lot easier to drag him out of here bloody and bruised; yes,” Sitnakov said.

Erick came back to himself, standing on Yggdrasil branches. He had a lot of quick thoughts, then he landed firmly on the idea that if Kromolok was a Mind Mage, which he appeared to be based on the thought tendrils around his head, the fact that he called himself as such, and Sitnakov called him one, too, then that meant certain things. One of which was that the man wouldn’t out him as a Wizard…

Probably.

Oh. Gods. Was he actually agreeing to work with these fuckers?

… Was he really doing this?

Yeah.

His decision came down to this fact: This fight didn’t end here, and it was possible for something good to come of this event. Erick had no idea what that ‘good thing’ looked like, but it was possible! It had to be. And besides that, these three wrought seemed perfectly at ease, even though they were well within his sphere of power. They weren’t worried about him killing them, and it made Erick feel kind of inadequate to need to use Ophiel to speak to them.

It was possible that this was a feint; a trap to lure him out where they could kill him...

And so, he said, “Okay. I’m coming out. And I’m taking a few things with me, but nothing culturally significant.”

Kromolok tensed, but nodded. Tasar relaxed.

Sitnakov gave a soft smile, as he said, “When we leave, I want to have a competition to kill the most monsters.”

“You will lose,” Erick said, as he grabbed his backpack. It was already filled with his necessities, like some of his platinum that he took from the platinum elemental from out in the tunnels, and a bit of the white metal that he scraped off off the white king’s scepter. He didn’t know what it was, yet, but he wanted to find out. He kept some Wizardry books, but he left behind a second bag that was carrying nothing but books, as he rhetorically asked, “How do you think I got in here? Stealth?”

