On the other side, the runt pushed his peers aside and stepped onto the stage, ignoring the recriminations from his elders, Akanai looking on furiously. Dressed in simple leather armor and canvas trousers, even from a distance it was clear his opponent dwarfed him in size and girth. He walked forward to stand centre stage before being directed back to his corner by the Justicar, laughed at the entire time. Outrageous, it seemed this was his first duel and not even his own people had confidence in him.

Standing at his corner of the square stage, the Baiji Warrior raised his deep voice, playing to the crowd and building up their excitement, his weapons crashing against his chest in a booming greeting. “I am Captain Teng Wei Chuan , 23 years old, Disciple of Major General Teng Wei Sheng, member of the BaiJi Sect, and Adherent to the Society.”

“I am -”

Wei Chuan laughed loudly, interrupting the boy's introduction. “No one cares about your name, runt. It is insulting for me to fight you, but I will allow you the honour of knowing my name before you die. You can only cry of this injustice in the Mother's embrace, and perhaps in your next life, you won't be born into a pack of savages.” The crowd laughed and jeered, the anger displayed on the runt's face mirrored by many in the crowd of Bekhai supporters.

Seeing the runt remain silent, the Justicar moved on with the match, raising his hand for silence. “Let this first trial of the Bekhai, begin!” As soon as his hand dropped, Wei Chuan raised his gauntlets, displaying the customary stance of the Eight Extreme Fists, moving to meet his opponent. The runt's weapons hung loosely at his side as he strolled leisurely forwards, seeming unconcerned of the approaching behemoth of a warrior.

Picking up his speed, Wei Chuan's lumbering steps seemed to shake the very ground itself, closing the remaining distance with an enormous leap, his weapon raised high to smash the runt into a paste. Soaring through the air, he seemed a magnificent warrior leaping down to crush an ant, the runt stopping to stare stupidly, his weapons still lowered. Yang smiled, anticipating the sight of the runt's splattered skull, inwardly lamenting over a minor detail. He should have told Wei Chuan to keep the boy's eyes intact so he could have them pickled and displayed on his bookshelf. Amber eyes were a rarity, and it would make for a good conversation piece. No matter, the 'fearsome' Gerel had the same coloured eyes and would make for a more impressive trophy.

Landing heavily, Wei Chuan's fist smashed into the ground, sending broken stone and dust into the air, obscuring all vision of the arena. Cheers broke out from the Society's side, applause and adulation at the young man's fearsome prowess. As the dust settled, the cheers died out, only one figure could be made out. His sword still held loosely at his side, dripping with blood, the runt stood slack and unimpressed. Beside him knelt Wei Chuan, his face covered in dust, his lifeblood cascading down his side in slow spurts, pooling in the small crevice he had only just created, a fatal cut in through the left abdomen spelling his doom.

Silence suffused the area, the laboured breaths of Wei Chuan echoing loudly as the crowd collectively held its breath, questioning their own eyes as they watched the scene before them. Leaning over the dying warrior, the runt smiled toothily and spoke, his voice audible to all present. “I will allow you the honour of knowing my name before you die. I am Falling Rain, 17 years old, Student of Medical Saint Taduk, Disciple of Major Baatar, Grand Disciple of Lieutenant General Akanai, Khishig of the Bekhai.” Placing his sword on Wei Chuan's neck, his smile grew wider and his eyes gleamed with self-satisfaction. “Perhaps in your next life, you won't be born into a pack of worthless scum.”

“Wait, don-” Ignoring Wei Chuan's protest, Rain lightly slit the young man's throat, contemptuously kicking the body away. Sliding across the stone with a wet smack, Wei Chuan struggled for breath, gasping as his lungs worked uselessly. The seconds passed slowly as the crowd watched, his arms flailing about while his face twisted in an ugly grimace. His body squirmed about, voiding his bowels and bladder, shaking in the throes of death, his gauntlets clattering against the stone stage floor for all to hear.

It seemed an agonizing eternity before Wei Chuan stilled, the finality of death gruesome to look upon. The crowd turned its attention to the fiendish child, grinning happily as he looked proudly upon his handiwork. Not even his own people cheered for his victory, stunned by his ruthless manner in refusing a quick, dignified death.

Glancing up, Rain stared into Yang's disbelieving eyes with a grin and asked, “Who's next?”

Chapter Meme
