“We also don’t have time to acquire that before Monday,” said Tuck, taking the swatch away from him. “I don’t know why somebody felt the need to go get so many unrecommended samples from the shelves.”

“Look, Alden,” said Gus, passing him another one. “This one changes color like a lizard.”

Gus got sent off to help Yinuo, but he wasn’t gone for long. A couple of minutes after Tuck left to collect materials and create the patterns, the shopping team was back.

“Oh…wow…” said Alden, back in the clothes he’d arrived in to greet them at the door. “Did you leave anything for the rest of the shoppers on the island?”

“A little!” said Yinuo, almost tripping over a plastic bag so large it dwarfed the other seven hanging around her arms. “I saw the pictures, I followed along with your plans, and I’m so jealous I couldn’t be here to watch every bit of it! You’re going to look wonderful! How are you on sunglasses? Don’t worry. I’ve got you plenty to try on. All that back and forth to the cube, the glare off the water. Let’s take care of you.”

Gus and Gretchen were right behind her with even more bags.

******

So when you spend enough money all the stores come to you.

Alden was staring at the wealth of stuff spread out before him.

“The goal,” said Gus, who’d temporarily taken over in an advisory capacity while the tailors were in the back, “is to find the perfect things to have with you at all times. These are probably not the perfect things.”

He waved his arms over a collection of toiletries piled on top of the coffee table. “But you have to try a few times before you know, and this can be a practice run. On the Triplanets, how do you wear your hair?”

With dirt in it, typically.

“What’s the easiest acceptable option?” Alden asked.

Gus handed him a bottle of something called “Softly Salty.” That wasn’t quite enough of an answer, but he’d figure it out by reading the instructions on the back. There were so many other things to consider.

Rows of shoes stood before him, fresh from their boxes. Shirts hung on racks so that he could browse through them at his leisure. Belts and hats and pajamas filled the sofa.

All of it was in Alden’s size. Like a pop-up store had appeared for a single person.

Everyone assured him he could take all of it or none of it or assign one of them to go on a hunt for whatever they might have forgotten.

It was a mix of clothing that would work on the Triplanets and things he might want here on Earth. There was no need for his entire wardrobe to be bespoke.

“Yet!” Gus had said enthusiastically when Yinuo pointed that out.

Apart from the shoes, Alden would need to select to match his new Triplanetary style, most of these things weren’t necessities. But it was definitely something to see it all here in front of him, and Yinuo had thought of things that were too small to have made Alden’s list of concerns yet and offered solutions.

House socks. A package of wipes that would handle any emergency sweat situations when he wasn’t able to shower. A gum that would make your mouth taste like mint so strongly that other flavors didn’t stand a chance…it was for helping people who loathed wevvi.

He browsed, tried on a few things, and grabbed some silk pajamas that he just liked a lot before Tuck returned and took him back to the dressing room for another round of outfitting.

The afternoon flew past from that point on. Clothes were appearing in the dressing room. Yinuo was asking Alden to do everything short of jumping jacks to make sure he was happy with the movement of the custom pieces. Then, they were trying what felt like a hundred pairs of shoes on his feet.

Then colors—were all the colors all right?

He couldn’t catch his breath. Gustavo and Gretchen had to head to work. There were so many more bags to look through. Where did they keep coming from? Who the heck was that lady who just let herself in the front door, took something from a shelf, and then disappeared? Had the store been robbed? Oh look another pair of shoes!

And then…there was calm.

The skills that did the most necessary magics had been exhausted. The final adjustments to a couple of pieces would be made tomorrow. The mountains of clothes and products he had elected not to purchase were being folded and packaged away by Tuck while Yinou carefully displayed the few special outfits on mannequins.

Alden stood eating a pack of roasted almonds that he couldn’t actually remember anyone giving him and stared at his new clothes. Right at the end, Tuck had said, “Maybe something custom for home, too? You should have something you feel completely confident in no matter where you are.”

So Alden had asked for jeans that fit perfectly, a pair of dark wash ones he’d probably wear more than anything else he’d bought. He’d requested a casual button-down shirt and a coat that would make his shoulders look awesome. There they were on the mannequin. The jacket was a textured wool blend in a gray-green color. It was definitely nicer than his usual hoodie, and still relaxed enough to fit in at school when they were freed from the uniform requirement in January. Yinuo had shown him how to dress it up or down.

The next mannequin was wearing a Triplanets-ready look. Nothing too fancy from a distance. The brown, long-sleeved turtleneck didn’t have that shiny quality that made him uncertain about the LeafSong turtlenecks, but when someone stood near him they might notice the occasional metallic burgundy thread in the fabric. The piece was intended to extend his clothing options. With the high neck, it could be worn just about anywhere, by itself, if either of his two new pezyvas were unavailable or inappropriate. The mannequin was wearing the shirt with a pair of pants in a desaturated dark red. They were similar to Ro-den’s in shape, but with the amount of blousing fabric toned down a couple of notches.

And, finally, there was the outfit he’d wear on Monday.

Pezyvas were vests as far as Alden’s limited sartorial vocabulary was concerned. They were a sleeveless outer layer that opened in the front, and they didn’t extend down to your ankles or anything, so—vests.

One of the things that made the vest an Artonan pezyva was a closure that ran diagonally across the body, rather than straight up and down. Another was the fact that the shape of it left the waist and hip on one of the wearer’s sides free. You could carry pouches or tools you needed easy access to there without belting over the garment. The front of the other hip was concealed by the vest’s two tails, which fell in triangular points over that thigh.

Alden’s pezyva was modified according to his preferences. They usually had no collar; his had one in the back that rose in a slight curve over his neck, with a “V” in the front. It was the same shade of brown as the shirt on the other mannequin. He’d always thought he looked good in brown. Apparently, he did, but there were specific browns. This one would be his neutral extraterrestrial wardrobe color.

The vest could have had all sorts of closures, but he’d chosen to have no visible one. Instead, he’d picked a very secure fastening strip. It was an enchanted product, but not too expensive. And it allowed him to adjust the position of the two sides of the vest to suit his taste and the quirks of whatever he might wear underneath it. In the place on the chest where a button might have gone on some versions of the outfit, he could wear some kind of accessory pin. Or he could leave it empty and let the commendation be his only statement.

The placement of the commendation was one of the only aspects of the whole process where Alden had had knowledge that outmatched the professionals’. They had wanted to put it firmly on the front, just above the position where a logo or name tag might go on human clothes. But Alden had talked for entirely too long about placement with the nephew of the person who’d actually issued the commendation, so he was adamant that wrapping a larger piece of embroidery over the top of one shoulder was fine. The fact that the commendation was only partially visible from the front was balanced by the fact that it was also visible from the back. The wrapping around of the symbol said it was very significant to him, and that was hardly a bad thing to say considering who it was from and who he’d be interacting with while he wore it.

“It’s like I’m clothing myself with the honor,” he’d explained to Tuck. “As opposed to displaying it. It’s a thing. I checked.”

They had trusted him to know his business once again and had put it there. The thread they’d used was almost the same color as the cloth. That was largely personal taste. He liked the way it looked, and since it covered the whole shoulder, there was no risk of it being too subtle.

This pezyva could also be worn with the shirt and pants on the other mannequin because the goal had been to give him Triplanets pieces that all worked together. But on Monday, he’d be wearing it with a pair of brown pants that looked like the joggers from LeafSong had gotten a fabric and fit upgrade. They were minimal enough not to detract from the vest, which he would be wearing with a lightweight shirt in a shade he thought of as “brown purple,” though it had had some more elegant sounding name on the color chart. As an alternative, he had an indigo blue tank top he could use as an under layer when he wanted to wear the vest sleevelessly. If he did that, he would end up with a triangle of blue showing just at the waist on one side, and his arms would be free to cool off. That was his personal favorite of all the options.

“This has a gorgeous hang to it,” said Yinuo, running her hands over the front of the vest to fasten it around the mannequin and then touching the two points that came down sharply in the front, one slightly longer than the other. “The softer pezyva we’re finishing up for you tomorrow will have a beautiful drape, but I like that you wanted to try this more structured version.”

“When it holds its shape like that,” said Alden, “it reminds me a little of origami.”

******

It was time for last touches.

A table was set up in front of the Monday mannequin, with Artonan jewelry and belts and scents.

“Your clothes are conveying a lot of the things you want,” said Yinou. “Comfort and familiarity with the culture. Respectfulness. Confidence in yourself. The commendation is loaded with meanings that would be impossible to avoid even if we tried, and they’re not meanings that tarnish you. That’s for sure.

“But let’s shape your message a little more. In the near future, you should collect some pieces that are the exact right thing for you. What we keep here in the shop isn’t really personalized, they’re just items we think will be useful to many Avowed.”

Alden looked through the accessories slowly, talking about what each one would imply to anyone who notice it. She’d curated them for him, so none of them were wrong…but it did make him curious about what other things he could manage to signal with a simple ring or belt buckle.

“What if I have something made out of my birth tree?” he asked. “What does that say?”

She lifted an eyebrow. “I don’t actually know that one. We have a symbology expert we call when people have a question like that. But he’s a wizard, and it’s expensive. Unless you’ve got a piece of your tree to use right now, you might just want to wait and ask your friend.”

“I’ll do that.”

There was no need to take advantage of all of the supplies arrayed before him. Just a couple of right things…

“This,” he said finally, pointing at a brooch that would go on his vest. “And these.”

“The senva seed for a pocket offering,” she said, opening the jar that held the scrambled dandelion-looking things. “We’ll put them in a pouch with the ‘gratitude’ logogram on it. How many do you want?”

“A dozen.”

“That’s a lot. You might not even meet a wizard who uses them for anything. Pocket offerings can get a bit stale while you wait for the opportunity to give them away.”

“I know one,” said Alden, the familiar basil smell of Stuart’s preferred cushioning spell filling his nose now that the lid was off the jar.

Without further comment, she tucked them into a leather pouch, then she reached for the brooch and a box to put it in.

“Good choices,” she said.

The brooch was a piece of driftwood carved into a symbol that combined the logograms for happiness and rest. The driftwood represented long travel, so Needle & Wheedle carried various accessories made from it, since Avowed on the Artonas were definitely travelers.

Wearing the pin would tell everyone that Alden wasn’t hoping they’d offer him work. It had the side benefit of matching up well with his visit to the mind healer. He was happy to have her help and hopeful for better rest.

“Simple,” said Yinuo. “Sophisticated. Done!”

She tapped the box that had the driftwood jewelry in it. “Are you satisfied with everything? Any last requests?”

He looked at the outfits on the mannequins and the bags that held the store-bought extras. Needle & Wheedle now had a file on him. Future appointments would be easier according to Gus, because he would grow into his sense of style now that it had been allowed to see the light. And he wouldn’t have to learn how the process worked from scratch.

He had been assured that Tuck was even better at tuxedoes.

“I’m drawing a blank,” said Alden, looking back at Yinuo. “I think I wanted to ask you guys for a few more things, but now my brain is fried.”

