When questioned about what good meant to him, he had to talk for a few minutes before he found the answer: appropriate for the setting, like he’d made an effort without agonizing, mature but not in a way that sucked life out of his appearance. He liked when other peoples’ clothes had an interesting detail or two that he wouldn’t notice at a casual glance. He disliked conspicuous branding.

“That’s recent,” he told Tuck while runway models stomped across the wall wearing a collection that was going for a hybrid menswear/Artonanwear look. “I never cared enough to pay attention to that kind of thing, but then I found out some Artonans spend a lot of time trying to figure out what we’re telling them with words on clothes. Now I can’t stop reading peoples’ shirts and overanalyzing them.”

He wanted his clothes to be comfortable and easy to move in. He wanted hidden pockets to hide preserved objects in. He wanted to be cool on the Triplanets—temperature-wise.

Gustavo heard that as he came through the door with their lunches. “We all want that!”

“Being cool in that way isn’t always doable, especially not on short notice or in every destination. But we try,” said Tuck. “Keep going.”

He didn’t like loud patterns on himself. He thought he was probably in the early stages of developing a taste for magic jewelry. Every time he saw the green nonagon ring on his finger, he liked the look of it more and more. He didn’t mention his auriad, obviously, but it was a contributing factor. When checking out wizards’ stacks of rings and bracelets, he usually liked the wooden pieces best.

He was glad to hear that there were plenty of outfits he could wear that would be great on both worlds; he’d probably need to start taking advantage of that if he got summoned frequently. But when he had control over the situation, and his trips were planned, he would prefer a bifurcated wardrobe. Dedicated clothes for journeys to the Artonas.

Once he made that decision, the fashion examples being projected onto the wall shifted to be even more Triplanetary.

Robes looked so comfortable, but Alden preferred pants. He liked that vest the Artonan walking through the park was wearing; it reminded him of one included in Stuart’s belated message full of clothing examples. He liked most of those tunics except for the way they flared at the bottoms. He hated the necklines that made peoples’ heads look like they were emerging from the top of a cabbage. Turtlenecks were fine.

And, despite having shared several opinions that should render them unacceptable, he had a soft spot for Hawaiian shirts.

“All right,” said Tuck, stylus lifting from the tablet he’d been sketching on for a while. “Let’s try some things on you.”

******

The dressing room had a pair of cushiony chairs and a beverage fridge full of three different kinds of water. The mirror showed Alden alternating views of his front, sides, and back while he stripped down to his underwear and re-dressed in a large jumpsuit that was made of numerous gray fabric strips in widths that ranged from vermicelli to linguini. Sympathy for Magic made him want to stare at it for a little too long.

There was a knock on the door. “Would you rather do it back here or out front?” Tuck’s voice called.

“Here is fine,” Alden called back. He was trying to be convenient, which turned out to be his first mistake of the day. When Tuck opened the door a minute later, he was carrying armfuls of the fabric swatches.

He had to move them all for me.

Gus poked his head around the door. “Do you want me to go help Yinuo empty the shoe stores? Or do you want me here?”

“If you don’t mind, a third opinion here would be awesome. But since you’ve introduced me to this whole thing now, I’m fine whenever you need to go.”

“<<Good!>> I don’t want to go. This is the fun part.” He pointed at Alden. “No giving up when the tickling starts. Straight face. You represent The Warren.”

Alden looked down at the jumpsuit. “It’s going to tickle?”

“Not that bad,” said Tuck, hanging his own coat on a peg by the door and taking a seat in one of the chairs. “If you think of anything at all you want to try out, just say so. I’ll let you know when we’re about a third of the way through your try-ons. That’s when we really need to start narrowing to make sure you’ve got an outfit ready for Monday. We can play around and make some more things for you once that’s sorted. Pardon the goggles.”

He put the steampunky goggles on his face and became considerably quirkier looking. “These help me see if any of the strands are damaged. It’s so annoying for a fit to be off by a millimeter because one of them decided not to join the party. Are you ready?”

“I’m ready.” Alden turned back to the mirror and held his arms out slightly. He was curious to see the jumpsuit work. The effect it would have had been described, but he couldn’t quite believe it would be as fully realistic as promised.

“Look at him holding nice and still with his arms out!” Gus said, sounding thrilled about it as he took his own seat.

“Everyone stands that way the first time.” Tuck was looking from his tablet full of sketches and references to Alden and back again. “I think it’s the natural starting position for a man getting his first magical fitting. Let’s make it a good one. Outfit One.  Jatontan tunic—mid-thigh length, side split up to the hip. High-necked tank for an under layer with this one. Pants— straight legged, minimal volume.”

He pointed at Alden while he spoke. Or, more accurately, at the jumpsuit, which started moving all over like every individual strand had a mind of its own. Alden saw his own expression of astonishment in the mirror. The strands slithered around one another and around him, forming the clothes as Tuck envisioned them and tickling like crazy, but in such a swift, unpredictable variety of spots that he just stood there unsure of which direction he wanted to flinch in.

Outfitter—one of Tuck’s skills.

It would, according to him, “do things” to miscellaneous fabric strips, but it was designed to work with this special product for this specific purpose. When Alden decided he liked something enough to buy it, Tuck would “set” it into the suit with the skill. Alden would take it off, and Tuck would carry the linguini to the room where the clothes-making actually happened. It would separate into the pieces he needed for a two-dimensional pattern.

After the pattern was made, he’d return to Alden with the jumpsuit for whatever else they had time to design. Yinuo would be turning the pattern into clothes with her own skills. Some details would be added. And then they’d have final fittings and adjustments just to make sure nothing was amiss.

Alden watched the clothes make themselves around him.

“You guys!” he said as the strands crawled up his neck. “This is so cool!”

There were now multiple pieces where before there had been a single suit.

“It’s instant clothes! Do you see this, Gus?”

Gus was laughing.

“There,” said Tuck, lowering the finger he’d been pointing. “That’s a starting place. Walk around. Take a good look at yourself. If you like the concept enough we’ll keep refining it. If not, we’ll try something new. If you’re not sure, we’ll work on it a little and then we can take a few pictures for you to come back to later.”

“I can walk around?”

“You can walk around,” he confirmed. “Even while I’m making adjustments if you want. Whatever you feel like seeing, just say the word. I’ll tell you if I think it’s a bad idea, but you’re the boss. And experimentation is encouraged.”

Alden looked at himself. The pieces were gray, and some of the details had to be imagined for now. But it was undeniably a set of clothes that had sprung into being because he said he thought he might like to see himself in something similar.

“It even fits right,” he said in awe.

“Oh no it doesn’t,” said Tuck, rising from his seat. “It fits well enough for you to get the idea.”

“Really?” Alden checked out his profile. “It seems pretty good.”

“The difference between pretty good and perfect when it comes to clothes is the centimeter that looks like a kilometer.” He stood behind Alden. “Want me to show you the difference?”

“Sure.”

The outfit started to slither again, just a little.

“You have shoulders that don’t want to be done a disservice with a misplaced seam.”

The tunic’s shoulders shifted minutely. Alden hadn’t moved, but he had the impression that his posture had improved. His brows lifted.

“You have a waist that can be respected even if the outfit isn’t formfitting.”

Another tiny adjustment around his torso.

“And for something like this…” Tuck gestured toward the tunic’s hem. “There are specific lengths that suit a person. I think this is a little long on you.”

A tweak here, a tug there, pants closing in around his ankles.

“What do you think?” Tuck asked.

I think…this is an interesting new world I didn’t expect to discover today. I think I have been missing out on seeing myself through a really neat lens.

He smiled. “I think I want to try on so many outfits.”

******

Alden learned what he looked like.

In twenty different necklines, in sleeves that scrunched or split or flapped. He tried out pants that had cuffs at the bottom that rose all the way to his knees and ones that looked similar to the style Ro-den and plenty of other wizards favored. Excess fabric was very much a thing when it came to wizard pants. These were loose from the waist to the cuffed ankles, with a lot of the excess ballooning outward at the bottom.

“I wore these so much on Thegund they feel familiar,” he said, downing a small bottle of fizzy water that Gus had tossed him while he moved around in the current outfit. The pants were paired with a torso-hugging, long-sleeved shirt that had a neckline he particularly liked—a collar that rose up the back of the neck only, with the front opening in a shallow “V.”

Completely uncovering the back of the neck could be read a lot of ways, but none of them were appropriate for introducing himself to someone he wanted to demonstrate respect and gratitude toward. But having the front open would be fine and a lot less annoying if he got hot.

Neither Tuck nor Gus acted fazed by the Thegund mention. Not even for a second, not even a twitch. Gus was a counselor who saw every kind of drama that walked through the doors of the intake building, so that wasn’t a surprise. He was a professional at acting like your backstory was only one manageable part of your life. Tuck was just as unflappable in a slightly different way. He never pried, and he took Alden’s words at face value.

When Alden told them he was expecting to make multiple social visits to his wizard friend’s house, nobody asked who the friend was or if Alden was sure about their relationship being casual enough for him to wear whatever he wanted when it was just the two of them hanging out. Alden said he needed help looking like a respectable choice of companion in front of parents and siblings, and so that was what he got advice on.

His appearance was Needle & Wheedle’s business; everything unrelated to it was entirely his own.

He thought that was why the whole shopping experience was feeling very adult.

“The trick to wearing garments associated with the wizard class as an Avowed is to make sure you’re not wearing anything too close to the whole package,” said Tuck.

“Right,” said Alden. “It’s about not putting the fully-educated-wizard ensemble together. I like how comfortable the pants are, and I know these aren’t even close to the most dramatic version. But I think I preferred the ones that were a little more toned down. What’s next?”

He got more and more into it. They turned on the sound system and gave him the controls, but he kept going back to the instrumental playlist that had been the first offered. It sounded like happy, classy people getting dressed.

When he liked a shape enough, Tuck would work on it for longer until they got the best version of it. Then it was thoroughly photographed and put in Alden’s personal file, so that if he decided he wanted it, the look could be recreated more quickly. If Tuck was very familiar with a design or if he was looking at an image of it, he was better at pulling it together.

With limitless options, Alden was worried he’d never be able to settle on anything, but when he saw the piece he wanted the commendation on, he was sure of it right away.

“This is a definite yes,” he said, indicating the topmost layer of the outfit that had just finished coming into being around him. “Can I have one of these?”

“A pezyva like the one you chose from the video of the park on Artona III, modified with your preferred neckline, the asymmetry exaggerated slightly. Intriguing but not showy.” He smiled at Alden in the mirror. “Definitely yes. You can have one. You can have more than one if you want. It’s a practical garment you’ll get a lot of use out of, I imagine. Let’s see what it looks like in different fabrics and then figure out what you’ll wear it with.”

Fabrics turned out to be way more important than Alden had realized. He didn’t know what ninety percent of the ones he got to feel and talk about with the two of them even were, and apparently you couldn’t just make anything out of anything and have it look nice.

It was also time for them to discuss the budget again, because if he seriously wanted his pants to be made out of the silky stuff that magically chilled the air as it passed through, then he was going to need to get richer.

