“You had to make a million choices in just a few hours. It’s tired.” She walked over to the mannequin in the coat and jeans and started stripping it. “It will all hit you at some point. You’ll open your closet and realize how you the things you bought today are, and you’ll be glad we made you try on forty pairs of leather boots.”

“I’m sure it was twice that many. My feet are now boot-shaped.”

“Think of how fast it would be next time if that were true!” She looked back at him. “We’ll deliver all of this to your dorm so you don’t have to carry it. Do you have plans for tonight?”

“Not really. I missed the first year dinner slot at the cafeteria, so I’ll probably grab something before I head back to campus.”

She held up the coat. “Want to look handsome while you do it?”

******

I like this.

Alden sat outside a restaurant, at the last table they’d had available. It was getting dark, so he’d taken off his new sunglasses and set them beside the basket of bread that had come with his mezze platter. The glasses were dark green. Just a color he’d selected because he liked it, and a style that had been recommended by Yinuo because she was taking his face shape and his preference for “chill, beachy ones” into account.

I like that everything I’m wearing had so much thought put into it.

He’d been carefully studying what every other person around him was dressed in. Variety and bold choices weren’t lacking in Apex. There was a woman in a coat that had light-up sleeves, and there was a man wearing a lot of something that looked like alligator skin. A simple black dress. A neon orange windbreaker. A pair of pants that looked like they’d been picked up from the Triplanets and then decorated with a bunch of straps.

Alden didn’t think he’d be drawing attention for his sense of fashion, and he was glad of that. But if someone did happen to look his way, then it was satisfying to feel like he’d taken some control over what they saw. And if nobody looked his way, he was quite happy sitting here enjoying all the little unimportant things that were only for him. The buttons he’d chosen out of way too many possible options. The fact that instead of a tag, his own name was inside the bespoke coat, shirt, and jeans. The extra pockets they’d managed to hide for him everywhere, most of them with closures secure enough to guarantee any entrusted items didn’t get lost even if someone hung him upside down and shook him.

The day had been so far outside his normal.

But I think it was really good. I think it’s something I’m allowed to enjoy.

He requested to-go packaging from one of the server carts this place used and boxed up all the food he hadn’t finished, then he grabbed his bag and headed out.

When he made it back to the dorm, Lexi and Haoyu were both out.

Alden hung his new clothes up carefully, climbed into his loft bed for the first time in what felt like forever, and fell asleep before either of them made it back.

******
