Crimson light flared from both his armor and his sword. The monster released its toxic spores, and within moments, an explosion rocked the night, pressing back the darkness with a colossal whump of detonation. Rain let the heat wash over him, closing his eyes against the light as he briefly pulsed Refrigerate to cool himself down. He got a lungful of toasted spores before he wiped them from the air with Purify, but thanks to the accolade boosting his Chemical resistance, they did less than nothing to him.

The Stumper roared again, swiping blindly and coming nowhere close to hitting him. He was already gone. It had lost another good chunk of health, both from Immolate and from the secondary explosion. Raising the sword out to his side again, Rain activated Velocity, then charged.

First Sparrow: Darting Pass

The Stumper moved to strike him as he closed the distance, swinging with the other arm this time. Rain dodged easily, anticipating the path of its strike. It was no different from the first exchange, simply mirrored. The monster was following its instinctual patterns like an automaton, and Rain was going to exploit that for all he was worth. His blade tracked a line on the monster’s left side, slightly deeper than the one he’d left on its right, and he brought his other hand up to the hilt once more.

First Sparrow: Whirling Feather

This time, his alignment was perfect. The sword cut through the monster’s spongy flesh like water as it split its back wide open. Rain completed the motion, dodged the anticipated counterstrike, then chopped downward again onto its arm.

Orange light flickered.

Crimson light countered.

Three more times, Rain repeated the pattern before his sword was too bent to continue. The steel, fine as it was, simply couldn’t hold up to the combination of his unnatural strength, magically enhanced speed, and amateur technique. He tossed it aside, then clenched his fists. His armor was stronger. He had all of the weapons he needed.

The torch on the ground flickered weakly. The repeated exposure to Immolate had burned through the life of the magical chemical that it used as fuel. Rain ignored it. He knew what the monster would do. How it would react. Even if the torch died, he didn’t need to see.

Velocity-enhanced punch after Velocity-enhanced punch crashed into the Stumper, shaving off a point or two of Rain’s own health with each impact as it was transmitted back through his fragile bones. He didn’t care. It was simply more training for his Endurance. The monster was slowing down, perhaps weakened by the lack of essence on the surface, or perhaps after depleting its stamina. Likely both.

Rain stopped using Immolate, countering merely with Purify, lest he actually set it on fire now that its health was getting lower. There was no call to rob Tallheart of breakfast tomorrow. Still, the fight continued, requiring every ounce of his focus. He couldn’t afford to be hit, not even once, even though he would likely survive it.

Rain was panting heavily by the time the ding sounded in his head, signaling the monster’s death. His muscles were trembling with exertion as he stood atop the slashed, singed, and crushed remains of the enormous mushroom man. He was covered in the thick fluid that served as the monster’s blood. He hadn’t needed to use Purify after it had run out of the mana it required to use its spores.

Rain closed his eyes, then took a deep breath and let it out slowly. He turned, then spoke a single word.

“Ameliah.”

She walked forward out of the darkness and into the feeble light of the failing torch, a guilt-ridden expression on her face. Detection had picked her up toward the end of the fight when both he and the Stumper had been near their limits. Rain hadn’t been so focused on working through his issues that he’d forgotten to monitor for other threats. He was outside the walls, after all.

Despite his focus, the distraction of Ameliah’s arrival had almost gotten him punted over the treetops. He’d needed to force himself to push past his surprise and finish what he’d started, lest he make a mistake. Ameliah hadn’t stepped in to help, and the initial elation that he’d felt at her appearance hadn’t survived the grinding of his thoughts as he’d mechanically finished the battle.

Now, there was only a trace of it left. The hollowness had returned. The hurt. The abandonment.

“Rain,” Ameliah said, looking up at him. “You’re a mess.”

“You left,” Rain said, looking at the brown fabric of her traveling clothes. He clenched his hands as he panted, the pain of his bruised knuckles hot inside his gauntlets. We needed her. She didn’t even say goodbye.

“Yes.”

Rain worked to regain control of his breathing. When he finally spoke, his voice was cold with accusation. “Why?”

Ameliah looked away. “Because I’m a mess too.”

The stabbing pain in Rain’s chest faded, rapidly replaced by sudden guilt of his own. He knew why she’d left. He’d known it might happen. She’d literally told him.

Carefully, Rain climbed down from the Stumper’s remains, switching to Purify to clean himself off. He removed his helmet, then let it drop from his aching fingers. He stopped about a meter away from her and waited, struggling to think of what to say.

Finally, Ameliah looked back up at him and opened her mouth, as if to offer some further explanation.

Rain stopped her with a tiny shake of his head, then spoke. “I’m sorry. You don’t need to explain. It’s just…” He trailed off. She came back. That’s all that matters. Rain smiled. “I missed you.”

Ameliah snorted, brushing a strand of blond hair away from her face.

And then, she was hugging him.

Rain froze, holding his arms out to the side in awkward surprise.

“Hug me back, idiot,” Ameliah said after a moment. Rain blinked, then wrapped his arms around her. His heart was suddenly racing even faster than it had during the fight.

“Stupid armor,” Ameliah said, pressing her neck against his. “It’s like hugging a rock.”

Rain laughed, relaxing slightly to allow her to pull away if she wanted. Instead, she squeezed him even tighter, speaking softly. “I missed you too.”

Rain’s heart practically leapt out of his chest. “Ameliah—” he began, but she shushed him.

“Shh. Wait for it.”

“Wait for what?”

A loud whistle pierced the darkness, and Rain spotted Carten standing atop the wall and waving at them.

“Kiss! Kiss! Kiss!” He began chanting, pumping his fist.

“There it is,” Ameliah said, giving Rain a playful squeeze that made his armor creak. Still, she didn’t pull away as she loosened her grip slightly. Rain’s face felt like it was on fire as a few other voices joined Carten’s, taking up the chant. His mouth was dry as Ameliah finally pushed him to arm’s length. Her cheeks were flushed with embarrassment, but she was smiling playfully.

She’s so beautiful… Rain shook himself as the chant continued. “I…can I…?” he stammered. “Would it be okay if…?”

Ameliah tilted her head as if considering. After an intolerable moment, she nodded, almost to herself. “Yes.” Before Rain could work up the courage to do anything, her lips found his all on their own.

“OOAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!” Carten roared in the distance.

Various other whoops and whistles came from the camp’s direction, but Rain didn’t register any of it, consumed by the softness of Ameliah’s mouth against his.

Ameliah ended the kiss quickly, pulling back to stare into his eyes, leaving Rain feeling like he’d been punted by the Stumper after all.

She laughed as she saw his stunned expression. “Did I break you?”

Rain blinked, then smiled and, without hesitation, moved forward. Their lips met again, and the world faded away once more.
