Limanta was a fellow member of the Imperial Magistrate who’d made it to Mercurial Court as an attendant. Not confident their shaky deal with Everit Draom would fulfill their goals, the magistrate decided to buy another slot from another sealbearer. It was a good thing they did because Limanta had proven more useful than Zac’s own attendants. She’d made the market district her permanent residence, using the constant flow of people to make money and connections.

Zac couldn’t spend all his time waiting for suitable materials to come on sale. Instead, he’d commissioned Limanta, who purchased the items when they appeared. She was also an information merchant who’d sniffed out a few places suspected to have opportunities related to his path. Without her, Zac would have been forced to spend at least 10,000 Imperial Merits on materials.

“Just take the compliment,” Zac said as he turned to leave.

“You’re really breaking through?” Limanta asked with a serious expression. “I’ve read your report. It’s too soon to aim for Perfected Lord.”

“Have you seen this place? We’re being pushed forward whether we like it or not,” Zac said.

“Maybe you Sealbearers. Us attendants will have to do with the scraps,” Limanta said, waving at her book.

“I’ll relay your complaints to the Head Librarian,” Zac grinned.

“I’m not kidding. It’s too soon. You’re not even 800 years old, what’s the rush?” Limanta urged. “Perfection is a major hurdle. We still have more than 60 years left in this place. Why not take a few decades to refine yourself first?”

‘Maybe you have 60 years. We’ll be lucky if we get one more year,’ Zac complained to himself. Naturally, he’d already prepared a better excuse to explain his rush.

“What can I do? There are no invaders left to kill and no other ways to make easy money. Even the Princess has disappeared from the face of the earth,” Zac complained. “Major breakthroughs have a good chance of exposing new fated encounters. That’s the only way I’ll make some real money.”

“Always money with you. Don’t think I haven’t heard how much you made unsealing that Goddess,” Limanta scoffed. “Is it the [Universal Tear]? You’d better give it up. That thing’s only put there to make you sealbearers work harder.”

“Sure, but if I collect enough, they’ll still have to honor the listing,” Zac shrugged. “And while they haven’t said how to become a permanent disciple, collecting more Potentiality surely can’t hurt.”

“You’re still on that? I know there have been some… disagreements between you and the bureau, but it is still your home. The Mercurial Court may have amazing opportunities, but we both know this indolent place doesn’t align with your path,” Limanta said with a frown. “Admit it, you felt the most alive in this place when you tracked down the fugitives and hidden invaders.”

“It’s in fate’s hands now,” Zac said, earning another scoff from Everit’s colleague as he turned away.

“Don’t forget to stop by. There might be more missions in the future, and I usually have some valuable information to sell,” Limanta called.

“Take care. I think we’re witnessing the calm before the storm,” Zac said with a wave as he headed for the Compass Factory.

The factory was one of the permanent fixtures of the market district. Different from most department stores, which were run by research groups or powerful alumni, the factory was managed by the sect itself. Its purpose was obvious from its name; it sold compasses pointing to most of the facilities hidden throughout the court.

Some of the compasses were manufactured by the sect and in limitless supply, such as compasses leading to certain cultivation grounds. These compasses were one-time use, and buying them was no different from buying access. For instance, the chance to study before [Second Singularity] came in the form of a premium compass. To safeguard against any accidents, that compass had already been bought and was now in Esmeralda’s possession.

Other compasses were generated by disciples. One could buy empty compasses and use them to mark a specific location in Citadel. These user-generated compasses were a gamble since the Mercurial Court only sold user-generated compasses unmarked and at a fixed price. Getting a good one was still a matter of luck and fate.

Furthermore, Citadel was ever-changing. The coordinates on user-made compasses would eventually become useless. There were no set rules, either. Some could last for centuries while others lost their value after a month. The factory kept submitted compasses for a decade before discarding them.

According to data collected over generations of disciples, only 20% of the tokens ended up yielding benefits greater than their cost. There was still a steady stream of willing buyers, thanks to the many anecdotes of disciples making extraordinary gains. After all, the main reason disciples sold their fated encounters was that they didn’t understand them or lacked the strength to access the valuable.

Esmeralda had tried to figure out the internal mechanics of the compasses as a way to steal the opportunities they held. It proved impossible at her current level. The compasses were daughter arrays to the court itself.

Zac wasn’t here to gamble today, though his extraordinary Luck usually led to a decent outcome.

“I need a compass to a Judgment Plateau on Dome Lake.”

With all prerequisites in place, the only remaining challenge was the terrifying tribulations brought by his core breakthroughs. They’d gotten worse every time, to the point it was more apt to call them Heavenly Extinctions. It wouldn’t wait for him to finish his breakthrough, instead attacking the moment it began.

Making strides with his constitutions and Daos wasn’t enough to directly endure the punishment. The first time, Zac barely survived by taking advantage of a Temporal Chamber. The second time, he relied on the lingering Imperial Faith of the Centurion Base. With his upcoming breakthrough being the last of Hegemony, Zac needed to come prepared.

As luck would have it, Zac found himself with more options than ever before. First off, he’d gained the protection of the Imperial Faith, courtesy of accepting his role as a Holy Son of the Empyrean Chalice. If the Heaven-eluding effect of his Duplicity Core was the first layer of protection, then Xiphos’ boon was the second.

Ultimately, these two could only be considered tricks to lessen the pressure, not enough to rely on alone. Zac’s true ace was the [Fuxi Mountain Gate], which had received another upgrade at the end of Sevona’s hunt. The Void Space still wasn’t fully recovered, and the bridge beyond the gate was still in tatters. Nevertheless, the space could entertain Zac for almost three minutes already.

Three minutes was enough to tide over even a tribulation with six punishments. Still, Zac hoped he wouldn’t have to use the [Fuxi Mountain Gate] for his Peak D-grade breakthrough. He had no idea how summoning the Heavens would affect the mountain gate. It might undo all the work he’d put in, maybe destroy it altogether.

Furthermore, Zac could only send one of his bodies there. There was a risk that his other body would have to face a double tribulation single-handedly if his other half suddenly disappeared. The [Fuxi Mountain Gate] was better left for his future breakthroughs when his bodies were in the same location. At that time, he could send both bodies inside.

Ultimately, there was no point in taking the gamble when there were much steadier alternatives at hand. Why expend his own resources when he could use those of the Outer Courts? The Centurion Base had a specialized chamber that would have allowed the Kan’Tanu Pope to confirm his Dao if not for Zac’s intervention.

Naturally, the Outer Courts had even better breakthrough chambers. Such chambers could drastically reduce the threat, and one couldn’t forget that ancient cultivators faced more unstable breakthroughs. They wouldn’t just mitigate the tribulation; they were equipped with Core Formation Arrays that could help contain a Mortal’s explosive upgrade process.

With everything else done, Zac had chosen to spend the last of his Potentiality on a compass leading to the best chamber available to an Inner Disciple of the Mercurial Court.

“Current price is 7,800 Potentiality,” the clerk answered as she brought out a sealed chest.

“It’s gone up?” Zac asked with a frown. The cost quoted in his welcoming pamphlet was only 6,250.

“The demand has increased since you outsiders arrived. It’s put pressure on Dome Lake, forcing us to invite experts from the Radiant Court to perform repairs,” the clerk said with a smile.

“There aren’t that many of us, though. How could we possibly cause such strain?” Zac said, suspecting he was being taken for a ride.

“No, but the appearance of you outsiders has created a ripple among our elite disciples. How can they sit still while you’re seizing opportunities left and right?” the clerk explained.

“Fine, 7,800 it is,” Zac said with a glum expression as he paid the difference with Imperial Merit. “I assume this thing won’t lead me to a platform already occupied by a senior?”

“Certainly not. We guarantee availability for the next year. After that, it’s up to fate.”

Zac had to suppress a curse at that. In other words, they would put up an identical compass within a year. While one year was more than enough time for anyone else to get their affairs in order, the same couldn’t be said for Zac. They would have to take a shortcut through the ruins to reach the plateau. If he was unlucky and another halo went off in that time, another year might pass in the blink of an eye.

“Remember, after activating the plateau, you have forty-five days. If you remain any longer, a deduction of 500 Potentiality will be drawn daily.”

“But there’s no limit on how much energy I can draw in those forty-five days, right? And no surcharge for powerful tribulations?” Zac asked to confirm.

The clerk looked confused, but she dutifully confirmed Zac’s question. “That is all part of the payment.”

“Thank you.”

“May fate be with you,” the clerk said as Zac left the store.

'I wonder if they’ll change the rules after you’re done with that place,' Esmeralda giggled before emerging from the shrine to grab the compass.

The fact that it pointed westward didn’t mean much inside the memories, but Esmeralda had already figured out most of the hidden rules that governed Citadel. They were spat out a day later after taking two shortcuts. They appeared in a part of the ruins they’d never seen before. The buildings were grander based on the foundations left of the outer walls.

They didn’t dare to enter any of the ruins of the castles themselves. They were like slumbering beasts that stirred as they passed. Defensive arrays kept going off as they carefully navigated the streets, only retreating after their scans touched the shimmering compass. The treatment would certainly change if they invaded any walled-off area.

It was a shame, too, because Zac’s treasure sense was going off like never before. At least half the ruins called to him, indicating there were valuables buried underground. Unsurprisingly, it was the same ruins that still had operational arrays. Esmeralda also looked sick to her stomach as she gave the inviting ruins forlorn glances.

“Is this a test of our Dao Hearts?” Zac complained.

“Bear it, little protégé, we’re almost there,” Esmeralda croaked.

They reached their destination an hour later. It was a small lake covered by a radiant memory domain. It wasn’t made from the silver waters of the Peregrine Ocean; instead, it was a faded gold. A burgeoning aura filled with the empyrean holiness unique to the Limitless Empire greeted them as they stepped inside. It was the key to Zac’s breakthrough.

As one would expect, most of Mercurial Court’s ascension chambers were connected to the Peaks of Fantasy and Continuum. However, their premier option—and the only one that could help with Four Desolates tribulations—was the small lake before him. Only Imperial Faith could suppress the Four Desolates.

Zac also hoped that the faith-based Tribulation Platform would react to his title as a Holy Son of the Empyrean Chalice. Perhaps the tribulation-warding boon and the lake would synergize with each other, adding greater protection.

Five of the lake’s seven islands were covered in shimmering barriers, indicating ongoing breakthroughs. Thankfully, the token didn’t lead him toward any of them. If he’d made his way here by chance, he could have picked any island he wanted. Because he was forcing fate, he needed to follow the arrangement.

There were no boats, so Zac decided to fly across the surface. His perception changed the moment he left land, and he was no longer atop the lake. Zac gasped as he found himself floating above a boundless dome of flames. Different from Avici’s terrifying purgatory, this was a nourishing fire that exuded strength and resilience.

Had he been transported to the barrier separating the Multiverse and the desolation beyond? No, this barrier was in a completely different state than the one he’d seen. This barrier held none of the erosion he’d sensed before. Its Imperial Faith was at its prime. Perhaps Dome Lake was a cut-off from the real thing, or otherwise connected to it.

Either way, the scene was oddly comforting. It was like he was standing atop the Heavens with the whole Empire protecting his Dao. How could a tribulation possibly harm him when safeguarded by the Imperial Destiny?

The islands were still there, floating atop the flames. Zac eagerly flew over, only stopping short just as he was about to step ashore. Another missive was sent to the other side. Zac’s human half had been making final preparations while his Draugr half was busy relocating. For its other drawbacks, the Hollow Court was undeniably more convenient when it came to travel.

Zac flew into a grand palace titled ‘Myriad Realm Repository.’ After paying 6,300 Longanimity, a realmgate was directly opened. Zac exhaled with relief upon seeing what awaited on the other side. There was darkness, but not the desolate death outside the memory. It held the mysteries of deep night, the secrets of the lower planes. There were also strong fluctuations of Void Energy.

Curious, Zac stepped through, finding himself in a sprawling mountain range. Each mountain was covered by a barrier shimmering with Imperial Faith. The environment outside was an unstable mix of Life and Death that were whipped into a frenzy by streaks of Void Energy bursting from cracks in the ground.

This world had no demarcation of a memory domain, yet it was clearly not the present. A few grand palaces towered on neighboring mountains. Far in the distance, Zac felt a hair-raising yet familiar aura—the reality-inverting Heavenly Territory of Margrave Wartorius. Zac froze in place when a barely discernible perception brushed against him.

Had he noticed? If so, did the Margrave remember the things he screamed in desperation when facing Mox?

Zac only exhaled a minute later, worry turning into jubilation. He laughed out loud, knowing he’d been worried for nothing. The mountain range had to be the location of Fuxi Halls. Judging by the stable streaks of Void, Fuxi Halls might actually be built on the Lowest Plane, the same realm that Daoist Hidden Earth used to siphon Void Energy. If not, it had to be another Lower Plane with similar attributes.

Others would have to return the way they came after borrowing the Core Formation Arrays on the mountain, but Zac should be allowed to freely navigate the area. If he returned to the central region, he would still be able to make it back. Of course, he would have to avoid that as much as possible. Paying over 6,000 Longanimity every time he traveled wasn’t sustainable.

“Can you hear me?” Zac asked into a recently purchased communicator.

‘Loud and clear, buddy. How is it?’

“I’m here,” Zac said and described the surroundings.

‘I’m guessing you’ll stay a while longer then?’ Ogras asked.

“Most likely.”

‘Well, have fun, and try not to blow up the place. I’ll keep things running up here.’

Zac put away the communicator and began inspecting his own mountain. It had seven peaks, one of which called to him. Just like with Dome Lake, Zac’s perception twisted when his feet touched the mountain. The mountain grew to an unfathomable size, with Zac a giant on its slopes. Its veins were filled with boundless Faith.

Reality inverted as Zac began his ascent. He was climbing, yet he was simultaneously moving further away from the prime dimensions. It was like the Faith-imbued mountain had become the Void Mountain itself, increasing his distance from the Heavens to the limits. The experience created a poignant feeling of unprecedented distance to his other self. One stood atop of the universe while the other hid in its absolute depths.

Soon enough, Zac reached his mountain peak. It had been carved into a hollow surrounded by seventeen spikes. A densely engraved platform was placed in the middle of the hollow, and Zac quickly counted at least thirty different arrays engraved on the spires. Seeing the exquisite arrangement made it seem all the more real.

He was really about to become a Peak Hegemon.
