“Thank you for your service.”

“The Mother guide your hand in battle.”

“Your bravery is an inspiration to us all.”

Cheeks sore from fake-smiling so much, I utter an endless stream of banal platitudes while shaking hands with reluctant soldiers returning from their duties, a twice-daily part of my efforts to Lay on Succ as many Tainted warriors as I can. Unfortunately, those most in need of a good Succ tend to avoid me at all costs, something I learned from hearing about Song’s experience with the Spectres, so all this glad-handing is hardly worth the effort. To make matters worse, my actions appear to be alienating those most sympathetic to my cause, as nine out of ten people who approach me are here to listen to the Abbot’s chants or say a prayer in front of Ping Ping, and my ‘pandering’ is getting in the way of their religious solace. They’re here to pray to the Guardian Turtle or seek benediction from a Holy Monk, and in their eyes, I’m an opportunistic cripple taking advantage of my connections to garner support against my political foes. No one likes to be used, and even the lowliest of Martial Warriors are a prideful bunch, for they are truly the one percent.

Truth be told, I’d love nothing more than to leave these people alone to go play with my floofs, but I don’t have a choice in the matter. To most Imperial citizens, Spectres are an unknown and unseen threat and nuisance to be endured or otherwise dealt with, but to me, they’re a resource to be harvested and turned into sweet Heavenly Energy. Were I still capable of Devouring, I’d lurk about the periphery and leave these soldiers in peace, but after getting hit by the nerf-hammer, my Succ range is touch only. Technically, I’m not even Devouring anymore, but rather the Spectres are willingly switching targets and latching onto me, as if I’m an upgrade to whatever poor soul they were previously stuck to. Even Ulfsaar, the most appealing target in my retinue, is no match for my siren’s song, and the Spectres who were previously squatting inside Ulfsaar’s body promptly uprooted their lives to move into my shattered Core.

It begs the question: if I’m so tempting a target, why aren’t the Spectres coming from afar and swarming me in droves? Why do I have to make skin contact with the Tainted before the Spectres become aware of my charms? It has to be skin contact too, I can’t pat someone on the back or tap them with a boot, which makes it awkward when I come across someone Tainted and wearing gloves, forcing me to slide a finger under their sleeve or touch their face. Ordinarily, this sort of embarrassing social interaction would have me running for the hills and contemplating if life was still worth living, but considering the stakes at hand, shame and humiliation are a small price to pay if I can mend my Core and regain my former vigour and well-being.

Of course, I’m probably still a long ways off from a cure considering I have no idea how I’m supposed to turn the Spectres into Heavenly Energy without access to Chi, but since they aren’t whispering murderous thoughts, I might as well gather as many as I can. Hope is great, but I’m tempering it with realistic expectations, because even if I can’t fix my Core, I can still keep soldiers from turning full Defiled. The Abbot is no longer convinced this is the best way to go about it, since Huu’s ancient multi-Grand Grand Mentor brought up a pretty good point about people needing to learn how to deal with the Spectres on their own, but the chatty Abbot is still mulling over his final decision as whether Succing Spectres is right or wrong, which leaves me free to do whatever I please.

And me, I choose to Succ. I’m sick of getting pricked by fur whenever I hug my floofs, so I’ll do anything to get better, even if I have to Succ every soldier in Sinuji one at a time.

...

I should stop calling it Succ.

As my fourth day in Sinuji comes to a close, I wave goodbye to the soldiers on the wall while Ping Ping waves with me, eliciting a chorus of smiles and returned greetings from her most die-hard fans. The big girl picked up the trick after seeing me praise all my other animals for doing the same, no doubt tempted by the prospect of treats and affection, of which she gets plenty of once we’re back in camp. Leaning against her smooth, leathery shoulder, I have my dinner beside her with Lin, Luo-Luo, Song, and Alsantset, as private an affair as we can manage here in the fort. There isn’t much of note for us to talk about, but it doesn’t matter since everyone present knows about my aversion to social interactions and love for silence and solitude. After a tasteless but nourishing dinner of soft jerky and hard bread, I keep everyone company for a little while longer before bidding them goodnight. Tasking Kuang Biao to take first shift of guard duty, I leave him outside my tent while I crawl inside with a lit lantern to do a bit of private reading, though there will be nothing enjoyable or relaxing about it. Before I left, I told myself to give Fung’s torturer/manservant his books back, but the allure of forbidden knowledge was too much to resist, so I packed Zhen Shi’s notes into a small chest and brought them along with me. Rather than keep them under lock and key, I also brought two dozen other ‘mislabelled’ books which were filled to the brim with pornographic drawings and literary erotica I’d collected over the years, though I admit most of it is fairly new. It’d be suspicious if I went to great efforts to hide a few books, so tucking a bunch of dirty drawings between the pages should be enough camouflage to hide the fact that I’m in possession of Zhen Shi’s notes, though I doubt anyone would ever get this far considering the book chest never leaves my tent which is always kept under strict guard.

I figured the best way to keep spies or assassins from sneaking in was to literally plant two guards out front to physically block the entrance. Concealment doesn’t make you invisible, it only makes it difficult for others to notice your presence, but even the lowliest of Martial Warriors will notice someone brushing against them. Add in the small confines of my tent which make it easy to check for Concealed Experts by waving my arms around and Kuang Biao’s presence outside, I’m as safe as I’ll ever be reading Zhen Shi’s notes in my tent.

Honestly, I wish I could burn the books and the monster who wrote them along with, but there’s still so much to learn...

Inside my tent, I find a pleasant surprise as Mama Bun, Blackjack, and surprise guest Tawny One are all huddled together for a post-bedtime grooming session. The golden-furred she-bun is rather attached to the tiny black hare, but without Pong Pong around to steal Mama Bun’s attentions, Blackjack gives Tawny One no kisses whatsoever while grooming his momma. Knowing she’s no match for her parent, Tawny One has resigned herself to simply sticking close to Blackjack’s side and watching with big, sad eyes, so I make it up to the poor heartbroken girl with plenty of hugs and kisses. Such a silly bunbun, Tawny One loves the attention and gently headbutts my chin for more kisses, but then she remembers why she’s here and panics until she spots Blackjack nestled in Mama Bun’s embrace, which then starts the cycle of heartbreak all over again.

So adorable...

While the floof cuddling is fun and therapeutic, there’s a reason I have yet to break out the books, and not just because I don’t want to. Kuang Biao has yet to give me the all clear, which means I’m still being watched through Scrying. Apparently he can sense it, which is supposed to be impossible, and I assume is a big part of why the Legate placed him in my Honour Guard, albeit with strict, second-hand instructions never to reveal Kuang Biao’s supposedly impossible skill. Still, useful as it is to know when I’m being scryed on, I think I was better off not knowing if I didn’t need to read Zhen Shi’s notes. Little did I know I’ve been living under constant scrutiny, with spies peering at my every move and interaction. They won’t even leave me alone during my morning constitutional, rendering the walls of my poop tent all but worthless, though to be fair, it’s better to have one Expert watching me poop from afar than it is to squat next to two strangers by the latrines.

Technically, I shouldn’t even have an Officer’s tent to poop in, but if the Disciplinary Corps takes issue with it, I’ll gladly suffer the consequences.

Bored of my affections, the bunbuns soon burrow into my cot to sleep, but my ever-present admirer has yet to give up, so I reach into my book chest and pull out a particularly lurid piece of literature, complete with pictures and diagrams to ensure the reader knows exactly what’s happening. Gotta say, the abundance of pornography is probably the best thing to come from my book of inventions, as the emergence of cheap paper has given rise to a burgeoning market as good-for-nothing fops and wastrels share their erotic conquests in pictorial and literary form. That said, I’m not actually reading since I’ve pretty much already memorized this novel, one the author claims is based entirely on truth but is so fanciful it’s undoubtedly fiction. I only brought it out because it gives me a plausible reason for bringing a lantern into my tent, allowing me to relax and unwind while waiting for my stalker to go away.

Ten minutes later, a brilliant idea comes to mind as I come across the author’s artwork, a depiction of his Concealed self peeping at a woman in the baths. Loosening my belt, I slip a hand under my robes in imitation of the image before me, and sure enough, Kuang Biao soon Sends the all clear. Pleased by my clever ruse, my joy is short-lived as I consider the price of failure, because if the Scryer was a pervert and stuck around to watch, I would’ve been forced to masturbate in front of a voyeur.

...That was too dangerous. Next time, think, then act.

Keeping the lewd literature on hand in case the Scrying resumes, I pick up where I last left off in Zhen Shi’s notes, scouring the neatly written words for any information I can glean, whether it be about my affliction or the writer himself. Now that I know Zhen Shi is the final boss, I’m hoping to get into his head and figure out his plans, though it’s hard to think like an eight-hundred year old monster in human flesh. What are his plans? His motivations? What might he do next? Difficult to say, but reading his notes was a Hail Mary play to start with, so why not hope for the impossible, twice?

The reading goes slowly, and I take frequent breaks to snuggle bunnies for the sake of my sanity. While time is pressing, I’m not quite feeling the crunch given how relaxed our trip has been thus far. While I was worried I’d be exposed to mortal danger multiple times a day, there have been no Defiled attacks to defend against aside from the one we stumbled into our first day here, and an utter lack of plots or assassination attempts to thwart. This is not at all what I’d expected, but a lot has changed during my absence from the front lines. Colonel Hongji stopped all patrols westward even before my injury, and has yet to reinstate them once more. With no small patrols to skirmish against and only forts like Sinuji’s to strike at, the Defiled are no longer willing to attack piecemeal and instead gather in numbers before making a concentrated strike. The frequency of attacks have declined in exchange for a drastic escalation in scale, so instead of ten to twenty thousand Defiled making raiding attacks several times a day, these roving tribal warbands meet up and work out a hierarchy before marching in force against their chosen targets, bringing anywhere from eighty to two-hundred and fifty thousand Defiled to attack every few days. Thus, while the lack of battle and bloodshed is nice and all, the longer this calm lasts, the greater their numbers will be when the time finally comes.

Or maybe they wised up and decided to go around the static Imperial defences. It’s cool, there are bigger, badder forts east of us, and the great Central Wall is mostly in place, so honestly, I would be delighted if the Defiled just left Sinuji to go after a bigger target. While comprised solely of infantry and lacking support from their well-armoured and well-equipped ‘Chosen’, a hundred-thousand Defiled are nothing to sneeze at considering Sinuji only has thirty thousand defenders. Even if the fort fended off the last attack without help from Hongji and Alsantset’s Sentinels, Sinuji is on track to be overrun within the month, because while the Defiled were defeated in every previous battle, it’s not like the Imperials slaughtered them to the last. Plenty of Defiled died, but more escaped to lick their wounds and fight another day, dragging away their dead and wounded for sustenance and entertainment while waiting for their numbers to swell once again.

