Thankfully, Alsantset tore a big chunk out of their numbers a few days past, though not enough to matter in the long run. Her four-thousand probably killed ten times that in Defiled over the course of three hours, but that was only one-fifth of the attackers, or thereabouts. What’s more, the Defiled numbers will likely continue to swell even higher since they like to gather in droves when there’s a fight to be had, so it won’t be long before they come back bigger and stronger than before and eventually overrun Sinuji through sheer attrition. The worst part is this problem isn’t contained to Sinuji as the entire front line is under threat of attack, meaning the Imperials are spread thin defending a long, indefensible border. It’s not guaranteed the same horde will attack the same place again, because like I’ve said before, the Defiled are crazed and murderous, not stupid. There’s nothing wrong with seeking out a softer target, if only to sate their murderous urges while gathering more tribesmen before returning to try their hand at Sinuji once again.

Similar to the tide, the Defiled come and the Defiled go, but given the right conditions and directions, it’s possible for them to gather and form a massive tsunami of flesh and steel which would sweep through the Empire unchecked. I’m probably not the only one who’s figured this out, but there’s no doubt in my mind this is Zhen Shi’s ultimate goal, to hole up in the West while consolidating his strength and building up the infrastructure required to train and equip his ‘Chosen’, all in preparation for a massive, coordinated push into Central. In the meantime, he sends out these crazed, low-value tribesman to buy time and weaken Imperial defences, sacrificial lambs who run eagerly to the slaughter. This is why the tribesmen are so poorly equipped and lack mounts; beasts of burden are far more valuable than deranged, unruly berserkers, and while the losses are staggering, their deaths mean little in the long run.

Worst of all, the Empire is happy to turtle in and wait, even though it’s clear this delay benefits the Enemy more. Giving us time to build a giant wall is nice and all, but we’re struggling to feed and house so many Martial Warriors in one province, not to mention the fact that no one wants to talk about how the Enemy has access to mass-produced Runic armour, or how any and all newly-formed Demons retreat to the West, or a thousand other warning signs which all point to our inevitable doom and destruction. While quantity has a quality all its own, with the Western Province’s native population under his heel, Zhen Shi has access to a healthy pool of more qualified recruits than crazed Defiled tribesmen. While some would argue the Defiled would make for a better fighting force than recently turned Imperial citizens, something tells me this whole war is about Zhen Shi proving he was right. The Imperial Clan looked down on his methods and branded him a traitor because he wanted to study the process of Defilement and Demonification in hopes of raising the strength of commoners, so what better way to take vengeance than to destroy the Empire using the very knowledge he was exiled for?

Of course, this is all just conjecture on my part. I don’t actually know Zhen Shi aside from our brief meeting while he inhabited Gen and various Spectral whispers from over the years which I’ve since attributed to his influence. I’m assuming the psychopathic butcher who kept such meticulous notes regarding his systematic torture schemes might be a megalomaniac, but I could be wrong. His notes are so clinical and devoid of personality or emotion, it’s hard to get a read on the man behind the brush, utterly lacking any and all personal thoughts or opinions. There’s plenty of data, ideas, theoretical musings and observations, but he never directly mentions his results or findings. Not to say he never makes progress, but you need to read between the lines to understand the evolution of his methods and the reasoning behind the direction he takes in his subsequent experiments. Oftentimes he’ll pose a question for himself and never mark down the answer, but you can figure it out for yourself if you follow his thought process through his actions instead.

One example is a whole slew of experiments in his sixth book wherein he lobotomized his patients before torturing them because he found that removing a certain part of the brain lowered the subject’s ability to empathize with others. How he came about this knowledge was a horrific tale in its own right, but he theorized that his subjects resisted turning Defiled or Demon out of a misguided sense of morality, because if they were ever discovered, it would bring harm to their loved ones via Purge.

Say what you will about the ethics behind it, but the Purge makes for an effective deterrent, one used even as far as eight-hundred years ago without a Confessor or Shrike at the helm.

The important takeaway is that even though Zhen Shi never outright states his findings, you can infer from the lack of lobotomies performed on subsequent subjects that he concluded the procedure did not increase the chances of Defilement or Demonification. Fun reading it is not, but it’s another piece of the puzzle: Zhen Shi believes a lack of empathy is not conducive towards creating Defiled or Demons. Not what I expected, since I figured lack of empathy would be a requirement for murderous, torturing cannibals or worse, but it’s good to know.

Well... not good, but... useful? Sorta? Maybe? It’s food for thought. Terrible, disgusting food, but it’s all the food I’ve got. Figuratively speaking.

Just as I’m about to call it a night, I come across another of Zhen Shi’s hypotheses, which includes a new term I’ve never seen and don’t entirely understand.

...convulsions diminish in intensity until subject 1791 regains consciousness with startling vitality. Subject Heals wounds with masterful speed, efficiency, and familiarity, with no signs of distraction or concentration to be seen. Breaks restraints with ease, body swells in size, muscle and fat grown from nothing; Disquiet sensed, self, not subject, uneasy even though subject is commoner without Martial Training. Two Three extra limbs spout from subject’s shoulders, gout of flame burst from subj –

Since my notes are merely a copy of the originals, there’s a transcriber’s note here detailing the lack of clarity in the original copy, as if ‘written in haste’ and ‘bearing scorch marks’, as well as a distinct break in the writing. Only then does it continue.

Whilst working on Subject 1792, Subject 1791 Demonified, despite having been marked for termination and set aside to expire. Subject 1791 progressed from commoner to Peak Expert in a matter of seconds before Demonification, but after two hours of combat and consuming hundreds of kilograms in sustenance, failed to shatter the void. Could no longer continue experiment due to lacking beasts or villagers to use as sustenance, as well as risk of discovery from pursuers. At peak, strength of Demon exceeded expectations, all equipment unusable and stock lost. Gains outweigh losses, first success, many questions raised, but theory is sound and experiments must continue. Unable to retrieve Demon corpse, will require method to neutralize corrosive bodily fluids.

And thus ends entry 1792. 1793 starts up the same as every other entry, with the description and measurements of the poor unfortunate soul, and no mention of his previous experiment. It’s horrific to realize he tortured almost two thousand people before coming across his first Demon, but that’s not the important part. This is.

Subject 1791 progressed from commoner to Peak Expert in a matter of seconds before Demonification, but after two hours of combat and consuming hundreds of kilograms in sustenance to boost its strength, Demon showed no signs of shattering the void.

A single sentence, but one packed with useful information. To start with, in order for a host to become a demon, the host must be a Peak Expert, else Zhen Shi wouldn’t have bothered to specify it was the subject who progressed to Peak Expert, then only refer to it as a Demon. What this means is that Subject 1791, a thirty-three year old human commoner and mother of three, went through Core Creation, Aura Condensation, Natal Palace Formation, Domain Development, and whatever comes next to be considered a Peak Expert, all in a matter of seconds. I’ve seen firsthand how Spectres fuel the process of Demonification, so it’s safe to say that the Spectres prep the host’s body, so theoretically, if I could control the process and terminate it before going full Demon, I might be able to fix all my woes and reach Peak Expert status in a heartbeat.

The question is: do I dare even try? If I can’t control it and go full Demon, or even partial Demon like Gen did, it would be tantamount to admitting I’m Defiled and subjecting the People and all my friends to the Purge. A big risk to take on a process I know nothing about, so I put it aside as the worst idea I’ve ever had and review the other things I’ve learned. Eating flesh makes Demons stronger, which I kinda already guessed but now have corroboration, since Zhen Shi mentions it as if it were fact. Is this also why Defiled are so strong? Because they eat the flesh of other Defiled? Cannibalism = power? Please no. Last but not least, it seems like Shatter the Void is the step after Peak Expert, and possibly the last one before going full Divinity, or at the very least, strong enough to match an Ancestral Beast. Can Demons even reach Divinity levels of power? I didn’t think it was possible since Demons would hardly abide by the Treaty, and I just figured it couldn’t happen since a Divinity-level Demon could probably annihilate the Northern, Western, or Southern Wall with a wave of their hand, or whatever appendage they might have.

None of this idle musing is distracting me from the urge to immediately explore Demonification, but rather than fumble around in the dark, I take several deep breaths until the temptation is under control. Think, then act, remember? I don’t know enough to make an educated decision, but I bet the Abbot does. All I need to do is find him and ask a few innocuous questions like, ‘What do you know about Demonification?’, only with more subtlety...

A low, rumbling horn sounds out in the distance and I nearly jump to my feet, my low-ceiling tent saved only by the lack of strength in my legs to accomplish such a feat. The haunting note is a familiar one, a signal from the Defiled to sound the engagement. A challenge of sorts, army to army, and while the call came from far off in the distance, it won’t take the Defiled long to arrive.

Putting my book away, I fix my robes, bring my sleeping floofs out of the tent, and hand them off to an already waiting Song so she can bring them away to safety. Arriving in short order, Dastan and his doomed comrades appear before me, their eyes grim and spirits burning as they silently pledge to defend me with their lives, but I would much rather they didn’t. “Survive,” I command them, and that is all I trust myself to say, because shit just got real and I find myself too terrified to continue.

I can barely stand without help, but I’m expected to stand on the outer wall where the fighting is the bloodiest, with around twenty soldiers in total I can trust to watch my back.

Cool, cool, cool.

Yanno, now that I think about it, maybe Demonification isn’t so bad a choice after all. Beats dying, because like Akanai said, where there’s life, there’s hope.

Chapter Meme
