Erick sighed. He picked up the split saucer. He put the split halves of the cup in one hand, and the split halves of the saucer in the other, holding the halves together in his palms, yet separate, like they weren’t broken at all. Then he cast, exactly as the Headmaster had instructed him to cast, on the singular item that was in two places at once, affecting the tea cup and saucer through their shared, paired history. Wherever the actual pair was did not matter, it would remain where it was, but it would lose all its history; that history was now here, taking shape above Erick’s hands.

White glows reached through possibility, flickering one cup to wholeness in his right hand, along with the matching saucer underneath, as well as fixing the saucer in his other hand, and flickering the cup into existence above the saucer.

A blue box appeared.

Duplicate, instant, touch, 100 Mana

Create a copy of a non-magical, non-living item.

And then came another.

This is an automated message:

So you’ve figured out a Restricted spell. Congratulations!

-5 points.

The world will judge you for how you handle this power.

Erick had expected both of those boxes. The Headmaster had warned him of every part of this bargain of trade, and he had agreed. This was his choice, and he had paid the cost. The loss of 5 points was not nothing, but as Erick looked to the space where Yellow had been, that hurt. Erick set the restored pair of paired cups and saucers onto the stone pillar.

“So?” Erick asked Poi. “It’s done, then?”

Poi said, “Bookbinder Number Five is no more.”

Erick frowned, as he thought back to his meeting with the Headmaster.

- - - -

In the Azure Room, with the sky full dark outside, and dinner over, the Headmaster flicked a finger through the air. An opaque white bubble appeared around the table, and the immediate surroundings, cutting Erick and the Headmaster off from the rest of the world.

“Bookbinder Five has become a problem,” said the Headmaster, over a finished dessert of mochi icecream in a fluted gold dish. “You will help me and the Arcanaeum Consortium solve this problem. In exchange, you will get [Duplicate], and a further responsibility to me.”

Erick wanted [Duplicate] in order to try for [Gate], but he was not instantly willing to enter into that sort of bargain with the Headmaster. He asked, “And what does that mean, exactly?”

“Bookbinder Five has a long history of both exploitation and abuse of power. Normally, she is tolerable, but the situation has come to a head recently, with the advent of Candlepoint.” The Headmaster said, “She went and got a Charisma Fruit. That was the final straw. The Mind Mages have set down a decree that Charisma is Mental Magic. Bookbinder Five has been warned by them, and she has rebuffed their words. What she doesn’t know, yet, is that they are going to end her for finally stepping over a sacred boundary from mundane control to mental control. I cannot keep her safe from her own greed any longer, so you will help me end her, by occupying her time when she comes to teach you [Duplicate].”

Erick recoiled. “What! The fuck! No!”

The Headmaster continued, undaunted by Erick’s outburst, saying, “I do not ask this of you lightly. Bookbinder Five has plans to become a Shade, and throw in with the Dark Dragon. She has [Duplicate]d more than a hundred thousand darkchips, and paid to learn the ‘true meaning of magic’. She has been charged by Bulgan to bring your head to him, so if I do not give her this chance to interact with you, she could run to Ar’Kendrithyst any day now. She has rebuffed Bulgan, publically, but that is a front. She is coming after you, now.

“I cannot allow any of that to happen, Erick.

“Truthfully, I expect you to deny me. I had planned on ending her after this dinner, but you have given me an option I did not expect to have. When I found out you were on this island, I invited you to dinner. When you asked about [Duplicate], I made this plan up on the spot, just now.

“If you allow her to interact with you, to teach you [Duplicate] without any untoward action, then maybe she is redeemable. This is her last chance to come back to the light. If you do not give her this chance, then she will never see another dawn.” The Headmaster strongly added, “And if you do not give her this chance, you are not learning [Duplicate] from any of my sources.”

Erick shoved his sudden, hateful emotions to the side, as he asked, “What are your other terms?”

“You would become Bookbinder Five. You will have the responsibility to [Duplicate] one hundred thousand books, per year, which will take place on Oceanside at your convenience. The books and the necessary numbers needed from each edition is a system long worked out. All you need to do, is to show up, [Duplicate] what you feel like, completing your allotment by the end of each year, and leave the books there for our people to take away.

“I also have specific requirements of you using [Cascade Imaging] to find Stray Books when necessary. Stray Books are what we call captured and controlled duplicators.” The Headmaster said, “It happens more often than you would think.

“In return, we look the other way when you [Duplicate] other items. The responsible use of such a spell is on you, but we will assist you if you get into trouble that you are not able to handle. Almost everyone irrevocably harms their local area in the first year, so this is expected.” He added, “I will also require you to never disclose this conversation to anyone, and to assist with several Ballooning Spider Horde drops that have yet to happen, that Oceanside is contracted to assist with. You will be doing this not only to help alleviate a burden and save lives, but to provide cover for me granting you [Duplicate], so that the current Bookbinder Five feels that she is gaining an opportunity to teach you and thus fool you into some Dark Deal, and not being driven into revealing her true allegiances.”

Erick felt disconnected from everyone and everything.

And then he centered himself. Someone was coming after him, with the intent to mislead and harm. He would have to participate in this covert action, wouldn’t he?

… As soon as he had that thought, he recoiled from himself with a quick, hard blink, as he brought his hands to his face, muttering, “Shit.”

Silence.

Erick lifted his head, and said, “I won’t become a Bookbinder, or take on any of those duplication requirements. I’ll help you search for lost people, occasionally. I’ll help you with the hordes.” He glared at the Headmaster, adding, “And I need to know that what you said is true. That Bookbinder Five is actually planning on going to the Shades.”

The Headmaster leveled an easy glare at Erick, asking, “Do you think I would lie?”

“I think you would hold back full truths, but never outright lie.” Erick said, “But that doesn’t matter, because you’re asking me to help you kill someone, and blindly following anyone down that path is not something I will ever do, for anyone.”

The Headmaster softened, ever so slightly. He said, “A prudent morality.” After a longer moment, he put a hand into his robes, and pulled a tiny, clear crystal brooch from within. He set it on the table, and said, “Ultramarine is the color associated with Strength.” The crystal broach flickered red; a lie. It was a truthstone. “Ultramarine is the color associated with Willpower.” It flickered blue. He pushed the broach across the table, closer to Erick. “You may test its veracity, if you wish.”

Erick looked down to the broach, and knew it was not enough. Not really. Erick could say something that was a truth known only to him, or lie by degrees, and the broach would likely prove itself a true truthstone, but the Headmaster was more than capable of producing whatever magical effects he wanted to produce. Maybe there was a trick to it that made it show up as a truthstone whenever the Headmaster wanted it to be a truthstone.

Even getting testimonials from whatever Elites the Headmaster had, who could personally verify whatever ‘evils’ they saw Bookbinder Five get up to, would not be enough.

Erick was just being fearful. He knew it. The Headmaster knew it. But the Headmaster was humoring him anyway, because Erick had shown himself as the kind of person that needed to be humored.

And why did he need to be humored when it came to something like this?

When one of the strongest, most longstanding anti-Shade persons on the planet tells you that someone is plotting to become a Shade and plotting against you, do you throw that back in their face, and insult their long history of being a proven enemy of Melemizargo?

Ah. Erick had fucked up. He had spoken way out of turn.

Erick said, “Apologies. I did not mean to insult you in this way. I am still not comfortable with what it takes to exist in these circles.”

The stone glowed blue.

The Headmaster softened, further. He grinned, saying, “Apology accepted.” He took the truthstone back, but before he put it back into his robes, he said, “Bookbinder Five is a threat to the world, who has taken steps to join the Shades as one of them, but her initiation requires her compliance in bringing Erick Flatt to Bulgan.”

Blue glows.

Erick felt sick.

The Headmaster put the stone away. “I will need to find a different replacement for Bookbinder Five. This is acceptable. Your adjustments to our bargain of trade are accepted. A word of warning, though: be very, very careful letting anyone know you have [Duplicate].” He folded his hands in front of him, saying, “And now, for an explanation of the spell, and another warning: Do not do this now, or until Bookbinder Five speaks with you and either fails to teach you correctly, and my forces fall upon her, or she teaches you correctly, and we hold back.

“To start with...”

- - - -

Poi offered, “My people stayed their hand against her to honor the Headmaster, but she was going down, either way. Charisma is a death sentence.”

“… I want to say that doesn’t help, but you’d know it for a lie.”

Poi nodded, saying no more.

Erick looked up at the wispy sky for a moment longer, then he looked down at the pillar and the pairs of tea sets. He said, “Okay. Time to back up and erase the memory of this place. No [Witness]es.”

Erick retreated to the sky, alongside Poi and Ophiel. He dismissed the [Prismatic Ward] down on the ground below, then he looked above, and cast.

The blue roof of the world cracked. A radiant ocean broke from above and descended in ribbons, cloying together, turning dark, absorbing all light, as the spell took hold on the sands below. Erick had Shaped this spell, this time. The dark cloud expanded into a solid sphere, growing ever larger with each passing second.

When the [Vivid Gloom] ended, the ground had been glassed into a meter deep pool a hundred meters wide, that glowed red hot. Erick sent out a dozen [Mirage Slime]s to clean up any stray radiation, further degrading any possible [Witness]. All it took to prevent such a spell from working well was to overload the area with powerful spells, and though Erick’s spells were no Red Dots, they worked well enough. While thick-air slimes tumbled through the hot space, consuming stray poisons and radiations, four Ophiel raked the molten ground into solid glass, then shaped it all back to sand.

Erick did not move from his platform in the sky as he directed the cleanup operation. When it was done, the land seemed normal, with a sand dune to one side, and orange dirt all across. The tea cup set was gone, forever more; even the history of the items destroyed.

As he thought upon the lost tea set, Erick realized he’d have never come up with the proper method to create [Duplicate]. Taking old, paired, paired heirlooms and using one pair of pairs for the connections inherent in them, in order to recreate the other, lost paired pair, was a method of spellwork beyond Erick’s current understanding of magic. Maybe he would have come up with something similar, but he probably would have spent months or years trying to get there, and still failed. He still had yet to figure out [Renew], and he fiddled with the ideas behind that spell every few days.

Erick looked at the Duplicate spell again, and knew that he had gained some sort of deep knowledge that he did not have before today. He wanted to smile at the sky, and enjoy what he had gained, so he did, just a little.

And then he thought on how temptation had ruined Bookbinder Five, and had driven her to making bargains with Bulgan, and to take up Charisma. Emotions weighed on him like heavy blankets.

Erick didn’t know Bookbinder Five. He didn’t know her true crimes. Maybe he never would. All he knew of her guilt came from some of the strongest, most good-aligned people of this world.

That was good enough, right?
