Matt rubbed the bridge of his nose and counted to ten. He hadn’t realized just how badly he had messed things up. He had seen a situation and he had acted. That was what he did. That was what he was trained for. And that was the problem. He had reacted like an Ascender, with emotion and decisive action instead of like a duke. Somebody who had to consider the long term.

Liz asked a question while he was pondering that. “Are there any other plots that we should be aware of? Not that we don’t trust your judgment but at this point I’d just like to know.”

Palom looked like he was going to answer in the negative before reconsidering and saying, “The current King of the Rhapesh Kingdom is preparing his children to try to seduce Baron Hastra. We will of course be informing the baron but ultimately dealing with that is the baron's job. That ploy has actually worked in the local rulers favor a few times in the past, as the baron marrying a local can do wonders for the population's acceptance if handled right. Although I think in this case that’s not a viable option. The Rhapesh Kingdom's reputation is bad enough that showing them any such favor would only make things worse instead of better.”

With Palom finally done speaking Isabella called attention to herself. “I think that covers most of the issues from the administration's side. Mister Bakerfield, if you would give your perspective as a native of Soerilia?”

Westley Bakerfield, despite being in his sixties, looked good for his age. Part of that was him having reached Tier 4 before stopping his advancement and the other part was him being in a position where he had access to things like magical healing, personal chefs, and the best natural treasures or rare resources pulled out of the Roland zone.

“One thing that stood out from day one was the pacing of the unveiling. I obviously can’t speak for other veil worlds, but Soerilia and the bureaucracy we developed here feels slower than the feeling I get from the reports I had access to. The ten-year plan that was promised, even from day one, was either wildly optimistic in its timeline or Soerilia itself is just slower in such matters. I originally assumed that this was simply an untested procedure which is why the time estimates were off, but I genuinely don't believe that even with constant surveillance we could have met those original deadlines. That isn’t to say we as a planet didn’t drag our feet, some countries didn’t meet a deadline until it was clear punishments were incoming but others just felt unrealistic in their expectations. If I could have had one thing, I wish we had more direct evidence that could have been used to convince my congress and senate. They were hard to convince at times, which slowed things even when I tried my best to push through policies to be compliant with the integration demand.”

After pausing for a moment Westley added.

“That leads me into a second and possibly more important issue. While this look into the behind the scenes provides a lot of context, from our side of things this integration looked… sloppy. The two of you said you were our dukes, but then you didn’t really act like it. You had no guards, you looked and still do, look like young adults not remotely ready to lead a city, let alone a multi-planet, universe spanning duchy. In addition the two of you acted far too open with us and many times you personally did things that even somebody who ran just a business would delegate. None of that made you look like some magical duke we all had to obey. I tried to do my best after seeing another world and your ability to just bring us there but a lot of your behaviors didn’t encourage nations to just take orders and go along with the program.”

“I just tried to be friendly, make the shock less severe by not talking down to you. I was trying to treat you like—” Matt was about to say like people but stopped himself. It wasn’t often, but he had seen immortals who tended to treat mortals like children instead of fully capable adults but he knew saying that would derail the conversation. Instead he ended it on, “I would want to be treated.”

“Appearances matter my lord, and that’s true whether you’re in a democracy or feudalism. A leader needs to fulfill the role of a leader. You didn’t present yourself as a conquering duke, so to a greater or lesser extent depending on the leaders, you weren’t treated as one. Neither of you ever mentioned that the reason for our transfer was your own personal combat prowess, let alone that you were these Ascenders. A title which, based on Mr Paloms pallor, I suspect I still don’t fully appreciate the weight of.”

Matt winced but nodded. If he had known those seemingly small actions would hamper the integration to such a large extent he would have done things differently but he had neither a time travel Talent or a future sight Talent.

That thought made Matt remember they would need to report to their superior, the King of their kingdom, about the incident. Except they fell under the Emperor's purview as one of his direct subjects.

He was fairly sure Manny had known about this mistake when he mentioned not relying on his future sight but Matt couldn’t help but wish they had been warned. How many people would be suffering less now if they had?

That just made him think about Manny’s comment about people always suffering.

That thought was like a red hot blade plunging into his stomach and being twisted. Instead of suppressing those thoughts, Matt let the emotions run rampant. Let them evolve, twist, and transform as his mind wandered down the consequences of their actions trying to understand the impact of their actions in the abstract and the concrete. Matt genuinely didn’t understand how Manny, an incredibly empathetic and understanding person, could deal with this for not just a single planet but millions.

Matt didn’t envy the Emperor for this responsibility. It was heavy and couldn’t so easily be punched away as most issues he faced in his life. Which was the problem. These ducal problems couldn’t be punched and he and Liz’s assumption that any problems could be easily dealt with thanks to their power was both incorrect and self-defeating.

They went over a few more negative points, but they were fairly minor compared to the rest.

Thankfully, there were a few positive points to balance things out. “The Lord’s usage of a large-scale translation was surprisingly effective at pacifying the population. Having such a directly magical but beneficial effect has shown surprising returns on belief even more so than the typical displays of might used in unveiling practices. It’s a shame such feats are beyond the typical integration team, at least at such a large scale.”

Matt wished he could say he had only done that out of altruistic reasons, but that would be a lie. He had done it exactly because he thought it would have that effect.

Isabella then nodded to Westley Bakerfield. “Secondly the contacts made with the former world leaders is paying dividends in solidifying the opinions of the older generations. They are usually a situation that only solves itself when they age out but with their endorsements, we are seeing a significant uptick in support from that age group.”

Next, they went to what needed to happen going forward but that wasn’t as directed to Matt and Liz and was more directed to Palom, who seemed relieved he and his team weren’t being blamed by the two Ascenders for how the planet had turned out.

From there, it just came down to keeping the planet under control until Baron Hastra could arrive.

Matt had heard good things about the noble scion and wasn’t happy he was handing the man their mess but as Cato had said, they had larger and other responsibilities with the rest of the forming duchy.

When Baron Hastra arrived, Matt immediately felt the man's simmering anger radiate off him in waves.

The Tier 19 swept the planet with his spiritual perception, taking his time to go through each country as well as tapping into the planetary AI, before he came to where Matt was laying the foundation to create conduits between the two farthest continents.

“My Lord.” Seeing Phoenix Liz on Matt’s shoulder, Yarklan bowed a second time. “My Lady.”

“Rise, Baron Hastra. I must apologize for the mess I’m handing you.”

“My Lord is ever gracious, but your apologies are not required. I serve at your will.”

Matt raised an eyebrow, obviously enough that the baron would be able to tell his skepticism. “I would prefer you to be honest.”

Yarklan debated his next course of action for a moment before asking, “May I speak freely then?”

“Of course. For all our faults, we won’t shy away from criticism, and that is doubly so when we request it.”

Yarklan seemed to harden his will as he said, “Then you won’t take offense when I ask you two to leave immediately. I can not begin to right Soerilia’s direction with the two of you looming over my shoulder.”

Matt had expected Baron Hastra to ask for more resources, not to be asked to leave. But as much as it hurt his pride, he understood the Baron's position. Especially with the after action reports conclusion so fresh in his memory.

“That is acceptable Baron Hastra. Please inform us if you need any additional resources to fix the no doubt lingering issues that you will face as you take control. The administrative team is officially transferred to your control and their services are paid for the next two decades.”

Having said his piece, Matt turned and flew to the portal, not able to help but feel like he had just been scolded by a parent for something he knew he had done but wasn’t actually his fault.

That wasn’t true, this was their fault, but Matt still felt that way, which just made him feel even worse for feeling sorry for himself when other people were suffering far more because of him and his impulsive actions.

Stepping into the teleportation formation, a dozen Lizzes joined him and merged into a single body before they silently activated the formation, returning to Lilly.
