Chapter 365

Matt’s first action was to send a message to Liz through the Ascender chat. She’d want to know what happened as soon as possible, and nothing beat Ascender chat in that regard. He told her to finish up what she needed and not to rush back because ultimately there just wasn't much she could do beyond being another pair of hands.

Matt could also admit to himself that he was feeling guilty about this being his mess and therefore his to clean up. His wife had been looking forward to her check in with her research teams for the last few years and he didn’t want to ruin that for her.

That taken care of, he turned his attention back to Soerilia.

Seeing a non-significant portion of the populace start to spiral, Matt threw 20 million MPS to his [AI], letting it support the planetary AI. It decidedly wasn’t specialized in the same way, but with enough mana and further enhanced by his Minkalla-granted Concept ability, it could manage, and it was good enough at raw data processing that it quickly connected to and usurped the local satellites and communication networks, which let it start tracking everyone watching for issues.

Matt didn’t need it to tell him about the half dozen riots already sparking off, but one of the administration team members had that handled, and he let his [AI] watch and give him updates about the situation.

Considering how badly things had gotten out of hand in the last decade, Matt half suspected the admin team to be incompetent but they handled things perfectly. It was clear they had a deep understanding of unveiling tactics as they moved to correct things before he could even give the orders most of the time. That didn’t mean Matt liked what they were doing. What they needed to do. When one of the team arrived at a gathering of people that was turning hostile, they came in with the weight of their cultivation fully unleashed and backed by their Domain.

For the unawakened mortals below them, it would feel like they had lost all control of their body and Matt didn’t think he could truly understand how they felt, but a part of his mind tried to imagine it. Not only was their world being turned upside down, but even their bodily control was being taken from them.

It had to be horrifying.

But at this point, they simply needed to pacify the planet as quickly as possible, which meant things like riots weren’t going to be tolerated. The rest of the population didn’t deserve to deal with the results of such gatherings and they didn’t have the luxury of a softer approach. With how populous low-Tier veiled worlds were, Matt would have needed another dozen hands to truly get things under control. But he didn’t and the shoddy excuse for clones he created for his announcement weren’t up to the task.

He—

Matt realized he was still thinking like an Ascender and not like a Duke.

Sending a message to Lilly, he called upon some of his nobles who were waiting on his home world. They could be of assistance and this could serve as an object lesson of what not to do. He also called upon the unit of their personal guard that was stationed as extra security to Titan’s Torch.

Matt didn’t particularly like being able to use himself as an object lesson but waste not, want not. Zack would be proud. Well, not of the 20 million MPS usage but at least somewhat proud.

Running through the unveiling protocols, Matt decided to go off script slightly. Again.

Part of him rebelled after how their last venture into doing things their way had turned out but Matt wasn’t so weak of mind to allow a single mistake to make him second guess himself away from a better course of action.

With a thought, he found the leaders of the three strongest countries and paused as he realized he didn’t know any of them. The leaders he had started the integration with had all stepped down from their positions at some point in the last twenty years.

Finding those leaders wasn’t hard, it just took looking them up as individuals on the planetary AI instead of their positions, which is what he had originally done, but the mistake was indicative of his long absence and inattention. With a flex of his Domain, Matt pulled them next to his real body. He wasn’t so high in the atmosphere that he would need to do anything to ensure they could breathe, but he couldn’t do the polite thing and visit them.

Time was of the essence, and if he left the formation center he’d lose control over the construction. That wouldn’t be the end of the world, but he was working to extend the translation array such that it worked for any speaker, not just him. It was impractical and decidedly temporary, but he liked the message it would send.

Briefly lowering his perception to Tier 3 levels, Matt said, “I need the three of you to get on top of this. Ensure your replacements are acting properly. Maintain order and calm the populous down as much as you can.”

Matt was grateful that the three didn’t try to bicker or ask questions and just nodded which allowed him to send them back to their previous locations in seconds.

The former leader of the Joined Provinces of Turistia had actually been on vacation so Matt whispered into his ear that he could transport him and his family to his country's capital building when they were ready.

As much as he wanted to rush Westley Bakerfield along, his youngest child was panicking not only at Matt’s own display but the sudden disappearance of her father. Sacrifices needed to be made, and they certainly would all be putting in long hours, but a young child shouldn’t be the one to be making those sacrifices.

At least not as much as Matt could help.

Thinking of children, Matt winced as he saw the countries that were currently in daylight had people panicking as they tried to leave their work areas en masse to return to their homes or pick up their children, but their panic and sheer numbers meant entire cities turned into gridlock.

Matt would have loved to teleport each and every person to their home but that was beyond even his capabilities.

If some of his just-now-arriving nobles and guards had some spare time, he’d set them to do so but the situation should start to fix itself given a little time as people stopped panicking.

As he was assigning those newly arrived to various areas to put out fires, quite literally in some cases, Matt was pinged by his [AI] as local communication networks started to go down one by one. The ones that went down because they were simply overwhelmed he was able to direct his AI to take over some of the computing load, but others had issues.

Some systems had critical flaws and singular points of failure, forcing Matt or another immortal to intervene when they went down. Communication was one of the largest points of friction in the higher-tech veil worlds. It was seen time and time again that people started to calm down once they knew their families and loved ones were safe which let them stop reacting emotionally and start processing the situation more rationally.

In the countries that had been in their evening and night times, that was far easier. A lot of them were just huddling together for comfort, which didn’t make Matt feel good, but most of them simply needed to call family and friends, where on the other side of the planet people were trying to rush from work and causing accidents, which slowed everyone else down.

The second largest issue was the power generation plants.

Most of them could run with minimum outside interference but as issues cropped up, Matt was forced to step in and prevent them from going down. He wouldn’t call himself an expert by any stretch of the imagination, but most mortal engineering was easy enough to follow, and when he had any doubts he accessed the schematics through his [AI] to fix any issues that came up.

As Matt put a power line someone had run into and destroyed back together, he found he didn’t have an easy way to manipulate synthetics like plastic and put that on a list of things to do later. He tried a few different things, including semi-melting and fusing the plastics with fire, but eventually settled on just using his Domain to stretch and overlap the remaining fragments. He would have much preferred to simply use something like [Synthetic Manipulation] though.

Thankfully, the world leaders started to help after the first few hectic minutes. They followed Matt’s lead and instituted their version of martial law, encouraging everyone to remain home, except those in critical jobs, while also giving short messages about how they had been tirelessly working to avoid this exact occurrence.

Matt would have corrected them if those people weren’t about to be out of jobs in the coming months. Sure, some might be voted in as local governors, but a fair few of them would never pass the psych evaluations required for such a position.

When people realized that their governments had been complicit in hiding the truth from them, there was another round of attempted riots but the various immortals managed to deal with them before things truly got out of hand, urging everyone to go home and not to gather.

Those admonitions, coming from people floating in the sky, worked unsurprisingly well.

It took close to three hours before things started to calm down but that only meant Matt and the others could start dealing with the real issues.

They started by broadcasting messages explaining the general details of the Realm and their place in it through every outlet they could. Those weren’t bad, but after watching once, most people went looking for more information and the administration team made it as available as was possible.

Documents, videos, voice records, all were there for people to start answering their own questions.

Matt felt too few people actually used the thousand page document provided but he couldn't force people to look past its size and search for the information they wanted.

The second major issue was when the administrators moved to start integrating the various world governments into a more cohesive whole after the first hectic few days.

A number of the leaders didn’t take that well at all and were summarily removed from their positions.

That could have sparked more riots but between the immortals moving around quelling issues and preventing crimes in a very public manner, ensured the average citizen was too terrified to try and resist even when their elected leaders tried to incite them. Not that they could do so easily. Communications networks were one of the first things they had taken control of, which prevented mass dissemination of such calls to arms.

On the fourth day, Matt, in a deliberate show of power, held a press conference with hundreds of the news outlets where he had initially stood miles above the planet letting his translation function serve as both a practical way to talk to so many disparate peoples but also a a backdrop of what the Empire was capable of.

He had considered creating a floor and walls to help people feel more at ease but in the end, after talking it over with Cato, he had decided not to bother.

Most of the questions were simple or repetitive, asking if Soerilia could be left alone or if the citizens who wished to leave could be allowed to move to a Republic world. They could, at least probably. Officially speaking, only those who were alive before the integration were guaranteed transport and integration back into the Republic, but the Great Power had historically been quite accepting of immigrants from worlds they lost in wars, doubly so when a Veil world was involved. Half the time, they even covered the full cost of transportation.

However, it was exceedingly unlikely that they could go to another Veil world, which was what they actually wanted. Living in the Republic on a non-Veil world would be functionally the same as living in the Empire, just without free Awakenings and free healthcare. In practice there was no practical difference whether their planetary administrator had a term limit of a hundred years or a hundred thousand.

One of the early questions was one Matt had hoped wouldn’t be asked because he didn’t feel equipped to answer it, but it still happened.

“What will happen to our local economies? Or rather planetary economy? If it's true that there are millions of worlds in this Empire, will our small world be able to sustain itself or will we quickly find ourselves in poverty as resources and people are siphoned off?”

Acknowledging that they could have asked a similar but worse question, Matt tried to give his best answer. “I’m sure that most people understand that economics are anything but simple, but I will do my best to make it easy to understand. I can assure you and everyone else that there are economic protections in place for both low-Tier worlds like Soerilia and for newly integrated worlds. That means your own local businesses won’t have to compete with foreign entities for a few centuries. I will also mention that most citizens will see an increase in purchasing power from their respective currencies to the Empire Credit. As for brain drain, that is unlikely to happen as you imagine it. Some people will leave Soerilia but they will have simply outgrown the Tier of the world. That happens with all worlds eventually and isn’t as impactful as you fear thanks to longer lifespans.”

At a reminder from Cato, Matt added, “I will also note that most of your citizens will see a drastic reduction in taxes. Both local and Imperial taxes for mortals are capped at 10%, and it will be a good five generations before Imperial taxes begin for you. The local tax in turn is to be exclusively used on local infrastructure and social services, and your baron can explain more of his personal financial policy when he arrives in the coming weeks.”

