Matt internally winced at the mention of their soon to arrive baron; he had wanted to avoid reminding everyone that their leader wasn’t elected as that seemed to go over poorly with most of them, but thankfully the reporters were more interested in the tax reduction.

A few more follow up questions came about but nothing that was particularly onerous. He had no idea why one reporter used their question to ask about how the Empire felt about house pets but the segue opened up more esoteric questions.

There was one question that caught Matt off guard. “Reviewing the records, we find that you stopped a war between the Democratic Republic of Noricum and the Communists of the Greater South Plains when you first arrived but our station found you had participated in a war just months before that saw the deaths of billions with tens of thousands dying at your own hands. A play war, with spectators watching and recording everything, even channels devoted to comedic commentary. How can you be so hypocritical when they were fighting for far more valid reasons?”

Matt looked at the woman who had asked the question and inspected her. She was nearly shaking in her boots as she asked the question, her heart rate and blood pressure were nearing dangerous levels. There was also a firmness that he associated with people doing something that they knew was dangerous.

The other reporters shifted away from her, for a moment forgetting that they were standing on nothing, but Matt simply nodded to acknowledge the question. “Their reasons for fighting were their own and I won’t comment on it. I simply stopped the war like I wish could have been done for my war. But your comment about me killing tens of thousands is misinformed.”

Matt let his face harden as he continued before she could try for a gotcha moment. “The true number is more in the hundreds of thousands. The wars of the Great Powers span beyond your easy comprehension, as that war in particular was considered quite short on account of merely lasting two centuries. All participants are there willingly, soldiers who seek glory, status, or wealth as they prove and test themselves in the only crucible which truly matters. However, even with that, for all that I slew hundreds of thousands, it was across a war front of trillions. Trillions. Thousands of times more than all the people who live on this planet altogether, and those who I did kill, was strictly in the service of ending the war more decisively, with less blood shed. War will always exist, but it is my duty to end it, as above, so below.”

Letting that statement sink in, Matt forced a smile and looked to a nearby reporter and prompted him for a question.

The press conference went on for another hour and by the end, things had gone where Matt had wanted. Mainly about what he was doing.

Not just how he was holding everyone aloft but the translation aura he was projecting over the planet.

Thankfully Soerilia had a history of magic stories, so it wasn’t too hard for Matt to tie cultivation to that preexisting framework which was said to help with acceptance. Only time would tell if that was true, but he was more than happy to take the time to understand the stories if it could help.

Thankfully, and despite him assuring her that she didn’t need to leave early, Liz arrived just a week into the mess. She had originally wanted to return and help him with the expected returning-home paperwork and she took the opportunity to playfully bemoan her good nature biting her in the ass. Matt was just happy to have his wife with him as she alone more than halved the amount of work he had to do.

Liz’s arrival made a few waves as well, and Matt got a bit of a chuckle as various talking heads and community discussions worked to try to figure out which was the ‘real’ Liz, and what was up with the golden bird on her shoulder. They didn’t bother explaining, because there was no real point, but he did enjoy seeing some of the very entertaining theories, and Liz enjoyed messing with the “real body” speculators by playing into their theories for her ‘tells.’

At the end of the second week, things had mostly settled down with most civilians returning to their jobs, which was when they started installing and moving people through awakening machines.

Matt was hopeful that with a media spin or two they could have most of the population on board, and while that did work, it wasn’t to the degree Matt had hoped.

Part of the problem was the numerous news stations that were too used to the old laws who decided to try and publish dubious reports about the horrors of awakening, all the while thinking they were toeing the line by suggesting the Empire couldn’t force them to awaken.

Key word being ‘try’. After their attempt was first noticed, the planetary AI was tasked with keeping a closer eye on the media and Liz gave them a warning to read up on Empire’s official media standards and guidelines. Most gave up after a few more attempts as their printers refused to print, their websites refused to update, their broadcasts refused to start, and attempts to hand write flyers ended with all pens suddenly having no more ink.

But most was not all. Some kept trying. And after a handful decided to try and address the public on the street like an old town crier, Liz decided enough was enough and started ordering arrests. That finally put a stop to it, even if many journalists grumbled about these laws corroding the integrity of journalism.

Only in one instance did any of the undercurrents of dissent turn truly bad. One town, undeterred by the warnings and interference, started sharing that awakening was evil and would lead to death. When that hostility turned violent towards the already awakened and several people were seriously injured at the urging of the ring leaders, they stepped in.

While there were numerous ways to handle integrating, there was only one way to handle such dissent.

They ruthlessly crushed it, thoroughly uprooting the burgeoning leadership and charging everyone involved in public trials.

Thankfully, a number of the people involved were not good people or otherwise had impure motives; they and the planetary AI had evidence of it all. It also helped that he and Liz were light with the actual punishments. Most of the true believers were simply given fines and community service, along with being moved up the queue for being awakened.

For those who had treated the exercise as a power grab, Matt and Liz were far less lenient. In those cases, they dug up every major infraction they had committed and charged them. Few people had sympathies for local tyrants who used and abused the power they held, which was why they made everything so public.

By the end of the third week, things had settled down to the point they didn’t expect any other major incidents before Baron Hastra was set to arrive, which meant they had to do their after action report.

Matt was no stranger to such reports; they had done them both with Luna and the army after every major battle but this was one where he and Liz would not come out looking good.

Even if, legally speaking, the fault didn’t lie with them, Matt absolutely took full responsibility for insufficient whatever that led Soerilia to the point it was at. He fully intended this report to focus on all the ways they personally could have intervened, because without identifying failure points there was no way to prevent them from happening again.

Isabella had returned from her auction and, having relatively less to do than everyone else, had taken the lead on organizing the after action.

She stood at the head of the table and looked down at the attendees.

“My Lady, my Lord, gathered dignitaries, let us start with establishing what brought us here today. The integration of Soerilia into the Sophron Empire was initiated approximately twenty years ago, by the Duke and Duchess Moore. They elected to go for a slower, more gradual reveal over the standard more abrupt approach. This process has been ongoing and while significantly slower than planned has had seemingly no truly outstanding incidents, until three weeks ago when Duke Moore was informed about a plot against his life by one of the original leaders read in on the secret. In the aftermath of that revelation the Lord decided to finish the unveiling in a more… typical manner. We are here to establish what went wrong that led to this outcome. To facilitate this, the Dukes have given everybody here leave to speak freely with no risk of repercussions and I will remind everyone that a good after action report is only possible when people exercise that privilege.”

When Matt heard the situation laid out like that he started to wonder if he had overreacted, but no. No situation where somebody plotted to unleash rift breaks as a distraction could be allowed to continue under his watch.

He was however somewhat saddened by how necessary that last comment was. Were they truly so scared he’d fly off the handle at a little criticism? He was criticized constantly and had always taken it well. It was an opportunity to learn from one's mistakes after all.

Seeing nobody object to her description of events, and having given appropriate time for somebody else to start, Isabella went first.

“My Lady, my Lord let us start with what prompted this whole ordeal. Despite not being the noble in direct control of the planet, the Lady and Lord started the unveiling. Secondly, and compounding that issue, is the Lady and Lord’s desire to go through a slower integration while neither had the time to personally oversee the process. Normally this would not be a huge problem as you did pay for an expert admin team, but well…”

Isabella looked meaningfully at Palom, the administration team's leader. The ten thousand year old man looked far from pleased for having attention drawn to him, his sickly looking complexion only growing paler.

“My Lord, my Lady, what seneschal Isabella is insinuating is, well, I don’t want to offend, and of course any theoretical issues are just a matter of inexperience and I’m sure you’ll never repeat them and—”

“Just speak your mind” Liz interjected. “If we couldn't handle valid criticism we’d never have made it as far as we have. Where did we fuck up?”

Palom looked far from reassured by her encouragement, but was also clearly too scared to gainsay anything even if he had disagreed. After taking a moment to visibly steel his resolve, he continued.

“Very well then. Both Lords, Lord Moore in particular, repeatedly impressed upon us the need for a light touch. Combined with the check ins on that very topic, prevented us from fully doing our job. We understand there was a desire to be gentle with the integration, but even that has its limits. Or it should. It’s very hard to say that when not one but two Ascenders are hovering over your shoulder constantly reminding us of how they want things done. We have dealt with such before but normally we are able to bypass or work around those lords but we are not so brave as to directly flaunt an Ascender's orders to their face.”

Matt was taken aback by that, not expecting the team they had hired to be so scared of them.

“Were we, was I, truly that disruptive?” Matt couldn't help but ask. “I remember saying that while I said we wanted a light touch, we wanted a smooth integration. If taken at face value those are sometimes conflicting but not egregiously so.”

Palom swallowed before nodding. “Extremely so, my Lord. Normally there are ways to work around overly involved bosses, but most of our bosses aren’t Ascenders. Your total absence the last decade was a boon to us more than the decade that preceded it.”

Matt had to sit back and digest that fact. He expected criticism, welcomed it, but that specific one hurt. He had dealt with an asshole boss back when he worked at Benny's Inn and hearing he had acted like Benny all those years ago was startling.

Still there was one thing he wanted elaboration on. “Then how did Lancor manage to get as far as he did? When I saw that, I took it as a sign that the entire integration was failing which is partly why I decided to do what I did. If the system is so flawed, I might as well just break it and start fresh.”

Palom shook his head. “Despite outward appearances Fabian Lancor had gotten nowhere. He was just a wannabe warlord. There is at least a handful of his ilk on every unveiling and they’ve never managed to be more than temporary nuisances. Typically we identify them early on before contacting the world leaders at all and stage their downfalls. The lords starting the integration themselves prevented that method but we could have and have before worked around that. It was more the Lord and Lady’s insistence that we act with a light touch that kept him in power as long as he was. Even ignoring the alternatives, his downfall was inevitable and well underway. A member of our team was always on standby, ready to at any moment, to disarm the bombs in case Lancor decided to initiate his plan early. Additionally we were only a month or two away from implementing our preferred solution. Namely putting somebody with the right moral character in the chain of command who had the power, authority, and prestige to reject those orders. We would then make the incident public and use that wave of public sentiment to oust Lancor and destroy his power base. I might add that even now there are two other world leaders with plans in a similar if less extreme vein and seven who are in the very early stages of creating similar plans. Or were. We have of course taken steps to remove said individuals now that we can act without unveiling constraints.”

