Soltic got to take in the full breadth of the open-air dungeon floor plan moments before their magic cut out entirely, their conjured armor breaking into glittering motes and their flight spells ending prematurely. Soltic’s outer [Personal Ward]s broke, stripping him of his usual double cast of [Unbreakable Form], worth 500 absolute damage reduction. And then his secondary [Personal Ward] broke. His [Illusionary Soul].

Illusionary Soul, instant, self, 2500 mana

Cloak your truth in lies and falsehoods. Let none know your core.

Permanent until dismissed.

For the briefest of moments, Erick was exposed inside the dungeon, his core on full display inside his chest, for all of those who knew how to see. Quilatalap was exposed, too, his tooth-lined soul showing just underneath his skin.

And then Erick and Quilatalap both manually recast that innermost magic, hiding themselves from whatever might be looking. Both of them had been exceedingly quick with that action, so their covers were probably fine, especially if the dungeon master here wasn’t a real person, capable of maintaining cohesive thought patterns.

… It was what it was. They both looked at each other and decided that if a problem developed from this, then they would handle it. Recasting their hiding magics had erased the manasphere’s history, anyway, so a [Witness], manual or otherwise, wouldn’t be able to see them.

Erick could have used a Familiar Form without the core. But the core was necessary for holding onto and casting more difficult magics while inside other realities, like the reality inside a dungeon, or, more realistically, the reality over in Fairie, in Ar’Cosmos. Quilatalap had his own tricks for escaping Fairie if he wanted, but Erick had to deal with that place now and again, and he made sure to always have his core with him, no matter what.

For it was the core that allowed a person to hold onto mana, and cast magic.

The Script was just an assistant so that the average person didn’t have to use a core at all.

Erick relaxed a fraction, hoping that he hadn’t accidentally fucked up Yggdrasil’s future with the accidental reveal of his core. Dungeons weren’t supposed to erase all spellwork the very second you dropped into them… But this one had. He took a moment to ensure his core-hiding magics were secure; he’d get to the rest of the delve in due time.

[Illusionary Soul] was a truly basic Illusion Magic that most dragons got a natural feel for as soon as they matured enough to know to hide themselves. Erick’s journey to that magic had been a bit different, since he usually acted through the proxy of Ophiel. He had needed to first actually think to make such a magic, and then have a single conversation with Quilatalap in order to get it right. Quilatalap used this very same magic to hide himself from the world, and it worked quite well.

Soltic breathed.

A bare second had passed since they entered the zone.

“So that’s weird,” Soltic said, standing there in his normal clothes, looking at himself. With a flick of his hand he conjured another sword. This time his sword remained. “You got dispelled, too.”

“This dungeon must be set to rather high standards.” With a flick of her hand, which was completely superfluous, Vanya conjured another floating shield. This time the shield remained. She even moved it around a bit at her command. “Seems to be in working order, though.”

Soltic turned his attention back to the dungeon.

A subtle ring of shadows surrounded the land on this side of the [Gate], denoting a safe space, so there had been no worry of some sort of attack right away. The larger dungeons often had multiple safe spaces here and there, as emplaced by the dungeon master, but since the dungeon master of this dungeon was a simple monster (they guessed), most of the dungeon would be wild. Probably no more safe spaces anywhere else inside.

It was a small enough dungeon that it didn’t need any more rest areas.

The dungeon floor almost looked like The Pit, back there on the other side of the [Gate], but where the land over there was carved into mana-funneling channels, the land here was a switchback series of raised stone roads, set atop an ocean. There was no sea floor down there. These roads were almost like barges, or floating bridges.

Actually… Exactly like floating bridges.

Solid, though; they didn’t move underfoot at all.

“Kinda like standing on the top of a wall of a maze filled with water,” Soltic said, looking over the edge of the ‘wall’, down into abyssal depths. His mana sense cut out at around five meters out, which meant that the space down there was probably filled with killer monsters, but his mana sense otherwise was restricted to about 25 meters out, so there were lots of semi-abnormal restrictions happening all over the place. Soltic glanced up, and looked to the coral growths sticking up here and there, both from the road, and from the waters. Most of the corals were near the roads, though, like white cancers growing on the grey-white road. “The corals sort of mar the view, but they’re rather pretty, too.” Everything about the dungeon was fully open, except for those coral growths; they had to be the hiding spots for the treasure. “I bet they’re our targets.”

The whole dungeon was rather beautiful, in an austere sort of way. The sky was an undulating crisscross of white light and liquid blue, as though they were at the bottom of a pool, and the sun was bright and shining far out of reach. The land was a place of grey-white stone ‘barge roads’. Iridescent white coral treasure grew here and there. The coral was a nice touch, Soltic thought, since coral grew slowly, and that matched with the [Duplicate]-properties of a dungeon. These places didn’t spit out 10,000 gold every half hour, or something like that; the gold and other things had to grow.

… Soltic realized that he had no idea how much money they would get today.

He had respected Vanya’s desire to go in blind, but for his own peace of mind, maybe he should have cheated, and looked up this place in its entirety. But… No.

Vanya looked upward. “I like how it looks like we’re at the bottom of an ocean.” Then she looked down. “It’s death to land in the actual water, though.” She judged, “That abyss is too dangerous to have so close to the entrance.”

“I’ve seen you put spears just outside of a dungeon entrance.”

“That’s different. Bladed weapons are clear threats… And I don’t do that often. Usually it’s a nice, peaceful meadow, or a stone room. Anyway! I count 27 coral growths, and not much else, before the dungeon ends. There might be something else inside the water, but I can check that out myself; you don’t have to risk yourself.”

Soltic felt a chill ripple up his spine. He shivered, saying, “The casual disregard you have for your own life continues to amaze me.”

Vanya smiled wide. “Not like it’s going to perma-kill me.”

Soltic grumbled—

And then he banished his inconvenient emotion over the differences between them. One of them was not scared of death at all, for they had long overcome the problem of mortality, while the other would likely never overcome his innate fear of death.

And dungeons were certainly a place of death.

“Magic tests?” Soltic reached down with his aura, into the stone, and pushed at the bedrock. A ripple appeared, and that was it. As soon as he took his power away, the ripple flattened out. “This place restricts Stone rather tightly, and seems to repair minor damage.”

Vanya agreed, and reached up into the air and began plucking her spellwork; faint bits of illumination and power flowed into the air… Dimly. Barely working at all, actually.

Soltic ripped his own aura through the air, too, manually Mana Altering his mana into other forms of possibility. Along with Vanya’s experiments, Soltic came to a few conclusions of his own rather fast. Fire failed inside this land, as did most forms of heat-based magic. Particle-created heat, as from friction, worked fine. Particle Magic was really just advanced [Telekinesis], though, so that tracked. Pretty much all Stone-adjacent conjuring, from Magma to Swamp, Ooze and Crystal, and of course, Stone and Metal, barely worked. Soltic had to work hard to conjure a Stone, as for a [Stone Bolt].

And he, the Apparent King, actually did have to work hard on those particular spells. Dungeons were alternative realities inside the Dark, functioning almost like a Domain, but not. Trying to act against a dungeon, while inside the dungeon, was worse than trying to break the Domain of another caster. It was like trying to break the Script. It was easier than working magic past the Edge of the Script, though.

Erick had tried that once with the Anarchy Wizard and he hoped to never be caught outside of the density of mana that was Veird ever again.

… Soltic moved on to Water and Air magics and found them slightly easier, but still restricted. Light and Shadow magics barely worked. Blood, Ash, Gloom, Star, Void, Mercy, Healing; all of it was barely functional, though, perhaps, as Soltic tested out the difference between Water and Blood a few times, it was possible that the Esoteric Elements were less locked-down than the Original Six. Illusion worked well enough to hide their true selves from the world, but not much more than that. Benevolence worked a little, but Soltic would not be using that at all.

Force worked exceedingly well, though. Stable. Easy to make. Simple Force was the order of the day. Soltic conjured Force, tinged with Metal, or Stone, or other Elements, and found it workable. But it was dull metal and crumbly stone. Sooo… Maybe he would stick to pure Force. Pure Force worked the best.

Vanya came to the same conclusion fast enough, with a shield of Force hovering at her side. “Force dungeon.”

Soltic agreed, “Force dungeon. Ar’Cosmos rules, too; Clarity doesn’t seem to work, but it looks like we have the mana we came in here with. Have to use Elemental Mystical to cut down on mana costs, though that’s kinda difficult to do.”

Vanya said, “Looks like Statuses don’t work in here, so we can assume that we have the mana we came in with and whatever our natural generation gives us, but with a constantly decreasing cap.”

“No core means no holding onto the mana,” Soltic said.

Both of them would have a near-normal mana generation, though; they were just talking like this for the [Witness] that was to come. Erick had a core, and could hold onto his mana all he wanted to, and though Quilatalap didn’t even have a core, he did have a phylactery, which was almost the same.

Vanya nodded as she reconjured her armor, using manual aura control, once again donning her layered, purple Force armor. The armor settled, and remained; unbroken. The dungeon couldn’t break spellwork cast inside of it, but it could easily break spellwork cast outside and then brought in.

Soltic followed Vanya’s lead, conjuring his own armor with his own aura control, shaping Force into a facsimile of the layered, spidersilk style that Jane Flatt had popularized among certain circles of delvers, because it was strong and easy and somewhat comfortable. Smooth, black Force soon hugged most of his body, with a few solid parts here and there to form a greater bulwark against big weapon attacks.

Vanya glanced at him, grinning. “I like the manual-cast look better than the Script-spell look.”

Soltic moved a little, shrugging and pulling at his armor, stretching and selectively dispelling and then remaking pieces that stuck together, or which didn’t have enough flexibility. “I like the Script-cast spell better; that one has air-conditioning.”

Vanya smirked, behind her full-face helmet.

Soltic breathed out, looked down at the ring of subtle darkness that encircled the entrance like a warning [Ward], then he looked out, at the corals. He remade his helmet in order to have some better visibility. “Let’s go hunt some coral.”

Vanya stepped forward without hesitation, disturbing the ethereal ring of darkness. Nothing happened. She took a few more steps down the wide, floating stone road, saying, “It appears that exiting the rest area isn’t a trigger, but I suspect that disturbing a coral will cause monsters to rise from the depths.” Vanya giggled. “I’m looking forward to it.”

And then she stopped her giggle, and Soltic soldiered on.

It was time to work.

The stone ‘barge’ road did not move as they walked across it; the whole thing was flat and solid, with roads stretching off into every distance, to vanish at the dark, foggy edges of the dungeon space. The footing was good. Soltic had been worried about that.

The first coral sat about 30 meters in front of the dungeon entrance. It grew out of the waters, latching onto the edge of the stone walkway like a thousand fingers of iridescent white porous bone, curling together and then splaying outward and upward. It was the size of an orcol, and watery sunlight danced upon that coral, and upon the road.

Vanya stopped 5 meters from the coral, saying, “I guess the treasure is… Little bits of gold? In the very center?”

Soltic mana sensed into the coral, and guessed at the whole rest of the nature of the dungeon from that simple look. An empty space held in the center of the twisting coral. Within that space grew a little filament of gold, looking like someone had made a minuscule tree out of gold wire. It didn’t even have leaves; just the bare, hovering ‘trunk’ and a few ‘branches’ and ‘roots’ to go with it.

“Maybe 7 gold per coral?” Soltic guessed. “Or maybe 8?”

Vanya counted up the whole dungeon. “27 growths at a conservative 5 gold per growth, means a dungeon run is worth 135 gold— If all the other corals have the same thing inside them. That’s not counting the monsters that are sure to come about as soon as we break a coral. They’re probably hiding out in the waters beyond the edge of this space.”

“Maybe down below, too?”

“No doubt.” With a flicker of purple magic, Vanya conjured a mono-wire cheese-slicer a few meters long. She sliced through the top half of the coral. Another flicker of power popped off top, sending a mess of coral and fragments up into the air, revealing a depression in the center of the coral, where motes of light glowed and a tiny gold tree grew. Another bit of spellwork plucked the tree from its place of hiding. Vanya stowed the ‘treasure’ into a conjured bag before the top half of the coral landed in the waters, sending up a great splash. “And now, we see what happens—”

A low rumble filled the dungeon space, vibrating the road underfoot.

Where the coral landed in the waters, the waters boiled. Great rushes of overly-large bubbles flew into the air—

