Soltic looked at Nero for a moment longer, then he turned to Vanya. “You could do so much more at the Crystal Forest, near the main Network.”

“It’s just a talk?” Vanya asked.

Nero supplied, “A simple discussion! No promises yet.”

“But there could be a lot of money in it for you, and the weight of a major city in order to bring your ideas to fruition,” Barda added.

“I’m going to take that discussion, Soltic,” Vanya said.

“… Okay. Whatever you want,” Soltic said, pretending not to be too happy about it.

But inwardly he was thrilled.

This was a lot different than being the Apparent King. He hadn’t needed to turn one day into four. He hadn’t needed to wake up early because of some emergency. He hadn’t needed to kill anyone, or upend a city’s entire way of life, or give any sort of unilateral decree as the Apparent King. This was how normal people did normal business, and it was great.

This was all going so well!

… So why did he feel like shit?

- - - -

They had to fly to get to Storm’s Edge in any reasonable amount of time, but Vanya had a good Platform spell, so they rode that Platform through the forest until they popped up above the treeline a few kilometers from the city. From there, Nero pointed to a line of traffic flying through the sky, where people floated past wardlight markers, following along to designated landing spots in the city proper. Vanya joined the flow.

The city of Storm’s Edge sprawled out below them, a mess of humanity and incani and demi, mostly, but there were dragonkin districts as well, and a large shifter community, all organized into off-white stone buildings, with bright, colorful roofs. The land was a rainbow from this angle, and Soltic smiled as he looked down upon the world. This was his usual perspective, and he missed it a little bit. Paradoxically, he also missed just living among people; being there on the ground with everyone else. Simply going to a restaurant and not being stared at or, in some cases, screamed at, for what he had done in one part of the world or another…

He liked this simpler kind of life as ‘Soltic’, and whatever he was doing here with ‘Vanya’, and all of that.

He missed helping people, though.

It hadn’t even been three full days since he adopted this ‘Soltic’ persona, and Erick was already ready to do something drastic. Right now he was helping to cement Quilatalap in the area, and to get Yggdrasil’s seal weakened, but later he would be… He wasn’t quite sure.

He had not had multiple days off of work in a decade, though calling being a ‘king’ something as simple as ‘work’ was completely missing the realities of the ‘job’. That was his Earth-sensibilities talking again, he thought, as Vanya landed the Platform in the designated unloading square, and the four of them walked toward the noble district, under Nero’s guidance. As they passed a checkpoint easily, for the guards knew Nero personally, Erick wondered at what the rest of his life would bring him, and the world.

Up until two weeks ago he had known the shape of his life.

Now, things were different. Now, Yggdrasil wanted to be free, and Erick had to give that to him.

Erick’s repro, Ezekiel, was good with developing Earth technology for the common people, and that seemed to be a great idea… which is probably why Ezekiel chose to do that—

Erick wasn’t even sure where his thoughts were going at the moment. He knew his future. Soon, Yggdrasil would separate, and Ophiel would too, and then Erick would spend time with them, and eventually go back to House Benevolence and take on a much smaller role in the world as he raised his kids. Casting his sight through Ophiel (and realizing, all over again, that Ophiel wouldn’t be a part of him in a few months) Erick saw that Kiri was doing fine. Mostly. The Gate Network was operational, but Kiri was running herself ragged trying to keep it all together. Erick would probably help with that when he got back, and that’d be fine.

Yes.

That was the rest of his life, then.

Go back home eventually; and to take up a smaller mantle in the House. All this here was a trial run to see how the House got along without him, which was rather necessary, really. There would be problems made apparent through his absence. He would fix those problems when he got back, and ensure the system wouldn’t break in those ways ever again.

So for now, he’d enjoy himself.

Maybe he could do some fun things with some esoteric magics, actually— Oh! He was pretending to be a warrior right now, but he had never gone very far with the warrior-side of magic, so perhaps he could actually do some of that… That all seemed boring, though, now that Erick actually considered the option. What was there to being a warrior, anyway, aside from using a weapon to hit things harder, and learning how to move faster and shrug off damage?

That’s all a mage did, and mages had many more tools than warriors.

But as far as Esoteric spellwork went; Erick had never done as much with Book Magic as he could have. Or with Destruction, or Chaos, or Order. There was lots of spellwork that was simply too far out of his scope of power, or time, to learn. Mind Magic in particular was outside of his capabilities—

He could learn some Mind Magic! Spend a good hundred years trying to ‘awaken his mind slime’.

… Doing some fun things with Book Magic seemed better.

The diagnostic spells Quilatalap used to interface with a dungeon directly were Book Magic. Erick did not know those specific spells yet. But he felt like he should. They weren’t perfect interfaces, but they helped a lot, and would allow him to check out a dungeon in better ways than performing tests or asking a dungeon master about their abode.

Erick decided; He’d ask Quilatalap about those diagnostic spells when they were done here.

As Nero led them to a mansion on a hill, surrounded by gardens and overlooking the city, Erick imagined that he would have his hands full in the coming years with actually raising Ophiel and Yggdrasil into proper adults. But it might be nice to test out his ideas for a new Script, inside a dungeon. Ezekiel was probably doing something to that effect inside the Grand Dungeon at Candlepoint, but Erick doubted that they would come up with the same idea for Script 2.0. Erick had thought about Script 2.0 at least ten thousand times, and each time his thoughts had shifted a little bit on what sort of system would be best.

Sininindi had a clear idea of what she wanted her Script 2.0 to look like, though, for Vanya was speaking tentatively on that right now, to the people that Nero and Barda had brought them to see. Those people weren’t being very solid with any answers, though. They were dancing around the subject of Storm’s Edge’s dungeons more than Nero and Barda had danced around the subject at dinner last night.

Lord Jarod Maryol and Lady Glariol Maryol. Both of them were human, in their 60s, and vaguely known to Erick before this meeting. He recalled something about them and a connection to the Dungeon Guild, and a family history of being adventurers. From the grand look of their estate on a hill and their maintained physiques, that information seemed plausible. Also, their names were in the collected folder of the Regency spy over at the dungeon town, among the information on Barda Highstaff and Nero Maryol. Nero was a cousin, though; not a direct descendant, as confirmed by Jarod himself when Vanya brought up the name over tea and cookies. Nero didn’t like that he was ‘just a cousin’, but he hid that expression rather well; he had a lot of experience hiding that expression, based on what Soltic was seeing.

It seemed that pleasantries were over, and now they were on to the verbal jousting part of it all.

Soltic had seen no reason to get involved prior to now beyond the simple ‘hellos’ and ‘nice house you have here’, and ‘Oh, you two were adventurers?’, for he could do these sorts of pleasantries while wasted-drunk and running on ten minutes of sleep in the past week; and he had. But at the first sign of some sort of tension, Soltic decided to get on with it. He spoke up, “I appreciate the history of your family, stretching back hundreds of years, but I thought we were here to discuss the betterment of Storm’s Edge’s dungeons, Lord Jarod.”

The room came to order as Jarod and the rest of the people in the room eyed Soltic, as though he was a quiet wolf who had grumbled a small growl.

Lord Jarod decided to get on with it. “I will be open. The Goddess Sininindi has cast a wide net and trawled for whoever she felt might be receptive to her desires, bringing an eclectic collection of souls to this land, to work in her name. We’re rather certain that you’re here at her command.”

Vanya and Soltic showed no surprise at the accusation, and that told the lord and lady all they needed to know; they were right on the money.

Nero and Barda both went a little wide-eyed, and then they looked to Soltic and Vanya as though they had lied to them. Which Soltic and Vanya had, sort of, by acting as though they weren’t here for exactly this reason. And then Nero smirked a little, and looked to Barda, who mouthed to her man, ‘Yes; you were right. Shut up about it.’

Lord Jarod continued, “The problem with remaking the dungeons as she has asked you, is that she is as inscrutable as the seas sometimes, and many people here have many different ideas of how best to enact her will. Quite a few others are fine with the dungeons we have, for they were the result of Sininindi’s will made manifest through a few sailors and storm priests working together, several years back.”

“But she wants a Grand Dungeon now.” Lady Glariol asked, “Which I assume is why you are here, Miss Silver? Mister Cross? Assuming is in poor taste, though. So I would have a real answer.”

Soltic said, “Vanya more than I; she was Called, I’m merely here to see her safe.”

Vanya explained, “We’ve had contact with one person already; Sailor Asmus at the Blue Temple. We have been warned to keep our heads down until we’re ready to tackle the issue of constructing a Grand Dungeon for Storm’s Edge.”

Lord Jarod seemed pleased by that, but he held back his full judgment as he said, “We have done a little investigation, and what we suspect is that you’re using false names, but that you have been using these names for a while. Years. You’ve even made lives under these names, and the dungeons you have registered with the Guild are well made. Profitable and educational.”

Now it was Soltic’s turn to be a little surprised. Jarod wasn’t testing the waters with a spurious claim, that ‘Soltic’ and ‘Vanya’ were fake; he had done the research, or his people had done the research, and they had come across the obvious end of the realities of Soltic and Vanya’s lives.

There were several general kinds of nobles, according to Erick’s experience. There were the ones who did the bare minimum and lived life on the laurels of their properties and investments. There were ones who squandered everything and were soon reduced to commoners. There were the ones who moved in their own circles and never left those lofty palaces. And then there were the ones who worked whatever systems they could work in order to acquire and grow whatever power they could get their hands on.

Lord and Lady Maryol seemed that final type.

Vanya denied nothing, “Fake names; lived for a while. Is that a problem?”

There were a lot of different ways for that news to be understood. Immortals, from Benevolence dragon to otherwise, hiding out as someone else. Face stealers, but probably not, considering Soltic and Vanya weren’t under sudden attack right now. Spies, appointed by whoever.

But a certain tension bled out of the room, because Vanya had not denied it.

And everything else was lining up well for everyone here.

“Not a problem,” Lord Jarod said, his voice easier than it had been. “I don’t care about your specific history, for Sininindi’s word is enough, but I am glad you have not denied it. It will make working with you a lot easier, if you are willing.”

“I would need to be informed of who, exactly, I am working with,” Vanya said, “If you please.”

Jarod said, “We’re former adventurers who are keen on ensuring that a greatness takes hold in this land; a true teaching of magic and a readying for whatever will come next. We might not be able to benefit from it ourselves when the new worlds open up, but we want our children to know how to cast magic in a land completely devoid of the Script.”

Ah.

Soltic suddenly understood.

Lord Jarod was not exactly lying, but he wasn’t telling the full truth. And since Vanya wanted the truth, and because Lord Jarod was dancing around that truth, and he would continue to dance around that truth—

“Oh! I get it now.” Soltic exclaimed, “You’re all cultists.”

Vanya breathed out a little; yup, she saw it now, too.

Jarod, Glariol, and Nero, all had a very practiced, ‘I’m not a cultist of Melemizargo’ face, which they readily employed. Anger, disbelief. The frustration that they had been found out was barely there. Nero almost got the chance to say something, too, no doubt to speak of his innocence. And he was kinda innocent, but not really. He was innocent of the ‘crime’ of existing. It had been a decade since cultists were executed out of hand for the crime of simply being and thinking of Melemizargo as the only real god. He was not innocent of lying to Barda.

And Soltic was embarrassed he had not seen that particular foible until right now. He had assumed they were all cultists of Melemizargo.

Barda spoke first, anger showing on her face, as she said, “What the fuck, Soltic? That is the rudest—” She was apoplectic, her words cut off to one final statement, “What the FUCK?”

“Well you’re not a cultist,” Soltic rapidly said, “Sorry for making that mistake. Anyway! Vanya here is something of a cultist, and so are all the Maryols. I’m not, though. I’m more of a ‘follower’ of the Wizard; welcoming to all faiths, long as they’re decent people who do no harm and work toward the common good.”

Vanya simply watched the Maryols, her eyes focused on the most dangerous people in the room.

Barda stammered, unsure what to say to that. So she glanced at Nero and the Maryols and saw something there that she did not want to see; three cultists conversing through telepathic tendrils of thought, trying to get their story straight.

A few moments passed, quick as three blinks—

Nero quietly turned to Barda, whispering, “We should talk in the other room,” as he reached for her arm—

Barda yanked herself away, her eyes going wild, her voice low, “What the fuck.”

