Soltic watched as a tentacle slipped out of the water’s edge, questing for food, following the blood trail toward its meal. The octopus’s arm found the 3-meter-long flank of white meat, ready for eating. Like a cat testing if it was okay to take this food off this plate, the octopus decided that it must be okay, and then it hooked the edge with a single fanged sucker and dragged the food down into the depths.

Soltic watched it go.

He watched more tentacles quest out of the water and grab all the rest of his nicely-cut meal.

Finally, the only thing that remained was the offal and the spine, along with its collection of bones. The tentacle touched that denuded bone as though it wasn’t sure it wanted this thing, either, but then, almost reluctantly, it grabbed that part and dragged it down into the waters.

A gush of ocean surged over the walkway, washing away the blood and splashing up Soltic’s and Vanya’s legs.

Perhaps alarmingly, the blood and fish butchery and all that… It all smelled great.

“… I’m more hungry than I thought,” Soltic said.

Vanya was focused on something else entirely, already casting several small spells in sequence. Soltic almost asked her what was going on, but she raised her hand, asking for silence, her eyes focused on the horizon; at the other coral growths.

Silence grew. Time ticked on. She repeated her diagnostic spells a few times.

Soltic waited a full three minutes and four iterations to interrupt, “What?”

Vanya suddenly realized where she was and what she was doing. “Sorry. I was distracted. We’ll get you food, and soon. First—” She rattled off, “A few things. First, you should actually make a dungeon one day. Not only because it’d be a fantastic source of food, but you can finally put up your own idea of what a Script should be. You should have done this long before now just so that you could put out your idea of a new version of a Script, but maybe you’ll get some time while we’re on vacation. And what’s more! You don’t even have to put a repro inside of it. You can do what they did here: you can find a cooperative, naturally-born dungeon master from some other dungeon, and have them copy themselves into many different dungeons of your choice.” She gestured to where the tentacles had vanished, saying, “That octopus is the dungeon master, for sure. That we didn’t attack it, and now that you’ve gifted it food, it is playing nice, for it is a rather unusually cooperative version of a prismatic octopus. The radiant eel hasn’t taken away another coral and it’s been about 6 minutes now.”

Erick knew about prismatic octopuses. Jane had a prismatic octopus Familiar Form. They were supposed to be smart, yet short-lived creatures.

Smart enough to work with, in a dungeon?

Well maybe. Dungeon cores created dungeon master slimes, and those slimes copied real things, and those dungeon masters were often much smarter than the creature they copied, usually turning semi-sapient (if not outright sapient) in the process.

Soltic offered, “Or maybe they introduced a prismatic octopus variant to these dungeons, and those copies became rather cooperative. No idea what happened to the original, though.”

“It’s a Variant, for sure; too big and no signs of expert, non-magical camouflage. But you’re mistaken about them taking a prismatic octopus and having the monster repro itself… or however you want to consider such a thing as possible.” Vanya offered, “Perhaps they took the core of a prismatic octopus and gave it over to the dungeon master slime? But no. I don’t think they did. I think they just used the interface options anyone can use, when it comes to a dungeon core. Some conquering force found the core, and told it to spawn someone capable of following instructions, and so the dungeon core spat out this octopus here. From there, the octopus became a real being with a real core, eventually, and then they repro’d that octopus across all the other dungeons… Maybe.” She said, “They’re all supposed to be the same, after all.”

“No way to know for sure without delving the other dungeons, but I suppose you could ask everyone back at the guildhouse now that you know what to look for.”

“There’s so many different ways it could have happened.” Vanya smiled brightly. “Let’s take apart the rest of the fish into proper meals for our dungeon master; maybe they can even answer some questions for us!”

Vanya reached the next coral quickly, sliced off the top, and then took the goods. Five bubbles spawned from the waters, releasing five near-invisible jellyfish-like things, each of them trailing tendrils off into the air. They were monsters, for they had rather visible rads in their centers, but they were little more than slimes in temperament. None of them attacked. Vanya didn’t attack, either. She had been prepared to gift the dungeon freshly-filleted fish, but since that did not happen, she was testing the dungeon in another way; taking the non-violent approach.

Nothing happened for four minutes, except for the gentle ascent of the jellyfish toward the ocean-like surface at the roof of the dungeon. Soon, the jellyfish reached that surface, and their trailing filaments and translucent bodies added a bit more refraction to the sunlight that streamed through the gentle waves. Those filaments were at least 20 meters away from reaching here, at the floor, where coral grew at the edges of stone barges, atop an abyss; they weren’t a danger at all.

“… I don’t think anything is going to happen,” Soltic eventually said.

Vanya agreed.

They moved on to the next treasure coral. Soltic broke it apart and another great big bubble appeared, releasing a very plump tuna-like racerjack; a bright blue and yellow sport fish found here in the Archipelago. It wasn’t a monster at all, which is why it instantly flopped out of the air and landed in the waters, where it raced away—

The racerjack thrashed under the water, ten meters away, and suddenly the blue foam turned red. The octopus had gotten its fill, in its own way.

The next nine corals each released a real fish or some non-threatening monster life. Jellyfish sometimes, but also some actual slimes twice more. The octopus ignored the jellyfish, for those things either floated up and away, or drifted on the air down here, but the dungeon master feasted on the fish, which, since they were not monsters, always flopped into the darker waters and then met a quick end.

Eventually, Soltic and Vanya reached the end of the easily-reached corals. They had been here an hour already, and they only had a 2 hour time-slot. They stood at the edge of the road; It was time to make a decision.

“Do we try flying across the waters?” Soltic asked, “Or leave?”

Vanya instantly conjured a bridge made of Force, and began walking across, saying, “We go get the rest of the—”

Tentacles sprouted out of the water, instantly wrapping around Vanya, breaking her spellwork and all her secondary attempts to save herself as it dragged her down into the depths. It had taken literally less than a half-second for her to die, ripped apart by flensing tentacles.

Soltic did not panic. He did not pause.

But it did take him several moments to manually cast [Return], pushing his core much harder than he should, working in Elemental Mystical in order to twist that much mana into a proper working of the spell he needed to cast.

[Return].

Return, instant, self, 10,000 mana + Variable

Rewind your time by at least 10 Script seconds.

Suddenly, Soltic stood near Vanya, on the edge of the roadway. Vanya conjured a bridge—

And Soltic put a hand on her shoulder, stopping her. He frowned. “It doesn’t work.”

Vanya’s eyebrows creased together. She huffed. “Well that’s unexpected. I assume it just… Took me, without me able to stop it?”

“Correct,” Soltic said, “You mounted a small defense, but it restricted the dungeon more and more, and collapsed your death into an absolute outcome. Or something. I’m sure you’ll experience it on your own. Later.” He looked up. “Or we could build a very tall bridge, but I assume that’s not going to work, either. Let’s leave.”

Vanya frowned a little bit at everything except Soltic. “… Fine, fine. We can leave. I’m low on my own mana anyway.” She lamented, but also exulted, “Every single dungeon is almost like a micro-cosmology all its own, with its own rules and its own terrible dangers. We truly are at the Edge of Everything when we’re inside one of these, so I suppose… we should… Go slower.” She looked to Soltic, adding, “Even if [True Resurrection] is folded into this particular micro-cosmology at the start.”

“I’m not watching you die.”

“Yes, yes,” Vanya said with a small grin, “Death is pretty shitty for me, too.”

Soltic and Vanya turned around and headed toward the exit. They were not accosted on their way out.

Though once they stepped through the black [Gate], the Gold Taker was waiting for them in the sky above, like a thousand-tentacled invisible, unknowable octopus. It reached into their bags and suddenly, 80% of everything they had taken from the dungeon was gone.

- - - -

Vanya laughed as she announced, “29 gold! That’s all we got to keep!”

On the other side of the dinner table, Barda and Nero chuckled.

Vanya and Soltic had gone to dinner at the guild restaurant and had just ordered their appetizers when their new friends showed up. Vanya invited them to join and talk about the dungeon.

Nero, smiling, asked, “You didn’t manage to make it to the other side of the dungeon, did you?”

Vanya thumbed at Soltic, saying, “I wanted to go for it but he doesn’t like to see me die.”

Barda happily asked, “Did you get to see the wyrm?”

“Nope!” Vanya began, “We got in there with all our gear and spellwork active, as you do, and then it all got stripped away…”

Barda and Nero nodded along as Vanya went through the story of their first delve into the local dungeons, both of the locals nodding along and smirking.

Nero had to stop the story when Vanya got to the part about appeasing the octopus, though, “You did it wrong, there! Sure, it makes for an easy dungeon to appease the master, but you don’t get anything out of it. What you gotta do next time is attack the tentacles.”

“The octopus will kill you, and the danger goes up,” Barda continued, “But more danger means more rads and gold, and when you piss off the master enough then he’ll send the wyrm after you. That wyrm will break the ground, and when it reforms, you’ll be able to get to the other side without venturing over the water itself.”

Nero said, “The radiant eel is a constant thief, but if you can inflict any real damage onto it at all it’ll stop showing up.” He smiled wide. “Whoever went into the dungeon after you probably got a big haul from all your missed loot.”

Vanya sat back in her chair, thinking deeply, as the waiter dropped off drinks. “I can see the value in doing that sort of dungeon— It’s actually a lot more well-made than I thought it would be.”

Barda and Nero both eyed her. Barda asked, “Is it, though?”

“Oh yes.” Vanya said, “The idea of a Force Dungeon is simple enough to do in concept, but in execution, there is a certain art to it. Now that you’ve spelled it out fully… It’s a Force dungeon, so the idea is that you gotta use Force, and force, to get through as quickly as you can. Force is not subtle, except in the viewing. It’s the easiest Element to make [Invisible], like how the octopus is invisible below the abyss, but it’s the hardest to damage... Like the hidden octopus which never fully shows. It’s a simple dungeon, yes, but it is done well. Especially if the dungeon master is an octopus. Prismatic octopus, I assume?”

Nero said, “That’s a bit of a question for most of us lay-folk. Most money is on the octopus being the master, yes. Some people think it’s just a hidden boss. No one has ever managed to kill it, though, so we don’t know.”

“There’s also the radiant eel,” Barda said. “Now that thing is smart, and it’s also the thing that puts the corals back together when people leave. The eel very well could be the master.”

“More of a time-gate, though,” Soltic asked, “Right?”

“Probably,” Nero said, unsure.

“It’s definitely a time-gate,” Barda said.

Vanya and Soltic had decided earlier to do some pushing with the appropriate people, to see what came out of a certain kind of talking, if the opportunity should present itself. This, here, was a good opportunity.

So Vanya said, “These dungeons could do a lot more, though. A lot more. You wouldn’t even have to change much about them, either, except spread them out so they had room to grow properly and put a human repro inside— Well. Human, incani, whatever.”

Vanya had set the hook.

For the rest of dinner, Nero and Barda danced around that hook, but they did not openly take the bite.

- - - -

In the morning, Soltic and Vanya went to breakfast, both of them avoiding the mad dash for dungeon spots happening two rooms over. Barda and Nero greeted them before they entered the dining hall. Both the strong woman and the skinny man were wearing nicer-than-usual clothes, their emotions more solid on their face than they had been; they had decided something.

Barda began, “I’m afraid we haven’t been truly honest with you two, and I think you two know this, somehow.”

“We’re not only normal delvers for here at the Pit.” Nero said, “We represent a group of concerned citizens, worried over interlopers coming into these lands to disturb what we’ve got going on, but who also want all of this disturbed a great deal in order to get a Grand Dungeon in this land. We want a Grand Dungeon like the ones they have over in Candlepoint, and the Freelands, and Songli, and all the other places.”

“We checked up on you in the guild registry.” Barda said, “We liked what we saw, Vanya Silver.”

Nero asked, “Would you two be interested in accompanying us to town? To speak to some people? To maybe get a job here, and to make this land truly resourceful?”

Vanya took it all in, pretended to be slightly surprised, then strongly said, “I would like that meeting. Why are we meeting?”

And Soltic played his part, too, looking concerned, and asking, “Are you really considering this?”

Vanya acted, “We’re thinking of settling down on the Surface anyway?”

“Yes. But here? This is… This is work without advancement— No offense meant, Nero, Barda. But Storm’s Edge is not Candlepoint, or the surrounding lands.”

Nero spoke up, “We want it to be, though.”

