The bubbles popped, and monsters spilled into the dungeon. Ten fishes, each of them as colorful as a parade float and filled to the gills with sharp teeth—

Vanya cut them down with overwhelming Force, sending bits of blood into the water while she also plucked out small rads from a few of the monsters in the same action. When it was over, blood marred the nearby road, a red slickness that spread out into the blue waters, clouding the abyss with even more darkness. Some of those monster parts and blood began to wisp away, showing themselves as copied monsters, which was rather obvious based on how many rads Vanya had taken from the school of 10 monsters.

Three rads —two worth 5 gold, one worth 3 gold— joined the tiny gold tree inside the loot bag. An estimated 18 to 20 gold per coral. If that held true for the rest of the dungeon, then this single run would net a team a little over 500 gold. Half a grand rad. That was gross profit, though. With the Regency taking 80% of that, it meant that a team made around 100 gold per run.

“More than a hundred gold per run,” Soltic said, “If you include monster meat and specialty items— Ah. But…” Soltic took another look at a flank of a fish laying in a pool of blood on the ground. It was mostly bone and rather skinny, and while the scales were colorful, they were actually quite dull. “Looks underfed, actually. And only a few were real?”

“Looks like a combination of real monster and copy monster, and the real ones were rather skinny, so I wouldn’t eat the monsters in here…” Her voice trailed off as she stared down at the fish bits, floating, and then sinking in the waters.

Soltic watched the fish bits, too, as meat and bone sunk down into the waters, blood swirling into the depths on unseen whirlpools. That whirlpool hadn’t been there before. The water dragged the body parts down, below the black layer of the abyss...

Soltic had a question. “Is this a ‘monster pot’ situation? Bunch of monsters just out of sight we cannot see?”

“Probably; I bet that area below the blackness is a free-for-all zone of predation and the extra fish get shoved up and out of the area, for us to kill. It might barely function as an ecosystem.” She gestured at the roads and water and corals ahead. “This is probably just the top part of the dungeon; the part we’re allowed to visit.”

“The dungeon breaks must be a result of a failure of cultivation.”

“It’s probably months between breaks for any individual dungeon, but since there’s 7 of them here, and they’re all the same, then it’s no surprise that they have regular breaks.” Vanya looked out across the land again. “Considering the same failed-state dungeon is merely duplicated across all of them.”

Soltic gestured toward the next coral, about 20 meters away, past a few bends in the floating stone walkway. As the two of them headed in that direction, Soltic said, “I bet the wyrm boss doesn’t help. Wyrms are not smart things.” With a bit of anger showing, Soltic wondered, “Did some dragon just… abandon their eggs here? For them to hatch, turn to wyrms for lack of mana, and then get turned into dungeon core guardians for Sininindi?”

“Hard to say the exact order of events. Maybe the eggs were donated, maybe they were bought, maybe they were stolen. I assume we’ll see the wyrm soon as we break enough corals. That’ll only be one data point, though, and we’ll need a few data points to see what’s going on there. And the wyrm is the boss, but it might not be the dungeon master; they’re not always the same thing.” As they reached the next coral, Vanya gestured to it. “Your turn?”

Soltic let his dark aura flow down the length of his black sword, coating the cutting surface in a molecular edge that gave his two-meter long sword a third meter of length. With a grip honed by practicing where no one was watching, and with a few experts in the field who were well compensated for their silence and their expertise, ‘Soltic’ carved an easy, quick line through the bone-like coral, lopping off a few dozen branches of fingerling-thick bone growths and opening the central hiding space. Tendrils of hard coral crashed all around, some breaking on stone, others plopping into the waters.

For a moment, Soltic stood there, holding his extended sword at the ready, waiting for the monsters to appear. His gaze flickered to the glinting gold hovering in the middle of the coral ‘treasure chest’. Another small tree of gold filament, awash with almost-liquid light. That light clung loosely to the gold filaments, almost like a fog, before it washed away on unseen currents.

And no monsters appeared.

“They probably appear when the treasure is plucked,” Soltic said, using a bit of manual telekinesis to grab the loot and—

A single eel slithered out of the abyss below the floating stone roads, a good hundred meters away, near one of the coral growths. Soltic easily saw the eel the very second it shifted into sight, but the damned thing was also radiant, and probably Elemental Radiant, too, since it was almost bright enough to blind, even through Soltic’s full-face helm. Soltic easily shrugged off the status effect and watched as the eel, located over at least three open water areas and two more roads, wrapped around the entire coral, and the coral came alive, grabbing the eel in turn. In one flashing instant, the coral had become a school of bone-like fish, each of them subtly glowing, and the eel swam back down, carrying the golden wires in its jaws.

“… Huh,” Soltic said. “Are we on a time limit?”

Vanya smiled a little bit. “That would explain why the dungeon only lasts an hour— Ah. Reinforcements.”

As she said that, the water directly nearby began to boil with great big bubbles. Three translucent spheres lifted up from the waters, and then popped, each one disgorging a floating squid, each a meter wide. The single real monster and the two fakes each targeted Soltic, their fanged tentacles suddenly expanding outward, transforming the beasts from small things, into wide monsters, capable of swallowing a man whole.

Soltic slashed his sword and felt surprising resistance as he cleaved them all through their brain-areas. Even with that resistance they weren’t much for Soltic’s strength and speed. Two squid became dispersing spellwork. The third lay on the ground, sprawled into three pieces and dying fast, and then dead—

Suddenly, another fanged tentacle appeared out of the abyss, thick as an orcol’s arm and many meters long. Soltic stepped back as the new arrival slapped the remains of the monster, and then dragged it back under the waves, the myriad fangs of its tentacle-length leaving deep gouges in the stone.

A silent moment passed as the waters calmed again, and neither Soltic nor Vanya said a word.

“… So that’s unexpected, too,” Soltic said. “I feel I must revise my earlier estimate of the take. Maybe not a hundred gold. After taxes we’ll be lucky to get 25, or 50.”

Vanya was gently smiling, her earlier displeasure turning into a bit of excitement. “Okay! So. If that was planned— If that is how this dungeon normally works, and we’re not simply seeing a particularly awesome instantiation of the usual order, then my estimation that it is a bad dungeon might be an error. Death is a lot closer than I thought, and I approve. It’s not really a learning dungeon, though, but it is certainly a working dungeon.” She looked around. She pointed at a distant coral, which was about the furthest one she could have pointed at. “I want to pluck that one next—” She paused. “Well...”

While Vanya thought, Soltic did a rough calculation of what he was seeing out there, among the paths of stone among the water. “We’ll have to jump some water. That part of the dungeon isn’t even connected to this part of the dungeon. Based on what I’m seeing…” He pointed a rough path among the land. “The dungeon would naturally take us this way, then that way, then over there, and then we’d be done. We’d have to cross the waters to get to the other half of the space.”

Vanya reconsidered her earlier proposal. “Let’s continue on the normal path, as outlined by the dungeon floor plan. Normal run for now; tomorrow, we’ll try to break it.”

Soltic took a step toward the next—

A thick tentacle slipped out of the water, onto land, back near the very first coral pillar. They had left bits of bloody fish scattered on the stone there, and the tentacle searched for those fish bits like they were trying to find a lost coin behind some couch cushions. The tentacle found the fish parts fast enough. They were exceedingly quiet about the whole operation, too.

As the tentacles left with their prize, Soltic almost said something, but then the water over there suddenly burbled. Waves crashed over the walkway. Blood washed away under saltwater, and then, the monster was gone.

Soltic and Vanya watched to see if the thing appeared again. It did not.

Soltic broke the silence, “I wouldn’t have noticed that if I hadn’t been looking.”

“Ten gold says that the octopus is the dungeon master.”

Soltic burst a laugh, his mirth filling the dungeon with a sudden noise. “Sure; I’ll take that bet. How about we wager what’s for dinner, instead?”

“You’re on. But what’s your guess at the dungeon master?”

“Literally anything else except the tentacle thing; I claim all other options as my guess.”

Vanya laughed. “I suppose I can give you that much of an advantage.”

“Damn straight,” Soltic said, smiling. “Your guess is probably the correct one anyway, so where do you want to have dinner tonight?”

Vanya smirked. “Let’s figure that out after we see how much gold we get from this dungeon.”

They walked to the next coral growth—

On the other side of the dungeon, another radiant eel appeared from the waters and grabbed another coral spire. It turned the white, living rock into swirling fishes, and then grabbed the golden wires before it descended into the depths, taking the loot with it.

“That’s another 8-ish gold gone,” Vanya said, turning her eyes away from the vanishing fish, back to the road ahead. She picked up the pace. “Let’s hurry.”

Soltic kept right up. “That was a minute? Or was that 2 minutes?” He added, “Between thefts?”

“Felt like 2:30, maybe three.” Vanya carved up the second twisting pillar of coral, revealing a small tangle of gold wires and liquid light that splashed away like an egg breaking underwater. She snatched the wires. “Might not be time based—”

An assortment of bubbles blopped up from the waterways and then popped, revealing a malnourished swarm of toothers. Vanya waved her hand, and a semi-invisible mono-wire Force net wrapped her and Soltic. The toothers, crazed as they were whenever they saw fresh meat, struck forward, heedless of the danger, killing themselves trying to rush their new prey from every side at once. In less than a second, the battle was over.

Eight of the fish had been real. Vanya plucked those rads out with practiced, telekinetic ease. With the same sort of ease, she flicked the fish parts into the dark water. With a secondary motion of Force, she brushed the blood into the water, too. The red stain spread out into the deeper darkness. The tentacle beast appeared almost instantly this time, but it did not breach the surface. It reached up into the shallows to grab the fish bits and drag them all the way down into the inscrutable depths—

Another radiant eel captured another coral mass on the other side of the dungeon. Too far away to reach in time, unless Soltic and Vanya exposed themselves to danger.

Vanya turned away from the disappearing mass of illuminated coral, saying, “Might not be time based; might be treasure-taking based. Or both. Actually. It’s probably both.”

Soltic shivered, and it was not involuntary. This whole place had a trick to it. As he led the way to the next coral growth, he said, “The only dungeon I like is the one you made back home. I don’t feel safe inside these things.”

Vanya smiled a little, walking beside him, saying, “They’re not safe, so it’s good that you don’t feel safe. These places are learning experiences, though. This one only really allows Force magic so it’s a bit simple, but the strength of that conviction toward Force shows that the mind controlling the dungeon knows what they’re doing. If they didn’t have that sort of conviction in the rules, they couldn’t create resources.”

They reached the next coral.

Soltic severed the coral in half, carving it from the top to the bottom right edge, missing the illuminated divot in the middle by the perfect amount. That severed edge of coral slipped down into the water beside the road, sending up a minor plume of water, and one very large translucent bubble.

The bubble popped, releasing a great black shark, all teeth and jagged edges and snarling mouth opened wide, pointed right at Soltic only a meter away. It was already charging. For almost everyone else in the world, it would have been a terrifying sight.

But Soltic salivated.

He carved the beast in several parts, knowing exactly how to move his sword to kill the thing quickly and then shave it up into wonderful flanks. Not a single bit was wasted as flesh fell to the floor of the dungeon, organized into long cuts of dense white meat and chewy fins and even the head, set aside and ready for crunching down. The jaws had to be removed, though, which Soltic did with a practiced cut-n-tug—

“The octopus is going to take it,” Vanya said near the end, almost ruining the moment.

Soltic paused. He looked over his kill.

… He almost whined.

Erick absolutely loved a few different types of food as a dragon. Scarlet kings; a big tuna-like fish from the Forest of Glaquin, near Yggdrasil and Treehome. Bread with butter and sugar, perhaps surprisingly or perhaps not. Bread with sauces was good too, like noodles and such. Cows of all kinds; any hoofed animal, really. Fish, generally… Okay. Well. Dragons loved food of all kinds. Maybe Erick didn’t have any particularly favorite food at all. Scarlet kings ranked high, though, and so did great black sharks.

He had shared a meal of great black sharks with Kirginatharp and Bright Smile one time, as a part of some general treaty talks, and then again a few more times with just Kirginatharp. Great black shark was wonderful, and you only needed one in order to feel full.

They were utterly disgusting to eat as a person, though.

Soltic looked at his meal, and realized that he wasn’t going to get to enjoy it. He’d have to transform in order to enjoy it, and that wasn’t happening, but more than that...

