And then Barda shot to her feet and went for the door, almost ripping it off its hinges in her haste to escape. Nero rapidly followed, quietly asking her to slow down and to talk—

Vanya said to the other cultists in the room, “In the Dark of this new information, I would like to discuss the shape of our partnership going forward.”

Jarod and Glariol both inhaled softly.

“Implying a partnership before we’ve agreed to anything is a bold move, Miss Silver,” Jarod said.

And then Glariol got up, saying, “I need to attend to Barda, and do a few other things.” She looked to her husband, and then she left, closing the Barda-broken door and [Mend]ing it back into position as she rushed away, to solve a possible problem with words.

Soltic said, “Apologies again. I thought that all of you were in on it.”

Jarod sighed a little. “Barda needed to be brought into the Dark eventually, but you do understand that airing this Gloom will likely see us driven from town, and if that happens, then I will do my utmost to ensure that whatever fate you meet is similarly awful.”

It was a casual threat, meant in the way that one can hope that the house of another burns down unexpectedly, or that all the milk touched by an enemy turns sour. Simple threats. There was no real wish for death behind any of Jarod’s words, and so, Erick felt rather happy about this whole thing. It was probably going to work out well.

It was delightful, really, to be part of casually-threatening negotiations that didn’t have the ‘bad end’ be something like attempted murder.

“I would expect nothing less.” Soltic said, “But we’re all a little bit close to the Dark here, and summary execution of a known cultist is no longer lawful in any Gate Network land, so I just wanted to get the [Sneak]ing out of the way. It never occurred to me that Barda might not be in on it; for that, I apologize again.”

“… I suppose they do things differently where you’re from.”

“There is a Church of Melemizargo right up the street, so… Yes. A bit different.”

Jarod judged Soltic for a moment longer, then he looked to Vanya. “Miss Silver? May I know your real qualifications?”

Vanya smiled a friendly smile, then began, “I know, theoretically, how to make a Grand Dungeon, but I have heard that every single one is different, and it takes a certain set of powers working outside the dungeon and inside the dungeon in order to give it the colloquial designation of ‘Grand’. The magical definition is only the start of such a thing, for a Grand Dungeon is more than putting together ten [Fireball]s into a single Grand spell; it is a multiplicative undertaking, where one dungeon makes another better, which makes another better, and so on. Ideally, I will be putting a repro in the dungeon in order to create it right, but before that, I have several diagnostic and interface-type spells that will allow me a modicum of general control, without me needing to be anywhere in direct control of the dungeon.” She said, “This particular skill of mine, developed through assistance with the Dark, will allow us to create and control a dungeon, triggering proper growth, without any public suspecting that we are doing much more than what it appears we are doing. It should allow you to work with the locals in whatever manner you deem proper.”

Jarod’s eyes went a little wide, and then he gained a glimmer of hope. He saw a gift given to him by the Dark, here in Vanya. And then he schooled himself, and gave a small joke, “Since we don’t have a team of Benevolence agents suddenly breaking into our house for future crimes, then I have good hopes for our partnership, Miss Vanya Silver.”

Erick said, “That rarely happens,” and then he realized he was trying not to be the Apparent King who reigned above all, as some detractors and supporters both said sometimes, each with very different meanings behind those sayings. So Soltic said, “I mean… That’s just a rumor, right? It doesn’t actually happen all that often? At least not in the Underworld.”

“Quite wrong, Mister Cross,” Jarod said, his countenance subtly turning from shaken-but-hiding-it, to time-to-counterattack. “The Wizard and the winged one are everywhere they need to be in order to carve out whatever problems the Wizard deems as problems. But. Ahh? I would have thought you would have known that, considering your earlier words, calling yourself a follower of his. While we’re airing stories, I think you might be a Xoatist, not merely a ‘follower’.”

Soltic flinched, for any of a dozen different reasons.

Vanya lightly chuckled.

Jarod smirked. “I tell you now that being a Xoatist around here is barely better than being a cultist. But enough of that. Vanya. I am gladdened to hear of your qualifications. Let us speak of your real ideas regarding a Grand Dungeon of Storm’s Edge.”

Vanya smiled a little bit, then began, “To start with, whatever sort of octopus master inside the dungeons already is rather cognizant and friendly, so I would retain them, and link all seven dungeons through a Ritual To The Dark. I have done such a thing a few times already...”

As Vanya spoke of spellwork to use and what she wanted the dungeon to teach, and of a basic Script interface and designs, most of them derived from requests from Sininindi, Jarod’s earlier hope once again shone forth, taking hold in the subtly-widening pupils of his eyes like a radiant darkness. He was still slightly skeptical of both Vanya and Soltic, but he was convinced rather quickly that this, here, was his current purpose in life. The gods rarely spoke to anyone, directly, so to hear Vanya speak of godly desires so openly and to not be struck down by lightning —or a sudden inquisition from any number of forces, spying through any number of nonstandard means— helped prove Vanya’s veracity rather well.

There was a reason this house was [Ward]ed very well against spying, and it wasn’t just so that people could have sex behind closed doors without being spied upon by other nobles.

Halfway through Vanya’s presentation Glariol came back, without Nero or Barda. Vanya began explaining again, and soon, Glariol was as excited as her husband. Both of them were doing a very good job of hiding that excitement, though; they were still nobles. Both of them were still worried about Barda, too, but they did not speak on that and no one questioned them about that, either.

Soltic was pretty sure that Barda and Nero would be fine, and that Jarod and Glariol were a good kind of people, even if they were cultists of Melemizargo.

Some of Erick’s best friends were cultists.
