Overall, Pyre was pretty happy with her disguise. Nothing was too obviously off. She practically looked presentable right now.

The demon reabsorbed the extra appendage and fixed her cloak. The last order of business was to put on the pieces of jewelry she’d gotten from Pax. She pulled them out of the bag she’d swiped from one of the bodies. Said bag also contained all the coins and other random probably-useful items she’d looted. She didn’t know what this world’s monetary system was like, but between all the corpses, she had quite a big stash of coins.

The silver earring cuff, she found, could be clipped onto the side of her ear, so she went ahead and did that. She didn’t feel remotely different afterward, so she’d just have to hope the crossroads demon was telling the truth about the thing working.

“Here, kid.” Pyre raised the bracelet. “Put this on.” The ghost, however, looked at it hesitantly. She raised an eyebrow.

“What?”

Callan shook his head. “Nothing, sorry,” he muttered.

Carefully, he raised an incorporeal hand. The demon dropped the bracelet onto it, half expecting it to fall straight through and for the whole thing to have been a hoax.

Instead, it landed on that translucent palm and immediately adopted the same silvery, see-through quality. Callan stared at it for a second, almost in awe, before slipping it around his wrist.

“What’ve you been doing here anyway?” Pyre asked, nodding at all the dead trees. “I’m guessing you’re not destroying ecosystems for fun.”

“I was leveling,” he said carefully. The demon raised an eyebrow.

“What, you mean you can get experience from draining plants and shit? Doesn’t sound very fair to me.” If she could do that, she’d probably be level forty or something by now.

“It’s slow,” Callan admitted, shifting a little uncomfortably. “Slower than it would be if I drained living creatures. I think there’s a cap on how much experience I can get from plants everyday. But I just needed a few levels to get some traits.”

He took a deep breath and squeezed his eyes shut. In the next second, the ghost completely disappeared from view.

Pyre’s eyebrows rose. Her eyes swept the area for a sign of him, but there was none. He had, for all intents and purposes, become completely invisible.

“Huh, not bad.” It would definitely make getting the ghost into the village easier. She did need him to lead her to the crystals, after all.

“I can only stay invisible for an hour at a time,” Callan’s disembodied voice said. It was slightly more echoey than the kid’s usual voice, less focused and harder to pinpoint. The fact that ghosts didn’t have a distinct smell, too, made it effectively impossible for her to locate his exact position. Maybe when she got that [Thermal Vision] subtrait she’d be able to see him. Ghosts ran cold, right? It did feel a little chillier in front of her.

“Same time frame as me, then,” she said. She glanced up. By now, the sun was starting to reach its peak in the sky. Damn, all that warping had taken even longer than she’d thought. Skeletons were way too complicated. “We’d better hurry up.”

Callan didn’t say anything, but she assumed he agreed. Giving her cloak another tug to make sure it was fully covering her, Pyre turned, scanned the forest one last time, then began making her way towards the village.
