Cale snorted. "Do you know how many mages I've met that don't even realize they hate their own magic?" he asked dryly. "You're allowed to take your time to figure out what you want, Damien. You're allowed to change your mind, even! Listen, how about this—you remember Izzik?"

"The lizardfolk who was... almost killed?" Damien asked, flinching a bit at the memory.

Cale nodded. "He wants to heal, too," he said. "Why don't you go visit him in the infirmary? You can handle trips outside the Astral Ward now with your Cloak, can't you?"

"Um..." Damien hesitated. He could. For short periods of time, anyway. He wouldn't have agreed to join Cale at the Haelforge Academy if he couldn't. "Y-yeah," he said eventually. "I can. Are you sure I should bother him...?"

"He could probably use some real friends, to be honest," Cale muttered. "Just ask him a bit about why he wants to heal. You might find something you can relate to."

"Okay," Damien agreed quietly. He didn't have class for another forty minutes, anyway, and his attempts to further understand the Verdant Flame had entirely stalled out. He was a little nervous about talking to someone new, but he'd been doing a lot of new things these days. It was probably fine, right?

Damien took a deep breath, then stood and began carefully making his way to the door, although he stopped just before he opened it. "Um..." he said. He wasn't sure how to ask this. "Are you just going to follow me like that?"

Cale blinked at him, then appeared to remember he was currently a giant floating projection of a head. "Oh! No, I'm pretty sure I have to get back to class now. Good talk! Make sure you learn lots of things. I'm sure Izzik will have plenty to talk about."

Then he vanished. Damien stared at empty space for a while, then slowly made his way out of his dorm and toward the infirmary.

Hopefully, Izzik would be willing to talk. Damien had no idea what the lizardfolk thought of the Astral Wing students. Joining the Red Hunters wasn't exactly a good sign, but then considering his current condition...

He sighed. No point speculating. He took off at a determined pace, mostly to make sure he wouldn't change his mind before he got there.

Cale decided he was reasonably happy with how that turned out. Even more interesting was the fact that the timer to his next rank had dropped! It was down to four days and twelve hours, now. Which wasn't a lot, but considering Damien hadn't actually made any progress with his magic, he was more than happy to take it. That meant draconic resonance accounted for his apprentices making peace with themselves, too, which he was pretty happy with.

The other possibility was that either Syphus or Leo had made some progress with that magic at that exact moment, but unfortunately, Cale didn't have time to check with either of them. Professor Tarbloom was already shuffling back toward him.

EVERYONE IS EXCITED, they wrote on their slate. AND I AM PLEASED TO REPORT THAT ALL MY STUDENTS HANDLED THEIR SAMPLES EXCEPTIONALLY WELL! I WILL ENSURE THEIR FLICKERANTS FIND GOOD HOMES.

"What, you're telling me no one tried to pocket one?" Cale asked, amused. Tarbloom didn't seem to notice he was joking.

I KNOW! IT IS EXCITING, they wrote instead. SHALL WE?

Cale stepped obediently into the part of the teleport array that had been designated for him. "Whenever you're ready," he said.

He felt it when the spell fired. Tarbloom injected a pulse of mana into the teleport array, which activated in a swirl of prismatic color—not because of Tarbloom's magic, but because of the mana it sucked away from him and into the runes. Whatever amount it took was too miniscule for him to register, but even then, the chalk used for the circles burned away, just as predicted.

It didn't matter. The teleport array took effect, seeking across an entire continent to the deepest parts of a flickerant nest. It used the flickerants in their class as a sort of spiritual anchor, tracing the lines of mana along the next, down a dizzying labyrinth of tunnels and dirt and spells meant to hide their queen, drawing more mana from him than expected—

—and then the spell took hold. A bright flash of mana, and two places in space swapped.

Cale had the time to register the vague outline of what was presumably the head of the flickerant queen, although that was only a tiny portion of her. No, what truly commanded all their attention was the absolutely massive abdomen that stretched halfway to the ceiling and flung Tarbloom's desk back.

More importantly, it was full to bursting with a storm of chaotic mana.

"Oh!" Cale said. "So, uh, that's a bomb."
