Untor won, and the two of them dashed out to clean the field again. The next battle was evenly matched, by Rhys’ guess, so they cleared out all the bottles. And so it went, with Rhys and Bast clearing the bottles or leaving them, based on the matchups. One at a time, they picked their battles, only to harvest more bottles afterwards. If the match was close, or if their interference risked favoring the losing opponent too much, Rhys held back. Not only did Bast dislike the idea of allowing the lesser warrior to win, but Rhys had absolutely no desire to end up on the bad side of any of these people. Even if they only insulted the weakest adventurer in the tournament, that person could still rip him apart with their bare hands. Their interference would only go to the extent of making the winning side fight harder, not throw the fight in the losing side’s favor.

As the sun set, the tournament wound down again. Only the semifinals and the finals remained. Rhys and Bast’s pockets were stuffed full of potions, their harvest richer today for having meddled in the matches a bit. Straw reappeared, peering over their winnings. “Not bad, not bad!”

“I think we’ll have another two potions for tomorrow,” Rhys replied, pleased with the haul as well.

“Very possible,” Straw agreed.

“We going to build more bags?” Bast asked.

Rhys twisted his lips. The one twenty-five gold bag was tempting, but most of them had barely been worth anything. He knew he didn’t have any more of that fluttery white fabric in the dump, and even if he did, would another perfect buyer come by? And it meant pulling an all-nighter. Even if mana made that less painful, his bed was calling him.

But on the other hand, the sweet, sweet call of a potential twenty-five gold…

“We’re doing it,” he declared boldly.

Bast chuckled. “I knew it.”

As the three of them left, a few kids stepped out from the alley and blocked their way. Rhys recognized most of them. Older children from the orphanage, or the perkier young ones. Straw faded away, and Rhys stepped forward, crossing his arms. “What do you want?”

The biggest of the older kids stepped forward. He was larger than Bast, though Rhys sensed no mana on him. If he was going to leave potions on half of the field of their battle, he’d leave them on Bast’s side. “We want in.”

Rhys glanced at Bast. The muscular boy stepped forward, crossing his arms. Letting that threat stand, Rhys turned back to the other kids. “Do you?”

“Yeah. We do.”

“How do you feel about hard work in the trash pit? I’ll give everyone who joins in two pennies. Two pennies, for a night’s work, how’s that sound?”

The boy narrowed his eyes at Rhys. “We saw you. You got gold.”

Rhys narrowed his eyes back. Lifting his chin, he looked down at the boy as best he could from his modest height. “That’s right. I have gold. And a plan. If you want, go ahead and take on the trash pit on your own. You don’t know it like I do. You don’t know the technique to make bags, either. Work for me. I have knowledge, and I have skill. I can guarantee you all income. Or you can take your chances, work on your own, and see how far your luck gets you.” Not as far as me, was the implied finishing line.

It was the same psychological trick all businesses used. Stability, or risk? Join the business, or strike out on your own? In this case, of course, it wasn’t as good a bet as it would usually be. Rhys had only been in business for two days, and couldn’t promise a steady wage forever. In truth, if they decided to strike out on their own and provide competition, there was little he could do about it, and not only that, they’d probably make more money, provided they found a source of cloth for their bags. It was a bluff. A bluff that he alone had the knowledge and skill necessary to succeed. And he wore that bald-faced lie without hesitation, as firm a set to his face now as there had ever been.

It wasn’t easy to defend trash. Often, he himself knew it was trash, down to his soul. And to defend it anyways, knowing it was low quality anime, with low quality characters, to look someone in the eye and insist that trash was incredible—well, that took face. Thick face. He had a lot of practice with gazing at someone and, with full faith, telling them they’d love an absolutely horrible series that no one, neither him nor the creator, could love. In other words, he had a lot of experience with bluffing. And so, in this moment, not even a hint of a blush showed on his face, nor a single sign of flinching.

The boy hesitated. He glanced back at the other kids. A few of them, especially the younger ones, seriously listened to Rhys. One or two edged toward him already, clearly tempted by his offer.

“Five pennies a day,” the boy insisted at last.

“Five? Do you think I’m a moneybags? That big sale I made today was once-in-a-lifetime. I can’t afford to pay everyone that much. Three.”

“Four.”

“Three and a quarter.”

“Three and a half.”

Rhys stuck his hand out. “Welcome on board.”

At three-and-a-half pennies per person, he could pay for the kids’ labor, collectively, with one potion. In fact, given the ratio of a hundred copper to one silver, ten silver to a gold, he could pay for the kids, all fifteen of them, with one-fifteenth of one properly-priced potion, never mind one of his marked up potions. It was still a great wage for the kids, especially at a daily rate. It was better than some adults’ wages, in fact. It wasn’t a fair cut of his profits, but if he gave them all a fair cut of his profits, he’d be undercutting him and Bast far too much.

Bast cut him a look. Rhys quietly shook his head. Your profits are safe, friend.

They shook on it, and the other kids crowded round. “What do we do?” “Where are we going?” “Is there really gold in the trash heap?” “Where’s my pennies?”

Rhys stepped back, and Bast stood between him and the other kids. He held his hands up. “Pennies will be distributed at the end of a day’s work. Everyone, right now, I need all of you to head back and gather your crafting gear—your needle and thread. Eat dinner, then head to bed as normal. Bast and I will bring you raw materials, and I’ll instruct you on how to construct bags. If you don’t make at least one bag tonight, you won’t receive any money. If you make more than ten bags, I’ll give you another half-penny for each additional five bags.”

In other words, they had to make fifteen bags to get the reward. It was almost impossible, but that was exactly the point. Bonuses weren’t meant to be handed out. Bonuses were meant to inspire workers to impossible feats and push themselves beyond their healthy limits.

The kids muttered amongst themselves. A few nodded, while others shook their heads.

Rhys clapped. “Bast and I will be skipping dinner again tonight, so if someone could save us some food, we’d greatly appreciate it. We will see you tonight, and thank you for joining my bag-making enterprise!”

He walked away, Bast at his heel. The other kids dispersed, as ordered. When they were far enough away that the children wouldn’t hear them, Rhys reached into his pocket and counted out half of his profits for Bast. “Here.”

“What about the kids’ money?” Bast asked, shocked.

“I already took it out mentally before I split it in half. Bonuses will come out of my personal take… not that I expect to hand many out.”

Bast stared at the gold coins in his hand for one more second, then took a deep breath and tucked them away. “I apologize for everything I’ve done to you up until this day. I was a fool.”

“Yeah, yeah. Hey, just remember that you’re on the right side now,” Rhys reminded him with a grin. Without Bast around, that older kid would’ve probably just beaten him up and taken his money. Bast was a threat and a bodyguard alike, someone he could wield both offensively and defensively.

Bast chuckled. He cracked his knuckles. “Ain’t that the truth. I almost wish Aric had tried starting something. My fists are getting itchy.”

“Hair growing in your palms?” Rhys joked off-handedly.

Bast stared at him.

Rhys coughed. Not a thing here, huh. “Anyways. Let’s head out to the trash pit. We’ve got a lot of fabric to cut and deliver. I’ll cut, you deliver?”

“I’m faster than you, after all,” Bast agreed.

“Rub it in, why don’t you.”

Bast chuckled. He followed after Rhys for a few seconds, then spoke again, his voice slow, almost cautious. “If you were strong, would you still use me?”

Rhys glanced back. “Huh? What, you mean, stronger than you? Of course I would. There’s only one me. I can’t be in two places at once. And besides, I don’t like manual labor. I’ll always need someone to do the manual tasks.”

Bast grinned. He strode faster, quickly passing Rhys. “Good.”

“Hey, get back here! Are you making fun of my slowness? I’ll be fast, one day…”
