But for whatever reason, this new part of his brain expected near instant gratification. Maybe it was a little dumb. Or maybe it just didn’t trust Alden. Whatever the case, it grew louder and more insistent over the next hour, finally busting through his pleasant mood.

“I’m not going to give up an entire category of magic because you don’t understand how it works!” Alden snapped at it. He hoped the sleeping pods really were completely soundproof.

Uneven!!!!!

“I’m uneven because this is a process, you jerk! I’m supposed to be blissed out right now, and you’re ruining it!”

Alden had the unique experience of feeling like his own brain was hissing at him. He endured until curfew, then took one of the sleeping pills.

“You can complain to me while I’m unconscious,” he’d told the gremlin in a triumphant voice.

Apparently it had done exactly that because when he woke up the next day, his jaw hurt from grinding his teeth all night long. But at least he didn’t remember it.

From the experiment, he learned about a couple of important things besides his own incompetence with wordchains. One was that the gremlin didn’t get tired. It was complaining just as loudly in the morning as it had been when he went to sleep. Another was that it could only bother him incessantly, not actually force him to correct the wordchain.

He’d worried it might be able to, since his eating restrictions were so ironclad.

Finally, he discovered that it could learn. Albeit at a snail’s pace.

Instead of enduring all day and using the sacrifice half of the chain at night like he’d planned, Alden went ahead and said it when he woke up that morning. As soon as he started trying to pay up, the gremlin fell silent, and after a disheartening number of attempts at the chain, Alden earned himself a quieter—but more anxiety-ridden—mind.

The peace of mind provided by the minor wordchain only lasted about three hours, so the blowback had the same time limit on it. By lunch, he’d equalized, and he gave the gremlin another dose. This time, it waited a little longer before it started complaining.

So, in theory, if he just kept at it he would eventually teach this part of his mind not to have such a knee-jerk reaction to wordchains.

Now, four days later, he was seeing a marked improvement.

Not that this is the best thing ever for my mental health, he admitted to himself as he finally cast the wordchain. It had only taken him four tries this morning. A new record.

He finished dressing and left the bathroom.

Between his first attempt and today, he’d gone through ten cycles with the peace of mind chain. This morning, he expected to get at least a full hour of calm before things got noisy in his head.

After I completely master this chain, I’ll start on another. He was hoping the gremlin didn’t have to be trained on every one individually.

He wondered if taking Chainer would have helped him, or if the accumulated debt would have driven him mad.

Probably the second one. But Gorgon would have warned him before he took it, right?

Somehow? Maybe?

Aliens were hard to figure out.

Alden requested a cart through the System so that it would be waiting for him when he took the elevator down. Then, he stepped through the curtain into the locker room and stopped at the sight of a woman standing there.

She appeared to be around thirty. She was wearing cargo pants, a sport bra, and a helmet/fencing mask that completely obscured her head. She was tightening the laces on a pair of combat boots.

“Hi, Thwart Hog,” said Alden.

A second after he said it, he realized that he probably wouldn’t have spoken at all under normal circumstances. Manon had suggested he avoid contact, and while his questions about the other Rabbit were fresh in his mind again after the phone call, he knew her advice wasn’t bad in this case.

To make matters worse, a few more seconds passed before his sense of propriety broke through the wordchain-induced calm and reminded him to stop placidly examining the reclusive, masked woman while she finished getting dressed.

He looked away. “I’m just on my way out. Nice to meet you. Have a good day.”

He strode purposefully past her toward the elevator and jabbed the button.

“Normally, I wouldn’t care, but you look like you’re just a kid…” Thwart Hog had a raspy voice and an Australian accent. “You’re not having some kind of emotional breakdown, are you?”

Surprised, Alden glanced over his shoulder. “No, I’m fine.”

Thwart Hog opened one of her lockers and pulled out a heavy vest. “You were hiding out in the bathroom, begging for mental fortitude over and over, so I thought someone ought to ask. Guess your mates should have your back, but they seem like wankers.”

“Oh, I’m not with the boater,” said Alden. Then he realized she might not know the term either if she didn’t live on the island, so he clarified, “The wankers. And I’m all right. It was a peace of mind wordchain, but I’m just practicing. I recently realized that I’m not very good at them.”

“Don’t chain myself,” said Thwart Hog, zipping up the vest and reaching for a jacket embossed with sigils. “Glad you’re not losing it. People do sometimes. Even on easy jobs.”

“Are you…?” Alden was about to ask her if she was really unregistered, but it was a dumb question considering her obvious desire for privacy, so he changed his mind halfway through the sentence. “Are you a Brute?”

She was buff as hell and dressing in something that looked like it might be armor, so it was a reasonable assumption. Though she could have just been a fitness nut with job-specific gear.

“Yep. Strength type. I’m personal security for one of the students here. Politician’s kid. Looks flashy to have an Avowed bodyguard.”

“Cool,” said Alden.

She didn’t offer her rank, and he didn’t ask. As he stepped onto the elevator, he wondered if they’d have another chance to talk. It seemed more likely that they’d never see each other again, all things considered. And despite the mask, she didn’t give off evil villain vibes.

He rode the elevator all the way down, thinking. Then instead of getting off he went back up.

Thwart Hog was standing right there, apparently about to head out herself.

“Forget something?”

“I wanted to ask you a question,” Alden said. “You don’t have to answer.”

“Didn’t think I did,” Thwart Hog replied, stepping in beside him and pressing the button for the ground floor.

“Manon—that’s the middle aged woman with the brown hair, the Rabbit— said you were here last year, too. So you must have seen a little more of the boater members than I have. Are they…hard to get along with? Or is it just me?”

“Anesidorans almost never get along with Avowed who refuse to live on their fancy prison island with them. Especially the ones who were born there and think it makes them special. They take it personally.”

“Oh. I see,” said Alden. “I guess that’s probably true.”

Thwart Hog turned her mask to face him. “If you’ve got a real question, you should ask it without circling around it. Do I look like I have lots of spare time? Or like I care what they think?”

She did not.

Alden shoved his hands into his pockets. “I’m sorry. I’d ask outright if I knew what to ask. They’re just…not what I expected when I came here. That’s all.”

“Unfriendly, aren’t they?” said Thwart Hog. “To everyone except each other. Been here off and on for around eighteen months now. Seen plenty of people come and go. Don’t usually enjoy the company, but I don’t go out of my way to avoid it. As soon as this bunch arrives, I want to hide out.”

“Yes,” said Alden, relieved to have someone else put it into words.

Thwart Hog grunted. “You’ve got an American accent. Not an island kid. And I guess at your age you’re probably wondering if all Avowed are like these ones.”

That wasn’t exactly the case, but he had started to wonder if Hannah and her friends were outliers. “It’s my first ever assignment. I affixed really recently. Technically I’m not even registered yet.”

The woman’s whole posture brightened. “Don’t!” she said at once. “You can’t see the world if you’re stuck on Aneshitora.”

Alden held back a groan. He immediately knew he’d never be able to say Anesidora without thinking of this ever-so-memorable alternate name at the same time.

“I want to be a superhero. And I don’t think I would like to live my whole life in hiding.”

They stepped out of the elevator.

“Think again. And try to want something easier. But to answer your curiosity, yeah. Something’s not right with this group. I don’t know what. They creep me out. And you shouldn’t think they’re standard. You’ll get along fine with other Avowed probably.”

Alden climbed into the cart that had just arrived for him. “Thanks for talking it over with me.”

“Stop wordchaining so hard in the showers,” said Thwart Hog. “Makes people worry.”

Alden laughed.

The promised text message from Boe had arrived while they were talking, and as the cart headed toward the examination building, Alden opened it. His friend had chosen to respect the expensive connection fee by fitting an essay into a single message.

There were about fifteen questions and twice as many theories there, but Alden focused in on the information he’d asked for. Manon’s base skill description was only a few words.

“‘Tailor Environment (Level One) — You have a knack for arranging possessions so that they suit their owner.’
