From where I float in the sky, the demon’s aura Skill doesn’t affect me too much. I am still shoving food in my face to make up for literally standing on its back, but it’s more than bearable. As much as I want to just dive in and kill her, it’s clear that won’t be so simple. I mean, even a Tier 6 with an Epithet couldn’t sever an arm with a full-powered strike. What am I gonna do against that thing?

On top of that, it’s gotten stronger since Metztli did whatever the hell that was and merged with it. Before, it was kinda stumbling around, swinging mindlessly. Now, it’s fighting intelligently. Jane and Wesley return to fight, but rocky spires rise out of the ground to impede them, then shatter into pieces which launch themselves at absurd speeds at their targets. All the while, The demon’s massive arms are still swinging, creating deafening sonic booms and striking so hard they turn the water below into steam. A few rocks end up shooting my direction too, but I just Blink up even higher to get high enough that my shields can handle them.

Theoretically, I should just be able to Blink in and cut Metzli off the top, but I’d be surprised if she was still the same Metzli as before. If her body is as strong as the demon’s, I won’t be able to cut all the way through. Plus, there’s the concern with its Name, which has changed since Metzli merged with it, but still has the same general worrisome parts.

[ Metztli, Immortal Herald of Limos, lvl ??? ]

Abby, Immortal means unkillable, right?

“Basically, yeah.”

What do you mean, “basically”?

“I don’t have all the details on how the Immortal Trait works, but I know it’s a Trait on the same level as your Gluttony, and I know that no Trait is truly unbeatable. Gluttony can be countered by Temperance. Sloth by Diligence. Famine by Abundance. There is a way to get around its immortality. I just don’t know what it is.”

So what you’re saying is you have no idea how to kill her.

“I have theories.”

Such as?

“As I said, it’s a Trait on the same level as your Gluttony. Theoretically, if your Gluttony is at a later stage than its Immortality, it should be able to overcome it.”

Oh, sweet! So you’re saying I just have to eat it.

“Maybe, but–”

That’s good enough for me.

Abby starts droning on about how eating something that size is impractical, and that it’s dangerous, and blah blah blah, but I only half-listen while pulling flesh out of my Stomach and shaping it around me. I grab my usual big mouth thing, and then start adding to it. It’s big enough to swallow a person, which would be enough for just the top of Metzli, but if I want to get the rest, I need more.

Behind me, jutting from my back, the new appendage grows. The mouth gets wider and wider, boar tusks and eagle talons and beaks and whatever else sharp and pointy I still have left become its teeth. I fed most of my meat to my Dungeon, but I still have enough high Tier meat to build out the gullet and make it relatively sturdy. By lacing my own fat in, I increase the mana capacity and channeling ability, and after about a minute, it’s done.

It’s frankly really ugly. It looks like a big mass of artificially marbled meat, and the mouth is lopsided and full of mismatched “teeth.” There is no pattern to how they’re arrayed. I didn’t have time to make it look good. There are shark teeth next to eagle talons next to boar tusks next to shards of those giant mussels, and the sizes are mis-matched. Tentacles surround the maw, also haphazardly-spaced with uneven length. It will have to do, though.

Below me, Jane and Wesley are having a rough time. Jane especially. Wesley’s shield seems to be able to block just about everything, but Jane is struggling to stay out of the way of the rock bullets. Occasionally, one or two will hit her, and she’ll shrug them off, but she’s visibly not specialized in defense, and doesn’t want to take too many.

I can really see how she got her Epithet, though. Beast of Slaughter is incredibly apt. She doesn’t look human. Or elven, I guess. She jumps around like an animal, her limbs extending and retracting at will. Sometimes, one of them will morph into something else, flattening to make a shield, or curling up like a tentacle, and once, I even see her pull her head into her neck like a turtle.

No matter what she does, though, she can’t quite seem to do any damage to the demon. She darts in, slashing at it, or trying to grab its ankles and pull it off-balance, but she can never stay in for long, and she never does quite enough to take it out.

Sounds like she needs a distraction.

I step forward from my mana hand, falling down sword-first with my maw trailing behind me. The rocks stopped flying upward a minute ago when Metztli realized she couldn’t hit me, and she doesn’t seem to notice me immediately, but even Blinking, I’m not able to make it down unnoticed. When I’m about halfway down, Metzli’s drow body suddenly twists around so she can look at me, still wearing that evil grin.

I Blink three times to the side as she fires some rocks at me, then a fourth as one of the demon’s arms tries to swipe me out of the air. The final Blink takes me right within range of the drow body, but as I try to bring the maw down on her and start Devouring, the other hand comes up and tries to squash me like a bug. In the brief moment I have before the hand hits me, I stab my sword into the shoulder, where it only sinks a few centimeters, then Blink down to the demon’s back.

The hand strikes the shoulder with a deafening clap that leaves my ears ringing, but I smile as I feel the Gluttonous Greatsword start to drink in the demon’s blood. When the hand lifts, I Blink right back up and find that it’s been driven down past the hilt so that only a tiny part of the handle is still visible.

The other hand lifts in what is either an attempt to grab me or dislodge the sword, but at that moment, there is a surge of mana from below, and the demon stumbles. Through Food Sense, I see Wesley falling back to the water after slashing right through the back of the demon’s right knee, while Jane wraps up the left and starts twisting the foot again.

Suddenly imbalanced, the demon’s arms flail, and I am left free to act. In an instant, the maw slams down right on top of Metzli, fully enveloping her, and Devour starts its work. I hear a scream of pain from within, and I sense Metzli slowly being pulled apart as power flows into me. Just a second of it has me feeling as strong as I’ve ever felt, but I only get that one second.

Metzli punches forward, her arm going straight through the fleshy gullet, then swipes downward, splitting the whole thing down the side. With the mouth damaged, Devour falters, and then fails entirely when she pulls the whole flesh construct off her. The next moment, the demon body finally hits the ground, down on its hands and knees again, and the jolt makes me slip, forcing me to Blink upward, landing on its back again.

That one moment of Devouring was enough to offset what I lost from being so close to the demon, but I immediately feel myself getting hungry again. Extremely hungry. Somewhere in the back of my mind, I recognize the feeling as being the same as what I felt when I Devoured the Children of Limos down in the ancient ruins, but that thought never really fully forms. All I can focus on is the hunger.

The power I Devoured from Metzli gets used to repair the maw, fixing it in less than a second, and the moment it’s ready, I clamp it down right on the demon’s back like an eldritch leech. Many of the teeth break. They simply aren’t strong enough to puncture the demon’s flesh, and they come in at an angle that doesn’t let the flesh beneath bend. Enough remain intact, though, that when Devour gets working, softening the demon up, they’re able to get a grip. Meanwhile, the tentacles around the edges do their best to establish their own grips, grabbing the ridges of the muscle fibers and latching on.

My body literally swells with the influx of power. Laughing, I extend my claws and swing at the demon’s back, trying to dig in. Spatial Slice helps the claws get past the outermost barrier, but they don’t cut deep, and my fingers only get about halfway in before they stop. The impact shatters nearly every bone in both arms, but the power from the maw repairs them almost instantly.

I squeeze, trying to form a fist with my fingers still embedded in its flesh. The muscles and tendons in my forearms and hands tear, then heal, then tear again, then heal again. Subconsciously, I start making them thicker and stronger, and slowly, I feel the muscular flesh of the demon start to give. A rock flies in from somewhere, obliterating my legs, but I barely notice, and they start healing immediately.

A second later, my fists are finally almost closed. I use my regenerated legs to brace against the demon’s body and start pulling back. My body screams, everything in it breaking and repairing on repeat. The maw digs deeper into the demon’s flesh, filling me with more and more power. The muscles on my body swell and grow to accommodate it, even as they are damaged, and then, finally, with a snap that sends me flying back, I tear the flesh free.

I launch off the back just as a massive boulder flies past where I just was. The muscle fibers still grasped in my hands go taught, pulling me right back like a bungee cord, and then I’m back on the demon’s back. I shove one of the muscle fibers into my mouth, reveling in the taste, not even noticing the blood flying everywhere and painting my body deep red. Each bite feels better than the last, but makes me hungrier.

I need more.

Another maw starts growing from my back, this one made of the Devoured flesh of the demon. Rocks fly in from all around, and somehow, I have the presence of mind to avoid the ones aimed at my head while ignoring the rest. Holes appear in my body, and disappear just as quickly, and with each regeneration, I strengthen myself. More muscle, denser bones, stronger organs. I don’t even notice I’m doing it, but each time something is destroyed, the next iteration is more powerful.

I take another bite of the muscle fiber, then drop them both, falling to my knees right above where I ripped them out. With my body stronger, and the demon already damaged, the next strand of muscle comes up more easily, as does the next, and I dig deeper and deeper. But it’s still not fast enough.

I dismiss and re-summon the Gluttonous Greatsword, raising it high above my head. All the mana it stole from the demon gets concentrated right along the blade as I swing. My most powerful Spatial Slice ever still isn’t enough to do real damage to the demon, but it cuts through all the remaining muscle before me, reaching the bone beneath it.

I waste no time reaching my hands in, pulling the flesh apart even as it tries to heal, and soon, one of the spine vertebrates is just barely visible underneath all the blood. The second maw, still only half-formed, shoots in, clamping down on the bone. A new rush of power fills me as the bone starts getting disintegrated within the maw. The disintegrated bone rushes back up and into me, then out again into the other maw where new teeth start to form, these ones made out of the demon themselves. They grow and extend, pushing deeper into the demon’s flesh, letting the whole thing get a better grip.

While all this happens, I continue tearing at the demon with my claws and shoving pieces into my mouth, oblivious to the world around me. I hunger. I need more. I need to consume.

The demon flesh is so addicting that I don’t notice when the rocks stop flying. I don’t notice when the demon falls all the way to the ground, its chest hitting the water. I don’t notice when it continues to sink past the bottom, pulled deeper and deeper into the mud. Only when a shadow blots out the sun does it register in my mind that something is happening, and by then it’s too late. The demon’s body sinks fully into the water, me still attached as a wall of mud covers us from above, burying us alive beneath the swamp.