Stuart looked around the empty summonarium once, then lowered his voice. “Ryada is very <<open—specifically in reference to the ability of a person to welcome another’s authority without distress>>. And people say that she’s impressively <<charming—specifically in reference to a person’s ability to interact with and influence another’s existence without causing discomfort>> for someone close to us in age. And naturally she hopes for a pairing with someone, too.”

Stuart sighed while Alden tried to speed read the shockingly informative definitions he was getting.

“Emban needs to make the request soon. Before someone else asks Ryada to commit to a period of deepening first. She should have done it already.” Stuart lowered his voice another notch. “She really is nervous about hearing a rejection.”

“We’re talking about what Esh-erdi and Lind-otta have together?” Alden decided to whisper, too, since Stuart was doing it. “A rare pairing of the whole self that makes knights more successful somehow?”

Also, it was one of the reasons why the art’h siblinghold preferred to raise huge groups of children together instead of spreading them out more. With that in mind, he added, “Can Emban not get along with any of your siblings or cousins in the right way? Is it just because they’re older than her?”

Stuart blinked. “I forgot you don’t know much about this.”

“I learn every time we talk.”

“A knight’s hoped-for one usually has around the same authority strength. The other knights in our family are too strong to be ideal partners for Emban. Partially, that’s because they’re older. If she progresses rapidly in the coming years and one of them experiences a slowing, they may find that trying with each other makes more sense. But for now, she doesn’t have a natural enough connection with any of them to bridge the difficulties.”

“So Ryada-bess is a better match,” Alden said.

“She is. Emban’s squad was deliberately formed of certain members. They all had a Rapport rearing, and they were all similarly powerful, but none of them had anyone they were thinking of deepening a bond with. Working together has allowed them to grow closer and test their compatibility with one another over the course of the past seasons. Emban feels she’s  <<compatible>> with Ryada…but the connection is not as sure as I would like because Ryada is compatible with several others.”

Alden was dying to get what kind of compatibility they were talking about here. Exactly what kind. Because if it was important enough that newling squads sometimes served a matchmaking function on the side of their chaos-fighting function, then he hadn’t been paying enough attention to this particular part of the knight life.

“What happens when someone has a partner like that? Esh-erdi made it sound like he and Lind-otta did existential breaking together, but I don’t understand what he meant or why you’d want to.”

Stuart’s eyes narrowed in thought. “That’s…not the best place to start the explanation. The important thing to know is that knights who achieve a pairing like theirs are never alone again, not even on the worst days of their lives. And they gain extraordinary nuances to their skills. Have you seen how Esh-erdi works with Lind-otta? The way he moves what she has slowed without challenging her power in any way?”

I have seen that, Alden realized. He just hadn’t known it was something so noteworthy. When all of that water was nearly still, and it was taking me forever to complete a blink…Esh-erdi could swim in it.

“That’s something only he can do?”

“It is. They hold each other’s spot in reality now. We call the period after the pairing becomes unbreakable and the strengthening of it becomes effortless esvulgivnas and celebrate it across the Rapports. They will go together toward the wonders already discovered by other <<fully bonded>> knights and also discover new wonders of their own. They lend authority to each other’s magic, and they can use each other’s skills in some ways, and we know that such <<profoundest loves>> can allow one to hold the other away from death for a time until healing can be found.”

Stuart took a breath. “And there is a significant positive effect related to affixation that would take me too long to explain to you this morning. And they can cause each other to experience <<the affirmation>> to a degree that makes the most potent <<casting high>> feel <<meager>> by comparison, and they have an ability to read each other’s minds that is limited in detail but potentially unlimited by distance.”

Alden knew his eyes were round. He was sure his pulse had risen at “hold each other’s spot in reality,” which sounded like a really intimate and important thing to do for another person. And then Stuart had just kept going from there, rattling off a list of the most absurdly magical magic stuff Alden had ever heard of in his life.

I’m not misunderstanding any of it, am I? Every single thing he said was Intensity 99.9…but awesome instead of deadly or painful?

“Why doesn’t everyone have a partner like that?”

A brow lifted over a rust-colored eye. “I just mentioned compatibility.”

“But…can someone like Healer Yenu not help two knights to be more compatible?”

Alden wouldn’t have leaped to that question so fast if they were talking about just any kind of relationship. But a partnership that could hold death at bay, transform what your skill was capable of, and cause major improvement in your affixation process wasn’t something to treat lightly.

“That is a natural question considering your recent experiences with mind healing,” Stuart said. “But no. This is a pairing that takes people past the parts of the self that would normally resist the intrusion of others, even the best healers. It is painful, in a way.”

So there is pain. Typical.

“It’s also relatively new,” Stuart said.

“What’s new?”

“This way of <<entangling>> two lives together. We didn’t even know it could be done when the early generations of knights took their oaths. We still have much to reach for and contemplate.”

New soul entangling advancement. For some reason, it sounded like it should be an ancient practice.

“You said once that most of the successes have been with young people who were raised together?”

“That’s right.”

“Older knights have more difficulty?”

“It’s natural that they would. Change is harder, their lives are busier, and their peers are fewer.”

“We have to do everything we can to help Emban with Ryada-bess.”

Stuart tilted his head. “You don’t know Ryada,” he pointed out as if Alden might not realize.

“That’s fine. I know you. And you said she was open and charming and compatible with lots of people.”

“It’s only a shallow compatibility for now. The purpose of the deepening Emban wants is to find out if there’s a chance of it being more.”

“All right. Let’s make this the best Here-to-There ever.”

“I’m trying,” said Stuart, gesturing at the pile of supplies.

“I can carry so many heavy things.”

“You’ll get to if you’re willing. Not this, though. It’s all being sent ahead. But we’ll be in charge of helping at least three households move, so there will be plenty—”

A soft tone sounded to signal a new arrival at the summonarium, and the two of them turned to see a couple of knights appearing behind them. Young knights. One of them was a very short, round-faced girl with unusually wild purple hair who threw her arms out as soon as she saw them and cried, “Stu-art’h! Who is that with you? And where is Emban? She promised we would all match hair!”

The other newcomer was a guy with lank brown bangs and bags under his eyes. He looked at Alden with an absence of curiosity while he recited a formal greeting to the household. Stuart returned it with equal formality but more life, introduced Alden, and sent the two on toward Emban’s room.

After Ryada-bess had strolled away with the bananas over her head like a prize and the boy—Bithe, no surname—had slumped along after her, Stuart said, “Also, Bithe will be coming with us. He’s encouraged Emban in her intentions toward Ryada. He might not be feeling well today, but we will cheer him with a successful Here-to-There so that he is ready for a thunderous afterparty.”

“There’s an afterparty?”

“Of course there is. Do not ask me questions for a moment. I’m trying to find out if humans have bad reactions to anything in Olyuk’k.”

******

******
