What was Falene like? Sort of hard to say, right? She was a bit aloof and super smart. She was always talking about magic or analyzing things, like Anith, but he was more down-to-earth. Dasha couldn’t remember having a full conversation with Falene when it wasn’t with someone else. She was, like, the ultimate Gold-ranker. Hard to talk to, unreadable. Dasha hoped Falene liked them.
But the thing with Pekona and Ylawes…even Dasha had known Falene fancied Ylawes. She wasn’t showing any anger right now, but that was probably because of what they’d read. But Dasha sank up to her chin in the water filled with lovely blue bubbles and then…
“Hey, that was crazy with what Lord Yitton said, right? I thought he was nice, but that was pretty rude. Right?”
Pekona and Falene jumped and stared at Dasha. The Dwarf woman gave them a blank look.
“…Or was it not that rude?”
The Wistram [Mage] and Drathian [Sword Dancer] had been trained to subtlety. Pekona sighed, and Falene cleared her throat. She splashed some water over herself, then spoke.
“It was…unpleasant. I hope you do not hold it against Ylawes, Pekona.”
“Me? No. It was his message to his family. Private.”
Pekona sank up to her ears in the water, clearly uncomfortable. She wasn’t looking at Falene, but the [Battlemage] swirled the water around with one hand. She made an orb out of the water, juggling it from hand to hand. It was so amazing. Dasha wished she could do that. Falene cleared her throat again.
“I…believe he and Dawil will talk it out. Ylawes needs time to think. He admires his father. He has followed House Byres’ customs and traditions steadfastly as long as I’ve known him. He gives back to his family; a fifth of all he earns. I think he truly admires his parents and holds them as the standard to follow as nobles and just…people.”
Pekona nodded, sitting in the water, her hair spreading out around her like black seaweed. Dasha sank lower into the bath. She wanted to say something rude, but she wasn’t sure if Falene would yell at her. Then, the half-Elf took her spectacles off and brushed the condensation away.
“Give him time. I think the first thing he will do is apologize to you. He’s just never had to go against his parents, but you saw his face. He recognizes how wrong that was. I’m sorry; they are Humans, in the end, and not as worldly or wise as he imagines them to be.”
Pekona’s and Dasha’s heads rose, and Falene glanced at Pekona.
“Just so it is abundantly clear, I am not…upset at you, either. I was irked, but mostly that Ylawes thought he could trick us at all. I want you to feel comfortable, not worried.”
“I…thank you, Miss Falene. I’m sorry.”
The half-Elf was sitting deeper in the water, and she shot out of it as it was clearly too hot for her; Dasha had gone up to her forehead for a dunk. She loved hot water.
“Sorry? For what? Falene will do. Let us not prevaricate, Pekona. Yes, I had some sentimental feelings towards Ylawes, but if I wanted to act on them hither to, I would have. I am an adult woman and far older than you two. It would be petty of me to be anything other than supportive. And if you do have concerns, if he presses you—he’d never do it consciously, I trust—you shall come to me.”
Oh. Dasha was blinking at Falene, and the half-Elf tried to sit deeper in the water and copy the other two but retreated higher. She was a nice person after all. Just a bit snooty.
Pekona was bowing slightly to Falene, repeatedly, which she did when she was embarrassed or trying to say thank you. She took a huge breath in.
“I know I am not…it was because we were drunk and we survived. So I thought, after all that…”
“I’m sure Ylawes felt the same. He will apologize. And…and these things happen. Adventurers are famous for connecting after dangerous or long missions. Do you have a taste in clothing, Pekona? We’ll all go shopping after this. Everything I have is mildewed from the rain.”
Falene clearly thought that was that. Pekona smiled tremulously at her, and the [Battlemage] gave Pekona a slightly arch smile, and that would have been it. Job done—aside for, once again, Dasha.
The [Warrior] blurted out a thought she’d had, now it seemed like things were good.
“I never get things. I didn’t know you and Ylawes liked each other, Pekona. I sort of got you liking Ylawes, Falene. I mean, I like Dawil, but I’m pretty sure he doesn’t like me.”
Pekona’s eyes slid to Falene as the half-Elf blinked. Falene mouthed.
‘Is she like this all the time?’
Pekona nodded.
‘Yes.’
They turned to Dasha. How were you supposed to engage with…Falene coughed.
“I, well, don’t take it personally, Dasha. You are very enthusiastic about your heritage, and I suspect it’s a bit…wearing for Dawil.”
“Because of the beard.”
“Um, quite.”
Dasha felt at her beard. She nodded.
“I tried to grow it because I heard some Dwarf women wear it and, y’know, it makes me feel like I was somebody. Not just a short Human. But I’ve met a few, and some are nice, some don’t care, but all of them…they’re different. It’s like there’s a ‘real’ Dwarf that only they know. I’ve even met Dwarves who didn’t grow up in Dwarfhome, and they said they notice it too. What’s the difference? What are real Dwarves like?”
She turned to Falene, and this sidewinder out of the main conversation had the [Battlemage] opening her mouth, but replying, almost relieved to be lecturing.
“Real Dwarves? Well…I suppose I am not the greatest expert. I visited Dwarfhome once, as a girl, but only once. There is something about Dwarves that my people have remarked upon. They’re rather grounded.”
“Grounded? As in they live in the ground? No?”
Pekona asked, and Dasha was working out how to figure out that one when Falene smiled.
“No, grounded. Down-to-earth, pragmatic. Steady, reliable, not prone to arrogance. Whereas half-Elves are known to be snooty. I, of course, am aware of this stereotype and try not to play into it.”
Dasha and Pekona were suddenly interested in the hot baths, and Falene sighed.
“Well, I suppose being a Wistram [Mage] does not help. But I do know the stereotype, and believe me, there are far worse! You just don’t know them. Because we live so long, many of us consider ourselves above other species. And that’s also a Terandrian prejudice. Yet Dwarves? Truly, Dawil is a bit of a character even among them, having won his axe, but so many are normal, despite having lifespans centuries long!”
“Weird. Do you know why?”
Falene glanced around and flicked her fingers, casting some kind of spell.
“Privacy. I don’t know much, but I think it all revolves around Dwarfhome. There is something there. Dawil refuses to tell me all his people’s secrets, but some…factor or variable in his people’s kingdom gives them a perspective on power and life that makes them veer far more towards humanity than immortality. As if they see something that gives them less of an ego about their nature. Perhaps it’s the dilution of their blood unlike half-Elves. Who can say? But they are not infallible or that different from you, Dasha.”
“That’s good. I just—want to be part of something, you know? I thought you were a bit snooty, Falene, but I didn’t realize half-Elves got worse. So why’d you never make a move on Ylawes?”
—And there came Dasha’s axe, returning like a [Boomerang] throw with her short attention span to hit Falene in the back of the head. The half-Elf stuttered.
“M-me? Well, it would be improper! Ylawes and I both know how adventuring teams fall apart due to relationships! And there was never the right moment, Dawil is a stubborn, treacherous [Saboteur] sometimes, and…”
She trailed off. Gazing at Pekona, who bowed her head, but Falene whispered.
“It’s not just me being too slow, Pekona. Truly. I also held back unless I was drunk or desperate and willing to take a risk because…how would I have explained it when I went back home? It was a lovely dream I clung to, but a daydream. A fantasy.”
When she went back home? Dasha’s face screwed up.
“But you’re a Gold-ranker, Falene. The odds of any of us living to retire are low, right?”
She knew that. Falene Skystrall shrugged.
“It is true. I’ve had so many close calls. I know this could be my end. But even so, there is that nagging feeling…nevermind. It’s hard to explain.”
She sank down into the water, but now it was Pekona’s turn to speak softly.
“Is it because of what they expect? I know that. That’s why I like Ylawes. He also knows about having to do things the right way or being judged.”
The [Battlemage] stopped splashing water over her arms and hesitated. She let her head rest back in the waters and spoke to the ceiling.
“Argh, fine. If we are being honest, truly? Yes, I know it’s unlikely I’ll retire. The Silver Swords aren’t exactly looking to cash out, and we love adventure. We love to help people, and I imagine Ylawes will be as old as his father before he gives up, if an injury doesn’t take him away, or his family’s duties. I might well regret not pursuing him. But I thought…if he and I entered a relationship, however briefly, we would be serious about it. If I went back home, how would I explain it to my people? My friends, family, my community?”
“What, having a relationship with Ylawes?”
Dasha blinked, and Falene nodded.
“Having a fling with a Human. Especially if it resulted in…a child. Even without, it would be remarked upon! I would always be that Falene, the one who had been a Gold-rank adventurer that had, well, a licentious time before coming back to be respectable.”
Her lip curled, and she sighed.
“Having met other half-Elves who had that reputation applied, I was not keen to embrace that. Even though…I should have been kinder to them. But I had not travelled until then.”
Dasha didn’t get it.
“I don’t get it. It’s just having sex, and if you don’t have kids, what’s the big deal?”
“Dasha, it’s about how they think of you. That’s what matters.”
Pekona explained to the confused [Warrior], and Falene nodded.
“The perception of our peoples is a dire force at times, Pekona. Wistram is easier by comparison. There it is purely power. Reputation is part of it, but we do not have to play into what we should be.”
They gave each other nods, and Dasha felt like they had a connection. But she still didn’t understand.
“But you’re with Ylawes and Dawil now, and they don’t care. We don’t care, Falene! You’d be happy—I mean, not that you should fight over Ylawes. Your people won’t know until you retire!”
“Yes, Dasha. And I’ll have to live with my people for centuries.”
The half-Elf’s reply was calm, quiet, and a bit sad. Dasha blinked, and in Falene’s gaze, she saw something on the other side of the half-Elf’s heritage. A touching of immortality. Falene averted her gaze.
“Is it embarrassing that I fear the judgement of the peers I do not know over the people I am adventuring with? It is, and I am ashamed, but…if I live, Dasha, I will be with my people for hundreds of years. Two hundred? Four hundred? There are great and glorious half-Elves who pass a thousand years.”
“But…you could move away. If they’re jerks. There are other half-Elven communities.”
Falene shook her head, again, and touched her chest.
“I love my home and forest, Dasha. I have spent forty years there, which is no small amount of time, even for a half-Elf. I could not live among mortals forever. We try, but our hearts break with each generation we say goodbye to. No. If I were to bury Ylawes, or Dawil, of old age, I think…I think I’d go and live among my people. I don’t think I’d have the courage to find another team, to pretend to be young, that I had not done this before. Now I understand how older half-Elves talk. When I left, one of the ex-adventurers, that I had once called a slattern behind her back for having a child on another continent, she told me to go and not come back until I was done for good. She was right.”
A great silence fell as Falene spoke, a woman considering centuries. Dasha knew she’d not live that long, even if she didn’t die as an adventurer. Her blood was too thin. And Pekona?
“I am sorry, Miss Falene. I didn’t think of your feelings. Or I’d have talked with you.”
“Please, Pekona. It is Falene. And as I said…it was just a dream. I shall mourn, hurt, and search for love again. Perhaps that is the best lesson to take.”
The [Battlemage] lay back, and her voice lowered as she sank into the waters.
“It hurt. It did hurt, and I was jealous and wrathful, and it told me I had lost something I valued more than I wished to admit. I should not be so afraid to love. I fear what my people will say, but a hundred years from now is a very long time. Do you think you’ll continue with Ylawes?”
It was Pekona’s turn, and she hesitated.
“I don’t know. Maybe it was a short thing. A—a—”
“Fling?”
“One-night stand?”
“Spring’s romance?”
“Tumble in the sack?”
Falene and Dasha grew amused as they tossed out expressions, and Pekona splashed them with water. They all laughed, and then Dasha thought they felt more like a team. Pekona stared at her arm.
“I’m not very important in Drath. The [Emperor] himself asked for my katana, and it’s important…because Zeladona touched it. But I told Ylawes the truth: I don’t matter. Here? In Izril? I’m a Silver-rank adventurer, and it’s more than what I could be back home. He’s a Gold-rank adventurer, a [Lord]. I don’t want to ruin his chances. I like him.”
Falene cleared her throat.
“Pekona. Ylawes Byres is a hard man to love. He is an idiot, naïve at times, stubborn, but most of all, an adventurer. He courts death, and I think there are plenty of women who find him attractive, who see his honor and integrity, and when they realize who he is, see a dead man, not a future. He seems to be growing and trying to change, and speaking with you helps that process. It is your decision, but I think it is not a poor thing, you two meeting.”
After a second, she looked around, then sank up to her chin in the waters.
“Now, with that said, may we soak and speak of more pleasant things? This is dreadfully intimate, and I would like to just rest!”
Pekona nodded, smiling, and they all sat back. Dasha floated in the waters, giggling as Falene made the bubbles froth up until they nearly touched the ceiling, and after three minutes of blissful silence, she spoke.
“Hey, did you hear about some kind of Draconic Titan that’s up in the High Passes? Everyone was whispering about it. Did I miss something? What’s a Mortemdefieir Titan?”
Falene and Pekona opened their eyes, and the half-Elf sat up.
“A what?”
 
——
 
