Yvlon was obviously out of contact and in Chandrar. She might not even know he was in the New Lands.
But he’d just sort of thought his father would be beside himself with worry.
He had been concerned! Ylawes’ mother, Shallel Byres, was definitely worried.
Just…
It wasn’t exactly like Insill’s message, or even the Authority’s reply to Dawil from home. Yitton had been businesslike, which made sense. He was a [Lord] and responsible for House Byres. That was duty, and Ylawes had never envied his father doing the important thing over being a mere warrior.
It was just a contrast. And each family was different! Ylawes handed the [Message] scroll off to a [Mage], who cleared it and sent it to the next waiting person, and was walking away when he realized he’d forgotten Pekona.
“Pekona? Are you ready to go?”
He felt like she should be ready to go, but to his surprise, she was still laboring over her [Message] scroll. She jumped and nearly knocked her inkpot over.
“Captain! I’m sorry. I’m nearly done. Nearly…”
“Do you need a hand in writing?”
He thought that was it, her lack of familiarity with the language, and she frowned slightly at him.
“I can write, Captain Ylawes.”
“Right, but if it’s taking time, Falene is going to need it…”
She shook her head and began to write faster. Ylawes went for a little walk to stretch his legs. Sometimes, Pekona got a bit touchy for reasons he didn’t understand. Other nations and their peculiarities, he supposed.
When he came back after a few minutes, Pekona was still writing when a [Message Mage] came over.
“Miss? Our booths are in high demand. Did you say you wanted Drath?”
“Yes, um, I have a [Mage]—”
Falene had gone back to the inn, so the [Message Mage] mistook Pekona looking around. The other woman spoke very slowly and loudly.
“You need to write it in Common, understand? Common, miss. It has to be legible. Understand? No foreign stuff or it’s too hard to send. Got it?”
She sounded rather—patronizing. Ylawes strode over as Pekona ducked her head.
“Yes, sorry. Almost done.”
“Excuse me, she’s with me. We have a Wistram-trained [Mage].”
“Oh, excuse me, sir! You’re the Gold-rank adventurer! She’s in your team? I’m sorry, it’s just with Drathian…”
The Drake jumped and blushed and hurried off. Ylawes sat back down.
“That was…rude.”
“Hmm? No. I’m almost done, Captain.”
Pekona was writing faster, clearly embarrassed by the interaction, and he hesitated.
“No, it was rude. Why didn’t you tell the woman she was speaking to you like you were deaf?”
“It happens a lot, Captain. It’s not worth causing a fuss.”
“But—”
“Everyone speaks to me like that, Captain. Sometimes, it’s helpful. I don’t know words often. If not, I don’t want to make trouble.”
But she didn’t deserve that! Ylawes was about to object when he realized he’d said a variation of that to Pekona. As if she couldn’t write…
He snuck a glance at her letters, and they were perfectly legible. It was Ylawes’ turn to flush.
“I, um, well, I thought I was being helpful myself, Pekona. I’m sorry. I’m thoughtless.”
She blinked at him. Eyed Ylawes’ red cheeks, then managed a smile.
“Thank you for realizing, Captain.”
They sat there, and he watched her work, relieved and ashamed. Pekona was taking some time, but she looked to be nearly done. He was about to suggest she let Falene copy it over just to save coins, but then Ylawes realized Pekona wasn’t even in a conversation. She’d taken an hour plus to labor over a message that she had written in very decent Common, if too-round and precise words, for the [Mage]. But she seemed stressed, and when he read over her shoulder…
 
From Pekona, [Sword Dancer] of Vuliel Drae, to the Archipelago of Drath. To report to the Capital in service of His Imperial Majesty of the Vigilant Isles:
This warrior of Drath begs leave to report her survival in an expedition to the New Lands of Izril. She wishes to convey her efforts in a request via the Merchant’s Guild that has ended in failure, to her shame.
She has not disgraced herself in Drath’s name, to her knowledge, and has made some small discovery of lands sunken in the New Lands, if such information is of value to the Capital. She has found some discoveries of small value from her experience as [Sword Tender] of
Her levels gained in the New Lands are a cumulative of four with the following Skill
Warrior Pekona requests news of her survival be forwarded to her village if pleasing. She has not claimed her title or achievements in relation to the Empire in any respects.
 
“I’m done. I am sorry for the delay, Captain!”
Pekona rolled the parchment up and handed it to the [Mage] as Ylawes blinked at her. She stood, cheeks flushed, and he didn’t know what to say. Only that for a moment, he felt a strange kinship with the woman from distant Drath. Because something about her missive struck him as familiar.
It was…
It sounded like an attempt to justify herself. To explain what had gone on and present her best side. Pekona’s brows were creased, and she was holding her stomach as if it hurt. She almost forgot the lacquer box she carried under one arm as they hurried out of the Mage’s Guild.
Now it was dark, and Ylawes turned to Pekona.
“I’m sorry if that was private—”
“It is not. The Capital will read it. And judge me.”
“I see. I…were you reporting your accomplishments and failures? I remember Calruz doing much the same.”
Though for him, it had seemed a bit more optional, even if he was diligent about it. Pekona stared at her feet as they walked back to the inn.
“…Yes. Not many successes. I—they do not expect much from me. Especially since this.”
She indicated her missing arm.
“The Emperor himself knows my name. But I did not show my talents like a true warrior of Drath would have. So I—my village will know I am well. How do I say it, Captain? I did not write fast even with Miss Falene because it is hard. I am embarrassed I did not do more.”
“I see.”
She walked, head hung low, and Ylawes glanced back at the Mage’s Guild.
“—That’s how it felt when I was reporting to my father. It was easier talking to my sister. But I also felt like a fool who’d disgraced himself. I…I don’t know. That was hard. It was harder than it should have been. Bull’s crap. Shit!”
He kicked at the pavement, and he was angry. She started, then glanced at him. Pekona walked a bit faster, and Ylawes wished he knew how to swear properly. Falene could swear like a drunken [Sailor] when she stubbed a toe.
“Ylawes, your father, was he concerned or…if I am being rude, I sincerely apologize.”
“No, he was. It’s just—I wanted to—I’ve always been able to report good news to him, and he seemed like he was counting on—it’s not normally like that. In person, he’s so much easier to talk to, in many ways. I’d be able to walk him through things, and I feel like I didn’t present what had gone on, because I was worried about people listening in. It’s just…embarrassing?”
“Shameful?”
“Yes!”
He pointed at her and stopped in the street. She wore a bitter smile on her face.
“That is home. If you aren’t a [Cultivator], sometimes…many people in the Capital, the ones who are important, don’t care.”
“Even though you got a sword-skill from Zeladona herself?”
“They…wanted my sword. The one Zeladona used. I sent it back. It’s a relic, now.”
“But it was your sword, and she acknowledged you. Surely that counts. They must be proud of you, right? Pekona? Right?”
Her silence was telling. Ylawes began to become a bit outraged on her behalf, but she just pointed.
“Do you need food, Captain?”
“Argh, yes. Let’s talk in the inn. My sausage had better be there or I’m going to kill Dawil.”
“It was.”
He hoped she was right, Pekona hefted her box as he almost ran back to the Seafarer’s Catch only to be given the worst news of his entire life:
He’d missed dinner.
 
——
 
They were out of soup. Out of bread, and his sausage was gone. Ylawes Byres stood in the doorway as Gliva checked the kitchen, but…
“We served everything we had, Captain. And everyone else ate it. I did warn you, when food’s out, it’s out for the night.”
“But my bowl…”
Falene had taken him his portion, but some bastard had stolen it. The horrified half-Elf was casting around as Pekona tried to elbow forwards.
“Captain, I have—”
“Dawil took it!”
“I did not! Pointy, you idiot, I thought you brought him food!”
“Someone stole—Miss Gliva, can we not get something more?”
“I’m sorry, the [Cook]’s done for the night. I could try to find something, but—”
Ylawes was starving by now, and he stared around and had one thought.
“Poke Duo. They’ve got food. I’ll just—don’t worry, Falene. I’ll just head out, get them, and—”
Dawil rose to his feet.
“Hold on, lad. We’ll get you something.”
“No, no, they’ve got food. Let me just—”
“Ylawes, wait, I’ll go with—argh, [Message] for Anith!”
“Captain! I have—”
Ylawes had to leave the inn because he was so upset about not having food that if he stayed a moment longer he’d start swearing, and it was no one’s fault.
Just his own.
 
——
 
Damn City Runners interrupting his meal.
Damn soup thieves!
Damn Falene for not realizing she had to keep hold of it!
Damn his father for bothering him without even the decency to care for—
Ylawes caught himself as he stomped down the street. That was unworthy of him. He was just mad and pissed because he was hungry. He just had to get to Poke Duo and…
 
——
 
…They were out of food. The horrified Cave Goblin and Antinium poked their heads out of their shelter.
“You not eat, Captain!?”
“Y-you don’t have any food? None? But we had rations.”
The two young [Adventurers] were shifting. Infinitytpear shuffled his feet.
“We saw other campers who were crying from hunger, Captain. So, with Captain Nailren’s supervision, we gave them food.”
“Yah. Sorry.”
“You fed people who didn’t have any?”
Ylawes saw a few other campfires out on the open ground and more figures who didn’t even have that. In fact, Rasktooth pointed.
“Captain Nailren, he helping make fire from grass. And shit.”
“And stuff, you mean.”
“No, and shit. Cow shit is very burny. Who knew? Not me. We very sorry.”
Ylawes just stood there as his stomach realized it was not going to be fed and decided his spine was the first to go. But he forced a smile.
“You fed hungry people, Poke Duo? Never apologize for that. I’ll be fine. It’s just a night. There might be scraps in the inn. I just came here because I wanted to save gold. And I’ve got some. I’ll head into the city.”
“You want us to find food?”
“At this time of night? No, no. You two rest up. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer. I’ll be…”
Ylawes stumbled as he turned back to the city, and Poke Duo began to rise from their burrow. But then Pekona caught up, panting.
“Captain, there you are!”
Rasktooth sniffed the air and held out a hand as Infinitypear began to get out.
“Brother, what if Captain Ylawes dies of hunger?”
“Eh, he not die, Peary. You wait. He okay.”
Rasktooth relaxed as he glanced at Pekona. And the box under her arm.
 
——
 
Ylawes was stomping into Goisedall, so hungry he was staring at every passing inn and building—and the prices—and wondering if he could justify any of it. He was so hungry he’d pay for it, but the gold.
We have to ration it. I’m stupid. Dead gods damn it all, I’m so—
“Captain, Captain—I have something for you.”
Pekona. He wanted to tell her to get lost because he was about to embarrass himself by paying a fortune for a meal. Ylawes glared at her then realized she’d cut her meal shorter too. He exhaled.
“How hungry are you, Pekona?”
“I had some soup, Captain. I’m—”
Hurrrblgrr! Her stomach made her turn bright red, and Ylawes groaned. Two starving souls close to death. But Pekona had that…
“What is that box?”
“This? It’s from home.”
It was a red, lacquered box with a little latch on the front and a design of flowers on the back. It was chipped and worn from being knocked about, but it seemed lovingly cared for. And Pekona was eying it as she held it out to him.
“For you.”
“For me? Thank you, but—”
Ylawes really didn’t care what the hell was in the box until he flipped it open, saw two sausages, a piece of bread, and the biscuit from the Merchant’s Guild, then closed it. He glanced around, stared at Pekona, and saw it.
She’d taken his sausage. And saved it! And, it seemed—had saved part of her own meal and the other food in it!
“F-for me?”
“I did not know if you had food, Captain, so I—here.”
Pekona handed him the box, and he almost handed it right back.
“No, that’s your food! Pekona, this is so thoughtful. We should share it with Rasktooth and Infinitypear—”
He instantly turned back to go back to Poke Duo, and Pekona’s face fell. She cleared her throat as Ylawes imagined splitting this bounty four ways.
“I—um—they already ate! And Young Master Rasktooth won’t get hungry because of his class. You should eat, Captain. You keep giving away food, and you’ll starve without.”
She…she was very compelling when she said that. Ylawes blinked at Pekona and eyed the box.
Two sausages and bread and the biscuit. Had he ever eaten as well as…? His mouth watered as he imagined savoring each bite of it.
“I—you may be right, Pekona. Let’s go back to the inn. Or find somewhere to sit.”
Somewhere no one would snatch it from him. He eyed the passersby as if each one were a [Master Thief] and he was holding the Helmet of Fire. They eyed him warily. Then Ylawes slowed.
“Wait, what did you call Rasktooth?”
Young Master? He glanced back at Pekona with mild hilarity. She turned bright red as she tried to explain something about Rasktooth’s ‘great potential’, and Ylawes, who didn’t understand all this ‘cultivation’ stuff, listened to a weird explanation about how classes worked in Drath. He shook his head, bemused.
“This cultivation stuff…it seems like a lot of foreign nonsense to me, Pekona.”
“Oh. Yes, Captain Ylawes.”
She went abruptly silent as he passed by restaurants and slowed. He had some coin. What if he bought a meal as well as ate the food? It wasn’t a full plate, and he was hungry…
Ylawes’ hand went to his belt pouch. He stared at a menu advertising fresh pork in that inn that Lord Comigen had tried.
Dead gods. Six gold per…he saw Pekona’s head was bowed and glanced at her. Realized she had halted behind him.
“I, ah, might get something to eat on top of what you brought me. Should we get something for the others? We could get pork if they have some.”
