Viri had one leg and hopped around on that little quarterstaff to keep pace with everyone. He did it naturally, his tail curled around the stick, as if there were a [Bounce] spell on the bottom. It added to the effect of the hyper Lizardfolk energy he exuded, a quintessential trope of his species. He circled Merish now, chattering.
“It was weird, though, right? Somehow, she knew we were right at Goisedall when I don’t think you told anyone where we were!”
“Good scrying spells, perhaps.”
“Sure, but she looked stressed! And thin!”
“Hrr. I wonder if they’re not feeding her well enough. I sent a [Message] to Akrisa Silverfang. We’re not…friendly, but she’ll make sure the girl’s well. Let’s discuss what she said later, Viri? Our guests are here.”
“Oops, right!”
They turned back to the Silver Swords, and Ylawes frowned. Mrsha, not being fed? Maybe she’d lost weight or something, but he inclined his head.
“We’re in her debt, and yours, Chieftain Merish, truly.”
He waved this off with a smile.
“This is no great burden, and as I said, we owe a great debt we must repay. And the Silver Swords have been good friends to Gnolls as well.”
“We—uh, we have? We try to help everyone.”
“Yes. We notice.”
That was all Merish said. If there were Gnolls, even those with white fur, who flinched at Mrsha’s name or did not appear so graceful—there were just so many.
Drowned Folk, half-Elves—a third power had begun marching into the New Lands, and they swept up everyone in their trail. Even the Thousand Lances stood, suddenly forgotten, until Merish eyed them.
“Who are those [Knights]? They’re high-level.”
“The—Thousand Lances of Kaaz?”
“Who? I think I remember that name from Rhir. I served with many [Knights]…hmm. Greetings, Knights of Terandria! I am Chieftain Merish! May I break bread with you? My tribe welcomes you!”
Merish swept an arm out, and the singing Gnolls stopped a moment to howl, and the [Knights] glanced at each other.
“This is a sight worth leaving home for. Great Gnolls, you sing beautifully. We are indeed the Thousand Lances. Didst I hear tell you were one who fought the cruel Demons of Rhir? I am Ser Pavoriad of Gaiil-Drome. A [Knight] of the Order of the Forest’s Heart. With me are Ser Brindelhor of the Order of Irriven Redbloods. Lord Volede of House Trimel, of the Kingdom of Keys, Samal, a [Knight] of his own—”
The introductions had Merish blinking, but he greeted each [Knight] with a nod. It was the last duo, Dame Rosenthine and her [Squire]—a sandy-haired girl named Thellabell of all things—who spoke.
“I lead our number from glorious Kaaz, which I and my squire also hail from. We are but four of the Thousand Lances, and few of our number came to Izril—so far. But we hope to explore this land as all do. We had come to Goisedall to see what news there was; it is our honor to meet such a famous tribe.”
“And to express our dismay at such treachery at the Meeting of Tribes! By the Walled Cities and those traitorous, er—”
Ser Pavoriad began, then seemed to realize that this was one of the traitorous tribes. Merish just smiled and ducked his head.
“Your dismay is ours, and it is a wound we must heal, but not today, or for generations, perhaps. But Plain’s Eye knows what it has done, and now we seek a home where we might exist. Walk with us gladly, friends. We have met no enemies on our march.”
“I should hope not! Would other tribes or cities attack you?”
The half-Elf exclaimed, and Merish bared his teeth as he glanced at the Silver Swords. His eyes lingered on Rasktooth and Infinitypear, who were both trying to hide from the Thousand Lances and watch with mouths open, this sight of stories.
“Perhaps not for our numbers, but we have come here singing. I think it is the best way.”
Viri bounded up, interrupting the [Knights] and their practiced etiquette. He beamed.
“It’s very clever, and Merish came up with it. Very hard to attack people singing. Makes the Drakes all guilty. Was your order in Rhir? Merish and I are veterans. We were at the 5th Wall when the Death of Magic appeared.”
—What? Everyone turned to stare at him, and Merish sighed.
“Viri. Stop bragging.”
“It’s not bragging if we were the only people who lived and everyone else died.”
The Lizardman’s smile vanished a moment, and Dame Rosenthine bowed again, deeper.
“Then you are heroes twice over. I regret that few of the Thousand Lances ever join the walls. The last would be…Dame Rivia?”
The Thousand Lances murmured behind Dame Rosenthine, and Ylawes was close enough to hear them whispering.
 
“I don’t remember her.”
“Decades ago, I think. Nine hundred and thirty—something.”
“Ah. We have not covered ourselves in glory. But in this era with the Deaths, perhaps…”
“Hush ourselves. We speak of politics before this great tribe.”
 
They fell silent once more, and Merish was nodding. Rosenthine glanced about, then snapped her fingers.
“Squire, a gift worthy of the Plain’s Eye tribe.”
“Oh, um—”
“My Sword d’Esteem. No, not the Sword d’Complimente. That pack, Squire.”
Patiently, and with a sense of embarrassment, Rosenthine directed the [Squire] to produce nothing less than a sword as rust-red as—
Adamantium? Ylawes’ eyes popped, and Merish himself blinked.
“We cannot accept that, Dame Knight! And we have no gift suitable for this, yes?”
He was beckoning a [Shaman] forwards, though, and the Dame Knight smiled.
“You must, for it is a gift of our greatest esteem, and the Thousand Lances and the honor of Kaaz request nothing less. I only regret that the enchantments have faded. Almost all but our armor and weapons are lost.”
“A blow, but one we should have been steeled for. A trial of virtues to learn of our flaws.”
Ser Pavoriad intoned, and there was grunt from the surly Ser Brindelhor. Which implied that all their armor and weapons were still enchanted.
Truly powerful individuals. But Merish offered the [Knights] a simple token: a wreath of hand-made, little ‘flowers’ twisted together out of what seemed like scraps of fabric. Wool, actual flowers.
It was beautiful, but so crude that the short [Knight] grew visibly upset—until Merish spoke.
“This is all our tribe has to offer for such courtesy, [Knights]. And the hospitality of our fires and camps as long as you come amongst us. To all our friends. But lest it seem poor…it is the only triumph of truth and, perhaps, the future. These are Fatewreaths. Each one has been woven of good luck, from Doombearers. An old, old thing. So long as you bear them…you will not avert disaster or be endlessly lucky. But until they fall apart, we hope your woes will be mitigated or you given the strength to endure them.”
“A kingly gift.”
The [Squire] gasped, and the [Knights] let the wreaths lie on their bodies with far more willingness. Guilt crossed Merish’s face, then he turned.
“It is a power we are unworthy of, but our own fates have invited our current predicament. May it bring fortune to all those who deserve it. Now…let us continue. I do wish to rest in the New Lands. Captain Ylawes, would you walk with me?”
“It would be my honor, Chieftain.”
They were walking forwards when Ser Brindelhor remembered Rasktooth.
“Wait, the Goblin.”
“He’s with us, Knight. I’m Dawil, Gold-rank adventurer of Dwarfhome, and this is Falene, from Ser Pavoriad’s homeland, if I’m not a fool. That’s Rasktooth and Infinitypear of the Free Antinium.”
Dawil barred the [Knight]’s way casually, and the [Knight] hesitated.
“Well met, Dwarf. My armor is forged of your land, but a monster is a monster—”
“And an adventurer an adventurer if a [Knight]’s a [Knight]. I’m sure fine, honorable members of the Thousand Lances have heard of The Wandering Inn and Liscor? They’d listen before doing anything rash, wouldn’t they?”
Dawil’s voice was smooth, and Falene added, tripping over her words.
“That’s right! Ser Pavoriad! It’s an honor—Falene Skystrall. If I might have your word, sir?”
“Sister!”
Pavoriad strode over and hugged her, and Falene’s cheeks turned red as he lifted her off the ground and swung her around, laughing. Ylawes stared.
So Falene’s ‘brother’, ‘sister’ thing wasn’t actually just her. He’d never seen another half-Elf treat someone like family, but Pavoriad kissed her hand as he let her down.
“Do forgive me, but it’s such a delight—I thought I’d have to cross the New Lands to find more of us! Welcome, let us speak! And do you say these two venture with yours? Then I must take your word.”
“I mustn’t.”
Ser Brindelhor growled, but he hesitated as Dawil smiled at him. It was Dame Rosenthine who tapped her lips, which were deep red.
“The Wandering Inn. Hark? How do I know the name? Squire?”
“An enemy of Kaaz from the disaster at sea, Knightess? The [Innkeeper] killed the Prince of Erribathe?”
Rosenthine turned, and then her brows darkened. Dawil bit his lip.
“Ah, er…”
“And this Goblin hails from there, and you claim him as your…teammate?”
Merish had turned as the Thousand Lances inspected the Silver Swords; Rasktooth tried to climb off Infinitypear’s back—but the [Adventurer] wouldn’t let him. The female [Knight] glanced down as she turned to Dawil, and Ylawes’ Byres’ hand was raised.
“I do. I am Ylawes of House Byres, a [Knight] of no order. Dame Knight. Upon my honor, which is all I have to offer, I swear Rasktooth is as fine and true an adventurer as any you will ever meet.”
Ylawes held out a hand to shake and remembered, belatedly, he could claim to be a member of the Order of Solstice. But he had given them nothing, no dues…it didn’t feel right.
He bowed, and she inspected his hand, then took it in a firm grip. The [Knight]’s face in her square visor was not as perfect as her diction and form; her nose was at least twice-broken, and she had freckles.
But he watched her and knew she was at least Level 50. Possibly…Level 60? One of the most powerful warriors he had ever met smiled as she gazed into his eyes.
“Honor is all we are, Knight Ylawes. I take you at your word. Let us ride with these Gnolls into the New Lands.”
So saying, she stepped back, and even Ser Brindelhor let go of his greatsword with a grunt. Thusly…
Ylawes’s heart sank. And it rose. It didn’t know what to do as Pekona hugged him and Rasktooth cheered.
“I lived! Hah! No dying today!”
Was he sinking into despair as he glanced back at Goisedall and the lands where the Merchant’s Guild had painted him as a villain? Or was he rising, ascending into the New Lands as the Gnolls sang, in the company of legends?
All Ylawes knew was that despite his attempts to get away—the New Lands called him back in.
Unprepared.
Unreadied. But he had nowhere else to go. So the [Knight] drew in a breath of fresh air mixed with cattle dung because they were following the herds, and still.
He thought he could taste adventure again.
