“They surely must be. If word about the you-know-what has spread…”
Falene flicked her fingers out, and Ylawes glanced at her.
“Mana drain. Shouldn’t we keep spreading the word? I was.”
She made a face at him.
“I—oh, yes, fine. I wanted to hoard the information, but I suppose it’s out and too important not to share! I am glad, though that was slightly personal.”
“So informal. With the siblings.”
They spoke like they were other Silver-rankers or…Ylawes wasn’t sure, but it wasn’t how he talked to Yvlon or Ysara. Well, maybe Yvlon these days, but that was because she’d changed so much. Falene could only shrug.
“Most are. Argh, wait, now everyone’s writing in. This one’s Dawil. Quill!”
Another [Message] came in as Ylawes sat, and again, it wasn’t what he expected.
 
Adventurer Dawil of Silver Swords, Dwarfhome has received your message. We are forwarding to your family now. Well done on surviving.
The breaking of your axe has been reported to the proper individuals, but no cause for return has been expressed. Repair was not needed/warranted.
Any further information about the New Lands would be welcome through secure channels. 
—The Authority of Deríthal-Vel.
 
“I had no idea Dwarfhome intercepted all [Message] spells. What was that about his axe? He did say it was unto a national treasure.”
Which he broke in Wistram. Ylawes and Falene traded glances, and she drummed her fingers on the counter.
“He never talks about it, only his story. What authorities…? I suppose whomever made the axe or let him take it? It wasn’t even enchanted, and he never let me try on it! It can’t be that valuable.”
She snorted derisively, and Pekona, who had yet to really write her message, interrupted quietly.
“It was. It was more expensive than Captain Ylawes’ sword by far.”
The half-Elf turned with a frown on her face.
“No offense to Dawil’s axe, which has saved our lives time and again, Pekona, but Ylawes has a blade that didn’t run out of magic in the New Lands.”
She cast a [Silence] spell to even say that and gestured at Ylawes.
“I’m upgrading my assessment of its power. Even if it’s not showy, that Gravesword may be low-Relic tier. Dawil’s axe cut through almost anything, but it did shatter.”
Against a super Selphid-Golem of Wistram. However, Pekona was insistent.
“It was worth more. It is a better blade than Adamantium. Not…stronger, but sharper. Better made. I’ve seen them. I used to take care of swords.”
“In Drath, you mean?”
Ylawes forestalled Falene snapping; she got touchy when people contradicted her opinions. Pekona nodded shyly.
“I only took care of Mithril and lesser swords. But once, the Emperor sent rare blades to be displayed. For the honor of trying to wield one and being worthy.”
“Worthy of a sword?”
“Mm. If it chooses you. Some have souls.”
“Souls. I’ve heard of it in Drath, but—and Dawil’s axe is akin to those?”
The half-Elf was still huffy, but she listened as Pekona nodded hesitantly.
“I saw the best blades. Some could fly and you could stand on them, or they could cut Adamantium. But there were two which had no magic. They were just…swords.”
“And? They looked like Dawil’s axe?”
“Oh, no, they were completely different. I don’t know how any of them were made.”
Ylawes was really trying to give Pekona credit here. But if they were so different and they weren’t the same material…she grew shy, then blurted out the rest.
“It’s the signature!”
“Oh, they were signed by the same person!”
Ylawes slapped his forehead and then hesitated.
“Wait, Dawil’s axe doesn’t have a signature.”
“Exactly. Pekona, my dear, maybe you’re confused? Why don’t you finish writing and then get Ylawes some soup…?”
Pekona fidgeted with her lacquer box, but she shook her head. Her voice grew smaller.
“No…you see…that is it. The swords, the great ones? They had no signatures either. So you see? If they are so high-level, so rich—I do not know the words. If they are so—so—”
“If they’re so important and can match Relic-class gear in Drath, what self-respecting [Smith] wouldn’t sign their name?”
Ylawes Byres finished slowly. He thought of every good sword he’d ever seen, from Deniusth’s violin-blade to the time he’d been allowed to see Barelle the Bard and seen him draw his own famous sword.
Every smith had a stamp, if not a name. Everyone had a way to tell those who came afterwards, ‘this is my work’. Even the Heartflame Breastplate had a sigil burned onto it in the top right corner.
A weapon without a name that cut through everything Dawil had thrown it at.
Hm. Falene blinked, and for a second, they sat there until she leaned over.
“Pekona, are you having trouble with the words? I can write if you dictate. Or even send in Drathian. I just have to look and copy.”
The [Sword Dancer] jumped and shook her head.
“I can write in my language, thank you. I just…it is hard.”
“Very well, very well…but if I may, I might need to get these [Messages] back to Dawil and Insill. More are coming, including one from Ulva Terland—here, let me get a second [Message] scroll for you. Mage!”
Falene could make anyone do what she wanted in the Mage’s Guild, so there was a second scroll for Pekona, and she was sitting there as the half-Elf hurried off. Then it was Ylawes and Pekona. And his rumbling stomach.
She was biting her lip and lingering over the scroll, and Ylawes was about to ask her about the swords when, at last, his father began to write.
 
Lord Yitton Byres: Ylawes? I was informed that your expedition with the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions had failed or been cancelled in some way. Your mother and I are quite concerned. Is this a matter that requires us to speak to our local Merchant’s Guild?
 
Ylawes started, and his stomach flopped. The Merchant’s Guild had already…? He was bending with quill to ink. I’m alive, Father! But before he could re-dip his quill and set to writing…
 
Lord Yitton Byres: House Byres is counting on your team’s support. We have reached a number of deals with backers in the north, but we must keep the silver mines open to continue to ramp up production. If we cannot compete, then the Dwarfhalls Rest Dwarves may overtake us.
Has your team found anything in the New Lands? The television claims mana is being drained there.
 
And then Ylawes didn’t know what to say.
Because…his stomach was suddenly hurting, and not for lack of funding. He sat there and then began to write.
 
Ylawes Byres: Regrettably, Father, our contract with the Consortium did have to be cut short. They were engaging in activities I felt were too dangerous and jeopardized the wellbeing of my teammates and my expedition.
Fortunately, we managed to connect with House Terland and escort them out of the New Lands. There has been some privation in the field, but we are now safe.
Regarding the Consortium, it is a difficult affair, the details of which I hope to relate to you when I return home, but I believe the Merchant’s Guild and Adventurer’s Guild have accepted our explanations. We are recouping in Goisedall. Magic is indeed draining, and our team has taken some losses of equipment, but not any of personnel, thankfully.
There are some boons in the New Lands, though how many are open for exploitation, I cannot say. An [Alchemist] or other specialist might find more value there.
I understand House Byres is prospering? How is Mother? Have you heard from Yvlon?
 
He wanted to mention the Mithril blades that Pekona had found, but he felt like that was far, far too risky to reveal. He wanted to tell his father, although…
Would he sell the blades? His teammates might use them, but they were all impoverished. The blades might be useful if everyone could use them, but on the other hand, they’d make a sizable little warchest if they could be sold.
But as team captain, Ylawes doubted his share of the gold would be so high as to be that tremendous. Then his father was writing.
 
Lord Yitton Byres: I am sure you acted in accordance with your teachings to uphold House Byres and your team’s good name, Ylawes.
House Terland? Is there a connection to be called on there? Are you taking further work with them, or have they concluded their contract with your team?
I am currently dealing with House d’Artien, and Runner Delanay, in the pursuit of the common foe of House Byres. This is both an investment and an expense, but the Bloodhunters of Izril, as they are known, are a growing force with a mandate, and numerous nobles and groups have expressed support.
If you would mention House Byres silversteel in Goisedall or if you choose to return northwards, or even southwards, they may have tasks of great interest for you, but whatever contracts you are pursuing should take precedence, of course.
Ylawes Byres: We only contracted to escort the Terlands out of the New Lands, Father. The situation was rather untenable, so that was a contract primarily for sustenance. The Bloodhunters? I’m afraid I do not recall them, but I do recall Delanay with some fondness. Is he still hunting for his Vampires? (This is a joke, I hope his career as a City Runner is going well.)
Lord Yitton Byres: He has found them. You may be out of the loop, Ylawes. What kind of situation were you in to be so in need of food? I trust you are well. Your mother will be relieved to hear you are safe.
Ylawes Byres: It was rather intense. We ran out of food at times. Rest assured we are well. Delanay has found Vampires? Truly?
Lord Yitton Byres: Yes. Do you have a name of the House Terland leader you assisted?
Ylawes Byres: I believe that would be Lord Restraud who passed, but Lord Comigen Terland was the [Lord] we assisted and I believe would remember me fondly. I think Lady Ulva Terland is aware of the expedition’s fate.
Ylawes Byres: So Vampires actually exist? This is very concerning, isn’t it?
Lord Yitton Byres: Did your team conduct themselves to your high standards with the Terlands or is there some fault with Lord Restraud’s regrettable death?
Ylawes Byres: I think we could be said to have done all we could, and I do not believe Lord Comigen would speak ill of us.
Lord Yitton Byres: I understand and regret your team’s struggles. If you do contract with another expedition, please let me know at once. As I said, House Byres is attempting to establish itself in greatness once more. I believe we could become a household name once again within five years.
Ylawes Byres: I shall send what I can if our finances allow, but it is rather pressing at this moment, Father.
Lord Yitton Byres: I understand, and to your last point, your sister is in Chandrar, I believe. She was on the news, but she has not written back. If you come into contact with her, please ask her to write home.
Ylawes Byres: I shall, of course. And Ysara as well.
Lord Yitton Byres: I have not received a reply from her. I shall inform your mother you are well. Rest well, Ylawes.
 
Then they were done, and Ylawes’ head was spinning. He sat there.
Delanay actually found…? He remembered growing up with him, going on ‘Vampire Hunts’, and then getting in trouble for testing people with silver. That boy had become a fine, respectable fellow, just like Ylawes, of course, but…
Putting House Byres on the map? Ylawes didn’t have any coin to send, and he’d already—but if his father was asking, maybe—
What was that about Yvlon? Chandrar? Ylawes felt a rush of relief that she was alive, but Ysara?
He was filled with such a mix of emotions—mostly stress. It sounded like important things were happening in the north, and he had been running around in circles in the south. He almost wanted to write to his father that he had something to send back, but he didn’t.
Mostly—because Ysara began writing, and their conversation went completely differently.
 
Ysara: YLAWES. ARE YOU OKAY? I was going to pay for someone to search for you! Dawil, Falene? Your gear! The magic-drain, did it hit you?
Ylawes: We’re fine, Ysara. Goisedall.
Ysara: I know! How much did you lose?
Ylawes: Quite a lot, unfortunately.
Ysara: Dead gods. Do you need help? The economics there are insane. Qwera drove a huge caravan that way and sold out—it’s gold only, isn’t it? I don’t think I can get the Merchant’s Guild to give you money, but I might have a contact there.
Ylawes: We’re settled, Ysara. Thank you; The Wandering Inn helped.
Ysara: Of course they did. I’m only sorry I didn’t hear the rumors before you went in. How bad was it?
Ylawes: Some starvation.
Ysara: Are you in need of a [Healer]?
Ylawes: No.
Ysara: A relief! 
Ylawes: I’ve missed quite a lot in the north. I just spoke with Father, and he says something about Vampires?
Ysara: You had no idea?
Ylawes: They exist? He said silver’s in demand and that you hadn’t written back to him. And Yvlon’s in Chandrar.
Ysara: I haven’t chosen
Ysara: What I understand is
Ysara: I think I need to get on a [Communication] spell or scrying orb to speak about all of it with you. I know you’re out of mana, but if you get past Goisedall, I can send gold.
Ylawes: We should be in decent circumstances for the moment, but thank you, Ysara. We may have to do that. I am in need of dinner. But I have an inn and food.
Ysara: Of course, go! And Yvlon’s landed on her feet. They say she walked out of the sea.
Ylawes: That…sounds like her? Not sure.
Ysara: Haha. The new her. Most of my caravaners are obsessed with her. I sell a t-shirt of her, and…I’ll be heading to the New Lands too, Ylawes. Carefully. Write me if you need anything. If you need gear, I can give your team sets.
Ylawes: We should have enough. Thank you, Ysara. Truly. As for Father, he seems to need gold urgently.
Ysara: He is making gold. I think you should focus on your own team for the moment, Ylawes.
Ylawes: I see. Well, I shall talk to you as soon as I can purchase a scrying orb. 
Ysara: I’m registered, so you can call me. Go eat!
 
After that exchange, Ylawes realized nearly an hour had passed—he didn’t write fast, and between his father and sister, his hand hurt. He pushed the [Message] scroll back, and he wasn’t hungry any longer.
Mostly because he’d passed out of hunger into that sort of gnawing silence, but he felt…better. Ysara.
He’d fallen out of touch with her and remembered her being very cold a few years ago. But they’d connected a bit in Liscor—fought, really—but after Facestealer and the rest and having her write to him with clear concern…
Outfit his entire team? That was so generous of her, but they were okay. Yet maybe if they needed help…
For some reason, he still felt a bit poorly. Food. Ylawes pushed himself up and nearly fell over. This Vampire business—no, his father had it handled.
It was just—
If Ylawes tried to say it—
