“Then, Ylawes, Dawil, Falene, Anith—I wish I’d partied with you all more in Liscor. But this is somehow more exciting than even the dungeon!”
“Hopefully with fewer Facestealers.”
Insill joked, and Nailren bared his teeth.
“Beware people. They’ll be worse, but I’m sure you know that.”
Then he was striding off, and Dawil muttered.
“I wish we could hire him to escort us or come with when we do an expedition, eh, lad? If we see him around, it’d be worth the gold.”
“I agree. But Nailren seems like he’s going straight back at it. And he has a team? Though he didn’t mention them.”
If they had been going back into the New Lands, Ylawes would have marched over and asked Nailren to consider a contract. But as he’d said, they needed to reassess, eat, rest—make plans. Plus, a week would give him and Pekona a chance to figure out…
They were glancing at each other when Falene grumpily pushed them aside.
“I think we’re burning daylight. Personal affairs later. Onwards, Ylawes?”
A new normal, but a working one. Everyone smiled except for Larr, whose chest was bruised, and Ylawes nodded.
“One last check that we’re not leaving anyone. Is Farmer Petia really going to stay?”
He turned to Homle, and the [Head Miner] shrugged.
“She said she had a recruiter. Let’s go and see, and if she doesn’t like it here, there’ll be work all around. I think, eh, I think it was this way.”
He pointed somewhat uncertainly and led them towards the square where the recruiter had been. Ylawes walked along, grateful to take his time, and when Homle didn’t find Petia at once, or the other [Farmers] who’d been with her, they spread out. He stood there as Homle walked up to a member of the Watch, who called over a squad that was peacekeeping, and turned to the others.
“We have the you-know-whats as well. I think we’ll have them checked for quality…can we do that, Dawil?”
“Any [Smith] can probably do it. Not sure what else is to be found aside from whether or not there’s damage, and they looked good, lad. Divide them up?”
“I think so. It’s all we’ve got, then we can see if any teams want to keep going, discuss what we did wrong—”
“No more self-recriminations, Captain Ylawes! We’re in it, and if Poke Duo isn’t, I’ll eat my fur.”
Anith spoke up, and Ylawes smiled. Darn it. He wished they would let him be down on himself! He turned.
“I’m going to give Petia a bit of gold, unless anyone objects?”
Falene rolled her eyes.
“Just a bit, Ylawes. I do agree, after all that’s been going on…hm? What’s going on with Master Homle?”
She pointed, and Ylawes turned just in time to see the [Miner] and some of his friends step back. And for the Watch officer to draw a baton, point, and the man’s voice to rise.
“Wait! We didn’t do anything wrong! We—”
A whistle blew, and Ylawes saw the rest of the squad lower its weapons. Homle threw his hands up, and the officer called out.
“Criminals arrested! Go about your business, citizens!”
The people who’d turned in alarm relaxed, and Ylawes started as a sudden crawl ran down his back. Homle was gazing at him, but then turning his head.
“Master Homle, what’s going on?”
“Is this a friend of yours? Stay back, er, adventurers!”
The Watch officer was glancing at something he was carrying. Anith frowned.
“Yes, we were with them in the New Lands. Why is he arrested?”
“We have a warrant for his arrest. As well as…”
The Drake peeked up, stared at Anith, then casually unhooked a speaking stone from his belt.
“Officer Kiest. Watch Captain, could you get a squad to replace us in the square? The net’s all tangled up with us taking the criminals to the Watch House. Thanks.”
Anith tilted his head and glanced at Ylawes as the [Knight] strode over. The squad pivoted to face them, and he saw Guardsman Kiest lower the baton and stow it. Then put a hand on his sword hilt.
“What can I do for you, adventurers?”
“We don’t believe Master Homle’s committed any crimes, guardsman. We were with him the entire time. What could he have done?”
Ylawes asked, dumbfounded. This was surely a mistake. One of those ‘all Humans look alike’ things. He was positive they could work it out. The Drake read a little sheaf of papers he was carrying.
“Oh, er, well, we have a man by the name of ‘Homle’ wanted. It never says why, Captain. We’ll go down to the Watch House, get him booked in, and, uh, if you want to find out, why don’t you come with us?”
“We will, of course. Homle?”
“They just grabbed us when we asked about Petia! Said we were on a list, Ylawes! Hey, is Petia arrested too?”
Officer Kiest scratched at his head.
“Petia. Petia…I don’t know who’s in our jails, master [Miner]. Goisedall is packed. I tell you what, this could be a big mistake. Let’s all head that way, eh? I’ll ask the Watch Captain himself what’s going on.”
He pointed, and the adventurers were walking after the squad when a few details connected in Ylawes’ head. Details that had already had Dawil slowing and Anith glancing at Larr and Pekona.
Officer Kiest had known Ylawes was the captain without identifying himself. And that Homle was a [Miner]. Had the man said that? There was that odd way he’d asked for a squad, and he wasn’t acting like Relc or Klbkch did at all, in Ylawes’ limited experience.
Ylawes was glancing to Dawil, catching the Dwarf’s eye, when someone whispered.
“Captain!”
Insill. Ylawes slowed, and the Drake [Rogue] appeared next to him. With…a sheaf of papers. Ylawes eyed Kiest’s empty belt.
“Insill?”
“They have an arrest warrant for Homle, Petia, and all of the colonists! And us, Captain! By order of Goisedall’s Merchant Guild for questioning and assault on [Merchants] of good standing—”
Insill was reading out the arrest warrant with clear practice and alarm, and Ylawes’ head snapped up. Just in time for him to see Kiest giving them the side-eye.
“There’s our backup. Let’s all just walk back to the Watch House, nice and easy—”
He saw the papers in Insill’s claw and went still. And then, Ylawes’ mind snapped the pieces into place.
“Merchant Anlam. Whatever he claims, we have our testimony on truth stone that we acted in good faith! You cannot arrest Petia and Homle without a trial!”
He strode forwards, and the patrol whirled.
“Backup, backup on me! Drop your weapons!”
Kiest shouted, and Ylawes saw blades clear their sheaths. He paused, almost reaching for his sword, but it was ridiculous.
“Listen to me, I’m a Gold-rank captain, and we just got out of the New Lands! We’ve killed no one, and if Merchant Anlam—”
Or was it the others? He distinctly remembered Lolsed sending [Messages] back to the Guild. The officer was breathing in and out, eying the Silver Swords who had drawn close together reflexively.
“Calm down. Calm down. We have our orders, we can establish facts after we take you into custody—”
“We are calm, lad. Don’t worry. You’re seeming tense. We’re just telling you that someone’s lied to you or had the Merchant’s Guild giving bad orders. Let’s put our blades away, eh?”
Dawil’s voice was very soothing as he raised his hand, but then Ylawes heard more boots.
“Drop your weapons! Drop your weapons, now!”
The reinforcements had arrived, and it was three whole squads who came charging into the plaza as people scattered. Kiest shouted at once.
“Gold-rank team, on me!”
“We’re not fighting—”
Ylawes growled, getting annoyed. The officers were clearly panicking. This wasn’t like Liscor at all! Relc would never panic—probably because he never thought he’d lose a fight, even against Gold-rankers. But this lot—
“On your knees! Drop your weapons!”
The first squad had joined the others, and they were aiming spears at Ylawes’ team. He had on his armor, but they thrust a spear at Falene, who recoiled.
“I am a Mage of Wistram! Drop your weapons and let me speak to your Watch Captain and this Guildmaster!”
She went to slap a spear down, and the Drake jabbed it at her side. Ylawes caught the shaft of the spear and shoved.
“That’s enough. Stop—”
He was raising his voice, the Drake stumbling back, when someone threw something. It clanged off the back of his head, and he saw stars. Insill shouted.
“Watch out! Nets—”
Then the fishing nets with heavy stones attached to them were flying. Ylawes whirled as the Watch threw the nets, and Dawil swore.
“That Grandfathers-damned Merchant! Lad, they’re on—argh!”
As the adventurers tried to yank nets off of them, the Watch closed in fast. Jabbing spears, shouting for the adventurers to drop their weapons—and some of them swung a cosh. One hit Dawil solidly in the cheek as he turned, and he staggered. Ylawes saw the Drake raise the weighed sack of cloth again and grabbed him.
“I said stop.”
He shoved the Drake into his buddies, and they stumbled, turned on him, and he saw a sword swinging. Officer Kiest swinging at Dawil, shouting. Even if the Dwarf had armor on—
One second the Watch was all around the Silver Swords, yelling, encircling them—the next there was a ringing sound of steel on steel. A cry—
“He’s got a—”
The onlookers saw the Watch back up—then heard a phumf sound. One side of the Watch went stumbling backwards as an orb of air hit them and knocked them back. Another guardswoman cried out and clutched at her hand as a pair of daggers slashed across her leather gauntlet.
A Drake went stumbling backwards, sword raised and backing up from a Human in armor. He shouted.
“[Deft Strike]! [Deft]—”
His squad began to swing, and the giant, glowing [Shield of Valor] caught all the attacks, including the Skill, and Ylawes Byres heaved. Officer Kiest went flying, landing on his back with a crash, and Ylawes turned, sword in hand.
In the sudden, abrupt silence, he made one last plea for peace.
“We are not criminals. We want to talk to—”
Someone began blowing a horn. The [Knight] stood there and closed his eyes as the Watch went running, screaming.
“Gold-rankers! Call the army! Criminals in Flatfish Square—”
Then the [Knight] felt a familiar building pressure behind his eyes, and his teeth began to grind. Once again, there was that feeling building in the back of his throat.
Unfair.
Why was it always so damn stupid and unfair?
 
——
 
Farmer Petia and her people were in the overfull prison when Merchant Anlam walked in with the Guildmaster of the Merchant’s Guild and the Watch Commander. She shot to her feet.
“You son of a bitch. We saved your life and you—”
She grabbed the cell bars until the Watch Captain shouted.
“Back! Back against the wall! I don’t think we need verification, but this is one of them?”
“Oh, yes. That’s her. And the Silver Swords are about. I don’t see why I have to be here, Commander. They’re dangerous!”
Anlam didn’t peek at Petia as she shouted.
“We saved him! He was begging us to leave! But for us and he’d have starved with them! They were mad as loons!”
The Guildmaster glanced from Anlam to Petia.
“The distressing incident, Anlam…is it true you went with them? That does muddy the narrative a bit.”
Anlam froze, then shrugged.
“Yes, I did leave. It was that or starve, especially given they were abandoning the camp. It’s all there in the deposition, Guildmaster. But I am sure, positive, that the investigation will show we were in the right. Contractually, we had every right, but not only did they break our contract physically, they attacked us!”
“We didn’t do a thing! You sent Sal after us and tried to hold us down! Get a truth stone!”
Petia was raging, but the [Watch Commander] shouted.
“Get back, I said! Someone get some spears!”
They came with spears, and she backed up as they jabbed her back with the dulled, but still pointed, blades. The other farmers were protesting, and Anlam spoke to the air past Petia’s head.
“There were regrettable moments, Miss Petia, but the truth of the matter is that the Consortium is ruined. The mana drain, the salted earth—”
“Terrible. Terrible. I can’t count how many fortunes of our members might be destroyed, even with the word spreading. Not everyone hears.”
The [Guildmaster] was shaking his head as he rested a claw on Anlam’s shoulders. The man nodded as he shrugged the hand off.
“Ruined. My finances, everyone’s. If they even…I intend to have them rescued, you know.”
She stared at him, and Anlam went on.
“However, there are provisions in the Merchant’s Guild charters. Some restitution of funds for failed ventures. We’ll reclaim what we can after the investigation, of course. But the fact of the matter is—we were sabotaged. Our help was uncommitted, and without that foundational pillar…hopeless. I do lay the blame at the Silver Swords’ feet, Guildmaster. The others are accomplices, yes, but I will ask for mercy from the guild.”
“Indentured servitude contracts, then. Or just prison labor. We’ll have to see. It’s tricky—the Adventurer’s Guild has their backs mostly, but they would. Don’t worry, Anlam. We do have support from the other Guilds, though that [Princess]…but there are peers from other nations, and Chandrar’s Merchant Guilds are quite, quite strong. Watch Commander, can you hold the Gold-rankers?”
The Watch Commander was less happy as the two [Merchants] conferred.
“I’d prefer not to call in the army, and yes, we have cells…I’m more worried about them fleeing the city, but we have people on each gate.”
“The Merchant’s Guild has put out a full notice to all local cities, don’t worry, Watch Commander. Now, let’s let you do your work and—”
“Ylawes is a noble of the north! The Terlands were with us, they’ll vouch for us!”
Petia shouted, but Anlam was hurrying the Guildmaster off, and she realized, even if the [Watch Commander] hesitated, the [Guildmaster] did not. Oh, he heard her. She saw him glance up, but he was a [Merchant].
Their blood ran thick as the gold they shared. Petia was cursing. They never should have let Anlam out of their sight! He acted so humble when he was really gearing up to stab them. For what? Gold? He was going to claim all the gold from the Silver Swords? Could he do that?
Contracts. She stood there, helpless, until she heard raised voices from the end of the jail. A shout.
“Get me to safety! Get me to—”
Then the [Watch Commander] ran past her. Shouting.
“Breach! Prison breach! Get the army in—”
Everyone was flooding past her. Anlam, the [Guildmaster]—and [Guards] were backing up, spears lowered, but suddenly pale-faced. Three had bows, and one drew theirs back—and there was a voice.
