“Attention, guests! Anyone who’s not booked for the night, you’ve got an hour to finish your meals. No loitering. After that, we’re closed to all but our lodgers! We’ll have food out soon. No seconds; miss a meal and it’s gone! Tonight’s dinner is a sausage-barley soup with fresh bread!”
The cheer that arose from her words came from every throat. Falene, who’d put her feet up on a second chair, raised a hand.
“Is there a salad by any—oh, tree rot take it.”
She lay there and breathed in and out.
“No more mana drain. I feel like I’m alive again, not dying daily.”
“We made it, Pointy! Lad, get yourself seated before you pass out. Dead gods, fresh bread! I’d break toes for it! What was the inside of the Guild like?”
Ylawes levered himself into the chair and sat, and then he could think. He gulped down some water, and it tasted sweet. The young Drake who’d passed it to him refilled his cup, blinking, then spoke.
“We’ll have some food out fast as the [Cook] and Miss Merwic can manage, sir. You come from the New Lands?”
“Aye, the north foothills. Seen a lot of people like us? We could use more water. It tastes sweet!”
The Drake brought back more.
“It’s just well water, though I think it is cleaned? We get more going than coming, but some come back looking like you all. Rougher, even. Did you see monsters out there?”
Dawil was clearly exhausted, but he developed a twinkle in his eyes. He tapped the side of his nose.
“Aye, Landsharks, huge walking monsters, giant snails, little leech-things at night—not many bad ones save for the sharks, but we were hungry enough to kill and eat one! Gold-rank threats, I’ll be bound. What have you heard, lad?”
“Oh, we heard about the Landsharks. You killed one? Someone brought back their teeth. They’re worth gold if you’ve got any.”
Dawil grimaced.
“Damn, we didn’t think to—eh, without bags of holding, it’d be too heavy. We made it. That’s what matters, eh, team?”
He turned, and Ylawes saw Vuliel Drae were at their tables, laughing in relief, even shaking a bit. The other Humans from the Consortium, House Terland—
He smiled. Wished Poke Duo were here. Then his face fell.
“We made it. But we’ve lost so much.”
“None of that now. Celebrate today, count the losses tomorrow.”
Dawil wagged a finger, and Falene opened her eyes to cover her face.
“Argh, but we really have lost so much, Dawil! We’re Silver-rankers in gear, now. Or Bronze—”
He tipped his water back, quaffing it, and wiped at his beard.
“Don’t ruin the mood, Falene! Trust Dwarf wisdom. We took a hit, we don’t focus on it. If we have to gripe, we look forwards, not back. Unless there’s a bugger chasing us, of course. Listen. Ylawes has his sword, you’ve got your magic, we’ve got gold stashed, and we’re alive. What’s next is my question.”
He found a chair to put his feet up on, and Ylawes and Falene turned to him. The Dwarf exhaled, closed his eyes, then popped one open.
“I reckon we either head back in on profitable, short-term jobs like the Terlands or we bug out entirely. Up to you. But I’m actually for the former.”
“Go back to the New Lands, Dawil, are you mad?”
Falene was horrified, but Dawil grunted.
“See here, we’ve already lost our gear. What’s left to lose? Aside from our heads—we’ve got some experience. Next time we go in with rations, preparation. The lower-leveled adventurers are gaining in experience, and Poke Duo—hah—they’re thriving! If we don’t like that, we just back out and rebuild our gear.”
He was so calm and steady that Ylawes had to engage, not focus on his missing gear. He sat up as Falene rubbed at her face.
“Dawil, I’d have to go in, conserve my mana, then fight for every Tier 1 spell for…you’re right. I hate it when you’re right, but Goisedall is proof there’s gold to be had. Even if there’s not much in the Merchant’s Guild, did you see how much even a bag of flour is going for? We could go to some Drake cities, grab some food, and sell it as [Merchants]. If we headed east, bought cheap, then came back we’d be richer on gold and have perishables.”
“We have no Skills, though, Falene.”
Ylawes pointed out, and she gave him two raised brows.
“At the moment? I think it wouldn’t matter, Ylawes. Did you see how much gold is being traded?”
He remembered Gliva and the [Merchant] in City Hall.
“Oh, I saw. So you don’t want to disband? Even after I led us into this—”
They kicked him. So fast that both winced, and Falene grabbed at her foot. Dawil cursed.
“Damn shinguards. Lad, if you start moping about your role as ‘Captain’ on this adventure, I’ll smack you. We all made mistakes, we all got out. I said I was proud of you—don’t go making me take back my words. Now, I smell bread. If we aren’t stuffing our faces in twenty minutes, I’ll cry. And believe you me, if you think you’ve seen distressing things so far, just wait!”
He got a laugh from the other two, and like that, the Silver Swords relaxed. Ylawes settled back in his chair, and they just breathed for a moment. Unlike the chatter from around the room. He half-heard the others.
Vuliel Drae.
“—actually back! But our gear, and the Silver Swords! What do we do, Anith?”
“I think we trade gear and hardship for levels, Insill. And it’s not exactly bad for us. If Pekona’s right and we get a share of…Terland treasure…”
At another table, Homle and Petia.
“I don’t know what the Merchant’s Guild is gonna do to us, Petia. We were in arrears, but we’d be paid up by the time we got to the New Lands. But what’s the penalty for quitting?”
“I don’t remember the contract. I was in debt. Look, let’s figure it out later. Your group sticking together?”
“My lads and I go way back. They’ll haul off with me at least until we figure out where we stand. Yours?”
“They’ve got nowhere to go. But even if the Silver Swords head off, we might find work. Goisedall needs [Farmers], and here we’d be able to plant. I saw a [Recruiter] asking for Level 10 [Farmhands], and we could get jobs if they’ll feed and board us.”
“Mm. Good. Damn me, but what an adventure. How many levels’d you get? Five?”
“Four. Cheers to that.”
Levels. Ylawes opened one eye, envious of how other people could level in the face of adversity. Well, he’d gained some himself, but this hadn’t exactly been a test of his combat-skills mostly. Just surviving.
If they can survive all of this, so can we. It just feels harder because we were higher and had more to lose, but Dawil’s right. We could be dead of starvation if we’d done things wrong. The [Merchants] had been faced with ruination, and in that sense…
Hmm.
Wait a moment.
Ylawes Byres’ head turned around the inn as Gliva came out with the first loaf of bread, which was, to his incredulity, a rosemary bread loaded with some parmesan baked into it. Some of the Terlands actually got up to applaud as it was cut up, and his stomach roared like a lion.
But his eyes were scanning the crowd. Petia’s farmers and Homle’s miners…he didn’t have a full head count, but he remembered faces, and they seemed there and looked out for each other.
Vuliel Drae. Poke Duo was with Nailren…
…Yet there was one person who was supposed to be with them, only, no one would be looking out for him because he was alone. Ylawes licked his lips as a loaf came over to his table.
“Wait a second. Where’s Merchant Anlam?”
Falene and Dawil both had a piece of bread in their mouths and were chewing when the half-Elf frowned.
“Fhy. Fhy’s fne. Er. He is absent. Did we lose him? Or did he slip away when we got to town?”
Dawil drummed his fingers on the table.
“Damn, I completely forgot the man. Maybe he got lost. Or went for the Merchant’s Guild? You think we should have grabbed him and had a word?”
Ylawes half-rose, but there was half a loaf just for his table, and he hesitated.
“We already put a report in with the Merchant’s Guild. And we can report at the Adventurer’s Guild, Dawil. On truth stone. If he wandered off, well, I think he knows where we are. I could go check.”
He reached for the loaf of bread, and Falene and Dawil grabbed his arm.
“Lad. What’re you doing?”
“Ylawes Byres, drop it.”
The [Knight] glowered at their warning expressions.
“It’s for Poke Duo. And Nailren?”
“Oh.”
They let go, and he sighed.
“I’ll bring it to them. I wanted to check on them—and if Anlam’s out there, he deserves a meal and rest. Hold on, I might as well…Insill! Let’s head to the Adventurer’s Guild and Mage’s Guild real quick. Actually, Dawil, would you mind coming with us?”
The Dwarf groaned.
“Can’t it wait? No, it damn well can’t. Argh.”
He stood as Insill jumped.
“What, Captain? Oh! My family!”
He stood in a rush, and Ylawes felt at his coin pouch.
“We should let them know you’re alive. To come to it, everyone should tell their families. We’ve all been out of contact, and I’m sure they’re worried.”
He called out to the entire room, and Anith blinked as Homle and Petia’s groups turned. Ylawes was gesturing to the door when Falene rolled her eyes.
“Ylawes, you have a [Mage] in this room who can cast [Message]. Plenty of times now that I’m out of the mana-drain! Leave Insill with me! I’ll offer the same service to anyone who needs it.”
She nodded to the others, even the Terlands. Lord Comigen nodded back.
“It’s quite appreciated, Adventurer Skystrall, though we have our own casters…we may prevail on you!”
“I can share mana, if nothing else.”
Anith got up, and Falene beckoned Vuliel Drae close.
“You might as well pick up the spell if you can. Just watch me cast. Insill first. Compose your message—write it down if there’s paper and ink? Then I shall send. I need the name of your city and address of the person…they’ll handle the costs.”
She shooed Ylawes and Dawil to the doors, and he nodded to her. Anith glanced up.
“You need an escort, Captain? Dasha and Larr could go…”
“Not in Goisedall. Though I’ll take Larr, maybe? For Anlam.”
“Great. Hunting fat [Merchants]. Feels like home.”
The surly Gnoll pushed himself up, and he followed Ylawes and Dawil into the street. The Dwarf patted his stomach.
“Dead gods, that bread feels good! Lad, you didn’t have a bite!”
“I’ll share it with Poke Duo. First the Adventurer’s Guild. Larr, just let us know if you smell or see Anlam.”
Larr touched his nose, mildly amused.
“With so many about? I’m a [Ranger], but even a newborn cub would have trouble tracking in this city, Captain. I’ll try.”
“Just stick with us, lad. How’re you holding up? Got family you want to notify?”
Larr shrugged as he ambled with the two senior Gold-rankers.
“I’ll ask after we get back. Um, thanks, Dawil. They’re used to me being away. I’ll tell my Chieftain or Shaman, but it’s hard to get word to them. No [Mages], you know?”
“Ah, right. Makes it trickier, doesn’t it? Me, I’m used to chatting up home every now and then with [Messages]. This New Lands stuff…you okay?”
Larr grimaced again. Then he scratched at the back of his head as they wound their way towards the Adventurer’s Guild. The light was fading a bit—they must have rested longer than Ylawes thought—but the streets felt even more packed. Larr stared at the sky, the ground, then spoke.
“I’m sorry I wasn’t as good as Captain Nailren. I guess he is better than me. Sorry. He’s a real [Hunter].”
He hung his head as Dawil and Ylawes turned back. The two eyed each other, then Ylawes shook his head.
“Larr, no one’s assuming that. You were excellent with your bow and tracking.”
“Fat lot I shot. I used to hunt, but I don’t have the class, and I was a [Ranger]. Patrol. But Nailren walked out and knew where every plant and bird was.”
Ylawes saw Larr’s ears droop, and he didn’t know what to say. But Dawil always did. The Dwarf stepped back, then slapped Larr on the lower back so hard the Gnoll yelped and drew everyone’s eye.
“Kid, you did great. Don’t beat yourself up! Sure, see where you’re behind, but look at us Gold-rankers. We all got into a bind in areas we’re not good at. We made it. When we’re out of Goisedall, I tell you what, you write back to your Chieftain or Shaman and ask your old [Hunters] for tips, huh? If we get a chance, go back and get some traps and practice a bit. So next time, you can bag more food. We’re adventurers. We fail? We go back prepared. Got it?”
Larr’s head rose, and Ylawes exhaled. The Gnoll nodded, and Ylawes murmured as they continued.
“Sometimes, I think you should be the leader, Dawil. You know what to say.”
“Bah, I hate walking in front, negotiating with idiots, and paying for things.”
“…Wait, that’s the only reason?”
“Absolutely. Give me long legs, a [Charming Smile], and a bit more gold and I’ll oust you as Captain in a heartbeat.”
Dawil was straight-faced as Larr grinned, and Ylawes snorted.
“You—! I’m going to make you report to the Adventurer’s Guild, then! Let’s see you smooth this over.”
 
——
 
As a matter of fact, Dawil and Ylawes did report to the Adventurer’s Guildmistress herself, who heard them out gravely in her office. Her guild was no less packed than any other place, and the [Receptionist] had told them flat out there was nowhere to sleep. When they’d told her they needed to report on a tricky matter—the failed expedition—she’d called for the Guildmistress.
The Drake was understanding.
“This has happened more than once, Captain Ylawes, Adventurer Dawil. I’ve noted your testimony on truth stone, and I’ll see what the Merchant’s Guild says. They have their own standards, but what I think will happen is that the contract will be voided. No pay short of your advance, and depending on how many days you were out there before you left, they might try to halve the pay. But you were being coerced with Skills.”
“They said that was all part of our contracts, Guildmistress Riva.”
The woman grimaced.
“If it was, I don’t like it, and I haven’t heard of it! But then, how many high-level [Merchants] had these kind of escort contracts until now? Listen, I have to get back to work. Most monsters in the New Lands are just weird; it’s all categorization, and everyone wants parts, from [Alchemists] to the Walled Cities. But I have heard tell of bad monster threats. You haven’t seen any out there?”
They told her aside from the Landsharks, they hadn’t. Ylawes thought of the keep, but Dawil just touched his foot with his own, and the [Knight] kept his face blank. The Guildmistress sighed.
