No. Before marriage? But then again, adventurers were always telling stories, and even if only 10% of them were actually true…
Ylawes blurted something out too fast.
“Um, Pekona. Have I ever said you’re one of the most attractive women I’ve ever met?”
Pekona choked on her biscuit. A passing [Waitress]’ head turned, and she went crashing into a chair and hit an entire table with a Winebomb Striker. A table of diners turned around and stared.
Ylawes saw none of it. He had gone cold, then red hot, and he felt like he’d just challenged a Named-ranker to a duel with a stick.
I’m a fool! An idiot! Even he knew there was more tact than—
“Um, I—thank you, C—Ylawes.”
Pekona coughed and drank some water hurriedly. Ylawes opened his mouth. Tact. Polish, not whatever—he could practically feel Dawil kicking him. But nothing for it other than…
“I’m sorry. I realize that sounds very forwards. I just…it’s something I do feel, and I’m rather taken with your—it must be the wine. I do apologize, and if it’s unwelcome, let’s say no more of it and I’ll behave myself. If you want to talk to Anith, I understand.”
He began to stand and felt like such a fool. Where did they go from here? If it was unwelcome—Pekona gasped, then jumped up.
“No! Don’t go! I—I like your hair. Can I touch it?”
She blurted that out, and he blinked. Every head swung back to Ylawes.
“My hair…?”
“No one has hair like it in Drath. I wanted to touch Falene’s hair, but it’s very rude. So I…is it dyed? Even dyed hair doesn’t look like that.”
Utterly bemused, Ylawes sat down. Scooted over. And let her feel his hair.
“Oh, it’s real!”
“Yes. There’s no blond hair in Drath?”
“White hair. Magic hair. Floating red hair that blows in the wind behind female [Cultivators] like a sea of reeds and gets in your mouth when stray hairs float off. But no, not this.”
No blond people in Drath. Pekona ruffled Ylawes’ hair up, then stared into his eyes. She turned bright red and scooted back.
“I—um—you—I think you’re very kind, Captain. You never make fun of my accent or me not knowing things. Or anything. And you have lots of muscles.”
Muscles, now? Ylawes thought he was thin and said so, but Pekona’s lips had sealed up. The Drake [Server] came back with another round.
“More drinks, sir, ma’am?”
“Oh, we didn’t pay for—”
“On the house.”
He vanished, and Pekona sipped her drink and gulped. Then blurted out.
“Most [Cultivators]…don’t have big muscles. Or arms or legs. Because it’s all compressed. Galas-muscle.”
“They get that even at lower-levels?”
Ylawes was dismayed. Pekona nodded rapidly.
“You have very…flexible muscles. Like Sinew Magus Grimalkin. Or Dawil. Especially your legs.”
She stared down at his quads or whatever Grimalkin called them, and Ylawes flexed them. He did a few times as Pekona stared, and she put her hand on them and then…
“I, uh, I confess, your dancing is amazing. But I have trouble copying the forms, even if I was that flexible.”
“Really? Because…”
“Well, because it’s hard to take my eyes off of you. Which I haven’t been doing often! I just—did I mention your personality?”
At some point, he recalled being told that a [Lady]’s body was not the only virtue by which she desired being complimented, but Pekona didn’t seem to mind.
“Even with my…missing arm?”
He glanced at it, and she tried to turn away, but Ylawes reached out.
“May I?”
She let him touch the stump of her arm and flinched, but he just exhaled.
“I’m so sorry I wasn’t there at the Village of the Dead. I saw that duel…you lost it fighting a legend.”
“I was unworthy.”
“Zeladona didn’t think so. And she ignored me and so many others. When I saw that, I knew I had made the right call hiring you all. I knew it after Facestealer, but that just confirmed it. Even if Falene and Dawil don’t say so—you’re chosen. In a way, we’re all a bit intimidated by you.”
“Me? Chosen? Instead of the Silver Swords? You’re joking.”
“No. No, Pekona. We’ve been…heroic, I guess. We know we get attention, and we like being the good guys. We know our reputation, and it’s fine. Everyone thinks we’re oblivious, but we get it. Falene, Dawil, and I get selfish and arrogant. But we’ve never been…you.”
“Me?”
They were gazing into each other’s eyes, and her brown ones seemed to drink his in. She had a crumb on her cheek as he brushed it away.
“We’ve never been riding across the sky of Izril, like the Horns of Hammerad. Never stood as the [Blademistress of Ancients] pointed at us. Never stood in front of an army with a white flag. I think it’s a bit of intimidation, with the Horns. Even though we’re older and have been adventuring longer, they’re ahead and that scares us because we might be missing what they have. The thing that keeps us from being Named-ranks. A bit of—madness.”
“So I’m crazy and you like that?”
“No, I—”
He was fumbling it again! Ylawes closed his eyes and felt a brush of something on his cheeks. He recoiled.
“What was—”
“Oh, a fly.”
Pekona clapped her hand at something over his right shoulder, and he stared at her. Past her, at an open-mouthed Drake. Ylawes turned his head—an entire group of men and women turned with wine cups in hand. He glanced around.
“What fly? Was that—”
“It’s right there.”
He twisted his head and felt it again. Just a brief touch of lips on the back of his n—the [Server] was staring at Ylawes, and the [Knight] whirled.
Pekona sat there, innocently sipping at her cup. Bright red. Ylawes Byres paused, and he might have been a [Knight] and sometimes, as Dawil liked to point out, a fool.
But he was no Tyrion Veltras. Then again, Tyrion Veltras had been a married man. So Ylawes Byres thought and then spoke.
“Pekona, I’m going to make absolutely sure of something. If I’m wrong, stop me.”
“Okay, Ylawes…?”
He reached out and took her free hand. Turned it over as she and everyone waited. Then slowly, exaggeratedly slowly, raised it to his face, inspected her palm. Blew on her fingers as she twitched. Turned it over.
Kissed the back of her hand. His eyes were on her face the entire time.
Pekona didn’t stop him. But she did go silent, and when he kissed her hand, she jumped back and—
“Right, was that unw—”
“No!”
Silence, now. Was the inn supposed to be silent with it being full? The [Knight] didn’t know, but he was sitting next to her. And she was drinking water—
Then she began hiccuping.
Hic. Hic. Hic—
She couldn’t stop. The moment grew worse as Pekona tried, turned redder, and Ylawes handed her more water.
“Here, drink from it backwards.”
She spilled water on herself. Someone handed her some salt.
“Put it on your tongue.”
“Dead gods, no, you just hop up and down—”
“Hold your breath for a minute! That settles it down.”
Oh, Ylawes had heard that. Pekona took a deep breath, and everyone fell silent again. The [Knight] sat there, glancing at her as the seconds passed oh so slowly. Then he bent down.
“Pekona…”
They were sitting across from each other, far too close. Ylawes stared into her eyes, and then he gazed at her severed arm. He saw the clean, very clean scar running across the skin. Pekona was watching him, nervous, eyes flicking to her own arm.
“I know it makes me worse at…everything. But I have to keep trying—”
“It doesn’t make you worse. I admire your courage. I don’t know if I could be that brave in your place.”
“You have been, though?”
She wrinkled her face up, confused, and he blinked at her.
“Maybe—sometimes. But I see it easier in other people. Like you. I rather admire you, Pekona.”
He took her hand and drew closer. The hiccuping had stopped at some point, and she exhaled and spoke.
“I think we’re drunk. And maybe lonely from the road. It happens at sea.”
“Right. I’ve heard of that too. Adventurers on long quests.”
These were fine, salient observations. Ylawes could recite a list of reasons why this wasn’t a good idea, but he really wanted to…
Their lips met, and they kissed, and he forgot everything for a little bit. Aches, pains, doubts—he only remembered they were in a public inn when she sat back in her chair. He leaned forwards to try that again, and she put her hand on his chest. Her voice was a bit breathless, but she glanced around and whispered.
“If you kiss me one more time, it cannot be in public.”
He stared at her, and his mind analyzed that statement up, down, sideways, and backwards. And it was an attractive backwards. He licked his lips, took a deep drink of wine.
“Okay, I—hic.”
He started hiccuping. Ylawes tried to say something.
“Drat it—hic—just—hic—”
She started giggling at him as he had to hold his breath. And then…they were staring at each other as the Drake [Server] came over.
“Ah, sir, madam. I have a bill. Would that be separate or tog—thank you, sir. And for the tip! And I just would like to mention that you’ve been splendid guests. We do, in fact, have a room upstairs. If you’d like it, it’d be twelve g—”
The gold pieces appeared out of Ylawes’ belt pouch. Ten from him, two from Pekona, and he tried to shove hers back. She shoved one of his back and added another of hers.
He couldn’t talk as his chest convulsed in a silent hiccup—and the Drake coughed.
“This way, sir and madam—”
Then they were heading upstairs. Not as drunk on the well-watered wine as you might think. On other things? Ylawes was still holding his breath. Wait! He’d utterly forgotten the Adventurer’s Assistants!
Always have a damn piece of sheepskin and a bit of string, you fool! Sage Todi was roaring in Ylawes’ head, and he remembered Crossbow Stan. No good adventurer went into battle without a second quarrel—
He had to say something. But Pekona was inspecting the little washbasin and bed, and she turned to him and…
“Pekona, I—”
He let out his breath, then lost all of it. Mostly because she met him, and he was so breathless for lack of oxygen as they kissed in the center of the room he had to sit down on the bed. And then…
He didn’t manage to get up until the next day.
 
——
 
And then—
Well—
You heard stories, but dead gods. He’d thought that was just adventurer talk. Ylawes Byres was not so drunk as to not realize what was going on or the need for silence given the very, very busy inn around him. But nevertheless—
Dead gods.
He had one last thought after he was lying there, panting, and had a sudden panic attack.
He wasn’t even married. Ylawes sat bolt upright, wondered what his mother would say, then collapsed backwards. Too pleased to really, uh, quibble with that. Then they were giggling, and asking if it was good for the other, and—
They had that in common. The two began to kiss again when people began kicking the walls, door, and stomping on the ceiling telling them, ‘congrats on joining the adult population now shut up, it was 5 AM and it was getting old.’
Exactly what that meant they didn’t understand until later.
 
——
 
In the morning, Captain Ylawes Byres wondered what the hell he’d been doing all his adult life. For a moment.
Then the shame hit him, the thought that he’d spent himself before marriage, and he clutched at his hair.
You fool, Ylawes Byres! He groaned as he sat up in bed and coincidentally saw someone else doing the exact same thing.
Pekona. She jumped when he looked at her and grabbed the sheets.
“I—”
“I’m sorry, was I churlish or did you—”
She looked like she was regretting it, and his heart sank instantly. Pekona shook her head wildly.
“No it was—good! I just—I was supposed to wait until—”
“Marriage?”
They stared at each other and realized the instantaneous night-after guilt was written across both faces. Pekona blinked, then bit her lip. Ylawes’ smile was guilty, but it was joined by a moment of hilarity.
“You too?”
“I thought it was only home. Most adventurers—”
“Right. I’m so sorry.”
“What? Why?”
“I’m your Captain and a higher-ranking adventurer and—we’ve both lost our chastity!”
He felt like it mattered for her more than him, but it was bad either way. Pekona shook her head a few times, gesturing at her arm.
“Who would want to marry…and it’s fine. I wanted to. You did too. Right?”
“Well, yes. After the New Lands, I thought to hell with…but I feel bad now. Even if it was—”
They stared at each other, then Pekona laughed. She lay back softly. He awkwardly stood, since suddenly he was self-conscious about being in bed with someone else, and after a moment, Pekona stared at the ceiling.
“We were out all night. Our teams.”
“Oh, Silver Dragon flying—our teams! If they don’t think we were mugged or stayed out with Rasktooth and Infinitypear, then—!”
Suddenly, the realization of what they’d done hit Ylawes in an even more personal way, and he was rushing around, grabbing his clothing. Pekona leapt out of bed too, and he turned to stare at—
“Don’t look!”
She threw a pillow in his face, and he was blushing crimson by the time they scrambled out of their room. She whispered as they walked downstairs, trying to be quiet.
“Just act normal. This is very normal in Izril, right?”
“Sure. Of course. Allegedly, or so I’ve heard.”
That’s right, they were two adults, and no one knew that had been an important night. Why, they could be any longstanding couple. He tried to casually walk out the inn as the breakfasters in the common room glanced up. Pekona adjusted her belt, staring ahead at nothing in particular.
They were almost out when someone in the common room that had gone quiet at their arrival breathed.
“Whew. Some night. That’s adventurers for you, eh?”
The two ran, too afraid to look back as the laughter and clapping began. The cheering followed them out of the inn, and only when they were a hundred paces away did Ylawes’ mind finally engage, and he thought—
Dead gods, I’m not even married. But neither was she!
And—
What will my team say?
They were in it now. When he turned to Pekona and saw her covering her face with one hand, they peeked at each other and—Ylawes slowed and almost regretted leaving that room. After all, they’d probably paid it out till eleven.
“I, um, if you want to pretend it never happened—I’m going to have a very difficult time. I’m rather besotted.”
“I don’t know what that means, but I like you. A lot. What do we do?”
She stopped, and they were so close in the street, side-by-side, that he could put an arm around her and kiss her, like he’d imagined doing so long, and then do that again and…
