The Dwarf took a gamble. Mostly because he ended up sitting in the bathing room, scrubbing at his beard, chest hair, and armpits with some soap as Ylawes talked. The Dwarf listened, mostly. Let the lad talk out—well, that.
When they traded places with Anith, Insill, and Larr, and after an hour had passed, Falene returned, swanning in considerably more pampered-looking and with her robes freshly-laundered. Plus, she’d given Pekona a spare dress, and the younger [Bladedancer] appeared…happier.
It was probably because Dasha and Falene practically stuck to her, and all three marched into place as the adventurers gathered, defying anyone to get in their way. Insill went over to hug Pekona and got kicked by Dasha.
Falene stood there, quite proudly, which was always how Dawil had known her. But he did sidle over anyways and mutter to her as she let go of Pekona long enough to cast [Cleanse] again—Vuliel Drae had destroyed the bathroom between two hairy and one scaly person, and the others wanted a turn.
“Good job, Falene. Proud of you.”
She stared ahead, then seemed to bite back a retort. Instead, her shoulders slumped for a moment, and she nodded.
“Dawil, let’s get a drink after this.”
“Let’s not.”
His patience with internal drama only went so far. She glowered at him. And he mock threw up his hands.
“Oh, fine. But only if you’re buying.”
Her lips quirked, and they stood together. And that—well, if Dawil had to ever explain why this snooty half-Elf was a teammate he trusted with his life, this was a good example of it.
So they were a team again. Everyone but Poke Duo gathered around. Ylawes seemed shocked, downcast, and at the same time, when he glanced at Pekona, like a new man. Thinner, more worn, different from the New Lands, and it had only been one foray—not even that deep.
But they were a team. The Silver Swords stood together facing a new day, their first day proper of escaping the New Lands, when Larr sniffed the air. Then he recoiled.
“Pekona, did you and Captain Ylawes sleep together?”
Every head turned to him as Insill’s jaw dropped. Anith covered his face, and Pekona and Ylawes turned bright red. Dawil sighed, and he didn’t stop Falene as she pointed a finger and a [Wind Orb] sent Larr flying across the floor of the inn.
Then he just laughed.
 
——
 
Nailren actually heard about Ylawes and Pekona before he even ran into the Silver Swords again. Which was mildly hilarious, but in truth, he felt like his role with them was over.
Easy escort duty, fat paycheck from The Wandering Inn? Check and check. He was more in the city to gather intelligence.
The first of which was that if they wanted supplies, he’d better have gold on hand or send someone a lot further away to get it than he wanted. The prices, the city…
He blended in decently well with a Pallassian accent. A bit more ze and ‘esses’ and Drakes treated you different. He wanted gossip, and getting that was easy.
“Any big names coming into the New Lands yet?”
He was hauling up buckets of water for people at the well, and you made a lot of friends if you did that. Goisedall had sewers, but they’d drained into the sea, and he just bet they were clogged anyways. The people waiting for him to fill cauldrons or bags of holding shrugged.
“Oh, you hear rumors. Champions of the Coast passed this way? Tons of landings across the west, north, and south.”
“Even the north of the New Lands?”
“Oh, definitely. No word on that Terandrian fleet that the [Pirates] got, but I heard someone ran into some hoity-toity [Knights]. Riding around with gleaming armor, all ‘thees’ and ‘thous’. Like out of a storybook.”
So some [Knight] order had arrived. Nailren grunted as the woman helping him spoke.
“Let me lower the next bucket, fellow. [Deep Bucket]—and pull, and pull—thank you for the hand!”
“Nothing to it, ma’am. Anyone know what these [Knights]…look like?”
Dead gods, she was strong as an ox! It came from being a [Washer Woman], he supposed. You had to haul water, and she had dedicated Skills. She was filling buckets for silvers. And so many people had bags of holding—
People probably selling them cheap when they realize they can’t take ‘em into the New Lands. Someone else called out.
“Not all of ‘em look the same. One group were all red, apparently. Another were, uh, those weather-knights? And the last group supposedly slew a Wyvern. Just rode down, lanced it through the heart, one strike, rode off. Wouldn’t even accept thanks. Said it was their knightly duty. A thousand of ‘em were coming or something.”
Nailren grunted.
All red knights. I don’t know them, but I can look that up. Order of Seasons and…the Thousand Lances?
Big, big names. Especially the finest [Knights] in the world from Kaaz. He’d always wanted to see one.
“If you saw them, they must have been close by?”
“Oh, sure. Everyone has to run from the anti-magic thing. North and south, they pop out. Well, those that don’t go too deep in the New Lands. It’s a business right now. You can even run in some magic a short ways. Load up a cart with food and they’ll pay for it.”
“If they don’t kill you for it. I heard there were bandits taking shots at anyone in the open. Be careful. We could use more [Knights] and fewer dodgy sorts.”
“Listen to yourself. You sound like a northerner!”
The crowd of Goisedall natives were arguing amongst each other until someone laughed.
“Hah! Not all [Knights] are bad! There was one at the Peeled Prawn. He was flirting with this one-armed Human from Drath? Dead. Gods. Sold out common room. Everyone was watching the two flirt. Egging them on and taking bets if it went the distance. I nearly cringed my tail off.”
“What?”
Nailren almost dropped the bucket as the story of Ylawes and Pekona actually became city gossip. Especially because—the Drake tapped the side of his snout.
“Then they went upstairs and dead gods. Adventurers are something else.”
“Oh, come on. Don’t be disgusting. And the entire inn heard?”
“Heard? They were shaking the rafters!”
“Don’t be crass. Why didn’t the inn kick them out?”
“Well…are you going to pick a fight with two adventurers in the middle of the night? Plus, they were pretty funny flirting.”
Nailren sighed.
Well, there’s another reason to avoid the Silver Swords. Drama. He wondered if Nanette would pay him a bounty for this particular piece of gossip.
Some things he didn’t want to tell a kid, even if she was a witch. Nailren stopped hauling water and stepped back.
Okay. Say goodbye to the Swords. Swing around for any more leads or gossip—maybe anything going on in the New Lands to check out, interesting areas—and head back in.
Time to go exploring again! Properly! Then he felt a tug at his right arm and froze.
Ah, and one more thing.
The ghosts.
He didn’t have any huge findings on the nature of his dead friend so far, but she was reasonably easy to deal with. Sometimes, she poked or prodded him, and he couldn’t tell if it was just her trying to tell him something or…being bored.
Certainly, the malice was gone. But Nailren was curious.
Was this just him and a rare occurrence or…? He asked, a bit covertly, in the Adventurer’s Guild, but most people here were entering the New Lands or hadn’t gone in far.
And who would admit to killing or being near a corpse? Nailren was going to leave and find the Swords when he felt a tug again.
Right shoulder, fur pulling a bit back. Again. He turned, glanced that way, and saw nothing, but there it was again.
Tug, tug.
“Okay, I’m listening. I hope you have something to show me, because I can’t keep doing this forever without reason.”
He put a paw on the little spoon tied around his neck and spoke. He wished he could talk to Pekona more. Her charms…another way to deal with this thing?
At any rate, what he found when the tugging continued was that the spirit was guiding him. Just out of the Adventurer’s Guild, into a bar nearby, and towards…
…Hmm.
When Nailren saw the pair of silent, drinking Drakes, he stepped back and got a table, ignoring the drinking. He surveyed them as they stared at their plates. Quiet. Despite having escaped the New Lands, they were dead quiet.
He could tell they were back because they had the same travel worn attire he did. Mud on their boots that was pinkish from the coral lands. Adventurers?
No…[Sellswords]. He recognized the Mercenary Guild’s badge on their belts. And they had similar-looking armor. The Guild would issue you standard gear if you paid for it. Sellwords, and from the looks of it—
Grumpy.
“We’re not paying for all that!”
The moment one of them got a tab higher than he wanted, he snarled at the [Waitress], then went almost snout-to-snout with one of the guards and the [Pub Owner] who strode over. They argued, and Nailren saw the other [Sellsword] touch the sword at his waist. Then hesitate.
They went back to eating after some money was thrown in a platter and glared. Then, as Nailren was wondering if it was all in his mind, he distinctly, visibly saw one of the Drakes—
Twitch. As if something had poked him. The other glanced up.
“Let’s get out of here. Find a damn [Mage].”
“It’s not stopping. Do you think…?”
“Shut up. Let’s go. One more round! Hurry up!”
More gold coins clattered onto the table. Nailren eyed the coins and wondered—
Did [Sellswords] earn that much? Prices or not, where did the gold come from? The tugging on his shoulder had stopped, but on a hunch, now, he touched the spoon.
“Listen. If you can hear me and get this, I have a question. How many on the left Drake, the one with the fresh scar?”
Silence. He felt like it was too complex and began to word another question when he felt six tugs on his arm, all up his fur.
Nailren’s fur rose completely separate from the tugging.
“Okay. The right?”
Eight.
Eight? Nailren eyed the two. They couldn’t be over Level 20. So either it was done in the night or maybe they lived and the rest just…grabbed them? Like had happened to Nailren.
They might be honest men.
Might. This time, Nailren used a Skill.
[Clear Statement (Spirits)]. He tried to activate it.
“And how hostile are they? Um…pull a hair out if hostile, gentle tug if not.”
Now he was eying them more closely, Nailren realized his hair was rising every time he gazed at the two Drakes.
Ah, my [Supernatural Sense]. As for [See Ectoplasm]…none of that yet. I wonder what it is. He braced himself for some pain, and the hair came out of his arm with only a sting—rather gently, really.
—The empty mug that rose off a table and smashed itself across the back of one of the Drakes’ heads was far, far less gentle. There was a cry and scream as the other Drake leapt to his feet and a fork from his table drove itself into his arm—Nailren saw the shards of the mug digging themselves into the Drake’s scalp, against the laws of gravity.
As if someone was trying to push the shards into his—
The shards of the mug dropped, and the second [Sellsword] ripped the fork out of his arm. The [Pub Owner] whirled around.
“Who did—what was—sirs, are you alright?”
Neither Drake responded. The one who’d hit the table pushed himself up and met the other’s eyes wordlessly. They ran.
No words, nothing. Just terrified motion. Nailren froze with everyone else, then began to mutter to himself, pretending to be in shock. When, really, what he thought was—
That was some [Clear Statement], alright. I didn’t realize I could do it to someone else! He had to be careful, but this was far, far more powerful than…
But what had gone on? The Gnoll was about to put his mug down when he stared at the table and jerked.
Drawn in some of the mug’s leavings on the table was a little image made out of small, crude stick figures. The Drakes had spiky ‘heads’, which was the best the artist could come up with, and there were two holding little stick-swords.
Little heads, fourteen of them, with Xs for eyes on the ground at their feet. Below all of it, a huge, unhappy smiley face.
“…Right. Well. Understood. Thank you for the clarity. I think there’s little more I can do to them that isn’t happening. Nor can I explain this to the Watch, yet. But it’s out there.”
Nailren murmured as he left some coins on the table and walked out of the pub.
Strange happenings in the New Lands, indeed. He was still going back, but he realized, now…
“I need more preparation. Damn. I need more higher-level teammates, not just my squad.”
They were good archers, hunters, trackers, but they weren’t magic-users. He needed specialists. Because Nailren hated to admit it, but this was more than just unexplored terrain to be colonized. He bared his teeth.
“Tribes take it. This is potentially big.”
He hated being part of big things. It always meant work for him, but then there was a breath of air on his shoulder, like a feather resting there, waiting to see what he did next. Nailren exhaled.
“Am I that amusing?”
He thought he heard a child’s laugh in his ear and shook his head. Then he set off. All things considered, he really wished he could have joined the Horns. They could find adventure here, he was certain. The Crossroads sounded deadly, but—Nailren grinned.
Argh! Dead gods, he’d liked being an adventurer sometimes! A shame his job had meant never actually being too good at it.
 
——
 
Nailren seemed ready to ride straight back into the New Lands when he found the Silver Swords. Ylawes was still embarrassed, but he stood next to Pekona, arm in arm with her. Defying not so much his teammates to say anything, but his—his—
Parents.
Why’d Father say that? Why did Mother say that? Falene? Pekona—what was wrong with her? He’d always thought that if he found someone, they’d bless the—
“Captain Ylawes. Do you need more help or is this where we part? Poke Duo’s ready to move…how are the Terlands doing?”
“Well, Nailren. They’re, ah—they’re going to set up base in a city where they can actually draw gold, but they’ve said goodbyes. As for Homle and Petia’s group, we’ll go with them as well. Those that don’t want to work here.”
They were sort of a team, and Ylawes felt a pang when he realized Petia and Homle were seeking work already. But he’d see them off and maybe give them some gold…they weren’t getting any from the Merchant’s Guild anytime soon.
Nailren smiled and touched the weird spoon on his chest for some reason.
“So you’ll be back to the New Lands? Good, you seem like you could survive. If you run into me out there, I’ll be glad to share info.”
“We’ll pay you back, Nailren. But for the moment, we’re regrouping.”
Ylawes sighed as he rubbed at his neck, and Nailren nodded. He stuck out a paw.
