It was not that they disbelieved Ylawes, especially after a few groups confirmed his identity. They heard out his comments about the magic-drain, the salted earth with dismay.
But they kept going.
Even groups laden with magical gear. He urged them all to turn back, but out of sixty plus caravans, only one did, and that one to just sell off what they had in Goisedall before continuing.
It was a [Merchant] that reminded him of the Consortium of Enterprise who spoke to him, almost cheerily.
“I understand the risks, Captain, but we’ve come this far. Over a month of travel, it’s been, from House El’s lands, and you tell me to turn back? I can’t do that. This is where I swore to make my mark or die, and your news is welcome; we might find a way to trade off our magic or see how we can preserve it, but we must continue.”
“Merchant Candi, we’ve starved a month and seen—hardship the likes of which my team has seldom encountered. Will you not at least think a few days?”
Ylawes gestured at his team, and she looked him up and down before the woman adjusted her hat, grim.
“I don’t doubt even a Gold-rank team suffered, Captain, and I shudder to imagine what became of your company if this is all that’s left. But I…I have to believe there’s treasure beyond dreaming in the New Lands. If not in actual form, then opportunity, cities to be founded, a landed nobility for me and others. If not, then what’s there to dream of in this age?”
She laughed, and he stood there. Trying to explain how starvation felt. But Ylawes realized they were committed. Just like the consortium had been.
“Lad, let’s get to Goisedall. We’re wearing our throats raw and starving, still. Petia, Homle, their people’re in need of rest, and there’s affairs to be settled. A meal and comfort will do us all good.”
Dawil was the one who finally tugged Ylawes away from trying to turn back groups pushing past him. Ylawes stumbled away, lightheaded and weak.
“Were we so foolish, Dawil? Were we…?”
He couldn’t bear to see them going forth to what he thought must be their deaths. The Dwarf’s face was gentle, but his arm so very strong.
“Probably, lad. You think you’d have stopped at the beginning of all this? Rest, and we’ll help if we can. Perhaps your warning’ll make them turn back sooner, but we have to go.”
Ylawes had never felt more like a child, weak, naïve, beaten, than when he entered Goisedall. His group, over two hundred strong, was no triumphant return.
It was footsore Terlands, slow Golems low on mana, servants, farmers, miners, all who were too thin and who had abandoned all they had carried to make it this far. The adventurers, most well-fed and who had the most gear of all, still seemed like they’d come off the hardest of adventures, and Ylawes was keenly aware of how much money they’d forfeited by breaking their contract. And how much they’d lost in magic.
At first, Goisedall was just as harsh.
 
——
 
“No rooms for let! If you want a room, double someone’s fee to evict or keep moving! No food, no standing room!”
A Drake woman was screaming at the first inn through the city gates. The Watch was on the walls, but no one was manning the gates; there was no point.
The city was packed. Goisedall had not been like this the last time the Silver Swords had been here. Then, they’d been a former harbor-city trying to reinvent themselves, catching the blue seed-tufts in nets.
Now…they were overrun. By colonists, people coming and returning from the New Lands. There was nowhere to stay.
Each inn was packed to the gills. Traffic was a snarl of wagons and caravaners screaming at each other; there were camps of people outside the city, preparing to enter the New Lands, and prices—
Ylawes stared at a sign as they passed.
 
Inn’s Room — 22 sp. per night, no board.
Sleeping space, Common Floor — 8 sp. per night, no board.
 
“A gold piece per room? Eight silver to sleep on, what, the floor of the inn?”
Madness! Even in First Landing, a gold coin per room had you at the higher-end rooms short of noble prices! But Dawil just grunted.
“Looks like we’d be fighting for even floor space, lad. Look.”
He pointed as a Drake handed the shouting [Barmaid] sixteen silver coins. She counted them out, then went in to evict someone—and Ylawes’ blood ran cold.
We have nearly two hundred people here. We couldn’t afford floor space even if we weren’t impoverished….
“Outside the city, then. We won’t die to camp, even if—”
“Looks like there’s a fee for that, Captain.”
Anith interrupted, and Ylawes turned, incredulously, to see another poster tacked up.
 
All vagrants travelling through Goisedall lands are to pay a fee for camping in the area of the city. Fees to be administered by Watch patrols or paid in the City Hall. Double Triple Quadruple if not paid in advance!
 
Madness. Ylawes saw Drake soldiers riding through the streets to break up fights, administer fines, haul people away, or just—-
“We—we met a Captain before this. From the city. Captain…Captain…could we prevail on him?
Ylawes was ashamed not to remember the Drake’s name, but Dawil, Falene, all had forgotten. It took ages before someone recalled the Drake.
[Patrol Leader] Dulc. Ylawes went to the City Hall to ask about him.
 
——
 
[Hostess] Gliva hated everyone who came to Goisedall. She hated the New Lands. She hated the fimie-seeds which landed everywhere and were nuisances.
She hated the anti-magic fields and salted earth beyond their city.
She hated her job, and she took particular, bitter pleasure in the fact that she was Level 33.
She’d been Level 25 late last year. A young, up-and-coming [Head Waitress] at the Seafarer’s Catch, a respectable if small inn on the edge of Izril’s shores.
Today, she was an entire capstone higher, and stress was her best friend. She stood in City Hall, because that was where everyone ‘important’ came, from [Merchants] to the leaders of the doomed expeditioners.
It was no longer the important place where only the Councilmembers and staff got to work. Right now, it was a flea market of people shouting, haggling, sleeping—chaos. The stone dirty—-everything in Goisedall was dirty—havoc everywhere.
She was haggling for her inn. Old lady Merwic, she was doing her best, but she’d given Gliva the purse strings for all the inn’s provisions. And Gliva was bargaining.
“I need all your flour. All your flour, I said!”
She was screaming at a [Merchant] who was arguing with her.
“I can sell you fifteen bags—but no more! I have promised more to friends in the New Lands! The Consortium of Enterprise, have you heard of—”
She slapped down gold on the counter. Gold pieces, more than she could dream of earning a year ago. Then, she would have been tempted to run off with it—she placed four hundred gold pieces down, and the man’s eyes bulged.
“This is for your flour.”
“A-all of it?”
“Yes, to Seafearer’s Catch on the double!”
The [Merchant] was Human, from the north, and was canny with a team of sixteen [Porters], [Guards], and a wagon with a Skill: [Cargo of Vast Holding].
He’d not make it six days into the New Lands. But he had made promises. But Gliva had gold, and he licked his lips.
“Th-this is a handsome sum, but for my flour, which I’ve bought from no less than the Unseen Empire of Riverfarm, I should demand more!”
“How much?”
She gave him a flat gaze, and he wavered.
“Well, given the prices of things and chaos—”
“How much? I’m in a hurry! Name it and be done or I’ll find someone else!”
A [Knight] was pushing through the chaos past the [Merchant], a bewildered expression on his face. Newcomer? No—he seemed too thin.
Doomed fool, then. He was calling out as a Dwarf and half-Elf followed him, and the [Merchant] spoke, getting Gliva’s attention. He was going to rip her off.
[Markup: 130% Value]! [Enticing Offer]! [Mitigate Haggling]! He drew himself up, spoke haughtily.
“For this much grain, I fear I’d have to double, no, make it a thousand gold pieces for the lot of—”
“Done! [Deal’s Sealed]! Get it to my inn within ten minutes!”
She began dumping gold onto the table and almost relished the way he stood there, frozen. A fee beyond anything he could charge, even with his Skills.
He was being ripped off. By her. He might get double that price if he had played his cards right, but there was no time. Not in Goisedall. If he wasn’t mugged or hit by someone of her level—she nearly laughed in his face.
“Get me the grain and on the double, damn you! And get more! If you want to be paid, bring it all here! We’ll be dead in a week from all these mouths if you don’t.”
She had never, really, thought of hospitality as a life-or-death situation, but Goisedall was under siege. The [Merchant] began to move, hesitantly scooping the gold up, staring at her, and she wondered what she looked like.
Eyes red-rimmed from lack of sleep. Exhausted from working constantly—but with a new blouse, a bag of holding on her hip she’d never have afforded before.
Richer, having doubled her savings in the last month from working. Back aching from renting out her house to newcomers, charging them gold for it while she slept in her closet.
Rich. I’m Ancestors-damned rich. If I survive this year, I could retire in any city I want. So long as we don’t all die of the prices. Is it this mad in the rest of Izril? Is there enough food to feed so many?
Never, in her entire life, had she seen so many people as passed through Goisedall in a day. She charged people prices she wouldn’t dare charge a Wall Lord of Salazsar and spat at them if they so much as argued.
Madness had engulfed Goisedall, but also riches. People coming to the New Lands had gold to spend, and those who returned paid out of desperation and had such stories…
It’s a trap. It’s all a damned trap, and they’re dying, but I have to make money. We’ll starve if I don’t get this grain.
Gliva was already thinking of how to trade it with other inns for what they had. To make food, even damn bread, to feed the many mouths. Level—she’d hit Level 40 within the year, she knew it.
Hospitality.
HOSPITALITY.
Her heart hurt. Because part of her remembered what her class meant. Part of her was still the [Barmaid] who’d offer any beggar a bit of old bread and some water and a place to sit, and now she was the hardass Drake who kicked anyone out who so much as lingered over their cups without gold to spend.
She bled for this. This city engulfed by gold and desperation. So she rested her arms on the table. Dizzy.
Levelling.
And heard the [Knight] speak.
“Patrol Leader Dulc? I’m Captain Ylawes of the Silver Swords. I was wondering if—”
A Drake with faded, dead scales from lack of scraping around his jaws, exhausted, hand resting on his sword’s hilt, whirled as he strode for the Council’s rooms and then blinked.
“Captain…wait, I remember you! Dead gods, you survived? You look like death, man!”
“I fear we did live, Patrol Leader.”
“It’s Captain of Territory now. New class and all. How many made it? Did you lose everything? Damn, your armor.”
Gliva listened as the Human man called Ylawes Byres, some bigshot Gold-ranker, explained what had happened. Same story. Dulc heard the man out, shaking his head.
“I’ve had so many groups come back nearly dead or starved, even Named-rankers…well, few enough of those. Your team’s not hard up on hunger, are they? They’ve got gold?”
“Some, and if we can get to the Merchant’s Guild—”
“They’re open, and they might be able to help. But do you have gold on hand? Good, good. So your team won’t be thieving or raiding others. Add them to the list.”
Dulc nodded to a subordinate who wrote, and Ylawes recoiled.
“Captain! I’d never—”
The Drake hesitated, and his expression, worn as hard as Gliva’s, softened just a moment.
“It’s what desperate people do. Look, are you asking for a handout?”
“N-no. Well, I just wanted to ask about the prices on even camping—”
The dismayed Ylawes was acting like there were such things as dignity, subtlety. Dulc and Gliva could have laughed, but the Drake was kind.
“We’ll waive the fee. Put ‘Ylawes’ down and just sign my name—done. I can’t get you better prices on food, Captain. If you had any to sell, I’d advise you to do that, but just buy what you can if you’ve the gold. You’re a Gold-rank team; the Merchant’s Guild might be able to lend you what you need. As for space, camp if you’ve the tents. If you have gold aplenty, the inns will do. Where’s someone with an inn? All the [Innkeepers] show up here, so you can negotiate with them if you wait—Gliva! There! Gliva, give them rooms at decent prices if they pay!”
He roared at Gliva and the [Hostess] flinched, then shouted back.
“We’re not a charity, Dulc!”
“They were a good team back when they came! No trouble! Just—ancestors. I’m glad you lived, Captain. If I see you in the city, let’s catch up. But I have to ride. I’m sorry. Make way! Make way or I’ll fine you, damn it all!”
He was shoving forwards, and Gliva saw the [Knight]’s face fall. He turned to her, helpless, and seemed to understand what was happening.
“Your rooms, Miss…Gliva. They wouldn’t be—?”
“We’ve a full group moving out today, Captain, but it’ll be four gold a room—that’s as many people as you like sleeping there. How many people are your party?”
‘Two hundred strong!”
“Ah, well, you might do with all our rooms and the common room—and we’ve got [Guards]—but it’d be nigh on five hundred gold to rent it all, plus meals. If you’re hard up for food, I suggest just heading onwards. Prices are half what they are here, and it gets closer to normal a few cities onwards, or so I hear.”
His face was so stricken she felt bad for him, but—five hundred gold. It was doable for a Gold-rank team, even one in dire straits. Beyond ludicrous two weeks ago.
As nice as she could be, now. Ylawes Byres appeared sick as he turned.
“I—I don’t think we can do that. I’ll prevail on Anlam, and the Terlands may rent a room, but it’ll be food for our company. Can we buy enough for two hundred…?”
“I’d budget a gold piece per person per meal.”
She spoke and saw the color drain from his face and wondered how hard-set he was. Part of Gliva wanted to give this man a break, but she could not. She could not—this was the break. And it was then that someone spoke from behind Gliva.
“Excuse me. I do believe our gold is quite good, if this Merchant’s Guild is active. Until Captain Ylawes is on his feet, I would like to pay for his rooms and provisions, Miss Gliva, is it? May we make arrangements?”
