She gave him an almost-respectful glance as his cheeks turned red, and he walked on hurriedly, then recalled she was showing him where his inn was. And then, well…
Goisedall became a scramble of sorts.
 
——
 
Funny how being in safety didn’t mean relaxation. On the contrary, the moment Ylawes got back to the Silver Swords and the rest of the expedition who’d been trying to find inns along the thronged main street, it became a rush.
“They only accept hard gold?”
Lord Comigen was incredulous. He turned to his people, and several felt at their belt pouches, then the man whirled back to Ylawes.
“We are in Goisedall, and I suppose our contract is over, Adventurer Byres. Rest assured, we will settle your account.”
Ylawes recalled some small amount of gold for escorting the Terlands, but the dungeon’s haul had meant he was also entitled to a share of the profits—in gold, not items. The [Knight] thought of his hidden Mithril items, and he glanced at their pair of horses, but Pekona was standing next to the bundle, and Comigen was insistent.
“We’ll have it done at the Merchant’s Guild now. They’ll have gold, whatever the locals claim. However, if lodgings are, ah, unavailable…”
Then you’re on your own. He eyed the large group with Homle’s [Miners] and Petia’s [Farmers], and Ylawes exhaled.
“We’ll accompany you to the Merchant’s Guild, Lord Comigen, but yes indeed. A pleasure to—to survive.”
He held out a hand, and the [Lord] shook it, a touch bemused.
“It’s been a rather humbling experience for us all. Lord Restraud…ah, dead gods. I must write to Great Aunt Ulva. So much to do. Terlands, with me!”
He shouted, and Ylawes looked to Petia and Homle.
“You should keep with us too, Homle, Petia. If we can’t find lodging or food, then our camp with Nailren is paid for. Er, the fee’s waived.”
“That’s much appreciated, Sir Knight.”
Homle was scrunching up a worn hat in his hands, clearly nervous, and Ylawes wondered if there was any coin amongst the colonists. No food, no prospects, and the Consortium…they’d broken their contracts.
They were alive. Focus on that. Dawil stepped closer.
“Lad, did you say Lyonette found you?”
Ylawes nodded.
“She did! She’s very busy with something at the inn—but she wants to help. She told us to meet at the Merchant’s Guild, but if they can’t give us gold we’re in trouble. Let’s go there now. And—and I think the Mage’s Guild might be in order too. Insill, your family was searching for you.”
“What? My family? What? Is something wrong?”
Insill jumped, and the [Rogue] was alarmed until Ylawes explained about the List of Expeditioners. Anith shook his head as he glanced right and left, head on a swivel.
“What a change to come across this city. I’ve seen the like in Baleros when a war erupts nearby. Food, basic amenities become luxuries, and [Mercenaries] can flood even a big city—everyone, hands on your belt pouches! Don’t let our valuables out of sight!”
Ylawes saw Vuliel Drae snap to attention, and he himself checked his belt pouch again. He nodded at Anith and strode forwards. Their first stop, the Merchant’s Guild, was besieged by people at the doors. They might not have even gotten in but for Lyonette, walking through people to speak to the besieged staff—and the Terlands.
“In the name of House Terland. Move aside.”
The Golems, who had been so slow and beleaguered in the New Lands, if reassuring, were a lot faster and even able to talk now they were out of the mana drain. Perhaps they’d been ‘recharged’ by the [Golem Artificers] too; one Golem put out a hand and forced a crowd of people back.
“Adventurers, with me!”
Lord Comigen went striding past the other people with his entourage, and Ylawes heard jeers and cries of outrage. Wincing, the [Knight] hesitated, but Falene was after Comigen like a shot.
“This is no time to wait, Ylawes! Come on, Dawil!”
“We can’t get everyone in there. You go, lad. And take Petia and Anith! The rest of you, let’s stand back.”
Dawil pointed, and Ylawes ran after Falene. He ended up with Petia and Anith, shoving into the doors, and Pekona as well. They had to literally push through the press, and two [Bouncers] nearly knocked Petia flat; Pekona had to shove them back, one-armed.
“No riffraff in the—”
“She’s with me! We’re with the Terlands!”
Ylawes checked another man as big as he was and felt himself sliding back. He was so weak—but the huge [Bouncer] recoiled when he saw Ylawes’ armor, and one of the nobles, Lady Safta, turned and snapped.
“Desist, man! All of them are with us! Who is in charge here?”
It was scarcely less packed in here than outside. However, Golems and the Terlands’ ranks got two [Merchants] hurrying out from behind their counters. And, to Ylawes’ astonished relief, there was even food!
Cups of water and biscuits. The Terlands almost scoffed at the fare until stomachs rumbled, and they snatched the food. The single tray from the Merchant’s Guild kitchens had only six biscuits on it when it reached Ylawes’ group. He, Anith, Pekona, Petia, and Falene all took one, and Ylawes hesitated at the last biscuit.
“Dawil and everyone are out there. I, ah—”
The young apprentice [Merchant] took one glance at Ylawes and shoved the tray out. Whatever she saw on the gaunt [Knight], he took the biscuit and then stared at both. Slowly, he tucked them into his belt pouch rather than eat them.
His stomach rumbled, and Lord Comigen, who’d scarfed his biscuit down, eyed Ylawes.
“Now there’s a man with more tact than I…Guildmaster, I am Lord Comigen of House Terland. I require funds from our account and, ah, suitable lodging for my party. I believe Adventurer Byres would like to access his account, and a [Mage] for communication with our House, discreetly, would not go amiss. Though we can cast the spell now we’re out of the New Lands, can’t we?”
It just occurred to him, and he twisted around to look at Sir Martz before slapping his forehead. Comigen turned back to the Drake.
“Nevertheless.”
The Guildmaster was a beset-looking Drake, who bowed to Comigen and then began to apologize.
“Lord Terland, I regret that our guild is overtaxed! We do not have much gold in our coffers—it is all being spread into Goisedall. So much in all hands…but it does not come back to the Guild, by and large. Our members deposit some, but—we may be able to offer you a small amount. As for references to stay…”
“You don’t have lodgings? We are of the Five Families!”
Lord Comigen was astounded, and the [Guildmaster] offered him a weak smile.
“Goisedall is packed, sir. Let me inquire and see what we can do. For House Terland? And, ah, we have received a request to assist the Silver Swords by Lady Lyonette of The Wandering Inn. A rather stringent request.”
He gave Ylawes a hunted gaze, and Lord Comigen jumped as he recognized the name.
“Did you say The Wandering…”
Oh, Lyonette must not have been able to appear herself. Ylawes felt a pang, but the [Guildmaster] seemed rather impressed by her name. So did Lord Comigen, but for different reasons.
Comigen might not have known Lyonette or The Wandering Inn as well as Ylawes, but the moment he heard Lyonette and the inn mentioned, his eyes narrowed, then a very fake smile appeared on his face. He motioned to Ylawes.
“Captain Byres, a quick word?”
“Go on, Ylawes. I’ll try to get some gold out of my account.”
Falene murmured, and Ylawes saw Pekona standing there with Anith, seeming lost as Petia gulped down her water. Anith touched one ear and gestured around, and Ylawes nodded again.
Anith was good at this. The [Knight] was grateful, but Lord Comigen was suddenly alarmed.
“Captain, I trust that’s a friend of yours?”
“Lyonette? Yes, she’s been aiding us. That was how we found Lord Restraud, in fact.”
It felt like that was a good way to mention Erin, and Comigen clearly associated Lyonette with Erin since he’d not seen the [Pavilion of Secrets] in person. His face cleared a bit.
“Ah, ah, I see. Very good, and one has allies as a Gold-ranker. I understand. I just wish to make it clear, Captain, that you haven’t been, ah, speaking of our particular contract to this Lady Lyonette? Or anyone else? We will get that contract witnessed for your share of the proceedings, but I would consider it a note of your integrity for your silence.”
“About what?”
Comigen appeared even more alarmed until Ylawes’ befuddled brain caught up.
“Oh, the, ah, discovery. Of course, I haven’t told anyone!”
The dungeon-keep they’d found near Terland’s dig site. Comigen relaxed.
“Excellent, Captain. It’s not as if we have a claim on it in actual writing, and I trust the, ah, entrance is suitably obscured. But between that and what we’ve left in our camp…very good. House Terland remembers those who act with discretion. We’ll have to go back for it at once. But without Golems…”
The keep. It was certainly valuable beyond belief if Mithril weapons were in even the first few rooms. The Terlands had seen all the artifacts, and the ones they’d been able to rescue without losing them to mana drain were already a fortune. Ylawes bit his lip, but he just nodded along.
Telling someone would be foolish, at any rate. It’d ruin his name. He and Comigen nodded at each other, then turned and saw six Drakes staring at their backs. All of them were sitting at a table with a [Clerk]—
They whirled back in their seats, and Comigen and Ylawes jumped. It was such naked eavesdropping—
“Hearts of stone!”
Comigen glanced at his Golems as if debating having his bodyguards hit the Drakes, but there was nothing to do. Now, Ylawes was doubly glad they’d been covert. He backed up.
“This is not the place to talk, clearly.”
“No, I’d prefer private, warded rooms! Or just to not be here. Let’s see about that gold. Wait, what is this?”
When Comigen went striding back over, he found that the Merchant’s Guild had opened its vaults to give his party…fifty gold pieces. Falene had six. The [Guildmaster] was apologizing.
“This is all we can spare for your party, Lord Comigen.”
“Ridiculous! At the prices we were quoted, this won’t even be enough for suitable lodgings for my people! I insist on our accounts being paid out! We are House Terland, Guildmaster!”
The nobles bristled, and at this point, the [Guildmaster]’s patience snapped. He drew himself up, adjusting his broad, colorful belt across his belly, and barked.
“This is not the north, and you are in Drake lands, sir! We’ve done all we can, and you’re not the only noble, north or south, we’ve had! The Merchant’s Guild in Goisedall does not have the coins to give out to all!”
The [Lord] stopped, slightly aghast, and the [Guildmaster] turned to Ylawes.
“As for your issue, adventurer, we have received your report, and we’ll forwards it to our headquarters for processing. I believe the Adventurer’s Guild could use a report.”
“I’ve got some gold, Ylawes.”
Not enough. Falene mouthed at him, but the [Guildmaster] was adamant.
“We have given all we can to our members in excellent standing—let me assure you, it’s the most we’ve been able to hand out to one party today! Please assure Miss Lyonette we have done our best, and deepest apologies to House Terland!”
The astonished Terlands were being ushered out of the Guild, and the [Guildmaster] clearly thought he’d dealt with all his woes. Ylawes’ heart sank. If Lyonette weren’t so busy…! He’d have taken anyone from the inn popping up, Peggy, Rosencrantz, even Asgra!
Then, someone dashed over with a scrying mirror, and the [Guildmaster] turned.
“What is it now? I’m busy, and I need a break.”
“Sir, scrying spell for you. Answer it, Headquarter’s orders.”
“Headquarters? Er—hello? Merchant’s Guild, Goisedall. Guildmaster—”
A calmly annoyed, young voice spoke through the mirror, and Ylawes saw the [Guildmaster] freeze. He put an arm out, forestalling his group leaving on a hunch.
“Guildmaster Levretz. I am representing my student, Miss Lyonette of The Wandering Inn, and her friends, for whom she is quite concerned. You will rectify this issue forthwith. Is this understood?”
“I—ah—we’ve given the Silver Swords all due help given the situation, and regretfully—who is this?”
Guildmaster Levretz stared at the mirror, and Ylawes, edging around, saw him turn it slightly. He caught sight of a brown face, a girl’s, with golden eyeliner, a crown of soft gold on her head, and eyes older than anything he’d ever seen.
The Quarass of Germina spoke, visibly annoyed.
“I am the Quarass of Germina, Shield Kingdom of Chandrar. Your Merchant’s Guild Headquarters is well aware of who I am and of my standing. Waste any more of my time and I shall deliver my objections to them.”
The [Guildmaster] might have known who the Quarass was by name, but the advent of television meant everyone turned their heads, and Ylawes’ mouth opened. Had Lyonette just…?
He saw those eyes flick to him and shivered. Levretz was stuttering.
“Y-Your Majesty! Deepest apologies! I am so sorry about the delays, but you must understand, given our situation…”
“I am not a member of the Five Families, Guildmaster. I am not an individual. I am a nation, and you are wasting my time. Give the Silver Swords your funds.”
She was tapping a finger on the armrest of her throne, and each tap reminded Ylawes that Germina was famous for the Quarass’ wisdom. And assassins. The Drake was sweating now.
“I—I truly don’t have enough gold in the vaults to oblige your request, Your Majesty! I was not lying! We have members and other accounts in fine standing, all of whom need gold and none of whom will get enough! I could show you the vaults if you’d like? Please?”
He gestured, almost jogging behind the counter to prove his hands were tied. The Quarass blinked her eyes slowly, glancing around the Merchant’s Guild, and then she sighed.
Sighed like she were eternally let down by the foolishness of others. When she spoke, her voice was overly-patient, as one might speak to a child.
“You are a [Merchant] and [Guildmaster] and you think in but coins and hard numbers…? Very well, I shall spell out the answer for you. Give the Silver Swords due compensation from Lyonette du Marquin’s account in appropriate goods and services, Guildmaster. Commodities, which I know you possess.”
“Commodities? I don’t follow, Your M…”
Then Levretz stopped and swallowed, and the Quarass went on, inspecting some painted fingernails.
“Your membership deposits goods with the Guild for safekeeping before buying and selling bulk transactions. Draw from those. Doubtless, there are valuables in Goisedall of sufficient quantity and worth. Food.”
