Someone whistled at them, and Pekona kicked off one of his legs into a flying backflip away. Ylawes spun, and an open-mouthed Drake [Sailor] stared at them. They backed up from him, wordlessly, and he saw the Seafarer’s Catch in the distance.
Our teams! He turned to Pekona.
“Er, play it cool.”
That’s how you did it, right? What was cool? He didn’t even have a ring. He had to tell his mother—no, no, it was just one night, you don’t have to do that. Even so, was she the one? It felt like she was the one—
…How was he going to face his team? They had to know what had happened last night.
 
——
 
Ylawes Byres was no stranger to team dynamics. He had committed…not the cardinal sin of adventuring. That was probably killing your team. The next-worst one was probably stealing loot. And the third-worst one was…probably sleeping with someone else’s lover.
And the fourth-worst one was switching out your healing potions for rat poison, but somewhere on that list of adventurer-sins was sleeping with another teammate.
It brought complexities into the adventure. One could survive it, and there were plenty of couples who arose in the course of adventuring, but, uh, they didn’t tend to last. Only famous duos like the Champions of the Coast endured.
Plus, Ylawes was Gold-rank and Pekona was Silver-rank. He was the Captain! For so many reasons, this had been a bad idea, and he was ready for this to become an issue when he pushed the door open to the Seafarer’s Catch and saw Falene and Dawil and all his teammates sitting there—
“Hoi, lad! Finally got some food in you, eh? You must have been out late finding grub. How was sleeping in a hole with Poke Duo?”
Dawil shouted, and Ylawes’ stiffening shoulders, his not-quite-fabricated lie, and Pekona’s tensing to run—turned into an almost-natural wave.
“Oh, right! We had some food, and it transpired Pekona had saved me some of dinner! I’m sorry, we couldn’t bring snacks.”
“Snacks? We slept like rocks after eating! You’re just in time for breakfast! Get over here.”
Dawil was so relaxed and good-natured that Ylawes realized the Dwarf didn’t suspect a thing. He sat down, and Pekona almost sat with him when Falene jerked her head.
“Pekona. Why don’t you have a seat with us? We have a busy day ahead of us, Ylawes.”
She was eating some porridge as Pekona wavered, then sat next to Ylawes. Dawil grunted.
“Falene’s right. I think we’re not going to stay another day here. Nailren’s probably heading back, but let’s link up with him, eh? Hit the Mage’s Guild, maybe, see if the inn’s got anything for us? And thank them. Then check a map and head east. Adventurer’s Guild for work, too.”
“That, uh, sounds like a plan.”
Ylawes relaxed as Falene pushed some scones onto the table. She was busy with her food, and the rest of Vuliel Drae were chattering noisily. Pekona and he locked gazes, then pretended all was well, and it was perfect.
Ylawes was so relieved he didn’t see Dawil chewing on his beard.
 
——
 
Since Falene would explode if she had to see the two flirting, Dawil suggested they take care of business that morning, and the lad, well, the lad did his best.
He was not subtle. Suddenly, he and Pekona were glued to the hip, and he was a lot more…looky than before. At her. At Pekona’s body and assets.
Not that he was a saint, actually. He was Human like anyone else, but he’d always been so politely refined that most gorgeous, incredible women had taken one look at his knightly resolve and chatted up Dawil or even Falene before thinking they had a chance with him.
Which, fair, the Dwarf wasn’t going to complain about that. Nor about this, even if it was a bad idea. However, if Falene didn’t throw a Tier 4 spell at the table—and there was still a chance of that—the Dwarf thought their teams might continue without the blowup.
He’d done his best the moment it was clear neither Ylawes nor Pekona were coming back and Insill hadn’t seen them at Poke Duo’s camp. Dawil had made it very clear to everyone that there were normal, nay, natural reasons for two adventurers not to return to the inn, and that like responsible, reasonable adults, they’d let it lie, eh?
Falene said not a word through breakfast, but when she saw Pekona eying Ylawes from the side—the [Sword Dancer] caught her eye, flinched, and went very still.
“Falene.”
“What, Dawil?”
They were walking into the Mage’s Guild as Dawil gnawed on his beard. Dead gods, he wished he’d apprenticed himself to Lord Pellmia. This might get—really bad. Falene had been holding a torch for Ylawes since practically the day they’d met. It hadn’t been a huge one that overshadowed everything but—
Stay the course. Dawil couldn’t even really blame Ylawes after all the stress they’d been under. If Anith had turned to Dawil after they’d come out of the New Lands and tried to kiss him, Dawil would have—
Hmm. The Dwarf considered that stray thought for a second, analyzed it…and decided he was going to do absolutely nothing with it.
They were on a tightrope. And the lad…
The lad did not make things better. He was honest, goodhearted, and when Dawil read over his shoulder as they sat, sending [Messages] in the Guild, he wondered if Falene was going to shoot a [Fireball] point-blank. Because if she did, none of them were so high-level they could take it for granted they’d survive it.
This is what Ylawes wrote, and Falene definitely saw it:
 
Ylawes: Father, I’m going to seek more work around Goisedall, and I cannot contribute to House Byres at this moment, as I need to rebuild my team’s finances. I hope you understand, and I would like to speak to you about this business with Delanay as soon as I have access to a secure scrying orb again.
I’d also like to inform you, and Mother, that I have found a significant other in the course of my adventuring. Pekona, the [Sword Dancer] from Drath in Vuliel Drae? You met her at House Byres. I believe our relationship if, somewhat unorthodox, is founded on mutual respect.
 
Dawil and Pekona eyed Falene as the rest of Vuliel Drae stopped writing messages back to their loved ones. The half-Elf had gone absolutely still. Pekona was flushing, but smiling. So that indicated the lad wasn’t seeing illusions when there was nothing there, but Falene…
Pointy. I am begging you. For the love of our friendship, don’t.
It wasn’t Ylawes’ fault. He was standing at the desk, and Falene was well back, but he’d just forgotten she loved little looking spells.
He was pleased as a puppy, that innocent dog of a man, as loyal and goodhearted as could be. But sometimes the innocent dog could hurt someone terribly.
Or—as the case might be—someone could kick a puppy into a wall. Because Dawil was about to say something when the little [Covert Angle] spell that Falene had cast to let her see the writing shifted.
And Lord Byres replied.
 
Lord Yitton: I understand your team’s position, Ylawes. Let me know the moment the situation changes there.
Ylawes: I shall. I spoke to Ysara, and she seemed well. Did Mother cease worrying?
Lord Yitton: She was very relieved, yes.
Ylawes: I imagine she’ll have thoughts on Pekona.
Lord Yitton: She’s here with me.
Ylawes: Oh.
Lord Yitton: I trust you will be discreet and not embarrass House Byres publicly.
Ylawes: I’d never act untoward!
Lord Yitton: Or that. Your mother would like to say that she found Pekona quite charming. The one-armed swordswoman? She’d like you to bring fit company back to the home, however. There are a number of young [Ladies], and Miss Skystrall is always welcome.
Lord Yitton: I am glad Ysara seemed to be profitable.
Lord Yitton: Shall we try to speak when you have managed your situation, Ylawes?
Ylawes: Mother said that?
Lord Yitton: Yes. Personally, Ylawes, I do understand one can be youthful, but you don’t need to inform us of such matters, but do bear it in mind. And remember scrying spells are everywhere. Until later.
 
Dawil Ironbreaker had watched Ylawes cease writing fluently as his parents carried the conversation to its inevitable conclusion. Then he stood there, and well…
Huh. I always thought they were stiff, but welcoming. Dawil hated finding out things about people he’d liked. He didn’t know what to say.
When he turned his head and Ylawes peeked over his shoulder, both men realized that Pekona had seen all of it. If she’d been perked up and unusually forwards, she was, at this moment, visibly shrinking inwards.
Dawil was at a loss for words. He almost asked Ylawes for the quill so he could write back to the lad’s parents, but he felt like that might be a mistake. Instead, someone put a hand out, and Falene Skystrall sniffed at her arm.
“Eugh. We’re filthy. Ylawes, I don’t know about you, but I haven’t had a bath all day. Pekona, you’re a mess too.”
“I am.”
The [Sword Dancer] stared down at her feet, and Falene took her arm. The Drathian woman flinched—and peeked up into Falene’s smile.
“There is a bath house. Let’s clean ourselves—and our clothing. I saw a washer who has almost-acceptable rates, and if not, I can cast some cantrips. Ladies only. I’m using our group funds, Ylawes. You should clean yourself up as well.”
“I—but—Falene?”
Ylawes glanced at Pekona, and Falene beckoned.
“Ladies only. Pekona, I have some bottles of perfume I can lend you, and once we’re out of this city, we should all go shopping. Something durable that can pack thin, so we have some fancywear. I tossed all mine after the rains got to it. Do you have anything to wear?”
“I—no—”
“Then we’ll see if we can cobble something together. Come on!”
Falene was leading Pekona away, and someone stumped after them. The half-Elf glared over her shoulder.
“Ladies only I s—oh, Dasha. Er, wonderful!”
She had completely forgotten about the half-Dwarf woman, who took Pekona’s other side. Dawil eyed Falene, but the half-Elf gave him an arch look.
“We’ll be back in an hour. There is a bathing room in the Seafarer’s Catch, but I refused to use it, even with [Cleanse].”
Now, if Dawil were a suspicious sort…he turned to Ylawes, whose head had strayed back to the [Message] scroll. He was shaking his head like he’d taken a blow, and the Dwarf grabbed his arm.
“Lad, let’s get cleaned up.”
“Dawil, I, ah, my father just—”
“Yep. Saw it.”
“You did. Do you think he—”
“Every word. Let’s scrub up and get Poke Duo.”
 
——
 
Life was funny sometimes. One day, you were just walking along and nothing was happening, the next, everything was going on.
Two days ago, Dasha had had a stick in her boot, and she’d not been able to get it out. It had been stuck to the top of her foot, and she’d had to walk for like four hours because she didn’t want to lag behind or stop and take her boots off to get it out.
Today? They were in Goisedall, and everything was happening. But here was the thing: Dasha had no idea what was going on.
She never really did. She sometimes forgot to pay attention when Anith was briefing the team. That had been before the Silver Swords took them in. So she heard things and went, ‘huh’?
Like…someone said the Quarass had helped them get all the food they were paying for their inn with. And Dasha had asked who or what the ‘Quarass’ was, and Anith had given her one of his Looks™.
He was normally pretty nice, but sometimes she’d say something, or Insill would, and he’d puff out his cheeks exasperatedly. Larr often got things wrong, but he’d argue with Anith instead of getting the Look.
As for Pekona, well, everyone tried to help her out. With stuff like learning new words she didn’t know or her shyness—they were a team. They’d made mistakes, but now they were in the big leagues, it felt like. Working with Gold-rankers.
Dasha just wished she were more able to—
Oh hey, the bathhouses were packed. The half-Dwarf woman instantly got distracted. She didn’t know why, she just couldn’t focus on things. She’d be sharpening her axe one moment, then thinking about getting a drink of water. Two hours later, she’d wonder where her axe was, and Anith would show up and ask if she’d finished her share of shopping.
It was why she and Pekona were best friends. Pekona was shy, Dasha was loud, but Pekona focused on things obsessively. So things Dasha forgot Pekona would remind her friend to do, and Dasha would go out to ask [Merchants] about quality whetstones or to find ‘rice’, even if she had no idea what it was. Sometimes, they fought. Dasha had used to think rice was like little white maggots all piled up, and Pekona would say hurtful things about her beard.
Friends, though. The one thing Dasha wouldn’t forget was that Pekona was hurting. She’d read what Ylawes’ dad had said. She just didn’t know what to say, but Dasha tromped after Falene as the half-Elf got the [Bath Attendant]’s attention with a bright blue [Light] spell.
She was so cool. All the Silver Swords were. They were real Gold-rankers. Dasha watched as Falene got them a private bathroom. How? She drew the attendant aside as they protested.
“Mage, we really are too full even if you offer to pay—”
“I would like to pay the same rates as anyone else. But I will cast [Cleanse] ten times. A wide dispersal. It should easily cover the trouble, and any stains or particular areas of problem should vanish.”
That was so clever. Within moments, they were being led to a private bathing area that Falene hit with [Cleanse]. And then they were sitting, and all of them knew bathing house etiquette. You soaped and washed off before getting in the baths, which were hot, and steamy, and filled with fragrant oils and nice alchemical stuff if you were lucky.
These were just hot water, which made Falene sniff.
“We should have inquired if they had any bath balms. Ah, well, this will do. Pekona, do you need extra towels? Anything else?”
“No, Miss Falene. Thank you.”
Falene was being…nice. Oddly nice. Dasha didn’t know what to say, because, well…Ylawes and Pekona. Crazy, huh? Who’d have seen that coming?
Dasha had a bit, maybe. She’d noticed Pekona talked to Ylawes when she was shy even with her own team sometimes. But this? She felt like a bad friend and—oh, wow, the attendant had come back with a bucket of soaps just for Falene! And there were beard oils! She happily applied them to her beard, and they were all sitting in the baths before Dasha remembered Pekona and stared at Falene.
The half-Elf was chatting, remarking on the bath house, talking about the northern ones she knew, and trying to engage Pekona in conversation. Nice, right. Here was the thing…
Dasha and Vuliel Drae knew Captain Ylawes. They knew Dawil, who was friendly and gave tons of advice. Everyone knew Poke Duo, those scamps. But of all the Silver Swords…
