“Fire that arrow and you’ll regret it, boys and girls. Just back up, nice and slow, or follow that Watch Commander. No one wants to get hurt for no reason. The most that happens is we get annoyed and you get something broken. Or worse. Petia, you in there?”
“Adventurer Dawil? Over here!”
She shouted, and the Dwarf advanced down the hallway as the Watch fell back, then ran. He had his helmet on and shield raised, so only his eyes were visible. Hammer in hand.
“There you are. Good! Hold on, keys—ah, it’s all a mess anyways. Back up. I don’t want to hurt you!”
He swung his hammer into the iron bars, grunted when they rang and mortar dust shook the air, and ruefully stared at his hammer.
“Ah, damn it. Not even enchanted. Right…[Thunder Blow]? Nope. That’s stupid and the stone chips would probably…one second.”
He stowed his hammer and motioned.
“Larr, keep me covered.”
“I can pick the locks, Dawil!”
Insill appeared, and Petia gasped with relief, but the Dwarf shook his head.
“Nope, this is faster. Stand back. Don’t want to cut myself.”
He produced a fragment of his axe, ran it across the cell bars as high as he could reach, then repeated the process below. The bars didn’t move—until he kicked one out and it popped out of place.
Perfectly cut. Petia stared as Dawil grunted.
“Out you come! Hurry—the lad and Pokey are keeping the Watch back, but it’s getting hairy out there. Those idiots aren’t listening. Grandfathers! Why can’t we have one good thing go our way?”
He cursed as Petia exited the jail.
“They said they’ve put a report out in all the cities. That we’re criminals. Anlam, he’s claiming we ruined them and trying to get us all to pay for their mistakes.”
Dawil glanced up at her as the other [Farmers] left the room. His eyes were sad, but not surprised as he adjusted his helmet.
“Yeah, I thought that was how it went down. A small man. I suppose it all seems like the only thing he can do, rather than face the consequences. The thing about consequences is that it takes courage to face them. [Innkeepers] do it. Not [Merchants], for all they make and lose gold, I suppose. Come on. Can you all run?”
He was pointing back out of the cells, and Petia stumbled after him. Dawil paused, just once, as she croaked.
“We’re all going to be arrested.”
“Aye, well, that’s one way it goes down. But I don’t think the lad’s going to hear of it. Frankly, given how the contracts and arguing on their terms worked, I don’t think I’ll hear of it. Hmm. Hey, Petia?”
“Yes, Dawil?”
The Dwarf pointed to a Watch armory next to the prison guards’ rest area.
“Get in there, grab everything you can carry. A weapon at the least. All of you. And if there’s any bags of holding, enchanted gear, that too. Let’s go.”
Dawil licked his lips as he heard shouting from outside, then the boom of one of Falene’s [Fireballs]. But no screams yet, just a lot of panic. Dawil exhaled.
“I really want to go back to Ylawes and Pekona sleeping together right about now.”
 
——
 
First came the Watch, then, with rather more speed than he wanted—the army.
Goisedall didn’t have a huge army, but it had enough for any Drake city to defend itself. And whom should be at the head of a rather more well-trained squad of [Riders] with spears than…
“Patrol Leader Dulc. My team and I have been set up. I’d dearly love to speak to the Merchant’s Guild representative to clear this up. Or send a [Message]?”
Ylawes wondered if his father could…no, Lyonette was better. But the Drake just shot back as he sat on horseback.
“It’s Captain of Territory, Captain Byres. The Council has ordered your arrest. Why does an innocent man resist arrest?”
“Probably because he doesn’t trust [Merchants]. We can swear on truth spells we did nothing wrong save break a contract, Captain! This has gotten out of hand!”
Falene snapped. Certainly, Dulc seemed to agree. The Watch had formed rows of spears behind him, and more [Soldiers] were surrounding the jail that the Silver Swords had broken into. No one was dead—yet, but his eyes were narrowed.
“Captain Byres, you just broke into our jail.”
“Our friend was being held here. Without evidence.”
“According to the Merchant’s Guild, they have evidence. Broken contracts—listen, I am here as Goisedall’s military, and you have assaulted members of the Watch and disrupted the peace. We know you’re Gold-rankers. We also know how many of you there are. Put down your weapons and I’ll see to a fair trial.”
“A trial that already has us assaulting officers, Captain? I am willing to speak, but let me at least state my case!”
Ylawes was pleading with Dulc. The Drake glanced at him, then his eyes flickered.
“I can waive that. Let’s all calm down and search for a good outcome. You put your weapons down. We get the Guildmaster to explain himself. The Council can hear you out. You might sit in jail until we get all the testimony, but no one gets charged further.”
“We don’t want to be in jail! We have done nothing wrong!”
Falene hissed, but Ylawes held up a hand.
“We can do that. And speak on truth stones.”
“Right. Good. Let’s all do that. Then the Merchant’s Guild can complete its investigation along with the Adventurer’s Guild, and when it and the Council confer—”
The Merchant’s Guild. Ylawes pictured the contract and glowing chains on his arms, and he wondered exactly what was in those standard contracts that no one had bothered to read. He cursed himself again, and Dulc trailed off.
“…This is the Merchant’s Guild’s territory, Ylawes.”
“I do not…trust their authority nor that of Merchant Anlam, Captain Dulc. We have been deceived by them. They have contracts. But the way they use them is dishonorable and, I think you would agree if you saw it, unlawful.”
The Drake was biting his lip. He shifted on his saddle.
“Well, I have to arrest you, Captain Ylawes. If you walk out of here, Goisedall has no authority.”
“And I do not trust the Merchant’s Guild, Captain Dulc.”
The two stared at each other, and Dulc’s head bowed.
“Ancestors. I liked you. We have bows on you! Surrender!”
He raised his hand, and Falene’s barrier spells were gleaming as she and Anith raised their hands. The [Battlemage] snapped.
“You’re bunched up, Captain. I can cast [Fireball] fifty times.”
He froze, and Ylawes’ jaw was tight. Dulc glanced at several [Mages] who ducked down as if to confirm Falene’s magical strength.
“Cast and this goes all the way down, Magus. Captain Ylawes, this is not going to—”
The prison doors burst open, and Dawil appeared at last, with Petia, as Homle and his [Miners] backed up reflexively. Ylawes turned, and half the [Archers] drew back, but Dulc had thrown up his hand.
“[Hold Fire]! Hold—”
“Lad, what’s the plan?”
Dawil came charging up to them and set himself as the Silver Swords cast around. Ylawes just glanced over his shoulder.
“Out of the city. We could surrender, but the Merchant’s Guild is leading this and—we just need to get away and tell Lyonette! And explain to someone reasonable!”
“Good luck with that right now. Okay. How do we get to the gates?”
They were surrounded on three streets, and Ylawes had no idea. Only two things.
One. He really, really liked Pekona, and he couldn’t wait to hop into bed with her again and wished life was more of that and less of this.
Two. Despite his best inclinations, his trust that Dulc was a good man, his belief in the goodness of humanity and other species…
He was just angry. Angry, because to his understanding, with all he had done, he had truly not done much wrong. He had been a fool, yes, but his greatest sin was committing unwisely to the Consortium of Enterprise, not what had come next.
He had done everything according to his honor, personal credo, and vows, and somehow, he was the villain. His teeth ground together.
“Captain Dulc, we are leaving Goisedall. Peacefully, and we will make our case to the Merchant’s Guild.”
“I can’t allow that, Captain. You’ll never get out of the city. Your arrest warrant is being spread to other cities, and this will make it a hundred times worse! Think! Have some sense! Aren’t you some heroic adventurers of honor? They’ve heard of you even this far south!”
The Drake was pleading with him, and Ylawes just stood there.
“I like to think I am, Dulc. I do. Which makes this very hard. I just wish someone would trust my word. Silver Swords—get everyone out of the city.”
He raised his shield and sword and took a step forwards. Falene’s glowing [Fireball] wavered.
“Ylawes?”
“Lad, don’t—”
The Drakes stared at the [Knight-Seeker of the Silver Dragon] as he advanced on Captain Dulc’s position. And they knew Ylawes was likely out of magic.
Though his sword seemed to leave a trail of vapor behind it. And he was Gold-rank. Just a Gold-ranker. Just—
“Aim—”
Captain Dulc felt a panic rising in his chest. He didn’t want to do this, but he was scared. Terrified, actually. The [Knight] was coming, and his face was set like—
“Run! R-run!”
“Hold! Hold your—”
Dulc roared, then the first officer broke ranks. His horse reared, and instead of arrows flying, he saw half the Watch throw down their weapons and—run?
The soldiers and guards on the other side were fleeing too! Screaming! Dulc was shouting.
“Hold your ground! He’s just one man! He’s j—”
Then he saw it. Not Ylawes, who stood, confused in the square, but the figure who stood behind him. Spear raised overhead, mandibles opened. Radiating pure terror as the little Goblin on his back aimed crossbows around like a Demon out of Dulc’s worst nightmares.
Infinitypear the [Horrorbane Adventurer] raised his spear over his head as he shouted.
“[I Have Seen It Die]!”
“Me too! I sure hope it dead! Run! Captain, this way! Hurry!”
Rasktooth was screeching, and the Silver Swords turned, then ran as Poke Duo went sprinting back towards the gates. Ylawes shouted.
“Infinitypear, how—?”
“Toobusyrunning!”
The Antinium screamed, but Rasktooth wasn’t running, so he shouted.
“Captain Nailren, he tell us what going on! Hurry! Hurry! Oh no! Skill ending!”
Infinitypear’s Skill did not last long. There were shouts from behind them, and the Cave Goblin whirled.
“We is now in danger! Hiyah! Eat this!”
“Don’t—”
Too late. Rasktooth fired his crossbows, and there was a whining sound—then a pop. Which was followed by a flash of light and screams.
“Eat [Flashbang Shot]! And [Retchgas Shot]! And that all my shots. Run faster, Brother! [Encouraging Pat]!”
Infinitypear ran faster as Ylawes glanced over his shoulder. Drakes were either blind or puking, but more were coming. More and more and—
Where could they go?
 
——
 
The Silver Swords were screaming out of the city, and Anlam was demanding their arrest. The [Watch Commander] was leading a group to cut them off.
“Halt, in the name of the Watch!”
He was pounding towards the gates when he ran head-first into a wall. The Drake hit the side of the huge, stone Golem, fell down, and a voice spoke.
“Oh dear. My good man, you’ve fallen down. How terribly inconvenient for you. Golems, help him up!”
More Golems moved forwards, and the Watch slammed into the other huge, lumbering figures. The Watch Commander saw Lady Safta fanning herself and sprang up.
“Out of the way! We’re hunting criminals!”
“Criminals? Dead gods. Golems, one side!”
Lady Safta’s eyes widened, and she motioned. The Golems stumped to the left and right—then one froze in the middle of the street. In theory, there was room to squeeze past them, but—the [Watch Commander] howled.
“What are you doing? Move that hunk of junk!”
“Hunk of—it’s malfunctioned due to the New Lands! Master Martz! Fix it!”
The [Golemancer] strode forwards as several nobles of House Terland surrounded the Golem. He tsked.
“Classic heart failure. I think it’s a miniature heart attack—we need disassembly and restart on the spot, stat! Move, move!”
“Get to one side! I will arrest all of you!”
The [Watch Commander] screamed, and he saw each Golems’ head snap around to him and their eyes glow—red. He froze, lowering his sword, and Lord Comigen spoke.
“I would hate to interfere in Goisedall’s matters, sir. House Terland stands aside in all but a literal way. Please, go ahead. But we are House Terland. As we know we have done nothing wrong, our Golems will escort us out of the city. Come.”
He motioned, and they began to walk, chins held high, as the malfunctioning Golem took slow steps after them. Slowly. And Comigen’s eyes were on the band of adventurers, colonists, who burst from Goisedall’s gates.
But really…the [Lord] shook his head as he saw they hadn’t even stolen horses.
Where were they going to go? There was only one place, and there were a lot of Drakes.
 
——
 
The New Lands. But it was so far. They had no provisions. And Ylawes was so tired.
“We’re not going to make it. We should have raided a stables…let’s commandeer some wagons.”
Dawil was gasping. The army of Goisedall was coming from behind them. Ylawes turned as Pekona gripped her sword.
“We’ve done nothing wrong.”
People on the road were pointing at them, staring back over their shoulders, and Ylawes Byres had sword in hand. The Drakes were running at him. Local militia. Captain Dulc riding and shouting. The Watch.
Hundreds. Maybe a thousand and more coming. Too many for them to beat, even if they had a choke point. But Ylawes…
He was just so angry. Even if it was the Merchant’s Guild doing this. Even then—he began to walk back the way he’d come.
“Lad? What are you doing? Lad—”
Dawil turned and saw the [Knight] moving at the line of Drakes. Sword held in a too-tight grip. Head bowed. And there it was.
For the watching pedestrians. The Gnoll with a bow observing the Silver Swords from the hill, the expeditioners into the New Lands, the mounted warriors on horseback, there was the moment caught in time.
Ylawes Byres raising his shield and sword as his team turned. Anger in his eyes.
That…
Classic…
Byres anger. The one that anyone who knew him could see in him, tamped down but there. The hints of fury in a good man that only Ysara had ever really mastered.
A [Knight] fighting injustice. No matter what it cost.
“It makes for a picture I should like to take to paint. Ah, if I had but more than an [Artistic Moment]—”
A voice spoke as a paint brush swished over paper and dipped into a little palette. Incredibly fast, capturing the lone figure. The Drake horde. Another voice, lower and also male, disagreed.
