“As you say, Captain Ylawes.”
He didn’t get why she’d fallen silent. The [Knight] led the way inside, and a Drake had to check his gold before saying yes, they had some pork left, and wine, fresh from Cellidel, don’t you know, just arrived; if they wanted it, they had to order now. Ylawes put down twelve gold pieces, and they had a table before he could get another word in. Then Pekona was sitting blank-faced with him, shoulder-to-shoulder because plenty of people were here just to rest.
He felt…like she was awkward, which made him awkward, so Ylawes cleared his throat.
“Commendable, though.”
“Hmm?”
“This cultivator stuff. It’s fascinating, but foreign. Nothing like I understand.”
“It is just how Drath is, Captain. I did not mean to be rude in speaking out of turn.”
He waved his hands, under the impression they’d gotten off on the wrong foot somewhere.
“Rude? No, not at all. As I said, it’s interesting, but it sounds like nonsense.”
“Yes, sir, I apologize.”
She averted her gaze, and Ylawes felt like something was still wrong. He tried again.
“Good nonsense. Incomprehensible! Like Falene always talks about with her magic. That’s what I meant. Or when Dawil gets into Dwarfhome politics. I’m not one for any of it, but if it helps you, or Rasktooth, that’s excellent.”
“Oh.”
For just a second, Pekona peeked up at him from her dark bangs, and Ylawes felt like she was relieved. Which implied he’d done something wrong.
“I hope I haven’t offended you. I just meant it was very esoteric, that’s all.”
He was distracted as the Drake put down a platter of rather thin slices of meat anchored to sticks. Fried pork glistening with fat. In any other city, Ylawes would have said he was being ripped off; the slices were so thin as to be insulting. But it was pork…
His mouth watered, and he saw other people staring at him. We’ll never take this out of the restaurant without being mobbed. He hesitated, and Pekona’s mouth was watering too.
“Captain, it may be difficult to hide…”
“Just have—have a bite, Pekona. Um, and I didn’t mean to offend you…”
They ate the first skewer so fast Ylawes was licking at his fingers when she managed a reply.
“It sounded a bit—a bit—no, nevermind, Captain.”
“Go on, a bit what?”
She hesitated a long time as she stared at another pork skewer, but when he indicated it, she took it and spoke.
“A bit insulting. A-as if you thought Drathian classes and ways were barbaric and stupid.”
“What? It did?”
Ylawes was so shaken he didn’t reach for his second skewer as he stared at her. Flushed, she turned.
“I did not want to say—”
“If I sounded like that at all, I apologize! I only meant—dead gods, did I say that? I only meant foreign nonsense as in how my father said it! You know, like Chandrarian customs or—or—Pekona, I sincerely regret my words!”
Ylawes was bowing over the table, so flustered she grew embarrassed as people turned to her. She shoved a skewer at him as the Drake [Server] came back.
“Everything alright, sir, lady? I have some wine…”
It was well-watered, but the mug of it was practically hedonistic as Ylawes sipped it. His body interpreted any sweets, any food, as energy, and he gulped at it as Pekona did likewise. He flushed harder as she spoke.
“Sometimes, it sounds like how—how some outsiders see Drath. As if we’re all primitive fishers eating raw fish on beaches. They don’t know our cities or anything—they say it like that. Barbarian. Illiterate savages. Because we don’t know Common. We have other languages.”
His heart sank at the expression on her face, which she tried to hide by turning her head. Ylawes’ head bowed.
“I…I sincerely regret my words. Pekona. My father—no, I take full responsibility for them. I did not mean any slight upon Drath at all. How could I? I barely know anything of Drath. You have an [Emperor], you eat with sticks, and you have…rice…”
She wore another pained expression as he babbled, and Ylawes knew he was sinking in quicksand, like Dawil and Falene sometimes said he was doing when he introduced himself to other ladies. But he could only say what he believed. It was his curse, so he finished lamely.
“Who am I to judge another people without knowledge of them? Your [Sword Dancer] class and techniques are exotic to my eyes. I have so much to learn from your style, and you have such a knowledge of blades I lack—look at what we found in the place in the New Lands.”
Conscious of the eyes upon him, he didn’t reference the Mithril, but he saw her pause. And her head rose a bit.
“You think my class is good, Captain? But you’re higher-level than me…”
“I can tell when your level of finesse exceeds mine, Pekona. And I think it does, levels or not. I was trained in a very direct method of [Knight] fighting. It may even lag behind Terandrian [Knight] training since they have so much institution…you fight so gracefully, even with one arm. I cannot imagine how you did with two. Levels are not everything.”
He said exactly what he meant, and when she appeared so mystified, even tearful, he floundered. So he called for another round of meat skewers, and it came with some wine, and they ate.
“I…I do not know what to say, Captain. Not many people appreciate my…uniqueness. Even my team, sometimes, had problems, but they are kind. It is hard. Sometimes, I feel like Prince Zenol’s team. Even if he is from another land, and a [Prince], he understood.”
“Zenol? That brave fellow? How could anyone denigrate him?”
Ylawes was so genuinely mystified it was Pekona’s turn to eye him.
“You do not think he is—savage or different?”
“He’s certainly abrasive and a character that might be hard to deal with, but at the Village of the Dead, I saw him take on that Lich Circle alone. Thinking he’d die. That’s a man I’d trust with my life at any moment. He saved my sister, Yvlon, and her team from fighting them. Who’d dare to insult him?”
Ylawes got angry just imagining it. It was Pekona who gave him a wide-eyed gaze, then hid a smile with one hand.
“Captain. You are a very silly man. But a good one.”
“Everyone tells me that. Even Rasktooth.”
He sighed as he took a sip from his wine. The world was spinning ever-so-slightly, and he realized he was drunk.
Dead gods, had he had more than a cup of wine? Or maybe it was being so hungry. Ylawes usually never had more than a single drink at meals—he slipped up sometimes, but sobriety was a good quality to have. That was Proper Living, as his father had taught him, and well he’d been mightily tempted to have that second cup many times. He’d often failed in his resolve, to his chagrin the next day.
But he couldn’t remember if this was his second cup that the inn had given him or his third. How many meat skewers had he had?
“We were supposed to bring this to the others.”
“We’ll get jumped, Captain.”
“True, but doing the right thing no matter what is what you have to do. Every time. No matter what. That’s the House Byres way.”
It was so simple. No one got it. Even Yvlon, even Ysara seemed to not understand. Life was so damn simple. Do the right thing each time. So why…
Why did it sometimes feel like that wasn’t what you got rewarded for? Why did it seem like terrible men and women got awarded for doing the opposite?
Ylawes thought of the Consortium of Enterprise, and his head sank as he sat with Pekona.
“I tried to do the right thing, Pekona. But it turned out the right thing wasn’t what I agreed to and that breaking one vow was for the best. I’m so sorry. I’ve ruined all our fortunes.”
“No you didn’t, Captain.”
Then they were sitting and their stomachs? Still rumbling. It was then that Ylawes felt something under one arm and he remembered.
The box.
He’d been so distracted by insulting Pekona—he put it on the table, flipped the lid, and they salivated at the second course. Even the server did a double-take when he passed by with a refill of wine. Pekona’s face visibly fell.
“You go ahead, Captain.”
“No, no, you take a sausage, and I’ll take this one. We’ll split the bread. You’re just as hungry as I am, Pekona.”
She hesitated, then snatched her share as he folded the sausage in a piece of bread and took a bite. No hot dog Erin had ever served had tasted so fine…in this or any other world. That wasn’t so much a, uh, commentary on his hunger as hot dogs in general.
But still.
Ylawes sat there, and all was well in the world. He was so close to tears…but when he forced himself to take small bites of the meal, to let it linger, especially because his stomach, used to privation, was actually hurting from all this richness, he turned to Pekona.
And he realized he’d not only done her a grave disservice, but he was so profoundly grateful to her. She was brushing her hair back over one round ear, then took a cautious bite of the sausage, cheeks smudged with dirt and grime, and he wondered when she’d had time to put on makeup.
Because she was rather alluring. Falene, of course, was always impeccable, but Pekona…
“Thank you for bringing the box and finding me, Pekona. You’re so conscientious. Twice, now, you’ve saved me from myself, it feels like. First with the Terlands, and now this.”
He meant the Mithril swords. She jumped, blushed.
“I just thought to bring food, Captain. It’s a box from home. Um, bento—it’s one of the other languages. Other ideas, from my cultures. The foreign nonsense ones.”
He turned bright red, and she lifted her hand and arm stump.
“I don’t mean that! Only—”
“No, no, I deserve that. Are they in aid of something or…?”
“It’s just a box. You put rice in it, and it has compartments—”
It was essentially a fancy lunch pail, but Ylawes liked the look of it. It certainly beat an old bag with a sandwich swinging around the inside. He kept eating as he tried to express what he meant.
“I just—I’ve only known my teammates. You’re one of the only other adventurers I’ve actually partied with long-term. Which is strange, I know, but most teams think mine is ridiculous. They don’t like working for free, or we just have differences.”
Like the Horns and the Silver Swords had never meshed. But Pekona’s team had done very well. She glanced down at her hand.
“We don’t slow you down, Captain? Even with…?”
She indicated her missing arm, and he shook his head.
“No, no! You don’t have the same levels as us, but Poke Duo practically carried us in the wilds. And your Skills in combat—! I mean it, you’re a better swordswoman than I am. I feel like I haven’t appreciated the strengths of my teammates. It took this expedition for me to see I was just the highest-level fighter. Not all-knowing. That’s Gold-ranker bias for you.”
He needed to let each member take lead. For instance, Anith seemed very worldly and knowledgeable. Like how Falene was their magic-user. Pekona tilted her head.
“What am I good at, though, Captain?”
“Well, swords, obviously.”
“And?”
“And…knowing when not to give away too much and prioritize?”
“And?”
“Uh—and—your charms?”
“What about Dasha?”
“Dasha? Well, I respect her beard maintenance, and she’s a solid backup, and, uh—”
He was floundering when he suddenly saw her hide a slight smile.
“You’re teasing me!”
She grew embarrassed and turned in her seat. Ylawes grinned as he took the remaining bite of his meal. She did have a sense of humor and opinions!
“Actually, that’s something you could do more of. Say your opinions, Pekona. They’re often good, but you’ve been, what, shy? Whenever you point something out, like that thing with Dawil’s axe, it’s insightful. I appreciate hearing from you.”
“Really? I’m not good with words, so I don’t speak much.”
Another peek from her long black hair hanging down in bangs. Ylawes wondered if her entire nation looked like her. He couldn’t imagine it. The only person like Pekona he’d ever met was Ryoka, but the two were rather different. Ryoka didn’t have Pekona’s accent, and she was a bit darker-skinned than the Drathian woman, and taller.
But Pekona had far, far better posture. She sat with her back straight, knees forwards, hand in her lap, and Ylawes appreciated that because most people had bad posture. He sat tall in his seat, just like he’d been taught, and both noticed the other’s attention to etiquette.
Then it felt like they had nothing to say. He thanked her, she said he was a good [Captain], and repeat until you were out of things to say. But—Ylawes felt like—he wanted to say something more.
He just didn’t know what. He wished Dawil were here. The Dwarf was extraordinarily good with the ladies. Or Falene. He was so used to his companions with him he didn’t know what to say to Pekona, who was still slightly a stranger. So he blurted out—
“I’m sorry I keep offending you. I really didn’t mean to say that about your culture.”
“I know, Captain. You’re not a bad man.”
“Oh, but I am.”
He gazed at his plate, and it was empty. Damn. Then he glanced up. Pekona sat there, staring at him.
“Captain, you’re the last person who’d be found guilty of being a bad man.”
“Ah, you say that, Pekona, but you don’t know how wretched I am. I put on a good face, but I don’t know what I’m doing. I’m selfish, greedy, arrogant—”
He waved a finger at her. She grabbed it and closed his hand.
“No. I think you are, sometimes. But each time I look, you’re like…a Mithril blade. The stains are only on the surface. Dig down and it shines too bright.”
“That sounds like a compliment, but I don’t deserve it.”
He sulked. Annoyed with how charitable she was being because that was his thing. Then he peered into the bento box.
“Oh. We’re out of food. Except the biscuit. You have it.”
“No, you—”
“How about we split it?”
He broke it into pieces because they’d done this dance before and offered it to her. She was demurring.
“I’m fine, Captain.”
“Ah, no, see? I can tell you’re hungry. Here. Just take a bite—”
He tried to poke it into her mouth, and she dodged his hand. She started giggling as he leaned over the table, and he was reaching out with the biscuit when she nearly bumped into a patron. She recoiled, and he ended up almost on top of her. He poked her mouth delicately with the biscuit, and then—
He was eating his, she was munching on hers, and why were they red-faced? Perhaps because, Ylawes thought to himself…
I’m being indecorous. She’s a teammate of mine! A subordinate! I shouldn’t.
On the other hand…he heard a rather Captain Todi-like voice in his head.
You’ve never shot your quarrel before. The lady brought you food when she was starving. You should try it.
