The Drake turned, ready to snap at this gentle, even kindly voice which had no place here. But when she saw the glowing [Princess] standing there with a [Knight] and little witch at her back, even she stopped.
For there were still wonders in even Goisedall. Lyonette du Marquin met Ylawes’ eyes as his knees buckled. She smiled, and her eyes swept the room with dismay. But then she stepped forwards.
“I do believe you are a high-level server, Miss Gliva. Can I trust you to give my friends proper service?”
“Wh—what are you—?”
The woman was transparent. Gliva saw Lyonette smile at her.
“I am Lyonette, the owner of The Wandering Inn in Liscor at this moment.“
The Wandering…? Gliva had heard her [Innkeeper] talking about it. She froze, and Lyonette spoke.
“Can I trust you to take care of my dear friends?”
“Y-yes. If they can pay. I mean, we have levels. Almost everyone’s over Level 30…”
“Then do so, Gliva. I shall have the funds paid to your [Innkeeper] as soon as she presents herself at the Merchant’s Guild. Captain Ylawes…oh, you’re so thin.”
“Miss Lyonette?”
He stood there, swaying, and Gliva gazed at Lyonette as she strode over and tried to hold his cheeks in her hands. Her eyes were shining, and she spoke.
“I’m so sorry we couldn’t help. I’m so glad Mrsha found you. We’ll do everything we can. Rest. Please. Mrsha told me what a hero you were.”
“I didn’t do anything. I just broke my word, and Erin saved me.”
He murmured, sinking downwards, just one more man so weary he could not even stand in this city. But Lyonette du Marquin only whispered.
“Nonsense. Don’t you dare say that. Not you. Not you, Ylawes Byres. We must have men like you. We must have [Knights] like you for even Normen to look up to. Or how shall we believe in goodness anymore?”
Then…Hostess Gliva saw a [Knight] beckoning to her, introducing himself as Ser Dalimont, and who wished to discuss the particulars of the Silver Swords’ stay, which would not have price tags on their hospitality.
And for a moment…the [Knight] could relax. For the [Princess] treated him like a hero.
Or at least, she tried to.
 
——
 
For once, even The Wandering Inn’s unlimited gold ran into an obstacle it could not surmount, and that was the state of Goisedall.
Gliva, the [Hostess] of the Seafarer’s Catch, was not an unkind woman. But she was distinctly stressed and, in that Drake-like manner, unwilling to mince words.
Lyonette appearing out of nowhere via a high-level Skill and the reputation of The Wandering Inn were a unique experience, which was why the woman gave Ylawes’ team and the inn the time of day. However, she didn’t rush to throw open her inn’s doors. Rather, she interrupted Ser Dalimont with a raised eyebrow as Lyonette and Ylawes were talking.
“—so glad you made it! House Terland’s in your company, aren’t they, Ylawes?”
“Yes, does my father know I’m alive? We have one survivor of the [Merchants], but we’ll have to inform—and the Adventurer’s Guilds.”
Nanette burst into the conversation, excited.
“We’ll help! We have gold, Ylawes! You just rest and eat. Dead gods, you’re so thin. Did Nailren reach you? We were worried about this thing called ‘refeeding’—let me get Mrsha. She knows more about it than I, actually.”
Then Lyonette paused, and her eyes flickered.
“Ah, Mrsha. Ylawes, I am so sorry, but this is a very pressing time at the inn. We’ll have gold sent. Dalimont? Send Yelroan to—”
“He’s out, Lyonette. With Honored Deskie?”
“Damn, then you or Ushar…? No? Get Peggy—shit. Ishkr’s needed. Who else?”
Something was going on in the inn, and her smile gave way to a visibly stressed concern as she and Dalimont conferred. Ylawes hesitated.
“If something is up, don’t worry about us, Lyonette—some gold would be welcome for purchasing food and lodging, but we’re fine.”
“Nonsense! Colfa will make sure you have all you need once you’re settled at this inn. No, wait, she’s busy…Nailren is with you?”
The [Hostess] marched back into the conversation, hands on her hips.
“About that. I’d love to rent out our inn to your party, Sir Knight, Princess Whomever, but this gold you’re promising. Got any on hand? It’s up front or nothing.”
“What?”
Lyonette and Ylawes turned, and he felt the slightest ting to the back of his head. Like something striking his helmet in combat. Instinct made him glance around and see how much gold was passing through the city hall. And how many people were being turned away because of…
“Well, not on hand. This is a Skill, Miss Gliva, but the Merchant’s Guild will take our credit. We have several accounts—”
“The Guild? No good. If you can get gold out of them, I’ll take that, but they’re out of almost everything. They’ll get resupplies of gold, but they won’t tell anyone when for fear of the wagons being attacked. If you don’t have gold in claw, I can’t take your party.”
“What? I assure you, Miss, we have credit—”
“So does half the city. With respect, once they’re gone we can’t collect nor can the Guild pay us. We’ve had three groups of people pay on credit and leave without any way for us to get the money. The Merchant’s Guild says they’ll get it to us ‘in time’—well, we need it now because no one trusts what their ledgers say.”
“This is ridiculous. The Merchant’s Guild can pay, surely! And even if the gold itself is deferred, they have enough funds to cover everyone in Goisedall.”
Lyonette protested, and Gilva sighed, long and loud.
“That’s what they said, and that’s what we tried, Miss. And it works. Merchants accept credit even if they get a bit annoying about it. We can accept credit if we confirm it with the Merchant’s Guild first, though the lines take hours because they have to confirm each account, and plenty of people lie about having credit—”
“Ah, I see—”
“—But then there’s someone who’s renting their home out for guests and needs to run down to the market. And you know, most Drakes in Goisedall don’t have a Merchant’s Guild account with credit, or one at all! And those Drakes have no coins, so that’s where they start demanding it from everyone. If someone needs coins, everyone needs coins, and the ‘credit’ of the Merchant’s Guild is damn well useless.”
Lyonette and Ylawes saw the dilemma, and Gliva stopped ranting and drew in breath.
“Sorry. It’s been a lot of that, and I’m tired of explaining. No one in Goisedall accepts anything but hard coins, Miss. We’ll take artifacts if you’ve got any…”
But if you came from the New Lands, fat chance. She gave Ylawes a second glance, and Lyonette spluttered.
“This is…Dalimont! To Invrisil’s Merchant Guild at once with Yelroan. If anyone can get ahold of their [Guildmaster], he can. We’ll have that gold, Miss Gliva.”
“Lyonette, do we have time for this?”
He bent over, and her face twisted up again. She glanced at Nanette, and Ylawes felt his heart sinking. Gliva glanced from face to face and put her claws on her hips.
“I can hold your booking for an hour. Any more and I’ll take in clients.”
“I’ll have it! I’ll send a Courier if I must from…where’s the nearest city? Dalimont, someone has to represent us!”
Gliva raised her voice.
“If it’s Reefhome, Klawsha, or any of the other cities north or south of us on the former coastline, you’ll have the same issues. They’re all slammed, though Goisedall is the worst of it. Comes from being the westernmost city. Lucky us.”
“So you charge gold for everything, Miss?”
Ylawes was alarmed and feeling at his bag, formerly of holding. His team didn’t have much on hand—he knew Dawil and Falene had accounts in good standing with the Merchant’s Guild, but he’d sent much of what was in his to his father.
Actually, he felt the chink of gold coins in his belt pouch and shifted slightly. Wait, he had a number of gold coins. Not a ‘lot’ for a Gold-ranker, but maybe as many as sixty? Plenty for paying for normal, day-to-day affairs. Thirty?
He didn’t want to count them here, but Lyonette was as intent as Ylawes.
“I had no idea it was this bad here. Ylawes, meet me at the Merchant’s Guild, please! Having your team fed and rested a night is a priority. If you need to move inland…we’ll have someone do it. Someone—”
She was casting around, but the inn was busy, and she couldn’t even spare this time. Nanette was tugging on her arm, and Ylawes called out.
“We can survive a night outside if we have to camp, Lyonette. Rasktooth and Infinitypear are with Nailren outside, anyways.”
Her eyes flicked to him as Gliva listened, her tired face becoming interested. Lyonette spun and pointed at him.
“I will not leave a friend in need, Ylawes Byres! I have to go, but I intend to give you some respite! Miss Gliva, I may appear in front of you again. Or someone shall! And your innkeeper’s name is…”
“Merwic. Merwic Fishtedder, but you aren’t going to just—”
Lyonette strode through someone and vanished, and Gliva exhaled, then eyed Ylawes.
“Gold-rankers, are you? I’m Gliva, again. When’d you pass into the New Lands?”
“About…three weeks ago? I don’t know, I can’t tell. What day is it?”
She told him, and he rubbed at his face.
“Longer, then. Dead gods, it felt like months. We ran into trouble.”
“So I hear. At least you made it back. I’ll, uh, show you to my inn and hope you can pay. No offense, but the amount of gold’s high even for adventurers. Oh, but before you do that, check if you’re on the List of Expeditioners.”
“The what?”
Then he saw a portent of things to come and was reminded that he truly was back among civilization. For on the central pillar of City Hall, near where people gathered, asked questions, were lists.
Lists of people who had gone before Ylawes’ team, had gone out of communication range. Hundreds, already, and family, friends who stood and asked everyone that was leaving to keep an eye out. Or—asked those who returned if they’d seen them.
Ylawes saw an image of a Drake smiling at him, plastered onto the stone. A Mage’s Picture, and a man stood below it. A Drake that shouted at Ylawes the moment the [Knight] came over. Gliva avoided looking at the Drake.
“Excuse me! You’re an adventurer? Did you come back from the New Lands, sir? Sir? Did you see a Drake group from Goisedall? The First Venturers, they’d call themselves? My son, here. He went with his fiancée. Thorssin. He had an enchanted spear, and he’d be…”
Ylawes shook his head as the Drake limped forwards.
“I’m sorry, we didn’t see any—”
The overturned caravan that had been the victim of an attack and been forced to leave someone behind. He hesitated, and the old Drake stared at his face.
“Did you find anything?”
“Nothing identif—no, sir. I’m sorry, I…are these all names of people missing in the New Lands?”
The Drake’s face fell, but he swung an arm out and cleared some space so he could show Ylawes the terrible sight.
“It’s everyone. When we realized [Messages] wouldn’t work—there’s everyone from Gold-rankers to nobles on here. You might be on here, sir.”
“I don’t know if my family would…”
Wait, they’d all been out of contact for such a long time. Longer than Ylawes would be away on any adventure. Perhaps his father was concerned, and his mother—Ylawes began studying the maze of names and faces, but if he was on here, there was no organization.
“They write into the Mage’s Guild to put it up. What’s your team?”
“The Silver Swords. Gold-rankers. And Vuliel Drae…excuse me, I should get to my team. We just arrived, and we don’t have any information, though one of our number, Nailren, might.”
Ylawes wanted to get away and tell Dawil and Falene what was going on, but to his and Gliva’s surprise, the old Drake cried out.
“Wait! Silver Swords? Consortium of Enterprise? You are on here!”
Incredulously, Ylawes turned.
“How did you find—?”
The old Drake man gave him a smile as he rubbed at one leg.
“[Anxious Searcher]. A class at my age…I can [Locate Information], at least. There. Insill Shasstel. And—Merchant Jobbi and Merchant Raeta’s friends have put in requests to hear about their wellbeing. As for Insill, it seems like his family’s asked for anyone to bring them word if he’s alive.”
There were brief entries for both, and he tore them off the wall and handed them to Ylawes. The [Knight]’s heart sank. Not for Insill, though if his family was so concerned they had best know right away. But Jobbi and Raeta.
His last image of them had been both cursing him as he left them, Salamander sitting on the ground with the rest of the doomed…
Whatever the old Drake saw on his face, he hesitated.
“I, ah, how bad is it out there, Captain?”
His claws were trembling as Ylawes took the piece of paper, and Ylawes made himself meet the man’s eyes. Faded green-blue scales, very colorful, which would have fit a coastline. A scar down one leg. Cotton undercoat and a fisherman’s jerkin.
“It’s difficult due to the lack of magic, sir. What’s your name?”
“Coldet, a [Fisherman]—well, I used to be. I just rent out my home most days. There. That’s two fewer names here.”
He smiled, and Ylawes saw someone else step forwards to add a long list to the pillar. The [Knight] nodded.
“I’ll ask my friend if he’s heard about your son. Thorssin, wasn’t it? A unique name.”
“It’s got a bit of Terandrian in it. I thought it’d sound good. Thank you.”
Ylawes stepped back, and then he was moving for the doors, because he had to leave. Gliva fell into step behind him and commented, once.
“You shouldn’t have asked his son’s name. He’s been here for three months.”
“Three months?”
Ylawes twisted, and she shook her head.
“They left almost the moment the New Lands rose. First to get there, even before Named-rankers.”
She had a twist to her lips that said there was no doubt in her mind what had happened. Ylawes bit his lip, then shook his head.
“There’s no harm in asking. I’m a [Knight].”
“One of those Terandrian classes? Does suffering come as part of the job, or taking someone else’s woes on?”
She was a bit—pointy. Ylawes got annoyed despite himself, because he was hungry, footsore, and had been hoping for respite here. He wondered if this was how Falene and Dawil felt about each other. He turned his back on her, replying abruptly.
“Yes, as a matter of fact, it does. Isn’t it the same for [Waitresses] and [Hostesses]?”
He sensed her halt and turned his head, instantly guilty.
“Forgive me, that was unworthy of me to say. I’m tired, and that was unkind—”
“No, no, that was a good shot. Fair enough.”
