Cultivation, in Drath, was authority. There were traditional ranks and hierarchies, which was why she understood how the Terlands and Nailren acted; it was a subtle interplay at times and as blunt as Dawil’s hammer at others. But the final mark of authority was always refinement of the soul.
From the immortal fox-kin to the [Emperor]’s courts to the outsiders like the Demons, which no one was allowed to speak of—and who acted like ordinary foreigners—the weight of their cultivation was all. Those with talent were inevitably given access to greater pills, techniques of cultivation, and objects to refine their souls until they could clap their hands and shatter the air, endure unenchanted arrows without flinching.
It was why she had left; a girl with only a modicum of talent for the blade mattered less in Drath. And it was why she didn’t know how to treat Rasktooth at all. Because he…
He was a prodigy.
One need only look at his poise of form as he sat upon Infinitypear’s shoulders and see the utter contemplation, which exceeded his current level of refinement, or consider the facts to acknowledge this was so.
An untrained, unpracticed neophyte who had seen Pekona play at cultivation once or twice breaking through to the Inner Spirit Realm mastery on his own? Genius. Were he not a Goblin, he would have been taken to one of the main cities and enrolled in a school of one of the Murim Families’ main branches for such talent.
That he was a Goblin and barely a few years old…did it make him more or less? Often, great talents with the ability or self-possession to ascend their souls into cultivation’s many levels of refinement—it was a never-ending process in which higher ‘levels’ of ascension resulted in exponential power at increasing difficulty—were found too late.
A girl or boy found at the age of 16 with a prodigy’s talent was considered old, perhaps wasted because they had not been taught earlier. Even if one reached the Zenith Heaven’s Gate soul level—akin to a Level 40 [Warrior]—one might only live 200 years if they were not a half-Elf, and they had unique difficulties cultivating their souls due to their longevity.
But Rasktooth was a few years old. How long might Goblins live? If it was like Humans, then he would have a head-start on even the [Emperor]’s own children. Hence, Pekona not knowing how to react to him.
He should have been a young, arrogant noble lord in Drath, throwing his weight and the might of his family around, too powerful to gainsay in any way—and thus hateable. Instead, he was a Cave Goblin and paralyzed from the waist down, a truer brother to Infinitypear than most Pekona had ever met of blood. Like Ylawes, not what she expected of him.
“‘Ey. Hey, Pekona. You, uh, know Nailren? What he like? We is new adventurers. He some big-boss Hob-Chieftain guy?”
He leaned over Infinitypear’s back as they began walking, and Pekona had to translate his odd speech. Then she ducked her head reflexively.
“No, young m—Rasktooth. He is not a big…Chieftain guy. Though he may be a Chieftain? He was a Silver-rank Captain when we were exploring Liscor’s dungeon. The same rank as Captain Anith.”
She indicated the Jackal Beastkin [Mage] whom she followed, and Rasktooth eyed Anith and Nailren, who was chatting with the Terlands and Ylawes.
“Ya?”
“Yes, Young Master Rasktooth.”
This time, Infinitypear distinctly turned his body to stare at Pekona, and she turned red. The Worker spoke.
“You call Rasktooth ‘Young Master’ sometimes, Pekona. What does that mean?”
“I, um—it—it is a term of respect. Because of his class.”
“Oh. But I am an [Adventurer]! Do I not get a cool name like that?”
Rasktooth patted Infinitypear on the head.
“You can be Super Master Infinitypear, Brother.”
“Ooh, I like that. Very well, Young Master Rasktooth.”
They giggled at that like children. It made her happy and embarrassed because Rasktooth was deserving of the title. And Infinitypear was…one? And he had an Adamantium spear from Spearmaster Lulv?
Ahead of her. She was an ant, a real ant compared to an Antinium. Rasktooth blinked at Pekona.
“You looking all down, Pekona. Why? Because you not a [Cultivator] thing?”
For a Cave Goblin who’d never seen the world, sometimes, he was annoyingly sharp. Embarrassed, Pekona glanced around but no one was watching, so she snapped back.
“I don’t want to be! It’s just…you have talent. I don’t. Alright?”
He and Infinitypear appeared hurt, and she felt instantly bad, but the Cave Goblin’s mouth closed after a second.
“I have talent? Me? I not talented, Pekona. You have sword and can twirl like something beautiful. No Cave Goblin has any talent. Pebblesnatch is talented, and look at her. She lost the cooking contest big-time. She talented for a Goblin. So talented for poo.”
Pekona didn’t know what he was referring to, but she was objecting.
“No, you are talented.”
“Eh, impossible. You is wrong, so don’t feel bad.”
The Cave Goblin folded his arms and grinned at Pekona until Infinitypear poked him in the side and he yelped.
“Hey, Brother, stop that!”
“That’s Super Master Infinitypear to you, Young Master Rasktooth. And you are talented. So is Pekona, and Captain Ylawes, and…everyone here. Everyone is most excellent.”
The Worker jabbed Rasktooth again when the Cave Goblin tried to demure, and Pekona smiled. She looked at Rasktooth.
“Whether you like it or not, you are talented, Rasktooth, more than me. Drath would love you.”
He peered at her.
“But not you? They stupid, then.”
“Shh!”
Scandalized, she covered his mouth reflexively, casting around.
“Drath is a great nation. The [Emperor] is infallible and protects the world—”
“If he not think you’re talented, he stupid.”
“Rasktooth! You can’t say that!”
The Cave Goblin grinned up at her.
“I really do have potential?”
“Yes. Truly. I don’t understand why your energy is…rotten. It sounds like a product of the dungeon, but even rotten energy of that magnitude, so early, is a huge step. It doesn’t matter how you get the power, often. Sometimes, you can mess up, but you could do so much, Rasktooth.”
Maybe even fix your spine. But she didn’t want to make the Cave Goblin promises. Still, so much was possible with cultivation. You could regain your youth, repair lost limbs…well, only the supreme masters could do that. Rasktooth inspected her face, then seemed to have an idea. He grinned and held her hand with his small one.
“Then okay, I level and become Super Young Master. But you teach me, Pekona.”
“Me?”
“Sure! I not know how anything works! Then, when I become Super Ultra Youngest Master—then I tell everyone, ‘Pekona taught me. She super genius.’ And the Emperor-guy will have to thank you and stuff.”
She laughed at him. Then hugged him and Infinitypear one-armed, impulsively.
“You silly Goblin. Fine. You’re like a little brother, then.”
“Can I be a little brother?”
Infinitypear begged, and Pekona nodded.
“You can both be. And maybe one day we’ll all be wise as Captain Nailren.”
They beamed at her and nodded. Rasktooth grinned.
“We both learn from Pekona, Super Master Infinitypear! Eh, ah, Pekona. One question. Something just weird to me. Because Nailren seem older than Anith. Years and how he act. Right? Why they both Silver-rankers?”
She floundered, then gazed at Nailren’s back and had to duck her head again.
“I don’t know. He does seem…authoritative, now.”
In this place, far from civilization, Nailren was like a Named-rank adventurer compared to even Ylawes. It wasn’t just his bearing nor demeanor. He didn’t pull a string of roasted pheasants out of the bushes, but he just…did things.
 
——
 
Not easily, but with a sense that he knew how it was done and could make it happen. For instance, that night, Nailren had the exhausted group camp and then organized a hunt when he saw how they were rationing the Terlands’ stocks.
It was barley grain in soup with slivers of some fish they had left, a bit of butter for decadent thickening, dried scallions, a handful of flour, and on the side, some rock-hard bread. The Terlands had been stocked well enough, but the march had been long, and they’d been rationing, not knowing how much further they had left.
It was way more than the Silver Swords had been living on before; utterly terrible for the Terlands. Both groups made do, but Nailren just sniffed the air.
“I can’t promise a meal, but could I have any [Archers] join me for an hour? It may be I can find something to augment our stores. In the meantime…here.”
He produced a full, salted slab of venison from a Corusdeer, and Ylawes was so speechless he just pointed. That was how Insill, Infinitypear, Rasktooth, and two more [Archers] from Farmer Petia’s group followed Nailren into the night.
—He came back empty-handed after forty minutes, sighing, but everyone had devoured the venison by greedily dunking it into their soup and eating the dry, but delicious meat. Insill looked ready to cry as he saw Pekona sucking on a sliver of venison, and Dasha offered him a morsel with shaking fingers, but Nailren just grunted.
“No game about, sadly. I’ll try the second option. Can I get someone good at digging to join me?”
This time, it was Dawil, Infinitypear—again—and Ylawes himself. They set out, and not twenty minutes later, Nailren was back with armfuls of clams.
Pekona, who’d been thinking she was stuffed by this richness, sat up, and her stomach rumbled as Nailren began to toast the clams. Everyone fell over themselves, begging like children for a bite. He even looked rueful as he explained to Ylawes.
“I saw the field a ways back, but I’m reluctant to depopulate more such. There are these clam-fields in the coral zones, but many have been destroyed by newcomers. Still, this is needed, and we did not take much. Hrr. A bit more salt and pepper, I think, and…”
Freshwater clams. They tasted much like seawater ones, if a bit more…sweet? But dead gods, sucking one out of the shell after it had been baked on the fire with a hint of seasoning and Pekona was crying. Nailren had to confiscate the shells and half the clams to make a clam chowder—even the shells he boiled for the taste, and everyone had a second meal.
“Adventurer, ah, Nailren, you seem to be able to survive these dreadful lands quite well.”
He grinned at Lady Leerne as she remarked, licking her fingers and trying to wipe them on her handkerchief afterwards like she was still a lady.
“If I seem so, it is only because of experience, Lady Leerne. At first, my team and I survived on provisions as we learned, but it is a bit of experience with living in the wilds, a lot of luck, and having time to learn. I think anyone would do as well as we if they were not starving and desperate. Lacking food, it shrinks one’s mind, yes?”
“Oh, c-certainly. I am glad you take this perspective, sir. I, ah, I don’t suppose your team, the, uh…”
“We are disbanded, officially, but we were the Pride of Kelia. Of Tribe Fletchsing.”
“Yes, the Pride of Kelia. I do believe I’ve heard of it! Your team wouldn’t happen to be interested in a contract with House Terland, would they?”
Nailren grinned and had to refuse the [Lady], claiming his teammates had quit when reaching the New Lands, but Pekona saw his eyes twinkle and knew he was lying. About what, she could not tell, but he played the noblewoman like a [Beggar] marketing mere mudroot as Thousand-Year Ginseng to credulous nobles. Only, he actually had ginseng in each paw. She decided Captain Nailren was her hero, and she would follow him to the ends of the earth—so long as he kept her fed, and the same went for everyone else.
 
——
 
Ylawes felt like a fool for two whole days in Nailren’s company. He should be the Gold-ranker and Ylawes a Bronze-rank idiot who’d nearly gotten everyone killed for his foolish pride and inexperience.
He said as much to Nailren on the second day, and the Gnoll nearly laughed himself out of his saddle. He had a well-fed horse and he rode it, often to scout ahead and tell them he didn’t like this particular area of land, to correct their courses, just bag a kill like a yellow hare and bring it back to be skinned and eaten on the spot.
“Captain Byres, you tell jokes well. Much like the Ekhtouch.”
“I don’t get the reference, Captain Nailren.”
“Oh, just that they’re a haughty, self-important tribe and their ‘jokes’ are always upon themselves, and they never notice it. You are a fine Gold-rank adventurer; it’s just that here, my Skills and experience shine. When we encounter monsters and you’re fed, I’ll hide behind you and let you be the heroes. I remember how Facestealer died.”
He shot a knowing glance at Vuliel Drae and Poke Duo, as if he hadn’t also been there and fighting with everyone else.  Ylawes muttered.
“That was all Rasktooth. I…just got hit a bit and listened to advice. Here, I’m useless, and you’ve saved us.”
“Hrr. No. You’d have made it, Captain Ylawes, but I’ll take the compliment. The [Shaman]’s truth is that the New Lands is much like a trap for all but those ready for it, and your team did well enough. Trust me on this, and don’t beat yourself too hard. I, myself, had a number of unpleasant experiences here. If I seem confident, it’s because I knew what I was taking on with rescuing you and came prepared. If you took a Bronze-rank mission slaying sewer rats, how much would you brag to the villagers, even if they couldn’t do it?”
That made sense, and Ylawes did relax, but he was still humbled by all that had happened and said as much.
“I feel like I’ve aged ten years, Nailren. And lost and gained so much. All our magic…but the other adventurers pulled their weight, and I learned some…hard lessons. I shall be glad to reach Goisedall. There will be Rhir’s hells to pay, but you will have my gratitude, and House Byres’, forever.”
Nailren eyed Ylawes and sombered a bit as Pekona, striding ahead in the advance guard in case of Landsharks or bandits, glanced at them. Nailren tapped his nose and shot a glance at the pony that Dawil was walking next to that carried a bundle of their personal gear…and the Mithril equipment Ylawes’ team had taken from the keep without telling the Terlands.
“I think you’ll land well enough after this fall, Captain Ylawes, and I am being paid handsomely by The Wandering Inn for my services. Fear not, though I might tell you to get a bag of holding as soon as we reach civilization. Though my nose is a bit refined, even among my kind.”
He’d noticed the Mithril and not said a word? Ylawes flushed and ducked his head, grateful again that Nailren was a man of honor. He’d not paid attention to the Gnoll way back when in Liscor, but now…
