“Good. That’s good. Well, you’ll…not hear from me. But check back in here or any Adventurer’s Guild for the resolution and your pay. Knowing the Merchant’s Guild, it might take months for backpay, but it’s in our ledgers, and they never forget.”
She gave them a rueful smile as Larr stood with the other two, and the Guildmistress held out a clawed hand.
“Congratulations on surviving and getting so many out.”
“Thank you, Guildmistress. We didn’t do much—”
“No. Congratulations. That’s all, adventurers. I’ve seen more than a number of our kind come back, and we do make it more than others. But few come back with the people they went out with. Good job.”
Ylawes’ stomach growled, and the [Guildmistress] smiled as he blushed.
“Now get something to eat, would you?”
Nothing would please Ylawes more than to eat the bread he was carrying or head back to the Seafarer’s Catch for the promised meal, but they had to leave the city first.
Poke Duo and Nailren had camped a ways away from the city. It was more taxing to even walk out that far than Dawil, Ylawes, and Larr thought. They were exhausted, but when they found the campsite, near a flat rock with two grazing horses, Ylawes didn’t see the trio.
At first, he thought they had left and was greatly worried; the ground was just empty, denuded of any tents, until he heard a psst.
“Hey, Captain Guy! Here!”
He jumped, turned, and what he’d taken for a patch of grass lifted up. Rasktooth waved at him from the hole the three had dug. Larr leapt back in shock, and Dawil laughed.
Infinitypear, seeming quite smug, pushed more dirt out of the hole as Nailren appeared and sniffed.
“Is that bread I smell? There’s nothing to hunt for ages, and I don’t fancy just worms. We’ve dug a hole to hide our things and keep unwanted attention away from us. I’m amazed how fast Antinium dig.”
Leave it to those three to identify Goisedall’s problems and take precautions. Ylawes reached for his belt pouch.
“We’ve settled in the city, but I’m afraid you two can’t enter, Poke Duo. I’m sorry. Nailren, if you wanted to—I brought bread! But everything else is dear.”
The bread made the two young adventurers cheer, and Nailren bared his teeth.
“After seeing the state of the city, I understand, Ylawes. I’ll head back into the wilds after this, maybe after doing some shopping if there’s anything to be had. Bread and our provisions will more than do. And Poke Duo’s fine company.”
Rasktooth grinned as he cut up some of the bread and added some sliced-up tuber-worm, fried and crispy, to a sandwich. Nailren didn’t even blink as he produced some sauce to go with it. And some of yesterday’s clams he’d squirreled away.
Dead gods, that looks like a feast! Ylawes genuinely hesitated when Rasktooth invited him to share the food, but he shook his head.
“No, I, ah, I can get more. It’s nearly dinner time at the inn, and I could bring you some…?”
“This is fine, Captain. We is like Nailren, yah? He very wise.”
The Gnoll nodded.
“I appreciate learning from these two. Those tuberworms…fascinating. I’ll walk around tomorrow, but you seem ready to pass out. You sure you won’t have some?”
Dawil, Larr, and Ylawes hesitated, the [Knight] most of all since he hadn’t had that glorious bread, but there wasn’t a full abundance of food here. Infinitypear couldn’t even eat the bread, so he was making a tuber-worm sandwich with fried clam.
“We’ll have food. Do you need someone to trade out, Nailren?”
“I’m rested, and I’ll keep watch, Ylawes. You’ve been starved. Rest indeed.”
Nailren reassured Ylawes, and the man ducked his head. He’d have to make it up to Nailren, somehow. Dawil eyed their camp.
“Any trouble with people sniffing around, lads? Especially with the…cargo?”
He meant the Mithril. Ylawes hadn’t known where the pack was at first and had worried greatly until Dawil had told him he’d asked Poke Duo to hold onto it. Infinitypear pointed down and spoke.
“We have been sitting on it so it is not stolen out from under our feet, Dawil. That is also why Captain Nailren suggested we dig a hole.”
“Even if a [Thief] has a detection Skill, they don’t like the unexpected, and most aren’t good with bushcraft. We’ll keep an eye out, but once we close the hole off with some tarp, only a master would get in without us noticing.”
Another sensible precaution that eased Ylawes’ mind. Dawil slapped Infinitypear on the shoulder.
“Good lads. Just remember, you run into issues, you leg it, and let’s call…the New Lands ridge where everyone’s travelling our meetup point, got it, lads? Thanks for holding down the fort. We’ll be travelling eastwards for a bit, probably. Just so we can eat! Then we might see about what comes next.”
They left Poke Duo, and Ylawes double-timed it…at a fast walk…to Goisedall. He was starving, now. But fortunately, the Seafarer’s Catch was waiting for him. Inside—
 
——
 
Oh, dead gods it was a party. They had drinks, the Terlands were having one of their Golems sing a pre-recorded song, and there was grilled sausage and the promised stew.
Hearty.
Filling.
Larr bolted inside, and Dawil shouted.
“Food! Falene, if you’ve eaten my sausage, I’ll kill you and tell every half-Elf in Gaiil-Drome you’re a hypocrite meat-eater!”
She had not eaten their food, which came over hot and steaming as Ylawes sat, almost crying for relief. He didn’t know if the food or drink was making everyone giddy; he saw Dasha standing up on a chair.
“Here’s to adventuring! I feel aliiiiive!”
Some of the expeditioners were dancing, the Terlands clapping along to the song. They were all smiling, and it was the food, the stomachs, that produced a euphoria beyond anything you could imagine.
Only when you’d starved, actually starved, did a meal become a celebration. Larr joined his team, and only Pekona seemed to not be scarfing down her food. Her soup, yes, but she’d glanced up when Ylawes had come in, and she had a little wooden box—one of her possessions—placed on the table next to him.
When he reached for his plate, she seemed to relax and was lifting the lid of the box and bringing her bowl over when someone shouted.
“City Runner! Ylawes Byres! I’m a City Runner, not a [Thief]!”
There was a hooting sound from outside, a Golem’s warning and the two [Door Guards]. Ylawes spun, and his heart sank as Gliva strode over.
“I’ve heard that one before—oh, wait. I do know you. For you? Captain Ylawes?”
He rose, half-tempted to grab the bowl of soup. Dawil grunted.
“I’ll save your sausage, lad. Go for it.”
Falene was still casting [Message] spells and glowered at him as she nodded. Ylawes stepped for the door, and a panting young Drake waved at him.
“Sir—urgent request for you to take a [Message] at the Mage’s Guild!”
“Now? From whom? Can’t it wait?”
Ylawes stared inside at his food, but the City Runner shrugged.
“Sorry, sir. I just get paid to run ‘em, not call shots. You know how it is. Someone’s waiting on a live [Message] spell for you. Heard you got in from the Merchant’s Guild or something. Lord Yitton? And a Ysara? They had requests in for the moment someone knew you were alive.”
Father. Ysara? Ylawes closed his eyes. Oh, they had been concerned. He hesitated, glanced back at his food.
“Could I just—no, they’re waiting at the Guild? I’ll go. I’ll be back in just a second.”
“Lad, come on and get some food! They’ll hold twenty minutes!”
Dawil shouted, but the City Runner disagreed.
“They might not. ‘Less I say you’re on the way, everyone wants a spot.”
“Damn it—I’m coming! Someone save my food!”
Ylawes hesitated, but he couldn’t let his family think he was still in danger. He began to stride out the door, and Falene called out.
“Hold on, Ylawes! I’m coming!”
He actually lost her as the City Runner dashed down the street, and Ylawes had to move at a jog, cursing his leaden body. But when they got to the full Mage’s Guild and he found himself sitting at a booth as a [Message] scroll was shoved in front of him by a tired-looking [Mage]…
Falene. And she’d brought his soup.
“Someone stole the sausage when I wasn’t looking. Dawil, probably. Here.”
She put it down as Ylawes read, and he smiled at her. She sat down, patting her stomach.
“I’m exhausted and playing [Message] mage.”
“Thank you so much, Falene. I just…oh, dead gods damn it.”
Falene glanced down at Ylawes as he swore again, twice in a day—and she groaned. The familiar, golden writing on the scroll was tracing itself out.
 
This superior [Message] experience has been brought to you by the Terras faction of Wistram—
 
“That’s standard with everything now. Just skip it.”
“How?”
“You press a quill here and hold and—it’s [Adaptive Message], well, that’s the shorthand of the spell. I learned it from my contacts. So much magic in Wistram. I wish I’d stayed to learn it. Or joined Terras.”
Falene Skystrall sighed, and Ylawes saw the message write itself out, then vanish as the actual text began writing itself.
 
Lord Yitton Byres is online and waiting, Message Log 1.
Lady Ysara Byres is present, Message Log 2.
 
He began writing with a quill as he spoke to Falene out of the corner of his mouth.
“Did you get in touch with Insill’s parents?”
“I sent everything. They’re probably just getting the Street Runners I paid for now. I’m receiving. And it saves us gold, probably, since everything here costs a fortune. Your parents could have come through me…but they probably tried. I think they paid for a message set, so there’s no point rerouting through me.”
“Thank you, Falene. Seriously. I’ll pay you back for the [Messages], it’s just—the List of Expeditioners looked dire.”
She waved it away.
“Ylawes, don’t even bother. Do you think I’m heartless? And listening to some of what the Terlands were saying to their house was very enlightening. Golemancer Martz is a classic specialist. He doesn’t even know [Message]—likely because he had a Message Scroll and he resents being made to cast it. So they went through me.”
Ylawes was having two conversations at once. One in person, one on the page. He wrote, ‘I am here in Goisedall’s Mage’s Guild. Father, are you here?’
Then wrote one for Ysara. He had to figure out how to state what had happened…he glanced at Falene as his stomach rumbled.
“Oh. Interesting. What did they say? And—Pekona?”
Falene twisted, and a grimace appeared on her slightly besmudged features as Pekona shyly stepped into the booth. She had a weird lacquered box in her hand, and she fidgeted.
“Captain, Falene, I’m sorry. I—I was hoping to send a [Message].”
“Oh, of course. Pull up a seat—”
There was none, so Falene pointed, and a little pillar of earth rose. Pekona sat awkwardly as Falene gestured to her.
“If you write it down, Pekona? It was fascinating, Ylawes. Lady Ulva Terland…she reacted to the death of Lord Restraud as you might imagine. Her first two replies after all the explanations. ‘A Hunter-Killer Golem of 2nd Vaults will be dispatched for the murderers if they are not dead.’ And then—‘Do you suspect Reinharts?’ In that order. Hunter-Killer, Ylawes. That must be some kind of elite-Golem. And vaults…”
He remembered she loved secrets, and Pekona raised her hand.
“Miss Falene? What is that for Terland Golems?”
Again, Falene appeared a bit annoyed as she stopped leaning over to whisper with Ylawes.
“Specialist ones, Pekona. Golems so rare or powerful that no one has seen them. Terland Relics. Lady Ulva Terland was so incensed she was prepared to send one to avenge the death of Lord Restraud, which is simple. Her immediately suspecting one of the other Five Families did it is fascinating. And revealing how much she trusts them. I’ve heard the Reinharts are more active, so that is a commentary on them…”
“Oh, I see.”
Pekona fidgeted, head bowed. She had her black hair tied back, and like Falene, she looked slightly unkempt, though Ylawes was not one to talk. Falene saw Pekona staring at her hand in her lap and tsked.
“You don’t have any paper? You need to ask! Excuse me? Paper for [Messages] and ink.”
She snapped her fingers, and Pekona took it with murmured thanks. Ylawes thought there was a bit of less charitability on Falene’s side towards Pekona, but then, she hadn’t warmed to Poke Duo immediately either. He was still waiting for his father to start writing, so he sat back.
“Some soup would be good. Where’s that bowl, Falene?”
“Right here. It’s…huh?”
Falene pointed, and Ylawes turned his head to the end table in the booth, and he saw a little ring of moisture and no bowl. Falene half-rose.
“Wait, I put it—excuse me, where did—”
His heart sank into his boots as he realized that in the moments between him sitting and writing, someone had walked off with…
Maybe they’d thought it was someone else, and they’d bring it right back? When he saw a young [Apprentice] glance at the spot and shake their head, Ylawes put his head on the table.
There’s still food back at the inn. There’s still food back at—
The blow of the missing soup bowl left Falene angry and embarrassed, and when she came back, apologizing, he just shook his head. He was glad when she put her finger to her temples.
“Ylawes, I’ll go and get—hold on, it’s Insill’s parents. Quill, paper!”
She snapped her fingers, and he and Pekona scrambled to let her write. Then Ylawes’ gnawing hunger diminished as he was brought back into reality again. Because, well, it might be an invasion of privacy, but Falene was the [Mage] receiving [Messages]. She’d lectured Ylawes and Dawil long enough on how ‘privacy’ really didn’t exist with such spells or the Mage’s Guild. Plus…he couldn’t help it.
Falene spoke as she wrote.
“‘Insill, this is Reebis. Just got the Runner. Was at work, so I’m taking it straight home. Mom must be sleeping or Dad’s out. They have her on sleeping pills because she was so worried. Everyone was. Gonna buy a cow steak for everyone. You chowder-faced idiot. You okay? Got all your limbs? Don’t tell Mom if you don’t. She’s watching scrying orb every night. Knew you’d make it.’ Ah, that’s—well.”
Falene broke out of her trance, and Ylawes felt guilty, then embarrassed and unaccountably relieved.
“Who was that? Insill’s brother? They sound so…conversational.”
He turned, and Pekona nodded.
“Yes. He has six siblings.”
“Six?”
Falene and Ylawes chorused, in awe; Falene was a single-child, and Ylawes from his three-children family thought they were numerous. Then he sat.
“Sleeping pills. That’s…I imagine she was worried. Are the New Lands on the news?”
