“A picture worth more than a thousand of these Drake words. They are barbarous indeed, despite their legislation. My conscience is affronted to see a [Knight] alone, even one of Izril! Is a [Knight] not a [Knight], friends?”
—The speakers were a group of five on horseback who sat on their saddles as Ylawes Byres slowed and his head turned. The three men, one of whom had a little easel and painter’s palette mounted to one gauntleted arm via a mechanical contraption, turned to a woman in rust-red armor. Her visor was up, and she met Ylawes’ eyes, just once.
A tingling went all the way up Ylawes’ back, to his head, and down his boots. The woman turned.
“This is indeed so! Ser Brindelhor, you speak the truth, and truth guides us! Squire, stand back.”
“But Knightess—”
“You have no control in a melee. Let us not hurt these Drakes, but stop this affront. Thousand Lances of Kaaz—forwards.”
“Gently, gently.”
That came from the last of the [Knights], and his voice was as old as his lined face as he flicked his visor down on his bell-shaped helm. Four [Knights] dismounted from their horses and strode forwards as the last gathered the reins of the other animals. They strolled forwards on parade, every facet of their armor gleaming.
A seven-foot giant who stowed his painter’s palette, armor green and embossed with trees. The half-Elf put his helmet on his head with a sigh. A shorter [Knight] had a cloak of velvet which blew across his back as he reached for a greatsword on his back, then let it go.
“Not an intègre foe we have met yet. Fists must do, inélégant as they are.”
“Let us not alarm the Walled Cities, indeed.”
The female [Knight] of the four did not draw her sword, but she did raise it. Still sheathed. The last [Knight] drew a flail and shield and rattled it lightly. Ylawes shouted.
“Watch—”
The Drakes didn’t realize this group was not part of his team. They just saw armored figures who weren’t their own and associated them with the Humans. The first one raised a spear as he charged at the old [Knight] in—
Mithril armor? The gleaming metal took the spear blow, and the Drake slammed against the butt of her own shield. Because the armor would not give or yield, and the [Knight] just walked into her.
“It goes against good conscience to hit a lady.”
He tapped her with the edge of his shield, and she fell down. The whites of her eyes showed as her eyes rolled up into her head. At this, the half-Elf raised his hands.
“Ach, they employ the fairer sex here for the Watch? You have saved me from disgrace, Lord Volede!”
The half-Elf drew a pair of longswords, also sheathed, and knocked down a Drake swinging a sword at him. When the Drake faltered and slashed up—
[Rising Slash]! The [Knight] parried the blow, thrusting the sword down into the earth. He stepped on it, then stood there.
“I shall be prudent in case I err.”
Another Drake rode down at him with a spear. Without pivoting, the [Knight] chopped the tip of the spear up. He stood there as the Watch charged him, and his swords swung.
Deflect an axe’s swing into the ground, chopping a swinging sword such that it flew out of one Drake’s hands, flicking a spear tip up so hard it took the Drake off their feet—
So fast and precise the Drakes bunched up, running into each other. Tried to surge forwards and ran into the [Knight] with the velvet cloak. He raised a fist, punched a [Soldier] in armor so hard it dented the plate, and advanced, throwing hands.
Female, male, he left a trail through the Drakes as they split in front of him. One [Soldier] rammed into him at a full charge, broke his shoulder, and was thrust aside.
The Thousand Lances split the Goisedall charge around them like a thing out of stories. Their leader was swinging her sheathed sword, ignoring blows to her Adamantium armor, as she raised a hand.
“Fairly met, Knight of Izril! We are the Thousand Lances of Kaaz! We salute your courage! A [Knight] never stands alone!”
An arrow pinged off her helmet, and she laughed. Then she whirled her longsword up.
“Ah, here’s the teeth!”
A [Fireball] split as she slashed it in half, blooming around her in bursts of flame. The [Knight] kept walking forwards as she began cutting spells out of the air.
“They’ll harm their own more than us. Dear me.”
The old [Knight] watched as a [Mage] tossed a [Lightning Bolt], then raised his mirror-bright shield and bounced it back. He winced as the bolt hit the ground and threw the [Mage].
“No barrier spells?”
“They’re not close to even one of our magical brothers. Not a single one who’d even touch the thousandth!”
Dismissively, the bare-knuckle [Knight] backhanded a Drake—the Watch was turning, trying to flee now.
Ylawes Byres stood, mouth open. Did he hear that right?
The Thousand Lances of Kaaz? The greatest [Knights] in the entire…
He knew them, of course. He’d grown up hearing stories of them, and he stood still as Captain Dulc charged the one in Adamantium. He shouted a Skill, accelerated—
She spread her arms wide. Let him hit her with a crack like thunder straight on the chest. When Ylawes looked again, Dulc was riding away, cradling a broken arm as his enchanted spear lay on the ground.
Then he realized they were the genuine article. Ylawes only moved when he heard a ding and saw an arrow flash at him—only for a slim [Knight] on horseback to cut it out of the air.
“Your side, Sir Knight! They do not fight chivalrously at all, these Drakes?”
“Squire! You are disobedient! Again! Argh. What will I do with you, girl?”
The Adamantium [Knight] shouted, and her [Squire] bowed nimbly in the saddle.
“Your infinite pardons, Knightess Rosenthine!”
Rosenthine? Ylawes started and thought he knew that—then he saw the Silver Swords were halted as well.
“Dead gods. Are those Named-rankers?”
Anith breathed, but even Dawil was wide-eyed. Of course, he was actually Terandrian. And Falene’s mouth was ajar.
“Is that Rosenthine? The Rosenthine? What are they—?”
Goisedall was in full retreat. Drakes were playing dead on the ground or getting up to run, and the tallest of the [Knights] lowered his swords, raised his visor, and a half-Elf’s merry green eyes twinkled as he turned to Ylawes.
“Dame Rosenthine, this lot appears to be routed well enough. Do we advance?”
“Nay, Thousand Lances, hold! Our battle done.”
Rosenthine called lightly, though the ‘battle’ had taken all of minutes, and the snort from the fist-knight made it clear how much of a fight he’d call that. They turned to Ylawes, and each one took their helmet off.
The half-Elf clasped fist to his chest and bowed. Rosenthine and her [Squire] bowed, arms to their sides. The one with the cloak tapped his knuckles to his visor and slashed downwards. The old [Knight] just nodded.
“We are the Thousand Lances, Knight of Izril. How are you called and how did a Drake army come to chase your company?”
Rosenthine spoke, and her [Squire] pointed.
“And is that not a Goblin and should be slain?”
Everyone turned, saw Rasktooth and Infinitypear, and the [Knights] recoiled. The half-Elf peered at Rasktooth, who had frozen up.
“A Goblin? Dead gods, Izril truly does have more than Terandria!”
“Dead now.”
The velvet-cloak [Knight] drew a greatsword so fast Ylawes thought he and Pekona would have been slower on the draw. He began to advance, and Ylawes’ sword was rising when there was another soft ping.
An arrow hit the sword that the [Squire] had drawn—again, so fast Ylawes didn’t even see it, and everyone turned. In the distance, a Gnoll standing on a hill lowered a bow and howled. Just once.
“Nailren?”
Ylawes squinted. Was that him? Only, the fur was slightly wrong, and the [Knights] turned.
 
“Yonder lies a Gnoll.”
“First I’ve seen outside of mixed company.”
“Another painting! Do they quarrel with us?”
“If they do, I hold them to account as well.”
“Hold, hold your temper, Ser Brindelhor! I think—”
 
—Then the angry [Knight] stopped lifting his greatsword, and Ylawes, still eying Goisedall’s reforming army, worrying they might come back with more preparation, felt his mind go blank.
His worries. His stress. The stunned feeling of meeting the Thousand Lances in the flesh, the awe and dismay at their overwhelming levels…
Just for a moment, it receded, and he remembered the New Lands beyond the horizon. The wind blew, and blue tuft-seeds floated down from the distant hills that were so inhospitable. The strange land that had risen from the sea.
But not for us. That was what they all forgot. Haughty [Knights]. Drakes. Adventurers. [Merchants], and everyone else.
It had been just for one people. At last, no, fast given how far they had come and how many—they came.
The howl was picked up not by one voice, a hundred, or even a thousand. The lone Gnoll [Scout] raised a paw, and then the first figures appeared over the small rise of ground.
Gnolls. Marching as clouds of dust rose and cows tromped forwards, so many cattle that they formed huge lines on each side of the Gnolls. Corralled by [Riders] on horses, and some even being ridden by Gnolls.
Not just cows. Sheep on the left, huge herds moving like the clouds themselves had come down to earth, fluffy white clouds with little black legs, or dark clouds. Even ones in blue or yellow. Sheep baahing like the quaking earth—goats—
Corusdeer, even horned buffalo-things that Ylawes had never seen before. Any animal that ate grass and could be herded. And walking between the rivers of livestock—Gnolls.
They carried much of their burdens on their shoulders, in huge packs, on pack animals, or wagons, but children and adults all strode across the ground at a steady pace that seemed like it could carry them forwards forever.
Gnolls of every color of fur. From coal black to the brilliant red that was almost regal in color, blond gleaming fur like Ylawes’ hair, classic brown, and white.
White Gnolls? Ylawes started as he saw them dotted in the tribe marching his way, who still kept coming without number. Doombearers.
So many.
Then he knew who they had to be, but he could not think. Could not do more than watch—for they did not come merely in the earthquake of hooves. Nor the braying of so many animals.
Nor even to Goisedall, whose Drakes had backed behind their walls in sudden fear, with dreadful cries. Instead, that first howl had joined a sound which became a rumble…then a song. A song that surely, everyone in the world had heard, now.
The Gnolls’ most famous song.
 
“So when my fur calls me to seek the heart of stories.
To brave the world’s dangers and lay eyes on sights unseen.
Chasing long lost trails of our trials and our glories
To find the heart of stories sang to me.”
 
——
 
Great Plains Sing. The same song that Nailren had once sang as he rode to the New Lands. The Gnoll stood on Goisedall’s walls, bow lowered, the stolen Watch helmet pushed back.
Feeling sort of stupid as he saw that tribe, who still might be called the largest in Izril, marching forwards. He rubbed at his face and sighed.
“Here comes trouble. But I guess…who else and where else?”
Then he joined the chorus that filled the air. Drowning out every other sound and bringing the colonists to silence. The Terlands standing with their little Golems like toys arrayed around them.
The Drakes hiding behind their short walls, gazing at the other people of Izril. Who came singing, reminding all who heard their voices of why the New Lands existed.
Why they were here.
Plain’s Eye. The tribe who had broken themselves on treachery and the truth, not redeemed or forgiven, but continuing on. For there was no other way.
Nailren’s eyes picked out a huge Gnoll in the center of the procession, who strode ahead, his fur marked like a [Shamanic Warrior], despite the fact that he now led them all.
Chieftain Merish, and bounding next to him, singing his heart out, a little Lizardman. Viri. Nailren sighed. For all his trepidations, complications, intellectual worries…
Dead gods, but it was such a perfect way to come to the New Lands.
 
——
 
In hindsight, it probably wasn’t Ylawes’ Skill that had created this confluence of events that saved his team.
Maybe, just maybe, you could call the Thousand Lances’ arrival part of his Skill, [Luck of the Foolhardy]. But calling on the greatest knight-order with a Skill? Unlikely.
More likely it was how he and Pekona had managed to make a romance out of some terrible lines over dinner.
This?
This was just the inevitable. Although it would be wrong to assume it was all unconnected.
Plain’s Eye kept coming. They were streaming into the New Lands without even hesitating. Driving on their herds and bearing their mobile tents, not even slowing though they knew there was no magic and no arable soil ahead.
Did it look like they cared? Their [Shamans] drew from the collective of their people; they had few artifacts to lose. And as for food…
They had animals who grazed on grass. The same grass that was so plentiful.
The perfect settlers. The ones that this land belonged to. One look at them and Ylawes Byres realized that in every way he and the others had been unprepared—the Gnolls were ready. They had lived their entire life on the move. They knew how to hunt—to forage—and they had come in such numbers that no expedition could equal them.
What was humbling, gratifying, was the fact that Plain’s Eye knew his team. Chieftain Merish raised a paw and called to him, slowing, as Gnolls kept moving around him.
“Captain Ylawes Byres? I trust that will help you. Though I do not know the particulars of your issue with the city. The Merchant’s Guild? They are a tricksome foe, yes? If you require shelter with my tribe, march with us. We head into the New Lands. Not far, I think; it is good to take a spot close to the edge. But we have made it.”
It had been months of marching and trying to salvage a tribe fallen to pieces and despair. He appeared older, and Ylawes stuttered.
“Y-you know me, Chieftain Merish?”
They had never met, but the Gnoll just nodded. He opened his mouth, and Viri bounded forwards.
“Of course we do! Your team’s a fun Gold-rank team—can I have an autograph? Plus, you know Erin Solstice, and the Horns of Hammerad were at the Meeting of Tribes! Berr the Berserker’s apprentice is your sister! When we heard you were in trouble with those Drakes—damn Drakes, they’re always doing stuff like this—Merish insisted we help! Especially because Mrsha asked!”
Mrsha. Ylawes started, and Merish grinned as he pushed Viri.
“Viri. Excuse my friend. Yes, a certain Gnoll child found us. We should never deny such a request.”
