Food? Ylawes didn’t know how [Merchants] worked, but the [Guildmaster] was stammering, now.
“Y-Your Majesty of Germina, I cannot take our members’ goods to use as coinage! I don’t have the market value, and the scandal—”
Evidently, the Quarass had lost patience with the Drake. If she’d had any to begin with. She clicked her fingers, and someone offscreen handed her something. She read it, then flicked her eyes back up.
“Guildmaster, I would advise you to turn down the sound on this scrying spell. I am going to say something you would not like repeated. Then, if I am not obliged within the minute, I shall repeat it to all interested parties.”
He fumbled with the scrying mirror, then held it against one ear. Ylawes didn’t see the Quarass’ face or hear what was said, and even the Gnolls couldn’t hear as they cupped their ears, but whatever she said, the [Guildmaster] turned dead white. Then he turned and began running.
“Get me an inventory of everything we’ve got. One minute, Your Majesty! One—”
He ran. In the ensuing silence, Falene managed to close her jaw.
“W-was that the Quarass of Germina? Interceding on our behalf?”
She turned to Ylawes for confirmation, and he was just as wide-eyed.
“I think so. Lyonette has some connection to her. Did she say Lyonette was her student?”
“Lyonette, taught by the Quarass of Germina.”
Falene repeated it and shook her head. She fiddled with her spectacles, shaking her head.
“She’s certainly risen to the occasion. I remember when she was just a meek [Barmaid]. I think we owe her all a debt of thanks. But what is so pressing that she has to send a monarch to help us instead of someone at the inn?”
Ylawes was hungry and watched her nibbling at her biscuit, and he just shook his head.
“I can’t even think. Falene, Comigen was worried about our agreement. You haven’t said anything, have you?”
She eyed him and seemed to know exactly what he meant in a moment. She sighed.
“Ylawes, I’ve not said a word, and I suggest we keep it that way at the moment. Dawil knows better than to run his mouth, I trust. Let’s focus on lodging first, shall we?”
Chastened and embarrassed, he nodded, and Falene glanced around.
“Pekona, Anith, if you’re free, why don’t you help us port whatever the Quarass gets out of here? We may need to be a touch discreet if it’s a large amount.”
Both jumped to obey, and Petia herself was ready to haul goods, but Ylawes found the [Guildmaster] himself returning with a bag of holding.
“Courtesy of the Merchant’s Guild of Goisedall. I trust this will be enough, Your Majesty. We do apologize for all our inconveniences.”
The small ruler in the scrying mirror glanced at Ylawes once.
“It shall. Ylawes Byres of the Silver Swords, inform Lyonette that I have acceded to her request. I am not pleased. Our relationship is not one to be called on for trivial matters. But perhaps—”
She tilted her head.
“I would advise you to take a month to recover, regardless. Remember this favor. I shall.”
“Thank you, Your M—”
The scrying mirror went blank, and Ylawes stared at it, then at the Drake. Wordlessly, the [Guildmaster] backed up. Ylawes glanced into the bag of holding he’d been given as everyone stared at him. It was always hard to see into such things, but he thought he saw several sacks of something and…
Was that sausage? Dried links of it? Bags of holding were like looking down into a pitch-black cellar from above and seeing items floating in the void. But he thought he saw a sausage twirling in the aether, and his stomach growled.
“Well, I don’t know what to think but I believe we have our payment. Where’s that inn, Ylawes? We only had an hour, and we’ve eaten most of it up. Let’s go.”
Falene plucked the bag of holding out of Ylawes’ hands. She fastened it to her belt and swept for the doors. Everyone followed, and Ylawes stood there. He wanted to thank Lyonette, but she never came back.
She must have been busy.
 
——
 
Dawil was outside the Merchant’s Guild with the others, hopping from foot to foot. His face betrayed his nerves as he eyed the disappointed people leaving; House Terland was standing around disconsolately, and he burst out the moment he saw them.
“Lad, how much did you get? Anything? I reckon we’re better off getting to Nailren’s camp or just marching if not…”
Ylawes grimaced at him, then clenched a fist on the edge of his shield. Dawil’s posture relaxed instantly, though he pretended not to have noticed their private sign. Falene sniffed.
“Nothing really. House Terland has all the weight. Come on, let’s figure out what we’re doing.”
Outwardly, the three Gold-rankers were dismayed, and Lord Comigen’s party was the group the people beyond the Merchant’s Guild were turning to. However, it was Lord Comigen who seemed the most dismayed.
“Fifty gold pieces. Well, ah, shall we find a place of residence? Then the Mage’s Guild…”
 
——
 
The Seafarer’s Catch wasn’t far from the Merchant’s Guild, and it was on the main street. Ylawes had to move at a crawl given the press of bodies, and he actually let the Terlands’ Golems clear a way.
He had to act casual, anyways, not reveal that Falene had something to use as coinage, here. Vuliel Drae was dismayed at first as Insill, Larr, and Dasha feared that they were going to have to leave, but Anith managed to communicate what was going on subtly.
It was Homle’s group who was the most anxious, but Ylawes just walked along, head on a swivel.
What he saw made him incredulous. As he’d been told by Gliva, everywhere was packed. People were crowding every building, banging on doors to ask to rent other people’s homes, but that wasn’t all.
A group of Drakes was marching out of the city gates, hauling lumber and tools to build more places for people to rest. They passed a dice game on the streets where silver was glittering on the rug.
“Oi! No gambling in the open!”
A Watch officer shouted, but she was so far back and so many people wanted her attention to report thefts, to ask for help, that the gamblers just kept playing three rolls of the dice before she got to them and made them break it up.
Gambling in the open? Well, that wasn’t all—Ylawes heard a shout.
“You there? Anyone fancy a good time? Come on over for lodging for an hour?”
Lodging for an hour? He didn’t think that was worth it—when Ylawes turned his head, he saw a Human woman waving at Homle and his group. She blew a kiss at him, and he blinked at her. He felt like something was off, but he was so desperate he called back.
“Can we rent for a night? What are your rates?”
Dawil slapped his face as the woman paused, then laughed.
“That’s pricier, sir, but come along and we’ll see what we can do!”
“Lad. Lad, that’s a [Prostitute].”
Dawil growled as Ylawes was about to ask Insill to step over, and Ylawes jumped and turned crimson.
“What, in the open like that? I’ve seen them in big cities, but on the main street? Isn’t it illegal here?”
“Might be. But in a city this bustling?”
The Watch officer had turned her head, but the woman advertising ‘services’ was gone. Which was not to say that there wasn’t a lot of interest there! More than one person Ylawes passed by on the streets was drunk, and it wasn’t even that far past midday! In fact, one of them came over.
“Hey, Miss. How much for a quick one, you and me?”
“What?”
Pekona jumped as a man caught her shoulder with the missing arm with a grin. He blinked as he saw her stump of an arm.
“If you’re on discount—”
“Oi. She’s not for sale, flatface. Back off!”
Before Ylawes could get back there, Petia shoved the drunk back, and he growled—right up until he saw Larr bare his teeth and Anith and Dasha put hands on their blades. Then the drunk was backing up.
“Damn it, I can’t even ask—?”
Ylawes wanted a stern word with the man himself, and he was pushing forwards in the crowd to say something when there was a yelp, a shout, and a Drake went leaping away from him.
“I’m sorry, I didn’t see where I was—”
Ylawes’ first thought was he’d stepped on her foot, but when he saw the young Drake was clutching at her clawed hand, he blinked. There was blood on her scales. She had on a hood, nondescript clothing, and she was—
“[Thief]!”
Dawil roared, and Ylawes’ hand flew to his belt pouch. It wasn’t there! She’d robbed—!
Insill brandished a dagger as he backed up, Ylawes’ belt pouch in hand. The [Rogue] handed it to Ylawes as he spat.
“Claws off! This is my team, not a foist’s mark, idiots.”
He lowered his dagger and flashed a few weird signs with his claws. The Drake [Thief] was backing away fast, and someone tried to grab her.
“[Thief]! Call the Watch! Grab the—”
She went running, shoving at the crowd, who shouted and grabbed for their money bags. Ylawes, shaken, had hold on his pouch as Insill turned.
“Sorry, Captain. Barely saw her. I’m all rusty—”
“You saved us, Insill. What did you do there?”
The Drake blushed.
“Oh, you know, just a few thief-signs. If anyone’s watching they’ll back off a bit. Probably. But let’s get out of here fast; they must have smelled you had gold on you. That drunk might’ve been a distraction—or she just took the opportunity. Classic setup-and-grab.”
Ylawes was appalled. He was used to pickpockets and, yes, even [Prostitutes], but Goisedall was rife with both by the sounds of it! Falene was also incensed.
“Tree rot, I’ve had enough of this. Everyone back!”
Falene swept back, staff raised, and a blast of wind made everyone around her flinch backwards. The air didn’t freeze or knock people away, but suddenly, Ylawes felt a tiny bit quicker.
[Mass Speed]? No, [Mass Quickening]. A Tier 2 spell or something. It lasted all of fifteen seconds, but it let the Silver Swords and their company close ranks. Falene spoke loudly.
“Let’s get out of here. Stick together! Are we missing anyone?”
They were, actually. So Petia and Homle had to move back with Larr and Dasha to find members of their group being bogged down, but they were almost at the inn. Ylawes passed by Lord Comigen’s party and heard the [Lord] trying to buy passage in a nice inn where a Drake with folded arms and a fresh apron was barring the doors. Lovely smells of grilled meat wafted from within, and it didn’t seem too crowded, but the Drake refused the [Lord] entry.
“You don’t have enough gold for that many, let alone Golems, sir.”
“They’ll act as security!”
“It’s standing room only; they’d take our floor space.”
“Then they can stand outside! But see here, I have this much gold…”
The fifty gold pieces plus a handful from the rest of the Terlands did not impress the Drake, who counted up his group.
“That’s not enough for more than three rooms, sir. Food would not be included, either.”
“See here! We’re nobles and members of the Five Families! Our very presence would add a touch of prestige and level you all from—”
Lady Safta began, and the Drake laughed.
“Hah! I’m very sorry, sirs, madams, but that’s not worth more than a gold coin or two. If you’d like one or two rooms with a meal, please let me know. Otherwise—please clear the entryway! [Server’s Orders]!”
And he shoved them back. The nobles were so aghast they didn’t even fight the Skill. Lord Comigen was pulling at his hair.
“Why, I’ve never been—Drakes!”
He said it like a curse, and Ylawes saw his head turn, hunted, to the inn that Ylawes was approaching. A Gnoll and Drake were sitting on the front steps, and one growled.
“No entry. One person talks to Gliva at a time—”
“We’re the Silver Swords! We have a reservation?”
The two door-guards blinked at him, and one got up and opened the inn, revealing a much quieter one as-yet unflooded. The staff were bringing out fresh bread to hungry clients. And Hostess Gliva?
Well, she was visibly startled when he presented his company, and she gestured at the insides, a touch embarrassed.
“To be honest, I didn’t think you could pay, so we’ve taken in people for food. Plenty of time to fill the night’s lodging…I meant what I said, though. Unless you have gold on hand, no entry.”
“Would this do, Miss?”
Falene pushed forwards and showed Gliva the contents of her bag of holding and whispered in her ear as she flashed some gold at the [Hostess]. Gliva’s eyes focused on the bag of holding.
“That—where’d you get that?”
“Merchant’s Guild. I think it would be worth quite a bit, although perhaps more than a night’s lodging? May we speak to your [Innkeeper]?”
Falene was very good. Gliva stepped back and was calling for the [Innkeeper], and Ylawes watched, heart rising, as the two Drake women conferred with the half-Elf and then called out.
“Torga, Ribreg, [Memorize Faces]! This entire group is booked for the night! Everyone with the, uh, Silver Swords!”
The [Door Guards] raised their brows, but the Gnoll sniffed and grinned.
“Hells yes. That’s worth more’n gold. Alright, enter one by one so we get a good look at you. We don’t know you? You don’t enter. Too many damn [Sneak Thieves]. Who’s with you?”
He turned to Ylawes, and the [Knight] stood, incredulous. Relieved. Dawil grinned.
“I knew that The Wandering Inn’d come through for us! I should have married Erin when I got the chance.”
Ylawes laughed as he began motioning people forwards.
“Vuliel Drae—Poke Duo’s outside with Nailren; we should take something to them. Oh, Dawil, snack. And Petia, Homle, your people!”
The [Door Guards]’ brows rose at the number coming into the inn, but they seemed used to crowds in excess of normal. Gliva hurried back over as Ylawes handed the second biscuit to Dasha and Insill and Larr to split, stomach rumbling, but he was exuberant. And when he turned his head and saw Lord Comigen standing forlornly in the street…
“One more group. Lord Comigen!”
At this, the Drake lady did balk a bit, protesting.
“Hold on, this is a huge crowd—”
“We have gold! Adventurer Byres, you actually got rooms? What did the [Guildmaster] give you?”
The Terlands practically stampeded for the doors, and their gold, plus the Golems acting as outside security, bought them entry. They were so grateful to flood into the inn and sit on the chairs. When Ylawes stepped into the inn…
It smelled like baking bread. The floorboards were clean and soft, and there wasn’t rain falling on him. He saw staff members moving around with tankards of water—just water, but it was clean, and they didn’t have to draw it from the river or drink it stale out of water flasks.
And it was warm.
He almost sat down on the floor, but he was being waved over to the tables, and Gliva’s voice filled the inn.
