He wondered if House Byres offered commendations. His father might know, but some kind of permanent title or some such? Dead gods, he’d [Knight] Nailren in a heartbeat if the Gnoll wanted it.
Maybe it was just relief after starving, but right now, Ylawes meant it. And so, apparently, did Pekona, because she spoke.
“Captain Nailren, may I ask how you suffered here? I am Pekona of Vuliel Drae; we have met and adventured. I…had a few questions of you. Firstly, that my charms vibrate when you are near. As if you are possessed by ill effects.”
She touched the handmade charm she’d constructed from her new Skills. Ylawes frowned, but Nailren grew suddenly interested—and a bit wary.
“Fascinating. You’re Drathian, are you not, Pekona? I do have a rather interesting…I wouldn’t say malady, yes? More a problem that became a kind of new state of being, neither affliction nor boon, yet.”
He chuckled, and his fur rippled despite a lack of wind. Ylawes eyed him, noticing that oddity.
“I’m afraid I don’t follow, Nailren. Are you sick or something…?”
Nailren sighed, a twinkle in his eyes.
“Ekhtouch indeed. I kid, I kid, Ylawes. I think you are the person to talk to. After all, you ran into the same issue I did. I did fairly well, I think, but I did have one nasty week of suffering—and that was when I ran into the ghosts issue. I was told you solved your problems far better than I did, and more quickly. I wished to confer.”
Ylawes started, and his eyes opened wide.
“The ghosts! Right! I almost forgot—”
It hadn’t been that bad for him, but the look everyone else in earshot gave him reminded Ylawes that he’d had the protection of the Graveblade, which had ultimately solved the problem. Nailren listened to Ylawes’ account and sighed mightily.
“I heard from Nanette at the time how your issue was solved. I wish I had been with you—but then again, it would have precluded me from learning more valuable information, yes? Let me tell you what happened to me…”
His story of the tents and being haunted by ever-more-aggressive spirits had Ylawes’ skin crawling. When Nailren mentioned bruises and blood by the end of it, Ylawes burst out.
“Ghasts!”
Pekona jumped. Ylawes was pale-faced.
“There are stories of such monsters in House Byres’ lore. It’s one of the things we carried silver to defend against! I remember being so terrified of them I’d hide in bed with a silver chalice at nights.”
He blushed as she smiled and Nailren grinned, but the Gnoll rubbed at his stomach.
“Having run into them and being helpless, I can’t blame the child-you, and I rather admire House Byres remembering how to combat such foes, Ylawes. I might well have died…I was truly desperate, but I learned some methods to combat them. Salt circles, for one.”
He paused as the fur on his head moved unnaturally, then turned his head and added.
“We’ve settled that, friend. No need to be embarrassed.”
He had a ghost on him. When Ylawes realized that, he nearly drew his sword, but Nailren seemed actually quite happy. However, Pekona was just as unnerved.
“An unbound spirit is a dangerous thing, Captain! It can grow to be a great good—or great evil.”
“Hmm. Two cultures with stories of ghosts, and I know Gnolls have them too. You two know your histories well. I’d be delighted to share information, especially about what you know or what works.”
Pekona exchanged a worried glance with Ylawes before showing Nailren all her talismans. Several of the simple paper charms with ink drawn on them seemed ordinary, non-magical, but they vibrated alarmingly suddenly, and Nailren grinned.
“Oho.”
“[Safety Talisman]. It—it detects something is here.”
“Can you defeat her? She’s not very strong anymore. Spoony? I call her ‘Spoony’ because I don’t know her name—can you test Pekona’s wards? I don’t think you want to get near Ylawes’ Gravesword, and be careful.”
Gingerly, both ghost and [Charm Maiden] tested each other, and Pekona found that her [Minor Warding Talisman] could actually keep Spoony away. Though, after eight tries, the warding talisman’s ink ran off, and a triumphant ghost lifted Pekona’s hair.
“Fascinating. I may ask to copy those talismans, though perhaps I need a class or something to activate them?”
Nailren had described his various methods and insights on the ghosts to Ylawes, Dawil, and the other adventurers who’d come by to observe this unnatural phenomenon. The Terlands and colonists were so unnerved that they were keeping wide of Nailren, and the nobles of the north were clearly trying to pretend his invisible friend didn’t exist.
Pekona felt at the charm around her neck as she shuddered, still eying the air around Nailren.
“So it is not ill, Captain Nailren…?”
He shrugged, calm.
“If it is ill, it is not wrong, and I think that is the difference, Pekona. I shall inquire with a [Shaman] once we reach civilization, but do not fret. Now, since I assume there are no ghosts in Drath, how are charms normally used? Like the power of [Witches], an entire area of charm-making might have been left to rot…until now.”
She brightened up.
“It has! My aunt, she makes them, but they are keepsakes for most. Some have a bit of power, but compared to cultivation…”
“Ah, of course. I know a tiny bit of Drathian culture, but please, correct me.”
Thereupon Nailren and Pekona began to talk about charms and Drath, which Ylawes was completely lost by. However, he listened with such fascination to Pekona’s tales of home that she looked quite pleased. Nailren remarked on it, too, with a grin.
“You listen like a child hearing Tales of Adventure and Woe for the first time, Captain Byres. Again, this is a compliment.”
Ylawes blushed.
“I’ve always been fascinated by things I don’t know, and Drath sounds so extraordinary, Nailren. I wanted to visit the Great Plains; the Silver Swords just never went past Liscor before. It’s all so…commendably interesting. I wish I’d known any of this—charms or Gnollish knowledge. It would have helped us in the New Lands tremendously, and I’m only sorry I’m not more well-read. Falene and Dawil get around as well, and neither of them knew more than I.”
Nailren tilted his head, listening to Ylawes, and it felt like he was inspecting the man, but when Ylawes was done talking, the Gnoll chuckled once more, and a genuine smile crossed his face.
“I’ve heard that, and I take it as a compliment. From you, Captain Ylawes? I do believe you. It is rare to find someone who loves what is strange or foreign to them as more than a curio.”
What did that mean? However, Pekona glanced at Ylawes and smiled, nodding.
“I’m glad you value my charms, Captain. Many would not.”
He didn’t know what to say to that. Who wouldn’t? Ylawes shrugged awkwardly.
“I had no notion such things were so…common.”
This time, Pekona and Nailren smiled at him in a different way, knowing and maybe a bit resigned. Nailren inspected the one Pekona had lent him.
“They are not conventional magics, Captain Ylawes. [Mages] cannot make them, you see? Only [Shamans] and the classes of Drath.”
“Yes, but they’re quite useful, or so they seem.”
“They are!”
“So why haven’t I heard of them more?”
Ylawes saw Pekona and Nailren exchange a glance, and the Gnoll smiled, but with a hint of reserve. Had Ylawes missed that in Nailren’s expressions before? Or did he just see it now?
“Ah, Captain Ylawes. This may be so, but they’re [Shaman] and non-[Mage], non-[Enchanter] creations. Not something Wistram or the nobles of Izril would know about.”
“And?”
“And that is why you do not know about it, nor most Gold-rankers outside of Gnollish ones, I would imagine.”
It was such a gentle delivery that Ylawes waited for more, and then Nailren and Pekona resumed their discussion.
It took him until nightfall to realize that it had been a rebuke of kinds, or a reminder.
Somewhat predictably, he didn’t shut up about it until they reached Goisedall.
 
——
 
“I just don’t understand, Dawil. Let’s say they’re not as—as permanent as other [Enchanter]-made objects. A few months or years is still fantastic performance! And we just don’t know about [Shamanic] charms or [Witch] magic because it’s not conventional? Is this right, Falene?”
Dawil and Falene were no longer starving. They were being led by Nailren back to Goisedall, away from the Consortium of Enterprise’s madness, with the remainder of the colonists and Merchant Anlam. Safe. Secure, better fed.
Still in hell, somehow. Dawil exchanged a wretched glance with Falene, begging her to say something, but she was trying not to engage.
Two days.
Forty-eight hours. Ylawes’ conversations kept leading back to this point, like a stubborn bull running in circles, and Dawil exhaled.
“Lad, it’s just how things are. Izril’s a bit hard-headed about some things. Frankly, not many people know how useful such magic is.”
“But you’d have thought that someone would observe and point it out, especially in Gold-rank circles!”
Ylawes was mildly outraged, and Dawil nudged Falene until she tried.
“Ylawes…it’s the matter of perception. Until the Meeting of Tribes, the, ah, magical standing of Gnolls—or [Witches]—was nonexistent. And Drath is far away from any other nation.”
“So?”
“So, lad…people just don’t think it’s that valuable.”
“But it is! We can see it!”
“Yes, but people don’t think it’s that useful, so it’s not something you or most folk know about.”
Ylawes squinted at Dawil.
“Dawil, it feels like you’re generalizing. I think most people are quite willing to see the value in other things, and I’d hesitate to assume anyone would be that close-minded.”
At this, point Dawil Ironbreaker and Falene Skystrall met each other’s gazes in rare united mindset. And it was this:
Our noble, privileged, innocent Human captain is so beautifully naïve it hurts. Because he meant it. He saw Nailren’s aptitudes and Pekona and her knowhow and he took it for granted that anyone would see the same and respect Nailren unconditionally.
It was why they loved him. It was why they despaired of him. It was the only reason the two had followed him despite his foibles and flaws all this time. Because like a Unicorn, he was pure.
…Actually, having met a Unicorn, Dawil was pretty certain that Ylawes cleared Unicorns too. The average maidenly virgin who was eligible for sacrifice would have called him an unbelievable romantic child.
Even now, there was something beautiful about that, but he’d been scarred by his adventures of late. And Falene? Ah, well, Falene marched ahead to smile at Ylawes.
“Believe it or not, Ylawes, sometimes people are slightly close minded. Even my fellow [Mages] of Wistram. I’d be delighted to talk about it in Goisedall with you. Say over some proper food and rest? My treat.”
Dawil sighed as Ylawes glanced ahead, and his stomach rumbled. But the Dwarf didn’t stop old Pointy Ears. She’d been shooting her shot at Ylawes for years, and like a blind [Emperor], he’d missed the brightest comet she’d shot past his face.
But dead gods, this had been a hard adventure. Dawil said nothing, and Ylawes nodded after a moment.
“I think I’d like that, Falene. We all deserve a break and, I dare say, some relaxation. It’s not more than a few hours’ march, Nailren says. But I insist on paying—I brought us into this mess, and we’ve enough coin for that. Though I doubt I’ll be able to send as much back to House Byres as my father wants. I hope all is well.”
There he went, thinking of House Byres and the gold he ‘owed’ Yitton, as if he hadn’t earned it. Dawil shook his head, but he was too tired to argue.
Goisedall. More blue tufts of those weird seeds were flying across the air, and Nailren was pointing ahead as Dawil’s legs trembled, and he nearly wept to see the city in sight when he saw the old, familiar lands of Izril stretching below them.
—And pilgrims entering the New Lands, summiting the divide where the New Lands rose higher. Tiny ants from afar. Dawil exhaled and stood taller.
They were back.
Almost back. But somehow…nothing would be the same.
 
——
 
The people entering the New Lands through the main ‘road’ of overturned muck and debris appeared excited, ready for fame and fortune, and they were at odds with those who returned.
Not just the Terlands; Nailren had not been back to Izril ‘proper’ until now, but his team had told him about it, and it was a sight.
For every thirty people entering the New Lands, one was returning. Those who returned seemed as beat-upon as Ylawes’ team. They did not mince words. In fact, most fell upon newcomers.
“Food! D’ya have food!?”
A thin man was begging, and a few startled caravans offered him a few rations he tore into before bellowing at the others. He was malnourished; his ribs were showing, and he had a single sword at his waist. No horse, no company.
“The New Lands are a damn trap! Turn back! Turn back, all of you! If the monsters don’t get you, the lack of food and magic will! I say it for your own good—I came with fifty-strong, and we were at each other’s throats in three weeks! I came back alone, and I don’t know if any of my friends live. Nor d’ I have the heart to find them.”
Tears leaked from his eyes, and the new colonists gazed at him, shocked, but determined.
“What did you see, fellow? Come on and we’ll feed you for intelligence. What’s settled?”
“What’s settled? What’s settled? There’s naught built and only dead camps and despair! Turn back!”
The man was remonstrating with the others, his beard dishevelled, but they had come too far. Nailren saw a few caravans hesitate, but the clever ones asked for information; everyone continued.
“What threats did you see? Here, where are the most important sights? We heard there were ruins. What can you tell us?”
A rich woman was standing up in her cart, and it was Ylawes Byres who bellowed.
“There’s an anti-magic effect on all the New Lands! If you have anything of magic, even artifacts, they’ll be dead within the week! Bags of holding, Runes of Preservation, everything! Heed the warnings and hold!”
That stopped everyone in earshot, and Nailren admired how the man just…said it. Heads turned and people called out.
“Here, what’s this madman talking of? It can’t be all—”
“We’re the Silver Swords, a Gold-rank team! There’s a mana-drain on all the New Lands, and the ground’s salted! Nothing can grow but maybe Yellats! It’s a trap!”
Falene and Dawil took up Ylawes’ call as they met the procession heading into the New Lands, and Nailren leaned on his saddlehorn to watch. For he suspected, in his cynical way, how things would go.
He was not disappointed.
 
——
 
