The Path of the Operative is an uncommon Path that has developed a reputation for producing the foremost hunters of Thieves, Assassins, and Shadows.

Described in simple analogy, the Path of the Operative is what might happen when you mix the Path of the Mage with that of the Scout and aspects of that of the Genius. The Operative is not the individual that walks the darkness itself, but they are the spymasters and intelligence behind the scenes that ensure all operations go according to plan—or find themselves salvaging missions that are headed toward disaster.

As such, it is not surprising to find a great many Operatives in authoritarian or high-security environments. State security or a god’s inner court often have at least a few major Operatives among their number to counter hostile infiltration efforts and enforce a subversive, soft force on society. However, it is important to remember that Operatives are not Pathbearers dedicated toward pure intellect. Their foundations are geared toward a magical aptitude as well, and while it is rare, it is not impossible to find Operatives as elite-level siege magi, guiding and unleashing complex spell formulae in concert with entire armies—thus increasing their synchronized casting potential beyond most pure Mages in specific conditions.

Ultimately, if you are tasked with aiding or combating an Operative, it is important to understand the two critical pillars they abide by: expertise and subtle control. They themselves might not be the right tool for every mission, but they will inevitably know someone who is, and they will see all the pieces in place so that the most optimal outcome can unfold. But they can only do that if they already have some level of quiet control over the world around them.

This is why you must be creative and aware when dealing with Operatives, for most battles against them are lost before they can be won—for you cannot reliably defeat an enemy you don’t even see coming.

But if you can rip them out of their place of comfort, force them into conditions of chaos, and strike before they can reassert their expertise in any way, then the Operative might find themselves at the mercy of one far less sophisticated in ability.

—Encyclopedia Apocalyptia: “Path of the Operative”

403 (I)

Cuckolds

A spell capable of inflicting brutal, accelerated pregnancy upon two hundred men was a ridiculous thing to behold. If one was demented or callous enough, the absurdity might even seem funny.

There was nothing funny about the aftermath. There was nothing funny about 108 stillborn children that had to be cut out of their fathers’ intestines. There was nothing funny about all those desperate wails going silent, one after another, because the bastard that cast the spell specifically made sure the new ones would suffer mass organ failure mere seconds after their birth.

The luckiest of the victims were spared from prolonged anguish. With the arrival of Helix and Ekkihurst, spells were cast to dull pain and extract the afflicted infants as easily as exhaling. From there, a large canister had been shaped by the Geomancer to contain the remains. But though the mass births were over and Male Pregnancy was slain, the trauma resulting from the carnage endured—because of course it did.

How else should someone react to undergoing a forcible birth? How stable should someone be after watching a whimpering creature born of their flesh scream, struggle, and then die before the unwilling father could make any choice about their offspring?

As Shiv looked upon the gathered victims at the immigration center, he saw their bodies wreathed tight and deep in enkindled flames. Most of them held a distance in their gaze and built up insulating layers in their minds. Shiv could see knots of translucence blocking and blunting their thoughts, while all their emotional cores were cracked and spewing anguished fire. Some among their number were more resilient than the others, shocked and disgusted by the experience, but nothing more. For them, this was just another event, another trial they survived and overcame. A funny story for their children, or perhaps a cautionary tale about going to Gate Piety.

The same psychological resilience did not dwell inside the others. Some were broken outright, lost to bouts of psychosis, as they had to be led away from the group and sequestered in the immigration center holding cells. Most tried to hide how badly this affected them, but they would develop a permanent trauma that they couldn't just shake off, not for a long time.

Shiv studied Pathbearers of all races, cultures, creeds, and Paths, and he came to two conclusions. The first was realization and a feeling of relief. Shiv had suffered a hard life, but in certain ways, he was far more naturally privileged than any other pathbearing existence. Once he thought his mental durability was a thing of willpower, just something anyone could cultivate if they wanted it badly enough, if they struggled hard enough, but seeing this, seeing that practically everyone across Integration was broken in some way or susceptible to being wounded, enlightened Shiv to his blessing.

To go through absolute turmoil and emerge unscarred was more than power. It was freedom. A freedom to be without psychological anchors. Shiv’s existence wasn’t engineered for him to be a rage-fueled beast. It seemed that way at first, but that was solely to get him started; the Tarrasque was a creature of war, but it was also clearly smart enough to enjoy acts of cruelty and siphon strength from its anger. But in stealing strength from anger, Shiv’s true mental architecture was revealed: he was built for his mind to prevail over his heart. Without his unique nature, he would have never gained the Harbinger, would have never obtained valuable insights from the calculated psychopathy of the orcs, would have never enjoyed this moment of savage comprehension.

He hurt; he healed; he got stronger.

Not the others. They cracked, and parts of them stayed broken, even when the whole of their beings grew stronger.

There would always be a bit of damage. There would always be a slight limp.

“We are Deathless in more than just the flesh,” the Harbinger admitted. “Our mind is neuroplastic beyond harm. We are shaped for more than mantling our will over our hearts; we were made to be the perfect organism pre-adapted to the suffering of longevity—and immortality.”

But they aren't. No one else is. Not even the gods.

Shiv helped the Sisters and Weaveresses of the Arachnae Order to settle and treat the victims. He delivered a direct apology to them on behalf of Gate Piety. He told them that the orc responsible had been cut down—and Roland further aided that attempt at satisfaction by showing them the charred corpse of Male Pregnancy.

“Ah, Male Pregnancy,” Helix sneered with glee. “He always was the foolish sort; desperate to take his jokes too far—until they went from being funny to more of a questionable fetish. With the soul damage inflicted, we won’t be seeing his like for some time.”

“But you have to admit the deeply intrusive genius on his part,” Ekkihurst said, holding up a finger as if this was all just a lesson in biology. “To cast a spell targeting specific cells containing a specific set of mutation-commands for bodies of such varied biology and make to derive cloned offspring from its existent pluripotence is quite subtle indeed.”

Helix just scoffed and rubbed his glasses between the hem of his white coat. “Perhaps I would be more impressed with him if he knew any other Biomancy spell than this one. ‘Impregnating men.’ Bah. Shocking the first time, but just another plague when dealt with the next. It did far less psychological damage to the defenders of Hu-Stone compared to capturing their living children and devolving them into Feralscourge shock troops.”

At this point, Shiv telepathically screamed for Helix to leave the room before the shaken victims—or anyone from Lone Star—decided upon an act of sudden violence.

And that got the second understanding Shiv obtained: the orcs never did things for a jest—or at least, it never stayed a jest. Helix was so committed to Biomancy that he lost sight of why his fellow orc performed such actions. Male Pregnancy clearly found his namesake hilarious, but it was also horrifically effective against the enemy’s internal morale—especially for naturally propagating creatures.

Orcs didn’t mate. They didn’t give birth. They didn’t have the same hormones and emotions when it came to children. For them, children were just little creatures to exploit—easy bombs of grief, anger, and control. Want someone to fight you? Hurt their child. Want someone to surrender? Threaten their child. And Male Pregnancy tapped into that evolutionarily ingrained psychological faultline with glee. Just like how many other orcs exploited a human’s tribal nature and need for social kinship, here Male Pregnancy disfigured the hearts of potential fathers by scarring them with this experience.

The survivors would always remember this when looking at their children, if they ever decided to have them any after this. Male Pregnancy was dead, but this wasn’t a defeat for him. Far from it. As Shiv looked up and stared at the crystal branches brimming with Terrorspawn, he caught glimpses of new shapes—clusters of rotting infants connected by intestinal umbilical cords to a shared knot that made them look like a rat king.

And I thought about using them as an army against the Prismatic Guard, Shiv realized. This had once been his solution to rival nations; his legion, his orcs. He struck the pact; he brought them here; he drew the attention of the Challenger under the assumption that he could bend the orcs through raw power alone. Shiv had been desperate during the siege. He had been thoughtless. He lacked the experience.

But now he'd learned. Now he knew. And where he stood unharmed, close to 300 guests weren’t coming out of the Gate the same way they went in. Gate Piety was responsible for their safety, and Gate Piety had failed their part in the laws of hospitality.

But not everything was bleak. The mana core—now sprouting an expansive jungle of crystal branches—was more than pliable to mana and persuasion. Ultimately, it just needed space to expand, contain, and process the flowing eldritch it took in. The Outsider essence Uva unleashed was also starting to thin and trickle. Once, the power leaving her was wider than a column and powerful enough to shred the edge of the surface district. Now it was barely wider than Shiv and glided as a lazy trickle.

His Severed Shadow was with her—alongside Can Hu, Ikki, the rest of Uva’s team, and eventually Roland. A series of emergency wards and facilities had been constructed around her, and Uva was placed under watch as she progressed through her Delve. They still needed to inform Valor about her, but with how many problems still needed to be resolved, no one had an opening to make such a run.

Another crisis nearly developed outside the Abyssal gateway as a hidden scouting force of Compact units tried to survey the Gate for weaknesses. Their operation ended in tumors and brutality as their presence was spotted by a High-Tier dimensional contracted by Helix, who then alerted all the out-Gate perimeter defenses—along with Tulveg via his dormant cancer spores.

Chronomancers were already rare. Chrono-Bio-Psychomancers whose mana field came in the form of a locust-swarm of cancer motes were practically unknown. Death followed, and the soil in the Umbral Wilderness was blessed with a bounty of fertility once more.

Bringing Legends into Gate Piety came with their own problems and grudges—wrangling Marikos was a crisis in itself. But when things were settled and a mutual enemy arrived, this Cat-3 Gate might just give a Fortress-City a proper fight.

“Shiv,” Jessica said, appearing in Uva’s containment silo. “Veronica’s on my ass again; she really, really wants to speak with you.”

He replied with an annoyed grunt. “Yeah, tell her that I’ll be hopping over to the body I gave the Guard within the hour for a debriefing.”

Jessica nodded—and a hint of worry lingered behind her gaze. “You alright, kid?”

“I’m fine; more worried about Adam and—” He cocked his head at Uva. “Well, less worried about her. She’s just Delving; I doubt the Eldest is about to make a return or anything, and I know she can handle the Evolution with enough time. It’s just…” Shiv tried to pinch the bridge of his nose and remembered his Severed Shadow was intangible at that moment. “The bullshit never ends.”

“The bullshit never ends,” Jessica commiserated. “I used to think my bullshit was hard, but you got me beat by levels and tiers.” She snorted a laugh. “And Male Pregnancy? Seriously?”

Shiv just stared at her. “Go take a look at the victims. It was a fucked-up kind of funny before, but now it’s just—”

“Now it’s the orc finding art in the nasty ass gag,” Jessica finished for him. “Yeah. I know how they are too. I told you: I knew Whisper from my days in a war party with Jackie. Hells, I liked Whisper. I thought he was a friend—like, almost. But then, one day, we passed by a random farm, and he just happened to run into this old lady who'd killed him in some prior life of his. She didn’t want to fight. Neither did her kids. But, well…” She let out a breath. “They live to prey on and break our hearts. But I guess you can do the same thing too.”

Shiv tilted his head. “What’s that mean?”

