“The dragon won’t stop shouting and verbally sucking you off. The entire Gate knows what you’ve done—talking a fucking Outsider god into submission? Holding the mana core together? And then there’s what you did to Hymn—that degenerate felling bag of shit took a brow-beating from Veronica in front of me, coughed up some blood, and walked it off. Now you have one talk with him, and he's on the verge of crying himself to death. What did you even say to him?”

“Might not be appropriate to repeat,” Shiv said. “I probably shouldn’t have done that in front of everyone else earlier anyway, but Hymn was on the verge of doing something dumb, and I needed to push him the other way.”

“That mean, huh?”

“That targeted. Imagine if I dug into your daughter you lost and kept rooting through whatever pain you still have—it’s like that for him.”

Jessica winced. “Broken fucking Moon. You’re a regular menace, kid. Your Reflexes are still shit, but the other parts of the physical trifecta are gold. Add your Harbinger to the mix, and the shit you can do to someone—”

“Plus a new Legendary Feat. If I hurt someone psychologically enough, I can leave a portion of myself in their soul and talk to them wherever I want.”

Jessica almost gagged—then froze. “Whoa, whoa, wait, you got Inland Embassy?”

“You know the Feat?”

“Know it?” she repeated. “I fucking murdered a rogue Diplomat-Psychomancer from New Albion who nearly drove me insane with it. Bitch wouldn’t stop talking to me while jumping across pocket dimensions. Eighteenth worst month of my life.”

“Huh. And how did you kill her?”

An arrogant grin crept across Jessica’s face. “Well, let’s just say her Physicality was kind of shit, and she ended up blacking out after a month of being chased without food or sleep. While she was out, I found her and—”

“Did you do the Upcreek thing?”

She froze. “I… Look, Shiv, she got really personal. She had it coming.”

Shiv just sighed. “I guess, but if that’s the line, then don’t we all have it coming? You get to go up Roland’s ass, Uva gets to go up your ass—”

“I don’t like your girlie’s odds,” Jessica replied with total honesty. “She’s got that mean Psychomancy, but I don’t think she’s got the strength to cut my folds.”

“Aberrant spiderlings?”

Jessica visibly clenched her butt at that. “Oh, fuck no!”

“See my point?”

“Yeah, but let me counter by being a hypocrite who wants to hurt other people without getting hurt.”

“At least she is honest,” the Harbinger noted.

“Point is, I know that Feat, and between that and your other Skills…” Jessica whistled. “You’re a regular godsdamned monster now. If we ever get properly bloody, me and Rusty are going to head-hunt hard—just a forewarning.”

Shiv nodded. He understood. “You weren’t even trying when we fought in the academy hospital, were you?”

She puckered her lips and shrugged nonchalantly. “That’s different too. You weren’t trying to cause collateral, and I wasn’t either. Besides, I was trying to figure out your deal. But yeah, I wasn’t hitting you with everything. Now, though…” Then, a most peculiar look came over her. “Shit, now I can actually work you without holding back. You can help me build up some more Physicality levels.”

“Huh? What?”

“Yeah. You’re indestructible with that silver-shell shit, right? Let me use one of you as a training dummy.”

Shiv manifested a body and stepped forward to loom over her. “I’m not a training dummy, Jessica. If you wanna do sparring—”

“It’s not going to be sparring,” she replied with a laugh. “Look, there’s a reason why I complimented your Toughness, Physicality, and Psychology specifically. I got no urge to fight you—the way you’re built, that’s going to be ugly for… fuck, anyone who isn’t a psychotic monster or an emotionally perfect freak. But in terms of actual fighting…” Jessica sucked in a rough breath. “You know what, I’m not going to insult you. When this is done, you come find me, and I’ll give you a proper lesson. From the ground up.”

“Ground up?”

“Yeah. We’re going to need a lot of work before I stop cringing when you swing your fists and knives.”

The weakest part of Shiv’s pride felt rankled. The rest of him killed that part because continued growth was worth infinitely more than a bit of hurt feelings. “Alright. Say we got ourselves an arrangement—aw, fuck, I forgot about her.”

“What?” Jessica said. She turned, following Shiv’s gaze to see the Dreamtaker lodged halfway in the wall. The front half of her face was sticking out, while the rest of her was merged in that layer of magically-enhanced concrete. Somehow, she got into it without triggering any of the wards—just glided through like there was nothing in her way. Now, she was using her intangibility to awkwardly stare at Shiv and Jessica.

There’s that Longinus shit inside her kicking in, Shiv thought sourly.

“Just step out of the wall, Dreamtaker,” he muttered. Shiv didn’t want to deal with this shit right now. He really, really didn’t. But like Uva with Tulveg, Shiv had to handle his own discomfort and face this… this… Why the hells did she need to steal bits away from Georges? She's wearing his outfit, her breath smells like his, she curses like him. This is…. I found him again, but then never got to save him, never got to say goodbye again—we could have taken him out of the Fairwoods; he was in that egg, he was fine, but then she just stole his spirit and body and used that to hatch herself a new self, like he was just some fucking thing to be used and spent and—

“Sorry,” the Dreamtaker said, her voice low, hoarse, and awkward. It was Uva at baseline, but there was Longinus in the tone and rhythm, in the way she pronounced certain syllables for emphasis, and Georges’ vocabulary creeped into her words, leading to an all-around uncanny result. “Did a fuck-bad. Didn’t think. I’m still confused-feeling. Didn’t mean to cause all this bad.” She stepped out from the wall and placed the tips of her index fingers together, making an exaggerated show of her embarrassment, even if she wasn't aware of it.

It took a lot for Shiv not to flee from that room or scream from mental anguish. Cracks formed across his body. A faint hiss of enkindled fire leaked out, and Jessica took a step back, glancing between them worriedly.

“Into the pain,” the Harbinger encouraged. “Turn, flee, expose yourself, and be broken further.”

“Yeah, it’s…” Shiv clutched his skull. He ran his tongue over his lips. “No. No, it’s not fine. What the fuck, Dreamtaker? What the fuck?”

The Dreamtaker winced and shrank back—her literal size shriveled as well, until she was a good head shorter than Uva, rather than almost matching Shiv in height, if not stature. “Said sorry?” she whispered, clearly confused.

“Yeah, but this isn’t just a ‘sorry thing,’” Shiv replied. His tone was neutral, but inside, his heart was thundering, generating more tides with every beat, and his fingers were clenched tight. “It’s not. Like you dumping all the power you wanted over into Uva is one thing—that was thoughtless and stupid, but I can see myself doing that to someone before. But we handled that. We dealt with it. It’s bad, but it’s just another small apocalypse. Our lives are filled with nothing but that—”

Ikki promptly marched through the door, interrupting Shiv’s tirade to slap the Dreamtaker. A loud crack sounded from her wrist. The Dreamtaker barely budged. Ikki hit her again—and then a third time—before spinning on her heel and stomping back to where Uva lay, her eyes still projecting thin beams of kaleidoscopic mana into the air.

Quiet rage emanated from Ikki like a furnace; hers burning hotter than all four other members of Uva’s team. She was uncharacteristically quiet, and genuinely loathed the Dreamtaker for what she did.

Good, Shiv thought. I can give her a lesson there too.

“Nothing but struggle,” Shiv continued, as if nothing had happened. The Dreamtaker wasn’t hurt, but she did pout as she rubbed at the place where she had been struck. “You did put everyone else in danger, though. They didn’t ask for this. They don’t come back from being dead. So. That mistake is on you. Like all the collateral damage I caused, and the people I killed with that is on me. But my issue—specifically my issue—is, why didn’t you even think or consider what you were doing when you just… used up Georges? When you mirrored yourself after Uva? Are you… incapable of thinking? You didn’t have enough levels or skills to understand yet? Is that it?”

The Dreamtaker just stared at Shiv, her expression blank, her shame childlike in terms of ignorance.

“Holy fucking shit,” Shiv ground out. It was then he glimpsed how narrow and small her core was—utterly dwarfed by the vastness of her mind. “You don’t have any human experience. And no Social Skills. Of course. Of course the asshole Outsider got all the Social Skill levels from fighting me while you managed to avoid all of that understanding by spending all that time in a coma while you fucking digested the closest thing alive to Georges.”

“Don’t understand,” the Dreamtaker muttered.

Shiv pressed his lips together tightly. “Yeah. I… Never mind. I’ll give you the rest of this speech when you’re closer to being a person. Just… Before you do anything else, come to speak with me—” He cut himself off; he wasn’t a normal person either. “You talk to Ikki, or someone like her.”

“What?” Ikki hissed, swiveling. “I don’t want to talk with her, Shiv! Why not you?”

“It’s less want and more that you’re normal and decent enough of a person to make the right choice,” he answered. “If I die, I just come back, Ikki. I’d like to think that I’ll make the right choice for everyone. I’ll certainly fight and die for you, but all this fighting and struggle is just normal to me now. All that terrible stuff that happened up at immigrations barely bothers me at all. She needs to talk with someone that still feels the consequences. And that’s not me. Not anymore.”

Reluctantly, Ikki nodded. “I—alright, but maybe someone else.” She shot the Dreamtaker another hateful glare. “I’m not exactly unbiased either. I don’t like skin-thieves.”

“Skin-thieves.” The Harbinger sighed. “We failed to consider something else: the vampires shape-shift commonly. They kill and wear victims to infiltrate. Of course the Dreamtaker’s presence would offend Ikki even more.”

“Sorry?” the Dreamtaker said again.

“Do you even understand what that means?” Jessica asked, tilting her head.

The reborn goddess scratched at her chin. “I think?”

Shiv grunted. “Look, just stick close to me, and I’ll find someone we can consult before you do anything else. Right now… is there anything you can do to help?”

The Dreamtaker held up both her hands and called upon an incandescent glow. “Hm. I think so? It's hard to remember who I was before. What dreams were actually mine.”

Shiv further noted how there were three different layers of translucence to her mind, though only one true current. It wasn't that Georges and Longinus existed independently within her mind in any form; it was just a giant, tangled, inhuman mess. “Oh, for System’s—okay, just don’t do anything yet. You might’ve inherited Longinus’s batshit too. Put another one of us down the Candles event horizon.”

“What’s that?” Ikki asked.

“It’s how mentally broken someone is,” Shiv answered. “I just came up with it myself.”

“It is likely not that,” the Starhawk said, slipping into the conversation as he returned—while Roland kept observing Uva. There was a tension between Avatar and god now; a barrier that caused the divine mana between them to flicker instead of cycling in a ceaseless flow. “I do not detect anything broken in her mind. Instead, I suspect she is simply confused due to going from an Outsider to a System-categorized entity. A lot of things that simply were for her before are now absent. An Eldritch God’s intuition and will are laws within their dimension. But that isn’t the case for her anymore. She has a collection of extreme skills, but lacks countless foundational skills.”

“Great,” Shiv said. “Even less balanced than I am.”

“Put another one of us down the Shiv event horizon,” Jessica deadpanned. “Don’t steal that; I just came up with it myself.”

Ikki had the audacity to chuckle.

Shiv replied by exerting his will over the Red Rider’s Hand—burning up considerable effort to have it extend its middle finger. “Hey, Jessica, can you do me a favor and consult my third hand? It’s trying to send you a message.”

The jutting finger was taller than Jessica was.

Comedy 31 > 33

“I think you’re flipping yourself off more than me,” Jessica said with a grin.

“Yeah, but you get the point. Just having it give you the finger nearly gave me muscle cramps.”

War is war is war is… the Rider’s Hand babbled. Yet, it sounded shyer than before, and parts of it remained burned and bruised.

“War sure is, but let’s not bring you close to that mist springing out of Adam, huh?” Shiv asked.

The Red Rider’s Hand went silent.

Shiv scoffed. “Turns out war isn’t sometimes.”

Shiv was about to say something else when a pulse of Psychomancy swept through the room. Wards changed to allow a new presence entry, and as Shiv saw Valor drift into Uva’s containment zone, he felt his gut tighten.

“He’s supposed to be with Adam,” Roland said, shifting away from Uva with an expression of unease.

