“Yeah,” Shiv replied with building dread. “And I don’t see Adam with him.”

Valor greeted the gathered crowd with a nod. “I tried everything I could do. The Culturist as well. But Adam’s condition is… It is severe.”

“What do you mean, severe?” Roland asked, swallowing back the lump in his throat. “Was his state not severe before? Is he—”

Valor held up a hand to placate Roland’s worries. “He is not in immediate danger. Not in the sense you think. But his mind remains in pieces. And the Crown is still active even in the Delve. Due to these factors, Adam has hit a point of… instability. The final bout of trauma he endured before he descended has left damage.” Valor took a moment to master himself. “He now cycles between long periods of catatonia and violent psychosis. Even with his Awareness stabilized outside, his sanity is broken. It is broken beyond our current power to mend. My presence in his Delve triggers only extreme panic or bouts of savage violence. He does not recognize me. He does not even recognize himself. We require more dedicated help for Adam—before he can ever hope to finish this Delve, he must be mended mentally first. Furthermore, I do not think simply letting the month pass until the Crown is removed from him would in itself restore his condition by this point.”

Roland turned still as a statue.

“Okay, okay,” Shiv muttered. “We need that anyway. For Candles. We were going to need to find someone anyway. So. Alright. Maybe I send a body to Weave and—” Shiv flinched as Gone suddenly flashed into existence next to him in a crackle of lightning.

“Back.” That was all Gone said. Her arm-length claws sparked with leftover arcs of golden electricity. “Got into small fight with dragons. Might be a problem later.” She looked around, and suddenly realized she was intruding during a somber moment. “Hm. Other problems here too. Expected that. Going to stop talking now.”

“Glad you’re not dead,” Shiv said with a sigh. It was wrong to ignore her, even if he felt like shit right now. He held out a fist. The goblin bumped it faster than lightning. “Alright. So. Instead of me going to Weave, maybe Gone here can take another trip.”

“It cannot be just a Psychomancer,” Valor explained further. “The Pathbearer required is someone competent at Animancy as well, for Adam’s entire soul is undergoing the Evolution—the ascent to Legendary-Tier inflicts foundational changes.”

“So what do we need to do, Valor? Just say it.”

Valor went quiet for a moment as he gathered his thoughts. His mind was shrouded with considerations while his core was pristine and focused—not a hint of fear blemished his purpose; Valor had plans. He just wasn’t sure which to choose. “We have a few paths. I think we should walk all of them at the same time. Roland. You have a Psychomancy Skill?”

“Yes,” he answered immediately.

“Good. Good. Do you have Animancy as well?”

“You want me to fuse and Delve both?” Roland asked.

Valor nodded once. “Yes. Will that be—”

“I will do it,” Roland said immediately, his resolve hardening.

“Roland, hold,” the Starhawk intervened. “That might risk—”

“Risk?” Roland snapped, his previously chained anger breaking free. “Risk? My son is in this state because—What did you do to my child, Starhawk? What did you do?”

Thaen’s manifestation flinched at his Avatar’s words. “Roland, this isn’t the time—”

“Maia talked to me earlier,” Roland continued, staring directly up at his god. “She told me about his Domain. It wasn’t obtained in the Fairwoods. It was only awoken there. How does my son have a hidden Domain, Thaen? How is that possible?”

The Ascendant of Justice hesitated instead of answering. Shiv saw the Starhawk’s core filling with shame—but no regret. Not a drop. “It was meant for your daughter. She was the one with the lore infused. When… when the ritual happened, your son was struck down as well. Adam should have died. But while your Biomancers were fighting to keep him alive and you… you found Rose and… I managed to salvage that piece inside her. I managed to transplant it.”

“Of course,” Valor whispered. “The legend is close enough. She, being an infant, lacked a Path—lacks any other constraining details. The System only knew her to be the child of Roland Arrow and Rose Van Erren—and she died before the Domain could be cemented to any kind of identity. With that, Adam might’ve been an acceptable match as well. But the risk—Starhawk! The risk! He was already a toddler; that could have shattered his soul.”

“He was going to die regardless,” the Starhawk answered, voice hardening. “Udraal—whatever he did left Adam hollowed. He was trying to make the tragedy complete. Sudden infant death syndrome.”

“Fuck!” Shiv spat. “Godsdammit, it always goes back. To that night. To Udraal.”

Ikki and the rest of Uva’s team were mute and pale with horror, all out of their depth in this conversation.

Valor lowered his head, while Roland struggled not to tremble. “Why… why didn’t you ever tell me?”

“The harm of the night was too great and grave,” the Starhawk declared. “You were too fragile, Roland. As Adam is a son to you, you are a son to me. I did not want to hurt you. I salvaged what I could from… from her. What the ritual didn’t take—or couldn’t take. And I placed it in him. It was all I could do in that moment. For Adam. For you. For the future. And I thought I failed. When the Domain never woke in him even when he came of age, I thought I'd only spared his life and nothing more. So I let that night be. I let your pain drown and lurk.”

And Shiv saw that the Starhawk was telling the truth.

“It fits as well,” the Harbinger said. “Roland wasn’t the only one traumatized that night. The Starhawk has his own scars. He is as vulnerable as Roland. And he was never the kind to do something truly vile—even for his own benefit. He might have been able to do underhanded things before, but there are limits. He became the Ascendant of Justice for a reason.”

“Alright, fine,” Shiv said aloud, drawing the attention back to himself. “Roland goes Legendary for both Psychomancy and Animancy; we get the last bit of Valor back. What else?” He stared at Valor. “Come on, I know there’s more. What is it?”

“My wife’s tomb,” Valor said softly. “She was a Legend. Of Psychomancy, Animancy, and Golemancy. Constructs of her still remain. But you will need to venture into the Great One’s embrace to find her, and you will need to face her shadow.”

“But not you,” Shiv said, reading Valor’s emotions.

“It cannot be me,” Valor said, his misery almost palpable. “The Great One will see the last of her destroyed before they ever surrender anything to me again. I do not remember why, but I know this to be true. If I enter the Great One’s grasp, I will not return. Or I will return without any hope of ever reclaiming her legacy.”

“History is trauma.” The Harbinger sighed. “To be a Legend, and one who lives longer than any other, is to be trauma personified.”

“Alright. Great. So. Expedition. We can ask Marikos for—”

“No,” Valor cut Shiv off. “That is a last resort. If the first two choices do not work, then we consider desperate measures. But retrieving the last of me will not be easy; the Necrotechs—my people—will not surrender my final effigy and see me returned. Much of its current rulership despises the idea of my restoration, for they know that death might inevitably follow as I look upon their corruption.”

“So it’s mainly going to be Roland,” Shiv said. He then hesitated. “What about me? Can you teach me Animancy? I can do some similar stuff with my Severed Shadow.”

“Centuries,” Valor answered. “That’s how long it takes to grasp the intricacies of the soul, even for a technical genius. And you are not versed in Psychomancy either. But your strategy is correct; it is the Culturist I am considering for this, not you. He, and the Composer.”

“Fine. Perfect. Just a setback; we’re not out of options at all.” Shiv felt like he was blowing hot air, but it was better than letting the demoralization swallow them.

“There is also a final possibility I am considering,” Valor said, looking upon Uva. “And that is why I am here: Uva. She is becoming a Legend in Psychomancy. There might be a specific Evolution she can obtain that aids in Adam’s restoration—but I must see if she can even evolve such a skill. Or if she might gain something else entirely.”

Something about that felt right and righteous. Shiv’s intuition screamed at him, begged him to pursue this path. “Alright. Then let’s do it, Valor. Help Uva with her Delve, and maybe she can help Adam.”

“Maybe,” Valor insisted. “I would not place a world of hope here. But there is a chance.”

“Well, this is good for Uva too, right?” Ikki asked. “Having the Great Valor Thann here to help her finish the Delve?”

“Provided my experience offers her any worth at all.” Valor sounded doubtful. “Her most defining experiences are deeply embroiled with the Outside. I have faced down and slain the Eldritch, but my experiences in dealing with the Outsiders only go so far to aid in their destruction.”

Shiv growled with discomfort. “Alright: time for me to go grovel before—”

Hymn teleported into the silo as if waiting for that exact moment to arrive.
