“Strength of the soul? It means nothing to her. You burned her when she was off-guard, mighty Yderigrisel. I have witnessed her slowly unmaking each sanctuary. She will come here. If only for her.”
She pointed. And all eyes turned to Erin. Now, the young woman stood there and felt odd.
“Why me?”
But she knew. Califor answered her.
“Because you stand at the heart of why they gained in strength. You come from another world. And this is a thing unheard of.”
The other [Witches] nodded. Yderigrisel inclined his mighty head. Erin stood with Abel and a girl named Cadence. The others had been…lost…when they died.
Each one was from Earth. Each one had told their stories to the ghosts. And they were different and alike. Erin had lived longest; Abel had died within the hour he had come to this world. Cadence? She had gone to a town and done well, telling people she was from elsewhere. They hadn’t believed her, but she had been trying to find others like her when she fell ill.
Just…ill. A sickness that hit her hard because she had no immunity to the diseases. Made worse by a healing potion administered before they realized it was disease.
She had died in a bed. For all Erin had done much more than the other two…here it ended.
A magic door? Making friends with the Antinium? None of it mattered here. The dead could not touch the living. And the Putrid One had set the world of his time to quaking with legions of undead. Yderigrisel had fought Crelers when they first emerged from Rhir in a swarm to end all things.
What mattered was that they were from Earth and could believe in gods. What mattered was…
“She is alive. Let her and the [Necromancer] flee this place and attract the attention of the hungry strangers. We should join other strongholds. What business have we with her?”
A [Legendary Mercenary] pointed at Erin and the Putrid One. He was rebuffed almost at once by two sources. The first was Yderigrisel. The Dragon’s head lowered and he stared at the Dwarf.
“I have given my oath to protect both Erin Solstice and fight with the [Necromancer]. I will not be forsworn in death when I honored every vow in life.”
The first [Lord] of House Byres spoke, silvery mustache moving in the invisible breeze of his memory.
“This is our home, likewise. If House Byres is to end, let it be here.”
The others nodded solemnly, even eagerly.
A glorious battle against the predators of dead souls in the afterlife. How noble. How pointless. Erin saw it on the face of Sserys and Califor. It was the [Witch] who replied, nodding to the assembled ghosts.
“If that is your will, House of Byres, Yderigrisel, do what you wish. But that is not why I agreed to help Maviola El when she beseeched us. I care nothing for honor or glory. We are dead and I would rather flee than face whatever end those six have.”
She was met with scowls among the honorable ghosts. A smile from the Putrid One. Sserys shrugged, seemingly at home with the statement. Califor went on, and now she looked at the [Innkeeper].
“I did not rescue you out of pity, Erin. I aided Maviola to fight the three-in-one for your soul because you live. Because there is a chance, however slim, that you may return to your body. And if so…you must remember this. You must tell them on waking what you learned here. And you must carry my wish among the living.”
She advanced. Erin looked at her.
“Your wish?”
Another of the coven of [Witches] frowned at Califor.
“There have been those who die and come here. Even our sisters who walked the land of the dead in the heights of magic, Califor. They wake as dreamers, with faint recollections.”
Califor rounded on the other ghosts of [Witches].
“Perhaps a child of Earth is different. But even if it is only a dream, I am too near death to not be a part of this world. Sisters, when you see those six, does your spirit not rebel? Do you not abhor them? They are our enemies, and I do not know when [Witches] swore to oppose them. I know it in my craft. Even here.”
Pointed hats turned. Erin felt a chill. This was older than the Putrid One. Older than Yderigrisel. Califor turned back to her.
“I would arm you, Erin Solstice, in the hopes you live. Arm you with knowledge. Arm you with all I knew and every secret of the dead. And I will keep you safe if it is within my power. Because you must live and fulfill my wish.”
She reached out and grabbed Erin’s arm. The young woman actually felt pressure. Califor looked—desperate as she drew closer.
“What? What is it?”
“My child. I left my child! The [Witch], Belavierr, gave me a choice. My death or hers and I died for her. I left her behind and this world grows crueler. You must protect her. I wish I had taught her more. I wish I had not left her. I will have you swear it upon your soul.”
The [Witch]’s voice was desperate, pleading. A sigh. Erin stared into her eyes. Everything, every regret and hope and dream of Califor was in that one wish.
“I—I’ll try if I can. But I don’t even know if it’s possible.”
“If. If it is, you owe more than one debt.”
This time, it was Sserys. He approached her, wearing the armor of the [General] of Liscor, pointing accusingly at her face.
“Zel Shivertail died for you. The Necromancer plagues Izril still, in secret! He must be avenged! Remember! Tell the Walled Cities!”
He faced her. Erin hesitated. The weight of his desires and Califor’s pressed on her. The power of the two dead ghosts. Sserys drew nearer still. And suddenly—his face was wracked by the same pain as Califor’s.
“I regret many things too. If I had not been so foolish at the end. If I had waited for him to join me, I would not have left him alone all these years. Regrets?”
He laughed, hollowly, and suddenly he bore his death-wounds again. The Drake reached for her, grasping, hands passing through her shoulder. He whispered.
“I wish I had spoken my love. I don’t regret my war. I don’t regret fighting for the Walled Cities and my home. I wish I had not died. But if only I could have also told them who I was. If I could have shouted that—maybe they would not be so cruel. Maybe he would have lived longer.”
Califor was still whispering, pouring out her regrets.
“Nanette, Nanette, my child. I wish I had taken you elsewhere. I wish I had seen you smile more…”
The Putrid One drifted closer. And suddenly his face was twisted by the same despair as the other two. But for different reasons. He looked at Erin, almost angry.
“Human girl. Mortal woman. I loathe you. If you have a second chance, if you could recognize your mistakes, I hate you. I envy you. And if I could take that away from you…”
His hand opened and closed. His rotten features drew closer.
“I am like you. Yet when the time of my return comes, it shall be the moment of my death. So. I wish I had another chance. I wish I had seen more clearly.”
She tried to back away as the three ghosts pressed around her. Suddenly, there was another voice.
“I wish I had told my family I loved them. I fought with them before I left. They will never know where I went. That I loved them. Tell them. I wish I had done more with my life.”
Abel reached for Erin. His features twisted. The young woman tried to pull away.
“I’ll try, Abel. I’ll try, Califor. Stop—stop telling me. Please…?”
One of the [Ladies] announced herself in a mournful sigh.
“I wish the House of Byres had not faded. I wish my descendants would recall our glory.”
She drifted closer. Erin turned. Suddenly—all the ghosts were drifting towards her.
It was like a vortex. Their faces began to twist with grief, longing, loss. Something in Califor’s desperation called to them. They came towards Erin, moving around her.
In a spiral. She tried to flee. But then even Yderigrisel spoke.
“I wish I had not died. I wish my kin lived. There are so few left. I wish our time was not ending. I wish I was remembered…”
Even him. They circled Erin. Reaching towards her. Pulling at her, demanding her to carry their wishes. She tried to flee. To scream.
Three ghosts clung to her. The Putrid One, Sserys, Califor. They whispered in her ears, dragging at her, pulling, as if trying to put themselves in her. So she could carry them to the land of the living.
“I wish I had loved.”
“I wish I had another chance.”
“I wish I had left her more.”
“I wish—”
She was sinking in an ocean of ghosts as they all called for her. The [Innkeeper] cried out. She heard the voices merging together. They were creeping under her skin. Into her body. Into her s—
A voice shouted amid the storm of whispers.
“I lived well! I have no regrets!”
The whispers stopped. Erin saw a single figure standing there. She lifted the spear over her head. Her tanned skin, and smile—
She was so many years younger than when Erin had met her. But she stood the same way. Salt flecked hair. A smile as she and her husband walked through the sea of despair.
Gresaria Wellfar swung her spear and the sea of ghosts parted. She shouted at the stronger ghosts, laughing.
“I did everything I wanted. I tried everything I could. I did not always succeed—but I would never give my dreams to someone else to carry. For shame! Stand back, you sea-leeches!”
The ghosts drifted back, blinking. Recoiling. The Putrid One let go of Erin, as the trance of misery faded. Yderigrisel flapped backwards.
“What was that?”
“Wishes are a dangerous thing. Hello, [Innkeeper]. I was told Maviola died well at the end. And again, I wasn’t there to see it. Just like her.”
Gresaria Wellfar touched Erin’s arm. The young woman gasped in relief. The [Lady] turned. She was almost as young as Erin, just half a decade older. Her husband bowed to Erin.
“Well met.”
She breathed. Then—looked again.
“Gresaria? Thank you. And you’re…”
The pair of them smiled. Young as Erin or Ryoka. It was how they saw themselves.
Erin Solstice had met Gresaria for half a day, and it had mainly been Gresaria trying to ‘kill’ Maviola. She had never seen her again.
The old rival to Maviola El had died in the north, when the Flowers of Izril went to war against the Guild of Assassins. She had roused the pride of the nobility and led the [Captains] and crews of First Landing against the guild itself.
This was what Erin had heard. She was ashamed to admit that even then, the news had been a distant blow compared to the immediate, like Tritel and Ci, Lord Toldos, and the others.
Now, she looked at Gresaria and felt tears spring to her eyes. Twice, Gresaria had helped Erin and her friends, without even knowing her.
“Thank you.”
She repeated herself. At a loss for something else to say to encapsulate it all. Gresaria and her husband looked at her. Then the [Harbormistress] of First Landing, the Duchess of the Waves, the Duchess of Salt, threw back her head and laughed. Her green-and-brown hair shone for a second, and she looked as young as Maviola.
“For what? I should be thanking you, and that reckless flaming horse thief! What a way to end it all. But not you, eh? May you have a thousand adventures more.”
“And find yourself an adventurous wife. That’s what I did.”
Her husband winked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked at them as they grinned and Gresaria gently squeezed her shoulder.
She wished she had known them when they were alive.
 
—-
 
“Why are you here, ghost? I thank you for—stopping us.”
Afterwards, as the ghosts haunted by memory and regret returned to normal, Yderigrisel inclined his head to her. Gresaria nodded briskly at him, addressing the congregation of the dead.
“I did not think to see a living girl here, much less one I knew. We come here bearing warning. First Landing has fallen. The six strangers assailed us. The Five Families stood against them—and fell. We left rather than fight a losing battle, to warn the others. There is no standing against the three-in-one.”
The ghosts fell silent. Erin saw the Byres family look at each other.
“How? They were not all mighty, but there were six Dragons who held that sanctuary. How did they fall?”
Yderigrisel demanded, shocked. Gresaria looked up at him gravely.
“They did not fight. They were prepared to, but the three-in-one—that woman—she walked forwards. And they knelt and vanished before her. She rules this place. And with each moment, she holds it more strongly. The ghosts fled; the six will pursue, yet I saw three walk this way. Now, I know why.”
She looked at Erin. The ghosts began to susurrate, little wailing whispers. Califor looked around.
“Then we must flee.”
“Where? Can any stronghold of the dead stand against that kind of power?”
One of the [Witches] demanded, despairing. Califor turned on her.
“Perhaps not. But what else is there to hope for? Izril is lost. The bearded man is rooted here and clearly the six prey on Izril first. Yet what else can be done? Surrender without a fight? I say that if we are to end, let us place hope and wish together and strive for some small defiance before all ends.”
She looked at Erin and an echo of her whisper lingered. Erin looked around. She wanted to ask why her, again. Yet the answer was simple.
Because there wasn’t anyone else.
“I…I’ll try to tell them what’s happening. But I don’t know if I’ll get to come back.”
“A chance is better than none. And this is a grand reason to fight. I had despaired, thinking my battle would be for vanity or survival. Nay! One last time, let the House of Byres defend a cause!”
Yderigrisel cried. He flew upwards and ghosts called out. Califor nodded at Erin.
“We must prepare to go. They are coming.”
Her words were not wrong. No sooner had she spoken than Erin saw the manor of the House of Byres, the great keep, the one in the modern time, faded, the swamp, fade away.
Like they were shadows in front of light. But it was not light that pierced this afterlife.
It was them.
They walked across the landscape from north to south. Just walked, with a speed unmatched. Confident, this time approaching in the open.
Three strangers. Erin and the ghosts fell silent. The young woman felt fear in her heart.
She knew three of them.
The first was Tamaroth. Like the others, his appearance seemed to change so the one constant was the beard. He looked like her father. Like the principal of her school. Even like Zel, for a moment—
Like his nature. A leader among men.
The second hobbled, or walked straight-backed, or with the weight of age on her shoulders. Three-in-one.
Kasigna. Her eyes were fixed on Erin and Yderigrisel both. She was smiling.
And the last? The last knew Erin, but she did not know it.
It was not man or woman or even…person. It was like a shadow that moved. Something half-remembered in the darkness.
A lost thing, creeping across the ground. Reaching for her.
“Three.”
