Erin felt a tug at her heart. Just a tiny one. The rulers of Khelt wavered. Then they chuckled. Tamaroth wavered. This time the Garuda called down at him from the dune on which they stood.
“Little man. We are not [Kings]. We rule Khelt because we must. We never sought the crown but were chosen because we were suited. Look to Terandria for those who coveted what is duty. A third time! Begone!”
The eighteen stood. And the four struggled and argued and threatened. Yet they could not advance. Erin saw them staring at her. At the kingdom of death, which had more power here than any other so long as Khelt endured.
She watched the dead gods vanish into the distance.
 
—-
 
The eighteen looked tired after the confrontation.
“They grow stronger again. If only the power of Giants could join ours, or the Treants of the sea. Still, I would rather lie with maggots than ally with Dragons. Let them hold Baleros and Terandria if they can.”
One of them remarked. The others nodded. Erin found herself staring up at them, awed despite herself.
They looked impressive. These were not the bodies of undead revenants bound in death. She saw them as they had lived. As the Garuda Queen had said—they were not rulers by nature.
The half-Giant bore a hammer. True, ornate, but he carried a huge anvil on his back, secured by chains of mithril.
One of the others had ink stains on her fingers and a quill in her hands.
Yet another had such a grace to his steps that Erin thought he was either a [Fencer] or a [Dancer] or both.
All were still garbed in robes or cloth, rather than armor, wearing the same crown. Each royal raiment swirled with magical sigils for protection, preservation. Yet, the eighteen wore the clothing carelessly, heedless of the priceless artifacts they wore, now a second skin. The only thing that they never took lightly were the crowns. They weighed upon each one, man and woman, half-Giant and Garuda.
A proud, but heavy weight that pressed on all things. Joy, humor, sadness, wrath—the weight of a crown. A kingdom.
Khelt.
The eighteen rulers of their nation turned to the vast number of ghosts, then. It was the closest female Queen who spoke. The last ruler of Khelt before Fetohep. She imperiously looked down the line of Izril’s ghosts as she addressed them.
“You stand before the Queens and Kings of Glorious Khelt, children of Izril. Rejoice. Weep if thou wilt. For while you walk Chandrar-of-death, know that no shades shall haunt you. We have pledged to guard our people and kingdom, and do so even in the second of our deaths.”
The ghosts looked up, taking heart from the words. One of them, Califor, struggled to her feet. Even the [Witch] looked tired from the long flight.
“Your Majesties. I bear news from the continent we fled. Izril falls. One of them walks it in strength—and we cannot stop the three-in-one either. If any strongholds remain, they will soon be empty.”
The monarchs exchanged glances. Not surprised, just resigned. What seemed to be the oldest and grandest among them lifted her hand.
“Such is fate. That any escaped is welcome enough. Kneel then, [Witch] of these dark tidings, and we shall accept you into Khelt’s glorious ranks. It is an honor we grant you for courage and escorting this one. Know that we shall shelter your soul until the end of things.”
She gestured at Erin. The young woman looked at the first Ruler of Khelt.
She was an older woman, but sort of short. She had the same authority as the others. She just looked at Erin.
“A living young woman. And you must be of Earth, as a few children claim to be.”
Erin started.
“You’ve met more people from Earth? Like me?”
The first Queen raised her left eyebrow.
“Of course. No ghost is prey to those scavengers on our continent. This is the strength of Khelt, granted to us by Fetohep so long as he lives. Sanctuary…for now. It may end. Until then, we are still rulers of Khelt. And you are?”
“E-Erin Solstice.”
“We see. Well met, then, child. Know that all those who sacrificed themselves that you might escape did so to defy those craven things.”
She gestured to the sea. Erin looked at her. The other rulers of Khelt stood there, regarding her. They deferred to the first ruler of Khelt. Erin looked at Califor. The [Witch] gave her a side-long look.
Slowly, hesitantly, Erin bent her knees and awkwardly copied Califor, who had knelt before the rulers of Khelt.
“Thank you for saving us.”
She mumbled. It was an awkward gesture, far from graceful. However, she looked up and saw the first Queen smile.
“It was righteous to do, Erin Solstice. And if you live, perhaps there is a chance you may repay us by bearing this knowledge into the lands of the living. For surely, that was your goal, [Witch]? How are you called?”
“Califor, your Majesty.”
Califor stood as if she had never knelt. Proudly, she had knelt, and now addressed the rulers of Khelt more brusquely. But she had knelt.
So had Erin. They nodded. Another King spoke.
“A fitting idea. There are few living in the land of the dead. None from this world apart. We have been attempting to contact Fetohep of Khelt, but even that connection fades as if he no longer stands on Khelt itself. If this mortal girl has even a chance—what plan had you?”
The [Witch] straightened her hat.
“Knowledge, of course. Lessons. Secrets. Anything that might keep into the lands of waking. Ancient spells. Buried treasure?”
“Fitting and more.”
The half-Giant smith looked approving. He gestured.
“Guide her, Witch. We shall call souls of great knowledge to aid you. However long it takes, we shall attempt to secure that amount of time.”
He grimaced.
“Would that we had the Quarass of Ger’s strength. She was wiser than we knew, to remake herself eternally rather than end here in darkness. We have safeguarded every soul of our subjects in death. And we shall until the bitter end.”
Erin stood there, in the company of the great ghosts of old. She looked around as they conferred.
“I’m sorry. I know this is all so important. I don’t know if I can help. I’ll try, but this is all too much. I’m just me. Those were dead g—it’s too large.”
The rulers of Khelt and Califor looked at her. Slowly, the first Queen of Khelt knelt.
“It often seems so. And it often is, young woman. But such is challenge. Will you rise to it? This world needs a [Hero], and the Dynasty of Khelt shall forge you into one if need be.”
She offered Erin a hand. Slowly, the [Innkeeper] looked up.
“But I’m just an [Innkeeper].”
The rulers of Khelt exchanged a look of concern.
 
—-
 
“[Innkeeper]. Innkeeper. Of all the classes…does any scholar here, any of the great rulers recall a class by which an [Innkeeper] rose to power?”
The dead rulers of Chandrar held great conference. Giants sat in the sands next to [Archmages] who had called Chandrar home. The Dynasty of Khelt, as the protectors here, led the meeting.
The great minds and famous adventurers looked at each other.
“I knew a [Farmer] who became legend.”
A [King] wearing a crown of glass raised a hand and spoke after a moment. An [Archmage] sitting in the air rolled his eyes.
“Yes, but that was a [Farmer]. I could name a hundred and eighty nine [Farmers] who became [Heroes]. An [Innkeeper], though? I can’t think of any…”
Erin loitered in the background, feeling embarrassed. The ruler of Khelt spoke—Califor was more practical.
“I must find every [Witch] who lives or has come here. We will teach you. Maviola El told us you were akin to our natures. I think that is so.”
Erin spluttered, astounded.
“What, me? I’m not [Witch]-y. I don’t even know magic!”
Califor gave her a look under the brim of her hat with a lot less respect than she had given the ruler of Khelt.
“Then you shall learn.”
The [Witch] strode off. Erin stood, scuffing her feet in the dirt.
“Well, what do I do?”
She looked around. Ghosts milled about her, talking, looking for those they knew. Many wanted to speak to her, but were kept back, respectfully. After all, she was the living girl among the dead. Erin called out.
“Abel? Has anyone seen Abel?”
“Here!”
The ghost appeared. Erin looked at him.
“I don’t know what to do, Abel. Should I just wait around?”
The young man looked at the gathering of greatness. He nodded wistfully.
“I wish I could help. But I’m not that great. I just…I died so soon. I could try to remember something from Earth, but I wasn’t an engineer or anything.”
Erin smiled sadly.
“That’s okay. I’m not sure all this knowledge is going to help that much. I mean, I’m dead. What am I going to do, learn to use a sword? I don’t even like fighting. I served adventurers, but I never wanted to be one.”
She waved a hand. Erin looked back the way she’d come. Towards her inn.
“I’m just an [Innkeeper]. I just wish…”
She looked at Abel again. Erin slowly turned her head. So many ghosts around her. So many…and so many sanctuaries emptied. So many lost. Weak ghosts were prey the moment they died, apparently.
Was there a chance…? Erin spoke, slowly.
“I remember them. If Zel and Maviola…excuse me. Excuse me!”
She raised her voice. The milling ghosts looked around. The rulers of Khelt broke off in a discussion with the [Monks], [Martial Artists], [Weapon Trainers], and the [Sage] who had invented Sage’s Grass as Erin floated up to shout. Erin saw fierce warriors, [Martial Artists] who were bare-chested, talking with great experts, one of whom had a blade three times as tall as he was.
The [Sage] had a cape like Rabbiteater’s, which was not cloth, but substances flowing like cloth. Water, liquid metal, alchemical substances like mercury, all of which could be plucked from the trailing cape nearly ten feet long at a whim and used for great workings.
But she had eyes for none of it. Erin called out across the myriad ghosts.
“Excuse me! Sorry, I just had a thought!”
The ghosts around her looked up at the one living young woman. Erin shouted.
“I’m looking for someone if they’re here! A ghost! Some ghosts that I might know. If anyone knows me—if you can help me find them? I know I’m not the only one, but…I miss them.”
She gulped. Suddenly, she remembered. Her voice quavered.
“I’m looking for my friends.”
The Antinium weren’t here. Nor were the Goblins. But…Erin looked around.
“I’m looking for a man. Gerial? And—and a Gnoll? Brunkr? Does anyone know the Horns of Hammerad? Ulrien Sparson? A [Lord]? Toldos Everight? Redit?”
She tried to remember their names. A ghost floated up to her. The [King] with the crown of glass, looking interested as the ghosts murmured.
“Who, pray tell, is this Gerial? A great Gold-rank adventurer, perchance?”
Erin stared blankly at him.
“No. He was Silver-rank. Who’re you?”
The [King] smiled grandly.
“Ah, young woman. I feel we have a connection though we have never met. You see, I keep abreast of the world’s news for I am not long dead.”
He gestured at his regal form, the crown he wore. The crown of glass was magical, and sparkled with rainbow colors reflected by an unseen source of light, for there was none in the lands of the dead.
So powerful, magical, but so fragile that it seemed a touch could shatter it. He wore no robes like some of the monarchs, but armor. Leather armor—lighter, clearly enchanted, revealed by a thrown-back cape, which, like the armor, bore a spiral-design of rune work, some magical shield against harm.
None of it had helped him, for the [King] was only in his fifties. And he was a sturdy fellow, without apparent health issues. Yet dead. He nodded grandly to Erin, his trimmed beard red-gold, like his entire family.
“I died before my dreams could be realized, in accident. Yet my legacy was not lost. In time, they knew not my name, but my only grandson. And they call him by the name that has shaken the world. The King of Destruction—”
The [Innkeeper] was nodding distractedly. She gently put her hands on him and spun him around and gave him a light push on the back.
“Yeah, okay, buddy. But I’m not looking for you. I’m looking for Gerial.”
The King of Destruction’s grandfather looked shocked.
“But I am a [King]! Is some Silver-rank adventurer more important than I?”
Even in death the egos of some people. Erin looked past him. She spoke for his benefit, and that of those listening.
“I don’t know. Gerial was my friend, that’s all. He—he was sort of a goofy guy. He was part of the Horns of Hammerad, with Calruz, this Minotaur who was all ‘honor and stuff’, and Ceria, who’s my friend. I always thought he was sensible. And nice. He was one of my first guests. And…he died in the dungeon of Liscor. Undead got him. I actually fought them, at my inn.”
The dead ghosts listened as the [Innkeeper] spoke. Erin didn’t realize it, but flickers were appearing around her.
A laughing team, cheering on the night before they went into the dungeon. An army of the undead, a creature crawling towards her inn as a ring of Antinium stood. Skinner.
And the man’s face. Erin spoke, a catch in her voice, even here.
“I just never got to say goodbye to him. Gerial was his name. I know it’s a long shot. But if you know him? There are others. I knew a Gnoll who wanted to be a [Knight]. I thought he was a jerk at first. And he was. I punched him in the stomach. He…I wish he hadn’t died. That’s all.”
That was all there was. She wished they hadn’t died. And she remembered them all.
Every statue in her garden. Erin stood there, looking down at the dead. And because she had told them about Brunkr, she had to tell them about the Antinium chess club. Because they weren’t here, yet they should be remembered.
Now, the names came back to her.
Ulrien of Griffon Hunt. Someone had actually been saved by his team.
Marian. Sostrom. Hunt!
Zel Shivertail, of course. Goblins she had known by name and not. Headscratcher, Shorthilt…the one called Bugear who had died fighting the Eater Goats.
Vladimir, Bishop, the chess club’s Antinium.
“There was a brave [Lord]. An old man who fought for me. When I needed help, I asked him if he was willing to die for a belief. And he didn’t hesitate. He was called Lord Toldos. I wish…”
Memories circled around her. The Dynasty of Khelt, Califor and the [Witches], looked at the [Innkeeper] as she remembered her fallen friends.
“Ah. I think that the [Innkeeper] chose her class well. But she will not be the [Hero] or [Champion] of Khelt.”
One of them spoke, and the others nodded. Erin floated there, telling stories. And though she met people who had known her friends…
So many were gone. Someone had seen Hunt disappear when one of the sanctuaries fell. Ulrien? No one knew where he was.
