Someone spoke. Sserys. The ghosts, all of them in the sanctuary, millions, stood transfixed as three walked upon them. Despair was written even in Yderigrisel’s expression. But still, he flew down and blocked their path.
“This is not your place, creatures. Strangers. You are not of the dead and you devour noble souls. Cease. Begone, or my wrath will fall upon you.”
The three stopped. The first who walked forwards was Kasigna. She smiled up at the Dragon.
“I am Kasigna, little Dragon. And this is my place. Therefore, kneel.”
She pointed. And Yderigrisel knelt. Erin heard a sigh. And the ghosts around her knelt. Kasigna looked past Yderigrisel. At the young woman, who did not kneel at her words.
“Erin Solstice. Know me and worship me. I am Kasigna of the End. I am your god. I am salvation in death. This place is mine. Come. Touch me, and I will remake this broken place into a fitting place for all of you.”
She spread her arms wide, and Erin felt the tugging. As if she stared into a chasm and something told her to jump.
“We have business with you as well. You stand on the land I would claim for the living. Take my hand, Erin Solstice. And I will show you glory.”
Tamaroth extended his hand. She stared at him, remembered his visit on the Winter Solstice.
The last—the thing—said nothing at all. It simply reached out and offered nothing. It was here because Erin had lost something.
Your body. Come, give it to me. 
The ghosts were still, quaking before Kasigna’s power. Erin shook her head. She looked around for Califor, but the [Witch] was paralyzed. Erin shook her head, burying her head in her hands.
“I want to live. I don’t want this. It’s too much. Too heavy. I just want to live and for things to be happy. Please?”
They laughed at her. Even the thing that had no real face or mouth. Tamaroth smiled.
“Young woman, did you expect the afterlife to be kind? And if you did, by what right? What reason? Without us, there is nothing. This is why we are here. It is a mercy. Now, choose. Or we choose for you.”
He strode across the ground. Somehow, Erin was closer than any of the ghosts—pulled towards the three. Yderigrisel tried to move as the three reached for Erin. Fighting each other, pushing each other aside to touch her. The [Innkeeper] was curled up, head buried in her knees. Tamaroth reached down—
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
Erin jumped up and swung. All three strangers recoiled. She missed. Tamaroth stared at the fist which had just missed his face. He was so surprised he missed touching her arm.
“You would strike us?”
“If I’m going to vanish? Sure. Come on! I’ll smack you! Bring it!”
Erin hopped backwards, jabbing the air like an amateur boxer. Kasigna, the thing, and Tamaroth looked at each other.
Then they laughed. They laughed so hard that they doubled over. Laughed at Erin. The young woman slowly lowered her fists.
“That’s what you want? Well, then, strike us!”
All three seemed to say it at once. They advanced on her, smiling. Erin backed up. Kasigna turned as they passed Yderigrisel.
“Ah, what a wonderful little place. How they make things, even in my ruined lands. Come, little one. All of you.”
She reached for the silver Dragon as he knelt, immobile. Tamaroth turned as Erin ran backwards from the lost thing still reaching towards her.
“And this one is mine.”
He was looking at Sserys. The [General] knelt in front of him. Kasigna reached down for Yderigrisel’s head. Erin heard a sigh.
“Of all the ways it should end, like this? Defending a silver Dragon. Yet it is an end.”
A hand caught Kasigna’s. This time the woman did start. She looked up.
“How? I rule this land!”
“And my kind rules death. Nor am I fully dead.”
The Putrid One informed her calmly. He picked Kasigna up. Erin saw the Putrid One’s head turn around a hundred and eighty degrees to face her.
“We have power in this place. Look, friend of [Necromancers]. This is what I was.”
He lifted Kasigna higher. Higher—he did not float. The misshapen flesh expanded, the rotting skin—
The Putrid One heaved as his noxious form engulfed the frail form of the half-Elf he had chosen to be. Kasigna went flying. The [Necromancer] advanced. She was on her feet as if she had never fallen.
She hissed.
“Insolence!”
The Putrid One was already fading. He looked back at Erin and smiled.
“Respite.”
Then he was gone. Tamaroth and the lost thing seemed more amused than anything else.
“How they struggle. Then I shall take her.”
Tamaroth turned. But the Putrid One had done more with that one touch than just throw Kasigna back a pace.
The kneeling Drake in front of Tamaroth moved. He lunged to his feet. Tamaroth’s head turned—and Sserys’ head collided with his chin.
Headbutt.
Tamaroth staggered as the Drake jumped backwards. Sserys seemed to be as surprised as Tamaroth that he was still existing. He’d clocked the bearded man with all his might.
Erin had no conception of physics or the materiality of their ‘bodies’ in this place. Even so—
That looked like it hurt.
“That worked? If you take them off-guard, they miss their chance! Don’t let them touch you!”
Sserys snapped around. The ghosts were getting to their feet. Califor grabbed Erin’s sleeve.
“Now! Run!”
The lost thing lunged. Uonp blocked it. She vanished. Erin stumbled away.
“To arms!”
The first [Lord] and [Lady] of the House of Byres drew swords. Gresaria Wellfar and her husband joined the ranks of ghosts freed from Kasigna’s control.
They blocked the three. Kasigna was enraged, striding forwards. Tamaroth was following Sserys. The Drake turned to Erin.
“Run. And tell them.”
He met her gaze. Erin began to run. She saw silver flash.
Yderigrisel. Freed, he roared and his voice was the loudest in this place. He flew upwards as the three turned to face the army of ghosts.
The smaller ghosts fled. They ran, with Erin and Califor, fleeing the three as the House of Byres, Sserys, and Gresaria made a stand.
The Knight-Dragon flew next to Erin and Califor for a moment as they raced south, the ghosts fleeing the battle behind them. Califor was pointing.
“To the sea! We must find another continent, another haven if one exists!”
Then she and Erin turned as they ran to the silver Dragon. For a moment, Erin thought his nerve had broken. One vast eye blinked at her, and Yderigrisel spoke. To her.
“Remember this, girl from another world. Bring wrath and justice to these craven things when you wake! And tell…tell the House of Byres I was faithful even past death.”
He banked his wings and turned. The Silver Dragon spread his wings and dove across the vast distance as the ghosts fled.
Erin ran once more. This time, her tears faded into nothingness before they even hit the ground.
Just like the ghosts.
 
—-
 
Erin was crying as she ran. Death. Even here, after they died, why was there still death? Tears ran down her face at the unfairness of it all.
None of the other ghosts cried. They couldn’t. They were trapped here, at the mercy of these…these parasites. These predators of souls.
It was not right. So Erin was angry as she ran.
“[Like Fire, Memory]! [Fireball]! [Minotaur Punch]! Relc Punch! No?”
“What are you doing?”
Califor snapped at Erin. They weren’t sprinting—well, some of the ghosts were. Califor strode along at the same speed Erin ran. Some of the [Witches] just walked at top speed in this place.
“Trying to fight back! If I could throw fire—Maviola burned Kasigna!”
The [Witch] shook her head.
“She was inside Kasigna, wherever you were and the three-in-one was distracted! We saw her, and you. That can’t happen here. Magic is gone, and so are Skills!”
It was true. Erin couldn’t produce the fire, try as she might. So she kept running. Yderigrisel had possessed his fire because it was his. Erin…could spit on the dead gods?
She was darn well going to if she got the chance! Erin looked around and saw a swarm of bodies. The refugee ghosts were fleeing. Many followed Erin and Califor, but the others were splitting up. Some, on the assumption it was better to brave the lesser shadows alone rather than the three who would follow.
Others to warn the other strongholds. Izril was lost.
Erin saw two more strongholds on the way back south. Invrisil had been one, and the adventurers who had made a place here abandoned it, fleeing in every direction.
Similarly, she saw a strange conflagration of souls fleeing as she and Califor crossed the High Passes. Winged shapes flew, heading west.
“Harpies.”
Califor pointed up. Erin stared at the ghosts as they too ran from the kingdom that had once been theirs. She remembered a name.
Empress Sheta of the Harpies.
Erin stopped as she reached the Floodplains of Liscor. They had fled for moments—or perhaps longer, but it felt short. Califor stopped.
“What are you doing? They are coming!”
The [Witch] pointed. There were mountains in the way, countless obstacles, but somehow, Erin saw the three. They were turning towards her, having destroyed the sanctuary of the silver Dragon. They were following and they were faster than the ghosts.
However—Erin ran towards the inn, not further south.
“My inn! You said they couldn’t get into the [Garden of Sanctuary]! Maybe if my body’s safe, we can—”
She ran into the inn. Califor followed with a stream of ghosts.
“There’s a problem. Erin—”
The [Innkeeper] ran for a wall and phased through it. She realized what it was in an instant.
She couldn’t use her Skills. Not even in her inn. Erin looked around.
“Maybe the door’s open? Mrsha’s here. It has to be…there!”
She saw it flicker open this very moment, into the kitchen! Little Mrsha, stealing cookies! Erin ran at it.
“Follow me, every—”
Even in death, the bwuh sound Erin made was instinctual. There was no smack of her ghostly body hitting the barrier, but she found herself pressed up against it. Erin ran her hands over the barrier she had never experienced with the [Garden of Sanctuary] beyond. She threw up her hands.
“Oh, come on. It’s me! It’s me! You stupid door! I’m going to—”
“Stop shouting and run.”
Califor grabbed her. The two ran onwards, Erin shouting insults at the [Garden of Sanctuary] the entire way. She looked around for Reiss. Numbtongue had claimed he saw the Goblin ghost.
Reiss was gone.
 
—-
 
Onwards. Past Liscor. Erin had never gone this far south. She ran through the Bloodfields with the other ghosts. Behind her, she saw the three approaching. They stopped now and then to snatch up ghosts.
They were too fast. Gaining ground. But the ghosts had a lead on them and Califor carried them south.
They reached Pallass and ran past the empty walls. The Drakes standing at the Walled City called to them. Califor and the other ghosts from the north shouted warnings, but the ghosts of dead Drakes refused to abandon their city. Erin saw the three stop at the walls and walk onto them. A Dragon and Oldbloods breathed fire—then knelt.
Gone.
After that, more ghosts of Drakes and Gnolls joined the stream flowing out of Izril. Gnoll tribes, Drakes from cities. Even Dragons, taking wing. Behind them, the three gorged themselves on the souls, picking at the slowest.
Erin looked back as she reached Zeres. And she saw them for what they were.
Rotted, foul figures, crouching, gorging themselves on souls. Fighting, snarling at each other. Even the Putrid One had not been so foul. They stank in this place. But they were alive.
Coming back. Growing stronger. Erin shouted back at them.
“Why are you doing this? Why do you have to do this?”
One of them answered.
“We want to live. Don’t you?”
They were desperate. For all they wanted to be so feared. Erin saw them grabbing. She pointed.
“They’re people! Children! Don’t you care?”
Kasigna looked at her.
“We matter more. Some things matter more than others. This is the truth. You matter more than grass or insects. So it is for us.”
Erin clenched her fist.
“The first person I ever spoke to was an insect! He’s my friend!”
They laughed at her and followed once more.
Erin ran onto the sea with Califor. Across waves frozen in time, blurring over the ocean as the land vanished behind them.
And still, the three followed.
 
—-
 
What could stop them? Erin had no Skills. Califor was helpless. But the ghosts were still brave.
So brave. A squadron of Drakes stayed to delay the three a second, darting around them and forcing them to slow to grab at them.
An adventurer halted and called an insult to Tamaroth.
“I’ve seen better beards on the asses of donkeys!”
It actually worked. He slowed, and Erin laughed and cried as the adventurer vanished, saluting towards her and the others. More tried it, but the dead gods refused to fall for it twice.
If only they could be fought! Erin felt herself growing…tired…of the flight. Even the ghosts felt the distance they had covered. There was no sweat to wipe, though, no muscles to burn or grow tired.
Tears, yes. Erin was the only one who could shed them, so she did. For the ghosts. For brave people.
“If only I had some water.”
The murmur came from Abel. He had joined Califor and Erin at the first flight and stayed with them. He looked longingly at a tear as it vanished. The [Innkeeper] nodded, licking her lips.
“Water? I’d love blue fruit juice. Anything.”
Erin longed for it too, but Abel shook his head.
“Just water. Just sweet water. I would do anything for that.”
Erin closed her eyes, still moving. Yes, even that would be the most luxurious thing in the world.
“A glass of cool water. Not so cool it hurts your teeth, but almost. So cold and fresh and even a bit sweet if you’re thirsty enough.”
The ghosts murmured, all of them imagining it. So did Erin. She heard a sound.
“Erin Solstice. Look.”
Califor stared as they fled across the deeps of the ocean. Erin looked down.
She was holding a cup of water.
She promptly dropped it and it vanished. Abel and Califor made a sound.
“How…?”
The stool. Erin recalled the Putrid One making it! Out of a memory! That had been a cup of water from the well when it had first been dug! She tried again.
“It was—it was a good cup of water. Not the best, and it had a bit of dirt in it, but I really liked it and I didn’t tell Belgrade—”
She babbled and the cup was in her hands. She looked at it. Abel stared. She handed him the cup. He raised it to his lips and drank.
“It tastes a bit of dirt. It’s…water.”
He would have cried if he could. The ghosts almost stopped, but the three following made them turn and flee. Erin saw Califor looking at her.
“Memory. Memory is yours to command! If that is so—”
She looked over her shoulder. Erin’s eyes narrowed.
“Are you thinking what I’m thinking?”
Califor seized her arm as they turned.
“Don’t think. Remember!”
