The [Innkeeper] obeyed. Memory. She would have loved to conjure something really nasty, but she’d never fired or held a gun. In fact, the number of weapons she had held were…
Acid jars, Pelt’s knife, Lyonette’s sword one time—Califor reached out as some of the martial ghosts halted, sensing what was happening.
“A weapon! Any weapon!”
Erin thought of a weapon to use against them. Nothing up-close. Something…
She recalled her first friends. Her eyes opened wide.
She had held it just once. She looked down and Relc’s spear rose in her grasp. Solid, dangerous.
The three slowed uncertainly as they saw the solid weapon appear. Erin looked around.
“I don’t know how to throw it! Anyone?”
“Give it to me!”
A Gnoll [War Chieftain] howled. She hefted the spear and the ghosts around her howled or shouted as she took aim. The three slowed. The lost thing, Tamaroth, Kasigna—the spear wavered between them. Then the Gnoll threw.
The spear flashed through the air, even without the aid of Skills. Straight at—
It struck Tamaroth in the chest. Erin shouted and saw the dead god…
Standing there. Tamaroth smiled.
The spear was gone. It hadn’t even seemed to hurt him. No. On the contrary. Califor looked at Erin, and the cheering stopped.
Erin stared at Tamaroth. He’d just eaten—absorbed—Relc’s…Relc’s…
Relc’s what? Erin put her hands to her head.
Relc had a weapon? No, that wasn’t right. He always went around with his bare claws…wait, that didn’t seem right either. How did he use his [Triple Thrust] attack? What…
“You’ve forgotten.”
“What did I forget?”
The Gnoll [Chieftain] was staring uneasily.  The dead gods were laughing. She looked at Erin.
“The spear.”
“I forgot that?”
Erin felt a terrible fear in her chest. She looked at them.
“Was that an artifact?”
“I don’t know! I—will anything work on them?”
A weapon? Some glorious…but what would work on them? Erin stared at the dead gods.
“…Flowers?”
The faerie flowers? The three were watching, amused. They heard her voice.
“The flowers of the fae?”
Kasigna exclaimed. Tamaroth laughed. Even the lost thing appeared amused. They called at her, their voices twining, amused.
“Yes! Yes, Erin Solstice! Yes, child! Fight us with flowers!”
Erin looked at the laughing strangers and then at Califor. She whispered to the [Witch].
“They’re sounding pretty happy about that idea. Let’s not do that.”
Califor gave her a look. She tugged her hat up and snapped.
“Run!”
 
—-
 
They were in the middle of the sea, with nothing around them but the waves when the first hands reached up and tried to drag them into the water. The green-blue waters turning to abyssal colors parted as something emerged from the fathomless deep.
Erin screamed, and ghosts were dragged under. Not to suffocate, struggling with whatever held them. What was it?
Drowned Folk. They clutched at Califor’s dress, at Erin’s leg. One grabbed Abel.
“What are you doing?”
“He walks the depths. The wise one. The one with knowledge. He wants you. We live if he takes you. Stay. We want to live even here.”
They pleaded with her. Drowned Women, dead [Sailors], people…Califor shouted as the three advanced, consuming the fleeing ghosts now struggling against their kind.
“Traitors! They will consume us all in time!”
The Drowned Folk would not let go. Laughter came from the depths. And then—Erin saw, in the deep of the ocean, someone walking up towards her.
The wise man.
“Emerrhain.”
The three greeted him with distaste. Even rivalry, especially from Tamaroth. The wise man smiled.
“So this is the one you hunt. Shall we make a contest of it?”
He reached for Erin and the three fought like carrion crows. Erin ripped free of a hand trying to drag her under.
“You—you jerks! You all suck so much! I don’t care if you’re gods or dead gods or what! You are the worst deities I’ve ever met!”
She shouted at the four. All of them turned.
Affronted.
Kasigna stared at Erin.
“You have never met ones such as we, Erin Solstice. You have no way of comprehending what we are. You should worship us and be grateful for what we bring. You know of us. Your world craves us!”
Erin shook a fist at the four.
“Oh yeah? Oh yeah? Well—I may not have met the other ones directly, but I know they’re way cooler than you all are anyways! Pssh! Totally! You’ve been dead for like, forever, right? There was this guy who took only three days to come back from the dead. And he was the son of a god! Plus, he had a nicer beard!”
She pointed at Tamaroth. The man frowned at her. Erin hesitated.
“P-probably. I didn’t see it myself. But he has pictures! All you have is a stupid coin which gave Pelt a heart attack!”
Emerrhain and Kasigna laughed at that. They were not united, Erin was sure. Allies of convenience at best. She pointed at the others—the lost thing was just standing there, listening.
“You know what? You’re not even gods. You’re like—super cockroaches. That’s all.”
The laughter cut off. Now, all four were staring at her. Slowly, Emerrhain shook his head.
“How she shouts.”
“You have nothing to give us. Yet insolence we do not stand.”
Kasigna reached for her again. Erin ran backwards, but the sea-ghosts were rising. Tangling her. She struggled as Califor put herself between her and Kasigna and the four, trying to tear the hands away.
“You losers wouldn’t even try this if it was a fair fight! Cowards! I’ll spit on you! You all suck!”
They held her, and the other ghosts. The four stopped.
“Is that all you have to say? Would you really challenge us if you lived? Even knowing what we are? You, child? Alone?”
Emerrhain bent down. He was more interested than the others. His eyes alight with curiosity. Erin struggled, but the hands of countless ghosts held her. So she just nodded.
“I know what monsters look like.”
She stared at him. Emerrhain frowned. Erin went on, panting, straining—ready to spit or bite his hand. The words flooded out of her mouth without thought. Just what she believed.
“I—I know monsters. See, you can run, hide, and refuse to fight people. Animals too. And that’s alright. But monsters? Sometimes you have to fight monsters. Because monsters don’t stop. Someone has to, even if it means you get hurt. And that’s all I see. Four stupid monsters that smell like poo. That one can’t even beat me at chess.”
She pointed at Kasigna as best she could with the hands holding her in place. The other gods looked at the three-in-one. They didn’t look amused this time. Erin had struck a nerve.
But the watching ghosts and Erin and Califor still heard laughter.
“Well said!”
The voice came from below her. Erin looked down. She saw a face grinning at her in the depths of the ocean.
Then—the woman exploded out of the sea. She knocked the other ghosts holding Erin away. More ghosts followed, freeing the trapped ghosts, grappling with their kin.
More Drowned Folk? Her voice had some of Seborn’s cadence, but the woman looked different from the other Drowned Folk.
She had a really cool hat. The [Pirate Queen] swept Erin a bow.
“So you’re the ghost that one chases! Well, if I had a ship I’d give these bastards a real battle! But we were without ships and at a loss. Good thing we found something better. To arms, sea folk!”
More ghosts burst out of the surf. The four dead gods looked amused. Right up until the waters moved and something glowed in the abyssal depths. Erin looked down and realized there were more ghosts than she had ever dreamed of.
Branches broke the surface of the dark waters. Glowing, spectral, half-colored like everything here. The memory of a body not made of flesh or scale…
The first of them stood taller now as the [Pirates] and [Sailors] ambushed the gods. Many ghosts ‘flew’ through the water and into the air. More still rode the replacement for their lost ships.
Still beautiful. The being the ghosts rode stepped higher still, the tips of its body breaking out of the water. Even the four strangers looked up.
Erin saw vast, ancient limbs. Wood so old it had turned to stone—then something else entirely. What had once been a vast tree, but had changed over the eons underwater. Colorful aquatic plant life, sprouting from the trunken limbs, the branches and bark, replacing foliage with a different rainbow of colors. Life which became death and life again. It looked like…
Coral?
A Treant rose out of the ocean, turning to face the four. Even the oldest of trees died. Tamaroth sighed, almost happily.
“Ah. [Pirates]. Always unexpected.”
The ghosts of the sea were laughing, clinging to the Treants as more of the ancient giants surfaced. The [Pirate Queen] drew a sword.
“Alright, you know how to do it. No touching them. Keep these traitorous cowards off them! Go!”
She swarmed towards the gods with the other ghosts, pressing in and blocking them. Throwing themselves like the surf at the four. The four looked more annoyed than anything.
“You can’t win! It’s impossible!”
Erin protested. She saw the other woman turn, urging her and Califor on.
“Run, living girl! Run for sanctuary! Let us test them first! Don’t you have something you have left to do? One of us has a second chance.”
Because she did, and because that was true, Erin ran. She shouted back at the ghosts. Thanking them. They cheered her on, spitting in the eyes of the dead gods.
Literally. It wasn’t just about her. It was about them. To frustrate them, delay them another second. These cheating, disgusting things eating everything without weakness or fairness in the world. Unstoppable.
Gods.
 
—-
 
The end of Erin’s journey came as the sea ended. Behind her, the last of the brave [Pirates] were in flight. Even the Treants.
Four followed. Perhaps they could have stopped the other three.
Not Kasigna. Erin had seen a Treant refuse to vanish, grappling with the lost thing. But the three-in-one they could not stop.
They knelt to her power. All the ghosts fled. Izril’s refugees. The sea’s people.
And they came at last to the other continent. Erin stumbled onto the dry sands and looked beyond. She realized where she was. Of all the continents—
Chandrar.
The shore was a beach, but the sand never ended. The waves lapped up onto the sand, and while vegetation grew here, it was arid, nothing like Izril’s lush grasslands. Only in a few places did Chandrar ever bloom, and then when it rained.
But Erin could see far beyond this coastline. Across the desert, where the vastness of the continent meant that even rains born from the sea would never reach that far inland.
A dead, gigantic desert. Zeikhal, the largest desert in the world where nothing could live. Mountains, perhaps created in ancient times, existing when water had flowed here, had been worn away to dunes the size of mountains instead.
And yet, Chandrar was not all dead earth. Imperium of old had been built here, and still remained, civilizations which rose out of the bleak landscape, shining with hope, to fall—but never be fully destroyed.
What the sands took, people reclaimed. A majestic land, harsh, but as glorious as Izril, Terandria, or Baleros lay before Erin Solstice as she stopped a second. The second continent she had ever laid eyes on.
Perhaps the last she would ever see. She looked back as the end came.
The four were hot on their heels. Once more, they reached out, fighting each other to grab Erin. Jostling.
And for the first time since Erin had woken in the land of the dead, she saw them hit something.
The four ran into a wall of sand. It rose as they tried to walk onto the sands of the desert continent of Chandrar. They recoiled, much as Erin had, and tried to push against the wall.
It began to give, sand yielding before their touches. Then it reformed. Held firm. The four looked at each other, shocked as Erin was.
“What is this? Stand aside! Kneel.”
Kasigna spoke and the ghosts around Erin were once again forced down. But a reply came from just ahead.
“No. We are masters of our deaths. And even in death, even beyond it, we have our duty. Begone you ravenous filth.”
A line of men and women blocked the four. They had been standing here, like statues, waiting for the flood of ghosts, knowing they were coming, and knowing what followed them. They held the wall of sand, shifting it to block the four strangers.
There were eighteen of them. Just eighteen. There had been more Treants. Far more great [Pirate Kings] and [Captains] of the sea.
The eighteen men and women did not move. Erin stared. They were Human—sixteen of them.
Two of the eighteen were different. Half-Giant. Garuda. Each one was garbed in grand clothing. Crowns. Some identical.
A people lay beyond the line in the sand. The borders of the great desert continent, Chandrar. No—all peoples. Califor struggled upright as somehow, the eighteen threw off Kasigna’s command.
“This—this sanctuary holds? There are so many ghosts! And look, even species of old! Jinn.”
She pointed. Ahead, Erin saw a vast gathering. If Yderigrisel’s sanctuary had been home to millions, despite the small amount of land he held in the House of Byres, this was a gathering without limit.
It was all of Chandrar. Erin saw countless Drakes, Humans, Garuda—and yes, species long dead to this world.
Jinn, floating alongside their family. Djinni, taking any number of forms they had possessed in life.
Watching the confrontation at their shores.
Not even the mighty Djinni—nor the watching Giants moved to help the eighteen at the beach struggling against the four. Every species in this world save one was here. There were no Dragons, Erin realized. She looked back; the wall of sand held! The eighteen were clearly straining, but it was a contest and the four were getting frustrated.
Especially Kasigna. She was staring at the men and women, puzzled, growing more furious with each moment. Erin was just stunned.
Who were they? How could they alone stand against her?
“How do they hold us?”
Tamaroth turned to Emerrhain. The wise man frowned at them. He named them slowly.
“Khelt.”
One of the women smiled archly at him. She was not beautiful if you only meant looks. She had taken many scars and she had not been chosen because she was a peerless beauty. Her beauty was confidence, grace.
Authority. She answered them proudly.
“Our reign still endures. Our kingdom still stands. So our power and pact remains. We are the rulers of Khelt and we say again—begone, things.”
“I rule death. I am a release of all things. I am salvation. Kneel to me.”
Kasigna ordered them. The half-Giant answered her with a shake of his head. The King of Khelt, the great smith-King, turned his head.
“Fool. Death is not the end of duty.”
Tamaroth stared at them. He spoke, eyes burning.
“Your natures are mine. You rule men and women. Come to me.”
