The familiar looks of annoyance, motherly pride, and so on changed. Erin saw her mother’s face cloud with concern. And…Erin felt a lurch in her stomach.
“How are you, Erin?”
Erin’s toes curled on the carpet. She forced herself to smile.
“Fine. I just don’t want to work.”
Shauna hmmed, sounding peeved, but she looked relieved.
“Ask your father. And clean up the dishes! Dishwasher!”
She pointed, and Erin realized she had to bus her plate and utensils and the breakfast dishes.
Oh, what a miserable existence. Erin groaned over it…until she stopped. Because it wasn’t that much work to put some food in tupperware, put dirty plates in the dishwasher. In fact, it was downright easy. She’d had far worse when…
It was happening again. 
Erin Solstice went upstairs before her mother could talk more about her part-time job. She sat in the chair in front of the computer and loaded up the news article.
The Spirited Generation. That’s what they called Erin and all the others who’d been lost. Based on Spirited Away, the famous movie. Erin had to admit, it fit.
The article was nothing Erin didn’t know, but she read it again.
It had been nearly four months since she’d woken up in the abandoned mall. Three since she’d been back home.
She remembered nothing of the four years before that, even when the FBI and other investigators had pressed her to remember any clues. Anything at all.
 
 
—-
 
The world was in a bad place. A pandemic in the air. Lockdowns, a world divided by both sickness and paranoia. Conspiracy theories, tensions between countries, distrust in governments at an all-time high.
Protests, demonstrations, riots…it seemed like something new every day. Not just in her country, not by far. Erin could scroll through any number of sites and see dozens of conspiracy theories. Videos too. They weren’t being listed on a lot of big sites, but no one could get rid of them.
And the heart of the issue was the virus. And the Spirited Generation.
Erin was maybe even one of the first, certainly part of the ‘first wave’ of disappearances at the very least.
Four—closer to five years ago—she had been going to the bathroom in her house when she had vanished. Her parents had looked for her, suspected she’d run away or been kidnapped. But they had no idea why. Why would Erin run away or be kidnapped? She was a highly-ranked chess player worldwide, but not some celebrity and their family wasn’t rich. And run away? Erin was a homebody! She liked playing chess, not exploring or getting into trouble.
They had done what all good parents did: search and inform all the authorities. They had feared and prayed and tried to find a clue until they realized they were not alone.
Young people were vanishing. Across the world, teenagers to young adults were just going missing. Not children, and not anyone over thirty.
At first, it had seemed like a rash of kidnappings. Accusations had been thrown about, and all the old conspiracies trotted out. World leaders had been slow to comment. At first, that had caused outrage. Then, full-blown distrust in governments.
All because people had noticed—seen with their very eyes—the young people vanish into thin air. It had been recorded on security cameras, reported by families begging for news of their children. They caused a fuss, but there was no tangible proof, just missing kids for any number of reasons.
Then people had begun seeing the actual clips. Security footage at first, which leaked from governments suppressing the videos for ‘reasons of national safety’. And then more.
Actual, sharp, clear images of someone just disappearing at a convention, when those were still a thing. A recording of a birthday where a girl turning nineteen vanished in front of her horrified friends.
A group of people vanishing in an airport, caught on the cameras and reported by people who had been standing right next to them.
Conspiracy became full-blown panic. This wasn’t just some single event. This—this was aliens! Government organizations! The end of the world!
The breaking point was the disappearance of an airplane. Or rather, the inexplicable downing of Flight 241 in the skies right as it was leaving the airport in Portugal.
Investigators never found significant portions of the plane—nor could anyone explain what had happened in that moment caught on distant cameras.
Riots and demonstrations. Mass-protests at numerous capitals and a lot of blame from country to country. Then the pandemic occurred, and few people believed that was coincidental.
In short, it was like the end of the world. But something had happened while it was all becoming a fever’s pitch. Something wonderful that did not end the conspiracies or unrest, but which changed everything.
The lost generation. The missing children.
They came back.
 
—-
 
Erin finished reading the article. She sat in her chair, rocking backwards and catching her feet on the edge of the computer’s table. She promptly overbalanced and crashed onto her back.
“Ow.”
“Are you alright, Erin?”
“Fine!”
Erin got up, grumbling, and righted her chair. The article was done, but the story wasn’t.
The Spirited Generation came back. Not all of them. Nor in any logical order. People like Erin, who were in the ‘first wave’ of disappearances, came back after someone had vanished not a week ago.
Many were still missing, and the lists kept being updated with people who had just run off or suffered some other event. Still, lots of names, the ‘confirmed missing’, were still up there. Erin checked the confirmed list, and stared at the names. You needed some kind of visual proof to be on the list, so it was short.
 
Daly Sullivan
Kenjiro Murata
Erik Muller
Kent Scott
 
Followed by nearly a hundred confirmed names, some with addendums specifying that they’d been found! Returned!
Of course, that was just the primary list. There were plenty of others who weren’t confirmed, and reported missing with no good explanation.
And people wanted to know what the heck had happened. The first person to return had no memory of the nearly two-year gap. No knowledge of…anything.
They tried hypnosis, drugs, to no avail; that period of time was simply erased. Which of course lent credence to the aliens theory.
Nothing worked on any of the returning children. They couldn’t remember. Some of the young people burst into tears when pressed. Hypnosis, medication—nothing brought it back, but some of them claimed they could remember something…terrible.
Erin remembered nothing at all. Nothing…but some days she woke up like she had this morning.
Erin had been back for four months total. The first month had been in custody of the government. They had kept her under surveillance, asked her questions. She’d missed the initial spat of the first young people being kept in top-secret facilities as actual mobs threatened to storm the building unless they were released.
Even so, her appearance had meant more to her family than…Erin closed her eyes at that memory of seeing her parents rush in. She wished she could have told them why it had happened.
Now, she was trying to live again, twenty four years old, but looking and feeling as if she were still just twenty. It was her choice, and her family’s to avoid attention.
She could have been on television. Or at least been interviewed; it wasn’t as if she was the first one back, so the huge demand for her hadn’t been as strong. Erin could have been on any number of podcasts or shows. The offers still kept coming in.
Hence, Shauna and Greg’s insistence that Erin try to reclaim her life by doing normal things. Which included going out of the house and working, apparently.
Erin would have loved to claim the pandemic made it impossible, but one thing about being a member of the Spirited Generation was that you got all the shots and tests, including the newest vaccines. So, Erin’s parents had no qualms about sending her into the world. She still had to wear a mask.
As for her job? Why, the easy thing even someone like Erin could do!
“Shopping. I hate shopping.”
Glumly, she loaded the app up on her smartphone. She knew what she had to do. Go to the store, get groceries, deliver groceries, get paid. She was going to be one of those remote-shoppers and her mother had threatened-encouraged her that she’d be the first customer.
Erin almost wished she was playing chess live. There was money there! It was one of the things that had happened while she’d been gone. She was too shy to do that…maybe a day of shopping for other people would change her mind.
“Erin, are you going to start? Your father’s not back yet.”
“I’ll just walk to the store. I can do the neighborhood, right?”
“I don’t think that’s how it works, dear. Tell you what—take my car. I’ll steal your father’s.”
Erin sighed. Her mother’s car had terrible acceleration on the highway.
“Fine.”
She stomped towards the door, thinking she’d do an hour of work and then call it good to placate her mother, and hide in her room all day. A voice stopped her as she went for the door.
“Don’t forget to take a coat. It’s raining.”
“What? Aw.”
It had begun raining in the time since Erin had gone back upstairs. A drizzle, nothing too hard. Miserable. Snow became slush and Erin hated driving in slush. Glumly, she looked up.
“Is it going to get bad?”
Her mother typed on the laptop.
“Let me check…no. Take a coat anyways.”
Erin didn’t want a raincoat. She looked around.
“I’ll just take—”
She reached for an object in a stand and halted. There was no reason for it. Suddenly, all thoughts left her head. She stared at the thin, long, dark blue object.
It wasn’t anything special. It was just…
An umbrella.
Erin reached for it, and then snatched her hand back. She stared at it. Why didn’t she want to pick it up?
Erin Solstice stood there. Her mother was absently watching one of her shows as she worked. She didn’t see her daughter recoil from the stand and slowly back away and walk back up the stairs.
 
—-
 
She didn’t leave her house.
The not-quite-recollections plagued her day by day. Anything could set it off. Erin knew it was normal. Everyone had them. She’d talked to people like her, was even part of one of their message groups—although some trolls had found the last one and started asking them all kinds of questions.
The problem was, Erin couldn’t identify with the ones who started crying when they were watching a movie because it triggered some unremembered trauma. She cried…but their experiences were different somehow.
Usually it was an action movie, or a fantasy, horror, sci-fi movie, some piece of fiction that set it off in the Spirited Generation. Erin had sat through a number of movies without needing to cry. But she had burst into tears while passing by a clearance sale on old Halloween costumes.
A skeleton, one of those cheap ones on display. And then, when she’d seen a colorful videogame ad online with those fantasy monsters. Ogres, Giants, Goblins, and so on. It was stuff like that which drove her and the others crazy. Something they had forgotten which was so important.
She didn’t know why the umbrella mattered. It disturbed her, so she procrastinated. And as she always did, she found herself at her computer, playing chess.
There were two chess boards in her room, one for experiments, another for extrapolation if she wanted to think around a game she was playing. That felt familiar too.
“Darn it. Darn it.”
Erin muttered as she found opponents online to play at chess. In this new internet-age, it was never easier to play against people from the comfort of your bed. She wished it could solve everything, but it was just chess.
She clicked around listlessly, playing a game against an opponent whom she trashed. Not quite the legendary Fool’s Mate, but a variation on the Bird’s Opening into Fool’s Mate. They quit after insulting her.
The second game went like that—Erin wondered if she was being matched with bad players. She just shrugged, moodily, and opened the game against the computer and set it to max difficulty.
That was how her mother found her. Shauna, on a hunch, had gone upstairs and found Erin.
Erin stared at the screen as Shauna sighed. Her daughter had been keeping a tally and it was all wins. She was on a streak, but her face was bleak.
“Erin…”
She spun around, looking embarrassed.
“I’m going! I was just—”
She trailed off because the answer was she wasn’t.
Her mother didn’t scold her immediately as she might have. She just stood there, biting her lip. Then she spoke.
“Erin, maybe we should see if we can book another appointment with your therapist today or tomorrow? You said she was helping?”
Erin’s heart sank. Her mother looked at her, full of worry and anxiety. Erin knew she worried every day. She wanted to tell her what had happened. She had been as honest with her family as with herself. But she knew nothing.
Nothing.
Nothing—
“Erin? Erin. What’s wrong?”
The young woman saw Shauna’s face turn to alarm. She felt it again. A familiar sensation.
Tears ran down her cheeks. She reached up and touched them. Then she looked at the computer. She looked around at her familiar room. At her mother, looking so…
“I’m sorry, Mom.”
Erin’s voice was muffled. Shauna instantly went over to her.
“It’s alright, sweetie. It’s okay. Let’s call your…”
“No. No.”
Erin pulled away. She shook her head, trying to explain. Trying to tell her…she looked around and spoke.
“I’m sorry. Mom? Mom, I’m really sorry. I think I’m dreaming. I think—I died. And I’m just pretending I’m back home.”
Shauna Solstice blinked. Then her face turned pale.
“Erin. Do you remember…?”
The young woman slowly nodded. She was uncertain, but the feeling grew in her chest. She clenched her hand, and felt something was wrong. She didn’t remember. And yet? She looked up at her mother.
“This sounds crazy, Mom. I don’t…remember where I went, when I vanished. I know why I came back, though. I died. I can’t remember a single thing—but I remember my friends. I had friends. I don’t know their faces. But I know they were there. I remember the people who died for me. It feels like a dream, right now…so far away, so—silly.”
The certainty was growing in her. Like the tears, something was welling behind an invisible dam. She strained for the memories. What had it been? What had she lost?
Pain lanced through her chest. Shauna reached out.
“Erin, let me—let me call your father. And the agent…”
She fumbled for her phone. Her daughter was still speaking. Her eyes searched the distance, looking past the walls.
“It was somewhere else. Another…another world. And it was good and bad. And I died. I remember.”
