…And then she woke up.
The young woman opened her eyes. Erin Solstice sat up in her bed, in her bedroom, in her home with the familiar, bleak skies of winter slowly giving way to spring. The faint sounds of a furnace, the glowing, bright lights of her digital alarm clock were the only disturbances to the pleasant silence and shadows in her room. She felt her warm, padded layers of blankets that kept the morning chill away.
Late morning, that was. She stared at the old, faded quilt with chess pieces stitched onto each diagonal panel of cloth, which had endured since she had won her first chess tournament when she was eleven. Hand-stitched by her mother…
Something trickled down her cheeks. Slowly, the young woman sat up. It was cold. Normally she would have stayed in bed, lazily going back to sleep, even.
Yet something was wrong. She reached up and touched her cheeks. Tears ran down her face. She had no idea why.
“I was so happy.”
The sound of her own voice startled Erin. Why had she said that? She looked around, breathing in, out, not knowing what was happening.
For a moment. Then, the feeling of pain, of loss, was gone. She wiped the water off her face onto her blankets with a shaky laugh and wriggled until her cold feet were protected by more blanket. She rolled over and tried to remember what she had been dreaming of.
Her room was a soft, relaxing color. Light beige walls, bright blue curtains providing contrast, and when the windows were open, fully illuminated by the sun. A little table set with two chessboards lay next to the bed, a tripping hazard.
An old poster of a famous chess game, custom-ordered, was stuck to one wall, a bit frayed, nostalgic. With it, a younger girl had put up little stickers of chess pieces. Only three remained, along with some scribbles in pencil. Old notations in chess.
The carpet on the floor also cut the winter’s chill, and on the far wall, a desk with a computer, a third, miniature chess board, and two empty porcelain bowls stacked onto each other shared space with a messy notepad and cup filled with pencils and pens. Staring around the room to take it in, Erin let her head sink back onto her pillow, now a plain blue like the curtains, but which had once been chess-themed like her blanket.
She’d quite forgotten her dream, unfortunately. Erin Solstice lay there, occasionally turning, until her alarm clock went off, waking her for her 10:00 AM day. She promptly turned it off and went back to sleep. Twenty minutes later though, someone rapped on her door.
“Erin? Are you still asleep? It’s time to get up.”
For a moment, she had the strangest sense of déjà vu. Only—it felt wrong. The voice was wrong; she poked her head out of the blankets.
“…Mom?”
“I have breakfast getting cold. And you have a job, Erin. Remember? You promised to start working.”
Recollection of yesterday’s promise flooded into her mind. Erin put a blanket over her head as if it was a shield. But not even an enchanted shield could…could…?
“Aw, Mom. I don’t want to.”
The woman outside the door was clearly not in the mood to retread old arguments with her daughter. She opened the door a crack and Erin winced at the light.
Shauna Solstice walked over and opened the blinds. There was nothing like sunlight for getting her out of bed, and her mother knew that very well.
Like her daughter, Shauna had light brown hair, tinted a bit orange especially when the light caught it. Unlike her daughter, her hair was frizzy, while Erin’s refused to even consider a single fritz. Neither Erin nor her mother were taller than Erin’s father, but Shauna had an entire inch on Erin that had never vanished, no matter how much Erin had tried to catch up.
As always, clothing defined the two’s styles. Shauna spent time making sure her clothing was coordinated for contrast, and she could do that better than most because she had sewn some of the clothing she’d worn or adjusted what she’d bought.
Erin had similar addendums to her wardrobe, custom t-shirts she had sometimes requested, but she would throw on whatever article of clothing was on top of her drawers when she was in a hurry, and didn’t fold laundry, so accrued more wrinkles on her garb than Shauna had to gain herself.
At the moment, Shauna looked peeved, and she could do it well when she stood, hands on her hips, lips pursed. When one of the Solstice family was upset, everyone could tell by body language alone and Erin had learned from the best. Shauna turned to Erin, raising her eyebrows.
“You discussed this with your father and made a promise. You have to take it up with him if you changed your mind.”
Erin knew that was a tall task. Her father, Gregori, or Greg since the spelling always threw people, was big on promises. Well, he was a lawyer, and in worker’s compensation.
Slowly, Erin got out of bed. Her mother didn’t wait for her; she was already downstairs. Of course, she was working too.
Erin Solstice opened a drawer and stared at the bright clothing. Well—not flashy logos, but the colors seemed so vivid. She chose the plainest color—such soft cotton!—and dressed herself.
As she did, she saw two things. The first was her hand-built computer—not prefabricated, but put together from component parts—was showing the screensaver. She supposed she must have forgotten to turn it off; she had long since disabled the automatic hibernation setting since she played games of chess online into the morning.
Forgetting she had breakfast waiting for her at once, Erin clicked on the mouse and the screen flashed to life. Sure enough—a chess game. Definitely not against a real person. Erin moved her bishop absently, and then realized she’d forgotten what game she was playing. Well…she waited as the computer moved and then punished the program’s foolishness.
Chess was chess.
“Hmm, hmm. Wrong move, Mister Computer. You’re losing your edge.”
Erin poked the screen. There was something relaxing about playing chess wherever she was. She opened the internet browser as she waited for the computer to make another move. It was being slow today; maybe her computer had a bug or was it just getting old? It wasn’t some state-of-the-art thing. Custom-built, yes. But she hadn’t built it.
Her father had built the computer. He liked computers and video games. Erin’s mother, Shauna, had an interest too, and it disturbed Erin that she was third-best in her household of three people at playing video games.
Maybe that was why she liked chess.
“News, news…”
Erin murmured as she clicked and typed. The sound of her mouse and the background hum of the computer’s fan was the only real noise in the world.
She didn’t normally narrate her life. She did trash-talk the computer when playing chess, but who didn’t? Erin felt like she was trying to remember an old song and dance. Yes, check the news. Which was…?
 
President To Speak On Latest Disappearances
 
Erin blinked. The biggest headline and picture was of a man—the president?—at a podium, was juxtaposed next to a map with highlighted areas on it of varying intensity of red. The rest of the news page was filled with the other stories, links, an ad—but this one was full-page.
Several things struck her as wrong instantly. Firstly? That wasn’t who she remembered being President of the United States. Secondly—disappearances?
Memory tugged at her, but she scrolled down.
 
‘I thought he was gone.’ Families reunite after two-year disappearance among the ‘Spirited Generation’.
‘Anti-Vax’ fever at an all-time high. Experts warn pandemic only getting worse.
Angry tortoise kills a man in sleep.
The Spirited Generation: Disappearance and discovery in eight stories.
 
Erin stared at the stories. She felt an odd dissonance, but then reality asserted itself. Of course there was a pandemic. Everyone was stuck indoors and that sucked, even for young women who loved to sit indoors and play chess all day.
And of course the disappearances weren’t helping matters. She should know. She had been…
Erin put a hand to her head and tried to remember. As always, nothing more came. She began to click on the first link about the ‘Spirited Generation’ when an irritated voice floated upwards.
“Erin Solstice!”
“Oops. Coming!”
Erin pushed herself back from her desk, leaving chess and news behind. She emerged from her room, the hallway, and made for the stairs to the living room and dining room combined.
On the way, she halted. Her head slowly turned and she stared at a room lit at the far end of the hall. Door slightly ajar. Bright, artificial light streamed from the crack.
It was…a bathroom. Just a bathroom. Erin stared at it, as she always did, and slowly walked forwards.
She cracked open the door and looked around. It was empty, which was a relief. But…
She turned off the bathroom light and closed the door. Then she went downstairs for breakfast.
 
—-
 
“There you are. Playing chess the moment I wake you up. I don’t know where you get it from.”
The accusatory tone made Erin wince as she walked down the carpeted stairs. She stared around her family’s home. In Michigan. Warm in the winter, but not so much that Erin didn’t wish she’d tossed on a coat and slippers.
Snow was melting outside. Sunlight—brighter than the dreary winter—shone through two open windows. At the far end of the room was the kitchen, dining room, and they connected to the living room without a hallway or door.
Shauna Solstice sat at the dining table, occupying the far end with a sewing machine and cloth. The chatter of the sewing machine was a familiar background, but Erin paused to listen to it anyways as she came down the stairs.
Her mother’s job was making handicrafts, having picked up on it when caring for Erin. She’d jumped on the internet trend of selling her works online.
The smell of breakfast lured Erin to the table. She stared at the plate and knife and fork, and then sat down. She poked at a fried egg, the toast, reached for the butter knife.
“It’s cold, mom.”
“Well, it was warm when your alarm went off. And I warmed it up after I came to get you. I wonder how it got so cold since then?”
Shauna replied without looking up. Erin sighed. Her mother had little pity for those faced with cold breakfasts. And truthfully, if Erin was playing chess she wouldn’t even notice what food it was, or how warm.
She began eating, and discovered she was hungry. Erin began to perk up. But no sooner had Erin begun to enjoy her meal than her mother spoke.
“When your father gets back, you can use the car, Erin.”
“For what?”
Shauna glanced up and gave Erin a look over her glasses.
“For your job?”
Memory flooded Erin’s head again. Her face fell and the food turned to bleh in her mouth.
“Aw, Mom—do I have to?”
“You’ve gotten your shot, and it’s been three months. Some time out of the house might do you good.”
“I’d rather play chess.”
Erin folded her arms and slouched. Her mother sighed. Shauna’s daughter was an odd mix of lazy and hard working. She would play chess, study it obsessively for ‘fun’, and watch videos of chess games all day and night.
But try to get her to do a simple part-time job and Erin was as stubborn as her parents. Shauna pointedly looked at the food the chess-squatter had scarfed down.
“Well, unless you have another big chess match online, your father and I think you should get some work experience.”
As in, any. Erin wanted to object that she had tons of…but she didn’t, not unless you counted summer jobs. Right?
Shauna saw her daughter frown. The mother adjusted the sewing machine, cursing as she realized she’d begun going off-target in the neat line while arguing with her daughter. She began to undo her error as she spoke.
“Has that grandmaster messaged you again, Erin? Are you going to have a rematch?”
Erin rolled her eyes. If she could have slumped further in her chair without sliding under the table, she would have.
“No, Mom. We’re not having another match. I’m not playing grandmasters left and right. It was only three games, casually.”
“Three games against a grandmaster chess player.”
It was awful, having parents be proud of you for things you were not, in fact, proud of yourself. Erin rested her chin on the table.
“I lost the last one, anyways.”
It was Shauna’s turn to want to roll her eyes. Of course, she’d been telling all of her friends about it.
“Two draws and one loss is extraordinary. And it was all live. If you wanted to be one of those stream chess players…”
She gestured and Erin saw that a laptop was sitting on a stool, facing away from her. Her mother was watching something while working. Sometimes the news—but she’d been watching those newfangled live streams ever since her daughter had played one of the best chess players in three games.
“There was even an article about you. That’s not nothing, Erin.”
Shauna pulled up the small article that she kept showing people as if it were a major headline being broadcast in every living room in the world. Erin glumly finished her breakfast. She reached for a little accompaniment to the food. But her hand recoiled as she saw the blue—
…No, it wasn’t blue. It was an avocado. Erin stared at the ripe fruit. Slowly, she picked it up.
“I thought you hated avocado by itself, Erin.”
“What? Oh. Yeah.”
This was true. Erin put the avocado back slowly. Nevertheless, she stared at it for a long while. Then she pushed back from the table and turned to her mother.
“Well, I’m not playing a big match today. But do I have to work?”
“You’re too old to just sit about, Erin.”
“Mom. I’m only twenty…”
The bad argument that she was ‘only’ twenty died in Erin’s mouth. Because of course, it was wrong. She was twenty four.
Erin still felt twenty, taking a gap between high school and college, playing chess, and wavering because she was good at chess, but she didn’t think she wanted or could be a professional.
Four years had passed. Erin’s eyes slowly rose from her breakfast. She saw the calendar on the wall. Erin could have used her phone, the computer, anything. But the calendar, like a movie, was there to remind her.
March 6th, 2021. Erin felt a shock in her chest, as she had every day on seeing the date. It had been 2016 when she’d gone to the bathroom and never come back.
Then she glanced down and saw the headline of the article on the small screen.
 
Spirited Generation girl plays three games against Grandmaster in chess game on…
 
It wasn’t a great title. They didn’t even have her name, or the Grandmaster player, which Erin felt was a bit rude. It was just the idea of it that the article was trying to sell you on.
But that title.
The Spirited Generation.
Shauna Solstice looked at Erin’s face. She closed the lid of the laptop abruptly. Her daughter started.
