It was not a question. Erin looked back. She wanted to weep, but it had been too sudden.
“This is…”
“The place where the dead go. And I am Califor. You are Erin Solstice.”
Another matter-of-fact statement. The woman spoke as if this were so and if it were not so, it had better well be so before. Erin looked at her.
“But why? This is the underworld? Heaven? This…this?”
She saw Izril’s lands around her with buildings and trees in the same place.
Layers. What was now, what had been. A reflection of the world. And the ghosts…she stared at the kneeling Drake. He did not weep. Perhaps he could not.
“Why here?”
“Why anything? Come with me. You too, Sserys. We stand too close to the edge of his protection, still.”
Erin started at the name. The Drake slowly rose. He looked at her, and then followed the [Witch]. Erin walked after her, turning.
There was nothing in Izril’s landscape. And she could cross a mile in a moment, in a single ‘step’. There was no sunlight. No light of any kind, really. All of it…was. No darkness, no illumination.
Except there were shadows. Shadows, without light. They seemed to gather and disperse at the edges of her ‘sight’.
“Yes, there are more like that one. Weaker, though. They won’t intrude so long as he guards us. Come on.”
Califor grabbed Erin’s arm. There was no sensation. Erin began walking.
“So this is the land of the dead.”
“Yes.”
“Why does it exist?”
“Because souls need somewhere to go. Presumably, it was made.”
“By who?”
The woman was tall, and peered down her spectacles and nose at Erin. Califor looked like a teacher, if a teacher could be a [Witch]. Stern did not begin to describe her. Her clothing was black, but not plain; it simply had a style that you had to appreciate as your eyes picked out details among the traditional [Witch]’s garb. Her spectacles were thin, and she was tall, authoritative.
Her voice had a snap to it that did not brook with excuses or delay. She adjusted her hat now, with a brisk tug of the brim.
“Ask your pursuer. She has too much power, here. The guardian chased her off, but she will return. Yet she was not here in such strength even when I died. And before that? They were just shadows like those.”
She pointed into the distance. Erin looked over her shoulder.
“They?”
“Six of them. They gained strength recently. Now we are all in danger. That we even managed to free you was a wonder and it took the sacrifice of two to do it.”
Zel and Maviola. Gone? The Drake turned, abruptly.
“For you, he challenged one of them. I cannot believe it. Even if you are alive, it wasn’t worth it. He had to fight. If he stayed longer he would have realized there is no fighting. Not them. All you can do is keep them back and we are not Dragons. All our levels and strength is like dust compared to history. How Drakes have fallen.”
His tone was bitter. Erin looked at him.
“You’re Sserys.”
He glowered.
“Yes.”
“As in…the General Sserys of Liscor?”
“Yes.”
She blinked at him a few times. The Drake was shorter than Zel. Taller than her, but that wasn’t exactly hard. He was missing a neck-spine three down from the top, and someone had lopped off his second finger on the right. His scales were an orange-red that turned to green of all things near the very edges of his scales.
Now she looked at him, the [General] of Izril who had once been called Spear of the Drakes was striking in how different he and Zel looked. The Tidebreaker of Izril had embodied his nickname; he had been larger even than Relc, so sturdy that it seemed nothing could bowl him over, or knock him down. A Drake who fought with his bare claws.
By contrast, Sserys was slimmer. Slimmer, but definitely a warrior.  A leader, the kind who might bellow orders from the center of an army, not the front. He stood and spoke with an oversized presence, such that no one would talk over him. She supposed he might be regal by Drake standards, or impressive.
He wore gilded armor, emblazoned metal that looked like mithril cut with some other metal to give it an evanescent pale green-silver look. On it, Erin realized with a shock, someone had etched the insignia of a city.
Liscor’s heraldry, and below it, the sigils of all six Walled Cities. Yet Liscor’s emblem, the city-on-the-waters, representing the Floodplains and spring rains, rose above them all. Next to it, Sserys had a shortsword, but it seemed to Erin that the true weapon was the spear attached to his back, angled to avoid tangling with the ground or his tail, also plated in the same armor.
Sserys’ eyes were blue and pink, like his scales, the blue shot with the faintest transition to pink around the edges. Right now, the eyes were hard, concealing a wound. Pain.
He looked at Erin with anger and loss. The [Innkeeper] opened and closed her mouth a few times, unsure of what to say. So the silliest thing popped out of her mouth.
“They have a statue of you in Liscor, you know.”
General Sserys looked at her with narrowed eyes and then turned and walked away. Califor eyed Erin and pursed her lips.
“The [Lady] told me you were worth saving. Don’t make me regret it.”
 
—-
 
They moved slower here. More leisurely. If time passed, Erin couldn’t tell. The mortal world was lost to her. She supposed that if she imagined a ghost’s life, it would be spying on mortals, playing tricks, possessing stuff, and so on.
Not so, here. This was simply the place where everyone went. Every single soul, and it had everything that had ever been.
The continent of Izril blurred past Erin, as she crossed the ground faster than a horse could gallop. Faster, perhaps, than she had ever moved, even in Magnolia Reinhart’s famous carriage. A single step carried her hundreds of feet, yet she could clearly see the landscape moving past her.
The landscape. Erin passed by fields of wheat, in the middle of being harvested. That was reality, what was happening at this moment in time. Yet—it was not the only thing in that place.
A grand edifice of stone rose from the ground in the exact same spot as the wheat. A carved figure of stone, surrounded by something that resembled Stonehenge from earth. Neatly-spaced boulders, surrounding the massive, oversized shape of a bird-man. Not a Garuda; he didn’t stand in the same bipedal way. Nor did this strange person have hands. A Harpy? The monument rose around neatly-cut grass and blooming flowers. Erin craned her neck to see the writing on the base of the statue.
…And she was walking past huts in a swamp. The field of wheat and statue were both there, like Kasigna, visible if she looked for them. This time, far from the present, was a vast swamp, bubbling waters covered with floating vegetation, deep, filled with the vast roots of trees and squat trunks. If Erin had been there, actually been there, she would have surely sank below her head into the fetid waters.
Three places at the same time. All what had been, or what was. And more reflections of this land. A different time—Erin walked a war-torn land still burning from magical fire. The ground was ripped up, and turned to glass in parts. She stared at nearly a mile of smooth, burnt earth, turned into perfect, steaming crystal by some unimaginable weapon.
And more. All of it, this piece of land that had seen so much forgotten history, passed by in a moment. It was only one place on her journey, but the sight of all the moments in time was like searing pain in Erin’s head. It hurt her to try and see all of what it was. Too much for her mind.
“Don’t try to see it all. Your mind cannot handle all the layers, not while it lives. You are still alive, somehow. Alive and dead. There are some like you, trapped here while still possessing life. But none like you. From Earth.”
“You know where I’m from?”
Califor gave her another look. She was a [Witch], Erin learned. A powerful one in life.
“Yes. Maviola El explained it to us. As have many of the dead. They share what they know—those who make it to the sanctuaries.”
“Like this one?”
The Drake and [Witch] nodded. Sserys had calmed enough to walk with them. Zel had died for this Human, so he stared at her, not friendly, but talking.
“It’s been like this since the start, apparently. According to the Dragon. He spoke to others before him. There have always been shadows. They devour the weak. Until recently, they could only do that. Even Califor and I—and Zel—could have held them off. Fought them, even.”
“What changed?”
“You did.”
The two spoke with eerie unity. But it had been three voices. Califor and Sserys looked at Erin along with the silver Dragon.
He had landed without sound. There was no air here, no medium for it. She stared up at the Dragon.
He was as large as an airplane and a half. So gigantic he dwarfed her inn, with respect to Pelt and Dawil. And he was radiant. Magnificent. When he moved, glittering silver scales moved like a silver sea. There was no light though, and he too was dead. If he had been in reality, Erin would have probably been blinded and in tears…mainly because his scales had to reflect sunlight like a mirror.
“Oh.”
That was all she said. She stared up at him and the Dragon knelt.
Somehow, he managed to be quite graceful, despite being on all fours. He lowered his huge, sinuous head, and spoke, in a quite refined, albeit deep and booming, voice.
“Greetings, Erin Solstice, who is between death and life. I heard the plan to free you from that one’s clutches and am pleased it succeeded, for all that was lost. I am Yderigrisel. Knight-Dragon in service of Terandria and Izril. You know my protection in this place whilst my strength lasts, mortal. You may now kneel.”
The young woman stared up as the vast ghost of the great Knight-Dragon, protector and ancient ally of House Byres, looked down at her. She realized she stood in the ancient land of House Byres. And around her were suddenly the ghosts of countless people of Izril. Under the aegis of his wings.
She looked into his eyes, mesmerizing clouds of silver crossed with flashes of color.
“Um. Thank you. Hi. Nice to meet you, too.”
He blinked at her. Califor adjusted her hat. The young woman didn’t kneel. The Drake [General], Sserys, glowered.
The [Witch] began to smile.
 
—-
 
The keep of House Byres, where Yderigrisel led them, had been grand and glorious. Now, it was worn, weathered by time, where once it had been nearly twice as tall, shining with silver painted onto the façade, or perhaps even baked into the stones that had made it up.
Once, you could have looked up and seen the beacon blazing from the top, bringing a light like sunlight into the darkness of night at all times.
Once, you could see the heraldry of House Byres flying proudly, joined by whatever [Knight] or noble house was present or allied.
Once, you could see the shattered keep, blown apart by some incredible force, the entire top section collapsed—and then the repairs underway, the modest reconstruction on a limited budget.
At least they kept the hot springs.
If you looked back further, instead of the wide manor in which they all sat, the expensive furniture still harkening towards the silver motif, the paintings of each glorious member of the family on the walls and functional weaponry and armor ensconced on every wall—you could see what the land of the House of Byres had been before.
A deep forest, the kind of which you could stand in and look up without ever seeing the sky. Giant firs, a labyrinth of underbrush, before Humans had come here.
The ghosts chose to remember it in its glory days, and stood on carpets woven to glorify [Knightly] crusades, admiring maps, or relic-weapons waiting for their next owner to draw them in service of honor and valor.
Amid it all was the silver Dragon, the guest of honor, who had an entire wall devoted to murals of his legend. Not only that; in its heyday, when they had known his company, two vast double-doors had made up an entire wall, such that he could push them open and enter. Upon silver-marble tiles, he now knelt, inspecting the Human.
The Dragon’s eyes narrowed, continuing the argument. He spoke, his vast voice echoing in the central point of the manor.
“Kneel.”
“No. I don’t wanna. Thanks for saving me.”
Erin stood on the carpet, facing him, arms folded. The Dragon huffed, spectral smoke appearing for a moment, drifting upwards, and then vanishing.
“You will not show me any respect for my efforts?”
“Sure I will. Thank you so much. I mean it. But I don’t want to kneel. I’ll shake your claw.”
Yderigrisel stared at her outstretched hand. He turned his head to one side, ignoring it.
“How mortals have forgotten their manners. Or perhaps just you. The [General] knelt, as did the [Lady] when I offered them my protection.”
Erin felt a pang in her heart. She touched it.
“That was them. You protected Maviola and Zel? They needed protection?”
“Yes. Until they decided to risk all for you. Thus, I—”
Erin bowed. Yderigrisel saw her bow low, as low as she could get without looking silly.
“Thank you.”
He gazed at her. Then the Dragon harrumphed, and it was a familiar sound and a loud one.
“I must watch the borders of my sanctuary. Witch Califor, General Sserys, educate this one. We will speak soon, Erin Solstice. We must.”
He took wing. Erin watched him go. An irked voice came from her left.
“What a curious Human. Zel told me you knew him before the Necromancer slew him.”
Erin turned.
“The…Necromancer?”
“Az’kerash. He lives. Remember that, if you should wake. Tell the Walled Cities. He must die. And so must those shades, if it can be done.”
Sserys sat on a fancy chair in House Byres’ manor. Yderigrisel had spoken to them there, crouching in the Byres home where they had once made it so he could enter and leave and talk with them at will.
More ghosts milled about the manor, and the landscape. In the sanctuary of the silver Dragon. They…didn’t do much.
They talked, or sat, as if content to pass away forever like that. Some argued, others asked newer ghosts what was happening, or they told stories.
There was no food to eat. No games to play. Children and adults sat there. Babies floated in the air or were held, not always by their parents. And if there was a vast number of them, beyond hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions or more—it was a small number, apparently, compared to all those who had died.
“The sanctuaries are decreasing. Even now, more fall. This is how it was. When anyone died, they came here. Young or small. Glorious and strong or weak. All but monsters. All peoples. Even Stitch-Folk in time. Except Goblins. And then—except Antinium.”
Erin stirred. She looked around and realized what she had not seen.
