She touched her chest. That was what was wrong. Shauna made a sound. Erin looked up and saw her mother was crying.
“Erin, don’t strain yourself. This could be—just breathe. Don’t—don’t say you’re dead.”
Guilt flashed across Erin. Yet still, she shook her head.
“I’m sorry. I can’t remember entirely. Something’s…I can’t remember it all. But. I could never forget. They died for me. I remember how they laughed and how they left.”
She stood up, slowly. Now, her head moved. Searching. Her room felt so empty. All the mundane things, all the things that had been so familiar, a worn plushy, warm blankets, the chess games—it felt hollow. She shook her head.
“I’ve changed. I don’t fit in here. I can’t sit in my old bed and not feel as though something’s wrong.”
She walked past her mother. Shauna tried to block her.
“Your father’s on the way. Erin, stop. What are you doing?”
Erin’s mother stopped as the young woman looked at her. Because there was something different in Erin’s eyes now. Certainty. She walked into the hallway of her house. Looking for…again, Erin shook her head. Trying to throw something off her. It was closing in, like fog, eating away what she knew had happened. Yet, it couldn’t erase it all. She remembered.
“I held them as they died. I watched them. I wish each and every one of them had survived. I would do anything to change what happened. But deny it? Forget? Forget? How could I be so petty? So small?”
She turned her head. Shauna pushed into the hallway.
“Erin!”
The bathroom door. It was no wardrobe and the bathroom light was significantly less cool than a light post. Erin still walked towards it. Shauna pulled at her.
“Erin. Erin, sit down. You’re having an episode. Erin?”
“I killed people. I killed monsters and I met heroes. I served drinks to adventurers and friends. I was there. I—I have to go back.”
Erin struggled. She tried to explain, pulling away from her mother and feeling horrible. Yet she had to.
“I have to! Mom! Let me go. Let me—”
Something was telling her to go. None of this—was any of it real? Erin longed to explain it. But she felt it, more strongly than anything. She struggled free.
“Erin!”
The [Innkeeper] ran. Down the hallway, feeling each step elongate in time. The bathroom door. No, just the door to the other world.
I have to go back. I have something left to do. She grabbed the handle and threw it open. Erin Solstice stepped into—
 
—-
 
She woke up.
Erin jerked upright. She was lying on the ground. Blood soaked her clothing. She tried to pull out the crossbow bolts in her chest, but saw empty, torn holes in the fabric instead.
Whole skin. No gaping wounds, just bloodstains.
She looked up and saw a man in a hazmat suit recoil.
“Subject’s awake!”
Then Erin saw the spotlights. The crowd of people in hazmat suits, and beyond them, two lines of soldiers. She stared around. She was in…a mall? Yes, lying on pale white tiles, shops open around her, glowing with light in the early morning.
But someone had cordoned off the mall, erecting barricades, the warning tape that crisscrossed entire sections, and then gone fully military and set up actual concrete roadblocks to keep the press of people back. There were spotlights, two trained on Erin’s position, the rest glaring into the crowd, almost as if to blind the onlookers.
The onlookers? Hundreds, thousands of people were pressing against the barricades, pointing at Erin. The flash of cameras was blinding—or would have been if many had a clear shot. But they couldn’t even get within three hundred feet of Erin and the people clustered around her because of the soldiers.
Soldiers, wearing body armor and holding the kind of firearms that made you stop. There was shouting in the air.
“Let us through! Is it one of them? One of the Spirited Generation—”
“News! We have a right to—don’t touch—”
“Back up! Back up—”
The man in the suit was trying to say something, but someone on a megaphone was shouting orders. The military was forcing the crowd back as Erin sat up. Meanwhile, everyone within the circle of armed forces wore the bright hazmat suits that made Erin feel like she really should have had one herself. Then she realized—they were wearing them because of her.
A gloved hand thrust out gently as she tried to get her legs to work.
“Don’t move. Can you hear me?”
The voice was accented. Erin looked up. She saw a visor, and behind it, a man’s face, concerned, but staring at her like she was a ghost.
“Who are you? Where’s Numbtongue? I was…”
She had just been shot. By crossbows. She was struggling to remember. The figure looked around as a woman practically sprinted over.
“Is she safe to move?”
“I’m checking her vitals. Stand back. Miss? Miss, can you tell me your name?”
She looked up at the worried medical personnel as the commanding officer and a gaggle of secret security, or whatever they were, descended on her. Erin breathed.
“Erin Solstice?”
 
—-
 
The Spirited Generation. Erin sat nervously in front of the very serious government agent as he explained what that meant. It was not the dark room lit by the single desk-lamp, but a much brighter room with the antiseptic white walls and floor, marred only by the single door and window along the far wall.
The man wore no uniform; rather one of the suits with red ties and a single, round badge pinned to his left side. Unlike the bevy of military personnel, doctors, and other people who’d escorted her through the crowds shouting her name, he had the secret-service look of someone who was not going to tell you how important he was.
Incidentally, this was Canada. Not her home country of the United States, but they were on the way and they wanted her. Even so, this government wanted to know what the hell had happened as much as everyone else, so Erin was here, repeating her story. It felt like less than an hour since she’d been lying outside her inn, bleeding to death.
“Goblins.”
“Mhm.”
The man gave her a look and some of the observers—and there were more behind the one-way mirror, Erin was sure—all murmured. She remembered it all.
She had no Skills, though. Just her memories. Shot with crossbows…the blood was on her clothing. Indeed, they’d taken her clothing, her possessions, and given her replacements.
And her bag of holding. That was what had convinced them. The first scientist to see the dimensional object actually passed out. But while that was important, the government agents were more concerned with Erin’s story.
Erin looked at them.
“So I’m part of the Spirited Generation? Haven’t you found more people like me?”
The man hesitated. He consulted his notes. Looked around for the nod from what might have been the authority in the room and replied at last.
“No. You are the first one.”
Erin felt a shock on her skin. As if that was somehow…wrong? No—
Right. She believed it. Just as she’d believed all he’d said about the Spirited Generation, the confusion, pandemic, arguing. Chaos. No wonder they wanted her.
And no wonder the United States wanted her back. The serious agents gave her a break as someone rushed in. Erin blinked…and within thirty minutes a second military force, this one American, was escorting her towards a waiting helicopter that had just landed.
 
—-
 
The [Innkeeper]. The girl who came back. Erin Solstice’s name was plastered on every newspaper in the world. And who read newspapers in print anymore?
She was on every headline, every website, video, worldwide for six months. And for six months, Erin was never out of the sight of one of the government agents.
Everyone wanted to talk to her. In fact, when the United States government had realized that the Canadian government had her bag of holding and the knife that Pelt had made, they nearly went to war demanding it back. It nearly went to war because it was magic.
Scientists interviewed her, medical people did a lot of embarrassing and sometimes painful tests. They wanted her blood, hair samples—Erin kicked the person who wanted the stool sample, but that was only the start.
She met with the President after the first week of making sure she wasn’t irradiated, a shapeshifter, carrying some horrible disease or parasite, or half a dozen other potential security hazards.
The day was January 22nd, 2021 when she shook hands with the President of the United States.
President Jeb Bush.
Two weeks later, she got to see her parents…
“This is a dream.”
She had been feeling it. She pressed a button and Agent Olivia hurried into the room. She wasn’t technically ‘Agent Olivia’ in sense of rank, but Erin kept calling her that and the woman had given up long ago.
“Erin? What’s wrong?”
Erin stood up. She’d been having a moment of peace after months of being the world’s most famous icon. She’d met the Pope, at least a third of the world’s leaders, spoken in front of the UN…
And that was fake. It had been a faint whisper in her mind. But she would have never noticed if not for…
She pushed back the laptop, turned off the relaxing music and stood. Even the music was…believable. That’s what threw her.
She had put it down to the sheer fantasy of meeting the President and being in the world’s eye. But now she was sure.
“Olivia. This is a dream. You’re fake. That’s real.”
She pointed at the latest song she’d stopped on her computer. The Agent folded her arms.
“Very funny, Erin. If this is one of your plans to break out again—please don’t.”
Erin ignored that. She’d broken out of the top-secret, guarded facility and nearly gotten shot once because she’d been cooped up. That’s when they’d started flying in expert chess players and giving her laptops and entertainment to keep her from going crazy, despite the ‘security risk’.
She looked around.
“Fake. Fake walls—not fake news. Fake news is a real thing. Well, some of the news is real, not fake. The…uh, expression is true. You’re fake, not really here. Or I’m dreaming. But the Spirited Generation is really a thing back home. This—”
“I think I’d better call for one of the doctors. Erin…”
“No. No. I know this isn’t—”
Erin went for the doors. Olivia grabbed at her. Erin raised a fist.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
She swung. Olivia caught the arm and restrained her, gently. Erin struggled, but the woman was trained and had a lot of pounds on Erin. She kept struggling, even as Olivia shouted for a doctor.
“No! I know this isn’t real! I know it! I—”
 
—-
 
“—was so happy.”
Erin stopped, with tears on her cheeks and her hand on the bathroom door. Erin looked around.
It had been only a second since she’d stepped into the bathroom. All her adventures, all her friends—was it all a dream? A hallucination caused by night time peeing?
No it was not! It took Erin only one day to figure it out this time. She stood on the roof as her mother and father shouted at her and some people stared at her from the street. Erin didn’t care. She screamed up at the sky.
“I will never forget. And this place feels fake! No matter how hard you try, you can’t fool m—”
 
—-
 
She was an amnesiac again, only this time found by the government. It took Erin three months. But again—she shouted up at the doctor as he tried to figure out why she was denying reality.
“I remember! I know this isn’t reality! Is it me? No—what are you? Who are you?”
She pointed up at the face, and kicked an orderly in the chest.
 
—-
 
Woke up.
Sometimes it took months. Other times, a day. An hour.
Eighteen minutes.
Erin Solstice woke. She ate breakfast, and talked, and smiled. Then, at some point in time during her day, during the week, while shopping or browsing the internet or—she frowned and—
The [Innkeeper] pushed herself back from her desk again and looked up. Shauna Solstice hovered there, frowning.
“I know this isn’t Earth.”
One and a half days. Erin looked around.
“I know this sounds crazy, Mom. But listen…I think this is a dream and—”
“How?”
The voice stopped Erin. Because it was the first voice she had heard in this place that was real except her own. She stopped. She looked back and there…she was.
Shauna Solstice looked like she always had. She had given Erin her hazel eyes, some of her features, although her hair was lighter than her daughter’s. She looked like the same woman Erin had always known.
And at the same time, not. Her eyes moved. She turned, and someone else stared through her eyes.
Like someone wearing a puppet. A perfect mask. Erin stopped. She shuddered. Her mother’s face fell away. Not in any physical way, but changing.
A woman stood there. The same age…but she had Erin’s face.
Erin, a replica of herself, stared at the flinching young woman.
Erin, as if Erin was fifty. The [Innkeeper] recoiled.
Erin so old her hair was white and wispy. At the end of her life.
Three versions of herself. Not changing, but all at once. Like some strange trick-mirror or prism that let you see all three compounded into a single body. Three in one. Three of one.
Then Shauna again. Only, Shauna Solstice from her pictures, young, wearing the fashions of her youth. And Shauna as Erin had never seen her, older than her grandmother had been. All three at once, embodied in a single face.
Three Shaunas, like the Erins, in youth, in her middling years, and in her late age.
“What—what—”
Erin nearly crawled onto the computer’s desk to get back. The stranger just looked at her.
“How?”
Her voice was a mix of old, young, and middling. It was not Shauna Solstice’s voice. Not in tone, or intonation. There was imperiousness there. More than a parent wielded. Terrible authority.
Kindness too. At least, the kindness from one side. It was not kindness to Erin to hear it.
“Wh—what?”
The world shifted. And Erin remembered it all. She gasped.
The many times she’d ‘returned’ to Earth were a blur in her memory. She faintly recalled each false narrative, the details blurring together But her life? Her death?
She remembered that, and had realized the artifice of this place each time. She looked up.
The stranger stood before her. Wearing her mother’s face. She looked at Erin. And a mix of emotions warred across her expression.
Curiosity. Annoyance. Disappointment? She spoke once more.
“Each time, no matter how cunningly woven, you break out. You find the gap and tear it apart. How? Are we still so weak? No. It is something else. Willpower is not enough. Even when you do not remember, something informs you. What flaw is it? Tell me.”
“Who are—?”
“Tell me.”
The word shook everything. It was like Erin’s bones and soul vibrated. She flinched and the words tumbled forth.
