There were no Goblins here. Nor—Antinium. The people were mostly Human, but anyone who had ever died around here and found sanctuary. Dullahans, Drakes, Stitch-Folk…
“Why not?”
Califor spoke, regarding the countless ghosts.
“Perhaps they have somewhere else. Perhaps they aren’t welcome here.”
The Drake was older than Califor by far, but Califor seemed to have learned more. He took over.
“It was simple, Human. You died and if you were lucky, a strong soul kept away the shadows. You saw one of them—and more.”
“Kas—”
Califor covered her mouth. Erin stopped. The [Witch] looked at her.
“Do not say it. Names are power. And that one is power here. She wasn’t always.”
She looked at Sserys and the Drake nodded.
“No, she was not. There are six now with names and faces. They speak, they can barely be stopped. Yderigrisel can stop two at once; they tried to consume all the souls here. But that one…”
He shook his head. Erin tried to imagine it.
“Wait, so before ‘now’—how many days are we talking?”
He snorted at her and rudely put his feet up on the table. For a great [General] revered by all, Sserys was ruder and less couth than Zel himself was.
“Time is meaningless here. All I know is that the six gained strength ‘recently’. Very recently. And then, when everything shook—”
“The Summer Solstice.”
Sserys paused. Erin looked at Califor and the [Witch] stared at her, knowingly.
“Yes. Then. The shadows were even stronger after that. All of them were. Before, when I died, they were just…scavengers. They ate some of the [Soldiers] who died with me after the Antinium slaughtered us, but I kept the rest back. We went from sanctuary to sanctuary and there wasn’t as much danger. Oh, there was if you left the aegis of a powerful soul, but I walked the entire world and saw other souls doing the same. Now? It’s oblivion. A final death.”
“But this is death.”
“Yes. Though I think consumption is the final end. Perhaps it isn’t. But I do not think to see Maviola or Zel again. Those things are predators. I told my coven as much when they reached out to me. I tried to pass on, yet there was nothing to pass on to! We cannot die or move on, but we can be eaten. Why, I do not know. That is this reality, though.”
Califor spoke simply. Erin put her head in her hands.
“Why am I alive, then?”
“Simple. You did not fully die.”
“What? Don’t be silly. I got shot with crossbow bolts. Six of ‘em, I think. I…died…”
The [Innkeeper] touched her chest. She remembered the pain.
Sserys stirred. His tail moved and his mouth opened, but he hesitated. Califor raised her brows slowly.
“You don’t know? Of course not. Listen to me, Erin Solstice.”
Califor looked at the [Innkeeper].
“Maviola El was the last great soul to make it. Few do, now. Yderigrisel cannot find them and it is too dangerous for us to escort them here. But she did. Once we told her of this place, she told us all that you were alive. That you were a child of Earth, another world, as two are in this place. And that we had to rescue you. She convinced us to try.”
Sserys grasped at Erin’s arm.
“And Zel died from it. If you live, remember. Az’kerash slew him. He lives. Tell the Walled Cities! Tell them—”
She didn’t feel that. But she still felt. She looked at her hands, and knew she was one of the few solid things in this world. And hope blossomed in her chest?
“I’m alive? How?”
 
—-
 
Frozen in ice. Erin’s eyes were unfocused, trying to imagine it.
“I’m a block of ice?”
“It makes little sense as we understand it. But Maviola El apparently saw you—and that thing—as she fled here. Your soul is proof enough. You live. And you must be guarded until you can return. If you return. Otherwise something might take your place.”
Erin’s body lay in the [Garden of Sanctuary], according to Maviola. Califor and Sserys could not confirm that fact, only tell Erin what Maviola knew. Nor could they check. Apparently even ghosts couldn’t enter the garden, so she was safe in theory.
She spoke to Yderigrisel and Califor and Sserys—and a number of other ghosts.
There was no real pecking order in the lands of the dead in terms of social rank. A [Farmer] was no different from a [Lord] here, unless both ghosts believed it. Some did. But the real test was…strength of the soul.
It corresponded to the level they held in life, by and large. Even souls without levels were here.
Yderigrisel was one. He snorted when Erin asked why he could protect the sanctuary when Sserys, Califor, Maviola, and Zel had been all but helpless and only able to delay Kasigna a second.
“What levels were they in life, Erin Solstice? Level 50? Level 60 at best? I am a Dragon. Not just a Dragon, but one of the oldest of my generation. Last Knight-Dragon to fly! I died in the Creler Wars and brought low countless tens of thousands of my foes. I have battled [Archmages] and fought with [Heroes]. The greatest of your time would pale before me.”
She eyed him.
“Well, that’s humble.”
“It is not arrogance to state the truth.”
The silver Dragon was sort of a jerk. Or rather, he had some Ylawes-qualities taken to extremes. He reminded her of Eldavin, actually. And Ilvriss.
So just Drakes in general. And it was true his soul was definitely ‘strongest’ here. Erin felt it wasn’t just strength alone that gave him the power to repel the shadow-things. He could still breathe fire, which was more than the ghosts who lacked Skills or magic.
“Okay. But if I’m dead, can I tell them I’m here? Ask them to, I don’t know, fix me? Do they even know?”
“Maviola claimed they were trying. As for talking with them…is it possible?”
All turned to Yderigrisel. He snorted, not out of contempt.
“This is the end of all things. This is the world after death. Yet it touches life. Once, it was possible to summon ghosts and spirits from the other side. Such that true death was oblivion; even in death, it was possible to serve or suffer. No longer. Spells that reach into this place grasp nothing because we must hide from those things. Even if one appeared close to us by chance…you would have to risk everything. And it would take the kind of magic few can cast.”
“[Witches] could do it. We thought the afterlife was waning of power for millennia. Now, we know why and that it is true. My coven summoned me because I was newly-dead and we had a strong connection. If they could do it again, I would answer despite the risk. But that one walks Izril strongly.”
“Who?”
The ghosts fell silent. After a time, one of House Byres’ [Lords] answered somberly.
“The one with the beard.”
That was how they named them. They had seen all six, or some had, and rather than use names, they all had characteristics.
“Listen. Remember.”
Califor told them to Erin one at a time.
 
The man with the beard.
The young hunter.
The wise man.
The three women in one.
The dancing man.
And…the lost thing.
 
“Each one is far greater than the lesser shadows. They have actual bodies. Names. Flee them. Especially the three women in one. She seems to have the most authority here. Already, they destroyed two of the Walled Cities.”
“What? How?”
Sserys spoke shortly.
“She means the stronghold of ghosts, not the place itself. There are more than six. And speaking of six—when all six gather, not even ten of Yderigrisel can stand against them. Fortunately for us, that happens rarely. They seem to bicker and dislike each other as much as ally. What are they?”
The ghosts seemed used to this conclave, this discussion. They spoke, earnestly.
“The thing of Rhir, perhaps. It is a dead place; not even souls walk it. Something eats them which is both here and in the living world. Perhaps it spawned something worse than Crelers.”
“Undead? Az’kerash’s minions.”
The silver Dragon snorted at Sserys.
“Little Drake, you give one [Necromancer] too much credit. If he failed before your love, he was no great [Necromancer] as I knew them.”
The Drake bristled.
“Zel was the greatest [General] of his era!”
“Yes. Of his era. I disparage him not, but even a Level 80 [Necromancer] as I once crusaded against did not seem to have this much power…”
Erin looked from face to face. Califor sat with several [Witches], all of whom had created a coven in death. Sserys and a few strong non-Human souls spoke with Yderigrisel and the dead of House Byres. Erin waved a hand.
“Excuse me? Hello? What if they’re…gods? Has anyone suggested that? I mean, isn’t it obvious?”
The ghosts stopped arguing and looked up. One by one they fixed on her. Yderigrisel flapped his wings uncertainly.
“But the gods are dead. Even when I was a child, I was told…”
He looked at her. And Erin thought she felt a shadow even in this place. The heads of all the ghosts turned.
“I just said—”
“Stop. Speaking.”
One of the [Witches] who resembled more of a toad than person hissed at her. Her slitted eyes rolled uneasily.
“You are attracting attention. Someone find the other children. The burning flame was right. This is the answer.”
 
—-
 
Even the dead were bound by the phenomenon about dead gods. The children of Earth were not.
Erin Solstice had felt fear when she met Kasigna.
She had felt sorrow when realizing Zel’s sacrifice and Maviola’s loss.
She had felt anger at this strange afterlife.
Now, she felt guilt. Trepidation, as the fainter soul stopped and stared at her in wonder. The ghosts marveled at how real Erin was. But they were still perfect in every detail. She saw darker skin, curious eyes behind glasses. And fear, even now.
One ghost stopped before her. He enunciated carefully.
“Hello. My name is Abel. I’m pleased to meet you.”
Erin hesitated. She slowly took the proffered hand of the young man.
“I’m Erin. I’m…pleased to meet you.”
He nodded. After a moment, he looked at her.
“You’re also from Earth?”
“Yes.”
“He speaks a language unlike ours. He and the other. We wondered at his tales of Earth and a world full of machines and no magic. Ghosts can lie, of course. Now, we know he was telling the truth. He came recently. But longer ago than I.”
Califor regarded the young man. Abel nodded, concentrating to translate. After a moment, he looked at Erin.
“I was eaten. I did not know what happened. I do not know…how I came here. Do you know?”
Erin’s heart sank. She shook her head.
“No. W-what happened exactly? I’m so sorry, Abel. I was like you. I met other people.”
He smiled.
“They are alive? Good. We died. We…”
His face fell. Ghosts could not cry. But he shuddered even so at the memory.
“They came out of the ground. We asked them to save us. They are called Crelers.”
Crelers. Erin’s eyes went wide.
“Abel. Do you know…an Imani?”
He looked at her in shock.
“Imani? She was with us.”
“She’s alive. She—she—”
Erin wiped at her eyes. The young man and Califor watched. Erin looked around.
“This is too much. Why am I here? Why is this here? I don’t want this. This is death? It’s not right.”
“Since when did right or wrong matter?”
Califor regarded her. Erin shuddered. Then she looked at Abel. She expected him to be…angry. Hurt. Sad, any of these emotions and more, but he wasn’t. He just smiled, happy for once.
“I am glad she lived. Please, tell me about her.”
No malice in the dead for the living. Just regret and relief. Erin wiped at her eyes again. Then she told him.
 
—-
 
“I’m not dead.”
Erin poked herself in the chest again, just to tell. It didn’t hurt, yet she was still solid. Realer. Califor hovered over her shoulder.
The [Witch] had come to help Erin, despite not ever having met her. Erin hadn’t asked why. Sserys made more sense, strangely.
Zel. Erin thought about it. It was too fast. Realizing she was trapped, fleeing Kasigna and being saved. She had seen him and then he was gone.
She wished it hurt more. But she had already known he died once. A second time?
“I’m not dead. They froze me.”
It was so strange. She hadn’t expected that. Who had come up with that idea? It had to be someone from Earth. Kevin? That felt right. That was a real Kevin-move. Erin smiled.
“I’m not dead!”
The [Witch] looked at her.
“Nor are you alive, according to Maviola El. And the bolts were poisoned. You cannot be healed. She feared the task of healing you was monumental.”
“Yeah. But…”
Erin’s voice trailed off. She sat there and thought.
Maviola El. Like Zel, she had come out of nowhere. She had burned Kasigna, going in to give Erin a chance to escape.
A glorious end. Still, Erin’s stomach suddenly fell. A terrible, terrible realization slowly engulfed her.
Why had Maviola been here? For this was the land of the dead. And that only meant…
“Califor. Maviola was alive when I…when I got shot. She was in the north. What happened? Did her time run out?”
Surely, that was it. Erin had known Maviola had a time limit of sorts. The [Witch] looked at her.
Califor the [Witch] could be kind. Could be gentle, and walk with a feather’s touch. But that was not Califor the Witch, one of the greatest of her era. She spoke and the words snapped even without air.
“She died in battle. Saving a love. And he went to war for you. Against a city called Hectval. I am told thousands died in the battle. The Necromancer interfered, but Olesm Swifttail and the army of Liscor, even the Antinium, threw themselves into a trap and suffered for it.”
Erin slowly recoiled. She stepped back and drifted for a moment. Weightless.
“No. That can’t be—”
What reason did Califor have to lie? The [Witch] regarded her.
“I wondered what sort of person would inspire the Tidebreaker of Izril and the matriarch of the House of El to sacrifice themselves to save. I see why. And I also see that you haven’t understood. You are not dead. Not yet. But you did die. And now, your friends, your family are trying to move the world to save you. Even if they die.”
“No. I don’t want that. They went to war? I—I—”
General Sserys shook his head, regarding Erin with disdain.
“Silly girl. Did you think you were not loved? Did you think they would do nothing? I have seen brave men and women of every species hurl themselves onto spear tips to save a lover, a friend. For a chance. Look at you. You haven’t even processed your death.”
He pointed. His claw accusatorially aimed at her chest. Erin looked down.
Six crossbow bolts stood out of her skin, blood oozing around the broken flesh. She stared at the colorful fletching and reached up to tug at them.
It hit her again.
“I…died? But I never saw it.”
She looked up at Sserys, pleadingly. He shook his head.
“You walked into an ambush. The [Lady] of fire told us all. A silly Human, running into crossbow bolts. Not even a protective ring. As if you were immortal.”
