She still told stories. Because she had to. Because it mattered, even if only the dead knew one more story. Her throat could not grow dry, and she would never grow tired.
It was as she was standing there, telling the story of the day her inn’s guests had played baseball, a story of the future after disaster and death, reclaiming a moment of happiness, that someone pushed through the sea of ghosts. He called up to her, floating a bit higher.
“Erin?”
She looked down. And there he was.
Gerial. Tall, gangly even, with a mustache on his face. Almost over-lean for a [Warrior], and so often wearing the bemused, worried expression around Ceria and Calruz. When he wasn’t laughing.
Unlike most of the ghosts here, his armor had no enchantment. It was leather…just leather. Compared to the flashing runes of magic, the Dragonscales forged into armor, the silk and, if you were a poor ruler, mere mithril armor, he looked like a pauper.
It just made him realer than the legends who stood around him. And more welcome to her.
He looked up at her as she froze. Erin breathed.
“Gerial. It’s you.”
“It’s me.”
He repeated after a moment of hesitation. What else was there to say. Erin floated downwards until they were on the ground together. She looked at him. He cleared his throat a few times.
“I heard the story about Ceria. Calruz. I wish…I didn’t know if you’d remember me, but they told me you were here. Everyone—they’re speaking across the coast, where we arrived.”
He pointed. Erin looked across the sea of the dead. Gerial swept a hand through his hair.
“We only met a moment. I was glad to learn that the others survived. And you remembered me. You…”
“Of course I did. Gerial.”
He looked at her. Erin began to wipe at her eyes, and then didn’t bother. She smiled, tremulously.
“Gerial. Hello.”
“Hello, Erin. Goodbye.”
He smiled wistfully. Erin threw her arms around him.
“I’m glad I could meet you. Even if it meant this.”
They smiled and hugged and Erin laughed, truly laughed in happiness for the first time since she had realized she was dead. For a moment, all was well.
Then the six walked on Chandrar with a second sea of shadows.
 
—-
 
The Dynasty of Khelt held them with a wall of sand as tall as the sky. It was six, not four. The shadows flickered, pressing in.
The ghosts watched, unable to fight. A Giant stood there, ready to block the advance of the dead gods if they were victorious. If Khelt fell…
Erin stood with Gerial. With Califor and Abel. And she realized something.
If someone told her the gods were bastards, she would get behind that statement. More than that, though, Erin decided the gods were petty.
They refused to let anyone snub them. They were petty. They fought with each other even as they threatened to overwhelm Khelt’s rulers. They were so much like people.
They would break Khelt’s strength. Erin saw it. The rulers struggled, moving up to the wall of sand and bracing it as if that would help. The thinning veil of sand saw the six, greedily pressing inwards.
Two more had joined the four. One was a fierce huntress, armed with a bow, pointing at Erin. The other? A dancing, charming man, who spoke of friendship.
“You should have taken my gift. But you are not any one of ours. We didn’t know what to make of you.”
He smiled. Erin shook a fist.
“I gave you food! You gave me a stupid coin! Who gave me the noose? That was a stupid gift! You tricked me! Get lost!”
They laughed. This was all a game to them, Erin realized. She looked at the dignified rulers of Khelt, Gerial.
“If they go through, you should run. I’m already dead. Calruz and Ceria would beat me black and blue if I let you get hurt before me.”
Gerial smiled, trying to be gallant. Erin wanted to cry again.
“I’d rather hit them first. I’m so tired of this. If only…all I have are my memories. Maybe fire?”
She tried to conjure it. A ball of glorious fire. Tamaroth smiled, the pink glow reflecting in his eyes. Erin looked at him and tossed it aside.
Not glory. Not despair. And she had no mercy for them. Fire? She saw how greedily they pressed their hands to the sand. They wanted fire. They wanted life.
If only there was something stronger. Erin closed her eyes.
Hatred. She had that. But would they eat that?
“There has to be a weapon that can harm them. Although if they are what we fear, what weapon can harm them that we could forge? Ponder that, child. Bring weapons from your world. Now, move back. We are failing.”
The great smith-king grunted. Erin looked at him. He gravely nodded as the sand began to fall away. Erin backed up as Gerial pulled her back.
What weapon indeed? She closed her eyes. She felt like…
Flowers were useless against them. Because they were flowers. She kept thinking of them. Because they were flowers from them.
The fae.
The Winter Sprites. And they were not of this world. Erin could remember holding a knife on Earth. She doubted that would work. If only she had something more—
Her eyes opened. They flickered towards the six. Slowly, they narrowed.
Tamaroth was watching her, pressing forwards, wanting to be first. He watched as Erin slowly backed up.
“‘Scuse me. ‘Scuse me. I know everyone’s getting ready to run, but—excuse me. Can I get a word?”
She poked the Giant of Chandrar, first of the Nomads of the Sky, in the leg. Then she had to fly up because he was so vast, even compared to Zamea, that he didn’t notice. He knelt.
“DO YOU HAVE SOMETHING TO BRING THESE FOES PAIN?”
His voice was so loud even whispering, everyone heard it. The six snorted. The rulers of Khelt glanced over their shoulder. Erin whispered in his huge ear. Okay, she shouted, but her voice wasn’t audible to the others, only him.
The Giant started grinning. He looked at her.
“THAT, I CAN DO.”
He opened his hand. Erin floated onto it and landed. Gerial stared up. She smiled down at him.
“Erin? What are you doing?”
“Something possibly stupid! Get ready to run if it fails!”
She shouted down at him. The Silver-rank adventurer blinked. Then he whooped.
The ghosts looked up. Erin was concentrating. Memory. Califor’s head turned as the [Witches] prepared to flee to Baleros. She saw Erin conjuring something.
“A weapon won’t work.”
“Shh. Feed us your memories, child!”
The dancing man called up to Erin. She looked down at him and flipped him off. The six saw her raise something into the air. They were confident, pressing forwards. Erin slowly took a breath. The memory was so easy. Even after it had happened, she had never forgotten.
And she had feared it. Rightly so. Heck, she’d even tried to stop it. Now, she reached out.
“Erin, take a coat. It’s wet!”
Shauna Solstice stood in the hallway. Erin turned back. She looked to the side and slowly reached out.
She picked up the umbrella and opened it in the sky.
And then there was light.
Light, sunlight, shone from underneath the umbrella. It flooded down around Erin. Not just a memory—her breath caught.
Sunlight. The ghosts around her threw up their hands, crying out in shock. Gerial’s eyes widened as he stared up.
“How—?”
Tamaroth’s gift on the Winter Solstice. Erin had refused it, yet she had held it now. How had he phrased it? A gift for her soul.
“I offer an umbrella made from the sun’s light. To bring day into blackest night.”
And there were no weapons in this world that could have harmed them. But this was something they owned. And it was a memory.
She was dead, though. So who was going to stop her?
The sunlight burned down around the rulers of Khelt. They looked up—and the light burned away the sea of shadows. They fled across the ocean, screaming, wailing. And Erin realized they had voices.
The six were caught in the sunlight too. And it exposed them.
Kasigna, Tamaroth, Emerrhain, the other three—they threw up their hands and screamed. And Erin saw them once more.
Rotting forms, clinging to life. They howled at each other, at the light.
“The living world comes forth!”
“How does she hold it? You gave it to her!”
“She stole it from memory!”
The corpse of the bearded man screamed at the others. He pointed at Erin. Thief! Which reminded her of something else.
Thief! Erin’s eyes widened. She’d had a dream, once. And she’d thought that was a dream as much as the umbrella. But what if…
 
—-
 
“I could choose not to, even now. Will we be reborn into that far future?”
The three stood around the stone, talking. Of the future, not what could be.
Young, old, and adult. It was a similar story. But it had changed a bit. Now, the King of Knights looked to the stars and dreamed of a kingdom in the future.
The old King of Chivalry’s head was bowed.
“If we are doomed to make the same mistakes, what point is there? Think of that.”
The young Arthur Pendragon looked around. He hesitated.
“You two…”
“The girl, Ryoka, showed us a future that might be. One world. The hope of more—is it better to take the sword or not? I have taken the sword, but now I dream of—”
“Arthurs.”
They looked at the squire. The youngest Arthur pointed slowly.
“…Where’d the sword go?”
They stared at the empty stone.
 
—-
 
The sword shone in her grip. And now the six did scream.
“How does she hold that? Did they give it to her?”
“Impossible!”
Impossible. They wanted to say that in the land of the dead? Erin felt the sword dragging her down.
“It’s heavy!”
“EXTREMELY HEAVY!”
The Giant roared. His arm was lowering despite his efforts. His second arm came up, but he was still unable to hold the [Innkeeper] up. Erin couldn’t even lift the blade! She kept staring at it.
It couldn’t be. But it was. Even a memory—
“The blade of kings. She can’t lift it!”
One of the six cried. They were…rotting…in the light. Erin couldn’t even tell which one. She gasped. The speaker was right. She gritted her teeth. However—!
“I can’t lift it. Okay. Hey! I need a [King] to pick up a sword!”
She heaved the blade over the edge of the Giant’s hands. He and she felt the weight lift at once and he stumbled backwards.
The blade some called Excalibur landed in the sands of the land of dead Chandrar. A blade fit for a King of Chivalry. Who could draw such a thing?
The ghosts of dead [Kings] stirred. A [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen folded her arms.
“Only [Kings]?”
The six looked up as an army of ghosts fought for the blade. Erin held the umbrella higher.
Kasigna called up to her, furious.
“You—you thief! You’re no hero! You’re just a thief and child.”
Erin waved back.
“Of course I’m not! I’m not a hero. I can’t fight you. But…”
She looked around and down at her chest. She bled. The crossbow bolts stood out in her chest. Erin reached for one and yanked it out, as Numbtongue had. She tossed it down.
“I want to live.”
That was all. The six began to flee the burning sunlight of a world they could not walk—yet. The sword borne by the mob of ghostly rulers. Erin spoke on.
“I want to hug my friends and tell them I’m sorry. That I’m back. I want to drink water. I want…”
She thought of Sserys and gulped.
“I want to be loved. I have so many regrets. And I want it all. I want my friends to be safe. I want to be safe myself. I want to see my family again. It’s not enough to have one of those things. If I can’t have any of it, I’ll fight for it. I’m selfish like that. And silly. I don’t know about you lot—”
She waved a trembling hand at the dead gods and the end of the afterlife. The rulers of Khelt. The [Witches].
Grand destiny.
Erin went on.
“I just know what I want. What I need to have.”
They screamed up at her, enraged, furious, no longer smiling. Burning, feeling pain, fleeing the sword and light. Their voices mingled, screaming at her in unison.
 
“You know what we are. Do you really think to pit yourself against us?”
“Are you the ilk from which they cut legends?”
“Do you hold the will to change fate?”
“Defy death?”
“Slay Gods?”
“Are you capable of challenging the world?”
 
For answer, she looked at them. Erin slowly transferred the umbrella to one hand and raised the other. She curled her fingers up and then waved a fist at them.
“I’m being me. I don’t know about all that. But don’t get in my way or I’ll hit you.”
They shrieked at the young woman who was no grand hero, no impressive foe.
Then they fled.
 
—-
 
Later, when the sword vanished and the umbrella still shone from the Giant who was bemusedly holding someone who in turn held the umbrella up, casting light, keeping the dark things at bay, Erin prayed.
Chandrar was safe for now. Not forever, but for now. So, in this moment, she prayed.
Not to gods. She’d met them and they sucked. Erin prayed to the living as the dead, instead.
“Please. Please…everyone. My friends. My family.”
It was a simple prayer. Erin closed her eyes as she composed it.
 
I want to live. I can’t ask you to, but please, if you will…I want to live. 
But I want you to live even more.
Don’t die, please.
And let me see you again.
 
Erin Solstice rose. And then got to work.
The [Witches] waited for her. Great adventurers, [Sages], [Archmages], and so on. Trying to find out how to help the curious girl who brought sunlight for the first time in this place.
That was for her. For them, Erin Solstice had only what she knew. So, she carefully got to work.
It wasn’t so much creating as remembering creating.
“See, it was the best burger I ever made. I put some lettuce in there, some nice cheese…and I fried the hamburger patty just so. Even the buns. It was the best darn burger and Relc ate it in two bites. So…here.”
She slowly pushed it across the table. The hamburger of memory appeared and the grandfather of the King of Destruction slowly picked it up.
He stopped a moment to feel the texture—texture in this place. He found his mouth watering, and opened his mouth.
The ghosts watched as he bit, chewed, and swallowed. Erin held her breath. After a moment, the [King] opened his eyes.
“…I have had better. The seasoning is not strong; the meat slightly overcooked. The meat, to begin with seems to be substandard. Ground up because it cannot stand by itself. The bread, likewise—”
Erin threw up her hands, conjured an Imani-burger, and slapped it on the table. She shoved it at Gerial. It met with considerably more approval and the ghost-king looked disappointed he didn’t get that one. Erin folded her arms and glared at him.
“Well, this is the only inn in the afterlife. That’ll be four silver.”
The [King] stared at her. The [Innkeeper] wondered if someone could make an inn or she could borrow a palace or something.
In the land of the dead, The Wandering Inn opened for business. And someday, surely…
She would go back.
