“I thought it wasn’t dangerous. I didn’t know—”
Her protests felt feeble. Califor looked at her.
“Few do. Who here knew how they would die? You, who died in battle?”
She turned. The [Lords] and [Ladies] of House Byres, the other guests of this place, Sserys, all shook their heads. Califor turned to Erin.
“I knew my death when the Spider, the Stitch Witch came to me and offered the dark deal. My daughter’s life, or mine. I never expected to die until the moment came upon me.”
“You had one chance. We all did.”
Sserys sat there.
But suddenly, Sserys was sitting at a desk in a war tent. He looked up as screaming filled the air. Erin saw the Drake slowly draw his sword as the tent flaps parted and a vast, insectile form cast a shadow. The Drake lunged—
Erin saw the memory play out in front of her. For a second, she smelled what he had smelled, even felt his emotions from afar. The sensations.
His last moments. Sserys sat there, a single wound torn through his armor, his heart and body. He touched it and looked at her.
“I thought we stood on the moment of true victory. In arrogance, I never thought the Antinium had any last resorts. They unleashed their great warrior and I damned my people to war with them for decades since. Perhaps centuries. We all had one chance. And now you’re dead. Because you weren’t cautious. Because you thought yourself immortal. And because of luck, now they sacrifice themselves to give you another chance. First Maviola, then Zel. How many more?”
Erin looked down at her death. She looked at Sserys, at Califor. The [Witch] was not as bitter as the dead [General]. Nevertheless, her gaze was no less piercing.
She had one chance. And this? Erin tugged at the bolts weakly, yet she had no strength to draw them out.
“But I don’t want to be dead. I wanted to live. I want to…”
Blood ran down her front. The ghosts looked at her, pityingly, mercilessly, envying the shred of hope. The gaze of the countless dead, hiding from dark things even here.
Erin fled.
 
—-
 
The aegis of Yderigrisel extended far around the lands of House Byres. Erin felt the safety of his presence, like the radiance of his scales.
She ran, knowing it was foolish. But their calm, cold judgment had revealed the truth to her. What a pointless, foolish death.
An accident. Some Drakes with crossbows. Why that way? Of all the ways…
“I want to live. I didn’t want this! Maviola? Olesm? The Antinium? War? How many died?”
Erin sobbed. She stumbled across the landscape, miles blurring with each moment. Space was different here.
She stopped as she realized she’d gone far. She turned back, fearing she had gone too far and the shadows—she whirled.
No, there was no Kasigna. No…Tamaroth. 
God of Rulers. Protect Us in Our Weakness. The old coin he’d given her burned in her memory.
She knew what they were. But why were they like that?
Why was this the afterlife?
“Why am I here? Alive? Dead? I—I have to get to my body. I’ll go back. Send a message. Tell them not to…”
But she wanted to live. It was still there, such a strong desire that despite the grief, the fear for her friends who would risk themselves for her, she still wanted to open her eyes.
To hug her family in this world and promise never to be so stupid again.
She wanted to see her real parents.
The little ghost, not quite dead, not fully alive, knelt on the ground and covered her face. Her tears fell to the ground and vanished. Shadows gathered in the distance, watching her. But they never approached.
Someone stood there. Keeping this place safe. Erin looked up as she saw the figure standing there.
This was safety. However, this was not Yderigrisel’s lands. She had run here, by accident, feeling safe in the shadow of a second mighty presence.
“Hope is a terrible thing, girl. Perhaps you will never wake. Like me, you will stay here. Neither dead nor alive. Waiting for one or the other. And that is worst of all.”
She looked up. A man stood in front of her. Erin recoiled—but he had no beard. Nor a nature like the strangers. The dead, rotting devourers.
Even so, she might have feared him. Once, perhaps, she would have looked upon the half-rotted flesh, the decay seeping along one arm and recoiled.
But she looked at his robes. She stood as the [Necromancer] nodded to her. And she realized he was a half-Elf, not Human. One ear on his left side had been torn away.
His features were somber. She stared at his face, at his body, clothed in once-regal robes torn by some battle. They were real. Real as she was.
This was no ghost. Still, he was here. The half-Elf [Necromancer] regarded her.
“Why have you come here, half-ghost girl? Has the silver Dragon taken to exiling souls from his precious sanctuary? It seems petty of him. We are all too soon to disappear when the six find us. And I offer no protection of my own.”
“I’m sorry. I didn’t realize I—I must have run out of his place. I…I’m Erin. I’m sorry if I bothered you. If you’ll just point the way back, I’ll go.”
The ghost’s eyebrows raised. The half-Elf blinked at her.
“How odd. Don’t you fear me? Or don’t you recognize my nature?”
He gestured at his rotten arm. She hesitated.
“Um. [Necromancer]?”
A single nod. Erin hesitated.
“I know it sounds like I’m making this up, but I actually do know a [Necromancer]. He’s not as uh, decayed as you, but he helped me a lot. Saved my life.”
“How strange.”
The half-Elf shook his head. He half-smiled.
“How strange. And you’re not dead yet. Was that his doing?”
“No. I don’t think so. I got hurt and…I was careless. I just died and I’m—trying to figure it out.”
Erin hung her head. The [Necromancer] nodded.
“Ah. You spoke to the ghosts of the Dragon’s sanctuary? They can be cruel without knowing it. They are dead. We are alive and can still regret and wish it were otherwise. I would not remain in their company, even had they welcomed me. Not that the Dragon and I speak to each other. Even in death, we do not care for each other’s company, he and I. If it were not for the threats of those shades, we would surely clash until one or the other fled.”
He grinned mirthlessly. Erin stared at him. The [Necromancer] seemed to relish the idea. Erin raised a hand.
“I’m sorry, but who are you? I didn’t think there were so many uh, big souls around here. I’m Erin. And you are…?”
This time the half-Elf really did look surprised. And then a bit offended.
“Have they forgotten me so soon? Does my appearance, the protection of this place not tell you who I am?”
He tilted his head, as if the ligaments and bones were not an impediment to moving the head at unnatural angles. Erin hesitated.
“Well, I’m not from here.”
“Even so. A master of death? Rot, putrefaction? If you know the legends of old, you would know the great [Necromancer] as…?”
He looked hopeful. Erin bit her lip.
“Uh—Az’kerash is the only one I’m thinking of. And someone just told me he was alive.”
The half-Elf sagged.
“So even my legacy is lost. Well. You stand before the Putrid One. At least, so they knew me. A legend of death I thought would never be eclipsed. Which was true until the next [Necromancer] appeared.”
He waved a hand. Erin bit her lip. Now he said it, she almost felt like she’d heard the name once before. Maybe Pisces had mentioned it. She had nothing.
“Sorry.”
“It is not your fault. So, then. The silver Dragon’s lands are that way. But if you would care to—tell me how you died, Erin. It has been too long since I have seen someone else trapped beyond death and life.”
He gestured, and a seat appeared. Erin stared at it, agog. There was just grass, but that was a seat! And not an echo of the world. The Putrid One looked at her.
“A memory. I sat here when I was just a boy.”
It was a beautiful little stool. Hand-carved, wooden, but decorated, as if someone had taken months, even a year of effort to create a stool for a child, with little patterns of birds and plants lovingly etched into it.
His memory. Erin hesitated, then sat. The Putrid One sat on a similar chair. She looked at him.
“I’ve been dead…I don’t know how long. Months? Weeks? Days? Recently, I think. Around the Summer Solstice.”
“Ah. What year?”
She hesitated.
“I have no idea.”
He tilted his head again.
“…Then how many years has it been since the life of [Archmage] Seenaw, the Garuda? The Archmage of Light? The Radiance of Sands?”
“Um…I don’t know. Never heard of them.”
The Putrid One pondered.
“If you do not know me, then perhaps…has a Dragon been slain in living memory?”
“Er…not that I know. Oh! The Creler Wars were like—six thousand years ago?”
“The what?”
The two exchanged looks, and then began to laugh. Erin laughed and the half-Elf chuckled. And he didn’t seem so bad. Erin shook her head.
“I’m not dead. I’m frozen in ice. I was shot by poisoned crossbow bolts.”
The [Necromancer] raised an eyebrow.
“Indeed? May you live, then. There are far more significant deaths. I myself fell in battle at the end of my great ambition. Slain in battle by the hero of my age. Because of my power, I am not dead. Still, I fear that if my body is touched, life will be but one moment.”
He sighed. Erin bit her lip.
“Oh. That’s…terrible. I’m sorry.”
“I yearn for it. Because it is one thing to know I am dead. Another to wish to live, even for one moment before I can finally rest. There will be none for you or me, Miss Erin. The living do not belong here, yet we cannot leave until our last links are severed. And it seems even in death, my protectors are too strong. My greatest servant watches over me still. That I could command them…but death has severed my magic.”
Another smile. The half-Elf looked so maudlin. Erin gulped.
“I—I don’t want that either. How long…has it been?”
The Putrid One looked at her.
“Countless eons, Erin. Did they tell you to regret your follies in life, those ghosts? They should have told you to regret that you had not fully died. For you may suffer here forever.”
 
—-
 
Califor and Sserys found Erin in the land that was called the Village of the Dead. Erin saw the rotting houses, the uneasy construction that had no sense for…living…inhabitants. And what lay beyond, the true center of this place where the [Necromancer] remained.
As well as the pristine grazing lands that had been before this place had been erected. The river that had been here until some jerks decided it needed to go the other way to feed a huge city in the distance.
The [Witch] halted before the half-Elf as he stood in his home in the present, a place of death, his tomb. The Putrid Once glanced at her and sighed at the intrusion.
“Begone, little ghost.”
He turned and the [Witch] held her ground. Barely.
“I have come for Erin Solstice, [Necromancer]. I have business with her.”
“The dead have business with the living?”
Eyebrows rose. The half-Elf regarded the Drake [General], again without much interest. Then he looked up.
Yderigrisel landed. The Dragon and [Necromancer] scowled at each other.
“Release the child to me, Putrid One.”
“She was never a captive, Dragon.”
Erin waved her arm urgently, edging between them. Both ghosts looked at her.
“I’m sorry I ran off. I was just—I met this guy. Don’t fight!”
Yderigrisel and the Putrid One eyed her, and then each other a second time.
“This is not the time for conflict, Putrid One. Even in this place, I despise the slaughter and chaos you and your kind have wrought. Untold millions of deaths. You turned kingdoms to rotten abysses of despair and deserved far worse than death.”
Erin gulped. The half-Elf just smiled in reply. He caught her gaze.
“Did you think they called me that for nothing?”
He laughed, and suddenly his teeth were gone and something wriggled in his mouth. Erin backed up.
“I thought you were nice!”
The half-Elf closed his mouth, looking affronted.
“To one trapped as I am, yes. But I will not be lectured on how I lived. Not by a lizard who dreamed of being treated as a [Knight] and knelt to every kingdom and [Lord] he could find.”
He sneered at the silver Dragon. Yderigrisel’s eyes narrowed. He inhaled—and Erin floated up.
“Stop! Stop!”
She caught herself. She was flying! Or—just moving without her feet. The Dragon eyed her.
“I do not suffer insult. However…”
He looked towards the distance, then the Putrid One.
“I tell you this, [Necromancer], only because it concerns us both. The Five Families are broken in the north. Their sanctuary—gone.”
The Putrid One’s eyes flickered.
“Gone? Already? A ghost fleeing there told me all five houses stood together for the first time in death.”
“They did. And the six devourers walked upon them. Izril dwindles. I have no energy to spend on conflict with you. Make your peace, for even you will end. If you will it, let us both hold them off until the last.”
The Dragon pointed a wing back the way he’d flown. The Putrid One looked past him, at Erin. The young woman saw Califor’s grave face, and Sserys’ unease. She saw the half-Elf slowly nod.
“Very well. An end to it all will be a relief.”
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice had come to the land of the dead just in time to see it end. She realized that now. Even the afterlife was changing. One of the ghosts, a [Lord] wearing silver mail, spoke grimly.
“The sanctuary was at First Landing, where the Five Families of Izril first landed. One of the strongest sanctuaries. Every generation of all the noble houses stood there.”
The ghosts stood in conclave. The Putrid One stood by himself; Yderigrisel and the House of Byres glared at him, but even they held their arguments as he spoke.
“There are greater sanctuaries. The Five Families are new to Izril. There was a time long before them when Gnolls and Drakes ruled here. The Tribes still stand in death in the south.”
“Not much longer.”
Califor and the coven of dead [Witches] were not the greatest of their kind. Of their generation, perhaps. Some had gone far and wide. The toad-witch was called Uonp.
“I went to Baleros where many Dragons died. I have seen the [Kings] and [Queens] in Terandria still holding court. Many great souls exist, for all are here who once lived. Yet as I fled, I saw Dragons eaten. Consumed to nothingness.”
“How? I have held off two. And I am valorous and courageous even among my kind—”
Califor and the Putrid One rolled their eyes as Yderigrisel spoke. The Dragon went on, ignoring them.
“—I cannot imagine one of my kind save for the young would fall so easily. Even the bearded man I could hold off. If with the aid of House Byres’ strongest.”
He nodded to the dead [Knights] and nobility who bowed. Uonp shook her head.
