At first glance, the steel bolt and crossbow in Akanai’s hands were utterly unremarkable, but she and everyone else present in this meeting understood the implications these two items represented.

Crossbows were a simple affair, but whoever crafted this one was a fool who’d never used a ranged weapon in his or her life. The stock was too short for the limbs to pull back to their maximum tension, and the butt was edged, angled, and poorly shaped for firing from the shoulder or hip. There was no mechanism for quick loading bolts or to easily draw the string back, making it even slower to cock and reload than the weapon her husband had designed, which took half a minute for him to load and loose, and even longer for anyone lacking his powerful physique, meaning almost everyone else. The weapon’s flight groove was shallow and too wide for the bolt, the trigger unlatched and prone to slipping free when moving the weapon about, and the bowstring flimsy and liable to snap before loosing more than fifty bolts, to say nothing of how the riser blocked the line of sight to the target. Overall, a shoddy piece of work that had much room for improvement, a small blessing in disguise.

The bolt was in an even worse state, as if someone had been shown a picture of one and tried their best to recreate it. A real possibility all things considered, but that was a matter not worth considering just yet. The bolt’s head, shaft, and nock were all one piece, cast in a mould and honed to a point, a method that emphasized speed over quality and resulted in a substandard product. Even without laying it on a flat surface, one could see a slight curve in the shaft that would render it unstable in flight, an aspect made worse by the slapdash fashion in which the fletching was affixed at the end, one sparse feather approximately on either side, but running perpendicular to the nock instead of parallel to keep them from grinding against the bow itself. There were also a plethora of bumps and protrusions that needed grinding down, and it would be far deadlier with a broad or barbed arrowhead affixed to the end, one properly weighted to keep it from spinning end over end if the wind were blowing the wrong way.

And yet, for all their flaws, the crossbow and bolt was still a deadly weapon capable of killing even a Divinity if caught off-guard, a weapon the Enemy had adopted for their own use and almost claimed the life of her precious son.

Placing the bolt and crossbow on the table, Akanai carefully extracted the pieces of the shattered bolt the pup handed her and laid them out on the table as well, lining up the bloodied tip and broken base the pup pulled out of his chest and back with the intact one above it, showcasing how a good twenty centimetres of the steel shaft was missing from the picture. A clean shot straight through the heart, and the damage to his blood-stained armour corroborated his story to those who might otherwise disbelieve, armour which her old husband laid out on the table next to everything else. The crowd within the boy’s officer’s tent watched the proceedings without comment, their silence speaking volumes to their shock and alarm, for this heralded a change in the face of war, one Akanai had long seen coming ever since she finished her basic army training without ever touching a bow or arrow over three centuries ago..

“Not four hours past,” Akanai began, her voice hoarse from lack of use, “Little Rain was ambushed in Huang Hai by Wraiths carrying weapons just like this one. Approaching under the cover of Concealment, approximately thirty Wraiths unleashed a single coordinated volley from under fifty meters away and peppered the Legate’s command tent in what appears to be a blind attempt to take his life. The Death Corps Guards stationed outside his tent emerged unscathed save for a few cracks and bruises, largely protected by their heavy armour which fended off the worst of the damage, but only because they were not the target of the attack. The crossbows are wildly inaccurate even at so close a range, but as you can see from my son’s ruined armour and the six, unarmoured Aspirants and Imperial soldiers who died in the attack, even a single lucky hit can have devastating results against an opponent cloaked in Concealment.” Glancing about the room at the fearsome Warriors gathered within, she hoped they would take this warning to heart as she added, “Not just because of the physical damage done, but also because the bolts are tipped in a new and improved version of Wraith poison, one that paralyzes their target and interferes with attempts to Heal whilst under its effect.”

That last part was of far more interest to her audience, as a good number of them were powerful enough to Heal anything short of instant death, like say a bolt through the heart. Glancing at the ruined armour once again, her throat tightened in fear and anxiety as she envisioned the pup wearing it once again, with the bolt protruding from his chest and his life’s blood pooling in the dirt around him. There was a time when she would’ve steeled her nerves and accepted his death as fate, just like the deaths of any other of her Sentinels, but things were different now that he was her son in name and in truth. Though she would not go so far as to say she raised him, she’d watched him grow from a rambunctious pup into a fine, upstanding man, and she liked to think she had no small part in making it happen. They’d only grown closer in recent years after she finally saw past her stubborn ways and accepted him into her heart and family, and her only regret was not doing so sooner, because even though they’d always been close as any mother and son, there was still a barrier between them that she never noticed until after she let it down.

A Mentor could take pride in her Disciple’s accomplishments, but a mother needed no reason to shower her son with love and affection, two things the pup had no lack of, but welcomed all the same from the people he saw as his parents in every way except name. An honour Akanai felt she did not deserve, for though she always strove to be the best Mentor to the pup, there were many times when she would’ve failed him as a parent. It showed in Mila’s training the most, for though Akanai was hard on the girl, she’d been a hundred times harder on the pup, because at the end of the day, her job as a Mentor was to make him strong, while her job as a mother was to raise her children well.

Luckily, the pup figured out the second part all on his own, and Akanai could not be any prouder.

“Thirty shots at close range and the pup still lives?” Letting loose with a snort that set a fire in her belly, the Old Wolf curled his lip in a sneer and said, “Hardly see what all the fuss is about then.”

“Shuffle closer and take a better look, old fool.” Though hot-headed and foul-tempered, the Tigress Machali’s tone held an uncharacteristic trace of gentle fondness, showing it was a term of endearment rather than scathing insult. Running her fingers across the ruined armour while studying the broken bits of bolt, she bit her lip and said, “Someone skilled Healed young Baatar and kept him from death’s door. Your work, I presume?”

The last was directed at Taduk, who was the most relaxed of them all, yawning as he sat slumped in his chair as if dead on his feet. Shaking his head with just a bit too much tired emphasis, he rubbed his eyes and replied, “Not at all. I was fast asleep on the ship until word of this meeting arrived, so I suppose that charlatan of a Healer Tokta is finally earning his keep.” His ‘rivalry’ with Tokta was one of his ‘mortal’ guilty pleasures, a senior unabashedly bullying a junior while hiding his status as an Ancestral Beast, but Taduk’s behaving was atypical of a Divinity. Most never cared to hide their status, not to anyone who was paying close attention, nor did they bother trying to blend in, but Taduk’s behaviour was so utterly flawless even the hyper-observant little Rain failed to notice anything amiss. To be fair, Akanai wasn’t sure if the Ancestral Hare’s compassion, empathy, and generally eccentric demeanour was innate, learned, or feigned, but the way he relished life and cherished family and friends made her think he was younger than he cared to let on.

Possibly even younger than her, who’d grown jaded in less than four-hundred years, so if Taduk was truly over a thousand years old as he claimed, without anyone being able to verify, then she admired and envied his wholesome mindset and lighthearted demeanour.

If only the others were even a quarter as humane, or a tenth as perceptive as the silly but brilliant Ancestral Hare, his eyes narrowing in thought as he took in the careful manner in which Akanai laid out the bolts, but he was interrupted before he could raise his next question. “Mortals fighting with mortals, why should any of us care?” Ling Lu asked, putting up a brave front while using Hua Lie to shield herself from every other Ancestral Beast in the room. “We spend most of our time Concealed and hidden away even from one another, so these weapons prove little threat to us here.” Though she was the youngest of the gathered Divinities by far, she was still almost twice Akanai’s age, which meant the Ancestral Gazelle had no excuse for having yet to master her temper. She was similar to the boy in this, allowing her fear to control her by channelling it into aggression, and it was in her nature to fear everything, even that which she could kill without blinking an eye. While this made her a formidable foe to be wary of, it also made her a dangerous, double-edged sword, for if she were to ever lash out in fear or anger, her enemies would not be the only ones to suffer.

Thankfully, cooler minds prevailed as Hua Lie fixed Ling Lu with a stare that set her back on her heels, and Akanai pretended not to notice the petulant Ancestral Gazelle pouting like a scolded child. They were a strange pair, Hua Lie and Ling Lu, with the latter idolizing the former while simultaneously yearning to surpass her, but the difference between them was like night and day, and not just in strength. Ling Lu loathed the world of mortals and only sought out companionship when she could no longer contain her urges, but while Hua Lie proclaimed she had desire to mingle in the world of mortals, she also had a habit of bringing home every handsome stray that crossed her path. History showed that this would inevitably lead to another half-rabbit son or daughter, though thus far, Gerel was the exception to the rule, likely the first human male Hua Lie interacted with for so long without having bedded, largely due to her decades long obsession with Taduk.

Touching as it was to see her efforts to win over her ‘fated partner’, Akanai still had an ongoing wager with her old husband whether or not Hua Lie would succumb to her urges before her ‘Disciple’ turned forty, for her Husolt was an eternal romantic and secretly hoped his rival in chess would find love with Hua Lie, while Akanai wasn’t so optimistic. In her eyes, it was not love which drove the Ancestral Rabbit to such great lengths, but simple lust, and her interest would fade fast once she got what she wanted, whether it be proof their pairing could not produce viable offspring, or a child of two Divinities that she could love with all her heart.

To make matters worse, Akanai wasn’t certain if the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains could sustain a second pair of contentious Divine lovers like Machali and Da Hui, but that was a matter for another day. “I bring this matter before you to all for two reasons,” she began, ignoring the jealous wife’s glare brought about by the adulterous husband’s leer. If only Da Hui didn’t look so much like Akanai’s beloved husband, with the same burly frame and kindly good looks, but the similarities between the sire and his offspring ended there, for never had there been a man as sweet and loving as Husolt, while the Ancestral Grizzly was anything but. “First, as a warning, for the Enemy only need catch you off-guard for disaster to strike, and secondly, to request your aid. With these weapons in hand, our countermeasures against Wraiths are no longer enough, as our foes only need to draw close enough to loose their bolts rather than drive a dagger through their hearts. Only a watchful Divinity can warn us of approaching Spectres in time to guard against them now, a taxing and inglorious assignment I know, but you know I would not ask this of you if I had any other choice.”

