The Heavens just loved Divinities far too much and responded to their Will even without focused intent, resulting in all sorts of ‘miracles’ and disasters that few cared to delve into. The lands outside the Empire were said to be scarred from clashing Divinities, to say nothing of the Arid wastes, and there were stories of how the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains were called such not because a Saint encountered tribulations within them, but because his tribulations gave rise to the mountains themselves. Such was the power of a Divinity unhinged, a force of nature and disaster unto themselves, and now, little Rain might well be comparable to such a being, albeit having arrived there in a roundabout way.

The Enemy was aware of him now, that much was clear, and the Uniter was focusing much of his efforts on breaking the poor boy. The carnage in LuZhuo almost did the trick, and were it not for his wives and Li-Li, Akanai might well have had to do something drastic before the boy hurt himself or others. A split second of his Aura of despair had almost unnerved her, and she feared what she would do if exposed to it any longer. The depths of the boy’s misery and anguish were dark and unfathomable indeed, a weapon powerful enough to topple Divinities as Taduk, Hua Lie, and Guan Suo’s encounter with Pong Pong so ably demonstrated. This was something that went beyond manipulation of the raw Energy of the Heavens, yet another powerful weapon in little Rain’s hands that the Enemy yearned to keep as their own. It was easy to see why the Uniter found so much success where others failed, for he was nothing if not adaptable and far-seeing. First the Wraiths to make up for the disparity between Defiled and Imperial Experts, then the enslavement of Demons to turn them into a unified fighting force, to say nothing of the Emotional Aura they exhibited during the withdrawal from JiangHu, a weapon they had yet to use again. Now, the Uniter stole little Rain’s tactics for his own use while the Imperials were still fussing about matters of honour and long-term viability, for they would sooner cut their noses off than lose face wielding a weapon meant for ‘cowards and commoners alike’.

If the Imperials were half as flexible as Zhen Shi, then the Defiled would be no threat at all, because even as Legate, little Rain had been unable to force the Imperial Army to adopt his weapons and tactics and thus could only arm and train brave commoners in the use of his crossbows and catapults. Had the outer provinces thrown their support behind him from the start, Akanai believed that not only would the Central Citadel have thrown back Bai Qi’s army without support, she was certain that the war would not even have progressed so far. No, if Rain had had his way, then Sinuji would likely still stand as the front line of this war, or perhaps even serve as rear support for a more coordinated and multi-pronged effort at re-taking the West.

Such was life however, and Akanai could only assume Imperial stupidity was part and parcel of little Rain’s trials and tribulations. Now would come another, as the Divinities of the world would soon learn of a young boy who wielded the power of a Divinity without being one himself. Some would seek to safeguard and nurture him in hopes of establishing the first ever Ancestral Human, a human Divinity capable of truly Shattering the Void to reform his very being. Few knew what such a Path might entail, as none had ever come close, for though Human Divinities could match Ancestral Beasts in combat and experienced the same pitfalls when losing control, they fell woefully short in sheer destructive capability. A blessing and a curse both, as Human Divinities were far more flexible when it came to exerting their Divine strength without killing everyone around them, but it also meant that they needed to tread lightly lest their Ancestral Beast opponent do away with all restraint and kill them both in a moment of rage.

For long seconds after Taduk’s cheerful declaration, not a single gathered Divinity even blinked, all six of the others regarding the Ancestral Hare with mixed expressions. Horror, ridicule, and disbelief were chief among them, though the Old Wolf let none of it show as he twitched his nose in careful thought. “Ye sure that’s the case? Absolutely sure?”

“Of course not,” Taduk replied, and the others visibly sagged with relief. “I’ve yet to speak with him as he is fast asleep in his bed, and I’m not brave enough to intrude while my sweet Lin-Lin is there with him, so all I have is conjecture for now.” There was more than a hint of melancholy in the man’s voice, and Akanai commiserated with him fully, for little Rain had sunk his fangs deep into sweet Mila as well and done unspeakable things to Akanai’s precious daughter. It must be doubly as difficult for Taduk to bear, but he loved the boy and sweet Mei Lin both, so much so that he would sooner break his self-imposed oath to do no harm than see either of them hurt. That being said, he wasn’t much of a protector as he loved his sleep too much, rising with the morning sun and sleeping soon after it set as if he himself were a plant reliant on the light for sustenance. “It’s entirely possible the boy dissolved the bolt through more mundane means,” Taduk began, resting both hands on the table to lean in close enough to lick the poisoned bolt if he should so choose to. “He could have broken down the steel and distributed it through Baatar’s bloodstream, to be filtered out in the kidneys later on, but that would introduce future complications the boy would never forget to mention, and Akanai said nothing of the sort.” Tilting his head this way and that, he continued studying the bolt and rattling off medical theories that made just enough sense to be possible, yet not enough to conclusively prove little Rain had gone through with it, until he finally concluded with, “But I don’t think the boy bothered with any of that. I think that after seeing his father dying before his eyes, he called upon the Energy of the Heavens to Heal Baatar, and the Heavens obliged.”

“Why’s that?” Making his presence known for the first time in weeks, Wu Kong cracked a single eye open and let his attention slip for a moment from his arduous task of Concealing the presence of his peers and family. “What makes you so certain the boy is so capable, ah? To do what even we cannot accomplish on a whim at so young an age?”

“Because,” Taduk began, offering a sheepish shrug of apology to the boy who would not see it, “Little Rain is... he is a brilliant child, but not in the traditional sense. A traditional genius would be a child who learns to count from one to ten, then without guidance, understands that after ten, comes ten and one, ten and two, ten and three, and so on and so forth. Little Rain is a child who grew tired of learning how to count and instead devised his own method to keep track of numbers, one which may or may not superior to our own.” Which wasn’t so far from the truth, as he’d devised a number system to simplify how to represent large figures on paper after growing frustrated at having to write out so many characters in his accounting ledgers. The boy was barely thirteen when she first saw him scrawling his numbers into the dirt, trying to keep track of the number of times his lessons ended in a visit to the Healers, but the sheer scope of what he accomplished never occurred to her until after Zheng Luo took them up for her own use.

“What’s that have to do with anything?” This time it was Ling Lu’s turn to speak up, though her interest did not bode well for little Mila, as the Ancestral Gazelle was still young enough to find the notion of taking a human lover intriguing, and while little Rain was not as bad as Da Hui or Niu Mowang, one could not honestly claim that he did not have a prodigious appetite for beautiful women. Akanai had already lost one daughter to him and was fast mourning the second, for little Li-Li was firmly caught in his grasp but didn’t know it yet. The girl’s Aura and actions declared as much, and though Akanai was pleased to see her poor daughter overcoming her trauma of men and find it in her heart to love another, she would be happier if Li-Li had fallen in love with almost anyone besides little Rain.

Taking a moment to consider how best to answer the question, Taduk looked up from the bolt and shook his head in shame. “It’s my fault really,” he began, pacing about the room, and it was almost adorable how Hua Lie bounced in her steps as she followed him about like Mama Bun followed Rain, so infatuated with the man she simply wanted to be as close to him as possible at all times. “When he was still young and new to the Dao, I inadvertently showed him too much while Healing him from a deadly injury, though to be fair, he’s come closer to death more times than I can remember. This one was a particularly gruesome snake bite, one that grazed his heart and pierced his lung among other things, so I panicked and rushed the Healing more than I usually would, which offered him a glimpse of my full capabilities. After he regained consciousness, he likened my efforts to weaving a complex tapestry using ten-thousand needles at once, one of my favourite compliments to date I’ll have you all know.” Beaming foolishly as he made sure they all knew how pleased he truly was, he scratched his cheek and continued, “The issue is that this display scared him off from properly learning how to control Chi because he thought it was too complex for him to ever master, and thus has since been dead set on simplifying the Dao. That’s been the driving force behind many of his steps along his Path, from Panacea to Keystones and more, and combined with the fact that he has not always been one to keep calm under pressure, I believe the only way he could’ve saved Baatar from so grievous an injury is by utilizing the Energy of the Heavens. Not to say I’m looking down on him, but while he’s known for his ability to Heal injuries in combat and his knowledge of the medical field is indeed top notch, the truth is he’s only above average for someone his age when it comes to his skills in traditional Healing, and Panacea does not work fast enough to Heal an injury of this magnitude. It’s possible he had enough usable Heavenly Energy at his disposal from the Demons he killed, but I doubt it. I’ve said it before, but the amount he harvests from a single Spectre is so minuscule it might as well be negligible, while Demons offer him barely more than a mouthful in the grand scheme of things. Healing a ruptured heart quickly enough to avoid brain damage and complications would require no small amount of Chi, and I would assume an equal amount of Heavenly Energy. Judging from past experience and discussions with the boy, I would say he’d need close to fifteen Demons worth of Heavenly Energy to accomplish such a feat, which means...”

The Ancestral Hare continued to natter on about specifics he couldn’t possibly truly know for certain, but he laid it out in a manner that made perfect sense. This was another area in which Taduk differed from a traditional Ancestral Beast, for few were as inquisitive and discerning as he. Most took their strengths for granted and never delved too deeply into understanding the details of their respective Paths, but Taduk’s boundless curiosity drove him to study anything and everything that caught his fancy. That being said, his standards were even higher than Akanai’s own, as little Rain’s traditional Healing skills outstripped that of most Peak Experts, as it was a skill that few cared to learn considering the risks and effort involved.

“Where is the boy now?” Old Wolf asked, and Akanai was not sure if the hint of threat in his tone was imagined or real. An Ancestral Human would be a prized possession indeed, especially if the theories were true and that his coupling with an Ancestral Beast would result in a powerful demi-human worthy of a natural born scion of two Divinities, though there was little more than wistful thinking to support it. Either way, if the boy had the capability to ascend into such a never before seen Divinity, factions the Empire round would be fighting to claim him and his offspring to raise into their own personal Divinity slave army.

Meaning there might be some who thought it easier to remove temptation than defend the boy from so many foes...

There was no helping it though, for the Old Wolf would have his way regardless of whether or not Akanai stood in his way. “He is resting in his ship after his trying ordeal, which should dock in LuZhuo soon enough. He woke briefly to ask about his father on the way back and share a few scant details with his wives, but he soon lapsed back into unconsciousness after complaining of a headache and Chi strain.”

“So he’s not a Divinity just yet,” the Old Wolf murmured, and the other Divinities aside from Taduk and Hua Lie nodded in agreement. “Wouldn’t feel the strain if he were, not after Healing just one pup.”

“Yes, he passed out for weeks the last time he pushed too hard,” Machali added, the dutiful daughter supporting her adoptive father as always, and Akanai fought hard not to smile at how similar they were to the pup and his girl. “So it’s possible he’s simply acting as a medium for the Heavenly Tear and that none of this power is his own.”

