Glancing about the room, she met the eyes of every Divinity present as they reacted to the request, save for Wu Kong who was laid out in the corner and apparently sleeping, but Akanai knew better than to be taken in by the trickster. Though seemingly as mischievous as his twin sons Jochi and Argat, Wu Kong was perhaps the second best parent in the room, surpassing even Hua Lie in the affection he showed his children, though he behaved more like an older brother than father. This was perhaps due to the fact that he played the same role to the other Divinity’s in the room, stepping in to shoulder the heavy responsibilities as the Old Wolf grew old and tired in body, mind, and soul. Touching as it was to see a Divinity treat his children so well, to be fair, Wu Kong only had the two sons at the moment, while Hua Lie had a total of fifty six children currently living in and around the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, and more out in the world that Akanai had never met. The Ancestral Rabbit’s affection for her children was not innate and instead a sort of forced burden she took upon herself, something anyone with eyes could see. That being said, despite her tendency to take new lovers like others purchased new clothes, she had a good eye for partners and many of her ‘husbands’ were more than happy to raise their half-rabbit children themselves, perhaps as a reminder of the whirlwind affair they shared with the aptly named Divine goddess of their dreams.

The good news was that regardless of her reasons, Hua Lie was the most involved with safeguarding the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, having supported Akanai in her efforts to form the Sentinels since before its inception, and it was clear she was supporting Akanai here as well. Unfortunately, while she was undisputedly the strongest of the seven gathered Divinities, it was Old Wolf who held the most influence over the others, as they all looked to him for his response, which was far from ideal. A tiny, frail looking elder in the twilight of his life, the Old Wolf’s gaze was still fierce as ever as he fixed her with a clear, yellow-eyed glare and said, “Ye warn us of danger yet intend to throw us into the fire once more? A filial girl ye are, working yer elders to the death. Ye’ll spread us thin and leave us vulnerable to Enemy attack, which is probably what they and the Imperials want, so ye tell those snooty bastards to protect their own and forget about using us as their stalking goats.”

If only Ghurda was here to soothe the Old Wolf’s temper, for he had a soft spot for the few mortals he cared about. Even his old children weren’t so blessed with his affection, as young Huushal only warranted his guidance thanks to Ghurda pleading on her son’s behalf. A difficult man to read, the Old Wolf of the mountains, a fearsome and territorial Divinity who took all manner of strays into his pack, a Mentor and father-figure to every other Divinity present. That’s why they all respected him, not just for his strength which was likely second only to Hua Lie’s, but also because he was the man who stood up for them when no others would.

Take Machali for example, who as the tales went had been exposed as a Divinity long before she was strong enough to hold her own against a Peak Expert, to say nothing of another Divinity. Had the Old Wolf not risked life and limb to claim her as one of his pack, her fate would have been a miserable one indeed, captured by Imperials and raped day and night to breed half-tiger slaves for their armies. Ling Lu would have suffered a similar fate, while the men would have been drugged and kept in a state of constant arousal to facilitate their breeding prowess or worse, but Old Wolf was the one who sheltered them all in his mountain home and united them in purpose, if not harmony.

So strange, the Imperial fixation on breeding Demi-humans while simultaneously scorning them for being different and inferior. Having seen little Alsantset’s talents develop from a young age and blossom into the phenomenal Warrior she was today, Akanai could see why others mistakenly believed that Ancestral Beasts of fiercer or more predatory origins would have more powerful offspring, as the girl was a talent few could match. Then again, the same could be said of Yaruq, Jochi, Argat, and even Akanai herself, all scions of ‘less desirable’ Ancestral Beasts, ones that were not hunters or killers by nature. This was without mentioning sweet Mila of course, who would be the undisputed number one Talent of her generation were it not for the boy’s phenomenal and frankly unheard of rate of improvement, though to be fair, Guan Suo himself had been a fierce Warrior to be wary of, one almost on par with the Old Wolf in terms of strength and reputation.

A shame the grouchy Red Panda had passed away, for Akanai had always been fond of him ever since their first meeting in the forests of Ping Yao, a gruff and dour man that Old Sumila would’ve approved of. A harsh tongue and soft heart, just like the sweet woman herself, and it would’ve been nice if little Mila could’ve one day forgiven her sire for his failings, for it was clear he loathed himself almost as much as he yearned to make connections with the world around him. There were few as hardy and stalwart as Taduk, a Divinity who mingled with short-lived mortals and came away unscathed, but Guan Suo was perhaps the furthest one from it, a man who abandoned civilization because he had lost too much over the course of his long, turbulent life.

So too had the Old Wolf, and doubly so now that he had one foot in the grave, which meant he was even more protective of his Divinity peers than ever before. Akanai dreaded the day he passed, for she feared his death would mean an end to the alliance of Divinities in the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains. Taduk and Hua Lie would undoubtedly remain behind, but she dared not assume with the others, especially considering how domineering Hua Lie could be without the Old Wolf to rein her in. Even the mischievous and laid back Wu Kong would not tolerate her heavy handed ways, to say nothing about Machali and Ling Lu. As for Da Hui, even if he did not follow his wife’s lead, he was not one to care about the affairs of mortals unless an attractive woman happened to catch his eye, so his support was essentially useless.

There was no sense considering the future just yet though, for the Old Wolf still lived, and without Ghurda here to soften his temper, Akanai could only use logic and reason to sway him. “We have sent word requesting aid from the Imperial Divinities, and Niu Mowang assures us that he will do everything in his power to see that we receive it.” Unfortunately, Akanai wasn’t sure if that would be enough, as the Bull Divinity held little sway in Imperial affairs as he too was a free-holding Territory Lord, one whose lustful personality surpassed even Da Hui who once tried to convince Machali to let him court Ling Lu to become the first Divinity with two Divinity wives. As if this weren’t enough, the fact that Ling Lu was willing to entertain the notion drove Machali to near madness and was the spark which set off a conflagration which only ended after little Alsanset’s birth, and the Ancestral Tiger realized she was not equipped to raise her Demi-human child herself.

Oh how Akanai empathized with the poor woman upon seeing her sob in equal parts grief and fury as she handed her daughter over to be raised by the People, her bestial instincts urging her to be rid of the ‘crippled’ cub warring with her motherly desire to love and cherish the beautiful child she’d only just given birth to. Though Akanai herself would never know the joys of giving birth, she was grateful she would never experience what Machali went through first hand, having to abandon the daughter she both loathed and loved for fear of what she might do. Small wonder most Ancestral Beasts kept themselves apart from mortal affairs, for that was not a pain one could easily forget.

“Hmph.” Leaning heavily on his steel cane which threatened to buckle under his weight, the old wolf considered his answer quietly before asking, “There’s more isn’t there? If there wasn’t, ye’d have waited for an answer from the Imperials before bringing this up. What is it? Ye thinkin’ of using the fact that the pup almost died to move me? Don’t bother. Old as I am, no one knows how many years I’ve still got left in me, so there’s still a good chance I’ll outlive him yet.”

That was the crux of the issue, pragmatic self-interest, for the Old Wolf had seen entire generations come and go in what must feel like the blink of an eye. Though they kept records of family histories going back generations, the Old Wolf had lived through it all, so who could say what friends he’d made and lost along the way? Perhaps he secretly Mentored one promising young talent and raised him into a hero of the Empire, or maybe he took an interest in one family or another for feeding him a meal he particularly enjoyed. How many friends and lovers had he lost along the way? Too many to count in all likelihood, and Akanai could not imagine losing her beloved old husband, to say nothing of Mila, Li-Li, or Baatar. Inwardly pitying the poor Old Wolf, Akanai shook her head and said, “No, I know you well enough not to appeal to your better nature. Instead, I bring your attention to a possibility, slim though it may yet be.” Gesturing at the bolts laid out on the table, she said, “Tokta was not the one who Healed the pup, nor was it any other Healer of note.”

“No,” Taduk said, denying it even as his eyes lit up with pride and glee. “Don’t tell me? I had my suspicions, but to think that they would be so on point...” His initial elation passed almost immediately as he considered the implications, his furrowed brow and fetching grimace making Hua Lie visibly swoon on her feet and Da Hui shift closer to his wife for fear of losing her to yet another man, one far stronger and more talented to boot.

“What are ye on about?” The Old Wolf snapped, cranky not just from waking early, but being away from his territory for so long. They wouldn’t be able to keep him here for much longer, as initially he’d only come to keep tabs on young Huushal for Ghurda’s sake, but even though circumstances were more dire than ever, one could not simply take the wolf from the mountains and expect him to transform into a loyal guard dog.

“Little Rain Healed Baatar,” Taduk declared, and Akanai nodded in confirmation, but this was not all he had to say. “And look! Look at the bolt and how she placed it, to emphasize the missing parts. This is all that remains of the bolt, is it not? Of course it is, you wouldn’t have kept these two bits and thrown the rest away, that’d make no sense at all. How marvellous for little Rain, a true prodigy of a man, my little student and son-in-law!”

“So what of it?” Opening his mouth for the first time all meeting, Da Hui cradled his wife close while she pretended to hate his jealous pawing yet secretly loved the attention. All cats were cats in the end, even one as regal as a tiger, a lesson Akanai realized after seeing how easily little Rain tamed the man-eater Rakshasa with little more than baths and bits of string. “A talented mortal is still mortal in the end, doomed to live and die before I’ve had time to blink.”

“Don’t you see?” Taduk exclaimed, pointing at the bolt again. “The armour. The blood. The area of impact. The incomplete bolt. Everything you need to know is right before your eyes. Baatar was shot clean through the heart with a poisoned bolt, and little Rain pulled him back from the brink of death by utilizing the Energy of the Heavens! Not merely the usable Heavenly Energy he possesses mind you, but rather the raw energies of Creation and Destruction both, for I see no other way he could have succeeded at so monumental a task, not as he is now.”

Something Akanai and the pup both suspected, but neither were brave enough to voice it out loud, for this was an implication that went far beyond mere crossbow wielding Wraiths. Not many knew of little Rain’s acquisition of a Heavenly Tear or his Devouring Talents, and even fewer were aware that together, they provided him with a source of usable Heavenly Energy he had yet to tap into, but if others were to learn that the boy could harness the power of a Divinity without being one himself, the whole Treaty’s existence would come into question. Even though the Enemy was clearly pushing the limits on the mutual agreement to limit Divine action, they were still not so foolish as to engage an Imperial Divinity in open combat. An ambush in the darkness perhaps, or a contest of Will at most, and it was a combination of the two that led to Guan Suo’s death, caught off guard by the Enemy’s Anathema while matching Wills with the Ancestral Bristleboar Zhu Chanzui. Not exactly a violation of the Treaty, as throwing a vial could hardly be considered use of Divine power, seeing how there was no chance of losing control and summoning enough Heavenly Energy to change the landscape for kilometres around them. That was the scariest part of a battle between Divinities, for even they were not wholly in control of the power of Creation and Destruction both, else there would be no need for such strict restrictions upon their use.

