“A difference without a distinction, as far as the Imperials will be concerned.” Such a solemn expression was rarely seen on the golden-furred Wu Kong’s face, reminding her and everyone else that he was second in seniority after the Old Wolf, though he was still a child in the latter’s eyes, the same as the rest of them. “They will not care where his power comes from, so long as he can wield it, to say nothing of his latent potential. Perhaps it is time we abandon this farce and retreat to the mountains, where we will be better poised to defend him.”

Annoying as it was to hear them try to make decisions for her, Akanai knew that was just the way they were. To Divinities, the lives of mortals came and went in the blink of an eye, even one as long-lived as herself, so how could they not see her as a child who needed their assistance? Much like she would not stop to ask an errant child’s opinion while fleeing from Defiled, they would not think to ask what she intended to do, but they were in for a rude awakening if they believed they could order her around with impunity. At least there there was no talk of abandoning the boy just yet, but even if the others were willing, Taduk would never allow it, and Akanai suspected the female Divinities would be loathe to let this chance to slip through their fingers. The former loved the boy dearly as if he were his own son, while the latter all knew that an Ancestral Human represented their best chance to give birth to a child they would not instantly pity and wish death upon. A powerful impetus, the desire to raise the next generation to succeed them, one even a Divinity could not escape for long, and Akanai could only apologize to her daughters for allowing them both to become tied to a man whose future was so uncertain.

At least they had love aplenty to get them through these trying times, and Akanai could only pray it would be enough, for there was no way little Rain would allow himself to be brought away while so many suffered in the West, nor would Akanai condone it. If the Divinities decided otherwise, she would simply refuse to follow their lead and strike out on her own, a freedom still afforded to her as she was no child of theirs. It might well be suicide to stay without their support and rely only on Imperial Divinities to protect her, but she could not bring herself to flee just yet, because when all was said and done, she shared much in common with her grandson turned son-in-law. Despite the machinations of the Imperial Clan, they both loved the Empire and all its people too much to stand aside and watch them suffer, meaning for better or for worse, they would fight on to the bitter end.

Chapter Meme
