“I don’t think that’s what he meant.” Speaking before I think better of it, I wrap my arm around Mila’s waist and gesture at Guan Suo. “From what I can tell, it sounds like Guan Suo wanted you to understand why he couldn’t raise you himself, which sounds like regret to me.” Mila sniffles, but doesn’t say anything as she leans into my embrace, which I take as a sign to keep talking. “I cannot imagine his struggles, nor can I know what it’s like to lose so many loved ones over the course of one lifetime, but... what he said, about wanting to love and cherish your beautiful smile, he meant it, but his bestial half wouldn’t let him.”

“Then why not find me when I was older?” Mila’s innocent tone and dismal expression punches me in the gut, and it’s all I can do to stay standing. “Why didn’t he tell me he was my father? Lots of Ancestral Beasts seek out their children when they’re older. Look at Gang Shu and the Gams...”

The answer comes easily, though I can see why Mila can’t see it. “Because, my love, his bestial self kept him from raising you, but his human half made him afraid to love you.” Stepping closer so I can hold her in both arms, I hug Mila tight and pray for her safety and longevity, because I don’t know what I’d do if I lost her. “He told you about his parents and his first wife, about how he’d forgotten their faces, but I guarantee you the pain and sorrow from losing them is still going strong.” I should know. I can’t remember the faces of my parents from my first life, but my heart still aches when I think of them, which quite frankly, is absurd and unfair. “Multiply that by however many years he’s lived and relationships he’s lost, and it adds up to a whole lot of pain and suffering. Look at how he lived all this time we’ve known him, alone and without companionship. He even kept his distance from the Protectorate, and they were his own people. I don’t think he did it because he hates social interaction, but because he’s afraid of getting hurt again. That’s why he only rarely sat down for dinner with us, and that’s why he stayed so close to Ping Ping and founded the Protectorate to look after her, because she is one of the few friendships he can have that he wouldn’t outlive.”

“...And even then, he revealed himself to me.” Trembling in my arms, Mila whispers, “The first day I arrived in Nan Ping, he showed himself unprompted after I greeted Ping Ping. I always thought it was so he could laugh at my ignorance, but he told me everything he felt I needed to hear then, and only repeated himself today. At the end... he said he envied us demi-humans, because he truly believed he was less than human, and that his children were better off without him.” Her tears slide down her cheeks and mingle with mine as we mourn and pity this poor, tortured man. “How terrible it must have been, to live so long believing himself a monster...”

“Which ironically proves just how human he really was.” Sighing, I hug Mila tight and explain, “A real beast wouldn’t care, they simply do what they feel is right, and then move on with their lives without remorse, because remorse is a human emotion, one beasts have no time to indulge.” The fact that Guan Suo never realized this makes his death all the more tragic, and my guilt weighs heavily upon my shoulders, but now is not the time to succumb to my pain because Mila, strong, stoic, dependable Mila, needs my support.

Having said all that needs to be said, we stand together and cry while Ping Ping quietly mourns the loss of her friend. Mom soon returns with blankets for me and Mila before retreating without a word, and in time, we make use of them and sit down next to the big girl. I’m not gonna lie, it kinda stings that Ping Ping won’t let me sit inside her arms and even forcibly nudges me back when I try to press the issue, but I guess she’s feeling protective of her oldest and closest friend. This doesn’t stop her from checking in on me every few minutes, lifting her head to peer over her arm and see if I’m still there, which eventually leads to us tentatively moving over to lean against her shoulder. Finally reassured of my constant presence, Ping Ping goes back to standing vigil for Guan Suo while I brainstorm ways to help her come to terms with her loss, but I’m not qualified to help people cope with their grief, much less animals.

I hope Ping Ping will get over this in time on her own, but if there’s anything I can do to speed along the process, I’d do it just to save her the heartache. I can’t even imagine what it’d be like to have a relationship spanning so many centuries, or however long it takes to go from beast to Ancestral Beast, much less how I would react if it ended abruptly. I do know that animals understand death though, and are more accepting of it than most humans, so hopefully, she’ll bounce back from this loss and go back to her cheerful, chipper self soon enough.

As for Mila, I’m not worried about her in the slightest. I’ll be here to support her as needed, but she’s a strong girl with a family who loves her, and she knows it. Before I even know it, my fiery wife is fast asleep in my arms, her expression troubled, but not tortured, which is better than I could manage in her stead. Or in my stead, considering I’m handling this much worse than she is. Not only do I feel guilty for getting Guan Suo into the mess which got him killed, I also have survivor’s guilt and a slew of other doubts and conceits about what I could or should have done to prevent Guan Suo’s death, not to mention my long list of personal psychoses to deal with. On top of all that, I can’t get the idea of Devouring Guan Suo’s body out of my brain, and I feel like Ping Ping’s behaviour proves that she believes that it’s possible. Why else would she keep me away from Guan Suo’s corpse? I don’t want to think too hard about it though, because it makes me feel like a monster, doubly so since it’s something Ping Ping wouldn’t like, so I simply close my eyes, do my best to ignore all my intrusive thoughts, and wait for peaceful slumber to arrive, all while quietly humming to maybe soothe Ping Ping’s nerves.

So worked up by my atrocious grieving process, it doesn’t even occur to me that I might end slipping into Ping Ping’s Natal Palace, but that’s exactly where I find myself soon enough. One second, I’m drifting off with Mila in my arms, and the next, I’m here in Ping Ping’s river of happy fun friend time, except it’s feeling a little light on the happy, fun, and friends. Colour too, as if the brightness, contrast, and saturation settings have all been taken down a few notches. An appropriately human response to grief and mourning, but surprising when coming from a turtle, as I’m not entirely certain if turtles can even see colour.

Usually, the diminutive Natal form of the big girl greets me at the same mud bank every time I pop in to visit, but today, she jumps me directly to the grove of red pandas, where she sits mournfully in the embrace of Guan Suo’s giant red panda’s form, lying there dead as he is in real life. For some reason, knowing the whole story and seeing him like this just makes his loss all the more poignant for me, and I can’t help but break into tears at the sight, especially since all the other red pandas are absent too. In fact, there’s no life at all in her normally bustling Natal Palace, the significance of which escapes me as Ping Ping rears her head and lets loose with a piteous squeak of mourning as she looks to me to fix this, but I can’t.

“I’m sorry Ping Ping,” I begin, already sobbing from her sentimental display of affection. “He’s gone, and I can’t bring him back.” Out of some misguided sense of empathy, I unleash my Aura to share my grief and let her know I feel the same way, but this only makes things worse as my anguish compounds her misery and her wailing squeaks redouble. Realizing my mistake too late, I try to think happy thoughts and share a more comforting emotion with her, but to do so would require feeling more comforting emotions, but we’re locked in a feedback loop of angst and distress. My misery made her more miserable which in turn is making me even more miserable, and now there’s nothing to do except be miserable together in an endless echo chamber of misery.

Or so I believe, right up until Ping Ping’s squeaks culminate into a plaintive shriek which shatters the Natal Palace around us. Gone are the clear, flowing waters and verdant bamboo stalks, the fluffy white clouds and the warm, inviting sun, the playful, chittering animals and curious, friendly observers. In their place is nothing but the bleak emptiness of the Void, with darkness stretching out in every direction save for Ping Ping, Red Panda Guan Suo, and myself.

No, that’s not true. The darkness of the Void surrounds us, but something lurks within, writhing and wriggling almost invisibly against the darkness. Ping Ping pays no attention to her surroundings, and instead is wholly lost in wailing and mourning her friend, but I can see the Void closing in around us. There is no sense of motion, only magnification, as if neither group is moving across the Void, but rather the Void is drawing us closer together. I’ve seen this before once, and soon, it becomes clear who waits at the other end, as the disembodied Spectres come into view, teeming and swarming in unbridled excitement at the prospect of new life and succour.

Mahakala called them itinerant souls who’ve broken free from the cycle of Reincarnation, ones who seek nihility for all, but I never agreed with his description. For starters, I’ve seen a Spectre birth first-hand, and unless Jorani is walking around without a soul, there’s no way Spectres are souls, not to mention the fact that they seem more eager to rejoin existence as Demon’s rather than end it for all.

Act now, theologize later, dumbass.

Driven into a frenzy from hunger or whatever they feel, the dark mass of Spectres push and claw at an invisible barrier, which I assume would be the outer surface of Ping Ping’s Core. Once in, they will not turn her Defiled, because as an animal, she lacks the nuanced mind for Defilement. That’s nothing more than a pit stop to total Spectre takeover, but Ping Ping won’t be taking any stops and will jump straight to Demonization, at which point I will lose the poor girl forever and be forced to end her misery, preferably before the Demon she become grinds me and Mila into meat paste.

Way to fuck things up Rain. Between Emotional Aura and Natal Palace deep-diving, you just whipped up a quick, two-step recipe to full Demonization.

Without stopping to think, I turn and leap onto the grieving Ping Ping. Clutching her close, I push aside my fear and misery and reach for the only weapons I have: love and happiness.

The first memory that comes to mind is the first time we met, when I woke up from my meditative bath and found her hanging around outside, looking so curious and adorable with Lin-Lin on her head. I was scared, but also delighted, especially once she let loose with her dainty little squeal, and I remembered hoping that this would be the start of a wonderful friendship.

It was. And I’m not ready for it to end.

Next comes my first visit to her Natal Palace, when I saw how tiny and cute she was, and how my heart sang as she scampered around aggressively snuggling and tippy tapping away. I remember thinking how restrained she must always feel, having to tiptoe carefully around people, buildings, and tiny animals, but her kind, considerate nature wouldn’t allow her to do anything less. Here in her Natal Palace, she was free to be as wild and rambunctious as she pleased, and even had the elephant-sized Red Panda Guan Suo to snuggle with, not to mention a whole host of furry, adorable critters which she so adored.

That visit proved what I’d known all along: Ping Ping loves floofs as much as I do, which makes her a kindred spirit.

The memories flow through my mind at rapid speed, like the first time she drank my bathwater, our first swim in Nan Ping Bay together where she played with the quins, when I shared what I learned from my second Awakening, or her darling reaction to the giant rubber ball I had made for her. All of these memories evoke a torrent of emotions, and I share them all with Ping Ping as best I can, praying I get through before it’s too late and snap her out of this downward spiral of depression.

And it works. Her squeals soon die down and her eyes go wide with surprise, shocked that she’s no longer in her comfy Natal Palace. Unsure what to do, she goes into battle mode and scans her surroundings before looking to me for guidance, but not only do I not have a solution to share, I wouldn’t be able to convey it to her if I did. “Yea...” I drawl, knowing there are probably better uses of my time, but unsure what they might be. “I was kinda hoping you’d be able to... you know... mind magic the spooky Spectres away.”

Eyes wide with fear and panic, Ping Ping eyes the Spectres, shuffles her feet, huffs once, twice, then darts over to give me a quick nuzzle before the Void disappears around me. Coming to with a start, I find myself back in the real world with Ping Ping’s arm at my back and Mila in my arms. Struggling to get up from under the weight of my wife, I yell, “Mila wake up! Combat ready!”

