“Well… Okay.” Erick looked to the wyrm corpse, and all the swarming mimics. He said. “It’ll certainly get dried out, either way.”

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

A bubble of translucent white formed around Erick, as thick air spilled up from the ground, all around. A shrill vibration cracked across the sky, as the semi-sentient slime crawled up from the wyrm corpse, wrapping around every sparkling mimic, strangling fluids from all hundred or more of the jam-packed plague monsters. The blue ones died. The two red ones launched into the air, rushing to go in any direction that would free them from their attacker, but their attacker covered kilometers of the Crystal Forest. There was no escape. They both managed to get twenty meters outside of the carrion pile before they succumbed to the [Withering].

Automatic [Cleanse]s erupted as mimics died, one after the other, but the wyrm corpse did not vanish. If the [Cleanse]s did anything at all, Erick couldn’t tell.

But both mother mimics spilled across the sands like broken ruby dolls.

Rats said, “Wyrm corpse is still there.”

“Good,” Teressa said, smiling to make her fangs show.

Erick cut his aura as he sent four Ophiel to telekinetically pick up the remains, asking, “What are health potions usually made out of, anyway? And for that matter: what are mana potions?”

Kiri watched Ophiel pick up the ruby corpses, saying, “A combination of rad dust and other materials. Garnet dust and cow’s blood are main ingredients of the lowest level health potions, while Cyan Lilies and heavily diluted water essence make decent mana potions. Don’t want to use too many of them, though. It leads to intestinal rads, and that can lead to monsterfication.”

Erick had Ophiel [Teleport] the red mimic corpses back to their underground base, saying, “Oh?”

Jane said, “I drank so many potions escorting Yetta through Ar’Kendrithyst… I would have had to have surgery, if I couldn’t just turn into a flame slime and spit the rads out.”

Erick stared, wide eyed at Jane, asking, “Really?”

“Yup. But surgery here is easy, Dad. It’s not like it is on Earth.” Jane paused. She corrected herself, “Ah. Well. Not easy. They just drain you to 0 HP in a [Health Drain Ward], then they cut you really fast, yanking out every bad thing. They heal you up afterward, though. It’s considerably more violent, but the recovery is fast.” She flashed her three-meter sword into her right hand, asking, “So? We ready for this? How long will it take before they start showing up?”

Teressa looked south, saying, “We should get one wyrm by noon.”

Erick put the thought of Jane with intestinal rads out of his mind. It was time to clear out some threats to the world. He looked around him, at his group. Everyone wore [Conjure Armor] of their own design. Erick’s own [Conjure Armor] was a plain white cloth suit, like Jane’s; he hadn’t really sat down and tried for a look, yet. Everyone except Teressa had a [Personal Ward] shimmering against their skin. Teressa had her mace and shield. Jane had her long, thin sword. The plan had been made hours ago, and refined based upon yesterday’s performance. They were ready.

Erick asked, “Okay?”

Teressa nodded. Everyone else kept their eyes either on the grey wyrm corpse, or on the horizon.

The Ophiel who had stored away the red mimics, [Teleport]ed back beside Erick. All of them turned small, and maneuverable. He was ready.

The mimics had done a number on the corpse, eating maybe half of it. The automatic [Cleanse] from the Withering Slime did not fully destroy the corpse, either; but it likely did scrape off another half of the remaining flesh. There was still tons and tons of rotting meat left on the sand. Erick dismissed the [Scent Ward]s across what was left of the corpse. A virulent, nasty smell, immediately filled the sky. Even though the air blew from the north to the south, and they were all positioned a kilometer to the east, the smell still reached them. Erick almost puked right there.

Rats slapped a hand over his nose, saying, “Holy gods! I thought there was a [Cleanse]!”

Kiri coughed, her eyes watering, saying, “A [Cleanse] should have at least killed some of the smell.”

“I think it made it worse.” Jane uttered, trying to maintain a stoic stare into the distance.

Teressa just smiled wide, breathing in the air, saying, “The [Cleanse] worked fine! They usually smell worse than this.” She chuckled. “It might be six hours till a wyrm shows.”

Kiri offered, “I can make it… make it smell more? If you want?”

Rats exclaimed again, “Holy gods! How could this possibly smell—” He turned to the side, and puked up breakfast.

Teressa patted him on the back as he continued to puke, saying, “There, there. You must go into battle lighter, anyway.” She said to Kiri, “Do it.”

Kiri blipped closer to the corpse, did something, then blipped back. Erick was barely able to keep track of her position, and would have lost her completely, had he not used [Ultrasight]. In the distance, a fire bloomed, dark and green, crawling across the corpse.

Kiri grimaced, saying, “Get ready. It’s gonna be bad.”

Rats puked, while the group prepared.

Erick watched the burning corpse, and then saw a force pulse through the sky, tossing stone and sand inches into the air. The pressure wave passed through the group, and now it was Erick’s turn to lose his breakfast. He turned to the side, and hurled.

Jane said, “Oh gods, Kiri. It smells like a thousand dumpster fires.”

Erick cast a [Scent Ward] across the group and filled the air with his [Cleanse Aura]. In a single moment, the air turned tolerable, then nice. Erick stood, dusting the sand off of his white [Conjure Armor] gambeson.

Rats said, “Thank you.”

Kiri wheezed out, “Thanks.”

Teressa mocked displeasure, smiling as she said, “But how will we smell them coming!”

Rats went ‘blegh’, spitting at the sand.

“What spell is that, Kiri?” Erick asked, as [Cleanse] cleaned out his mouth.

Kiri breathed deep, and easy, saying, “[Adjust Scent] and [Prestidigitation], for—” She glanced at Jane, then said to Erick, “[Dumpster Fire].”

Jane laughed.

“It won’t last long.” Kiri said, “It’s very useful for annoying the hell out of uppity nobles. I also have [Fish Stench] and [Rotten Eggs].”

Jane laughed, as Erick smiled.

Poi said, “Cut the chatter. We have an early arrival.” He sent, ‘Combat silence. Look to the south.’

Poi layered a telepathic network onto the group, as everyone turned south, and tension filled the air.

Far away, a dust cloud rumbled across the Crystal Forest, churning up sand and air alike. A wyrm. Purple and black, the wyrm flowed through its own minor dust storm, like it was riding a wave.

Teressa sent, ‘Variant wyrm. No idea what that spell is— No. Wait. [Stoneshape]. It’s a [Stoneshape] wyrm. Difficult… but… up to you, Poi?’

‘I agree. It’s a [Stoneshape] wyrm.’ Poi sent, ‘We’re not fighting that. Kill it, Erick.’

Erick sent a full-sized Ophiel into the sky, a hundred meters above and in front of the wyrm. Stone swirled in the air around the wyrm, as it saw Ophiel. It blinked into the air, moving faster than Erick thought possible, the very ground turning to long spikes, like the wyrm had dragged the ground up with it.

The wyrm’s maw opened wide. Rotten teeth flashed in the early morning sunlight.

Opheil turned tiny, then created a minor-sized [Crystalline Air] around itself. The purple wyrm swallowed Ophiel, but got stuck on the [Familiar]’s [Solid Ward]. Its body snapped forward, like a snake slapping sideways on a stick. Ophiel’s [Solid Ward] ripped out of the wyrm’s body, but the wyrm was still alive. The [Crystalline Air] did its job; the wyrm’s momentum was gone. It hovered in the sky, spikes of stone breaking up to swirl around the beast, as it tried to eat Ophiel again.

Three more Ophiel, each full sized and covered in eyes, appeared around the wyrm, each of them casting [Force Beam] after [Force beam] from eye after eye, five, then ten white eye beams per Ophiel, the cutting spell trained upon the purple wyrm with perfect precision. The beams did nothing, at first, except piss off the wyrm. But they cut through the wyrm's HP fast enough, and then they began to cut the beast itself.

The purple wyrm struggled, snapping through the air, trying to catch an Ophiel and failing each time. Stone rain swirled around the monster, also trying to pelt the winged [Familiar], but Ophiel [Blink]ed, and dodged, using [Airshape] or [Swift Movement] as necessary.

The purple wyrm snapped lucky, once, chomping down on an Ophiel. But Erick just sent another in, then conjured another Ophiel to replace the one he lost to a lucky strike.

Soon enough, purple wyrm slices and pieces and arms and legs, rained from the sky, as piece after piece was severed from the whole. Eventually, after ten minutes, the wyrm was a five foot section of flesh that covered itself in solid stone, and fell to the ground. But Ophiel kept layering [Force Beam]s onto the monster, forty or fifty beams at a time, cutting through the stone, cutting the beast down to its pulsing core. [Force Beams] glanced against the core once or twice, and flashed wide, but Ophiel easily withstood its own beam. With the monster reduced to a pulsing tumor, four Handy Auras ripped the tumor apart, pulling out two purple grand-rads, finally killing the wyrm for good.

The team watched from the safety, and rather nice smelling, staging area; several hundred meters from the slaughter, and from the scattered piles of purple flesh.

Rats sent, ‘That was terrifying.’

Kiri’s eyes were bright and full of life, as she sent, ‘That was FUCKING AMAZING.’

‘Sure. That, too,’ Rats sent.

Poi sent, ‘A [Stoneshape] wyrm in the Crystal Forest is death for half of all parties. We likely could have handled it, but we are here to hunt wyrms and end threats, not for jollies.’

Teressa reluctantly sent, ‘Right right. We get it, Poi.’

‘What level was it, Dad?’

Erick looked over his Status. He was still level 63, so the wyrm was below him, by quite a bit. ‘Level 50-something.’

Jane frowned into the distance, sending, ‘None of us are going to level from this, are we?’

‘Likely not.’ Kiri sent, ‘Especially if Erick kills them all.’

Teressa sent, ‘There will be more wyrms.’ She added, ‘Though we should get used to the smell since we'll be fighting out there. Might want to kill this [Scent Ward], Erick.’

Rats sent, ‘Uh. Yeah. She’s right.’

Erick looked up at the faint glitter of the [Scent Ward] around them… and dismissed the spell.

“Oh gods!” Rats held his breath, then let it out slowly, saying, “I can smell without breathing!”

Erick laughed loud. Then he puked up one final spat of breakfast. Another [Cleanse] cleaned out his mouth.

Ophiel took the purple wyrm’s cores to the underground hideout, while Erick and everyone else, watched the horizon. Waiting for the next monster to appear.

- - - -

Another two wyrms showed. Each time, Erick stopped them with a [Crystalline Air], ripping thousands of points of initial damage out of their body, as the [Solid Ward] ripped through their flesh and stole their momentum.

The first one was another grey wyrm, but much, much smaller than what came before; maybe only twenty meters long. It cast about ten [Force Bolts] a second, which, while they struck those who they intended to strike, only did 50 damage a pop. Erick held a shield for the first time, blocking many of the bolts before they could reach him. Kiri, Rats, and Poi, each chose Erick’s method of mitigating the bolts, each with a shield of their own. Jane just dodged them, but she did not fight.

Only Teressa and Rats and Poi were up for this fight. Teressa blocked bolts as needed, but mostly she bashed the wyrm, whenever it tried to bite her. Rats healing more than made up for the damage the wyrm tried to inflict, while Teressa caved its skull several times over the course of the five minute fight. Rats ran low on mana; but he did good. Teressa said that her HP never went down below 75%. From Erick’s position, it looked like Rats and Teressa killed this second grey wyrm all on their own.

What did Poi do? He breathed a bit harder, sure, but Erick couldn’t quite tell, and he was too ashamed to ask at the moment.

Jane and Kiri took the second wyrm. It was bright blue, but just as covered in open wounds and rotten flesh as all the rest. Kiri stayed low to the ground, flying fast, left and right, [Blink]ing as needed, avoiding snapping jaws, igniting fire across the blue wyrm, like napalm. Jane kept back, for this wyrm was an [Airshape] wyrm, and it controlled the very sky around its body. She tried to leap onto it, tried to flash her sword through the beast, but a draft held her in the air; a stable and easy target. She [Blink]ed away before the monster could snap its jaws over her.

Erick’s heart almost leapt out of his chest, but he stayed back; this was their show. This wyrm seemed to move a lot faster than the last one.

Three seconds later, Jane found an opening. She sliced the wyrm in half, her sword trailing the barest line of red blood, as a third of the beast flew out of its control, to crash against the ground like so much rotten meat. The blue wyrm turned on itself, racing to the ground, trying to consume its own flesh. From there, it was an easy kill. Kiri burned, while Jane cut.

Eventually, Jane hoisted out a bright blue grand-rad, two foot across, from the center of the beast. Ophiel took the rad, and stuffed it back with the other obvious loot, back in the underground hideout.

