Jane sent, ‘And right now, Poi is blocking all harmful mind magic.’

Erick instantly turned to Poi.

The sapphire scaled man nodded, sending, ‘We thought shadowspiders were immune to mind magic, anyway; but it turns out they’re just highly resistant, and specialized spells work especially well on them. But we are prepared now, Erick.’

Erick breathed hard, preparing himself. He sent another [Scry] upward, into a different part of the battlefield. It was dark out there, the rain came down in sheets. The [Scry] orb popped.

‘How the FUCK are they noticing my [Scr— They’re still out there. Somewhere.’ He sent, ‘You’re up, Jane. Good hunting.’

Jane sunk into shadow, rippling the cooling blood on the ground as she left the underground room.

Erick flashed a [Cleanse Aura] into the room, and cast a brighter wardlight, onto the ceiling. Blood and char vanished. Erick breathed easier, now. He checked the blue box that had appeared earlier.

Stone Travel, instant, medium range, 50 mana + Variable

A large area of stone stabilizes around you, then quickly moves at your discretion across or through other stone. Lasts 1 hour.

Erick sent a [Scry] orb upward.

Surprise filled his entire being; a monster had joined the fight. A monster the size of a wyrm, but not a wyrm.

A radiant red snake with glowing white feathered wings, flew across the battlefield, burning away the clouds and rain above. It swooped down, quick as a lightning strike, dashing through a group of five humans below, burning one instantly to ash. The other four humans managed to [Blink] away from the monster.

Seeing the beast in person was so much different than seeing it on paper. It was the Flare Couatl, and it was much bigger than the last report indicated.

Jane, still a spider, just stood on the surface, wrapped in deep shadows, watching the carnage.

Erick said, “It’s the Flare Couatl.”

Rats winced out, “Good. Is it killing the assassins?”

“Yes.” Poi said, “And turning them to ash, which means we won’t know who they are.”

Rats said, “That’s okay!” He touched the fresh red scales across his stomach, then moved his feet… Or at least, tried to move his feet. He scowled. “Nerve damage. Not healed enough yet.”

Poi moved over to Rats with the rod of [Treat Wounds], and began healing the redscale.

Rats relaxed after a gentle touch from the rod, saying, “Thank you.”

Erick conjured two more Ophiel, and sent them upward—

“You attacking the couatl, now?” Teressa asked.

“No.” Erick said, “But I am going to kill one of them so that—” Erick looked through Ophiel, and paused. “Uh.” He said, “We need to get out there. No danger right now… maybe.” One small Ophiel each blipped next to Kiri, Rats, Teressa, and Poi. “We’re going up. No spells blazing.”
