They broke into flame. Fire raged through him. Not the controlled blazes he’d been conjuring lately, within the safety of the upper peak, within the limits of what counted as safety to him, but a wild flame. A wild fire, that burned his whole body down. Every part of him blackened as pitch black smoke poured into the sky.

The students outside could only see the white bones, trying to pull Rhys down. They could see that the bones couldn’t move any further, but that was it. Walter stood there, equally frozen.

And then black smoke began billowing out of the gaps in the bones.

“The Beast!”

“Our Impure Lord!”

“God of the Black Smoke!”

A few Infinite Constellation School students jumped to their feet. Their god was in the room. Their god, the black smoke they’d worshipped, the one that had shook the mountain—was here! Before them!

Within the skeletal hands, Rhys burned. He burned to charcoal, but as he burned, he rebuilt. Strength. Power. Not just defensive power, not just the durability to take Ev’s hits and return in kind, but ultimate power. The strength to defeat anyone. The strength to defeat someone at the very limits of Tier 1—

No. My ambitions aren’t so weak. The power to beat anyone. To defeat anyone. To overcome everyone, and protect everything he wanted to protect.

Power welled up in Rhys’ body. Strength like he’d never felt before. The impurities reforged him, but not only that. They empowered him. Like mana, but a hundred times more powerful, forcing every single ounce of power into his limbs, his muscles, his bones. He’d channeled impurities before. Used them to reform his body, or transform them into mana. But right now, in this moment, he did the bare minimum of transforming. Instead, he directly channeled the impurities themselves, grabbing onto the raw power of burning the impurities and transforming that directly into strength.

As Rhys burned, his hand fell off the timber. The skeletal hands began to shut. But at the same time, his eyes flared with power. Burning orange fire poured from his eye sockets, overwhelming the blue tinge mana had cast onto them, turning it all to bright flame.

He reached out. His charcoal hands grasped the bones that sought to cage him. Without hesitation, Rhys clenched his hands shut. And that, that small gesture, the closing of his hands—that was enough to tear the hands apart.

Bone shattered. For a moment, blue-tinged shards of bone flew outward from where Rhys had broken them, and then the spell itself gave out. Walter stumbled back, spewing blood from his mouth as the backlash of the spell failing hit him. Nonetheless, he raised his sword, his eyes grim as he faced down the savage specter Rhys had become.

Rhys stood there. His vision flickered, barely clear enough to make out Walter before him. He wavered, his consciousness on the brink of dissipating. An almost subconscious part of him reforged his body, making it stronger, stronger, more durable, and stronger. The rest of him channeled the impurities, letting them rage within him. If he couldn’t bear them as he was, then burn it down, throw it out, and start over. If this body was inadequate, then he would recognize it as the trash it was and reject it. He wasn’t afraid to burn himself down. He didn’t fear destruction. He was trash, and trash was intended for destruction, fated for it from the start. It was only through destruction that he could become more powerful. Only through burning himself to ash, that he could strengthen himself—enough to win this fight. Enough to become stronger. Enough—enough to become strongest of all.

Walter adjusted his stance. “If you won’t approach, then—”

Rhys lunged. He moved so quickly that his vision went black, that the sparse blood in his body couldn’t keep up with it. But he didn’t need it. Didn’t need to see to know where his enemy was. He sensed it, felt it in his mana, in his bones.

The only real match for him today, was Mae. Why?

Because Walter was impure.

Black gunk filled Walter’s mana passages. Curse power clung to his mana. In this state, on the verge of death, his whole self burning, Rhys could see it. The black mark on Walter’s core, a sleeping skeleton with demon horns pushing through its brows. The skeleton’s eye sockets were shut, and it looked extremely bizarre, covered in bone spurs and vicious spines. That was the source of the attack he’d used on Rhys. Some form of curse. Not a curse itself, or else Rhys could have absorbed it like he did with Hono’s attacks, but a projection of a curse. A curse that Walter had taken onto his very core.

Rhys felt a sense of loss. A strange sadness. Walter wasn’t trash. He had decent talent, and undeniable skill with the sword. But by taking that curse onto himself, placing it onto his very core, he’d marked himself as trash. To see something that wasn’t trash, marked and transformed into trash—sorrow flooded over Rhys. It was different when he was trash from the beginning. No one would cry a tear when trash became more trashy, or burned itself up. But to see someone with talent throw that all away and become trash… that was worth sorrow. That was worth regret.

Rhys grabbed Walter by the head and slammed him into the ground. Walter tried to counterattack, but Rhys was too fast, too strong. An overwhelming force of fire, smoke, and impurities. Rhys willed it, and burning impurities rushed from him into Walter. He didn’t know how, or why. In this state, it was as easy as breathing, and he didn’t question it, just as one wouldn’t question breathing water if they were transformed into a fish. He could set Walter’s impurities alight, and so, he did.

Walter screamed. He thrashed in Rhys’ hold, struggling to break free. Overcome with pain, he couldn’t launch a meaningful attack or countergrapple. He kicked and struggled like a rabid beast, but couldn’t overcome the burning Rhys’ strength.

It made a fearsome sight. A charcoal-black figure, flaking away, burned down to blackened bones. Red molten light leaked from the cracks in its body, and flames poured from its eyes and mouth. Walter thrashed in its hold, struggling but failing to break its grasp.

Ernesto stepped forward. “The duel is over. Release him!”

Cynog blocked his way. Ernesto looked down his nose at him. “Step aside, or I’ll report your blatant abuse to the Headmaster.”

“Of what, Purple Dawn Academy? He isn’t my boss. Not yet,” Cynog scoffed with a sneer. “Right now, my boss is Aquari Gibron, and she doesn’t give a fuck. Go ahead. Take it up with her. But I’m not going to step aside.”

Ernesto narrowed his eyes. He lifted his hand. Power glimmered in his palm.

Cynog flexed his muscles. He glared back. “Try me.”

The two glared at one another, locked in a deadlock. Behind Cynog, the battle raged on.

Unaware of all this, Rhys continued to pour into Walter. The impurities burned. Rhys absorbed that power into himself, rather than let it empower Walter. He didn’t know Walter’s body well enough to know what or how to enhance it, and besides, they were enemies. This power was his, now, and he wouldn’t let it go.

He reached Walter’s core and didn’t stop. He plunged right in, seeking after the source of all the impurities—the sleeping demonic skeleton in Walter’s core.

That demon opened its eye sockets. It uncurled from its sleeping position and screeched a battle cry, rushing to meet Rhys. The two clashed. For a moment, the demon held him back, but only for a moment. Rhys was a tsunami of smoke and fire, a force of nature, not a being. Before him, the skeletal demon was but an ant. An ant that he would swallow up.

It fought back. The skeleton clawed at the wave Rhys had become, but there was no overcoming him. The wave swallowed it up, and just like everything else, the skeleton burned.

In the last moment before the skeleton died, its eyes suddenly flared to light. Cold, dark light burned in their hollow depths, and a cold, dark intelligence gazed forth. It locked eyes with Rhys. Not the burning wave of smoke and fire, but Rhys, the human form hidden in the depths of that wave. Rhys saw the darkness, and the darkness saw him.

So you’ve come, O’ One Who Cleanses.

Rhys’ eyes flashed. He grinned. “Wrong!”

The darkness paused. No?

“I don’t cleanse the trash. I love it! If you think I’m here to clean you, you’re wrong! All trash belongs to me. All trash is mine, whether I burn it down to remake it anew, or polish it into something that can be loved. If you’re trash, then I’m not here to destroy you, or cleanse you. I’m here to make you shine!”

What?

“Come here. Today, I was going to burn you down, but why waste such a gem? You’re a powerful weapon, aren’t you? You don’t belong to Walter. I don’t know who you are, or who this power belongs to—but I don’t care! I’m going to polish you into my own spell!”
