Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Back into the fray. Now. Fuck the damaged skill. We hit him again—when he thinks he’s won.

Shiv cast his Severed Shadow back in time to where his physical body was. Princess Plum Blossom’s eyes were wide, and her fairies were looking about for him. A wave of unspeakable hunger crashed through him. He ignored it as well as his temporal shell snapped him across time and space back into the Boiling Toad.

Curse Gained: Starvation’s Agony - You have offended the Princess of the Harvest and broken decorum. You must be punished for your transgressions! You will never know satiation. You will always hunger for food and drink and never be full.

Shiv reappeared in a flicker of gold and kept his Chronomancy field active, seeking to surprise the Ascendant.

If only things could be so easy.

He had left a warpath across the Boiling Toad when he smashed into Longinus and through the inner walls of the infernal kitchen. They had cleared well over ten kilometers in a blink, tearing through walls and toppling buildings. But though they bore something of a superficial resemblance, the insides of the Boiling Toad weren’t exactly like the Yellowstone Republic capital, nor did they possess a proper castle at the center. No, the best way to describe it was a mess of ghettos and work camps built around a few massive cooking stations. Even enlarged and hefting city-sized pots and cauldrons, Shiv could recognize them for what they were, could see the turned mana dials, and mountains of half-prepared ingredients that rose so high into the air that the peaks were coated by a layer of frost.

Presently, Longinus had been driven across the flat-top expanse of the grill station. The metal sheet beneath him gleamed white from the sheer heat-convection channeled into it. In the distance loomed sizzling steaks and hissing legs that looked like they belonged to a Tarrasque.

But while time was held in stasis for Shiv, he was reminded that he wasn’t the only one who possessed such a skill. Georges’ body remained unmoving, but the centaur-like form of Longinus himself that revealed itself to be looming over him was not so impeded. And Longinus did not stand alone, for in his hand was a divine lance with strands of fluid crimson spilling out from behind it, and each cord was connected to another, smaller lance dancing in the sky.

The one thing they all had in common was that they were pointed at Shiv.

“Well, look at this, the other vessel.” Longinus chuckled, any hint of Georges in his voice gone, replaced by a sharp, deep basso. The Ascendant’s eyes burned violet and gold as he beheld Shiv through Divination and Chronomancy. “I knew there was more to you than meets the eye. Of course you underwent the ritual. I can feel it when people die, and you had none of that despair or terror. Just a tired old feeling—the same kind I tasted from killing one of Valor Fucking Thann’s bodies.”
