Erick landed Linxel at his gathered clan.

As people turned toward their former (?) leader, the warlord began speaking orders. Almost just as fast, Forage Leader Ooloori came forward. The two of them argued for a tense moment over the validity of each other’s rule. Ooloori spoke of how easy it was for Linxel to get taken down, and how he was no longer fit to lead Green Grass. Linxel countered that if Ooloori wanted a debate to settle the matter, that he would gladly give her one after the current problems were over, but until then, it was time to fall into order, and purge the face stealers and draconic forces from their people.

Ooloori capitulated.

Events proceeded rapidly from there, with Linxel speaking to his clan, telling them how it was going to go, and how they were going to use Erick to cleanse their clan of the filth that had invaded them. Ooloori had already laid down a lot of groundwork in getting their clan organized, but Linxel was the one who had won their hearts, long ago. Erick had expected a bit more upsets among Green Grass, for Linxel had been compromised, but Linxel’s people were mostly just very, very relieved that he was okay.

At that point, Erick decided to begin shifting his [Undertow Star] to something less hampering; designating certain people allies, instead of enemies. Linxel was the first person Erick allowed out from under his power, since Linxel had been cleared by Ari’s skill and Erick’s own investigations. After completing his own investigation of Ooloori (by visiting every place that the Forage Leader had been in the nearest two thousand kilometers, and vetting none of them as secret Hunter locations), Ooloori was also white-listed. Erick made sure that Linxel and Ooloori knew what he had done, too.

Events proceeded rapidly from there.

Now that Linxel was here, and proven himself, the heads of other clans began to be brought in. Most people willingly came in to the main caravan, but some people refused the call. Tensions rose. Linxel warned that if they didn’t come in now, that they weren’t allowed to come back at all, and that they would be hunted down like the monsters they were.

All of a sudden, the problem of Green Grass expanded to the full clan; to each separate caravan.

Representatives from clans allied to Green Grass also began to appear on the edge of Green Grass’s encampment. They knew what they were getting into, too, as they willingly walked into the power of Erick’s [Undertow Star], their faces angry and their words angrier. A lot of those words were directed toward Roia. ‘Your Speaker was a face stealer?!’ was a common refrain.

When the newcomers spoke to Linxel, and when they found out, for themselves, the proof that Erick had against the face stealers he had captured, the anger and the harsh words and the surprise and disbelief blossomed ten fold. The other caravans of Green Grass’s clan wanted executions, right then and there. They wanted their own clans purged. They wanted to bring in the Dragon Stalkers. And they also wanted Erick gone, but that one was definitely not going to happen.

Erick’s counter-Hunt was becoming a disaster of person-sized, nation-spanning proportions. Like trying to rid one’s house of ants and finding out that the problem was actually a crack in the wall, which was caused by a sinkhole ready to open up in the basement.

Erick had contented himself to expose the problem, investigate everyone here, and then help out when the clan leaders decided they wanted help, but he was obviously needed in a larger capacity than that. These people obviously had no idea how to properly run a counter-Hunt.

The whole situation reminded Erick of certain events that he had attended back on Earth; of town halls, when people from the public got up behind the podium and yelled at the county commissioner and the board of directors about whatever foolish thing was happening that week. A lot of people had no idea what they were talking about. A lot of people were still very misinformed about how Erick found face stealers, even though he told them how he did it more than a few times, by this point.

Erick almost stepped in again, stepping over Linxel and other Leaders.

Linxel proved himself as Warlord, though. He got right into the shouting match, roaring above the crowd, “We are better than this!” People shut their mouths, and Linxel spoke softer, but no less forceful. “This never would have happened if our methods were not flawed, but how could we have known they were flawed when the face stealers kept them flawed! We did not know. I did not know. Our own Speaker was stolen from us three years ago, and even her husband had no idea. But now we know the problem. Now, we have a guiding light through the shadows.” He gestured to Erick’s avatar, saying, “Archmage Flatt has rescued us from Darkness, and we will follow the lead he had already walked many times before. There will be no argument on this.”

And, surprisingly, there was no more argument.

Things proceeded rapidly from there, and a lot calmer.

By now, Erick had vetted or condemned everyone in the main clan. 167 people were cleared. 29 were condemned. Now that something resembling coherence had come out of Green Grass, Erick began releasing the cleared people out from under the power of [Undertow Star]. Mana and Health slowly returned. The [Spatial Denial] that blanketed the land constricted down to only those condemned by the truth of nature. More and more people blipped into the outskirts of the main encampment of Green Grass; more and more visitors from other clans.

It was a mess, but into this mess, Erick held yet another round of explanations about how his searching worked, and how to spot a face stealer. There was a small argument about how it was going to go after Erick found the impostors, but Linxel, and Ooloori before him, had already sent out for Sin Seekers from Oolooraptoor.

No one had been executed, yet, because none of the Sin Seekers had arrived yet, and no one wanted to carry out justice until they were sure of what they were seeing. Some people still didn’t want to believe what they were seeing, though by now, the proof of it all was hard to ignore.

The searching among the other caravans of Green Grass wasn’t going very well, with almost no one being found out as a face stealer, but to everyone there, that only meant that they were hiding much better than they hid at the main caravan. Those places were also all under [Undertow Star]s, though, so no one was going anywhere. It was still a mess.

It was at this point that Roia, the false Speaker of Green Grass, raised her voice, “I wish to turn on my Hunter organization in return for a Blessing instead of execution.”

The other face stealers started screaming hate. Some started yelling about how they would turn on their organization, too, and for the same deal as Roia. One man sat down and started crying.

Erick almost felt bad for the crying guy, but that man had killed the previous owner of that body in order to take that body for himself, so Erick locked down that part of himself and ignored it, for now. He was getting much better at that.

Erick’s avatar stepped to the space outside of Roia’s cage and blanketed a [Physical Domain] across the other face stealers, quieting them while allowing her to speak. Seconds of silence passed uninterrupted, while Roia looked on, accepting her fate, and the leaders of Green Grass moved to get nearer, to hear what was happening. Linxel was the only one who approached all the way to stand beside Erick, to look down at Roia, his face and body full of hidden emotions. Outwardly, he was disappointed, but inward, Erick could tell the man was torn apart.

Erick began with, “Name of organization, rough estimate of personnel, overview of hierarchy. In addition, I need an example of how this works for you, for as far as I know all you people have are dark gatherings in holes in the ground. Yet what you have here in Green Grass is much, much more than that. How? Why?”

Roia breathed, then said, “We are a Hunter organization. I am the quartermaster for this cell, of my sect of Hunters. We don’t have any personnel in the other caravans of Green Grass; we’re all here in the main caravan, and you found almost all of us. We Hunt high-level clansmen all across Nelboor. We are the Knives of the Night.”

The name meant nothing to Erick, but it meant a lot to everyone else. Mostly, people were suddenly intrigued. Others had more fearful reactions, like many of the elders of Green Grass, along with the teachers and more than a few warriors. Interestingly, some of the face stealers were suddenly scared, too, while others were surprised that Roia was actually giving them up. For a few of the killers, that surprise transformed into sudden anger.

Linxel said, “You claim to be among the Sects of Nelboor.”

- - - -

Back in his yurt, where nothing had happened yet, Erick asked Nirzir, “What is a sect? These people are attaching some importance to that word and it hasn’t come up yet.”

Nirzir had relaxed a bit, since nothing was happening, but at Erick’s words she shot to attention. Then she paused, uttered, “Uh,” then she realized the deep implications of Erick’s words, and said, “The sects are the Dark counterpart of the Clans. Mostly they’re criminal organizations but a few of them are infamous for their deeds. Uh. We don’t have them in the Highlands.” She looked worried. “I thought we didn’t have them here.”

Erick said, “This woman here claims to be among the Knives of the Night.”

Nirzir instantly said, “Hunters. All of them. And worse, I think. Ties to Melemizargo. They move around a lot. I didn’t know they were here. I need to inform my family of this.”

“Do what you need to do.” Erick said, “From what I’m seeing, I assume that these Knives of the Night are next on the chopping block.”

Nirzir nodded, then sent out tendrils of thought into the manasphere.

- - - -

Roia said, “I am a part of a sect; yes.”

Erick said, “We already know she is a very good liar, but—” He pointed at a few people among the rest of the captured killers. “Those people know what she is saying is true. The truth of Roia’s words are evident in all of their faces. While they could all be working at some grand, organized scheme, I doubt this.”

Linxel commanded, “Continue, Knife.”

Roia continued, “We work in cells, with our cell here being a face stealer branch of our sect. We have no other contact with the rest of the organization except for dead drops, and to help fellow knives hide when they need to hide. We only have forty three people in our group, and I will help you catch the rest under certain conditions, but the Knives of the Night number in the thousands, scattered all across Nelboor. Our main training grounds are located in the Five Mountains region of central Nelboor, though that changes every graduation, too.

“Our goals have always been to become the strongest, using any methods available to us. Many of us are Cultists of Melemizargo.” Roia looked to Erick. “If Melemizargo demands our deaths then he will get his wish and I will go into the hands of my God with eyes wide open, hoping for a new life in another way. But with you here, I think we have instead been granted a chance at redemption, and I mean to take that chance.”

People shouted for her death, and Erick expanded the scope of his [Physical Domain] in response, silencing all exterior voices.

Erick asked Roia, “But what about the dragons behind this?”

Roia steeled herself, and said, “After your meeting with Linxel, the warlord spoke with others about implementing your counter-Hunting assistance across the whole of Green Grass and several allied clans. I informed my sect of this event, and they came down with orders that I carried out, alongside the assistance of outside help with which to ensure that this counter-Hunt did not happen. I don’t know any of the particulars, only that I needed to get Linxel to a meeting spot and that he had to be subdued in order for the Soul Mage to work.

“And so, with a good twenty of my people, we subdued Linxel and then the Soul Mage appeared in the sky. He had the body of a human man, but his aura was one of green scales and claws and he was covered in shadows. I have no idea what he looks like, but if anyone was the dragon, then it was that man.

“The Soul Mage took the unconscious body of Linxel. My superiors informed me that Linxel was coming back, and we were to treat him as though nothing had happened. And then Linxel came back, he knew nothing of what had happened, except that he didn’t want Erick anywhere near Green Grass.” With a bit of hidden anger in her voice, Roia said, “The dragon failed to mutilate Linxel correctly, and thus we are here.”

As her words poured out Erick studied the woman, looking for falsehoods; he found none. At the same time, he studied everyone else. The people in the onlooking crowd were disgusted and terrified in equal measure. The face stealers in the cage had gone from angry, to resigned. Oh, sure, some of them still had hopes of escaping, or being rescued.

They weren’t going to escape, though.

If rescuers came, Erick would murder them rather instantly—

Ah. Strange thought, that. He went right to murder, eh? It was that kinda day, he supposed. And so, yes, he would certainly End whoever came to rescue these people.

Which was probably why no one showed up. Or, perhaps, no one showed up because no one ever showed up. With all the thousands of Hunters and killers Erick had recently helped to end, very rarely did those people ever receive rescues of their own, and even if they did, then Erick’s target search just widened that much more.

Roia said, “I wish for your Blessing, archmage, and to be allowed to go free so that I may atone for my sins.”

Erick said, “The names of the other face stealers in your cell. I will handle captures, since every caravan of Green Grass is already under my control.”

Roia’s shoulders slacked, just a fraction, but she maintained her composure.

And then she began listing names of people in the other caravans of Green Grass. The gathered clansmen recoiled after every utterance. The people Roia named had been their family, and yet, they were not. But for a few people from other caravans… Erick watched as some people heard Roia speak a name, and then those people just accepted it, as if they had known all along.

When she was done with her naming and Erick began working with others to find those people, Linxel moved closer to the Wall separating him from the face stealer.

Linxel asked Roia, “How long has this been going on?”

“Four years.”

“Why did you do this to us? How did you manage to do this?”

