Roia stoically said, “You might find that out if I am Blessed and released, but not before.”

“Before I will do that,” Erick spoke above the crowd, asking Linxel, “Where are those Sin Seekers?”

Linxel glanced toward the southern sky. “I don’t know.”

The Sin Seekers from Ooloraptoor showed up not three minutes later on the southern flank of the encampment. Ten men and women, each wore an assortment of clothes, from white robes, to brown leathers, to green-dyed tunics and loose pants, but every single one also wore short capes of woven grass.

For once, the delay in promptness wasn’t a sign of things turning even more catastrophic. Ooloraptoor was simply in a massive political and emotional upset because all of the clans had heard of the extensive nature of the face stealer problem in Green Grass. The leaders and speakers and clansmen, all of the grass traveler nation, were beginning to enact emergency face stealer counter-Hunts. The Sin Seekers that Ooloraptoor sent here, to Green Grass, had already gone through the whole political hierarchy of the lakeside city; thus, the reason for the delay.

After their introduction, the Sin Seekers got to work.

Erick assisted them with their work, moving around the people he had found so that those people could better be judged. While he was doing that, he also brought in all the people who Roia had named.

Soon enough, the Sin Seekers got to Roia.

The confessed face stealer glowed a bright red under the watchful eyes of three different Sin Seekers, confirming her guilt as seen through the eyes of three different casters. Some of the onlookers had no idea what was actually happening, though, and that absence of knowledge was looking to fill up with anger, instead. So one of the main Sin Seekers, a woman of pink skin and pink horns, named Vania, took it upon herself to explain.

Vania said, “To seek the sins of a target, one must pull the actions of the target out of the river of time and through oneself, acting as a lens through which to judge. There is no Elemental Innocence. There is no particle of Justice that one can search for its absence, or its presence. There is only hard work, and the vetting of targets by multiple Sin Seekers, for no one person should —on their own— ever condemn another to death based on [Witness], or clues, or anything else. No one should believe a single Sin Seeker on their singular word, either.” She gazed at the gathered crowds, saying, “For just being judged by a Sin Seeker is not enough, for we are the lens through which people are judged, and lenses can sometimes see things that are not there. So to keep ourselves on the right path of clarity and purpose, we venture to clans of all kinds, learning from the best of all the grass traveling Speakers and Leaders. We finish our learning in Ooloraptoor, under the guidance of Elders which come from the clans of all of us. It is there that we learn specific skills that will uncover face stealers and hunters, but which will return a null result for people who have killed others in war, or in other lawful means.” Vania said, “If you have more questions afterward then I might be able to answer them, but we are very busy right now. I need to work.” And then she returned to work.

It took the collected Sin Seekers twenty minutes to get through everyone, with four separate Seekers confirming the specific guilt of every single face stealer Erick had found. When that was done, Linxel stepped in and declared that it was over.

Erick had a good idea of what would come next. He had already seen this part play out in a few different warlord clans, back when he helped Songli counter-Hunt among these lands. When Clan Pale Cow enacted justice against their two face stealers, they gave the option of enacting justice to the bereaved. In both cases, the bereaved quickly carried out the sentence and then collapsed into weeping piles. Erick steeled himself and prepared for the same thing to happen here. He was prepared to let Roia die to the justice of the clan she had dishonored for the last three years, and Roia realized this, though she kept her mouth shut and did not protest what she saw happening.

Linxel gestured to the old man who had been living with Roia, thinking that Roia was his wife for the last three years. The old man came forward to stand in front of Linxel. The larger man put his hand atop the old man’s shoulder, and together, they turned to the clan.

Linxel spoke, “Iruzo has spoken to me and we have decided to honor Roia’s request for the Archmage’s Blessing. If it is good enough for Koyabez, and if it will torment these people with true understanding of what they have done to us, then it is good enough for me. I can already see that some of you wish for the same to happen to those who have stolen your loved ones from you. We will talk about all of that, as a clan. To that end, there will be no sentences carried out tonight except one.” Linxel turned away from the stunned crowd to see Erick’s stunned avatar. “Archmage. Please Bless face stealer Roia. Show her the error of her ways, and cast her away from us.”

Erick was stunned. He had not expected that. He did not expect anyone to believe in redemption except for him, and especially not the warlord of a grass traveling clan. But sometimes people surprise you like that.

Roia stood stunned, too, as though she never expected her gambit to work, and now that it was, she had no idea what to do with herself.

Before any backlash came from the crowd, Erick moved to comply. His Crystal Star passed through the light and touched Roia, faster than anyone could truly see. By the time the star was back upon his own chest, back in his yurt, Roia was already breaking down into quiet tears, saying that she was sorry between wracking sobs.

Iruzo looked on, impassive, and yet his face was wet with tears, too.

In another flick of light, Erick removed Roia from the area, passing her far to the east, into a suddenly constructed [Obscuring Redoubt] with her as the only allowed occupant. He set her down upon the bottom floor.

Erick took stock of what he had done, so far.

He had found most every person Roia had named, though some of them had escaped before the [Undertow Star] could lock them down. All of those he had found were inside the central area of the main caravan of Green Grass. They had had their Sin Seeker ‘trial’, with none of them passing that trial. Judgment would come later.

And Erick was emotionally torn apart. Everything seemed a bit disconnected from everything else. Today had been rough. Hopefully tomorrow would be— Ah. Tomorrow would be rough, too. Maybe the day after would be better? … Probably not if there was a dragon problem.

Erick spoke hastily to Linxel, saying, “I am done, for now. I will speak to you again when you are able, or tomorrow morning when I show up to Bless whoever needs Blessing, if you decide to do that. I will leave the Drain on in the sky, since it’s targeted to the face stealers and it will last more than long enough for your needs. I took down the [Force Wall]s and put up some Solid Wards that will also last indefinitely, but I don’t think those people are going anywhere.” Erick had eyes on the people in the crowds, and those people had their eyes on the face stealers. The only thing stopping them from enacting the usual justice was Erick’s spellwork. Erick said, “That said: do you need anything else right now?”

Linxel rapidly said, “I need to apologize to you. You were more right than I had considered possible.” The warlord stood strong and tall, his spiral horns and his dark blue skin highlighted in the light the [Undertow Star] above. “Come around some time and we will have a feast in your honor, Archmage.”

Erick felt a twinge of something nice inside his chest. Linxel had been through more than most people in the last half a day, and yet he did not look exhausted. Erick, himself, was thoroughly exhausted, though.

Erick said “I will see you tomorrow, and we can speak of more at that time. Do you want all the monsters in a hundred kilometer radius of your clan killed, before I go?”

Linxel almost said something, but then Erick’s words registered, and he startled. He recovered, saying, “Yes. I would accept this gift.”

“Then it will be done. Till tomorrow.”

“Till tomorrow.”

Ophiel left.

Linxel went to his people.

- - - -

Erick killed some more monsters. More abyss drinkers. More rats, and lizards, and even some odd chimera toad/boars that croaked out ineffective Thunder-based spells. All the while, Erick kept half of his attention to his direct surroundings, now that he wasn’t stretched in seven directions at once.

The yurt trundled on alongside Clan Pale Cow without interruption. Eventually, the caravan came to the next riverside. Erick killed some lesser rivergrieves in the water before they attacked the clansmen opening up the sluice, to let water into the farmland. Those cowherds likely would have been fine, but it was a large rivergrieve, and saving someone from needing to regrow their legs was still saving someone a lot of pain.

There was another feast that night with another whole cow roasted and shared among the entire clan, alongside the important news of the day: Archmage Flatt had uncovered face stealers and a dark sect hiding among Clan Green Grass, one of the staunchest True Traveler clans among the grass travelers. Pale Cow had debated Green Grass many times in the past, but they always lost. They were slated to debate them in several days, too, but now that this had happened, Green Grass might not make it to those debates. There was some marked schadenfreude among a few younger individuals, but other people noticed and began to berate those who were foolish enough to take joy in the pain of rivals.

Everyone wanted to know what had happened directly from Erick, but he told people, “I’m still figuring out what happened, myself. It all happened rather fast. I expect a great deal more face stealer purges in the coming days, but Ooloraptoor will get back to me on that.”

The food was delicious.

He brought some of it to Roia.

- - - -

In a darkened hole in the ground, tears flowed from an old woman who was not an old woman at all.

Erick placed the plate of hot food on the stone a few meters away from the face stealer, and cast more lights into the room. And then he waited.

It took a minute, but Roia eventually controlled her sobbing to something smaller. She breathed. She collected herself. With a supreme will, she sat up. Tears flowed, but she could look at Erick’s avatar and she could speak.

“Hello, archmage.” She asked, “What more can I do for you?”

Her voice had cracked and she almost couldn’t speak halfway through, but Erick ignored the brokenness of her words; Roia was trying.

“First, I would ask why you chose this route. You never gave a satisfactory answer.”

Roia collected herself, then almost spoke, but she stopped herself. Her gaze dropped to the stone floor and stayed there. After a minute of silence, she said, “I’m not sure where to begin.”

“At the beginning.”

Roia lifted her eyes, and said, “I lived in a small town northeast of Eralis. Thirty years ago, I killed a baker; He was my boss and it was an accident. A fleeting moment of rage because he pawned his gambling debts off onto me and when the enforcers for the gambling dens came… I gained fifty levels when I killed that man. When the enforcers came they called me a Hunter, and so I was a Hunter. I ran; exiled myself… I found a sect— Well. The Knives of the Night found me. The gods never answered my prayers, but Melemizargo did. Sometimes, anyway. More than Rozeta ever did. It went down from there.” She breathed, then said, “I never had justice. My hope in taking on this Blessing is that… Is that I can go a different way than exile or execution. I don’t know if it will work, but if Melemizargo and the gods accept this much from Shades, then maybe someone like me can get the same redemption.”

Her words seemed to hold in the air for a long while after they left her lips, there in that darkened hole in the ground. Erick had hoped that his Blessing could one day be another facet of justice, too, but to hear it so plainly stated by a person who was subjected to that justice…

It seemed dishonest of her, somehow. Like she was trying to cheat the system.

He wasn’t sure how he felt about that, because a large part of him wanted to punish.

But.

No.

Erick told her, “I would like to know more about the sects of Nelboor, or at least how to best dismantle your entire organization.”

“… I don’t think I can. I don’t think I can help you kill them. I just—” She broke down again, covering her face with her hands. “I can’t.”

Erick frowned, and yet…

He thought. Roia wept.

If Roia was unable to continue to assist against her kind, then what good was she?

Erick decided, “I understand.”

And he did, truly understand. Perhaps this was as much as he should ask of Roia, and even if he could push her past this limit… Did he want to? The woman had his Blessing of Empathy, and everything she did to hurt someone would hurt her, too, and the more she tested her Blessing, the more she could push through it. Maybe she could even negate it, in the future, if she had to. And Erick didn’t want that, at all.

For now, Roia was Blessed, and she was on a trajectory to be a different person.

And yet…

Erick had believed that Goldie and Queen were on good trajectories, too, and their scheming got over 4 million people killed.

Erick had another dark thought about Roia’s fate; about what was needed, and how that differed from what Erick wanted. He wanted to let Roia go, to allow her to grow as a person. What was needed, though, was for actual change in the world, and actual change required bad and failed actors to vanish from the stage.

People like Roia deserved—

No.

Erick came back from the edge, yet again. He was in a place of power, here. He had the options. And he had hope for a better world. Erick’s own ‘Blessing of Empathy’ kicked in, he supposed.

He saw that Roia was in an old woman’s body and it couldn’t be comfortable to lay on the ground like that, so Erick conjured a bed and some blankets off to the side, and then he conjured some more temporary beds in case Roia broke the first ones. He told her what he was doing as he cast a [Greater Treat Wound]s upon her. She barely stopped crying for a moment, and then the tears came out even more as she saw that she was being taken care of, even though she knew she did not deserve this kindness.

