Within seconds, Master Daizing and his people flowed out of their buildings, almost in formation. The ‘master’ was a human man of pale skin, but otherwise unremarkable, save for his completely black clothing. All of the other people around him, none of which looked like students, all of which looked like equals, also wore black clothes. One of the people following behind Master Daizing was Roia, who was now also dressed in black.

Erick withheld judgment about that, for now.

Daizing and his people stopped five meters away from Erick’s avatar, and then Daizing took another step forward, trying to contain the smile upon his lips, saying, “Greetings, Archmage Flatt!”

Erick frowned. He asked, “So what’s all this?”

Daizing said, “We wish for your Blessing so that we may follow our God along his new path through this world.”

“… Okay?”

Daizing elaborated, “We will bring you all of our organization in exchange for your providence, ending us as a sect of Nelboor, though we only expect three out of every four people will follow us into this new world order. There will have to be some force involved, and you might have to do that, since our own power will be nullified after we take your Blessing. After our own sect is no more, we can help you conquer every sect of Nelboor. It should not be hard for one of your power.”

The man had started off with high promises, then collapsed those promises to something more realistic, and then ended with an attempt at flattery. This set off red flags. Except... all of Daizing’s words were truth, written deep in the hearts and minds of the people who followed Daizing out here. Roia even matched the man’s fervor with her own. They all wanted salvation. They needed it. They had to follow Melemizargo, for he was their faith, and they believed that Erick was the gatekeeper to the future.

There was only one real option to this, wasn’t there?

Yes; the sects should be ended. And so…

Erick said, “Okay. I will agree to this if you tell me anything and everything that you know about the dragon that you worked with when you came for Clan Green Grass.”

Daizing was not the only one elated to hear those words, but he was the one to speak, “Of course! We have expected this much. The dragon’s name is Ordoonarati. He is likely a level 95 dragon of Shadow and Decay, and he has been a power behind the True Traveler clans for centuries. Mostly, he is very reclusive. We have one of his scales here which enables contact between us.” The man pulled a dark green scale out from his robes. It was the size of his splayed-out hand, and minimally enchanted. “It is enchanted, as you can see, but I can break this enchantment if you wish. I know it is a bad look for us to try and hand our savior the magical item of a Soul Mage, as this certainly looks like a trap…” Daizing rapidly said, “But we truly do not wish to go against the one that our Dark God has Chosen to raise to such lofty heights; it would be anathema to our entire way of life. I can only apologize for the hit carried out on Green Grass by Knives of the Night. We did not know what we were doing, for we truly did not know we were intruding on your territory until Roia came to us last night. She is already being punished by you, for failing to disclose the truth of the situation when she first spoke to us.” He smiled wide, saying, “But with her Blessing, and by the depth of what the Blessing has done to her, we know what Melemizargo demands of us in this new world.” He held the scale forward in both of his hands, as he bent over, bowing a full 90 degrees. “He demands our compliance.”

His people followed suit, bowing to Erick, then going the full measure and kowtowing upon the ground.

Erick had a rapid series of thoughts that boiled down to two main paths. He could hope for the best of an uncertain future, or, he could be paranoid and clip short many, many different lives. If he chose to hope, then he could end a Dark Sect of Nelboor without violence. If he chose violence, then… He wasn’t sure what more violence would bring. All he knew was that violence brought violence, and Erick wished for a lot less of that.

He also had a fair bit of Thoughts about the revelation that he was some sort of ‘Chosen’ —Erick certainly heard the capitalization in that word— but he would save that oddity for when he wasn’t in crisis-solving mode.

With a bit of [Telekinesis] so as to not expose his sunform to unknown magics, even if this wasn’t a trick, Erick took the scale.

“Stand up. Face me.”

The Hunters and face stealers did so, looking unsure, but complying anyway.

“How do I activate this scale to talk to the dragon on the other side?”

Daizing said, “Hold it in your hands and call the dragon’s name; he will answer if he desires.”

Fair enough.

Erick was certainly not going to do that, though. Especially since Ordoonarati was, at the very least, a Soul Mage.

Erick decided, “In order to Bless your organization out of existence I will be changing this land here into something more suitable for that task. Watch the sky, and know that this place will be Peaceful, by force, as long as people live in this land. This is where the Blessing will happen.”

Faces turned upward as the clouds in the sky deepened, then parted, revealing a shadow in the heavens.

And then came a Star; shining, breaking those central shadows into fractured light.

Tendrils of gloom spread out from that point in the sky, touching lightly upon everyone, before fading into the background like a saturation applied to the world. Mana and Health began to Drain from all present. The only person in this place who was an ‘Ally’ was Erick and Ophiel; all others were subject to the Star. Mostly.

All monsters were designated ‘Enemy’, too; that should make them weak enough so that no-Health no-Mana people could kill them. But in addition to that kindness, there was a hole in the working, just so that some people could regain their Mana and Health, so that they could fight back against the monsters.

Erick said, “If you walk a kilometer outside of the sphere of influence, or if you go to those four houses you made, then your Resources will begin to return and the magics you cast won’t be disintegrated so easily. It is here, though, that I will Bless those who wish to be Blessed. Right here; where I am standing.” With a Shaping, Erick transformed the space under his avatar’s feet into a plain dais about two meters across. On a whim that felt right, he carved the holy symbol of Koyabez into the stone; a four pointed star. He declared, “When your Resources are gone and when you are alone under the Star, I might see that you are ready to change. Spread the word.”

Erick wasn’t about to go counter-Hunting after every sect of Nelboor anytime soon; let people come to him, if they wanted.

“Your will be done!” Daizing declared. “I would go first; I am empty, and ready for change.” He froze, then added, “If it pleases the Chosen.”

Erick’s avatar stepped away from his dais.

Daizing stepped forward, onto the spot.

Erick whipped his Crystal Star through the light, touching the man the very second his foot touched the stone. The man continued to take his step, but his eyes were already full of realized pain. He breathed out, almost in relief. Then he collapsed, silently weeping.

And then he shot to his feet, tears still streaming, as he said, “Ah! I see the Light in the Dark. I see the Shadow. I know the old friend of the Silver Star. Yes. This is the way. There could be no other. Of course. Melemizargo has always been about growth. This is merely a different kind of growth. Old Growth. Old purpose. A Path to the Stars, laid down by a Fire of the Age, like how it had been before, and how it has never been allowed to be since the Sundering.” He whispered, “I see.”

Daizing was truly a true believer, it seemed. He reminded Erick a bit of Priestess, actually.

The next petitioner had a lot more weeping, and a lot less fanaticism. Petitioners number three through seven went about the same; no surprises there.

When it was over, tears continued to roll down Daizing’s face, and yet he did not seem bothered by them. He said, “It will take some time to get our people to understand what must become of the Cult. But they will know. We will be back in this place to receive your benediction, Archmage Flatt. It is a shame that the other Lost Children were put to the sword in Green Grass, but life is never fair. Thank you for this opportunity. Thank you for allowing us to feel the love of our god again.”

Erick did not recoil, though a part of him wanted to.

Erick just accepted the man’s words as they were, for though Daizing was likely a very, very skilled liar, he seemed exceedingly religious. Erick hoped the man wasn’t as crazy as Priestess, but he probably was. Erick could likely call out to Melemizargo right here, and now, and prove the validity of Daizing’s zeal, or uncover his lies… But. No.

Let’s not do that.

Erick moved on, saying, “Okay.”

Daizing smiled wide, still crying and yet very cheerful, as he copied, “Okay!”

Erick swept a [Luminosity] across the dragon scale, thoroughly breaking whatever enchantment was upon the body part, and then he took it with him through the light, to a [Cascade Imaging] he had set up closer to Ooloraptoor.

- - - -

He Imaged for the DNA inside the scale, but after five minutes there were no results. Perhaps the dragon scale wasn’t an organic object, at all. So he searched for the shape of the scale, instead, hoping for something.

He found a target; singular.

- - - -

Upon the grassy plains east of Oolooraptoor, a hundred kilometers from any other person, there was a small boulder. Upon that boulder was a green scale. Erick did not touch that second scale with any part of his being, but from the looks of it, the scale was probably a [Duplicate] match for the one Daizing had given him.

The spell hovering above the scale was the important part here.

It was a [Viewing Screen], like a window into another world made of pure white, where only the barest edges of walls and a floor marked the space as a small room. Erick brought his avatar out from Ophiel, to stand before the [Viewing Screen]. He waited.

Within moments a squiggle of dark green appeared amid the white, before flowing out into the white space like swirling green-black mist.

“Archmage Flatt,” came the voice from the Screen. “You are entering into problems that do not concern you. Leave these lands and never return.”

“Why did you have the Mirage Dragon attack me? I thought I was very clear about my stance of not Imaging for dragons. That bit of information should have gotten around to everyone out there. You had no reason to attack me.”

“And yet, here you are.”

“When I am attacked, I respond.” Erick said, “As would anyone.”

“I have tried to play nice—”

“Lie. You tried to kill me, Ordoonarati. Luckily, the Mirage Dragon didn’t seem too keen on my murder, and so you failed. And then you used face stealers and a Dark sect to try and kill me, again. You have ties to a lot of dangerous organizations, which informs me that you dabble in Evil, and thus something needs to be done about you, in addition to everyone else that you have used to get to me. I’m already working on them. The only question is what to do about you.”

Erick wasn’t actually sure if Ordoonarati was lying or not since there was nothing to go on besides verbal cues, and yet everything the dragon said seemed to make more sense as a lie, than as any sort of truth. Erick wasn’t wholly sure about his own conclusions of recent events, either, since he didn’t have all the answers as to why all of this shit was happening around him, or exactly how it was all connected, but it all fit in a certain, obvious way, and so, Erick went with it.

But if anyone called him out as going off half-cocked, he would not argue with them.

Luckily, it appeared that Erick’s guesses were on the money, or at least Ordoonarati acted like they were.

Ordoonarati patiently said, “All I have done was let the people around me do whatever they wanted to do. Some of those people seek to do wrong by each other, and it is my responsibility as a hands-off participant in this world to let those people do wrong. But that does not mean I do not know of those evils. If I have made any moves against you at all, these moves have been made by using those evils such that it could be said that I helped you to clean up the evils around here. That is what all young Heroes like to do, right? I fell out of that need long ago, and I suspect you will, too. It might take a century, though.

“As for my reasons for needing to stop you: The forces that you assist, those people who wish to Integrate us into one of your cities: They seek to turn us into another society that is controlled by outside forces and interior pressures. One where outsiders decide the fates of those who live within. If you ask me what is actual evil, I would say that this control, and your desire to influence the world outside of where you actually live, this is the true evil. I am merely doing what I can to throw you off. If you would go away, and leave us to ourselves, then I need not do anything more against you.”

There was a time when Ordoonarati’s words would have thrown Erick off, but not anymore.

“… What is this weird gambit? These twisty words? You’re nothing but lies, aren’t you? Lies and soul shifting to even more lies.” Erick said, “Maybe the Dragon Stalkers were right, and that dragons are nothing more than their Element. Do I need to find a Wizard to change your Element from Shadows to Truth, so that we can have an honest conversation? They’d have to invent ‘Truth’ first, but that’s what Wizards do, right?”

The swirling green-black shadows suddenly halted. After a second, they began to move again, as Ordoonarati said, “I will give you the locations and information about every single shadow operative in these lands if you deliver unto me a Wizard of any skill at all. If you bring me a Wizard of medium skill, I will also inform you of [Gate]. Until then: I suggest a truce. No direct attacks against each other or against the interests of each other. I will even allow your entrance into the Integration debates. Perhaps you and I can even have a great debate over the values and evils of organized society, though I cannot let you know which debaters are backed by me, for there are other dragons out there, Erick. Surely you understand. But even with such a restriction, maybe I, or my people, can convince you to leave we grass travelers alone.”

