Regrets and words poured out of Roia as she spoke of Iruzo; the husband of the original owner of her body. She spoke of how she had actually found love, but it was built upon a lie. She spoke of how she wanted to come clean so many times before, but how she just couldn’t, for Iruzo was a good man, and Roia did not deserve him. If Roia told him who she was, Iruzo would hate her, and he would have been right to hate.

Erick said, “You’re right. You didn’t deserve him. But you can still redeem yourself.”

“How?” Roia wailed.

“Dismantle all the Hunter and face stealer societies the world over.”

Roia realized the enormity of Erick’s words; it was enough to temporarily stop her tears. “But… That’s… A problem that cannot be fixed.”

“Then take heart in knowing that you’re not alone in this burden.” Erick said, “I’m right there with you.”

That seemed to sober Roia up. She stared at Erick’s avatar for a long moment. No words came from her.

Erick renewed the duration of the [Obscuring Redoubt] all around her, then slid her plate of food toward her, saying, “I have taken you to the foothills of the South East Tribulations; almost 1800 kilometers east of where you were. This place is an invisible hideout, but that magic will fade in 12 hours. The structure itself will remain behind, but others might find you here. There are no monsters in the area, though, because I cleared them out, but such scouring never lasts long. If you need water there is a tiny tributary to the north. Good luck with your life, Roia. Make something nice of it, or at least help others with the time you have left.”

Erick left.

Erick slept a few hours, but then could not sleep anymore. He busied himself with monster extermination across the whole of grass traveler lands. Kill Notifications rained past his eyes.

Eventually, he checked on Roia.

Roia had eaten half of her food and fallen asleep in the bed he had conjured. She looked to be having nightmares, with her fingers twitching and her eyes darting behind closed lids.

Erick hoped he had made the right decision.

- - - -

As night came on, the [Undertow Star] in the sky over Green Grass seemed to blend into the other celestial objects adorning the heavens. In the dense air that formed a fence around the face stealers, an Ophiel perched inside his own light, overseeing the temporary prisoners. Outside of that space, the clansmen of Green Grass argued with each other about what they wanted to do with the prisoners. There had never been an option for face stealers aside from execution; Exile was not a choice when it came to people like them.

Erick overheard many of those arguments, but he did not participate, except to ensure that no one killed the temporary prisoners. The mother who had asked for ‘her boy’ to be released had tried to kill that face stealer with a [Fireball] spell, but her magic just splashed against dense air, and she broke down sobbing. The face stealers watched. Some commented on the quality of the show; ‘too much melodrama!’ and ‘Where’s the action!’ Some of the face stealers even started to heckle the people of Clan Green Grass.

Erick silenced the lot of them.

Other than the various internal disputes of Green Grass, no outsiders attacked in the middle of the night, or anything like that. No one attacked Pale Cow, or Erick and his people, either. The night passed without successful physical violence, but there was certainly a lot of emotional violence.

- - - -

As the day dawned with rain on the horizon, Erick directed his avatar to meet with Linxel in the warlord’s yurt. It was a spartan place with a formal meeting zone in the front and a thin wall that separated that room from the back of the yurt. In the back was Linxel’s bedroom, with a large bed and a lot of painting supplies, and paintings. He looked to live alone, though.

In the front room was Linxel himself, along with the former Speaker’s husband Iruzo (Who was now the interim Speaker, until elections could be held), Forage Leader Ooloori, and a few other Forage Leaders from other branch caravans of Green Grass. A few Speakers from the other caravans were there, too. It was a packed space, but there was room for all of them. Some small pleasantries were exchanged, along with introductions, but Erick didn’t really need them and no one cared too much about Hospitality Rites at the moment; Erick wasn’t really there, after all.

Linxel got down to it, “We’ve decided on the fate of our face stealers. They are to be put to the sword.”

Erick expected this. “Very well. Though I am disappointed by your choice, I am glad that I was able to expose this problem among your people. That is about as far as I am willing to impose upon your sovereignty.”

Linxel wasn’t the only one surprised by Erick’s words.

Forage Leader Ooloori asked, “You don’t want to do your blessing thing?”

“Of course I do. Redemption is possible for even the worst of people, but it is a new magic, so it is likely best to go slow, for now. Therefore, I accept your sovereignty.” Erick asked, “But why don’t you want me to do my blessing-thing?”

Ooloori said, “It’s… It’s soul magic.”

“A minor lie.” Erick said, “I would appreciate the truth.”

Linxel spoke, “When we came to you, we only wanted you to step away from the debates in Ooloraptoor. Events rampaged out of that path rather quickly, and while we appreciate what you have done for us in the aftermath, we do not wish to be involved with these sorts of events. Before you, exile was never an option with face stealers, because they could always come back to [Strike] when we least expect it. Your magic offers a new choice, but it is, as you say, a new magic. Untested. We believe that if you were to Bless these people then they would become a continuing source of problems, as evident with with the Shades that incited the Chelation War.”

Erick had sudden, very important arguments against Linxel’s stance, but it was not his place.

He would say a few things about that last part, though.

“I believe in the chance for redemption, but you do not. This is fine. But to blame the Chelation War on the Shades is to fail to see how Terror Peaks had been preparing for war since well before Last Shadow’s Feast, before I Blessed a few Shades into compliance with the rest of civilization.”

Linxel was not the only one to not know what Erick was talking about.

Erick explained, “Patriarch Xangu and Scion Raidu Terror Peaks have been culling the pacifist factions among their own people for the last decade, and more. They were always going to go to war and—” Erick stopped himself. “I’m not defending what Shade Goldie and Queen did, but I am saying that the ground was primed for war. And then some unknown actors got involved and made the whole thing much, much worse than it was always going to be. I’m still trying to find those unknown actors, because I don’t believe them to be the Shades.” Erick paused, then decided to move on, for he saw he wasn’t convincing anyone, and he wasn’t even convincing himself. He asked Iruzo, “What say you about your clan’s decision to forgo Blessing, knowing that your wife’s face is still out there?”

As Linxel had spoken his declaration against Blessing all of the face stealers, Iruzo, the former Speaker’s husband, was the only one who did not agree with Linxel’s denial of Erick’s Blessing. This much was evident on the man’s face, but Iruzo had not had the opportunity to speak. So Erick had demanded the man speak.

People turned toward Iruzo.

Iruzo spat, “I hope she suffers.”

Ah. Well. Iruzo was hoping for viciousness.

“Then you will be glad to know that she spent all last night sobbing.”

Iruzo stood a bit taller. He said nothing, but he was happy to hear that.

Well. Sure. That was fine?

“Such is Iruzo’s right, for being tricked by that face stealer for so long.” Linxel said, “But the rest of us just want the problem to go away and never return. That is what we want, as the wronged party. That is what we will have.”

“Fair enough.” Erick asked, “Will you carry out the sentences immediately?”

Linxel said, “We shall.”

“Then know that I am putting them to sleep with a chemical spell so that the executions are painless and without spectacle, but that spell will take a minute to work.” Erick said, “I will remove the Drain and their protective spells when you get there.”

Cries of worry began to fill the air outside Linxel’s yurt, as face stealers began to collapse to the ground. The clansmen around Erick’s avatar heard it, too, and their faces turned different as they did. Some were relieved. Some were disappointed. Linxel was outwardly passionless, but inwardly relieved. Good; rulers should never take joy in the pain of carrying out their duty. Erick was glad, again, that he didn’t kill the man in his earlier rage.

… Erick checked himself: was his rage actually gone? No. It was still there, a little. He was still rather angry at a lot of things, for there was a lot to be angry about. Well. Whatever.

Linxel stood, saying, “We will walk slowly.”

His people stood with him.

Together, they moved to enact the will of their clan.

Erick watched it happen, detached from the whole situation by a thousand kilometers and scarred-over emotions. At least Green Grass did justice cleaner than Pale Cow. Instead of the bereaved acting against the condemned, Linxel gave a minor speech to the collected onlookers, then he walked among the face stealers, ending the sleeping threats with casual swipes of a very large sword.

The bodies were burned with honors, for the face stealers were gone.

Erick came back to himself, hoping he would have less heavy days than that. He felt detached from everything, and that hurt, too. Ah. Well. Everyone has bad days, don’t they? No big deal. Just get up, and keep going. The only people who had died in this recent altercation were face stealers, and that was okay, wasn’t it?

- - - -

Roia wasn’t in the [Obscuring Redoubt] when Erick went to check on her. There was a note, though, written on the wall in charcoal.

Thank you for this opportunity, Archmage Flatt. I will attempt to do right by the chance you have given me. Though I expect to fail, I will still try. I hope to bring you good news, and soon. — Roia

It was a simple letter, and a simple promise. Erick wondered what would become of it.

- - - -

The sky was cloudy with the promise of rain, and the ground was ready for it. The cows of Pale Cow mooed as they kicked up dirt and dust, turning the wind into a minor sandstorm. As the caravan moved north, dust flowed over yurt and driver and everything, covering all in a fine layer of brown. The cooking yurt was shut down and closed up for the day; tonight would likely be stew, done under cover and not nearly as plentiful as it usually was. No one ran between yurts to visit others. A few drivers had covert little [Weather Ward]s active over themselves, though, and that was good enough to keep most of the dirt off of them.

Erick’s yurt was perfectly clean, though his vehicle was traveling well east of the dust storm that was clan Pale Cow. He was almost tempted to call up a light rain for them, but they seemed to be okay? Sure; they were fine.

Besides: he suddenly had another concern occupying his mind.

A bobbing half-orb of yellow light hovered atop the plains about a kilometer in front of his path. It hadn’t been there ten seconds ago, and if Erick let his yurt continue on this path, he would run rather close to the conjuring. He had an Ophiel inspect the yellow thing before the cart reached it.

It was a simple [Force Platform] shaped into a shallow bowl. Erick checked the manasphere with a quick [Witness] and found that a [Conjure Force Elemental] had briefly come through the area, allowing the person on the other side to cast the [Force Platform] through the summon, just so that the caster could then drop off its cargo into the glowing, yellow bowl.

The cargo was a filled-out application; one of Erick’s.

The sender was the Knives of the Night. The request was for Blessings upon them all, so that they could meet the better fate of those who crossed Erick; they had no illusions about what would happen if they didn’t step up and prevent their coming apocalypse, in the only way possible. There was a bloody fingerprint in the appointed box, purportedly from ‘Master Daizing’, along with a time of ‘today’ and a place that wasn’t too far away (by Ophiel, anyway).

“It’s a trap,” Jane said.

“One I fully intend to obliterate, if necessary,” Erick said.

“… I suppose that’s one way to do it.” Jane asked, “We’re back on high alert then?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “I’m already looking at the spot from far away, and they’re there, right now. I’m also running a [Cascade Imaging] one mountain over from them. I’ll know in a minute if Xangu or the spears or anything like that is there, before I go.”

Jane smiled brightly. “Smart.”

“Sometimes!” Erick joked.

“Do you do that all the time? Or did you just start doing that?”

“The second.” Erick said, “It might not be a viable solution every time, but I’m getting into good habits.”

“What about a preemptive [Undertow Star]?”

“… They are enemies, but they’re choosing to meet, instead of fight. I have to meet them under neutral flags, first, Jane. That’s just how it is done. Honorably.”

Jane frowned a little. “These people are not the honorable sorts.”

“They are not, but I have to be.”

“… I guess you do.”

- - - -

While four other Ophiels watched on from high above, a single Ophiel descended from the sky, aiming for a very conspicuous encampment on the side of a rocky mountain. Someone had Shaped four buildings from the mountain’s surface, making sure that their constructions would be seen for kilometers in every direction. This was the opposite of how people usually Shaped living spaces in the Tribulations; usually, people made their holes-in-the-ground hard to spot for any number of reasons, from monsters, to other people. There didn’t seem to be many monsters or other people around these parts, though; Erick had checked.

Of the four buildings, and of the eight people stationed here, there were only enough belongings to fit into eight backpacks; sleeping rolls, small cooking pots, and the like. This was a temporary location, for sure.

Erick deployed his avatar onto the land outside of the buildings.

A scout spotted Erick and Ophiel almost immediately.

