“Over here!” Jennifer said and pointed to the door into the tower at the corner of the room. They had made the upstairs above the bar their personal dressing room, and the dancers could change together. There were 12 stations for them to sit or stand at, and Ren saw that they were all missing the mirrors that they should have had. He dropped off both cabinets where the women said they wanted them.

“I'll go and see about those mirrors.”

“We do each other up, so there's no rush.” Jennifer said and stored her waitress outfit, which left her completely naked in front of Ren again. He could feel that it didn't bother her to be without clothes, so he didn't mention it. She leaned into one of the cabinets and flipped through the outfits. “I had picked a normal outfit for the competition; but, with so much to choose from now, I don't know what to pick!”

“Once word gets around about this.” The Manager said and motioned to the cabinets and smiled. “We might have to turn people away at the door.”

Ren smiled. “Are you going to open tonight?”

“Only if you can cook up a stew or something for the customers.” She said.

“I'll do that right now and set it to simmer.” Ren said. “Before I forget, you can send out anything from a local notice, to a server notice, or even a game notice from the Business Owner menu to advertise about this place.”

“I can?” The Manager asked and opened it. “Hm... where... where... there it is.” She said and clicked the button. “Oh, it's a little expensive with the different options.”

Ren chuckled and passed her a platinum coin. “It's worth the investment.”

“Which one should I do?”

“You definitely want at least the server level notice.” Ren said. “Local would only notify people within my county.”

“Maybe I should go with a whole game notice.” The Manager said. “It's the most expensive, but it also advertises to anyone playing the game.”

Ren thought about it and opened his Business Owner menu. He played with the different levels of notifications, and found one that would be suitable. “Actually, I think you might want to just do a General Area notice.” He said. “It will cover most of the countryside, including the starter city of Aurora and the capital city Bore-Reale.”

“That should give us a good coverage for players, especially if they're doing the weekend quest thing.” The Manager said, chose that option, and Ren dismissed the popup that advertised the Pleasure Palace.

“The party I recently joined just did a weekend quest.” He said. “We finished early, though.”

“Clint told us all about it.” The woman who liked being ordered around said. “He told us how... forceful you were.” She licked her lips and closed her eyes. “You even ordered a dark elf around, and she didn't question you or anything.”

“Clint also said if you hadn't been there, he would still be trying to figure out how to kill all those ghouls without sacrificing party members or dying himself.” The Manager said.

“You kept our favorite customers alive.” Jennifer said and her emotions switched from perplexed to seduction as she walked over to him. With her completely naked and trying her best to sway her hips a lot more than they were supposed to, Ren couldn't help but look at her like she had intended. She walked around him and hugged him from behind. Since Ren's head was at the same height as her chest, her breasts were on either side of his head. She gave him a squeeze, and it squeezed her breasts against his ears.

“Thank you so much for keeping my Billy safe.” Jennifer smiled down at him.

Ren tilted his head back and looked up at her. “You're welcome, Jennifer.”

“Does that count as cheating?” One of the girls said. “The competition hasn't even started yet, and Jennifer already has her boobs on him.”

Jennifer laughed and let Ren go. “I don't have to cheat.” She said and walked back over to the cabinet of outfits with the same exaggerated walk. “He knows who has the best body.”

“This is a talent competition.” One of them said. “Whoever has the most talent will win.”

Jennifer turned and posed with her fists on her hips and her feet about a foot apart. “Do you see this? This is talent.”

“Oh, geez.” One of them said.

“If I want to walk around naked and strut my stuff with a man here, you can't tell me that I can't.” Jennifer said.

“Great, now you've got her going.” Another one said.

Ren could feel the emotions starting to turn from playfulness to ruthlessness. “Ladies, please behave yourselves and have a nice clean battle.” He said. “I'm going down to the kitchen, so I'll see you all in a bit.”

Ren left and went down to the kitchen. It was a large setup, with everything needed to run a full restaurant, except for a deep fryer. He nodded, because that was something he wanted to keep for himself. He set out the vegetables to make stew, a big pot of mashed potatoes, and prepped some steaks to cook. He kept everything going and had it all ready in just under an hour.

Stat Change!

Cooking Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)

“Hey, Ren.” The Manager said when she came into the kitchen. “We're all ready for you.”

“That's great timing.” Ren said and left the beef stew to simmer. “The steaks are on the warmers, the mashed potatoes are buttered, and there's enough stew for a hundred people.”

“Wh-what?”

“The steaks and potatoes are for you and the girls, and the stew is for customers.” Ren said. “I was tempted to put a pile of steaks on for customers; but, I figured stew was easier for the girls to manage.” He smiled. “Of course, that's assuming customers want to eat when they get here.”

“I never thought of that.” The Manager said. “They might not be hungry at all.”

“It's there if it's needed.” Ren said and walked over to her. He equipped his armor body suit for a moment to clean up, then equipped his Travelling Clothes again. He stopped and thought about what he was about to go through, and looked at his inventory. “Maybe I should wear a more appropriate outfit.” He said and equipped his fancy red suit. “This one?”

The Manager shook her head. “Too fancy.”

“That takes out the Royal suit and the High Elven Court uniforms, too.” Ren said. “Well, Travelling Clothes are out, since it's just basic clothing and I don't want to insult you like that.”

“What about that black thing you wore a second ago?”

“What, my armor bodysuit?” Ren asked.

“Is that what it was?”

Ren nodded and equipped it. “I wear it under my armor to stop it from rubbing certain spots.” The bodysuit covered him from his neck to his feet and his arms down to his wrist. The Manager stepped close and ran her hand up the sleeve.

“Yes, I think that's perfect.” She said and smiled. “You're completely covered, and you're not wearing anything that can get caught up on a dancer's costume.”

Ren thought about that. “Does that happen a lot?”

“More than it should.” The Manager said and caressed the other arm. “Most times they don't take off their armor, let alone change clothes for us.”

“That's inconsiderate of them.” Ren said.

She nodded and ran both hands up his arms and rested them by his neck. “Maybe we can add a requirement that they have to change before coming in.”

“It's your business.” Ren said. “You can set a dress code if you want.”

“You won't object?”

“Not as long as you don't demean anyone, make them go without clothes, or make them wear something ridiculous.” Ren said. “Other than that, it's ladies choice.”

The Manager nodded and moved her hands up to his cheeks and gave them a little pinch.

“Ma'am, the other girls are waiting.” Ren said.

“Yes, they are.” She said and ran her hands through his hair twice, stepped back, and held open the kitchen door for him. Ren didn't say anything to her about what she just did, because he felt what she felt. She was trying her best to generate some kind of desire in herself for him, and she just couldn't do it. She liked him a lot, but only in the most basic way. There was no sexual tension at all between them.

Ren stepped out into the main room and found a single chair was in front of the main stage. This is going to be interesting. He thought as he sat down and the lights dimmed. A spotlight appeared to light up just the stage, and music started to play from somewhere. I wonder how they're doing that. He thought, and then the first dancer came out and he didn't do much thinking after that.
