“All Stitch-folk over Level 40 are ours, and all of the highest-grade artifacts. You can claim the tomb held less powerful spirits. We’re already giving up part of what we were hired to do. Don’t be greedy.”
“Mm…”
The [Cryomancer] was wrinkling up her nose, clearly trying to figure out another angle, when Colth sighed and sheathed one of his daggers.
“Deal. Ceria, take it.”
“Damnit, Colth—fine. Adventurer’s honor.”
“What honor?”
Lareceina just watched as Colth let Leo up, and Kusal finally unfroze. The Stitch-folk warriors stepped back—and only then did she walk over and pick the marbles off Pisces’ chest. She did offer him a hand.
“Sorry, Scourge of Roshal. Your teammate sucks.”
“Ceria does like her mischief. No hard feelings?”
She eyed him silently as her team assembled, and the Horns of Hammerad glanced at each other. Sheepishly, Pisces thought. Yvlon was doing her best gladiator-face, but Colth’s face was one huge scowl. Ceria whispered at them.
“We can’t break our word and double-cross them, can we?”
All three glared at her, and she threw up her hands.
“Alright, fine. Damnit. Fork over the loot, then!”
She stomped over to the Wildcards, and Pisces ruffled at his hair. He knew they’d made tactical errors. Yvlon going in alone. He’d not been in tune with the others. He could have used [Shatterbolt], but he might have killed…Colth was just glancing up above.
“Ceria, situation on your walls? Wildcard, we need to coordinate on getting out of here.”
They nodded, and Pisces leaned against a wall. Yvlon joined him, rubbing at scorch marks on her shoulders.
“Huh.”
“You alright, Yvlon? That was some kind of electricity attack—”
She nodded, wincing.
“Still hurts. I want to know what that was. Earthers?”
“Not the time to discuss that. First, let’s get out of here.”
He muttered. But he hoped the other adventurers were willing to talk. This was not a…a salubrious meeting, Pisces had to admit. But that wasn’t what felt so odd.
It was only when Colth collected several crystals in amber, and Ceria eyed a collection of blades and other tools that Captain Leo turned over, that Pisces felt it.
Ah, of course.
 
<Heroic Quest — The Tomb of Yad’thuv Failed.>
 
It didn’t hit him like a blow. He just exhaled, sniffed, sneezed, and wiped at his hair.
He couldn’t really remember the last time his team had lost.
It didn’t feel great.
 
——
 
Some days you won, some days you lost. Some weeks, some years, even. It was the mark of a seasoned warrior, or person, to recognize that losses, setbacks, were inevitable and not rage or despair entirely at them.
Nuvityn, King of Myths, wasn’t sure if that applied to [Kings]. Because, so often, a good man was not the same as a good ruler.
Perhaps they should be, but what should be was not what was.
For instance, he was sailing to hold an [Innkeeper] and her inn to trial. Whether it was right or wrong—his son was dead. As [King], as father, he would have a reckoning for that.
His army of ten thousand of Erribathe’s famous warriors, Prildor, Tserre, and much of his royal council suited for campaigning were a force to set even the Five Families to alarm. Nuvityn had written ahead, of course, using the power of diplomats to assure the Five Families he was coming not to upset their authority, but to go south.
The Walled Cities he would see about, but he intended to visit Izril and see what had changed. Visit the inn and deliver judgement, right or wrong—and then continue onwards. To the New Lands? To Baleros to find the [Innkeeper]?
That was the plan. There had been hiccups on the way. Not even bad ones; the fact that his company now had a [Princess] of Calanfer in it was not entirely bad. Nuvityn did not love Calanfer at this moment, but Princess Vernoue was youthful, earnest. A refreshingly young voice in love with stories.
And she might even crack the mystery that was Magus Tserre, whom Nuvityn regarded as a [Mage] as legendary as Archmage Eldavin. For she had once been an Archmage herself.
Yes, things had been decent when he had set sail on The Gathering Light, one of Pheislant’s largest trading vessels, to Izril. It, along with several other trade ships, had been paid to carry his army across the changed sea routes to First Landing.
Nuvityn had been hoping for a Treant or some wonders at sea. Perhaps even a [Pirate] attack, but sadly, his days had been largely without event. Oh, there had been dolphins, that magical storm in the distance, ships, even Drowned Folk, who had risen to talk and trade with his famous army, but nothing extraordinary. So he had bided his time. He knew how long sea trips were.
…Which was why after two weeks, he had begun wondering how badly the sea currents were changed between Terandria and Izril. The [Captain] was a good man, Level 37. But despite his speed Skills, the winds and currents just didn’t have them seeing land. Nuvityn had accepted the man’s hospitalities and spent the time talking with Prildor and Tserre when she emerged, catching them up on recent events.
That had taken a week before he noticed his crew going to ask [Sailors] what was going on. Then Nuvityn had sensed… a problem.
Even becalmed, three weeks from the southwestern edge of Terandria to First Landing was too long. And yet, Captain Giltreder swore the winds were good and that he’d found the right currents. Yet when he deployed his spyglass and checked the stars—everything must be muddled because he could neither see shore nor figure out their location.
“It looks as if we’re only two days from First Landing. But I do not see it. And…this makes no sense, Your Majesty.”
After two days, the [Captain] showed the King of Myths his chart. It was a neat progression from Pheislant’s capital harbor to First Landing…and then onto Izril’s shores. They should have been at Invrisil by now. Nuvityn stared at the map.
“And you are sure, sir?”
There were numerous cross outs and question marks. Captain Giltreder was sweating.
“Your Majesty, I have read the position of the stars and my best [Storm Sailors] swear that they feel us going the right way—but it makes no sense! And sire—”
He looked around and lowered his voice.
“When I check the winds, and currents, I think they are too strong.”
“Due to the magical storm? Could that have thrown us off?”
“Entirely possibly, and I cast myself upon your mercy, Your Majesty. But I mean that in the sense of other ships. That Drowned Folk ship we saw—when it caught the wind, I had thought it were blowing slightly crosswise to ours, and far slower. We have had…good wind for a week now. And the current appears becalmed at times, but I feel as though we are moving faster than I think. Yet it appears still.”
For proof veritas of this, Nuvityn went to the bow and saw the waters did indeed seem calm with little wind. Yet…Captain Giltreder motioned, and, covertly, one of his [Sailors] tossed something down.
A…bucket. It splashed, then jerked out of the woman’s hands. Silently, the King of Myths spoke.
“Why covertly?”
“Because when we lower it normally, sire, it dips into the water and comes out unlike that.”
Nuvityn didn’t like the way Captain Giltreder was speaking. Nor the sudden suspicion in the back of his mind. He recalled his own feelings.
I can sense the auras of distant people, and I swear I had felt the Five Families’, though they are not royals. The same when I beheld the other great events of note. Yet I do not sense them from the right…places…
Strange. If you had a ship that appeared to be moving at a decently high-level [Captain]’s will, yet had oddities with the observable wind and stars and waters beneath you—what could muddle even the wits of a [Storm Sailor]? Only a great foe, perhaps. A Skill? A magical storm of passing weirdness?
Or maybe…
 
——
 
Magus Tserre had her rocking chair and sat in her cottage, which had folded up and sat down on the deck of The Gathering Light. Vernoue, her apprentice that Tserre had still not really acknowledged, was balancing on one foot on the rocking ship and casting spells.
“Focus, Princess. Cast one hundred spells in the hour or we’ll have to come up with a punishment for tonight.”
“I’m…not…quitting, Magus Tserre! So can you please stop trying to make me?”
Vernoue appeared distinctly seasick, but she was keeping with the magic. Tserre saw Nuvityn and his people approaching and sighed, closing her book.
“Whyever would you think I was doing that? I’m simply bringing you up to an acceptable focus. You and I have limited time. So enjoy the training we used to give [Mages] who were about to be sent to Rhir.”
Vernoue made a whimpering sound, but she turned as Nuvityn called out.
“Magus Tserre, good morning.”
“A fine day to you, King of Myths.”
She replied blandly, and everyone stared at her. Not really welcomingly. Even Nuvityn’s face was clouded.
“Is it, Magus? I have just spoken to my people, and I am troubled by some reports.”
“Oh, what might those be? I am, of course, at your service.”
He grunted.
“So you claim. Yet, Magus, it appears the interference from the magical storm still lingers. Scrying spells do not work on us.”
“Such storms are beyond any [Archmage] in power. Even Level 80 [Druids] would barely match such awe inspiring magic, Your Majesty.”
“Fair enough. Yet we are three weeks at sea when we should have been one at the longest.”
“Perhaps we are catching new currents changed by these New Lands, or the storm sent us to sea, Your Majesty. It is hard to navigate the open ocean.”
Indeed, the blue-green water around them was impossible to use to place where they were; a [Sailor]’s nightmare. Tserre pointed up.
“Without scrying spells, I suggest using the stars.”
“Which is what the good [Captains] have done. Strangely, they have not led us to shore. It almost appears, Magus, as if something odd is happening to our vessel.”
She sipped from a teacup as Vernoue stopped balancing on one foot. Now, even the 5th Princess of Calanfer was staring at Magus Tserre. But the old half-Elf’s face didn’t move one whit.
“Disturbing, Your Majesty. Should I look into the issue?”
It was Prildor who sighed.
“Tserre…”
“Yes, Prildor? I require some kind of word aside from my name.”
The half-Elf stared blandly at her two chickens until Nuvityn spoke.
“Magus Tserre. Would you kindly drop whatever illusions you are casting? I order it by the Kingdom of Myths. An authority you may not well recognize. But by our pact—I would consider it the bare minimum to keep trust.”
His eyes glinted as he folded his arms. Voreca, Miihey, Andromeda, the leaders of Erribathe’s warriors all gazed at Tserre. She just sipped from her teacup and glanced off the portside bow.
“Oh, very well.”
She didn’t snap her fingers or tap her cane or…one second, the waters behind her were bright, clear, and calm. The next?
Rain hit Vernoue in the face. Rain—and she saw land. Dry land. Arid. Yellowed, not the greens she had expected, or First Landing’s harbor she recalled from being a girl. The geography was the wrong color. Yellow and…
Sandy.
Sand, which as some people might observe, got everywhere. But which was also more endemic, more common, to a certain continent than, say, Izril. The rain hit Captain Giltreder in the face, and he blinked at the distant shoreline. Only visible thanks to extreme magical magnification spells. Perhaps still days from the ships reaching shore. But they were here instead of…
Giltreder keeled over backwards onto the deck. Nuvityn’s head turned, slowly, and then he stared at the city in the distance. It had a harbor, yes. Even ships. But…Tserre spoke.
“I believe rations are getting low, given our numbers and the unexpected voyage. Perhaps we should put ashore, Your Majesty?”
“Tserre. Where—is this?”
Prildor choked, and King Nuvityn stared at the distant flags. He eyed the crowns united under one larger one, the dry ground, and then turned his head.
Tserre sat there as the port city of Medain drifted past them. She smiled behind the teacup she raised to her mouth, and only Vernoue, open-mouthed in horror, saw her expression.
“Incredibly, we appear to be closer to Ceria than I thought. We might as well ask about her.”
Then, it occurred to the King of Myths that he might have erred, prevailing on an ancient mage of old. Magus Tserre had appeared entirely reasonable, willing to put his desires before her own pressing obligations.
He really should have remembered what old damn [Mages] were like.
 
 
 
 
Author’s Notes:
Hey, I have a lot to talk about! In order of priorities, firstly I do have an AMA planned on r/Fantasy on the 13th. So be there to celebrate the book launch! If you want to ask a question with spoilers for the plot, I might not answer fully, but go ahead and just spoiler tag them so new readers don’t read anything they shouldn’t.
Second…I’m back! From my travels! I wrote a short blog post about how it was to sign so much, but my shoulders STILL hurt. Not bad, and the team was very accommodating and kept asking if I needed breaks or snacks, but I was trying to sign everything.
It turns out signing is hard as shit. I prefer writing for 10 hours, frankly. Signing is uniquely stressful on my limbs, and it’s less fun to write the same thing over and over. But I got what I could done, and I do hope everyone who wants a copy of the bookplate gets one.
Maybe I should have taken a second week off, though. Travel gets to me, and I’ve run out of my backlog; there’s no Rickel chapter prepped, and I could only just finish editing the Horns chapter five minutes ago because I know more of their plot.
Moving forwards I’ll split chapters and release shorter ones because I need to rebuild my backlog. But this is the final push towards the book launch. After this chapter, it’s out…and so I have an appeal!
If you would, consider reviewing the books on Barnes & Noble, Amazon, and wherever they’re sold? That helps a huge amount, and if you do some writing, it’ll show new readers what there is to love about the series. I know I keep asking you for help, but I really do appreciate it, and we’re almost there.
It’s nerve wracking, but I have held the books, and I know they’re real. Now, it’s only a matter of waiting until they’re out in all the stores. Any review helps! It feels like I’m back to being a younger, newer author again, and I got this far with your support, so I’m asking again. Let’s celebrate on the 11th.
—pirateaba
