He was fifteen, had a broom on one shoulder made out of plain wicker strands, a cheap sweeping tool, but he was, astonishingly, clean. He looked like any [Chimneysweep] or poor [Cleaner] that Pisces could imagine. A streetrat, only wherever you expected a bit of grime, a smudge of dirt, there was none.
“Clothsetter, Doomguard Beton, I came fast as I could. What can a poor [Cleaner] do for the likes of such famous lots?”
His eyes twinkled with all the impishness of his age, and Beton rumbled.
“These are friends of mine, come to heal my maladies, Tomiec. Be respectful. Yvlon, this is Tomiec, who can clean even the Oresect plague. They had him sweep the palace itself in the first few months.”
“For a lashing when I got in the way of fine Silks, aye.”
“A lashing you deserved to not do it twice. But for your Skills and my words and you’d have been hung or burnt. Tomiec, what Skill do you have?”
“[My Broom Sweeps Cleanest].”
Tomiec twirled his broom around showily, which quite impressed Pisces, but Coltora’s glower made the boy stop. However, something was odd that both he and Yvlon sensed. Pisces saw Beton’s eyes on him, and once more, he could have played the cautious [Necromancer], but…Pisces coughed.
“Tomiec’s level is well in advance of any boy his age I’d expect to find, Beton. He’s at least Level 30, isn’t he?”
Coltora’s head turned, and Beton smiled.
“He is. Tomiec Hemp has swept the sewers of Tyrant’s Rest, to the palace now, but also the rooms of [Mages].”
“Since they can’t trust Djinni to do it, aye. Magesoot, shitscummer, and the dirt of nobles, which is filthiest of all. But I’m just a [Cleaner], no [Healer].”
Yvlon glanced at Tomiec and motioned to Beton’s bad arm.
“Interesting. Can you show it to me on that arm, please?”
Tomiec did and ran his broom down the arm, letting the wooden bristles move slowly. They should have missed tons of dirt, but he even swept some of the metal beetle that Yvlon had crushed off the bed, flicking it to the side. Even dust. More dust than Pisces could imagine hit the far wall, to Coltora’s displeasure and dismay, but Tomiec whirled the broom around, and it became a pile on the carpets at his feet. He winked at Pisces.
“Most of what lies in a bed is dust and bits of skin and worse. Not all of it is bad. Good?”
“Yes and no. His Skill did better than even Etrikah’s mixture, but it only goes an inch or two deep.”
“2.2 inches.”
Tomiec corrected Yvlon, and she glanced down at Beton’s arm. Measured.
“Half that. It must not work on flesh as well. Even if he took his broom, he couldn’t get your bones, Beton. Unless we split you open vertically and he broomed you?”
Tomiec’s swagger visibly deflated at Yvlon’s comments, and he gave the Silver Killer a horrified look. Which was made worse when Beton hmmed.
“I would survive that. But my head is thicker than two point two inches around.”
“Maybe, but your brains aren’t sick…it’s only your bones. If only I could reach into you and just yank it out! But I can’t do that. I can turn my arms to liquid, but…”
One of Yvlon’s arms dripped into Beton’s infected arm and moved around. Then swirled back up, and she grimaced.
“I can’t pluck disease up. But I can heal myself; [Aspect of Silver].”
She turned entirely to silver, then reverted.
“It’s gone from me.”
High level Tomiec might be, but he retreated in the face of Yvlon’s madness. He bowed to Pisces belatedly.
“Scourge of Roshal. I’ve heard from the Cleaner’s Guilds about the blood your people spilled on sands across the kingdom’s borders. Not that I could afford a [Slave], of course.”
He watched Pisces’ rapier nervously, and Pisces, conscious of the fact that this was not him but everyone thought it was, smiled.
“I never imagined otherwise, Tomiec. Are all [Cleaners] your level?”
“No, especially not of my age. But someone must clean even the greatest [Mage]’s privy. And us Hemps get the hardest tasks. No one of Cotton is half my level!”
Tomiec folded his arms, and Yvlon glanced at him.
“That Skill of yours, Tomiec. Does it work with any broom?”
“Any in this world. Had I a magic one, I could clean half of Nerrhavia’s Fallen in a day! But without it I have levelled, and before I am twenty, I shall be double that in levels! Then I shall clean the shit from the faces of all the Silks who spit on us, instead of merely the streets where it lands.”
The boy was all confidence now. He lifted his broom overhead, and Beton and even Coltora smiled at him. Like a son. With pride and pain, and Pisces thought there was a story there. But all Yvlon did was nod.
“Good. Here’s a broom.”
She lifted a finger, and it turned into the tiniest broom imaginable, morphing. Tomiec’s smile vanished, and she pointed at Beton’s face.
“If I stick it under his skin in the right places, can you sweep along his bones? Even if you just hold my arm, is that enough of a broom for your Skills?”
Tomiec stared at Yvlon. Coltora backed behind Pisces, whose skin was doing the goosebumps thing again. Even Beton eyed Yvlon.
She smiled.
 
——
 
“Ew. Ugh. Ew—”
“Tomiec. Stop complaining. The metal is in my head.”
“It’s my finger up your nose. Shut up, both of you.”
The smallest broom in the world was scraping across Beton’s inner body. A purifying broom made of silver, moving as Yvlon directed her arms with the slow, exacting actions of someone who didn’t want to make a sudden move and…explode something.
Like Beton’s face. She was sweating.
He was sweating.
Tomiec wasn’t sweating because he looked like he was going to faint. He had hold of Yvlon’s arm, and he was sensing her doing something. It was working, at least, according to Yvlon.
“I’m positive we got most of his head. It’s trying to respread. I’m going to shift upwards along his skull—”
“Ow.”
“Okay, I’m not going that way. Tomiec, your Skill good?”
“It does not run out. I wish to go, please? H-how are you—? Your arm feels like a broom! It feels like an actual broom. How?”
For answer, Yvlon just smiled as she re-adjusted, and Beton confirmed it didn’t feel like she’d hit an artery or anything precious.
“[Limb: Imbue Skill]. I’ve never had to use it like this, but I can make it like a sword. Why not a broom?”
“What kind of madwoman thinks so? You are mad.”
“Berr says madness is mandatory at our level. Hold on. I’m not sure…”
One of Yvlon’s arms was performing the invasive cleansing process. The other one?
It was currently doing a cross-section of the Human—or Stitch-folk—head. An amazingly detailed one. She’d asked Pisces to crosscheck her work, and he stared at the silver map of a head as Yvlon wiggled a bit of silver tendril around it.
“[Silversteel: Structure of Species]. Okay, let’s go back and go through the ear.”
“Wonderful.”
“May I take five minutes to puke? I shall clean it up.”
“No. We’re on a time limit, and we’re more than halfway done. Pisces, if I go through the ear, here…”
Yvlon demonstrated, and Beton appeared ready to object, but it was working. Pisces just sat there, head in his hands.
“I regret ever helping you with anatomy, Yvlon. Has it occurred to you that we’ve gone too far?”
She just laughed at him.
 
——
 
It only took twenty-six minutes before Beton sat up, and Yvlon let him reconnect his limbs and pronounced his body clean of the Oresect plague as far as she could tell. He wiped at his nose several times, massaged his face, then got out of bed.
When he did, he looked…solid. Imposing, even without a body designed for combat. The [Doomguard] regarded his cloth, which was in tatters, mixed with the Oresect insects.
It would all have to be disposed of, but once the last taint was gone, he would be able to wear metal flesh again—without the same issues, or so Pisces believed. The rot that had infected him to the bones was gone, and now Beton smiled and nodded once.
“Yvlon Byres, Silver Killer.”
He clasped arms with her.
“You have repaid the debt I offered by knighting for you.”
She blinked at him, surprised.
“I have not even begun to repay it, Beton. All this time you’ve been sick because of me—! First, I cost you your health, then your job with Prince Esceit—I owe you a debt. Zenol does! I could ask him if he needs a warrior in his staff. I owe you gold and more.”
The [Doomguard] was steady now; only having a miniature rake inserted up a nostril had given him pause.
“Not for that, Silver Killer. When those above us use us like pieces on a board to war with each other, we do not blame and begrudge the other. We point a finger at the system and those who maneuver us. You and I are common cloth. [Gladiators]. Warriors. Comrades?”
She stared at him, then tightened her grip on his arm.
“Comrades.”
She met Pisces’ gaze as Beton smiled, then embraced his wife and lifted her up as she shouted and called for the family. Pisces mouthed at her.
He is so cool.
She nodded a few times. Tomiec flopped down on the floor, then threw up.
 
——
 
After the horrors of Yvlon’s broom-fingers, Pisces did feel like Ceria and Colth had missed a lot. True, they were visiting one of the world’s finest magical academies, but this?
This was nice. There were more important things than magic, sometimes. The Wandering Inn had taught him that.
The gratitude of Doomguard Beton was no small thing. Within moments of him being on his feet, the entire household and, indeed, street had turned out. It wasn’t like the Hemp-folk who were his neighbors were ignorant of his condition.
Again, it surprised Yvlon and Pisces to be treated like the saviors given Yvlon had accidentally infected Beton, but he had meant what he said to her. Now the food was being broken out, and a celebration was starting.
The Hemp-folk might not look nearly as gorgeous as their Silk counterparts, but their cooking did not fall behind as far as Pisces was concerned. If anything, it was far better on his stomach than the fancy food of the palace. He’d eaten a gazelle or something like that last night.
Eating Cloudpieces and sipping the cordial was welcome, especially when they brought out these really tasty sauced bites of white meat. Which Pisces was complimenting until someone told him it was crocodile. Everyone laughed as he choked on the food.
“But it doesn’t taste like—! It’s very good. Ahem!”
“Silks would never eat them. But the silly gators swim up the canals; you can find them even inland. Here, try this.”
“What is this giant chicken wing…?”
“Ostrich.”
Whereupon the largest egg he’d ever seen in his life was presented for his appetite. None of it was super gamey; Miss Coltora did wonders with the spices and sauces she had available. However, she did seem worried they wouldn’t like the food. When Pisces assured her it was good on his stomach—and he had housed a lot of food already—she relaxed.
“One cannot compare with the palace, of course, but if I could not satisfy the palates of adventurers, I would hang my hands up in disgrace! The richest ingredients are beyond any of Hemp. Saffron, rare meats, magical ingredients of any kind—”
“I know an [Innkeeper] whose cooking I am quite partial to, Miss Coltora, who does very well with basic ingredients. You shall find no complaints here. Yvlon?”
She was a bit more picky about her food. However, she was eating with good enough humor from the recognizable dishes and speaking with Beton.
“If I could pay you—”
Beton looked slightly harried, but it was again a mark of his stoicism that he only cracked after the eleventh time she brought it up.
“Agh, Silver Killer, enough. I have said my piece, and a [Doomguard] does not recant his words. Celebrate with me, my reclaimed cloth. Does my home look poor to you even though I am of Hemp?”
“No, of course not. It’s lovely.”
“Then you would surely not insult me by offering me coin. I, who was in service to a [Prince], have not been made pauper that quickly.”
His eyes glinted, and Yvlon shut up so fast that Pisces applauded silently. She edged over after a moment.
“He’s more persuasive when he actually talks.”
“One supposes Prince Esceit did not care for his conversational ability, more his ability to loom. Which he does very well.”
Now that he was standing, Beton was visibly high-level. Level 40? Pisces thought so. His chest was broader around than any other of the Hemp-folk, and despite having replaced his ‘battle cloth’, he still looked metallic.
His skin was beautifully black and shone like metal when he smiled, and he had enough muscle to make Pisces compare him to Eldertuin the Fortress. But his voice, despite being deep, was eloquent, like a hammer falling with precision. He was, then, impressive, but the [Necromancer]’s mind flashed to another being like him.
Azam’du. The Djinni’s skin had been darker yet, and he had been like a cloud bound to earth, chained and recalcitrant. But Pisces had to blink to dispel the image and remember the falling rainbow.
Ah, this land is bad for me. He wanted to be away, but not before he found his comrades. It was a reminder, though: this was one favor of Yvlon’s, solidly done. Onto the next.
As if he knew they were upon a mission of urgency, Beton took time to speak to the two Horns, even to the point where people wishing him well had to wait some time.
“I wish you’d met Colthei and Ceria. Perhaps, if time allows, we could introduce you?”
“Perhaps, but I am not welcome in the Palace, nor would I trouble you to come here. You must move quickly, you two, to avoid the entanglements of politics. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is a tangle of threads, and they will pull apart even Named-rank adventurers in the machinations of the Courts of Silk and Steel.”
It was the most direct warning Pisces and Yvlon had received—again, gratifying.
“We have Yisame’s favor.”
“A terrible thing, Silver Killer. Has it not brought you to a battle with the Champion of Monarchs already? And a war, before you left?”
“No, that was just…it was obligations.”
Yvlon grew troubled, and Beton glanced at her.
“Naturally, my employment to Prince Esceit was one of finance. I hold Prince Zenol in some esteem as a warrior. The Queen, of course, has our support.”
Murmurs of agreement, but Pisces realized that Beton had not said he was actually on the side of the Queen. But, then…
“Is there anyone in the palace you’d back?”
Beton thought about it as his eyes flicked to his plate, then smiled in a way Pisces couldn’t read.
“You are in good company, Adventurer Pisces. We are Hemp; we stand below the blows of the mighty lest we be caught up. I would be careful in your stead. That is my warning.”
Intriguing and fair. Pisces coughed.
