Yvlon, as the noble herself, didn’t get a lot of it. But she strode on.
“Hmm. Well, Beton’s right. It’s nothing to do with us, and Yisame hasn’t mentioned any problems with the other Stitch-folk castes.”
“Well, she would not, would she, Yvlon?”
The [Armsmistress] frowned—then changed the subject.
“It’s like the Fox Beastkin. We helped Beton, you cleaned yourself; we call that a win and move on. We have to get to Ksmvr. I’m afraid we won’t be able to repay all our debts, Pisces. Beton being so sick…just another reason that Prince Esceit deserves a beating.”
“I almost wish he’d agreed to you challenging him.”
Yvlon smiled slightly.
“He’s not that stupid, alas. But he is feuding with Zenol, and we owe him too. Do you think that if I figured out a way to cause an incident and killed him, we’d get away with it?”
Pisces tripped on his wet robes. Several Hemp people turned their heads and then instantly pretended not to have heard and hurried down the streets. He stared at Yvlon. Her face was calm. Pisces’ mouth worked. Then he bit back a shout and thought.
He didn’t ask if Yvlon was serious. He just regarded her, engaged the question, and his chest grew cold.
“Let’s assume you did kill him in a duel in the coliseum or just if you managed to create a justification, Yvlon. What’s the difference between you and Ceria?”
Yvlon bit her lip and slowed. She checked her arms, which had the beautiful filigree that Elena had helped her design and memorize. Pisces saw it stained with blood for a second, and Yvlon flexed her hands.
“We didn’t talk about it. She might have been right, but she did it like it was the circlet. What’s the difference? I prefer a fight, Pisces. That’s fairer. If I’d killed the Champion of Monarchs before he surrendered, I don’t think I’d have lost sleep over it.”
“Prince Esceit’s no Champion of Monarchs, Yvlon. Is a fight different from a coldblooded execution?”
“He has bodyguards, artifacts—”
“It’s a fight he can’t win, ever.”
Yvlon frowned at Pisces and stood in the now-empty streets, eyeing him.
“Anything could kill me, Pisces. Even with the Ring of Siphon Barriers, the wrong piercing arrow or lucky hit does me in.”
He understood what she meant, but Pisces’ reply was slow.
“That was what we could say when we were Level 30, Yvlon. But imagine if Mars said that to you. ‘Anything could kill me’. If you and Prince Esceit fight, no matter what, he dies. Is that not execution?”
She went walking down the street for a second before returning.
“All I know is what he’s done to Zenol and how he treated everyone else. It’s not pleasant, but I recognize an enemy, and I can’t fight him with words or influence, Pisces. Berr says…”
He interrupted her again, a bit impatiently.
“I want to know what Yvlon thinks, Yvlon. The coliseum was the right thing to do. I went with you instead of telling Ceria or Colth because I agreed. But we may have gone too far.”
She studied him, then nodded slowly. She jerked a thumb, and they walked on back towards the palace, but languidly. He felt like she was listening to him, not just getting mad, and that was better than Izril. But still—there was a line between them, and Yvlon tried to bridge it. But she had no convenient Skills.
“We can only continue on, Pisces. We’re full of mistakes, even if these ones feel different.”
“I know, but we’re not working like we were, even in the Crossroads of Izril, Yvlon. It’s not just this morning. Can’t you feel it?”
She nodded.
“I can. I miss Ksmvr. He’d have kept us together.”
“Me too.”
Silence. They thought of Ksmvr and Vofea, and Pisces felt that urgency rise. Then Yvlon jerked her head.
“So, thoughts on killing Prince Esceit?”
He sighed. She was like a dog with a bone with ideas, and in this case, he was glad she hadn’t made up her mind already.
“No. Everything we do must be within the limits of sanity, Yvlon. Yes, we got away with the Coliseum of Monarchs. Barely. We can break rules, but not threaten everything. And killing a [Prince]? That threatens the status quo, and believe me, if we do that, the Court of Silks and Steel will retaliate. We might already have [Assassins] after us.”
“So we get a dozen more—”
“Break too many convention and they won’t send mere [Assassins], Yvlon. That’s when they send Djinni. Which they won’t do unless they think we’re completely out of line. There are rules, written and unwritten.”
“…Ah. We probably can’t beat the ones that almost killed the King of Destruction. So that’s the way it is?”
Pisces conjured an illusory chessboard, made two pieces in his and her image, and placed them on it.
“We are pieces on the grand game of politics, Yvlon. Don’t topple the board or the true pillars. You came close the other day; we must present ourselves as somewhat flawed, allay suspicions. I imagine that’s part of why Ceria pulled her stunt this morning. It allows Yisame to assert control over her. I’m just guessing, of course; she might have just wanted the books.”
Yvlon was nodding thoughtfully. Then she smiled.
“Do you think, sometimes, we just do silly and stupid things because we’re not as smart as you, Pisces?”
The question left him genuinely astounded.
“I may pretend to some degree of sophistication, but I don’t think I outwit anyone, Yvlon. Colth is far more knowledgeable about Nerrhavia’s Fallen and Chandrar than I am.”
She waved this off.
“Colth has been here, and it’s his job to know things. Ceria’s got her circlet, and she was already intelligent. But you just like to know things. Ksmvr and I can barely keep up. Alright, you’ve convinced me. No killing [Princes]. And we did good today. What’s next? Your mission? Tiqr, for that dratted sword? What about your friends?”
Pisces hesitated.
“I do have an obligation to them, Yvlon. But I don’t wish to involve anyone in trouble—”
She reached out, arm elongating, and grabbed his shoulder. Yvlon’s eyes were calm, blue, and serious.
“Pisces, I’m your backup. You came with me today. Anytime, anywhere, you want to find your friends? I’m coming with you, Roshal or [Assassins] be damned. We may be having a rough patch as a team, but we’ve not forgotten that.”
His back felt lighter, as it always did when she said ridiculous things like that. Pisces might feel the shadow of Roshal on him, the chains of dead men around his feet, even with his class gone, but with the Silver Killer behind him? He sighed.
“No. We haven’t forgotten. Thank you, Yvlon. In that case…I will want to go eastwards and find them, but I have only a few names and clues. I have something else to tell you.”
He cast spells, though he feared they might be eavesdropped on by superior magics. No, he had anti-scrying protections, and you had to risk it. Yvlon glanced at him.
“Something about Beton’s daughter?”
He leaned over and whispered in her ear, using her hair as a shield to hide his lips.
“No. I received a message the other day, Yvlon. Elena knows. It was from an unknown sender. It said that the second Relic to Ceria’s circlet, an amulet, lies in Chandrar. The clue is in the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes. The letter told me not to let her find it.”
She didn’t react, but her arms seemed to ripple as she turned her head. Then murmured back.
“Thank you for telling me. Why did you let her go?”
“I didn’t think it was likely she’d find it in a single day. My goal is to keep us away from there.”
“…Agreed. But who sent that?”
“I don’t know. But I’d bet the inn.”
They grimaced at each other. Whenever in doubt, just put The Wandering Inn in there and assume it was like the original creator of the circlet had become penpals with Mrsha. Yvlon sighed.
“Well, I hope we have an adventure, then. Good work, Pisces.”
She patted him on the shoulder, then sniffed.
“…You forgot to wash your hair properly. It reeks.”
He sighed gustily and resisted the urge to cast [Cleanse]. Nothing was good and sacred in this world anymore.
 
——
 
Ceria and Colth returned to the palace that evening empty-handed. Not empty-headed; Ceria described the library of a Hundred Thousand Tomes to Pisces, and he was properly envious.
“Stacks of books, Pisces. You have these huge ladders—some poor bastard fell off one. Colth had to do a flying dive to save them from dying.”
“[Featherfall] spells are standard over there, even for apprentices. And there are spells.”
“What, for anyone to read? What about having to win a master’s approval to learn the spells?”
Ceria and Colth smiled at Pisces, a touch sadly in Ceria’s case.
“Nothing like that. You just can’t access higher-ranking spells until the instructors think you won’t blow yourself up with the spellbook. You, personally, are fine. Tier 1-4 magic is just…available if you’re a member of the academy.”
“What, no personal spellbooks?”
“We had to bribe our way into seeing the better stuff, but no, Pisces. It’s just free.”
That stung Pisces, who remembered how closefisted Wistram was with its magic, until Colth added a detail.
“Free for a member. We’re guests of the crown, so we had permission, but it was Cotton or Silk. No Hemp. And remember, Wistram’s in decline. If the upper floors were open, I bet Tier 1-4 magic would have been free and the masters would be fighting over the higher-tier spellbooks.”
That did put it into perspective, and that comment…Pisces glanced at Yvlon.
“You might have taken something from visiting Beton. We didn’t see much else, honestly. Fascinating sights in the city, but we didn’t find anything worth buying.”
“Except this.”
Yvlon had a comb for scratching pets, which also de-fleaed them, that she’d bought for Ksmvr. Colth listened to the account of meeting Beton, and Ceria stopped eating.
“You put a little metal rake up his nose? Dead gods, Yvlon. That’s genius.”
“Thank you.”
“Ahem. Some of us are eating?”
Elena seemed a bit less happy about the description as she chewed down her meal. She was wincing a bit, and Colth eyed her.
“How was the palace?”
“Less fun than I thought, but I did good work. I’ll report in when we’re not, um, surrounded.”
At this, Elena glanced around, and Pisces was reminded of where they were.
The Court of Silks was almost always in session, and the huge, spacious gathering had places where you could sit and eat, like the ‘private’ booths. Everyone was sitting around a round table on couches as servants placed down food and bowed away. Pisces didn’t see any [Slave] collars on them, and he was on his best behavior, wary of making a scene. However, the [Queen] sat upon her throne, and the court was just…social.
It didn’t always have someone kneeling before the throne. It just was, and he saw people talking together. Members of the Court of Steel, dignitaries, and yes, even Prince Zenol and Prince Esceit, though the two were distinctly enemies.
Colth nodded at Elena as he settled back in his seat, and Pisces worried he might have revealed too much about Beton, but Colth just winked at him, casual as could be.
“We’re not rocking the ship at this moment. I got a hint from Yisame’s people that she might have our quest. Fancy a trip to the Adventurer’s Guild?”
“What, like a plebian, Colth?”
Ceria turned her nose up ostentatiously, and Pisces snorted as Yvlon sighed, but spirits weren’t bad at the moment, despite his reservations. Delitandra put in.
“It might do you well to be seen and act as adventurers, Horns. You have the smell of the palace about you when you are truly a Gold-rank team. The whiff of the crown is best kept at that, lest it grow overbearing. Better to be a useful scorpion than part of the great tangle of politics.”
There it was again, the same advice Beton had given them. Yvlon pursed her lips.
“Everyone wants us to keep out of politics. Ceria’s the one who keeps getting us tangled.”
“You attacked the Coliseum of Monarchs—”
Delitandra stared at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] pointed at Ceria.
“And she got us involved in a job.”
“Adventurer Yvlon, do you think fighting the Coliseum wasn’t politics? Your lessons—”
The Heromakers of Hraace stared at Yvlon until they saw her lips quirk. Elena snorted, and Pisces grinned. Delitandra relaxed and fanned her face.
“When I return to Hraace, and the Mentorship judges my deeds, I shall pen a poem on the trials of dealing with the Silver Killer. Truly, I had thought I did well to escape the Pedagogia’s grasp. Little did I know a challenge greater than teaching the King of Destruction had befell me.”
“Well, you’re not teaching us anything at the moment. Where are our lessons? I could have used some training.”
Yvlon seemed determined to murder the Heromakers today. Delitandra drew herself up, fanning her face, and pointed.
“No? Then look and listen. You have refocused the Court of Silks and drawn attention. Not just you; Cognita Truestone, Barelle the Bard? Some of Nerrhavia Fallen’s powerful figures eschew these courts, for it is only part of where power lies. But here they come. Who is that?”
She pointed at a rather solitary old man, who had a clean shaven chin, youthful features—oddly youthful for how Pisces suddenly felt like he was old—and the richest and most magical robes that Pisces had ever seen. But that was common in the Court of Silks, and Pisces had tuned out most magic that flowed everywhere.
Yet these robes were a hazard. Twelve feet long were the hems, so trailing that they appeared to be a midnight river. Black, until streams of color rose upwards and twined together, like snakes, and rested on his massive epaulets.
But the cloth didn’t seem to weigh on him. Nor did it truly fit the younger man’s face. The only clue Pisces had was…
“His eyes. They look old.”
Yvlon commented, and Ceria frowned.
“He’s got robes fit for an [Archmage]. But no magical signature. None. It’s like staring at a rock.”
That was the thing that put Pisces’ back up, he realized. Everyone had magic in them, just a bit. But this fellow was an absolute neutral. Like he had none. Or—more likely—he was hiding it. Colthei just murmured.
“That would be the Magus of Falling Skies. The highest-levelled spellcaster in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Remember the [Meteor Storm]? That’s him.”
Ceria and Pisces focused on the man harder. Him? But he was a Stitch-man; he could change his face. The youthful body clearly belied his age. His eyes…
They felt like they were refracted inwards. Like Pisces was staring into an optical illusion. As if there were a room behind his eyes, a cube of gold in three dimensions shaped out of his irises.
It unsettled Pisces, and those eyes passed over the entire Court of Silks. Bored. Ceria shivered.
