Unfortunately, no one had actually thought to consider Padurn’s character. He was simultaneously uncharismatic, but captivatingly grating. He shifted, posture immaculate, and shook his head.
“My son ran away from his home years ago to join the Academy of Mages. They, clearly, did not know about his previous misdeeds. I had already disowned him and disavowed any knowledge of his deeds. Clearly, he has learned nothing in the time since.”
“…But he is a Gold-rank adventurer, Duelist Jealnet?”
“Fencer.”
“Pardon?”
Padurn gestured to his rapier, obviously unaware of the title hovering below him.
“I consider myself a fencer. A duelist is a challenger, roaming and pursuing mastery of the blade through combat. A fencer practices to refine their techniques. I have chosen a sedentary life, although my current occupation allows me for more travel. Therefore, I am a fencer.”
“You pedantic bastard. Nitpicking as ever.”
Pisces muttered under his breath. Yvlon glanced at him, opened her mouth, and shut it. The [News Anchor] tried again.
“Er, [Back on Topic], if you please, Fencer. I do apologize. Your son demonstrated incredible talent in the Coliseum of Monarchs. And we have numerous examples of his swordplay. The Village of the Dead, his raid on a [Slaver] caravan—”
Padurn shifted and grew more pained, as if the sight of Pisces in any kind of heroic moment went against all he knew to be true. He replied swiftly. That was the thing about him. You might think you could flummox the idiot with his hardheaded, stubborn ways, but he was fast verbally, on his feet and with the damn rapier.
“I have observed all these recordings. My comment stands: he has not improved since I taught him. If anything, regressed. His form is off. In the first instance, he shifts from foot to foot on the sands, unable to balance any cut. Here—”
He pointed as Pisces wobbled in the image of him fighting two [Slaver Guards] at once. The image froze as the [News Anchor] pointed, and Padurn gestured.
“His arms and body are completely out of sync. He has no follow-through on his cut, which is what follows.”
Sure enough, Pisces slashed lightly across a face, and there was a spray of blood. Padurn turned his head.
“He relies on that spell, [Flash Step], without any nuance and magic to overcome his numerous shortcomings. I did not teach him that, nor do I hold his swordsmanship on any pedestal.”
Pisces was grinding his teeth. The worst part about Padurn was that he was correct. Those were bad cuts. Though the [News Anchor] was clearly on Pisces’ side and coughed.
“It was a rather hectic battle, Fencer Padurn.”
“I’m sure that is what he would say as his excuse. A true duelist—and he has met at least two, the Maestro in the Trial of Blades and the King of Duels—shows no weakness.”
“So…you have nothing to say about your son, sir? Is he not deserving of the silver bell he carries?”
The slightly waspish tone of the [News Anchor] did get through to Padurn. Once more, he shifted and grew uncomfortable. His hand touched his rapier’s hilt.
“I did not state that. Pisces Jealnet bested a silver-bell duelist in combat, albeit by ambush and with magic. However it was done, the precedent stands. A silver bell is a mark of competency. It is not the golden bell, which itself is controversial. He is far from worthy of a true fencer’s regard.”
“Ah, the silver bell. We were curious about it; he appears to carry a silverish bell, but not a standard one. But can you certify that Adventurer Pisces deserves the bell, sir?”
“Yes.”
“Did you witness the duel between him and a Silver-bell duelist? The Fencer’s Guild of Terandria cannot ratify it.”
More discomfort. Pisces did smile then, darkly. Padurn paused.
“I did. The individual he bested was myself, before his flight from Terandria.”
“He bested you? Before he went to Wistram?”
The [News Anchor], uncomfortable or not, realized he had a story here. Padurn shifted once more.
“He did. I was unprepared for his use of magic, and it was an ambush; I have no excuse. It does not change my analysis, as a pure fencer. Neither he, nor I, have reached any adequate level of bladesmanship.”
His eyes were boring into Pisces, and the young man wanted to jump into the scrying orb and take Padurn on. Though he had never dared without that ambush. And he’d only done it with rage and luck—
The broadcast continued as the Horns watched. Padurn Jealnet was a [Fencer]. Not the best. Far from the best given he had no golden bell and had always aspired to it. But he was a silver-belled duelist and, Pisces scowled as they saw him preparing to do demonstrations—
He hadn’t lost his edge. He hadn’t changed as much over the years, but when he drew that rapier, Pisces still knew he was behind the man.
Not with magic. With magic, Pisces could bet on himself. With artifacts—but with that mastery of the sword? If it was nostalgic to him, a bitter quill, it was illuminating to everyone else.
 
——
 
The Arbiter Queen, Jecaina, had nearly spat out her breakfast when she’d seen Padurn on the scrying orb. When he’d started to insult Pisces, she’d hoped the [Necromancer] couldn’t see this, and her ire had risen.
She was worried about Khelt and Fetohep, who wasn’t responding to her requests to talk, and her father was preparing to raid Medain again. The television was, then, an unhappy but welcome distraction.
The problem with hating Padurn was…she watched as another [Duelist] with a silver bell demonstrated Padurn’s training and techniques. She observed a graceful lunge at Padurn’s chest and how he backstepped, showcasing a classic guard against the dangerous move unique to rapiers.
“Damnit. He’s better than I am.”
“Who is?”
Raelt of Jecrass wandered into the dining room, eating a banana from the royal gardens. He took one look at the scrying orb and, without missing a beat, grunted.
“Silver-bell? He’s good. Better than you, yes.”
She glared at him, and Raelt hesitated.
“Er…who is he? Very interesting. It’s like watching a Training Golem fight. Dead gods, he looks as strict as can be. I can’t imagine he’s much fun to talk to. I wonder if I ever met him as a lad? Funny, he looks like Pisces.”
It said something that the King of Duels could read that much in the form of Padurn Jealnet. It also said something that he had focused entirely on the swordplay and not the name hovering under Padurn on the broadcast. Jecaina pointed, and Raelt swallowed.
“Oh. Huh. He and Pisces don’t fight the same at all.”
It was true. Padurn was demonstrating a relatively perfect display of fencing, albeit so hidebound and standard it would bore Jecaina to tears. But Pisces had been far more adaptive. You could see the basis of Padurn in Pisces’ form; he favored a fast-moving footwork that gave him a lot of range and only closed in for decisive blows. Pisces had taken that further with [Flash Step], staying mobile, but diverged in other ways.
Like someone who hated to fight like the man who’d taught him. The problem was—Raelt muttered.
“He’s better than Pisces too. At least in pure form.”
Jecaina threw an unpeeled orange at him, and Raelt seemed hurt.
“The blade doesn’t lie, Jecaina.”
“No, but you can be slightly nicer to the adventurer we like!”
“I swear I’ve met him before. Maybe we fought. You fight a lot of silver-bells who want to level. Hmm. Ah, well, he’s levelled since then, clearly. Watch this next bit.”
Padurn was standing sidelong, as fencers did, presenting the narrowest angle for his opponent to attack. He stared away from the other duelist, who circled him—then lunged, stabbing. Padurn’s hand blurred and swatted down the stab.
Instantly, the other [Duelist] backed up and hesitated. Then they came at Padurn, fast. [Flurry of Strikes], Jecaina guessed. Six blows in quick succession.
One, two, three, four—
Padurn knocked all four blows down with economical moves. Then Jecaina cursed and saw the other [Duelist] falter. Because Padurn?
He’d closed his eyes.
 
——
 
That was…new. Pisces had never seen that trick before, and it gave him a nasty feeling down his spine. When Padurn turned, he just confirmed it.
“My Skill is called [Automatic Parry]. Any mundane strike or blow within my ability to deflect will be.”
“That sounds quite—powerful, sir.”
“It is average for a Silver-belled duelist. It has most use when my attention wavers or I am taken from odd angles, which I should not be. It is a Skill no true [Fencer] needs. Clearly, I was awarded it after my disgraceful duel with my son.”
Padurn’s inability to take a compliment was a superpower. He went on commenting, having demonstrated his actual talents.
“What separates Pisces, myself, and any true duelist from that of one who holds a golden bell is simple: technique. He covers up his numerous shortcomings with magic. It cannot replace the fact that he has no ability to wound a foe of suitable talent or parry a sufficiently Skill-based strike.”
He didn’t know about [Jovelyn’s Parry]. But Pisces still glowered because once again—the [News Anchor] coughed.
“Without magic, you mean.”
“If he truly had any talent with the blade, he would not need magic.”
“But you yourself are no gold-bell duelist, sir?”
“My comments to him apply to myself, of course. Were he to assail the King of Duels with sword alone, he would never leave a scratch. The same for myself. Nor can he block a cut. If the Adventurer’s Guild certifies him as a Named-rank adventurer, I can only conclude it is a grave oversight and an insult to any true master of the blade. The next step, the next stage of mastery is not something a mere copycat can equal. It would be apparent if he were that.”
Padurn was clearly about to expound on every way in which Pisces had failed to learn anything when the scrying orb turned off. Pisces jerked.
“Hey!”
“Okay, what about Ksmvr of Chandrar?”
Ceria turned the orb to the movies as Yvlon nodded. Colth patted Pisces on the shoulder.
“Parents. Your swordsmanship is just fine, Pisces.”
“I am not worried about—change it back, Ceria. That man. He’s clearly sold out his principles. What happened to ‘eschewing fame for the art of the blade’? He’s barely improved. So what if my form isn’t perfect? You can’t perform any magical blade arts after a decade of study!”
Pisces was stabbing a finger at the scrying orb as his team tried to calm him down. His blood was boiling. Especially when he read in the chatroom that Padurn Jealnet had been invited to the royal capital as a sword trainer. Pisces threw his hands up.
“He’ll ruin everyone for the blade! That’s because I’m the famous one! He’s got no originality! He’s a snivelling yes-man who thinks the law is the law because someone wrote it down with a shiny quill! That pathetic, self-serving, unoriginal—”
He caught himself, staring at Padurn, and for a moment, the Trial of Shields flashed before Pisces’ eyes. He had won that due to his magic, inspiration, a feat he could not replicate.
Could Padurn have beaten the hologram Drake with a sword? Pisces doubted it. But he took no satisfaction there. He glanced down at the bell on his sword and whispered.
“We’re both unworthy.”
And he was a [Duelist], now. Just like his father. Pisces glowered at the scrying orb.
The next step. He wished he knew what that idiot meant. Yvlon patted Pisces on the shoulder.
“I’m sorry, Pisces. I have my own problems with my father. And my mother, in some ways. Just differently. Being raised by a single man like that—no wonder you ran from home.”
He blinked at her. Untensed slightly.
“Single? Padurn’s not a widower. My mother, Enica, is alive, unless anything’s changed.”
She hesitated as Ceria blinked.
“Oh? How bad is she?”
“She’s fine. What she sees in him, I’ll never know.”
Pisces sat back, sighing. He glanced around.
“What? She’s not the problem. He is.”
 
——
 
Enica Jealnet was no Padurn, that was true. But Pisces’ memory, which was over a decade out of date by now, wasn’t perfect.
Then again, he had only known his mother as a son, a child.
The Court of Masks had different opinions on the Jealnet family, all five of them. Which would have astounded Pisces on multiple levels. Firstly, that the distant and powerful center of the realm had any knowledge of him when he had grown up in obscurity, raised in a provincial lord’s employment.
Secondly…five?
Well, his siblings were eight and two, respectively. Pisces had no knowledge of them, having never returned or made contact with his family, and wasn’t that interesting?
He was interesting, and sort of a puzzle for the likes of Baron Regalius, Lady Demizine, or the other high-ranking nobles who spent their time advancing the cause of the realm, gossiping about Duke Rhisveri, and arguing in the Court of Masks.
Because, well…Pisces Jealnet was one of the most famous adventurers in the world right now. That wasn’t a subject for debate; a [Regional Bard] had conducted a survey, and Minister Sophridel had confirmed that in terms of name-recognition, he beat half of the world’s Named-rank adventurers.
Obviously, having a famous adventurer who came from your country was a boon. Ailendamus had long wanted for a big representative, and the reason they didn’t have one was a bit of that old ironic hindsight; when they’d conducted a review, it had transpired that all their talent that normally went into the adventurers who made it big…had been recruited as promising [Knights], [Mages], and so on.
You could do too well in mobilizing your young population. Thusly, Ailendamus would have loved their own adventurer to make figurines out of and to advertise their nation. Pisces would have been looking at a substantial deal to represent the Kingdom of Glass and Glory already except for the, uh, [Necromancer] thing.
That was why Padurn Jealnet had been on television. It wasn’t hostile! Not quite. It was Ailendamus feeling their way around him as an issue.
Embracing a [Necromancer] was unthinkable in a post-Az’kerash world, but he had been dead for a decade. And adventurers were their own breed…but it still would have been a hard sell.
On the other hand, Pisces Jealnet wasn’t the wretched sort of fellow you sometimes got in high-level adventurers. He was, by all accounts the Court of Masks could find of him, rather brave. Selfless in battle.
…But he was a [Necromancer].
“Damn! But for his class and we’d be printing stories in Tales of Adventure and Woe already! We don’t have anyone half as appealing in our Gold-rankers.”
