Colth shouted, and Pisces saw another bouncing orb of magic come their way. This time, Colth caught it and threw it back—but arrows joined the orb. One hit Pisces in the shoulder, and he slammed against the ground. The Stitch-folk summons were ricocheting their arrows too?
“Pisces!”
Colth checked him, but Pisces’ arm was one huge bruise; no blood. Stalker’s underarmor again. Even so, Pisces was rattled as he pressed himself against the wall. Ceria snarled.
“That’s it! Circlet, [Extreme Spell]. [Frostbolt Swarm]! [Whiteout Blizzard]!”
She leaned out from behind her barrier, aiming only her wand out as Pisces felt the mana surge again. She began firing blue flickers of light, like Frost Faeries, so cold they made Pisces’ skin hurt. Her other hand was holding a miniature cyclone of snow and ice to her chest.
Dualcasting? And what Skill was—
Two of the summons vanished instantly, freezing over then disappearing in flashes of light. Wildcard took cover as another summon went down, and Ceria aimed f—
A series of four explosions and a Tripvine Bag—three of them tied together—exploded against her [Ice Walls]. They sent Ceria sprawling forwards, and Pisces leapt up.
“Ceria!”
This time, he fired an elongated [Flame Swathe] and a [Deathbolt] straight through a summoned Stitch-folk’s chest. That kept them down, and Colth hacked away the vines to reveal—
Ceria only had a scraped face and bloody nose, but she was cursing as she ripped vines off her.
“My spell!”
She’d lost focus, and all the mana she’d poured into her overcharged spell was gone. Colth snapped at her.
“We need to know when you’re casting! You’re too much of a target when they sense—”
Pisces saw Ceria slap one hand against the broken [Ice Wall], and it grew, doubling in thickness. She snarled back at Colth.
“Yeah, yeah, I get it! Rebuilding the barriers. [Frozen Armor]. Some cover? I’m going to [Snap Freeze] them!”
Pisces was about to scream at her—they were from Earth! Erin’s people. But—he had never seen any Earthers who were actually adventurers or even warriors. Then his eyes flicked up.
“Watch out!”
The [Arcane Barrier] spell that Ceria was rebuilding went down as eight spells hit it in quick succession and blew the corridor to pieces. No, not spells…whatever Lareceina was throwing.
Just compressed mana. They weren’t as powerful as [Fireballs] or [Lightning Bolts], but he realized the young woman was just…flicking them at his team. With her thumbs. As if they were marbles.
Ingenious. How many did she have? She was like Saliss, but magic. Could he do that? The [Necromancer] had to abandon his [Bone Walls] and used [Flash Step] to dodge away. He was of the opinion they had to fall back, but Yvlon just stepped out from behind one of Ceria’s [Ice Walls]. She’d gone silent as the ranged firefight had progressed. Now she eyed the glowing Stitch-folk entrenched with Wildcard.
“They’re summoned beings, right, Colth?”
“Right—”
“Then I’m their dance partner. [Aspect of Silver]. Cover me.”
“No, don’t—damnit!”
Yvlon’s skin morphed to silver, and she charged out of cover and straight at the Wildcards. She never made a sound—just ran at them as arrows bounced off her skin. Two orbs flicked at her and exploded—
The magic did nothing to Yvlon’s silver body. Ceria was shouting.
“Horns of Hammerad—let’s get them!”
Pisces hesitated. He cast [Invisibility], unable to follow Yvlon’s insane charge. Colth was trying to cover him with his bow. Then he saw Yvlon grinning.
 
——
 
The Silver Killer was coming. She ran through Lareceina’s magic without even flinching. Leo pivoted, but he was terrified.
The Stitch-folk summons charged, and Yvlon hit one—they planted a glowing sword in her throat, or tried to. The magical blade shattered, and she punched through their chest.
Stuck clawed fingers in another and ripped them apart. Her arms exploded into spikes as Wildcard retreated, shouting.
“Don’t let her get near you!”
She was like the Terminator! Her arms scythed through magic and the summoned warriors, and Leo was ordering the rest back—he saw a metal face appear out of the fading magic.
She was grinning. Teeth bared. She charged straight at him, and her arms had turned into sword-blades. All he had was a tennis racket. Leo braced—and Kusal leapt out from behind the ruined barricades.
Sneak attack. The Silver Killer twisted. She even blinked at the strange object that Kusal held. A little, black rectangular box—well, two of them. Duct-taped together.
“[Gadget: Overload].”
The [Rogue of Tricks] ducked one of Yvlon’s arms as she twisted. Then he hit her with the stun guns. The Silver Killer jerked, freezing in place as he unloaded enough electricity from the self-defense weapons from Earth to knock down a Manticore.
Smoke rose from her skin as she twitched—then swung. Muzzily, but Kusal leapt back, eyes wide.
“Oh my—”
The Silver Killer kept swinging at him, then twisted around. She’d stopped charging Leo, which meant it was his turn. The [Tennis Champion] spoke.
“[Grand Slam].”
For a second, his racket felt like it was that of a Giant’s. He hit her with it and sent her flying down the corridor. Then shouted.
“My arm!”
It was like trying to hit a piece of metal! But it sent her reeling and let his team fall back. Lareceina flicked more orbs, and they detonated in midair as Colthei the Supporter sniped them down.
“Kusal! Reset!”
“On it!”
The [Rogue] leapt up. He whirled something in his hands. Then flung it out. It was just a bag made of faded leather, stamped with a bit of magic. He’d attached a rope to it and tugged at the right moment. The Silver Killer, storming back at them, saw Kusal heave, and his bag of holding inverted—disgorging everything it had.
[Bag of Holding: Quadruple Capacity]. The stones, sand, camel manure—everything that Kusal had dumped into it—exploded down the corridor. The [Rogue] leapt away, then grabbed a second bag of holding and dumped two more barricades down.
“[Second Bag of Holding]—is any of it working?”
“I think so! Where’s the [Supporter]?”
The Silver Killer was buried and fighting out of the sand. Her [Aspect of Silver] finally wore off, and Lareceina shouted.
“Let’s get them! [Ready, Set, Serve]!”
She formed another orb of mana and tossed it at Kusal. He fielded it up, and Leo hesitated. Where—
The [Necromancer] appeared, and Leo blocked the sword-slash. The orb landed by their feet, and both men leapt back, but Lareceina refused to let it detonate.
“Here we go—[Gadgets: Recharge]!”
Kusal shouted. He saw Yvlon running at them and jumped out of cover again. She tried to back up, but his stun guns fired, and the electricity arced to the nearest grounding point; her metal armor and arms.
This time, she shouted, but Leo was fighting for his life. The [Necromancer]’s rapier was slashing, and a tennis racket was not meant for—
Pisces thrust the tip through the strings and nearly lost it when Leo twisted it, trying to disarm him. In response, Pisces pointed his free hand, and flames burst out.
They burned across a shield that Leo had drawn. The flames baked the young man’s skin, but he just let go of the racket and drew a sword. Pisces had to shake the tennis racket off his rapier and dodged the slash.
The [Tennis Champion] swung again and saw Pisces going for a parry. So he whispered.
“[Spinning Blade].”
His sword twisted around in the air and knocked the rapier aside. Too fast to parry. Pisces lunged under the blade and fired a [Deathbolt]. Blocked by Leo’s shield—both warriors’ weapons were out of line. So Leo went for a kick to the balls.
Pisces leapt back from that. Turned his head—
Lareceina’s orb of compressed air blew him off his feet. The [Magus of Compression] turned, and her thumbs flicked eight orbs into Yvlon Byres’ chest. The Silver Killer braced—but Lareceina just turned and hit Pisces with three orbs. One green, one white, one red—
“Leo!”
Kusal. Leo turned and saw ice was covering Kusal’s armor. He was freezing in place! The [Ice Mage]. Leo pulled one of Lareceina’s magic orbs from his belt. He took aim at her—and Colth took him out at the legs.
Leo hit the ground, and the Ultimate Supporter’s blades were at his neck.
“Stand down! Your Captain’s a dead man if he moves!”
Colthei had used his armor to move, invisibly, and half the Stitch-folk summons were gone. And he had his blades at Leo’s throat. Kusal was nearly frozen in place too. But Ceria had three Stitch-folk warriors surrounding her as she formed a narrow wall of ice around her they were attacking.
“Stand down or your team dies!”
Colth bellowed at the remaining member of Wildcard on her feet. Lareceina was projecting a rippling barrier of mana in front of her, back to a wall. She didn’t move.
“Stitch-folk of Yad’thuv, hold. Kill him and your teammates die.”
Ceria broke out of her ice walls as Colth hesitated.
“I’m fine. Your team’s the goner if—shit.”
She turned, and Lareceina pointed at the Silver Killer, who’d gone unusually still. She was gazing at the eight glowing marbles of magic stuck to her front. Most were lightning. Pisces was lying on the ground, hands raised. He was sweating as he stared at a glowing green orb on his chest. Colth muttered an oath as Leo groaned.
“Damnit. Standoff. We’ve got your team dead to rights.”
“Everyone but you is surrounded or dead. You’ll never get all the summons. You’ve lost.”
Lareceina shot back. Colth sneered at her. Leo croaked.
“Hey, Lareceina?”
“What, Leo?”
“Timeout. Let’s negotiate.”
 
——
 
The two people who wanted to negotiate least were Colth and Lareceina. Probably because they weren’t the ones in mortal danger.
Pisces quite appreciated Captain Leo’s words. Because he was pretty sure he could dispel whatever was in Lareceina’s orb. It really was just…compressed mana. He’d never seen a compression spell like this, though.
Compress magic? It wasn’t something Wistram [Mages] thought of. Why bother? The spell itself was simple, though he felt like Lareceina had put a ‘lock’ on it. The equivalent of tying a bit of string into a knot. Not hard to figure out—just hard to dispel in a firefight.
His issue was that he wasn’t sure if dispelling it would release the magic. And he didn’t want to try it at the moment.
Yvlon? She was just eying the orbs of lightning, and she and he had the same thought. If she had her [Aspect of Silver], it might work, but without it? Yvlon wasn’t that tough.
Ceria eyed the Stitch-folk warriors still aiming glowing blades at her. She had her ice armor spell on, but from the way she grimaced, she understood their position was bad. Colth might have had his blades at Leo’s throat, but…
“It’s mutual destruction. Drop your weapons; we have Queen Yisame on our side.”
“You’re the ones in trouble. The Gold-rankers above are coming, and I don’t think they like you.”
Lareceina shot back. Ceria flicked some hair out of her eyes.
“True, but in that scenario, they deal with us, then you. Look, we can stand here uncomfortably for a few hours, but all that will happen is that either a Gold-rank team will come down and we’ll have to deal with that, or Yisame’s people come down and you’re double-dead.”
She smiled, and Pisces wondered how fast Yisame’s people would actually get to this remote location. But Lareceina folded her arms.
“That’s not likely. What’s likelier is that the Gold-rank team comes down and we team up with them and split the loot while dealing with you. Or our employers come down, and then you’re in trouble.”
Their employers? Ceria frowned.
“Okay, hold on. We’re employed by the palace. Queen Yisame? Sovereign ruler of all she beholds and a lot more since this place is huge? You’re making an enemy of the kingdom. This is their tomb.”
The young Human woman’s eyes flashed.
“That’s their claim, but we’re being employed by the Hemp-folk who actually live here! This is their ancestral tomb! We took this contract to keep the [Queen] or any other faction from looting the warriors that belong to the Hemp!”
When Pisces heard that, he actually raised his head. And a few things clicked. Wait a second, the Reed-folk…he had a sinking feeling made only worse when he heard Colth curse.
“Aw, Creler eggs. We didn’t do our due diligence—”
It hadn’t occurred to Pisces that Yisame would send him to…loot someone else’s tomb. The [Necromancer] rasped.
“So am I to understand that the Hemp are, ah, coming for their ancestral souls?”
For answer, Lareceina fished something out from around her neck. It was…a little amulet? It was very stylish, and when Pisces eyed it, he thought the design on front resembled that of the Tomb of Yad’thuv’s architecture.
“They gave us the key-seals so the summoned warriors would fight with us. I would say that establishes their claim to this site above anyone else’s, even the Crown’s.”
So would he. Pisces groaned as Colth swore under his breath. Lareceina spoke directly to Ceria.
“Reinforcements from the local area are likely to be on our side. That is my summation of the odds. We have the treasure, and our teams are stalemated. So. Are you going to negotiate or explode?”
Lareceina had a way with words Pisces admired. He was making expressions at Ceria to negotiate. She was staring at his chest—
“Try to dispel my magic and it’ll go off, Ice Squirrel.”
The young woman’s eyes narrowed, and Yvlon sighed.
“Ceria. This is my fault for charging in. What do you want?”
Leo croaked.
“You go your way, we go ours—no backstabbing, and we’ll give you the summons under Level 40.”
“No deal.”
“Oh, come on, Springwalker—”
Pisces called at her, and Ceria shouted back.
“Fifty-fifty.”
“Please, your team can pretend they’re all atrophied. We’ve got three of your teammates dead to rights.”
“We have two of yours. Colth vs Lareceina with a few summoned idiots seems like a good fight to me. Want to find out who survives?”
I’m not going to be one of those people! Stalker’s underarmor might reduce some of the blasts, but his flesh beneath wouldn’t survive those detonations. Yvlon might, but Pisces was glaring at Ceria. However, the [Cryomancer] was in full bluff mode. Lareceina’s eyes flickered to Leo.
“You’d risk your teammates’ lives over treasure? I really do hate you.”
“Hey, maybe I don’t like them that much.”
Ceria ignored Yvlon’s and Pisces’ glares. Lareceina eyed her, and the Stitch-folk with blades pointed at Ceria.
“One of the people in mortal danger is you.”
“Well…maybe I don’t like myself much. Let’s call it 60-40. Including Named-rank spirits.”
Ceria was still haggling. Lareceina just folded her arms.
