The writing on the walls was in the common tongue, telling Colth this wasn’t too old or made by unexpected groups. It was Pisces who hmmed and read as Ceria directed the summoned creatures to split. She sent the Ice Elementals forwards, the Medain minions right, and let the Skeleton Champions go left. The [Necromancer] eyed the writings.
“It says ‘Skein of Yad’thuv’ is the western wing. Whereas the right reads, ‘Threads of the Guiders’. But the northern tomb is simply, ‘Legacy of Thuv’s Reed-folk’. Fascinating. From this, I infer that the left corridor isn’t what we need. Stitch-folk might put just a lifethread in a pot.”
“Mass-graves, then. Low-level. ‘Threads of the Guiders’ means the ruling class? They might be valuable, but probably are lower-level. Treasure might go there.”
Ceria commented, and Colth concurred.
“Wall the left side and north? The north sounds like our destination, mind you. ‘Legacy’ indicates that they intended this place to be found, and their champions sound like a legacy.”
Pisces sniffed at everyone stealing his thunder, but nodded. Yvlon just raised a hand.
“Reed-folk? Why are they called that? This is a high-level tomb, right?”
“Maybe they were all made with reeds if this place had water during their time, Yvlon.”
“I know, but can you even make reeds into cloth? Is…is that comfortable?”
The question genuinely gave the Horns pause. Colth knew you could make cloth out of most plant or animal fibers, but he hesitated.
“You’re right, it sounds closer to Hemp-style cloth. But magical reeds? Or maybe that’s how their civilization evolved? Let’s speculate later.”
They were about to head down the right corridor when Pisces held up a hand.
“Contact! One of my Skeleton Champions went down; the rest are fighting.”
Colth nodded.
“I’ll go first with my armor’s advanced invisibility if I need to. Yvlon, don’t let them get at Ceria. If we need to, just [Ice Wall] and fall back, but try not to cut me off if they detect me?”
Pisces nodded and lifted a glowing finger. Yvlon strode forwards as Ceria covered her with a wand, and Colth kept low next to her, bow aimed. They heard fighting ahead of them.
“—dodge]! They’re damned fast!”
“Someone’s coming! I can sense their footfalls! Living! Hey, help us—”
“They’re the ones summoning the undead, jackal-brained asses! Hold! Hold, we wish to parlay!”
The most authoritative voice came from ahead, and Colth decided not to use his armor’s powers—yet. They’d need time to recharge. Instead, he peered down the sloping corridors and, as they descended, saw Pisces’ remaining two skeletal champions fighting a group of six.
Well, some of the six. It was a mix of species. Three were wounded, one quite badly burnt. The other three adventurers were…Gold-rankers? Colth didn’t recognize the team, but the wounded ones felt weaker.
Golds and some Silvers? Not unheard of, but it was stupid for this. He called down as he aimed at the leader, who was actually one of the Fox Beastkin.
“Horns of Hammerad! And you are?”
“Nerrhavia’s bones, it’s them. We are the Adventurers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen! Pull back these undead! We wish to negotiate!”
“What a name. I should have called myself Ceria, the Cold Half-Elf.”
Ceria muttered sotto voce at the others. Yvlon snorted, but Pisces was already calling the Skeleton Champions off. Colth would have preferred them to stay at melee range, but he just called down.
“You’re interfering in the business of Queen Yisame, Adventurers!”
“We took on a job, same as you. It’s not personal. Listen…you.”
“Colth, the Supporter.”
He sighed and the Fox Beastkin squinted.
“We don’t want to quarrel with the Bane or Silver Killer, alright? Nor are we carrying treasure; the other team already did for us. We would have left but for the teams above. Let us pass, and we’ll go. Agreed?”
Colth turned to Ceria, and she tapped the circlet.
“I don’t think they’re lying. Hey, Captain You! You guys come up one-by-one, and we’ll have Colth search you and then let you leave, agreed? There’s walls of ice up, so I’ll have to let you out.”
Muttering from below. The adventurers didn’t like that.
“Why one by one?”
“So you don’t try and pull a fast one. We’re not going to kill you. You can watch us, but that’s the deal.”
“Do you have any assurances?”
“Swear on a truth spell.”
“We don’t have any.”
Colth was pursing his lips, thinking of a solution, when Yvlon called out.
“I swear by my arms. Silver and steel be my witness, let my arms fall off if I lie. I’m from House Byres of Izril; upon my class, I promise. And Pisces will swear by his broken chains. Agreed?”
The Adventurers muttered to each other, but Colth raised his brows.
“Pretty good, Yvlon.”
“They like poetic stuff.”
Sure enough, the Adventurers called back.
“Agreed! Swear!”
Pisces and Yvlon gave their words, and the adventurers came up, though they actually had to help some of their wounded party members. They were badly hurt indeed; all of them had magical damage, and the worst off was a Garuda whose feathers were scorched to her skin.
“Damn, you don’t have healing potions?”
Colth actually had to stop checking them for loot and pull out a burn salve. The Garuda twitched when he applied it, but he thought it wasn’t critical. Just bad. The Captain, whose name was Fetriv, only grunted as he watched his team moving past the Horns.
“Not for that. The teams you want all went straight. We heard a second team fly past.”
“The Jade Garudas. So the first team got you? How many, and what did they do?”
Intelligence was key. Fetriv just scowled.
“We were here first! We set out while you were all napping—but they had summoned Stitch-folk we had to fight past. Damn them. It was all a test; the summoning crystals are waiting to be claimed—once you slay the guardians.”
Interesting. Colth was sorry to miss the actual dungeoning portion.
“Let me guess, the other team let you do all the hard work then came at you from behind?”
He was surprised when Fetriv shook his head.
“No! They must have had a Skill or cloaked themselves; the summoned warriors didn’t attack them! We tried to fight, but their [Mage] just hit us with…something. It wasn’t a [Fireball]. We had barriers up, but she detonated the spell, and the other two forced us to retreat down here. Then you all showed up.”
Hmm. Well, it was good enough. Colth nodded.
“You’re cleared—except for this.”
He reached down and plucked something from the wounded Garuda’s side. The Adventurers stirred, and one protested.
“H-hey—”
“You put whatever you grabbed in here.”
The bag of holding had soot all over it, but it wasn’t actually damaged; they’d just made it look like it was. Colth emptied it into his bag of holding.
“It probably wasn’t what was needed for your assignment, anyways. And we’re not going to sort it. Clear out, deal? The Jade Garudas are up ahead, and it’s going to be Named-rank fighting with that other team. Which one was it?”
For answer, Fetriv shrugged.
“One of the ones at the damn banquet. Fine! Open the walls and we’re quits. Thanks for not murdering us and reanimating us, Bane. Good thing we never bought a Slave Adventurer.”
He commented to his teammates, then saw Colth and Pisces staring at him. The team of mixed adventurers beat a hasty retreat, and Colth muttered.
“Ceria?”
“Opening a gap in my ice walls. They’ll squeeze through. I’ll re-wall the main corridor. Summons found nothing on the left side. Maybe keep them there in case a team’s in hiding? But I say let’s push the north.”
Good instincts, good leadership. Colth didn’t object, and the Horns saw the other team running as Ceria raised an [Ice Wall]. But she didn’t get it up entirely before she whirled.
“North—”
There was a muted squawk—then the scream of something hot hitting Ceria’s [Ice Walls] that had blocked the northern wing off. Colth saw white-hot light behind the wall and snapped.
“Yvlon, forwards! Let’s flank ‘em, left and right!”
Ceria dove to the left and raised an [Ice Wall] at chest height to crouch behind. Pisces copied her as Yvlon and the skeletons planted themselves in the ground. Colth saw something burn through Ceria’s ice walls, fast.
“Jade Garudas. Let’s get—”
A hole appeared, and he fired a [Lob Shot] through the gap as soon as the steam revealed one. Just an arrow with a Potion of Blast attached. That was a lovetap in Named-rank terms.
However—the Garuda who barrelled through the gap came out fast, in a horizontal dive, caught the arrow in one claw, and tossed it back at Colth. He aborted the [Remote Detonation] Skill, kicked the arrow down the corridor—
“We’re retreating. Stop or we fight.”
The Garuda had brilliant magical feathers—and a cracked beak and scorch marks all over his armor. Colth hesitated, and Ceria threw up a hand.
“Swear to it or I’ll wall your team off.”
“I swear. We’ve been bested. Damn these walls!”
Colth waited for the nod, and Ceria lowered the [Ice Walls]. Instantly, three more Garuda flew over and carried one of their teammates out.
No burn marks here. Colth eyed the fallen Garuda and asked the obvious.
“Who got you? And how?”
“Some new team. Lack of air, the damn Stitch-folk summons—and whatever the hell weapon their Captain is using! They’re set up down there. We can’t maneuver. We’re out.”
The Jade Garudas were clearly a cautious team, for all the risks they’d taken. Like any Named-rank who’d lived long enough, they’d seen something they didn’t like and bailed out. Colth checked them for loot, then turned to Ceria.
“They’re clear.”
“Opening this wall. What team? Stitch-folk?”
The Captain of the Jade Garudas had magical talons still radiating heat. He grimaced at them.
“I thought they were your friends. Humans. None of them look Chandrarian. I’d say ‘best of luck’, but I’d rather you all failed right now.”
He flapped through the second ice wall, and the Horns glanced at each other. So, one team had held down a weaker Gold-rank team and a Named-rank one? True, the Jade Garudas were out of their element, but that set alarms ringing in Colth’s head.
“Sounds like one team’s actually in position. I don’t know how they got the Stitch-folk on their side. Might be they can suborn summons? Or they just activated the crystals. Let’s move up.”
“Should we negotiate?”
Pisces was licking his lips. Ceria laughed softly.
“For what? Half the loot? They’ve got everything, and all they have to do is break out or beat down every team who comes in here. That’s going to be hard; I can tell someone’s hitting my ice walls at the entrance. Probably too scared to squeeze their way in. They’re trying fire magic, though, which is as good as pissing on it.”
“Let’s call it twenty minutes before anyone gets past both ice walls?”
Colth guessed, and Ceria shrugged.
“Double that if—no, wait, something’s taking chunks out. Must be Raava and her pickaxe, but I’ll solidify. Twenty, yeah.”
“Then send the Ice Elementals and Skeleton Champions forwards and advance. I think we use your [Ice Walls] and let you hang back; Yvlon charges, I go invisible, and Pisces sniffs.”
“Good plan.”
“I do what?”
“Go long-ranged, unless you can get past their defenses. You’re squishy; Yvlon and I aren’t. You only have 89 Health Points, Pisces. It says so right on your character sheet. I’ll show you when we get out of here.”
“Damn, that’s only a bit more than mine. Pisces does have the Stalker underarmor, but Colth’s right that we can’t take careless hits. Okay, team. One more group to spank. I’m pretty sure that’s Wildcard down there. Time to give them a real reason to hate us.”
The Horns advanced past the ice wall the Jade Garudas had melted through. Yvlon was smiling faintly, but saying nothing. Tensed. Pisces was pretending to sniff, but his rapier was drawn, and he was staring down, following his Skeleton Champions. Ceria just smiled, eyes flicking from Pisces to Colth to Yvlon…
The Ultimate Supporter was calm. Smiling—he sent a Skill on the summoned minions.
“[Summons: Enhanced Movement]. Any cont—”
Boom. The Horns felt it up ahead. Yvlon started running, and Ceria called out.
“That’s one Ice Elemental d—two. Damn, they’re not supposed to be that weak!”
“Pull them back! We’ll send them with the Champions!”
Ceria tried, but there was a second explosion. She called one up the hallway, and Colth saw it sloping downwards.
Nice, long tunnel…with scorch marks on the bottom. He held up a hand.
“Hold on, I sense—”
“Something on the ground. Walls. Magic. That must be trap spells.”
“Taking them out.”
Colth fired an arrow at one. He swore he hit whatever it was; some little object, he thought. The size of his thumb? Good magic. But the arrow did nothing, so he grunted.
“[Piercing Shot].”
The shockwave blasted up the corridor, and he blinked.
“That wasn’t fire, but air. What the hell was—”
The other magical signatures vanished abruptly as Ceria hit another with an [Ice Spike] and unleashed a torrent of electricity. She called out.
“Looks like the [Mage] has pulled back their mana. Not sure what that spell was. The Circlet’s never seen it before.”
Well, I don’t like that. But you could hide the effects of a spell with a Skill. Pisces just frowned.
“Weird mana. I almost thought I recognized—”
“Hey up there! We’ve got the treasure of Yad’thuv! It’s over! Let us out peacefully and we’ll share a bit of it; if not, you’ll have no chance! Deal?”
A voice from below, loud, male, and reasonably confident. The Horns stopped. Ceria muttered.
“Circlet recognizes that voice as the Wildcards. Hey, Leonardo, Kusal, Lareceina! There are a bunch of angry Gold-rank teams behind us, and we’re all on the same side! You’re interfering with [Queen] Yisame’s own quest! How about we settle this without violence? You give us the stuff, we don’t stab you. Deal?”
There was a faint curse from below. Colth was moving down slowly. The damn slope meant he couldn’t see the corridor below, but it seemed to straighten out. Which meant the Horns were descending a ramp while whomever was there had a straight view of them.
Killzone. He hated cracking one, but if he could see what they had…
“The [Queen] isn’t the only person who put a request up for the Tomb, Captain Ceria! We beat a Named-rank team just now, and the summons are on our side! They’re stronger than you want to tangle with, on my word! Let’s call it 75-25?”
