Dead gods, she was good. Even the Heromakers had to admit they wouldn’t have tried to change Pisces and Yvlon into Stitch-folk. Delitandra did brief them, though.
“You are Silk-caste Stitch-folk today. Easier to go about the city. Some may decide to take advantage, but your rank confers far more privileges than not. You need not act greatly different. Just do not make obviously outsider comments. Oh, and do not do anything completely stupid for a Silk to do in Cotton or Hemp areas, since you are visiting one of the Hemp. It is unlikely you could.”
“And if we’re found out?”
Yvlon was nervous, but Delitandra gave her a quizzical gaze.
“Think on it, Adventurer Yvlon. If you are, so what? You are merely, then, the famous Horns, and no one would begrudge you that. You will then be mobbed, but this will let you exit the palace. Silk Adventurers. We would go with you, but, eh, we shall go with Captain Ceria as we are noticeable. Or help Nawalishifra with her great project.”
To find metal to augment Yvlon’s arms. The [Armsmistress] had been worried it would be far more onerous, but to her relief, she and Pisces were being treated like capable adventurers. He nodded to her.
“I think we use [Invisibility] anyways, Yvlon. More than one person’s used it that I’ve seen.”
She nodded back, and they emerged into the grand palace of Tyrant’s Rest, filled with orange-brown stone, the pale beige sandstone augmented with beautiful colors, a palace of ancient eras that had worn down with time, but still bustled with the most attractive Stitch-folk you could imagine, wealth and power beyond dreams on display.
 
——
 
—The rest of the city was sort of like that. But the moment you left the palace, you saw it became far less wealthy. Oh, the edifices were there. The streets were made of ancient stone, the coliseum, great buildings of old towered high, but the streets grew into disrepair in places, and the people were less grand.
“The architecture of old imperium has outlived that of the people, at least, outside the palace.”
Pisces summarized how it felt far better than Yvlon could as they strolled past the crowds clamoring to see the Horns. They were spotted, actually; more than one person turned as the two invisible [Adventurers] passed, but then sagged.
“Just some Silks. Wait, that carriage—[Fame Sense]! They’re on it!”
When Pisces and Yvlon heard one of the [Ardent Fans] activate a Skill, they hurried out of the way. But once they cleared the street around Tyrant’s Rest, the truth is they just became ordinary visitors to the city. Tourists. No one was waiting for them, so Pisces dropped the [Invisibility] spell. People ran into you otherwise.
It was the first day they’d really been allowed to just…visit the capital of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They’d been so important and busy that Yvlon hadn’t taken much in. Now, she gazed around.
“Dead gods, we truly are on another continent.”
Pisces began chuckling, and she turned red, but it was in everything. The skin tones, the visible stitch marks—even the air—everything was alien to Yvlon.
Not bad, necessarily! But she stared at a group of young Stitch-folk who were kicking around a soccer ball down one street, laughing, young adults like what she might find around Liscor except in species—then at a flying Djinni bearing a huge load of goods on its back as it carried wares to market.
Fantasy. Even for a [Lady] of the north, this was truly like the stuff of storybooks. The same for Pisces. He was smiling upwards until he saw the cat-headed Djinni and remembered to look. Then he saw the chains around the Djinni’s legs, and it was like a shadow passed over the world.
For there was always the reminder, lurking in even the most beautiful sights here. That word that echoed in his mind.
Roshal.
Pisces’ head turned slowly, and he gave the street a second glance. The bustling hub that was one of the major cities of Chandrar hurt his eyes with the differences on the street. Darker skin. Stitched skin.
Sandstone where granite or wood would otherwise predominate. Different clothing from Izril; long robes and clothing that protected one’s skin from the abrasive sand and wind. Even different magic, yes. Enchantments in Izril tended to work based on gems, thanks to Salazsar. Steel was common as well, whereas Pisces saw more gold on display here.
Fine metals of far more diverse varieties, even mithril on display in stalls, albeit only enough for an earring or brooch clasp—if it was authentic. But also—Nerrhavia’s Fallen had more magic made into items.
A rug that might not fly, but could flip dust off itself. A magical doormat. Or how about a pot that would roll around for you, tumbling laundry or food? The magic was in the craft, not just an external sigil applied with melted gemstone. The hawkers of each stall called out constantly to every person.
“Cotton, sir! Would you be interested in fresh thread? Imported from Izril!”
“You three! Any interest in the latest goods from Baleros? Buy your spices now; shipping is still a mess, and prices will rise with the war!”
“Weatherfur dyes from the Meeting of Tribes! Support Gnolls, yes?”
That last one came from a boy hawking dyes at a respectable-looking stall attached to a store. It was built into the store such that he could open a door and nip inside for samples or to process orders. It was a clever advertisement; the Gnollish linguistic oddity caught Pisces’ attention and a few more on the street.
The boy was no Gnoll, of course. But he did have furry ears on his head. Pisces stared.
That’s right, furry wolf-ears. Not really a Gnoll’s if you knew Gnolls, but close enough. They stood up proudly and twitched as he convinced a few passersby to come over. He had a sly expression as he showed them Weatherfur dyes which were vibrant. Pisces began to drift over himself, wondering what Yvlon would make of—
And then, because he’d thought to look, he saw it. Just for a second, as the boy lifted a little sample tray for an interested Stitch-woman, Pisces saw a flash around his right arm. A thin bangle made of silver, engraved with deep runes that formed a magical circuit. One look and Pisces knew.
[Slave].
The boy was a slave. The magic Roshal used was…unsubtle. They did not need to hide the magical signature of their slave-collars. Far from it, they wanted someone to find a runaway slave. And the collars had only two main purposes.
To stay on the [Slave] so they could not escape, to act as locator beacons. And—to kill the runaway or to be activated to punish or manipulate those that wore such things.
This one had no ‘additional’ effects. It was a simple band for a child. And the boy didn’t appear to be hurt. He was, in fact, charming a Stitch-woman who asked how he’d had his ears done. Lying outrageously, too.
“These? These came from a Gnollish friend I have, Miss. He let me copy the designs and travels from the Meeting of Tribes to bring such dyes! From Feshi Weatherfur’s own tribe—he knows her, you see. This sunburst red one? Her favorite.”
Pisces doubted that the boy had any Gnollish friend from Izril. He was selling goods and was good at it, too. But the [Necromancer] drew no closer. He was trying to see if the boy…was hurt. He couldn’t see any bruises or scars, but in his experience, it was easy to hide such things. His father used to hit his back so it wasn’t…
He could feel the collar around his neck. Pisces tore his eyes from the boy for a second, breathing hard. Then he glanced around and saw them.
Once he recognized the magic, it was everywhere. Mostly in the more well-to-do stores or establishments. Not just storefronts, either. He stared at a restaurant serving pizza to Chandrarians like it was some exotic treat. And there, serving tables, was a Garuda with a bangle around one leg. So subtle it wasn’t even obvious—
Not everyone wore collars around the neck. In fact, the only group he saw with ones there were a bunch of laborers who had almost nothing beyond sack cloth and collar. Different kinds of [Slave]. But this was Nerrhavia’s Fallen; the largest economy in the world. And [Slaves]—
“Pisces?”
Yvlon touched his shoulder, and he reached for his rapier. He spun, and she recoiled.
“Pisces, I lost you. What—”
She glanced around sharply, but didn’t see it at first. Pisces breathed in, out.
“I—I’m sorry, Yvlon. I just noticed that there are—funny, I didn’t see any in the palace. There are [Slaves].”
“Where?”
She saw the laborers, but he had to point out the boy with wolf-ears. Yvlon stared at the ears, then the boy’s arm, and her face twisted up. Some of the enjoyment she’d had faded away, and she turned to him.
“I forgot that it’s everywhere. Reim hadn’t much, but they sell their prisoners of war for the King of Destruction’s armies, don’t they?”
Jecrass was anti-[Slave], and he had not lingered in Medain. Hraace might have had them, but again—Pisces shuddered. He looked around, then saw the boy at the dye-stall staring at him.
Out of the corner of his eyes. He was calling to people, but it seemed to Pisces that if he had recognized the boy, perhaps the boy had recognized him.
Why not? He might be wearing the Silk disguise, but he was still a [Mage] in white robes with a rapier…when everyone knew he was here. And Yvlon had just said his name. That, uh, was probably it.
Pisces turned, and for a second, the boy and he locked eyes.
Pisces tried to read the innocent green eyes of the ten year-old Stitch-boy’s face. But they didn’t give him anything. Just a bland smile. A bow and motioning with a hand.
Then—widening in alarm. The boy spun, and Pisces saw the door open. A Stitch-woman appeared, yanked the boy—
The shopkeeper? He saw the boy vanish into the store, hurried away by not another [Slave], but the owner of the place itself. She stared at him with true fear and hid the boy away. The stall was left unguarded, and Pisces realized that was because of him.
Pisces. Scourge of Roshal. Freer of [Slaves]. Killer of—
He stood there, and Yvlon put a cool hand on his shoulder.
“We can’t do anything right now, Pisces.”
“I’m aware, Yvlon. Don’t worry, I’m not—not a fool.”
They were only in Nerrhavia’s Fallen by the grace of Yisame. Breaking the law openly would void her support, and they were already on thin ice. He knew that, and Yvlon patted his shoulder.
“I know you know. I’m just…c’mon. We’ll get a mob of fans if we don’t hurry.”
He strode off, not glancing back at the stall. The boy might get in trouble. But Pisces did cast a simple spell; it reflected a corner of the world around him. A moving mirror. He saw, through it, the door open once he was two dozen paces away, and the boy slunk into his stall. He began calling out again, but his head turned twice to follow Pisces.
Then he was gone, lost in the crowd. The [Necromancer] kept walking. He had somewhere to be. But the sight of that was a stain on his enjoyment. It always would be. A shadow in every room, a stain on the ground. If he chose to look.
 
——
 
Tyrant’s Rest was pleasant, otherwise. And Yvlon kept pointing things out to Pisces as they walked. He tried to engage with it. In truth, he did welcome her company; without her, he’d have been lost in his thoughts.
But it was worth it to see Yvlon goggling at things like a girl, even if she did hurt his arms every time she grabbed him.
“Pisces, look! Look! An actual [Snake Charmer] and snakes! Are they for sale?”
Pisces glanced at a man encouraging passers-by to see snakes rising from clay pots as he blew a flute.
“I wouldn’t trust them once he stops playing or using his Skills. Oh. They’re for pest control?”
The quintessential sight the two foreigners had heard stories of was actually more of a pest-control service. The [Snake Charmer] was brisk as he lifted snakes up with tongs.
“For you, my Cotton friends, these are fine rat-hunters. Mice too! Just have them slither into any gaps in your walls or foundations and place a bucket underneath the hole—tall enough the rodents cannot jump out. And they will be gone, oh yes, within the day!”
“Do they handle Oresect bugs?”
One anxious Cotton mother asked, and the [Snake Charmer] hesitated.
“Not…metal insects. Some snakes may eat them, but they make the snake ill or will not die and just pass through them. Ah, but if you seek a remedy, I have an [Alchemist] friend who sells a most bountiful tonic one sprays to rust the dratted things! Almost all fall to it. A hundred pardons, but if you will wait but eight minutes, I could call him over to show you a demonstration…?”
He saw Yvlon and Pisces watching and bowed himself low as the people—all cotton and thus normal-looking to Pisces and Yvlon—stepped aside. Everyone bowed.
“Honored Silk-folk! May I interest you in my humble wares? If you had an interest in a pet or, pardon me to suggest it, pests of your own…”
“No, we’re just looking.”
Yvlon assured him, and the man bowed repeatedly.
“Of course, of course. Had you any desires? Any snakes to look at, Honored Silks?”
They assured him they didn’t, but he kept waiting for them, and only when they moved back did the worried woman and [Snake Charmer] resume their discussion. Yvlon knew that Elena’s treatment had made their skins glossier and touched up their faces, but that reminded her.
“Silk Stitch-folk truly are like nobility here, aren’t they, Pisces?”
“A second nobility given there are actual nobility, though I’ve never seen a noble made of cotton. It’s a bit unpleasant. It reminds me of home. That is to say, Ailendamus.”
She glanced at him as he walked with her.
“Terandrian kingdoms aren’t so bad, surely…?”
“Oh, not so openly. But a [Knight] receives privileges, as does any noble. It’s ‘better’ in Ailendamus—but I was always conscious of it. My father was in service to a local [Lord], so I had to be.”
Pisces scowled as he reflected on home, but it was so rare that Yvlon blinked at him. He caught her look and shifted.
“…It’s the only comparison I have.”
“No, it’s better than mine. I’ve always been a [Lady]. Just—imagine Revi having to bow and scrape all the time? No wonder she left.”
Pisces smiled, and they laughed about that. But his laughter caught like a fish hooked when he wondered if Revi had owned slaves or what her opinion was on…he coughed and shrugged.
“She’s not from here, but another Stitch-folk kingdom. But I imagine there are commonalities. Octavia is the one from here, Yvlon.”
Yvlon snapped her fingers with a sigh.
“Damn, I forgot. Do you think she’d really bow to every Silk person she passes?”
“Perhaps not as openly since she’s a Gold-ranker, but that’s the way it works. This bodyguard you injured? He was a Hemp-caste, was he not?”
Yvlon frowned.
