“Summoned spirits are powerful. Even if they degrade over time, the odds are a tomb like that held Named-ranks. Which turn into Gold-rank spirits in life. If we’re lucky, they were already preserved before their death.”
“What? So they processed their dead but sealed them up?”
Ceria frowned, and Colth nodded as the carriage got moving. Yvlon waved at several Bronze-ranks who’d painted their arms silver then almost slammed the door shut—she had fans. The carriage slowed because plenty of people had gathered outside to mob the Horns, but they got moving as guards cleared the streets. The magical carriage effortlessly navigated traffic and then left the city, moving faster and faster. Inside, the seats were comfortable, the air cooled.
The Horns were riding off to adventure, albeit not on their chariot but in comfort. Pisces felt a bit like Deniusth and the Named-ranks. The chariot was a lot of fun, if bumpy, but this was faster. Colth kept explaining to the others.
“Yes, Stitch-folk would have known someone wanted the remains. But you seal a tomb up like that as, well, insurance. Especially if you don’t want current [Summoners] running around and getting too powerful. It’s also emotional. Imagine someone using your dead friends or heroes.”
Pisces sombered. There was a core of necromancy to summoning. He nodded, and Yvlon got it.
“Ah, and because it was just found, everyone wants it. So Yisame has us grabbing it. What’re the odds another team was hired to also grab the stuff?”
Colth’s eyes glinted.
“Almost 100%. But they would never admit to wanting to steal what belongs to the crown. Still, that means we’ll have Gold-rank teams running in there unofficially. We’ll have the high ground there, but they’ll be paid to get what we’re after.”
“Even if accidents happen. Great. Adventurer on adventurer violence.”
Pisces finished, but he was the only one who seemed terribly unhappy. Colth was just calculating, and Yvlon grunted.
“If they’re a good team, they won’t take the contract or we can talk them down. I don’t like it, but it also lets us go travelling. We might visit the Mad Ones. According to the map, we’re headed eastwards.”
Where Bearig and at least some of my friends are. It was a big nation, but Pisces’ heart leapt. Colth nodded, eyes flicking to Pisces.
“We’ll take a long trip, even if the dungeon’s simple. Let’s focus on the dungeon first, ey, Pisces?”
“Of course. Undead…it’s always undead, isn’t it? I could probably slay most of them by snapping their necks. Unless they’re Skeleton Lords.”
Ceria flexed her skeletal hand, grinning.
“And the circlet’s good for anti-trap duty. The real danger’s other teams. How d’you want to tackle them? Colth? You’re the expert. Darn, I wish I had some of those spellbooks from the academy! Well, maybe I can learn a spell or two on the ride. It’ll take time, even in this carriage.”
Pisces and Yvlon exchanged looks for a second, but he was relieved; they were away from the academy, on an adventure, and closer to his own goals. He settled back as Colth began to plan.
 
——
 
It took thirty-eight minutes for Colth to come up with a plan and everyone to agree. Which left, uh…two days for transit.
It turned out the tomb was far away, and fast as magical carriages were, Nerrhavia’s Fallen was vast. So the travel was boring.
Here was the thing: the chariot was more fun because even if bugs sometimes hit you in the face and it bumped, you felt in the world. From behind the magical glass of the carriage? Sounds were muted, and it was too loud if you rolled down the windows because of the speed they were going.
Nor could the Horns slow; Colth was pretty sure any teams who’d gone from the capital would have taken this very conveyance, which meant they had to go full speed. After all, another team looting the tomb wouldn’t be instantaneous, but half a day’s march would be disastrous.
Thusly, Pisces got to see Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s roads, and that was a dry, dusty sight. In places, they were beautiful roads kept by Djinni; in others, literal dirt and sand with tracks. He pointed out where the roads the King of Destruction had built across Chandrar via Drevish met roads that the Immortal Tyrant had laid until Ceria hit him with a comment.
“Pisces, all your roads appear the same to me.”
Whereupon he sulked and read the book he’d checked out until Ceria started whistling. Colth produced some cards, but he bet like a literal Demon; he was used to the Haven, who were cardsharks. Only Ceria could keep up with him.
What did one do to cut the boredom? The same thing everyone else did, these days.
They watched television.
“Next. Next. Next.”
“Stop flipping through channels, Springwalker. That one looked—”
“It’s Chandrarian propaganda. See the logo on the side? Wonders of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Oh wait, we’re on it. It’s me stealing books! Okay, bored. Next.”
…Even finding a good channel was hard. Pisces put away his book because he felt mildly nauseous. He was, in fact, carriage-sick while trying to read. Nor did the Horns want to dwell on their popularity in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Colth was squinting at a complimentary booklet in the carriage.
“Eugh, it’s like someone ate on top of this. Disgusting. Hold on, let me file a complaint.”
There was a magical survey form, and he began writing on that. Pisces sighed.
“Let’s just watch something. Channel 2!”
“Drassi’s not on it all the time, Pisces. Plus, it’s boring today.”
“⅕ stars. There. Sent. It says here they have ‘on demand movies’. Movies. What kind of word is that?”
“Earther term.”
Yvlon and Pisces chorused. Colth scowled.
“You can’t say that about everything.”
“You can if it’s from Wistram. I’ve seen them at the inn. Erin’s got them. What are Wistram movies?”
“Recordings of famous events. Oho. The Players of Celum! Darn, no Elisial. Just the classics they did in Liscor. There’s tours of kingdoms—all propaganda, I bet. And—oh, the Ksmvr of Chandrar documentary.”
“Let’s watch that!”
Ceria brightened up at once. Yvlon shifted.
“I’ve already seen it.”
“You have? When?”
“The moment I got back to Izril and he told us what happened. You didn’t?”
“I heard it firsthand from Ksmvr.”
“He downplays everything, Pisces. It’s good.”
“Well, let’s watch it again—”
“I’ve seen it six times, Ceria. Isn’t there anything else?”
Pisces tapped his fingers together as Ceria threw up her hands.
“What about a historical documentary, perchance? Some retelling of the Creler Wars or, more interestingly, a city or nation?”
“Pass.”
Colth was interested, but the two female teammates overruled Pisces. Colth patted him on the shoulder.
“Okay, wait. According to this, there’s a chatroom that Wistram has. You can talk to other people. There’s even one dedicated to finding newsworthy events. I think I heard there was some fellow in First Landing who had a class dedicated to watching the television.”
“And they call me lazy—aha! Here it is!”
Ceria hunted around and hit something on the side of the scrying orb installed into the center of the carriage. A blue screen with scrolling white text appeared, and Pisces blinked at an advanced [Message] spell.
They never taught us that at Wistram. Ceria began scrolling through the chatrooms.
“Huh, this could be fun to mess with. I wonder if we can get anyone to believe it’s us. Wait…#television-1. Looks like there are…1,903 people inside. Whoa.”
“Anything worth watching?”
She was rapidly scrolling up and down, eyes flickering.
“Heh, is your super-viewer named ‘Molen’, Colth? Everyone’s deferring to him. Lord of the Couch, they’re calling him. Pretty funny. I’m definitely going to mess around with this place.”
“Rings a bell. There’s a Lord Molen Terland.”
Colth had an eidetic memory for people and places like that. Ceria hmmed.
“He’s talking about us! Classic Horns? Do we have a reputation? Am I predictable? Weird, he’s telling everyone to tune into one of the Terandrian channels. The one from Ailendamus? He’s not being complimentary, but he says it’s a ‘must-watch’ for Horns fans. Hold on, let me see if it’s on the scrying orb.”
She began changing channels as Yvlon squinted at the messages and seemed appalled.
“Someone wants to lick my metal foot?”
She edged back from the message box, and Colth chuckled.
“Ah, fans. You get used to it. You wouldn’t believe what kind of offers Mihaela got around her feet. A rather common fetish.”
“Colth, do you ever think we don’t need to know things?”
Pisces folded his fingers together, and the [Supporter] gave him a huge smile.
“I share the curse of knowledge, Pisces. I could hit you with something truly painful to hear.”
His smile dared Pisces to take him up on it. The [Necromancer] thought and carefully sat back.
“…No.”
A flashing [Message] lit up the text box as Yvlon stared in horror at the words, and she jerked. Then read more.
“Wait a second. This is a mass alert. Jaw of Zeikhal sighted? A juvenile one—”
Colth sat upright.
“That’s like an Adult Creler or natural disaster. They must be warning everyone to take cover. Near us?”
“No, it’s a ways away, but close enough…we’ll go well clear of it. They’re calling all adventuring teams. Do we go?”
Yvlon glanced around as if that were the foregone conclusion, and Pisces was nodding, but Colth threw up a hand.
“Wait. If we do that, the other teams will loot the tomb. There are plenty of teams in Chandrar.”
“But it’s a Named-rank monster—”
“Juvenile, Yvlon. Nerrhavia’s Fallen has its armies. It might even be a trick. I’d do that—well, I’d call it an Adult Creler. Either way, we’re on a mission from the crown.”
Yvlon might have protested, but she saw Ceria shaking her head, and Pisces admitted Colth had a point. He sat back, and Colth smiled brightly before noticing the other two’s discontent. He hesitated—and then Ceria crowed.
“Got it! Let’s see what—oh shit.”
The scrying orb finally stopped on a new television channel called ‘The Glorious Report’, which was clearly Ailendamus; Pisces saw the familiar sigil in the corner with the lancearrows and ‘his’ kingdom’s crest.
Well, he was long gone from Ailendamus, and he had never thought of himself as a proud citizen beyond being born there. His father had wandered from place to place, and Ailendamus held nothing but regrets for Pisces. The only person who had survived his childhood and that blaze was Ama and, apparently, Feren.
Still, he wondered what was so important about his team on this channel? Pisces saw someone, clearly a reporter of some kind from Ailendamus, doing one of those interviews where the person being interviewed was in a smaller box.
Screen-in-screen. The [News Anchor] was smiling, and a picture of Pisces was present, hair all a-tangle, leaping into the Coliseum of Monarchs. Pisces turned beet red as Ceria began to hammer on the scrying orb. Him? They were broadcasting his face?
Of course, his name was out there because of the bounty that Montressa had put on his head. They had records. Pisces was about to tell Ceria to turn the orb off—he didn’t need to hear the Kingdom of Glass and Glory claiming him—when there was a voice.
“Disgraceful.”
The one word jerked Pisces upright. It was familiar. Pisces couldn’t have forgotten that voice, though he had not heard it for…
It was acerbic. Even grating. There was no sneer in it; it was precise in that each word was carefully enunciated, like the edge of a blade. Everything about that man was like that. But despite that, there was the sense that the speaker regarded everything as lacking. Including himself.
The excited [News Anchor] hesitated.
“Excuse me? This would be the, ah, aforementioned [Necromancer] and duelist who is believed to be a Silver-bell duelist, Pisces Jealnet. Of Ailendamus, though the Kingdom of Glass and Glory does not recognize his class, naturally. Yet his considerable abilities and fame—you disapprove, sir? Of your son?”
Then the image of Pisces was replaced by a man’s face, and Pisces’ hand leapt to his side. Because there he was.
Padurn Jealnet looked like Pisces, though the [Necromancer] was loath to admit it. But to his teammates, who had frozen, it was obvious.
His hair was a similar shade of brown, though a touch darker, and unlike Pisces’ untidy mop, Padurn’s hair was combed straight. And he was, disconcertingly, thicker than Pisces, if still fairly lithe. A [Duelist]’s fighting trim. He wore a leather guard on his non-dominant arm, and he stood with a simple rapier in hand. A silver bell hung from it, and his face was…stern.
Unsmiling. Creased from the scowls which were too common. Pisces knew that Padurn’s hands would be callused from holding the rapier. His eyes were dark brown and would only light up when he was angry or, so rarely, happy.
His father. The man was unchanged. After all this time—
“Pisces? Turn the scrying orb off, Ceria.”
Colth reminded Pisces he had stopped breathing. The [Necromancer] let out his breath in a rush, but stopped Ceria.
“No. I have to see…”
Padurn Jealnet interrupted Pisces, as ever, despite being a world apart. He addressed the [News Anchor] with a half-bow, precise as a razor. The Fencer’s Bow. He had names for every move. You inclined yourself to a 68° angle. Keeping your weight on your toes to move out of the bow at any moment—
Never show any openings, boy, even in courtesy.
That voice. It was all coming back to Pisces. A blow across the shoulders from the training stick. That expression of uncomprehending disappointment.
Flesh burning. Smoke in his lungs.
“Naturally, I disavow his class, Anchor Jormen. I consider my son’s actions a personal disgrace. Were it in my power, I would personally drag him back to face judgement.”
The man had a little box floating under him for identification.
Padurn Jealnet, Silver-bell [Duelist]. Ailendamus.
“I, ah, but he is your son and a Gold-rank adventurer considered to be on the cusp of Named-rank. The most famous [Necromancer] living, sir. And an acclaimed fencer in his own right. This is Padurn Jealnet, father of Pisces Jealnet, to any new viewers…”
The poor [News Anchor] hadn’t expected this. The number of the Horns of Hammerad’s parents that you could interview were pretty small. Ksmvr of Chandrar had no parents or it was the Free Queen—unacceptable. Ceria Springwalker’s parents? Deceased. Colth the Supporter, mysteriously, had no records on family, and it was presumed they were dead. As for Yvlon Byres, the man kept advertising Byres silversteel—so naturally, the most mysterious of the Horns, Pisces, was a shoe-in, right?
