So this is how you made Stitch-folk bodies. Pisces saw a rack of cloth genitals hanging on one wall and completely lost his flow—Coltora waved at the Stitch-man working there.
“Hamlest! Cover this up! I apologize, we did not think to have guests today. Yes, I have satin, though it is a rare thing to wear it. Mostly when I must go into the inner city. Beton? No. He is Beton the Doomguard who wears steel wool, and so Hemp he always must be. Even if that were not so, you cannot rise if you are Hemp. Not truly. You can change your cloth, but you will always be the same in their eyes. Alked Fellbow knew that. I apologize; I know it is unseemly to show parts of us to outsiders.”
“Not at—uh, not at—they’re quite lovely genitals—”
Coltora’s lips twitched as she glanced at Pisces, and there was a guffaw from the closed workshop doors. Yvlon relaxed. There was the [Necromancer] she loved. She took over.
“It’s odd to me, but most things are, even in Izril, Miss Coltora. So you can make any limb or organ you wish?”
“We only provide for Hemp, of course; we have not the talent nor cloth for better.”
Coltora said instantly. Pisces nodded.
“Er, the quality of cloth and fine work dictates how well each organ is used, Yvlon. And Stitch-folk do need to replace limbs frequently. Revi, Adventurer Revi, always complained about that. And—er—”
“Is that a relative, Miss Coltora? Why would you want a man sewing up penises?”
It seemed to Yvlon that anyone from Izril would object in strenuous terms to imagine another fellow had handled their junk, even if it was to create it with cloth. However, Coltora began to laugh, and someone came out with little metal cups filled with some sweet, thick liquid.
“Cordial? For the heat. It is very sweet. Here is water.”
They were given a cup of the super syrupy liquid and water, which could dilute it. Pisces was so flustered he took down half a cup before gulping water. Yvlon savored the odd taste and mixture. Chuckling, Coltora took the lid off a little hexagonal box in the center and revealed puffs of white, springy bread or some such. They had a bit of spicing on them and tasted rather savory as you chewed. Soft as could be.
“Cloudpieces and cordial. It is not much, I apologize. As to your question, Adventurer Yvlon, I do not know how Izrilian Human men think. But to Stitch-men, I do not know a one who would trust any woman to design their genitals. They would assume we had no knowledge of how one worked well enough to craft it to a man’s satisfaction.”
“Aye, which means it pleases them and no one else.”
That comment came from one of Coltora’s sisters, who’d brought the platter out. Coltora swatted at her sister.
“Remiila! Forgive me, she’s excited to meet such famous adventurers. Please forgive the stares.”
Everyone was staring, even the man working on genitals. Pisces coughed.
“Quite understandable—forgive my ignorance. Lovely snacks. And, uh—”
“If you say the genitals look well-crafted, I’m telling Colth and Ceria.”
Yvlon whispered in Pisces’ ear. He shut up. Everyone was chuckling when Yvlon felt her arms tingling. She felt it as she turned her head, and then…
The buzzing was louder and deeper than usual. Even metallic, for it came from wings of steel. It was a huge, fat beetle which flew down the hallway, and Coltora’s laughter instantly cut off. She grabbed something from a wall—a net—and swung it.
“Forgive us, it’s just—Remiila, get one of the [Sweepers] to take care of this. Smash it outside.”
She handed it off, and reminded of her mission, Yvlon cleared her throat.
“Is Beton sick? I would speak with him. I hope I can help…”
When Coltora glanced at her next, the woman’s eyes were lidded. And there was a flash of—but she just nodded.
“He is in his rooms. He is not well, but his levels have held off the—complications. Sage Etrikah herself has seen him, but the issue is deep, even when we tried to change his cloth. I hope you can help, Adventurer Byres. He took his wounds for you.”
“Yes. Please, show him to me.”
Yvlon put the cup down, and Pisces followed her. Before she reached the rooms, deepest in the mansion, before she heard the faint buzzing sound, Yvlon could feel it.
The sin she had brought from the Village of the Dead; the plague of metal born of her arms. Living insects. There were a lot of them in there. When she opened the doors and saw the man lying in bed, wracked with apparent pain, but who smiled to see her, Yvlon bowed until her head nearly touched the bed.
They were in his flesh.
 
——
 
Beton the [Doomguard], a high-level Hemp man, former [Gladiator] and bodyguard to Prince Esceit, was in good humor for a man who had literal bugs eating his flesh and bones. He lay there as the faint buzz of insects filled the air behind the protective nets his family had hung up.
“It is merely the collision of two strange classes and the malady of Oresects, Adventurer Byres. Not your fault. I…have [Bones of Steelthread]. As well as other Skills of the same. Even when my cloth changes, my Skills do not. I am no woman of metal. Just a Stitch-man made of it. Alas, that means my flesh is contaminated.”
“I’m so sorry. I didn’t know, and I left—”
“I did not know I was sick either until you had gone.”
His body was, like Hemp, rough and even odder still for it had a slightly reflective sheen, as if he truly were made of metal. But he was lying abed, and his huge arms had atrophied slightly from lack of use.
From being eaten. For all that, he had been writing on paper when they’d interrupted him. Doing finances. Now he sat back, and Pisces saw something run under his flesh. A bug.
The [Necromancer] was used to foulness in bodies he dug up; he was used to putrefied flesh and maggots. He wanted to burn down half the city. However, Beton just caught his eye and shrugged.
“The horror of it wears off. No matter how much I remove, my cloth seems to birth more in time. I think…the sickness is in my very threads, and since I cannot simply remove my head without dying, I cannot cure it entirely. It will not kill me, but because I am a hazard, I stay here.”
“How do you survive, sir? The pain—”
“I removed my nerves, of course.”
Pisces started at the simple response, but Beton just indicated his arms.
“It is not common, but Stitch-folk can do so. It is far harder; we are made to turn cloth to functional limbs. But my family knows how we are made, and thus I feel nothing, just hear the damned things. As I can replace my body, it is not the worst affliction. And it even pays something, for there is a bounty on Oresect insects.”
He chuckled, but he was making light of his affliction, Pisces was sure. He was watching Yvlon as she finally rose.
“Beton…I will help you if it is in my power. I’m only sorry I didn’t come sooner.”
“You remembered. Your debts to Mectail and to me are being kept.”
“Of course. You’re both [Gladiators] who I owe so much to. You, Zenol, and so many.”
She replied, and he chuckled.
“That is what I hoped for. That is how I know you two are not of here. You treat your debts to me like that of a [Prince] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Well then…what do you think?”
Coltora watched from the door as Yvlon pushed past the layers of curtains. There were metal bugs hanging there; when she disturbed them, they buzzed around her, then came for Yvlon, landing on her armor, her arms. She shivered; her metal arms visibly rippled and stabbed out. They hit the bugs, knocking them back. Then the bugs converged again, biting at the enchanted breastplate, at Yvlon’s arms. One nipped her, and she swore. Then—
They arose in a huge swarm, buzzing—and flew to the far side of the curtains. As far from Yvlon as they could. Beton’s head rose, and Pisces felt his skin doing that prickling thing.
“I can’t control them. But I can tell a part of my arms is in them. And whatever’s in my arms…I don’t think they can eat it. It’s like them. I think they think I’m some big bug.”
Yvlon spoke after a moment, and Beton exhaled.
“Ahh. What of the malady? Fourteen times, Etrikah has sent her formula that cleans surfaces, but it is deep in the metal. I have heard of metalworks in other parts of the empire which were rotted to the center, feet deep in the steel or metal. They had to be demolished, re-smelted to fix it. Oresects germinate from all mundane metals. I have not heard of any from Mithril or Adamantium…those would be true problems.”
“Do they get bigger?”
“Rarely. At the start, there were some big as rats. Dangerous too, for how strong they were. Mostly, they are small. Thumb-sized.”
“I can’t tell. I can’t tell what they are, only that there’s a kinship here. But whatever they are, it’s not me. They’re just made like me. No. They’re inferior.”
Yvlon was running her arms up and down Beton’s arms. He shifted, and Pisces saw a glittering bug crawl out of a hole in his arms. The skin was breached in places, eaten away, and they were crawling out of his—
Pisces had to look away, and he saw Coltora doing the same. But Yvlon’s voice was calm.
“I don’t think I could have helped last year, Beton. I wouldn’t know how. Even now, I’m hesitant…I don’t have a Skill that commands metal. But I think I’m cured of whatever Tolveilouka did to me. I know I am, because I have [Aspect of Silver]. You feel sick. Plagued metal.”
“What can be done, then?”
“I don’t know. But I do know what’s bad and what’s not. Where’s Etrikah’s formulas? I should have brought some.”
“We have some. We spray metal with it—I’ll get it, Adventurer.”
Coltora dashed off, and she came back with an alchemical tonic, half-full in a vial which you mixed with water. Yvlon just took the mixture, poured some on a hand, and grabbed a beetle.
It squirmed around mightily, not happy, but the mixture didn’t kill the beetle.
“Some mixtures from [Alchemists] rust the things or make them weak, but it is just how it would work on normal metal. Etrikah’s purifying liquid does not kill them.”
“No. But it’s cleansed the beetle. Can they still reproduce?”
“Yes, even when sprayed.”
“…They must be doing it naturally. But they wouldn’t plague metal like this.”
Yvlon held the squirming beetle up, and Pisces was fascinated, despite his nausea. It must have been her class. She squished the beetle, inspecting the metallic blood inside. Wiped her fingers with a grimace.
“Let me see what happens when it meets your flesh.”
She began to apply it with a towel, and Coltora went in to help when Yvlon realized she’d need to clean Beton’s entire body, including his unmentionables. After a few seconds, though, she grunted.
“Nope. It’s not working. We purified the top layers of your flesh, but you’re sick to your bones.”
“Good.”
Beton grunted as he lifted a sweaty limb out of bed. Yvlon eyed him.
“Good?”
“You’re certain. Thus, I believe you will help me. Moreover, you and I agree on what you see.”
Pisces could tell how Beton had survived long enough to become a [Doomguard]; there was a kind of stoic implacability to how he acted. No panic, just decisiveness. The kind of fellow who could have chaos spring up around him and pick out the first person to start hitting.
Yvlon grunted.
“Do you have…spare limbs for Beton, Miss Coltora?”
“I—I could get some out of hemp. Beton uses specialized steel wool for his skin and such, but if it’s just for now?”
“Those will do, I think. Pisces, do you have any ideas?”
“Me? I’m hardly an expert—”
“You repaired my arms, Pisces. Please.”
He approached and made a show of inspecting Beton’s arms; the man had removed one and opened the cloth down to the ‘bones’ inside. A few bugs moved around his insides, not just beetles but long centipedes, and—Pisces backed up, but Yvlon was focused. And she might claim she wasn’t intelligent, but she was dogged.
“Try this arm, Beton. It’s perfectly uncont—hmm. It just turned to metal, and the plague’s moving. Right here.”
She touched the joins where he’d connected it to his body. Beton was calm.
“The solution, then, is to replace my entire infected body with new cloth, piece by piece, while ensuring no new piece is infected. The problem, Yvlon, is my head.‘
He inclined it, and Yvlon exhaled.
“…There’s metal there too. No insects in your brain, though.”
“I do not think my brain is metal. But we have been very, very careful that no Oresect hatches there.”
His eyes glinted, and he indicated the stitch-marks around his neck.
“The problem is, removing one’s head kills a Stitch-folk. Not as fast as you Humans, but without precautions, it is impossible. And Aberrant Stitching is against the laws of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“Hmm. So we have to fix your head. You couldn’t, I don’t know, remove your flesh piece by piece, and bones, then replace it all?”
Yvlon asked it so casually that Pisces had to turn to Coltora. The woman’s full wince and appalled expression said that this was not normal for Stitch-folk. But Beton’s voice was calm.
“If that is what must be done, I might risk it, but it is very, very risky. Our Lifethread is in our heads, and it is unto your own hearts or brains, Yvlon. Only, if ours are destroyed, death is inevitable.”
“…Something else, then. Can you—is there any Skill that can clean this plague? It can’t be impossible if Etrikah beat it!”
The Great Sage of Nerrhavia Fallen’s war against the Oresect plague had been intense enough to level her. For answer, Beton called for one of the [Sweepers] outside.
“I need one of your best [Sweepers]. Any of the ones who dealt with the Oresects at their worst and learned to clean the plague. Tomiec, I am thinking. Tell them Beton asks for an urgent favor.”
“At once, Clothsetter.”
The [Cleaner] was just a street urchin, but they bowed, fist to their chest, and ran out the door with their broom so fast that Pisces actually believed they were heading straight over.
“You didn’t even bribe him. What does ‘Clothsetter’ mean?”
He assumed it to be a title from Beton’s life, but the [Doomguard] hesitated, then sighed.
“A term I do not deserve. Clothsetter, for one who sets the look and feel of cloth. As unto someone who dictates the next fashion. A title of honor.”
Someone you followed the example of. It made sense for Stitch-folk. Yvlon was organizing a replacement set of limbs with Coltora, making sure they were all clean of plague, when a boy raced into the room.
