“Okay. I didn’t cast any kind of appraisal spell on him, but my circlet just told me he’s Bad News. Capitalized.”
Delitandra lifted her hands, cautious.
“As well you do not. He is known to cast spells back for slights. He would be a neutral party. See how no one dares approach him?”
Indeed, even the Horns usually got accosted by the nobles, but no one was swanning up to the Mage of Falling Skies. It seemed he called to you; he crooked a finger, and a [Chancellor] instantly abandoned a conversation and strode over. A goblet vanished from a servant’s tray and appeared in his hand.
“Whoa. Pinpoint teleportation. Think he’s holding a grudge for the Death Zone we made?”
“I doubt he even remembers us, Ceria. Which is good; he outclasses Larracel.”
Colthei seemed mildly wary of the man, which made Pisces glad that Yvlon didn’t get up to introduce herself. The only comment the Silver Killer made was—
“How does no one trip over those robes? Wearing them must be a nightmare.”
“I bet he fries whomever trips over his robes. And I bet they’re so enchanted it’s worth it.”
Elena muttered. Delitandra nodded and turned her finger.
“In order of trouble, he would be at the top, but he is famously mercurial. Little can interest a man of his powers, and the [Queen] herself would hesitate to make him an enemy or use his services unless at need. We shall leave him as a Giant to sleep or avoid his steps. Of the beings who might actually deal with you—here is another important man, if not in such enduring prominence. See.”
She turned her finger, and there was a man who was the exact opposite of the Mage of Falling Skies. He stood in the center of a huge crowd of people…juggling. At first, Pisces took him for a performer, but when he realized what the man was juggling, he realized it wasn’t knives or balls, but…potions.
“Which one shall I demonstrate? An Elixir of Great Vitalities? A Potion of Thunderheads? I would set the capital to lightning, if not rain! Whoops—aha!”
He nearly dropped a huge vial with a stormy, dark blue liquid within and zigzagging bolts of lightning streaking through it. There was a scream, and he winked at a palace servant and then produced another vial.
“Or merely a Potion of Infatuation? Pure romance, for two days and nights, with you and any other? For you?”
He placed it in the servant’s hands, and there was a clamor at once—then the [Alchemist] turned and produced a second vial.
“Who would like another?”
He had every noblewoman and nobleman jockeying for one instantly. Pisces raised his brows. A Potion of Infatuation?
“Aren’t those illegal in Izril, Ceria, Colth?”
The [Supporter] nodded, baring his teeth as he whispered back.
“Highly. Even if it provokes genuine infatuation, it’s a serious crime to spike someone with them. Not in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, it seems. It is an alchemy capital of the world.”
“Gross.”
Elena wrinkled her face up and eyed the man. Like the Mage of Falling Skies, Pisces bet he was older than he appeared. He seemed like a man in his early forties, a dark black beard trimmed short across his chin, eyes sparkling with mirth. He was very good-looking, but that could be said of almost any Stitch-man made of Silk, as he clearly was.
The difference was…the Mage of Falling Skies was a good example. He might have handsome features, but he stood like a lump, speaking dispassionately, clearly bored, with little beyond his clothing to add to his posture or bearing.
This [Alchemist] moved like a performer. Cupping a chin with his fingers, sliding across the floor, arms moving in flourishes. Too much for Pisces’ tastes, but with a charisma. When he spoke, it sounded like you should listen.
However, for all that, he had both a group of hangers-on who wanted his potions and quite a number of people who were pointing at him and smirking. The [Alchemist] pretended not to notice, but he was playing towards an audience.
“Interesting. Who’s that, Delitandra?”
“Why, none other than Master Therel, one of Nerrhavia Fallen’s greatest alchemists. Famous for his achievements in alchemy—the Flashfreeze Orb was his creation. Also, known philanderer. Lover of ten thousand women. I believe the number is higher these days.”
Pisces’ jaw dropped. Ten thousand—Colth raised his brows.
“So that’s Master Therel. I’ve used Flashfreeze Orbs. They’re Gold-ranker gear. Pretty potent for modern-day alchemy. Didn’t someone cut off his dick and stitch it to a camel’s backside?”
Ceria spat out her drink, hooting with laughter. Delitandra and the Heromakers laughed, and one of them whispered.
“He got it back, but only after nearly a week of chasing it, to hear the stories! That is Therel. He is not as famous as he was in his prime; note how he has as many detractors as allies? To hear it, his wife took much of his riches with her, and since his rivals stole his inventions, he is barely making ends meet. Doubtless, he has come here to revive his fortunes.”
“Unless he’s got a bunch of healing potions up his sleeves, I doubt we need his services that much. He looks like he’d be annoying to deal with.”
Yvlon was cool on the man, which was unfortunate—he seemed to be coming this way. Pisces groaned.
“Why does he want us?”
Ceria shrugged, eyes alight with amusement.
“We’re the most popular team in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Pisces. Maybe he wants us to use his potions. Cheer up! We might get free samples.”
He did perk up at that. Alchemist Therel did indeed call out halfway towards the Horns.
“Ah, there is the Silver Killer herself! Horns of Hammerad, who stand in Her Majesty’s favor—you would do well to heed a poor [Alchemist]’s words! For when one reaches Named-rank levels, they require true potions and preparations for battle! Who else, then, but the man whose potions armed Torreb the Undefeated and have been used by the King of Destruction and other champions of Chandrar?”
His voice was carrying, loud, and Pisces groaned as he saw Yisame’s head turn. Eyes fell on them, and Master Therel was trying to make a scene, clearly. Since there were about six such events a day at least, many elected to go on chattering, but people turned. Pisces began shovelling food into his mouth.
Like hell he was going to deal with whatever came next on an empty stomach. Ceria was rising, an impish smile on her face, and he hoped she didn’t cause trouble. But rather to everyone’s surprise, before Therel could get to them, someone stepped forwards.
“Aye, the Horns of Hammerad and great adventurers should use the services of a master of alchemy! A pity, then, you chose to speak up. I doubt the Silver Killer is looking for a Love Potion. Are you trying to sell her polish for her arms? A Potion of Warmth for the Ice Squirrel? Your best works fit Silver-rankers, Therel!”
The [Alchemist] spun on his heels, face clouding with fury.
“Who dares insult my work—ah. Apprentice Shedrel. Cowering behind your master’s reputation. What, is the great Alchemist of Ten Thousand Trivialities too afraid to face me in person?”
A knife appeared in one of his hands, and he pointed it at the younger Stitch-man, who stood wearing a more ornamental version of Octavia’s clothing. His vest was festooned with pockets which held glowing bottles, and he had on glass goggles on his head. There was even a small pack on one shoulder, clearly there more for the appearance of it; he looked like what you imagined if you thought of Saliss and never met the Drake.
A battle-alchemist, a travelling concocter of magic. Therel, by contrast, was closer to a nobleman in tall boots and a stylish red coat that swept around him. But it was Apprentice Shedrel—who was a full [Alchemist], Pisces guessed, at least Level 30—who sneered back.
“My master, Alchemist Patsiuda, for you Horns of Hammerad, is the Alchemist of Ten Thousand Creations, the best [Alchemist] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen and, dare I claim it, the world! Her creations serve adventurers far and wide. Nor would I stain the floors of the Court of Silks with your blood, which would not be useful in the simplest tonic.”
“I take your words and challenge you to put them against me. My alchemy has melted more than one challenger to dust, and your master is nothing but a rank amateur who was begging at my doorstep a decade past. I turned her away for being a waste of talent!”
Therel motioned with the dagger, and Shedrel sneered more as he yanked a vial out of a holster on his right arm. He raised it.
“My master is in her prime and only avoided your tutelage because she had better uses of her time than jumping into your bed like every apprentice! Such as surpassing you, Therel. Look. Here I hold one of her creations: the Elixir of Gorgon’s Form.”
He uncorked it with one thumb and drank it—and his form shifted. Pisces blinked, and a Gorgon rose over Therel, scales flashing. His clothing fell to the ground, and Ceria whistled.
“Whoa. I’ve seen Saliss do that, but that’s top-tier alchemy.”
“Alchemist Patsiuda is considered the best. She has dozens of apprentices. Therel…”
Delitandra’s voice was a bit too loud. Therel flushed.
“You think a simple polymorph potion makes you dangerous, boy? Let us dance.”
He seemed ready to fight, and Pisces recalled that [Alchemists] were known to fight in the very streets. Octavia had talked about going over to beat another [Alchemist]’s brains out for a slight; he’d thought it was hyperbole.
Not so. But Shedrel flicked a second vial into his clawed hands and hissed.
“I would hate to kill you before Her Majesty’s eyes. But if I must—here is a Vial of Molten Snakes my master herself brewed. Liquid lava that hunts. It can kill any three Manticores you name before it expires. And what do you have, Therel? A Potion of Burning Rays? It won’t even scratch my scales.”
It was faint, but Pisces thought he saw Therel lick his lips. Colth agreed. He whispered.
“Lot of magic in that vial. This apprentice came to play. And Gorgons are resistant to spells. He came with a counter.”
There was some kind of rhythm to this, though. It wasn’t a pure street fight, Pisces realized. The murmuring voices died down as music rose. The court musicians were playing? Therel strutted right, circling the Gorgon. He brushed at his robes. And his voice took on a different cadence. Faster? He spoke past Shedrel, to the crowd as much as the apprentice.
“Boy—you aren’t the first, you won’t be the last. I’ll melt you in the time it takes to wipe my ass. I’ve seen the best, and your master isn’t even close—do you know how I know? She isn’t here. She’s sent you and a bag full of tricks. How rich. You’re nothing in my eyes. Not a surprise. You don’t have a chance, so I will let you walk away. Go home, boy, find the other no-namers, second-rates, and play. Not here, not in Tyrant’s Rest. You stand before me, Therel the Incandescent, best of the best.”
He whirled the dagger around his fingers, and the one vial became five, held between his fingers, each a different color and type, and he was nodding to the right and left, a confident smile on his face. Pisces—blinked.
Was that poetry? It was close, and he saw Delitandra and the Heromakers nodding along. A murmur of approval rose, but everyone was clearly waiting for Shedrel. The Gorgon had listened impassively to Therel, and now he lowered the vial in his hands. Tossed them down to murmurs. Therel wavered, and tensed—but he hesitated, and then Shedrel replied.
“Old man. It makes me sad to see you here, all filled with fear. Do you think my master’s hidden away? She’s just too busy, sad to say. Busy making alchemy for all the adventurers who’ve come to call. Who’s at your shop? No one at all. Not [Beggars] on the streets. No mistresses between your sheets—and oh, your poetry puts every courtesan I know to sleep. You’re washed and out of date. You’ve come here for attention—too little, too late. If you want me to put your sad reputation to rest? I can. But don’t do that. Don’t play to be the best. You’re not. For your sake, old man, walk away. Live, tail between your legs, another day. Go pretend you’ve got another camel to chase. That’s my piety towards the old. I rest my case.”
He bowed, then held up his claws as he slithered about, showing everyone he had no vials. He didn’t need any. Therel’s face reddened, and when Shedrel turned to face him, it went silent. Dead silent.
He’s going to throw and fight. Or…Pisces was tensed. He didn’t know if the next thing he’d see would be explosions until there was a pounding sound. The throne.
Neither Yisame nor her interpreter spoke, but a lesser member of her circle.
“Her Imperial Majesty is not inclined to see one of Nerrhavia Fallen’s finest [Alchemists] melted upon her courts. If the [Alchemists] declaim they are the finest, let them provide their services to the brave adventurers here.”
Instantly, both [Alchemists] bowed, and there was a sigh. A relaxation.
No duel. Instead, Shedrel shed his form and emerged, a nude Stitch-man who stood behind a towel, dressing himself swiftly as people came over to applaud him or ask about his vials. Therel stepped away, throwing his head back to laugh in Shedrel’s direction, then to speak to someone he knew, slapping a back, acting confident. But Pisces eyed the larger crowd around Shedrel and knew who’d won that.
Colth agreed.
“Bad look. The moment the apprentice faced down Therel, he lost. Even if he won, he just beat his opponent’s apprentice, and if he had fought for his life, that would prove he was weak. Plus, Shedrel had him dead to rights. Yisame saved him from losing face. He might have even signalled someone he needed a favor.”
“I liked that. What was that? The speaking-poetry.”
Yvlon was tilting her head, more intrigued by the wordplay. Delitandra smiled.
“Verbal sparring before the knives fly. Common in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. You’ve truly never heard the like?”
“I have. It’s rapping. Or close enough.”
Elena was familiar with it, of course. Earthers seemed to have an example of everything. Pisces just waited for either [Alchemist] to approach, but they were playing to their bases.
“Do we not get free samples of alchemy?”
He was disappointed when Delitandra favored him with a shake of the head.
“It would make it seem as if Therel were scurrying over to us, and Shedrel would very much like us to come to him. There are other adventurers in the room; they will go secure their favor first.”
“But free potions—”
“We can just buy them, Sniffmaster Pisces.”
“But free, Colth.”
