“…Sure, we’ll take 75! Listen, you don’t want to be on the Palace’s bad side. Steal from the crown and get killed in your sleep. We’ve got a real Named-ranker on our side.”
Ceria shouted back. Colth squatted down.
<Colth to team. I think I see barricades. Steel. The kind you deploy from bags of holding. Glowing figures behind…but it’s just three of them.>
Not the worst killzone. In fact, only two of Wildcard seemed to be armed. Saying that, though, an arrow cracked off the stone, and Colth leapt up. Then there was a female voice.
“That was one of the summons. Don’t try to sneak down here. There are only four of you, Captain Ceria. The [Queen] is not the deserving party of the Tomb’s legacy.”
That must be Lareceina, the [Mage] who didn’t like Ceria. The half-Elf exhaled.
“Okay then, nothing personal. Colth?”
He walked back up.
“I’m not sure what they’ve got, but the Stitch-folk have bows and wands. Yvlon could rush them, but I don’t like risking that. If you [Ice Wall] and we dive behind it, then it’s a shooting war.”
“Send the Ice Elementals forwards and have Pisces summon more? Snipe them down until we can rush?”
“I don’t have a bow.”
Yvlon complained as Colth deliberated with Ceria. Pisces scratched at the back of his neck.
“All I have is [Shatterbolt] and [Deathbolt]. I don’t want to use either—”
“Break the left barricade with [Shatterbolt], Pisces. They’ll survive one [Deathbolt]. Just do summons. We can send one wave, and if we don’t like what we see, fall back, use mana potions, try again? Just don’t leave cover. I’ll use an [Arrowguard] Skill. Yvlon, I have a spare crossbow and some alchemical weapons.”
“See, this is what we need to buy alchemy for. For when Yvlon’s useless.”
Light voices from Ceria and Colth. Yvlon was crouched, and Pisces was motioning the Skeleton Champions forward, animating his Warbear. Then there was a shout from below.
“Horns—we really don’t want to hurt you. Back off. Last warning.”
The Horns of Hammerad didn’t answer. So, below, the team of three tensed. They were coming. That terrifying team. Who, in their right minds, wanted to fight the Horns of Hammerad?
 
——
 
It was like you could feel them. Auras or something. The coldest [Mage] in the world. A strange, quiet figure, filled with silent, respectful death. And the crawling thunder of a heart beating.
The Silver Killer.
They had seen her in the Coliseum of Monarchs, hadn’t they? And everyone had seen the other broadcasts. Ksmvr of Chandrar. Pisces the Bane…the Village of the Dead.
“Damn. We’re so dead. I wanted them to like us.”
“They’re not good people, Kusal.”
“They’ll kill us. Are we sure we’re doing this, Leo?”
The team of three were new to Gold-rank. They’d only gotten certified after the Adult Creler. Adventurer’s Guilds didn’t like what they didn’t understand, and the trio didn’t have regular classes. Their leader, Leonardo, was far from fearless. But he just stared up the corridor.
“I think we have to try. We’re adventurers. We promised our clients.”
Lareceina nodded, rubbing her fingers together. She was casting. Readying herself…and she knew at least one of the [Mages] above outclassed her. Wistram. She had never had formal training. But her only comment was—
“We have the moral high ground. We have to try.”
Kusal was their [Rogue], if not in class, then how he operated.
“They have the literal high ground. If the Silver Killer jumps us—I’ll try.”
Leonardo nodded.
“Watch out for the one called Colth. He’s supposed to be the real Named-ranker. I’ll do my thing. But we have to attack them first. Everyone ready?”
They nodded, and Leo paused. Then took a breath.
“…I wish Justine was here.”
With her, they would have been fearless. Well, more fearless. But their front line, their stalwart warrior—Wildcard stopped for a second. They would have traded all their levels from the Adult Creler for her.
“They’re casting. We have to go.”
Lareceina spoke and produced her magic. It looked like…a marble. It grew as she poured her mana into it. Fire, swirling around and condensing. Like a [Fireball], but different. Kusal nodded as Leo pulled out his secret weapon. Not the sword he carried, but the real tool he had made, the only thing he was good with. But before that—they stood together.
A group huddle. Leo swung an arm around Kusal’s shoulders, and the young man from Sri Lanka put his arms around Lareceina’s shoulders. She grimaced and held the ball of fire in her palm. She had more little marbles floating around her hand. They winked and glowed. Leo muttered.
“Here we go. [Combined Skill: Ready, Set, Serve].”
He walked backwards, and Lareceina turned. She lobbed the orb of fire at Kusal, and the [Rogue] fielded it with his gloved hands. Straight at Leo. The orb spun through the air—and he hit it.
He jumped up, and the tennis racket, a wooden frame and strings, hit the orb of fire. It compressed as he connected with it.
[Racket: Bounce Magic]. [Ricochet Strike]. [Ball: Acceleration]. 
The [Tennis Champion] hit the ball down, aiming it for the end of the corridor, and saw it flash across the ground. And bounce—
He heard a voice.
“Incom—”
Then the orb exploded. The backdraft of flames echoed down the corridor, and Leo landed. Lareceina had cast a spell so his ears didn’t ring, so he heard voices.
“—hell was that? Wall spells and—”
A second ball flicked towards him. Same height; Leo wondered if the Horns had spread out. So he hit the ball at the walls instead of the ground. Bounce it up in a zig-zag—
This time, it was made of lightning. The boom made dust fall from the ceiling. There was a shift. One of the summoned Stitch-folk warriors was gazing at him.
“Sorry.”
That was all Leo said. Then the third ‘tennis ball’ flicked into the air. He struck it again, sending it up the tunnel at a new angle. This was the plan they’d come up with when they’d been briefed on the tomb. Lareceina’s magic and their unique classes…
The Horns would have to come down. The third orb was made of something green, and it burst without a sound as he hit it and shot it up. So, Leo was waiting, racket raised, sweat coating the leather grip.
Come on. Come on—
 
——
 
Pisces had no idea what was happening. His ears were ringing, and only Yvlon had saved him from the third orb. It had exploded into a shower of leaves or something—so sharp and fast that they had cut his cheek open. But Yvlon had tackled him. Now, she threw him up the corridor.
“Get back! The walls—”
“They’re not working!”
[Ice Wall]. Ceria’s trick. It was raised, but the second orb had bounced over it. Colth was swearing.
“They’re ricocheting the magic at us! Wall the entire corridor!”
Ceria did—just in time for the fourth orb to hit it. Another bloom of flames, but this time, Pisces felt nothing. He got up shakily.
“What kind of attack was…?”
“I don’t recognize the magic! The circlet says it’s just…compressed elemental mana! It’s like being attacked by a [Barbarian] with a club!”
“Well, it’s working! If they can bounce that attack…Ceria, can you ensconce yourself in ice and fire out? No—one-way barrier spells! We have to get down there!”
Colth was pointing, Ceria cursing.
“I can do it, but it’s going to take a lot of m—”
The fifth orb hit the ice wall, and Pisces flinched. But Ceria’s magic was too strong, and the backblast of air visibly shifted the dust. He coughed.
“This is their long-ranged attack. If we close, we have to fight the summons. Too risky. Let’s fall back and—”
“If we do, the other teams will flank us, and then we’re dead.”
Colth interrupted Pisces, shaking his head. He turned to Ceria.
“Drop the walls there. I’ll counter. We throw alchemy, move in. Then barrier up and just push at them. Use two-thirds of your mana on it.”
“Got it. You’d better keep them suppressed. If w—”
The sixth orb hit the [Ice Wall], and Pisces, who had been backing up despite the [Ice Walls], remained on his feet.
No one else did. His head was ringing. He saw Ceria go stumbling past him and reached for her. But her ice wall…
Her ears had red coming out of them. He realized there was a ringing in his ears. Pisces saw Yvlon shaking her head and Colth mouthing oaths.
They had lobbed something up at the Horns, and Pisces thought he’d even recognized the magic.
Sound.
It went straight through a wall of ice. He squinted down, then turned his head. Clapped his hands over Yvlon’s face.
The light orb was blinding. Pisces blinked the spots out of his eyes, and his hearing returned.
“[—tore Hearing]! There goes one of my higher-level free Skills! We cannot hold this corridor! Ceria, barriers!”
“Tree rot in my—[Threefold Arcane Barrier]! [Moving Spell]! Go, go!”
The Horns charged down the corridor into two more orbs, which detonated on Ceria’s barriers. Pisces saw the team at last. A trio spread out down the corridor. And Stitch-folk. A lot more Stitch-folk, all glowing like Revi’s summons. Colth took one glance at them and began swearing.
“[Mass Appraisal]. Fuck, fuck, fuck—some of them are equivalent to Level 40s! [Explosive Vial]!”
“[Ice Lances]! Pisces!”
“Skeletons, arise and charge!”
He sent his undead forwards, and the corridor exploded into violence. Yvlon grimly shot a crossbow as the Stitch-folk returned fire. At least the orbs stopped coming; Wildcard took cover, and he heard shouts.
“They’re coming! Lareceina, get rid of the skeletons! I’ve got the spells!”
“Incoming alchemy! [Neutralize Object]!”
One of them leapt up, caught the vial, and it went out. It vanished, and Colth grunted.
“Bag of holding?”
He fired a shortbow.
“[Double Shot]. [Renock Arrow]. [Piercing Shot]. [Explosive Tip]. [Jolt Shot]—”
He hit at least one of the Stitch-folk as the skeletons and elementals thundered down the corridor. But they were only halfway there when Pisces glanced down. Those little things he’d seen earlier. The trapped…what?
Orbs? Small as marbles. They were on the walls. And he shouted.
“Fall back! Skeletons, fall—”
The first Skeleton Champion was running backwards when the orbs detonated. When Pisces got up, he only saw bones and pieces of magical ice melting. Ceria bared her teeth.
“Hey, kid. Let’s dance.”
She fired the first [Ice Lance] at Lareceina. The impact blew the [Mage] off her feet. She must have had a barrier spell, but Ceria’s magic was Tier 4. She fired a second one as Kusal dragged Lareceina back behind the steel barricades. Her second spell dented the steel barrier. Her third one was aimed at one of the Stitch-folk.
The Captain of Wildcard had a strange object in his hands. It was no weapon that Pisces had ever seen. It looked like a net, only someone had stretched the webbing taut over a wide oval. Leo swung it as the [Ice Lance] came at him.
Then he bounced the [Ice Lance] back straight at Ceria’s face. It flashed back faster than the [Cryomancer] had shot it.
The impact against the [Arcane Barrier] knocked down one of the shields. Pisces saw the second barrier wavering in the air and swore. He fired a [Deathbolt]—and the [Tennis Champion] swung his racket and shot it back at Pisces.
“What the hell is that? Spell reflection!”
Ceria scrambled up. She tried a volley of [Ice Spikes], and the frantic tennis racket didn’t manage to reflect any, but Leo parried eight in quick succession, sending the spikes breaking on the walls and ground. Colth stared.
“I’ve never seen that in my—”
“Earthers. They’re Earthers.”
Pisces breathed. He gazed at his team.
“We have to stop fighting—”
“They have the drop on us! Take out that [Mage] and we can snipe the summons! Combination attacks—now!”
Colth turned and roared at him. Pisces aimed at the young woman and hesitated again. [Deathbolt]? No—he fired a [Bone Dart] as he leaned out of cover and blinked.
Instead of one shard of bone, his spell split into three, each one of which curved and homed in on the young woman, who recoiled as two hit a glowing disc of green, her personal shields. She retreated instantly, hiding behind the steel barricades, and Colth swore at Pisces.
“What was that? I burned three Skills on—”
“I’m not [Deathbolting] her!”
Rather than argue, Colth took aim himself, then ducked. Pisces saw an arrow graze Colth’s helmet. It hit a wall and kept bouncing, leaving jagged pock marks as it blew pieces of stone out of the wall. That was an arrow?
Fired by the Stitch-folk. Yvlon swore as she raised her metal arms and made shields.
“The summons are pretty tough too—”
Even without Skills, they had some kind of power from when they’d been alive! Colth snap-fired an arrow, drew two hand crossbows, fired them, tossed four flasks—none of the alchemical items made it to the Stitch-folk. One literally charged into a Potion of Blast and emerged out the other side.
A glowing Stitch-man, Hemp, teeth locked together in a snarl. His teeth were pointed, and he had a wolf-like helmet. He stalked back into line as Colth kept swearing. Pisces wanted to go already, but Ceria put her hands up.
“That’s it. [Conjure Tidal Wave].”
Magic pulsed around her, and she threw a wave of water down the corridor. Alarmed shouts—Pisces stared at Ceria as she pumped more mana into that one spell then he thought he could—
“Kusal, absorb the water!”
“I can’t! It’s too much—”
They were scrambling back as Ceria cackled. Water was freezing behind the wave in a mimicry of how she’d taken out the [Slavers]. Pisces saw Wildcard’s [Mage] brace, aiming at the [Tidal Wave]—when it split.
A glowing sword cleaved the wave in half, which in turn split the torrent of water. That still would have done little to the rest of the water except for the explosion of steam that came rushing back towards the Horns. Pisces shielded his face and fired [Bone Darts] rapidly down the corridor as he raised a [Bone Wall]—when he could see again, there they were.
Glowing Stitch-folk. One was holding a staff, another a greatsword. Ceria stopped cackling.
“Oh come on. No wonder Yisame wants this lot.”
The [Mage] pointed at Ceria, and there was a flare of light. Yvlon threw herself up.
“Ceria! Watch—”
The half-Elf caught half of the fiery blast that Yvlon took across her armor. She cried out, landing, but rolled upright, searching for…
Ceria’s illusion vanished. She reappeared to the side, crouched behind her own wall of ice.
“Damn, Yvlon! You okay?”
“Underarmor caught it. That’s…”
“[Take Cover]!”
