They rose to their feet as people applauded the famous title and deed. Pisces saw Ceria waving, blowing kisses, and then a confused sound. The clapping slowed—then there was laughter, cheering, and Pisces blinked. Because a second team had gotten to their feet and seemed as surprised as him. Even the [Queen] appeared shocked as she peered from behind her veil.
The Horns of the Hammerad were standing—and so were Wildcard. The [Herald] continued shouting.
“Two teams have achieved this great title! The Horns of Hammerad, Gold-rank adventurers and a Named-rank adventurer who hail from distant Izril, and Wildcard, a team newly elevated to Gold-rank for their slaying of an adult Creler! They also mourn their late comrade Adventurer Justine, fallen in battle against the scourge of Rhir! Hell’s Wardens!”
Pisces stared at the trio, who gave his team a second look. They sat, and Pisces nodded at the trio. They’d lost a teammate? After a moment, they nodded back, and Colth cracked his fingers.
“Not bad. At least one team has guts. So—which teams are going to try and get in our way for this big quest?”
Pisces sighed and remembered Beton’s warning.
The tangle of politics had begun. In his adventures, no less.
 
——
 
Queen Yisame always enjoyed seeing the Horns in her palace. She just wished she could be with them, not on her throne, listening in via its powerful spells.
Then again, she might be so tongue-tied as to not say anything. The position of the reader, the observer, the fan of the Horns was to let them act as they willed and just be part of the audience.
That was what she told herself as she held court, paying some interest to the machinations going on around her, but listening into the Horns, thinking up story beats for her next literary work. She’d been published four times so far, and her credibility as a [Writer] was rising. Heartslayi, damn her, was still more popular, but there was a lot of appeal to Sandquen’s ‘realistic storytelling of the Horns of Hammerad’. That was a review she’d framed in her secret rooms.
Of course, Etrikah would have lectured her about balancing things, but Yisame was happy. She was allowed to be happy, and so what if the Horns caused trouble?
They’d arguably helped her more than not by killing one of her rivals and backing Zenol. Adventurers were a different kind of game in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. By backing the Horns, Yisame benefited when they did well, and she suffered a bit less for their foibles; everyone knew adventurers were crazy.
That didn’t mean all was perfect, though. What the Horns didn’t realize was that there was a substantive group in the Court of Silks who were unhappy today, as they had been yesterday and all week.
That would be the, ah, ah, members of the court who had a personal attendant or bodyguard who had been instructed to refrain from entering the Court of Silks with their usual entourage. Or the palace.
[Slaves]. Yisame had personally told her Chamberlain of the Palace to move them away from any conceivable wing that the Horns—especially Pisces—might venture into. Similarly, she had made it clear through lesser channels what was not acceptable in the Court of Silks at this moment.
It wasn’t a royal proclamation. That was far too obvious for this. She just instructed the Voice, who said it in the hearing of servants, who reported it to their masters, and word spread in subtle ways such that few, if any, in the Court of Silks turned up with a personal [Slave].
Naturally, they weren’t happy about that, but Pisces’ reputation as the Bane of Roshal helped. No one wanted to risk an accident. As for the rest? Yisame wanted him to be comfortable, so what were a few favors to her team?
They had done so well at the Coliseum. An adventure worthy of them. She couldn’t wait to see how the Tomb went. True, it was more political than their regular adventures, but it would be a useful boon for them to act, and the other teams…
Yisame actually had Itkisa, Torreb’s daughter, approach her and introduce herself. She said nothing of course; her Voice greeted the woman distantly, as befit a mere Gold-rank adventurer. Yisame tried to see some of the legend of Torreb in Itkisa, but the woman was distressingly plain, and she didn’t have Torreb’s famous club. Ah, well…it was hard for anyone to match the Horns save maybe a Named-rank team.
She did get a thrill when they approached her throne and Ceria accepted her quest on behalf of them. Yisame tried not to show Yvlon any signs of favor, but it was hard—she smiled, wondering if they were enjoying themselves here, in the heart of Nerrhavia Fallen’s luxuries. She hadn’t heard of them availing themselves of any of the more exotic luxuries one could ask for, but perhaps they just had no interest in that.
The Adamantium Bathhouse did get tiring after you’d seen it a few times, and she didn’t care for the menagerie much herself, even with the new magical beasts. Going to the library—there was an adventuring team after her heart. Far better than the Fall of Nerrhavia’s, that eyesore of a hallway a hundred thousand paces long.
 
——
 
The pronouncement of Queen Yisame telling the Horns to take on a quest and the rest of the palace was a bit more tiresome after that, and without great note to Pisces. He could have too much of fame and attention, so the Adventurer’s Guild was the only highlight to him.
Tyrant’s Rest had a proper Adventurer’s Guild on par with Invrisil’s. Bigger, Pisces dared say, though he had never seen First Landing’s.
It was massive, and so many teams were inside who wanted to talk to the Horns he promptly cast [Invisibility]. Unfortunately, that had [Mages] coming up to him.
The worst part was that many were friendly, if wary.
“Bane, a word? I don’t own [Slaves]—”
What a curious way to greet him. But Pisces realized the teams were different from Invrisil’s in one huge way: none of them cared he was a [Necromancer]. Unlike the memorable Captain Todi and their brief stint in Invrisil, he ended up shaking hands with several [Mages].
“You’re an [Illusionist]? Truly?”
A Stitch-girl who wore a [Fool]’s outfit juggled knives which were all fake.
“That’s right. My entire method is baiting monsters into traps while my team skewers them. I can’t imagine fighting and casting. How do you manage it?”
“Er…practice?”
“Truly? Most battle-casters can’t use a weapon. They have to be [Spellblades]!”
Pisces hesitated. When you mentioned it…he shrugged.
“I was raised as a child to keep focus while dueling. I had to practice to use magic and the sword.”
His father had certainly beaten it into him, and Feren, the highest-level [Necromancer] Pisces had known, had taught him to cast and fight. Another [Mage] who had graduated from the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes sighed.
“Interesting. I do some fighting, but only after I use my mana. [Summoner]. I’d love to pit my spirits against your undead. There are plenty of [Summoners] in Chandrar; I know some [Necromancers], but it fell out of style after Az’kerash. Plus, cloth is harder to animate than other bodies.”
Fell out of style. Pisces swallowed his disbelief.
“I might not have time for that depending on how long we’re here—but why summoning?”
The [Summoner]’s name was Asmal. He showed Pisces a set of amber crystal preserving pieces. A bit of a sword, a tooth—Pisces had seen Revi’s gear, and he was familiar with it.
“Naturally, naturally. Summoning relies on pieces of what we want to revive. We need the whole corpse, though, then we take a piece and bind it. It works less well on continents where things rot or mold. But in Chandrar, one can die and become dessicated. And Stitch-folk leave lifethread behind, which is a catalyst.”
“Ah. Quite understandable. What do you prefer? I, er, favor Skeleton Champions these days, and a warbear. We have a Frostmarrow Behemoth, but the mana cost is intensive—”
Asmal had a fascinating array of monsters and even an ‘ancestral spirit’, who used a sword and shield. But he confessed it wasn’t much.
“Two Giant Scorpions and a Silver-ranker fighter that can’t hold off Gold-rank threats. If the Sandworm fails, I’m in trouble. I’d sell my right arm for a good summon.”
He flexed his arm, which was a dusky, even purplish hue. This limb was apparently tuned for fighting; it was made of a strange cloth that turned translucent in the sunlight! Indoors, it was only partially visible. Pisces imagined it’d be hard to see a blow coming, though you could see what Asmal held.
“Lovely cloth. Er, I’ve never thought of Stitch-folk changing their cloth like that. I know a [Summoner], Revi, who has a giant Shield Spider.”
Asmal’s eyes lit up with envy.
“How big? What a catch! If she got the body right away…summons degrade over time. Which is why even a Named-rank’s body might only turn into a Gold-rank’s spirit. But you can summon them forever as long as your crystal isn’t damaged, which is the benefit. Yes, this arm was an investment. Nightmare wool. I had the thought to make my entire body out of it; I’d have to go naked or enchant my clothing to be invisible, but I spent a fortune on this arm!”
He heaved a huge sigh.
“I was investing for another limb, but then Tiqr fell. It comes from there. No more to be had. That’s the problem with adventuring, especially abroad. You need specialized limbs and cloth. Your friend probably doesn’t want to risk having a limb that she can’t repair or maintain.”
“Revi is sensible. So the war with Tiqr has led to shortages?”
Grimaces from the Stitch-folk adventurers around him.
“Too many damn wars. We’re not soldiers, and some of the fools who went to fight Tiqr at the start never came back. Fighting Grand Oliphants is madness. Now we’re wanted for the wars in the north—fat chance against the King of Destruction! Same for Pomle and their [Martial Artists], Illivere’s Golems, or Tiqr. As for the eastern wars…”
“What eastern wars?”
Pisces had utterly forgotten how many conflicts Nerrhavia’s Fallen was invested in. One of the Silver-rankers scoffed.
“Some incident at the Meeting of Tribes. An [Ambassador] with a camel’s asshair for brains slew another. Now the only direction we’re not at war with is the south, and that’s just because there’s nothing there to fight but the sea!”
Everyone laughed. When Pisces asked if anyone was concerned about the number of wars, he got very neutral shrugs.
“We have more armies than sand, Bane. They’ll push the borders, win wars—then give up after enough of our armies strike them. The only true foe is the King of Destruction and—”
The [Summoner] hesitated.
“—He will be defeated like any other foe, of course.”
Well, that was politics. Ceria had to march in to drag Pisces out of the only fun conversation he’d ever had with teams he didn’t know to show him the board.
“Pisces, look at this! Why’d we have to be adventurers before this, huh?”
He regarded the board on the Adventurer’s Guild, and his jaw dropped. Pisces was immediately upset. Mostly because…being an adventurer had never looked more fun. Because, upon the board, each one glowing, the text literally shining different colors?
Were <Quests>.
 
<Rare Quest — Slay a Raging Manticore!>
<Basic Quest — From Githe the [Butcher]: A Prime Cut of Meat!>
<Rare Quest — Undead Horde! Bounties for Skulls! (Do not turn in literal skulls).>
<Rare Quest — Kidnapped: Hithcombe! Rescue him from the [Bandits]!>
<Basic Quest — Escort Duty to the Border!>
 
The rest of the world may have forgotten <Quests> or absorbed them into the cultural zeitgeist, but adventurers?
Adventurers were always doing this job, only now, there was a framework to reward people. Not just reward; the random items and extra experience from <Quests> was a lure. A siren’s song, and Pisces instantly regretted not taking on some casual quests.
Colth dragged him back to reality, though.
“According to the local adventurers, most <Quests> are just ordinary with a few surprises. You don’t get much from a rare quest, other than a nifty trinket or low-grade artifact if you’re lucky. But it also depends on the poster, apparently.”
Yvlon was standing alone; no one wanted to be near the Silver Killer, but her head turned from studying the board.
“Really? How so, Colth?”
His eyes twinkled with great interest.
“Why, a good <Quest> poster has Skills, Yvlon! Larra was complaining about not levelling or having any since she splits her Skills between magic and innkeeping. You can get extra rewards if you have a high-level [Guildmaster] or [Innkeeper]. That’s why Queen Yisame had the quest posted here instead of doing it herself. See?”
Pride of place on the board was a huge, recently-posted quest, and Pisces stared up at it. The other teams were blatantly envious, because it was clearly marked for the Horns. And this one made Pisces’ heart beat.
 
<Heroic Quest — Secure the Tomb of Yad’thuv!>
Limits: The Horns of Hammerad.
By order of Her Majesty, Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, hear and obey! The Tomb of Yad’thuv has been uncovered, an ancient resting-place of Stitch-folk. This hallowed ground is, no doubt, filled with restless undead, guardian spirits, and traps.
Enter, but do not slay the guardians carelessly; secure the Lifethread of each fallen warrior and ensure the tombs are kept safe. For the ancient warriors of old may become great warriors in service to Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Summoners].
Quest Reward: The favor of Queen Yisame, 12,000 gold pieces, experience in <Adventuring> classes, one lesser artifact of the vaults in Tyrant’s Rest.
Capital’s Reward (Bonus): An item of the Tomb of Yad’thuv.
 
Ceria was the first to finish reading and exclaimed.
“Dead gods! That last part—is that from Yisame?”
A woman leaned over the counter and spoke.
“It is none other than my Skill, Horns of Hammerad. I am Zamielle, [Royal Guildmistress], and my Skill allows me to append greater rewards on suitable quests. By the will of Her Majesty, I have done so. It is a rich reward, is it not?”
An artifact from the vaults and an item of old? Pisces licked his lips and noticed the other teams glancing at him. This was definitely favoritism. But Colth was just rubbing his hands.
“This is a good quest. Not only is it good, old-fashioned dungeon-diving, but we have lots of experience.”
“We do?”
The Horns had actually done Liscor’s dungeon and Albez, and Colth pointed out that some teams had no experience with that, like the Silver Swords. Moreover, as Ceria called for one of Wistram’s Magical Carriages to begin the journey now, he gave more reasons this quest had been posted.
