They were right on top of the two Gold-ranker teams, the Singing Stingers of Scaiid and the Roving Spearmasters. Both teams saw theirs coming, of course, and pivoted.
“The Horns! Damn the other teams—we need to be done before the palace blacklists us!”
That was the leader of the Stingers, who were advancing, seven-strong. The two Spearmasters called out.
“Truce?”
“You took out Marid! Never!”
That was all they got before the Wistram Carriage nearly ran over one of the Spearmasters. The Stitch-man leapt aside, and there was a voice from the inside.
“Pedestrian collision detected. Informing a representative of—”
The carriage didn’t slow, but did a U-turn and tried to run the [Spearmaster] over again. He stabbed desperately, but his enchanted spear didn’t penetrate the reinforced magical sides of the carriage. Then there was a voice.
“This is Magus Rievan, please h—are you running that man over? Stop! How are you controlling—”
Colth, again. [Commandeer Vehicle]. [Bandit] Skills. He swung the carriage around, spraying dirt, then someone launched from the side.
The Stingers were making for the tomb as the two Spearmasters dodged the carriage. Then they saw someone hit the ground and come running at them. Their [Captain] turned.
“Threadmakers. The Silver Killer! Drop her!”
They spun as the Silver Killer of Izril ran at them. She was—fast. The Stingers still managed two volleys.
Two [Lightning Bolts], an enchanted arrow, and a throwing disc—all hit her dead on. She burst out of the first volley, and they saw her skin was grey.
[Aspect of Iron]. She ignored the damage, and she was grinning—
“Hold her at the barriers! Ready—”
An arrow hit her in the cheek. Glanced off. One of the [Swordsmen] in the Stingers put a hand on their blade.
Wait—
She hit their barrier spells, and the barriers went out. The Stingers weren’t expecting that. They saw Yvlon Byres go through the barriers, and only the [Warriors] had a moment to react.
“[Quadruple Slash]—”
The [Swordsman] hit her. Three times; she blocked one of his slashes with an arm. But despite his enchanted mithril sword—all his blows bounced off something. Her skin. The prismatic barrier of their [Mage]’s magic was on her skin—
She shoulder-charged into him, and a fist met his sword. It compressed his sword back against his chest, and the [Swordsman] twisted—bounced off two of his teammates. He was trying to get up when her metal arms just—exploded into spikes.
 
——
 
The two Roving Spearmasters saw the entire team of the Stingers vanish in a giant porcupine of silver metal. Instantly, they spread out. One of them kept dodging the magical carriage, which was trying to run him over.
Colth was in the driver’s seat, and Ceria leapt off the carriage next, skating on a ramp of ice. She was covering her friend; the Stingers were trying to fight Yvlon as she punched through them at close-range. When they backed up, Ceria blasted them from behind.
“Disgraceful.”
The Captain of the Roving Spearmasters planted his spear on the ground. Three Gold-rank teams against one? He prepared a Skill. [Inferno Javelin]. Aiming at the Ice Squirrel. Barriers or not…
He had a half-second to notice the sand moving slightly before the invisible blade slashed at his chest. Nevertheless, the Captain parried Pisces the Bane’s cut. He cursed, whirling his spear around in a [Deflection Pattern].
Four strikes—one got through and cut across his chainmail armor, but that was all. The [Spearmaster] returned with two jabs. He saw the sand moving.
“Your teammate is down. The other one is fighting Colth, a Named-ranker. I would retreat, Captain.”
“We are [Spearmasters]. Face me openly, duelist. Let us see which is better. Silver bell or [Spearmaster].”
The Stitch-man motioned, and to his surprise and gratification, Pisces did appear. The [Necromancer] hesitated, and he raised his rapier. But that strange bell he carried—Captain Rashoy glanced at it.
That’s not silver, like the television said. He lowered his stance, preparing to sweep in. But the [Necromancer] just lifted his rapier.
“I regret to say, Captain, I have no time for a duel. Forgive me. Then retreat. My teammates are all more dangerous than me.”
What did that mean? The [Captain] was running forwards for a [Low Sweep] Skill followed by a Spear Art. But he aborted the charge—pivoted—
The arrow hit him, and only his helmet saved him. Even so, his head rang—but the man was blocking something else. A heavy swing—he stumbled. Then had to leap back away from—
He leapt back into a blade, which slashed across his chainmail. Then he felt bony hands on him. But he saw nothing. Just twisting sand—
The [Invisibility] spell broke, and six Skeleton Champions appeared. They’d gotten the drop on him! The [Archer] took aim as Pisces saluted the man.
“Apologies. I am a [Necromancer] more than a [Duelist].”
Then he [Flash Stepped] away. The [Captain] swung his spear through one of the Skeleton Champions’ heads, but the rest came at him.
[Undead: Bonerattler Charge]. He ate his first real wound as the one with the greatsword drove the blade into him and nearly broke a rib.
“Calpit!”
He shouted for his teammate—and didn’t see the other [Spearmaster]. The final member of his team had tried to take the driver of the magical carriage out.
Colthei the Supporter drove past Captain Rashoy. He had a bloody blade in hand. He leapt off the carriage, and it skidded to a stop. Someone was being dragged behind it. Rashoy saw his teammate—Calpit was missing an arm and still struggling to free himself from the rope that the [Supporter] had used to drag him across the ground.
“Fall back! Grab Miha!”
He swung at the Skeleton Champions, who were pulling back, five strong, towards the tomb. Rashoy deflected an arrow and heard a scream of fury.
The Conquerors of Rameid emerged, frostbitten and furious, and the Stingers were scrambling away from the Silver Killer, five standing. A flying carpet descended, and three teams of Silver and Gold-rankers leapt down, shouting.
But the Horns had reached the tomb’s entrance. Rashoy saw the [Necromancer] turn back as the Ice Squirrel and Silver Killer joined his position. The [Supporter] was using the entrance as cover, firing arrows at the other teams. For a second, Rashoy locked eyes with Pisces the Bane.
He’s no slaughterer of men like the rumors say. He even appeared guilty. Rashoy lifted his spear. The [Necromancer] could have done far worse during that surprise attack. Then Rashoy fell back, running to get his fallen teammate.
Rashoy was a Level 35 [Spearmaster of Sand’s Flare]. After today, Rashoy hoped it was Level 36; that would be the one consolation prize from this disaster of an attempt. He consoled himself with two things.
Firstly, his team had only gotten cut up but not wounded beyond some good cloth and stitching. Second? He peered over his shoulder.
“Gold-rankers. Hah.”
“Damned Adventurer’s Guild.”
Calpit agreed, hunting around his for his arm. They were all over Level 40 or Rashoy would eat his damn spear.
The other teams were bearing down on the tomb’s entrance as the Horns regrouped. There was a pause; one of the Conquerors fired a glowing arrow, and it exploded as a Skeleton Champion threw itself in the way of the projectile. Then…
The Frostmarrow Behemoth roared its way skywards. Ice and ivory funneling upwards from the two [Mages] who held hands, a glowing blue flame in the eyes of the largest—and first—bear that Rashoy had ever seen. It turned, and the Conquerors of Rameid slowed and began backpedalling.
The Frostmarrow Behemoth charged, roaring like an earthquake given voice. Then the Horns of Hammerad vanished inside. The Roving Spearmasters retreated towards their carriage, shaking their heads.
“Let the Jade Garudas try them. Or those other two teams. Let’s get out of here and find a [Mage].”
“To do what?”
“See if they’ll pay us to do an interview.”
 
——
 
The Horns made it to the Tomb of Yad’thuv by virtue of superior gear and strategy, mostly. Colth had reasoned that since no one knew how Yvlon’s ring worked, any team using conventional barrier spells would be easy pickings.
Moreover, Pisces and Ceria were experts at locking down the enemy—even if the two of them didn’t actually do that as much, their classes were perfect for delaying actions. Colth had been most worried about Pisces getting hurt or Ceria growing overconfident, but her takedown of the Conquerors with his help? Textbook.
Even the Haven’s crowd would admit she’s got Named-rank instincts there. Three spells to take the Conquerors out of the fight long enough for them to secure a position. The last trick had been the magical carriage, obviously.
Far too useful. Archmage Amerys had demonstrated how they worked, and having a vehicle that was a lesser version of Magnolia Reinhart’s carriage was hard for anyone to beat, even a Gold-rank team.
We’ll have to watch out for someone doing that to us. Though Colth had already speculated that if he deployed an obstacle, he might be able to flip one coming at them.
They made it to the tomb’s entrance, and Colth reviewed their state. No major wounds on anyone in the party. Yvlon had taken some hits, but she was using her second ring to heal herself. Magic expenditure was moderate with Ceria, but she was guzzling a mana potion.
Pisces had lost all but three Skeleton Champions, but had enough bones to remake two. [Ice Walls] were now deployed, and with Ceria’s [Glaciersheet Ice], they’d have plenty of time before a Gold-rank team broke through—once they dealt with the Frostmarrow Behemoth.
“Alright, let’s push. Ceria, how much mana are we working with? Can you cast [Summon Frost Elemental]?”
She flicked her eyes to him, still grinning with the adrenaline.
“Sure! How many do you need?”
“Can you do…four without needing a mana potion? And use the Crown of Medain?”
“If I draw on the circlet’s magic, sure. Just flood the corridors?”
He had his bow in his hands and was scanning down the tomb. Colth saw old murals and text on the walls, beautifully preserved. He wished he had time to read it; the creators of this tomb had clearly recorded the history of the place. Perhaps even the names and levels of the dead. But he focused.
“That’s right. We don’t have time to search for traps beyond quick checks. Send them forwards. If they vanish, let us know. And tell us when your ice walls come under attack.”
“Aye aye, Captain Colth. Everyone good?”
“That was crazy. We just rushed three Gold-rank teams.”
Pisces was wiping at his brows, but Yvlon only grunted.
“They were easier than I thought. I was worried when they tagged me with spells. The Stingers fell back without engaging me hard.”
Well, you probably outlevel all of them by ten levels, and you ran at them with Galas-muscle. And they saw your last fight. 
Colth didn’t say that, obviously. Better if the Horns continued behaving like underdogs. He just smiled as Ceria conjured four beings made of frozen ice. Tall, angular; the Frost Elementals strode forwards, shedding vapor, and Pisces pointed.
“Skeletons, advance and…engage? Don’t kill adventurers. Any defenders of the tombs—yes. Don’t kill anyone living.”
The Skeleton Champions let the Frost Elementals go forwards, then the creatures summoned by the Crown of Medain. Smaller, snarling jackals made of light, a green bird with huge claws—eleven Silver-ranker monsters.
Nothing fancy. All together, the summoned monsters would probably only delay a Gold-rank team, but it was a damn horde. Colth smiled wider.
This team of mine has so much utility. He loved it. Normally, you had to pay for this kind of firepower if you were with Eldertuin or Viecel, or you traded all your offensive capability for magic or being all-rounders like Larracel.
But with Yvlon and Pisces, Colth actually had a strong frontline too. Their only weakness was a lack of [Rogues], and he filled that gap.
“Okay, I suspect two teams are down here—one’s Named-rank. The Jade Garudas are respected, but fliers. They favor magical attacks with their speed. Hit-and-run tactics. I think they’re some kind of magical Garuda subspecies? They’re overconfident or desperate. They shouldn’t have entered the tomb, but waited to pick off anyone coming out. My guess is they think they can blitz the tomb and get out. They might be able to cut through Ceria’s [Ice Walls], so our goal is to negotiate or neutralize.”
“Think they’ll be willing to talk?”
The Horns strode down the corridors, which were actually well-lit. Little balls of [Light] had illuminated on sconces, revealing the old sandstone corridors and sarcophagi lining the walls. Colth glanced at them.
“Hard to say. I’ll get a read on their personalities and communicate it to you, Ceria. Remember: they’re a Named-rank team, so they’re sharp. But I’m a Named-ranker. If they recognize me they’ll think twice before assuming they can overpower us. Also, we can rely on Fetohep’s friendship.”
“What about Yisame? Ow. There goes one of my aspects. One left.”
Yvlon was scratching at a chunk taken out of her cheek. As her [Aspect of Iron] faded, it became a bloody gash; she grimaced. Colth sighed.
“It’s just politics with Yisame. Fetohep, though…he’s a petty [King], and a powerful one. I heard he reached out to them.”
“Colth…do you ever stop coming up with weird facts?”
“I just listen to gossip, Pisces. Now, note the light spells. Inbuilt from the tomb’s creation, not placed by the first team who got in. That means the magic is still good. I reckon the other teams dealt with traps or guardians. It also means our loot’s here. So no adventurers get past us without turning out their bags of holding. Well, I’ll check them anyways. They can hide loot anywhere.”
“Like up your butt. Yvlon style.”
“I swallowed my loot, Ceria.”
“It all comes out one way, Yvlon. You ever had to deal with that, Colth?”
He sighed.
“Too many times. It’s worse when it gets stuck.”
Pisces groaned.
“Colth…can we just be professional?”
“That’s as professional as Named-rankers get. Okay…silence spells. Keep chatter low.”
The Horns advanced. Colth saw the corridor of the honored dead sloped downwards, and his hope was that the tomb was just one long, long corridor. That’d make it a real easy killzone.
Sadly, it was not. Everyone had to be cute. Happily, though, when they reached the first intersection, someone had actually chiseled a map onto the tomb. Colth chuckled.
“I love helpful architects. Nice. Okay, three passages but just three wings. We have a chokepoint here. The northern wing is largest…I’d bet that’s where our treasure is, just based on general vibes.”
