The [Supporter] patted Pisces on the shoulder. Pisces knew that his team had money, but he hated the idea of wasting potions. Magic was free, and once you used a potion, that was it. He was mostly familiar with mana, healing, and stamina potions. Did they need alchemy? He knew Colth would take them if no one else, and Ksmvr loved alchemy.
But not every adventurer subscribed to Pisces’ model of fiscal responsibility. In fact, a team practically charged Shedrel, shoving people aside, and he met them with open arms.
“Ah, the redoubtable Conquerors of Rameid! What brings the northern giants of Gold-rank adventuring so far south?”
Ceria’s head turned, and Yvlon closed her eyes. Then a loud voice cut over the babble.
“Why, we were invited, of course. We heard a fellow Gold-rank team were making a splash, and we thought we’d show them what real Chandrarian adventuring was like.”
“Ah. And there’s the competition. I blame you for this, Yvlon.”
Ceria stuck a fork into a burrito and began to munch. Yvlon herself sighed. Pisces eyed her.
“You know them?”
The Conquerors of Rameid were a four-person team who were mixed Stitch-folk and Human. Yvlon shrugged.
“They were in Medain, and I don’t think they took to me. Perric used them to get us to go back to the capital. Apparently, they conquered Medain’s biggest dungeon? How did they get here?”
“Doubtless, someone’s decided to counter Yisame’s new pet adventuring team with their own. They’re not the only adventurers in the room. Heads up. They’re going to start something. Yvlon, don’t play into their games.”
Raava, the Stitch-woman who was speaking, was clearly the captain of the Conquerors. She was haggling for Shedrel’s potion and glancing at the Horns.
Rather to her displeasure, all the Horns were eating. Pisces watched as Therel slunk around the room, searching for other adventurers. There were clearly a few allowed in the Court of Silks, but Therel definitely was on the outs.
“I wonder what Saliss would say about all of these [Alchemists]. He studied here.”
“Think he ever did that poetry-duelling?”
Ceria smiled, trying to imagine it. Pisces shuddered.
“If he did, I pity the fools who went up against him. No wonder he’s so good at dodging. So what’s this about Yisame’s quest?”
“Oh, that. She’s going to tell us she put up a request in the Adventurer’s Guild. As a <Quest>, no less.”
He brightened up immediately.
“Aha! A <Quest>? We haven’t done one of those in a while! All of ours were rather fraught too; a lower-stakes one would be welcome indeed. Excellent! Elena, do you want to come with us?”
“Uh…how deadly is it? I can definitely stay in the palace, and if there are monsters anywhere around, with respect, I don’t really want to risk it. I’ve been in danger, but I don’t exactly have the Skills or reflexes to survive if things get bad.”
“See? That’s sensible. That’s why I like her.”
Colth pointed at Elena and handed some sauce over. Delitandra cleared her throat.
“We are able to both record your deeds and hold our own, Adventurer Colth—”
“You’re not invited.”
“Ah.”
Out of the corner of his eyes, Pisces saw Alchemist Therel moving around the room, greeting people he knew, trying to engage the more powerful people in conversation. He didn’t seem to have much luck, or they just didn’t need his alchemy. Which—fair. You didn’t need alchemy all the time, especially given how much it probably cost.
Therel stopped just once, though, as a huge trailing mass of robes swept out of the Court of Silks. The Mage of Falling Skies had no time, it appeared, for anything here. Everyone got out of his way, but he halted, just once.
Nodded to Therel, who turned, spoke to him with a weak half-smile. The Mage of Falling Skies moved on, and Therel kept circulating. That was all Pisces noted.
Well, that and every adventurer in the room not really liking his team. The Conquerors of Rameid were extolling their exploits and mentioning how a certain team was wanted back in Medain, only saved from wrath because they were the High King’s brides.
Yvlon seemed to have genuinely not heard a word they said…she was poking at a fried scorpion with more nerves than Pisces had seen in her the entire trip, and Ceria kept daring her to take a bite. But then Ceria glanced around.
“Hey, another Gold-rank team. There. See that trio? What’ve we done to them?”
A trio of adventurers were being fêted at another table, if less grandly than the Horns. Pisces turned and saw three Humans looking his way. Two were quite tanned; the third had naturally dark skin. Two young men, one young woman. One of the two young men had dark black hair dyed white, like a slash across his hair; the other was blonde and eating with a will. It was the young woman who was glaring. She had on robes, and Pisces identified her as a [Mage].
“Beats me. More competition? I don’t recognize them.”
Colth squinted, and Ceria got up.
“Let me see if I can tweak the Conquerors’ noses. I’m gonna play nice. Anyone want to say hi?”
Colth, Yvlon, and Pisces got up at once. They walked towards them as Ceria bounded over.
“Another Gold-rank team! Hello! I’m Captain Ceria of the Horns of Hammerad, and you are?”
The other adventurers got up—except the young woman, who folded her arms and glared. The one with blonde hair held out a hand, and Pisces noted he had a [Warrior]’s build. Muscled, in short. Though he had on far lighter armor than Pisces would have thought. A light shirt and pants, showing bare legs and arms instead of Colth’s all-leather gear.
“Oh, er, hello. We’re the Wildcards. A Gold-rank team, like yours. We just got made Gold-ranks, actually. We were invited to the capital, and it’s our first time in the exalted Court of Silks. I’m Leo, and this is Kusal. And Lareceina—Lareceina, say hello.”
He nudged the scowling [Mage], but she refused to even get up when Ceria shook her teammates’ hands.
“I’m not shaking hands with a murderer. I will greet the rest of you. Colthei the Supporter, Yvlon Byres, the Silver Killer, Pisces the Bane.”
She nodded at them, and two of the Horns flushed at their silly names. Leo nudged Lareceina.
“Come on, Lareceina—they’re famous. From Izril?”
“And who’d I murder?”
Ceria wanted to know. Lareceina’s eyes flashed.
“The Champion of Monarchs? And the Master of the Coliseum! I’m surprised you all haven’t been assassinated yet. We can’t be too friendly with them, Leonardo. They’re part of the Queen’s faction, and she’s a cold-blooded killer.”
“Hey. I prefer ‘adventurer’. It’s a catchall term.”
Ceria’s voice was mild and untroubled in the face of the hostility. Pisces cleared his throat.
“We appear to have gotten off on the wrong foot. We just wished to greet fellow Gold-rankers. We haven’t met any in Chandrar before.”
Leo and Kusal were flustered, and Leo nudged Lareceina with his elbow.
“Absolutely. We don’t want to start anything. Lareceina, chill.”
“Well, we just wanted to say hi, but if your teammate doesn’t want to talk, maybe after she’s calmed down? I only murdered the guy yesterday. And he was gonna come for us.”
Ceria decided to disengage and motioned her team back. The Wildcards sat, but Lareceina called out.
“Watch your backs. No, that’s not a threat from me, Kusal. You cannot just go around murdering—”
They started arguing, and Pisces shook his head.
“Oh delightful Captain of mine, does it ever occur to you that we don’t have many friends among other adventurers?”
“We don’t know many teams, Pisces. But yeah…and the ones we do know are dead or on another continent. Fine. I take responsibility for that one. See anyone else who won’t jump down our throats?”
Ceria was casting around for another team they could at least say hi to. Pisces thought he saw other Gold-rankers, but it might have been they were bodyguards or just…independent. They were making their way back to their table when Colth’s head turned.
“Conquerors coming up. Yvlon—”
He flanked her as Pisces took her other side. The Silver Killer protested.
“I’m not going to murder them. They can’t be as annoying as Perric. Ceria, show them Perric’s crown.”
“Oh, good idea!”
Then Pisces and Colth were grabbing at Ceria as Raava stalked forwards with a crowd clearly hoping for more drama. He grabbed for Ceria, sneezed—and then whirled. So did Colth. Yvlon stopped walking towards Raava with her hand outstretched. She and Ceria turned and stared right with the rest of their team.
Pisces’ nose seemed to be acting as a detector of levels or things he found important. Which he wasn’t sure he liked. But unlike Beton—or the Mage of Falling Skies, who’d hidden his presence—this time, Pisces felt like something was physically attracting his attention.
Like gravity magic. When his eyes alighted on the figure who had just entered the Court of Silks, it felt like an explosion going off on his head. It was like a song.
“Who’s—that?”
Ceria rubbed her eyes and laughed, but her eyes flicked towards Pisces, Colth, and Yvlon, and the [Silversteel Armsmistress] began walking.
“She’s strong.”
“I think—I know her too. So the rumors were true. Heads up. That’s a monster, no matter how she looks.”
The Conquerors of Rameid saw the Horns instantly pivot and walk past them. And correspondingly—the Heromakers of Hraace leaned out of their booth and leapt up. Which made Elena glance up, and the attention that focused on the newcomer reflected off her. Interested people turned and grew disappointed instantly.
The smarter ones, like Prince Zenol, knew better than to judge by appearances. And when he peered around, Barelle the Bard smiled, just once, opened a little book, and produced a quill.
A strange adventurer had come to the Court of Silks, even by their standards. Because she didn’t look right.
It was like a midwife or mother had put on somewhat-damaged chainmail over enchanted leather armor and paid for the biggest club she could carry. It was nearly as tall as she was, and she rested it on the ground as she surveyed the room. That was the contradiction.
Everything in Pisces said she was high-level and dangerous. But she appeared almost homely. Her clothes? Cotton, he thought, and she could have been a Human mother in Liscor but for her equipment.
“Who is that?”
Colth didn’t need to answer. The [Herald], who announced people to the Court of Silks, was surprised by the sudden hush in the usually raucous room that ignored him. He cleared his throat, then spoke.
“Presenting, the Gold-rank adventurer! The only woman to attain Gold-rank the moment she became an adventurer in three decades since Mars the Illusionist herself—the daughter of Chandrar’s greatest [Warrior]! Itkisa!”
Torreb’s daughter? As in Torreb the Undefeated? Ceria’s eyes slid to Colth.
“Isn’t he dead? At Pomle?”
“That’s right. His daughter. I heard a rumor she was strong. Of all his offspring, though, she never adventured. Never made a name for herself, and he has sons who’ve become Gold-rankers and [Generals]. But she—”
“She’s Level 40, isn’t she?”
Pisces saw the woman’s head turning, and Itkisa paused to bow to the throne. Then she nodded at Barelle and got a nod back. She was poised, despite the disappointed murmurs. A lot of the Court of Silks just saw her appearance, but Pisces remembered how blown away everyone, even Yvlon, had been at the celebrations.
The Court of Silks might not have been celebrating, but all this attention struck Itkisa, and she just stood there. When someone offered her a drink, she waved it away. Ceria squinted at the woman, confused.
“Her gear…it sucks. That’s a lot of damaged equipment. I don’t think that club has anything beyond a basic protection spell on it. Wasn’t Torreb rich?”
Colth scratched at his chin.
“He had a lot of offspring. She might not have gotten much. Where’s his famous club?”
Delitandra leaned over, eyes alight with interest as she also studied Itkisa.
“Vanished, the rumor goes. Along with his body. She was there when he died. They said Torreb died rather than fight the Strongest of Pomle. Well, well.”
The Horns of Hammerad saw Itkisa step forwards, after a moment, and greet Alchemist Therel, who had found her with a smile and, Pisces noted with jealousy, a free potion. She smiled at him and seemed to know him. Following his example, people who had known Torreb chose to greet the woman.
“So that’s the competition. Think someone called her up to make a point?”
Ceria glanced around airily, then chose to go back to her seat. Yvlon hesitated.
“Aren’t you going to greet her?”
“Nah. I think she doesn’t like us. She seems like she’s spoiling for a fight.”
She does? Pisces eyed the calm woman who’d only glanced their way once, but Colth grunted.
“She is, isn’t she? Maybe she thinks she’ll make a name for herself if she punches Yvlon. I’d do it if I wanted attention.”
“Colth, some may call me the Silver Killer, but the truth is I’m hardly so famous—”
Laughter. The Horns sat back down as Elena listened to an explanation of who Itkisa was.
“Wow, so she’s got to be one of the older adventurers.”
“You get some like Typhenous, but it’s true she’s past the age most would retire.”
“What a queen. I respect that.”
Elena said the oddest things, but Pisces just sat back. Indeed, the [Herald] was calling out all the teams in the room now. Reminding the Court of Silks how many adventuring teams there were in case someone wanted their services.
“—the Conquerors of Rameid, known for taking on the dungeon of Rameid, the Carpetriders of Thistob, mourning two of their own lost in a terrible crash, the Singing Stingers of Scaied, and, an achievement among any adventurers, a team who has earned the recognition of Rhir! Hell’s Wardens!”
Raava and her team stopped waving around and developed a scowl. Ceria beamed at Raava, and Pisces blushed and groaned.
“Does it really make that much of a difference?”
“Adult Crelers are Adult Crelers, Pisces. Even Gold-rankers hesitate when they appear, and we’ve all killed one. It’s how you know a real adventurer, even among Golds.”
Colthei’s voice was a bit too carrying and loud, and he definitely did that on purpose. Pisces peered around. Ceria and Colth were not above needling the Conquerors, and Yvlon just did it accidentally.
“I’m sure the other Gold-rank teams could do the same, Colth. Most of them.”
