It was just that things were changing. He thought of the letter he’d received. He glanced at Elena, who was listening to Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace explaining the political currents to her. He eyed Yvlon.
Silver Killer. Even now, people gazed at her, the new, unofficial Champion of Monarchs. They were having a tournament to crown the new champion. Mectail, Thexca, and Vitte were all competing to take the position, actually. They were now no longer in disgrace, and the new head of the Coliseum of Monarchs was a Yisame-loyalist.
In one fell swoop, they had added to Yisame’s power base, saved their friends, and…and that was well. Despite how dangerous it had been, Pisces wasn’t as mad at Yvlon as Ceria and Colth had been. They’d yelled at him for going with her, but Pisces had seen Yvlon’s logic.
She had a ring that could absorb magical barriers. Yvlon Byres was now one of the most deadly [Warriors] for any [Mage] to meet if they weren’t flying, behind a layer of traps, or ready to teleport.
She truly had changed from the [Armsmistress] who’d been a bit lost when she’d returned to Izril. She had mastered her temper and turned it into a weapon. She was incredible. Even Pisces could admit Yvlon was captivating in a martial sense. She was even calmer than before as she balanced on a Drake’s foot and read from the book she’d checked out, Famous Knights of Terandria, Edition LXXVIII.
Her blonde hair shone in the light, a rare color in the duskier courts of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and her arms gleamed as she licked a finger and flicked a page, frowning at one of her ancestors of old.
By contrast, Pisces was aware of his white robes, which were plain cotton, if mildly enchanted, and frayed and damaged a bit from his adventures. He cast [Cleanse] silently and finger-combed his messy brown hair, which needed a cutting; it was getting in his eyes. He felt skinny and underfed—not that Yvlon was thickset. But he sat next to her and saw Ceria leap up, bowing, her clothing whirling around her. Floating—
Clothing from the Trial of Shields. So magic she leapt away at three quarters of her regular weight, and Colth caught her and ran away, a brown-green haired young man grinning like an imp, just like her. Skeletal hand, frosted skin, on her. His green hair waving about, bounding forwards—
Adventurers in their prime. The [Necromancer] rubbed at his nose, conscious of the eyes. Trying to keep up, but he saw even Ceria glancing at Yvlon, as if waiting for an explosion or wrench thrown into her plans, and Colth was smiling at the [Armsmistress]. It was not mere jealousy or his occasional bouts of self-doubt and self-loathing which prompted this feeling in Pisces today.
It was the disconnect between his team. And most of all…he gazed at Yvlon.
Level 47 [Silversteel Armsmistress]. She stood on the precipice of something. With each level, he felt her drawing closer. Colth was different; he held his nature back, and only showed his abilities when needed, but Yvlon was rising like the sun itself. Soon, Pisces felt.
Soon, she would be someone whom this world would know and respect in any land she walked. It had begun already.
“Not into your book, Pisces?”
Yvlon glanced at him, and he jumped.
“Er—no, no, it’s fine, Yvlon. Quite informative in an unsettling way. The writer is most excellent; though, one feels the inconsistencies in his telling. And the annotations? Most gratifying.”
She blinked at him, utterly blankly.
“Annotations?”
He showed her, and she scowled.
“Who writes in a book?”
“Don’t get mad, Yvlon. It adds to the book. Why, this book had been reprinted with annotations because it was so popular. You see, these are personal annotations by famed [Historians], even monarchs and other travellers who disagreed with the incipient text and narrative.”
She gave him that blank expression again as she shifted her weight and stood like an owl. Her foot morphed to a Garuda’s claw as if she’d had the same thought, and a Stitch-man sighed longingly. When both adventures glanced at him, he flushed, bowed, and hurried away.
So magical even Stitch-folk find you attractive, Byres. Pisces did not say that, he just explained as Elena edged over.
“Let me explain. This is a banned text in Nerrhavia’s Fallen without clearance; Librarian Dulstovie was kind enough to allow me to read it. It is Across the Immortal Empire by Corregrione the Explorer. A famously controversial book about Nerrhavia the Tyrant’s kingdom.”
Her very name made some of the Stitch-folk shudder, but Yvlon just raised her brows.
“Ah, so the annotation?”
“People clarifying his words, providing counterarguments or truth behind what was thought to be propaganda. Obviously, it does not capture Nerrhavia’s Fallen today, but some things—locations, even cultural markers—still remain after all this time. I thought it was germane to read.”
“Germane being…”
“Relevant or appropriate to the subject. May I read it when you’re done, Pisces?”
He blinked at Elena and nodded at the [Beautician].
“Of course, Miss Elena. Ah, good to have a fellow lover of history.”
So odd to have new people attached to his team, if not part of it. She smiled, and Pisces, who’d normally add some superior factoids, grew uncomfortable and—didn’t. He felt like it was tacky to do that, even though he knew that was his style.
And Yvlon herself didn’t glare at him for wording things fancily. She just nodded.
“If it’s that good, I might read it myself after Elena. This book isn’t much. Oh, it’s detailed about [Knights] and their quests, but it’s…I suppose I should have expected as much.”
“Not as well written?”
“No. It just makes it sound like every crusade and monster the [Knights] hunted down was just. They have a quote about hunting a ‘barbarous Chandrarian Stitch-folk’, and I took a look around and had to stop. One of my ancestors, no less.”
Yvlon closed the book and sighed. Pisces opened his mouth to say something needling about House Byres and stopped. But Yvlon did it for him.
“I knew my family was famous in its heyday. We truly have been everywhere and done everything—badly. I just bet Ylawes or my father would have loved to read this; even we don’t have it in our libraries.”
“Ah, well, not all Byres are objectionable, surely.”
“Name me a good one, Pisces.”
“…Ysara?”
She blinked, raised her head, and smiled at him. Again, it had seemed like she was prepared for a rude comment. She blinked at him, he at her, and they felt it.
Who are you? My friend. But what’s gotten into you? She raised an eyebrow. He waggled his. Yvlon snorted and jerked her chin up. He shrugged. She touched two fingers to her lips, expression slackening. Then just made a fist. Held up a thumb.
Pisces smiled at her. And wished it were so easy with Ceria or even Colth. After a moment, Yvlon coughed.
“My damn legs are giving me grief, anyways.”
“Still hurting?”
“Tingling. Like I can’t stretch ‘em out enough, and I ran around the palace six times today. I thought I’d die of dehydration. I’m worried I kept some magic from the Champion of Monarchs or some such. But Etrikah did clear me.”
Galas-muscle. Pisces saw Delitandra’s head swing around to Yvlon. He eyed her as she favored her metal foot, as if putting weight on her other foot felt odd. And he hesitated. Then said—
“Galas muscle. You’re developing it.”
Yvlon blinked at Pisces. He’d have kept it a secret, normally, a hunch. She scrubbed at her hair.
“Oh. Berr said I’d get ‘really strong’ if I levelled. Is that it?”
“It appears to be the case. I could be mistaken—”
“No, no, it makes sense. Do I activate it or something…?”
“You’d just rest for now, Adventurer Byres. If it is developing, and if—it normally comes after Level 50—you would need to wait.”
Delitandra strode over, and Yvlon ignored the heromaker. She just waited until Pisces nodded.
“That’s my understanding too. I need to research the subject. I know something of it from necromancy. But it is so rare, I defer to Hraace. You’ll get even more dangerous.”
“Well, if I die, you can have as much as you want.”
She grinned, and even that joke was new. Pisces smiled, and his heart hurt. He sat there until Ceria and Colth bounded over.
“Hey, guess who got us work?”
Pisces and Yvlon glanced around, found some appetizers a servant was holding out on a platter, and threw them at Ceria. At least they agreed on that.
 
——
 
“Okay, listen. I admit, breaking an old man’s hip wasn’t the best way to start the day, but Yisame’s going to use us, and getting out of the capital’s good for everyone. We’ve got objectives to pursue, right? Here’s my pitch: I want to raid the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes. Pisces, me, Colth, all of us copy spells all day. Yvlon, you scare the locals. Then we do one of Yisame’s quests, see about these ‘Mad Ones’, and from there, we either pursue Ksmvr’s sword and my things to the west or go east to find Pisces’ friends. Plan?”
Ceria pitched her plan to the team, and Pisces held up a finger.
“Do we need to visit the academy now, Ceria? No offense, but if you were to steal any books, I would rather have it be tomes. If I only have a day, I’d rather spend it reading this book and searching for magical artifacts in the markets, perhaps.”
Ceria wavered and frowned at Pisces.
“You don’t want to learn every spell they’ve got? They have Tier 6 magic at least—!”
“Ceria. Some of us don’t have magical circlets.”
He hit her with his best sniff and arch look, and a guilty expression appeared on her face.
“Ah, well—I can’t learn it overnight, but I can memorize—right. Maybe a week of study or if we could buy a book—”
“You’re more likely to grow wings and fly, but I’d be down to at least see what’s there.”
Colth favored Pisces with a longer glance before switching to Yvlon.
“The academy is a marvel, Yvlon.”
“I’m sure it is, but if we have time, I need to find that [Bodyguard] I wounded. Especially if we’re going on an adventure. If we can’t split up, Pisces, would you do that if I go shopping?”
He made a show of thinking and nodded.
“I could agree.”
“Damn, you sure you don’t want to check out spellbooks, Pisces?”
“I do have my own spellbook which I believes supercedes most in quality, Ceria. While I am occupied with that, I don’t see the need to split my focus.”
Ceria was crestfallen, but when he shook his head, she jumped up.
“Fine. Oh, Elena, where are you gonna go?”
The Heromakers of Hraace and Delitandra were left out of the discussions, but Elena wasn’t. The young Earther hesitated, then smiled.
“I might muck about the palace if that’s alright. I’ll keep safe!”
Colth smiled at her, and Ceria blew out her cheeks.
“Well, I suppose we might get an adventure courtesy of Yisame. Expect it tomorrow—it’s a good use of time. Go deal with, uh—Beton? We have to take a Magical Carriage there and back. Or a carpet.”
“Magical carriage. Carpets crash.”
Colth opined, and Pisces realized he genuinely didn’t want to spend a few hours having to ride to the other city where the famous magical academy was, then ride back. He stretched out.
“I’ll rest here, thank you, Springwalker. Do note the best tomes for me? I have a penchant for [Necromancy], obviously, but I’ll take darkness magic, illusion, with an option on generalist theory and other magic—”
She flipped him off as she walked out of the rooms backwards.
“I’m going to check just for ice magic, Pisces. Do your own research!”
“I’ll bookmark a few tomes. Get the carriage, Ceria? I just need a few bribes to sweeten anyone we talk to. [Mages] love food, and I’m going to raid the royal kitchens.”
Colth grinned at Ceria. She nodded, and Colth glanced at Pisces once before he walked out of the rooms.
“<[Limited Telepathy]. Hey Pisces, something up?>”
Pisces ignored the mental voice and just waved Colth off. He saw Yvlon stretching and thought he’d played it well.
 
——
 
Outside of their shared rooms, Ceria Springwalker stood for a moment, and her mind raced. The repaired magical circlet was a bit weaker than it had been before Flos shattered it. Weaker—but more cooperative.
[Accelerate Thoughts]. [Detect Mood]. Magical and Skill-based powers built into it. It was no mere Relic. She stood there and thought to herself. She was almost sure it was just her thoughts, but perhaps it was both hers and the circlet’s. Either way, she was sure.
He’s hiding something. But what?
After a moment, she strode off and began skating away. Pisces was allowed to have secrets. It was just that she could tell this one was about…her.
Fair enough. He’d not said anything about killing the Champion of Monarchs after he’d surrendered.
She supposed she deserved that.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres was the least subtle member of the Horns of Hammerad. She didn’t have the sheer education the others did, despite being raised as a [Lady], nor the effects of a class which boosted your mental abilities.
She also, a bit famously, didn’t bother with all that. But she did have the amazing power of looking at other people’s faces.
She knew something was bothering Pisces, but he wasn’t prevaricating like normal and playing it off. He just asked her if she wanted to visit Beton first since they might need time, and she told him she’d found his home address and asked to visit; he’d agreed, so they might head down at any time.
So…they went.
It was never as simple as that, of course. They had to fend off sixteen people in Yisame’s palace who wanted their time. To hire the Horns, to get an autograph, to talk about the coliseum, to ask Pisces about—
Yvlon held them off with her patented trick of introducing herself at length. Outside the palace?
They were mobbed inside ten seconds of leaving.
“Adventurers! I have the best artifacts at my master’s store—”
“Adventurer Ceria! I saw you fighting! Autograph my cloth!”
“I know where someone buried treasure! If you listen to—”
Yvlon and Pisces froze in the face of true fandom, a crowd of Stitch-folk who ran at them. Pisces vanished, but what could that do when they just ran into you, screaming? Yvlon smiled, began her speech, and realized it made it worse.
 
——
 
A rather smug Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace found the two slightly winded and messy-haired adventurers standing just inside the palace grounds.
“Would you, perhaps, care for a disguise, adventurers? An escort is common.”
“Capital idea, Trainer Delitandra. Is Elena around?”
Pisces managed, and Delitandra’s face fell. Yvlon got up, and after retreating to their rooms and some careful prep, she emerged with some pre-fabricated disguises that Elena had worked on.
