Regalius was groaning as he eyed Enica and the rather surly Padurn Jealnet, who were quite overwhelmed by their visit to the Court of Masks. Well, Enica was. She seemed to be a pleasant woman, minding her children, who were tongue-tied, bowing despite being assured they should not.
Interesting…Regalius knew a bit of swordplay himself, and so he’d watched Padurn’s broadcast with several winces. The man had no charisma, but Regalius could recognize how good he was with a sword.
Even so, he muttered to Lady Demizine out of the corner of his mouth.
“I’m not recommending him to teach anyone in the palace, though. And I will defend that to His Majesty myself!”
General Bathnir, the retired, white-haired man who also associated with Regalius’ group, grunted in agreement.
“There are trainers who inspire and those who crush motivation, and that man is the latter. The one thing I find good about him is that he’s grating on anyone he talks to. Equal opportunity condescension.”
The [Baron] swallowed his wine with a grimace.
“Dead gods, is that the best we can say of him? Someone else, say something nice!”
“His wife is quite pleasant.”
Yietha murmured, and Regalius eyed Enica again. It was true; Enica Jealnet was not what you might think of her. She was no shrinking violet like he had assumed the surly Padurn might marry. She was actually…fairly athletic. She was long-legged, fit enough to have strode about the palace all day with two kids, and seemed ready to run a footrace.
Regalius suspected that anyone whom Padurn Jealnet married had to at least keep up with the man’s personal training journey. She even used a fencing foil quite well, though she had no silver bell. She was sociable, kinder than her husband, and yet Regalius shook his head.
“She is pleasant, Yietha. I just…did anyone notice she never brought up her son, unprompted, once? She never asked me how he was doing or for more tales of him. There is a rift deeper than the Kraken’s Trench between father and son, but the mother has her husband’s side. And from meeting and listening to that man for five minutes—I am somewhat inclined to wonder if Pisces Jealnet’s crimes as listed are accurate.”
The other nobles turned to Regalius. Strong words. Shocking words that called into question the judicial system and the authority of the local [Lord]—but no one took him to task instantly. General Bathnir put aside his wineglass, frowning.
“I think House Shoel has opened an investigation, Baron Regalius. I reviewed the case myself. On its face, the situation was simple. [Necromancers] were found in a cabal. Their sentence was perhaps overzealous, but they had raised numerous undead.”
“Some were children.”
Lady Demizine’s comment. Regalius found the wine had soured, and he nodded.
“Let’s wait for Shoel’s report. But if the question is whether or not to embrace our notable adventurer…he is a [Necromancer]. He is a criminal. But his father does not exactly add to his indictments. Preliminary surveys are in from Minister Sophridel, and it appears our nation is not exactly against Adventurer Pisces. Fencer Padurn’s broadcast may have actually added to his popularity.”
“How surprising. Do we allow the man a segment to demonstrate his abilities? We did bring him all this way out here.”
Everyone turned to Regalius, who had a lot of authority in the areas of entertainment under Minister Sophridel. Regalius smiled as he watched the Jealnet family.
“Of course. It may be Padurn wins over the courts or public. But if he fails, perhaps that’s an argument to embrace Adventurer Pisces after all.”
“Regalius, Regalius, the scandal—”
“Is it a scandal, Lord Cobilet? How many monarchs or nobles know of Pisces Jealnet? If we have one [Prince] who’s not from Ailendamus express support for him in a public comment…”
Regalius was thinking out loud. Then he thought of Noelictus and stopped. His brother had made war against the Kingdom of Shade, which harbored undead in its borders, for over a decade. It still…Regalius let the other talk for a moment, staring into his winecup.
Nevertheless. Digneral, his brother, had never searched for popularity or the benefits of being liked. Perhaps he should have. All Regalius knew was that there was another angle to embracing Pisces’ reputation. Whether or not anyone here said it…Pisces the Scourge had been made slave of Roshal. Embracing him would put their kingdom against Roshal, if only in some small way.
But upon small things did national policy sometimes turn. And Regalius? He took a longer drink from his goblet and thought Padurn uncharming His Majesty and everyone else might not be the worst thing. It was just a small play from a man who had some opinions on [Slaves]. He only wondered if his peers shared his opinion.
That was all, though, for the Court of Masks. Pisces was just one issue; far less consequential than the funny old Duke, who was becoming more of a character every day, or the war or—
But they did watch when his team got up to their shenanigans. The results of a single Gold-rank team’s actions reached across the world. The only question was: what would they do next?
 
——
 
The Tomb of Yad’thuv was no crypt buried in the side of a hill. That was only Pisces, Ceria, and Yvlon’s memory that played tricks on them.
This one was a hole in the ground. Sand formed the dunes that provoked the memory, and they had no grass covering them; this empty ground had been uncovered by a chance gust of wind. But for that and you would never know the tomb lay here.
Arid, inhospitable land all around, the uninviting façade of a series of low-hanging cliffs, and ground so hard as to be rocky, despite technically being made up of sand.
The only vegetation here were cacti. This area lay inland of the coast, so Pisces thought no one could have lived in this region. However, they had passed at least one small community of Hemp-folk who lived by raising small herds and growing Yellats and cacti.
They were, then, surprisingly beautiful when you passed a cultivated cactus and saw it adorned with flowers that alchemists prized, blooming towards the sky, as Hemp-folk cut the blooms and gave the cacti little cups of water.
Flowers amidst the wilderness, and at the tomb? What always popped up: lookie-loos, people hoping to sell tools to adventurers, thieves, and lower-ranked teams. And the people who lived here. Again, Hemp-folk who stood well back from the actual tomb.
Possibly because the adventurers hired to clear it were already there.
“Shit, they’re already here! They must have taken off last night or at dawn!”
Despite Colth using Skills to boost their carriage, Pisces saw no less than four other Wistram Carriages at a standstill, and his heart leapt.
Other Gold-ranker teams really had been hired to undercut Yisame’s authority. This truly wasn’t Izril. Because they were also fighting.
Even as their carriage sped forwards, Ceria enlarged an image of the tomb’s entrance. Pisces saw at least eight people battling; there was the flash of a [Fireball]—a Garuda leapt out of the explosion, trailing smoke. They hurled something down, and a dual-colored flash of green and blue engulfed a team. But when it cleared, their barrier spells had kept the group protected. The Garuda linked up with five more fliers, and they dove straight into the exposed stairway.
“[Sycophantic Identification]. That team—those are the Jade Garudas. Fuck. That’s Named-rank. I’m counting the Singing Stingers of Scaiid on the ground—and the Roving Spearmasters, there! Gold-ranks! And another carriage is coming in. That means one more team’s lurking around, at least. Two, if the Garudas flew instead of rode.”
“Three Gold-rank teams and a Named-rank one? How valuable is this damn tomb?”
Yvlon’s voice was incredulous. Ceria grinned.
“More like—how much do they want to humiliate us and, by proxy, Yisame? Named-rankers are not within your plan, Colth. Retreat or circle?”
“They’re in the tombs, and they’re fliers. If we drop on them inside, I’ll give it to us. The moment they get out, they can just teleport or fly off. We can’t let an adventurer escape with the summoning materials. We need to secure the entrance. Your ice walls can probably hold even a Gold-rank team, right, Ceria?”
“If I reinforce them? For a while, yeah, unless they’ve got a Yvlon or a powerful Skill. But then, all the other teams are on our ass.”
Colth was thinking out loud.
“Then we wall the front. Get in, wall, take on any teams inside, and get out. Our advantage is being sanctioned. Scrying spells are already being deployed on this tomb. No adventuring team wants to make an enemy of the crown. Once Yisame’s people start shouting at them, they have a narrow window to pretend they didn’t hear. We just need to cut off their window of opportunity. I think the plan’s a go. Advance on that tomb and wall up. Pisces, you and I will deploy temporary spells, but Ceria has to use her magic.”
Specialization. At this point in time, Pisces’ [Bone Wall] spells were incomparable to Ceria’s ice magic. They had finally begun to diversify in abilities such that he couldn’t keep up with her. He nodded, but his heart was pounding.
“Colth, they’re going for the kill. Look—”
The Roving Spearmasters were fighting the Singing Stingers of Scaiid, and there were just three Stitch-folk with spears. But from the way the team of eight, the Stingers, kept back, each of the [Spearmasters] was like Relc. One opened up with a lunging stab that took one of the Stingers through the chest. The spearmaster hoisted the screaming Gold-ranker adventurer up into the air and flicked them off the spear.
Blood. The Stingers replied with a volley of spells and arrows that blew the ground apart; the [Spearmaster] was lying flat on their back when the air cleared. But some of the magic arced up, rebounding from the offensive, and landed near the civilians.
A bolt of green; it left six figures lying on the ground. They began to wriggle around, and Pisces saw more people fleeing backwards, towards the Hemp-folk who had stayed well clear.
Colth grimaced.
“Sloppy idiots—they’re not going as lethal as they can be, but only because they’re largely Stitch-folk. It’s a fight to the death if we start killing them.”
“And we’re doing this?”
Once again—Pisces felt like he was the person standing still while everyone else was preparing to move. Yvlon was flexing her hands, glancing around for a target. Ceria’s eyes were narrowed as she chanted spells. Colth turned to Pisces.
“We can’t fail the crown, Pisces. Like Yvlon said, if they were entirely upstanding teams, they wouldn’t be here. Don’t kill them; it’s not like the coliseum, Ceria.”
“Hey, I’m amoral, not stupid, Colth. Ready? Pisces?”
They looked at him, and he reached for his rapier. He didn’t want to do this. Can’t we just talk? They were looting a tomb of Stitch-folk. It felt different from Liscor’s crypts for some reason. Pisces frowned. What was telling him that? Instinct?
His class?
The [Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur] felt at the back of his neck, then saw his team waiting on him.
“I’m with you, of course. Always.”
Yvlon smiled at him. Then her eyes swung to the battle, and he thought he heard her heartbeat pick up. Did the adventurers down there hear it?
Or was it just their [Dangersenses]? Then he saw a second carriage appear on their right, and Colth swore.
“Gold-rank team! It’s the Conquerors—”
The Conquerors of Rameid rammed the Horns’ carriage with their own, and then Pisces was fighting. No longer thinking. He wished that was less of a relief.
 
——
 
The Conquerors had spotted the Horns and been dogging them the moment they left Tyrant’s Rest. Now, Raava swung the carriage into their team with a shout.
“Horns! Now we sett—”
Their carriage bounced off the Horn’s magical carriage from Wistram, and an alert began to sound.
“Collision detected. Slowing to ascertain damages and contacting your Wistram representative. Please hold.”
“No! Damned thing—what was that?”
The Ultimate Supporter’s green hair poked out of the side of his carriage. He flashed them a smile with no actual mirth in it.
[Veteran’s Ramguard]. Their carriage kept moving. The Conquerors kicked at the magical control box and tried to open the doors—which had just locked.
“For your safety, please do not exit the vehicle. Please hold—this is Magus Rievan. Let me just see what the problem is, esteemed g—what the hell?”
The [Mage] whose face had appeared on the scrying orb did a double-take as Lorllemdrom shouted at him.
“Open the carriage or get us moving!”
“Is this a dungeon? Hold on, you can’t use our carriages to ram—it’s against our code of conduct!”
The [Mage] was staring around. Iptiv kicked the doors.
“Get us out of here! Get us—”
“Watch out!”
Orsenor shouted, and Raava stopped trying to bail out one of the windows. She’d broken the magical glass with her pickaxe only to see someone leaning out of the other carriage.
Ceria Springwalker. The Ice Squirrel beamed.
“Hey, Raava! I owe you some of these! [Ice Lances]!”
“Dead gods!”
The first lance of ice slammed into the carriage, and alarms started blaring. Magus Rievan panicked, waving his arms.
“Stop! Stop attacking the carriage! This is Wistram Academy’s property—”
“Get out the other side! Hurry!”
One of the Conquerors slashed through the magical doors, and they leapt out, but used the carriage as cover; Ceria was bombarding it with more spells. Raava was poking her head out from the right side.
“We have to break clear and get into the tomb! Orsenor, give me a [Dustcloud Bomb]—”
“More magic!”
Lorllemdrom, their [Mage], warned the Conquerors and they took cover. However—the second spell wasn’t a direct attack. Instead, Raava yelped and then stared down at her armor. There was frost on it.
“She’s lowering the temperature! Get clear!”
“She’ll snipe us—”
Iptiv tried to dash free and nearly ate an arrow. Colthei the Supporter had a bead on them, and he was keeping them pinned. But that meant the Ice Squirrel was still casting.
[Snap Freeze]. As the Conquerors felt the numbing cold eating at them, there was wind. And snow. Then—
[Whiteout Blizzard]. They were immersed in freezing winds, shouting. Raava leapt out of cover, and an [Icy Lance] slammed into her. But for her magical chestplate and she would have been killed; her team dragged her behind the carriage.
 
——
 
“Conquerors locked down!”
Ceria grinned as she saw the four heat signatures of the Conquerors staying put. Then she switched targets.
