“Having been born to a nation as a son of a peasant myself, I can relate. I was born in Ailendamus, you know, and my father taught the local [Lord]’s children.”
“Ah, another born in the shadows of greatness. Well met twice, then.”
Beton clasped hands with Pisces. When Yvlon stuck her hand out, they looked at her. She, the daughter of nobility, lowered her hand, slightly crestfallen. To which Beton laughed.
“It is no insult, just an acknowledgement of fact, Silver Killer. One can be fine comrades in arms and allies without this first connection.”
“And find no common ground with those who should be kin to you. Beton, you will have more guests soon who you should greet.”
Coltora added. The [Doomguard] sighed.
“True. It would be improper of me to waste my health by asking you for a rematch, Silver Killer.”
Everyone turned at that, and Yvlon’s lips quirked.
“Last time you let me win. I have to admit, I wanted to know who would win if we really fought. Your class is fascinating.”
“A mystery that will have to endure until Zeikhal blooms. You would not put my love back in bed, surely, Silver Killer.”
Coltora’s voice made Beton and Yvlon heave huge sighs. He winked at her.
“We would tear each other apart, and though we can both remake our bodies, it would be far simpler than how you fought the Champion of Monarchs, Silver Killer. I stand and fight. Though my class is to avert disaster. As so.”
He glanced around. Tomiec, the young [Cleaner] of such levels, was flirting with one of the young Stitch-women who’d come to the party. Beton looked around, dumped his plate onto Yvlon’s, and flicked it at Tomiec.
Everyone winced as the [Cleaner] whirled, blocked the plate with his broom with commendable reflexes, but it still knocked him flat on his ass. He was on his feet in a second, complaining.
“Clothsetter! Have I not come to your aid? Have I wronged you that much? I—”
Beton raised one eyebrow and nodded to the side. Tomiec turned—and said Stitch-woman’s boyfriend appeared out of the crowd. Tomiec closed his mouth and bowed.
“Is that, uh, doomguarding?”
Pisces was highly amused, and Beton smiled as Yvlon handed him her plate, and he turned back to his food.
“Simple doom. The kind anyone with eyes can see. Ideal for a [Bodyguard] or battle. The white Gnolls of Izril would have used my services well. But we do not venture far from Chandrar’s shores, we Stitch-folk. A shame; we have been away from great events.”
Fascinating, she had to admit. Yvlon coughed.
“How does one get a [Doomguard] class, Beton?”
“Ah, well, I was a simple [Stalwart Warrior] at first, but I had a secondary class. [Problem Solver], from when I was a young man taking odd jobs. I was never as lucky as some, but I averted several crises. From a handful of Skills, at Level 30 my class changed.”
“Another win for Colthei’s theory of multiple classes being advantaged.”
“Do Izrilians only prize a few? Any class is worth having, surely, even if it results in less levels to a central one. We do not know who we will be, even if we think we do. One might become a Pathtrader in life.”
Beton countered, and Pisces didn’t know the term.
“Pathtrader?”
“One who walks a class’ path but changes it. Imagine if you had been a Level 20 [Necromancer], adventurer, then changed it all to become a [Trader]. It is not common, but it does lead to unexpected results.”
Coltora put in, and Yvlon murmured.
“Ysara. I can see that. Though it’s not the most pleasant thing.”
“Changing one’s direction in life is full of uncertainties. We, who stick to our primary classes, are little better. I suspect I am never to find work in the palace; well and good. But I shall find work soon enough to avoid being conscripted to fight the King of Destruction. That would be a doom I cannot avoid.”
Another sobering reminder of realities for Hemp, but Beton smiled at Yvlon.
“A second reason to not begrudge being sick too much, Adventurer. Or I might have been sent to fight as a sign of Prince Esceit’s zeal.”
“I’d refuse. Mars cannot be beaten by the three of us.”
“One does not refuse a [Prince], Yvlon Byres. Unless they are the Silver Killer, of course. You are not made of cloth, so you are outside the tangle. Use it well, and consider how you are being used in turn.”
Well, it really felt like the two Hemp-folk were trying to tell them something. Pisces sipped from his drink and nodded.
“We intend to finish our business here, posthaste. Fret not, Doomguard, at least some of us are canny about politics in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. By which I mean Colth and the Heromakers of Hraace.”
He nodded, sighing and relaxing a bit.
“Fair enough. Now, if you need the services of reliable folk, if nothing as rich as what the palace can provide, the word of Doomguard Beton will open doors for you.”
Yvlon would have tried to offer something in return, again, but Pisces was of the opinion this was just something you had to accept and repay. Open generosity, like how the Gnoll tribes would feed you and welcome you in. Nothing like Izrilian sensibilities. He enjoyed it.
And there were other benefits for doing good deeds he hadn’t dreamed of. Such as Tomiec swaggering over.
“Before you go, I humbly interrupt you, Doomguard, Miss Coltora, adventurers, to say that my services—however oddly used and may the worms of the desert never witness it being used such twice—might be needed once more. Adventurer Pisces, you may wish to clean yourself before you set upon more journeys.”
Pisces glanced down at his robes, flustered. But he didn’t see any visible stains. And Tomiec was eying something just over Pisces’ shoulder. Beton raised his eyebrows.
“Do you insult our guests, Tomiec?”
“No, Doomguard. Rather, it is a thing of [Mages]. Adventurer Pisces has fallen for the same trick many of Wistram have. It has been my dubious honor to serve Magus Voltehreim, supreme amongst magic in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. And to clean his many dimensions and paraphernalia. In doing so, I learned the folly of magic. Like [Cleanse]. Adventurer Pisces is not the filthiest I have seen by far; I have seen Wistram [Mages] visiting. But it would be well to cleanse himself before something grew of his personal aura-space.”
Pisces became increasingly confused, then alarmed by Tomiec’s words.
“My [Cleanse] spell? I use it to keep hygienic. What’s wrong with…”
Hadn’t he once heard it could be overused? But he didn’t get what that meant until Tomiec made reference to the doom that had once killed a city, the folly of all [Mages] who thought they could just vanish dirt. Yvlon stared at Pisces. Then saw Pisces gingerly flipping open a spellbook.
“Dimensional magic? That’s Tier 5 at least! I couldn’t bind even my own personal space of holding—well, I could now, in theory, but it’s not magic I’ve delved into.”
“Agh, and so it festers! Happily for you, I can clean even what is not apparent! [Broom: Nudge Doors]! You see, it opens many a place. Thus, I can open even what you have not made. Which means it shall expel most of it as there is no ‘space’ save what has accumulated. Thusly—”
Tomiec stepped back, and Yvlon saw Beton grab his wife and swing her back. The [Armsmistress] hurried away too and just got out of the ten foot radius when Pisces’ eyes went wide. He blinked—
Then exploded in what could be politely called a shower of dirt, grime, and filth. Only a year or two since he hadn’t known the spell long.
It still put everyone off their food. Tomiec grinned; he’d whirled his broom around to shield himself, but the [Necromancer] stood in the fallout, so horrified his mouth was open, which was a terrible mistake. Then Coltora smacked Tomiec’s head and called for water and a tub.
 
——
 
Pisces felt he hadn’t deserved that. He was grateful for Tomiec pointing out the—the error in his magic. But he couldn’t help but feel the young man had done that to get back at Yvlon.
Worse, it resulted in Pisces sitting in a filthy tub with water up to his waist someone had hauled, scrubbing himself. He was wearing underpants and a shirt since he refused to get naked, and covered in soap suds. The Stitch-folk were laughing at him. And staring.
He was scrubbing as fast as he could, red-faced, and Yvlon was shaking her head.
“I hope Ceria isn’t as bad. Dead gods, Valeterisa.”
Tomiec would counterlevel if he was near the Archmage of Izril when she had to deal with her own collected filth. The young man was scowling at the Stitch-girls admiring Pisces. He kept running his broom over the [Necromancer]’s back as Pisces swatted at him, to help the cleaning process.
Everyone was laughing at him when Pisces felt his nose tingle. He glanced around, hair filled with suds, and saw her.
A Stitch-girl, a bit younger than he was, perhaps, was striding through the crowd, pushing people waiting to greet Beton aside. She was big. Almost as big as Beton, and her skin had that familiar look to it.
Like Beton’s had been. Corded, rough, like scar tissue. Steel wool made to metal? Coltora’s head turned, and she exclaimed.
“Ashele!”
Beton turned, and the Stitch-girl halted, eying him, Yvlon, and Pisces. She stared at the [Necromancer] in the bathtub, utterly nonplussed. Then ignored him. Her eyes flicked to Yvlon’s arms, and she almost smiled. Then her face became impassive, and she spoke, arms folded.
“I heard you were cured, Father. Though you deserved it for selling yourself to royalty, at least you won’t waste away in bed. Is this her? The Silver Killer?”
She jerked her chin at Yvlon. Beton sighed.
“My cloth is not yours to wear, Daughter. Let alone share.”
He glanced at some of the other Stitch-folk who had followed Ashele, and Pisces saw Stitch-folk, all her age, all with the same skin. Most stepped back in front of the Doomguard’s stare, bowing slightly, but Ashele just sneered.
“Your cloth is wasted, beloved coward of a father.”
“Ashele! You will not speak to your father so. And you will remove your cloth and repent your ways before you call down fire upon yourself and everyone you think you help.”
Coltora glanced at Yvlon and Pisces, and the two adventurers got the distinct impression they shouldn’t be here. Pisces began washing himself off even faster; Yvlon just smiled.
“Miss Ashele? I apologize for any inconvenience I’ve caused your father. My name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me the Silver Killer, but the truth is…”
Ashele listened for half a second before recognizing the now-infamous words and interrupted Yvlon.
“She’s mad as any other adventurer. Useless to the cause.”
“Not everyone in life revolves around your goals, or any other cause, Ashele. The Horns of Hammerad are upon their quests. Will you not celebrate my good health?”
Beton’s voice was mild, and he didn’t glance at Yvlon, but Pisces saw Coltora’s fingers twitch, and several people around her peeked at him and Yvlon. Tomiec was hesitating, looking between Beton and his daughter, and Pisces thought—
Drat. I wish Colth were here. Or Delitandra.
This meant something, and he had suspicions, but Ashele just turned away.
“I’d thought months of calling for help and seeing none of your privileged masters remembering your name would do aught. But I was wrong.”
She went to storm off but was surprised when Beton grabbed her arm. He was quick. She twisted, but he just spoke, intent.
“Ashele. You do not have dispensation to wear that cloth or thread. If you are arrested while wearing my cloth, they will send you against the King of Destruction.”
“I don’t fear them or him.”
“You should. You are not ready. If you cannot even break my grip, you have no chance at all beyond burning at a stake.”
She was squirming, putting a hand on his arm, but she couldn’t break his grip. Another Stitch-girl strode forwards.
“We are strong together, Doomguard, and in spirit, we will not be beaten!”
“Spirit is not strength of levels or flesh, Narive. Mark me, all of you. Whomever you are speaking to, there are wiser heads filled with less dangerous cloth. Stay. Listen. This is not a conversation for the streets, but one held indoors, in peace.”
He spoke to the group, and a few hesitated, but Ashele tore free—with a Skill, Pisces thought. He was putting on his robes as Beton let go and her arm twisted around.
“I have had years of this argument. Enough. To your health and all those made of plain cloth, Father. And to you, adventurers—nothing but curses so long as you serve the masters of Silk.”
She glared at Pisces and Yvlon. He felt like he hadn’t deserved that. She stared at him as he rose, robes sopping wet in his filthy bathtub. He had one reply; they were moving away, so Pisces shot in the dark.
“I would venture a guess that secrecy and subterfuge matter for everyone’s sake, Miss Ashele. Your father is eminently correct that trouble might not find you, but it will find your family and friends. I am, of course, speaking from experience. But tell me: this is not about slavery, is it?”
He asked the stupid question as she wavered. Ashele frowned at him as Beton’s eyes snaked to Pisces, and then she jerked her head.
“Not all chains are worn as openly as the ones you cut, Scourge. Look around. Ask anyone not in the palace, and you’ll see.”
Then she stormed off. Pisces rubbed at his chin and saw Tomiec staring after Ashele out of the corner of his eyes.
She was Level 30, he was sure. Not Beton’s level but like Tomiec—he’d sensed her. Come to that, her mother might be Level 30 as well, just not in a combat class.
Pisces noted how Coltora instantly came over to pull the teen aside, and Beton himself turned.
“Not every battle in Nerrhavia’s Fallen needs adventurers to fight. Nor needs fighting at this moment. It seems I have unpleasant work to do, as well as pleasant. I apologize, adventurers, but it is family and thread.”
“Not at all, Beton. What was that all about?”
Yvlon smiled at him. He eyed Pisces. The [Necromancer] shrugged in reply. He never knew if Yvlon was acting or just waiting to hit something.
 
——
 
In this case, it was genuine ignorance. Yvlon frowned at Pisces.
“Class struggles?”
“Hemp being conscripted for the war with the King of Destruction. They are almost entirely Hemp-based armies fighting his forces. He is advancing very slowly, because Nerrhavia’s Fallen can field so many armies.”
“But he smashes them. It’s boring, according to his Seven.”
“Exactly. But a boring war for the King of Destruction still means countless Hemp being killed, maimed, or sold as [Slaves]. Putting together some of Beton’s words, and it’s clear he feels like the commonfolk of Ailendamus might. Though they were never as resentful of the nobility as the Hemp are here.”
