(I am doing an AMA on r/Fantasy on August 13th at 4 PM EST! If you’ve got a question, now’s the time to ask! —pirateaba)
 
 
 
 
It sounded a bit like music without the actual music. No instrumentation, no lyrics that made sense, but a rhythm like one. And it was growing louder the more you listened to them. A pernicious and, yes, discordant sound.
But still. The world’s greatest living [Bard] sipped from some tea as he sat in the window of his room, overlooking the famous palace built on the bones of the Immortal Tyrant. He sighed.
It sounded like this:
“Horns of Hammerad! St—argh!”
The furious [Librarian] made it two feet outside the royal library, ran over the ice on the floor, and went sprawling. A laughing half-Elf with frozen skin and eyes filled with frost ran, high-kneeing it across the hallway.
“Pisces, Yvlon, Colth, run!”
The rest of the Horns of Hammerad were reading books by one of the inner courtyard railings, over a garden where some of the palace’s [Dancers] were training. At least one of the Horns, Pisces, was having trouble concentrating on his book.
At Ceria’s words, all of the adventurers peered up. They saw her sprinting, stuffing books into her bag of holding, and started running.
Colth had already begun, and Yvlon started sprinting the same direction on pure instinct. Ceria skated past them as Elena jumped and nearly dropped her book; Delitandra leaned over the balcony and snagged it out of the air in an amazing display of athleticism.
“What did you do this time?”
Yvlon made a fist to hit Ceria, but the half-Elf [Cryomancer] was just laughing.
“I looted some books from the royal library! You can’t hit me! You’re still in trouble for the Coliseum of Monarchs!”
That was true. Yvlon hesitated, calculated burglarizing the royal library against killing the Champion of Monarchs and breaking into the coliseum—and trying to murder a [Prince]—and lowered her fist. She pumped her arms and ran harder. Colth was rolling his eyes.
“What’s so valuable that you have to steal it?”
“Er, a royal book? Turns out it’s part of the royal library only it’s disguised with magic. I saw it and—”
“You stole one of Yisame’s secret books? Those are warplans, designs for siege weapons, maps of treasure—royal histories and genealogies—”
Colth began screaming. He activated a Skill, and they ran faster. Yvlon bit her lip. That was actually pretty funny given Yisame’s secret class. Ceria was beaming.
“I just need fifteen minutes to copy it as fast as I can read! Then we pretend to give up—”
“Your circlet can memorize that fast? I can scribe—”
“Nono, they’ll murder us for having a piece. But if I memorize it then do this mental gating—”
“Aha. This way! We can probably—”
“Horns of Hammeraaaaaaaaaaaaaaaad!”
That was the rather impressive voice of the [Royal Librarian], who screamed, purple-faced, after the fleeing trio of adventurers. The [Trickster of Crowns] turned and blew a kiss as she slid down the hallway.
Servants, royal dignitaries, everyone leapt aside, staring at that team whose name had captivated even the greatest nation of Chandrar. At first, people had assumed they were temporary. Transient chumps who’d occupy attention for a day, a week at most. Gold-rankers who had nothing more behind them than the ability to kill an Adult Creler.
Recent events and the dead Champion of Monarchs begged to differ. There they were, each one outstanding in some way. Even the team’s makeup was fascinating to just hear about.
A mysterious ‘Satyr’ whose species was so old that there were only references to her kind in the history books. Vofea the Rookie.
The first Antinium to ever become an adventurer, famous friend of multiple rulers of nations. Subject of the bestselling documentary and inventor of at least one viral dance move. Friend of cats and Golems. Ksmvr of Chandrar.
The skating half-Elf with, it was rumored, a cursed artifact. Prodigy of Wistram, master of ice-magic, and thief of at least one crown. A [Cryomancer] and [Trickster] who was currently levelling at least one of her classes. Captain Ceria Springwalker, the Ice Squirrel.
The Named-ranker from Izril, infamous for being the one and only [Supporter] to ever make his class into a powerhouse. Famous for associating with the old legends of Izril. The man who could do it all except, perhaps, find love. Colth the Eternal Virgin. (Or Colthei the Ultimate Supporter, but one was certainly more memorable.)
Then there was the most famous woman of all at the moment. The unstoppable force behind the Horns of Hammerad. Feared by anything she laid eyes on. The crimson slaughterer who had littered Chandrar’s sands with more blood than any [Serial Killer]. The woman who was now the unofficial champion of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the [Gladiator], the Silver Killer, Yvlon Byres.
And last, but certainly not least, the man who was currently invisible, no doubt. Another prodigy of Wistram, but also a master of dueling. At least a Silver-belled duelist—but a [Necromancer]. More presciently, a man who had damned over a hundred [Slavers] with his bare hands, and who had led a slaughter across the eastern regions of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and Chandrar. The highest-levelled [Necromancer] serving as an adventurer. The Scourge of Roshal, Pisces the Bane.
“…Wait, where’s Pisces?”
Yvlon turned her head after a second, and Colth squinted around.
“Invisible, probably. Did that idiot go the wrong way or trip?”
The three fleeing adventurers looked around, half-expecting to see a passed-out [Necromancer] who’d collided headfirst with a wall. Or who’d [Flash Stepped] into a compromising position with some attractive Stitch-person.
Equally likely, knowing Pisces. But Ceria, who could see invisibility with ease, didn’t spot Pisces. Colth frowned, then his head whipped around, and he did a full turn. He slowed, and Ceria windmilled her arms as Yvlon skidded to a halt.
That really inconvenienced the palace guards, who had begun running after the book-thieves. But, conscious of the Silver Killer, they’d been doing that run of men and women who didn’t want to catch anyone. So they had to transit to a jog that looked fast until you realized they were virtually running in place.
The Horns ignored the guards and staring people, already pointing and whispering and sending rumors out of the palace. Pisces was not lying on the floor or buried headfirst in a [Lady]’s blouse. He was, in fact, kneeling on the hallway floors.
Over two hundred feet distant, his white robes pooling around a bunch of icewater rapidly warming. He was helping an old Stitch-man to his feet, and the confused and possibly concussed [Royal Librarian] was blinking at him. Elena and the Heromakers of Hraace were standing there, glancing between the three fleeing adventurers and—
“What’s that idiot doing?”
Ceria began, and Colth opened his mouth. Well, helping an old man that had fallen on the floor. Yvlon realized, after a second, that the Stitch-man did have white hair. His dusky face was screwed up in pain, and the [Armsmistress] turned her head.
“It looks like he might have broken something.”
“Wh—c’mon, he’s a Stitch-man. Do their bones all get weaker when they get old, even if the cloth is good? I had to lose him or he’d start using [Librarian] Skills on me!”
Ceria spread her hands out innocently. She didn’t look guilty—until she lifted her circlet off her head. Then she eyed the old man, hesitated—plopped the circlet back down.
“He can stitch himself back up, no problem. C’mon, back me up. Guys?”
Yvlon and Colth hesitated. Colth muttered at Yvlon.
“We won’t get a second chance. Might as well. I’ll help transcribe.”
He turned to rush off, and Yvlon nodded.
“Fine, I’ll hold the pursuers off.”
She strode at the [Palace Guard], who saw the Silver Killer walking at them. Smiling. Their pursuit-jogging managed to carry them backwards at commendable speed. Ceria hesitated, slowing as she and Colthei slid.
“Wait, Yvlon, you don’t need to murderize them—”
Yvlon turned to call back to Ceria.
“I’m just going to Knight a bit. [Gladiator] stuff. Hello, my name is Yvlon Byres. Some call me—”
The [Palace Guards] all ran away.
“The thieves are getting away! Avoid the Silver Killer!”
They sprinted for other corridors, and then Ceria and Colth vanished. Yvlon was left standing in the rapidly-emptying corridor ahead of her as people leapt out of the Silver Killer’s next bloodbath. She opened her mouth, then saw Pisces turning and realizing his team had run for it. He saw her standing there and blinked.
And there it was.
Barelle the Bard, watching the entire drama from his window, strummed on his harp. It sounded like it. A song, of a kind he could capture. Maybe even a song worth playing, despite his objections.
The melody was in the capital. Spreading across Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and it could grow. It sounded like fame. But it was also discordant. Four strings, each one playing a different note.
“Adventurers.”
Barelle the Bard sighed. Since he had nothing else to do, he grudgingly reached into his bag of holding with one foot. With remarkable dexterity, he kept playing on his harp and produced a magic quill with his toes. He flipped over a journal and began to write as he played.
Just in case.
 
——
 
When the Silver Killer strode into the Court of Silks, they saw someone who could make even the Court of Steel think twice. Just one woman in a nation of countless millions. But would you want to be the one confronting her?
That was the secret. Each noble present, the many royals from the countless houses, noble ladies, powerful individuals who held positions in Tyrant’s Rest—all of them could call on armies of servants and subordinates.
But when Yvlon Byres stood in front of you, the line of bodyguards looked like naught but cheap cloth before the hands that had broken the Coliseum of Monarch’s barriers.
Let alone the Bane of Roshal. Or the Ice Squirrel, who, one must remind themselves, murdered the Champion of Monarchs in coldest blood. Cold as her veins. The woman who double crossed the Siren of Savere—
Colthei the Supporter was, obviously, the gentle, good-natured adventurer trying to hold it all together and the weakest link. But even he was a Named-ranker of some finesse and actual quality. So the Horns were now a force in the Court of Silks, one in service to Queen Yisame.
How it made Yisame’s blood thrill. She was a bit sleep-deprived because she kept spending all night writing fanfiction about her beloved Horns, arguing in the new Wistram chatrooms about what they’d do next, or watching replays of their exploits.
In her kingdom, as her friends. What might they do next? Well…the incident with the [Royal Librarian] that morning had caused little genuine outrage, in fact.
Few of the Court of Silks respected him or his insistence they return books and pay for damages or misplaced books. The Stitch-folk nobility had some penchant for reading; being held to account, none at all.
Yisame, in fact, was the most troubled one because she cared for the old man, Dulstovie, who had gotten her into many a good series, but apparently, he’d forgiven at least some of the Horns. Ceria Springwalker had returned her books after merely fourteen minutes, which was not enough time to steal much of anything, and she had made no copies. The [Royal Librarian] had merely banned her from the libraries until Zeikhal turned green.
Pisces Jealnet and Yvlon Byres had been allowed to stay and were, in fact, reading books in the Court of Silks as Ceria prostrated herself before Yisame. One must apologize—but she did it like the [Trickster] she was.
“I grovel before you and apologize, Queen Yisame! Please spare me and my team!”
She stretched out on the ground, twisting about much like a cat, grinning, and the [Queen] herself suppressed a giggle as the Court of Silks laughed. Her Voice, taking her role seriously, was far more displeased.
“Your levity is noted, Adventurer Ceria. That Librarian Dulstovie was not injured beyond repair to his cloth is well for your sake. Your petition to access the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes may well hang on future conduct.”
That drew Ceria up, and she sat crosslegged, then bowed.
“Your Majesty, I apologize twice, then, for Yvlon Byres’ recent conduct and my indiscretions! Surely, I may win your favor again? Perhaps if I offered my team’s services for any task worthy of Her Majesty’s good graces?”
Ah, she played the game well enough. Yisame smiled and wondered if Colthei had come up with this; she hadn’t even consulted with them. She flicked a few fingers in code, and the Voice spoke.
“This may serve. What serves Nerrhavia’s Fallen serves our humors. We shall find a task worthy of the Horns of Hammerad.”
It took some of the Court of Silks a second to catch on. Then there was a ripple of unease.
Cleverly, Ceria had positioned herself into doing Yisame a favor of obligation. Which then let Yisame assign the Horns a task of valor, perhaps even an ‘unpleasant’ one. It was rare for the crown to task adventurers with any obligations personally; these were menial matters in the jurisdiction of multiple court advisors, which they guarded zealously.
The power to command and pay for adventurers was the purview of the Counsellor of Arms, who held adventurer and mercenary contracts. Or perhaps the Chancellor of Coin, who could require their services for specific contracts. The Great General of any region might use them. Or the local [Magistrate]. Or the Seneschal of Public Order—a very powerful woman at the moment given the Plague of Oresects and the unrest with the wars.
These acted as checks on the crown’s power. However, Yisame now had a team whose loyalty was not in doubt, who could act on her interests—and who were dangerous indeed. She had a few use-cases she could think of…
The [Queen] smiled and saw Prince Zenol himself appearing in markedly better spirits as he drank and laughed. House Isphel was rising, and their enemies in Quarein and the other factions who were anti-Yisame were worried. After all this trouble with the plagues, the war in Tiqr, Pomle, against Illivere and the King of Destruction…Yisame thought things were looking up.
 
——
 
“Fascinating.”
Pisces Jealnet noticed what Ceria was doing, of course. He was paging through a book, biting his lip. He knew Ceria wanted to go to the Library of a Hundred Thousand Tomes, which probably had more than a hundred thousand spellbooks, let alone other texts.
Normally, he’d be all with her, learning magic, making the most of their time here before they had to go—and they did have to go to Baleros, to reunite with Ksmvr and Vofea.
