“Yes…but a former top-tier [Gladiator]. I imagine he was rich enough to serve as a [Prince]’s primary bodyguard. That has to count for something, surely. I’m only guilty I wounded him so badly—I wonder what it was. He had mithril bones.”
She had a bad feeling she knew why, but Pisces just consulted the map Delitandra had drawn.
“It’s far from the royal palace. In the Sosyarn District…ah. It says ‘Hemp’ here. Well, this way.”
They strode onwards, and Yvlon noted that the streets of the capital were as packed with magic and wealth as Invrisil’s. Plenty of scrying orbs showing the latest Wistram News segment, but also song crystals from Terandria. Even, she realized, bootlegged versions where someone had sung a cover of the famous Singer of Terandria’s songs and was trying to pass it off as her own.
There were hawkers who assailed non-Stitch-folk, offering bolts of cloth, magical items of dubious value, trinkets—even a bunch of lamps and sealed containers which might contain a Djinni, you never knew!
Pisces and Yvlon got to see a flustered Garuda actually flap out of a crowd of [Hawkers], once again immune thanks to their disguises. People called out to them too, but of a different nature.
Would the noble Silks like to partake of a new food from other continents? Did they need their stitching redone? There was a Silk [Stitchmistress] who could tend to them. The latest alchemical balms? Alchemist Sulth’s own creations, the most important [Alchemist] trending in the streets! A recording of the Silver Killer fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs?
Yvlon turned red at that last one, and Pisces managed a chuckle. Then, as they passed out of the main streets and came towards their destination, the magic and wealth…vanished.
 
——
 
Hemp Stitch-folk had their own shops and businesses, but every time Yvlon and Pisces passed, everyone stood up and bowed, or pretended not to see them. No one would walk in front of the two, and yet the adventurers felt like they were being watched.
Yvlon eyed a passing bakery, and the bread seemed no less good, but there were no fancy egg-brushed leaves, no advertisements for ‘baking soda from Izril’ nor cakes.
No sugar in great quantities. No magic in stores, and certainly no hawkers. Even the buildings appeared far worse.
“No paint on the façades. And their clothing…”
Pisces murmured, and Yvlon wanted to scold him.
“Don’t be rude, Pisces.”
“I’m not attempting to be, Yvlon. But have you ever seen anyone dressing like that? I haven’t, not in Ailendamus. Maybe a Terandrian kingdom with [Peons], but—”
Yvlon eyed the roughest shirt she had ever seen on a sweating Hemp man hauling bags of cement or other masonry supplies past her. He had six bags, three on each shoulder, which she had to guess were at least forty or thirty pounds apiece. But his legs were thick, and though he was sweating, he didn’t seem to strain.
He just plodded forwards, face set in that unthinking expression of someone lost in the work. Yet he moved aside for Pisces and Yvlon despite the load, bowing his head.
He was—perhaps—the roughest man Yvlon had laid eyes on. Not ugliest, just…rough. His nose was a blunted line, flat down the center, wide, a bit mismatched. He had thick arms which somehow contrived to not ripple with muscle so much as just bulge. His skin was so coarse it looked like calluses.
The effects of his cloth being hemp. He looked tough, but so much less refined than the sculpted features of the Court of Silks that he appeared to be a different people entirely. But his clothing?
You could make clothing out of anything, of course. Like how yarn or thread could be spun out of countless materials, hair, wool—another type of hair—reeds, you name it. But Yvlon had never seen someone wearing a yarn shirt that was so loose-knit that she could see brown skin through the holes. Let alone visible fraying in the cloth, fibers breaking out of the thread.
It looked like wearing one of those fuzzy, homemade sweaters Yvlon had gotten from members of her distant family sometimes as a gift. Only, a sweater made by someone who didn’t actually know how to knit and who was using such inferior materials that it was coming apart already.
That was the Hemp man’s shirt. His pants were some kind of hide, but untreated, just as fraying and poor-quality, stitched up with huge, white threads that did not fit. Neither Pisces nor Yvlon had ever dreamed of such poor clothing; even [Beggars] in their homelands wouldn’t have worn what this man had.
“Do you think he’s that poor off? Surely not. We could give him—”
Yvlon actually fumbled for her belt pouch as the man moved past them. Pisces turned his head, then glanced up and down the street.
“Delitandra said not to show ourselves.”
“But his clothing, Pisces—!”
“I think it’s normal. Look around, Yvlon. The clothing isn’t so bad on all, but it’s similar. Think about it. It makes sense.”
Because they’re Hemp? Yvlon drew breath, feeling a spark of outrage and recognizing it as such. She tucked it into the jar Berr had told her to make in her heart, then realized Pisces meant something else. He glanced at her.
“Because they’re Hemp. Because they’re Stitch-folk, Yvlon. They have better cloth. They are wearing it. It’s their skin.”
She blinked. Then she saw it.
Stitch-folk were the one species in the world who needed cloth to make their flesh and bones. Not all cloth would do, and they coveted rarer materials, which kept stuff like silk uncommon, for all they produced it. They had the highest demand for quality fabrics, and Chandrarian cloth was a watchword for sophistication in other continents.
But if you were Hemp and couldn’t make yourself out of cotton, or weren’t allowed to…or you just didn’t have the money, where did your cloth go?
Not on your body. In your body! If you had material for a shirt that was good, make yourself a chest or something instead! Naturally, it still implied a lack of money and resources that made Yvlon deeply unsettled, but she realized that for all their rough looks, the Hemp Stitch-folk seemed decent enough quality.
“Are they not allowed to buy cotton or anything, Pisces?”
“I…believe so. You cannot wear what is above your station. Or possibly you can wear it, but buying it is the issue. It must limit them greatly. With that said, I have heard Hemp is far stronger and more durable than these higher-quality fabrics, aside from Silk and magical cloth.”
“Yisame said that most armies are 70% Hemp with only a fraction being Silk.”
The further the two walked into the Sosyarn District, the more that became clear too. Broad and sprawling the capital city might be, but this entire district was just Hemp people. If Nerrhavia’s Fallen were a pyramid where Silk stood on the top, Cotton just below, that also went for demographics. There might be three Hemp for every Cotton Stitch-folk.
The quality of housing and the streets didn’t get worse the further Yvlon and Pisces walked. In fact, the opposite sort of happened. At first, the decrease in quality was instantaneous and jarring. The streets emptied of almost all non-Hemp folk and appeared run down. The buildings became thin apartments, and the air itself smelled less clean, the streets dirtier and unswept.
…After a few streets, the ground was re-paved. The housing became modest again, if less grandiose. And the Hemp folk looked, if somewhat rough, far more natural.
And the [Slaves] re-appeared. That was discomfiting to Pisces. He’d thought, perhaps naïvely, that once they left the richer parts of the city, no one would be able to afford [Slaves].
However, once you got out of the distinctly poor Hemp streets, they appeared again. Housekeepers sweeping out steps, a team assigned to repair a broken bit of street—and ones minding stalls again. Even a few personal servants accompanying Hemp masters.
Not as many, and not dressed as finely, but Pisces realized two things. Firstly, none of the [Slaves] were Stitch-folk. They were Human, by and large, Garuda, or…
And they had better clothing than their Hemp masters. Perhaps because they were allowed to have it. He saw many had some kind of badge which he assumed marked them as public servants. A way for the city to have many useful workers. Cheaper than Golems. Adaptive…
Yvlon broke into Pisces’ thoughts again as she nudged him and indicated a Hemp woman with a flax dress that nevertheless looked quite fashionable in how it was dyed. She could have fit into Invrisil with ease; only the fabric was off.
“Weird. This area appears richer to my eyes.”
Yvlon commented, and Pisces stroked his chin.
“Mine too. Odd that Hemp folk would live better away from the palace and richest parts of the city.”
“Unless they prefer it that way. My father used to tell me that the richer people in House Byres didn’t live close to our family. Rich commonfolk tended to their own communities. Lest they compete with the nobility. The same for the rest of the north.”
They were making rapid inferences about the state of Nerrhavia Fallen’s culture, and Pisces hesitated.
“We should avoid making sweeping generalizations about this nation, Yvlon. I do know what I’ve read: in the Immortal Tyrant’s time, apparently, cloth mattered not at all. The author, Corregrione the Explorer, made a point of referencing how Terandria also has a caste system.”
“…So under the Immortal Tyrant, everyone was equal? And now she’s dead, they’ve gone back to cloth quality mattering?”
“Er, well, yes. Not to say they didn’t have hierarchies in the Immortal Empire’s time. Just based on other factors. Perhaps I shouldn’t make allusions to Nerrhavia while we’re on the streets.”
The Hemp people were giving them increasingly wary glances, and Pisces and Yvlon got the distinct impression they were alarming the locals.
“They might think we’re inspecting something. How likely is it that Silks get robbed in the streets, Pisces…?”
“Er…I forget. We’re close to our destination according to this map. What if we—?”
He plucked at the stitching on his arms, and Yvlon wiped at her right and left shoulders, which were bare. When the ‘skin’ came away and revealed silver, the Hemp folk nearly leapt out of their stitching, then pointed.
“Is that—?”
“The Horns of Hammerad? Here?”
Ironically, the two Horns got much the same reaction as they had around the palace. The instant they took off their disguises, the Hemp people came forwards. Only, it wasn’t as instantly unpleasant as before. Perhaps because no one was trying to sell them things or take advantage.
“Pardon us, excuse us, we’re just here to meet one of Yvlon’s friends.”
“She isn’t going to rampage, is she? I saw you tearing the Champion of Monarchs apart. None of us hold chains here, Scourge!”
Pisces awkwardly signed an autograph card as Yvlon smiled.
“—so dangerous. I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and we’re just here to see—Beton? Beton the Doomguard?”
Several people recognized the name and hesitated.
“Not to finish the fight? He’s lain sick for months—”
“No, no. Not at all. I owe him a debt! I swear by my arms we’ve come to simply help.”
That convinced some of the Hemp, who pointed out a house on the corner of the street. Pisces rubbed at his nose after shaking hands.
“Quite a friendly people. How do they know about us conquering Albez and the magic door?”
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen loves stories, or so Yisame said. By the way, did you see some of the children sweeping for Oresect bugs? Etrikah said they’re mostly contained here, but I think I saw a few around us. I sort of…felt them.”
Pisces glanced at Yvlon.
“They did come from your arms, or whatever Tolveilouka gave to you. Can you control them?”
“Nothing like that.”
They walked up to one of the nicer homes in the area, a two-story building that was broad and wide and, if unpainted, lovely enough. It even had a garden area, though instead of greenery, there were colorful rocks. A rock garden—given the heat, with plenty of shading. Yvlon rang a bell at the entrance, and they waited, glancing at the doors. Then Yvlon murmured.
“There’s more on this street than any other. And more in the house. A…a lot more. I’m worried, Pisces.”
“You didn’t know it was you, and you couldn’t have, Yvlon. If that fool of a [Magistrate] hadn’t arrested you, this might have never been a problem.”
She said nothing until the door opened and a woman appeared. She was different from the others; she looked like a Human woman with brown skin and a wary expression—until she saw Yvlon’s arms and gasped. Then she hesitated, slammed the door, and Yvlon winced.
“Perhaps he doesn’t want to see me.”
They might have dithered, but less than thirty seconds later, the door was flung open, and the woman appeared.
“Adventurer Byres, Scourge Pisces, enter, please! I am Coltora Hemp, wife of Beton. If you bear him no grudge for Prince Esceit Quarien, camels shit in his beds, enter. Beton was dismissed from the Prince’s service a month after he battled you, Silver Killer.”
“Miss Coltora, I have come to help Doomguard Beton. I owe him a great debt. May we enter?”
Yvlon bowed and took the woman’s hand to shake it. Pisces bowed too.
“I as well, Miss Coltora. May I compliment your cloth?”
It was customary in Nerrhavia’s Fallen to remark on someone’s appearance. Stitch-folk were simultaneously more willing to comment on features and also less impressed by it. Coltora took Pisces’ hand and studied him.
“No one holds chains within my home, Adventurer Pisces. It is merely my family and Beton’s. As for this—”
She touched her face and shook her head.
“It is to stand well enough among Cottons for my job. My family cuts cloth. But I thank you; does it look normal to Izrilian Humans?”
Yvlon didn’t know what to say, but Pisces felt himself relax a bit at Coltora’s words. He tried to be charming as she led them into the home. Stitch-folk didn’t mind comments on appearance, so…
“I would mistake you for any Izrilian woman but for your skin tone, Miss Coltora.”
She did smile at that.
“Thank you. Normally, I keep it darker, but there was some cloth misdyed that I found on sale. Had I known you were coming, I might have pulled out satin—”
“My word, satin? One supposes a famous [Gladiator] has access to all manner of cloths.”
The home was, far from mansion-like, crowded with plenty of rooms. No less than five Hemp people jumped or did double-takes as they entered. Yvlon saw a huge room filled with sewing equipment, and indeed, someone with a pair of huge scissors bent over a bolt of cloth. Another was stitching up what looked like a pair of lungs, complete with tiny bits of thread on the interior.
