After many arduous months during which she toiled to keep his office afloat, Luo-Luo’s admittedly slim hopes of a joyful reunion with Lord Husband were cruelly dashed before it could even take place.

Never in her life did she think news of Lord Husband’s recovery would be so bittersweet, to only hear of his return and good health after the fact as if she were a passing bystander rather than his stand-in Legate and concubine. Oh how it pained her to learn she ranked so low on his mind so as to not even warrant a cursory greeting, nor even a passing mention to anyone he spoke with before departing as quickly as he arrived. Luo-Luo only learned of his return after Lin-Lin and Li-Li barged into her carriage for a ride, both looking adorably chagrined over being left behind against their will alongside all the adorable pets. Granted, Lord Husband hadn’t stopped by to exchange small talk before heading out to the market or off on a leisurely ride, but was instead off leading a veritable army of Peak Experts to support the flagging Central Citadel, one currently under threat of being overrun. Leaving Lin-Lin behind was a given considering the circumstances, and even powerful Li-Li would have only been a burden, but while Luo-Luo agreed with Lord Husband’s decision, saying so would’ve only earned her the ire of the cute, moon-eyed half-hare.

Never wise to upset the true leader of the household, who somehow ranked higher than Mila and Yan both despite having yet to actually marry Lord Husband herself. That was the power sweet Lin-Lin possessed, the power to charm anyone and everyone with her bright demeanour and winning smile.

That being said, Lin-Lin’s story-telling abilities left much to be desired, summarizing Lord Husband’s month-long journey to the Brotherhood monastery with little more than a few sentences. “Hubby sat around for the first few weeks, then spent a few days asking for Kukky,” Lin-Lin began, speaking before a captive audience of Lord Husband’s friends and family. “Those stinky monks kept refusing, so I snuck hubby out and brought him to find Kukky, which is where the Abbot was recovering. Tai-Tai was there too, so I played with him and Kukky for a few days until hubby got better. Soon as he woke up, the stupid Confessor showed up, but hubby stomped him real good, Healed the Abbot, fell asleep for a few days, and here we are, ya?”

Li-Li’s addendum didn’t help, adding that Lord Husband also somehow helped Heal her shattered Core along the way, a cause for much celebration, though everyone involved had no idea how he succeeded where so many others had failed before. Lin-Lin was of the opinion that even Lord Husband didn’t know how he accomplished such a feat, which was simply ludicrous, but further questions would have to wait until they saw him again. Soon after their tale was finished, Luo-Luo bore witness to a momentous event in history from the window of her carriage as off in the distance, Lord Husband unveiled his Runic Cannons and used them to rain death upon the Enemy from afar. Their thunderous roars echoed over the plains of Central, audible even from so many kilometres away, but Luo-Luo knew even the most fanciful soldier present could not even begin to imagine the sheer scale of destruction those Runic Cannons were capable of.

Nor was she, as it turned out, which she soon discovered firsthand.

Despite standing in as Legate during Lord Husband’s absence, Luo-Luo was rarely directly involved in decisions regarding the defence of the outer provinces, not after the self-proclaimed Commander General Shuai Jiao relieved her of most of her responsibilities. As such, without Father-in-Law, MuYang, or any of the Bekhai military officers to relay information to her, she had no way to glean anything regarding the ongoing battle, so it came as a great relief to see the hordes being driven back from the still-standing Bulwark. There were still hours of bloody fighting ahead as Lord Husband’s forces chased down their fleeing foes, but with victory all but theirs, most of the tension drained from Luo-Luo’s body and she fell asleep nestled next to Lin-Lin and most of the pets. When she naturally woke at dawn’s first light, Luo-Luo glanced out her carriage window to discover they’d just arrived at the Citadel proper. It looked nothing like she last remembered it, a ghastly ruin with the westward walls all toppled and burnt to reveal vast swathes of destruction left in the Enemy’s wake. The deep furrows and ragged craters spoke to the power of Lord Husband’s engines of destruction, but her discerning eye was unable to focus upon anything other than the plethora of corpses strewn haphazardly about in various states of disarray. The monks of the Brotherhood had arrived ahead of the army, with dozens of their robed forms out in full force to help oversee the funeral efforts, but even their deep, soothing chants could not lessen the horrors of what lay before her, scene after scene of complete chaos and carnage fit for a Defiled tribesman’s tableau of atrocities.

This was far from her first brush with warfare, but the havoc wrought by Lord Husband’s cannons was unlike anything anyone had ever before seen. Seeing OuYang Yuhuan use her ‘Screaming Dragons’ to shatter wooden blocks mounted on iron frames did little to prepare Luo-Luo for the bloodbath which lay before her. Everywhere she looked lay evidence of death and slaughter, shattered skulls, half-pulped torsos, and bits and bobs aplenty. There were no neat lines of death where Defiled and Chosen died fighting their foes, only anarchy and disarray as corpses lay where they fell whilst fleeing from that which they could not fight. Trails in the dirt told tales of half-dead men and women dragging themselves away in the forlorn hopes of escape, only to leave a battered corpse behind once their strength was wholly spent. As her carriage moved forward, she saw more than one pair of corpses huddled together in complete and utter fright, their last moments spent comforting one another before shuffling off this mortal coil to begin anew.

So strange. The Defiled were a horrific and abominable bunch, traitors of humanity turned into the Enemy’s tools, but in death, Luo-Luo only saw men and women whose struggle to survive had finally come to an end. Though she grieved for the brave Warriors and stalwart civilians who lost their lives in this historic clash, she could not help but also lament the deaths of these poor, frightened, primitives who didn’t know any better, and prayed that their souls would escape the Father’s Maw to find redemption in their next life.

As her carriage made its way through the ruined streets, Luo-Luo cuddled Mama Bun close and stared out her open window, wishing she could simply close her eyes to the horrors but unable to do so out of good conscience. This deserved to be seen, to be witnessed and remembered, perhaps even immortalized in song or drama. Not just to spread word of this uplifting victory over the Defiled, but to also show the staggering cost in lives on both sides of the engagement and dissuade others from succumbing to the Father’s foul lies. Their greatest weapons against the Enemy was not the sword, spear, crossbow, and cannon, but tales of warning to keep others from taking up arms against the Empire.

Or in this case, the Legate Falling Rain himself, the only person in possession of his fearsome and formidable Runic Cannons.

The Defiled were not the only ones to fall here in the Citadel, but Luo-Luo saw scant few Imperial corpses as she passed, likely due to weary soldiers prioritizing their fallen comrades over the Enemy dead. What was more unnerving was all the empty armour, bloodied clothing, and scattered weapons she saw laying about, with no sign of their former owners in sight. Every now and then, she came across a curious dearth of corpses, as if one section of the battlefield had provided complete and utter sanctuary, but the unholy marks of the Father’s foul touch proved otherwise, and only then did Luo-Luo realize what she was seeing. Those empty armours and corpse-less patches were evidence of a Demonic birth, one fuelled by the bloodshed and terror of war and conflict and gave rise to an unholy creation which consumed all the nearby corpses. An unfortunate fate Luo-Luo wouldn’t wish upon anyone, Imperial or Defiled, but what stood out the most in the aftermath of this climatic battle was how there were still so many scattered corpses, limbs, organs, and entrails laying about. Some were separated from their hosts while they were still alive, and others fell from tattered corpses as they were transported to the ever-burning pyres. Their smoking blazes spit out a constant stream of thick, acrid smoke and tainted the air with an unpleasantly enticing scent that cut through the pervasive stench of death and decay, one disturbingly similar to grilled pork cooked just a touch too long, yet still fit for consumption.

Is that how Mitsue Hideo would have eaten her, her flesh skewered and seared over an open flame, or would he not have even bothered and taken her bite by bite while she screamed and writhed beneath him?

A cold shiver ran down Luo-Luo’s spine as she clutched her sceptre and Mama Bun close for comfort, still yet to wholly recover from her terrifying clash with Mitsue Hideo at District Seventy Eight. Every time she closed her eyes, she found his feral, ravenous expression waiting to greet her, and no matter how hard she fought or long she struggled, there was no escaping his indefatigable hunger. Night after night she fought his horrific shadow in her sleep, and her only escape was to fight free of the nightmare and wake gasping in a cold sweat. Perhaps things would be better now that she’d have someone to cuddle and comfort her, like sweet Aurie splayed out across her and Lin-Lin’s lap, but she doubted it would make any difference at all, even if she could pry the affectionate wildcat away from Lord Husband’s side.

It all seemed so unfair. That fateful night in District Seventy-Eight should have been Luo-Luo’s moment of crowning glory, the secrets of the Martial Path unravelling before her eyes as she wielded her chain and sceptre like a Warrior born. Were she the heroine of a drama, this would have been the scene in which the titular heroine turned things around on her Defiled attacker to emerge victorious in a blaze of glory, but reality was a wretched beast with a flair for disillusionment. Despite all her training and Insights, Mitsue Hideo defeated her soundly and would have disgraced her there in the courtyard if not for Mother-in-Law Sarnai’s timely rescue and MuYang’s unexpected arrival. In truth, her part in that night’s events was that of little more than a bystander, a weakness to be targeted in order to ascertain Lord Husband’s whereabouts as opposed to a heroine to be captured and disgraced, as she would be if her life were a play in which she did not star in.

Touching her shoulder where she took grievous injury, Luo-Luo repressed a shudder at the mental image of her injury, for despite receiving Healing soon after the fact, she could still feel his teeth tearing into her pale, tender flesh, a sensation she would not soon forget. Mother-in-Law Sarnai had been so supportive in these last weeks, but the Warrior woman didn’t understand Luo-Luo’s fearful and fragile mindset, nor did anyone else in Lord Husband’s household. Sorya and Anrhi were of great comfort in these trying times, but despite having so many loving people in her life, this fear had been ingrained into her soul, a mark which might never fade from now until the end of her days. She was a musician and poet, a calligrapher and artist, not a Warrior or hero of the ages, a frail, fragile maiden with delusions of grandeur who knew not the heights of Heaven or the depths of true despair until Mitsue Hideo set upon her with gnashing teeth and grasping hands.

Perhaps that was Luo-Luo’s greatest failing, her inability to set reasonable expectations which was only asking for disappointment, a lesson she’d learned many a time before and would continue to suffer through until she fixed the error of her ways. What good did talent serve if it only made her miserable and lonely? Better if she’d been born mediocre instead, because at least then she would never have stood out to be hammered down by calamity. Perhaps she would have caught the eye of a middling Imperial Scion, one who saw fit to take her as his wife, or been purchased by a well-to-do family and tasked to tutor their children in the arts, instead of left lonely and neglected as the untouched concubine of a cold and heartless man.

Blinking quickly to clear her teary eyes, Luo-Luo sniffled and snuggled Mama Bun even closer. Sensing her distress, the sweet rabbit came awake with a languid yawn and set to lapping at Luo-Luo’s cheek, her way of showing love and affection. It wasn’t fair to call Lord Husband cold and heartless when in truth he was a warm and loving man, just one with no room in his heart for Luo-Luo. Perhaps that would change with time, but regardless of what awaited her in the future, there was no need to despair just yet. After returning Mama Bun’s affection with a kiss and a treat, Luo-Luo went back to gazing out her carriage window, except this time with a clearer mind. There was something wrong with the proceedings, something that had gone unnoticed until now, because she was not yet accustomed to the aftermath of battle, but now that she knew to look for it, she saw the truth clear as day. Despite the death and carnage before her, the Empire had undoubtedly scored a grand victory here today, slaughtering Defiled in droves and driving the Enemy army back from whence they came, yet the grim and sombre mood told a different tale, as did the distinct lack of cheer and celebration.

