“Think about your zither.” The abrupt change of topic caught Luo-Luo off-guard, but Lord Husband pressed on without explanation. “More specifically, the strings. When you pluck one, it vibrates back and forth to produce a certain sound. By varying the weight of each string and pressing down to change the lengths as you play, you can then produce a melody made up of different notes, with each note producing a uniquely different vibration pattern. See where I’m going with this?”

She did, for as Lord Husband spoke, his words produced an image in her mind that she’d never before seen, a white, sinuous line that vibrated in place to form a wave that rose and fell in rhythm to his Sending, a visual which she understood to represent the sounds she was hearing. Grasping the concept behind this immediately, she visualized a zither in her mind’s eye and assigned a note to each of the twenty-three word sounds and their five tones. Once she had this system in place, she played a tune to construct a message, but try as she might, she wasn’t sure how to Send it to Lord Husband, until she thought back to what Lord Husband said about focusing specifically on the strings. A zither in her mind would not help her send; instead, she needed to use Chi as her instrument in order to convey a message through Sending. With this in mind, she went back to the zither in her mind and tried to recreate the movements of each note with Chi alone, which was simple enough, movements she then transmitted through air the same way any sound would travel. “CAN YOU HEAR ME LORD HUSBAND?” she asked, without using her voice, only rather than Sending the question to him and him alone, she somehow announced it for all to hear in ear-splitting fashion.

“Damn, girlie.” Picking at his ear with his pinky finger, Lei Gong winced and shook his head in exaggerated pain, and the other gathered parties showed similar signs of discomfort. “If I didn’t know any better, I’d think ye were tryin’ to steal me title.”

Thankfully, the other gathered officials were too polite to make fun of Luo-Luo, even if Lord Husband’s smile promised a future mocking, but he Sent further instructions to help her understand where she went wrong. “The sounds you Send need not emerge from you directly. Rather than transmit them through the air, try to transmit the sound directly to me, with no need to travel from your physical body to mine.” A few tries later saw Luo-Luo’s first success, and from there it was only a matter of modulating her volume by changing the magnitude of her vibrations. “There we go,” he Sent, upon receiving her second successful message. “Clever girl. I knew you’d pick it up quickly, but that was even faster than expected. Now why so glum?”

Though elated to find success so easily, Luo-Luo’s spirits dropped at the reminder of her unsightly mistakes. “Lord Husband, this one is unworthy of your praise, as you will see yourself once you are made aware of the details...” Unable to stop the flow of words once it’d been unleashed, Luo-Luo confessed to all her blunders whether they were great or small. Losing her authority to Shuai Jiao was only the beginning, for she’d almost missed Father-in-Law Baatar’s many hints that she should utilize the Death Corps to protect the Districts and nearly brought calamity down upon Mother-in-Law Sarnai’s head.

Luo-Luo still had more to confess when Lord Husband cut her off. “I know all about this,” he Sent, patting her hand in scant comfort. “Mom told me everything after the battle, especially about what you’ve done. Expanding militia training, personally funding District repairs and improvements, ensuring everyone was well-fed and protected... You did everything I would’ve done, only better because I would’ve just gone to you for help. What’s more, the entire Empire owes you a debt of gratitude for enabling this grand victory here today, because without your efforts bringing the cannons to the nearby Districts unseen and immediately sending the Royal Guardians in to support the Citadel, we might not have had the ability to drive the Enemy back, or would have incurred even more losses to do so.” Smiling as he tentatively took her hand in his, he squeezed it ever so gently while emanating an Aura of warm approval and admiration, which soon turned to cold anger and righteous indignation, though not directed at her. “Had I known what happened beforehand, I’d have put more effort into finding that bastard Hideo and killed him myself, but don’t you worry. I won’t let him hurt you ever again.”

A touching sentiment, especially with Lord Husband’s emotions laid bare through Aura, anger suffused with heavy hints of attachment and possessiveness that he could not hide. It wasn’t love, not even close, but it showed that he already viewed Luo-Luo as his woman, even if he had yet to accept it. A marked improvement from the disdain, disgust, or even indifference she feared he might react with instead, as there were men who would toss their courtesans aside at the mere hint of infidelity or impurity, but Lord Husband once again proved he was different from the rest. Whether she had to wait one year or five, it would still be well worth the wait to win Lord Husband’s affections, though any longer and Luo-Luo would be a thirty-year-old maid unworthy of love any longer...

“Enough talk of rebuilding.” Though Lord Husband’s tone was neither brusque nor domineering, the gathered officials showed no sign of discontent over being interrupted. “We don’t all need to be here for that, so let us move on to other topics first, namely our next steps.” Turning to Luo-Luo, he asked, “If the District farmers return to work today, how long until we can expect a harvest, and will we be on track for a surplus of food come winter?”

“Even without the Central Districts, we would have enough to see all the Districts fed with a sizable surplus to sell.” Mostly due to Lord Husband’s idea to have the farmers specialize instead of allowing them to plant and sell whatever they pleased. Sixty days for rice, forty-five for cabbages, fifty-five for soy-beans, and seventy for radishes meant the farmers had time for multiple harvests per growing season, and while this all made for a bland diet, it was nourishing enough when augmented with fish or waterfowl, of which there was more than enough to go around.

“And how long until we have enough food to feed an army in the field? Say, one million soldiers and all the necessary camp followers.”

This time, Luo-Luo had no choice but to look to Xuande for an answer, as she lacked the necessary information at hand. “A hundred and eighty days if relying solely on the Districts and fisheries, perhaps half that if we continue importing supplies at the same rate, though the expense will be... significant.”

“Call it ninety days then, maybe less if the Brotherhood has any good gardening tips, though they might be too busy building schools, clerical offices, and monasteries.” Seeing Luo-Luo’s curiosity, Lord Husband Sent, “Right... I promised I’d supply the materials for all of that, so we’re gonna need a lot more wood and concrete. Don’t worry about the cost; even though we can’t issue any War Bonds, I bet people would be more than willing to accept transferable promissory notes which are officially stamped by the Minister of Finance alone. You already know what to do.” Of course... this was always his goal with War Bonds, to introduce paper money, which was what he was now suggesting only not in so many words. The outer provinces had already accepted the premise of War Bonds and this would be no different, except Lord Husband was bold enough to remove the Grand Marshal and Disciplinary Corps from the equation, both of whom were required to dispense War Bonds, while these promissory notes would be dealt with by Lord Husband’s office alone. Brilliant.

Out loud, he continued, “So then our deadline is set.”

“Our deadline for what?” An accommodating man, Marshal Yo, even if his loyalty was worth less than the dirt he stood upon. At least his brother was steadfast in his support, though that might well have been the angle they decided to play, the younger Yo supporting the Legate while the older hedged their bets.

“For our counterattack.” Speaking over the chorus of objections, Lord Husband straightened up and said, “Even after last night’s momentous victory, the mood within the Citadel is dour and downcast. Why? Because the soldiers and citizens lack hope. They saw the hefty cost we paid to throw the Defiled back, and fear we cannot afford it a second time, much less a third, fourth, and fifth, so they believe this is the beginning of the end, and they are right, but not for the right reasons.” Flashing a predatory grin, Lord Husband gestured at the Lord of Thunder and said, “You’ve all seen what those cannons can do, but this is merely scratching the surface. Once we have enough in hand, we can bring an entire city down to its knees with but a single volley. The face of war has forever changed, and we must strike now before our Enemy has time to adapt. Three months from today, I intend to march westward with an army at my back to begin our holy crusade to retake the West. I am not suggesting it, but demanding it, for we must deliver hope to our people, or all is lost. I want a plan of attack to go over by week’s end, but we’ll have plenty of time for revisions.” Leaving no room for objections, Lord Husband unfurled a map of the Western Border and pointed at Sui Hua harbour in the north, his eyes gleaming with ambition. “In the meantime, what say we go on a badger hunt, dad? Tell me about Huanhuzi and his fleet.”

It was a startling change to see, so subtle and profound it was difficult to put into words, but Lord Husband was different now. Though still amiable and soft-spoken, there was a steel to Lord Husband’s words that didn’t demand deference so much as compel it, so much so that even Commander General Shuai Jiao and Marshal Quyen Huong were swept up into Lord Husband’s pace. Standing at his side, Luo-Luo watched him at work and marvelled at how he’d finally adapted to the role he was born for, a true dragon among men. This was their Legate, Falling Rain, the man who would lead the Empire to victory against the Enemy, a fact she meant for the whole Empire to hear of soon enough.

Luo-Luo only hoped that he set aside some time to conquer her as well before setting off to reclaim the west...

Chapter Meme
