It’d been this way at the Districts, the civilians too shocked by the death and violence to appreciate their victory, but the Citadel was teeming with veteran soldiers well versed in the ways of war. Spend enough time around them and one would learn that men and women stained in blood and death were wont to develop a grim and ghastly sense of humour, but none of that was on display here. There were no straight backs or quiet smiles no matter where she looked, as if every soul present had been stained by despair and darkness, the very dirt and stones of the citadel tainted in the aftermath of the Father’s foul attentions.

A disturbing sign of things to come if even this heroic victory failed to raise the spirits of Imperial soldiers and give them hope for the future. That was the greatest threat when dealing with the Enemy, as Luo-Luo herself had recently learned, not dealing with the swords and spears of Defiled Warriors, but the invisible wounds their malignant presence left behind, wounds which festered into a fast-spreading plague of depression and despair. Left unchecked, the entire Citadel might soon succumb to the Father’s foul lies and turn against the Mother’s light, a blow from which the Empire might never recover.

Lacking any experience in matters of this magnitude, Luo-Luo could only bring her concerns up to Lord Husband, but upon her arrival at the Bulwark gates, she found him entwined in the arms of his beloved wives, both of whom were positively glowing with happiness. Sleepy Lin-Lin shuffled over to join them alongside Li-Li and the happy pets, leaving Luo-Luo to stand back and watch this saccharine reunion with a heavy heart. Oh how she wished Lord Husband would turn his soft, loving gaze upon her like that, hold her close and whisper sweet nothings in her ears, but alas, such a day might never come, for she was not loved and adored like Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin, or coveted like beautiful Li-Li.

No, she was merely a business associate, as Lord Husband’s greeting soon showed, approaching her with a radiant smile and removing his arm from around Yan’s slender waist just long enough to offer Luo-Luo a chaste pat on the wrist, one accompanied by a brief surge of relief and vindication conveyed through Aura. “Good to see you,” he began, looking so handsome and charismatic in the warm, morning light, a ray of sunshine in this otherwise bleak and dreary Citadel. Despite his tattered, bloodstained robes and unkempt, dishevelled hair, he seemed the very picture of nobility as he stood across from her, so full of vigour and vitality as he took the reins of control with his very presence alone. Oddly enough, his arms, neck, and torso were covered in bloodied bandages, the wounds treated through mundane means rather than just being Healed as expected, showing just how tired and spent Lord Husband must be. Despite his weary fatigue, he moved with the grace and dignity of a Warrior born as he turned away and gestured for her to follow. “Come with me. The day is still early and there’s plenty of work yet to be done.”

Apparently, that was all the greeting he had for Luo-Luo as he led her into the bulwark proper, the only upside being that he bade farewell to Mila, Yan, Lin-Lin, and Li-Li. Still cradling Mama Bun in her arms and carrying sleepy Noodle in her purse, Luo-Luo was ill-prepared for the audience awaiting her in the gate-house turned banquet-hall. There, upon the same stage she and Lord Husband had sat on during the Legate’s banquet, stood members of the highest echelons of command throughout the outer provinces, men and women of power and authority all gathered in one place. Mother-in-Law Akanai, Father-in-Law Baatar, and Colonel General Nian Zu were all a given, of course, while Commander General Shuai Jiao appeared as if he’d aged ten years in the weeks since Luo-Luo last saw him. The three Marshals were also present, as well as a colourfully armoured and unfamiliar southern Warrior Luo-Luo assumed was the replacement for the recently departed Colonel General Tran Hoang. Stood off to the side out of deference and respect was Lord of Thunder Lei Gong, under-dressed and under-groomed as per usual, though it appeared as if he’d made some effort to tame his wild hair and wear the least tattered and stained of his robes, which wasn’t saying much. Rounding out the group were none other than MuYang and Liu Xuande, the former as unobtrusive as always standing at the latter’s side, dressed like a lowly guard here to serve the brilliant and impeccably dressed Imperial Scion turned brilliant tactician.

Lofty individuals one and all, men and women capable of calling the winds and summoning the rains, and yet each and every one of them greeted Lord Husband with the utmost deference and respect. To say this was nothing short of a miracle was no exaggeration, for every single person standing on stage represented the peak of their respective Paths, yet they were all waiting and ready to follow Lord Husband’s lead in matters of war and economics. Might makes right indeed, for even if one overlooked his personal strength, he now possessed the power to eliminate entire armies of Defiled once his Runic Cannons were unleashed, cannons Luo-Luo suspected he would keep shrouded in mystery for as long as possible. What’s more, while she had yet to witness his newfangled strength firsthand, others would have seen Lord Husband Cloud-Stepping through the skies and taking part in the pivotal battle which took place here, a tale she yearned to hear as soon as possible, preferably with BoShui’s enlightened use of evocative and almost lyrical description.

To hear Lin-Lin tell it, the Bloody Confessor was merely some insect to be crushed underfoot, but during his last appearance, the fearsome Goujian wounded Colonel General Nian Zu, killed two of the Famed Fifty, and fought off several other Peak Experts before the Ancestral Bristleboar stepped in. If Lord Husband truly defeated this formidable foe, then to say his strength had progressed by leaps and bounds would be a lacking understatement to be sure.

“Sorry to keep everyone waiting,” Lord Husband began, naturally taking his place at the head of the table and gesturing for Luo-Luo to stand at his side. Two missteps already, showing deference through apology and placing her above others who were more deserving of the attention. Better if he had Colonel General Nian Zu take his side, or even Mother-in-Law Akanai to show he had strength beyond what the Imperial Army could provide, as featuring Luo-Luo made it seem as if he were a fool enamoured with his concubine and therefore blinded by his ardour. Nothing could be further from the truth, of course, but Luo-Luo knew how the others would see it, especially the stern and chauvinist Southern Marshal, Quyen Huong.

The flash of reproach and naked contempt from the Southern Marshal and his chosen Army General was so brief most would have missed it, but Luo-Luo caught a glimpse as she gave her silent respects. At least they were still respectful enough to hide their disdain, which meant Lord Husband had won them over for now, but such wavering loyalties could easily be lost in the blink of an eye. Ignorant of what just transpired, Lord Husband cleared his throat and continued, “Anyways, now that we’re all here, let us clear the air. Commander General Shuai Jiao, your heroic efforts are greatly appreciated and a credit to your nation. As such, using the authority granted to me as Legate of the outer provinces, I hereby ratify your title as Commander General and leave overall command of the Imperial Army in your capable hands.” Without skipping a beat, Lord Husband continued, “I am also appointing Imperial Scion Liu Xuande as my Military Strategist, who will henceforth take charge of non-combat military efforts throughout the outer provinces. As for Imperial Servant Zheng Luo, I bestow upon her the title of Secretary of Office and authorize her to speak with my voice when I am otherwise absent.”

“Lord Husband...”

“Honoured Legate...”

Luo-Luo and Xuande both spoke up to voice their objection, but Lord Husband’s hand was already raised to cut them off. Locking eyes with the aged Commander General, Lord Husband learned forward not in threat, but fatigue, a show of weakness in a time when he should be strong. “These appointments are not a criticism of your laudable efforts, for which you will be rewarded, but rather as a means to bridge the divide between civil and military matters going forward. The original Central Citadel was, quite frankly, an architectural mess, with too much thought and effort going into the bulwark while leaving the rest of the Citadel to fend for itself. I read the after-action reports and as far as I can tell, despite the valiant efforts of the Imperial Army, the most effective exchanges took place when the walls were toppled and we set fire to the inner districts.” Glancing around at the table with a weary sigh, Lord Husband asked, “Does that not strike you as disheartening? To hear that our greatest glories were achieved through self harm?”

“Which only goes to show the effectiveness of the tactic,” Commander General Shuai Jiao responded, perhaps a little more defensively than he intended.

“Effective, yes, from a purely tactical standpoint when looking at this one, singular battle, but hardly sustainable considering we must now devote significant resources and manpower to restoring the outer walls.” To everyone’s surprise, Marshal Quyen Huong was first to speak out in support of Lord Husband, even as the other military officers seemed ready to support their Commander General. “Not to mention the cost of keeping the Northern and Southern armies in the field without the needed infrastructure in place. Better if we took the same forethought which went into planning the Bulwark’s construction and put it to use along the outer walls.”

“Except to do so would greatly hinder troop movements, both in day to day efforts and during a siege.” Shaking his head, Colonel General Nian Zu offered his valued opinion. “The theory behind the Citadel’s defences is sound, for the Bulwark offers the perfect place to make the most effective use of available troops. There’s no doubt in my mind the Bulwark would have held until reinforcements arrive, given how I’m sure the Commander General had plenty of more tricks up his sleeves.”

A small nod from Shuai Jiao conveyed the Commander General’s appreciation for his Northern Peer’s support, and it was clear Father-in-Law Baatar also agreed with the sentiment. Lord Husband however was of a different mind, and turned to Liu Xuande for his thoughts. “Given our current circumstances, how would you advise us to proceed regarding the restoration of the Central Citadel?”

Wordlessly asking permission to use the ink and parchment on the table, Liu Xuande set to work sketching a diagram of the Citadel as it stood, a broken shell of a fortress that made for a sad sight indeed. “Rebuilding and improving the entire citadel would take too long,” he began, never looking up as he spoke. “And is likely unfeasible, given the cut-throat real-estate ventures which will undoubtedly fight us tooth and nail on any changes we care to make regarding property lines, street layouts, and zoning.” With the basic sketch finished, Xuande coated his brush heavily with dark ink and used it to fill in the void left by the missing outer walls, almost a good half of the Citadel itself. “So rather than rebuild, I say we reshape the Citadel. Turn the entire area in front of the Bulwark into a deep harbour with a single, stone bridge to facilitate troop movements, while expanding barracks and civilian areas to the north, south, and east, outside of what used to be the Citadel proper and upon land Marshal Yo’s office will retain ownership of, so as to avoid those same hardships we saw earlier. I’d like to speak with Miss Cixi before committing to a detailed layout, but this would be the quickest and most effective solution to our current troubles, as the Bulwark would then represent our first line of defence, while the outer perimeter can be rebuilt with offensive destruction in mind.”

Locking eyes with Commander General Shuai Jiao, Lord Husband gestured at the Imperial Scion and shrugged as if to say, “See why I value his opinion?”

It was clear the Command General did, as he took to the idea almost immediately, as did Marshal Quyen and Colonel General Nian Zu, these like-minded men discussing matters of the utmost importance like friends discussing barn-building during their break rather than the most powerful officials in all the lands. Another oversight on Lord Husband’s part, forgetting to not only have tea and snacks prepared for these esteemed individuals, but also denying them even the comfort of a chair to sit on. Ten steps forward in strength, but five back in politics, Lord Husband’s recent stupor had done nothing to improve his manners.

Noticing her attentions, Lord Husband responded with a shy but amused smile, and surprised Luo-Luo with a Sending, one delivered without need for physical contact. “Sorry for not bringing it up beforehand, but you did such a great job as stand-in Legate, I figured I’d make the job official.” Cheeks flushed with shame, she was unable to meet Lord Husband’s eyes any longer for she was undeserving of his praise. Were it not for her gaffes, the Commander General would never have seized control away from her and forced her to put Lord Husband’s Death Corps to work, but given her inability to Send, she would have to wait until they were alone to voice her objections.

