t drew her attention.Near the field, an unnoticeable being that was near the city turned its attention to the town and all the monsters abruptly just... stopped. Complete and utter lack of motion. The force grew to such an extent it was visible from the moon for a brief moment then it was gone with a thunderous...Poi?“What was that?” Delta asked, stunned.“Danmulecus or ‘Mule’ as he likes to be called. He’s a big fan,” Brother said easily. Delta didn’t want any fans that did that!Delta just wanted to be a peaceful Dungeon doing Dungeon things... why was she on the damn moon having a lunch date with two gods as some dragon thing scared monsters emerging from an eclipse?!She didn’t need any more surprises...---In the abyss, past the dark sea of turbulent souls and oblivion, the demon world could be found.In the untamed lands, unseen by the dukes or their king, a bright orange mushroom formed in a forest.Then another formed... then another.Eventually 7 cheerful mushrooms formed a perfect ring in the middle of nowhere.A moment later, when nothing happened... the mushrooms began to slowly wiggle back and forward, harmonizing slowly.The tempo increased faster and faster until the mushrooms were a blur of red and noise. Then a single note was hit and the space in the middle of the circle began to rip open.Orange mana exploded upwards like a geyser of bubbling foam. Then it slowly settled until the circle was a rippling orange liquid that seemed to occasionally shift. The mushrooms pondered this then began to dance in different patterns, causing the liquid to slowly shift as if they were tuning a tv station.Then it finally found what it was seeking.Waddles emerged a moment later, his body rotating as if he simply spun himself underwater.It was surprising to be home, but he might as well report to his father while he was here. Then he could get back to sleeping.He flapped his wings and took off, heading for the Lake of Wrath.He would find the Duke of Wrath there, presiding over all the Dark Drakes. Waddles now might have a solution for the problems the demon world was going through.Well... not him, but Delta.She was useful like that.Waddles supposed if he was with Delta right now? She’d have called his father... the Duck of Wrath.Waddles wouldn’t say it, but he would think it hard at his father in her honour.Waddles was good like that.
