The words reassured Delta, because as much as she was sure this whole god-war was a big sibling falling-out gone extremeMharia was still dangerous.She didn’t need magic or undead dragons to be a problem. Simply pissing off the right adventurer or making Delta appear as... a problem would have the same effect, if not more. Delta cared about what her image was, to a degree.She worked hard to cultivate the idea she could be reasoned with; and her goal was to flourish with Durence, not in spite of it.It was a gamble, to be perfectly honest, but Delta needed to know what the other side was thinking, how it operated, and how twisted any other members of this group were.Alpha blinked his eyes slowly.“Ow.”Delta winced and silently shifted his soul two inches to the right, which aligned better. Upside of having a big sister like Delta? She could do stuff like that.“You okay?” Delta asked and Alpha sat slowly up, flexing his finger.“I got a lot of soul resistance skills, but I don’t think it’ll help if Mharia strikes again,” he said, businesslike and firm, as if his loss of soul was more a dreadful embarrassment than a traumatic incident.“About that...” Delta said, one finger raised, trying to figure out how best to broach the subject.If you discover this tale on Amazon, be aware that it has been stolen. Please report the violation.“-HOW ARE YOU STILL ALIVE?!” Mharia screamed as Jack shook her like a small child with fish in a bag.“SPITE AND SMUT!” Jack screamed back.Alpha stared before turning back to Delta, hints of actual disbelief on his face.“Mharia is effectively not an issue as far as things go,” Delta said brightly. He frowned before nodding as if accepting this.“I failed,” he said almost out of the blue.“What... at the Game?” Delta asked, head tilted. Alpha pursed his lips.“That too... but no, I mean with dealing with Mharia. I was woefully underprepared,” he explained as he stood up, looking around.“Where’s Hero?” he asked, troubled as he searched for the golden bug.“Resting, but you didn’t fail, Al,” Delta said earnestly as she patted his head. She didn’t know why, but he was quite pattable.“I only won because Mharia let me in as close as I needed to so she could drive me crazy and turn me into a dungeon demon that would ravage the world!” she explained, her tone calm.“And I would have gotten away with it if it weren't for your meddling,” Mharia muttered as Jack brought her over... stuffed in a bottle.“I think we should cook her,” Jack said viciously. Delta shook her head, but narrowed her eyes.“And how do you keep making references that you shouldn’t know about?” she asked the creepy fairy girl.She merely smiled in return, but Delta was already turning away.“Right, don’t have time for your dramatic foreshadowing. I got a lunch date. Alpha?” she turned to the younger man who stared back, ready for instruction.“Go outside and have fun. Real sun is good for you,” she insisted, making shoo-ing motions.“Delta!” Mharia said before she could leave. Looking back, Delta gave her a look of boredom.“I can’t wait to see your face when you return,” Mharia cackled and Jack dunked her into a nearby pot. Inside, the bubbling crime against life, Troll Soup, muffled her screech. Jack raised the bottle and Mharia was flailing and looking sick despite having no organs.Delta would rescue her when she returned... so Mharia could look at her face.It was what the little fairy wanted after all...---Going to where Sis was involved a lot of mind skills. It was sort of being able to pretend the space directly behind her body didn’t exist, but instead, her world was a construction of carefully put together powers.Delta slipped into her dungeon mode, seeing the walls and monsters all become see-through, their power and meaning flowing inside them, drawing in from the very air the mana they needed to keep surviving.Then it was a matter of falling backwards, and she was somewhere else. Sis sat surrounded by her monitors, and she looked different than last time they met... Delta couldn’t put a finger on it exactly, but she looked older.“Delta,” Sis said with such affection that Delta had the urge to turn and smile. Sis was pure in that way.But that same purity let her do some pretty nasty things with the same earnest attitude. Like with what she did with Alpha in the beginning and this war.“We need to talk,” Delta said simply. Sis nodded and closed her eyes.“I think it’s best we involve who we can,” she announced. That sounded both interesting and ominous.“If I am the Sun and Brother is the Land, then we cannot casually meet without causing an issue. However, a long time ago... Brother and I devised a meeting ground we could use at times,” Sis explained as she stood off her chair.“Like in a Starbucks, or some cool Stonehenge or...” Delta began to list, and Sis smiled as the room began to glow.---Waddles opened his eyes. The ground shook through the underwater tunnel.He was moving before he was even fully awake. As he emerged on the outside, he saw the lake was completely dried. The water was suspended in the air, floating as if gravity had lost all meaning. This ended up revealing deep carved lines all along the lake bed that looped around in sweeping curls.Slowly, from the earth, raw power coursed through the lines, travelling to the shrine island in the middle where it pooled.Then the land went dark. As Waddles looked up, the sun went dark at the same time the shrine exploded with a large pillar of mana, raw power that shot into the sky. The colour was a dark amber.Waddles followed it to see why the sun had gone dark.From the sun as well, a pillar of mana was exploding down to the land, but both beams... almost at the same time, clashed in the middle... met the same object at the same time.The moon began to glow a deep green that was tinged with orange.From the lands, the forest, and the very earth, monsters began to rage, coming alive as if the eclipse over this part of the land was a signal to raise hell.Waddles would not let a single one pass into his domain nor his handmaiden's side rooms.---“-Or like a cute teahouse or maybe a...” Delta trailed off as she seemed to have been teleported by Sis to a strange flat surface, pock-marked occasionally by odd craters.“A teahouse would be cute, but Brother won’t let me decorate...but regardless, welcome, Delta, to the Moon,” Sis introduced.Delta stared as on the other side of the far field... the form of the demonic brother appeared. He appeared to be walking the line between the front and the dark sides of the moon. Delta slowly looked out to the ‘dark side’. It was completely flat and unremarkable, as if someone had stopped making it halfway through.“Why... is the moon flat on the back?” Delta asked faintly.“Well, no one ever sees the other side, so why make it that special?” Sis said easily.“I wanted to put a moon dragon here, but Sis said it would ruin the scenery,” Brother sniffed as he approached, his yellowish eyes still slit-like.“I wanted to try making a race of moon-dogs,” Sis said and Brother eyed her.“You’re taller,” he accused and Sis smiled serenely.“Am I? I hadn’t noticed,” she said, brushing her hair back with clear pride. Delta coughed to remind them that she existed.They both eyed her.“Right... one sec,” Brother said and snapped his finger. Alpha appeared, ghostly and surprised by their side. He took one look at Bro and Sis, and began to hyperventilate.“Is he still traumatised? Delta, you had him for a whole day! Have you not made him better yet?” Brother asked, surprised.“He lost his soul and was a plaything of a lich before I saved him. It’s going to take time. People take time,” Delta stressed. Brother blinked slowly.“Like three days or something?” he asked and Delta knew without a doubt he was legitimately serious.“He’ll be better when he’s better,” Delta said finally, still having to suppress her urge to cower before the being. It was hard to forget things like his face when he took her name.“Why are we here?” Alpha asked finally. Sis went up to him and hugged him.“To make wrongs right,” she admitted.Brother and Sister shared a look before they looked down at the massive, oddly-shaped rectangle. It was mostly a rough flat plane, but occasionally new land or seas seemed to be growing out at the edges, slowly but surely curving in on itself.“And the others? Beta and Gamma? Also, whoever this ‘fifth’ is that Mharia mentioned?” Delta asked quietly.“Beta is refusing us full-blank and working with the asshole tree,” Brother said flatly.“Gamma is... how would you say it...” Sis trailed off.“Funny, but dangerous to both of you in different ways,” Brother said casually.“The fifth that Mharia of Turtog mentioned is not a part of what you all are, not truly. The fifth was actually the first. Little Brother was the first. I shaped him and Brother gave him a soul. We could not create what we did not know,” Sis said with sadness as she looked at the stars above, blinking.“We did it so wrong. A soul like that... like yours... was not meant to be in such a state or body. They went mad, or perhaps they were simply mad at us,” she carried on.“The reason why people get... knowledgeable or perhaps even attuned to your old world is because in every seed is the memory... the essence of that first soul. Every human and half-human down there carries memories of your world, locked deep within them,” Brother announced, hands spread as if capturing the image of the world in his hands.“A soul like us...” Alpha whispered, hand to his chest.“When a seed falls to another, the seed moves on or carries down the bloodline. The seeds merged, far more completely than what the lich chick did with her family. A single seed, a single person. You repeat that every generation, and every time the seed becomes more complete,” Bro went on, turning to Delta.“But what happens when someone’s seed is too strong? What if it gets the memories back?” Delta asked, feeling dread inside her. Sis looked at her.“Durence happens,” she said simply.“The cult got real close, but honestly, they can’t really do what they need on their own. They need people, strong people. So, they caused a little havoc and boom, heroes and antiheroes show up to wage epic war! But the catch is... the loot? It ain’t so good. People remembered, and the collection of seeds began to rise. The memories of that name... the true name of the Little Brother, made them understand that win or lose against the Silence? They would become the Silence,” Bro explained as he sat on the ground and got comfortable.“No... I don’t understand,” Alpha objected.“How could memories make you into a cult or change you?” he demanded, distressed.Brother closed his eyes, apparently getting ready for a nap.“You wanna know? Ask Delta... every single one of her monsters has the exact same thing going on... or did you not notice that?” he asked her amused.“Not the insane or seedy part, but... by sharing your memories with them... they understand you. Your emotions are tied to a certain memory or reference or joke... they flow through that and subconsciously or not... they feel closer to you. Wyin, your second floor boss, resists this well and even sees it as a threat that she isn’t sure she can resist...” Sister explained and Delta couldn’t speak.“The race of humanity? It’s all one big Dungeon species that took the death of our sibling to make,” Bro added, voice much quieter.Delta felt ill... she felt... for the first time in a long time... scared of what she was.“Alpha, who would build bonds with people. Beta, who would rally monsters created by their magic. Delta, who would repurpose their gifts, and Gamma who would take them by conquest. In the beginning that was the plan. You’d help each other train to fight the Silence whilst also taking their seeds to slow down the great Remembrance.” Brother sighed, then shot Delta a grin.“To be fair, you can’t really say you have a cult when half your monsters argue with you and the others question you. It’s more a close knit-family that may go crazy. You may also spread your memories like fungus on perfectly good fields, but you also pass on more,” he pointed out.“In fact, you pass on the most important thing of all,” Sister said to her as she smiled.Delta slowly looked at them, the weight in her chest heavy.“You taught them it's okay to question life. It’s okay to be wrong... and most importantly?” Sister leaned in, arms around Delta.“You taught them it's okay to laugh at themselves. It’s okay to have their own feelings,” Sis finished and Delta was about to make a nice reply when she noticed something. Brother had zoomed the air in front of him to focus on a village near a drained lake.It looked like dozens of ant-sized dots were converging on the village in the round shadow of the moon.“Where’s that unlucky place?” Delta asked as she pulled Alpha into the hug.“Durence,” Brother said easily. Delta nodded for a moment before she paused.“Look! Alpha’s body is on the ground,” Brother announced as he zoomed in further to show Alpha’s physical form passed out in front of her dungeon. The monsters just ran past, unbothered by them.“Where are they going?!” Delta yelled and Sister blinked.“To get seeds. Durence isn’t very active so the monster’s shouldn’t be able to sense too much,” Sister promised easily.“There are two royal knights in town,” Alpha said, muffled by Delta’s tight grip.The siblings shared a look.“Well, this could be awkward, but... I think it’ll be alright,” Brother said as he waved a hand. Delta was going to ask how when something odd occurred.Far off, a large town that had a golden colour around i