"They look like pale old people," Adam said, making a face. "Really old people, with their skin all sagging and stuff. Um. They all look like they're the same person? And they don't have any hair or anyth—aah!"

The words dissolved into a shriek, and Adam jerked back, very nearly slamming the back of his head against the wall he was already propped up against. His eyes went wide with fear, and Flia shot toward him in alarm; this time, he didn't flinch away from her. He was too busy staring at the cot, heart pounding in his chest.

"Adam?!" Flia caught him by the arm to steady him, and he clutched at her, trembling. "What happened?"

"I-I don't think they liked me describing them," Adam said, swallowing. "They all turned to look at me. They, um..."

He squeezed his eyes shut, like he was hoping that would be enough to make them go away. "They—they don't have eyes anymore," he explained in a rush. "When I saw them before they still had their eyes, but now it's just—holes. Like someone pulled them out."

Well, that was horrifying. "Are they saying anything?" Cale asked immediately, now on the alert, although he kept his voice even so as to not alarm the kid. "Any chance they're trying to communicate?"

"No, they're just... staring." Adam swallowed again, opening his eyes fractionally. Whatever he saw seemed to let him relax a little. He took a deep breath, then opened them all the way, though he blinked furiously once he did; Cale and the others said nothing about the tears. "O-okay, um, they're back to looking at the cot. Holy Ashvali, I thought I was going to die. They've never done that before."

Leo took several more steps away from the definitely haunted bed. "Cale, please tell me you know what these things are, because all this sounds like one of Professor Corwell's horror stories."

Cale paused, considering, then shook his head. "I have absolutely no idea what they are," he answered honestly. "But don't worry, you'll solve this. I have faith in you guys."

"What do you mean, you guys?" Leo whipped around to stare at him with a look of utter betrayal.

"It wouldn't be fair if I helped too much," Cale said, mustering a grin. "I'm sure you guys can figure it out."

He'd help if he needed to, of course, but that exclamation...

Holy Ashvali. It could have been nothing. Different realms had different exclamations depending on how connected they were to the rest of the Great Realms, but something about that particular phrase nagged at him. He'd seen that name before, hadn't he?

A long time ago, while trying to investigate what had happened to humanity, he'd fixated on delving dungeons. At the time, he'd been certain that he'd find his answers in them, one way or another, and while he'd eventually given up on that endeavor, he'd uncovered secrets in that time that few other mages ever found.

One of those secrets included mentions of an ancient civilization that matched none of the other records in the Great Realms. It seemed more legend than reality, at the time, and all the descriptions he'd found implied that humanity hadn't existed even then, so he'd tucked that knowledge away as a dead end.

But what if those records had simply been wrong? Or incomplete, or altered in some way?

Ashvali wasn't the name of a Monolith, but he was almost certain it was the name of a deity from those ancient texts. That implied those texts were more than legend, and if that was the case...

Then Cale was almost certain that they referenced a civilization that had existed before Yggdrasil itself.

Cale was old. He had lived for eons, longer than perhaps any human ought to exist, and in all that time he had only seen little hints that the multiverse might have been different, once upon a time. It had never been something he could verify. This one phrase from Adam was perhaps the closest thing to evidence he'd ever found.

It wasn't nearly enough, he knew, and now he had more questions than ever. It did make a certain kind of sense—eternity was a long time. On a long enough timescale, even the cosmology of the Realms was subject to change. Before the Abyss there had been Yggdrasil, and before Yggdrasil there had been this.

If that was true, then the Bitter Path might very well represent something older than even he could imagine. Had the Monoliths even existed this far back? Did the Named? If this was what he thought it was, then how significant was this version of the cosmos from back before Yggdrasil had been seeded?

Most importantly, if he was right, then the dangers here would likely be dramatically different from what he was used to. He felt for that potion in his pocket; if it came down to it, and he needed just that bit of extra control, then perhaps...

...He was going to be so pissed if this dungeon didn't answer at least one of his questions.

Granted, he was probably going to be pissed anyway. Given the name of the dungeon and the way the Haelforge professors spoke of it, he doubted their upcoming journey was going to be a pleasant one.

Which made it even more crucial that he understood what the dungeon wanted.

If he did, then there was a chance—however small—that their pilgrimage wouldn't end with Adam's death.
