When the far opening unfurled before them at the flier’s greater height, Lea gasped, stepping forward to look closer at the projection which displayed Alefast, Waning. “It’s so small!”

They hadn’t really thought to show her Bandfast as they left, but the girl was no fool. She’d been able to wander around the city a bit with them, and Alefast, Waning, was noticeably smaller.

Tala’s threefold sight extended outside the flier, and thus, she was able to feel the powerful levels of magic in the area. Alefast’s waning was well underway, and it showed in the zeme of the region, now that they were through the pass.

“And look! Someone is fighting.”

Lea was right, and when Tala refocused the shared perspective, they all got to see a Defender team surrounding and taking down a group of what looked like electric sheep.

“Pretty…” Lea pressed her face against the slate on which they were shown. “They’re so fluffy. I wonder if I will dream of them?”

“Maybe, sweetheart.” Rane smiled. “Oh, look! That Defender is running with his blade out. It looks like they’re trying to shear the sheep rather than kill them outright.”

Lea gasped again. “Why would they do that? Are they not dangerous?” She gasped again, a thought obviously entering her mind as she spun to face her parents. “Can I have one?”

Tala sighed. “They are dangerous Lea, but Defenders will often try to shear them first, as their blood spoils some of the magical properties in the wool. They cannot be left alive this close to a city, however, and they would definitely not be good pets. Even if they weren’t a danger to you, which they would be, they would easily damage the non-reinforced parts of the sanctum.”

“I want a pet.”

Rane frowned. “I thought you were playing with that cat quite often.”

She gave him a flat look. “Cats aren’t pets, Dad. I want a real pet.”

He held up his hands, smiling slightly. “Fine, fine. You don’t have any pets.”

Lea slumped slightly. “And you’ll never let me have a pet either.”

“If you say so, I’m willing for that to be true.” Rane agreed, earning a faux glare from his daughter.

“Daaad.” She said it in a descending way, meant to convey her lack of amusement at his response, even while she fought back a smile. “That’s not what I meant.”

“Then say what you mean. Don’t forget your lessons with Lisa.”

Tala nodded. “You do seem to remember them well when he’s around. We just need to make sure you do so when he’s not here too.”

“Alright… I’ll try.”

As the flier drew closer, Rane’s eyes unfocused for a moment. “Oh! Master Grediv was informed of our imminent arrival, and he’s invited the three of us to a Fight View Restaurant for lunch.”

Lea whooped. “Hurrah! Can we go?”

Tala chuckled and nodded. “I think we can, yes.”

Rane straightened himself. “This should be interesting, one way or another.”

She leaned over and kissed his cheek. “Right you are, my love. Right you are.”
