MOTHERFUCKERS! Shiv raged internally. They were using their godsdamned Psychology Skill on him. They knew he hated bending as much as they enjoyed domination. Shit. Adam was right. I am almost an inverted orc in some ways.

Once again, he considered just killing one of them. And once again, he held off. They were going to be facing Sullain at Blackedge soon. The Inquisition had an expeditionary force on the way. The orcs were using him, and so he was going to use them in return, because they were going to spend their lives the proper way.

"And if I do want to kill one of them permanently," Shiv thought to himself, "I'll do it later, when we're in control. The last thing I need is the Challenger deciding to renege on this little ritual and flood the gate with his orcs. Shit. We basically just replaced Lord Scorn with something worse."

“Far worse,” the Challenger crooned. “And far better as well.”

Mortar and Tequila jumped down from the top of the battlement. Shiv grabbed Band by the back of his neck and carried him away while Uva continued her Psychomantic delving. He wasn’t leaving her or the orc here. They would do this in the Tutorial—and not risk the remaining survivors in the gate anymore.

"Null Mont!" Shiv roared. He looked around, trying to find where the Exalted Mother was. "Null Mont!"

Lightning flashed above. An arcing bolt of electricity twisted past Shiv and slammed a Weaveress into shape atop the battlements. Null Mont materialized at the parapets, staring at the Deathless. Her posture was one of excess tension. Her many limbs were shaking, and the humanoid digits at the end of each limb vibrated even more so.

"Yes, yes! Honored Guest!" She coughed. "I mean, Hero Shiv."

"You hurt?" Shiv asked. He looked Null Mont up and down. His Biomancy couldn’t detect any wounds, but some of the metal quills running down her arms were broken, and she clutched at her torso like there was something wrong.

"No, no, I was... I took the Leviathan meat. I..." Her words came out as a messy stammer. She held up the wrapper, and he understood and gave her a nod.

"You're fine then."

"Yes, thank you. Because of you…”

Shiv offered her a brief nod. Null Mont was an idiot, but compared to the orcs, she was downright angelic. She'd even served an active role in combat. Despite being absolutely terrified. I can see her shivering. "Listen, I need you to get everyone together. Construct additional defenses around the gateway. Trap the gateway. Dome it in if you have to. Let nothing get in or out. Do you understand? Get the Geomancers now. We're going to go across. If we don't come back in 3 hours, you seal the gate, take whoever you can among the remaining inhabitants, and you leave as soon as you can.”

"In fact," Adam called out, "you should go introduce yourself to more people first. That should allow the mana core to synchronize with you as the next Gate Lord, in case something happens to me." Adam grimaced at that statement. He shot a look at the orcs standing around the dimensional gateway, and a tense breath left him. "Are you sure this is a good idea, Shiv?"

Shiv stared at Adam. "I think I’m too tired for good ideas.”

The Gate Lord laughed. “Ah. Well said. Well. Let’s go do something potentially stupid together.”
