Erick excused himself upstairs to his and Jane’s apartment. He collapsed face-first onto the living room couch. After a minute of eyes-closed quiet, he opened his eyes and took notice of the blue boxes hovering around him. There were… too many level ups. He almost puked, again. He did not like killing things.

Oh, he could eat meat, for sure. Who doesn’t love a barbecue?

… Maybe he should change his stance on not killing things.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 19, Class: None

Exp: 272312/676500

Class: -/-

Points: 22

HP

90/90

150 per day

MP

576/576

600 per day

Strength

9

+0

[9]

Vitality

15

+0

[15]

Willpower

20

+0

[20]

Focus

20

+0

[20]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Freakin’ level 19.

Erick had thought, rather recently, that 14400 experience to next level was the start of the mountain. Looking at 400000 to level 20 put his previous thoughts into perspective. Damn, but the Fibonacci sequence was brutal. How did people get to high level—

People got to high level by killing monsters.

But how did monsters get to high level? The same way?

That didn’t track. There were way more monsters than people. Erick didn’t see any monstrous spells at the battle, besides the shadowy nature of them all, so they didn’t level based on skills, did they? Erick was missing something foundational—

Wait. Duh. They killed people—

No. That wasn’t it.

Hmm. Well...

Slimes spawned in high concentrations of mana. Were slimes the basis of the monstrous growth cycle, like plankton in the ocean? Did monsters gain levels by eating other monsters? That sort of tracked. That might be the exact answer... But there would need to be millions of slimes everywhere for a ‘plankton theory’ to be true. Erick had not seen those millions out in the desert, so maybe the ‘plankton theory’ was wrong. Erick would have to ask Al. He probably knew the answer.

… Zago definitely knew. He could save his question for her to try and build a rapport, or something.

It’s likely that anyone could answer Erick’s question. A simple fact like the monstrous growth cycle seemed like something that everyone should know, especially of they’re in the business of killing monsters. The only ones who didn’t know must be children, and Erick.

Oh, look at that. Concentration lost its ‘exp’ notification line. A few others were pretty close, too.

Concentration X

Multiply your base MP regen by 3

Requirements: 20 Focus

Discipline 9

Multiply your base MP by 2.88

Requirements: 20 Willpower

Exp: 4531/5500

Clarity 8

Reduces spell costs by 40%

Exp: 2157/3400

Mana Shaping 5

Alter spell AOE in better, subtle ways, 10 MP + spellcost

Alter spell AOE in better, moderate ways, 30 MP + spellcost

Aurify Unlocked

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Exp: 140/800

Aurify 1

Transform an AOE spell into a semi-permanent effect surrounding yourself, based upon the parameters of the Aurified spell. Increase an instantaneous spell to a 1 second duration in order to create an aura.

Able to support 1 aura at a time.

Exp: 0/10000

Mana Altering 1

Bludgeoning, Slashing, or Piercing Damage

Exp: 0/100

Meditation 9

You are at Rest while Meditating.

Normal movement, moderate actions. May attack or defend in small ways.

Damage might not break Rest.

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Exp: 616/5500

Cleanse 6, instant, short range, 10 MP.

Purge an area equal to the level of the spell in meters of all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption.

Exp: 50/1300

Mend 7, instant, touch, 10 MP

Touch a non-magical uncomplicated large object and restore it to its prime.

Exp: 1510/2100

Ward 7, instant, short range, 24 hours,

Create a Small Ward that can have Minor Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 10 MP + Z

Create a Small Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 15 MP + Z

Create a Special Ward. Variable Cost

Create a Medium Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 20 MP + Z

Create a Medium Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 25 MP + Z

Personal Ward: Any Ward of any type can be made Personal, to move with you. Original Cost x2

Create a Large Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 30 MP + Z

Minor Effects: Bug Ward, Temperature Ward, Alarm Ward

Small Effects: Visual Disruption, Audio Disruption, Weather Ward

Medium Effects: Area Hostile Visual Disruption, Area Hostile Audio Disruption

Special Ward: Eschew all other effects in order to shape, color, and illuminate a ward however you can. Skill at mana manipulation determines final outcome.

Exp: 874/2100

Force Beam 2, instant, medium range, 25 MP

A piercing, slicing beam of hardened mana that deals 25 + ½ WIL damage for 2 seconds

Exp: 175/200

Force Shrapnel 2, instant, short cone, 5 MP

Sharpened forward blast of mana that deals 5 + ½ WIL damage in a cone

Exp: 5/200

Blink 2, instant, 25 MP

Instantly move from your location to another within <sight>, max range 10m per level of Blink

Exp: 25/200

Call Lightning 6, 1 minute per level, super long range, 500 MP

Prepare the sky to strike an area or object of your choice for <damage>. If used in an active lightning storm, Call Lightning’s duration is as long as the natural storm. Every lightning bolt called reduces the duration of Call Lightning by 1 minute, or a natural storm by <undetermined>.

Exp: 100/1300

Stoneshape 1, 1 minute per level, medium range, 10 MP

Slowly move minor amounts of stone and sand around you for 1 minute per level of Stoneshape.

Exp: 0/100

Erick kinda wanted to cast another two [Call Lightning]s, just so Discipline would cap out right now, but that would likely attract some unwanted attention.

Eh. He could sit on the roof and Aurify [Force Shrapnel] for a while. With [Meditation] active. And Mana Shape it, and Mana Alter it to something else. Bludgeoning, for now? That would be a good chunk of levels, right there. Hmm.

He had a long way to go to be a real mage, even if Killzone called him one in that weird way.

Killzone was kinda hot, in that southern charm sort of way. And in that Orcol sort of way.

Damn, but why are orcol so… so the way they are?

Ah. Erick already knew the answer to this. Right.

Aloethag, the Goddess of Beauty and Brutality, formerly known as Aloeth, Goddess of Beauty.

Erick rested his eyes until he heard more people than he recognized. Then he sat up. There was a staircase running around outside his windows, leading up to the roof.

And there’s Jane!

Jane slid open the terrace glass door, calling out to Erick to come up to the roof. He went. Al was already up there, transforming part of the space into a barbecue pit and the rest into an outdoor seating area. He had wound a pair of staircases up both sides of the Sewerhouse for ease of public access, and people were already showing up. Jane, Gogrush, and Lanore had brought an entire half of a cow from Market Street, two kegs, and more people, all with their own food. Lanore tapped the first keg as Jane brought out the mugs, and the party started.

This is a great way to end the day of a battle.

Savral lived at the grill, tossing meat patties on heat [Ward]ed iron slates, checking every so often to see that the half a cow was cooking nicely in the pit. He added spices and basted the cow and cooked up even more meat. Beer was handed out like water. People talked about the battle. More strangers showed. More food came in more containers. Al had to extend the side of the building to support more people.

As the sun edged lower in the sky some people got out their instruments and started playing music. Loud and happy. But the sun was still up there, still blazing hot.

Several dozen people all demanded some cloud cover via Erick’s [Call Lightning].

He obliged. Of course. Jane and Al both rushed to say that it might not be a good idea. Bah! What did they know? Well… Probably the law and various other things. But! Clouds! The party watched as the sky filled with crackling white clouds.

But nothing else happened. He wasn’t going to actually throw some lightning. Some people asked for it, but there’s no way that Erick would do such a thing. So nothing happened but some nice shade.

…Aside from the sudden arrival of the city guard, the simultaneous placement of maybe 30 [Ward]s all around the party and nearby streets —and a few thousand more [Ward]s that Erick could not see— all of different colors, several dozen people shouting variations of ‘what the fuck!’, and other assorted events.

Nothing happened but some lazy clouds up above, blocking out sunlight over a good 3/4ths of Spur.

Toward the end of 6 minutes of alternating silence and a call to see some lightning, raindrops began to fall across the city.

The cheer that rose from the party was enough to rock the neighborhood. Everyone asked him to keep casting, even the guards who were half ready to throw him into a cell and let Silverite sort him out.

It took a minute to work up the mana to cast it again, but he did. A gentle rain descended from the growing dark cloud. Small flashes of light and rolling thunders accented the shadowed sky. The party got real quiet. Quiet enough to hear Savral complain about the food getting wet, but in a joking way. Lanore still punched him for it, though. Ikawa just stared at the sky the whole time, feeling the raindrops on her face. More than one person did that, actually, now that Erick looked around.

Oh. Discipline leveled to X. That was cool. 600 base mana felt pretty good.

When the spell ended the cloud lingered until it rained itself out, which only took about a minute. Soon enough, the sun returned to dominate the clear skies over Spur. And then came the people who called themselves farmers, asking Erick if he could come out to the fields tomorrow and do that again.

They’d pay him, of course. How often could he do that? Could he make it last longer?

Erick spent the rest of the party talking to farmers.

It was the farmers who convinced him to buy [Grow]. He was already on the fence about that one, thanks to Jane theorizing about how he could make vegetables from Earth. But then the farmers confirmed Jane’s theorycrafting, and other possibilities. They, and Erick, wondered if he could make a tier 2 spell with [Call Lightning] and [Grow]. Something that could extend the growing season by months, instead of just the time when the underground watertable was at its highest.

Grow 1, instant, touch or close range, 5 MP

Cultivate a single plant, or induce plant growth in a sphere of diameter equal to spell level in meters.

Exp: 0/100

Maybe he would become a farmer.

He turned to Jane, “Hey, Jane! Maybe I will become a farmer!”

“That’s nice, Dad. Make me some potatoes.”
