Ultimately, it was Hymn who misunderstood his relationship with Shiv. He turned his mind toward the objective. His Legion of Self was active across all his spare bodies within the Gate, and they all accelerated toward the surface gateway—now connected to the Stranger's Garden.

For the first time since he met Shiv, Hymn let out a laugh of mixed indignation and appreciation. "What a ‘me’ thing to do. Well, if any part of you is still listening, Deathless, I'm coming with you, and you can't stop me. I'm afraid that I'm more like you than you’d approve as well—but where you suffer from a lack of foresight, I'm just irresponsible.”

And then, without teleporting at all or even crossing through the gateway, he leapt over into the Outside, hijacking the body of a compromised Fingerling as he joined the fray before any of Shiv's vessels were on scene.

***

“This is hell. I’m in fucking hell.” A feverish feeling of shell-shock washed over John Gunhead as he cycled his cylinder over and over again. He had been at war for fifty years, basically since the moment he was manufactured from the spare machinery and overflow data of his forecoder. Fifty years of fighting the grayskins in the most nightmarish of struggles; twenty years as a frontline Ranger, coming out of trench raids and close-quarter battles, more broken than whole.

Gunhead was a veteran at all distances, in nearly every environment of battle, in every theater one could imagine. He'd fought in burned-out husks, once storefronts and apartments, then just ashen skeletons, often with the inhabitants cooked into the melted stone around him. He'd fought along walls and battlements, trading shots with orc sharpshooters, engaging foes he could barely see and dodging death by millimeters and bouts of impossible fortune. He'd fought in hospitals, desperately holding maternity wards against oncoming orcs—trying not to listen as the wailing voices of newborns went silent, one after another.

And it was that final environment which resembled his present the most. Yet, though there was the screaming of newborns, the ones doing the birthing were not of the proper sex and lacked the adequate organs to ensure the safe passage of infants. Gunhead didn't know much about meatbag biology, but of one thing it was certain: men didn't usually do the child-pushing thing.

But it appeared things worked differently in Gate Piety—or at least the rules didn't apply within the Immigration and Customs Processing Center. The only small mercies bestowed upon him were the lack of ongoing infanticide and the suspicious absence of orcs.

Making the situation uglier still was Gunhead's presence in this mess. He wasn't supposed to be here. He ended up stumbling with a group of “new friends” he made. It started with them threatening to remove his head and scrap the rest of his body in sacrifice to the Pale, but after beating them in a game of dice and a game of cards and a game of five finger fillet, the Jotun decided that they liked him more than they wanted to kill him, and he ended up being dragged along as they were called by the Gate guards to enter for processing.

If Gunhead was a rational, sensible Pathbearer, he would have made his excuses and escaped, but he was a Ranger, and Rangers weren't rational or sensible. Rangers walked into suicidal situations and somehow walked out. If walking out was possible at all. If not, at least it would be a messy end and a loud one too.

Back in the present, Gunhead found himself lending emotional support to a hyperventilating Jotun Vanguard. His name was Hrsenvalg or some letter vomit of the sort, and right now, a gigantic wasp-spider-woman thing was conducting surgery on him, attempting an emergency C-section because, frankly, the babies didn't have any other way to come out.

And they had to come out.

“Ranger Gunhead, point your skull at me and let your cold metal arrow fly,” Hrsenvalg ground out, gnashing his teeth. “Give me death. Give me mercy. I can feel it kicking my intestines. I don't have a womb; it's inside my intestines!” The Frost Giant's wailing echoes merged with a cacophony of misery. There were other screams, other pleas for death or mercy to come. The halls inside the Immigration and Customs Processing Center were filled with makeshift gurneys and medics stretched to their limit, trying to render aid for hundreds of spontaneously impregnated men.

With Gunhead and the Jotun being late arrivals, they were stretched out on the outside, set up in emergency tents at the end of the bridge connected to the Surface Gateway.

Said gateway now had a huge crystal branch of shifting colors sticking through it, and on the other side, there were echoing shrieks that made Gunhead want to empty his oil all over the ground. Gunhead wasn't a bot that suffered a nervous discharge as easily, but the sounds coming over from the other side were inhuman—made his instincts scream. Those instincts were part of the reason he was still alive after all these years, because sometimes, knowing when to run was better than dying for nothing at all.

“Spark Ripper!” a tall spider-wasp cheered, gleefully skipping past Gunhead and the moaning patients laid out outside the immigration center. Her invisibility cloak fluttered as she bounced across the room, concealing portions of her torso while offering glimpses of the many modified crossbows strapped to her body. Instead of carrying any of the crossbows, however, she swung conjoined twins between each of her six limbs, and Gunhead struggled not to suffer a mechanical stroke as one of the unmoving newborns collided hard against the spider's carapace and nearly splattered. “I found more stillborn conjoined! I think I'm going to use them as flails, like Cherished Guest Shiv! He will appreciate this instrument of fear and terror, unlike you.”

A mechanical trill of alarm sounded as a short humanoid automaton dressed in a similar invisible cloak came bounding over the laboring patients to snatch the infant-corpses out of the spider-wasp’s hand. “Liquid! Get serious! People need your help—s-stop playing with dead infants and help!”

But she just cackled with laughter. “But I am helping. I managed to snatch out thirteen children from eleven pitiable manfolk. I'm taking a break to process this incredibly traumatic experience through using my Vulgar Dissociation Skill—Ah, another level!”

Gunhead felt a similar dissociation wash over its processors, though unfortunately no Skill gain followed. “What the fuck kind of Gate is this…”

A hand tapped him on the shoulder. The spider-wasp working to save the Jotun gave him a nervous nod. She held up an assortment of makeshift surgical tools and a suturing kit. “I have administered the painkiller. Hold him steady. We're going to need to start cutting soon, or his internals will take even more damage. Are you prepared, Pathbearer?”

“Absolutely fucking not,” Gunhead replied immediately. “But you know what? Just start cutting. I'll deal with it along the way. By the Colt and the Will, I’m in actual hell—”

A deafening boom sounded overhead. The world shook as a thunderous force rippled through existence. Gunhead flinched—and then nearly threw himself prone on the ground as what sounded like a mortar strike impacted the bridge. All around him, hundreds of patients and volunteers did the same.

Draping himself over the Jotun to shield the Frost Giant from any potential shrapnel, Gunhead counted three seconds, and when no steel fragment or dirt debris fell, he turned to gauge the situation at hand. It took but a glance for Gunhead to realize there was no ongoing attack. Instead, he found a solitary Pathbearer hanging in the air, bobbing up and down as a membrane shrouding its body thundered with tangible force—the source of the shockwave, he guessed.

Before Gunhead could use his Analyze skill, a notification appeared before his eyes, offering him a reward of close to a dozen Legendary Skills, if only he had the audacity to strike down the unkillable.

“Deathless,” Gunhead spat, barely managing to keep a stammer out of his voice.

Then came a second boom, and to Gunhead's disbelief, another Deathless descended, flanking the first. Both faced the gateway, their bodies tense, their fists clenched. And… Were those massive, flesh-coated flies billowing out from them, clustering in the air behind them, clinging to their bodies? Just what the hell was that skill?

As the Deathless turned to survey the immigration center, Gunhead caught a glimpse of his face and was startled by how young he looked.

That's a damn boy. The hairs on his face aren't even growing right yet.

“Liquid!” the Deathless called out, staring directly at the spider-wasp, who'd put the white-haired bot in a headlock. “I'm gonna need you to start moving all these people to the other side of the immigration center. Anywhere but here, really. So long as that gateway stays open, this place isn't going to be safe.”

“Don't worry, Cherished Shiv,” the spider-wasp replied smoothly as she wrenched back her conjoined dead baby nunchucks and started spinning them around her body expertly. “I'll be sure to deal with these immigrants one way or another.”

“Don't godsdamn kill them, Liquid—And are you swinging two conjoined babies around?”

“You have your cancer flail, and I have my infant flail. Pretty impressive, isn't it?”

Instead of reacting with horror or anger, the Deathless just sighed and shook his head. “You know what? At least the babies are already dead, I guess. Who am I to complain? Just move these people. I don't have time to give you an ethics lecture—but for real, this is the kind of shit I expect from an orc.”

And midway through swinging her flail, the spider-wasp faltered as the first hint of shame crept through her body language. “Ah…”

At that moment, without any warning at all, a powerful wave of pressure nearly wrenched Gunhead off his feet. A formidable presence teleported next to the Deathless in the form of a tall elven woman with skin as pale as the shattered moon at midnight, sporting a meter-long patch of bright-orange feathers instead of hair for some reason. Incandescent mana wafted off her in waves, and she seemed completely overwhelmed by whatever the situation was. “Shiv! Dimension is stabilizing! But I can feel it! Feel it pressing against Stranger’s Garden—”

The Deathless flew away at once, downright fleeing from her presence rather than simply ignoring her. Gunhead got the feeling that the Deathless weren't interested in dealing with this woman, whoever she was.

Unfortunately for him, she wasn't any good at taking hints. “Shiv, wait, going to come with you! I fucked up. I fucked up. Let me fix the up-fuck!”

As the Deathless got smaller in the distance and was joined by a shape that looked strangely similar to him, a looming shape suddenly appeared within the swirling depths of the surface gateway. A flicker of dimensional distortion came as a massive finger, larger than most buildings, slipped through, bleeding over into the interior of the Gate.

The brief glance Gunhead got of the creature made his core misfire. The damn thing's eyes were aglow with Chronomancy, and pure malice radiated from its form in crushing waves. But a glance was all Gunhead got, for the Deathless promptly slammed into the creature, and caused it to splatter apart like a bag of meat greeted by two high-velocity shells.

And the Deathless and what looked like a copy of him were through, spearing into the gateway and making for the other side.

This time, a rain of debris did fall, but it wasn't dirt or metal. The chunks resembled thick clumps of blackened biomatter, bubbling with still-alive clusters of eyes, but in seconds, they dissolved like salt in water, unable to maintain their structure within this reality.

Startled, Gunhead triggered his Memorization Skill and played the scene back. It wasn't just speed. Gunhead could perceive Heroic Reflexes—was more than fast enough to snatch a bullet out of the air. No, the Deathless had to have used some kind of Chronomancy for a brief stretch of time between his initial acceleration and the sudden impact.

And then, as if the Ranger's unease hadn't already hit an apex, a third Deathless arrived—but held in place in front of the gateway rather than following the other two across.

Alright, so you have Chronomancy, maybe some kind of gravity-related skill, and then you can create different bodies for yourself. That's either cloning or really sophisticated Golemancy. Gunhead cycled his cylinder in growing disbelief. Yeah, way too many High-Tier skills for a kid. Way too many. Just what the hells are you?

Then, to provide a final capstone on Gunhead's disbelief, another presence entered the fray, and the world was bathed in the glow of incandescent mana as Roland Arrow descended to take a defensive position beside the Deathless.

With that, Gunhead re-evaluated the way he saw Gate Piety. This place was a madhouse—but it was a madhouse held by a pack of dogs that looked like they made prey of dragons.

“Deathless! I come! Do not worry; you will never soar alone while Sir Marikos claims breath!”

Dragons that were now also joining the fray.

“Oh, Munny’s gonna love this place,” Gunhead muttered as he tried to imagine how many orcs these monsters could kill.

“Ah!” A piercing, nasally voice cut through the Ranger’s reverie. “The foul hand of Male Pregnancy at play once more.”

Slowly, Gunhead turned in recognition of that voice, and to his utter disbelief, he saw an orc—that orc—striding among the sobbing menfolk with two vampires in tow. “Well, there’s nothing for it now. Biomancer Ekkihurst, I trust you understand the method of child extraction?”

