“Indeed.” The bald, creepily smiling vampire nodded. “But I was thinking about reducing them down to pluripotent cells instead. The process is much quicker.”

Once more, Gunhead returned to his initial assessment. “What the actual fuck is this Gate?”

***

On the other side of the gateway, Shiv’s first two bodies were launched into the Garden more as expendable delays rather than actual weapons of war. With everything in disarray, his plan was to find where the Supplicant was and lead it around on a chase or force it into a pointless struggle somehow.

But that plan got derailed immediately as soon as he emerged from the dimensional portal.

The first thing he saw was a mess of crystal vines fusing and interweaving with the Stranger’s dimension. The next was the flame that was spreading from said crystal vines, boiling swaths of bright, gold eyes that projected beams of retrocausality at the invasive forest.

But what clenched Shiv’s attention was the hollow opening in one such tree—an opening that gleamed with metallic texture when struck by the light of flame, and revealed a deeper darkness within. Shiv couldn’t be sure if this was the place, but he remembered Merrielmel’s brother going missing somewhere in the Stranger’s Garden, and if there was a single place that stood out from the rest of the architecture.

To hell with it. System’s taunting me, so I’m taking this chance. Shiv sent one of his bodies forth immediately while sending the other on a hunt for the Supplicant at the same time. His paranoia was screaming; things were never this fortunate without cost. Anything could be waiting for him in that darkness, but aside from dying, there really wasn’t any penalty that came with taking this gambit.

He slipped into the alloyed hollow in seconds, avoiding beams of time mana and lashing branches that crashed and shattered through the mana core’s extended crystallization. He saw the Stranger’s Garden trying to subsume and subvert the invading substance—and found himself glad that the Stranger was being kind of stupid instead of just rushing the gateway in a display of raw force.

Stupid, or careful. He already took a bad hit from the Red Rider’s Hand, and then got set off like a bomb by my evolved Blessing.

His guess receded in the back of his mind as an oppressive field of radiation burned through Shiv—winnowing him of all ambient mana. He went from feeling hydrated to drained in an instant, and a tight, agonizing sensation pried at his chest. “Yeah,” Shiv grunted, trying to shake off his discomfort. “Definitely the place to—”

And then, for seemingly no reason at all, the muscles in his body locked up as he suffered a sudden seizure that banished Shiv’s connective consciousness clean from that vessel.

“Well,” he muttered via his other in-garden body, trying to suppress his disappointment, “there’s the other shoe falling; knew the System wasn’t going to be that nice to m—” A powerful, inexorable, and unseen force promptly wrenched Shiv backward across time, into the center of a steepled hand that dwarfed mountain ranges.

But strangely, it didn’t crush or kill him. “Oh, hey, Stranger—I was just looking for you.”

The Supplicant’s core was hot with hate, pain, and exhaustion of all things, and though it radiated loathing, it was held at bay by fear. “STOP! Want you to stop! Will give you something to make you stop!”

Shape of Monstrosity 194 > 196

Oceans of bitter dread poured over from the Stranger’s strongest Avatar, fueling Shiv physically and—well, just physically, since this body didn’t have the proper attuned skill infusions. “Wait, you’re trying to bribe me?”

“TRYING TO MAKE! YOU! STOP! TIRED! TIRED! STOP!”
