“The enemy of my enemy is but the dog on my leash.”

What a savage and arrogant boast spat thoughtlessly from the lips of Noromo Dogborn, Bastard Saint of Wandering Blades and God of Righteous Deceivers.

But while he snarled such words in fury and ignorance, he uncovered a hidden piece of wisdom that few have truly learned to grasp. Just because you are emotionally and intellectually aligned with another does not truly mean you are of a unified front: The enemy of your enemy is but the dog on your leash, and likewise you are but the dog on theirs. It matters more which of you can control the other's emotions. Who can offer that sweet succor of revenge or emotional catharsis.

Do not let yourself be confused as to where you stand. Just because you share a hatred means nothing beyond that and guarantees nothing because of that. But it does offer you an angle that few others will ever truly possess. For if you understand what compels another emotionally, especially because if it is built on the grounds of sympathy, then you are given the means to mold and shape their decisions, so long as your virtue is higher, so long as your self-mastery is truer.

And mistake this not to be a suggestion of amorality. It is not about amorality, but conditioning. When you stand alongside someone faced with a common foe, you must see their calculus contained within your own. You must see their decisions compiled under your understanding, lest they collapse your schemes. Your actions, your chance at reaching your desired goal. What we speak of now is a base desire of base things: retribution, revenge, brutality, an eye for an eye. All this is a primitive urge that can be justified, explained, understood, and simply pursued for delusional reasons, but before we crawl toward the higher summits of philosophy, we must explore the base of the mountain—for too many who boast about their wisdom, forget or ignore that emotions are more than innate flames, but bonfires to be nursed and trained.

Control. Of yourself. Of others. And then education beyond that to further understand yourself in the reflection of another, in seeing what you can drive them to do, and seeing what you can spare them from and seeing what they can do and you have never thought of or you cannot achieve. All this matters. All this will make you more, and perhaps in time we'll see the enemy of your enemy become something greater as well.

But forget this not: If you wish to teach someone, then you must control them or have a hold over them in some way. You must make sure you are not dealing with a mad dog devoid of sense and unwilling to receive any lessons, but rather a tamed thinker that can be guided toward water.

—Legend-Philosopher Melaia Kelhaus

401

“The Enemy of My Enemy is but the Dog on My Leash” [I]

The mana core went from being on the verge of bursting to blossoming like a seed sprouting its first leaves. At its center, Shiv took stock of the changes in bloom as he continued pouring his nihilistic flame through the gateway, casting the calamity affecting Gate Piety into the Stranger's Garden.

When his Pyromancy first went surging forth, it inflicted damage on everything around it. All mana it touched was seared, cooked until it became chunks of edible meat. At first, the mana core shared in that damage; then, suddenly, as the notification of the Gate Quest's completion arrived, the core adapted, and a sort of magical symmetry came into shape.

Instead of burning his way out of the core, he felt portions of his Pyromancy merge with the nucleus anchoring the Gate within existence. Shiv's nihilism formed a ring not unlike the mana circles that emitted concentric plumes of blue-red flame upon modern stoves. And suddenly he was projecting more than his power alone. He cast forth his flame, and it rushed forward, carrying the weight of an entire Category 3 Gate and also the taint inflicted upon all attuned mana fields.

Yet no longer did the corruption eat away at the core itself. Rather, the core had integrated the corruption and aligned it to its design in part along the outside of the core, where that dense weave of Eldritch magic burned bright and a nest of creatures born of nightmares, and festering upon dreams slithered and snaked between a nest of geometry-slicing fibers.

Gate Skill Gained: Feast of Dreaded Flame (Unique) 10

Gate Skill Gained: Skein of Hollow Dreams (Unique) 13

At some point, as Shiv guided the typhoon of magic into the Stranger's realm, it stopped flowing like a flood and instead became a solid bridge made so by a dense layer of Eldritch calcification, defined through its threaded design. And it was at that moment he realized the alloyed crystallization of all three unique matters was complete: his, Uva's, and Adam's.

The shape of the mana core itself also diverged from being a mere sphere. It burst apart from within, detonating to become a radiant heart that sent Eldritch veins snaking through the skies, like the branching foliage of an unknowable tree. The limbs glittered with a translucent azure, and so many other colors beside, and it projected an active field over the gate, shrouding all who lived, all who thought, all who dreamed within its grip of influence.

But rather than forcing itself upon the people, it drank their thoughts instead, siphoning and birthing fresh horrors in homage to all who loomed underneath its sprawl. It kept these Outsiders contained within its branches, their nightmarish bodies harvested from the communal gestalt of the gate's population and then trapped inside the transparent limbs extending the core like a zoo of madness caging the true firmament from view.

Within that final, spreading crystallization were Shiv and Hymn. The former continued channeling his fire, but realized the futility of his struggle—an extension had already formed, connecting Uva’s gaze to the core and further toward the Stranger’s Garden. And it was that realm that served as the final catalyst for the core’s new metamorphosis.

Through the right evolutions, shaped by the right configuration of mana, a mortal’s fear could be a tangible thing to another—a chain that could be pulled upon. But the fear of a god was something primordial, something that shook the pillars of existence. The Stranger was afraid. The Stranger was wounded. The Stranger was screaming and howling and hacking, trying to burst these intrusive branches that mirrored the twisted greenery of his own Garden.

And there was a reason why the mana core transformed in such a way. It was a parody of the Garden, but it was an offensive parody, a thing of terror and dread. For the Stranger, his dimension was the shape of his totality. It was the zone of his existence. For something else to spread into it, for a hostile forest to grow and subsume the ecology that already was hinted at a higher will, a will beyond the Stranger's lost omnipotence, and that realization of mortality and replacement gnawed deep at the Outsider god and incubated Terrorspawn unlike anything Uva could spawn of her own power.

Said Terrorspawn swam through the core as well. Like the core that contained them, they were transformed. Their flesh was forged of a new force. They were no longer things of material, but embodiments of animated flame that scintillated and simmered with bewitching flavors. They shed pieces of themselves—edible pieces that continued glittering before Shiv’s gaze—while they crept along the dense webs from which they were born, wandering blind and lost, as if severed from their prior purpose. Yet that was the lesser detail, for their eyes glowed with tears of incandescent mist and irises of purest blue.

Aside from these traits, their morphologies were disfigured and unbound. They were chimeras born from any number of beasts, any manner of insects, any assortment of fears. Towering brutes that reeked of alcohol and resembled bands of half-loosened belts that dripped burning dollops of sauce of a red akin to blood. From within these creatures came faint cries: “Please, father, I was wrong! Not the belt! Please, daddy, not the belt, just the hand—I’ll be good—”

The voice cut off in a reverberation of sound that was at once a crackle of flame and a psionic scream. Shiv recognized the Terrorspawn to be one born of abuse, harvested from the mind of a child or a collection of children. The flames that gave the Terrorspawn life were invigorated by fear and reeked of a deep, bitter flavor unknown to Shiv or perhaps anyone in existence.

It didn't march alone. The inner heart of the mana core was filled with countless other creatures like it. Some appeared as before, resembling centipedes with far too many faces, presented by an amalgam of dancing flames. Then there were moving splotches of blackness with burning hands reaching out, with shapes and things creeping in the darkness. The fear of the nothing and the fear of blindness were easy to confuse. Other fears, such as vertigo, were harder to visually comprehend, some appearing as staircases bereft of railings rising to infinite heights, their steps constantly crumbling.

As the seconds passed, more Terrorspawn filled the inner environment of the mana core, but none of them turned hostile. All waited, and Shiv wondered why they were severed from that bestiality which guided them but moments ago.

“They're not attacking,” Hymn noted, sounding more curious than Shiv was about their current predicament. Neither of the two dropped their guard, but as seconds passed and no assault came, Shiv stopped casting his flame and took in the creatures that surrounded them.

It was only then that an obvious and overlooked reality glared him straight in the face. While these creatures had emotional cores filled to the brim with aching, unbearable fear, their minds were empty. There was no thought to them at all. They were severed of intellect, with only strands of Psychomancy connected to them, guiding them. It was like the mana core served as a connective brain of unified intellect, and right now the eldritch which powered the core was slumbering, as was the tainted essence interwoven within.

But while all seemed peaceful within the mana core, outside, the sounds of battle continued. Explosions went off around Uva's body, and peeking through the active combatants with his Atlas, Shiv realized that another variant of Terrorspawn was still pouring out from where Uva lay, trapped deep in her Delve.

A heavy vibration shook the core's crystallized branches, and Shiv felt a section of Gate Piety's hardened mana shatter. The limb he'd cast into the Stranger's Garden was breaking. The Outsider god was determined to prune this invasive forest that sought to overcome his own. Though the core leached both fear and anguish from the Stranger, his fury was a greater emotion still, and Shiv could feel that anger bleeding over, crashing through the Gate in massive explosions of enkindled darkness.

And that presented a new problem of its own: Gate Piety's core may have been Unique, but that didn't mean it possessed the power to halt the Stranger's encroachment. Soon, Fingerlings and the Supplicant itself might make for the Gate and breach through the active portal. The Supplicant might not be able to fully enter the dimension due to the mana threshold, but with the surface district being right there, the casualties would be immense regardless.

Shiv sighed. “Shit. Just one problem after another. Hymn, we're going to need to close that gateway before the Stranger makes a house call.”

“I fear that's an unwise idea,” Hymn replied, distracted by a new ecosystem developing within the core. “The core only managed to stabilize itself by replicating the structure of the Stranger's Garden—and it needs more space to expand. It's still branching out, and incubating fresh Outsiders. I suspect it's serving as a mana conduit for the Dreamtaker's leftover dimension in place of Uva, or in conjunction with her. But even a Category 3 Gate isn't going to be powerful enough to contain all that overflowing magic without some place to expand or…”

The Headmaster cut himself off and shrugged. “If I'm to be honest, I have no idea how this mana core functions. That's the worst part of a Unique skill: You have to learn its intricacies from the ground up. But I can definitively tell you that the core unto itself cannot contain the energies of an entire eldritch dimension—even if it's parceled down from what it used to be.”

Shiv grunted in begrudging acceptance and moved to his secondary plan. “Alright, looks like I'm going back to harassing the Stranger to keep his ugly ass distracted. We're going to need to put the Starhawk and Roland near the surface gateway too—wait a minute. If this core needs to keep growing and expanding, can't we just push it out the Abyssal gateway? Have it merge with the Umbral Wilderness?”

Hymn gave him a flat stare. “What part of ‘Unique Skill learned from the ground up; imminently complex’ slipped your mind, exactly?”

“I was just asking, jackass. Okay, here's what I'm gonna do. I'll send one of my bodies into the Stranger's Garden and see what's happening on the other side. After that, we'll figure it out as it goes along. You stay here and try to figure out this core. I'll leave my Severed Shadow here too. If you need something, just tell me to do it. Otherwise, I'm going to be busy committing arson on your Outsider granddaddy.”

It was that final statement which inflicted a visceral response from him. Hymn gagged, nearly vomiting in pure disgust. “Never call him that again, please. Also, you seem to misunderstand the relationship between us—boy, are you listening?”

