The screen was a dark blue and wasn’t static. It moved slightly side to side. Didn’t some of the challenge boxes act oddly last time? Grim struggled to remember themexactly.“HELLO!” Deo said back calmly. Kemy bowed as Poppy merely nodded. Amenster didn’t move and Vas was hugging some large mushroom stalk.Tom, the weirdo book, began to flap.“Excuse me! A Dungeon should not be able to communicate with so few levels. This could be a trap! Poppy, burn it!” The book sniffed with disdain. The box turned to it.

Grim held back his comment, enjoying the sound of the rude book spluttering in an offended manner.“How dare you! You insolent piece of programming. I know things that would make your snooty little screen corners curl. A shabby thing like you could never hold up to my paper. Mana screens… pah! Nothing will replace the power of paper!” Tom shot back.

Grim wasn’t sure where the pride waving thing had come from but both book and screen were now up in arms… well, as best they could be since they had none.“Uh, we’re here on an adventure?” Kemy called out softly. Both Tom and the screen turned to Kemy.

“Of course, this is beneath me,” Tom huffed. Deo looked a little lost. Which was expected because while the screen had words, Tom did not have such means of talking. He was all sounds.Grim would tell him their words later. He knew Deo would never ask himself in fear of being a pain.Which was in itself a pain, but Grim had gotten used to Deo. Always happy to help, slow to be helped.It was annoying.

“What’s the challenge? I thought beforehand the challenges were to be ignored for the sake of a ‘pure’ run?” Amenster asked lightly.

A new window appeared.

Grim’s eyes went wide.This content has been misappropriated from Royal Road; report any instances of this story if found elsewhere.Arrow… could it be?“Same rules, I guess? No lethal stuff or…” Amenster went on. Grim’s heart began to beat faster.

Amenster looked around. Grim could see him weighing up everyone’s opinions.“Last time we were here, we kinda got chased by spiders so it was a bit chaotic. What do you guys think? Take it on, or not?” He posed the question as if he were too unconcerned to answer it himself.“Is the room guardian still able to interrupt us?” Kemy asked Nu.

Everyone turned to give Kemy an odd look. The girl did her best to sink into her cloudy robes collar.“Wa…n…ac…dent,” she mumbled through the material.“LET’S DO IT! IF WE FAIL THE CHALLENGE THEN WE JUST MOVE ON ANYWAY! FAILING THE CHALLENGE ISN’T THE END!” Deo proclaimed, beaming brightly.“Deo makes loud sense. Better to try and fail than not try at all,” Grim nodded.“If Deo wants to, I’ll help,” Poppy said, voice just a bit warmer than before. Grim would’ve used her crush on Deo to rope her into more groups but honestly? Blackmail didn’t make success in a team. It made Grim end up in some trap when he was defenceless.Bribery, never blackmail. That was Grim’s motto.“I’ll help! I’m here to give support!” Kemy agreed. Vas looked over.“I can help…” he hummed. Grim would like to see that. So far, the golem had been spacy and hanging with the silent Mushy who followed them like a security guard.“As a necromancer, I should be going against the sheep mentality and be an individual, but as a friend I don’t mind helping out as long as you all accept my silently rebellious attitude towards groups,” Amenster nodded seriously.“I, DEO, FORCE YOU INTO OUR GROUP FOR MUTUAL BENEFIT!” Deo pointed out. Amenster sighed deeply as if in great conflict before he shot Deo a grin.“Thank you for understanding my antisocial behavior,” he bowed a little. Grim decided they were all weirdos and it was a good thing they had him in command, a logical and calm leader.“Let’s accept the challenge to fight an assassin in an environment we can’t control along with a guardian lurking in the room for the chance at some unknown reward!” Grim said with a grin.“Y-yay!” Kemy tried to cheer, but her voice cracked a little.The waiting box vibrated.

