Then Nu vanished.The Grove seemed to… shift. Shadows shifted, extending and deepening in their darkness. The ceiling went from the illuminated to almost misty. Cheerful mushrooms that grew high above suddenly loomed a little.The lights from the ceiling moss vanished and the glowing mushrooms that looked like stars in the room grew stronger but almost more focused, like wispy ghosts in the mist.“Looks like my room.” Amenster said conversationally before he amended himself.“Minus the mushrooms,” he corrected.Grim stepped forward.“Don’t let your guard down. If the pig doesn’t ram us, the archer is waiting… Deo front and center. You slow down or distract where you can. Amenster and Kemy, back him up with buffs and control spells. Poppy, if I draw fire, we’ll lure them within range so you can take them down. Abandon this plan if one side is overwhelmed or we simply begin to lose. Delta gave us this chance so we better act like this is a proper skirmish within the rules. It’s better to run away and try again than die for nothing,” Grim drew a dagger from his side.“So serious,” Amenster grinned before he wiggled his hands. From some pouches around his belt, white dust flowed and surrounded Grim until it formed rough white armour. Grim touched the helmet with horns as it settled on his head.“Is this…” he hesitated.“It’s dust mixed with chalk. Dead skin is dead,” Amenster shrugged, already turning to cast the same spell on Deo.“How are you controlling the chalk?” Kemy blinked. Amenster gave her a smile.“What’s chalk made of? I’ll give you a hint… it’s similar to bone,” he hummed. Grim had to admit… he hadn’t thought Amenster was so crafty.Skeletons, zombies, and all that rot (he pinched himself for the bad pun) he expected but dead skin and chalk? That was… impressive.“Anything else you wanna surprise us with?” Kemy inquired. Vas tilted his head as he listened.“…I never have to sweep my room?” Amenster said slowly.“He can heal bone breaks and some flesh wounds if he wants,” Poppy said bored.“I won’t stand for such rude accusations thrown at me or my vile arts. I would never heal,” the necromancer promised but then hesitated.“But do tell me if you hurt yourself,” he added quickly.Grim snorted and stepped in line with Deo as they faced the misty Grove. His dagger flashed as Deo readied his sword. He briefly felt the support near behind him.“The truth will protect us and free us…” Kemy said, her hands glowing. Poppy let Tom float in the air as her hands slowly extended into claws.“I guess I can try a little,” she stated. Amenster chuckled and it sounded darker than usual.“I’d love to see how my arts measure up to a Dungeon like this,” he said lightly.“LET’S HAVE FUN!” Deo ordered without looking back, missing the total vibe going on. Grim shook his head.“Let’s get some epic loot,” he told the group, taking a step forward.---Mila, Haldi, and Pic stood before the gate of Durance that lead inland.“Well… isn’t this lovely,” Pic grunted at the sight of the three figures approaching as the last of the sun’s rays finally vanished.He raised his hand in time to stop a blade that seemed to almost blur into existence. Pic eyed it with annoyance. The mad-eyed loon holding it leaned in.“So it’s true… the boogiemen live,” Zane grinned with glee. Pic leaned down and snapped the blade in two with a single snap of his teeth. He crunched it as the Royal Knight backed off a step, discarding the sword without a look.“Tastes like crap, standards have really gone down in the last few years over there, eh?” Pic said between bites of grinded metal that sparked and crunched. The other two walked calmly up and Haldi spat on the ground.“Well, if it isn’t something that stinks worse than the foulest of mold cheese…” he grunted to Mila who twirled an arrow without taking her beautiful eyes off Perharl, the jolly plump looking knight who eyed them with what could be seen as kindness, but with enough idea of who she was they saw it for what it really was…Excitement. Bloodlust.“Mila Darknessbane, Haldi the Vile, and Pic the Devourer. I can’t believe we get such a warm welcome!” The woman giggled.“Give me a minute and I’ll get my ex-husband here, I’m sure he knows some warm places you belong in,” Mila said coolly. Parhal frowned and made a show of counting slowly.“Oh, speaking of exes. One little criminal, two little criminals, and three little criminals… I swear there used to be more of you!” Parhal said in mock-confusion.The woman grinned as Mila appeared at her neck, a wicked dagger drawn.“Say his name… just say it and I will cut you and your cowardly king down to chunks for my daughter to use as fish bait. Do carry on, Perhal the Glutton, Perhal the Cannibal, Perhal the World Eater, Perhal the Pig,” Mila pushed the knife and Perhal’s kindly manner vanished and something closer to a leering wolf eye appeared.“My apologies, I did not intend to insult the dead,” Parhal smiled. Mila turned and her knife vanished.The last one was looking at them with slightly wide eyes. Haldi eyed him.“Who’s the greensprout?” He asked, not bothering to show off his stuff. He saw how neither Perhal or Zane looked directly at him.“Al, introduce yourself,” Parhal said like a patient mother.“I am Al, Alpha, I am an apprentice of Perhal,” he said blandly and his brown hair looked average and brown eyes struggled to meet Haldi’s own.“A good lad, I thought I would bring him here to remind him of the scary things in the world that can still eat him,” Perhal licked her lips.“I’m surprised you haven’t. Did you find an orphanage on the road to act as a snack?” Mila asked bored.Then, Mila’s smile turned wicked like her dagger.“Oh… I forgot. The king’s little pets aren’t allowed to break the law… Tut tut, that’s too bad. You must be just dying to take a bite out something,” Mila shrugged one shoulder.“The things people do because they can’t read the fine print,” she smiled at Pic who grinned back.Zane and Perhal narrowed their eyes.But before they could respond, a feeling of intense pressure settled on them all. The earth groaned, trees and plants began to twist in anger, birds began to trill in fury, rats appeared with rage in their features, and insects by the dozens flowed from their hiding spots.Mila turned to see Holly Dabberghast walking down the street, her usual motherly aura replaced by a sickly green glow, utter hatred and blackness filled her eyes.Perhal’s features went sour for the first time.“So… this is where she went,” she sighed. Black brambles rose up and began to cover Perhal’s legs, wicked thorns digging deep, but not breaking skin, despite their effort. Perhal put on the most pleasant smile she could manage.“Hello, Holly. I haven’t seen you since I ate your family and home!” Perhal waved cheerfully.A large dragon made of wood and snarling roots covered in thorns broke through the ground and swallowed Perhal whole. The child was nearly swallowed, but Haldi had him by his side within a second, a cheese double torn to pieces by the switch.The dragon was lone and serpentine, lithe like a growing great tree. Zane yawned and walked past.“I’m going for a drink,” he said casually, ignoring the scene. Haldi frowned since he didn’t even bother taking Al.“It’s okay, they just have some history to sort out. Your master is a bit of a …” Haldi trailed off, not really wanting to upset the child.“Monster,” Alpha provided.“Well, yes. But Holly is no saint herself. Perhal was the last resort and things got out of hand…” Haldi sighed. The dragon trembled before it cracked in the middle and a sap covered Perhal chewed her way out with gusto.“Can’t you do something? She’s basically ripping off your style?” Mila asked Pic.“I chew, she eats. Totally different,” he argued.“Come now, let me get you a room while Mila stops them. I dare say things will be tense for a while,” Haldi ushered on Alpha, who put up no resistance.“Won’t they die?” Alpha asked, not sounding worried but merely interested.“No, Holly grows, Perhal consumes. Holly bleeds her and Perhal heals. Holly has the world on her side and Perhal eats the world. It’s a nasty cycle, but they both know how this ends,” Haldi said, trying his best to appear harmless.“…This Holly should level. It would be better for all involved,” Alpha finally concluded.“I’m not sure she can ‘level’. She’s pretty experienced,” Haldi mused.“I can show her grinding strategies. Perhaps she merely needs some tips?” He shrugged.“Perhal is useful, but I think she is rapidly becoming more trouble than she is worth at this point,” he finished quietly.“You get some bonus for working with her? Extra pay or…” Haldi asked curiously.“…She gives the best rewards, besides a few,” Alpha said finally.“You don’t mind me asking?” Haldi made sure, not wanting to upset some poor kid.“No. Dialogue options are normal. As a faction opposed to Perhal, you wish to gauge my affection rating with her. I can tell you it is a business relationship of using and being used. I am open to better offers if I find some,” Alpha stated plainly.Haldi eyed the kid for a moment.“You’re too serious. Loosen up and have fun. Come on, I’ll show you around. Maybe you can find some better offers. No one deserves Perhal,” he said kindly. Alpha eyed him dubiously.“What… do you want?” He asked. Haldi blinked.“Nothing. You’re new, a decent kid so far, and eager to get away from Perhal. Let me show you around to save you time,” Haldi said again.Alpha stopped.“You must want something in return. Ask and I will do it,” Alpha said and Haldi itched his nose.“Uh… eat this cheese and tour with me?” He tried. Alpha actually furrowed his brow.“You cannot reward me and then reward me again. I need a task that you need doing and I’ll do it for a reward,” he explained to Haldi.“I just wanna help, kid,” Haldi promised.“Everyone wants something. It is the nature of people. Everyone wants something from me,” Alpha said with absolute conviction in his voice.“Why can’t people want to help you?” Haldi tried. Alpha looked around as if trying to pull the answer from the air.“I… can’t allow people to go with me or help me. I go wherever I am told. These places are not safe and even if you are~ Haldi the Vile, I must grow in my own strength or I am pointless. So, give me a task or please direct me to someone who will,” Alpha said again.“That’s… sad, kid. Who told you that?” Haldi frowned seriously.“I am Alpha. I am the first stage, I’m the… practise run. I have to keep being useful. It’s just how I work,” Alpha shrugged and turned to look for people.Alpha looked at a certain space, fingers touching something before he pulled his fingers back.“Visit each public building in Durence and report to me their names,” Haldi said quietly and the boy sagged with relief.“…Thank you.”The pair set off as a giant wooden dragon exploded with some four armed purple skinned warrior doing her best to devour it.---Sis rubbed her face, as best she could. She leaned back in her chair as her four screens hovered before her. Two were yellowish, showing middling progress. The fourth was blazing green in full steam mode. Delta always working hard.The first screen was red.She eyed the pings and messages left in Alpha’s inbox. It was reaching truly obscene numbers. The boy was simply not opening the ‘letters’ she sent. At first, she thought he was ignoring Sis, but she had seen the box open and the boy staring at them as they appeared.Sis was worried.Alpha was afraid of them. From the potential of something Sis would say? It was bizarre. He opened EXP notifications and similar prompts but direct input was skipped.Alpha’s menu was the bog-standard interface and information giver. Nothing like Nu. Hardly anything was like Nu. But from the signs she got and some data Sis peeked at to try and figure out what was wrong…Sis was beginning to think Alpha was thinking Sis would fire him.It was so weird.But without a direct contact, Sis couldn’t force the four to obey or force them to listen. She herself had programmed the systems to avoid that. Sis was sane now, but all it took was one day of impatience and Sis might try to direct things herself and the slope would only end in sadness.That was not what this project was about.It left Sis in a bit of a conundrum since Bro was set on not updating the four about each other. Brother rarely set himself on a stubborn path.So, Sis knew he would never tell one of them about the rest. Brother was respectful of the rules like that.Ahh, she never felt so useless! Sis would never want Alpha to fear them. Sis had only tried her best to make them safe and ready… but to think she caused such terror in one of her charges.Sis… felt like a failure.“Wow… you’re a bit dramatic,” Nu said as he sat nearby in a blue-hued human form. He looked closer to late teens than the childish form from before.“So, Alpha is kinda blocking you and you’re not allowed to tell Delta… neat,” Nu smiled. Sis froze.“H-how long have you been there?” She whispered. Nu hummed.“Oh, ya know… long enough. I got to go and… do stuff. You know… menu things that I’ve sort of jailbroken, but am still happy to do. Toodles,” Nu waved over his shoulder.Sis looked over her shoulder carefully before she quietly fistpumped the air.“Yes!” She whispered.Delta’s Deltaness had Delta’d a loophole for Delta to cause more Delta-y things!Sis was so shocked… surely she had no idea when a being entered her dimension. Let alone hear her thoughts and worries.Sis was so shocked.She giggled nervously.This wasn’t breaking t