There was something different about the bossman, but Jorani couldn’t quite place it. It wasn’t just the emotional Aura rolling off him in droves, nor was it in the way he looked or behaved. There was just something about his presence that seemed... not heavier, not larger, but just... more substantial, as if he were more real than the other people standing around him. There was nothing specific Jorani could really point out, only that the bossman seemed more... more, without changing his height, width, weight, or any other physical measurement, if that made sense. It didn’t really, but Jorani had no other way to describe it, except as a reassuring moreness that made him that much more dependable. “Sure thing bossman,” Jorani said, understanding the man’s reservations. In his time here, Jorani had heard more than one monk point out some flaw or mistake the bossman made, and never in a good light. Only now did he realize why they’d done so, proving that even those who followed the Noble Eight-Fold Path were not above petty grievances.

Having secured Jorani’s agreement, the bossman didn’t seem too keen to get speaking, and instead retreated to one side where the Divine Turtle busied herself harassing a massive, hulking tiger, one that dwarfed even the largest horse, or would have if it wasn’t sitting there with a hangdog expression. Never before would Jorani have imagined seeing so majestic an animal in so much misery, its forlorn expression fixated on all the corpses laid out before it as it licked its lips in obvious hunger while ignoring the Divine Turtle rubbing her face in his flanks. Instead of allowing the beast to gorge itself on recently killed Defiled, the bossman offered the tiger a piece of dried fish, barely more than a nibble to the enormous creature, but one it accepted with pitiful reluctance. Were it a human, Jorani would say the tiger was having a tantrum over being forced to eat its greens, but the bossman had no mercy for the majestic predator. A good thing too, because when the tiger caught a glimpse of Jorani’s rat ears and tail, his eyes glimmered with interest as its tail set to lashing to and fro.

So this was Rakshasa, the Spiritual Tiger. Jorani was both awed by his majesty and terrified of his presence, but the bossman treated it like one of his wildcats and made strange hissing noises while feeding the tiger. Yet another pet to add to the menagerie, Jorani supposed, but for once, he hoped things would not work out for the bossman. Let the Brotherhood keep the tiger. The bossman’s quins, bears, and wildcats were fearsome enough.

Throughout it all, the monks continued their chants without interruption, right up until the ditches were dug, the bodies laid to rest inside, and the holes were all filled up again. Only then did their chants fall silent, coming to what felt like a natural end, and Jorani followed the crowd back into the monastery, with the tribesmen following along behind him. The fallen monks had already been laid to rest elsewhere, so the bossman made his way through the crowd to stand upon the raised dais, where he offered the crowd a Martial Salute and said, “Hello. I am Falling Rain, and I ask for a moment of your time so that we may speak.”’

Usually, Monk Happy would be the one to respond, but the portly monk appeared at the bossman’s side, his face washed and clothes changed as he firmly declared where he stood. Instead, urged on by his brothers, Monk Bones responded to the bossman’s request, but not before grumbling about it beneath his breath. “Ascend to Divinity and now they all want me speaking for them,” he muttered, his voice low and muted but still loud enough to echo in the silent courtyard. “If I’d known it’d be this bothersome, I’d have stayed in seclusion.” Clearing his throat while the bossman stifled his chuckles, Monk Bones sighed and replied, “Speak your piece, initiate.”

A bad start, as Monk Bones revealed himself to be a staunch opposer of the bossman’s appointment to wisdom, but he took it in stride. “No initiate here,” the bossman replied, before quickly adding, “Nor do I expect you to call me ‘Wisdom’. Falling Rain will do, or just Rain, or Legate if you feel the urge to be formal. Now that that’s out of the way, I must first offer my heartfelt condolences for your losses, and take full responsibility for what happened here.” Accompanying the bossman’s words was a startling wave of contrition, one which hit Jorani so hard his throat closed up with grief. These were the bossman’s true feelings, so at odds with his calm and almost dispassionate speech, an Aura that affected every person present differently. Some reeled back on their feet, while others broke out into tears, with quiet sniffles and choked sobs aplenty to fill the courtyard. Others clenched their fists and grit their teeth, while still others stood in complete shock and silence, unable to process the bossman’s grief overlaid atop their own.

Most telling of all was how the Defiled reacted, coming alert with hands and weapons at the ready to defend themselves, seeing this palpable grief as an attack and nothing more.

While all this took place, the bossman bowed before the crowd, his raw emotions pouring off him as he did. “The tragedy that befell your monastery is my fault, as the Enemy came here for me, and while there is nothing I can do to ease your grief or bring back those you lost, know that if the Brotherhood should ever need my assistance, they only need ask and I will do everything in my power to help you.”

No one spoke out to accept his apology or offer of restitution, but the bossman didn’t seem bothered by the silence at all. Instead, he seemed relieved to have gotten this matter off of his chest, his guilt assuaged ever so slightly by his good intentions. Closing his eyes, he stood on the dais and took a deep breath, before exhaling and opening his eyes again, his stable, neutral state of mind communicated clearly through his still pulsating Aura. “With that out of the way, I’m here to speak with you all regarding an important matter: the fate of existence as we all know it.”

“If you mean to convince us to become your soldiers, then this monk might as well save you some breath.” Shaking his head in dejected disapproval, Monk Bones sighed and continued, “Though we fought to defend ourselves, this was only an option of last resort. This monk has no desire to see more of his brothers give their lives for a cause they do not believe it.”

“If it’s soldiers I wanted, I’d have petitioned the Emperor for more Death Corps and Royal Guardians.” His sarcastic tone did him no favours, but the bossman was never one to give face. His amused Aura did much to blunt his mocking words however, as he seemed genuinely amused the Brotherhood thought he wanted them to fight. “Don’t get me wrong, I’d welcome any of you to fight by my side, but coming to a monastery full of pacifists in search of Warriors is just asking to be disappointed.”

“Then what part would you have us play in this matter of fate?” A different monk chimed in here, one Jorani didn’t recognize, but immediately named ‘Mole’ for obvious reasons. “One so dire you believe it affects all of existence.”

“No clue.” A hush fell over the crowd at the bossman’s forthright admission, only for the monks to break out into discontented muttering. Undeterred by their suspicions of mocking, the bossman shrugged a second time and said, “I have no idea how you can help, but the Abbot believed the Brotherhood could be of use, that your contributions could change things for the better, and while I can’t claim to know his mind, I do not think he intended for you to fight.”

The crowd fell silent as they digested the bossman’s words, the monks mulling over exactly what the Abbot might have sent them to do, but soon enough, it became clear none of them were willing to share their suspicions. Instead, they all looked to Monk Bones who glared back as good as he got, only to sigh and capitulate to the will of the majority. “If it is as you say and the Abbot never intended for the Brotherhood to join the fight, then why did he insist on inducting you into the Brotherhood sight unseen, as Wisdom no less?”

“Because he wanted me to challenge your understanding of the Noble Eight-Fold Path.” Smiling without looking at anyone in particular, the bossman explained, “I possess what you might call a... peculiar perspective, and the Abbot thought that by arguing against me, you and the other monks of the Brotherhood would be able to strengthen your own resolve, a grindstone with which to hone your conviction, if you will. I raise doubts, and you put them to rest, which is how the Abbot saw matters progressing, but I suppose he forgot to share that with... well, anyone.” Still smiling as he shook his head, he sighed and said, “What we’ve got here... is failure to communicate.”

Pausing as if he expected a response, the bossman allowed himself to get flustered for all of a moment, but he recovered soon enough. “Anyways, I don’t think the Abbot ever expected me to become a dyed-in-the-wool monk of the Brotherhood, and if I’m being honest, I have no desire to even try.” With a rakish grin that made him look five years younger than his already youthful features, the bossman exclaimed, “I just enjoy sinning too damn much.”

Seeing his attempt at humour fall flat yet again, the bossman grumbled something about a ‘tough crowd’ under his breath. Sighing, he gave it yet another try, and Jorani had to admire the man’s persistence. “Look,” the bossman began, addressing the entire crowd as a whole, “I don’t know what the Abbot had planned for you all. Maybe you have some inkling, but I’m guessing you don’t know for sure either. The only way to know however, is to ask him, and to do that, we need to wake him up. That’s why I’m here standing before you, instead of heading back home with all haste; because the Abbot is dying, and I believe I can save him, but I need your help.”

“How?” Another unfamiliar monk spoke up this time, and Jorani dubbed this one Squint, on account of how thin and slanted his one good eye was.

“No clue,” came the bossman’s response, which again infuriated the crowd before him, but while his ignorance was genuine, so too was his resolve to help, which could clearly be perceived through his Aura. “Or at least, nothing substantial. I have some theories, but nothing worth discussing just yet, so I’ll have to ask you to take me on faith.” Turning to Monk Happy, the bossman nodded, and out of nowhere, the Abbot appeared, laid out upon a stretcher carried by four formidable monks. The crowd gasped as they caught sight of their Abbot, so wizened and shrivelled he gave old Bones a good run for the name, and Jorani uttered a small prayer beneath his breath. “Or rather, I beseech you all to have faith in your Abbot.”

In the silence that followed, the bossman’s voice rang with crystalline clarity, as if he were speaking directly to Jorani and Jorani alone. “I only recently came to learn of the Abbot’s accomplishments in broad strokes, with so much glossed over in minimal detail, but even a cursory account left me awestruck and amazed. How long has he led the Brotherhood and how much has he sacrificed to bring you this far? Knowing the Brotherhood’s view on pride, I assume only a few of you know the answer to these questions, but even those who do not must know his efforts have not been insubstantial. Now, he believes he’s failed his mission, failed his Mentor and Senior Brother, and I suspect it is because he believes the Brotherhood has shifted towards the wrong direction.”

“And what, pray tell,” Monk Mole began, his namesake dark and throbbing as he clenched his teeth in restrained anger, “Is the correct direction you believe we should take?”

“I can’t answer that, because I don’t know the answer. If I knew the correct Path forward, then I would have long since taken it myself.” Meeting the furious monk’s gaze, the bossman continued, “However, in my opinion, you have all long since lost sight of the Noble Eight-Fold Path, and now forge your way onwards in pride and ignorance.”

Sucking in a deep breath, Jorani’s hand flickered towards his Spiritual Rope, but he stopped short of actually pulling it free. Say what you will about the bossman, but no one would argue if he claimed to have more courage than sense. What sort of man comes asking for help, only to insult those he seeks aid from? And what did he expect Jorani to say once all this was over? Maybe something along the lines of, “Sorry all, the bossman is a strange one, so go ahead an’ ignore everything he just said. He don’t mean nothing by it.”

Assuming Monk Bones didn’t just toss the bossman out on his ass. That was a possibility too. The old codger was pleasant enough, but he had a real mean streak sometimes, and Jorani had suffered from it more than once on the sparring grounds...

Stifling yet another sigh, Jorani hunkered in and waited to see how the bossman would pull himself out of this mess, because by the Mother in Heaven, it might actually take a full-blown miracle to get him out of this unscathed.

Chapter Meme
