Unlike Asmani, Jorani wasn’t interested in asking questions, so he set off to do as Monk Happy asked. Not just because he respected the formidable Warrior Monk, but also because Jorani could tell Monk Happy was not in the mood for idle chatter. It wasn’t easy, making the decision that he did, and while Jorani understood why Monk Happy gave up the bossman’s location, he still wasn’t all too pleased with the decision. Even knowing a clash between Divinities would have spelled certain death for everyone here, Jorani would rather die than cause the bossman any harm, but Monk Happy wasn’t wrong when he said the bossman wouldn’t want that. Now, all they could do was hope for the best, so Jorani set his mind to task and started hauling bodies outside the monastery, one cumbersome corpse at a time.

Despite all the chaos and confusion, there weren’t actually all that many bodies to clean up, especially considering how the monks wanted to look after their own. The next task was to dig a ditch, using long spades similar to the weapon Monk Happy wielded, though these ones were less ornamental. Why they needed the ditch, Jorani didn’t know, as there was no way the monks of the Brotherhood would ever just leave bodies to rot in the dirt. That just seemed... blasphemous, and Jorani was sure they had something else in mind, like having a recessed fire pit to keep the flames from spreading, but Monk Happy specifically said there’d be no need for tinder, so Jorani could only let his mind wander while ignoring the pain of his tormented and abused body.

It was like the old adage said, the reward for hard work was usually more work. The reason the casualties were so low was largely thanks to Monk Bones Healing friend and foe alike during his ascension to Divinity, but Jorani felt he deserved a little credit for drawing the battle out with his duel against Gen. Oh what a glorious fight that had been, and for a brief few seconds, he even thought he might win, seeing how he’d trapped the smug bastard with his Spiritual Rope and got to pounding on his hateful face, but alas, an Elemental Blessing was too much for Jorani to handle. He didn’t know the first thing about blocking pillars of flame or blades of wind, which wasn’t all that bad considering most Martial Warriors were in the same boat, but it still left a sour taste in his mouth knowing he could’ve won if not for that damned Blessing. Learning Lady Li Song shattered her Core coming to his rescue didn’t help matters any, and Jorani didn’t know how he could face Colonel General Akanai when he got back, but whatever punishment she gave him couldn’t be worse than the guilt he felt now.

Better if he’d died rather... nah, that wouldn’t have been better, but he still felt bad about Lady Li Song’s condition. She was a real Warrior, one with potential and pedigree, taught by Du Min Gyu and taken in by the Bekhai, so she would have gone far if not for this disastrous set-back, and Jorani could only pray she would eventually recover. At least Gen had turned Demon and no one would ever have to listen to his damned speeches anymore, assuming his Demonic form hadn’t inherited some form of Oration or whatever. Now that would be terrifying, a Demon capable of human speech, and doubly so if it spoke in the same smarmy tones Gen used. ‘This Sovereign’, pei. Dog farts is what that was, and Jorani was glad someone shut him up once and for all.

While Jorani was still digging away, a procession of monks arrived and began chanting in their customary baritone timbre. The words were different this time around, a chant Jorani had yet to hear, but it filled him with purpose and contentment, for now he knew he was doing what needed to be done. Though the general mood was still sombre and heavy, he felt the weight on his shoulders slowly lessening as he put spade to soil and dug to the rhythm of the drumming beat, the monks’ fish drums sounding in a slow and steady manner. The more he worked, the more he sweat, the better off he felt for it, shedding his woes and regrets like the loose dirt he piled to one side. The Energy of the Heavens churned about for long minutes around the monastery, but Jorani rode it out and kept digging away while the weight of the world slowly lifted off his shoulders. Despite the simple and easy work, he was soon heaving with exertion and dripping with sweat, having to stop often to lean heavily on his spade to pant and rest. Odd that, for there was nothing too strenuous about the task he was doing here, but after only a few minutes, he felt as if he’d sprinted from sunup to sundown.

There was some strange force at work here, something to do with the monks’ droning chants and how they soothed his frayed nerves and ragged spirits, uplifting him from the depths of despair to a more manageable melancholy. Then there was the odd phenomenon of whirling Heavenly Energy, as if someone were demonstrating their Purity nearby, but to a degree Jorani had never seen or felt before. A quick glance around showed him he wasn’t the only one affected so, as a good half of the tribesmen were in similar straits, their shoulders slumped and chests heaving from unseen exertion. Throughout it all, the monks’ droning chant continued, intensifying as the weight of the world lessened even further until suddenly and without warning, all the remaining pressure just disappeared. Heaving a sigh of relief and relaxation, Jorani straightened up and breathed deep as if tasting the air for the first time, and even the metallic scent of blood and death couldn’t bring his mood back down. The skies were clear, the sun was bright, and Jorani was still alive, and these three things alone were enough cause for celebration.

And when he caught his breath, he went right back to digging, because it just felt right.

“Love the new outfit and how it shows off your legs. Do they come in any other colour besides brown?”

So used to hearing the bossman’s voice in his head, it took Jorani a full second to realize things were different this time around. Beset by a tide of wry amusement, he turned and ran at the bossman to engulf him in a hug, happy to see him back on his feet and in his right mind again. “You’re back!” he exclaimed, so happy words failed him, until he remembered the plight they last left him in. “And alive!” Drawing back to get a better look at the bossman, he blurted, “You look like shit.”

With his loose, dishevelled hair and ragged, blood-stained clothes, this was Heaven’s own truth, but still better left unsaid. Luckily, the bossman had none of the airs or pretensions a man of his station should, and even more reassuring was the fact that he didn’t have any of his weapons close to hand, all strangely absent from his now conscious self. “I don’t normally hug pantsless men, but I can make an exception for you,” he replied, putting on an exaggerated, moon-eyed gaze. “How can anyone resist your silver-tongued compliments?”

Feeling the genuine amusement coming off of him in waves, Jorani felt emboldened enough to banter about. “Ah well, ye could’ve thrown on a clean shirt or something at the least.” Eyeing the various holes and tears in the bossman’s outfit, Jorani sucked in a deep breath and asked, “Hard fight?”

“Wasn’t as bad as it could’ve been.” Except the bossman’s words didn’t match his Aura, which for some reason was laying his emotions bare for Jorani to parse through. Right now, the bossman was feeling relieved and amazed, unsure how he made it out alive and in one piece. A part of him was also annoyed, likely over having to fight, while yet another part of him was amused because he still had more tricks up his sleeve that he had yet to reveal. Rather than explain what happened in the Abbot’s abode, the bossman shrugged and said, “I survived, so there’s that.” A brief burst of pride accompanied the declaration, only to be quickly squashed and replaced by unyielding determination, already forgetting his accomplishments to focus on the next task at hand. “So I’ve been a little out of it lately. Fill me in on everything I missed.”

Borrowing a spade from a resting tribesman, the bossman started digging while Jorani went over recent events that the bossman should know about. None of it surprised him, as if he wasn’t hearing all this for the first time, and he took everything in stride until Jorani got to the battle proper. Upon hearing Jorani also missed out on seeing Monk Bones’ ascension, the bossman gave his first reaction since beginning the tale, which was to scuff the dirt and pout. When Jorani finally ran out of things to say, the bossman nodded and leaned on his spade to rest, his eyes distant, but focused, unlike the thousand-kilometre stare some monks still wore. After a few minutes of silent contemplation, his gaze returned to the task at hand, and despite standing in a ditch taller than he was, the bossman wore a wry grin pasted across his exhausted expression. “Sometimes, the most obvious answers are staring you right in the face,” he said, gesturing for a helping hand to pull him out of the ditch. Jorani was more than happy to oblige, but he almost screwed up and stumbled back when he pulled up the almost weightless bossman. Now that was some feat of Lightening, but he didn’t even seem to notice Jorani’s gaffe, his eyes fixed on the corpses laid out on the ground. “I didn’t even consider this until you mentioned how strange it was for the monks to bury bodies instead of burn them.”

“Nah, that ain’t it bossman.” Worried he’d arrived at the wrong conclusion, Jorani drew near and whispered, “The monks would never... ye know. They’re vegetarians fer Heaven’s sake. I know they play it fast and loose with some of the rules, but they’d never...” Eat corpses for the sake of strength.

“...Relax.” More wry amusement emanated off of the bossman, mingled with a hint of... jealousy? Why was he jealous? “No need to defend the Brotherhood so vehemently, I was thinking something entirely different.” Gesturing at the corpses, he said, “Burying them isn’t strange. Putting them into the ground is one way to return their bodies to nature. Worms, bugs, scavengers, and various other things will break down meat and bone which will then go on to nourish the earth, but none of that can happen when you burn all the bodies.” Chuckling as he shook his head in self-deprecating amusement, he added, “Honestly, I feel like an idiot for not seeing it sooner. We don’t burn bodies to deny the Defiled a source of strength. We do it because it lessens the chances of someone discovering that burying bodies of Martial Warriors can eventually give rise to Spiritual Plants. I mean, why wouldn’t it? Defiled and Martial Warriors alike use Heavenly Energy to nourish their bodies, so why wouldn’t our corpses become a source of usable Heavenly Energy? The Demons know it, the Defiled know it, animals know it, but the people of the outer provinces have been conditioned to overlook it.”

The bossman’s voice dropped down to a whisper as he shook his head some more and muttered something about turtle poop, but Jorani didn’t know how to respond at all. “So yer sayin’ if we bury these bodies, they’ll grow Spiritual Plants?”

“Possibly. Likely even.” Feeling a confidence his words and expression didn’t match, the bossman shrugged and met Jorani’s gaze. “But that’s not why I’m here. I came here because I need your help.”

“What with, bossman?”

“Later on, I intend to speak in front of all the monks here in the monastery, or as many as I can gather. Once I’ve said my piece, I want you to offer your thoughts on the matter, in public for all to hear.” Holding up a hand to forestall any argument, the bossman continued, “I’m not asking you to back me up without hearing me out first. I’m going to say my part, and when I’m done, I’d like you to give your honest opinion, whether you agree or not.”

“Sure, bossman. But uh, if ye don’t mind me askin’... why?”

“Because of the difference in our statuses.” Flashing a wry, half-smile, he explained, “See, you and I are both potential recruits, except the difference is they want to bring you into the fold, while they are looking for any excuse to reject me. You came here to visit and they got to know you, then they decided you would be a good fit.” Shrugging, the bossman continued, “Me, on the other hand, they were stuck with. The Abbot swooped in and said, ‘Falling Rain is one of us now, and a Wisdom to boot’, whatever that means. Even though they’re all monks, they’re still human, and that sort of thing rubs most people the wrong way. This means most of the monks are already inherently biased against me, whereas you, they might see differently.” Handing his spade back to the tribesman he borrowed it from, the bossman looked the towering man in the eyes, and to Jorani’s amazement, the tribesman averted his gaze, unable to even stand with back straight in the bossman’s presence.

