There were no victorious cheers or defiant roars to be heard as the Defiled fled the battlefield, only a sudden silence that rushed to fill the void left in their wake, one so complete and abrupt Jorani almost thought he’d gone deaf without warning.

Truth be told, he was still reeling from his near death experience and unable to come to grips with the rapid recovery which followed, a topsy turvy dash through a series of trials and tribulations he still didn’t entirely understand. One moment, he was almost shitting his breeches from challenging Emissary Gen to single combat, and the next thing he knew, he was deep in the throes of Insight and pummelling the bastard’s hateful face in an attempt to permanently wipe the smug sneer off of it. Then, burning agony consumed him as his world was lit aflame, the heat ripping the air right out of his lungs and leaving him a burn husk yearning for the sweet relief of death.

The Healing which followed wasn’t much better, for even blissful ignorance was denied him as his scorched nerves regrew and notified him of how fucked his body really was. Even now, long minutes after the fact, part of his mind still suspected his body was in cinders even though he stood hale and healthy as could be, and the painful and unpleasant reminders of what he just experienced would stay with him until his body had time to adjust. How long that might be, he could not say, but this was not the first time Jorani had dealt with phantom Healing pains, and it would likely not be the last, so he took a deep breath, embraced his suffering, and put it out of mind, for there was still soldiering to be done.

“Keep on carrying on,” the bossman’s voice whispered, and Jorani could only shake his head on the nonsensical, yet utterly on point message delivered unto him by the Heavens.

Pushing himself to his feet, he brushed off the burnt ashes of his clothes and shuffled towards Asmani and her people, while making a valiant, but futile effort to maintain his modesty. Putting his nakedness out of mind, he took in his surroundings during the slow walk over, ignoring how the cool breeze on his exposed skin set his tender nerves to screaming. Not an hour past, the Brotherhood’s monastery had been a tranquil haven of peace and stillness, a quiet retreat a world apart from the bustling city Jorani grew up in. The bandit hideouts he later resided in were only marginally less chaotic, and only at the best of times, as lax discipline and lawless tendencies oftentimes led to turbulent living arrangements. As for military encampments and fortifications, they were most certainly disciplined, but filled with soldiers and workers bustling about at every hour of every day, creating a backdrop of thumping boots, clinking armour, creaking wagons, and galloping hooves which never really went away.

Not so here in the monastery, where at times, Jorani could go whole hours without hearing a sound made by another living person, as the monks were always respectful of each other’s personal space. In the courtyard, anything was fair game, because the monks congregated there for the express purpose of socialization, but inside his room or out in the surrounding wilderness, Jorani was left largely to his own devices. One of his favourite things to do was to take a walk around the monastery, not so far as to lose sight of the walls, but not so close either so as to overhear snippets of conversation from the courtyard. Once off the beaten tracks, he had only the chirping birds and rustling leaves to keep him company, as well as the odd rodent or weasel scurrying about the underbrush every now and then. For all the stories of how dangerous the Arid Wastes were, the area around the monastery was much safer than the streets of Sanshu or the forests around it, which were filled with thieves, thugs, bandits, bears, wolves, and worse.

Now even the lively courtyard had fallen unnaturally silent in the wake of the Defiled retreat, the victorious monks shrouded in a cloud of gloom and despair. Their melancholy stemmed not just from the dead who lay around them, because even as they mourned for friend and foe alike, Jorani saw many a monk wearing a familiar, far-sighted expression, one that told him they were not seeing anything at all. Combat fatigue is what many Officers called it, a tame way of framing a broken mind and spirit, while the bandits Jorani ran with just called it battle shock, but regardless of what you wanted to call it, it was clear the monks were suffering. There was more to battle and bloodshed than just physical exertion, as anyone who’d experienced it could tell you. Killing a man, even a Defiled one, took something from you, and those who claimed different were liars or born butchers. In the heat of the moment, with your blood hot and heart pumping, you always paid the cost without thinking, but now that the threat was gone and the battle over, the monks were coming to terms with what they’d just done.

Even a street rat like Jorani had been horrified after his first kill, and he’d grown up knowing just how cheap life really was. How might it be for these monks who followed the Noble Eight-Fold Path? They went on and on about how life was suffering, but they still cherished life above all else, pledging themselves to do no harm in any way, even by hurtful speech or doing things that might possibly lead to future harm, like eating meat or crafting weapons. Admirable though their intentions might be, it meant they were ill-prepared to deal with the weight of the actions now that they’d been forced to take lives in battle, and he suspected the Brotherhood would not approve of the methods he used to deal with the post-battle jitters, namely drinking and whoring. As such, there was little Jorani could do to help them through their trials and tribulations, but they were probably much better equipped to deal with their suffering than he’d been when he killed his first man at the tender age of fifteen.

Oh Mother above, how Jorani had cried that night, unable to close his eyes without seeing that poor guard’s dying gaze, so full of hatred and sorrow mixed together as one. Killing Defiled was much easier as they were the aggressors, but these Chosen lacked the feral savagery and murderous depravity of their tribal brethren, which muddied the waters more than a bit.

Then again, Jorani wasn’t sure it’d be so easy killing regular Defiled anymore, not after spending these last few weeks getting to know Asmani and her ilk. They weren’t a bad lot, by and large, different and unusual, with a more casual outlook on murder and torture than most, but that was the way life moulded them. Once removed from the brutal and deadly regions of the unforgiving Northern Wastes, the tribesmen weren’t all that different from foreign Imperials, whose customs and traditions seemed every bit as strange to Jorani. Less in some ways, considering how the Bekkies liked to bathe in mixed groups, or how Central fops liked to paint their faces white. Then there was the madness that was Southern Warriors refusing to let women join the army in any capacity, which they all saw as normal, but was all sorts of peculiar to Jorani. Makeup was one thing, but who even thought a fully pastel white face was attractive? As for women not serving in the army, he could see an argument to be made to keep them out of the fighting, but even keeping a maid around to do laundry and tidy up was strictly forbidden, and he couldn’t begin to fathom why.

The vagrant tribesmen were all currently idling about, with improvised and not-so-improvised weapons in hand, though they had yet to use them. At Monk Happy’s directive, the tribesmen had not taken part in the battle, but Jorani wasn’t sure if it was because the Brotherhood didn’t want their future initiates to fall back into old habits or to spare them from dying in droves. It was clear at first glance that the Runic-armoured Chosen Elites were far stronger than the remnants of Asmani’s tribe. At least, he assumed as much since none of the tribesmen had managed to defeat him in single combat, but it was possible the stronger Warriors were merely giving Asmani face and allowing her the satisfaction of defeating him personally once she was no longer burdened by her pregnancy. Regardless of the reasons, the tribesmen were all well-rested and well-equipped to deal with the aftermath of battle, so after asking about what he’d missed, Jorani gestured for them to follow while relaying his orders through Asmani. “C’mon now,” he said, accepting a tunic taken off one of the younger Defiled, one meant to be worn with pants. While they stopped short just above his knees, at least it was long enough to cover his twig and berries, which would have to do for now. “Them bodies ain’t gonna burn themselves, so let’s get crackin’,” he said, swallowing the injury to his pride and offering the shirtless kid a nod in thanks while trying not to think about how he shared the same build and physique as a teen-aged Defiled. “Pick out a few to come gather kindling with me, while the rest of ye stack them bodies high.”

“Why must you burn the bodies?” Despite having yielded the title of Chieftain over to him, Jorani had long since learned that a Chieftain’s word was far from law, and that he had to explain every order he gave so long as someone cared enough to question it, which was why he stood in place while doling out orders instead of setting out post-haste. Frowning in pointed displeasure, Asmani crossed her thick arms over her protruding belly and said, “You soft southlanders live in a land of plenty, which has made you wasteful and foolish. No wonder you are all so weak.”

Trying and failing to keep the heat out of his tone, Jorani snapped, “We burn bodies to waste them.” Taking a second to calm his screaming nerves, he explained, “Food might’ve been scarce back where ye came from, but here and now, we have plenty to eat without havin’ to resort to cannibalism.”

“This word. Cannibalism? This means to eat flesh?”

Of course she didn’t know the word. “Human flesh, specifically. Err, rather humans eatin’ humans. Works for any animal eatin’ its own kind, I suppose.”

“I see.” Except she didn’t, since Asmani then asked, “And this cannibalism is wrong?”

“Yes.”

“Why?”

There was no scorn in her tone, only pure curiosity, like a child wondering why they shouldn’t say certain words, and Jorani wasn’t entirely sure how to respond. “Well it’s bad cuz... it’s just wrong. I mean, lookit this way. If ye died, ye wouldn’t want others eatin’ yer corpse, now would ye?”

“...Why would I not?” Looking down at Jorani as if he’d sprouted two extra heads, Asmani furrowed her brow in bemused ignorance. “I would take issue if my enemies were to consume my flesh, but such is their right as the victor. Were I to fall in battle only for my tribe to emerge victorious, then I would be heartened to share my strength with my surviving tribesmen. This is only right.”

“...Is that why ye eat yer enemies? Because ye think it makes ye strong?” Maybe the tribesmen were odder than he thought.

“Not because we think so, but because we know so. When my father and brother died, I took their strength and made it mine, and only then did I have the strength to avenge their deaths.” Mother in Heaven, Asmani said it all so matter of factly, Jorani could scarcely contain his horror. Tapping the centre of her chest, she continued without blinking, “I ate their hearts raw, but cold, and would be much stronger if I’d feasted sooner, for then I would have their Spirits here with me. Even without the benefit of added wisdom, all including the weakest tribesmen can benefit from the cold, dead flesh of a powerful foe. This is known, for such is the way of nature. The strong eat, the weak die.” Gesturing at the bodies laid out around her, Asmani added, “Our tribe would grow strong with these offerings, for these were Champions one and all.”

From the way she kept eyeing Jorani’s bared, skinny legs, he could tell she wanted to say he would benefit much from eating the corpses as well, not to mention her covetous glances towards the bodies of the fallen monks. Thankfully, even she wasn’t so tactless as to suggest eating them while the still living monks were grieving over their fallen comrades, and Jorani thanked the Heavens for small favours. “There will be no eating of the dead,” Jorani declared, too exhausted and irritable to be bothered with courtesy. “I don’t know why it’s wrong, but it is. People deserve some respect, even after they’re dead, so we won’t be eatin’ em and that’s that.” That was the end of that, mostly because he worried that he’d be tempted to give cannibalism a try if they kept talking about it. Asmani might well be right, seeing how the Defiled survived in the harsh frozen wastelands of the north, where the ground never thawed and vegetation was all but non-existent. How else to explain why the Defiled were able to grow so large and strapping in such meagre and lacking lands?

“No need for kindling either, Brother Jorani.” Appearing out of nowhere beside Jorani, Monk Happy made for a sorry sight, his chin and chest stained with dried blood and his eyes near closed with fatigue. Despite this, the monk managed something of a smile, albeit a ghastly, blood-stained smile that scared Jorani to the Core. “If you could merely lay the bodies side by side on the ground outside, this monk would be most grateful.”

