And then the High Jotun held out a fist, and a raven as white as snow tore down from the sky, landing on their wrist. "Soon, we march once more. It is time to spread the winter eternal."

***

The Wolf of No Suns looked down from atop its ziggurat, where leylines fueled by blood and sacrifice formed a grand geometric shape around its throne of power. Despite the wondrous display, its mana was paltry compared to that possessed by its brothers, its sisters, its parents, and even its descendants.

The Wolf of No Moons was weak now, lost of power, lost of sacrifice, and lost of flavor; consequences of its failed patricide.

The blood glided up the steps, rushing toward the wolf's many wounds. Its moonlit fur shook as its flesh began to knit back together, and a small army of slaves was offered into its open maw, each of them giving themselves unto the wolf willingly. It bit down, but it did not chew, did not swallow the slaves. Rather, it invited them into its being.

For the wolf was not a ravenous creature, but a lonely one, and each slave walked with purpose and conviction into the maze hidden inside the wolf's throat, seeking the riddle at its heart. They would nourish its feeling of loneliness for a time, but someday, someday someone would truly solve the riddle, and it would free the suns trapped within the wolf.

When that time came, its life would finally end, and the lives of its many unborn children would begin. And then the reign of the Feathered Serpent would see its conclusion.

Yet, before that point came, there would be more tribulations. As if a reminder, a notification appeared before the wolf's eyes, and it let out a breath. "Tarrasque!"

The rivers of blood surrounding its ziggurats began to quiver, and a colossal shape of fire and radiant wings swept overhead. The wolf's siblings had caught the scent as well. They were bound for the Republic. It wasn't just the wolf that was bleeding and wounded, trying to recover.

Soon, a nation might find itself consumed as well.

Gods made for good sacrifices. Even false ones.

***

Upon a throne in a faraway land, where people surrendered their true faces and adopted masks as their truth, a false-child whose face resembled that of a reflection giggled atop her throne. It was far too large for her, comprised of shifting gears and broken fractals. From within came an ever-present note, the faintest symphony of a scream, a unified howl of the trapped, of those who came before the girl.

"Oh," the girl said, clapping her hands together. "A beast in the Yellowstone Republic. The game is afoot, then, Udraal. When will you return? I hope it will be soon. I have been waiting for your promised incursion for so very long.”

***

All across Integrated Earth, rulers, slaves, and everything in between, Pathless to Legend, received a notification of the World Quest.

And yet, even as they laid eyes on the rewards and what was at stake, few acted.

A Tarrasque was a grave threat, but Legendary Pathbearers were nothing if not sure of themselves.

And ultimately, the prize would be far higher if a certain Republic broke itself while slaying a great beast. For everyone knew the Yellowstone Republic guarded one of the few major entrances to the realm within a realm, the realm below, the realm where a god beyond gods lay dead and dreaming.
