As I enter the clearing, I shout “Good morning Master Del!” There, I see my master drop the wood he has been carrying into a large pile.

Looking up at me, I’m greeted with a half-smile. It must be still awkward after yesterday. Walking to the pile of wood he’s been stacking, I notice the pile is next to the weird metal furnace thing and while wondering what it’s used for, I feel excited. The idea of turning rocks into metal, gets me excited to forge my first real dagger. I need an iron ingot and some leather strips.

“Good morning, Aaliyah. Are you ready to get messy?”

“Yes, I can’t wait to forge some metal!”

“Let’s hope your excitement doesn’t fade by the end of the day. Grab that rock crusher and we can get started.”

Looking at the different tools thrown about, I can pick out some of the differences between the tongs and hammers. He didn’t want a hammer or he would have said so. I think it’s this, I grab a five foot long wooden handle that has a metal cylinder at the bottom. Dang, this thing weighs at least 30 pounds. I bring it over to the cart, where Del is waiting for me.

“Good, I thought you wouldn’t be able to figure out what I meant, but don’t forget the base.”

Running back to the tools, I find the only thing that looks like you could crush rocks in it. The stone bowl is two square feet, with a divot in the middle where the rocks are supposed to go. Thinking about the previous tool, it’s just a big mortar and pestle. There appear to be handles on the side of this square pestle. Bending my legs, I try and lift the square piece of stone.

Hugggggg…..

Hhhuuuuugggggggg

This thing has to weigh over 400 pounds, how does he want me to bring this to him?

The sound of laughter rings in my ears. Master Del is standing next to the cart of ore clearly laughing at me.

Still laughing, Del comes over and picks up the block with the ease of someone picking up a cardboard box.

“Sorry, couldn’t help myself. I had to make most of these tools myself and I never had to worry about the weight.”

Setting the block next to the cart, Master Del grabs a chunk of “Lovers” iron.

“Ok, listen carefully. Take the ore and place it in the base. Grab the rock crusher and pound it to a paste. The “Lovers” iron sand will stick to the bottom of the crusher. Scrape off the iron dust into bucket. Take out the waste material as you go. Got all that?”

“Yeah, sounds real difficult.” I hope my sarcasm cracks his hard skull.

Grabbing some ore and the rock crusher I start pounding away.

5 minutes later.

I’m sweating up a storm! Waving this crusher around is hard!

25 minutes later.

I can’t go on. Looking at the small amounts of iron sand I’ve gathered hurts my pride. Even with my stats, this is too hard!

“You lasted longer than I thought. Sit and take a rest, let me know when you want to try again.”

Moving out of the way, Del takes over. He starts by pre-crushing the iron ore in his hands, that’s cheating!

After he places the smaller chunks in the mortar, with only a single hand, he strikes with the pestle in three quick motions. Pulling the pestle up he scrapes the iron sand off with his bare hands and pours it into the bucket.

Watching Del, I can imagine a machine would be only slightly faster. He’s not even sweating!

“It’s ok. In a few years, when you reach fifteen you can place your points into strength and be able to do the same thing.”

“Why should I wait? I already decided this is what I want to do.”

Continuing to crush the ore, Del explains why it’s better to wait.

“You hold off, not because you might decide on another job, but because it’s good to have a better understanding of your work. Right now, you might think Strength is all you need, but later you’ll need Dexterity, Endurance, Senses. You need to have a firm understanding of what exactly a blacksmith needs. Also, humans don’t usually talk about it, but the harder you work to make something, the more experience you get.”

“My mom already explained that to me.”

“I bet she did. Do you think someone crafting a good dagger with 100 Dexterity will get the same experience as someone doing the same with only 50? When you know what you're doing, speed is important, however you need to challenge yourself more when you’re learning the basics. That’s why I want you to wait till you reach fifteen before you distribute your points.”

He makes a great point. I never thought about my status like that.

“Master, can I tell you my full Status page?”

Pausing his rhythmic crushing, Del looks seriously at me.

“You don’t need to do that.”

…

“I want to, Status Page:”

LV: 41 Experience: 9,216/ 69,380Health: 1100/1100 Stamina: 154/700 Mana: 409/530Vitality: 110Endurance: 50Strength: 50Dexterity: 50Senses: 50Mind: 50Magic: 53Clarity: 51Status Points: 126Skills: Sense Mana (LV51), Acting (LV26), Meditation (LV52), Expel mana (LV32), Charm (LV35), Running (LV38), Cleaning (LV25), Mathematics (LV26), Writing (LV15), Mana Manipulation (LV15), Wood Carving (LV10), Drawing (LV13), Axe Skills (LV15), Inject mana (LV10), Mining (LV4), Cooking (LV14), Sewing (LV6), Chanting (LV3)

“You passed two tests already.”

“Last night I finally broke through.”

“That’s the most impressive thing I’ve heard in a long time. You sure you want to continue down this path?”

“Stop trying to get rid of me and crush those rocks, master grandpa!”

On the next day, while dad escorts me to Del's clearing, I can't help but go over everything I learned yesterday.

I underestimated how hard it is to smelt metals.

Games disillusioned me to the hard work blacksmithing requires. Del told me it would be dirty, but he didn’t tell me it would take more than a day.

After hours of us taking turns crushing the ore, our cart of iron turned into only seven buckets of iron sand.

Just because we crushed the rocks didn’t mean we completely separated the waste material. Once we had our buckets of sand ready, we put the sand in a ceramic container and lit a fire under it. That was done to remove the moisture from the rock to let us better process it.

Once  the sand was dried, we moved over to Del’s bloomery. The bloomery is the weird metal furnace thing Del stacked the wood up against.

But before using the bloomery we had to turn the pile of wood into charcoal. Well, magic charcoal at least. In my old-world charcoal was made from burning wood and other materials in an airless furnace. I tried asking Del how the green charcoal was made from just burning some logs out in the open, but his answer was that this type of wood turns into charcoal with heat naturally. The reddish wood looked familiar, I think it was from one of the trees father showed me during our forest trips.

When we lit the wood on fire it burned for an hour before it started to crumble into green chunks. Once the wood had crumbled to a decent size Del covered the burning embers with dirt.

After sifting through the pile, we had barrels of charcoal ready for the bloomery.

Del explained to me the bloomery is used to remove the air magic from the ore. I think he meant it’s used to strip the oxygen from the ore turning it into concentrated iron.

After igniting a base layer of charcoal in the bloomery, Del showed me how to layer the iron sand with alternating levels of charcoal. We spent most of the day pumping the bellows supplying the air into the bloomery. Del spent the whole time explaining to me how to watch the fire to see if it’s too hot or too cold. Apparently, you also need to watch to make sure everything is burning evenly, I didn’t know that was a thing.

After we spent most of the day watching the bloomery, we finally got the chance to open the bottom and collect some blooms. Blooms are chunks of metallic iron left from the burning process. Because of the charcoal Del said it’s considered a low-grade steel. I remember from my talks with Stanley that charcoal leaves a little carbon while smelting to make steel. Depending on the carbon content, you could get cast iron or many other forms of iron. Del told me he works with Steel mostly and only uses cast iron for pots and pans.

We took all day to harvest the blooms we needed, and I walked home with dad, sore all over.

When we reach the clearing, I see Del already preparing for our second day of smithing.

Walking over to his forge, I don’t have the energy to greet him today.

“Glad you decided to come back! I was worried you might have wanted to quit after yesterday.”

Master Del doesn’t look tired one bit.

“What are we doing now?”

“Next were going to turn these blooms into steel.”

That makes me wake up a little. I see master already has a fire going in his forge. He’s using the leftover charcoal from yesterday.

“I’m going to pump the bellows every so often so I can keep the coals hot. I’m going to walk you through exactly how we turn the blooms into proper steel.”

“Great! Let’s do this, I’m ready!”

I’m on my ass again, sweating from the heat coming out of the forge. Watching how Del manipulates the fire, I could almost fall asleep right now. Doing this for so long is really hypnotic!

The first thing Del had me do was crush the blooms we made yesterday into smaller chunks of iron. With the chunks of iron poured into a crucible, a ceramic container that can handle extremely high temperatures, Del had me gather something I wasn’t expecting, fresh leaves. The green leaves he had me gather from a low hanging tree were placed on top of the crushed iron. Del explained to me that the leaves actually lower the melting point of the iron.

That’s the main point of this step. We’re melting the iron into a liquid state. The blooms could have been forged into iron products by themselves, but you need to melt them fully to create a strong metal.

Next, he had me grab some crushed crystal powder from his hut. He told me it’s a cheap waste glass. Pouring the glass into the container, Del told me how it would melt around the iron first. Then, when the iron melts because it’s heavier than the glass, the glass will float to the top, creating a seal so that the air mana can’t ruin the metal.

With a few pieces of charcoal placed on top to help deal with any air mana still in the container, he had me seal the crucible and help prepare the fire.

With the crucible in place, we needed to heat the forge till the iron could melt properly.

I finally got to see how “Blacksmith” logs are used. The logs are supposed to be placed on the coals and you have to wait for them to catch, but Del informed me I could drastically shorten the time with my mana.

According to Del, injecting my mana into the wood actually lowers the ignition point. The magical wood only produces the heat we need after it’s been dried, and with fresh mana it ignites a lot easier.

Because of this, I injected three logs with 100 mana each and watched Del place them in the forge. Like he promised, they ignited quickly into beautiful purple flames. The heat radiating from the logs required me to take a step back. With the first three logs ignited the others didn’t take much longer to follow.

By now, it has been over three hours since we first fired the crucible and Del promises we’re close to finishing.

“Alright, I think it’s about finished.”

“Really! Now we turn it into bars?”

“No, now we clean up the bloomery, and then you go home and come back tomorrow.”

“What?!”

“How hot do you think that metal is right now? We have to let it cool overnight.”

“It takes three days to turn ore into an ingot?”“Well you slowed me down quite a bit. I usually do the bloomery and crucible steps on the same day and finish the metal the next morning. Not what you were expecting, ha.”

No wonder it was considered two jobs back in my old world. Just making ingots is a full-time job, and we still need to forge it into something else later.

I’ve gained a new respect for blacksmiths. Despite my grumbling, learning how to smelt metal has been just as fun as learning magic.

Maybe I’ll be able to eventually combine them one day.
