“I believe that you will have the largest issue with the fact that the Emperor hasn’t budged on his insistence that all Knight children are to be given a chance to leave the Order before they awaken.”

There was an uproar among the Knights, but the one to speak was Stella. “That is unacceptable. Our children, our potential Knights, are our greatest possession. What good is it to keep our secrets of imbuing Natural Treasures into ourselves and our young if the Emperor will just steal them right from under our noses?”

Rusty shared a look with Tur’stal and Frederic before Tur’stal stood, taking the floor. “The Emperor has made his stance clear on this. While he is willing to allow some discussion on the exact details on how it is done, he was clear that all prospective Knights and generational squires are to be given the opportunity to leave the service before awakening. He will not steal all of your children, but he is insistent that no one is forced into anything more than giving them Natural Treasures before they are born.”

Ernest stepped forward, clearly trying to placate everyone. “Your highness said that was non-negotiable, but this feels like a way for him to get around our insistence that we build the anti-divination chambers that would prevent him from just seeing how we do the procedure. You must realize our stance of not allowing this secret leak hasn’t changed. If you are bringing this forward, you must have a way that—”

Ernest trailed off for a long second as he struggled to find the right word, before he gestured vaguely to finish his statement.

Rusty stood and walked forward, letting his gaze bounce between Knights. “I think you need to step back for a second and look at the wider picture. You are all from the old dynasty and are used to certain liberties and rights over not only common people, but your own children. This isn’t the old dynasty. Those liberties are gone. You are being given an exception to the experiments on children rule, which let me add, is a rule I and my fellow Royals whole heartedly agree with, because the effects are fairly minor and rarely more negative than a bloodline with damaging properties. However, the Emperor will not allow you unfettered free rein on raising your future Knights. There will be no training camps that start as soon as they can walk. There will be no torture to ‘harden the children for what is to come’. None of us care that you went through similar ‘sharpening’ to reach your current positions. Children have rights, and one of them is choice. If you can’t produce worthwhile elites with all of your advantages while not being so cruel that you abuse your own progeny, then just ascend. Leave and start over somewhere else with people who might or might not tolerate your existence. The Emperor's stance on this is firm and clear. Take it or leave it.”

Rusty earned himself many a glare, but he met each and every one until the Knight in question wilted.

Frederic nodded to acknowledge his words before stepping forward and reclaiming the crowd's attention. “As my fellow Royal so eloquently put it, that is our reality. The Emperor will only let things go forward if the children are given a way out before they go through the majority of the training post awakening. That is his line in the sand.”

Before the crowd could surge, Tur’stal threw them a bone. “Please think this through instead of just being upset you didn’t get a full return to your old rights. Treat your children properly, don’t abuse them as many of you were abused, and how many of them will really want to leave everything they know for the Emperor's offer? I dare say few of them so long as you aren’t psychotic. This is the Emperor's ‘threat’. Treat too many of your children badly and they will flock to his banner for the escape. That limits how much you can get away with even without the oversights we haven’t even gone over yet. And once you look upon it that way, it's simply a challenge to be good parents and guardians.”

That finally shut most of them up.

Cornelius finally stepped forward with a placating smile. “If that is the reasoning behind the ruling, I believe we can accept it. I, for one, think this is an opportunity to step away from our pasts. From what my father said and from the way he raised me, which he called lenient, I welcome this chance to right our ship. Our methods are in the imbuing of Natural Treasures, not in how we raised our children. As King Rusty obliquely pointed out, if we can’t create elites with all of our advantages without giving our children a modicum of a normal childhood, do we deserve to do so? I for one have no desire to force my children into a rift at eight years old, just to see if they deserve to live.”

Cornelius’ smile never wavered, but a number of the other Knights expressions did. Methods like he mentioned weren’t uncommon for the potential squires, but were more rare among the Knight bloodlines themselves thanks to the effort that went into each child. Still, it did happen, and was one of the perversions that the current Imperial government sought to curb.

Stella reclaimed the floor with a glare. “Then let us move on. Do we have funding for Tier 47 wards where we can perform our methods without risk of our secrets being stolen from us?”

Rusty knew this would be the next sticking point, so he immediately answered. “No, and no matter how many times you ask for it, the Emperor's stance upon it won't change.”

An uproar started to build, but he raised a hand and let a battle aura flare slightly. “No, the Emperor isn’t willing to shoulder the expense of a Tier 47 safe area. He is, however, willing to provide the resources for a Tier 46 variant which, while not enough to stop his post cognition, is enough that any attempted breaches will trip warning bells while keeping out anyone else.”

The uproar he had tried to stop still swelled, but with less fervor than he had expected.

Most must have realized that Tier 47 resources were a stretch, considering how limited the supply of those were, and how many other priorities they were competing with. It was foolish to expect the Emperor to concede the expenses that creating such a space would incur, but some still balked at the possibility their secrets would be more vulnerable.

Still, a Tier 46 safe area was good enough.

It was strong enough to stop most other at-Tier divinations methods, which accounted for all loose cultivators and was robust enough that anyone Tier 47 or higher wouldn’t be able to break in without tripping alarms.

Sure, that wouldn’t prevent the damage, but there just weren’t enough high-Tier materials to actually make a higher-Tier safe room.

Not to mention that it needed to be more like a safe warehouse, which just exacerbated the problem.

The Orders demanded safe areas to perform the secret procedures that would infer the Natural Treasures into oneself and make them inheritable, but that wasn’t a one-time procedure and needed to be repeated every generation, which meant the Orders needed persistent safe locations that they controlled. Before the dynasty change, they had about two dozen Tier 46 and 47 areas they shared, but this revival would be more limited, with one in each capital system except the Capital itself. None of the Orders were comfortable being so close to a Tier 50 with post- and precognition with their secrets.

The Orders argued that wasn’t enough, but that was all Emmanuel and the three of them were willing to pay for. Wards of the caliber they needed were incredibly expensive, and at the size they needed, spatial expansion would weaken the wards and so couldn’t be used. It was already stretching their budgets thin to create six such safe areas.

None of that stopped the Knights from bickering and complaining, begging, wheedling, and demanding more.

Rusty hoped things would end there, but when the restrictions about squires came up, there was a new round of complaints once more led by Stella.

“We cannot pay for squires. That defeats the purpose of a squire. They live and die at our whim for good reason. What good are they if we can’t use and dispose of them? There is a reason we used peasants for such positions.”

When they shut that down, the Orders changed their demands.

“We need our ancestral Legacies returned to our hands.”

As the military leader and someone who was actively reported to about the status of the Legacy obelisks, Rusty answered, “A dozen have been approved for return, but that accounts for most of the remaining Legacies which were confiscated from the present Orders.”

The same woman slapped the air, causing a shockwave. “That is wholly unacceptable! We demand they…”

As it sunk in that the other Legacy obelisks had been destroyed via use, she faltered.

“We demand Legacy obelisks be given to us in order to compensate us for the loss of our heritage. Three per Order.”

Rusty rolled his eyes, but let Tur’stal answer in his stead.

“That is a flatly impossible number. The Empire doesn't currently, and in fact has never had, over four hundred unused Legacy obelisks waiting to be used. We can authorize the next dozen to be allocated to the Orders to be used as you all can agree upon, but we just cannot give so many.”

Frederick picked up from there, “In more positive news, we managed to persuade the Emperor to add a tax exemption when purchasing your Orders natal Natural treasure on top of your Right of First Refusal. There are some limitations, but they are not too egregious and should offset a lot of the costs of reestablishing yourself.”

That settled, the conversation once more turned negative.

“These restrictions on following orders must be removed so we can do our job properly. We are elites who do not need such oversight. To suggest so is folly.”

It was there that Rusty finally lost his patience.

Seeing that Tur’stal and Frederic were similarly fed up, he stood and at Tier 47 speeds, stepped in front of Stella up close and well within her personal space, his Stamana flaring hot.

His move startled everyone, and all but Stella backed up from his sudden appearance.

Looking over her shoulder, he spoke to the crowd in little more than a whisper, knowing they could hear. “Enough. You all seem to think this is a return to the old ways, and despite saying it more than once, I don’t know how to make it more clear. This isn’t the old dynasty where you created and expanded your power bases, earning expectations and freedoms until you were a dominant force. This revival is because you have something useful. This revival isn’t you returning to glory and reclaiming everything you lost, it's a last-ditch effort to preserve your uniqueness, nothing more. Such foolish demands will not be entertained.”

Letting his words and gaze sweep across the gathered Knights, Rusty challenged any of them to say he was wrong.

Ernest shuddered slightly, but that wasn’t an uncommon reaction. People either let loose thousands of years of grief and pain, or they turned gazes of hatred onto Rusty for seeming to side with the Empire over their heritage.

Even ignoring his personal feelings that were more closely aligned with the Imperial government, some of these relics didn’t seem to understand that this was truly their last chance at a revival. Ignoring everything else, once Matt reached Tier 35 or so, the Empire would start to undergo vast and systematic changes. It was either get on the train now or be forever lost to the annals of history.

Having made his point and with no one willing to challenge him, Rusty increased his perception to Tier 47 levels and sat back down.

He did note everyone and their reactions, though. They would all be watched in the coming years, as it wouldn’t do to let the obviously unaccepting move unhindered.

Hopefully they would make the smart choice, heed his warning, and ascend after ensuring their Orders were properly revived, but he knew they would have to make an example out of at least one of them before the others listened.

Once the smaller details were settled, mostly about the Empire demanding the potential Knights were given a chance to leave the service of their family, they moved onto something mildly more pleasant.

Tur’stal glided forward. “Now that we have dealt with the unpleasant parts, it is time for a party and some mingling. We have invited the noble houses who are looking to sponsor a Knightly Order, and they are waiting for us in the next room over. This is a time to find patrons or possibly find new Natural Treasures that might lead to either a shift in focus or a branching off for some of your descendants. We have lawyers on standby for anyone who wishes to make a deal sooner than later, but I would like to remind everyone that there is no rush and being a sponsored Knightly Order isn’t to be entered into lightly.”

Rusty was almost tempted to leave, but he didn’t. As much as he wanted to wipe his hands of this, he hadn’t put in so much effort to just allow everyone else to get a portion of the spoils.

He had his eye on an Order or two, and this would be an opportune time to watch them mingle with others.

Nobles who sponsored Orders paid a lot, but they also received a pseudo mercenary corps in peace time that could be useful for all manner of projects.

It would do his family’s long-term development well to tie an Order to them while they were a King-level title for when he ascended and they once more became mere dukes.

Why did he ever bother to accept this title?

It was times like this he generally wondered.

These people were somehow worse than the Ascenders.

And just as he was thinking of them, they appeared thanks to an Allie teleport.
