The grizzled luggages hissed and spat insults and reminders but Eteia was unfazed. Viv guessed it wasn’t the first time it had happened. That was good information to have.

“You will watch your tongue, woman. Your status here remains… uncertain.”

“So it is. Was there anything else you wanted to address concerning my capture?” she replied in a frigid tone.

“You are no longer needed for tonight. Dismissed,” Tarano finished, and the red mage strode out in a huff while his sycophants mumbled about disrespect.

Viv noticed that the exchange had been quite public and wondered what the soldiers were thinking. She took a quick look around and realized that everyone was looking at her. The reactions ranged from hatred to terror to morbid curiosity. It was quite flattering in a way. Happily for her, none of those who met her eyes made any rude or suggestive gestures. They really took her for the antichrist or something.

It took half an hour to end in a camp, and Viv realized a few things as they moved to more open grounds. First, her escort was made of actual thousands of soldiers, their presence fire snakes moving in the distance. Second, it was only a portion of what was left in the camp, hidden from sight near the city she had spotted as they made camp.

It appeared that, in order to capture her, Tarano had brought the whole loyalist army.

Or what was left of it anyway.

That made no sense at all. It was just too stupid to contemplate, not to mention that someone gathering an expedition against her would remember that Eteia was under oath not to harm her. There had to be another reason. She tried to find it as she moved forward past wooden fortifications and among the lined up tents, but could not think of one. Besides, the poison was still not fully out of her system and she hurt everywhere. It wasn’t fun.

She was stopped near a cage wagon, a genuine steel bar animal containment box on wheels drawn by a duo of oxens. The trio in charge of her well-being had her walk in a tent, though only the two priestesses followed. They didn’t seem worried, which Viv took as one more reason not to attempt to take them hostage while surrounded by a division’s worth of hostile soldiers.

“Are you hurt anywhere? I saw him toss you, you must be in some pain,” the priestess of Enttiku said with what appeared to be sympathy. The other frowned. Viv wanted to show her arm but she considered that a priestess with healing abilities would not need her to speak to detect what was wrong.

“We are not to heal the prisoner unless her life is in danger,” the other reminded with a detached tone.

The priestess of Enttiku sighed heavily, then sighed harder when Viv did not reply. She still lightly put a finger on Viv’s ungloved hand. A moment later, Viv felt something shift in her arm and the pain lessened. The rest of her still hurt though.

Viv calculated her chance of convincing the priestess of Enttiku to help and decided they were zero. Enemy interrogators would get her through fear, naivete, overconfidence, or, in the case of nurses, sympathy. Anything she said would be used to make her comply for sure. The best policy was to shut the fuck up unless compelled to do otherwise, like with a knife at her throat.

“The prisoner will disrobe,” the other woman said.

“Let me close the flap first, Lotae,” the first said.

That made the good cop Neren and the glacial tart Lotae.

She did so and Viv was handed a shift. It sucked to lose her skinsuit and Varska’s robe but there wasn’t much she could do at this stage. She was left with rather conservative prisoner pants and top that covered much and felt warm. As expected, she was already bruising though. Once they were done, she was put in the cage and given some water by a taciturn Kordok, the jailor. The army moved out at dawn.

They walked for the entire day, barely stopping at noon. The loyalist army progressed as a column in full armor, which was something she supposed was possible with magical enhancements. There was a large baggage train as well that trailed behind her with a cloud of dust. As for her, she was right next to the rich, armored wagons like the one Lancer had used. Some of them were even more bling bling than his had been. She had seen less gold paint on some baroque salons. It hurt the eyes.

With nothing much to do, Viv focused on circulating her mana and ignoring the pain in her side. She wondered what the hell this was all about and progressively came to a conclusion. Some of the reasons for the presence of the army, she couldn’t know. At least for now. What she figured out was what had meant by ‘they wanted her research’, a hypothesis she grew more confident in when she saw the main carriage and its emblem.

She also figured out that the loyalist army would have no supply problems because they pillaged and burnt down any village they came across.

Kordok was being surprisingly decent. He made sure she had some hot food, one cover, and he had her go out and walk around and visit the privies on the few occasions when the army stopped. There was one time when Viv thought she heard a familiar ‘squee’ from above and hope filled her chest. It made Kordok instantly approach the cage and inspect her thoroughly. It seemed like he was keyed to her emotions and that was going to be a pain in her ass.

Viv got confirmation that night when the quiet jailor dragged her to the largest armored wagon. She was shoved in and found herself in a richly decorated, moving bedroom complete with couches, a desk, a large bed and even a bathroom. Tarano was here, sitting comfortable on a blue velvet chair. Two barons and an old and very powerful war mage accompanied him. They all looked too smug for geezers slumming it in a pimped out RV.

“I am sure you are wondering why you still draw breath so let me enlighten you,” the constable said without preamble. “Despite your many crimes against the crown and the people of Enoria, most of them punishable by death, we have… elected to grant you a chance to redeem yourself. In the bed behind me lies the only hope for our great country to be made whole. You are going to heal him.”

As expected, Tanaro wanted her to heal the first prince, the same who had been mangled during the first battle of the war. Incidentally, the last living sibling out of three thanks in no small part to Viv herself. Tarano was probably grasping at straws. Unless he could put Kule back together, he had a kingdom with no kings. His claim of legitimacy would melt in the succession war.

Lotae walked to the bed with a grim air and lifted the veil to reveal a man who, well, looked like he shouldn’t be alive.

He was missing his entire left arm, left leg, and right foot if the lack of bump under the thin cover was any indication. More importantly, there was an actual hole in his flank, now covered by smooth skin but Viv guessed meant he was missing some essential stuff. And indeed, an IV dripped golden fluid into his right arm. He was also comatose and painfully thin.

[Crown Prince]

The inspection returned no information on the man’s current health, which was probably due to the fact that her path didn’t focus on healing at all.

She stared back at the constable, who was apparently expecting some sort of reaction. When she didn’t speak, he ground his teeth with restrained rage. Damn did that man hate her guts.

“If you do not cooperate, we will make you. If you do, you will be allowed to make up for your mistakes and reintegrate society. We will let you settle and have a family with an Enorian spell blade of our choosing and with some restrictions. It is a very generous offer considering the circumstances.”

A distant part of Viv knew she should remain quiet but the rest of her was tired, hurt, and boiling with outrage.

“Your reward is to be raped and used as a brood mare? Are you serious?”

A vein pulsed on the constable’s forehead. He forced himself to take a deep breath while Viv shook her head, aghast. She couldn’t believe her ears.

“Despite your many offenses, we know that you have expanded into the deadlands and fought the undead. My advisors believe… that you see the importance of order and civilisation even if your view is skewed by an… extremely inflated opinion of yourself.”

Viv thought that one of them had created a functional kingdom and the other had brought his own to ruin so results kind of spoke for themselves. Her naked contempt must have gotten obvious enough that Tarano went through another cycle of deep breaths.

“And that you are also selfish and arrogant. Someone of your intellect should realize that a war caster is a war caster, but a woman who sacrifices her path to raise a family gives the kingdom half a dozen war casters. It should be obvious to you which one benefits society the most.”

“At the risk of challenging your views on parenting, there isn’t that much overlap between being a good mom and melting someone’s face off. Wow, you fed bullshit to the masses for so long that you ended up believing in them as well.”

“I was foolish to expect a revolutionary to understand the notion of sacrifice.”

“It’s only okay so long as someone else does it, right?”

“Enough of this. You will save the prince, whether you want it or not.”

“Not with that ‘generous’ offer that you gave and can shove up your ass. I’d rather be caged, thanks.”

Thus ended the negotiations, Tarano not pushing for now. Viv was sure he would get back to her very soon but curiously, he seemed distracted. As Viv was brought back to her cage, she caught sight of the soldiers around their camp fires. The mood was subdued. Tense. She did not expect them to be happy so far into enemy territory, not to mention the aftermath of the meat grinder this war was turning out to be, but there was more at play. She was sure of it. Time was not on the side of the constable. But why? She had to play this carefully.
