But Eteia was not gloating. In fact, she looked more distressed than anything. Her mouth was half open and her eyes searched the shadows of the night behind Viv’s back. The witch’s mind went into overdrive, perception of time slowing.

She was done for. It was obvious now. She never had a chance. Whoever wanted to trap her had been very, very thorough. Illogically so. She suspected that it was… what was his name again? Constable Tarano, current head of the loyalist faction. And she knew why Solfis had guided her here instead of to another doomed passage.

Eteia was still under oath not to hurt Viv personally, an apparent oversight on the part of her attackers. It meant that there was a brief window where Viv could ask questions and plant the seeds of a future escape.

“Why do they want me alive?” she asked in a rush.

The mage was eager to talk. Perhaps she was worried about Neriad smiting her on the spot, but Viv thought there might be more to it.

“Not to execute you. I think Tarano wants your research. I don’t know anything more.”

Sympathy. Fear. Conspiratorial tone. Guilt. Viv filed all of this and came to a conclusion. She had to give herself a breathing space, and she had to do it fast. Intimidation would not serve a purpose here, so she shelved it. Eteia would not be bluffed and she most definitely had high focus. Better to try and sway her.

“Let them go and I will surrender peacefully,” Viv proposed.

It was more a test of character than a real negotiation. Viv didn’t have a leg to stand on, and Eteia knew it as well. The mage could just step to the side and let Viv get stopped by the next group. Thankfully, it worked. The mage nodded to the side.

“They can try to climb.”

//Your Grace, it could work.

“Then do it.”

Solfis whispered to Marruk. The Kark went to the base of the shear wall and got lifted by a pair of bony arms until they disappeared. Viv heard a few arrows clatter against the stone but she could no longer see anything.

That was it then.

“So… how do we do this?” she asked, keeping her voice under control.

“I have silverite manacles. Put them on.”

Eteia removed a pair of shackles from a bag at her back and looked like she would hand them to Viv, but a glance to the side dissuaded her. She tossed the things towards Viv who inspected them summarily. They were simple circles covered in runes, with a basic steel chain that could be attached to immobilize her. She deactivated her cloak then put them on with a grimace. It was a necessity in those circumstances, but she hated it anyway.

At first, she didn’t feel any different. Mana was still there and she could still move it through her conduits. Her core felt normal as well.

“It will inflict pain if you try to draw glyphs or if you let mana spill out of the limits of your body. Don’t try it, because it really hurts,” Eteia whispered.

“Speaking from experience?”

“Yes. I wore those when I was debriefed.”

Eteia winced. Viv got the impression that the defeated mage’s return had been unpleasant. She was probably on thin ice.

“It’s going to be unpleasant and humiliating but you must stay in control of yourself, got it?” Eteia finally said urgently. Then the mage’s face turned as cold and rigid as a statue and Viv knew they were no longer alone.

She took a deep breath and reminded herself of the basic rules. If captured, she had to try to escape as soon as possible. That was fucked because they wanted her personally. Trust no one, that was also hard because she wanted to try to work through Eteia. The rest was doable. Keep faith in herself and the others, stay calm, shut the fuck up unless she really couldn’t. Escape as soon as possible. Resist whenever possible.

Viv turned to face the newcomers. Inspect was still working at least.

A group was walking towards her under the powerful glow of magic lights, one that was absolutely massive. There were men in elaborate plat armors that bore the title of [Knight Captain] or [Baron], grim and powerful. [Court mages] and [Warmages] in fancy robes that resembled her own like a Chanel cardigan resembled a hoodie glared at her and at Eteia with mighty frowns. They were all men. In truth, the only women were a pair of [Bishops] of Enttiku and Maranor, respectively. They didn’t look friendlier than the rest. The man at their head strode with confidence and what Viv felt was an unreasonable amount of vindication. She took solace in the fact that the gold of his armor failed to dispel the dark bags under his eyes. At least she had made things hard for them.

Which was arguably going to come back to bite her in the ass now.

Also that was a fucking parade just to get her.

The VIP room stopped only a few steps away, with the mages loading so much mana Viv felt dizzy. Maybe anticipating some last minute lash out or something, instead of paying attention to her wrists. The amount of enchanted gears on those fuckers could buy the entirety of New Harrak seven times over with enough to spare for a blowjob at the Spotted Feather. Viv was a little intimidated by so much bling. Her confusion also only increased as the lead dude said nothing. He was just staring at her with a strange mix of rage and relief.

[Constable, extremely dangerous, one who pursues the double path of regency and arcane swordsmanship. Competent caster, deadly duelist, Men bane. Leader. Administrator…]

The list went on. It was not quite as impressive as Solfis but to her, it was enough. The man was on the sixth step. The sixth. She was still small fry despite her efforts. Only Irao could match this guy. He was a tall lad with gray hair cut short and a handsome face with a strong chin upon which was a scar. He had some stubble that gave him a roguish edge, and deep-set dark eyes. Viv got George Clooney vibes except she had never seen the actor play a cold-blooded killer and that was what she got as well. He had blood on his hands, and given the huge double-handed sword on his back, she didn’t wonder how he delivered it.

As for the rest of them, they were doing their very best to murder her with their eyes.

“You are a difficult woman to find, Viviane of Harrak.”

She did not reply. It was a show now, one meant for the soldiers gluting around them like flies on spilled blood. Had to remind herself to let the twat have his moment and to exert patience. Her time would come.

“I am Constable Tarano, ruling in lieu of His Royal Highness Kule, First Prince of Enoria and our rightful ruler. You are my prisoner. As you have surmised.”

He took a few steps forward and Viv felt the weight of his aura upon her. Red, life, grey. He was powerful. Not a pure caster but probably able to stop magic and close the gap. It didn’t matter anyway. With three steps of difference, he could probably sneeze and kill her. He was also one of the few men who really, really towered above her head which pissed her off. She hated feeling small. Calm, ok, calm. Stay in control.

Because Tarano was not.

The Constable closed his fists and the armor creaked under the strength in his fingers. Viv waited.

Suddenly, she was up in the air. Pain blossomed in her belly. It was sharp and cold and blinding. She landed painfully on her knees and hands, unable to move so much as a finger. The agony in her arm redoubled. She retched acidic water. Fucker had punched her, she could tell from his still raised fist. Felt like she’s been hit by a dump truck.

Grabbed by the collar and lifted. Couldn’t breathe properly. Oh that man was livid alright, absolutely mad with her.

“I. Raised. Lancer. Like my son.”

Well fucking good job you did then, you wanker, Viv thought in her heart. Something must have shown on her face because Tarano’s lips quivered with rage and his eyes were bloodshot to all hell. He was breathing fast, bearing his teeth like a wolf.

It took a couple of seconds for a man who ought to have willpower in the sixth tier to chill out.

“Fortunately for you, I need you alive. So, you will stay alive.”

Viv’s world went up and down. She was flying through the air. This time, she expected something like that and managed to roll into a ball before smashing against the cliff wall.

Pain.

Pain.

Viv forced air into her lungs. Entire right side was going to be black and blue tomorrow. At least she had not tried to cast. Left arm was broken for sure. Yep, definitely broken. She bit back a moan of pain and focused on happy thoughts. She was not alone. She was not alone, ever. Just had to catch her breath for a while.

Tarano gave a few orders and the silly committee dispersed, leaving her still surrounded by elite soldiers. Before he could do more, he got distracted from her presence when a pair of soldiers and a priest in a golden robe brought Ardek forward. She had nailed him in the flank, quite deeply it seemed. He was still surprisingly calm.

“Please save me,” the little asshole stated.

“He doesn’t respond to mundane or divine healing, Excellency,” the priest said. “The grounding potion deadens the pain and his emotions for now, but the prognostic is grim.”

So that’s how the fucker had remained calm and fooled both her and Solfis. A grounding potion? She could use a drop or two right the fuck now.

“A curse, I assume?” Tarano asked.

“Most likely, yes.”

“I thought you had removed the curse. You lied to me?” Ardek asked.

“The archpriest of Maranor in Lesso died bearing your sin, boy, someone who was worth infinitely more than you. We did not cheat you, this cost us dearly, but Enttiku is an old crone and she always gets her due. Always. And she can be petty when she wants, as you have just learned. We will give you time to accept your fate and rest assured that your share of the bounty will be sent to your next of kin.”

Ardek gasped and moved a bit. Thick red blood dripped from his weeping wound. It felt strange seeing such a thin body sliced open. Reminded her a bit of a village near Kandahar, back on earth.

Tarano waved his hands, dismissing the dying hunter from the vicinity without care. He walked leisurely and kneeled next to Viv who decided she had no particular reason to test how many of her bones were broken by moving, pain tolerance skill or not.

“Just as vindictive as I was told. How old was he? Thirteen? Fourteen?”

Old enough to know, Viv thought. She harbored no illusion that oaths to the gods got broken on occasion, but that one was supposed to kill Ardek before he could spill. How the little twat managed, she wasn’t sure. She just knew that someone had died for the information to be given. In any case, it must have taken a clear plan on the part of the hunter, meaning he intended to backstab Viv from the start. That kind of hurt.

Wait a minute, Ardek was old enough to be a soldier here, meaning that Tarano had ordered many people of his age to their death. Maybe he had killed some himself. He was trying to get a rise out of her, perhaps?

“I like silence in a woman. I think we can work together after all. We will talk later. Naden, Lotae, I leave her to you. And Kordok.”

And so the constable left her with the two priestesses and one of the tallest dudes she had ever seen since coming here. That was fine. She inspected her captors.

[Priestess of Enttiku]

This one wore the black robes of the goddess of death, or god maybe? The Paramese seemed uncertain of the divinity’s gender. There were a few subdued colors on her dusty garment, which Viv assumed meant she was a bigwig or at least a middlewig. She was mature and beautiful with a darker skin and curly hair that hinted at a partially northern ancestry. She didn’t look too pleased to be here. By comparison, the other was pale and thin, sharp, with cold eyes and a mighty scowl. Clearly not sympathetic to her plight.

[Priestess of Maranor]

Maranor again. Viv felt like she had never met the bitch and yet they were already enemies for life or something. Her and her fucking fan club.

The last one was problematic. Very problematic. He was inspecting Viv with a level of attention that bordered on the maniacal, which was bad. What was worse was that he was the tallest man Viv had ever seen with the dry muscles of the martial artist under form-fitting mail. A truncheon hung from one waist and a sword from the other. He was bald and rather ugly, but clean. As Viv watched, he stepped towards her.

[Royal Jailor: a path dedicated to containing and taking care of captives. Attentive. Decent melee combatant…]

They were leaving nothing to chance, huh? Just as she thought that, the man took a step forward and pointed at her.

“You are my prisoner, now, and until my superior sees it fit to change that.”

Mana shifted and took hold around the man. Something stuck to Viv’s soul, not exactly unpleasant but there. Immediately, the jailor bent and delicately removed the knife from Viv’s belt. He also took her backpack.

“Compliance leads to peace; resistance leads to pain. Please follow me.”

There was a time to resist and this wasn’t now. She moved down the valley surrounded by at least fifty soldiers and a couple of mages. Viv was at the center of a very large formation, she realized from the surrounding torches. There was actual mounted cavalry at the edge as well. The voice of Constable Tanaro soon broke the oppressive silence.

“What do you mean, you let them go?”

He was walking in front of her with the rest of the rich old men. Eteia stood on one side, the gesture designed to isolate her.

“My priority was to capture the witch, which I did.”

“And you could not stop a drugged Kark warrior?”

“As I said, my priority was to secure a dangerous caster alive. The good question would be how she managed to slip past trained scouts and elite archers.”

“They are not being judged now, you are.”

“That’s a problem now, isn’t it?”

