Railyse laughed at him, and he laughed, too.

*

“So, do you think he has feelings for her?” Frikara asked.

“No.” Andrela said.

“What makes you so sure?” Verwynn asked.

“His emotions didn't jump when he looked at her.” Andrela said. “When he looked at us, though...”

“It did waver a little.” Navruth said, and sighed. “I'm glad.”

“Me, too.” Lusinia said. “How would we compete with a beauty like that?”

“We can't.” Frikara said. “I think... I think she's just too exotic to even try.”

*

Ren came into the room through the side door and Teepo flew off of his shoulder to land on the ceiling.

“You shouldn't sell yourself short, Frikara.” Ren said.

“Ren, I...” Frikara started to say, then Ren remembered seeing her without her clothes on and let her feel what he wouldn't let himself feel then. “Oh... oh, my.” She said, her eyes wide. “Ren...”

“She's pretty, but we're strictly friends.” Ren said. “We have been for almost a year.” He smiled. “But, we're making it seem like we're together in public.”

“Why?” Verwynn asked.

“So that anyone that wants to get to her, knows they have to go through me first.”

“She needs a shield, then.” Lusinia said, and Ren nodded slightly.

“It's kind of complicated.” Ren said, then told them why Railyse needed the extra layer of protection.

“By the gods.” Frikara said. “We'll help if you need it.” She said. “We all will.”

“Thank you.” Ren said, and felt their resolve. “All of you.”

“Where is she?” Andrela asked.

“Where else?” Ren said and smiled. “She's in the Jacuzzi.”

*

Railyse floated slightly underneath the surface of the water in the Jacuzzi as the jets of air churned the water and pummelled her body. She laughed and laughed as she rode the artificial waves and enjoyed herself without having to move a muscle, or worry about floating away on a stray current.

*

Ren took off his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and folded it up on the table, and pet the tarantula inside briefly.

“I've got a little bit of time before I have Adventurer's business.” Ren said. “Will you all join me in bed?”

“You don't have to ask.” Frikara said and started to get undressed. “You know we want to.”

Ren smiled because that was exactly what he could feel from them. They got undressed quickly, and started to climb onto the bed and leave a spot in the middle for him.

“Wait.” Ren said, and they got off of the bed. He unbolted the bed and moved it over a couple of feet, bolted it to the floor again, then took out another bed and put it right beside the old one and bolted that to the floor, too. He yanked off the sheets from the old bed and tossed them aside, and took out large custom-made sheets for the new double-sized bed.

The maids helped secure the new sheets in place, and he took out several pillows to put across the top of it. Ren stored his clothing, and left himself in only his underwear as he climbed onto the new bed, and laid down in the middle. The maids sorted themselves and chose which parts they wanted, and climbed onto the bed to take their positions.

“Can we do it a little differently this time?” Ren asked them as he put his arms on the other pillows, and they looked at him. “With a much bigger bed, we're not restricted to laying at the head or the foot of it anymore.” He said and smiled. “Frikara? Can you lay down on your back and rest your head here, on my chest?”

Frikara's heart went pitter-patter and she nodded, then laid down at a right angle to him and put her head on his chest.

“Lusinia? You're next, beside Frikara.”

Lusinia laid down next to Frikara, and sighed.

“Navruth, here on my other side, and Verwynn beside her.” Ren said, and they laid down.

“I'm the odd one out.” Andrela said, and Ren smiled.

“You have a choice.” Ren said. “Beside Lusinia, beside Verwynn, or take your regular spot.”

“Really?” Andrela asked, and crawled onto the bed to lay on her side between Ren's legs, and rested her head on his abdomen.

“I can't hug you while you're down that far, but...”

“It's the best spot.” Andrela whispered and snuggled into him. With Andrela in position, Ren brought his arms down and laid them across the tops of the other women's chests just below their necks. They gasped collectively, even though he wasn't actually touching their breasts; and he smiled at their reaction.

“Is this okay?” Ren asked. “This was only one idea that I had for sleeping arrangements...”

“It's fine for now.” Frikara said, and he felt exactly how fine she was with it. “Now be quiet and go to sleep.”

Ren chuckled, and it shook their heads a little. “I'm sorry.” He said and gave them a little squeeze with his arms. “I'll let you know when I have to go.”

They all took several deep breaths at nearly the same time, and relaxed. Ren had slept just before coming onto the ship; but now that he was back in a comfortable bed, he felt a little tired.

“I'll wake you up if its necessary.” Teepo said from his perch on the ceiling.

Ren yawned and closed his eyes as his thumbs gently caressed the smooth skin of the two women on the end that his hands were on. He wasn't really aware that he was doing it; but it still had a calming effect on everyone, because feelings of contentment filled the shared Aura.

They dozed off for a short nap while Teepo kept watch.
