It was the same for lesser wyrms. Those things abhorred dealing with people. They preferred to tunnel unseen, consuming only the refuse that littered the soil. Even in places where that was impossible—such as the labyrinth they were in, for instance—they would cling to ceilings and avoid potential predators as much as possible. They were enormous and terrifying, yes, but they were also cowards.

Or they were supposed to be.

Leo's kick to the throat should have made the lesser wyrm retreat. The fact that it hadn't was bugging Cale. It felt like this sort of behavior should have been ringing a bell. Like he'd seen something like this before, though he couldn't for the life of him remember where. What made monsters so universally and suicidally aggressive?

"Also, I still want to know about the clown thing," Leo said, shooting a nervous look down the corridor. "What was it? Did you recognize it? Because I've read all three Dungeon Monster Compendiums and that was not in any of them."

"You shouldn't trust those compendiums," Cale said mildly. "Trust me, I tried once. Almost got eaten by five varieties of mimics. I did get eaten by three, but the good news is I gave them indigestion. Because I fed them too much mana."

Leo stared at him. Cale wondered if he could get away with telling them he wanted to follow the clown thing.

"Also," Damien said. "Why was it running away? You were saying every dungeon monster is suicidally aggressive; how come that one isn't?"

Cale paused, blinking. "Huh," he said. "You have a point. It should be attacking us like everything else, unless it's immune for some reason. Or unless it's—"

He groaned, smacking himself in the forehead; the movement triggered the now-exhausted drake to try gnawing off his head again, though not to any success. It looked almost put out by the whole situation.

"Unless it's not one of the dungeon monsters," he said. "It might be a spell. It feels like a spell, I just got distracted because it looks like a clown. Who makes their spells look like a clown?"

"Cale," Solsburn said.

"It's a spell, and it came back," Cale continued, his eyes brightening slightly before they narrowed in focus. "Which means it's trying to lead us somewhere—I think I know what this spell is. Some cultures that specialize in illusory and scrying magics often developed these as a sort of coded way to ask for help; they're meant to scare off anyone who doesn't understand the signal."

Leo twitched. "Please tell me we aren't going to follow the clown thing."

"Like it or not, if that's what I think it is, then we're going to have to," Cale said. He pushed himself to his feet with no apparent effort, expanding the barrier he was using to protect himself to create space, then wrapping a new one around the bone drake. It snapped in distressed confusion at the air. "It's our only clue about what's happening here so far."

"It could also be a trap," Solsburn said, picking up one of the swords and holding it out to him.

Cale eyed it for a moment before taking it with a sigh, "You know if there's something to fight, I'm probably just going to blast it with mana, right? I'm not really a swords kind of guy/"

"You are holding it wrong," Solsburn said. Cale frowned and adjusted his grip, and after a moment, the instructor nodded in satisfaction. "Good. You have experience with the blade."

"A little," Cale muttered. "I don't like it."

"Not all problems can be solved with spell," Solsburn said. "Those that cannot can usually be solved by blade. I prepared one that can handle a fraction of your mana."

Cale frowned. "It would take a divine artifact to handle my mana," he said. Solsburn stared at him and didn't elaborate, and Cale eventually sighed again, eyeing the delicate inscriptions on his new sword gingerly. Now that he was looking at it properly, it did seem... overly ornate.

Their instructor handed out two more swords to Damien and Leo each. "It seems this expedition will extend well beyond my class. I will ensure you four learn the basics of Sword and Sorcery before its end."

"What about Syphus?" Damien asked.

"It will be here soon," Solsburn said impassively. Cale turned his gaze from his sword to the instructor, his brows furrowing slightly. There was no cast of magic, so how would he—

Oh. He could almost certainly sense where his swords were, couldn't he?

Right on time, Syphus strode into the room. Damien and Leo both looked horrified, while neither Cale nor Solsburn reacted to the golem that was entirely covered in some sort of fire slime.

"That was fun," Syphus said gleefully, "I don't think there's anything left alive in that corridor."

"A good use of that arm, though swinging it like a windmill will only work against monsters," Solsburn said. "Decent start. I will give you notes on improvements to your form."

Syphus paused. "Were you watching me?" it asked suspiciously.

"Yes."

"Ah." Syphus said nothing further for a long moment, and Cale could practically see it recalculating something it had been planning. "Well then. What are we doing next?"

"Following some sort of clown thing," Leo grumbled. "Apparently. If it comes back. I, personally, really hope it doesn't. Because I think it's a trap."

"I have bad news," Cale said, already striding off.

As he did, he allowed some of his worry to slip into his expression. He still couldn't for the life of him remember what it was that could drive dungeon monsters to such aggression.

But he was increasingly sure he was not going to like the answer.
