It was now clear to Lana that someone, somewhere, up there, was fucking with her. If this god-damned system had aphorisms to give, then she had one of her own.

As flies to wanton boys are we to the gods; They kill us for their sport.

Unfortunately, though her body looked like it had been mangled by a Roman Mob, she was no Antony.

“What happens when… I am out of [Dasein]?”

[SYSTEM MESSAGE]

The Usurper will face oblivion.

“Ah, that’s not so bad. At least it's not hell… So I guess the powers that be ain’t our brand of Christianity…”

[SYSTEM MESSAGE]

Your Dasein is

23

Acquire Dasein through Karmic Reciprocity

“What the fu—” Lana’s eyes darted from screen to room, to the dark silhouette of her body covered by the white, perforated sheet, then back to the “screen”. It was then that she noted on the digital clock that it read 00:00. As a woman who had worked her whole life in high-pressure, snap decisions, she made the necessary calculations almost instantly. “I see.”

She exhaled. “So, is this like Groundhog Day? I know it isn’t a do-over. Are we even on Earth?”

The System was not cooperative.

“Hello? System Sir? Ma’am? Sir, They? Oh my—”

The pain was back.

“[Health]?” Lana winced.

[Health]12 / 25

A quantification of the Persona’s state of being.

When Health falls below half, the Usurper becomes prone to injury, infection, and other maladies. When Health is critical, the System will consume Karmic Causality unless otherwise specified.

This quantification is affected by [Vitality]

“[Vitality]?”

[Vitality] 15 - 4 (injury) = 11

A representation of the Usurper’s Life Force.

As an adolescent, the Usurper currently possesses a level of vitality below that of the average adult. The Usurper is highly prone to injury. The Usurper is presently afflicted by [Crippled] and [Silenced].

This innate statistic can be improved through exercise, care, and Karmic Causality

Well, that certainly explained why she couldn’t move her body. “Hmm… [Intelligence]?"

[Intelligence] 35

A representation of the Usurper’s intuition, discernment, and cognitive processing abilities. The Usurper is endowed with generational intellectual potential that lies at the apex of talent, utilisation, and experience. Individuals such as these bring great change to the world, be it weal or woe.

This innate statistic can be improved through study, invention, and Karmic Causality

Her interest was now rightfully stoked. After all, such was the malaise of the hyper-intelligent.

“[Comeliness]?”

[Comeliness] 22 - 4 (injury) = 18

A representation of the Usurper’s superficial, external presence in the eyes of her beholders.

The Usurper is endowed with exceptional genetic privileges beyond those of the average adult in her present world. Presently, the Usurper is injured.

This innate statistic can be improved through care and Karmic Causality

“Alright…” Lana comforted herself with the assurance that first impressions were the first step of any shortcut to survival. After all, in a superficially social world, having a good face was the equivalent of having a permanent discount on the currency of social capital. “What the hell is the [The Prophet of Profits]?”

[The Prophet of Profits]

Causality Tier (SSS+)

You have a supernatural eye for profiteering, honed to a molecular sharpness over many years of malpractice. Your ventures almost always generate profit for those in your Karmic circle. In your past life, it is the utilisation of this trait to its utmost degree that has usurped the destiny of millions. While this trait is active, profiteering will result in Karmic Rebound.

Conditions of Karmic Balance must be met to neutralise this Karmic Trait.

“I am here because I created too much value for my shareholders?” Lana rolled her eyes. To deceive others, you must first deceive yourself. “That doesn’t seem fair.”

The system, if it did possess cognisance, chose not to clap back.

Lana wanted to prod the system some more, but the more she called up its holographical windows, the more fatigued she became, until she once again fell victim to the lull of Hypnos.
