“He’s discussing private information. With me. I’m sure Olesm will have plenty of time to talk when he’s free for trivial pursuits.”
The half-Elf’s eyes narrowed.
“Is that so?”
Zevara breathed out a puff of smoke.
“Do I need to repeat myself?”
Olesm was just about to pretend to choke on a fry when salvation appeared in the form of Ksmvr. The Antinium walked over and waved a hand.
“Hello, Olesm. Hello, Watch Captain Zevara. Hello, Captain Ceria. May I join your conversation?”
All three stared at him. Ksmvr looked from face to face and only now seemed to pick up on the underlying tension.
“Ah. I perceive my presence is unwelcome. Am I being a nuisance? Please inform me directly when I am, and I will take note of my behavior.”
“No, Ksmvr—I mean, yes, Ksmvr—look, I’ll explain it to you over here. Sorry, Olesm. I’ll talk to you later.”
Ceria hustled Ksmvr off to one side. The Antinium kept asking what he’d done wrong. Sheepishly, Olesm and Zevara turned back to each other. After a moment, Olesm brought up the only thing he could think of.
“So, about the Redfang Goblins and this huge amount of money the adventurers have gotten…”
Zevara groaned. She fished around in her bowl for more flakes and found there were none. She sighed and took a sip of her drink instead.
“There’s not much we can do about it. Those adventurers will raise all kinds of hell if we try and reverse what’s happened. I want to nail my tail to a wall, but—at least we don’t have to worry about the information leaking. Imagine the riots we’d have if that got out. This is classified and buried.”
Olesm nodded. Zevara sighed.
“And on the subject of Goblins, did you hear what Ilvriss was suggesting?”
Again, Olesm nodded. This time, he traced a pattern on the table.
“It’s…not something I want to consider. They saved those Gnolls, Zevara.”
She tilted her mug up. It was already empty.
“They did. But you know they can’t stay here forever. Maybe—no, maybe it’s best if they leave with the Goblin Lord. By accident. Or maybe they can be ‘encouraged’ to leave ahead of time. They’ve got a grace period while the waters are up, but if the citizens of Liscor see a huge tribe of Goblins suddenly roaming the plains…”
“Could they stay in the dungeon?”
“If they do, they’re on their own against adventurers.”
“Right.”
The two Drakes sat together. Olesm scrubbed a claw through his spikes.
“It’s really not up to us. There’s only one person who can get them to move. I can speak to Erin. Drop a few hints.”
“About what?”
Both Drakes jumped and turned around. Erin paused with a bowl of soup in one hand and a spoon in the other. She delicately tasted the soup. Olesm stared at her and felt sweat rolling down his back for the umpteenth time today.
“Uh, Erin! How long have you been there?”
Erin shrugged.
“I just heard my name so I came over. What’s up?”
Olesm and Zevara exchanged a quick glance. Olesm cleared his throat.
“Nothing…but how’re the Goblins, Erin? Uh, have the Hobs been in your inn recently? Are they…doing well?”
“They’re doing great, thanks for asking! The Hobs aren’t in my inn so much—they’re busy with the Cave Goblins. You know, leading them and teaching them how to survive and stuff. Numbtongue’s over there. Actually, he’s about to go back to their cave. I just need to give him this soup. I think it’s done.”
Erin pointed with her spoon at the Hob. She tasted the soup again and smiled.
“Yup, it’s done. Hey, Numbtongue! Order up!”
She shouted at Numbtongue. The Hob looked up and abandoned his guitar. He walked over, and Olesm saw the same Cave Goblin trot out of the kitchen with a huge pot in her hands. He stared as she waddled over with it. The soup was steaming and gave off a fishy, yet enticing aroma.
“This is Pebblesnatch. You remember Pebblesnatch, right, guys?”
“Charmed.”
Zevara spoke flatly as she eyed the soup. Erin offered the bowl to Numbtongue. He grunted with approval and tasted the soup before nodding vigorously at Erin. She smiled.
“I’m teaching the Goblins how to cook as well as feeding them meals. It’s actually sort of fun! You see, they really like to cook, and all I have to do is show them how to make something and they copy me. Sometimes they get it wrong, but there’s a few promising [Cooks] among them! Pebblesnatch has been watching me work.”
She patted the small Cave Goblin on the head. Pebblesnatch grunted and put the pot on the floor. Erin offered her the bowl to sip from as well. She pointed at it as she spoke to Numbtongue.
“This is fishy minestrone soup with a side of hot garlic bread. Share it; Pebblesnatch can teach the others how to make more, okay? Oh, and take some baking soda. And some flour. Krshia just sent me a shipment via boat. And you’ll need some vegetables. Oh, and pepper. And do you have enough plates?”
The Hob grunted and sighed. Erin began dragging over bags, and eventually, the Hob had to drag everything through the magic door into a cave filled with Goblins. Olesm caught one look of a dozen Goblins swarming Pebblesnatch, peering into the pot as she hit them with her ladle, before the door closed. Erin walked back into her kitchen as Olesm looked at Zevara. The Watch Captain shook her head.
“That Gnoll must be making a killing providing so much food for the Goblins.”
Olesm nodded. He recalled a report that had landed on his desk.
“Apparently, someone’s bought enough food to drive up prices in the city. I’d have spoken to you about it, but since we have access to Celum’s markets, I didn’t think it was cause for alarm.”
“Oh really? Well, I can handle that.”
Zevara smiled slightly. Then she leaned back in her chair and shouted towards the kitchen.
“Oi, Human! Buy your food from Celum instead of Liscor! We don’t have unlimited supplies, you know!”
“Aw! Fine!”
The Watch Captain grinned as she sat back and looked at Olesm.
“Problem solved. Now, where were we?”
“Can we talk about Liscor and the Goblins? Er, I mean, the Goblin Lord. I was going to ask you how certain you are. I hate to keep harping on about it, but…”
Olesm twiddled his claw thumbs together. Zevara nodded. She sat up straighter and leaned forwards, lowering her voice.
“It’s not a concern to me because I know our numbers, Olesm. A siege isn’t easy, and there’s no wood around Liscor—at least, not in enough quantities to help in besieging our city. Our gates are nigh impregnable, and even if the Goblins had siege towers or ladders…the Watch numbers in the thousands. We have Embria and her soldiers, and they’re worth something. So is Ilvriss. But what really reassures me are the Antinium. Don’t let anyone know I said that.”
“Really?”
There was a lot Olesm knew as Liscor’s [Strategist], but some things were still above his pay grade. At least, they had been as a [Tactician]. Zevara nodded. She lowered her voice even further, although no one was listening.
“Officially, the Antinium have three hundred Soldiers they can bring to our defense if necessary. Unofficially…we could hold off a hundred thousand Goblins even if all of them had ladders. We can fill the walls with bodies, make it practically unclimbable. And the Humans have to know that.”
Olesm whistled. Obviously, a single defender could repel multiple attackers, but Zevara was speaking about hard numbers here.
“So we’re safe?”
She nodded.
“If they want to besiege us, they’ll have to take our walls just like the Goblins, and we won’t fall so quickly. It’s my opinion that you’re right and the Humans are pushing the Goblins past Liscor, but not attacking it. With that said, keep listening.”
“Will do.”
“Good. Keep me informed.”
Zevara fished in her belt pouch and stood up. She tossed a few coins onto the table and strode towards the door. Olesm saw her pause there and waver. After a moment, she stomped back over, blushing.
“Sorry, I guess this was a work discussion after all. I’d stay and talk, but I need to tell Embria and Ilvriss and file a report with what you’ve told me.”
Olesm stood up, flushing with embarrassment.
“Of course. I’m sorry, this was my fault.”
“No, no, it was good. And important. It’s just that—”
“Duty calls. Right. Another time, then?”
“Naturally.”
They stared at each other for a second, and then Zevara turned away. She strode towards the door, so flustered that she took the bridge to Liscor rather than the magic door. Olesm sat back in his chair. He looked at his practically uneaten fries for a second and then noticed he had an audience.
At some point, a furry little Gnoll had crept up to the edge of his table. Now two big, round eyes stared at him. Olesm turned red.
“What?”
Mrsha stared sympathetically at Olesm. Then she grabbed his fries and dashed away. He leapt up, outraged, and then flinched as Apista buzzed over his head, stinger raised.
“My fries!”
He watched Mrsha dash upstairs, resigned, as Apista triumphantly followed her. Olesm stared down at his nearly empty bowl and then saw someone turn towards him. The [Mage] with the fancy robes who’d cast the illusionary phoenixes raised a mug and saluted Olesm with it.
“She got mine too. Same trick, even. Fearsome things, those giant bees.”
Olesm sat back down, looking sadly at a wimpy fry at the bottom of his bowl. He raised his mug in turn to the mage.
“Sorry, she’s part of the inn. She’s usually less trouble, but she’s a food thief. Erin’ll probably replace your food if you complain. My name’s Olesm.”
The Human smiled. He threw his mug up, and Olesm winced, but it vanished, liquid and all. He’d been holding an illusion! He winked at Olesm.
“Eltistiman Verdue, [Magician], at your service. I was told this inn was the place to visit if I wanted an interesting time, and I believe it! You wouldn’t happen to know when the, ah, play is starting, would you?”
“Sometime tonight, sorry. Why, are you here for it?”
Eltistiman smiled.
“I’m here to join it, if I can. I was wondering how much time I had. I was hoping to go to Pallass, actually. This wondrous door can send me there in an instant, can’t it?”
He indicated the door, which had the glowing red mana stone on it. Olesm nodded.
“It can do that, but the magic is limited. It can only send two people at a time.”
“Ah, that is inconvenient. But natural given the distances.”
“Right, but there’s more complications too on Pallass’ side. They don’t just let you walk through like, uh, Liscor. You’ll have to fill out a request. I’m sure it will be approved, but it will be at least a day before you can go through.”
Olesm looked apologetic, but Eltistiman didn’t look too put out.
“Ah, a pity. I’ll inquire about the details later. Thank you for your help, sir.”
He smiled at Olesm and turned back to his table. The [Strategist] sat back down and tried to gather his thoughts. He wanted more fries…no! He stared at the table, thinking hard.
“Something’s not right here.”
His conversation with Zevara had reassured him on a lot of points. But still, something didn’t sit right with Olesm. He knew she’d probably run countless simulations, but he wasn’t reassured. The timing, the way everything was falling together…was Liscor in danger? The least he could do was think it out. Olesm sat at the table, pondering hard as his brain ran through possibility after possibility. After a few minutes, he looked up and called towards the kitchen.
“Hey, can I have another plate of fries?”
“Coming!”
 
——
 
The late meal was elegant despite being held in a war camp. Almost ridiculously so; Yitton eyed the gilded plates and silver silverware with deep concern for the priorities of whoever had packed the camp’s supplies. There was no need for this.
Then again however, it suited the gathering. Emperor Laken Godart sat next to Lord Tyrion, dining carefully. He was blind. Yitton had met men blinded in battle, and Laken behaved as they did, although there was a surety to his movements that he had that the men had lacked.
The young man sat stiffly, head slightly tilted towards Tyrion. He moved slowly, but not randomly, carefully finding his plate and food with knife and fork. He was able to eat with only a minimal amount of inconvenience. But his presence disturbed the others. He bothered Yitton too.
“Tyrion, how is it that an…an [Emperor] is sitting among us? Your Majesty, I hate to be rude, but the presence of any sort of royalty on Izril is unheard of. Let alone for someone of your station to appear here…”
Ieka glanced between Laken and Tyrion, her face torn between suspicion and incredulity. Lord Tyrion looked up from his meal—carefully prepared scallops adorned with so many little toppings that they quite outnumbered the seafood itself.
“I requested Emperor Godart’s company, Lady Ieka. The need for his presence will soon be made clear. As for his origins, that remains for His Majesty to reveal. I have not pressed him on the matter.”
“You aren’t curious?”
“I consider the information superfluous. Emperor Laken, would you care for more wine?”
“No, thank you. My stomach’s still unsettled from the ride from Riverfarm these last few days. I’ve discovered that I don’t care for horses.”
Laken replied calmly. Yitton tried to remember where Riverfarm was. He must have been riding nonstop and with powerful Skills to have caught up. He was about to ask something—Erill had been uncharacteristically silent—when Gralton interrupted.
“I don’t care for games. Are you an [Emperor] or not, boy? And where the hell did you come from?”
The table went silent. Laken Godart slowly turned his head in Gralton’s direction.
“Is that Lord Gralton?”
Tyrion opened his mouth, looking displeased, but Gralton interrupted. The man had all the manners of a savage.
“That’s me. Izril has no [Emperors]. We have no [Kings]. Where did you come from so suddenly that not even a she-weasel like Ieka knows of you?”
Yitton held his breath with the table. Ieka narrowed her eyes. Tyrion did not look inclined to intervene, and so everyone stared at Laken. The young man calmly speared a scallop.
“That is none of your business, Lord Gralton.”
“What?”
That was the wrong thing to say to Gralton. The man half-rose and uttered a low growl, like the dogs he raised. The sound made Yitton’s hair stand on end. Consumed by his class. He eyed Gralton warily, wondering if he should say something.
But Laken Godart didn’t flinch. He calmly chewed his bite and spoke.
“Heel.”
Yitton’s blood ran cold. The sound Gralton made was all beast now. He rose from his chair.
“Gralton.”
Erill sounded wary. The [Lord] looked at him, and Erill backed up in his seat. Gralton leaned over the table.
