“I’ve killed men for lesser insults.”
“And will you try again tonight?”
Laken’s voice was glacial. He looked towards Lord Gralton in complete silence, his eyes still closed. Gralton’s eyes narrowed. If the man had a dog’s ears, Yitton thought they would have been laid flat against the back of his head. The intensity between the two ratcheted up another notch. Gralton began to snarl.
Yitton could sense the impending violence in the air. He held his breath, his body tensed to move. If Gralton leapt, possibly not even Tyrion could save the [Emperor]. But the air was heavy, and it wasn’t just the threat of violence that hung there. Yitton felt something heavy pressing down on his shoulders. And he was not the center of Laken’s focus. The young man sat in place, head turned towards Gralton. And then he took another bite of the scallop.
The snarling abruptly abated. Gralton sat back down. Suddenly, the wild look was gone in his eyes. He laughed. Yitton stared, but Gralton roared with laughter.
“So you are an [Emperor]! At least that is true.”
“As I said.”
Laken Godart smiled coolly. Yitton remembered to breathe as Gralton grabbed a scallop himself with his bare hands. Only now did he sense the air lighten. And only now did he place the strange emotion he’d felt coming from Laken the entire meal.
He seemed irritated. Impatient, as if he did not want to be here. It was such a simple emotion that it surprised Yitton. For a moment, he was like one of Yitton’s offspring, clearly unhappy about being here. But at the same time, he had faced down Gralton and even now exuded an air of…assurance. Confidence manifest.
Pride. And it was Laken who put down his fork and turned to Lord Tyrion.
“Thank you for this meal, Lord Tyrion. But I believe your guests and I have come for the same reason. Would you please explain what your grand aim is with the Goblins?”
He sat back in his chair. Lord Tyrion inclined his head.
“As you wish, Emperor Godart.”
He was respectful, but Yitton was sure that Tyrion used Laken’s titles out of a desire to be correct, not out of any sense of deference. And he was just as sure from reading Laken’s expression that the young Emperor Godart knew exactly what Tyrion was about to say. Yitton stared at Laken and then turned his attention to Tyrion.
For all an [Emperor] sat next to him, Tyrion Veltras commanded the room. He did not speak loudly or make grand gestures. He simply stood and spoke without wasting time.
“I am aware of the rumors and gossip swirling about in the war camp. And I am also aware that many of the nobility have deduced the destination to which we travel. But in the interest of transparency, I intend to share with you all the full scope of my war plans tonight. Lady Ieka, gentlemen, our destination is Liscor. And I intend to use the Goblins as a first weapon to strike against the Drakes.”
A sigh ran around the table from the other nobles. Satisfied, resigned, dismissive. Yitton looked from face to face at Gralton, Erill, and Ieka. They didn’t look shocked or even surprised. He glanced at Tyrion. Erill mused into his wine glass.
“So the rumors were true. We are indeed fighting a war by proxy with the Goblins as our instrument.”
“I suppose it is somewhat worth the effort. But all the cloak and dagger nonsense could have been avoided to save us all distress, Tyrion. Just say we’re sending the Goblins into Drake lands and we’ll all support you. Well, most of us.”
Ieka sighed as she lifted a fork to her mouth. Tyrion smiled. Yitton glanced at Gralton and noticed the man hadn’t made a comment either. Like Yitton, he was watching Tyrion. It was his eyes. They betrayed the man’s burning heart.
“I am afraid that you are wrong in that regard, Lord Erill, Lady Ieka. My aim is not to simply send the Goblin Lord into the south as a marauding force. Rather, I intend to aim at a specific target. I told you we march to Liscor. And it is Liscor I intend to take.”
For a moment, Yitton was convinced his ears had betrayed him. He half-rose from his seat. War. Gralton was grinning madly. Ieka and Erill were frozen. Yitton uttered a strangled sound, and Tyrion looked at him.
“Lord Yitton?”
It took Yitton a second to make words come out of his throat.
“Lord Tyrion, you cannot be serious! War has not been declared with the Drakes! To attack Liscor would be—”
“I do not intend to declare war. Nor do I intend to violate the terms of our treaty with the Drakes in any way. We will take no direct action against the city of Liscor. But it will be taken.”
“How?”
Erill leaned over his plate. His eyes were sharp as they studied Tyrion. He spoke plainly, dispensing with formalities.
“How, Tyrion? The Goblin Lord may be weaker than our army, but he is not a mindless tool. Goblins are not entirely suicidal. Do you intend to force him to attack Liscor? I fear he would rather march around the walls and take his chances fleeing rather than face certain death. Liscor cannot be taken by an army so quickly, not without preparation. And not while the waters have risen.”
Tyrion nodded. His eyes flicked amusement towards Erill, though his face was stoney.
“That is true, Lord Erill. But the waters will fall shortly. By the time we arrive, Liscor will be assailable.”
“Not by Goblins, and not without an even larger army than the one you brought! Their walls are enchanted! We’d need dedicated siege mages, not the ones we’ve brought. And ladders! Siege towers, dozens of them! Erill is right, an assault is suicide! You might as well kill the Goblin Lord and be done with it—he’ll never risk an assault!”
Ieka glowered at Tyrion. He shook his head.
“I intend to offer Liscor to the Goblin Lord as a prize, Ieka. By making it a target easy to take.”
“Impossible. No one can break the walls with magic or with steel. The Necromancer hurled his undead against the walls, and they held. The Goblin Lord’d never get over before the Drakes reinforce the city. But go on.”
Gralton grinned. Tyrion smiled coldly.
“I happen to have a way to open Liscor’s walls, Gralton.”
“That would be where I come in, wouldn’t it, Lord Tyrion?”
Laken looked up casually. Tyrion nodded.
“Yes, Your Majesty. As you surmised, your help is essential.”
He began to rise from his seat, but a strangled noise interrupted him. Tyrion looked to Yitton. The [Lord] was on his feet. He looked around the room, from Ieka to Erill to Tyrion to Gralton—and then at Jericha. Finally, he looked at Laken, though the young man could not return his gaze.
“Lord Tyrion, everyone. Are you serious? Are you truly contemplating an attack on a sovereign city? Unprovoked?”
He stared around, but saw no wavering in any of the gazes that came back to him. Just cold calculation in Erill’s eyes, a burning fever in Gralton’s, curiosity in Ieka’s. And in Tyrion, he saw that burning excitement.
Only Laken Godart didn’t respond with his eyes, because they were closed. But he shifted slightly, looked down. If he could have met Yitton’s eyes, what would he have said? Tyrion interrupted Yitton impatiently.
“We are at war with the Drakes, Yitton. We have been for centuries.”
“In name only. Surely this—”
“If the Drakes thought they could push into our lands, they would. Since we are strong, we have repelled such attempts. But I do not intend to wait until that day comes. Liscor falls, Yitton. And I would ask that you refrain from voicing your objections until I have finished speaking.”
Slowly, Yitton sat. He was trembling. Tyrion waited a beat and then went on.
“Yes, Liscor has been my target from the beginning. Ever since I began mustering this army. I would not have informed any of you of my plans until the moment was at hand. It is not that I do not trust any of you personally; I trust no one at all with my plans. But it seems Magnolia Reinhart is determined to sabotage me regardless of the cost. She has sent a message informing the Drakes of my plans.”
“Magnolia has?”
Ieka breathed in sharply. Erill stirred, and Gralton muttered a word not fit for polite company. Or any company, really. Tyrion nodded coldly.
“She is determined to keep the false peace in place. So she’s warned the Drakes.“
“And that’s ruined your plans, hence you telling us? Or must we move quickly, alter this plan you’ve yet to tell us?”
Erill raised his glass and looked at Tyrion sharply. The [Lord] smiled.
“On the contrary. I’m choosing to tell you all because it’s too late for her to stop me. Too late for her or anyone else.”
 
——
 
Erin peered across her inn. So far, her day had been pretty normal, aside from punching Dragons before breakfast. She’d made some soup, hung out with her friends, scolded Mrsha for stealing food…now she was a bit worried about Olesm. He’d been muttering to himself for the past hour, and people were beginning to stare at him.
Olesm was sitting at the table, head in his hands, muttering to himself. Since that was how he tended to behave when he played chess against her, she didn’t worry too much. But she did make sure he got his fries and sent a plate to Eltistiman the [Magician] as well as an apology.
She was about to go over and talk to Olesm when she noticed Jelaqua coming in from Liscor. She noticed because the Selphid was dripping wet and holding something behind her. A bulky, cloth-wrapped something. Seborn was holding the other end. It looked like a body.
It was.
“Jelaqua, what’s that?”
The Selphid turned. She’d clearly been trying to sneak upstairs, but she was about as good a grave robber as…well…Erin had no frame of reference. She smiled guiltily at Erin.
“Hey, Erin! What’re you talking about?”
“That. What’s that you’re holding?”
Erin pointed at the clearly large, clearly dead body. A furry paw was sticking out from underneath the cloth.
“Nothing.”
The Selphid tried to hide her end of the covered body behind her. Erin folded her arms. The Selphid wavered.
“Okay, maybe it’s a dead Raskghar. But it’s dead, see?”
She poked the body and lifted the cover. Erin recoiled.
“Why are you bringing it into my inn?”
Jelaqua winced.
“I was going to store a few in my room. You know, just in case? Or…I was thinking we could use the basement. There’s only food down there, and you don’t have rats. And it’s nice and cool.”
“No. Absolutely—why do you need multiple dead bodies?”
“Spares in case my body gets damaged? To try out? Emergency food supplies?”
“For fun?”
Seborn raised his end of the Raskghar. Jelaqua and Erin stared at him. The Drowned Man shrugged.
“That’s what you told me.”
“Seborn!”
“I’m not having dead bodies in my inn. They’ll rot. Okay, maybe they won’t with the [Field of Preservation] but—rats will eat them! If I had rats. I—I’m just not having them here! No way!”
Erin raised her hands. Jelaqua nearly dropped the dead Raskghar and held up her claws imploringly. Seborn swore as he tried to prop the body up.
“Come on, Erin. Please? I never get extra bodies, and these ones are so—do you know how prestigious it is to be the first Selphid to wear a new body? You won’t notice them at all, I swear! And we’ll pay you.”
“There’s no w—how much?”
The iron wall of refusal Erin had built up turned out to be rusty. She hesitated and edged over to Jelaqua.
“I mean, okay, I’m pretty rich right now from all the gold I got from Ilvriss. I can buy a lot of potatoes or…nails…but if you’re giving me money—not that I’m saying you have lots of money to give or anything—”
The two conferred for a minute. After a little bit, Jelaqua shook Erin’s hand.
“You won’t regret this. They won’t go anywhere, I promise. Unless I’m in them! Come on, Seborn, we’re taking these guys downstairs!”
“Good. Hurry up. Moore says the other ones are getting drenched in the rain.”
The Halfseekers stomped down into the basement. Erin looked around sheepishly. All of her patrons gave her a long stare. She coughed and sidled over to a table. She leaned on it and then spoke to Eltistiman.
“Sorry about that. That doesn’t happen all the time.”
The [Magician] blinked up at Erin. He opened his mouth to respond, but no words came out for quite some while. And Olesm was still muttering.
“It can’t be that simple. This Tyrion Veltras can’t be that stupid. He had to know a Goblin Lord’s army couldn’t take Liscor, not with the Antinium and the Watch and enchanted walls on our side.”
He was doing calculations on a scrap of parchment. Erin had banned him from using the table. Olesm frowned as he muttered.
“What if they tried linked casting? If they linked every mage they had—assuming all the Gold-rank adventurers he’s hired and if you assume…what, one high-level [Mage] per thousand [Soldiers]…”
He had to consult a [Mage] on that. Unfortunately, only Falene and Pisces were present. They had been playing an unfriendly game of chess, but the half-Elf paused to give her opinion on how feasible that would be.
“Linked casting is certainly a powerful technique. However, it requires immense concentration and discipline on the part of the casters. It cannot be performed with totally untrained mages—in Wistram, only students of the fourth year or older would learn to cast together. Of course, any true graduate of Wistram would know how to perform such a spell.”
She looked pointedly at Pisces. The [Necromancer] rolled his eyes. He interrupted Falene with a sneer.
“The problem that Falene has yet to point out, Olesm, is that linking does not allow [Mages] to cast spells they do not already know. They could boost an existing spell several times over—the classic example is using [Siege Fireball], which is simply an overcharged version of [Grand Fireball]—but unless the lead mage knows a Tier 6 spell or higher, the effort is usually pointless.”
“I get it. So there’s a limit.”
“And unless there’s a truly powerful Gold-rank team—no, they’d be Named Adventurers. Or you’d know of the [Mage] by name if they were coming your way.”
Falene nodded grudgingly. That left Olesm with an answer. Of sorts. He went back to his table and continued calculating.
“Okay, so assuming they don’t have that many powerful spells or Tier 6 is the absolute limit…they might be able to do that. But we have anti-spell wards. We could take at least a few hits from a Tier 6 spell, and [Siege Fireball] wouldn’t be enough to damage our walls. Right? And those [Mages] are in danger of being killed if they’re in range. It’s not a sensible idea. We held off the [Necromancer] after all…”
