There was no way Tyrion Veltras would try something with so many risks. And his army wasn’t that mage-heavy. Olesm crossed that idea off his list. That should have made him relieved, but he wasn’t. He felt like he was missing some crucial piece of information. Something important that would put it all together.
And then it came to him. Not as an idea, but as a letter. The door to Celum opened, and someone appeared in the doorway. Olesm paid no notice at first. He vaguely tuned out Erin exclaiming and greeting a tall Human [Runner] who Olesm only barely recalled.
“Fals! Why are you here?”
“I’ve got a letter, actually. It came by regular mail. Took a while to get here due to a few delays—an idiot sprained his ankle, and it would have taken several more days, but someone paid more for a faster delivery. So here I am.”
“Is it for me? Wait, is it from Ryoka?”
“No. It’s to…”
“Olesm?”
The Drake looked up. He saw the Human offering the letter to him. He blinked at the delicately scented stationary.
“Oh, it’s a fan letter to me. For my chess newspaper. I haven’t run an issue in a while. I—thank you. I’ve got my seal around here. One second…”
Absentmindedly, he gave Fals his personal seal and a tip. The [Runner] left the letter with him and went to chat with Erin. About Ryoka. Olesm left the letter on the table for a while as he mentally struggled with the puzzle he was facing. And then, since he was tired and out of sorts, he opened the letter.
It was indeed fan mail, or at least, that was how it began. The delicate cursive made Olesm blink, as did the gold-nibbled edges of the card. It looked expensive. It even smelled expensive, but then he’d received a lot of letters from famous [Strategists] and chess fans. Even Niers Astoragon. He read the letter slowly.
“To Olesm Swifttail of Liscor, I am a deep admirer of your ‘chess newsletter’ that seems to have spread across much of the continent recently. I must confess to having only a passing interest in the game, but I am acquainted with chess and found the games rather fascinating. They are also, apparently, games of the highest caliber according to a rather grumpy friend I regularly correspond with. He has since become vaguely interested in your newsletter, and that is quite an accomplishment in itself. I do hope you will continue releasing the games…hope that you will consider sending copies north…mhm…”
Olesm scanned the rest of the letter. It seemed like what he regularly got. He vaguely wondered who was writing this and checked the envelope. Sometimes, the writers sent him gold or trinkets. One time, he’d gotten a clawful of powdered silver. Weird stuff like that. Olesm found nothing else, but he noticed something on the bottom of the card.
It was a single sentence, underlined and circled repeatedly. It stood out from the rest of the writing, and it made him freeze. It was a strange sentence that didn’t mesh at all with the rest of the letter. But it mattered. It was the same sentence, word for word, that was sent via Courier to the top [Strategist] in Zeres and to other Drake [Strategists] via [Message] spell and Runner. Three words. But they made Olesm shout and leap up from his table. He overturned his chair, ran for the door to Liscor, and raced out it, shouting for Zevara. It changed everything.
When Olesm’s wild shouting had died off, Erin unfroze and walked slowly over to the table. She picked up the card he’d dropped and turned it over. She skimmed the message until she reached the bottom and saw the underlined word. Then she frowned.
“He has trebuchets.”
She looked up at the staring customers. Erin stared at the card and then looked around. She scratched her head.
“Who does?”
 
——
 
“Trebuchets.”
Yitton sat at the table. He tried to picture the word, but he had only seen one in a book. He’d heard what they could do, of course. They were siege weapons, designed to take down enemy walls from afar. But none existed in northern Izril. They were impossible to make unless you were an [Engineer]. Who would contemplate building such a thing? Who would know how other than someone who had a class?
An [Emperor], that was who. Laken Godart sat at the table and nodded, calm as could be. The staring nobility finally remembered to close their jaws at last.
“You know how to make trebuchets?”
“Of course. I’ve taught my [Engineers] how to make them as well. We had two when Lord Tyrion rescued Riverfarm. But at his request, we’ve been working on duplicating them as fast as possible.”
“And now? How many do you have?”
Lord Erill leaned over the table, ignoring the food that smudged his expensive clothing. Laken paused for a second and then nodded.
“We have thirteen trebuchets, eight of which have been tested. My [Engineering] team will continue testing the others and constructing more on the march.”
Tyrion nodded.
“I’ve conscripted every high-level [Carpenter], [Blacksmith], and [Builder] into working on the trebuchets. I intend to have at least twenty by the time we arrive at Liscor. If I can contrive it, forty.”
“Forty—but how many [Engineers] do you have?”
Yitton choked on the thought of so many. Laken just sighed.
“Only a pair for now. But the class doesn’t matter, Lord Yitton. It is not the class which brings knowledge. It is understanding. And I understand how trebuchets work. I do not need a Skill or time to experiment; I can order my people to replicate the design a hundred times. A thousand times, if need be.”
“And you brought thirteen of them. To besiege Liscor.”
Yitton repeated the words slowly. He tried to remember if he’d heard any rumors of strange weapons arriving. How big were they? They had to be massive, surely. Erill frowned.
“Where were they kept? I heard nothing about any trebuchets arriving—”
Ieka laughed softly. She fanned herself, glancing at Tyrion with something akin to admiration.
“He’s using bags of holding, obviously. You’ve got all the parts stored neatly away. And ammunition, I shouldn’t wonder. Nothing to see. Or sabotage. How quickly can they be set up and operated?”
“It will take time, but Emperor Laken assures me that his people can train others in the operation of the weapons. And with them, taking Liscor becomes a reality.”
“How?”
It was the same question, but there was urgency in it this time. Now, all the nobles looked at Tyrion, not with incredulity, but wanting to know exactly how it would be done. Yitton pointed out the obvious with a sick feeling in his stomach.
“Attacking Liscor will still violate the terms of our peace.”
“Not if the attack was incidental.”
“You mean—an accident?”
“Yes. An unfortunate misunderstanding. Poor aim as our army finally assaults the Goblin Lord.”
Lord Tyrion’s eyes glittered. He had a cup in his hands. Now he put it down to speak.
“Our army has been pursuing one purpose and one alone: to slay the Goblin Lord. He has escaped us for many days, but at last, we will have cornered him at Liscor. To attack his army, we will deploy trebuchets, a powerful weapon which will surely be his downfall. Unfortunately, on the day of the assault, the trebuchets will misfire. And strike Liscor instead.”
Erill shook his head.
“There is absolutely no way the Drakes will accept that.”
“No? Accidents occur. Regardless, the trebuchets will continue firing until Liscor’s walls are breached. And then, naturally, they will stop. The army will advance upon the Goblin Lord as is our mission. And the Goblins—”
“—Will storm the city through the breaches. Of course.”
Ieka sat back in her chair. Yitton nearly vomited. That was the plan? That? A lie barely disguised? Destroy the walls and let the Goblins pour through? Tyrion was still talking, outlining his plan to the others.
“It is not an offensive action against Liscor. The trebuchets are a terrible mistake. All the bloodshed and the taking of the city itself would be the fault of the Goblins. Naturally, once they sack the city, it would have to be retaken.”
“By a conveniently placed Human army?”
Gralton snorted with amusement. Tyrion nodded.
“If one happened to be nearby.”
“And you think you can take Liscor? Just like that? With trebuchets?”
Ieka eyed Tyrion sardonically, but her hands played with a fork rapidly. She was excited. Tyrion nodded.
“Trebuchets are a rare weapon, one that Liscor was never designed to withstand. Magic, yes, but trebuchets? No. They have enchantments on their walls, but no siege weapons themselves either. Drakes are naturally possessive, and that technology resides solely in the Walled Cities, and [Engineers] capable of constructing such weapons have been practically impossible to find—until now.”
“But Liscor was designed to be unassailable. The Necromancer—”
Tyrion held up a hand, forestalling Erill’s argument.
“Liscor’s walls are spelled against magic and physical harm, but how strongly? A [Mage] will tire, but a trebuchet? How many stones will the wall endure before the magic runs out? Forty? A hundred? Liscor is no Walled City. The Necromancer could not take it with his magic, but that was his arrogance. I place my trust in stones and wood. What is real and will not evaporate or disappear.”
“And which you can replicate. Clever.”
Ieka gazed at Laken. The [Emperor] didn’t notice her glance. He was staring ahead. He did not look happy. Tyrion did. He nodded.
“We have the weapons to crack Liscor’s walls and an expendable army that will see the city as their only salvation. By the time we reach Liscor, I have no doubt that the Drakes will be marching a force north from Pallass to keep the Goblins out of their lands. The Goblin Lord will have no choice but to assault Liscor and hope he can hold the walls.”
Erill nodded.
“And when he does, Liscor falls. And we take the city. We outnumber the Goblins. But wouldn’t they know it’s a trap?”
Gralton grunted.
“Better trying to hold a city than fight a Drake army or a Human one out in the open. And Liscor is what you want, isn’t it, Veltras? That’s what all this is for. Liscor.”
He looked at Tyrion, not as a rabid dog might, but with sharp cunning in his eyes. Tyrion smiled in response. He had a map of Izril, and he brought it out now. His fingers traced Liscor and moved ever south, pointing out lines of attack and defence that all ran through one spot.
“Liscor’s value as a strategic location cannot be overstated. In the past, our armies have traditionally fought in the Blood Fields as a matter of course; we cannot hope to take and hold Drake Cities further to the south with Liscor at our backs, able to cut our supply lines in half, so we fight at a prearranged location with the Drakes. But if we hold Liscor, we may mount as many southern offensives as need be, at our leisure. The city is practically impregnable if defended correctly.”
“This is insane. It would be the first prelude to a full-scale war. The Drakes would never let Liscor fall so easily.”
Yitton felt like he was alone in the room. The others barely glanced at him, but Erill did look up.
“Yitton has a point, Tyrion. If Magnolia Reinhart has warned the Drakes, they’ll be marching north as fast as they can. But they don’t have to wait. They have that magic door. You recall, from the siege of Liscor?”
Lady Ieka snapped her fingers, frustrated.
“Of course! I recall that thing! They could continually reinforce Liscor, send an army through before we got there! If they do that then—”
“Calm yourselves, that issue has already been accounted for.”
Tyrion’s voice was unperturbed. Erill’s eyebrows nearly disappeared into his hair as he glanced at Tyrion. The [Lord] did not elaborate.
“I’ve already made a move in that regard. Moreover, I suspect that door cannot transport legions of soldiers without great cost. But it is another reason why I intend to take the city. A doorway that would allow us to reinforce the city or transport an army would be of considerable strategic importance.”
“Not to mention economic.”
“Of course. Liscor is a gateway city. And in times of peace, it would be valuable to hold.”
“Lord Tyrion. All of what you’ve said is an open declaration to the Drakes. If you take Liscor, they will declare war. A true war that will split our continent in two once more.”
Yitton spoke through numb lips. He stared at Tyrion. How could he have misjudged the man? But then—he hadn’t. Tyrion had always been aiming at this. He hadn’t lied to anyone. If he’d done the trickery, it was by hiding his intent until the last moment. But he’d shot towards his goal. Straight as an arrow. And just as deadly. Lord Tyrion looked at Yitton, and for a moment, his gaze softened. Perhaps he wanted Yitton to understand, but the Lord Byres couldn’t. At last, Tyrion shook his head.
“This is not an act of war. This is an unfortunate accident that will lead to the fall of Liscor. The Goblins will sack the city. And we will clear them out. We will not violate our treaties; nor will we kill a single Drake. Naturally, Liscor must be occupied, and so our army will rebuild it stronger and populate it once more.”
Just hearing the way Tyrion phrased it made Yitton feel as though he’d swallowed muck. He bit his tongue rather than shout, but then he heard laughter. It was coarse, boisterous, almost mocking. Lord Gralton stood up. He pointed down at the map and looked Tyrion in the eye challengingly. His bloodshot gaze promised death, but his words were surprisingly measured as he spoke to Tyrion.
“And if the Drakes don’t buy your twisted words? What if they march their armies north and demand Liscor back at the point of the sword? What if they take it back by force of arms? What then?”
Tyrion Veltras paused. And then he smiled.
“They can try.”
 
——
 
Olesm stood in the conference room of Liscor’s city hall. He was panting, out of breath. For a second, Ilvriss, Embria, and Zevara stared at him, and the same horror in his chest painted their faces. Then Ilvriss moved. He turned and roared an order at his aides, who were staring into the meeting room.
“Get me a [Message] spell to the Walled Cities now! I want every report on Liscor’s rainfall sitting in front of me!”
They ran. Ilvriss swore and grabbed at his scrying orb. Embria’s voice shook as she looked around.
“I need to find a [Mage]. Now. I must inform High Command!”
“Them? What can they do?”
Olesm looked incredulously at Embria, but the Wing Commander was already gone. He turned back to the map that Ilvriss was already poring over.
“If they can break our walls, it’s not a question of holding out. If they can breach the walls, the battle will be swift. How many Drakes can we call up north? How quickly?”
