They had to have won. How else would they be here? Durene remembered the battle, hearing the soldiers screaming around her as they fought the Goblins. So many Goblins. It had felt like they were pushing the entire army back, but Durene had held her ground and swung her club again and again, trying to hold them back. Until the fat hob with the battleaxe had appeared. She looked at Wiskeria, hoping. But the [Witch] only looked away.
“We…lost. After you fell, Beniar charged to your rescue. That Chieftain took him down too. I called a retreat, and we ran. The Goblins nearly ran us all down.”
“All? Did they kill—”
Durene’s heart sank. Wiskeria shook her head hurriedly.
“They didn’t get a chance. Another group of soldiers charged them. A group of cavalry led by Lord Pellmia. They came here with Tyrion Veltras himself.”
The name stirred a thought in Durene’s head. Veltras? Wasn’t that one of the Five Families? She stared at Wiskeria.
“How? I mean, how’d they know to—what happened?”
Wiskeria hesitated, then sat on Durene’s bed. The half-Troll girl found there were clothes folded near her bed—her clothes from her cottage. She dressed silently as Wiskeria told her what had happened. First the army from Riverfarm had been routed, then Lord Pellmia had broken the Goblins in turn. They’d disappeared, hunting the Goblins while Lord Tyrion himself had ridden to rescue Riverfarm.
All of that had happened as she slept. It was too much to take in. Durene put her head in her hands.
“And I was out for all of it?”
Wiskeria nodded.
“You lost so much blood. Even the healing potion wasn’t enough. And the [Healer] told us that you needed rest, so they put you here. You woke up a few times, mainly to use the toilet, but you were practically a zombie.”
“How long was I asleep?”
The [Witch] hesitated. Durene raised her voice.
“How long?”
When she spoke loudly, people tended to listen. Wiskeria didn’t pale or freeze up, but she answered after a second.
“Nearly a week.”
“A week!?”
Again, Durene tried to get out of bed. Wiskeria held up a hand.
“You were practically dead when we brought you to Riverfarm! If you hadn’t been as tough as you were, I think you would have been dead. Beniar had armor on, and he still nearly died! You took a blow from an enchanted axe to your chest and survived.”
“But we lost. And I lost. We lost the battle.”
Durene felt completely adrift as she stared at Wiskeria. She saw how the [Witch] looked down, and a wave of despondency swamped Durene. She looked around frantically. She had to see him.
“Laken. Where’s Laken?”
Part of her hoped he would be nearby. But Wiskeria didn’t meet Durene’s eyes.
“He’s not in Riverfarm. He wanted to stay, Durene. He refused to leave your side, but Tyrion Veltras insisted. So he left. He was here every day until—”
She yelped as Durene grabbed her. The half-Troll lifted Wiskeria into the air as easily as a kitten and brought her closer to her face.
“Where is he?”
“He left! He rode out with an escort two days ago! He wanted to stay! But Tyrion’s messenger gave him no choice! Durene, put me down!”
Durene realized she was shaking Wiskeria. She stopped and let the [Witch] drop. Wiskeria gasped as Durene took a step back.
“Why?”
The [Witch] shook her head.
“I don’t know exactly. All I know is that Laken struck a deal with Lord Tyrion Veltras. But he wouldn’t tell me or Prost or Rie what it was for. He had the entire village of Riverfarm working these last few days. Now he’s gone, and so is Gamel and Tessia and over thirty of the villagers. They’ve taken—”
Durene didn’t hear the rest. She slowly sat down on the bed. Gone. Laken was gone, just like in her worst nightmares. And he’d left without her.
She didn’t know what to think. She’d lost. For the first time, she’d actually lost a fight. She remembered the Goblin looking down at her as he swung the axe. She’d lost.
And Laken was gone. Durene bowed her head. Then, suddenly, she looked up.
“Where?”
“Where what?”
“Where are they?”
Wiskeria wavered.
“I don’t know exactly. Durene, you’re in no condition to move just yet. If you’re thinking of following them, forget it. They had Skills and horses. They were trying to catch Tyrion Veltras, I think. And if he’s where I think he is—”
“Just tell me where! In what direction did he go?”
Durene covered her face. She wanted to cry. Nothing was right in the world. She heard nothing for a moment, and then Wiskeria sat next to Durene. She put a hand on the Troll girl’s shoulder, and Durene felt it trembling. She looked up and saw the desolation in Wiskeria’s eyes too. They’d failed. The two sat together for a moment, and then Wiskeria spoke.
“South. They’ve all gone south.”
 
——
 
Olesm stood in the Adventurer’s Guild and felt every eye on his back. He felt more in danger here than in a room full of zombies. There was nothing like having a dozen Gold and Silver-rank teams eying you from behind to get your heart racing. As casually as he could, he leaned over the counter.
“It’s, uh, good to see you, Selys.”
“Yeah. What brings you here, Olesm?”
The [Receptionist] looked unusually strained as she smiled back at Olesm. She was manning the desk in the Adventurer’s Guild as always. But from what Olesm understood, that was not an enviable task at the moment. All the adventurers in Liscor had been fighting over who would get what from the lottery Ilvriss had created. And the fighting wasn’t just verbal. Olesm could feel suspicious eyes on his back, and he was conscious of the slip of paper in his claws.
Ilvriss hadn’t understated things. Olesm wondered if he’d actually be jumped if he mentioned that he had the list of who got what in his claws. So, conscious of eyes on him and the various Skills that the adventurers had that would aid their senses of sight and hearing, he leaned forwards and pretended to smile.
“I was actually hoping you could help me, you know, in my capacity as a [Strategist]? I need some information about Liscor’s weather, and your grandmother’s one of the oldest Drakes I know.”
Selys smiled, but her eyes flicked to the piece of paper Olesm covertly showed her. She looked at Olesm, and her tail twitched slightly. She knew. But she kept her face straight like the best of [Actors].
“Really? Well, Grandma is old, and apparently she knows a lot about Liscor. She won’t shut up about how things worked in her day, at any rate. What do you need to know?”
Olesm shrugged casually.
“Nothing much. I’d just like to know when the rainfall usually stops.”
Selys frowned.
“The rain? I’d say it’s due to stop soon, don’t you think?”
“Yes, but when, exactly? Are there patterns? If Guildmistress Tekshia could tell me herself or point me to any books or reports on the subject, I’d be grateful.”
“Oh, well in that case, I can take you to her. Why don’t we go now?”
“Sounds good.”
The two Drakes slid away from the desk and casually walked towards the stairs, bantering lightly. Olesm saw the Flamewardens, the Wings of Pallass, and two other Gold-rank teams sitting by the stairs. He could feel sweat rolling down his scales as the adventurers stared at him.
“Hey, Olesm, isn’t it?”
“Um, yes?”
Olesm and Selys froze as they passed by the not-leader of the Wings of Pallass, Bevussa. The Garuda smiled at him.
“We met during the battle. And the baseball game. How’s it going?”
“Oh, well. You know how it is. I’m just on business for Liscor.”
“Yeah? You work with Wall Lord Ilvriss, don’t you? Any news about who got what yet?”
The atmosphere sharpened to a razor’s edge. Olesm saw Keldrass of the Flamewardens look up and a Gold-rank Gnoll slowly sniff the air. He tried to keep his tail from tying itself in knots.
“T-the lottery? I’ve got no idea. Wall Lord Ilvriss is making his decisions. If I knew anything, I’d let you know, sorry. I’m, uh, just going with Selys—”
The [Receptionist] tugged Olesm, and he stumbled towards the stairs. Bevussa half-rose as her eyes narrowed, but the two Drakes practically ran upstairs. Selys pushed Olesm towards the end of the hall where Tekshia’s office was. Only when they were a few feet from the doors did she finally slump.
“Ancestors, Olesm! You are the worst liar I’ve ever met! And I’ve talked to the Antinium!”
“I’m sorry, I panicked!”
Olesm wiped sweat from his brow, then he froze.
“Can they hear us…?”
Selys shook her head.
“No, there’s an anti-eavesdropping spell around Grandma’s office. They can’t hear a thing. Is that really the list of rewards?”
“That’s right.”
Olesm showed Selys the parchment. She snatched it from him and unfolded it.
“Hey!”
“Shut up. Let’s see here…oh wow. Griffon Hunt got their first pick, the bow, the Halfseekers didn’t get their armor, but they did get a mace, the Wings got a sword, and the Flamewardens got the armor—this isn’t good.”
“It’s not?”
Olesm craned his neck to see the neat scrawl. Selys tsked as she read.
“No, but it was going to be bad no matter what. All that fighting—why couldn’t Ilvriss have hurried up? Well, I guess either way…there’ll be a huge brawl when the adventurers hear who got what, you mark my words. Grandmother’s probably going to have to get them to leave the city before she tells them or something. Otherwise, they’ll wreck half the guild.”
The [Strategist] winced.
“Well, that’s none of my business. I’m just the messenger.”
“Right, message received. I’ll get this to Grandma. You can go.”
Selys waved a claw at Olesm. He hesitated.
“Actually, I was serious about the rainfall question.”
“Really?”
“It may be a matter of Liscor’s security.”
“Why? No, wait, I don’t want to know. Let’s just get this over with. Grandma’s not going to be happy about the Halfseekers, though.”
“Why? Does she favor them?”
“No, but she has a thirty-gold bet they’d get the armor. Hold on. Grandma?”
Selys raised her voice and knocked on the door. Olesm heard a muffled sound from within and then jumped as he heard a thump. It sounded like someone had thrown something heavy against the door. Selys frowned and then the door opened, and a pair of people spilled out.
“Revi? Yvlon?”
The two women scrambled out of Tekshia’s office as if they were being chased. They paused and stared at the two Drakes. Revi was smiling more widely than Olesm had ever seen her, and Yvlon looked pleased. However, both adventurers quickly shut the door behind them.
“Selys, Olesm, I didn’t realize you were outside.”
Yvlon nodded at the two of them. Revi just kept smiling. It was quite eerie compared to her usual scowl. Olesm blinked. Selys folded her arms.
“What’s going on? I thought you two were meeting Grandmother on adventuring business.”
“We were. Just a casual update for Liscor’s guild.”
Revi pointed back to the door. Selys rolled her eyes.
“In that case, why did she throw her spear at you? Don’t lie—I recognize that thump.”
Yvlon and Revi exchanged a quick glance. The armored woman was the first to answer.
“Your grandmother’s insane, Selys. She could have hit us!”
“Only if you really made her mad. Sounds like she was trying for it anyways. What happened?”
“Well…we drew the short straws, so we had to meet her.”
Revi and Yvlon exchanged glances. They didn’t seem too displeased despite their brush with death. Selys frowned.
“About what?”
Yvlon coughed, and Revi shrugged. The two looked too happy. Olesm narrowed his eyes. Selys made a displeased hissing sound.
“Just tell me, would you? You told my grandmother—she’ll tell me.”
“Oh, but we didn’t tell her—”
“Shush!”
Revi nudged Yvlon. The Stitch-Woman smiled at Selys.
“We can’t give out details, Selys. But you know how adventurers have to report income to the Adventurer’s Guild?”
Both Selys and Olesm nodded. Adventurers generally owed ten percent of everything they made to the guild. Normally, that was pre-deducted in cases of requests, but when adventurers found treasure in dungeons, they were required to pay a tax on what they earned, both to the Adventurer’s Guild and the city if the dungeon was on their lands. Olesm knew Selys would have to fill out a myriad of forms after the Raskghar’s treasure had been divided up.
“Everyone knows that. What, did your groups find some more treasure in the dungeon? If you did, you’ll have to pay up just like everyone.”
The two adventurers grinned giddily. Now, Olesm was seriously beginning to be weirded out. He took a step behind Selys as Revi replied.
“Oh, we know. And normally, we’d have to disclose everything. But, ah, not this time. We were just stopping by to let Guildmistress Tekshia know that our teams—that is, Griffon Hunt, the Halfseekers, and the Horns of Hammerad—received a huge amount of income. And we’re not paying for any of it. She was just testing us with truth spells.”
“What? But you have to pay! Grandmother wouldn’t let you two off unless—that’s illegal!”
Selys stared at Revi and Yvlon. Again, the adventurers shook their heads.
“Not if it’s a gift. Gifts aren’t taxable under the Adventurer Guild’s laws. And it just so happens that we got a huge ‘gift’ of treasure the Raskghar left behind. So it’s all ours and we don’t owe the guild a copper coin.”
Revi smirked. Olesm raised a hand timidly.
“But that’s just a technicality. If it was in the dungeon, it’s still acquired loot. You can’t just claim it’s a gift to be exempt. If you found it—”
“But that’s the thing. We didn’t find it, so it wasn’t adventurers’ loot. We got it from the Goblins. They had all the treasure. All of it.”
“The Redfang Goblins did? But they’re adventurers too!”
Selys looked astounded. Revi’s smile only grew wider as she shook her head.
“That’s what we thought. But guess what? Apparently, Erin told us that they were made a team yesterday. Funny thing, that. I thought they were supposed to be regular adventurers already, but it sounds like someone confused the paperwork so they wouldn’t have to give the Goblins any of the treasure we got.”
Olesm blanched as Selys shot him a quizzical glance. He remembered that discussion with Ilvriss and Zevara. They’d fudged the paperwork so that the Redfang Goblins would be exempt from the lottery.
“T-that, how do you know that?”
“Oh, we don’t care. And they don’t either. But that means they were just random…Goblins until yesterday. And they gave us all the treasure three days ago. So…guess what?”
Revi assured Olesm. She was still smiling. Slowly, Olesm began to put the pieces together. He paled.
“You don’t mean—”
