“Assuming they do that, there’s little we can do. They’ll pop out far further west. But say they come to Liscor.”
She tapped Liscor on the map and pointed out the basin that Liscor lay roughly in the center of. Embria shook her head.
“It’s foolish to try pushing the Goblins across the water while Liscor is flooded.”
“If they try to push the Goblins across the water, they’ll die by the tens of thousands to our archers on the walls and the monsters and fish in the waters. We can range them, if not with bows, then with spells. And they won’t have boats. They’ll be sitting ducks!”
Olesm nodded. That was what the [Strategist] from Zeres had written. But still—he frowned.
“That’s true Wing Commander Embria, but the High Passes are just as deadly. It might be safer to dare crossing the basin, especially if Rock Crabs and assaults from Liscor are the only dangers. We have limited arrows, and even if we slew—what, forty thousand? How many arrows can our archers put out per minute? What if the Goblins travelled around the edge of the basin? That’s still a huge force if this Goblin Lord can keep it alive. And more if they link up with the Goblins from the dungeon.”
Embria paused. Ilvriss sat up slightly.
“You think Tyrion Veltras is aware of the Cave Goblin situation and intends to grow the Goblin Lord’s army?”
Olesm shook his head.
“I doubt he knows, Wall Lord. But it might complicate matters if he finds them there.”
Ilvriss nodded slowly.
“I have given much thought to the situation. There may be a few thousand Goblins living in the dungeon still, at least several hundred. Like all of the monsters that plague Liscor, they must be dealt with.”
Olesm’s stomach did an unhappy belly flop. Ilvriss sighed.
“It is my duty to say they should be eradicated without mercy. But to slay them outright…it sits ill on my conscience.”
“Yes, sir. I completely agree.”
The Goblins had helped save the citizens of Liscor. More than that, Olesm had gotten to know the Redfang Goblins living in Erin’s inn, and he couldn’t fathom the idea of killing them. Embria clearly didn’t share the same opinion, however.
“They may have served Liscor once, but they are monsters, Wall Lord. If you wish to reward them, give them an hour to run and then send the Watch and my soldiers after them.”
Ilvriss glanced up.
“You think you could rout an army of two thousand Cave Goblins, Wing Commander Embria? With your 4th Company?”
There were barely more than a hundred soldiers in her company. Olesm blinked, but Embria nodded confidently.
“Give me a thousand Level 10 [Soldiers] and I could take on an army twice as large. Against Goblins? Four times. My company and I were deployed to hold Liscor. If the Goblin Lord comes through Liscor by water or these Cave Goblins need to be dealt with, the Watch supplemented by my soldiers can deal with either issue.”
The red-scaled Drake smiled confidently. Ilvriss nodded slowly, and Zevara frowned, but didn’t object. As for Olesm, he nodded slowly as he did the calculations. Embria wasn’t lying or boasting—much.
A hundred of her soldiers plus a thousand members of Liscor’s Watch could do just what she said. They’d proven it in the dungeon against the Raskghar; with low-level recruits and part of Liscor’s army, they could take on threats vastly above their level. All thanks to Embria and her officers.
It was Liscorian strategy—that was to say, a way of forming armies unique to Liscor. Liscor had an army of a few thousand strong at all times, a small army given how large the city was. Even smaller Human cities in the north half as large as Liscor had an army of at least five thousand! But the Watch was equivalent to any militia, and Liscor’s regular army didn’t need numbers to win battles. They had a trick, an open secret anyone in the military could figure out, really. And the secret had to do with classes.
At birth, each citizen of Liscor was formally conscripted into Liscor’s army with a small ceremony. It was a trivial detail for most, but it was mandated by law. None of Liscor’s citizens had to join the army, mind you. It was a formality, but that formality mattered very much for how Liscor’s army operated. Because it allowed them to promote their soldiers with impunity.
You couldn’t have an unlimited amount of officers in an army. That went against common sense and military protocol. There was no way you could have two [Generals] in the same army, obviously. In the same way, higher-ranking officers required a certain amount of [Soldiers] serving under them or they couldn’t change classes, even if they were promoted in rank. That usually posed a slight problem in other armies, but not in Liscor’s army.
Olesm wasn’t sure of the numbers, but if one [Sergeant] was promoted to command eight soldiers…or sixteen, or even thirty-two….there was a finite number that could be fielded in any army. And smaller armies of a few thousand would have a few hundred sergeants at most. But if every citizen of Liscor was technically a soldier…
It was the trick that made Liscor’s army so deadly in small numbers. They had only a few thousand regulars in the army. But they had so many [Sergeants], [Captains], [Lieutenants], and even [Wing Commanders] that they could turn a group of low-level [Soldiers] into an army of war demons.
That was how Liscor fought. They kept an elite core of high-rank officers and constantly recruited soldiers who would fight under the effects of a dozen Skills at once. That was why a hundred or so of Embria’s soldiers and officers could actually turn the tide of battle if they fought with the City Watch. That was how General Sserys had held the Antinium in the first Antinium War at Shivering Falls Pass, and it was why Liscor’s army was famed throughout Izril.
Embria wasn’t wrong to think she could beat an equal or greater force with help from the Watch, but Olesm knew Liscor’s army wasn’t invincible. It had suffered defeats like any other force, and the Second Antinium War and the assault on Liscor by Az’kerash had shown just how weak Liscor’s army was to an enemy with powerful magical support…
“Olesm? Olesm!”
The Drake jumped. He looked around and realized Zevara was looking at him. He flushed and sat up.
“I’m sorry, what was that, Watch Captain?”
Zevara ignored his lapse as she tapped the map in front of her.
“So the Goblin Lord will be pushed through the High Passes or go around Liscor. That’s the contents of the report. What do you believe the reaction of the other cities will be?”
“Naturally, to ensure the Goblin Lord does not pass into Drake lands and disappear.”
Ilvriss frowned. Olesm nodded.
“I believe that the Walled Cities will put forward a motion to gather a truly large suppression army at Pallass. Or Zeres, if the Goblins move through the High Passes instead of Liscor. They will attempt to meet the Goblins and force them back to the Human lands in turn—or destroy them where they are.”
He grimaced, imagining how difficult it would be for all the cities to send the required number of soldiers to Pallass in time to repel the Goblins. Zevara just nodded.
“In that case, we can only wait to see what the Humans do. But if they come to Liscor, I’ll make sure the Goblin Lord’s army turns the waters red. I’m going to check our ammunition stores and recheck the status of the enchantments on our walls. Wall Lord Ilvriss has agreed to communicate with the other cities, and Wing Commander Embria will do an inspection of our walls for weak points, if any. Is there anything else we should be doing?”
Olesm shook his head.
“No, I’ll, ah, continue monitoring the progress of the Humans. I will of course report to you all when I have any information—”
He got up, trying to gather all the reports. Zevara nodded and turned. Embria was already striding out of the room. Ilvriss slid his report to Olesm. The older Drake sighed.
“Another damn complication. It seems like every other week a disaster strikes Liscor. I should have known this one was coming; trust a Human to make our lives difficult.”
“Yes, sir.”
Olesm couldn’t argue with that. The enmity between Drakes and Humans was usually nothing pleasant, but he’d grown used to Humans, living so close to their lands in Liscor. But this Tyrion Veltras was known for his anti-Drake stance, and he’d personally fought against Liscor in the annual battles in the Blood Fields many times. If anyone could be considered an enemy among the Humans, it was him. Ilvriss sighed as he put his claws behind his back and faced the rain-spattered windows.
“I think Watch Captain Zevara is overstating the danger. The Goblins may pass by our walls, but they’ll be no threat. For once, Liscor may relax.”
Our walls. Olesm noted the words, but all he did was nod.
“Yes, Wall Lord. But I thought I should bring it up given the situation.”
“Oh, of course. We must be informed at all times. You do your job with commendable attention, Swifttail.”
“Thank you, sir.”
Ilvriss smiled fondly at Olesm, as an uncle would to a nephew. Rather like how Olesm’s uncle Lism would puff up with pride, come to that. It wasn’t a favorable comparison. The Wall Lord frowned suddenly as Olesm was rolling his map up securely.
“That reminds me. Young Olesm, I know you’re an acquaintance of Miss Shivertail. Would you pass the results of the lottery to her or Guildmistress Tekshia in person? I would send a Street Runner, but I wouldn’t put it past some adventurers to waylay any messenger in hopes of altering the results.”
Olesm jumped. He stared as Ilvriss pulled out a folded bit of parchment and proffered it to the [Strategist]. Olesm took it nervously.
“Oh—the lottery’s finished?”
“It was decided by random lots yesterday. Fairly. Most of the teams acquired some manner of magical artifact or other, and the rest will receive adequate gold as compensation. As will Liscor. Please inform the adventurers that they may begin picking up their shares here. In an orderly fashion.”
Ilvriss sighed as if he was already anticipating angry mobs. Olesm nodded.
“I’ll give it to Selys at once, sir.”
“Thank you, Swifttail. Now, I must inform Salazsar. Excuse me.”
Olesm left Ilvriss in the conference room. He stowed the reports and his map in his office and hurried down the stairs and out of the city hall. He paused and stared up at the rain as it instantly soaked his scales, but he didn’t bother going back for his cloak, which he’d forgotten in his office. Instead, he just tucked the parchment Ilvriss had given him into his waterproof belt pouch and hurried through the streets, grumbling about the rain.
“I can’t wait for all this water to stop. When’s it going to end? It has to be next week at the latest, right?”
The [Strategist]’s aggrieved comments drew little notice from the Drakes and Gnolls hurrying about on their business in the wet streets. Complaining about the rain was practically a tradition in Liscor. That and moaning about clogged sewers or Quillfish. Then again, comments about the sewers had stopped due to a sudden improvement in the drainage system underneath Liscor, much to the displeasure of those who liked to groan about such things.
Olesm paused as a torrent of water from above nearly hit him. He shook a fist at a Drake who was unapologetically emptying a bucket from a balcony above and wondered when he’d see the sun again. Maybe if he went to Celum after visiting Selys. It would be nice to see clear skies.
Clear skies. Olesm paused as he stared up at the cloudy, rain-sodden skies. When would Liscor have clear skies? It had to be…how long had it been raining? A month, now? He paused and then picked up his pace. But this time, he was staring up at the sky. The rain had to stop soon. Olesm felt that way as any native of Liscor did. But how soon? When, exactly, would it change? There was something about that thought that disturbed him greatly.
 
——
 
Day ???
She dreamt she was floating in a sea of clouds. As high up as she could go and resting on a cloud as soft as cotton. But then she felt a hideous pain in her chest. She looked around and realized she was falling. And suddenly, she was bleeding, and she saw a Goblin staring at her with eyes like crimson fire—
Durene shouted as she woke. She sat up and cried out in pain as whomever was standing next to her went flying. She heard a shout, and then someone rushed into the room. Durene was too busy clutching at her chest. It hurt! But the pain was illusory—as soon as she touched her chest, she felt only rough skin. Raised skin. A scar.
“Durene?”
The half-Troll girl looked up. A young woman with a pointy hat stood in the doorway.
“Wiskeria? What’s going on? Where are the Goblins? Where—”
Durene tried to swing herself out of bed. She heard an exclamation and reached down, unthinking. She pulled up a terrified woman dressed in white. A [Healer]. She had both herbs and healing potions at her belt. Durene stared and slowly lowered the woman to the ground.
“Where am I?”
“In Riverfarm. You’re safe.”
Wiskeria reassured the young woman as the [Healer] fled out the door. Now that Durene was getting her bearings, she could see that she was in a house. It looked like…one of the many houses that Laken had ordered built for the villagers, but wider, more open. Not her cottage. And when she looked down, she saw she was lying in a newly-made bed, made wider and longer to hold her. She looked around. Bright sunlight was streaming through the windows.
“Where am I?”
“In a hospital. That’s what Laken called it anyways. It’s a place for the [Healers] to work. You’re in a private room. In Riverfarm.”
Wiskeria repeated herself slowly. At last, her words sank in. Durene stared at the [Witch]-made-[General].
“What about the battle? There were Goblins. I was—”
Again, she touched her chest. She realized she was bare from the chest up—the [Healer] must have been tending to her. Durene looked down. Her dark grey, cracked skin was whole in most places, but there was a red wound on her chest, right between her breasts. It ran from just below her chin down nearly to her navel. It was nearly closed, but it was red. Puffy. It hurt. Durene touched it and felt a flash of pain. She put her head down.
“I got hurt.”
Wiskeria nodded. The [Witch] tugged the hat brim lower on her head.
“You…took a bad injury. We had to evacuate you from the battlefield, and so the wound didn’t completely heal when we used the healing potion. There were also complications. If we’d had a better one—”
“It’s fine. It’s not as if it makes me uglier.”
Durene spoke numbly. It was not fine. She ran her fingertips down her chest, feeling the scar again. Then she looked up sharply.
“But what about the battle? We won, right?”
