Erin Solstice was sleeping, and then she woke up. That was generally how her life worked. She squirmed about comfortably in the blankets that were her bed in one corner of the kitchen and then opened her eyes. Sleepily, she changed clothes beneath the sheets, grabbing freshly laundered clothes from the neat pile lying next to her bed. Ishkr was good at washing things.
Next, Erin got up. She looked around, yawned, and then opened a cupboard for breakfast. Normally, in her world, she would have pulled out a box of cereal. Or a sugary pop tart. Or, if she was really energetic, she’d go to the fridge for some eggs or find some bread to toast. But in this world, Erin reached into the cupboard and pulled out a steak, seared to perfection and glazed with a bit of butter and sauce. She stared at it and shook her head.
“Nah.”
She put the plate back in the cupboard and peered inside. After a second, Erin came out with a ham and cheese roll. She licked her lips and went over to her oven.
It took Erin seconds to light the fire and find some tongs to warm the roll up over the fire. Soon it was steaming hot, and she juggled it as she bit into the warm sandwich. She looked around, opened another cupboard that she’d labeled ‘drinks’, and pulled out a pitcher filled with milk. She filled a cup as she chewed and had herself a breakfast on a stool in the kitchen.
Life was good. Erin hummed as she got out more food for breakfast. She’d been thinking of introducing the wonders of muesli and fruit into the lives of her guests. It was certainly healthy, but she feared she’d have a riot on her hands from Ceria, Jelaqua, and Mrsha, who all loved meat. And since Erin had had a roll, she decided she’d postpone her tyranny via oats for another day and got out more premade sandwiches and began to toast them one by one.
The trick to using her [Field of Preservation] Skill was to know if the food she was making needed to be rewarmed or if it was going to be okay cold. Because if it needed to be warmed up, it wasn’t a good idea to toast it ahead of time. Then you’d just burn the bread. Without a microwave and with only a fire, Erin had learned a lot about which foods could be reheated without drying out or catching on fire.
The cold sandwiches quickly became hot, delicious meals on a big plate. Erin carried it out to the main room and heard rustling above her head. Lyonette and Mrsha were probably getting up about now. Erin smiled and hummed louder to herself, ready to face the day.
Which reminded her. Erin went over to her magical door and checked the little wooden bowl filled with mana stones. Green, red, yellow…they shone different colors as she picked up the red mana stone, ready to open the door to the Redfang’s cave. It wasn’t hard to figure out which mana stone led to which location; they were color coordinated after all. But Erin did wish she could make the magic of her door automatic.
“I guess that’s the difference between a movie and real life. Yep, yep. The only difference.”
Erin nodded to herself and then grinned. She was about to open the door to the Redfangs’ cave when she remembered that she did occasionally get the early-morning visitor from Liscor and Celum. And they tended to get stroppy when she left them waiting at the door in Octavia’s shop or in the rain for a few minutes…or hours. She wasn’t sure which was worse, standing in Liscor’s ever-present rains or having Octavia try to sell you something as the fumes from her potion shop seared your sinuses.
“Probably Octavia.”
Erin sighed and found the green stone for Liscor. She slapped it on the door, opened the door, and stared into the wet and dark streets of Liscor just before dawn. No one there. She shrugged, closed the door, plucked the green mana stone off and found the blue stone for Celum. She placed it on the door and then opened it.
A Dragon stared at her through the doorway. His eyes were bright yellow, and his head was taller than she was. His nose was inches from Erin’s face. She froze.
He was standing in a massive cave. Where was Octavia’s shop? The question fled Erin’s mind as the Dragon opened his mouth. Red and orange flames licked around his teeth as he spoke.
“Human girl, do not be afraid. I am—”
“Aaah!”
Erin screamed and punched the Dragon straight in the nose. Instead of connecting with his scales, her fist passed through the Dragon’s face. Erin felt her fist connect with something else, though. Something that went crack. She heard a yelp and a crash.
The Dragon vanished. Erin blinked as Octavia’s shop, cluttered but familiar, appeared. And lying on the hardwood floor was a man with bright green hair. He was dressed in colorful blue robes decorated with magical symbols and mystical monsters like the dragon in gold, and he looked like he was in his mid-thirties. He was also lying on the ground, clutching a bleeding nose.
“What the heck?”
Erin stared at the man and then looked around. Octavia’s shop was right there, as it always was. And sitting behind her counter was Octavia, frozen in the middle of eating her breakfast—a stale piece of bread with mold growing on one corner.
“Octavia? What’s going on?”
“You punched the magician.”
The Stitch-Girl stared at Erin and then slowly bit into her piece of bread. Erin stared at her and then heard a moan from the ground. She looked down. The [Mage] was getting up.
“E-Eltistiman Verdue, Miss. At your service. I do apologize for the scare. Ooh…”
He covered his bleeding nose. Erin stared at him.
“You were a Dragon. Why’d you do that?”
He winced.
“I rather hoped it would have impressed you. Scared—but impressed. I had an entire lineup ready to go, but I didn’t expect you to punch a Dragon in the nose. I’m terribly sorry. Just let me—”
With one hand covering his bleeding nose, he fished in his robes and came out with a handkerchief. He covered his nose with that and then bowed slightly to Erin.
“As I said, my name is Eltistiman Verdue. I am a [Magician]. Do I have the honor of speaking to Miss Erin Solstice, proprietress of The Wandering Inn?”
“That’s right? You’re a [Magician]? Are you some kind of illusionist? A performer?”
Erin was starting to regret punching the man in the face. Sort of. What kind of a person sprang a Dragon on someone in the morning? Well…someone like Eltistiman, apparently. He nodded, trying to tilt his head back, pose, and speak all at the same time.
“I do tricks and wonderful illusions for all to see. I heard your inn was a gathering place for a wonderful new show—by the Players of Celum? I had hoped to audition to join them as part of the attraction, but I fear my first attempt was somewhat off-putting. I beg your forgiveness.”
“No, I’m really sorry. I, uh, just have a thing about Dragons. Actually, I’m really sorry I punched you.”
Erin looked around frantically, then called out to Octavia.
“Um, Octavia? Can I buy a healing potion?”
The [Alchemist] brightened. So did Eltistiman. Erin beckoned him into the inn, flustered, embarrassed, and slightly amused all at once.
“Sorry. Have a seat and a healing potion, on me.”
“Oh, no, I couldn’t—”
“No, really. You said you do illusions? I’m sure the Players would love to meet you, especially because Pisces has a job. You come over too, Octavia. And stop eating that bread! Is that the penicillin mold I wanted you to cultivate?”
“Nah, this one’s a bad batch.”
“Well, stop eating it! Have some breakfast in my inn. I have hot rolls. Come on—uh, Eltistiman you said? You can eat here. Do you like rolls? And what kind of illusions can you do?”
Erin beckoned the bemused [Magician] into her inn as Lyonette and Mrsha appeared at the top of the stairs, the [Princess] holding a sword. They were soon followed by Jelaqua with a flail, who relaxed as soon as she saw there was no danger.
Erin sat Eltistiman down as her guests filed down the stairs, a bit early to breakfast and carrying weapons. The [Magician] apologized as he sat down for breakfast, and Erin found herself going into the kitchen for more rolls and some coins for Octavia, who wanted payment in advance.
That was how she started her day. And apart from that, it was fairly ordinary. For her, that was. For other people, the day began as ordinary but quickly became quite interesting indeed…
 
——
 
There was a lot Olesm could say about the culture around Drake [Tacticians] and [Strategists] and the way that Drakes made decisions, both militarily and politically. If pressed, he might even be able to say something complimentary. However, for all the chaos and infighting that went on between the Drake cities, it had to be said that they weren’t all idiots.
When the news of the Goblin Lord’s rout at Dwarfhalls Rest had reached the south (practically within minutes of it occurring thanks to the wonders of magic and paid informants), the Drakes had taken note and begun waiting for news of a pitched battle. But it never came.
Then they heard the Goblins were on the march with the Humans pursuing. A few suspicions had been raised, but there were countless reasons why Lord Tyrion’s force might not have chosen to engage just yet, and so the Drakes had kept an earhole open while tending to their business. So a day had passed, then four days. And then eight.
By the ninth day, it was clear that the Humans were up to something. The Human army mustered by Tyrion Veltras had been pushing the Goblins at a breakneck pace, but they had yet to engage in any major clashes. The [Strategists] took a serious interest and came to a series of rapid conclusions.
“They’re trying to push the Goblins into our lands.”
Olesm handed out a sheaf of transcribed reports to Zevara, Embria, and Ilvriss as they sat around a meeting table. All three Drakes sat up at once, and Zevara stopped yawning. She snatched the scroll from Olesm. The analysis from Zeres’ top [Strategist] had been supported by five other Drake [Strategists], hence the mass of notes and addendums to the report itself. Her eyes flicked back and forth rapidly as Embria and Ilvriss read their reports as well.
The newly minted [Strategist] of Liscor hovered nervously until he realized he should take a seat. He’d read the contents of the report already, and he’d come to the same conclusion. Tyrion Veltras wasn’t going to fight the Goblin Lord. He was going to push the entire army straight through the High Passes or around Liscor so they could cause more havoc in Drake lands.
“That scaleless, fleshy bastard!”
Embria was the first to react. She hurled the report onto the table and stood up. She began striding about the conference room, her claws opening and closing as if she wished she were holding her spear. Ilvriss looked up and glowered.
“Swifttail, do you concur with this analysis?”
“I do, sir.”
Olesm gulped and sat up straight. He felt comfortable around the other Drakes normally—okay, he’d avoided sitting in the same room as Embria after she’d tried to invite him out for drinks, and Ilvriss was still a Wall Lord—but right now, he was in his official capacity, and this had a direct impact on the safety of Liscor. He cleared his throat, and his tail curled around his chair leg.
“I, um, completely agree with the report. There’s no reason why Tyrion Veltras wouldn’t have attacked the Goblins already if he was intending to destroy the army. He outnumbers them both in quality and quantity of his troops, which is clearly overkill.”
“Clearly.”
Zevara muttered, still reading. Olesm nodded again. His leg jittered under the table, making the entire table vibrate slightly. He stopped and flushed.
“Sorry. It, uh—yes, clearly he could have won at any time. But he delayed attacking for so long, and he’s marched an entire army so far, at great expense I must add! If you factor in the cost of feeding so many soldiers and paying them, not to mention taking them away from their posts…”
Ilvriss was nodding.
“Clearly, he has a plan. And this is it. In true Human fashion, he intends to push the threat of the Goblins onto us.”
“It’s sound strategy.”
That came from Embria. The red-scaled Drake looked like she was stepping on hot coals, but she nodded grudgingly as she went back to sit down. She looked at the other Drakes as she spoke.
“That Goblin Lord’s already destroyed two armies and taken out a pair of [Generals]. The Humans can let him rampage across our lands so that we’re weakened. Maybe they intend to beat us during the annual battle at the Blood Fields, or maybe this is part of something larger. Either way, the Goblin Lord is their weapon to do it. They can run him south and claim he ‘got away’.”
“No one would buy that, surely.”
Olesm protested weakly, but Ilvriss shook his head. The Drake ground his teeth together.
“The excuse would be flimsy, but it would work, politically. We have an accord with the Humans that prohibits unprovoked assaults onto Drake sovereignty. So long as they can pretend that they have no direct hand in what the Goblins do, they can claim they’re upholding the treaties.”
He grimaced. The other Drakes sitting at the table went silent, and then Zevara spat a lick of flame.
“Politics.”
She rolled up the scroll and tossed it at the table. Then she looked hard at Olesm. When she spoke, it was with the sharp edge to her tone that she used in battle. Olesm was relieved to hear it. Ilvriss might be a Wall Lord and Embria was technically his superior and an officer of Liscor, but Zevara was the Watch Captain. She held the walls, and she was the one who made the decisions that kept Liscor safe.
“Olesm, you’re convinced the Goblins are headed south. The question I have for you is this: are they coming through the High Passes or past Liscor?”
Olesm frowned and tapped the tips of his claws on the table.
“The report gives it seventy-thirty odds that they’re going through the High Passes rather than Liscor. The Goblins can probably survive marching through the base of the High Passes with minimal casualties—well, they’d probably get at least half across with the Goblin Lord leading them.”
“But you disagree?”
The [Strategist] hesitated. His mind was working hard now.
“I’m considering that they might come through Liscor, yes. And if they do, we’ll know soon.”
He went over to the map of Izril he’d brought to the table and pointed out Tyrion’s current position on the map.
“They’re four days away if they keep marching this fast. Maybe five or six if they hit delays, but four’s my estimate. If it’s the High Passes, though, we’ll know tomorrow. They’ll have to change course, and they’ll be there two days from now.”
Embria eyed the winding gap that marked the only other entrance point between north and south in the High Passes.
