He turned to Olesm. The [Strategist] measured the distance between Pallass and Liscor and shook his head. His claws trembled on the table.
“It’s a four day march from the Blood Fields to Liscor! From Pallass—even with Skills, they won’t make it on time! And that army’s massive! Pallass can’t field—”
Ilvriss turned away from the map.
“The door, then. How many soldiers can we pull through per day?”
“It can barely hold two—but if we use [Mages]—”
Zevara was staring out a window, at the walls of her city. Her voice was very distant as she spoke.
“We’ll need thousands to hold the walls if they can create a breach. Are you sure they have trebuchets? How many? If it’s just a few—”
“I don’t know. I don’t know. If they have an [Engineer], they should have one. Two at best! But if Tyrion has multiple [Engineers] somehow—the letter said trebuchets.”
“It doesn’t matter. He wouldn’t come without enough to do the job.”
Ilvriss slowly sat down at the table. Olesm stared at him. The Wall Lord looked tired. And grim.
“He’ll break open the walls and let the Goblins come through. Then he’ll take the city and pretend it was all an accident. The fault of the Goblins.”
“But that’s such an obvious lie.”
Olesm whispered through numb lips. That was the part he hadn’t understood. Why lie about it? Ilvriss was convinced that was how it would occur, but why did the Human have to pretend? But the Wall Lord just shook his head.
“Of course it’s a lie. But it’s a splendid little lie the Humans can shout. We’ll know it’s true, and our people will know, but what about Humans who only hear what Tyrion Veltras says? What about other nations? The lie will become truth to many. And it’s the lie that will start a war that Tyrion Veltras wants. It’s…a reason. Humans need reasons to go to war. Even if they’re lies. They want to believe they’re in the right.”
“Then it’s happening. He’s going to besiege Liscor. The Goblin Lord’s coming to destroy the city.”
“Yes.”
Ilvriss didn’t move. Olesm looked at him and then at Zevara. Both Drakes were very still. And then Zevara turned. She looked older than she had this morning. Older and tired. But fire burned in her. She spoke it as she turned.
“Someone get me Klbkch. Tell him I need to speak with his Queen now. Tell him—Liscor may be in mortal danger. Summon the Antinium and rouse the Watch. Send word to the cities.”
She looked at Olesm and Ilvriss. Both Drakes slowly looked up. Zevara clenched her claws into fists.
“Tell them. And tell the damn Humans. Tell Tyrion Veltras. Tell the world. Liscor hasn’t fallen yet.”
 
——
 
The dinner party ended with drinks and a toast, as was custom. Yitton could have thrown his drink down, but he stood mechanically as Tyrion addressed the others. The honorable man stood and watched as his peers toasted. And he knew that he was not an honorable man.
An honorable man would have found a way to stop the bloodbath. An honorable man would have fought rather than stood silently. But for all Yitton feared a war between Drakes and Humans, he had not the courage to try and stop what was occurring. He knew he could not.
So he stood and listened as Tyrion spoke. The Lord of the Veltras family smiled, a cold smile while his eyes burned. He looked from face to face as he raised a wine glass.
“Prepare yourselves accordingly. I will make a formal announcement two days hence, although I suspect the news will already have been leaked in some fashion or other. Regardless, it matters not. In four days, we will reach Liscor and the Goblin Lord will begin his siege of the city. In four days, Liscor falls.”
He drank, and the others toasted him. Three [Lords], a [Lady], and an [Emperor]. Yitton looked at Laken Godart. The young man raised his goblet but didn’t drink. And though he could not see Yitton, though he was blind, his head turned slightly towards the [Lord]. And Yitton thought he saw a similar expression cross Laken’s face. He was an [Emperor]. But in that moment, he and Yitton were the same.
Trapped.
 
——
 
It was another ordinary day. That was how all days were. Ordinary, until they weren’t. Erin stood outside her inn and stared up at the sky. Normally, she would have been drenched in a moment and water would have pelted her upturned face. But for the first time in what felt like ages, Erin didn’t feel the downpour. She felt light, and she turned her gaze up to see a bit of sunshine poking through the dark clouds.
“Oh. The rain’s stopped. That’s wonderful!”
She smiled. The rain had stopped! Maybe it would be only for a moment, but people had been saying it was about time for the weather to change. She hoped it would be sunny soon. She couldn’t wait for the summer. She tilted her head back up, smiling, and then heard it.
A strange echo of the falling rain. A distant patter, a thumping heard far off. Like a heartbeat. Or drums, heralding war. Erin shook her head and rubbed at her ears, wondering if there was water caught in her inner ear. After a moment, she shrugged and went back to her inn. That was the last she thought of the sound.
But he heard it too. The Goblin crouching on a distant hilltop, nearly invisible in the grass, raised his head and looked northwards. He could sense the thunder in the distance, growing louder and louder. He looked back to the inn, at the closing door and the young woman who disappeared inside. The old Goblin stroked his grey, tangled beard.
“What do I see? An army of lost children and five who walk Garen Redfang’s path. What will you do, for all those who play games with Goblin lives? And who is she?”
Greydath of Blades stared at the inn, and then his gaze twisted north, to a cave where he sensed the strangeness that had drawn him south. An unexpected twist to all this. There were some things even a Goblin Lord couldn’t predict. Well, he would see what it meant soon enough.
He grinned, and his eyes burned crimson. Greydath stood up and leapt into the water. He disappeared with a splash into the murky depths, and the fish swimming around him fled. After a few minutes, a dark shape darted closer. The waters became violent for a second, and then blood began to rise up like an underwater cloud.
No one noticed. The people of Liscor looked up as the rain stopped, and they saw something wonderful as Erin went back to her window. The end of the rains had brought something special to the skies over Liscor. A rainbow. It shone down from the heavens, a beautiful light that stretched from mountain to mountain. Erin smiled and hummed to herself as she stood outside and the sun finally showed itself.
It looked like it might be a beautiful day.
