The contempt all but dripped from Nanda Bayin’s tone, and Akanai had to remind herself that this was exactly what she wanted from him, direct confrontation so that she could bash him and the Marshal both over the head with her competence. Figuratively speaking, of course, as the truth didn’t make it any less tempting to drive her fist through his face, but Akanai controlled her displeasure and refused to let it show. Losing her temper would only see her labelled as ‘volatile’ and ‘overly emotional’, as if only women were guilty of succumbing to their emotions, because a man reacting in the same manner would simply be ‘fierce’ or ‘intense’. “There is more than one way to skin a garo,” Akanai responded, using one of little Rain’s colloquial idioms which she suspected he made up as needed. “Tian Zangli is a vital city in the Enemy’s hands, one they can ill-afford to lose. Due to the nearby coal and precious metal mines, the city developed into a bustling trade and production hub which the Enemy now uses to forge their unholy weapons and armour. Thus, our goal for tomorrow is to put those factories and storage facilities to the torch and leave nothing behind, which will draw the ire and attention of the various armies marching to reinforce Shi Bei.”

“At which point you intend to tuck tail and run, I gather.” A statement clearly made with Nanda Bayin’s own words, as it was too blunt and unambiguous for Marshal Huong’s tastes, and Akanai had to work to hide her smile. “A bold gamble to stake the fate of two armies on a single roll of the dice, but what if the Enemy does not take the bait?” Pausing to take in the Marshal’s instructions, Nanda Bayin continued in a halting manner that made it clear he was merely parroting another’s words. “The Defiled are no longer the mindless foe we once knew... and will surely prioritize Shi Bei over chasing us through the desert without gain. What’s more, destroying their means to produce weapons and armour is a laudable goal, but... from all accounts, the Enemy resources have largely been spent. Is it worthwhile to go after Tian Zangli now that its forges sit cold and warehouses empty?”

“You bring up a fair point,” she began, nodding as if in agreement. “The gains from razing Tian Zangli fall well short of the risks, but only if we lack courage and conviction.” A backhanded insult which went clear over Nanda Bayin’s head, but the Marshal caught on quick enough and recognized her riposte to his patsy’s outspoken criticism. “Once Tian Zangli falls, the rest of the province is opened to us. I intend to push deep into Enemy territory and pick our target and heading according to circumstances at the time.” Pointing at each city on the map as she named them, she rattled off two dozen possible targets in a more or less reasonable order to strike, though she stressed that they would have to adapt to the Enemy movements. “We are the wolves,” she concluded, once her point was wholly made, “And the Enemy, a massive herd of bison. If we stand and fight, we will be trampled underfoot, which is destined to be our fate if we hold position and ‘guard’ Nian Zu’s flank. That is what the Enemy expects us to do, and thus they have dispatched all their nearby forces to strike us hard and fast before continuing on to Shi Bei to lift Nian Zu’s siege, but in doing so, they have left their cities weak and exposed, so we will tear into their soft underbellies and bleed them dry.”

Stopping to let her words sink in, she met Marshal Huong’s eyes and found... not admiration, but acknowledgement, at the very least. “Throughout history,” he began, speaking in a gruff, yet soft-spoken tone, “The Defiled threat has come in the form of a mobile, self-sustaining force of raiders, yet now, they have moulded themselves into an army proper. In turn, though they present a more difficult challenge to engage, they are not without weaknesses, for they have grown too large and unwieldy to sustain themselves through raiding alone. What’s more, with Imperial forces occupying the four harbours and the West’s dearth of potable water, the Enemy will have to protect their sources of water, namely the targets you picked out earlier, leaving them either unable to support Shi Bei or lacking the supplies to make the journey and arrive in fighting form.” Not exactly a compliment, but it showed he understood the logic behind her plan well enough. Exhaling slowly for effect, the Marshal smoothed his robes and steepled his hands as if faced with a difficult decision, even though technically he had no authority to accept or refuse her commands on behalf of the soldiers under her command.

Then again, Akanai very much doubted the Southern soldiers would fight on her behalf if their Marshal ordered them not to, and she could not afford to push forward without their support. Perhaps she’d gone soft in her old age, but she was possessed with the urge to offer the man a concession, or at least make an appeal to his pride rather than demand his obedience as she initially planned. Given the choice between following her commands or stubbornly refusing and consigning the entire offensive to failure Akanai was confident the Marshal would have chosen the former, for he was no despot unconcerned with the welfare of his people or the outcome of this war, yet it would cost her little to offer him a means to escape with his pride intact instead of trampling over it as she initially intended. “I specifically took command of the Southern contingent with this plan in mind, for without their super-heavy cavalry and cohesive battlefield maneuvers, we would lack the power and coordination needed to run roughshod over our targets and keep ahead of our foes nipping at our heels. Combined with my scouts to secure the path forward, I am confident we can lead the Enemy on a grand chase throughout the heart of the Western province, but if you have your doubts, I will hear them now.”

To no one’s surprise, Marshal Huong had many, and Akanai patiently worked her way through them one by one. Yes, the army had more than enough water to keep the soldiers and draft animals hydrated for extended periods of time, an entire week without resupplying in fact. Yes, if the cities proved too well-defended to attack, she was prepared with a list of alternate water sources to replenish their reserves, as well as multiple locations that could hide an entire army if need be. No, she did not intend to split the army once deep in Enemy territory, because as things stood, their force was just barely large enough to threaten the notable targets. Any smaller and they would be reduced to picking off supply caravans and raiding minor encampments, which was no real benefit at all except to reduce the Defiled numbers. Yes, she was aware the Mataram Patriarch was recently seen in the area, and if he or his traitor son dared to show their faces, she would take great delight in separating their heads from their shoulders to mount on a spear instead.

There was more to it, including a mind-boggling amount of minutiae Marshal Huong brought up just to show he’d considered it, but so too had Akanai as she paid the same amount of attention to detail as he, if not more. Her contingencies had contingencies of their own and the vast majority of her Peak Expert Sentinels had long since memorized every possible route and hidey hole in the province in preparation for this attack, so if he thought to catch her off-guard and uncover some aspect she’d overlooked, he would have to work at least ten times harder for another five hundred years. The discussion dragged on for another hour, and as much as she would like to boast that she emerged wholly unscathed, the Marshal brought up one or two good points which she made use of. It wasn’t that she’d overlooked anything, the Marshal was just more familiar with his own troops and therefore knew their limits better than she, so she would be a fool to ignore his advice regarding their use.

Once the details were all sorted, Akanai left her generals to pass the word down to their field officers before retiring to her tent for the night. The meeting had left her disgruntled and displeased, for though she’d come to an understanding with the Southern Marshal, she was not used to having her orders questioned as if she were a rank recruit so green she had moss growing behind her ears. She didn’t even get the satisfaction of putting the Marshal in his place, because while he raised no objections to her plan, some would see in-depth discussion as Akanai seeking his approval before setting out, a flaw she only realized when they were halfway through and too far gone to stop. Sensing her sour mood as she strode into the tent, her old husband put his book aside and reached into his robes for his wine gourd. “That bad eh, old wife? The Marshal put the screws to you? Need I break his kneecaps a little bit? Hardly slow him down at all, sitting in a howdah as he does.”

“No,” she replied, rolling her eyes while refusing his offers of wine and violence both. Absurd is what it was, for how did he expect to break someone’s kneecaps only a little? “The wine will only make you thirstier in this dry desert heat, so that best be your last gourd.”

“Last and only, dear wife, last and only.” After taking a sparing sip from the gourd, her old husband sheepishly put it away before inviting her into his embrace. Sighing as she let the veil of command slip away, Akanai perched herself on top of his lap and snuggled into his arms, happy to accept his offer of comfort and support after her frustrating meeting filled with conflict and contention. Why couldn’t more men be like her beloved Husolt, strong and confident enough to be proud of her achievements without being shamed by them? Then again, maybe they were the odd couple who didn’t fit in line with the rest, or worse, her old husband had hidden his discontent for all these years. Reaching up to run her fingers through his beard, Akanai met his eyes and ask, “Do you ever wish I was more like other women and less... demanding?”

“Less demanding? Well... mebbe a hair,” her old husband replied, and she could tell from the glint in his eye that he was mostly teasing. “More like other wives though? You mean all shy and submissive-like? Nah. Can’t stand mousy men or women, with all their ‘yes sirs’ and ‘no sirs’ and their ‘please don’t hurt me sirs’.” Flashing the handsome grin she’d long since fallen in love with, he leaned in and touched his forehead to hers, moving ever so gently as if she were made of fine porcelain. “What’s this about now, old wife? I chased ye from the village, followed ye fer fifty years on campaign, and wedded ye centuries ago without a word of complaint, and only now are ye wonderin’ if I have regrets? Well, truth is, I do. I regret it all, because I coulda saved ye centuries of pain and heartache if I’d just thrown ye over me shoulder and brought ye home instead of followin’ you off to join the army, but then ye wouldn’t be the same woman I’ve grown to love more and more with each passing day.”

Patting his cheek in a conciliatory gesture, her gaze slipped over to his ruined eye, scarred and sightless thanks to his deep-seated grudges born of hatred and resentment. Not for the injury itself, but because he took it protecting her from greedy nobles trying to claim her as a prize, a rude reception for the supposed Hero of the Empire the Imperial Herald proclaimed her to be. That was the way of the world, one in which Akanai’s achievements would always be in spite of her race and gender, as if being a demi-human and woman was some great disadvantage. It was, but only due to societal pressures rather than inborn limitations, and Akanai still dreamed of a day when women and demi-humans both were seen as equals rather than inferiors.

Unlikely that she would see such a day in her lifetime, but one could only hope.

There was no sense in apologizing, for she was not responsible for the actions of Central’s nobility, nor would her husband accept it. Instead, she drew his attention with a kiss and said, “Tomorrow, we ride to battle.”

“Mhmm.”

After allowing her old husband to steal a second kiss, Akanai continued, “It might be weeks before we make our return to Meng Sha.”

“Uh-huh.”

A third kiss left her short of breath and she had to fight to remain focused. “Are you prepared?”

“More than prepared, wiped meself down and laid out the bedroll to boot.”

“For the fighting,” Akanai specified, glowering at her amorous old beast of a husband as if she were not gripped by a similar yearning. “You avoided conflict and bloodshed for so long, I worry you are not yet ready to return to the battlefield, especially in so... eye-catching a manner.”

