With age comes wisdom, or so it was said, but Akanai had long since determined this to be wildly inaccurate.

Just like a leopard could never change its spots, there were people in this world who would never grow wise even if they lived for ten-thousand years or more. Not so terrible a burden so long as they understood and accepted their limitations, but rarely was this the case. Especially when it came to scions of wealth and nobility, whose achievements in life usually stemmed from having been born to wealthy and influential parents. In spite of this truth, most seemed to believe that they were single-handedly responsible for any and all successes, while any failures that happened on their watch was merely due to a quirk of fate or run of bad luck. Nothing was ever their fault, but even worse was the fact that these fools were always the first to share their ‘wisdom’ to anyone who cared to listen and many who would rather not, including Akanai who could not be bothered to coddle the fragile egos of the soldiers under her command.

And no ego was more fragile than a Southern man desperate to prove himself more capable than his female commander.

There were many outspoken Officers unhappy with little Rain’s decision to appoint Akanai as his second-in-command, but most accepted that it was the best decision moving forward. Nian Zu was an able commander and Liu Xuande a brilliant tactician, but the former was too passive and defensive in mindset while the latter untested in the field of battle, much less the opera of war. There would come a day when Akanai would happily hand over the reins of command to the Imperial Scion, but he was not quite ready just yet.

Little Rain had a knack for finding the right people for the right job, one that surpassed even Akanai’s eye for talent, a fact that pained her to admit. Were it up to her, she would never have chosen Jorani to replace Rustram as commander of his retinue, or given Liu Xuande’s treatise on tactics the attention it deserved, or poured so much time, effort, and coin into Diyako’s seemingly mad schemes, yet each time, the boy’s decisions paid off in spades. While some of it could be attributed to luck and fate, much of it was due to the fact that the boy was wise enough to admit his own personal shortcomings and find people he could trust to help make up for them.

A lesson the Southern Marshal Quyen Huong had yet to learn, for the man believed himself the Mother’s gift to the Empire and therefore the most qualified commander present despite holding no military rank or achievements of his own. Despite lacking any support whatsoever aside from that of his toadies, he clearly believed Akanai was undeserving of her role and had taken it upon himself to prove it. This manifested itself in the form of an endless stream of messages delivering high-handed ‘advice’ and ‘suggestions’ to Akanai at every given opportunity. Nian Zu, Liu Xuande, Chen Hongji, and the other male members of the command cadre were largely left alone, though Akanai suspected Jeong Hyo-Lynn received more than her fair share of advice but kept quiet for political reasons. Likely so that she could thank the Southern Marshal in private and remain in his good graces instead of butting heads for no real gain like a certain demi-human Lieutenant General had chosen to do.

The Sword Saint, Jeong Hyo-Lynn they called her, and having seen her skills firsthand, Akanai could hardly disagree. This made it all the more regrettable that Lady Jeong felt the need to appear outwardly subservient to the male gender, for she was a true dragon among men. This was the way of the Empire however, because even though female Martial Warriors were in no way inferior to their male counterparts, the vast majority of the population were mere mortals who adhered to a patriarchal mindset. Thus, any man subservient to a woman was ridiculed and derided by the masses since few cared to understand and accept any perspectives that differed from their own. Even though strength was venerated above all else, women should still remain subservient to men regardless of strength, a rationale they justified by claiming all women were emotionally weak and needed protecting, Martial Warrior or otherwise.

It was frustrating to the extreme for someone in Akanai’s position, but she’d long since come to accept the fact that these issues would plague her throughout her entire career. She’d dealt with more chauvinistic commanders, peers, and underlings than she could remember, for even the people of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains were not immune to this sort of divisive thinking, yet never before had she met a man more frustrating than Quyen Huong. Unlike most of the men she’d dealt with before, the Southern Marshal was not only unmoved by her beauty, but also competent to the extreme, meaning she could find no fault in anything he did, said, or wrote. Most of his ‘suggestions’ were things that she had already done or was going to do prior to his interference, but the end result was that it appeared as if she’d taken his advice to heart and obediently followed through. This of course only emboldened the irksome Marshal to continue his bothersome ways, which was infuriating to say the least. Had it been little Rain, he might well have burned all of the Marshal’s missives unread, but he was the Legate now and could afford to flaunt the rules. If Akanai did the same, then Huong could simply claim she’d destroyed a piece of vital military intelligence for personal reasons, an accusation which could have her drawn up on charges or even stripped of rank.

Whereas a male officer in the same position would receive a slap on the wrist. Such was life...

Thus, the only thing Akanai could do was swallow her anger and wait for Marshal Huong to overstep his bounds, but he was an experienced politician and careful to never directly criticize or countermand her given orders. Instead, every time she gave an order contrary to his advice, he would ‘quietly’ bring up his concerns with his peers while within earshot of other soldiers and officers, which sapped their confidence in her commands. Most times, she couldn’t outright explain her reasoning either because then it would reveal all her plans, and if the Enemy caught wind of her schemes then she might well lose every last soldier under her command. Nor would she explain even if she could, for he answered to her, not the other way around. Unfortunately, the Marshal’s work paid off in the end for now her soldiers could be heard muttering about the ‘imbalance’ in their forces while wondering why she’d chosen such a ‘clumsy’ and ‘unwieldy’ distribution of soldiers. More than two-thirds of her army comprised of cavalry, while the remainder were what little Rain called ‘mobile infantry’, namely foot-soldiers who possessed a dedicated means of travel. In this case, it was mostly southern Heavy Infantry being carted about on iron-reinforced ox-drawn wagons, who were surprisingly sure-footed in the Western desert sands, unlike the hardy, shaggy horses of the North who were ill-suited to the local climate.

The general consensus was that Akanai only knew how to use cavalry since she herself was famed for her quin-riders, and thus expected the Southern soldiers to hold the line and bear the brunt of the losses while her cavalry sat pretty in the shade. Concerns plucked straight from the mouth of Quyen Huong, and if he were a soldier, Akanai would have had him brought up on charges of instigation and being a detriment to morale. Unfortunately, despite the fact that the southern generals and quartermasters all hopped to obey his every command, the Marshal was still technically considered a civilian, a doting father here to ensure his son, Dienne, was adequately protected while offering advice to his soon-to-be Colonel General, Nanda Bayin, a lustful toad and loyal patsy. For all his talent and intelligence, Marshal Huong was proof that wisdom had nothing to do with age or acumen, for a wiser man would have found a way to work alongside Akanai for the betterment of the Empire instead of opposing her at every turn, and now they would all suffer for it.

Low morale and lacking confidence was a terrible combination for an army in the field, leaving Akanai no choice but to publicly humble her greatest detractor in order to regain the confidence of the Warriors under her command. A real shame, for doing so might well ruin his reputation going forward and leave him vulnerable to his foes. Much as she detested him on a personal level, he was an able commander and administrator whose prowess was more than deserving of respect, and were it not for his ingrained need for control and smug, superior attitude, she might even see him as a reliable ally. This was a man who united the Southern Province the same way she’d united the denizens of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, an impressive feat which must have taken a lifetime of hard work and dedication. Alas, instead of welcoming her as a kindred spirit, he saw her as an upstart woman who needed to be shown her place, and she wanted nothing more than to send him back to his Citadel in mostly one piece. Failing that, she would settle for trampling his pride in front of his peers and underlings, so to this end, she called a meeting with her General Officers to discuss their tactics moving forward after a nine day march from Meng Sha.

While she did not go as far as to invite Marshal Huong, she let it slip that her battle plans were ‘unorthodox’, which she knew would vex the control-freak of a Marshal to no end. As expected, he arrived at the meeting with Nanda Bayin in tow and took his seat without comment. Until now, Akanai had overlooked his presence in military discussions, mostly because getting rid of him would be more hassle than it was worth, and also because she would rather not have to hear his arguments parroted through Nanda Bayin’s mouth, but today was different. Yesterday, she was content to work alongside the Marshal and overlook his foibles, but tomorrow, she intended to lead this combined army of Sentinels and Southerners against the Enemy, which meant she needed to seize the reins of control today.

“Marshal Huong,” she began, meeting the man’s dark eyes as she greeted him with a nod, which to his Southern sensibilities was akin to a wild dog running up and putting its dirty paws all over his robes. To his credit, he returned the casual greeting in the same vein without giving any sign of discontent, unlike Nanda Bayin glowering from behind him at having been ignored by a ‘mere’ woman. Akanai paid neither of them any more attention however, and instead waited for the remainder of her Officers to arrive. This didn’t take long as Southerners were a no nonsense sort, which was a welcome relief from Central’s tendency to value pomp and pageantry over punctuality, no matter the circumstances. Even if the building was burning down around them, Akanai imagined the nobles of Central would engage in polite chit-chat while leaving in an orderly fashion from most to least influential.

Truth be told, aside from their views regarding her gender, Akanai rather liked the Southerners as a whole, a no-nonsense bunch who knew how to come together and put up a united front against their enemies. Their combat tactics placed heavy emphasis on teamwork and coordination over relying on the strength of any one individual in battle, which was far different from what she was accustomed to, but highly effective nonetheless. If only the Northerners could learn from this, but in the harsh, desolate lands of the North, self-reliance and individuality was not only respected, it was all but necessary given how sparse and scattered the population could be. Difficult to rely on the goodwill of your neighbours when you might not see them for months at a time once the snow made it impossible to travel, so the hardy people of the North had grown to love their fierce independence more out of necessity than actual affection.

Once all her generals were gathered, Akanai wasted no time on niceties and jumped straight into the meeting. Though this sort of thing should come as no surprise after a month under her command, several Central Officers still had the gall to appear taken aback by her lack of manners. “This is our target,” she began, ignoring the miffed looks and startled expressions as they finally registered her words and looked at the map laid out before them. “Tian Zangli.”

“Pardon, Lieutenant General,” Nanda Bayin interjected, no doubt on behalf of his Marshal. The toady played his part well, injecting her title with such dismissive scorn that she had to wonder if he’d forgotten that not only was it the second highest official rank in the Empire, he himself technically still held the same rank as his promotion had yet to receive the Emperor’s approval and was therefore unofficial. “Our target? Was our goal not to guard Colonel General Nian Zu’s flank from Defiled attack?”

“It was and still is.”

“Then how are we to protect our ally while laying siege to a city, one only marginally less fortified than Shi Bei?”

