Which emboldened the reinforcing Defiled army as they picked up the pace, smelling blood in the wind and hoping to catch her forces before they had time enough to rest. Which was exactly why she’d sent her Sentinels ahead to intercept them with their bows and arrows and bring the Defiled out on a merry chase across the desert. In peacetime, Tokta was her second, an able administrator who kept the wheels turning through no small effort, but in war, the pup would have been Akanai’s choice for second. In her father’s absence however, Alsantset was more than happy to pick up the slack as she led the Sentinels to rend and tear at the Enemy forces without ever giving them a chance to strike back. Like a cub playing with her food was how Machali described it, and the battle reports which slowly filtered back supported that description well.

And so, thanks to Alsantset’s efforts, the reinforcing Defiled forces were bloodied and strung out by the time Akanai’s well-rested and well-watered cavalry arrived a few hours later, having moved from one battlefield directly to the next rather than retreat to buy time to rest. The second Enemy army proved to be even less of a challenge than the first, but her day’s work was not yet finished. Moving with as much haste as she dared, she led her Warriors to the gates of Tian Zangli, where she knew a third army waited within, though from all reports, it was a skeleton force meant to keep the slave population in check rather than guard against a dedicated siege. It was almost evening by the time she arrived, and she knew at least two Defiled forces were closing in on her from the northwest and the south, meaning she would soon be pinched on three sides. So far, things had gone perfectly to plan, but Akanai’s confidence slipped as she looked to her old husband beside her and saw his soulful gaze filled with love and affection. Taking a deep breath, she found her courage and ignored the eyes of her allies around her to reach out and stroke her husband’s cheek. “You are the love of my life,” she declared, and her heart melted to see him still blush even after so many years. “I could not ask for a better husband, a better father to our children, a better partner or companion.” Grabbing his beard tightly, she pulled him close for a kiss and tried to ignore the gasps and muttering around her which set her cheeks aflame. “Go now, and return soon-after. Do not force me to chase after you.”

“Yes, dear wife,” he replied, his eyes slightly glazed and out of focus for all of a second before he found himself again. “Your dear husband don’t dare disobey.”

With a flash of his handsome grin, her husband Cloud-Stepped away from her side and out to the front of the army, where he brandished his staff and declared, “I am Husolt of the People, husband of Akanai, Father of Baatar, Sumila, and Li Song.” A Defiled Chieftain stood out to respond to what he thought was a challenge, but Akanai’s dear husband ignored him and bellowed, “If you’ve a scrap of courage and honour left to you, then step out and face me in battle. You have lived like a snake and a coward for so long, so now I offer you the honour of dying like a man.”

Already, Akanai could hear her soldiers whispering among themselves, wondering just who her husband was addressing, and most brought up the many rumours swirling about regarding various happenings during Bai Qi’s siege, but this was a matter of the People, so it was only right that they handle their own affairs. Akanai would have offered the challenge herself if not for the fact that Mataram YuGan’s exact location was still not yet confirmed. Add to this the fact that their foe emerged victorious in a battle against Gam, Lady Jeong, and two other Peak Experts, and Akanai had no choice but to send her husband to collect the exile’s head and correct the mistake they made almost a quarter-century ago.

At best, this would be an even match, meaning she’d just sent her husband out to risk his life on a coin-flip. A part of her yearned to go out and replace him, or worse, give no face and kill his opponent for him while they duelled, but truth be told, it wasn’t just her husband she was worried about. She worried what this would do to her people, to little Rain, Gerel, and all the others who might be affected by this, as well as how the Empire at large would view them once word of this spread. It was too late to back down now, however, for to her joy and dismay, an armoured form shot out from the walls of Tian Zangli and placed himself opposite her husband on the field of battle. The whispers intensified as the soldiers recognized the Enemy combatant, an amber-eyed Half Demon who took part in Bai Qi’s attack on the Central Citadel. Now those rumours were all but confirmed, for many believed there was a link between the People and this amber-eyed foe, but Akanai shut it all out of her mind, for rumours they would continue to remain so long as no one said anything for certain, and none of the People would want their shame exposed. That was not the boy she once knew, nor the man she exiled for his crimes against the People. The person she saw now was merely a monster clad in his flesh, a foul minion of the Father, no more, no less.

And yet, when he removed his helmet and flashed his insolent sneer, the memories came flooding back in an unwelcome rush which set her to trembling from head to toe with grief and despair.

“Divine Blacksmith,” the monster greeted, speaking the language of the People flawlessly despite having been exiled for so long. “Pray tell, why is it you who stands here before me today? Can it be that my father is busy with other affairs? If only he showed so much concern for his own son, then perhaps matters might not have come this far.”

Rather than answer and engage the monster in dialogue, Akanai’s husband hefted his staff overhead and flashed into battle. The skies thundered as they traded blows faster than most eyes could follow, but rather than focus on the fight, Akanai was doing everything in her power not to look towards her Sentinels for fear of seeing her daughter or grand-daughter’s questioning gaze. Both girls were clever enough to put the pieces together soon enough, especially Alsantset who’d been seven or eight when it all took place, so all Akanai could do was pray that her husband would soon strike the monster dead, if only to make a difficult conversation in the future just a tiny bit easier.

A cowardly way to go about it, but what other choice did she have? Families were a tricky thing, and even after four-hundred plus years of age, Akanai was not yet wise enough to come up with a better answer than this.

Kill the exile.

Hide their shame.

The rest... the rest she would deal with in time.

Chapter Meme
