“Ready or not, we already here, ain’t we?” His chest rumbled with a low, hearty chuckle, but his smile never reached his eye, for it was clear he harboured similar misgivings. Most people only saw her old husband as a kindly, laid-back blacksmith, but those who knew him best were all too aware of the festering hatred just simmering beneath the surface. It didn’t take much to set him off, as evidenced by how he pummelled a boy of nineteen to death for merely speaking of dishonouring their daughter. A death well-deserved, but still too heavy-handed of a reaction for mere threats alone, and yet her old husband gave the boy no chance to do anything more than make threats. To make matters worse, the Dugu boy had been a Warrant Officer, while Husolt held no rank whatsoever, so if they’d been in any other city besides Shen Huo where little Hai could shelter them from consequences, then Akanai’s old husband might well have been sentenced to death or enslavement for the murder of a military officer. That was exactly how the Disciplinary Corps would have interpreted the facts of the case, for there would have been no argument for self defence, not when her old husband was a Peak Expert who made the first move.

Hence her decision to help young Hai hold onto his title, else she would have merely guaranteed her old friend his life. Politics were a messy affair, and she preferred to keep her hands clean, but little Rain and her old husband left her no other choice on that fateful day in Shen Huo.

Then again, Akanai could hardly blame Husolt for his over-reaction, not after she made him ignore those same provocations some fifty years back, which resulted in them being hunted and hounded across all of Central. They left so many good people behind, Warriors, heroes, and comrades who survived a harrowing battle against the Enemy and travelled south expecting to find honour and glory, but instead were rewarded with a dog’s death so far from home. Nor was that the end of it either, for the tales of this duplicitous treachery poisoned the hearts of so many who survived through it, like her old husband and little Naaran who took the Empire’s betrayal so hard. The poor boy had been so young back then, and the trip to Central filled him with such hate and vitriol that he let it poison the hearts and minds of an entire generation, the fallout from which they were still suffering from today.

But maybe, just maybe, the People would have a chance to make up for past mistakes soon enough, hopefully before little Rain woke up and discovered the truth for himself.

Now there was a conversation she was not looking forward to having, for the boy was... unpredictable at best. They kept this secret from him because they all thought it best, especially in those early years when he first arrived at the village, and by the time he was old and mature enough to hear the truth, they all found it so much easier to keep lying. A matter for another day perhaps, but it was still a quiet source of discontent, one that led Akanai down a path of questions she could not answer. Most important of which was if all this was worth it. Come tomorrow, she would lead her family, her Sentinels, her People into battle once again to fight and die for lands that were not their own and an Empire that would not honour them, so she had to wonder if it was worth it. Most certainly not if her goal was fame, honour, wealth, or glory, for she would find precious little of that. No, that was not why she fought, nor was it her reason for treading the Martial Path. Akanai fought not for the Empire itself, but for the people who made up the Empire, because even if they would never accept her for who she was, she could not turn a blind eye to their suffering. Aged and impoverished as she’d been, Old Sumila never turned away any child in need of a meal and a bed, so what would she think of the girl she raised if Akanai, a Warrior standing at the forefront of her peers and commander of no small skill, stood by and let the Enemy spread pain and suffering unhindered?

Old Sumila would be heartbroken and disappointed for certain, and Akanai would never forgive herself for being the cause of that sweet old woman’s pain.

Grabbing her husband’s beard and tugging it none too gently, she looked him in the eye and said, “Remember yourself tomorrow. Remember me, remember your children, and remember to return home to us alive. Understand?”

“Yes Chief Provost ma’am. Or should I be callin’ ye Lieutenant General instead? Don’t much like the latter, since the pup holds the same rank now. Seems strange is all.” Wincing as she tightened her grip on his beard, Husolt put on a pained expression and pouted ever so fetchingly until she pulled him close for another kiss. For the rest of the night, nothing else mattered save for the love they shared between them, and come morning, she woke in his strong embrace and wondered what she did to deserve him. Likely some horrific crime in her past life as she struggled to shake him from his sleep and deny his amorous desires once more, for there was a battle to be fought soon enough and they would both need every scrap of strength they could muster. Ordinarily, she would have her breakfast alone while leaving her husband to sleep, but today, she sent for her daughter and grand-daughter to come join them for what might well be their last meal together. Sweet Mila and beautiful Alsantset arrived together with their quins, and Akanai’s heart ached to see aged Kankin scurry out to greet his daughter, only to huff in displeasure at finding Zabu instead. It seemed Mila had grown accustomed to riding the cantankerous quin into battle, which might be for the best considering his aptitude. Atir was a fine quin, but Zabu was a specimen few could match, one who reminded Akanai of Kankin in his prime.

If only Zabu were the one on the cusp of forming his Spiritual Heart, instead of the boy’s other plump disgrace of a quin Mafu...

As they ate breakfast and made small talk, a small part of Akanai wished her whole family was here, but only in passing. There was no sense bringing children or a comatose Legate to the battlefield, and everyone else had their own responsibilities to manage. It came as quite the surprise to learn that Li-Li wanted to fight alongside the pup instead of sticking with her parents, a logical decision given her skill set, but not one Akanai expected her sweet daughter to make on her own. Li-Li was coming out of her shell more and more each day, and Akanai looked forward to the day when her daughter finally found the courage to truly be herself, a day that she hoped would not be too far in the future. All this and more she kept to herself however, for she could not afford to grow fearful or maudlin before battle. A quick hug was all she allowed herself, but somehow, it turned into a group embrace that lasted longer than intended. “Be safe, the both of you,” she whispered, running her hand through Mila’s curled ringlets and Alsantset’s long locks. “Fight well.”

Little Mila was surprised and somewhat frightened by her parting words, but she would find her courage again soon enough. Alsantset took it more in stride, for she was a mother herself and was well acclimated with the fears that came with it. A nod and a reassuring squeeze of the hand was all the girl shared, but it was more than enough for them both, while Mila helped herself to another hug which would surely have the soldiers grumbling about going into battle alongside women and children. No matter though, for Akanai would show the people of the Empire and the Defiled both that she was competent not in spite of her gender, nor because of it, but simply because this was who she was.

Warrior. Commander. Mother. Wife. Cherished labels one and all, and she would wear them proudly into battle today.

Though inhospitable to the extreme, the sandy dunes of the Western Province offered plenty of favourable terrain to fight on, and Akanai wasted no time in seizing the best battleground for herself. Within the hour, the Enemy forces arrived in droves and rushed headlong towards her, eager to close in and draw first blood, but soon they discovered they’d bitten off far more than they could chew. Lurking out of sight in the lee of a dune, close to fifteen-thousand Sentinels unleashed a storm of arrows upon the Enemy as they marched eastbound towards Shi Bei, and the chaos and carnage was spectacular to behold. Individually, Cannons and catapults were far more impressive, but in Akanai’s eyes, there was nothing more satisfying than watching wave after wave of arrows crash into the Defiled ranks as they scrambled about in search of an Enemy to fight. They would not find one, not even after their Scrying Chieftains led them towards the Sentinel position, for the quin-mounted archers simply fell back and continued their barrage unabated. Though it would be difficult to replenish any spent ammunition here in the Western Province, Akanai had been planning this attack for weeks now and had long since accepted little Rain’s offer to fund a factory dedicated solely to making arrows for the Sentinels, so they had more than enough to spare. What’s more, she also had multiple stockpiles of ammunition, food, and water hidden in various locations all across her intended route, brought there by Concealed Peak Experts a few wagons at a time. Besides, every arrow spent meant less weight for the quins to carry, which enabled them to run faster and farther with each passing day, whereas the horses, cattle, and other beasts of burden were more likely to lose strength as time went on.

Five minutes. That was how long it took to break the first army of Defiled, five minutes of massed arrow-fire delivered by her Sentinels from afar. There was no panic in their retreat, only a strategic withdrawal in the face of overwhelming odds, but the dry sands ran red with Enemy blood from the dead and dying. Not a single Imperial soldier took injury in this first exchange, but they also took no pride in so ‘cowardly’ a victory. Akanai cared not for their pride however, and set her soldiers to marching south, circling about another dune while Divinities like Machali and her husband Da Hui kept an eye on their surroundings. Of course, she didn’t count solely on the eyes of Divinities, for she knew better than most how easily distracted they became, too beholden to their animal instincts to ever know true discipline. That was the curse of the Ancestral Beast, while human instincts offered far too much faulty advice, tending more towards flight than fight in most individuals. Thus, it was of Akanai’s humble opinion that demi-humans were best suited for the Martial Path, for they possessed the best of both worlds that more or less made up for the failings they similarly inherited.

Take Machali and Da Hui for example, who tried so very hard to hold onto their marriage and partnership in spite of their instincts to do otherwise, all because they so desperately wanted to be human. While the Ancestral Grizzly was an unabashed lecher and cad, one could not deny his love for his wife, because even though he quickly forgot himself in the presence of another woman, he always came clean to his wife without beating about the bush, and even looked properly ashamed for it. Difficult as it was to look past his sordid behaviour, Akanai knew she should not judge Da Hui by the measure of a human man, or even of a demi-human, for the Divinity was far more bear than human in a manner she could never truly comprehend, the same way she could never understand why Machali kept forgiving him.

Not that she ever wanted to. If Akanai’s husband ever came back stinking of another woman, she didn’t know what she’d do, but it wouldn’t be so simple as some tears and scolding. There would be a reckoning at hand, one filled with blood and ashes, but she wasn’t certain whose blood or ashes it would be...

Putting her personal thoughts aside, Akanai returned her focus to the battle at hand. To the east in Shi Bei, Nian Zu would most likely have just begun the hostilities, taking his time as they discussed and keeping a close vigil on the Enemy movements. Marshal Huong was right to be concerned about the Enemy’s response to her plan of attack, for there was a good chance Bai Qi or Mataram YuGan would order their troops to ignore Akanai’s forces in favour of Nian Zu’s army instead, but they’d planned for such a contingency. Thankfully, the Defiled forces seemed content to simply shadow Akanai’s movements and await reinforcements which were even now diverting to cut her off, but now they were truly dancing to her tune. An hour passed without bloodshed, then two, then three as her soldiers spent the morning moving south at a steady pace. Then, without warning, she had her troops pivot and form up before dispatching the southern rhino cavalry to lead the charge against the Defiled forces shadowing their army. Though the crazed tribesmen appeared eager to do battle at first, their enthusiasm lasted for all of a second after the heavy rhinos crashed into their loose and unorganized ranks, followed by a wave of Northern heavy horsemen and gargantuan elephants that trampled over anyone still left in their path. The Defiled were mostly on foot and had to have known they would fall before a concentrated charge, but the enemy commander never expected it because doing so would expend too much stamina from Imperial beasts and Warriors alike.

