Elerlyth chuckled, just like Ren did, and he felt her amusement. “Do we have to get up?”

“Nope.” Ren said, and she looked at him.

“We don't?”

“There's a few things I should get done.” Ren said and smiled. “Most of them can wait.”

“Only most?”

“Princess being fed is always a priority.” Ren said and slid out of her arms. “I'll be right back.”

Elerlyth nodded, and Ren left the Main House apartment at a run. He was downstairs a few seconds later, and left a sleeping Princess 2 plates of food. On a whim, he left one on the desk in the Mayor's office, then ran back upstairs.

“That was fast.” Elerlyth said.

“I left food and came back.” Ren said and climbed onto the bed. “I'm already a little chilly from being out of your arms.”

Elerlyth chuckled and took him into her arms. “So am I.”

Ren snuggled into her again, and Elerlyth sighed into his hair.

“Ren, why are you so cuddly?”

“It's a gift.” Ren said, and she chuckled. “Seriously, though... I think it's because I like hugging so much.” He said. “I mean, hugs are great. I get to show you that I care, and you get to hold me and don't have to worry that it might turn sexual.”

Elerlyth thought about it. “I think you're right.” She said, and he felt that she was a bit surprised about it. “I can hug you as much as I want and you will never say no, will you?”

“Darn right I won't.” Ren said. “I am a hugging machine that runs on hugs.” He said and smiled at her. “Please deposit hugs here.”

Elerlyth laughed. “I'd say you should wear a 'free hugs' sign, but you won't hug just anyone.”

Ren shook his head. “I've made a few exceptions over the years; but, I usually save the good hugs for those that deserve them.”

Elerlyth nodded slightly, and realized she'd received quite a few hugs from him over the last day and a half. It made her face flush a darker grey, and she squeezed him tightly.

“We should get some more sleep.” Elerlyth said, and Ren nodded. It rubbed her chest and it made her tingle a little; but, Ren was right. He wouldn't push it to something sexual unless she wanted him to. She kissed the top of his head and rested her cheek against it. They drifted off to sleep together once again, and they were both quite happy about being in each other's arms.

*

“I really miss him.” Frikara said and rubbed her arms like she was cold.

“I do, too.” Andrela said. “I know he usually isn't even here at times like this; but, we usually see him once a day at least.”

“I want to feel his warmth.” Frikara said, and the maids looked at her. “You know what I mean.” She said. “How he feels about us.”

“We've already mastered the Contact Auras he gave us.” Lusinia said. “Having them on all the time is great; but...”

“...without him here, even sharing full emotions with each other seems...” Navruth continued.

“...like having an empty stomach.” Verwynn said. Her stomach rumbled a moment later and the other maids laughed.

“Go ahead and eat, Verwynn.” Frikara said. “It's breakfast time, anyway.”

“Yes!” Verwynn said and they all felt her joy as she climbed off the bed and opened the icebox. “Plates of food for everyone!”

The plates were passed to the others, and they all sat up to eat.

“I wish he was here to eat this with us.” Andrela said, and the other maids nodded.

“He said it was only for a few days, so he might be back tomorrow.” Lusinia said.

“I hope so.” Frikara said, and then had a great idea. “Let's throw him a welcome home party!”

“That... that is a great idea!” Andrela said. “We can get different food from the restaurant, and we can invite the people he knows.”

“Where should we hold it?” Navruth asked.

“The Refugee Center.” Andrela said. “It's been empty for a few weeks now, and it can easily be used for a big gathering!”

“Then it's settled.” Frikara said. “I will get the decorations from the tailor shop. Verwynn and Navruth can get the food.”

“What about us?” Lusinia and Andrela asked.

“You have the most important job.” Frikara said. “You get to invite his friends.”

“Consider it done.” Lusinia said. “Andrela will hunt them down and I will tell if they are friends or not.”

Frikara nodded. “Then let's eat and get a move on.” She said. “He's going to be so surprised!”
