The runes were responsible for maintaining some form of connection between the oceans and a pitch-black dot in the realm’s center. It didn’t release a speck of aura, yet Zac only dared to observe it from the corner of his eye. It had to be the true body of [Second Singularity], a spatial anomaly going beyond a simple black hole.

Zac felt the oceans were in contention for some reason, like they all wanted to monopolize the treasure. It was this unseen battle that caused Zac’s disorientation. Their surroundings had frayed, turning into a nexus that was all the timelines and none. This unstable environment seemed to instinctively reject everything within, including Zac and Esmeralda. He had no choice but to reactivate [Void Zone] to stop his head from spinning.

“Do you know what this is?” Zac asked.

“Those old fogies have connected my treasure with their whatever-chamber through the Peregrine Ocean,” Esmeralda spat through gritted teeth.

“What?” Zac blurted. “Can we even take it if that’s the case?”

“You’re not getting cold feet, are you? Remember, we’re not actually part of the Limitless Empire,” Esmeralda scowled. “Those people are long dead, even if they’d like us to think otherwise.”

“It’s not that,” Zac said. “I’m afraid of what’ll happen when we remove this thing. Will we collapse the memory domains all across the continent? I have a lot of people inside them, including my other body.”

“Do you think I’m like you, blowing things up left and right?” Esmeralda said with exasperation. “And it’s the opposite. The old bastards are making us do free labor for them. They want to step out of the dream, right? The first thing they need to do is get rid of some of the excess weight.”

“Discard the bad timelines and lock in the useful trajectories?"

"Or at least weaken the bond between then," Esmeralda shrugged. "Hard to say for sure what the purpose of this arrangement is."

"That’s fine, then,” Zac nodded as he looked around in thought. “I’m not sure how I’m supposed to detach these things. Exhausting a few is fine, but hundreds?”

“Start with the ones leading to corrupted timelines. After all of them are severed, it should be safe for me to put the singularity into the Hunting Lodge. It’ll help stabilize the situation as you slowly work your way through the rest.”

“Alright,” Zac agreed before frowning in thought. “Wait, what’ll happen when we decouple the treasure? Won’t it disturb the Peregrine Ocean? We could trigger a tsunami that drowns the whole Mercurial Court with us in it.”

Esmeralda vacantly stared at the river for an uncomfortably long time. Finally, she shook her head, displaying a harrowing lack of certainty. “No. It should be fine. The eye of the storm is always the safest. And if things get out of control, I’ll teleport us away.”

Zac sighed in defeat. “Fine, let’s get to work.”

“Uh, one more thing,” Esmeralda coughed. “Things might get a bit... unpredictable when you remove the corrupted timelines. The treasure will probably start spitting out some of the tainted space that’s been showed down it's throat."

“Excellent, anything else?” Zac said with a deadpan expression.

“No,” Esmeralda said before immediately contradicting herself. “Just one thing. You absolutely can’t stop before all the corrupted gates are closed.”

“Why?” Zac slowly asked.

“For one, it might trigger something like a backdraft of corruption, flooding this whole place. Also, I don’t expect those corrupted denizens to take kindly to their timeline being thrown out of the Omnipresence Chamber. So, we probably want to wrap that part up before anyone catches on to what we’re up to.”

“Fantastic.”
