“Yea, you’re right.” Surrendering his fistful of dried fruit to the rabbits, he sighed and doled out meaty treats to the bears and wildcats one by one while the long-eared vermin viciously fought over scraps. “I’m just sad you know? I thought I’d teach them like two or three tricks today, but I forgot how stubborn and distracting the bunnies can be.”

“Try teaching them when they’re hungrier and sleepier,” little Mei Lin suggested, grabbing the foundling’s arm and pulling him to his feet. “They’ll pay more attention then, and have less energy to throw tantrums. Let’s take them for a walk around the lake and say hi to Ping Ping.”

“Good idea wifey.” Grinning like the fool he was, Falling Rain whistled at his pets to follow and set off for the manor doors without a care in the world. “I wanted to take a nap with her anyways, just to test a theory out.”

If that theory was how far he could go before Binesi beat him senseless, then the foundling would be sorely disappointed. Resisting the urge to grab him by the scruff of his neck, Binesi stepped out of Concealment and barred their path to the door. “Where,” he said, clenching his teeth so hard he worried he might crack them, “Do You Think. You Are Going?”

“Outside. To the lake. To see the Guardian Turtle. And nap, I guess. Major Binesi, sir.” Belatedly offering a one-handed salute, the foundling rolled his eyes and added, “Sorry, I figured you were listening in and already heard our plans. Next time I’ll make sure to report to the empty air and hope you’re there.”

Mother Above, give your child the strength and restraint needed not to beat this fool into the ground...

“What measures have you taken to ensure your safety?”

Taken aback by the question, the foundling raised a single eyebrow while matching Binesi’s gaze, no mean feat for a child of his age, stature, and relative strength. “Uhh... isn’t that your job?” The foundling fop asked, before holding up a hand and lowering his head in wordless apology. “That wasn’t an accusation or anything, I just thought... you know... that’s why you’re here? To make sure I’m protected? Major Binesi, sir.”

Eventually, the foundling would forget proper military protocol and Binesi would take great delight in making him run laps until he threw up. “Correct, but not in the way you imagine.” Leaning closer to subject him with a glowering snarl, Binesi explained, “I am not your nursemaid, here to wipe your ass and tell you what a good job you are doing. I am your superior officer, tasked with ensuring you are not killed by your own stupidity. Those are my orders, word for word, and I will fulfill my duty as I see fit, soldier.”

“...Fair enough.” Credit where credit was due, the foundling didn’t bat an eye before Binesi’s intimidating glare, and even had the audacity to scowl back. Easy to forget this scrawny little brat had earned a title of his own, one he richly deserved after emerging victorious from four exhilarating duels against the young talents of the Society. Binesi had watched those matches firsthand and had written the foundling off from the start, but time had proved him wrong. Truth be told, he admired the ‘Undying Savage’ quite a bit, or at least he had until he got to know him on a more personal level, and it felt wrong to lay all blame at the foundling’s feet for Imperial Scions being a bunch of backbiting snakes.

Granted, the Imperials weren’t threatening to flip the board and throw the Empire into utter chaos and mayhem like Baatar and the Bekhai seemed so eager to do, while locked in a desperate struggle against the Enemy no less. Then again, Nian Zu was no father, and Binesi didn’t envy the position Baatar found himself in, forced to choose between open rebellion or letting his son’s killers go unpunished...

“So... er... if it’s alright with you, I’m going to go now, Major Binesi?”

“No, it is not ‘all right’.” Jabbing a finger into the foundling’s chest to vent his frustration, Binesi growled, “Not two hours ago, the Colonel General himself sat you down and ordered you to guard your life more carefully, but since then, you’ve done nothing but splash around in some water and play with your pets. Now here you are, about to saunter out into danger without batting an eye. Are you daft? How many guards do you have waiting to receive you? How are they arranged? Were you even going to give them fair warning before throwing open the manor doors?”

“Brother Biao?” In response to the foundling’s call, the Peak Expert Death Corps guard stepped out of Concealment. Had he been an assassin, Binesi would have never seen the former Royal Guardian coming, so he raised his already high estimation of the Bekhai defenses. Impatient to be gone from here, the foundling addressed his guard and said, “Would you be so kind as to share the details of your arrangements with the good Major here?”

“By your command, Imperial Consort.” Without offering a salute, ‘Brother’ Biao made his report in a professional, stoic manner. “We have a team of sixty Death Corps soldiers on duty at any given time, with six teams in total spread out across three shifts, so no team works full shifts on two consecutive days. The current team is arranged around the manor, with two thirds holding the perimeter a hundred meters out in every direction and preventing civilian traffic from coming close to the manor itself. Two guards are stationed at the front, side, and back doors, respectively, while the remainder are divided into three patrols moving along erratic and unpredictable routes around the manor proper.” Offering the barest hint of a smug smile, the Death Corps guard added, “This one informed the gate guards of Imperial Consort’s impending arrival, and the perimeter guards are moving to clear a path to the lake, where the Guardian Turtle eagerly awaits Imperial Consort’s presence.”

Given the tools at their disposal, there was nothing more the Death Corps guards could have done to ensure the foundling’s safety, but Binesi was far from pleased. Fixing Falling Rain with another glare, he asked, “And how many of these precautions were you aware of?”

That took the wind out of the foundling’s sails. “Well, if I’m being honest... I knew there were Death Corps guards standing at the doors.” Sheepishly scratching his nose, he added, “Didn’t know we had a side door though.”

At least he was willing to admit fault, which was more than Binesi expected. “Have you personally taken any extra precautions to ensure your safety?” Falling Rain shook his head, and Binesi pressed on. “This is exactly what the Colonel General lecture you about, personal responsibility. There are many things which can be delegated to others, but why would you not take a vested interest in your own safety? You cannot always assume your guards and protectors will be ready for whatever may come, so you must make allowances and give them reasonable time to prepare.” Eyeing the foundling’s fine silken clothes and unadorned belt, Binesi added, “Armour and a weapon would help too, so if the worst should come to pass, then at least you can greet your foes with more than stern language and a heated glare.”

“Armour is pointless against Spiritual Weapons, and I have a few daggers hidden away.” With a flick of the wrist, the foundling brandished an oversized dinner knife which had been tucked in his sleeve. A terrible place to keep a weapon, especially since half the reason for carrying one was to dissuade assassins from launching an attack. A hidden weapon might well save his life someday, but an open one would most certainly make any would-be assailants think twice about his rumoured miraculous recovery.

However, Binesi’s patience had long since worn thin, and he was in no mood to explain his every thought. “Not all assassins carry Spiritual Weapons.” This one was too basic to ignore however, and the foundling’s surprise only served to vex Binesi even further. “What’s more, you are a soldier in the Imperial Army currently stationed in an Imperial Citadel, so from here on out, you will wear armour and carry a proper weapon at all times outside the manor.”

Pretending he couldn’t hear the foundling’s grumbling, Binesi closed his eyes and massaged his temples while waiting for Rain to return. He was beginning to understand why the Bekhai gave him so much free rein, because it might almost be easier to clean up the foundling’s messes and be done with it.

The next few hours passed without incident, with the foundling spending an inordinate amount of time out by the lake, and even making good on his promise of a nap. Perhaps he stayed out so long to annoy Binesi, but it was akin to biting his own nose off to spite his face. It was his life in danger, not Binesi’s, and the foundling’s unruly behaviour really only added undue stress to his own guards. Not entirely above spite himself, Binesi decided he would wait until later to tell the foundling as much, and he idled the time away in Concealed silence until Divine Blacksmith Husolt arrived with his half-cat daughter in tow. Narrowing his eyes, the formidable man moved in front of the girl and pointed his staff directly at Binesi. “Who are ye and what are ye doin’ there?”

For a moment, Binesi thought he’d accidentally revealed himself while distracted, but it appeared that Blacksmith Husolt had discovered him through other means. Keeping his hands in plain view, Binesi dropped Concealment and said, “I am Major Binesi of the Imperial Army, here on Colonel General Nian Zu’s orders to supervise private Falling Rain.” The Divine Blacksmith kept his guard up and even shifted over to stand between Binesi and the foundling, so Binesi added, “I am husband to Asane, father to Aska and Teekway, grandfather to Mani, Matchi, and Ayas.”

The traditional greeting of a fellow mountain dweller seemed to put the Blacksmith at ease, but not by much. “I see ye, Binesi,” the Blacksmith Husolt replied, though he left out the traditional offer of home and hearth one presented to a visitor from afar. Typical Bekhai arrogance, never one to trust anyone who didn’t ascribe to their ideals. “Don’t see much need for ye, if I’m speakin’ true. The lad’s safe here in the citadel, and ye can be damned sure we’ll keep him safe wherever we send him.”

Swallowing his arguments to the contrary, Binesi shrugged and foisted all responsibility off to the Colonel General. “I am but a humble soldier carrying out his sworn duties.”

“Aye ye are, which is why you’re still standin’ there instead of out taking a swim in the lake.” Nodding as if he hadn’t just threatened an Imperial soldier, a Major no less, Blacksmith Husolt promptly ignored Binesi and turned around to face his daughter. “Alright then. Give your pappy a hug now lass. Thank ye for lunch, thoughtful child. Even Mila ain’t ever bought me a meal before, so bless your sweet heart.” Turning to the napping foundling tucked in the Guardian Turtle’s giant arms, he shook his head and sighed. “Sometimes, I wonder if the lad’s got himself a death wish, sleeping out in plain sight where any fool with a bow could end him.”

“Rain doesn’t want to die,” the half-cat replied, treating the obvious joke with matter-of-fact concern. “He works very hard at staying alive.”

“True, true.” Giving his daughter a kiss on the forehead, Blacksmith Husolt gave Binesi one last warning look before sauntering away to continue his mission of single-handedly arming each and every Khishig with a Spiritual Weapon. It was so extravagant, Binesi was almost tempted to send his family to join up, but his sons already had a Spiritual Weapon each, and his oldest grandchild was only seven and years away from needing one of her own.

Since the half-cat seemed wary of his presence, Binesi thought it would be best to remain in plain sight, if only so the girl would feel reassured with him standing there. It didn’t work of course, and she didn’t relax until Tenjin and Tursinai came over to exchange greetings. He didn’t know either of these younglings well, but had seen them both fight in Sinuji, and they were a promising pair, so he swallowed his pride and accepted his lot as the suspicious stranger amongst them.

It would seem Falling Rain was not the only member of the Bekhai who didn’t understand the concept of giving face. Then again, perhaps it was just that this entire family simply didn’t care to. They were certainly powerful enough to disregard face, civility, and decorum, so it could be that Rain and the other youngsters were simply following suit. Powerful parents who doted on their children and turned them into spoiled little monsters was a tale as old as humanity itself, so it shouldn’t come as a surprise to learn that the most prominent warriors amongst the Bekhai were terrible and over-indulgent parents.

