With Tenjin and Tursinai flanking him, the half-cat girl no longer paid Binesi any mind and sat down with little Mei Lin to chat. Like the foundling, this ‘Li-Li’ spoiled those animals rotten, but she was a far more effective teacher than he was. After a quarter hour of steady and incremental improvement, she finally taught the white wildcat Sarankho to ask for a treat, and the other wildcats picked it up soon after. The bears were next, but they took a little longer, and by the time they were patting their muzzles for food, Binesi’s patience was a thing of the past. “Enough playtime,” he snapped, marching over to give the foundling a rude awakening. “He can nap inside the manor as easily as outside.” While Imperials looked down on using ranged weapons, Blacksmith Husolt’s errant comment and subsequent inaction had struck a nerve, as it perfectly encapsulated the Bekhai policy of ‘leave Rain to fuck things up’.

Except now Binesi’s job was to keep Rain from fucking things up. Having never failed the Colonel General before, he’d be damned if he failed the Living Legend today.

Oddly enough, it wasn’t Tenjin or Tursinai who stood in his way, nor was it any number of hidden Bekhai guards, or even the Death Corps standing idly about. Instead, it was ‘Li-Li’ who moved to bar his path, and coincidentally was perhaps the only person present who might give him pause. Blacksmith Husolt was intimidating enough, and Binesi had no intention of crossing him or his terrifying she-devil of a wife. “Easy girl,” he cautioned, again keeping his hands in plain view to show he meant no harm, even though ‘Li-Li’ was clearly ready to draw and strike. “I mean him no harm. The foundling is under threat of assassination, and it does no one any good to tempt fate like this.”

“I mean you no harm either,” ‘Li-Li’ replied, though her firm grip wrapped around her sabre’s hilt said otherwise. “I stopped you for your sake. Ping Ping does not react well to angry strangers who approach Rain.”

Only then did Binesi realize the sleeping turtle was not actually sleeping, and was instead watching his every move with a suspicious glare. Like those three unfortunate assassins who died at the Bekhai farm, he’d underestimated how protective the Guardian Turtle was of her Divine Attendant, and he broke out into a cold sweat imagining which might have happened next. “Thank you, girl.” Backing away slowly, he nodded at ‘Li-Li’ and repeated himself when he heard Tursinai giggling behind him. “Thank you.”

Even the Death Corps guards were smirking at Binesi’s expense, and he briefly considered abandoning his rank and this thankless duty to go serve under one of his sons instead. Fucking Bekhai. Fucking brats. Fucking giant pets. This was, without a doubt, the worst task Binesi ever had the misfortune to take on, and while his loyalty to Colonel General Nian Zu had once seemed boundless and immeasurable, Falling Rain and the Bekhai were quickly draining away any and all goodwill he had for his once lofty hero.

This next week might very well be the longest week of his life, but hopefully not the last week in Falling Rain’s. While Binesi would love nothing more than to smother the runt himself, the Empire needed him and his Bekhai family now more than ever.

Unity above all else. No matter the cost. Only then could they emerge victorious against the Enemy.

Or at least that’s what Binesi kept telling himself, while also imagining what he would do if given five minutes alone with the little shit...

Chapter Meme
