I didn't get far before I saw the others' dots on my minimap.

["Hey,"] I wrote in party chat.

["What happened?"] Ash replied.

["We saw your health dip,"] Jamie added.

I decided to test those wings and flew over to them. Even as I made my way over, I ditched the gnoll shape from the collar and added the gargoyle shape. A proper flyer at this strength was too good to pass up on.

In the short time it took me to reach them, they had already begun arguing. I landed with a heavy thump in their midst.

"Folks. Remember the wrath aura."

"Look who's talking," Liz said. "We thought you'd just check out what's on the other side, and you fuck off on a little hunt."

"It was a sentry. About to call in reinforcements."

"And you still took the time to eat that heart."

Jamie stepped between us. "Eve's right. We need to get out of here. If there is something to discuss, we do so outside of Nemesis' influence."

I wanted to snap at him, too. Which only confirmed that he was right. I turned and cast Seek the Unseen again, looking for a mythborn flying creature. It was somewhere to the south, away from the jungle. Not waiting for further discussion, I began walking that way.

Twice more I spotted gargoyles watching over the jungle before we made it out of it. Now that I had a shape that matched theirs in flight capability, while still being covered by the Cloaking spell, they were easy targets.

When we left the jungle behind, we stood in silence for a moment.

"So… that effect is quite something," Ash said.

"How are we supposed to do anything in there?" Stephen asked.

"It's easier if you have a goal to focus on. At least for me," I said.

"Eve, everyone," Liz said. "Weaponized ADHD."

I shook my head, shifted out of the gargoyle shape, and proceeded to follow my spell's guidance. As we walked, I proceeded to muse over Nemesis' situation. And the question I really needed answered. I turned to my guide chat.

["Is there really no way for us to save Jai?"] I asked.

["There is nothing you can do to help him."] Gabriel replied. It was slightly unusual that she'd use chat for this.

["But someone else can? Could Inaaya?"]

["No, she couldn't."]

This was uncharacteristically cryptic, even for Gabriel's standards.

["Everything makes it look like there is an opening right now. If this shape is anything useful, we could use it while everyone still has that food buff, have two teams attack the jungle, while Jamie and I sneak in once Nemesis is distracted. We might be able to take out Jai today and prevent this jungle from spreading further. Team Zoo's new home isn't too far from here. If this keeps expanding at this rate, they might need to relocate again. Not to mention all the Created this is absorbing and adding into Jai's pool for his abominations."]

["It is not a bad plan."] Gabriel replied.

I groaned.

"You good?" Jamie asked.

"Unguideful guide issues."

["What the hell is going on?"]

"Relax, kitten," Lucy said. "Remember the elf's words. You aren't going to out-violence the Queen of Carnage. No matter how hard you are vying for that throne recently."

There were two distinct possibilities. Either Gabriel was so enamored with Lucy that priorities had shifted to keeping me from more reckless actions. Or they were doing what? Stalling? To save Jai? There was no way Lucy was going to get me a hell-approved boon to un-fall a Fallen. Or was there?

I took Jamie aside. "Can you share a plan with your guide? And get their thoughts on it?"

"Sure. What's your plan?"

I told him what I'd told Gabriel. While he discussed the idea with his guide, I fell back to walk with the others.

"Sorry for going off on my own. And taking time to eat the gargoyle's heart."

Liz bumped shoulders with me before she put her arm around me and pulled me closer.

"You scared us, girl. Sorry for going off on you."

"I needed to stop him before he could warn others about us." I left out the reason I wanted that first kill reward so badly. The plan to go to Boston wasn't exactly something you brought up casually.

"I know, Eve. I know. You usually have decent reasons for doing the reckless shit you do. Probably also for taking your time to eat that heart."

I relaxed. It felt good to know that she wasn't still mad. Her reaction in the jungle had bothered me more than I cared to admit.

That relaxation went away when she leaned in closer and lowered her voice. "And now spill the tea on your date last night."

"Uh," I said, eloquently.

"Sarah. What's she like?"

"Very driven. She did swordfighting before all of this began. At a very high, competitive level."

"And that's what Eve likes? A girl who knows how to swing a sword?"

"It's not a downside… What really struck me, though, is just, I don't know. The way she can be blunt and considerate at once. Incredibly forward with her words and then just… a bit shy afterward?"

"Sounds delightfully paradoxical. I'd love to spend more time with her."

I pulled away from Liz. "I hope all our people can spend more time together soon. As it stands, they'll need a new home in a day or two."

"If they do, we'll manage. We got you, we got Anthony. Housing people isn't the problem."

I noticed that the spell's pull was shifting. We were getting close now. Reaching the next crossroads revealed our destination. I should have known. There weren't many buildings in New York spacious enough to house something flying.

Down that road, nestled between other buildings that also had no business being there, stood Madison Square Garden.

"Yeah, that'll do," I said.

As we approached the massive circular structure, I joined Jamie again.

"And?" I asked.

"They say it's a risky plan, but that it might work. On par with other dangers you try to drag me into. Wouldn't know why Gabriel doesn't agree."

"They—aren't exactly a fan of mine, are they?"

"Not exactly a fan of anyone with a devil, or anyone willing to deal with them."

I took a deep breath. Wasn't the first time Heaven was judgmental, and from a more distant perspective, it totally made sense. Just that they weren't fighting for their lives down here, with a Blessing that was taking every opportunity for snide remarks.

As we got closer, I noticed the flyers. They featured an electric guitar with a black-and-blue design. As one drifted by, I picked it up.

Strings of Celebration

Performing: A Memorial Concert

Next Performance: Today

Did I mention that the Blessing was a bit fucked up every so often?

I handed the flyer to Jamie.

"Any of you know how to play the guitar?" he asked.

There was a moment of exchanged glances before Stephen nodded. "I'm a bit rusty, but I do. Used to be in a small metal band in high school. Before I fell for the Dark Side. The not-so-metal financial-evil Dark Side."

"No idea whether this means we'll be fighting a sentient guitar or this is the big loot drop of the dungeon. But you might need those skills again soon," I said.

"I really doubt there is a subclass that combines being a bard with being a cook," he said.

I shrugged. "The Blessing is pretty creative." I turned back to the arena. "Our target is deeper inside, not around the entrance. But let's get ready."

It had been far too long since I fought side by side with them. Jamie summoned his sword, shield, and armor. Stephen pulled out his cleaver and chef's knife. Liz pulled an entire swarm of blades out of her inventory, which promptly began to orbit her. And lastly, Ash readied his tome and cane.

I only put on the crown. No idea if that guitar was an alpha and slaying it would grant me a reward. But something might lead the show in there, and I wanted to be ready. Replacing that infernal self with a rock star self sounded incredibly silly, but who knew? Maybe Nemesis' weakness was dance battles.

I switched into my half-dragon shape.

"Let's go. I won't be able to spot what's inside until we're in."

Another way the Blessing messed with the basic function of reality: we couldn't see what was awaiting us inside until we crossed the entrance.

All but one of the entrances were walled off. The glass doors of this one stood wide open, but a shimmer in the air barred us from making out any details beyond. I had to admit, even after living in New York for many years, I had never been inside, so I had no idea if what awaited us beyond that shimmer was altered or not.

As we got closer, I also noticed a presence. Across the street, a mannequin had stepped up to a second-floor window of a small family home that was really out of place across the street from Madison Square Garden. With zero desire for another discussion with Claire, I ignored her.

Just as I was about to cross the threshold, a message appeared in local chat.

["Wait."] It was attributed to Mannequin #53.

While the others looked around in confusion, I nodded over in Claire's direction. A moment later she vanished from the window, and I could hear her making her way downstairs.

"Any idea what she could want?" Jamie asked.

"Nope." My claws left gouges in the asphalt.

Shortly after, the mannequin left the house and approached us. This was the first time I had seen one of her 'combat models' up close. Though that was a generous description. It was already missing its left arm, and the thin metal sheets that were layered over the more vulnerable joints carried heavy wear.

["I've seen a group enter there, and they never made it out again. Days ago. I went in to investigate. There are brass automatons that guard the area beyond the entrance and a Localized Task to stay until the end of the performance. I didn't last that long."]

"Why tell us?" I asked.

["To warn you. The other team was significantly smaller and lower level, but this is still more dangerous than your kobolds or hyenas. Also, I want to join you until the first automaton falls. I want the body."]

"Could you animate—or rather reanimate—them?" Ash asked.

["Unclear. I did not get that far. There is a nonsensical line that goes from tiny plushies all the way through mannequins but stops somewhere short of actual robots."]

"Do you have more than a vague 'they are dangerous' for your warning?" I asked.

The mannequin took a moment to look at each of us in turn. ["They seem to be resilient to cutting damage. There is one big one, about ten feet tall, and a bunch of human-sized ones. Don't let their wind-up motions fool you—they are strong, fast, and aggressive. Their gears are exposed at the joints."]

I also looked at our party. Jamie's sword, Stephen's knives, Liz's swarm of blades. "Well, fuck," I said.

"How do they attack?"

["The big one just punches hard. The smaller ones have claw-like fingers. My incursion did not last long enough to analyze their fighting style in-depth."]

"Okay," Jamie said. "I can take care of the big one. Probably won't be able to do much about the small ones, aside from keeping them at bay."

"What are you going to do about the big one?" I asked.

The grin he gave me told me one thing: he'd been waiting for me to ask this exact question.

"Remember when you asked me about shooting laser beams and I told you I could smite through my shield?"

"Yes?"

"Well, it's a little bit of both. The harder they hit, the harder I smite them."

"Do you have to smite the one who hit you?"

"Nope. I can hold the energy for a bit. Not long, though."

My mind was racing with possibilities, but now was not the time. I was already planning a tactic that'd demand a lot from Jamie.

"Remind me that we need to do some science later." I turned back to face Claire's mannequin. "Do you think those exposed gears could be gunked up? That we can slow them down that way?"

["Definitely. While there is magic involved in the way they operate, they still operate on real mechanical principles underneath."]

"Okay. I have some ideas for how we can deal with them." I put a hand on Jamie's shoulder and gave him my best attempt at a reassuring smile. "And for that, we'll need you to be particularly brave, Jamie."

Jamie gave me a puzzled stare. I could feel the realization through the bond before the fear appeared on his face.

"You can't be serious."