Ranthia wasn’t sure what she expected when she informed Avyna of her decision to return to the war, but she was somewhat relieved that her partner seemed to accept it without concern. Instead of dwelling on their impending return, they made the most of her birthday. The preparations could wait for another day.

Of all that they needed to do, Ranthia had quietly dreaded telling her [Mind Healer] more than anything. After all, less than a year plainly hadn’t been enough time to completely erase the problems that Ranthia had accrued. The [Mind Healer] had done much—to an impressive degree, truly—to ease the burdens that Ranthia carried, but Ranthia was under no mistaken belief that she was irrevocably “cured” of the maladies of her mind; she was all too aware of the darkness that still lurked within. Which wasn’t surprising, the elf had warned her that it would be a multi-year journey and stressed the importance of continuing it.

Allegedly, elves feared nothing more—not phrased like that, of course, but “considered it to be worthy of great concern and enduring vigilance” hardly rolled off the tongue—than the damage the mind could accrue. The importance of [Mind Healers] was great enough that they were surprisingly open about some infamous historical incidents where an elf lost sight of something crucial and chose to self-destruct—and managed to do significant harm as they went.

And yet, Ranthia had never imagined that the [Mind Healer] had always planned to stay in touch with her when she inevitably left. The woman had even prepared for Ranthia’s eventual departure and promised to teach her how to read and write for their continued letters (as if Ranthia somehow wasn’t already adept at the written word). …Which raised a question that Ranthia had, somehow, completely failed to consider.

How in Xaoc’s glory was any of their ‘vacation’ being paid for?! The resort provided meals, entertainment, numerous facilities, and even spa-like treatments without a ledger ever appearing. Her therapeutic discussions with an elven professional had continued since their arrival—with the woman even rearranging her schedule when Ranthia was most vulnerable and in need of greater attention—and would continue after her departure. Yet the woman never even hinted at Ranthia’s payment for her services!

It wasn’t exactly the grandest mystery on Pallos—the fact that Avyna had planned and arranged for everything made the reason obvious—but Ranthia knew the contents of Avyna’s contribution credit ledgers. And there was no way that everything had remained comfortably within those confines—most of Avyna’s wealth remained invested in stock for her shop!

“<Ah…>” Avyna stiffened at Ranthia’s overdue question, folding the toga in her hands three times more than was necessary. The tips of her ears reddened as her body language openly broadcasted her efforts to cast around for some opportunity to change the topic.

But, alas, there was nothing else pressing that could possibly distract Ranthia, and Avyna knew it.

“<I had a few diamonds and rubies that were extraneous to my future plans, my love.>” Avyna finally admitted in a quiet—though somewhat stiff—tone of voice.

“<You know I would have happily paid my way!>” Ranthia immediately protested.

“<I still owe you an untoward sum of points. And I would appreciate it if you would quietly accept that I did this for us.>” Avyna allowed a slightly plaintive tone to color her response.

Ranthia swallowed her reflexive urge to remind her beloved that she actually didn’t need to be paid back. Avyna had offered a gesture of affection, and she wasn’t going to be foolish enough to turn it into an argument.

Even she could learn, after all.

Ranger Command wasn’t about to let her redeploy without putting her to work; she spent the bulk of her final day charging uniformly faceted stones of jet with [Void Edge]. Her Skill was heavily destructive to knives, but it had enough utility that it still ended up in the charged gemstone sets that most of her fellow Sentinels carried. And the war meant her peers went through charged gemstones at an aggressive pace—which definitely didn’t leave her feeling jealous, not in the least.

…Gods and goddesses, she would have traded violent favors for the ability to carry some of Deflection’s Skills into battle. Unfortunately, [Reflections of Reality] was too essential to her survival and her combat style for her to trade the Skill for any amount of single-use imbued gems.

Still, the demand for [Void Edge] was great enough that it spawned an (incredibly obvious, in retrospect) idea in her head, and by the time the local quartermaster finally let her leave, Ranthia had to rush to Coalition City’s markets before they finished winding down for the day. She probably slightly overpaid for the gemstone, but she managed to acquire a piece of jet that was similar to those she had seen entirely too much of.

If [Void Edge] was good enough for her fellow Sentinels, it was worth preparing the Skill for Avyna too. One extra layer of protection, to keep the woman she loved safe.

Their final farewells had been bidden to Lithée and the other women that worked at the resort that Ranthia and Avyna had gotten to know throughout their stay. Their friends (and, in Avyna’s case, business contacts) had been informed of their departure previously. Which meant that the couple—thoroughly engulfed by the numerous bags and sacks that they each carried—were finally ready to meet up with Sentinel Aurora.

Ranthia still struggled to call Aurora a friend, but she was grateful that her colleague was willing to ferry them back to Remera.

Coalition City was still entirely too quiet at night, but the journey to the landing platform that Sentinel Aurora always used for her launches went smoothly. They were both carrying entirely too many bags, but the weight wasn’t enough to truly inconvenience either of them.

“Sentinel Grace, ma’am! There has… been a change of plans.” One of the legionaries milling around sprinted over as soon as she stepped onto the platform, saluting the entire time.

It was a bit surprising to get recognized. Ranthia wasn’t wearing her armor, and her badge was hidden beneath the mountain of bags she had strapped and slung across her body. Even if she was expected, were the Legions truly so lax to just let any woman accompanied by an elf walk in unchallenged, wielding the authority of a Sentinel?

…Okay, yes, that was probably a narrow enough security vulnerability that it wasn’t worth worrying about.

“What do you mean?” Ranthia asked, shifting one of their bags—seriously, how were they leaving their vacation with well over thrice what they had brought with them?!—to better glare at the man. She was ready to get home in time to meet her promise to Night, not to deal with Legion-issued incompetence (again).

If they had somehow misplaced the arcanite stores that Aurora had to draw from to form her [Starship]…

The legionary stiffened at her glare and chose to silently point into the sky. …Where the [Starship] was rapidly vanishing into the distance at speed, heading towards some unknown destination in the warzone.

“What’s the situation?” Ranthia slipped back into her Sentinel Grace voice for the first time in what felt like an age.

“The only details I have are that the 17th Legion has suffered unexpected casualties and was requesting an evacuation for the wounded to [Healers], ma’am.” The same man answered readily.

“Were there any orders for me?” Ranthia regretted the question almost the very instant it passed from her lips. If there were any, she would have received them through a runner from Ranger Command, not some random legionary on a largely redundant posting!

“Not that I’m aware of? Er, that is, no ma’am!” The confused legionary stumbled over his response.

Ranthia nodded to the man—unable to salute with her arms occupied by bags—and led Avyna away from the landing platform.

“<What now?>” Ranthia vocalized the question that was running through her head.

“<We could always buy a cart and walk.>” Avyna answered, shamelessly borrowing Ranthia’s glib tone.

Ranthia planned to laugh when she opened her mouth, but instead a thoughtful sound escaped as her mind actually seriously considered the suggestion. If Avyna truly was able to keep up with her…

Huh, it seriously was a possible answer to their dilemma.

It took a little time, but even with the markets shut down for the day Avyna managed to source a hand cart that could replace the lesser quality cart that she used in Remera. Just before midnight, they departed Coalition City, leaving a few puzzled legionaries in their wake.

Ranthia had changed back into her armor and was handling the cart. Avyna wore a brand-new set of traveller’s leathers that were dyed a lovely—if somewhat impractical—shade of green that matched her [Emerald Eyes]. Ranthia gradually accelerated to her full speed, as she became increasingly convinced that the elven-made cart could endure the abuse, and was delighted to find that Avyna effortlessly kept pace with her.

Ranthia released a delighted whoop into the air once she reached the peak of the speed that she could comfortably sustain for an overnight journey. Once Coalition City was little more than a bright speck on the horizon at their backs, she finally conjured five images around them and set [Submind] to making them act as though they were vigilant guards.

Ranthia’s exuberant mood proved infectious—that or Avyna enjoyed a good opportunity to run free just as much as she did—and the couple chatted playfully and happily as they rejoiced in the freedom of privacy. The night’s air was refreshing and there was a light breeze in play—it truly was a picturesque scene, so far as the monotonous wasteland was concerned. Or, perhaps, that was just the beautiful woman at Ranthia’s side.

…Her right side, specifically. Not her own image on her left.

Avyna was regaling Ranthia with the story of a forest in the western reaches of the Tympestshard Council’s territory. According to her, the majority of the trees there were eternally in their autumnal hues, with vivid leaves of oranges, reds, and yellows—even throughout the winter. It sounded like a wonderful place to visit, but Ranthia couldn’t dwell on the vision that her mind imagined.

Avyna fell silent, a heartbeat before Ranthia could signal her to request it.

No Skill pinged, but they had lived for years in the wasteland that the war was (largely) being fought within. As easy as it was to write it off as barren, that was hardly the truth. Life wasn’t as abundant as it was in a rich land like Remus, but insects, animals, and plants eked out their continued existence even amidst the rocky terrain.

And it was all too clear that the subtle sounds of life—discernable through their vitality-enhanced senses—were only coming from behind them. With her accelerated perception, Ranthia allowed herself to indulge in a single moment of outrage. A significant factor in her decision to walk was that the shimagu rarely attacked anyone moving between Coalition City and Remera, even if Remera was still technically within shimagu-controlled territory.

But rarely didn’t mean it never happened, and Ranthia had better things to do than stand there silently reciting every curse and bit of profanity she knew.

Instead, Ranthia released the cart and offered a reassuring smile to Avyna—marred by her concern over her beloved’s presence—before she and her five images stepped into the dead zone (no relation) that the shimagu ambushers had inadvertently created. [Rhythmic Grace]’s ability to erase her footprints was intentionally suppressed as she stomped forward, stopping just shy of the centermost point of the area avoided by the region’s predator-fearing life.

“<If you plan attack, bring it on.>” Ranthia shouted her challenge in the shimagu tongue, her eyes locked on the thinned rock that concealed a Skill-created cavity beneath the ground. Ceding initiative to her adversaries was sub-optimal, but she wasn’t stupid enough to try to get an image underground and aspire to shift into it before it was destroyed.

Her brief distraction—another wistful pang for the charged gemstones she couldn’t carry—came to an end as the ground in front of her crumbled away. The shimagu moved quickly, but plainly none of them were able to match her speed. Eleven individuals—ten ogres and one human wearing Legion-issued armor—emerged. In the lead was an ogre wielding a massive iron axe, one that was positively covered in old, flaking blood. He roared, lunging directly for the tightly grouped Ranthias.

Ranthia embraced the spontaneous rhythm as it came to her. She was all too aware of Avyna’s eyes on her, which meant that she couldn’t allow any close calls or sloppiness in the battle. …Okay, yes, she really needed to avoid those things in general, but at the very least she hoped to allay any lingering concerns that her beloved might carry. Which meant that she needed to do more than fight—she needed to put on a show, specifically a display of sheer competence!

Ranthia moved. Her dance carried her forward as she slipped around the ogre’s extremely telegraphed cleave. Her images gracefully rushed the other shimagu puppets, but Ranthia paused to say a few words.

“…And seriously? Maintain your weapon, idiot!” Ranthia quipped to the stunned ogre, before she drove her knife through the back of his neck.

[*ding!* Your allies have slain an ogre [Guardian Protector] (Earth, level 461), [Wolf Raiser] (Wind, level 71)!]

[*ding!* You have slain a shimagu [Frontline Warrior] (Ooze, level 503), [Fierce Charger] (Gale, level 480)!]

Ranthia paid a single smug glance to the notifications, then promptly almost tripped. Her rhythm failed her while the unexpected nature of the pair of notifications sunk in. But… she was the only combatant in the area…?

The dead ogre, still falling backwards, provided an unmissable explanation: the arrow’s vibrant green fletching was still visible, even with much of the shaft still buried in the ogre’s eye socket.

Avyna offered her a confident smirk when Ranthia spared her a quick glance. A second arrow was already nocked and, in the same instant Ranthia looked her way, Avyna smoothly drew back the string of her beautifully carved wooden bow. The enchantments engraved throughout the bow shone vividly in the night, actively powered by the elf’s own Skills.

