You have been afflicted with Mana InsufficiencyArcane retribution delivered upon the profligate.+63 Arcane damage per second when available mana is below 40%.Magic – Aura

The tanks roared and shouted, engaging instantly at the sound of her warning.

“Go,” Ali commanded. There was no other course of action available to her, so she committed her melee monsters to the battle, having them charge in right behind the tanks. The melee charge shook the ground with heavy stomping and filled the air with the ringing clash of plate armor and the whistling sounds of drawn swords and whirling axes.

Purple light blossomed brightly within the Galdrone Tetrads, erupting as enormous Arcane Blasts that ripped through the crash of the melee group, shredding health as they were caught in the five-way overlapping explosions. Beside her, holy light blazed forth as the nearest Priest of Azryet burned her Devotion in a frantic attempt to stem the carnage.

Ali barely heard the shouted commands as people struggled to cope with the sudden influx of damage, her attention transfixed on the sheer amount of health that had suddenly vanished from nearly a third of the raid as she hastily focused the efforts of her shamans, priests, and druids on the worst wounded.

Light flared again; this time in the pattern of a common Arcane Beam spell. Ali ignored it, simply throwing up a barrier, the spell consuming an inordinate amount of her sluggish mana, while she continued managing her healers. Four blinding beams of light blazed forth from each of the cloned bosses, creating a coruscating crisscross of chaos as twenty beams seared across the raid group in randomly zigzagging arcs of burning destruction. Screams erupted as cauterized limbs went flying, and panic threatened to sweep through the ranks of healers. Vivian’s voice rose, thundering at them to hold the line.

Ali ignored the beam flickering toward herself, instead pouring mana into Empowered Summoner, granting her two nature-affinity healers a sudden burst of power. But as she cast Winter’s Desolate Celerity on them, the beam arced downward toward her, passing through her barrier like a beam of light through glass.

Ali had witnessed this trick more than enough times already. It took less than a moment for her to register what was happening, and instantly she triggered Minion Teleport. But the purple haze of mana around her resonated like a silent gong in response, and the familiar lurch of teleportation failed to materialize. A sudden burst of pain tore through her back as the beam clipped her, destroying a wing and leaving a deep, cauterized wound. Ali gasped, catching her breath. The only thing that saved her was her failed flight – she fell to the ground with a heavy, wet thwack that left her dazed and seeing stars while the sounds of her chimes rang in her ears.

Your Minion Teleport has been Disrupted. Your Minion Teleport has gained +37 seconds Recharge.

“Ugh,” she groaned as she slowly sat up, wincing at the pain radiating from her back and torn wing. But she was not in immediate danger of dying and therefore had the lowest priority for the healers. She would just have to make do for a while. She clambered laboriously to her feet to find a battlefield littered with the wounded.

Her attention was immediately drawn back to the bosses as the domain mana within them surged powerfully, and the sky suddenly erupted with a dense swarm of razor-sharp, spear-like elementals, like a cloud of flying shards that were all glowing with enough purple mana to light up the sky.

Mass summoning, swarm monsters. Her mind, racked with pain, nonetheless still identified the spells she witnessed, categorizing them, cataloguing, and comparing them to prior experiences. That’s three of the domain abilities, she thought. I wonder what…

Calen was screaming something in the distance, but Ali’s attention was locked on the boss. A nova of brilliance bloomed within the center, an overwhelmingly intense formation of domain magic the likes of which she had never seen. The ball of light collapsed inward upon itself, the intensity suddenly spiking, and then it erupted, bathing the entire battlefield in radiant power.

And suddenly, just like that, she had no free mana left. None.

Mana poured from every single one of them, sucked away into the spiraling vortex that was the Galdrone Tetrad.

The purple aura pulsed, and she felt the needle-pricks of arcane damage, but along with it was something extra, mana damage. Her most recent reservation – her Sylvan Storm – snapped, releasing the minion to the throes of feral madness. The damage pulsed again as she scrambled to find one of the mana potions on her belt.

But it was all too late. The soaring squadrons of arcane elementals that had been launched moments before swooped down, raining a barrage of Arcane Bolts upon them. Every bolt that landed stole mana from her reserves. First, the Sylvan Druid, and then her Pyromancer screeched in feral madness as the reservations snapped, wrenching them from her control.

The wounded were stacking up, but nobody but the blood shaman was healing, and suddenly Ali found herself scrambling for a healing potion instead of mana.

Just as she was about to shout, Lyeneru’s voice cut clearly through the din.

“Evacuate! Escape potions, now! Get everyone out!”

Ali’s worried eyes sought out her friends. There had been a time when she had woken up, stranded in the Abyssal Realm with her mana pool completely drained. It had been there, under attack from Hellfire Wargs, that she had learned the limits of a storage enchantment: without mana, your escape tools may as well have been left in a different realm. That experience had changed so much for her, but she had never been so glad she’d insisted on a minor change to guild raiding preparation as she was right then. Every single raid member carried an alternative escape tool that did not require mana. Recall potions glittered as mages and healers tugged them off their belts, while the melee retrieved snappable wands or tear-up talismans that were less prone to shattering in combat from ordinary pockets, and everyone began vanishing in good order.

Ali dropped her recall potion on the ground at her feet and felt its familiar smoke magic tugging her away.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
