Their research had initially been on simplifying a mana dispersing rune but, in trying to create a lower-Tier variant, they instead stumbled upon a mana cycling rune.

The difference was enormous, with a typical cycling rune being much more complex than its corresponding dispersal or attraction runes, as it needed to do both. In fact, most mana cycling operations usually defaulted to formations. They were more complicated, but they were often more efficient, as their individual runes were more specialized.

The rune the team had stumbled upon, however, was seemingly unique in that it cycled mana in a figure eight pattern, effectively dispersing and attracting the mana.

The current iteration wasn’t nearly as efficient and wouldn’t be a plug-and-play replacement for a lot of applications, but it might be ideal for some designs, such as gardens, that simply liked to have mana moving around instead of laying stagnant.

It was genuinely impressive work and Matt worried that the team was going to ruin his goodwill by trying to come to him directly and go around the typical application process, but a quick check relieved him of that worry. The team had already been rewarded and had funding for further development. They had simply come to brag, which was something Matt could respect, and he properly flattered them for their accomplishment, even giving them a toast one of the nights at dinner.

They had done the hard work, and so deserved the corresponding praise. It was also fun not being the center of attention for a while.

Feeling refreshed and with a few new ideas in mind, Matt and Aisha changed up their approach.

Instead of just grabbing people's general Domains as a sample, which was the common approach, they started targeting each individual stage.

That took a little more control over one's Domain to extract, but they were hoping that might isolate some variables that way.

It was during the process of back checking dozens of Concepts that Aisha asked a question they should have considered earlier.

“Maybe Domains only show themselves above Tier 5. That's when monsters first get them and the first time a person can get them. It wouldn’t mean we can influence rifts before that but…”

Deciding it was a worthwhile theory to test, they Tiered up some of their successes and immediately ran into aperology’s largest problem. Stability. Not a single rift survived the Tiering-up process without de-aspecting. Once or twice was to be expected, but dozens of times without a single success told them there was something deeper at play.

Still, they had learned quite a lot, even if they hadn’t figured out any of the underlying processes. So they used one of the Justice Domain samples to test with a formation cobbled together by the formation department that kept most Domain samples stable for a few extra seconds. Sadly there wasn’t any noticeable difference in the rift from standard, but that just meant they had another data point.

From there, they circled back to a more hybrid approach and going back to the guild members with elemental Domains, they started using their Domain samples while trying to create rifts.

As with everything they were dealing with, the results were weird and seemingly inconsistent.

A fire Domain and fire mana rift ended up creating a perfectly normal rift five times out of the ten they made one. As for the other results, they were equally varied. Three times, the rifts were fire-based but in minor ways, such as weapons being enchanted with rudimentary flame enchantments that didn’t really do much other than highlight the weapons.

The remaining two attempts were weirder.

One of the attempts ended up with a rift without air, but instead filled with a perfluorohexane. That allowed people to breathe, if they could deal with the sensation of drowning the entire time, but it still being a liquid prevented actual fire from forming or burning, which seemed contradictory to the rift being made with fire elements.

The second rift was what they had expected, a fire rift, but turned on its head.

The monsters were miniature fire elementals who fought with simple iron weapons that more often than not melted in their hands.

Trying the same tests with other mana types produced just as weird results sometimes, which was just incredibly frustrating. Weird but consistent would have told them a lot, and perfectly normal would have similarly taught them things, but with the inconsistency, they were left scratching their heads.

Not that Erwin and Theodore had better results, but that was more because they didn’t have results at all.

Sure, they had gotten a few strange rifts, but with them being limited on mana to create rifts, landing on Justice was going to be hard without a Crowned to tell them if any of their tests had succeeded.

Their current best idea was to treat Justice as a sub-aspect of neutral mana, but that came with its own host of problems.

After considering their prospects for a while, Matt went back to testing his own Concept, expanding his tests all the way up to a hundred rifts.

None of them showed any noticeable mutations, so he repeated the test again but changed the mana types he used. He was burning through quite a bit of Willpower, but his reserves were deep and his regeneration passable, which made the tests sustainable. But he could already see this being a problem for the guild members they kept tapping for frequent tests, and so pushed an order that no one was to go below half of their Willpower reserves for these tests. There was just no reason to push themselves like that when there was no time crunch.

Running through the basic level 1 elements, Matt was once more disappointed in his lack of results. Still, he used his failures as a reason to test one of the things the guild had learned in the last few years.

They were still fairly far from bespoke rifts in a true sense, like some Talents could create, but they learned a few methods beyond essence stones to get a rift to specific monster types.

Those methods relied on anchors and specific mana types, but Matt didn’t mind, and just added a wisp of his Willpower. That undoubtedly muddied the results, but he was half banking on that to get some kind of reaction to his Domain.

To his frustration, he once more created the same rifts, but instead of just relying on his Concept, he used his Intent instead. It wasn’t exactly helpful for the tests they needed; they needed an aura potion for Tier 4s; but Matt really wanted to see the effect his Domain would have on a rift.

He expected to once more have no results, but on his second rift, he got the surprise he wasn’t looking for.

The moment he stepped away from the rift’s entrance and safe zone, he was attacked. In and of itself that wasn’t unusual, rifts were rifts, but rather his surprise came from the fact that a gazelle-like creature had launched an ink black [Mana Bolt] at him.

The rift was a wide open plain with a single path cut through the grass, but in a Tier 1 rift, that only meant the rift was faking the wide open fields. And this rift was doing the same. Matt could feel the edge of the rift like a wall in reality as the space simply ended, with everything beyond it nothing more than an elaborate illusion.

Instead, his full attention was on the spell frozen in space before him.

It looked like a [Mana Bolt] of the wrong color, but it was different in two ways. First, the spell was faster than a Tier 1 attack should have been. Closer to peak Tier 2 if he had to put a Tier to it. Second and more interesting was that the spell had nearly no presence in his spiritual perception.

Matt could sense it because of his Tier and the strength of his spiritual perception, but even if a Tier 1 had the range to sense the spell, they wouldn’t have. The spell wasn’t just a blank spot, which would have been a fairly obvious indicator that something was there, but instead, the spell just felt like the surrounding air.

It was there that the camouflage failed, the air wasn’t perfect. Or rather it was, but it was a perfect copy of the air as the spell had been cast and where it had been cast, which meant the subtle peculiarities of the movements were wrong. But, combined with the speed of the spell, there was nearly no chance that any Tier 1 would be able to sense the difference.

Going out and getting the others, they all inspected the rift and the monster inside to find they all had the same spell.

A spell at Tier 1 was rare, but wasn’t unheard of, and yet the normal gazelle rift that should have been created most certainly didn’t have spells.

With more questions than answers, all four of them created half a dozen other rifts, just for none of them to be different enough to be notable.

They even tried recreating the gazelle rift, going through the exact steps Matt had taken, but took another fifteen rifts to create a similar rift. However, instead of the super [Mana Bolt], the gazelle were pitch black and moved with incredible speed while being nigh silent.

That was finally a variable they could track, and they suspected his Intent wasn’t doing things randomly. It was instead manifesting in ways that made sense for both it and the creatures.

For the gazelles, that meant speed and silence, which made sense for prey animals whose main escape was running far away as fast as possible and not being noticed.

What didn’t make sense was that being the manifestation of Matt’s Intent, I am Dauntless, which was at least in part about not moving. Sure, there was an amplifying effect, but it seemed strange that it chose to empower parts so at odds with the rest of the Intent.

In further testing, they only managed to create one other rift that had a noticeable difference, which was a jungle rift with snakes that could turn insubstantial for brief moments. They only had that one effect which might have been expected if the creatures were venomous in any way and not constrictor type snakes.

Left scratching their heads, they decided there was nothing to do but continue testing, expanding into other people's Intents. Sadly, just like with the Concepts, Intents seemed frustratingly variable. Someone whose Concept worked to make rifts strange had as good of a chance of having their Intent making a weird effect as anyone else.

The only outlier they found was Matt once again.

Not because of anything he did, but rather his Domain Meld.

It refused to create a rift in any way shape or form.

Even a wisp of it in a rifts formation area would make any attempt of creating a rift impossible until it had dissipated.

Melds being so incredibly rare, they could only put out a bounty for anyone with a Meld to come to Titan’s Torch for further testing. And they weren’t optimistic about somebody appearing anytime soon, but it was another thing on the pile of weird that was mixing rifts with Domains.

Not that any of that was bad.

Matt was as ecstatic as he was confused.

They were learning. Even if they didn’t understand yet, he was sure in another century or ten, they would look at these moments as the beginning of their path of turning aperology from something that was shrouded in mystery into something understandable and hopefully repeatable, like enchanting or alchemy.

Talents were great for pushing a field deeper, but that wasn’t what Matt wanted. There were already higher-Tier aperology services, but they entirely relied on the Talented person to create the rift, and that wasn’t good for large scale deployment of any kind.

The reminder of the higher-Tier aperology ruined Matt’s mood more than any of their failures.

Word in the rumor mill was that the established aperology Talents were not happy with him or his guild’s decision to start making truly bespoke rifts.

Apparently, just minutes after they had left the party, several of the highest Tier aperologists had made their moves, courting everyone Matt had talked to as well as other influential factions.

According to Aiden and Lila, the Talented aperologists promised the stars and the moon, but so far, no one had taken them up on their offers.

At least publicly.

Privately was another matter.

Personally, Matt was furious, but news hadn’t spread to Palustris or Titan’s Torch yet, and he wasn’t going to ruin anyone but Kees’ mood with the news.

He hated how those who could have made a difference, even if only on the small scale, had chosen to keep their Talents artificially scarce by only working for the highest bidder until he started moving in on what they saw as their territory.

Part of him understood it, but even if these people and their varied Talents couldn’t have created a revolution like the aura rifts because of scale, they could have been helping where they could. Even if it was as simple as spending some time and visiting the less hospitable worlds to make more advantageous rifts for them.

At the same time, Matt had no issue with competition, which made him question why he was angry and if it was truly for the right reasons. And if just maybe he was simply mad that someone else was challenging him.

He had no quick or easy answers, but sadly that was where Matt had to step away a mere three years into their tests.

Not because they had found another society target— Matt wished they had— but instead because an interducal incident had hitched a ride to Palustris.
