She lowered herself to the floor, then began to walk back and forth. Montressa saw, in a flash, magical symbols appear. Valeterisa reached into her pouch, produced a rock, and stared at it. It vanished, popping out of existence…and appeared right in front of the door, landing with a thump.
“Teleportation failure. [Dispel Magic] failure, of course. Can you portal in? Do I know a portal spell? Let’s see. Shadow walking, beacon-based porting, intangibility? I see an opening in the area beyond. Intriguing, but if it is dimensional…I would have to search for it. A barrier exists. I wonder how strong it is? [Bind Spell]. [Tier Ascendant: Localized Earthquake].”
“Archmage, it’s the [Garden of Sanctuary]. You can’t just—no, no, no!”
Montressa panicked as the Archmage’s eyes began to glow. She was really doing it! Not [Acid Wave], but—she tried to grab Valeterisa, but her hands struck another invisible barrier. Montressa saw Valeterisa focus on the door…
And then Ishkr walked in front of her. She stopped, hand raised.
“Excuse me. I am attempting to enter this area. Please step back. This is probably dangerous.”
The Gnoll [Head Server] glanced at her. He calmly held out a paw. And when he spoke, his words reached even Valeterisa. Mainly because he was using a [Thought-Provoking Statement]. A Skill for legends…or people working at Erin’s inn. You would not believe how useful it was.
“Archmage Valeterisa, this is private property. Moreover, I would advise you not to do something you would regret.”
The Archmage focused on his calm, polite words. She frowned. She looked at Montressa blankly—then saw a figure standing behind her.
Well, figures. Pawn had his hands clasped together, all four, and Seborn was staring at Valeterisa in a way only the Drowned Man could. Antinium were filing out of the basement, hallway, and some were staring through the windows.
“Ah. This would be unacceptable?”
“Unacceptable.”
Valeterisa’s mouth moved silently and then she lifted a finger.
“…Could I pay a fine?”
“No.”
“Would Wistram be able to compensate the damages?”
“I believe not. It would be a hugely significant issue for Wistram, Archmage Valeterisa.”
The woman frowned, looked at Ishkr, then sighed and lowered her hand.
“Hm. Well, damn.”
She kicked at the opening to the garden, looking genuinely frustrated. She glanced around and her eyes narrowed.
“Interesting. Higher levels than I would have anticipated among Antinium based on records. And…”
Her head swivelled around and she focused on Pawn.
“The leader has…three levels in [Carpenter]. [Tactician]…odd. Very low.”
She stared at Pawn. Her brows crossed. Valeterisa eyed Seborn, then looked around. Another smile appeared on her face.
“I am so sorry, I appear to have caused a misunderstanding or incident. Please accept my sincere apologies, and this, for the inconvenience.”
She reached into her money pouch, put five gold coins into Ishkr’s surprised paw, and headed for the door. Montressa saw the Archmage walk past one of the Antinium Soldiers.
“Excuse me. Pardon me.”
Montressa almost admired it. The same thing people might hate—the sheer nerve of the woman, who went through every social protocol and barrier, physical or otherwise, because she didn’t care and didn’t have time to waste.
And yet—Montressa ran after her as Ishkr offered Pawn a complimentary drink, which Seborn accepted for him.
“Archmage Valeterisa. Please. I know I can’t—legally—but please, let me have my Shock Orb. Or—or consider Wistram. I need it.”
The woman ignored her. Montressa reached for her shoulder, casting a spell.
[Barrier Breach]—and it actually worked. Or at least, it passed the first barrier. Montressa was an expert in her field, but even she was shocked. Until she felt a paper-thin barrier around Valeterisa’s shoulder.
“Please do not interfere with me, Mage Montressa. I will retaliate with offensive casting.”
Valeterisa kept walking. Montressa grabbed her shoulder—and was yanked off her feet. She tried to pull the academic back, but Valeterisa was like a moving woman of iron. She dragged Montressa halfway down the hill, muttering about ‘trying Xrn again’ before her meeting.
She ignored Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] tried everything. Begging, pleading, mild threats, cajoling—Valeterisa paid her no mind. Nothing Montressa had mattered. She was aware of the girl pleading for the Shock Orb, for readmittance to Wistram.
She even tried to hold the Archmage in place with a quintuple barrier. Valeterisa stared at it forming.
“Interesting. I can benchmark a Wistram graduate in the barrier field…unleash.”
The [Localized Earthquake] blasted a hole straight up as the air shook. The angry Watch, Councilmember, and even 4th Company of Liscor’s army, all halted as Valeterisa looked at the shattered barrier.
“Hm. Well, that was expected. It didn’t fully strengthen and I was casting from within. Well done. Acceptable magic.”
And with that, she began to float away. Montressa grabbed her legs and Valeterisa sighed. She vaguely tried to kick the young woman off, because dropping her from extreme altitude probably meant her death. She was sobbing, begging for a second chance…and Valeterisa really didn’t care.
She was just about to cast [Paralysis] when something the young woman said caught the fleeting thought process attached to listening to her. Valeterisa stopped her kicking process, and listened.
“Please. Just let me keep it. It’s all I have left. My friends, my academy—it’s all I have. Magic.”
It was, of course, a nonsensical statement, and Bezale, storming up the hill, would have kicked Montressa into the well if she heard it. Montressa didn’t have nothing left besides magic.
But perhaps that was how she saw it. They kicked her out of the academy, which she had given everything for. She didn’t have a vendetta anymore, against Pisces. She had Bezale, but…
“All I have left is magic.”
Montressa waited to be kicked onto the ground, or hit with a spell. But neither thing happened. Instead…her feet touched the ground. Valeterisa slowly drifted downwards. Montressa looked up through blurry eyes, and wiped at them. The Archmage of Izril gave her a long, strange look. She met Montressa’s eyes, for the first time, and replied, in a distinct, not-distant voice.
“That is all you need.”
The [Aegiscaster] saw the woman look down at her, eyes alight, perhaps with emotion. Irritation? Understanding?
“That is what makes us [Mages]. Do not look at losing the rest as despair. Be grateful. Throw yourself deeper into the heart of magic, student. Never look back.”
Her eyes flickered. She regarded Montressa’s open mouth, and sighed.
“This is why I do not give inspirational advice.”
She turned away to float off. Montressa looked at the older woman’s back. And she understood why people did not follow her, for all she had reached her vaunted position by talent alone. That was a terrifying statement.
That was the Archmage of Izril. It was incredibly lonely and strange and…it reminded Montressa of something. Someone.
For a second, she did recall another [Mage] like that. Almost as strange, just as rude—no, even more. And back in those old halcyon days…
“Archmage Valeterisa!”
The Archmage did turn. She sighed, but she had seemingly decided to pay attention to Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] scrambled forwards, wiping at her face, following a sudden, crazy idea.
Following a half-Elf in her memories, just like she used to. She had no giant bag of salt looted from the kitchens, but…
“Archmage.”
“Yes?”
“Do you…would you have any use for an, um—an apprentice?”
Bezale, charging towards her friend, nearly tripped. She stopped as Archmage Valeterisa focused on Montressa. The young woman spoke, rapidly.
“I’m expelled from Wistram. But if you taught me magic—”
Valeterisa frowned.
“I do not take apprentices. I did—but apprentices require too much energy. They’re a net loss. And they die, which causes problems. Vendettas with family, friends.”
Montressa gulped. She spoke rapidly, praying that Ishkr’s Skill was still in effect.
“Not me. I can do all kinds of useful things. Like…”
She glanced at Valeterisa’s bag of holding that had a bit of cloth hanging out of it.
“…buy you undergarments. And smooth things over. I bet you—to get to Liscor—you had to queue up to use the door, didn’t you? And you must get a lot of [Messages].”
Archmage Nailihuaile employed Beatrice full-time just to manage her affairs. Valeterisa considered that.
“This is true, but I am proficient at multitasking.”
She frowned deeper.
“…Which nearly cost me multiple decades of my life. You’re…what are you?”
“A Level 28 [Aegiscaster]. Full Wistram graduate, secret broker, um, with training in both runecraft, enchanting, and I took a course in divination magic.”
Montressa felt like she was back in Wistram, listing her classes. Valeterisa’s eyes flickered.
“[Aegiscaster]. You must have a decent spell selection to gain the class before Level 30. That’s a post-30 consolidation mark in terms of casting power. But if I employed you as an apprentice…I would have to feed you, pay you, deal with Nailihuaile—”
“I can do all of that. I did assist Archmage Nailihuaile.”
Montressa saw Valeterisa go hmm, silently. Bezale hurried over.
“Montressa, have you taken leave of your senses?”
“…Transport is the issue. I would have to dual-cast [Levitation], and I don’t know you. Valeterisa to Archmage Nailihuaile—no, wait. She’s not going to give you references.”
She was clearly devoting more mental energy to this moment, because she actually grew more animated, snapping her fingers, frowning, floating back and forth as if she were pacing. She looked at Montressa.
“I’m intrigued, but I am quite busy and this is not the moment to spend training an apprentice. I must decline, Mage Montressa. But I will review your offer after I return north.”
“But I…”
Montressa ran after Valeterisa as the Archmage floated downhill. She had to do it! She remembered how Ceria had done it. Literally de-icing a magical spell with salt. Being tested with Illphres—don’t jump and watch out for when you get pushed.
She had a chance, she knew. Because Valeterisa kept glancing over her shoulder, clearly not certain.
“It needs thought. I will consider your offer and…let’s put learning [Restoration] on hold. There. Plenty of thought to devote to the problem. However, I would rather take an apprentice with significant advantages, and you have qualities that may cause issues, Mage Montressa. An idea. What if I offered one of the Earthers an apprenticeship? Troy Atlas. And then I have access to a Lifesand Golem…”
Montressa feared Valeterisa’s new lines of thought. The Archmage was floating faster, lighting up with ideas. Valeterisa was excusing herself, promising to get back to Montressa later—
When she nearly floated into a line of spears. She stopped, looked down, and saw Liscor’s Watch aiming bows and spears up at her. A Watch Captain walked forwards and barked.
“Archmage Valeterisa, you are under arrest for violating the peace, threats of aggression, breaking and entering, and casting high-level magical spells of a hostile nature within city bounds without a permit!”
Valeterisa blinked. She saw the [Guards] apprehensively aiming their weapons at her, and then noticed someone on the walls activating Liscor’s wall spells. Not in a ‘we really want to do this’ kind of sense, but a ‘do I have your attention’ moment?
She frowned; a city actually taking her to task was new. But a young woman hurried forwards before Valeterisa could decide if she was just going to teleport out of there.
“Watch Captain! Watch Captain—Archmage Valeterisa is willing to pay all fines. And issue a written apology. In fact, she’s leaving now, which is preferable to processing any paperwork or trying to arrest her. I’ll handle it. Isn’t that right, Archmage?”
Valeterisa peered down at Montressa. Zevara glowered, but Montressa had her at ‘she’s leaving’. She looked suspiciously up at Archmage Valeterisa. Montressa turned her head, heart pounding in her chest. She saw Valeterisa eye her. Then, of all things?
Valeterisa chuckled.
The amusement surprised her more than anyone else. She floated down, as Zevara held her ground, sweating a bit.
“Archmage…Valeterisa. Is Mage Montressa your, ah, agent? Representative?”
Valeterisa peered at Montressa. She nodded, slightly.
“She is my apprentice, and authorized to speak for me. Provisionally.”
Montressa saw Bezale’s jaw open wide. But she had no time to celebrate. Valeterisa plucked at her shoulder and drew her aside as Zevara ordered the Watch back to the city. Lism was demanding a verbal apology and she’d have to explain how bad of an idea that was.
Valeterisa was looking at her.
“Provisional apprentice?”
“A test. Deal with that.”
Valeterisa waved her hand at Liscor as a whole. Then she eyed Montressa again.
“You were a secret broker. A capable manager? And you meant what you said? You will learn magic from me. That is all I want. Everything is to forward that goal. If you are my apprentice, you must have the same belief.”
“It’s all I have. Magic. Everything else changes but…I stopped learning at some point, in Wistram. I want to learn again, Archmage. I’ll prove myself, I promise.”
Valeterisa nodded slowly, searching Montressa. She almost smiled, then snapped her fingers.
“Very well. You are on trial. Firstly, after you deal with any fines or legalities—can you find me a geological spot with no active monsters, suitable for inscribing a rune four by four feet wide? Somewhere that will not be disturbed. Safe from…”
“Elements and travellers?”
Valeterisa gave her a gratified look.
“Yes. Locations every hundred miles, beginning here and heading south. Plot me a course on a map.”
“I can do that!”
Montressa grew excited, thanking Beatrice for making her take rune studies. Not a wasted course, no matter what her peers said! She was already thinking of where to direct Valeterisa when she realized—the woman was still speaking. And speaking faster.
“I require a birthday gift suitable for my niece. Ah, that’s Lady Ieka Imarris. Budget for ten years’ worth. I may also need you to send and write a missive. I will copy over a—no, you probably can’t mentally compartmentalize it. I will have the [Mage]’s Guild print every [Message] sent to me. Please reply, sort anything of value, and have it prepared. Finally, I am out of the following reagents and magical items…”
