The truth was he was just fast when he needed to be. Fast, and gifted. Think about what that meant. He was gifted. And old—that meant he had lived long, not a breadth of experience. But that was beneficial because strength came from age, unlike mortals who withered.
He could walk across the immediate world in moments. Not far. Not across the world. But he could visit the palace and return to his estates with a modest expenditure of power. Which he did now.
Part of him regretted that. It was in his nature to hunt and seek. But the intellectual side of him said she had given him all the trust she was willing to, and far more than he had expected.
She bounced back uncannily fast. She was used to this, he realized. Perhaps—even beings more intimidating than him.
The thought did not bother Viscount Visophecin. It was a good reminder that arrogance killed. And that he still had more to learn.
He had played a dangerous game, laying so many cards down to win her trust. Part of it, honestly, had been her needling, which in hindsight he realized was calculated. Her speech about Devils, which he did not quite equal. Her dismissiveness of Ailendamus.
And she could judge. She had seen multiple civilizations, he was sure.
“Fascinating.”
He did not blink through the world. How could he describe it? Visophecin walked forwards in a place without light. Without touch. Only a kind of perception. He reached for a door and it opened.
It was not instantaneous. He stepped out into a world where you could breathe and see. It was purely his desire to have someone recognize a superior system. Vanity. Tyrannies were so wasteful. He looked at them and wanted to eat the fools who didn’t see how temporary, how shortsighted they were. Good, evil—it should last an aeon. It should be remembered forever.
It should be glorious. He would have loved discussing more philosophy with Ryoka Griffin, but she had to sleep, and she was still wary enough.
“I have returned.”
The mansion sprawled. House Shoel’s lands were overflowing with richness, and the Lucifen could afford countless servants—and did employ them. However, the words were not meant for servants, not in this private area.
A figure looked at Visophecin. They neither moved nor acknowledged Visophecin in any physical way. But her voice was calm, deadpan.
“You were out late. Is the Duke throwing another tantrum over his thief?”
Visophecin strode past the guard, who looked quite like he did. Both had illusions on, but they were still related. He responded absently, already far out of the room and down the vacant hallway—no furnishings here. Furnishings had to be cleaned, maintained. No servants were allowed here. Ergo, no one who used this area could be bothered with more than cleaning spells at most.
“Not entirely.”
If he hadn’t spoken, if she had doubted who he was, he might be dead. When you consorted with beings of Rhisveri’s class and nothing was ever certain, you took precautions.
“I met an interesting mortal.”
Her voice floated around him.
“Really. The Thief? Maybe I should visit the palace.”
“No. This is a surpassingly delicate matter. I will convene a forum if need be.”
“Are you certain?”
The guard was audibly disappointed, as someone who had to sit in this space for the entire week might well be. But she didn’t push it.
She was not Visophecin. He was first of all.
The Lucifen’s lands did not contain them all in one place. This was their central base and meeting place. Many kept to themselves, only coming here for the deliveries. And they sated their appetites here alone. There were rules, and they were kept.
Lucifen were allowed free rein in many other respects, though. Most were young. Visophecin recalled a time when there had been far, far more. But here was the irony: they were as dangerous as Ryoka believed. More dangerous still, because they were not foolish enough to go without allies, even before coming to Ailendamus.
The Creler Wars had taken a few of them. But Lucifen had accounted well, realizing they fought enemies who were natural counters to their magic. They had…a trump card, which had allowed them to weather that armageddon, purely because the entire world had taken up arms.
Do you want to know irony? It was not Crelers. It was not an enemy Terandrian nation.
It was Goblins. Not the last Goblin King. The one before him. Curulac of a Hundred Days. A hundred days was all it had taken.
Now there was a monster. Visophecin happened to know that Rhisveri had his own nightmares around the Goblin King. But then—he had known more than two.
So into the heart of the manor. What did you expect it to look like? Gothic architecture stretching hundreds of feet high? Some height of depravity or temptation? Carnal and sadistic passions unrestrained, or a kind of cold bureaucracy? A hidden menace draped in pure elegance?
Visophecin walked through a disguised door into the manor proper. He stopped and stared around his home.
House Shoel in glory. House Shoel in radiance. Literal radiance. The wallpaper was bright yellow, and someone had drawn a bunch of children’s doodles all across the lower half—even finding a ladder to draw higher up. Visophecin eyed a cute sheep drawn in stencil with two dots for eyes.
He walked past a giant sofa with toys scattered about. Past a room where all the latest Singer of Terandria song crystals had been obsessively bought and cataloged. Across a foyer with an open glass front that showed a garden blooming with every delightful flower and beautiful plant you could imagine, complete with benches for sitting, a pond with fish that would come and nibble at your fingers, and a pet frog section.
He passed by the servants’ mess hall. And their private kitchens, sleeping quarters—since it would be more difficult if they had a distant servants’ quarters, after all. And a private rec room.
And a pool. They had framed pictures on the walls. The servants, not House Shoel.
“Viscount! You’ve returned. May I take your coat? Can I offer you refreshment?”
A bright, happy voice made the Viscount turn. A beaming [Housemistress], in the peak of health, bustled up with the air of a foster mother. He hesitated, then shook his head.
“Perhaps another time, Herea. I am looking for my cousins.”
Instantly, the woman’s face fell.
“Oh, Viscount. If you had been here sooner—perhaps it’s as well you weren’t. They’re in tears.”
“Really.”
His voice was flat. Herea sniffed.
“The most tragic thing. Little Lesy’s Sariant Lamb passed away. Ser Tubeliges.”
“I see.”
Not a muscle moved on Visophecin’s face. Herea was used to it.
“Simply awash. I think Lady Gadrea is even trying to console Lesy.”
Lesy was a serving girl, one of the [Servants]’ daughters. Visophecin’s eyes sharpened.
“Take me to her.”
 
——
 
It was death by natural causes. Ser Tubeliges had lived a Sariant Lamb lifespan and a half. He was thirty two, and had died wanting for nothing. In fact…Visophecin stopped as he arrived at the wake.
Well, it had mostly ended and all the others had left. But the Sariant Lamb had been buried with full honors in the cemetery…for pets…and had his own tombstone. Marble. Upon which his name, genealogy, and brave deeds, which included once saving a baby from drowning, were etched.
Ser Tubeliges had been the favorite of a serving girl, a Human, named Lesy. She was crying, but her parents had left, and the other staff who had loved the Sariant Lambs.
Of which there were…twenty eight. Twenty seven, now.
Viscount Visophecin saw the little girl crying and placing a flower on the grave. She was not alone. A tall figure stood next to her, practically willowy. But tall. Visophecin was tall. The woman was taller still, and crying into a handkerchief.
He stopped when he saw Lady Gadrea. She was patting Lesy on the shoulder, but the little girl, despite being eight, had still had a year to understand Ser Tubeliges had been reaching the end of his life. She was crying, but he had died peacefully, eating toffee. She was dealing with it.
Lady Gadrea was sobbing so hard she was almost leaning on Lesy for support. She turned as Visophecin approached.
“Visophecin! Cousin! Did you hear? Ser Tubeliges is…he was so brave and he went so peacefully. But it cut at me! And poor Lesy!”
The girl looked up at Visophecin and began to bow.
“Viscount—”
“You needn’t bow, Lesy. Visophecin wouldn’t ask it of you any more than I. And he surely understands.”
“…Yes.”
Visophecin did not eat meat—except for people. He could enjoy food, but he didn’t make a habit of it.
He requested lamb if he did eat at state functions. Always lamb.
But in this moment, he slowly bent.
“I am sorry to hear this, Lesy. Gadrea. Cousin. You should not be standing.”
“But I had to. When I heard—I couldn’t simply let Lesy be! She has been so brave. So caring. I know Ser Tubeliges and she were close. You are an inspiration to me, Lesy. I want you to know that if you need anything, you must ask.”
She patted Lesy on the shoulder. The girl sniffed. She had faintly green hair running through dark blonde, and she was benefitting from Ailendamus’ enhanced nutrition programs. She wasn’t old enough to work, but she was bright, intelligent, and wanted for nothing. Usually she adored running about the mansion, and she was the one who had drawn the Sariant Lamb on the wall. Among others. Children were allowed to ‘decorate’.
Visophecin saw her bow to Lady Gadrea. She probably knew the lady was serious—but her parents and the [Housemistress] had drilled it into her long ago how much to ask for. Besides…
“You are very kind, Lady Gadrea. But I’ll be fine. I cried an awful lot when Lady Ichewool died, but I will be fine. I’ll just…visit Ser Tubeliges now and then so he won’t be sad.”
She almost teared up again as she choked the last words out. Nevertheless, it was a fine, touching, even adult thing to say in her young way. And that was that.
…Until Lady Gadrea seized Lesy’s hands with both of hers. Her eyes opened wide and she gave Lesy a stare of such intensity that children who did not meet House Shoel’s other members sometimes burst into tears, despite the stares never being hostile.
She had…two pupils in one eye. Three in the other. And her irises had changed accordingly. Her stare wasn’t even as pronounced as some of her kin.
Not only that; it was intense. Lesy had grown up here all eight years of her short life. But even she froze before the spotlight of such passion that radiated from Gadrea’s face.
“Nonsense. Don’t stopper your emotions for me or Visophecin, Lesy. I know how much Ser Tubeliges meant. You will remember this day forever. He will not leave you, and you will be the better for it. Let out your emotions. He saved you as a babe—he was a champion among Sariant Lambs.”
“He—he did do that. Everyone said I was drowning and I remember—”
Lesy had been fine. Now she began to hiccup as the old story—the Sariant Lamb who had dove into the pool and dragged out a baby—struck home twice. Gadrea hugged her tightly, but gently.
“Never forget. Never forget those that die, Lesy. We cannot. We shall—we must do something for him. A statue! A painting!”
At this point Viscount Visophecin felt the need to interrupt. He spoke, calmly.
“I believe there is a communal painting of all Sariant Lambs in this generation, Gadrea.”
She glared at him and, for a second, he felt the force of her emotions.
“Not enough, Visophecin! For Lesy and Ser Tubeliges—you wouldn’t gainsay her that, surely?”
Visophecin sighed. The [Painter] who had come expecting to do portraits of House Shoel’s reclusive and rich family had been forced to paint each Sariant Lamb in great detail. And they looked alike. He did a quick estimate of how much a marble bust would cost.
“I never spare you anything, Cousin. If you would like a marble statue, so be it.”
And yet…he eyed Lesy. The girl was crying harder than she had at the funeral. Visophecin looked around.
“Herea. I believe Lesy is overwrought. Will you take her somewhere quiet and make sure she wants for nothing?”
“Of course, Viscount.”
The [Housemistress] had been hovering. Now she came forwards and Lesy clung to her, sobbing violently.
“I shall go with her—”
Lady Gadrea moved to join Lesy, and Visophecin blocked her.
“I require a word, Cousin.”
“When Lesy is grieving?”
“Alas, it is a matter of state. A…young woman, and the Duke.”
Gadrea paused, but looked after Lesy. Herea smiled.
“Lesy will be fine. If she asks, I will send for you, Lady Gadrea.”
“I suppose that is well.”
Visophecin met Herea’s eyes briefly. The [Housemistress] was not going to send for Gadrea. And that ran two ways.
Because it was true that the servants of House Shoel wanted for nothing. In fact, applications to work at the manor were fought over tooth-and-nail by even the palace’s finest, because not only did House Shoel want large families, the children would not work, you would be paid the fattest wage in the entire nation, and amenities went from healing potions on demand to extensive vacation time to the recreation rooms.
Nor was this because House Shoel’s folk were hard to please. Oh, Visophecin’s side of the family was aloof, but polite and demanded nothing—they preferred to be left alone aside from simple fetch requests.
Lady Gadrea’s side of the family was engaging, lovely, cared about you, and sent flowers and thoughtful gifts to your wedding. However. They were also as dangerous in their way as anything Visophecin might do.
He had seen it before. Lesy might well grow up to be a woman in her thirties who still celebrated a ‘Ser Tubeliges’ every year. Or simply develop some odd savior-complex where she went around protecting sheep—or other people.
Lady Gadrea stood with Visophecin as Lesy was led away, now wailing. She watched Lesy anxiously, with a pure sadness, empathy, concern that Visophecin lacked entirely. But that was her nature.
“So why do you wish to speak to me rather than the other Lucifen? Did you say a young woman? Then you’ve come to us with sense, Visophecin. One of us should be at court. You know you don’t…deal well with mortals.”
Lady Gadrea of House Shoel coughed, looking tired in Lesy’s absence. But she drew herself up and regarded her cousin. Cousin, which confused people because they were both of House Shoel. But that was just for appearances. After all…Visophecin looked at her strange gaze, her tall, frail body, but with a passion and vigor that seemed to defy her weak flesh.
What had Ryoka called her? He nodded to his kin.
“I seek the council of all Agelum, Gadrea. Not just you. I was concerned you were on your feet.”
She looked after Lesy.
