“You…something….my…can I understand you? Not yet. It’s very obvious, you know. Some of the gestures, like ‘you’.”
She made the simple indicator. Mrsha was agog. Only Goblins and Antinium had ever picked up on her language free-form! And yet, Gire smiled with clear interest.
“Did you make that? Warriors have their own hand signs, but yours are funny. I like your signs more.”
Mrsha’s were more expressive. When she insulted you, it was very obvious, like her word for ‘smelly’, which was pinching an imaginary nose. The Gnoll girl shyly waved a paw.
Aw, go on.
And that was how they became friends. By the time the Ekhtouch adults came to clear the meal, they found Gire and Mrsha having a completely silent conversation, paws flashing. They were even inventing new words, and the older Gnolls frowned.
They were sharp enough to read some of it, but they weren’t Gire. And the Gnoll [Paragon] was visibly excited.
“Really? So it does rain and flood all spring? Do you swim?”
Mrsha shook her head, explaining about the things in the water. Gire sighed.
“I’m going to have to fight underwater soon. It’s hard.”
Mrsha had no basis for that statement, but she was fascinated by Gire’s experiences. And the same went for Gire.
“You met with a holder of an inheritance Skill? That’s so rare. What’s the garden like? And you came from Liscor. Does that inn have all the treats the Silverfangs are bringing? Like cookies?”
She didn’t know. Mrsha almost stopped signing and grew sad when she thought of Erin, but the desire to tell Gire was stronger. The [Paragon] knew how Mrsha had gotten here. But the entire story?
Mrsha almost hesitated, but then she remembered that Gire knew everything. So Mrsha could tell her…
 
——
 
It was a strange duo that walked around the Ekhtouch camp. A tiny Gnoll cub and a giant girl. Mrsha rode on Gire’s shoulders, and the Gnoll let her sign, watching out of the corner of her eye and replying. The older Ekhtouch Gnolls were a bit grumpy.
“Gire, you should be stretching and practicing.”
“I am with an honored guest. Chieftain Firrelle will agree. Chieftain Torishi and Chieftain Akrisa both think so.”
“But your training…”
The instructor blinked, then dodged a [Mudball]. Mrsha waved her wand. Back off, fool! Gire laughed in delight.
“You can use magic! I don’t have any magical capability, or if I do, it’s tiny. Firrelle thinks we have to breed for that too.”
Mrsha wrinkled her nose. Breeding? Adult stuff? Disgusting!
“I know. But I have to have lots of children some day.”
Gire sighed. Mrsha shook her head. No way. Just run off! Gire gave her a long look.
“I thought about it. But where would I go?”
Liscor! Liscor was nicer than anywhere. It had football, cakes, the plays…and Numbtongue, Bird, Ishkr, everyone, and the laptop!
Gire had an interesting reaction to Mrsha’s tales of home. She wasn’t actually as fascinated with how famous people got, or even football.
“I’ve played it. It’s not as fun. I don’t want to be famous.”
…said the [Paragon]. Mrsha blinked, but Gire’s eyes did light up at the mention of Numbtongue and the laptop.
“I would like to meet a Goblin who’s not hostile. There are stories about them, you know. And a laptop? Rose and Inkar have their phones. Inkar even let me borrow it. What’s a laptop?”
Only the greatest invention of all time! It had movies, games where you got to kill alien things with big booming weapons if Numbtongue didn’t hog it all the time, card games, music, and it was proof against evil, immortal [Witches]!
Gire’s ears perked up. She reached down and produced the iPhone, upgraded, small in her paws. Mrsha’s eyes bulged as she realized this was a new model thanks to Krshia’s Skill.
“I want to see this laptop! Did you know this device has lots of games?”
Give, give that to me. So I can inspect it.
Mrsha reached for the smartphone, but Gire effortlessly held it out of reach. She was moving through the apps, and held the screen out to Mrsha.
“Hold on. You can try the games. I’ve beaten most of them…but look at this. Do you know what this is?”
She had opened the most boring app of all the ones on the phones. Mrsha sighed. Really? But Gire pointed.
“No, look. I know what it does and so do you. It’s not that useful, or so I thought. But look over here.”
She pointed as she tapped a few numbers into the calculator.
“Multiplication, division…it can do larger numbers flawlessly, which is good if you can’t do it in your head, I guess. But—here. You see?”
She pointed to something Mrsha had never bothered with, with all the other interesting things. Gire frowned.
“It works with a lot of numbers. It’s some kind of…answer. But I don’t understand what it means and Inkar couldn’t explain. See?”
She pointed to a little button that labeled a nonsense word. It said ‘log’. Gire pointed to others. ‘Sin’, ‘ln’, ‘cos’…they were nonsense words.
“Inkar told me they were mathematical devices. But she didn’t know what they represented. Neither does Rose.”
Mrsha raised her eyebrows. That checked out. Rose didn’t know anything. Kevin might know. Gire shook her head.
“But Mrsha, everyone has this device. Phones. Everyone. It follows then, and I checked, that this ‘app’ is on both phones. And since this is here, this is an important thing. Whatever it represents. So it matters. I’ve almost figured out what it’s doing to each number…but how do you use it? No one makes something you don’t use.”
Mrsha hesitated. She had never cared one bit about the calculator or maths, although she could now multiply up to six without having to use her fingers. Yet Gire said things so sensibly.
There was a logic behind that button. Behind everything.
“Someone made this, Mrsha. It’s very clever, but you can see the line here, and here, see? I wanted to open it up, but Inkar said that would break it. That’s fascinating.”
If you say so. Mrsha tried to explain what was really cool to Gire. You think you had fun making birds kill pigs? Granted, hugely amusing. But that was nothing compared to the complexity of a firefight where you had one of those glowy grenades, and they were coming at you and all you had was a pistol.
Master Chief Mrsha saw Gire’s eyes light up.
“So you have to fight them? How many?”
Hundreds. And they were on your ship! And then you crashed and you had to beat up them all over the place, and you ride in this big thing that was named after a pig, but didn’t look like one at all, and rescue these stupid Humans. But then Numbtongue took the laptop away because he wanted to beat the game again and he overwrote your save data!
Like every enthusiast ever, Mrsha tried to explain just how cool this thing was to Gire, who listened, mouth agape. She had to play it. And there was only one place in the world where she could. Mrsha took Gire’s paw and the [Paragon] swung her about—then tossed her twenty feet up and caught Mrsha.
She didn’t do that again, because that was more scary than cool, even though Gire promised she could catch her every time. But by the time Feshi and Torishi came, just past breakfast, Gire and her little friend were waiting for them.
 
——
 
The Meeting of Tribes had a lot of rogue elements in it. From little Gnoll girls, to undead Revenants. You know, standard. And it was attracting political attention from around the world and it had already uncovered a Drake conspiracy and there were Raskghar.
All that to say…fall was upon them. The wind was growing colder, with that crisp breeze, and the first leaves were beginning to change, but it would be a long season.
Ah, back in those days—no, even now, a small village might gather around, burn some wood to produce a merry blaze, and cook something over the fire. A baked sweet potato, some fish if they were along bodies of water, or simply warm themselves with some cider…
That was memory. A potato on a stick with some butter was among the finest of meals. One he remembered even now.
Az’kerash stood in front of the burning fire. He did not hold out his hands. There was nothing to warm, or rather, he would not feel it. Belavierr stopped in her slow circuit of the castle. She was knitting something, and her look of discontent ever since she had returned from Liscor changed slightly.
“What are you doing?”
The Necromancer slowly placed another sheaf of paper on the fire. He didn’t really want her company, but she was a guest.
“I am disposing of unneeded…material.”
She looked at the pieces of paper. The fire wasn’t large, but Az’kerash had added some wood just so it wasn’t a single thing. A tiny bit of ceremony, he supposed.
A skeleton scuttled away with a baked apple as Belavierr came close. Damned [Witches]. A skeleton couldn’t even sit around a fire and bake apples for his friend slime without….grumble grumble…
Belavierr glanced at Toren, but her attention was on the pieces of paper.
“What are you burning?”
She was too direct. Az’kerash sighed, but proffered one of the pieces of paper.
“…An approximately hundred-page plan with as many steps and options for fostering conflict between Gnollish tribes and the Drake cities.”
“Ah.”
The [Witch] discarded the piece of paper. She watched Az’kerash burn more pages, faster now that she was here and the ceremony of the moment was less enjoyable. Az’kerash felt motivated to speak after six minutes.
“I had designed the plans during my recuperation. Far before the Raskghar or these latest developments.”
“I see. Is your agent, Kerash, following these plans?”
“He is adapting.”
The [Witch] stared at the fire. She looked at Az’kerash.
“I have found that plans of that nature go awry. Especially if laid too many centuries in advance.”
He bowed, stiffly.
“I will bear it in mind for the future, Witch Belavierr.”
“Ah. Yes. I had forgotten you were new.”
Az’kerash sighed. He waved a finger and the rest of the pages ignited in one moment, swirling into the fire before extinguishing themselves. He inclined his head to her.
“Until later, Belavierr.”
She made no response. Az’kerash returned to his lair.
Long laid plans set up in literal flames. And yet—everything had changed. He went back to checking on Pisces’ position. Oh. The next part of the documentary had aired.
It was a strange confluence of circumstances. Az’kerash remembered designing the plans, to take advantage of the bloodbath. But that was not the Necromancer of now. Now, his undead levelled. His Chosen, his alliance with the Stitch Witch…
And, of course, among the limited aid he could give to an…ally? No, apprentice? A worthy [Necromancer], if only starting out, and a debt he was finding alarmingly difficult to fulfil was this:
“Erin Solstice.”
“That’s me! Hey, don’t wear it out. I’m Erin. Hi.”
A zombie lurched past Az’kerash. He pinched the bridge of his nose. Then he went to consult his notes.
“Belavierr. Will you consult with me?”
She was there in a moment. The Stitch Witch eyed the zombie, who stuck out her hand.
“I’m—”
The zombie hesitated, then lurched off to stand by a wall, dead silent. Belavierr walked forwards.
“Interesting. This was not part of our agreement.”
“Must we renegotiate on the basis of limited magical discussion?”
Belavierr tilted her head.
“If you wish.”
“I do not wish for that.”
“Ah. Then I shall consider it…a gesture of respect.”
The Stitch Witch walked forwards. Az’kerash turned. He did not have to speak, exactly. She saw multiple stages of his investigation, and regarded them, frowning.
“Fetohep of Khelt. Frost magic. Regeneration magic.”
“Do you have a reagent capable of mimicking ethereal effects in alchemy?”
Belavierr blinked at the complex spells. She tilted her head, left and right.
“Not one of the items listed.”
“Ah.”
Even she didn’t have…the Necromancer turned as the Stitch Witch produced something.
“Do you wish to use this?”
A long, semi-transparent thread on a single spool. The Necromancer eyed it.
“What use would that have?”
The Stitch Witch blinked at him, her ringed eyes shifting a bit.
“Dealing with spectres. This…soul. You know you must retrieve it?”
The Necromancer sighed.
“I am aware. That is, ironically, the simplest task. It will probably be close to her body. The one thing I am sure of is that the body must be placed in the inn, not the garden.”
“Hm. Yes. You would be able to do it well. As a Necromancer. Why are you speaking with Khelt?”
Az’kerash didn’t turn his head, but one of the floating lines of text in the air abruptly vanished. The Stitch Witch looked at him.
“A separate matter. Khelt has an interest. I may pursue it.”
She smiled.
“An intriguing one. I have offered my services to Khelt several times. They do not accept.”
Az’kerash knew the Stitch Witch entangled every affair. He wasn’t surprised the rulers had such sense. Although…he did not mention Belavierr to Fetohep, as even communication was delicate. But perhaps she was what the immortal ruler desired, along with Az’kerash’s abilities. But what a grand ambition. Bring back the…?
He had this commitment to see through first. So the Necromancer put any other project to the side, especially ones that might be beyond even his abilities at present.
“Pieces. Can you improve any aspect of this planned healing project, Witch Belavierr?”
She regarded the component parts. It would be exceedingly difficult to put together. Az’kerash could substitute his own abilities and considerable wealth and influence to copy the project, but again, he was no specialist in healing.
Yet the Stitch Witch…her eyes flickered from incomplete part to part. She came to a swift conclusion.
“Something is missing.”
The Necromancer nodded.
“Do you mean the frost magic? Or the antidote to the poison? No [Alchemist] has yet synthesized a proper application method, and most lack the proposed reagents. Although…”
His eyes flickered to the line of thread. Intriguing. He dipped it in the simple antidote, and walked over to a number of frozen corpses. Female Humans, roughly the same in age. Belavierr watched him point a finger. The thread slowly sank into the first frozen chest, and the layer of poison trapped underneath.
“Not that. Part. And piece. And part.”
The Stitch Witch’s fingers crawled as she moved from section to section, each incomplete. Her head tilted left, and right, and left.
“Almost. It lacks something else.”
“I see. That is valuable insight. Thank you, Witch Belavierr.”
It meant that they needed one more acting factor. Belavierr wasn’t looking at the actual proposed cures. Like her craft, she was looking at the whole of it. And yet…Az’kerash stared with grim satisfaction down at something. He raised a finger.
