“Are you hungry for something else, Mrsha? Honored Krshia said whatever you need…”
Mrsha shook her head, and continued to nibble on bites of her meal. Krshia was elsewhere; she was the star of the Meeting of Tribes along with Ferkr, who was a guest at the Silverfang camp. But, because of this, she was breakfasting elsewhere; Gnolls just had to speak to her. Therefore, Mrsha should not be anywhere near her if one just so happened to poke their head in.
This was despite Mrsha wearing her disguise. And she was not the only person in this tent, incidentally. Satar and Cers had come over to a small camp that had been newly set up within the aegis of Ekhtouch—mainly because Ekhtouch was the most reclusive and suffered few visitors.
“Vetn, Tesy, stop complaining. Bird hash. Dead gods, that takes me back.”
Qwera took a bowl and reached over, but the two ducked away. Vetn sniffed.
“I thought Silverfang would offer us a fancy dish. They’re rich.”
Satar flushed, and Qwera kicked the younger Gnoll.
“You loved bird hash when you were young. Shut up and eat. You too, Tesy.”
“But I didn’t—ow. Alright!”
The Drake bent over his bowl. Vetn and Tesy scarfed down their food. Cers was already done and begging for a second helping. Satar bowed to Qwera.
“I’m sorry, Honored Qwera. Honored Krshia recommended something simple, like Cers’ favorite food…”
“It’s perfectly fine. I drank water flavored with wild mint when I was out of provisions. You want to complain, Ysara?”
“…I’ve eaten nothing but meat for the last three days in your company, Qwera.”
“Humans.”
Everyone else rolled their eyes. Mrsha kept eating. Despite Vetn’s complaints, she rather liked this meal. It was simple, but tasty. It was something…
Erin might have made. It was about her level of cooking and she lacked the patience for bigger dishes, unless it was a special occasion.
The thought of Erin made Mrsha stop eating for a second. It wasn’t that she was sad. She had met Krshia and Krshia had hugged her and now she was among everyone. From Qwera to the Silverfangs to new people like Feshi and Torishi, who Mrsha thought was the best Chieftain ever, aside from Urksh.
It was just that she had met another Chieftain. Mrell. And Prha. And…
Mrsha sighed. Qwera eyed her, and then began to kick Vetn and Tesy out of the tent.
“I have to get to work. You two, get lost.”
“But I was going to stay with Mrsha…”
Tesy looked at Mrsha with quite a lot of concern and Vetn turned at the door. Cers was already racing into the Ekhtouch camp to play Triumphs, whatever that was, with the other children. Qwera glanced knowingly at Mrsha.
“Sometimes a girl has to think things over. With the fine company of a caring, sensitive soul.”
Tesy nodded.
“So—”
Qwera put him in a choke hold and dragged him off.
“A caring, sensitive soul. That Feshi or Chieftain Torishi will be over in a moment. You stay far away.”
Satar hesitated, but she had a job too, and Mrsha passed her a note thanking her for the repast and vouchsafing that she was merely taking her time to savor the melody of flavors.
She had that one pre-prepared, incidentally. She tended to give it to Lyonette when she had to eat salads, then tossed them out the window.
Lyonette. Erin. Mrsha sighed. She wasn’t sad. It was just…she thought of Mrell. No…no. But…
Life was never easy. Dead gods. Mrsha took a sip of her goat milk and sighed like the last drunk in a bar, leaning on the counter. She was left alone with a generous helping of breakfast cooling in the pot. Outside, Ekhtouch was starting their own day. Mrsha knew that Chieftain Torishi would soon be here to talk, and Feshi, and…Rose and Inkar, and more.
They all cared about Mrsha, and were invested in getting Lyonette here, or Mrsha to Lyonette, or Mrsha to home, or something. But Qwera was right. Mrsha had ‘parents’. She was going to have to do something. They just showed up out of nowhere and gave her a headache.
Mrsha was in her maudlin mood and content to sit in contemplative silence.
…Right up until a shadow passed by the door flap. Mrsha froze. A huge shape. A giant muzzle, like a Gnoll’s, but far larger. Gigantic muscles, yet unearthly dexterity. That shape—she began to choke on her food, and tried to stand and run. It was them! Somehow!
Raskgh—
Gire poked her head into the tent. She sniffed.
“Bird hash? You’re making bird hash for breakfast?”
She looked over her shoulder, then blew into the tent so fast Mrsha barely saw her move. She had two bowls full and a spoon raised before she saw Mrsha.
“Oh. Good morning. Mrsha du Marquin. May I have some food?”
She blinked at Mrsha. The Gnoll stared up at the gigantic [Paragon], the second-tallest Gnoll in the entire Meeting of Tribes, and nodded. Gire smiled, ducked her head, and began to eat her breakfast.
Satar had prepared enough for Mrsha to stuff herself until bird hash came out her ears, and for everyone else in the tent to eat their fill; she could always save or re-use it. Gire chowed it down so fast Mrsha saw less of it every time she raised her head.
Not that she didn’t savor it. She was beaming with delight.
“Bird hash. I love bird hash. What kind of bird is it? Chicken…but the speckled hen breed. Probably eight years old. Yum, yum…”
Then Gire blinked at Mrsha and looked embarrassed. She offered the last bowl to Mrsha.
“My apologies, Mrsha. You’re an honored guest. Do you want more?”
Mrsha shook her head, in awe of how much Gire was putting away. The Ekhtouch Gnoll ducked her head and went back to eating. She had good manners. Even so, now that she was reminded Mrsha was there, her eyes assessed Mrsha as she sat cross-legged, back straight. A giant among even her tribe.
[Paragon]. Mrsha had seen her yesterday, of course. But today? She took in Gire, and Gire did the same.
“I should introduce myself. I am Gireulashia of Ekhtouch. [Paragon]. It is my honor to meet you, Mrsha from Liscor. Especially after all you’ve done!”
Mrsha, still eating, looked around for her notepad. She began to sign with her paw, one-handed. Then, frustrated, remembered that no one could understand. And the voice runes…
Gire tilted her head, ears flicking with interest. She reached over, and handed Mrsha her notepad without having to stand.
 
Thank you. What is a [Paragon]? What do you do, again?
 
The big Gnoll girl smiled.
“[Paragon] is my class. Only one Ekhtouch has it—perhaps I’m the only Gnoll living that has this class. It means I am the inspiration, the exemplar of all Gnolls. I am…superior. In body and mind. I must lead my tribe and people by example.”
She said that all with a straight face. Mrsha blinked at Gire. The tall Gnoll touched her chest, then sighed and went back to eating.
“…Or so Chieftain Firrelle says. But how would she know? The last [Paragon] was four generations before her, so all she has to go on is rumor and [Shaman]-memory. All I do is train. I’m not old enough to have a job, so I am Tested, learn fighting, crafts, and am witnessed at the Meeting of Tribes.”
A sour look crossed Gire’s face. She caught herself as she saw Mrsha watching and bowed her head again.
“Forgive me. I’m complaining and you’re an esteemed guest. Are you waiting for Chieftain Torishi? I could fetch her if you wanted.”
Mrsha shook her head. She was fascinated by Gire. Especially—what had she said?
 
How old r u?
 
Gire frowned at the abbreviation.
“Fifteen. Fifteen years, two months, five days.”
Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Fifteen? But she was huge! Mrsha wondered if she would get that big. That was…a long way up. But then she could do anything she wanted! Lyonette could never stop her! But it probably made crawling under the table harder. And sneaking around.
She thought that, but just then, someone shouted.
“Gireulashia! Where are you? Breakfast!”
Gire grimaced. She turned with Mrsha, and clearly someone was following her by scent. Mrsha saw the Gnoll glance at the pot, conspicuously empty, and her paws blurred.
By the time a Gnoll with a huge, covered bin appeared, some kind of woven container charred at the bottom, Gire was innocently sitting with Mrsha, and the frying pan and the bowls were nowhere to be seen.
“Gire—oh. The guest.”
“I was entertaining our guest, as Chieftain Firrelle asked.”
Gire innocently gestured to Mrsha, and gave her a swift look. Mrsha nodded obediently. The Ekhtouch Gnoll sniffed, but nodded.
“Then—will you breakfast here?”
“I…yes. Yes, I will.”
Gire accepted the odd container from the Ekhtouch Gnoll, who gestured.
“I will have the rest sent over. Chieftain Firrelle wishes you to take part in sparring later today.”
“Very well.”
The [Paragon] sighed. But she was already opening what Mrsha realized was some kind of steaming device. The charred wood sat over a fire and within were…
Green…steamed buns? Mrsha craned her head to see as Gire put the huge basket in front of her. They could have fed everyone. And they were curiously green buns, with strange flecks of some kind of vegetable baked into the exterior. They had an odd smell, but Gire lifted one, took a huge bite, and revealed there was meat inside. Meat and some other ingredients.
“I’m sorry. They never let me have bird hash. And I cannot go and buy food with them watching. Just pretend I’m eating everything. I’ll account for the extra food…”
Mrsha’s eyes nearly popped out of her head as a second basket was brought in, placed before Gire, and revealed a double helping of food. Mrsha was known in various circles back home as a devilish stealer of food.
Mrsha the Mouth. Mrsha the Morsel-Hunter. Mrsha the Maw.
She watched as Gire calmly, and apparently still hungry, ate more food than Mrsha would eat all day in the form of those strange buns, on top of her bird hash! Gire ate with a resigned look. Until Mrsha pointed and showed Gire a note.
 
May I try one?
 
She didn’t comment about the amount of food; Lyonette said it was unmannerly to comment about such things to fellow women. Gire looked surprised, but instantly handed Mrsha a bun.
“If you like. It’s not tasty, though.”
Mrsha thought it was. It did have some fine meat within, beef if she was to judge. She took a bite, chewed—
Gire leaned out of the way of the spitball as it hit a corner of the yurt. She grinned, as Mrsha scrubbed at her tongue.
 
What the heck is in that thing? Nasty! Horrible!
 
She signed with her paws, because she had to express her revulsion, then went to scribble it down. Gire replied, glancing at Mrsha and the note.
“It’s got herbs in the bun. That’s why it tastes bad. Here. Have the inside.”
She opened the offending bun and Mrsha suspiciously took a bite of the filling. That tasted good. A bit odd, but fine quality.
“The herbs make you stronger, you know.”
Mrsha would rather die. She glowered at the buns.
 
Do you eat that every day?
 
Gire sighed.
“Not every day. Every four days is bun-day. I have an eating pattern. They try to vary it up, but they just use a sequence. Every four days, then every three, three, four, eight—four…even when they think they’re being clever, they just throw in a single variation.”
Mrsha tilted her head. There was something about Gire that was fascinating. Aside from her mere height. She spoke very adult-like, but she complained about food like Mrsha. Not only that—Gire blinked at Mrsha.
“I’m sorry. I’m supposed to be a good host. And you don’t want to hear about food. You escaped the hunters, didn’t you? You’re safe here. Ekhtouch lets no one in. Also, the authority of Weatherfur and Ekhtouch are such that no other tribes can directly force their way into either camp. Or are you worried about your parents?”
Mrsha’s ears drooped. Her tail did likewise, and Gire hesitated.
“Chieftain Mrell and Warrior Prha. Formerly of Stone Spears? And you don’t like them because you have a mother. Lyonette du Marquin, in Oteslia. You fled from Liscor, The Wandering Inn, and arrived here thanks to Qwera, among other factors…”
Thanks for noticing, jerk. 
Mrsha didn’t write that one down, but signed with one paw. She didn’t appreciate the commentary on her life. The fact that Gire knew the confusing story didn’t register with Mrsha—but Lehra and the others still had to have some of the details clarified.
Gire frowned at Mrsha’s paws. But she saw how the little girl was hunched over, and ameliorated her tone.
“I, ah…I suppose it’s hard? To have parents you don’t want. Mine don’t have much bearing in my life. I’m sorry.”
She ate an entire bun as she thought for a second, eyes flickering. Mrsha put her bowl down and Gire leaned over.
“You know, technically, under tribe-law, if they were expelled via a [Chieftain]’s orders, they have no formal claim on you as parents. The fact that you’re the survivor of a tribe means that your legal status is a bit strange…I guess Krshia would have a strong claim on you, but if this Lyonette comes, she can have the [Shamans] formally recognize her as your guardian.”
Mrsha blinked. She looked up at Gire. The [Paragon] frowned.
“…Unfortunately, ‘Lyonette du Marquin’ is the name of a [Princess] of Calanfer and under Terandrian laws of royal inheritance, she cannot legally adopt or declare you her ward without approval from the throne, due to the Bloodlines Decree. Especially since you’re non-Human so they can’t even claim you’d be partially intermingled after marrying a royal bloodline; non-Humans can’t develop royal blood. Half-Elves are an exception ratified to the treaty, but you’re not one.”
She looked at Mrsha. The legal knowledge of the [Paragon] was impressive. The rest? Mrsha slowly wrote a note and handed it to Gire.
 
You suck at being nice.
 
Gire looked a bit hurt. Mrsha passed her another note.
 
How do you know all that? Do they teach you Terandrian law?
 
Even Lyonette hadn’t done that and she taught Mrsha tea etiquette and the flower-signs of court. Gire shook her head, bemused.
“No. I read a book once. I’m sorry I’m not comforting. Um…maybe Liscor has separate bylaws in regard to adoption?”
She went back to eating, a bit embarrassed. As if she had explained everything. Mrsha frowned at her. What, you just remembered everything you read?
You mean jerk. You’re big and smelly and stupid.
The little white Gnoll girl took some pleasure in signing it, with a smile on her face. She was Lyonette’s daughter no matter what.
Gire looked at Mrsha’s paws. Then frowned.
Horrible!
She signed back. Mrsha nearly catapulted herself into a wall in astonishment. Gire glared.
“I don’t know what the rest of that meant, but I can tell I’m being insulted.”
You can read my signs?
Gire tilted her head back and forth, eying Mrsha as the Gnoll girl, disbelieving, moved her paws.
