She blushed shyly. Because she meant one thing. Jelaqua had put on her best body, and she was fiddling with a lock of her styled hair.
Maughin, the Armorer of Pallass, sat in his private apartment. Jelaqua let her robe slip lower around her shoulders. She breathed, savoring the feeling in the nerves not rotted away.
“So…Maughin?”
“Yes?”
“I was thinking. We could do something really adventurous. Anything you want.”
“I see.”
The Dullahan’s face never changed. Jelaqua let the robes slip even lower. She whispered.
“And Maughin? Before I go after Mrsha, and risk my life? It’s been a long journey south and they’re still fighting over the Helm of Fire. But I never stopped thinking of you. And I would love to have something to remind you by. I even have a new Skill. So I would love for you to ask me to do anything, and I will. And then you can turn away from that piece of metal which you seem to care about more than me!”
She tore off her robes and stomped on them. Maughin jumped, and turned his head guiltily away from the Adamantium ingot. His body had been facing her, but he swiveled his head around just in time to see Jelaqua burst into tears.
“It’s over. I knew it was too good to be true!”
Faint green ran from her eyes and nose. Maughin reached out.
“What? Jelaqua, what do you mean? I just—look.”
He tried to show it to her. A tiny sliver of metal lay next to the block.
“It’s taken me two months, but I’ve not only figured out how to manipulate it, I think I’ve finally figured out how to heat it like Master Pelt. I’m inspecting the unique grain, you see; I managed to cut it yesterday. Well, not cut, but—”
“You care about a piece of metal more than me! Well, fine! She can be your partner!”
Jelaqua pointed at the block of metal. Maughin’s head slowly swung back and forth.
“Jelaqua, that is a block of Adamantium. It’s not you. I’m sorry, it’s just that Pelt gave it to me as a challenge. It’s a sign of deep respect. The challenge of my career.”
“Oh, fine then! Go marry the block of Adamantium and Pelt!”
Maughin’s mouth opened, but Jelaqua went on.
“I’ve been on the road, and fighting with idiots to make sure they don’t sell the Helm of Fire out from under the Horns! I nearly died at the Village of the Dead and I was waiting to meet you and you can’t even look at me!”
The Dullahan tried to apologize. Jelaqua refused to be consoled until he began to rectify his mistakes. And only then, after he quickly booked a restaurant, made arrangements, professed his deepest mistake—
And put a cloth over that damned block of metal.
 
——
 
Something was in the air. A familiar feeling. Pawn saw it ripple through Liscor on his way back. Someone had just arrived that made even the citizens look up and say, ‘what now?’
It was a feeling. A familiar feeling of excitement, confusion, and apprehension in the air. But perhaps it was a sign.
These days will come again. And the harbinger of them walked through Liscor’s door. What was the first thing she did? It was something that lived up to expectations.
To that name.
In Liscor, there was no embassy of the Antinium. Their representatives could be found in Yellow Splatters of the Watch, or Pawn, or a number of other people.
But, strangely, one of the voices of the Antinium, who actually fielded requests to talk with Silveran, this or that, had a shop next to the fairly empty street where the entrance to the Hive was. He got good foot traffic on top of the people who sought him out. Mainly because he was the only Antinium with a regular presence.
Also, you could not beat those prices. Although, as the sign said…
 
May contain insects.
 
You were gambling with every bite. But the food looked very good. Loaves of bread even Antinium could consume, pies, even a cake. Yet, as anyone who had ever eaten from Garry’s unmarked foods would attest, you could find a crunch in your slice of cake and discover a leg in your teeth.
The worst part was if it tasted good. Garry had a clientele, from people who told him they could not afford food at other prices, to people who had begun to develop curious tastes. He wondered what the stir was about.
Then he sensed a command from the Queen, a mobilization order. She was alarmed. But why? Garry wondered if he should go inside the Hive, but he had just put a pie out labeled ‘free samples’.
…Where was it? Garry peered at his counter. He had just put it out, piping hot, steam rising from it. Lovely berries and, uh, other things. Normally the smell attracted some people who stopped when they saw the sign.
“Excuse me.”
A voice spoke from somewhere odd. Garry hesitated. He looked around, but no one was in front of his stall that opened out of the window of the shop he rented. Some people were lined up, but they were all…frozen in the street.
“You are Antinium. I would like to speak to the Centenium known as Xrn, the Small Queen. I am Archmage Valeterisa of Wistram. I come in peace. Unless we are at war.”
The voice was coming from…Garry leaned out of his stall. Then he walked out of his shop’s door and looked up, past the awning.
Archmage Valeterisa of Wistram hung in the air. Flying. A quad-layered barrier of magic hung around her. And—coincidentally, Garry and the other passersby emptying the street couldn’t help but notice this—a giant orb of darkness, and what looked like burning fireballs suspended in the air.
“Oh.”
The [Chef] stared up at enough firepower to waste everything in a five block radius. His antennae wilted. But then—he couldn’t help but notice one more detail.
“Do not be alarmed. I have simply taken precautions against any offensive action. Please summon the Small Queen. I come in peace.”
Soldiers were streaming out of the Hive, taking one look at the flying Archmage with spells, and reconsidering the validity of their tactics. However, Garry, despite the distinct threat of death, was not quite afraid. He couldn’t be. Because…
Valeterisa spoke, watching the Antinium take up possibly hostile positions. She wondered if she should bind another spell for quick activation. She decided to repeat herself.
“I come in peace. Please do not be alarmed.”
As she addressed Garry, she took another bite of the pie. She noticed the Antinium staring at her.
“That is my pie.”
Valeterisa blinked at him.
“It was marked as ‘free’, was it not?”
“…Yes.”
The Archmage peered at Garry. At the pie. She hovered left a bit. Checked his store and the sign.
 
Garry’s Bakery.
 
She stared at something, then swivelled to Garry.
“Does this contain bugs?”
Valeterisa pointed at the pie. Garry hesitated.
“Yes.”
Valeterisa looked at the pie.
“I see.”
She kept eating. Sustenance for the day had been achieved. Sadly, though, Xrn refused to meet her. So she floated off. Alas, it seemed like Archmage Feor would have to employ other means. She had been as diplomatic as possible under the circumstances, but the Antinium simply weren’t open to that sort of thing.
Now, where to next? Valeterisa absently floated past an angry Drake [Councilmember] shouting at her to come down. The Captain of the Watch stared at a nightmare worse than the [Innkeeper] of stories herself. Archmage Valeterisa quite liked the pie. Maybe it was a suitable birthday gift? No, wait. Ten years…so a thousand pies?
But she didn’t know if she could recommend crickets to Ieka.
 
——
 
Montressa du Valeross saw her coming. She saw her coming, then going, as she flew past her. Overhead.
She could fly! Maybe it was [Levitation], not [Flight], but even so—there went an old Wistram legend. An Archmage. She flew through Liscor, ignored the law, nearly blew a hole in the city with what had to be at least a Tier 5 spell…then flew off.
“Old school Wistram.”
Montressa stared at Valeterisa with awe. That was like the Archmages who went anywhere they pleased. Got what they wanted. Put a door in their way? That was what [Acid Wave] was for.
Of course, she was making Wistram look bad—but where was she headed now? She flew straight for…Montressa heard murmurs.
The Wandering Inn. Montressa stared. Then she saw Valeterisa circling the inn as Antinium burst out of hiding places, aiming bows up at her. But she didn’t attack, and she had cancelled the other spells. Instead, she seemed to be searching for something.
And indeed, after only a few seconds, she stopped by a window, and, it seemed, unlatched it from the outside. She flew in through the window.
Well, in point of fact, she smacked into it, and then had to re-angle herself so she flew in horizontally, head-first. At this point Montressa began choking—then burst into a stumbling run.
Mainly because that was her window.
 
——
 
Montressa raced past Ishkr as she heard a voice floating down from upstairs.
“Hm. No. No. No. Ah, I am running out of clothing. Can I purchase this?”
“Where is she…?”
The Gnoll just pointed a finger. She arrived, panting, breathless, just in time to see Valeterisa stuffing her undergarments into her bag of holding. Montressa’s—
“Archmage Valeterisa!”
Her room was a mess! The Archmage had opened every cupboard, drawer, and the closet, and half of Montressa’s possessions, including empty bottles of wine rolled under the bed, were floating around as she sorted through them. Montressa’s awe was turning into fury, but then Valeterisa finally found what she was looking for.
“There it is. A prototype, just as promised. Oh, how interesting. Destroyed, but someone’s attempted to repair it. Nailiuaile did not mention that. However, I can attempt to repair it and see…excellent. Excellent.”
She floated over, and plucked the Shock Orb from behind Montressa’s dresser. The ruined orb of brass had indeed been destroyed, but it had been repaired as best as Montressa could; she even had a note appended to replace the liquid inside, and some still remained, sloshing about.
The Archmage of Izril’s eyes were alight with curiosity. She floated past Montressa, into the hallway.
“Hello. You must be Mage Montressa. I have left recompense for the objects. Thank you for the orb—I am taking it. Archmage Nailihuaile informed me I could. Goodbye. Excuse me, sir. Do you know where I can find an ‘Erin Solstice’…?”
She walked past Montressa without a second look. The [Aegiscaster] was lost for words. It was like Valeterisa was walking past furniture. Or people who just existed to get in her way.
“Erin Solstice is unavailable, Miss…?”
Ishkr saw Valeterisa frown.
“She’s dead. Or in stasis. Yes, I have been briefed. Please direct me to her. I am on the business of Grand Magus Eldavin. Or is he Archmage now?”
“Archmage Valeterisa. I hugely admire your magic. That’s my—property. I don’t know what Archmage Nailihuaile told you, but…”
Montressa hovered there, afraid to touch the older woman. Ishkr crossed his arms, frowning.
“Grand Magus Eldavin…?”
“Yes. I may be able to resuscitate her. Failing that, I would like to inspect her body.”
Ishkr gave Montressa a pointed glance. The young woman saw him clear his throat.
“Perhaps, Archmage Valeterisa, you could ask Mage Montressa for guidance?”
“…Does she have any salient information?”
Valeterisa slowly swung around and seemed to take Montressa in for the first time. She peered at Montressa.
“Ah, yes. The [Aegiscaster]. Formerly Revivalists. My note says ‘rub it in’ per request of Nailihuaile.”
Montressa flinched. The Archmage had actually…?
“Yes, Archmage Valeterisa. I can, um, direct you to Erin Solstice. And she’s in a special zone. An Inheritance Skill, you see. But can we talk about the Shock Orb?”
Valeterisa looked at Montressa, impatiently.
“If you would like to direct me to Erin Solstice, [Mage] Montressa, I would be grateful. However, I have been gifted the Shock Orb. Archmage Nailihuaile did point out it was created by her and therefore property of Wistram. You have been loaned it; that is the end of the discussion. Thank you.”
“But it’s all I have left. They kicked me out of Wistram. You can’t just walk in and…”
Montressa’s voice broke. Valeterisa took one look at her wet eyes and sighed.
“I believe this will take too much time. Excuse me, Mister Gnoll. Please direct me to this garden.”
She turned away. Montressa followed her as Ishkr gave Valeterisa a long look, then directed her downstairs.
“I’m sorry. It’s just—c-could you perhaps induct me back into Wistram? The situation was—I’m a [Mage] of Wistram. I gave my entire life to the Academy. I’m a secret broker. I could offer you…”
Valeterisa glanced back at the ‘secret broker’ comment. She frowned.
“Intriguing. But if I weigh the costs to benefits—I cannot imagine you could offer me something worth more than Archmage Nailihuaile’s personal ire. If you can, please correct me. She is a rather personal being, however.”
Montressa couldn’t imagine she did have anything, besides knowledge of Earth, and…she knew Valeterisa was right.
The purest quill of logic. Uncaring, just like the stories said. She floated after Ishkr as he pointed to a door that had hither-to not been there before, and a warm light beyond.
“Fascinating. An inheritance Skill. But there’s no…magical residue I can sense. Inside is another matter, but the manifestation is purely Skill-based. Alas.”
Valeterisa’s eyes lit up, but after a few seconds of casting identification spells, she lost interest because this was not a magical phenomenon. She floated forwards, into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Valeterisa to Eldavin. I have arrived at the inn and am insp—whub.”
The last part was cut off because she ran face-first into the invisible barrier. Valeterisa recoiled, looking mildly shocked. Montressa stopped, and saw Ishkr, unflappable Ishkr, who hadn’t blinked more than four times to see the Archmage of Izril drop by…
Smile.
Valeterisa ran her hands over the invisible barrier in the air.
“I have been obstructed. By a Skill? Excuse me, Mister Gnoll. Do you know what is wrong?”
“I believe you have not been invited in, Miss.”
“Ah. Then how would I obtain an invitation?”
Ishkr coughed.
“You would need to speak to the owner of the Skill, Miss Erin Solstice.”
Valeterisa nodded, eyes a bit blank as her hands and magic explored the obstruction.
“I see. Then may I meet with…ah.”
She stared at the garden’s door. Montressa saw the Archmage float back and put a finger to her head.
“Grand Magus, I have a small problem. I will contact you once I find a solution. Hm.”
