“Who was Erin Solstice?”
Montressa heard that question in the air. Then a voice, as she hurried towards the plaza and the portal door. The voice was so familiar she turned.
“Say that again. Say it again. Was? Was?”
Someone had taken umbrage to the question and was shaking the person who’d asked. A Drake was trying to un-pry the claws around the terrified asker’s collar.
“Menolit. Menolit, calm down. They don’t know.”
Menolit? Now who was that…? Montressa saw the [Veteran] with a missing tail and recalled him. But not this Drake.
Menolit? He stood, scarred, bearing wounds from Liscor’s army, which he had been honorably discharged from. But rather than the down-on-his luck guest that often visited Erin’s inn, she saw him wearing a combination of armor and suit.
As in, dress-suit. Something casual, but which had the motif of armor worked into it; chainmail combined with cloth. It had an adventurous flair of what looked like blood on one shoulder, but was actually just paint. And a symbol of Liscor on the other shoulder, but with a strange, stylized claw holding a sword as well.
Menolit was not alone. In fact, he’d been escorting a group of clearly foreign Drakes and Gnolls forwards. Even some Humans. The other people, including the Drake trying to calm Menolit down from throttling their customer, all wore the same kind of armor.
They also carried weapons. Indeed, Montressa recognized none other than Vuliel Drae, along with some [Hunters] who had joined this group.
No. This company. This organization.
Liscor Hunted. A new service in the city that was getting steady business. And if that sounded familiar, perhaps you’d heard of Pallass Hunting?
Funny story. The Pallass group that let civilians experience the thrill of the outdoors in a carefully contained environment was hugely popular. Once upon a time, an [Innkeeper] had remarked on how funny it was to her guests.
And a while later, he’d had an idea. Fighting a single Grass Slime in a curated environment? That wasn’t adventure. You wanted adventure? Go sneeze outside of Liscor’s walls and you’d have a Fortress Beaver trying to gnaw your leg off.
…Or would if they weren’t a protected species, having been ‘employed’ by Hexel to help with some construction. Also, a curious number were Selys’ roommates and guard…beavers.
But Menolit had somehow started Liscor Hunted, which let you go outside the walls and possibly die. They had a motto, ‘death is not guaranteed’.
That was actually a typo from back when Menolit first advertised it. He’d meant safety, or the opposite, but the motif had attracted some clients who thought they knew what was what.
They were wrong.
It had been a local broadcast, not an international news story, mainly because it was hugely embarrassing for the Drakes involved. Noass and Sir Relz had decided that if Drassi could do ‘on-the-scene’ reporting, well, so could they! They’d gone out to experience this quaint mimicry of Pallass Hunting, armed with expensive gear.
And run into a herd of Rock Crabs. Liscor Hunted still played the scene as part of their intro-video and promotion.
 
——
 
Noass reached for Sir Relz, who was halfway inside the cave. The clicking Rock Crabs were outside and a small one had his leg. Menolit and the two [Hunters] were shooting arrows, trying to drag him inside.
But the camera focused on Noass and Sir Relz. The Drake was panting to his friend and fellow [Commentator].
“Hold on, Relz!”
He was trying to drag the Drake inside as the Rock Crab slowly pulled him out. Sir Relz’s face was white. He spoke, desperately.
“Noass. I’m not going to make it. Take my monocle.”
 
——
 
…They’d made it. But the scene was so iconic, Menolit had leaned into the theme all the way. There were some rules Liscor Hunted employed:
 
-You were on your own. They had helpers, experienced adventurers, and fighters, but you still made the choices. Want to take on Shield Spider nests? Go ahead, but know your limits.
-You had to be Level 20 or higher in any class. Any class, but you could not sign up without that.
-Death was not guaranteed.
-Run if you see a crab.
 
The rules, the style, and the challenge meant that no end of people came to test themselves and prove they could do it.
All of it meant that Menolit was a successful businessdrake. He was pulled back from the Human who’d asked, angry. Montressa saw his expression, as he adjusted his gear and pointed the group forwards; they were hunting Razorbeaks. She lingered a second, then recalled.
“On no. Bezale! Bez—”
She ran forwards just in time to see the door close. She’d let her friend down.
Again.
 
——
 
Bezale walked through Invrisil. Stormed, rather. She knew Montressa was suffering. Even so…
The Minotauress hadn’t been able to step out of line. Montressa had been lost in her own world, and so Bezale went to her first appointment alone. Which, to be fair, was what their clients expected.
Today, her first call was actually on behalf of Wistram so it might be as well that Montressa had missed it. Small silver linings. And it was an irony, because Bezale was trying to talk the [Mayor] into allocating land, even buying into this.
“…I understand that Lady Reinhart’s approval is not needed. I have led this city for quite some time, Mage Bezale. It’s just that I don’t see the point.”
The Minotauress smiled as politely as she could.
“But the Adventure Rooms will be a huge draw, sir. If you would like to put coin into it—we just need a single warehouse’s space.”
“Guaranteed housing. Wistram—I have a lot of respect for Wistram, you know—but I’ve been speaking to…no, I should say it’s just that Wistram wants guaranteed housing. From the city. Why don’t they just buy it? It’s preferential treatment.”
The [Mayor] was friendly, intelligent, and Bezale was working uphill because he was right.
“Wistram has customarily made such requests, for the fine services it provides.”
She reminded him. The [Mayor] smiled politely.
“Yes, but…must they? And the city to help cover the costs in exchange for a small amount of the profits? I don’t really think it’s germane to negotiate over something as small as this—even if it becomes a success.”
“Ah, then—”
“…Can’t Wistram cover the costs themselves?”
Bezale stopped. It was interesting. You had Liscor to thank for all these innovations. But she could not help but suspect the [Mayor] had been talking to a certain Drake.
Named Lism. And his bearishness on giving Wistram exclusive rights to setting up their Adventure Room project was due to this.
Bezale had heard it was a problem across other big cities where the initiative—backed by Ullsinoi, of all factions—was rolling out. Wistram’s reputation had…suffered…of late.
Most of all here. The [Mayor] regarded the plans for a way to have the greatest adventures in total safety.
“It’s a wonderful idea. Magical—I do think the cost is a bit too high. But I think it could work.”
“Then…?”
He gave her an apologetic smile.
“It’s just, Mage Bezale, forgive me for saying so, but it sounds like Pallass Hunting. A delightful experience, but you know, Liscor Hunted is already offering its services. And I’ve gone through one trip and I must say, nothing gets the heart pounding like that.”
 
——
 
An entire hour, wasted. Bezale did her best, and simply sent off a [Message] to Wistram. If you wanted space and to build the thing, pay for it yourself. At least Ullsinoi would remember she’d tried.
“Next…bicycles. We have to ramp up production. Pelt can do it. But Hedault?”
They were sending the first shipments out at last. It had taken some doing to convince the impatient buyers that building a complex mechanical instrument took time. Pelt could manufacture the ‘cheap’ bicycles fairly fast, and some other [Smiths] had even created far less perfect versions.
However, the ones that Kevin had pioneered—and Ryoka herself—required a master [Enchanter]’s skill. Or, failing that, a number of apprentices.
Hedault was alone in that regard. You couldn’t get apprentices as fast as Pelt, and to be frank, Hedault was as tricky as Pelt in that regard. He had no desire for apprentices, but either he did the enchanting full-time or they’d have to outsource.
Dead gods, maybe they could make Montressa do some of the basic protective spells? It would give her work if she could stick to a quota.
Bezale was going to chat with him. She hurried because she knew the [Enchanter] hated people being late. But when she knocked on his door—or rather, used the enchanted gemstone to announce herself—he did not immediately answer.
That wasn’t like Hedault at all. Bezale tried again.
“Master Hedault? I’m here for my appointment. 11:00 sharp. Did you send me a rescheduling note? I didn’t get it…”
She put her hand on the door and it swung open. Bezale’s instincts sharpened as she heard a loud, angry voice from within.
Hedault. She made a fist, prepared her spell scrolls. She surged towards his workshop and living space.
“Stay back! You are not welcome—”
Bezale exploded into his workshop, fist raised. She saw the [Enchanter], aiming his wand at someone who had…
….a bag of gold in one hand…and was waving it at him.
“I can prepare gemstones. Please sell the wand to me. Also, do you have any other artifacts of interesting qualities? I will offer you fifty thousand gold pieces. No? Sixty.”
Valeterisa, Archmage of Izril, had backed Hedault into a corner. She plucked for the wand with one hand as Hedault backed up, a look of pure frustration on his face.
“Please let me inspect it. I will compensate you for the time.”
“Master Hedault? Is th—”
Bezale stared at the powerful [Mage], then realized who she had to be. Her eyes went wide. Hedault turned.
“Mage Bezale. Please eject this Archmage. She comes from your academy. Archmage Valeterisa, I will call the Watch!”
Valeterisa turned. She peered at Bezale.
“Hm. Minotaur. Female. You must be Bezale, contact of…[Recall Memories]. Scriptels. Note on record about loyalty. Mage Montressa. Hello.”
Then she turned back to Hedault.
“I would like to inspect it.”
“I recall you from last time! You disassembled an artifact meant for a Gold-rank adventurer!”
Hedault covered the wand with one hand. Valeterisa blinked.
“I offered compensation at market value. Perhaps you will take other artifacts? I have a teleportation spell…or we can come to…other arrangements?”
She struck what Bezale thought might be a seductive pose. Hedault stared at her. Valeterisa blinked at his expression.
“Ah. I’m not young. Alas. I need to amend that persuasion tactic. Note to self…illusions or don’t…”
She began muttering. Bezale looked at Hedault. The [Enchanter] gave her an exasperated look. Valeterisa peered at Bezale.
“Hm. Come to think of it. If I cannot sequester the wand, I might as well continue on my way. Next location…Liscor. Liscor? That’s four hundred miles…oh. Magic door…make teleportation network…Erin Solstice. Who? Aha. Communicate with Eldavin. Interesting.”
With that, she strode past Bezale. The Minotauress was so startled she went after Valeterisa.
“Begging your pardon, Archmage Valeterisa. Did you say—it is an honor to meet you.”
Valeterisa was walking under some kind of a speed spell, but her head snapped around as Bezale jogged to keep up. She looked blankly at the Minotauress. Then a huge, fake smile appeared on her face.
“Oh, a fellow student? How do you do. I am Archmage Valeterisa! It is a delight to see young people interested in magic. I am a bit busy, but please contact the Mage’s Guild; Wistram always needs new talent.”
“What? No, Archmage…”
Valeterisa’s ‘meet and greet’ routine ended and the Archmage lifted a hand.
“I am sure you are quite a capable [Mage], Miss Bezale, but I am already behind schedule.”
“You are banned from my premises!”
Hedault shouted after her. Valeterisa ignored that. She was making a beeline for the door.
“I will entertain any requests, favors, bribes, or offers. Please send me a [Message] spell. I have a backlog, but I should get to you within the week.”
She was as…insane as Bezale had heard. The Minotauress struggled to keep up.
“If you want to go to Liscor, Archmage—did you say you were looking into an Erin Solstice?”
“Yes. I don’t believe she can be cured, but I will assess her and make notes. I also have a number of others to meet…oh! A Mage Montressa? At the same inn. Good, good. Excuse me, I would like to purchase travel to Liscor.”
Valeterisa came to a stop at the door on this side, which had closed for the duration and was waiting for a shipment of goods. The tired person at the door pointed to the queue.
“You’ll have to wait. There’s restaurants and places to rest. No exceptions.”
Valeterisa blinked. She peered at the door.
“I would like to go to Liscor, now, please. I understand this door can be opened upon request?”
“Only for [Diplomats] and emergencies. There’s a transit this evening. In almost exactly five hours. Please…”
The tired man rolled his eyes. He had to field questions like this constantly. They needed…a bulletin board or something. No, an announcer, like one of those speaking crystals to shout it every five minutes. In fact, this plaza was a bad space since you couldn’t herd these idiots and the goods. They needed a building of their own. Yes, that would do it…
His imagination of a better system cut off as Archmage Valeterisa lifted a finger. She enunciated carefully and loudly.
“I. Would like. To go to Liscor.”
The attendant lost his patience and looked around for some of the people who’d taken notice of the argument and were strolling over.
“Miss, if you don’t step back, I will ask the [Guards] to—”
Valeterisas spoke over him.
“I am Archmage Valeterisa of Wistram. I would like to go to Liscor. On behalf of Wistram. It is an emergency. [Message]. Archmage Valeterisa to Wistram. Please declare an emergency if I am still an Archmage…”
The [Attendant] and Bezale stared at Valeterisa. She stood there, taking all questions and ignoring them. She sent [Messages] to Wistram, Liscor, and waited.
The door opened in five minutes. Bezale choked and Valeterisa smiled.
“Thank you.”
“Wait—”
Valeterisa walked through before Bezale could stop her. The [Spellscribe] sent a hurried [Message] to Montressa. But since she had no idea how to send an all-encompassing explanation of what was headed her way, she simply wrote:
 
Watch out.
 
——
 
“I can’t stay long.”
“I know that. I hope you’ll be safe.”
“Thank you. I—I can only stay a day, really. So I want to make it memorable. It’s, um, a bit embarrassing.”
