“I couldn’t leave her behind. They grow up so fast, and the darling Sariant Lambs bring them so much joy.”
“Yes. They do a fine job.”
Visophecin agreed, absently. He looked at the grave. The cemetery. All the things designed to make the servants’ lives as happy as possible. Not for him. He thought he would have run a pleasant household with minimal interaction if given the chance; the kind of efficiency you got from the top [Maids] and [Butlers]. Magnolia Reinhart was an exemplar in that area, or so his notes went for the current serving scene.
But Gadrea needed Lesy, tears and joy in all, just like Visophecin needed the dregs of Ailendamus. Of course, she would rather die than harm a hair on Lesy’s head. But she still took something from the girl. Or perhaps…basked in it, for he didn’t think it was like [Witches] or other such classes or monsters.
Happiness. When the staff were content, thriving, in passion, Gadrea and her kin lived. Even now, she smiled like…an Angel.
 
——
 
But what did an angel smile like? Visophecin told her no lies. They were too close, and Gadrea might not be the greatest of her kind, but she was close. She grew excited as she paced around the cemetery.
“From another world? And you did what to her? I could harm you, Visophecin.”
He watched her, because that was no idle threat—or wouldn’t be if she were in better health. Gadrea glared at him.
“Have you no thought for how a young woman would perceive it? After so long?”
“I was carried away. I rectified the issue.”
Gadrea shook her head. Her cheeks were slightly flushed, but they had turned a lighter color, rather than darker. Light blue?
“I must speak to her! I must ask her—oh, everything. You said she brought Fithea comfort? Why, then she must be an ally! And Rhisveri should grant her whatever she needs. I am glad you saw sense. If there is another place out there…”
Her eyes sparkled with the very possibility. She was no fool. Visophecin remarked quietly.
“She trusted me because she was aware of how valuable she was. But I have not earned her trust. Nor do I intend to blindly invoke whatever powers brought her here.”
“Visophecin! Have you no trust? An extraordinary girl comes here, with the daring, the drive to stand up to Rhisveri and you, knowing what you two are, and it truly strikes no chord? Imagine what she could become. How old is she?”
“Hm. I would say…twenty two?”
“Twenty two. Dead gods. I can almost picture her. Such bravery. And—and you were cold.”
Gadrea turned, almost resignedly, to Visophecin. He touched his chin.
“…No, actually. I rather desired to keep dancing with her. Even court her.”
“Really? This is wonderful! Astonishing! Inconceivable, truthfully!”
Gadrea clapped her hands, becoming even more animated. Visophecin’s smile was crooked.
“Not for the reasons you hope, fair cousin. I was simply aware that Tyrion Veltras seems enamoured with her. Rumor has it already that His Majesty, Itorin, has invited her to a personal dinner. Whether or not he truly is in love, Queen Oiena has done the same. She is the more suspect of the two, between you and I.”
“Oh. But then…”
Visophecin’s smile had sharpness to it.
“I would rather like to charm her first. Simply because of the competition.”
Gadrea gave him a long look. It was not unfamiliar, and she had given him many such looks over their long lifespans, and he did the same to her. They were fundamentally opposed. Yet…she was so excited she began pleading with him.
“Take me with you to the palace next time. I won’t give anything away. I just want to behold her. See her. If she knows about you, perhaps about me? I—I could even see if we could fly. She can fly, Visophecin. She could be—”
She coughed, raising her hand.
“—so brilliant. I have to ask how little Yorishi is doing. Did she become a [Mage]? If I could just go out—”
Another cough. She blinked. Something was trickling down her mouth. Visophecin’s eyes opened wide. Gadrea stared down at the light blue liquid running down her hand. It did not look like it, but it was her…
Blood. She began to cough harder, and Visophecin caught her. He turned and Gadrea collapsed as he carried her out of the garden, calling for a [Healer].
 
——
 
“…A regular collapse. She was up for nearly three hours.”
“And no one stopped her. I shall speak to Herea.”
“Don’t…don’t…”
Gadrea was calmer now that she was lying down and had been treated. Visophecin saw her agitation, and lowered his voice. Another of the Agelum, now that the [Healer] had seen to Gadrea, was speaking.
The [Healer] saw only red blood. He didn’t notice the discrepancies, and he was loyal to House Shoel beyond doubt. But he was still only a half-Elf, albeit one with long experience with the fragile kin of the Lucifen.
Uzine, older than both Gadrea and Visophecin, oldest of all on the Agelum’s side, sat in a chair that could be pushed around. There were any number of devices the Agelum could use. Floating beds, simple mechanical variants…he patted Gadrea’s hand, and she lay there, resting.
He went outside with Visophecin as Gadrea lay in the bed of healing crystals. Visophecin pushed the chair.
“Did you hear about Ser Tubeliges? Such a sad thing.”
Visophecin sighed.
“I heard about Ser Tubeliges. I have news, Uzine.”
“Tell me, then.”
They went for a tour of the manor, Visophecin letting Uzine greet the children running past, who had to stop and bow or show him a toy or a flower, ask him if he had heard the latest song from the Singer. Visophecin regarded it as a necessary evil. But Uzine smiled with delight. He had an infinite patience like all his people for such things.
Yet Agelum would have surprised Ryoka—or maybe not. They, like Lucifen, had their role to play. But it was not always benign.
“Did you meet with Ser Lomoor’s widow when you were there? Please remember me to her.”
It was another child that Uzine had known since he was a serving boy. In fact, and people attributed this to the care of House Shoel, patriotism, their rich lands, or any number of factors, many of the serving children went on to become [Mages], [Knights], and more in Ailendamus’ ranks. Some rose to positions of great power and still visited and remembered their beloved friends who didn’t age.
It was inevitable. Uzine smiled at a boy with a scar and a limp.
“Tored. How are you healing?”
“Good, Lord Uzine! I’m sorry, Viscount.”
“And those wretches who picked that fight?”
“Haven’t seem ‘em!”
The boy gave him a huge grin exposing missing teeth. Uzine nodded.
“Suffer no bullying. Go proudly in House Shoel’s name.”
When the boy had limped off, he turned to Visophecin.
“I wanted to give him a practice sword for the end of the month. Herea refused. Speak to her, will you?”
“Hm.”
Visophecin’s eyes followed Tored. The boy had, after several incidents with a neighboring village’s children, single-handedly picked a fight with no less than four children with multiple years on him. He’d broken a leg and lost several teeth, but had given them more scars than the one he had. He had done it after a chat with Uzine on the issue.
Until Tored was older, Visophecin would have left him alone. Treated him like a servant if he was employed, and not bothered with any facet of his life unless it affected Visophecin for whatever reason. Unless Tored committed a crime. Then they would meet one more time, as man and Lucifen.
But Uzine and his kind…meddled. The children they poured their affection and attention into went on adventures. Many died young. Some became great heroes and figures of renown. Champions of the poor, feared warriors. Some simply snapped. There was no middle ground.
Live. Live louder, live with conviction, with passion. If Uzine had been able to stand for long periods, he might have founded a new [Knight] Order, or led the charge into enemy lines. As it was—he couldn’t.
They were all bedridden. All…weak. So, as Visophecin spoke, a few more were escorted over, to give him advice. Ironically, he trusted the Agelum more than his kin. Not all of his kin were as practical; you could learn the kind of selfish altruism he believed made great rulers. But Agelum…
“A girl from another world? Or one who travels at least? You were right to stop Rhisveri. Hear her out. Give her aid, Visophecin. Bring her here, perhaps. Have you heard about Ser Tubeliges?”
Another of the Agelum wheeled herself over. She was old, white in her hair…but that didn’t mean much. She coughed.
“Gadrea collapsed, then?”
“You shouldn’t have let her stand so long. Three hours? You are lucky she didn’t suffer intense harm.”
Razia smiled.
“You don’t know what it’s like, Visophecin. To want to stand and hold someone. Don’t scold Gadrea too long. I feel for mortals who suffer injuries like ours.”
“I have put forward your suggestions about ways to improve their lives and give them employment in the Court of Masks already. And we are purchasing magical prosthesis designs. Sophridel and Fithea, among some of the others, are looking into the project, but we have a war to fight, Razia.”
“I know that. I wish we could give more aid. But we are not as skilled at magic.”
She shook her head. Then she smiled ruefully.
“I hope we do not add to your worries, Visophecin. To tell you the truth, I stood and walked about the manor just this morning. Only thirty minutes.”
He sighed. But he did understand the frustration they had to feel. To occupy them, he gave them wide liberties to begin and envision projects. One of Ailendamus’ dishes that was now a standard across the kingdom had come from House Shoel’s kitchens, and thousands of taste-testings, much to their pride. Razia smiled.
“I know, but I had Herea send someone to watch me. I didn’t feel poorly at all. I’ve felt better this last month—months, really—than I have since before Curulac, damn him. And I’m not the only one, am I, Uzine?”
Visophecin raised his eyebrows.
“I hope you will remind the others not to push themselves, however you feel, Cousins.”
“We know. But it is nice to feel better, Visophecin. I know it must be something—good humors, if they existed. Perhaps it’s that lad Tored. He put a spark in me, but I really feel better. Perhaps there’s a project in Ailendamus that’s boosting the mana?”
“Not that I know of. I will ask. Tell me if you continue to feel better next month.”
“Of course. Of course. And bring this young woman here! Visophecin is minded to seduce her, Razia.”
The other immortal laughed as Visophecin sighed.
“We shall all flirt with her. If that’s what she wants. But Visophecin? I thought the only mortal that could ever conceivably catch his eye would be someone like Tulm the Mithril. Or Magnolia Reinhart.”
“I am pleased to see you are in high spirits. Should I purchase a new Sariant Lamb?”
“Visophecin! But perhaps you will find a [Chef] who can make more of that gelato? Oh, and soccer. Could you even hire that [Football Coach]? It would benefit Ailendamus. While I have you—bicycles, Visophecin. When are they arriving? I promised the children and the adults they would all get to ride one. Also, do we have room in the budget for a camel in the stables? Just one! Or three. Have you seen the documentary…”
The Devil walked his home, in the company of his fair cousins. He would never understand them, not completely. But he could appreciate them. For them, he had taken them all to Ailendamus.
This would be his kingdom. This place would be safe, until the end of time. Until his ambitions came crashing down. And if he had to see it all end, he would stand here, with a flaming sword in hand, at the doorway.
Until the end, the last of the two species lived and waited in the world’s twilight.
 
——
 
The things the Wind Runner did. She had won herself an audience because she charmed immortals. She struggled, because they were not alike at all except in the most fundamental part of their nature, and even then…
But she did find a way to charm them. Perhaps it was because she liked them.
She thought she was clever. Well, she might have designs on others, and even won Visophecin’s approval somehow, but some beings were beyond her charms.
She had a talent for the wind, but Rhisveri found her about as appealing as a block of meat. Less, frankly, because if it was a prime cut of sirloin?
He had no weaknesses and he knew the advantage of surprise. He had granted her an audience. So the audience was now.
Rhisveri strode into Ryoka Griffin’s rooms just past morning. He tried the handle, and busted the door in when it was locked.
“Now we shall discuss things, Ryoka Gr—ah.”
He stopped for a second. Stared, and backed up.
“…You are a disgrace to your Order. All of y—”
Something bounced off the wall. It was a helmet. The Duke began to lambast them for their—he ducked as more pieces of metal hit the walls.
Rhisveri retreated backwards, into the guest rooms, to recollect himself. It turned out a surprise visit—had its own flaws. Several voices followed him, uttering loud curses. It turned out when you got a lot of Ryokas together, they did have similarities.
The Duke walked out of Ryoka’s quarters just in time to see Queen Oiena headed this way. Following Sammial, marching over to say hello with Oesca, and Fithea bringing up the rear. He wondered if he should stop them.
He really wanted not to.
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin ate breakfast. Next to her, a little Gnoll cub slapped his knees as he chanted.
“Bird hash. Bird hash! Bird hash!”
That would be…Cers. Mrsha had no idea what a ‘bird hash’ was. It turned out it was a nickname for a simple breakfast.
“Cers. Stop eating that or I will tell Chieftain Akrisa.”
Satar, the [Shaman] and his older sister, slapped his paw away from the raw and dried bird meat. The Silverfang tribe did not want for things like runes of preservation, being able to afford them, so ‘bird hash’ let them use a mix of preserved and fresh foods.
Meat. Gnolls ate meat. But since they were also famously good herders, chickens, one of the most economical creatures in any world, were sources of all kinds of food, and all you had to feed them was non-edible stuff.
Bird hash was when you fried up the meat with a gravy or spices, which made Mrsha’s mouth water terribly, then cracked a few eggs and made a simple, fast scramble. Completely dependent on chickens. Then you could plop it into a sandwich, eat it as it was, or add it to another dish.
It was not fine cuisine by any standard. It was food Satar could make with all the adults being busy. Comfort food.
Cers stuck his entire face into the bowl the instant he was passed it. Mrsha ate slowly. Satar watched her, a bit anxiously.
