Montressa was fumbling for a piece of paper, but, to her relief, she saw Bezale, her great friend, her wonderful friend, writing like a Demon, as only a [Spellscribe] could, noting down the rapid-fire items. Valeterisa finished, and looked rather pleased.
“If you can handle that, it will be beneficial indeed. I will need time to set up the teleportation marker. And sleep.”
She sniffed her robes, frowned. She tapped her robes and a bunch of dirt fell off.
“[Cleanse]. And bathe. Direct me to a bathhouse, please. And suitable lodgings since I suppose I should take a day to let you familiarize yourself.”
“Y-yes, Archmage Valeterisa. I’ll get on it.”
Montressa’s head was spinning. But as she turned to go to Bezale—and celebrate and run around doing everything at once—Valeterisa stopped her.
“One final thing.”
Montressa turned. Valeterisa paused.
“Garry’s Bakery. Get me another pie from that shop. Ask for less bugs.”
 
[Apprentice Level 4!]
[Skill – Exhaustive Memory obtained!]
[Skill – Magical Tutelage (Grand Magus) obtained!]
 
——
 
Of Angels and Archmages. [Paragons] and Doombringers. Every Devil was a hero of his own story.
“I don’t care if some people call me a monster, you understand. I’m prepared for it. That’s what people in our position have to understand. You do what you have to do because it’s necessary.”
“Absolutely, Commander.”
The two sat together, in a spacious place to converse and drink some wine. There was an unparalleled view of the city outside.
Though he was technically far lower in class and rank, the other poured a drink for him. That was because he knew Peclir Im’s true status. The pourer went on.
“They’ll call us Demons, maybe. But I agreed the moment I heard the plan. It’s this moralizing that’s the crutch. You understand?”
“Perhaps. Can you elaborate, sir?”
Peclir received a thin smile.
“Come now, you get it. I’m told Foliana and Niers Astoragon were heroes. Of their generation. Dead gods, I’ll admit—I had a children’s book of them growing up. Forgotten Wing, the Named Rank team. But that’s not the Titan and Three-Color Stalker of now. The Forgotten Wing company is an entity. They have the boot on the neck of the future. That’s the conceit of these ‘Great Companies’. You become one, and you have interests. You suppress your enemies. Iron Vanguard, Howling Maelstrom, the Eyes of Baleros—they suffer small companies, but not enemies.”
“Very true.”
Peclir kept his face straight. He knew this person loved to pontificate, so he indulged him. After all…it was a huge request, but this wasn’t the asking part. This was just the delivery. So he could wait a few minutes, or even an hour if he had to.
He had waited for years, doing his part. So he sat, listening.
“Lizardfolk don’t see it. They’re so…they’re children. We’re the adults. That’s how it’s always been. Nagas…I remember when I wondered why they were so serious. Then I understood. Not that I lost my sense of humor, but it’s when you grow up. That’s what Nagas are about.”
He undulated back and forth. Peclir Im cleared his throat.
“Then you believe once the Forgotten Wing company is upstaged, it should not be replaced?”
That would be concerning, to put it mildly. He saw a long tail disappear as the first speaker swung around.
“…No. That’s the point. You see? It’s harsh. It is truly sad. But—Nagas. You look at it clearly. You need to prioritize the people that matter. Forgotten Wing is for Fraerlings, and a handful of Beastkin. I’m saying that everything is for us.”
He meant Lizardfolk. Despite Peclir being Human. So the speaker raised a cup, using his tail as dexterously as other people used their hands.
“Jungle Tails. To its resurgence. I expect a company-command once we’re done, you understand.”
He peered hard at Peclir, and the former [Chamberlain] of the Forgotten Wing company moved at once to reassure him.
“You will be one of the Serpent Leaders. I have that in writing.”
Instantly, the huge, serpentine figure with feathered wings relaxed. The Quexal nodded. Fezimet smiled.
“The Featherfolk Brigade is at your service. We’ll strike this tree-fortress with your irregulars as soon as we find it. The primary strike force is all yours. Will you take them now?”
“Yes.”
Peclir stood, relieved that no more time would be wasted. He had more allies to visit. Fezimet walked him to the door—well, slithered. The city of Talenqual lay behind him, his domain. After all, his was not an inconsiderable company.
He did hesitate as he halted Peclir at the entryway. The Quexal stared at the Human, and then spoke.
“One more thing, Mister Im?”
Peclir turned. Fezimet looked a bit uncomfortable, then leaned in.
“I await the resurgence of our Great Company as well as anyone, and I hope you tell the Nagas that. But, ah…can you put a word in delicately?”
“Of course, and what would that be?”
The Human saw the Quexal’s face screw up.
“…The name. Can we rebrand it afterwards? ‘Jungle Tails’ is, of course, famed, but it’s so…it’s the dignity of the thing, overseas.”
 
——
 
Time was running out. In a shorthand sense. Something was coming. On multiple levels, in multiple places. You could be as impatient as you wanted, but what mattered was…were you ready?
It wasn’t about walls alone. Sometimes it was just about who you knew. Strange meetings.
Conversations. Grand and short, telling and secretive. Chance and designed.
The voices were faint, arguing, but they were clear enough. Echoing a bit, impatient.
“…personally told not to allow this young man to…”
“…Archmage Viltach’s orders. Directly.”
A head rose, slowly, under quite a lot of weight. A mask on the face, chains and bindings. Because there was a second voice, one she knew. She would have laughed.
Telim?
“I quite understand that, you two. But let me vouchsafe this to you. Grand Magus Eldavin. Who’s soon to be Archmage. You say Viltach? I say Eldavin. Let the lad through. It’s the kind of thing a young man just wants to do. Meet a story. That fellow, Aaron, comes here all the time?”
“Yes, but Archmage—”
“Eldavin.”
“But Vilt—”
“Eldavin. Also Valeterisa, for what it’s worth.”
Perhaps it wasn’t worth much. But, eventually, the voices gave up. A door opened, and a figure sitting against a wall stared up. She saw…nothing much.
Just a young man, like the other one, walking into the room. Although he had a bit more confidence. A bit more weariness in the eyes. He had seen a bit more…but it was the way he stopped and looked at her that counted. Perhaps—she waited.
He bowed, slightly. A little golem made of sand poked her head out of his hood, which was a surprise. The young man gazed at her, glanced at the door, and didn’t quite smile. But he did look at her.
“Archmage Amerys? Hello. My name is Troy Atlas.”
