Eight corpses sat up. Frozen Ghouls rose; a foray into ice combined with death. He didn’t usually bother, but Az’kerash made a point to move them to another room for later designs. They left the stone slabs where they had been waiting for tests.
He looked down, grimly satisfied. Because when he tested next…the Necromancer stepped back. He cast a spell.
“[Detect Poison].”
Belavierr saw the corpse light up. She watched as the veins darkened, flooded with a toxin that revealed itself to Az’kerash and Belavierr. A network of death…
And a single spot without, in the center of the dead body’s chest. Az’kerash lifted the thread, and handed it back to Belavierr without another word.
“My gratitude, Witch Belavierr.”
She regarded the spool. Then, as Az’kerash was turning back to advise Fetohep to pursue the matter intensely, reached out—and tapped him on the shoulder. The Necromancer turned, waiting to see if she had any more insight…
Two more spools of ghostly thread appeared, and an ethereal needle. She also added, after some thought, a hat.
“Would you care to purchase any of it?”
She paused. Then offered him the hat.
“The hat is complimentary.”
 
——
 
Almost. That was what they told him.
Almost. Did they need help? Well…he could not go and help them. He could move, and he had acted. But when she wrote to him and told him they were under siege, what could he say?
“I will move mountains?”
No. What he could do was make it worse. That he understood very well. Yet it did seem that he had a role here. Someone had to make sure nothing happened, even though very little did at that inn anymore.
There had been one incident. It had never even reached the front door before being stomped, punched, and obliterated into nothingness.
Some days it was hard to preach faith. Yet many brave and wise and desperate people had gone to find a cure, so when he thought of it, he thought—soon. Soon, and he would go on saying that until the day he died.
Pawn of the Free Antinium swung his censer as he walked through the streets of Liscor, out of the Hive. Workers and Soldiers walked with him.
They did not have to do it. They could have left through another entrance. They could have done this secretly.
That was not the point. The point was when the Workers and Soldiers first saw the sky, they should see it like this. Walk the city they had lived every day of their lives under and breathe fresh air. See Drakes and Gnolls and Humans.
And be seen. If someone stopped them, threw something—it happened. But this was not the first congregation led up like this. People watched. Some pointed; many knew exactly where they were headed.
Not a congregation after all. That was what they were. But they were on…a pilgrimage.
They did not have to go far. Just through the gates, up a hill, to a place where Antinium held guard. They would stop there for a while. Then they would go get a Garry-cookie, or maybe a stroganoff.
Months. Months now. When had it been? Just after the middle of summer, and summer was over. That was a long time, though it had seemed even longer as it passed. Years.
In other places, mere months would not seem such a dramatic shift. Nations had risen over the course of centuries; what was months?
It was a lot. In Liscor especially. After all…
It had been months.
The Antinium congregation made their steady way down the street, so they could see and experience everything. Their heads swivelled, overwhelmed by the sights, smells, even the feel of the wind up here. Pawn saw a shadow following them. He turned his head, but the Drowned Man was just watching. The censer moved. What did he see? Pawn did not pray, but this too was…
Religion.
Yet it was not in a bubble.
“New paper out! The war against Hectval—new arrivals to Liscor! Five new condominiums open at cheap rent!”
A [Crier] was standing in the same place many had for a long time, in one of Liscor’s plazas. But this too was new; he was selling newspapers with the aid of a young Gnoll boy passing them out for copper coins. Pawn himself almost stopped to see if that was referring to Relc.
“One side! Watch coming through! Clear the way! Fire!”
The Antinium halted. They looked to Pawn, readying themselves, but he just gestured and they stepped smoothly to one side of the street. The Watch had this—and if they did not, no one did. Because they weren’t going to be able to rely on the Antinium.
…Not when a line of Drakes and Gnolls led the Antinium and Human [Guards] forwards at a double-time march. A new visitor to the city, clearly, was staring in horror at the Antinium. And Pawn himself.
“They’re just walking about.”
“Yes. Duh. Stop staring. Didn’t you read the brochure? Don’t make a scene or we’ll never get a copy of the plays! I hear they kick you out if you badmouth them!”
Another Drake hissed at her companion. She dragged him out of the way and gave Pawn a huge stare, but two things had changed the visitors’ reactions.
First was the documentary, which was on repeat in the Free Antinium’s Hive. Pawn had mixed feelings about Ksmvr, but he had prayed for him anyways.
The second was…well, the brochure. Which was offered to new cities, especially ones with the door. It was free, and it had a number of travel advisories.
Cost of using the magical door, times, rules on entering Pallass, Liscor’s own warnings and information. And, among them, two rules. One pertained to the Antinium, emphasizing their status as citizens. The second…
No killing Goblins.
Pawn didn’t know who had arranged for that. Olesm was fighting Liscor’s war, so he had to imagine it was Elirr or the Council. He didn’t know how they’d gotten past Lism. But perhaps it had been…Zevara.
He didn’t see the Watch Captain much these days. Not in person; she was always striding about, teaching the new recruits. A lot of her job was sorting out incidents with visitors.
And, oh, there were a lot. The Antinium passed through the main square, nicknamed Traveller’s Gate already. He heard another shout.
“The day-transport to Pallass is beginning! If you don’t have documentation, please, don’t line up! You’ll just be turned away. A reminder that you will have to pass an inspection and background check!”
That was a snappy, official-looking Gnoll. He was good at his job. He also wasn’t Liska; she’d been fired two days after the door had been moved. Mainly because she was lazy.
However, it was also because the door only opened to Pallass twice a day. No exceptions except diplomatic travel or emergencies. People wondered why—and other cities got the same treatment. It was faster to ride to Esthelm with a Skill than use the door, much to the discontent of regular travellers who had to plan around it.
But that was because of the stream of goods that came through the door. Pallass wanted to send something to Invrisil, or further north? It was an entire operation of organizing the goods coming in and out, holding them for later transit.
Plus, without its proximity to the inn, the door had to be regularly recharged. They had debated keeping it in the inn, but the inn was too small, it wasn’t right, and…no.
The [Guards] at the gates let Pawn and the pilgrims out without a word. He walked up towards the hill with a stream of other people. In fact—it looked like a new group was heading out into the wild green yonder.
That was to say, the Floodplains. Humans mostly, this time. [Farmers], no less. They looked a bit nervous, but they’d already established a base camp and were chatting.
“I reckon it’s Yellats.”
“For a first crop? It’s not worth spit!”
“But they’ll grow fast. Hear me out. Yellats first. But we put up some fast growing trees. Wood’s a premium. Buy some magical fertilizer. And we have an entire grove of Amentus trees. That’s long-term. Short-term? Anything on the list. ‘Scuse me, sir.”
The [Farmer] nodded at Pawn and walked wide of him. But she was leading a group out towards the Floodplains. It wasn’t as dicey as it used to be, but they’d hired a Bronze-rank team for the job, and they were on the lookout for Rock Crabs. Not as many Shield Spiders; now it was cleared up, more [Farmers] had begun heading this way.
Liscor had changed. Pawn looked back and saw Gnolls and Drakes playing baseball in the pitch just outside the wall. But more than that, the new quarter was rising ever higher. The temporary dirt walls? Turned to stone in many places.
Hexel was constantly redesigning the city, and the new quarter already was being called ‘Human Liscor’ because of how many Humans had moved to the cheap buildings. There were…conflicts. Ironically, they took some of the heat off Antinium.
Pawn walked up the hill. A Gnoll sweeping out the front turned to look at him. He raised a paw, and Pawn waved back.
“Moore must have left with Ulinde and Jelaqua for Pallass.”
That was all Seborn said, as the Workers and Soldiers stopped there, to look at the inn and tower and…take it all in. Pawn nodded.
“Do you see anything, Seborn?”
The Drowned Man put his hands on his pockets.
“No. Not yet.”
“Then perhaps you are looking for something else. If you wish to watch…we are going to visit her.”
Seborn hesitated. Then nodded. He followed Pawn inside. On the way, they met two people, the last few people who stayed at the inn, coming out.
 
——
 
“Are you drunk?”
“No…”
“Get ahold of yourself, Montressa.”
The [Aegiscaster] stumbled after Bezale. She was vaguely aware of the Antinium walking past her.
“I’m not drunk. I’m hungover.”
“Wonderful.”
The Minotauress grunted. But she didn’t lambast Montressa that long. She understood, she really did. And yet…
“We’re a duo, Montressa. Bezale and Montressa. Secrets, services—not Bezale and this Human who our clients have never seen, only heard me speak of.”
Montressa du Valeross hung her head.
“You should kick me out of the partnership. I deserve it.”
“And watch you fall deeper into your cups? Come on. Shores of Mawei! Do I have to buy you a robe that cleans itself?”
“Hey. I’m not Pisces.”
Montressa brushed at her robes guiltily. But it was true. She was a wreck and she’d fallen further. Bezale? Bezale was doing great. The Scriptels had forgiven her, and she was their representative in Invrisil. But Montressa wasn’t part of Wistram.
She was making money. Their business was going well—all thanks to Bezale. Montressa drank her profits. And unlike Ceria and Pisces, she hadn’t bounced back.
No, it had taken them years. Her family wanted her home, especially in light of the war, and they wanted explanations. Montressa didn’t want to go. She was still trying to communicate with Ceria, but the half-Elf had fallen off the radar. She was watching the Ksmvr documentaries, trying to get word of Pisces, pleading with Nerrhavia’s stubborn judicial system from afar—
And mostly being useless. Every day was the same. Bezale dragged her out of bed and Montressa said the same thing.
“I’m going to get out of this, Bezale. I’m going to start learning magic again. By myself. I still have spellbooks. I’ll…I’ll do that. I’ll make a career here.”
By the end of the day, or week, she was saying the exact same thing again after Ishkr found her face-down in a corner of the inn.
Not all of Liscor had changed for the better. Bezale was dragging Montressa forwards.
“Hurry. Or we’ll completely miss the Invrisil gateway. And we cannot miss this appointment!”
She strode ahead of Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] felt distinctly nauseous and felt around for a hangover cure.
“One second. I’m right behind you.”
Bezale was already lining up, but Montressa had to swig the terrible-tasting stuff. She wiped at her mouth, caught sight of herself in the mirror of a shop window. Definitely gaining weight. Despite being a [Mage], constantly trying to eat and/or drown her sorrows didn’t help.
Something in the corner of the jewelry shop’s window caught her eye. Montressa read the little piece of paper and almost smiled.
“Courtesy of Silveran’s Cleaners. Inquire with the Free Antinium’s representatives or Cleaner’s Guild for services.”
Silveran did it. The mad-ant had actually gotten Guild membership, mainly because he was threatening to put them out of work.
“This city. When the Horns get back…when they get back, are they going to recognize it, Bezale? Bezale?”
Montressa looked over and saw the line for the door. Guiltily, she hurried forwards. It was just—Liscor was changing. It had grown used to such a fast pace that innovations were sweeping through it. It was at the flashpoint.
A Human boy on a skateboard was trying to do tricks with some Drakes. They weren’t all calling each other scalebags and fleshbags. Although it had…no. It wasn’t nearly as bad as a monster attack, and say what you would, but it was quieter now.
Even during a war with Hectval, there were less random events and attacks. They’d had one major monster incident.
And by ‘incident’, it was just that some Metalbite slimes had infested Liscor. Even gone on a ‘rampage’. They’d been wiped out in three days and the sewers re-cleaned.
New arrivals in Liscor were amazed by how sanguine the Liscorians were. No—it was even a kind of in-joke. A band of Stitch-Folk had rolled in one time via Invrisil, and been put out that no one asked them anything.
“Excuse me, you know I’m String-Folk?”
“Yeah, sure, buddy. You want somewhere to stay, directions, or what?”
Same when high-level individuals hit Liscor. They didn’t often get a lot of attention purely based on levels. Let’s say you were a Gold-rank come to explore Liscor’s dungeons.
A semi-famous [Merchant] attempting to make a huge profit on this new circuit.
A mysterious young woman with a crystal hand and a map, on the lam from [Bounty Hunters].
You came into Liscor and expected someone to ask questions. They did ask questions.
“You new here? Try the ice cream. Players of Liscor are putting on a show tonight. Don’t bother with Invrisil; they’re pricey and we’re just as good.”
It was so strange. Visitors didn’t understand it at first. It was not that Liscorians were blind to something interesting or exciting. It was just that it wasn’t their first time seeing something amazing. Or even tenth.
And no one would say why. Why they were used to the Antinium, why there were sports and all these new ideas and things coming here. Why the brochure had that funny line.
No one would tell you. It was like a secret test to be a true Liscorian. You had to know what to ask. And it was this:
What’s up with The Wandering Inn? 
Or, perhaps, ‘Why is it empty?’ ‘What happened?’
And finally…
Who is Erin Solstice?
Of course, if you understood it all, you’d know of one of the local legends of Liscor already. And you would ask it right.
