In JiangHu, I learned a lesson that I went on to overlook, because it hardly seemed all that important in light of everything else. I learned why people cry, and it’s to shed emotion, which was why I created a storm over the battlefield. I couldn’t cry, was too scared, too afraid, too unwilling to face my own inner turmoil, so instead, I gave it all over to the storm clouds so that they could cry for me. A band-aid on a broken bone, that’s essentially what that was, and then I pretended like I was all better and didn’t hurt anymore. It worked too, for a time, but suppressed emotions always find their way back to the surface in one way or another, no matter how hard you might try to ignore them.

And boy, did I try. I blocked out my entire childhood to protect myself from my trauma, but even then, my little brother made his way back to front and centre of my mind. The Baledagh I pretended to be was not my actual brother, merely a manifestation created to help me manage in my time of need. Who better to save me than the little brother who looked out for me for the entirety of my childhood? The guilt I felt from taking ‘his’ body away, the persistent notion that I should give up this life for him, the forlorn hope of finding some way to share everything I had with him, it’s all more fucked up than I care to think about, but at least now it makes sense. Well, about as much sense as any multiple personality can, so I suppose it would be more accurate to say I understand why I’m so fucked in the head. My trust and abandonment issues, my inferiority complex, my extreme social anxiety, all of it can be traced back to my shitty childhood growing up in a Defiled tribe beyond the borders of the Empire.

What a relief.

It sounds weird to even think it, but knowing there’s a reason for all my damage is just the best news ever, because now, it’s not all my fault. I’m not broken because there’s something wrong with me, I’m broken because I never stood a chance from the start. No longer do I have to blame myself for everything, because now I can blame my parents instead, so fuck them and fuck the Heavens too for stacking the odds against me. Honestly, in light of everything I went through it’s a damned miracle I turned out even half as well-adjusted as I am.

A statement which would’ve left me in stitches just yesterday, but today, I know the truth, and the truth has set me free.

I am Rayne. I am Amigui. I am Falling Rain. These are my names, but I have many more. I was born Defiled, then sold as a slave, only to find my way back to the People who exiled my parents. From there, I was taken in and trained as a Warrior, dubbed a Hero, raised to Minister of Finance, and promoted to Legate of the Outer Provinces. I am a dutiful son of two adopted parents, spoiled brother of a doting sister, indulgent uncle to a niece and nephew, and hopeless husband who is head-over-heels in love with my four wives as well as a fifth woman who I hope to one day marry too. I am an adoring floof-father who aspires to add even more pets to his menagerie, an idealistic optimist who dreams of a better future, a pragmatist who accepts that a better tomorrow means more struggles today, a silly memester who wastes far too much time laughing at stupid jokes I remember from a past life, and a thoroughly damaged and broken young man who is understandably struggling with depression among many other things.

This is me in a nut-shell, the good and bad of it all, and though I have affirmed who I am time and time again, today, I finally have all the perspective I need to make sense of myself.

There’s one more detail I forgot to mention, and it’s an important one. I have a dog named Buddy, who is not only the best dog in the world, but also one who ate an Elemental Spirit and merged with it to become something… more. Blobby was always helpful in his own way, a spiritual tenant who paid rent by way of purifying the Spectres squatting within my body, mind, and soul and leaving usable Heavenly Energy behind, but now that he’s taken up residence with Buddy, Blobby seems more… sociable, I guess? I don’t know any other way to describe it. I admit I may have attributed more human characteristics to an amorphous droplet of Heavenly Water than I originally should have, but my dog seems to understand Blobby well enough, and even knows how to convey their shared thoughts through barks, emotions, and body language that form a message so complete that Buddy might as well be speaking plain English.

“Go fuck that motherfucker up,” my sweet doggy declares with a howl, albeit with language less foul for which I have no translation, and I can only smile and wholeheartedly go along with his plan as I charge the motherfucker with sword and shield in hand.

The Energy of the Heavens stirs around me in response to my Will, flowing through my Spiritual System in a new unique pattern I’ve not felt before, yet one that is familiar all the same. Why? Because I’ve channelled the Energy of the Heavens in this pattern more times than I can count, thousands upon thousands of times in fact, except I only lacked the ability to perceive it before today. Before this very moment in fact, when Buddy wordlessly passed along the notion of how it should feel and showed me what to look for, enabling me to use the Spiritual Senses that I’ve known were present and accounted for, yet have never really been under my control. It’s so easy I’m surprised I even had to learn in the first place, as natural as pointing at an object or parsing a scent, an action so ingrained and instinctive I would struggle to even describe the process. This awareness does nothing to change the flow of Heavenly Energy, and yet this perception changes everything, for I can feel the minute changes and the energy building up as the flow gathers force and momentum. Not a physical force, but a metaphysical one, a charge building up in my body, and much like static electricity can set the hairs on my neck to tingling, I can feel the power growing from within.

This is not merely the power of Creation and Destruction both, not merely the result of harnessing the Energy of the Heavens. That’s part of it yes, but there’s so much more going on, so much changing and developing with each passing moment that I can barely keep track of it all. The Energy of the Heavens flows through me, but it also merges with me as well, and I become a part of it in an exchange given freely as I imbue this energy with the very essence of life itself and transform it into something… more.

I am the Sword. The Sword is me.

No meme is needed, no visualization required, for my Will alone is now enough. Peace erupts with Sword Force just as I execute Traverse the Horizon to close the distance and deliver a deadly thrust aimed at Zhen Shi’s throat. A side-step and bare-handed parry from my foe sets cold steel to singing as my blade misses by the barest of margins, but I am not yet finished. Following up the thrust with a slash, I seamlessly transition into Parting the Underbrush, a charging one-two combo that I named, “Sweeping the Fields.”

Or rather, I pretended Baledagh named it, because I thought it would be childish to give names to my attacks. Doesn’t matter anymore, because I fucking love it, and as an added bonus, the names make it easier to Visualize and execute.

This second time around, peace passes mere millimetres away from Zhen Shi’s skin, scything through his Domain Plated Defenses like so much empty air, a futile effort if there ever was one. Even his Runic Robes are unable to mitigate the destructive power of my Sword Force, parting before the edge of my blade like wheat before the scythe. The golden fabric mends the moment Peace is no longer in the way, but I know this is not without cost or effort. Knowing Zhen Shi prioritizes defense over offense, I keep up the offensive and pull out the third and final movement to this combination, Reverse Bite.

Spinning in place to strike with sword and shield both, this is an attack which I love to call, “Clearing the Heavens”.

As I give my body over to momentum and execute this backhanded strike, I can’t help but smile at Mama Bun as I pass her by. My heart soars at the sight of her seated upon her inflatable raft of Materialized Domain, one that is invisible to others but I can see as clear as day. The pint-sized flotation vessel moves as if possessed with a mind of its own, shifting out of Tranquility’s path before settling back down to where it was before, floating at chest height and poised to keep me between her and Zhen Shi. The sweet rabbit is pleased to have her raft back, but she’s frustrated because she can’t control it, so I send her my love and ask her to be patient before turning my attention back on the battle at hand.

All this happens within a fraction of a moment, an unconscious exchange which took no real focus on my part, or at least no more than it takes to register which direction is up and which is down. Tapping into my Spiritual Senses has done more than give me a whole new world of perceptions to analyze, but it’s also massively increased the amount of processing power at my disposal. My brain is still physically the same as before, soft and wet as ever, yet it feels like I’ve been stuck on power-saving mode my whole life and only now figured out how to switch those settings off. Colours are brighter, my vision sharper, smells more pungent and distinct than ever, and despite getting distracted by Mama Bun’s adorable antics, I’ve been wholly focused and fixated on my opponent this entire time.

Even though I can’t physically see him, I already know where his head is, my Spiritual Senses guiding my arm to deliver a slash to where his throat will be even as he moves to avoid the coming blow. Odd as it might seem to use Sword Force with my shield, it’s not the sword which enables me to use Sword Force, but me. Turns out, Dad was right about Keystones being a crutch, because powerful as it might be to throw out memes left, right, and centre, it’s not as fast or effective as utilizing Sword Force with raw Will and Intent alone. In this instance, the Movement is so ingrained into my body and mind that the flow comes naturally and without effort, forming Sword Force in response to not only my directed Will, but my unconscious thoughts and intentions as well. With practice enough, I could probably deliver Sword Force with my fingers, and theoretically even with a sharp word or harsh snort, because once again, I am the Sword, and the Sword is me. For now though, attacks like that remain with the realm of future possibilities, but that doesn’t mean I can’t use Sword Force creatively. The fact that my weapons are lacking in physical length means nothing now that I’ve tapped into Sword Force and Sword Domain both. With a surge of Heavenly Energy and a little bit of Life Force, I affix two blades of Materialized Sword Domain to Peace and Tranquility both and stretch their respective ranges to almost a metre each. I could make them longer, but that would require more Heavenly Energy and Life Force to maintain the Manifested Domain in reality, and at this length, the expenditure is almost negligible and the benefits evident as Zhen Shi is forced to block an attack he thought he already dodged and give up the initiative once more.

That being said, I am still at a marked disadvantage in this battle, one which becomes apparent as I unleash a barrage of attacks and he defends himself without suffering so much as a scratch. Stalk the Dragon into Swipe the Rushes, Reverse the Flow into Fanged Clutch, Prancing Stride merged with Rising Steps, Darting Fang and Uplifts the Sequoia. It matters not how fast or clever or powerful my attacks might be, not if none of them connect, and Zhen Shi blocks, dodges, and parries my successive strikes with almost laughable ease. Not without reason of course, for my foe is the only person in history that has ascended to Divinity twice over, or at least the only one I know of who’s done it successfully. In contrast, I am but a mere mortal Warrior who has yet to wholly Shatter the Void, albeit one who has opened myself up to the Void in an analogous manner with the exception being that I can control it.

Because even though I know how to mitigate Heaven’s Wrath and keep myself from blowing shit up, the power of a false Divinity would change nothing here.

So though I wield power comparable to a Divinity, there needs to be a caveat tacked onto the end of that statement which reads, “Assuming said Divinity doesn’t lose his or her shit and go whole hog on my ass.” That being said, I am just as deadly as a regular Divinity, if not more so due to my Sword Force, but there’s a qualitative difference between myself and my opponent, one which cannot be quantified by numbers alone. Even then, the differences there are staggering to behold. Zhen Shi is both stronger and faster than I am, able to react to my moves and stay a step ahead despite fighting on the back foot, and I am experienced enough to tell that this is not a difference of skill, but rather natural ability and nothing else. Whether it be his strength, speed, stamina, durability, reflexes, or agility, Zhen Shi is more than a step above me. If not for Pong Pong blocking the worst of his attacks, I would’ve long since been crushed to a pulp, so it raises an interesting question as to why Zhen Shi has yet to counter a single time in this latest exchange. Maybe my Orated attack hit harder than I thought, or maybe he’s scared and testing the waters, or maybe it’s one of a thousand other reasons. Doesn’t matter why. All that matters is that he’s on the defensive, and I’m not one to look a gift horse in the mouth.

