Because as fun and awesome as it is to cut loose and go on the offensive, I’m really just trying to buy time for Buddy to communicate what he’s picked up from Blobby and for me to figure out how to make use of this information.

Sweet though my dog may be, he is not exactly the sharpest tool in the shed, as he keeps manifesting his leash and asking to go for a walk every time I ask for help. I’d love to bring him out so he can sniff the sand, but he doesn’t seem to understand that I’m a little busy at the moment and really need him to pass along Blobby’s words of wisdom. I gotta say, I can tell that he’s much better at communicating with Blobby than I ever was, because I keep getting hints that Buddy is trying to tell me what the Heavenly Tear wants, but he also really wants to go for a walk. Then again, the bar was never set all that high to begin with, so it’s hardly surprising Buddy understands Blobby more than I do. I mean, I thought the Heavenly Tear was trying to teach me to Hone Aura, when in fact he wanted me to use Sword Force, after which I suspect he decided I was too stupid to bother teaching and just gave up on trying. Thankfully, Buddy actually seems to sort of understand what Blobby is trying to convey, with the issue being my doggo doesn’t know how to break it down into something I would understand, and lacks the patience to keep trying when we could go for a walk instead. Turns out I’m the weak link in this chain of comprehension, which is a little embarrassing to say the least, but in my defense, this isn’t a matter of intelligence or wisdom, but rather one of Balance and Insight, because that is the only language Blobby understands, and one Buddy figured out all too easily.

Honestly? This is bullshit. Mark my words, I will science the shit out of Heavenly Energy one day, come hell or high water.

Between my stubborn insistence on a solution and continued rejection of his request for a walk, Buddy soon grows frustrated by our exchange and shakes his head about. Not to say no, but in pantomime of ripping some small animal apart, though I doubt he’s put so much thought into the response. Offering one last indignant huff, he holds his leash in his mouth and seats himself down in the Void before refusing to engage any more, because he wants to go walkies and he wants to go now. Another huff, and now he won’t even look me in the eye, or at least is pretending he won’t while glancing back every half second to make sure I’m paying attention. He’s annoyed, but not because I won’t take him for a walk, but because I keep asking him for help and he…

Oh. Oh! I get what he’s trying to say now. Guess it’s time for walkies.

Retreating from my battle with Zhen Shi, I take a defensive stance and focus inwards and wholly open myself to the Void. There is no warmth or chill, no comforts or burdens, no rage or benevolence, coercion or nurturing. There are only the Heavens, vast and ineffable, and myself immersed within them, unwilling to struggle or surrender. The sea surges, the wind howls, the fire rages, and the earth endures, but this much is nothing to me, for I am the dam, the wall, the forge, and the drill, unyielding and unstoppable upon my Path which brings me every closer to the Dao. Emptiness within and emptiness without, I know that I can fully Shatter the Void and Ascend to False Divinity with little more than a thought, Refine my mortal body, mind, and soul in the power of Creation and Destruction both, but as I stated before, this sort of empty power does not tempt me.

Today, I have a different goal in mind, one I will fulfill no matter the cost; I will take my doggy for a walkie, and no one, not even the Father Himself, will stop me.

The Energy of the Heavens surges through me and finds no urge or impulse to accomplish, but Buddy is ready and waiting to be swept away by the tide. The current brings him outside my Core, Natal Palace, and soul, only for him to open himself up to the Heavens and Shatter the Void in a manner similar to what I would have done, yet the results are nothing like what I would’ve expected. The power of Creation and Destruction are at his command, and I watch as he wields it with casual aplomb, his tail wagging a mile a minute as he focuses more on what is to come as opposed to the monumental and miraculous effort unfolding before my eyes. I’ve always thought of Buddy as a unique Natal Soul, one crafted from not just the memories of my dog from my previous life, but the indelible mark he left upon my soul. Buddy is not the same dog, nor is he the same soul, but even though he is technically a severed portion of my soul, there is nothing of myself within him.

The dog from my previous life had his own soul, but in his love and affection, he gave me a portion of his soul to hold and to keep. In my despair, I latched onto that portion of soul, the one part of me that loved me unconditionally and without limit, and gave it life once more because I needed Buddy in my life, the same way Ping Ping gave new life to Guai Guai using a portion of Guan Suo’s soul. They’re not the same soul, not really, more analogous to a child or even a clone of the original, but you could also argue that this is a brand-new soul as well, the same way splitting a worm into two gets you two living, breathing worms. The significance of Buddy’s revival never occurred to me before, but essentially, I created a new soul, a new eternal vessel that might one day enter the cycle of reincarnation to be reborn anew.

Not today though. Today, we’re skipping over reincarnation and crafting my doggo a new body to inhabit, because it’s high time the rest of the family met him too.

I know almost nothing of canine anatomy, but that doesn’t matter, because I’m not the one pulling all the strings. Buddy is, and he’s not concerned by all the details, nor does he require them, because he understands what being a dog really means. It’s not having four paws, or a wagging tail, working organs, or even big, brown eyes and floppy ears, nor is it anything about his shape or appearance. Those are merely the trappings of a dog, stuff that will come naturally because one can hardly be a dog without them, but they’re not what makes Buddy a dog in his eyes. No, the important part of being a dog is the love and affection, and he has all that and more to spare.

That is Buddy’s Dao, one which comes so naturally that I envy him for his simplicity.

The Heavens surge through him, enveloping him both here in the Void and before me in reality, a dazzling radiance without the harsh glare one would normally associate with so brilliant a light, but rather a soft glow which illuminates the world in warmth and love. The power of Creation made manifest, acting as a womb in reality to bring the four elements together and forge Buddy’s physical body anew, but this alone is not enough. As a creature of pure soul, Buddy requires more if he wants to be reborn in reality, and when he asks, I am more than happy to supply it. A thought is all it takes to send my Life Force over to fuel his rebirth, a gift given freely because his presence is synonymous with life itself in my mind, and my heart skips a beat as I watch it all unfold. Bones take shape even as the organs swell into existence, while flesh stretches out across the burgeoning framework. Skin and fur appear to obscure the details, and the rest takes shape in the blink of an eye, and I sense more than feel his Spiritual System take shape, one that is shockingly similar to mine. Twelve major passages gathered around the important organs, all of which are connected by an intricate network of minor, one-way passages that extend all throughout the body, with his Chi flowing through him in perfect, unobstructed harmony.

And in the blink of an eye, it’s all over and done with. There Buddy stands, a Spiritual Dog, if not a Divine one, but you wouldn’t know it by just looking at him. His short, brown-and-black fur shimmers in the sunlight as his floppy ears and flappy jowls flutter in the wind, while he opens his big, puppy-dog eyes wide to take in his surroundings. It’s all so new and exciting to him, new sights, new scents, new sensations all around, but then he spots me and that is all he can see. It begins without warning, starting at the tip of his tail and moving all the way to his front two feet in an instant, a full body wagging in concert with his joyous yips as he tippy taps his way over to my side, unable to decide if he wants to run in circles, stand still so I can pat him, or press his shoulder into my leg as if trying to merge with me once more.

“Good boy,” I croon, patting his head, back, chest, and cheeks as he shuffles and circles this way and that, all the while singing a happy chorus of yips and squeaks which give away just how happy he really is, especially once I bring Mama Bun over for a mutual sniff. “Who’s a good boy? You are! Yes, you are.” Even Pong Pong expresses his joy over this unexpected development, though being the cool and calm elder that he is, he tries to pretend like he doesn’t understand what the big deal is while remaining hidden in my hair.

Or maybe he actually doesn’t understand what all the fuss is about, because he thinks Shattering the Void and forming a new body is as easy as turning a hand. Who knows.

“What,” Zhen Shi begins, thoroughly spoiling my joyous reunion with Buddy in reality, and I shoot him a dark look that goes ignored as he stares with mouth agape and finger pointed. “Is that?”

“This?” I ask, marvelling at how wonderful it is to feel truly happy once more, without the heavy burden of my oppressed guilt and misery weighing me down from within. “This is my dog, Buddy. Isn’t he cute?”

“How?” Zhen Shi asks, ignoring my question to ask one of his own. Rude. Even though I already know the answer is yes, I still want to hear him say it. Tell me my dog is cute or I’ll cut you, bitch. “This soul… it was hidden within yours? No, no, not at all possible, for souls are sacrosanct and inviolable, yet it must be possible for this Sovereign saw it all unfold with mine own two eyes.” Ooh, a first-person pronoun, he must really be shook. “The Void Shattered, a body Refined, and a Divinity birthed, yet how can one refine that which does not first exist?”

“Which came first?” Chiming in for no real reason than to mess with his train of thought, I toss out an age-old adage on a whim. “The chicken or the egg?”

Rather than dismiss my words out of hand, Zhen Shi actually stops to think about it, which is surprising to say the least. “The chicken or the egg?” Running a hand over his bald head, he repeats the question over and over again, but I’m just happy to finally understand why I hate bald people. Stupid custom, shaving a child’s head to show they’re a child, as if you can’t tell just by looking, but I suppose if you never cut your hair, then having long hair means you’ve survived a long time and are therefore more experienced and dangerous. Probably something my father Ankhbayar came up with, which is a stupid name by the way. First Joy. So girly. Besides, he clearly doesn’t understand the significance of the name given how he treats his own children. Feeling an urge to pet my dog, I squat down to scritch his bum and give Mama Bun’s bum a scritching too, because I don’t want her to feel jealous just because Buddy’s here. Not that she minds, because I think she loves Buddy just as much as I do, though not enough to hop down from her invisible raft and set foot upon the scorching sands.

Mental note: check Buddy’s paws to make sure he can take the temperatures. Sure, he’s a Spiritual Beast, but he’s still a dog, and I’m pretty sure he doesn’t know how to survive without me. Patting his head after another thorough scritching, I glance at Zhen Shi and find him still lost in the sauce and stuck on chickens and eggs, which is honestly not the worst thing in the world seeing how I could use the breather. Catching my eye, the befuddled monster’s expression turns to one of hatred and envy, which I have to say is a first. “No matter,” he declares, only to appear before me with fist raised to strike. The blow knocks the air out of my lungs and sends me crashing to the sands below, but once again, Pong Pong blocked enough of it to keep my inner organs from exploding. “Once this Sovereign has you and the dog in hand, then I will slowly unravel all your secrets to discover the truth.”

Another first-person pronoun? The first was kinda funny, but now I’m a little worried, though I should probably have been worried all along. No matter though, because now that I have Buddy with me, I feel like I can take on the world, and Zhen Shi alone is not enough to stop me. “Sic’ ‘em boy!” I shout, not even bothering to get up as I eagerly await the show, but while my foe glances at my dog to guard against him, he proceeds to do nothing else because there is nothing that needs to be done.

