When Ren was done with forging all 30 pieces, he started using Double Infusion to finish off the diamond enchantments. They decided to give Princess +3,000 to all of her stats, except for Luck which they only put 100 points in. That left them with almost 6,000 runes in diamonds left to add, and 4,500 runes they could enchant the armor itself with.

They did the same thing with the new armor as they did with Ren's armor and added 1,000 runes each for Speed, Protection, Reinforcement, Toughness, and Resist Spell. Next they added the 100 runes for Warding, 100 runes for Stealth, 25 runes for Antidark to make the armor light, 30 runes for Set Completion, added the Sunder and Shield enchantments, added her name and made it binding, then dropped the rest of the runes into Empowerment. It wasn't quite enough to get the full 50% bonus, so they had to settle for only 47%.

They set the diamonds into the metal, making sure to spread everything out. While Tee-one assembled the armor, Ren made a new set of Legendary Hooves of Speed after adding Speed runes to the recipe, then he added the Horseshoes of Speed to the bottom of them.

“You thought she could run fast before.” Ren said and held up the new version of her footwear made of platinum. “She's going to love this.”

“Maybe.” Teepo said. “It might be too fast, even for her.”

“I can guarantee that she's going to want to try it at full speed.” Ren smiled. “Once, anyways.”

“You should get the Air Walk spell wand ready.” Teepo said. “There's no way... no way at all... that she can run on a normal road if she's wearing them.”

Ren chuckled. “How much time do I have left?”

“The hour ended about 20 minutes ago.” Teepo said.

“What?” Ren reached out and stored Princess' new armor. “I have to go!”

“Where?” Teepo asked.

“I saw in the All-Seeing Mirror last night that there was going to be a big battle at one of the High Elven cities this morning.” Ren said and opened the door to the forge. “Zetaya, it's time.”

Zetaya stepped out of the forge on it's hind legs, and the concrete smouldered under the foot stubs.

Ren heard the sound of a crackling fire, and he smiled. “Hop on.” He said as he turned around, and made sure that all of the Anti-element enchantments were deactivated. Zetaya climbed up onto his back and wrapped it's arm and leg stubs around Ren to hold on.

“I'll be back later.” Ren said and disappeared from sight, then reappeared across the street. He went inside the Main House and woke Princess up, gave her a meal, and ran up the stairs to the bedroom. He went inside and saw that the maids were up and had waited for him.

“Don't get ahead of yourselves and kill them all right away.” Frikara said and stepped close, and rubbed the back of his right hand where the spider and Ghoul Kissed mark was. “Make sure you use your abilities to see if they are fully turned or not.” She said and carefully leaned in to give Ren a kiss on the lips. Zetaya let out a snapping branch sound, and Frikara smiled at the fire elemental. “I love him, so kissing him is okay.”

“We love him, too!” The other maids said and came forward, and each gave him a kiss on the lips as well. Ren felt Zetaya's grip get tighter; but no other branch breaking sound came out of the fire elemental. “I'll see you all when I get back.”

“Good luck, you two!” The maids said at the same time, and Ren thanked them and left the apartment. He walked down the stairs at a normal pace, because he could feel Xuunah come out of her apartment and they met at the bottom.

“Be safe and take care, Ren.” Xuunah said.

“Zetaya's going to be doing all the work; so, I'll keep her safe and take care of her instead.” Ren said and handed Xuunah one of the amulets he had enchanted.

“That's the same thing.” Xuunah said and smiled. “Thank you for the gift.” She said and leaned in close to kiss his cheek. “Don't have too much fun, or scare the locals too much.”

“Oh, they're going to be scared all right.” Ren chuckled. “I want to see their faces when...” He smiled. “...it's going to be fun!”

“Good luck.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and turned to look at Princess. “Have I got a surprise for you.”
