Lyonette, who was definitely not spying on her daughter, saw Mrsha poking and hand-signing with the Goblin, who had picked up the shared Mrsha-Antinium language. Lyonette wasn’t the most fluent, but she’d learned enough.
“Hey, sorry about all the dirt. Can I tip you or something?”
“It’s my job. How do you get so dirty?”
“Flowers. Hey, what’s for dinner tonight? Smells good.”
“Cabbage beef rolls.”
“Sweet!”
Mrsha was oddly enthusiastic for a girl who hated the association of vegetables with her meat. But she nodded encouragingly.
“Is Chieftain Rags here?”
Asgra grimaced.
“Nah. She’s at Goblinhome. Busy, bossy-boots. Why?”
“It’d be cool if she were here. So she could smack Numbtongue over the head or something. Maybe you could send her a message asking if she’ll join us?”
Asgra scratched her head as Lyonette wondered if Mrsha and Rags had that kind of relationship. Then again, they both knew each other through Erin…she had the distinct impression Rags didn’t really care for Mrsha, though.
However, Asgra seemed willing enough, and conscious she was staring, Lyonette tip-toed off. Perhaps Mrsha was being responsible. Good for her! It was better than Nanette trying to pick the lock on the drawer and steal the wand…Lyonette strode towards her rooms.
“Miss Witch, I know you’re there! Don’t run!”
 
——
 
Mrsha smelled Lyonette moving off and certainly heard her go, but she kept up the friendly banter with Asgra a while longer as they cleaned the bathroom.
It was hard to tell when Dame Ushar vanished; she didn’t have a smell. But that was the trick; the Thronebearer didn’t smell like anything. She had one of those scentless oils on her, so when you smelled more all of a sudden, that’s how you figured it out.
It helped that Calescent was making cabbage beef rolls after all. So Mrsha wasn’t dreaming. It also meant she had been right to clean up and act normal.
Asgra gave Mrsha a curious look as Mrsha handed her something covertly. The Cave Goblin sniffed at the sealed letter, and began to open it, but caught Mrsha’s eye and stopped.
“What this?”
“Something I want you to take to Chieftain Rags. Right now.”
“Now? I have work!”
Asgra was mindful of Boss Peggy, who had poked her head in twice to make sure Asgra wasn’t slacking off. Mrsha glanced at the door.
“I’ll tell her it’s a special request from me. You can loaf around for an hour, but you get that to Rags immediately, okay?”
“What if she’s busy? I heard she’s talking with Trolls or something.”
Mrsha’s heart began beating faster, but her paws were as calm as her face. They had time. She had to believe that.
“Show her the card. Show it to one of her underlings, and they’ll probably send it to her. You do that and I’ll pay you ten cookies.”
“Ten? I was going to not tell on you for four. Deal.”
They shook hands, and Mrsha forked over the cookies; Asgra warned Mrsha that Goldbody wanted his cut.
At this moment, Mrsha couldn’t care less about the damn cookies. She even promised to finish up cleaning, so Asgra left work early. Mrsha finished mopping, went to find Peggy to tell her about Asgra’s job, and then found Goldbody.
She handed the Antinium the entire cookie jar, much to his amazement, and then went downstairs.
 
——
 
Lyonette and Nanette were sparring with each other as they set up the tables for dinner. The [Princess] turned to Mrsha with an approving smile as Mrsha put out silverware, leaving an extra place at one of the tables.
“Good job, Mrsha! You’re being very responsible today, you know. Unlike someone.”
Her comment was pointed at Nanette, who adjusted a baseball cap as she sniped back.
“Like a [Princess] who can’t handle trusting anyone younger than she is with a smidge of responsibility?”
Ishkr passed Mrsha with raised eyebrows, clearly indicating his opinion on this spat. But Mrsha said nothing. She was just glancing towards the door, waiting.
No Rags. Nor had Asgra come back with any news yet. Mrsha’s stomach hurt. She listened to Lyonette hissing at Nanette.
“You are thirteen years old.”
“Oh, pardon me, Lyonette of Eighteen Years.”
“It’s nineteen, thank you, young Miss—”
“Why didn’t we celebrate your birthday then?”
“Er…”
Mrsha stood there, ears ringing with the sounds of realities that had never been. Was she too late? Trolls? She hadn’t seen Trolls in most realities. But she had seen the ones where Rags had faced one of the threats that would kill her.
She had been in the darkness. Mrsha had to tell someone. But who? Saliss wasn’t here. Neither was Normen. Who else? Who could be trusted? She eyed a Drake with green and yellow scales who walked into the inn, pretending to be an ordinary guest. Mrsha made sure the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s doors were closed. She’d seen the reality where he found it.
All the while, her mind was racing.
Was Rags even alive?
Mrsha kept going to the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The Faerie Flowers were innocently blooming there, hiding their deep roots. Mrsha wrote Ryoka’s name down, staring at it. Making sure it wasn’t ‘Ryoko’.
She didn’t feel any better.
