The door closed, and the very last thing Mrsha saw was her own face wearing a look of disbelieving fear.
Not great fear. Not terror. Just uncertainty and dismay.
Then the door closed—
And Mrsha wondered if she’d killed herself. Or just turned off another reality where she’d landed on her back and gone exploring. She didn’t know.
She did know she’d watched herself die, breaking her neck when the [Pavilion of Secrets] had hurled her into a wall in its wrath. And witnessed another reality where her mother had gone looking for her and never come back.
Mrsha, the real Mrsha with a bloody bandage on her head, sat down and pulled something out of her bag of holding. It was a little journal that Teacher Shassa made her keep for school. Mrsha pulled out an auto-inking quill, a gift from Selys, who hated the inn now, and wrote a few lines.
 
Dear Diary:
Today, I watched myself die.
I didn’t feel that sad. Maybe that should worry me, but I’m lost in a madhouse of fates and destinies, and I have seen my friends and family and tribe die. Anyways, it was another reality where I ran afoul of something bad.
Me, the real me, would be a lot more afraid if I was about to die, I’m sure. 
If I am real. Now I don’t know. I’ve never asked myself if I was real. If someone closes a door and I vanish, I think…I’d be upset. Because I feel real. But what if I’m not? What if I’m another Mrsha in a door?
If I am, I think…I’d prefer it if no one told me and no one ever closed my door. So I suppose I killed myself today too.
 
Mrsha hesitated. She got up and slowly opened the door that had shown her the Mrsha with a bad back. She peeked inside and saw the alternate-reality Mrsha standing there, staring at—
Mrsha shut the door fast.
 
Okay, turns out she’s not dead. That’s good. 
If anyone finds this message, I really didn’t mean to fall through the hole in the garden. I swear; I was just looking, and I had no idea the Faerie Flowers had been growing roots. Damn things. Ryoka never told me the flowers sucked.
 
She scratched at her chin with the tip of her quill and realized she was getting ink on her fur. The girl frowned as she thought, then studied the words. Underlined them.
 
Faerie Flowers. The other mes didn’t know how they got here. They didn’t remember the flowers. Or the roots. They were ropes in the first door.
Hm. Other oddities:
1. All the other realities kept calling Ryoka ‘Ryoko’ for some reason. That’s stupid. Why? 
2. I can sort of read the thoughts of people, even if they’re not me. Or get, like, a summary of their lives. Can I do that with more than just Rags? I thought it was just me.
3. Is there an Empress Sheta creeping around here or was it just the imagination of the alternate Mrsha?
4. None of the other realities knew about the fae. They thought they were stories. If I know about Faerie Flowers and their roots, does that make me the real Mrsha?
5. I cannot let Mother meet the forest people. Not angry.
6. I have until dinner before they get worried. It’s been about an hour and a half?
 
She studied her list. Then, Mrsha looked down the hallway that was so much like the one the other her had been exploring. A long, endless hallway.
With a few quirks in her reality. Mrsha stared up at the ceiling, which was, instead of a roof, a second hallway. She concentrated—and flipped into the air. Gravity inverted; what was up became down, and Mrsha landed on her feet on a new ground, now staring up at where she had once been standing.
The Gnoll girl caught herself, put a paw to her mouth, and tried not to barf. She inverted again and landed next to the door that had held the alternate her.
Okay. Mrsha rested her paw on the door’s handle and hesitated. But then—she steeled herself and opened the door.
Not fully, but just enough so she saw that fraction of another world in there. Mrsha carefully and deliberately left the door ajar, fishing something out of her bag of holding.
A shoe. One of her spares for football. She wedged it into the door, between the frame and door itself, so it’d stay open if a breeze blew or the door wanted to close. Then she waved—turned—and inverted a third time.
When she looked up, her shoe was still on the ceiling, keeping the door open. Mrsha nodded to herself. If she had paint, she could have marked the door. As it was, she just memorized the door—it was black marble and had a stone handle. Then she turned and began walking back the way she’d come.
Her head was aching, and Mrsha really wished she had a healing potion on her. That other her had gotten lucky, landing on her back and having healing potions. The shortage in this world was so bad that Mrsha had donated her own personal healing potions to the Knights of Solstice, on the grounds that they needed them.
Just a drop or two would have sorted her out. She was lucky she hadn’t split her skull open; Mrsha still remembered falling, tumbling down amidst the damn roots for what felt like ages, before landing here.
Like the other Mrshas, she had gone exploring, but hadn’t ended up in a ruined [Palace of Fates] like the first Mrsha, who had died via the pavilion. But that meant the door in the central courtyard might lead to the [Pavilion of Secrets] where a very unchill fake Erin was.
Note to self: never check the keyhole there and stay quiet. Mrsha shuddered to herself. At least she was seeing all the mistakes she could make.
She was walking back the way she’d come where a series of objects were littering the floors, every fifty feet or so. Mrsha picked up a sock, an empty inkpot, a roll of toilet paper, and shoved them back in her bag of holding.
She wasn’t getting lost, thanks. As she retraced her steps, she passed by doors, each one of which had a little piece of paper stuck in the doorjamb or was lying in front of it.
 
Me sleeping in The Wandering Inn until nightfall.
Me setting myself on fire in the [Palace of Fates]. Don’t burn the rugs.
Me having a panic attack and passing out.
Calescent giving up on making spicy food and becoming a [Sour Chef].
Nanette and Lyonette reconciling over the stupid wand thing.
Me getting really angry for some reason and punching everything in the palace.
 
She came to a halt after about sixty doors and decided the final other her—the one on the ceiling—was pretty smart for some things.
Bathroom, please? With a nice water fixture.
Mrsha closed her eyes and warily opened them. Instantly, she looked around and cursed. All her markers were gone! She closed her eyes hurriedly—concentrated—
And she was back right where she’d been. Mrsha wiped her brow.
Okay, that’s better. She supposed it made sense; it was hard to get lost in Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary], and this [Palace of Fates] was ‘hers’, at least according to her conclusions in the alternate reality.
Current, probably real Mrsha wasn’t sure if she entirely bought the explanation, but it made a twisted kind of sense. She watered the damn Faerie Flowers that had intruded here. It was literally her responsibility. It was on her chore list, and Erin and Lyonette had given her an allowance for doing her chores for months.
If that somehow qualified her as ‘owning’ the flowers, which then meant she ‘owned’ the [Palace of Fates], she just had to say someone was slacking on the job.
Faeries. Mrsha went into the bathroom and found that instead of some nice bathroom stalls, it was a single bidet. She sighed at it, but filled her water flask at the sink before doing her business.
 
——
 
Ilvriss might have a point about bidets. After washing her paws, Mrsha returned to retracing her steps. She kept her ears perked for signs of anyone else here and occasionally tasted the water in the flask. It tasted fine. So she had free water if she was stuck here.
Mrsha hoped not. Dire things clearly happened if Lyonette panicked when she was gone, hence her rush, but on a hunch, she tried something out.
Give me…a room of cakes!
Mrsha closed her eyes, opened them, and a room of cakes with pink frosting did not appear. She shrugged, a bit relieved. If this place could give her free food, it would really be insane.
Then again, here you are, Mrsha, in a Level 70 Skill, and so far, it’s just made you see alternate timelines of Mrshas, one Calescent, a Nanette, and Rags. Is this really that powerful?
The [Gardens of Sanctuary] were places that could literally become free beaches, unleash magical hell on Erin’s enemies, and had cripplingly sad statues. It seemed like the [Pavilion of Secrets] let Erin talk to anyone in the world, and it clearly had some kind of self-defense mechanism. It could even speak and impersonate Erin.
The [Palace of Fates] had free bidets and a bunch of doors that showed you what might be. Not exactly…well, Mrsha was probably using it wrong.
She wanted to explore. But her mother was going to get herself killed. So Mrsha picked up her pace. She had a destination.
 
——
 
The roots did not look like ropes to Mrsha. They were too thin; they twisted downwards, a net of questing brown seekers wrapped around two of the doors. Dirt and bits of debris from the ceiling were everywhere. Mrsha stared up darkly at the dirt overhead; it covered the hallway she stood in.
Just a hallway, not the palace’s courtyard or anywhere else. Unlike some of her incarnations, she had landed here and found both courtyard and other features of this topsy-turvy palace in time. But she had made several marker trails so she wouldn’t lose this critical point.
Another sign she was the genuine article; she saw the roots as they were, and she could still see the [Garden of Sanctuary] above her. The roots, her only connection to the inn, were fragile-looking. Mrsha bet they could take her weight, but like the other realities’ versions of her, she wasn’t going to mess with them.
Besides, [Groundswim] had worn off. Mrsha rubbed at her chin. She’d been hoping to find some kind of implement, like a shovel, and tunnel up, as direly hard as that might have been. But it seemed like she had limited amounts of time before Lyonette started panicking.
Okay, worst case scenario. It was about 3 PM when I fell. So that makes it about 4:30? I have an hour and a half until dinner, and then about a day or two before Lyonette goes off with everyone.
Assuming that she doesn’t go faster in my reality. My head hurts. Let’s figure this out. How do I dig up there in an hour without breaking the roots or getting killed?
She scratched her head, then, hopeful, tried to summon a stepladder.
No dice. Mrsha turned and found a hallway where staircases snaked overhead, going every direction. Upside down, through each other, in endless loops…she rubbed at her eyes.
I hate this place.
Stomping away, Mrsha considered her options. There was no help for it; she’d just have to climb and dig…at least twenty feet straight up. In theory, gravity would help with the process immensely.
 
——
 
In practice, digging straight up while dirt and the occasional stone rained down on your head was highly unpleasant. And you were doing all this one-handed while you clung to some damn slippery roots that kept moving.
Mrsha tried for a solid eleven minutes, spitting and cursing, until she felt what she’d been afraid of: one of the roots moved, and she felt that fraying sensation that immediately made her slide down. Even bundled together, they were too weak!
For magical plants that could bypass the nature of Skills, they couldn’t hold one Gnoll girl’s weight!
“I told you to mind your diet, young Miss!”
Mrsha waved away the voice of Lyonette lecturing her about the ‘proper’ weight for young women. She groaned up as she saw a depression barely three feet deep.
Okay, this is a bad option. I won’t get up there fast enough. Think, Mrsha! Think! 
Here she was, in a new Skill that Erin didn’t have access to—and all she wanted was to get out of here. This wasn’t classic Mrsha stuff. Classic Mrsha would be racing around and not realize she was making Lyonette worry for ages.
Eight-year-old Mrsha, who was really ten by Earth standards, felt like she had a terrible burden of time weighing down on her. She had to get back before Lyonette was…!
She’d seen it in one of the doors. Which begged the question: was that going to happen? Mrsha didn’t want to risk it, but it occurred to her to check.
Brushing dirt off her fur, she hurried down the hallway, thinking now.
I need to see every reality where something bad happens in the immediate future to The Wandering Inn or my friends!
Was that how you—
The hallway changed in front of her eyes. Mrsha blinked, caught herself on a green-painted door with Pallass’ sigil and a chipped yellow handle on it, and grimly exhaled.
So that’s how you use it.
She swung the first door open and pressed her face to the invisible barrier keeping her from the reality beyond. What she saw made her stop cold.
 
——
 
The ground was blasted black with flames as Drake [Soldiers] flooded into the burning fortress in the High Passes. It was hard to burn stone, but 2nd Army’s Oldblood Drakes were still exhaling, burning the tops of the fortress.
The entire valley looked like a charnel pit. Pallass’ famous army had been forced to take the approach through the pass. It had cost them soldiers with each step. Their yellowed armor was stained red, and broken arrow shafts studded corpses.
However, when the figure lying on her back raised her head, she saw more Goblin bodies than Drake. Rust-colored fur marked the place where the last Carn Wolves and Redfangs had sallied out with her. A ring of bodies and blades surrounded her.
Her lungs strained for breath. She was shivering, despite the flames. The Great Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe saw a Drake walking towards her, soot staining the Drake’s brilliant armor.
But what she remembered was a [Spearmaster] holding a pair of heads as she crouched in the tall grass, numb. She felt like that, as if the world were splitting in half and something was forever gone.
Because it was.
General Shirka of 2nd Army halted and threw the Goblin at her feet a crisp salute. She bore no scars, but she spoke as if each breath cost her.
“Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe. I had orders from my city to eradicate your tribe. Against my better judgment, against my instincts, I obeyed orders.”
Rags said nothing. Her eyes were on the sun hanging overhead. Cheery and bright, only marred by the rising smoke.
She was leaning against Redscar. The Goblin coughed, and his head lolled back more. Shirka kept speaking, as if she expected a reply.
“You have bled 2nd Army out. I salute the courage of your tribe and warriors. I should have ignored orders.”
No reply. Rags wasn’t even listening to her anymore. Just staring upwards. The [General] continued now, a monologue to her soldiers.
