It wasn’t long at all for Shirka to stride towards the group of silent [Soldiers] readying themselves at the sealed banquet hall doors. It looked like these ones were slightly off their hinges, despite being huge, big enough to let in two squads abreast. Everyone was silent.
They felt it too.
Shirka took position in the center as her [Battlemages] prepared barrier spells. She glanced at Gaellis, 2nd Army’s [Spearmaster], and flicked two claws.
The doors blew inwards with a crash, and 2nd Army’s vanguard streamed into the huge banquet hall, [Soldiers] recoiling and freezing in horror—then leaping into place. They spread out, forming a semi-circle as Shirka walked forwards, sword drawn.
She saw the single figure sitting at the back of the room on a bloody throne of corpses and halted. Her instinct was to shout ‘kill it’, but the misshapen titan sitting there halted even her in her tracks.
Then her training took over, and she roared into a speaking stone.
“Ulhouse! Old One! Old One titan! Tell Pallass I need armageddon spells on my position now!”
Of course—the speaking stone was dead. Shirka felt her breastplate growing heavier on her chest, and one of her [Battlemages] croaked.
“General, magic’s…”
Dead. The [Soldiers] looked up as the giant slowly stood up. His head looked too huge for the rest of his body, but that was because his bare organs and bones were open to the air. Sinew shifted as he raised one too-thin arm; his body was covered with sores and rotten flesh.
Something was wrong with his joints. Shirka saw a black line along the neck, where both shoulders met the torso, and the hips, where the legs were joined together.
Weak spots? She marked the left leg for her troops as that mouth opened. A rotten tongue lolled out, expelling a cloud of black flies, and the thing spoke.
 
“Welcome to my new home, dear cousins.”
 
——
 
Mrsha watched for half a minute longer and then slammed the door, covered her ears, and curled up in a corner. Only after a few minutes could she uncurl, and only because she was now desperate to—to stop this.
She had thought, a minute ago, nothing in the world would ever make her like General Shirka of Pallass’ 2nd Army. But after seeing the Drake fighting that—that thing—Mrsha realized even she didn’t deserve that.
What’s going on? Mrsha tried another door and jerked back the moment she saw who was in it.
Rags again? Mrsha shut the door this time rather than see…Rags was underground, talking to a bunch of Trolls. Mrsha assumed they were Trolls; they were like Durene, but more monster-like, if that wasn’t too mean to say.
Wait, that made sense. She had asked for people in immediate danger. Mrsha had assumed it’d be Lyonette, but what if the person in the most danger was…
Rags.
If that thing had any chance of attacking Goblinhome or 2nd Army—Mrsha went from door to door, opening and shutting them fast, just confirming. Then she rushed back to her journal and wrote swiftly.
Let’s see. She’d opened twenty doors, and seventeen had been Rags. One had been Lyonette. Two had been her.
The implication seemed simple enough to Mrsha as she tried to figure out how to do that percentages thing that Yelroan had taught her. Let’s see. That was a…a…you multiplied this by…
Seventeen times out of twenty, Rags was in deadly danger. And it seemed almost split between either her preparing or being in the middle of a war with 2nd Army or being in a dark underground place with Trolls. Or fighting another tribe of Goblins, including some super-huge Goblins.
Once had been her fighting a really angry Wyvern Lord, and another had been her shouting at some huge, super-hairy figures covered in white hair, but Mrsha was going to run with the odds she knew.
Rags was in danger. Mrsha had to get out of here and warn her before it was too late.
 
——
 
Mrsha yanked one of the Faerie Flower roots clean out of the ceiling by accident as she was furiously digging. It snapped, and she went tumbling down, only to find the long root on the ground. When she saw it lying there and felt the sense of loss in the air, as if she’d taken a gulp of the Faerie Flower drink, it snapped her out of her panic.
Each root was a lifeline back home! You break that, you’ll be trapped and Rags and Lyonette will be dead, dumbass! Mrsha slapped herself. She had no idea if the Faerie Flowers would regrow the roots; they were well-watered and fed, but she wasn’t going to risk it!
The Solstice had clearly enabled them to grow down this far, and Mrsha caught her breath and washed herself off with some water as she panted. She guessed it’d been about forty more minutes, so she was rapidly running out of time.
Her digging had barely enlarged the hole, despite her panic. Mrsha sat down, eating cookies from her looted cookie jar and trying to think.
Okay, let’s tackle this another way. Why are Faerie Flowers growing roots here?
The entire time she’d taken care of the pesky things, they’d been small, tiny flowers with very small root networks, and she’d repotted them enough times to know they had no secrets.
This batch was insane. Something had happened to them; Mrsha had suspected they’d been trying to grow for ages, but hadn’t. Why?
She was a [Druid]. Moore and Nalthaliarstrelous had taught her. Mrsha thought hard as she gulped down an Acid Fly cookie and spat something out. Gross.
Flowers needed sunlight, water, and soil to grow. Erin said it was because they needed nutrients in the ground to do something with chlorophyll, but she hadn’t been good at her explanation; Wailant had once just said it was like how anyone needed food and water. When Mrsha had asked why plants needed two things, soil and sunlight, he’d just said it was like fruits and vegetables.
“Believe me, lass. You may think you could live off of just meat or whatnot, but I’ve seen [Pirates] get scurvy from eating the same thing every day. Plants need a full diet, and not all soil’s the same kind. Got it?”
In this extended analogy, Mrsha had given the Faerie Flowers soil, water, and sunlight. However, what they had really needed was something else unique to them that had been missing. Until now.
What? Unclear. When? Very clear.
The Winter Solstice. Mrsha closed her eyes. They had gotten something from the Winter Solstice and Kasigna. Maybe it had been Theillige revealing themself or the battle or just auspiciousness of it being the Solstice and an eclipse, but the end result was Faerie Flowers had bloomed.
Now, why had they sprouted downwards? Again, the answer seemed obvious if you assumed they were still plants.
Plants went to water. Plants went to food. Mrsha had seen other plants growing roots to get access to water; Lyonette had described huge, hanging plants in Oteslia that had long roots, which reached down so they could get enough water.
Something in the [Palace of Fates] made the Faerie Flowers think there was food here.
Probably fate. Glumly, Mrsha stared at the broken root in her paws and stuffed it into her bag of holding. And yet, they were still fragile as heck!
Argh! Mrsha wrung her paws together as she stared up at the hole. The [Garden of Sanctuary] was right there. If she could just howl and be heard, or if Valeterisa’s stupid spell cast by her stupid, Relc-kissing face could have just lasted a few more hours…
She wasn’t going to cry. Mrsha sniffed. She had to get out of here. She wouldn’t think of Rags dying or Lyonette vanishing. She was going to save them.
Just once, let me save someone.
The hallway flickered around Mrsha, though the space around the roots remained the same. Mrsha turned and saw more doors had appeared. She hesitated, walked over to one, and opened it. There wasn’t anything that could help her. She had to get b—
Mrsha stared at what was in this door and slammed it so fast she struck her own nose. She stood there, rubbing it, and then backed away.
Oh! Oh. 
So that’s why Empress Sheta had desired this palace so much she’d made it. This was why Erin Solstice might someday own it.
How…utterly terrible. The [Innkeeper] should never have access to this place.
It would destroy her.
Mrsha backed up a few more steps and took a few deep breaths. She wrote on a single piece of paper and stuck it in the side of the door, then turned back to the hole in the ceiling. The real world. But she bookmarked this place for later. The note was simple.
It said:
 
If Brunkr lived.
 
——
 
Twenty minutes to dinnertime.
Mrsha sat and stared at the hole in the ceiling. She had not been idle; instead of more dirt on her fur, she’d gone from door to door, trying to see if another Mrsha had figured out how to get out of here.
The problem was…the other Mrshas didn’t remember the roots. They sort of knew how they’d gotten here, but when they looked up, they just saw some ropes, at best, instead of the roots. Mostly, there wasn’t a hole at all.
If…Lyonette was worried, it could be a good thing. She’d begin looking, and Rags might not go with the Trolls or fight Shirka? That was a small, paltry silver lining for Mrsha. She just…
Argh! Mrsha fell on her back, staring at the ceiling. She’d tried commanding the door to the [Pavilion of Secrets] to open, even taken a look through the lock; no dice. In this reality, there was no hole that let you see into it.
Mrsha would have chanced the wrath of Pavilion-Erin to get help for her friends. If Erin were here, the real owner with the key to this place, Mrsha was sure she’d be able to warn Rags and save her and do all kinds of amazing stuff with this place. Right now, it was like the ultimate teaser: all the knowledge of what might be and no ability to fix it.
The fact that the [Garden of Sanctuary] lay over the [Palace of Fates] was odd to Mrsha. She supposed that geography didn’t matter too much; she doubted they were actually placed one on top of the other. It was just the roots messing up her sense of direction.
She stared at the hole in the ceiling. She’d hollowed out enough to sort of stand in the bottom of the [Garden of Sanctuary]; at least that way she wouldn’t keep straining the roots. But however hard she’d worked, there was so little to show for it and she knew how damn deep the garden went.
Nothing for it. I dig all night and all day, even if my paws bleed. If I’m lucky, Mother will sense me in the [Garden of Sanctuary] and dig me out. At worst, it takes me, what, ten hours to get to the surface? I have to do it. Time to Grimalkin up.
Mrsha’s arms hurt already. She got up slowly, just hoping, praying, she’d be on time. If only she had a single good damn Skill. But her [Emberbearer], [Student], [Survivor], [Druid] classes…
She didn’t want to be a hero like Pisces just yet. She wasn’t a good one. Mrsha sniffed and wiped at her eyes and got dirt in them. All the good heroes died. Like Moore or Halrac or…
She just wanted that ordinary life where none of her friends died and she could be a kid playing in the [Garden of Sanctuary] without stupid flowers, running from garden to garden. But even the beach was gone. The snow garden was gone.
Even sanctuary ended. Mrsha reached for one of the roots and began to pull herself up, gathering them up so she’d exert less pressure on them, when she stared up at the ceiling and the small hole there.
…Wait.
Wait.
This was the [Garden of Sanctuary] after all. It was stupid…no, she was stupid because she hadn’t thought of it. But it would be so incredibly Leon-brained if it worked like that. But why not? Mrsha closed her eyes as she pulled herself up, arms trembling with effort.
Please work, please work, please…? If you love Erin, please help. She opened her eyes. Raised her head, and her eyes widened.
I’m actually a genius after all. Mrsha hauled herself up two more feet of the roots, panting. She reached up, incredulous—
And her paw touched the handle of the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door buried in the dirt. Mrsha swung the door open, made a faint sigh, then grabbed the floor and pulled.
 
——
 
“Mrsha? Dinnertime! Mrsha, where are you?”
The [Princess] was getting worried. She checked the [Garden of Sanctuary], the [World’s Eye Theatre], the kitchen, the outhouses, and then doubled back on a hunch and opened the door to Mrsha and Nanette’s shared rooms.
“There you are! I’ve been calling your name for ages! What are you doing, young miss? And why are you all wet?”
Mrsha looked up and finished toweling off her fur. She shook herself, and Lyonette flinched, but the girl had gotten all the water off. She held up a pre-prepared notecard and handed it to Lyonette as the [Princess] put her hands on her hips.
Bath. I got dirty from gardening.
“The baths? But I didn’t sense you anywhere!”
Lyonette had Erin’s Skill and ability to tell where people were in the inn, even if she had to focus to consciously monitor people. However, Mrsha had been completely off her radar. Even now…Lyonette narrowed her eyes.
“You’re using [Natural Concealment] on me! What have you gotten up to, young miss?”
Mrsha stopped and looked Lyonette up and down in an oddly…patient manner, which made Lyonette waver. Her instinct was to assume Mrsha was up to no good, but Mrsha wasn’t acting like she normally did when she had done something naughty. She was usually profusive or dramatic. Mrsha just scribbled on a card and handed it to Lyonette.
Why’re you trying to sense where I am? Don’t be a Laken, Mom.
“I’m not—”
Ushar coughed into a fist, and Lyonette gave her Thronebearer a narked glance. She and Mrsha had begun to realize Ushar kept score on who had made a good point. The Thronebearer eyed Mrsha appraisingly, but Mrsha just sighed, wrote, and handed another card to Lyonette as she pointed at her head.
I’m hiding from Nanette. And I shan’t be around either of you until you make up over the wand fight. Also, does my head look okay? I hit it with a shovel.
“Your head? Oh dear!”
It had a lump and a cut on it! Lyonette instantly held out a hand, and Ushar placed a healing potion in it, but Mrsha batted Lyonette’s hands away.
No potions! I’m fine! It just bled a bit!
“A bit? Let me see. Ushar, see if there’s a [Healer] who can look at—”
Mother. Please!
 
——
 
It was terribly hard raising a pair of girls who thought they were adults. Mrsha refused everything but a bit of salve for the admittedly small cut on her head, then marched downstairs.
She seemed fine. Lyonette was mildly suspicious just on the merits of her maternal instincts, but Mrsha just grabbed a broom and began sweeping up the bathroom.
It was filthy, and a grumbling Asgra had been cleaning up a prodigious amount of dirt Mrsha had gotten everywhere. Asgra brightened up when Mrsha helped, which was very thoughtful of her.
