“Pallass is rotting out. Today, we destroyed a Goblin tribe. Tomorrow—we’ll see those consequences, and every day thereafter. I should have gone to Saliss and told him, or refused and damn the consequences.”
An officer leaning on a spear stopped trying to reattach another’s jaw. He looked up and rasped.
“[General].”
“Edellein wants to see us humbled? He’s seen 2nd Army ruined. How many armies do we have to lose before the Antinium or the north decides to push us?”
Shirka’s voice rose. She shouted in a fury at the officers and soldiers around her, and rage at her own idiocy.
Goblins. A single tribe versus one of Pallass’ armies. Shirka turned and studied the Frost Wyverns, whose corpses stood out, bloodied from where they had dove into 2nd Army’s ranks. The Wyvern Lord’s voice was silent at last. Shirka began to say something else, and the [Spearmaster] rasped.
“General. She’s dead.”
Shirka stopped. She bent down and saw a curled up figure. She didn’t hear the howl, the pounding on the door. Nor hear it—
Slam.
 
——
 
Mrsha stumbled back from the door, clutching her chest. Her throat was ragged; she didn’t know when she’d begun howling, but—
Just a—a—lie! She told herself that as she backed away from the door that now seemed to loom in front of her.
What was that? How far in the future? Why…
2nd Army was going to attack Goblinhome? It couldn’t be true. But then Mrsha’s memory flashed back to Rags sitting in The Wandering Inn and her conversation with that other Mrsha, saying she was waiting and checking for—
No, no, no. Suddenly, Mrsha’s fear for Lyonette had company. She raced over to another door, this one made of crude, hewn granite. She yanked it open and only realized too late that it smelled of stone…and dried blood.
 
——
 
Something was wrong. General Shirka of 2nd Army stared at the gates of Goblinhome and asked a salient question.
“Why are the gates open?”
“Trap, General?”
She grunted and transferred her enchanted spyglass to the other hand as she watched the first scouts entering the fortress hidden amidst the mountain range.
“If it’s a trap, it’s a damn bad one, because it looks like a trap. This place is a killing field. Scouts, where the hell are the Goblins?”
There was silence on the other end of her speaking stone as General Shirka’s unease grew.
Three days. That was when she had calculated that the Flooded Waters tribe would notice the approach of 2nd Army, no matter how stealthy they were and no matter how many Goblins her [Scouts] could take out.
It had been a hellish march to even get here, fighting through parts of the High Passes, and Shirka had been prepared for a siege. Instead—she had found no Goblins. None in the concealed bunkers along the pass her Drakes were checking out. None harassing her troops, no Wyvern Riders. Obviously, it had only sharpened her guard, but now she was staring at ‘Goblinhome’.
And it was…empty?
If anything could have made Shirka uneasy, it was that. She stood there, surveying the terrain, wondering if the Goblins were crazy enough to lure 2nd Army into their home and launch a surprise attack. But why would they abandon their positions? She gave the right orders, even so.
“Keep the vanguard in our Alpha position, Strategist Ulhouse. Spearmaster Gaellis, take your forces in and be ready for an ambush.”
“By your will, General. [Stormline Advance]!”
Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda flooded across the ground, led by 2nd Army’s [Spearmaster]. Their [General] didn’t stand in the open; she had taken cover behind mage-reinforced barriers and several rocks.
Only an idiot like General Edellein stood in a place where you could get sniped. Shirka had been cursing his name the last few weeks—today, she wondered if his damned stupid orders had been the right call after all.
Something was wrong here. Terribly, terribly wrong. She scanned the air again.
“Wing 1. Do you see any Frost Wyverns?”
One of the threats she had been prepared to face were the Goblins’ tamed Frost Wyverns or that Wyvern Lord that had attacked Pallass itself. 2nd Army had been itching for revenge, but the flight wing of Wyvern Riders and Oldblood Drakes reported a negatory.
“Nothing, General. Air’s clear for miles. Unnaturally clear.”
“Elaborate, [Wing Captain]?”
2nd Army was marching through the gates that led into Goblinhome. Warily. Drake [Soldiers] spread out as one of their [Strategists] landed next to the [Spearmaster] heading the vanguard. Ulhouse’s voice cracked through the speaking stone.
“Entrance is clear. No Goblins, but signs of fighting. Gaellis, hold position! Keep clear of that…contamination. I want our Oldblood teams front and center. Flame and scourging breath types. Alche-squad One and Two as well, and Battlemagus Erithe. General, you’re going to want to see this.”
Shirka strode forwards as the [Lieutenant] elaborated.
“Air is dead empty, General. In the High Passes? Even the Razorbeaks would be out to scavenge kills, and I’d expect to be challenged by something flying. I can’t even see any monsters. No Passmaws, no Eater Goats or Gargoyles…”
There was an unease in his tone as Shirka crossed the ground, her bodyguards with their shields raised, waiting for a sniper. However, as she approached the silent Goblinhome, Shirka felt that unease grow.
“Dangersense is going off, General. It’s not like the prelude to a battle.”
One of her [Tacticians] reported in, and Shirka acknowledged it.
“Move up two flank wings to me. Set up our ballistae with lines of sight on the doors.”
She walked through the gates of Goblinhome and found her [Strategist] and [Spearmaster] standing in the center of a broad entryway designed to kill anyone who came through. The moment Shirka entered, she felt her scales crawling.
Crossbow bolts littered the ground. She halted as she saw a familiar red stain on the ground and scuttling insects. They were huge, covered in black fuzz—she stared for a second as the [Soldiers] kept back, heads scanning the room.
But what struck Shirka and made her stop and gag was the smell. Something beyond rotten filled the air, and one of her [Bodyguards] gagged despite themself.
“Burn the insects. And whatever the hells that is.”
Ulhouse was pointing at a huge, rotting lump of flesh, the source of the odor. A faint buzzing filled the air, and the insects were congregating around it.
“Should we take a sample, Strategist? For identification?”
The Alche-squads of Drakes wore pointed masks to cover their faces and were thus less affected by the smell, but even their leader sounded palpably reluctant. The Oldblood Drake gave the [Alchemist] a look.
“I’m not having anyone infected with whatever that is. If there was anything to gain by studying it, it was weeks ago. Burn it. General, looks like someone beat us to Goblinhome.”
An Oldblood Drake exhaled, sending acrid, but reassuringly cleansing smoke up into the air. It was joined by two [Alchemists] who lobbed fire flasks forwards, coating the ground.
“So it appears. Gaellis, thoughts?”
“Where the hell are the Goblins?”
The Drake whirled his spear up, clearly unhappy with the situation. He looked right and left, then pointed.
“Not one damn body. Lots of blood. Look at their defenses; they gave whatever came through here a hell of a fight. But aside from that lump of shit—nothing. They must have fallen back.”
“If they did, they had to have used tunnels. We saw nothing.”
Ulhouse countered, advancing forwards slowly as the way was cleared. He turned to Shirka.
“There was no sign of Goblins escaping from our Wyverns. They have routes through the mountain, I’m sure, but we should have seen clusters of them with [Detect Life] spells. Where are they?”
Shirka said nothing, just kept advancing, hand on her sword’s hilt. Her bodyguard fell in as she stood in the great hall.
Hidden bunkers, killzone traps the entire way into the valley, and a siege weapon bigger than ours? 
She was grateful she hadn’t run into the tribe on this attack. It might have been disastrous, but it only begged the question: where were they? The Flooded Waters tribe had every advantage in their home, but there was not a Goblin in sight. Ulhouse waved her over to the biggest weapon in the room.
“General, look.”
She called out as she strode over to a gigantic ballista made out of Wyvern parts.
“Gaellis, keep heading in. Don’t pack the corridors; keep your people outside and prepare to fall back.”
“Yep.”
Shirka turned to the Oldblood Strategist, who was inspecting the ballista. Shirka strode up the steps as Spearmaster Gaellis kept pressing into the fortress.
“Take a look at this beast. Goblins made this? I want to requisition it for 2nd Army if we can figure out how to dismantle it. It’s not enchanted, but I’ll wager it hits like one of the ballistae on 9th wall.”
“That’s treasonous talk, Ulhouse. Goblins can’t make anything as good as us Drakes.”
Shirka kept her tone light; that was a joke. Ulhouse’s grin was her reward, but both were too tense. There was a foul smell in the air, added to by the burning of the insects; Shirka saw survivors clinging to the walls and decided they had to be taken as samples. Maybe they were good for some kind of alchemy.
She noticed the Alche-squads and Oldblood Drakes clustered around the lump of flesh in the corner. One of them was pouring acid on it; it was burning, but they seemed to be having trouble incinerating it.
“Good as ours or not, this thing could kill a Wyvern if it got a clean shot, General. It’s been fired a few times; see how it’s moved back? Something came through here, dodged or ate those ballista bolts—and didn’t destroy this thing?”
Shirka frowned at the ballista, feeling that prickle down her spine grow.
“Meaning something or someone bypassed the defenses so fast they didn’t even bother taking it out? But there are no bodies. So either the Goblins had a chance to retreat and collect their wounded—”
“—in which case, they left way too much behind. Or whatever came through here disposed of the bodies very, very tidily, but had no use for anything else. And the fighting was fast.”
Ulhouse nodded at the reserve barrels of ammunition, oversized crossbows, all ready to be used. For all the ammunition littering the floor…
Shirka bent down, frowning, and realized something.
“There’s no blood on any of the crossbow bolts. Armored foes? Magicked? So what you’re saying is that something took out this fortress and went through the defenses so fast it wasn’t even a protracted battle. Or the Goblins bugged out equally quick.”
Shirka hated both explanations. She felt like she was looking at a defensive fortress on par with what any of her classmates could have made in the Titan’s academy. If she had known what Goblinhome contained, she would have messaged General Edellein and told him to either give her two weeks to reconfigure her army—or to shove the orders to take this tribe on up his tail.
Yet something had happened, and the answers were forthcoming. Shirka heard her speaking stone activate.
“General. We’ve found what looks like a banquet hall or throne room. Doors are sealed. Spreading out further. Lots of bugs. A bit more of that flesh stuff—smells worse than a corpse pit. Blood. No bodies. I—hold on.”
“General, [Dangersenses] are going off.”
A report from her [Tactician]. Shirka’s head snapped up.
“Standby for my approach! Get me a full squad of [Battlemages] and our 1st Goblinslayer…no. Make that 1st Armored. And have an Oldblood squad on backup. I will be there shortly.”
“Yes, General.”
Ulhouse followed Shirka, sensing the ominous sensation she did. The moment they’d found the doors…the [Strategist] whispered in her ear.
“General, let me take over the operation.”
“No. Pull the army back outside, Ulhouse. Give me reinforcements, but wait for our signal on what’s inside. You are to report to Pallass what you find at once. If I should fall out of contact and you cannot re-establish within two reinforcement groups or five minutes, you are to fall back to the main force. Understood?”
The [Strategist] hesitated, then saluted.
“Yes, [General]. Should we find other breach points to the banquet hall?”
The crawling was a full-body sensation, like maggots running all over her scales. The [General] of 2nd Army shook her head.
“No time. Gaellis? Get ready to knock on those doors.”
 
——
 
The halls of Goblinhome were filthy. Shirka actually thought it would have been a livable space, if cramped with however many Goblins she imagined had been here. But the walls had black lichen growing on them, insects which darted away or crunched underfoot, and that smell—
She’d put on one of the masks 2nd Army used when dealing with poison gas spells or other hazards, and all the other [Soldiers] had done the same. It was silent…so silent that when Shirka’s speaking stone crackled, one of her [Bodyguards] flinched.
“General. We have a survivor. Goblin.”
Shirka halted.
“Survivor?”
That was supposed to be ‘enemy combatant’. But 2nd Army didn’t appoint stupid officers. The engagement had changed and her [Scout] leader replied in a hushed voice.
“One. It—she’s babbling at us. We found her in a cupboard. She had some kind of aura on her. Darkness aura?”
Goblins with auras? Shirka spoke.
“What can you get from her?”
“We’re trying—keep the captive secure, [Soldier]—she keeps shouting at us. Get its name and…”
There was silence and voices on the other end, and then the [Scout] came back.
“The Goblin speaks common. It’s name is ‘Gothica’. It keeps telling us to evacuate. Something’s in the banquet hall. She said it killed everything.”
Shirka had survived Wrymvr the Deathless’ raid on her village during the first Antinium Wars. She’d enlisted in Pallass’ army and shot up through the ranks, idolizing the famous [Alchemist], Saliss of Lights, who’d saved her. In her career, she’d fought against enemy armies, monsters, and found herself close to death enough times to grow used to it.
—Today, she had the same feeling in her bones as the girl who’d looked up and heard a Centenium screaming as it came out of the skies. The same feeling as she got when she heard Named-ranks talk about the things you found that had no name until they killed it.
“Get the Goblin to Ulhouse. Now. We’re going to see who our uninvited guest is.”
Are you sure? No one said it, but Shirka asked it of herself. But what was the other choice? Fall back and not learn what had killed the Goblins? No…they were 2nd Army. They had to know.
Besides, now she understood the ominous feeling that had triggered the [Dangersenses]. They were being watched.
They were being expected.
