Zel looked over and saw Magnolia fussing over a huge and clearly magical breastplate. She couldn’t lift it herself, so Ressa and Nalthal had to pick it up. It was dirty, but the dirt couldn’t hide the impressive nature of the armor. The golden-red metal shone in the dark night, and seemed to blaze as if a flickering fire was right in front of the armor. Nalthal sneered at it and nearly dropped his end until Ressa kicked him.
“This is a set of armor from the Reinhart vaults, General Shivertail. I selected it myself. It’s a powerful artifact and—”
“It’s stolen.”
Zel folded his arms. Magnolia blinked and broke off.
“Excuse me?”
The Drake [General] glared at Magnolia and Ressa alike. He pointed to the armor with a trembling claw.
“I recognize that armor! That is the Heartflame Breastplate, one of my people’s national treasures! We thought it was lost after General Ironscales was slaughtered and her corpse disappeared two centuries ago—you Humans had it this entire time?”
“Oh dear. Did we Ressa?”
“Probably.”
The [Maid] shrugged and glared at Nalthal as he dropped his end of the armor and stomped away. She offered it to Zel unapologetically.
“The Reinharts steal everything. Regis Reinhart acquired it and we had no idea it was in his possession until we asked. It’s yours now.”
“Mine?”
Zel stared at Magnolia in disbelief. He lifted the breastplate gingerly in his claws. It was indeed heavy, but if legends were true, it could stop an enchanted lance thrust to the heart without a problem. Magnolia smiled at him as the Drake looked at her in disbelief.
“Of course! The Golems are here to protect you and the breastplate should help you in battle if it’s that famous an artifact. I’m hardly one to be stingy with my wealth, General Shivertail, and you deserve to have as many artifacts as one of the Lords of the Wall in your Walled Cities.”
“And wear a hundred rings and amulets at all times? Hardly. But I will take this armor. I don’t need enchanted gear, but this—”
It was like he was a small child again and being given an actual magic sword. Zel’s claws trembled as he unbuckled his breastplate. Once upon a time Sserys had ordered a set of magical armor made for Zel and he had refused. He didn’t need armor thanks to his Skills. But this?
When Zel stood, his armor burned on his chest and he felt warm, stronger. Magnolia clapped her hands in delight and Ressa carefully wiped some dirt off of the gleaming enchanted metal. Zel looked at her and felt conflicted.
“You have a thousand magical artifacts, Reinhart. Countless secrets, powerful servants, and more wealth than I can dream of. How is it that you haven’t taken over this continent already?”
The Deadly Flower of the North smiled at Zel and he thought she looked rueful. Just for a second.
“Honestly? Because money cannot buy everything, Zel Shivertail. I have artifacts, yes. Money, yes. Servants? Oh, they are strong, but they are not champions. The Goblin King swept through these lands because he was mighty. I am a [Lady], not a warrior, General Shivertail. To back up my charming words and wealth, I need a sword, an army. Do you see why I approached you?”
“I do. But I’m sorry to say—”
“Yes, yes. You’re not my sword. Not yet.”
Magnolia waved a hand, looking put out. Zel grinned. He opened a claw and looked up at the War Golems.
“I was going to say that you don’t have a sword. I’m a defensive [General]. If you want offense, get the Titan or bring back Sserys. I hold the line. Occasionally I charge into the enemy and redefine the line, but I’m best suited defending. You have a shield, Reinhart.”
She looked at him, her lips pursed, hands on hips.
“I know that I should appreciate that statement as it is, but a shield hardly sounds useful for dealing with a Goblin Lord.”
“No? You can give me one and I’ll beat him to death with it.”
Zel grinned and flexed his claws. He felt ready for a battle. The Goblin Lord might have an army, but Zel did too. Probably. And he had two War Golems, magic armor, and…well, that was about it. He just needed his claws and he’d tear a hole in that Goblin Lord’s chest.
At least, he hoped he would. In the worst case he might have to avoid a battle. It depended on the Goblin Lord’s army and how strong they’d be when Zel’s forces met him. Forty thousand soldiers was good, but the [General] hadn’t lived as long as he had by taking stupid risks. You took stupid risks only when you had no other choice.
“Well, I think I’ve got a few more things to think on. Lady Reinhart, shall we return to your mansion? I have a battle to plan.”
Magnolia smiled at him.
“Call me Magnolia, will you? And I will call you Zel. After all, we are allies and, I hope, friends.”
Zel stared at her. Magnolia smiled. He coughed.
“No. We’re not friends.”
“What?”
Her smile vanished. Zel shuffled his feet. Ressa snorted.
“We’re not friends, Reinhart. I still don’t trust you.”
“Oh come now!”
She tried to grab his arm and he walked away. Magnolia sighed loudly.
“We are allies! Comrades-in-arms! I gave you that armor!”
“You can’t even lift my armor.”
“I am trying to be friendly.”
“You don’t have to be. We’re allies, not bedfellows.”
“This is really distressing me, Zel. I felt we had reached an understanding, a connection.”
“Don’t call me that, please.”
“Zel—”
“I’m going back to the mansion.”
“Fine! Unbelievable. Stubborn Drakes. Ressa, let’s go.”
“Okay.”
“Right. We’re off. General Shivertail? Which way are—”
“I don’t know. Which way’s the way out?”
“Of course it’s that—no, I suppose not. Or this way? Hm. Nalthal! Which way is…Nalthal?”
The two Humans and Zel looked around. The [Druid] turned [Gardener] did not reply as Magnolia called his name. They looked around and realized they were lost in the hedge maze, between towering thick walls of greenery that were at least sixteen feet high. Now that Zel really thought about it, you could probably die in a maze. He looked at Magnolia. Ressa looked at Magnolia. Magnolia looked around and sighed.
“I hate my [Gardener].”
