The second time he did better, landing his first strike with fatal accuracy before falling into a brawl with the other rat. It only took half an hour to recover from the gash in his side and bite wound on his arm. The third time he only took a single hit.

Through it all, Edmund put his Perseverance through its paces, accumulating and regenerating injury after injury for gods knew how long. Down here, there was no passage of day and night, only the orange glow of smokeless torches and the stench of drying blood.

His Madness, on the other hand, seemed to do precious little. He’d still yet to determine what seeing beyond reality meant, and other than the floating text that appeared whenever he looked too closely at his loot, Edmund didn’t have a clue.

At least, he didn’t until, upon watching the two rats reappear in the corner for the fourth time, a familiar voice rang out behind him.

“What are you doing?”

Edmund froze.

“You realize the floor’s clear, right?” the voice continued. “You can’t get any more loot or Aspects here.”

Ice running through his veins, Edmund turned to find Liam, alive and uninjured, sitting casually on the wooden chest that’d once held his loot. “You’re not real.”

Liam laughed, a short and sharp thing. “That’s a matter of perspective.”

“I watched you die.”

“Exactly.” Liam smiled and tilted his head. “I might not be real from most people’s perspectives, but from yours…” He spread his hands out to both sides. “Here I am.”

“Madness,” Edmund breathed, far quieter than Liam should’ve been able to hear from across the room. “I’m hallucinating.”

“For what it’s worth, reality is overrated. All the best people can see past it.”

“You mean all the best people are mad.”

Something about Liam’s smile shifted, the friendly whimsy of it giving way to a cheshire grin that seemed to at once comfort and threaten Edmund from the other side of the cellar. “You never answered my question. Why are you still here?”

Edmund tightened his grip on his spear, the third one he’d taken from the simple trap. “I’m practicing.”

“Against rats?” Liam asked. “You do know the next floor will have different monsters?”

“It’s not about the rats,” Edmund said, turning his gaze away from the hallucination and back towards the beasts. “It’s about the fight. Making a battle plan, reacting to the ways it falls apart, taking hits and fighting past them.” He swallowed. “I’ve fought these rats four times now and I still can’t win without getting hurt.”

“So you’ll keep risking your life for no reward?” Liam asked. “Have you considered the existence of training yards? Or maybe you have the wrong tools. You could leave and find a different weapon, or go to the next floor to earn another Aspect and more loot.”

Edmund set his jaw, refusing to look back at Liam. “Or I could opt not to take advice from a hallucination.”

Liam laughed once more, the mirth returning to his voice. “Maybe you should. Maybe that’s what makes your Aspect so powerful: a hallucination that gives great advice.”

“That’s enough from you,” Edmund snapped. “I don’t make a habit of trusting hallucinations of my dead friend, and I certainly don’t trust any that show up here.”

“Fine by me,” Liam replied, leaning back on his left palm. “If you don’t want my help, I’m happy to sit back and enjoy the show.”

Edmund charged for the rats, letting his rage and confusion wash away under the deluge of adrenaline. All thoughts of Madness and strange hallucinations vanished behind the singular, pressing need to win this fight.

His first lunge with the spear struck true, piercing the rat through the brain before snapping against the back of its skull. Edmund let the weapon fall to the floor, his dagger already drawn as he’d been holding it in the same hand as the spear. He swung at the second rat, but his knife struck bone and skidded off.

The beast pounced.

Edmund fell under its weight, the sharp agony of claws digging into his chest barely reaching the back of his mind. As the thing’s fangs made for his throat, Edmund’s own fang slammed into its neck. And again. And again. Somewhere in the brawl, his panic faded, his instincts retreated, his adrenaline drained away, and the rage returned.

By the time he pushed the dead beast off of him, heaving with deep breaths and body sticky with blood and sweat, his wounds had already begun to knit themselves shut. He wiped off his knife on the pile of bloody rags that had once been his shirt, not even stopping to look back at Liam before setting his eyes on the spot where the rats would respawn and muttering a single word.

“Again.”

Time seemed to stretch as Edmund battled wave after wave of giant rats. He lost count somewhere around the seventh or eighth time, in much the same way he lost all track of time down in the false cellar. He didn’t care. He accounted for his efforts in injuries, not attempts. Three claws in the stomach. A slash across his left shoulder. A pair of fangs in his hand. A gash along his neck. A glancing bite on his bicep. A faint scratch down his back.

Over and over and over and over and over again his tendons snapped, his flesh rent, and his blood flowed.

Until it didn’t.

Only Thrax, the dungeon, and the gods themselves could’ve said precisely how many attempts it took, how many hours or even days passed as Edmund forged and reforged himself in the same crucible again and again until the results satisfied him.

He slept the odd hour here and there, comfortable that the newly-spawned rats wouldn’t attack while he slumbered, yet somehow incapable of anything resembling a full night’s sleep. He drew sustenance from the rats he killed, finding he had a few moments between their slaughter and the dungeon’s reclamation in which he could claim what nourishment he could. He relieved himself in a corner by the entrance, the stench failing to overpower that of the blood that clung to him.

A dozen times he considered leaving the dungeon, but there was nothing out there for him. With no coin to purchase food or lodgings, the best he could hope for was a sip of well-water and a trek out to the river for a bath. With everything that’d happened, such comforts felt somehow hollow. So, on he fought.

Somewhere along the line, Liam had vanished. Edmund didn’t know when. At first he’d figured the apparition had grown bored watching him fight the same monsters ad nauseam, at least until he realized that allowing a hallucination that level of agency felt like an easy way to accelerate his descent into madness. On the other hand, given his current behavior, he doubted there was much further down to go.

He glanced over to the open door, to the looming darkness that would take him to the next floor of the dungeon.

There would always be further down to go.

He kept fighting even long after the rats ceased being able to injure him, finding new challenges by artificially adding wrenches to his battle plan. He purposefully let his foot slip as he charged. He dropped his knife. He jerked his spear slightly to the left, hitting bone instead of flesh. Each time he added to the volatility of the brawl, forcing himself to react and improvise to each unique situation.

Edmund got everything there was to get from those two rats, and he paid for it in blood. Obsession was nothing if not thorough.

Until, at last, after some unknowable passage of time and incomprehensible number of fights, Edmund sat down. He looked left, at the two dead rats rapidly dissolving in the corner. He looked right, at the empty loot chest where Liam had sat. He looked ahead, at the unnatural gloom that masked the way to the next floor.

And Edmund grinned.

He grinned as a thought struck and rang like wedding bells in his mind, a celebration of beauty and connection between two beings bound for life, ’til death do they part.

The Eternal Depths would give him everything he needed to destroy it. Beyond the loot and the new Aspects that awaited him on every future level, he had sustenance before him, a roof over his head, and an endless supply of opportunities to hone his skills. Something about that little truth felt truly wondrous.

So it was that, with a smile, Edmund pushed himself to his feet, and allowed, for but a moment, a hint of excitement to penetrate the curtain of rage he’d built. Excitement to unlock the confluence between Perseverance and Madness, excitement to discover what boon his Madness granted, excitement to see what challenges and rewards lay before him.

Most of all he felt excited to make progress, to take one more step towards his ultimate goal.

With his right hand grasping a freshly-claimed wooden spear and his left resting upon the pommel of Rat’s Fang, Edmund Montgomery Ahab had, at long last, taken all there was to take from the first floor of the Eternal Depths, so with a grin, a glimmer of hope, and a maelstrom of fury, he set his sights on the path ahead.

And stepped into the darkness.
