“We thought we could repair the problem on our end, but we cannot. The pillars are crumbling. The fountains are running dry. The storm is dying, and we have no fuel for the fire. We have only been able to send out this message because of the vast changes of Margleknot into this new form have revitalized a small part of our connection. That revitalization will not spread. It is already fading.

“Our nexus is dying.

“Our billions of people face extinction, and we have thus-far been unable to reconnect to Margleknot except through these most expensive of messages. We have no idea what the problem is. A thousand years have passed since the Degradation began, and none of our people have been able to find out anything solid; anything more than what we have in the books and papers we are sending with this message. With a prayer to the Universe, we hope and pray this message finds you in a charitable mood, for we have had to empty a world of life, evacuating all the people we could, in order to pay to bring this message to you now.

“Please help us, Father of Margleknot, and our gathered worlds will become your staunchest allies in all of your needs, forevermore.” The woman paused in prayer to the camera. And then she said to a person off camera, “That was good, but I need to do better. This thing could actually work, couldn’t it?”

Another voice said, “It could work; if this isn’t some old cousin’s tale. I’m not convinced we’re not deluding ourselves.”

The woman laughed. She smiled, and then she focused, saying, “Okay. Going again.” The woman breathed in, and then looked to the camera—

The message cut off.

Erick said to Yggdrasil, “She wasn’t able to make a different message?”

Yggdrasil stood beside Erick, frowning at the stilled image on the message. “I suppose not.”

“They seemed to think this wouldn’t work… But it did? Do you know what happened there?”

“No. My memories of this problem are fragmented. Abarial was never properly connected, and they liked it that way. Their original settlers of that distant land were like frontiersmen, building where I specifically was not, just so that they could have their own say in everything. Part of the problem of making decisions like that is that sometimes… Systems fail. I’m looking at the connection right now, though…” Yggdrasil looked away.

Erick waited.

“Dead line. Anything past layer 50,000 is rather far and they were all the way past layer 172 million. The problem there broke at a world on layer 102 million which was little more than an outpost for Margleknot. Someone destroyed it. Still hasn’t gotten repaired. These mageknights needed to send their message using… Ah. They sacrificed some mages and an entire world—” Yggdrasil said, “A moon. I think. Hard to know.” He looked away. “They used Rituals of Sacrifice to get the message to Layer 0, but it was an imperfect Sacrifice. I believe… They didn’t Sacrifice anything. Ah. Yes. That’s the problem. They used a catastrophe to send the message. They didn’t actually Sacrifice anything. They had lemons so they made lemonade.”

The scale of it got to Erick again.

“You deal with problems like this all the time?”

“Yes, and I need to get back to them. This particular problem is a systemic problem, and is very much better solved systemically. Maybe talk to Lionshard about it? I would advise against trying to pop over to their layer. It only takes a second to get through layers, but that’s crossing 172 million layers, not to mention part of the universe, too. That would take centuries. You could always go back in time once you got there, of course, but time would still pass here in Margleknot.” Yggdrasil warned, “Time always passes in Margleknot when a person is not here. No one can ever come back here right after they leave.”

“Heard and understood.” Erick asked, “How does anything get around at all in any reasonable amount of time?”

“It doesn’t. Everything gets around very slowly, father, or not at all.” Yggdrasil said, “I have to go—”

“Before you do that— Are you raising Benevolence slimes? For more elemental Benevolence?”

“By Foundational Decree, I cannot raise monsters for mana. I have to raise people.” Yggdrasil said, “There’s nothing stopping you from making a Benevolence Dungeon except for the lack of Dark here, and dungeon slimes, and all of that. Want some space to make an old fashioned dungeon?”

Erick easily said, “Yes. I’ll take that space.”

Yggdrasil smiled. “Good. I’ve added ‘The Benevolence Tower’ to the guidebook. Only you can get there right now, or until you open it. I ask that you don’t open it until we talk when you’re done, though— And now I really do have to go. Talk to Lionshard!”

And then Yggdrasil turned and vanished.

Erick collected the various books and stuff on the ground, set them inside his house after reading them, and went to go see Lionshard.
