[Stoneshape] was [Ward] for space, Book to conceptualize ‘rock’ as ‘rock’, and [Elemental Stone] for more general targeting. All the Shaping spells were like that, but different.

There weren’t many spells that had no Book in them.

Book seemed to form the basis of the entire Script.

Looking at his basic, True Wizard self, Erick was vaguely surprised to see that Benevolence had coalesced into Book-like shapes in order to allow him to have his current Status, giving him his three avenues of experience, of Health, Mana, and Psyche. He wasn’t too surprised at that, because that’s sort of how he had envisioned the whole thing. It was all made of Benevolence, but it functioned as Book here and there.

Erick left his Benevolence Status alone and poked around a bit at the multi-fractal crystals that were his Script Status.

Some of them were linked to others. [Force Bolt] had a base form, yes, but that base form was somehow also inside all of his various other Bolt spells he had made over the many years. [Fire Bolt], [Slow Bolt], and even [Inevitable Bombardment] had [Force Bolt]’s original spell at its center… And also off on its own, at the same time.

Erick smiled. “Just a little bit of paradox in the system.”

This is what enabled people to be able to use the same base spell to create higher tier spells without using up the base spell. Erick had long known, in a general way, the mechanism by which this happened, but seeing how it worked within himself was pretty awesome. It gave him some ideas for making his own soul-imbued spells.

“It won’t be as easy as simply casting a new spell and letting the Script make it up for me, though.”

He would need to force Benevolence into Book-like shapes on purpose…

Which was interesting.

Anyway.

Moving on.

Erick could stare into his soul for a long time and probably discover a lot about a lot, but he was here to figure out what Nothanganathor had put into him, through the Script. Erick had been drawn to that Wizard trap the very moment he Ascended, before his full ascension could truly coalesce, which meant there was a marker somewhere. It couldn’t be a marker from the Script itself, because Erick hadn’t been inside the Script when he Ascended. So it had to have been a marker inside his soul.

That was one of the main reasons that he needed to get away from Veird in order to ascend; to get away from any possible trap laid by Nothanaganathor. The trap was already inside Erick, though, and it had probably been there for a very long time. There was probably a trap in everyone’s soul on Veird.

“Now if I was putting a marker into someone, where would I put it?” Erick answered himself, “I would put it into the most complicated thing that was specifically meant to get rid of me.”

Erick looked to [Cleanse].

It was arguably his favorite spell. His very first spell, too. He had bought it after Melemizargo had thrown him and Jane onto the Surface of Veird, during Purodahlia’s chase of them across the sands of the Crystal Forest. Jane had theorized that ‘the dragon must have scent marked us, and that’s why there are no monsters’, and then Erick had taken that idea and run with it once Purodahlia seemed drawn to them, buying [Cleanse] with his very first point, because [Cleanse] read ‘Purge an area equal to the level of the spell in meters of all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption.’ and ‘corruption’ might have meant ‘dark dragon smell’.

It had been a gamble back then to buy this spell and try and use it to throw off ‘the black spiker’.

But it had worked.

Maybe that had been Benevolence fucking with the past? Maybe.

Erick peered deep into the Book crystal that was [Cleanse], looking for something Red—

He found it.

Almost instantly, once he was looking for it, there it was.

Erick inhaled sharply, his eyes practically slapping open. “Oh shit. It’s really there.” And then he closed his eyes again and concentrated, muttering, “It’s also odd that I can see my soul so much better now, too. That’s probably the Script purposefully fucking up [Soul Sight], and the unknowability of the soul.”

Or maybe Malevolence made it harder to look at the soul properly, too, and everyone assumed that was just how souls were in the New Cosmology? Maybe.

It took Erick a minute to get back into the proper frame-shift to see his soul again.

Soon enough, Erick gazed into the fractal-oriented-crystal that was [Cleanse], looking for the Red—

There it was. A single note in a long book of options…

It was the spine of the book itself. Half of the spine. The other half was normal Book, and maybe even a connection to the Script to expand that Book. Hard to say exactly what was going on there, but the Malevolence was there inside [Cleanse].

Erick wondered if this was why [Cleanse] was one of the spells that they told you to never experiment with at all, because experimenting with [Cleanse] was one of the easiest ways to kill oneself.

“… Probably.”

Erick wasn’t sure if he could remove the Red without damaging the entire spell. The crystal looked like it would just come apart if he touched it…

He could do this, though.

Maybe he could replace Malevolence with Benevolence?

Erick smiled. Yeah. He could do that.

Worst-case scenario, he could [Return]…

He paused.

Erick came back to himself and decided to run other tests before he mucked around with [Cleanse]. He stood up and grabbed the pillow and tossed it to the side of the room. Then he [Return]ed.

The pillow was back at his feet and he was sitting down upon the pillow again, half looking at [Cleanse] and half shifting back to normal senses.

So [Return] worked normally here? Sure. At this small of a test [Return] worked normally.

Erick went fully into himself and looked at [Inevitable Bombardment]; a rather complicated spell that would cast [Force Bomb]s into the sky and then take a while to rain them down onto a target, giving Erick time to threaten the target and make them give up before the spell obliterated them. It wasn’t an effective spell for multiple reasons. Erick didn’t like threatening people, primarily. He had used the spell a few times, though.

It would be okay if he fucked up this spell; an acceptable loss.

He tore the spell apart, releasing all the underlying spells below the top layer of crystal. [Force Bolt] and all the others he used to make the top layer spell seemed fine.

He rapidly came back to himself and [Return]ed.

Once again inside his soul, Erick looked at [Inevitable Bombardment], and it looked fine.

Success! He could disturb the spell and then [Return] and have the spell return to its previous form.

Erick concentrated on [Inevitable Bombardment], at the part which looked sort of like a multiplicative part of the spell, which came from the base form of [Force Crash], declaring 15 copies of the spell would rain down on a target from afar. That ‘15 copies’ looked easy enough to alter; it was just 15 tiny pips in the Booking.

Erick flexed his intent at the spell, adding five more pips.

It was a massive change.

For a moment, the soul spell crystal looked about ready to truly shift. Maybe even crack in half. But it stabilized. The overall spell cost of the entire thing felt like it was going to cost a lot more, though. The original spell was around 1475 mana. This one was maybe 500 more. Maybe only 400 more? Hard to say. Multi-dimensional crystals weren’t exactly easy things to completely understand even for Erick with his Intelligence and Perception and Concentration.

“This might work, though.”

Erick opened his eyes and went out to the top of his mage tower, to look out across the world.

He pressed the button that was the 1900-ish mana cost spell in his soul and [Inevitable Bombardment] splashed into the air high above, 20 sparkling orbs of Force and Benevolence hanging out in the air, doing nothing much at all.

The spell was a bit white with Benevolence.

It should not be white.

“… So there’s Benevolence in there now. That’s from me using Benevolence to add 5 more bombs, isn’t it.”

Erick attempted to cancel the spell, but that simply wasn’t happening. Canceling was a function of the Script. So Erick swiped at the spells with a casual tendril of Benevolence Body empowered with Mana Siphon. The first bombs burst, but Erick realized what he was doing wrong with the first ones, so he fully enveloped the rest and ate them like an amoeba eating pop rocks.

They tasted kinda forceful, which was an odd thing to both experience and realize that he made himself experience that. He was literally tasting magic? How?

Erick threw some more bombs into the air and purposefully thought ‘do not taste these’.

And he ate those spells without tasting them.

So taste is linked to anything I want to link it to, or to which I accidentally consider myself to be thinking in that direction at the wrong time. Not sure how I feel about that.

Anyway.

Experiment successful, and he discovered he could taste magic if he wanted.

Erick went back to his tower, sat his ass on the pillow, and dove inward.

[Cleanse] was a multi-dimensional jenga, Erick decided, as he really got down to the nitty gritty of the spell. This Malevolence infection was like roots spread all throughout the jenga tower. Removing half of the spine out of the Book part of the spell without collapsing the tower was simply too complicated of a task. Doing what Erick wanted to do would be like extracting the circulatory system for an entire person without killing them, and then putting down a new circulatory system also without killing them.

Pretty impossible.

Luckily, Erick was a cheater.

His first attempt was the fast one; the simple rip and tear and slamming of Benevolence into [Cleanse].

Didn’t work. Whole thing collapsed, half of it spiraling out into nothing, the other half coming up with Red he had tried to pull out.

[Return].

This time when he went to pull apart the Malevolence, he injected Benevolence into the very edges, like a hundred small tendrils trying to flow into the Red circulatory system and gradually replace it.

The Malevolence turned into a living thing, ripping and tearing apart the spell all on its own. It even tried to escape Erick, to get out into the real world, as if such a thing were possible. Maybe it was? Whatever the case, Erick had the solution to that problem.

[Return].

The Third attempt had Erick using a bit of Time Magic to freeze [Cleanse] in place. How did this work? It just did, okay. Erick told himself that much, and it helped solidify that yes, this was possible, and yes, this did actually work. Within a cage of immovable Time, Erick injected Benevolence into the Red, and the Red thrashed. It failed to do anything besides thrash, though—

And then suddenly it tried to escape, to pull away, to flow into the part of the spell that should have hooked into the Script, but there was just a hole into the real world there. Erick let the Red go. He focused on filling in the gaps the Red left behind with Benevolence.

The very second the Red fully pulled out of [Cleanse], Erick fully filled in the spell with Benevolence, replacing what Malevolence tried to break in its escape.

And then it was done. The soul crystal of [Cleanse] was intact. It would probably function more or less the same way, too. Erick imagined that what he had just done was sort of what he had done with his [Lodestar] when he made Benevolence; he had made [Lodestar] work off of Benevolence instead of Light through Establishing Wizardry.

This right here was more manually-done than through Wizardry, though.

Anyway!

Erick opened his eyes.

A Red beast made of Malevolence, like living lightning, roared as it brought claws of sparks down on Erick, trying to rend him apart. It had already caused some superficial damage to Erick’s clothes and the room itself. It looked like someone had released an explosion inside the room that then proceeded to scratch the hell out of all the stone it could reach. But it wasn’t doing any real damage.

It slashed at him again.

It accomplished nothing.

The Red Lightning monster reminded Erick a lot of Fyuri’s apocalypse beast form on the first floor of the Glittering Depths, but more lightning and less physical. It was actually all lightning. Living red lightning.

Erick debated with himself if he should trap the thing or kill it. Maybe he could… use it somehow? Maybe later for some reason? Or just kill it? He almost wanted to try his new [Cleanse] on the beast. But. No.

Erick sealed the room with a flicker of Authority. The windows were still open. The doors were still open. But the entire room solidified, the walls repairing. The floor unmarring. All Red lightning soot vanished, and the beast itself suddenly turned quiet and docile. It lay down under the oppression of Erick’s Authority.

Maybe it was intelligent?

“Can you understand me?”

The thing looked at Erick with eyes made of red lightning.

It said nothing. It did nothing,

Erick packed up his pillow and moved to the room above to check out his new [Cleanse]. The monster remained contained below.

[Cleanse] was looking pretty great. Erick had no idea what it was capable of, but he cast the spell on the air of his house, and on his left arm, and on the ground, and on the waters of the lake below, and he experienced nothing untoward. No bad effects. He scraped off some skin and copied it a bunch, making a mess of flesh and dust and oils that he spread out onto a stone parapet of the house, which he then [Cleanse]ed away. Thick, sort of whitish air, flowed away from the mess.

… White air?

Hmm.

Erick copied some of himself until he got a whole bathtub full of his own blood and flesh and ickiness. He floated the mess in a tub of [Force Wall].

He hit it with a [Cleanse].

The nastiness turned into whitish, thick air and flowed away onto the stone of the house. It didn’t leave any growing plant life at all, so it wasn’t really Benevolence in there, but the eternal stonewood that was the house seemed to soak up the fog rather well. Erick watched the entire trip of the white fog as it flowed into the waters, or into the root, and either spread out, or siphoned into the twisting intentless mana that flowed through the very core of the root under the house.

“So it’s mana, but visible, because it's thick… but why is it white now?”

It was not Benevolence. That much was clear. If it was Benevolence it would have caused plant growth.

It was just Benevolence... colored…

