Well. One of the functions of [Cleanse] was to balance the manasphere. Was the manasphere more balanced now? Erick cast an orb of Benevolence into the air, along with several other overlapping and very much not balanced orbs at all. Fire, Water, Air, Lightning, Stone, Metal, and Blood, all hung in the same space as each other; each of them bright as shit and dense with power.

[Cleanse].

Every single orb that was not Benevolence was transformed, at least partially, into white fog that flowed away. Of the various orbs, they were rather balanced now, but they were all muted down from radiant power to something lesser, and more in line with each other. Other Elements were in there now, too. Erick easily picked out Shadow from the grouping, as well as all the various Shadow-ish and Light-ish Elements.

“… [Cleanse] truly balances the mana now, eh?” Erick looked at the balanced space of mana again, adding, “But Benevolence is still dominant.” Erick put his hands on his hips, saying, “Well yeah. I guess so. Fulfill the basic functionality of the spell, but also don’t let it be used against Malevolence…” And now Erick was furious, because a very evil truth of [Cleanse] was revealed in that moment. “[Benevolent Cleanse] is white because it uses Benevolence as a vector for mana altering. [Malevolent Cleanse] is made with Malevolence, so all we see is the thick air. When [Malevolent Cleanse] is used, it balances the world, but now Malevolence is the dominant mana in the air because now everything else is balanced to lesser functions. You literally balance to Red. Fuck you, Nothanganathor.”

Erick had to step back for a moment.

Because wow.

That right there. That was flooring him. Nothanganathor had managed to make [Cleanse] evil, and Erick had never noticed it. One of the best spells Erick had ever known and one of his favorite spells and the one spell that Erick would have given to Earth if he could have…

Erick breathed, then said, “Fuck you, Nothanganathor.”

Erick sat down for a while, thinking.

Then he went cleansing out more of his Script spells. What else had Nothanganathor fucked with?

A lot, probably.

- - - -

Among the spells Erick thought could be better, were all his Rift Magic spells.

Rift Magic was supposed to open actual Rifts into other planes of existence, but all the Rift Magic of the Script did was let loose with a pouring of mana. Therefore, there were artificial limits upon Rift Magic. Were those Malevolent limits? Maybe.

Erick found more Red in those spells.

Rift was not basic magic, though. It was higher tier magic. All of it came out at least tier 3 or 4, and that’s what all of Erick’s Rift spells were, too. The Script had injected Malevolence into Rift in order to make it not work right.

Rozeta probably didn’t even know.

Erick ripped Malevolence out of his Rift Magic and ended up with more Red Beasts. He did not fill up all the rest of his tower with more Red Beasts, but he did put a few down in the second floor of his 12 story mage tower. He used [Cleanse] on most of the littler fuckers, and it worked. The beasts went poof! A lot of white air from those guys.

Erick smiled at that.

Nothanganathor had fucked up [Cleanse] for everyone on Veird, but Erick’s [Cleanse] was great for fucking up Nothanganathor.

“Ahhh… It’s delightful, actually. Love it.”

He didn’t manage to make any Rifts into other planes of existence, though. Instead, when Erick cast [Major (Benevolent) Sunlight Rift], he got a brilliance of radiance and a solid wall of white beyond the rift’s surface that sort of reminded Erick of a certain tree son’s bark—

And Yggdrasil stepped into the room.

“Hello, Father,” Yggdrasil said. “You can only go into the realm of your own mana here in Margleknot. It’s the same-ish sort of restriction that is on Veird, actually, but a whole lot more stubborn. I directly oversee this. Please don’t go making gate networks, though.”

“Ah. Well. Okay— Did you know that [Cleanse] has Malevolence inside of it?”

“Yes. Rozeta discovered that maybe 6 months ago, their time. I figured it out right when you gave me that Gift.” Yggdrasil said, “Anyway! Gotta go. Go check out some of those places, Father. Do you want to give any messages to the people back on Veird?” He rapidly added, “But if you give them messages you will be in breach of laws you don’t know about, which will impair your ability to effectively fight Nothanganathor.”

Erick didn’t have to think much at all before he said, “They’ll be fine without me for a while, right?”

“… I can’t give you much specific news, but I can give you a lot of general news.” Yggdrasil paused, then said, “There are wars happening over the upper layers of the New Surfaces because many different people were rescued from side realities that were rather unique. The minotaur nation, in particular, is the largest example of that. They’re half a million strong now because they’re from a universe where you turned yourself into a minotaur to escape problems. As a minotaur, you developed [Reincarnation] along those lines, specifically. They’re basically a splinter of House Benevolence and they moved up to the topmost New Surface, below the Shining Layers. The you that was with them is four years dead. Minotaur Jane is dead, too.

“Avandrasolaro is going scorched land on all Forever War events. Solomon has joined him in that decision. Those wars have been minimized because of those decisions, reverting a potential world war down to the Quiet War again.

“Jane, Abigail, Beth, Candice, and Evan are all doing great… And that’s probably too many specifics.

“There are problems. They’re solvable.” Yggdrasil said, “Go solve them from here. You’re pretty much done with your Script spells, right? I can’t really tell anymore.”

Erick breathed deep, then said, “I did a first pass. I suppose… I could visit the Celestial Observatory?”

Yggdrasil grinned. “You’ve got a lot of options, Father—” He looked away. “You have about a million requests for an audience. I advise you to disregard all of them, or order them in a way that you wish. You’ll figure it out. Love you.”

And then he stepped backward and was gone.

Erick paused for a moment, and then he looked around his property, his senses going wide.

“Ah,” Erick said. Requests gathered upon the air around the gate at the front of the property, like individual stars, not a single one of them discernible from the other in any true way. “… I have to impose my own organization on them, then.”

He was mostly done with his Script searching. Or at least a first pass. He had cleaned up his Rift magic, [Cleanse], Time spells, and various protection magics. Not a single Benevolence spell had any Red in it, which was great…

Yeah.

First pass done.

Time to get moving.

Erick stepped out of the tower, down to the archway that led to the dark crystal lands and buildings of the edge of the Dragon District. The only things really visible beyond the gate were blurs of people walking this way or that and the solid buildings that they inhabited. It was the same sort of effect that Erick saw when he looked at the properties of his neighbors; he could see land and shapes, but not really people at all. Or anything that moved, really.

Erick turned his attention to the stars beside the gate.

There were a million of them, or some number close to that. Yggdrasil had been rounding when he said a million, for sure. Erick wasn’t about to count them all, and many of them were tiny balls of light centimeters across while others were mere pinpricks, and a lot of them overlapped as they gently hung there, waiting to be plucked.

He picked one at random to focus on. It was blueish and two centimeters across.

It was a construct of magic not wholly unlike a [Force Bolt]. There was a delivery system, and then a payload in the middle. The delivery system was the size of the ball of light. The payload was a… a very large message in the center, if Erick was reading that correctly.

He checked out a few more messages.

The larger the ball, the bigger the message.

Erick wasn’t about to touch the largest of them to experiment with, but he could pick out some of the smaller ones. He focused on a dim yellow pinprick of light, moving to touch it, and all the other competing messages swirled away slightly, like fish scared off as the hunter picked out a single one of them. He touched the message.

The message popped into a tiny light show with three short, green girls in coveralls and wielding hammers and wands. They happily exclaimed, “Congratulations to the new founder of Margleknot! Come visit Gombomblin’s Trading Emporium in the Aetherium Bazaar if you want some explosive power! Gombomblin’s! For all your pure-tech-based explosive needs! From finger-sized nuclear to antimatter worldbusters to other stuff, we got it all!”

A tiny map made of light populated the air with a glowing yellow star in the center. The map flashed and turned into a physical map which then folded itself down to pocket-sized, to hang in the air.

Erick smiled and plucked the map out of the air, saying, “Bombs are worrying, but that’s really cute.”

He could have used his Lightning Path to figure out which messages were the most important, or rather, which ones would be the best for him to answer to create good outcomes, but he decided to muddle through the search for a little while, just to see what everything was. A small blue star unfurled into an invitation to a gala at some ‘House of Lords’ in the mortal lands. A slightly larger pink star became a light show inviting Erick to come visit another shop, this one selling magical goods.

A grey star unfurled into a virus that tried to enter Erick’s flesh but hit his Health instead, draining a good 15,000 Health with a single slip of an attack. Erick crushed it utterly, and then [Return]ed. The grey star was there once again. This time Erick… Just crushed it, actually. His Lightning Path wasn’t pointed in that direction at all, so there was no need to care about the attack.

He moved on.

The next message Erick poked open ended up being a request for money. It was framed as an investment opportunity, but if random solicitations were the culture around making business connections in Margleknot, then Erick wanted no part of that culture.

The next hundred messages were all pretty cute, or daring, or an attack, or just some random ‘congrats!’ from some people he didn’t know at all, but which his memory locked on to, in case he did need to know them in the future. He probably didn’t, though.

Erick decided to use his Lightning Path.

107 little stars lit up, some of them looking like major groundings for Erick’s Lightning Path. Most were small strikes for his Path, that seemed to be less powerful options.

… Erick tried something. He waved a hand, exerting his Authority over this space—

The messages separated into groups and all the ones he picked out were suddenly organized from top to bottom; most most-important to least most-important.

Authority was rather nice.

… Erick turned back toward his house, and looked at the sky.

With a wave of his hand, the sky of Margleknot vanished, and a blue sky with white clouds appeared.

“Oh yeah. That’s… That’s pretty nice. But…”

Erick simply willed the sky back to showing its true nature—

“Ah. The suns were a false sky, too, eh?”

What appeared was not the black hole sun and the rainbow of other suns that had been up there. What appeared were ten thousand lands, all of them jumbled on top of each other, cityscapes intersecting other cityscapes intersecting mountain ranges and oceans and deserts and skies beyond. Waterways flowing at odd angles. Wind moving this way and that. Planets of cities that looked like something Escher would draw rather than any real imagery of any real land.

He saw some places that Yggdrasil’s guidebook mentioned, though. There was the ‘towering, crystalline palace’ of the Fae Enclave, looking like a shard of countless perfect crystals all lined up in a single direction, spearing through all of the non-euclidean space; a bar of white and blue crossing all of Margleknot.

Spearing perpendicular across that Fae Enclave was a solid line of silver with countless etchings upon its surface. Could that be the Quantum Nexus Hub? The guidebook had mentioned the QNH as a ‘sprawling, futuristic tower at the center of Margleknot’. And here were two towers at the center of Margleknot? One was the Enclave, so this one had to be the QNH. Sure, why not.

At the crossing of the two opposed lines of power, there were worlds.

Erick stepped away from the gate to his house, to go up his property a little. He laid down on the soft mosses and grasses.

Erick stared at the sky for a long while.

There was a lot to see.

A while later, maybe an hour or seven, Erick got back up and went to the messages. He had seen a lot in the sky, and his Lightning Path had shown him how parts of it connected to the messages right here. Erick plucked out one of the bigger messages and let it play.

It had been a bright grey and red star, about two centimeters across.

And now it was a cry for help, depositing 8 different books onto the ground, 34 different folders filled with tactical information of various entities, and thousands of maps, a few of which were very large and rather intricate. A message played in the air in the form of a lightward, as though it were a Screen spell. A rather average-looking elfin woman with long ears and bright red eyes and hair appeared in the image.

“Hello…” The woman paused, looking at someone off screen. She whispered, “Is it on— It’s on. Ah. Fuck. We can re-record it.” The woman looked at the camera, breathed, then said, “Hello, Father of Margleknot. I represent an organization of mageknights of the world of Abarial, a former nexus world located on Layer 172,287,913.

“We are very far from Margleknot, I realize this, but until very recently, within the last thousand years, our worlds were doing fine. Better than fine. We had 7 colonized planets in our Abarial system and had begun to expand throughout our layer. We were a nexus world at the further edges of Margleknot’s roots.

“And then something broke between The Great City at the Center and propagated to us, and Margleknot broke connection to our world and 187 more worlds in our nexus in order to preserve the whole. We do not begrudge Margleknot their decision. It was a normal enough decision that happens to lands without world trees, which are only tenuously connected in the first place. It happens.

“It can also usually be repaired.

