"That's what laypeople are taught," Celwyn amended. "Now, as arcanists, you need to go beyond the surface answer. We call it the language of arcana when we teach at the lower levels, but a language is a construct, isn't it? Why does dog mean that four-legged animal? Other languages have different words for it, but they all refer to the same thing. Our culture decides that we will use this series of sounds to refer to that animal and that these marks on the paper represent that series of sounds. And other languages use different sounds, different marks on a paper."

I had never actually thought about it that way. So if glyphs are a language, then...

"So are there other... glyph languages?" I asked.

"No," Celwyn turned to me and nodded approvingly. "But that's a question in the right direction. There are no other glyph languages other than the one we use, but we call it a language anyway. We're not lying when we teach that at the layperson level. It's still correct. So why do we call it a language?"

"It's made up," Emilia said softly.

Her answer was met with confused looks, but Celwyn nodded and gestured for Emilia to continue. The girl looked back blankly for a moment, but took in a deep breath. "The glyphs mean what we want them to mean. We make up the meaning."

There was even more confusion at this pronouncement, but I could see where this was leading, or at least I thought I did.

"But there are rules?" Reyes demanded. "We can't just draw something and say this is a new glyph, can we?"

"Languages have rules, yes, because it needs to make sense somehow. But we decide what that sense is," Celwyn answered. "So actually... you can just draw something and say it is a new glyph. And if it's a glyph that nobody has drawn before, you get to decide what meaning it has."

Silence. Absolute, pin-drop silence.

Reyes shook his head. "I don't get it. So I can imagine a glyph that means ultimate power and then inscribe it on myself and I become some kind of god?"

A few people laughed but quickly quietened when they realised that some of us had serious looks on our faces. Celwyn herself was not laughing.

"Since I appear to have given you the keys to ultimate power, Reyes, I hope you will be appropriately thankful and that you won't erase me when you remake the world according to your wishes," she said without a trace of humour.

More silence. I quickly revised my estimation of Celwyn and decided that she was just as terrifying as Reeves and that this class was probably scarier than his.

"As far as we know, Reyes' suggestion, even though he meant it to sound ridiculous, is not outside the realm of possibility. Rest assured, many people are looking into exactly how to do that. But we'd be venturing far into theoretical glyph-work which is more the realm of those who intend to take up the Sage vocation. I'll be teaching you the principles behind glyphs that could lead you there one day, but our classes will be of a more practical bent that you will find immediately useful in other courses like your Basic of Artificing, or your Offensive and Defensive Thaumaturgy."

I took a deep breath and sighed. This was just the second lesson, and I could already feel my understanding of the world unravelling around me.
