For Erick finally got to move on to Quilatalap, and the big guy changed his size dropping a full meter of height to dance more easily. In that moment Erick somehow saw and did not see as the band tripled in size, and long-eared partners mingled with the staff, and the servants of Shades, and soon the whole atrium floor had people dancing upon a mosaic of flowers. Fairy Moon danced with Queen. Zolan shimmied alongside Aisha, both of them having found something more respectable to wear when no one was looking. Hollowsaur somehow found an orcol woman to partner with, the two of them having eyes for each other, while Treant swayed gently on the side of the dance floor near a potted flower that did the same. Fallopolis danced with Farix, and then she handed Farix off to Erick, and the two of them danced together for a little while.

Erick recognized that all the orcols at the party were somehow human-sized somewhere in the second hour, or third hour, or whatever hour it was that it was…

And the goblin Hollowsaur had invited to the Feast was also human-sized, somehow, and dancing up a storm with Hollowsaur, and then moving on to dance with Queen, and then Erick a bit, too. In a belated sort of way, Erick recognized when Fairy Moon decided to change the theme of the party, putting everyone in loincloths while the music turned harsh and drumlike, fully in line with proper orcol sensibilities, and suddenly everyone was orcol sized.

The next time the music changed everyone was somehow wearing proper Victorian-esque stuffy outfits, full of frills and coat tails as they danced in lines like human nobility.

Another shift and everyone wore the robes of Nelboor, while the music was of gentle stringed instruments that turned harsh by turns, with the men dancing on one side of the party and the women on the other. It was some sort of coordinated dancing war that Erick barely understood how he knew how to dance. But he did know how to dance it all, and it was great fun.

Somewhere in all of that, there was another feast, served by people Erick had never seen before.

Soon after that, Fairy Moon officiated the Second Telling, the Sundering Story, but it was a 30 second thing about how everything broke and now it was finally getting better, so let’s move on, shall we?

And so they did.

The band played on.

- - - -

Erick woke in bed, naked and warm. His arm lay around a green guy— Ah. He was in bed with Quilatalap, and he was the big spoon…

Oh.

He was the big spoon.

He was somehow orcol-sized…

And…

Yup.

His horns were out.

Well fuck.

… At least he was only in bed with Quilatalap, and this was warm. Still, though, Erick spent half a second glancing out into the rest of the House, through Ophiel, and saw that he would have a problem as soon as he got up. A quick counting of all the people he had invited to the Feast brought him a few crucial members short, but they were probably beyond the giant fucking black-lined [Gate] in the center of the atrium.

Erick wanted to go back to sleep, but he did not. Instead, he kissed Quilatalap on the neck, causing the big guy to grumble and then giggle at the tickling, for Erick had grown a day-old beard since… yesterday? Or two days ago? Whatever.

“Time to get up,” Erick whispered.

Quilatalap giggled in a very manly way, and then he startled, for he had finally seen everything that Erick had seen. He tensed, and then Quilatalap relaxed. “So… I see several problems right away.”

“Yup.”

“I was hoping to talk about the nature of mana and planars and what it means to communicate between universes and how that relates to souls moving back and forth between universes…” Quilatalap breathed deep, then squeezed Erick’s arm, which was under his own and around his chest. “But I guess that conversation can wait till later; It’s too broad and you also have questions.” He released Erick and then rolled out of bed. Briefly, he turned back. “Are you going to stick in that form? Everyone’s probably seen your horns by now.”

Erick enjoyed the view and being of the same size as Quilatalap for a moment, and then he got out of bed and shrunk back down to his own size, his horns vanishing in the transformation. “I don’t have clothes to wear in that size, so no; but yes, everyone has seen my horns, but I don’t think we talked about it much.” As he began putting his clothes back on, he said, “I was hoping to talk to you about the nature of forms, and how they relate to the fae. Do you want to go first?”

“My question was more philosophical, while yours sounds more grounded. You go first. What do you mean by the nature of forms?”

“Let’s start with the allegory of the cave, and how everything we experience isn’t real, because we are all collections of neurons and consciousness— That idea breaks down somewhat when it comes to mana and mana sense and the validity of souls. But. We can still talk about the basic idea.” Erick began, “Imagine a cave and people trapped inside that cave for their whole lives, watching figures dance in the shadows cast by the light of an unseen fire...”

As the both of them got dressed they found that they had plenty of time to talk about whatever they wanted to talk about. There was a big black [Gate] in the middle of the atrium, but nothing was on fire, and Erick had already accounted for Zolan, Aisha, Volaro, the Cooks, the helpers, an everyone else from his side of this Feast, with most of those people more or less exactly where he expected them to be. The Shade side of the Feast was kinda sparse, with only a few of them downstairs or nearby. Most notably, Fairy Moon and Fallopolis were both missing, though Bright Smile, Farix, and Zolan were all having breakfast at the same time, between the central black portal and Lisa’s Dessert Counter. The three of them seemed to be having a tense, yet calm business discussion over an assortment of quiches and other fancy breakfast foods, which was fine.

As Erick and Quilatalap began stepping down the stairs into the atrium, Erick had finished his explanation of the Allegory of the Cave, and Quilatalap was thinking.

Erick glanced over to the portal. It was about five meters wide and circular, hovering in a north-south-pointed position, with the opening on the south and the back of the portal at the north. Like Erick’s portals, this one’s backside was filled with mist, but instead of being glowy-white mist given form, this one was filled with gloom. Possibly even Elemental Gloom, though probably not. From the backside, it looked like a portal into Darkness Itself. Though that was probably incorrect.

From the south, the portal opened up into a land of green hills, bright blue sky, a few distant trees, and mountains in the distance. A floating sign of black and white lettering held in front of the portal like a blue box, but vastly different, as though made by a different Script, or possibly just one of the really special boxes that the Script sometimes made.

TESTING IN PROGRESS

It was a simple statement, with a whole bunch of implications that Erick could barely grasp, though he was getting a good grasp on those implications through the various glances through Ophiel, all around, and through the words spoken by those still present in the House. Everyone was talking about the portal.

Everyone was talking about the Darkness’s presentation.

The talk was light on the details, for no one really knew what was happening, but there were a lot of speculations.

Erick left all those thoughts alone, because they had reached the floor of the atrium, and—

Quilatalap said, “This idea that the fae exist in this ‘realm of forms’ seems like a translation foible. We would call this ‘realm of forms’ Elemental Fae, or Fairy, or maybe even some of the names you mention, like Arcadia, Tir Na Nog, Fairyland, Under the Hill… All are valid names for the idea that fairies exist in a land apart from us, but which is no less real than our own. This new foible was expressed to us by Fairy Moon last night, of fairies being the ones who helped lift up the Old Cosmology to sapience, and yet they did not create souls… Seems like they have created souls in an uncountable number of other realms of pure thought and they choose to no longer take credit for the things they have started.”

Erick smiled softly. “Perhaps. This brings us to what you wanted to talk about, though.”

“Oh! Uh.” Quilatalap looked genuinely repentant and cute in that moment, before schooling his expression, and saying, “Our concerns are closer than one might initially consider, because this idea that we’re part of the mana and the mana is our true expression of self, is how it was in the Old Cosmology. According to what we heard last night, it would seem correct to consider the Old Cosmology as a Realm of Fairy, but different, that collapsed when… Something happened. The collapse doesn’t really matter right now, I suppose.”

“But what does matter—” Erick said, bringing the conversation back to the point, “—was that in the Old Cosmology, you were the mana and the mana was you, but here, we are both mana, and particle, and through our physical senses we can see the world and interact with the world, but it is only through our mana senses that we can see the world for what it truly is. I’ve already explained how limited our physical senses truly are…” He shrugged. “And maybe our mana sensing capability is similarly limited to our physical sensing capability, and there is no escape from the cave; it’s just a series of caves all the way up, filled with a series of light sources without any true sun at all.”

Quilatalap frowned. And then he shivered. “You know Melemizargo has been going on about how this world is fake for the longest time, right? You see the connection you have made right there, yes?”

“Of course. But according to the one fairy who probably knows best, this world is as real as any other. This is a statement that can be taken either well, or poorly, or perhaps even both at the same time. So instead of stressing over if we can ever really know what we know and experience what we experience, why not take the world as it is and try to make it better?”

“Ahh... You would say that, wouldn’t you.”

Erick smiled. “You know me all too well, Quilatalap.” And then he looked up at the large [Gate] sitting in the center of his House. “But do you have an insight into this thing?”

Quilatalap gazed into the idyllic space beyond the black portal, his thoughts going distant, before coming back to the moment. “What would be the scariest way for this reality to be?”

“To have never had a positive impact on anyone.”

Erick’s answer had been instantaneous.

Quilatalap stared into the distance for a little moment, and then he looked down at Erick.

Erick was already looking up at the big guy, and grinning. “What?” he asked, happily.

Quilatalap’s face heated up. He turned to face the portal again. With softness, he said, “You’ve had a positive impact, Erick.”

“Then this must truly be the best of all possible worlds!”

… Quilatalap looked to Erick. “You’re going to have to explain that one.”

“Ah. Yes. What I said was probably odd; I understand that now. Also, this tangent isn’t that important. But anyway! ‘The best of all possible worlds’ starts with the idea that god is all knowing, all powerful, and all good, which is a rather big assumption and I already see you disagreeing, but this assumption was made hundreds of years ago back on Earth in an effort for… A lot of stuff which I don’t have to get into. Anyway. It’s all about the Problem of Evil…”
