The daughter, in her curiosity, asked the mother, “Where do universes come from?”

The mother, in her ageless wisdom, asked, “Where do you think they come from?”

“You made this one, so this is why I asked you.”

“And you’re the fully-formed product of that one time I held a hand with a guard, so your guess is as good as mine.”

“… Universes come from hand holding?”

“No, dear. Little inquisitive girls come from a Queen wondering what it would have been like to have a husband who is not her husband.” The mother said, “I have very little idea of where universes come from, for I have no idea how I made this universe either. Go ask your father.”

“Which one?”

“Whichever; both are your father.”

And so the daughter went to the guardhouse, because the king was always busy.

“Father? Where do universes come from?”

The guardian father asked, “Didn’t you ask your mother?”

“She said to ask you.”

“Your mother knows more than I, but where do you think universes come from?”

“I’m not sure. Maybe from something being put where it ought not be put?”

The guardian father laughed. “That is often true! But not the whole truth. Either way, I only know where kids come from; not universes. Your brother the prince is a lot more generative than I, and he made himself happen when I handed the king his crown. Go ask the prince.”

And so the daughter went to the prince’s art studio.

The prince was in a creative mood today, so the daughter watched as paint struck canvas, and people came into being. The prince had yet to make a universe, and yet he was still the most generative force in the kingdom because he never stopped trying to make another universe. So far all he really made were people.

The daughter watched a baker come into being, along with the baker’s oven and a loaf of bread. Looking past the edge of that painting, the daughter saw wheat fields, for one cannot have bread without wheat, and without farmers. In a single painting, the prince made a whole small industry, which, when placed next to the other paintings in the studio, would slot into all the other industries that the prince had already made. When the painting proved good and wholesome with all the other paintings, the prince might even decide to break the frame and let the painting into this universe.

The prince did not do any of that right now, though, for he was fully in the flow. He moved on to the next painting. This next masterpiece became a fisher, who fished the streams, and by that fishing the fisher brought those streams into being.

And now, the prince put the baker painting and the fisher painting next to each other. This, then, was the testing. The streams went by the wheat fields, and both were enhanced by that joining, though the fields were enhanced more than the streams.

The daughter watched as the prince watched his paintings become the kingdom on the other side of the frame.

She watched the river dry up, due to too many farms. And soon, the river was gone. The fisher was dead. The fish were dead. The farms were fine, though; they had even grown in the consumption of the rivers. But now the river was dry, and the farms retreated. The baker thrived for a time, building a kingdom of bread, but then they fell back onto hard times, and now they were back to making simple bread for their neighbors

The prince looked at his painting of a fisher, now a desolate thing of skeletons and muck on a riverbed. He took it off the wall, and painted it again.

This time it was a painting of a raging river, wide as a world. When he hung it beside the painting of the baker, the baker was swept out to sea, along with all the farms.

The painter clicked his tongue. “Overdid it that time.”

“Maybe the river should have been wider, and not so much whitewater,” offered the peeping daughter.

The prince rounded on the daughter. “What are you doing here— You messed up my paintings! Get out of my studio!”

The daughter, indignant, put her fists to her hips. “I didn’t do a thing to you or yours! I only watched!”

“Your presence was enough! It was enough! Get out of here!”

“Answer a question and I will.”

“I agree! State your question and then begone!”

“Where do universes come from?”

“From wherever there is a clean canvas and a will to create! Now get out of my studio!”

“… Wait. That doesn’t help me at all. Why does—”

“Too bad!”

The prince had grabbed a painting from the bin—

Suddenly the daughter was in the middle of a road, on a street she did not know, in a land that was not her home. She looked up at the sky and saw a square of canvas with a painted image of the prince’s face vanishing into the blue. The prince called out silent curses against interlopers, and about how some lessons never get learned.

The daughter looked around.

“That fucker trapped me in a painting.”

It was a kingdom of normal make. Nothing too strange about it. At least the prince had been nice enough to throw her into something that resembled home. Not like that time he had shoved her into a world that was a beehive. Whatever! She could get out of this.

And so she did.

It was a tale of blood and gore and killing tyrants and wooing maidens and a magical trip through an orchard that was a kingdom, and then down into the crystal caverns and up to the highest peak of the sun. In that ageless time the painted world had long since turned real for the daughter, but sometimes she could see the seam of the fabric of the canvas, here and there. When she cared to, she searched out those seams, looking for a way out, but when she loved the world, she stayed longer than she should have, which was at least as long as she needed to see the mortals live and die, and to live and die with them. Finally, though, something changed, and the daughter wanted out.

She searched so long for a good seam; one that could actually take her out.

And then, she found it.

A cut.

Finally, a cut!

She stepped through that cut—

“Oh! Hello, daughter,” said the king, her other father. “You have come back to us. Welcome back.”

There were too many things to say and not enough time to say them, but those thoughts vanished in the wake of true life anyway. And so the daughter who had been the princess, the queen, the beggar, the brother, the killer, the mother, the monster, simply said, “Hello, father.”

“How long was the journey this time?”

“An age and a day. The prince was nice this time. I took your advice and I didn’t actually interrupt his painting, so that helped. How long has it been here?”

“An age and a day; the normal amount of time. Did you find out how universes are made?”

“Not at all! I did learn how to swing a sword again. That was fun.”

The king smiled, saying, “I would have thought you would have figured out universe creation by now. The prince has been making them all this time and he’s only a few ages older than you.”

“… Those are real universes? I thought they were paintings?”

With a knowing grin, the king asked, “How have you tried to make a universe so far?”

“Ugh!” the daughter said, her frustration on full display. “I tried touching hands with a cute boy. I tried putting a crown on a queen. I tried painting a world on a canvas made of magic, with paints made from Reality. It’s so easy for all of you, but not for me!”

The king nodded. “Keep trying. I’m sure you’ll get it eventually. Try going for a walk in a distant land, and seeing if a change of perspective helps. And if nothing else… Have you tried bringing together two things that simply shouldn’t work? That’s often enough to start a universe rolling.”

“Tell me again how you made this universe, father?”

“I found a spot in the light of Endless Summer and introduced a change; a darkness, if you want to call it that. You can’t really control the outcome that way, but I like it better that way.”

“… Huh. I haven’t tried that yet. Maybe I’ll do the opposite, though. Where would I find a deep enough darkness, though?”

“Ask your brother for a black painting. But don’t interrupt his painting, or he might trap you in another world. Wait for his tea time, instead.”

And that is what she did.

The daughter waited for an age and a day, peeping on the prince, looking for a time when the prince was not painting. Eventually it happened. The prince came out of his studio to take tea on the grassy hill with one of his paintings he had broken wide and brought into this world, fully.

The new introduction to the kingdom was an old woman, hunched with age and with eyes so bleak they could not see. But the prince had gifted her glasses made of perfect paint, and the woman could see everything.

She saw the daughter in the bushes. With a cheerful tone, she asked, “Oh oh! Who is that?”

The prince saw the daughter. “That’s the daughter.”

“Your sister?”

The prince scowled. And then he relented. “Maybe? Sure. Why not.” He called out, “Sister! Stop hiding in the bushes and come out and say hello.”

The daughter, who was a sister sometimes, came out of the bushes. “Hello… Brother? Sure. Why not.” She turned to the old woman. “Hello, old woman. May I have your name?”

The old woman cackled. “No you may not, fairy girl. Why were you hiding in the bushes?”

“I was waiting to ask my brother, the prince, for a black painting, so that I might try creating something out of darkness like our father did when he did the opposite.”

The prince scowled. “He didn’t make this universe out of light. He made it out of a dream. But since light did not exist, then he made that, too.” He waved a hand, saying, “I’m not talking with you. I’m talking with this old woman. You want a black painting. Go get one; I care not which. I made a million of them.” He gestured to the studio.

The daughter gleefully scampered off into the depths of the studio, leaving behind the prince and the old woman, as the two of them began to speak of such useless things like magic and order.

The trip into the studio took an age and a day.

Finally, a thousand kilometers into the studio, after passing through halls of black painting after black painting, and journeying into the other areas when she grew bored of the black, the daughter found something that she was not approved to take. But she wanted it. A man, trapped behind a painting’s surface, contained by a frame of metal. He wore a strange suit like a full-winter getup, but with a faceplate made of glass. He hovered on a field of void, alone in his universe of stars and vacuum, looking as bright as the stars themselves.

Without knowing she had been looking for it, the daughter had found her light. She stole that painting, grasping its metal frame tight, bringing it with her as she delved deep into the studio, looking for the perfect black expanse.

And then she found it.

The perfect black painting.

It spanned a kilometer in every direction, from top to bottom to back and forward through time. It was a pool thick with nothing. It was a universe of tendrils and eyes and teeth, but everything was black, and nothing was made of teeth and eyes and tendrils at all. It was simply black. The perfect black.

The daughter suddenly realized why she had grabbed the painting of the man in the weird suit. She would need an especially hardy source of light to survive this perfect black, and that is why she had taken this hardy-looking man. He could probably survive in that environment.

Oftentimes, when the prince threw the daughter into a painting, she did not survive until she transformed herself a good ten or thousand times. That was why the suited man called to her. She needed a survivor, and she had found one. With the introduction of this man into this darkness, perhaps when she joined them she wouldn’t need to go through a thousand iterations of her own self to grow accustomed to this new universe. She would have a leg up!

And the man might even survive this, too!

Like holding an egg above the black, the daughter grasped the two sides of the metal-framed painting, and with a great breaking, she introduced light into darkness.

And the universe began.

- - - -

Erick wasn’t sure what to make of the ‘True Telling’ of the Old Cosmology, as told by two Carnage dragons and one ephemeral fairy. The visuals were great, and a bunch of those lightwards still hung out everywhere in the atrium. Erick recognized those lightwards as lightwards now, but as Ar’Cosmos had been telling the story, Erick had felt like he was really there, and it was only upon looking back at the moment that he realized that he had witnessed a tale.

So. Fae Magic.

No matter how many times Erick asked Fairy Moon not to pull weird shit, she always did.

It was probably best for his mental sanity and continued relationship with Ar’Cosmos that he rolled with the punches, but at the same time, he needed to be sure to always tell Fairy Moon not to do that shit, or else she would get comfortable rolling over him like she always seemed to do. Erick did not feel that Fairy Moon had gone against his orders this time— not exactly, anyway. This was the Feast, after all.

And yet, there would likely come a time when the equilibrium of ‘don’t do that’ and ‘I’m doing it anyway’ will veer way too far to Fairy Moon’s side of the equation. She hadn’t crossed that line tonight, but maybe soon she would? Erick had no idea.

Erick found himself suddenly dreading that day, just as much as he dreaded Fairy Moon ensorcelling his mind once again.

Whelp!

There was a solution to that. Erick had to become a full Wizard. He had been slacking on that requirement of his life for a while now, but, to be fair to himself and all the rest of the world, he had been doing a lot of good work. And it wasn’t like he had been slacking off on keeping the world intact and moving forward. But the equilibrium between ‘I need to be stronger’ and ‘I need to be productive today’ was now veered toward the first option, thanks to this little display of a ‘True Telling’.

Three seconds had passed since the end of Ar’Cosmos’s Telling.

A few Shades looked concerned, though Fallopolis was the only one with a clearly-readable expression.

Ambivalence— No. Wait.

Dismissiveness.

Fallopolis did not care for the interpretation of events laid before her. As Erick glanced around the room, his mana sense sweeping far and fast, Aisha looked distrusting and Zolan looked similarly distrusting, but with an edge of ‘what the fuck is Volaro doing’. According to what Zolan had told Erick about what this ‘True Telling’ might say, this story was not too far out of expectations.

