Five seconds had passed, and no one had said anything. Volaro was looking uncomfortable up there on the stage while Bright Smile was reevaluating her life choices, and Fairy Moon…

Fairy Moon was rapidly beginning to wonder why she wasn’t getting any applause.

Erick decided to speak before anyone else did. “Your Telling is appreciated. Is that how Fairy used to be?”

Fairy Moon had been waiting for someone to say something, but Erick’s words had not been her preferred place to start. “That is how Fairy is. Our True Telling was told with an intent to inform.”

Fallopolis said, “My God was and is not some painting in some fairy art studio.”

Fairy Moon scowled at Fallopolis. “Of course not! Causes are not cessations of creation. They are merely the beginning; a birth! And this story is True in the Telling. The prince painted open a portal into a land of only Darkness, and he also painted Xoat the traveler. It was the daughter who brought those two paths together and thus created the universe.”

Fallopolis complained, “The Old Cosmology was not created on the whims of a fairy.”

Fairy Moon blinked a few times, not understanding how Fallopolis could be so uncomprehending—

Quilatalap said, “The fae see creation as something different than we would see creation, Fallopolis. It does not mean that it is wrong. She is simply looking at the backside of a coin while all we can see is the front.”

Fairy Moon scowled, saying, “The damnable damner of souls is correct. All of you all have putrid perspectives, but I don’t hold it against you!” She added, “Not nearly as much as I might.”

To forestall any other anger from spilling out into this festival for the Dark, Erick spoke up, “Your Telling is appreciated, Fairy Moon, Bright Smile, Volaro. But since Fairy Moon is a million years old and as old as the Old Cosmology… Where were you when this all happened? I was kinda hoping to get that particular story.”

That was the main thing that Zolan had not been able to answer when he was explaining what this True Telling might look like.

“Oh!” Fairy Moon brightened. “I was the king.”

A collective pause.

Even Bright Smile and Volaro stared at Fairy Moon. They had not expected that. No one had expected that. Fairy Moon had never answered this question before, and Zolan had not expected her to answer it, if Erick decided to ask.

Erick continued, “What happened after your daughter made the Old Cosmology?”

“Oh? Oh no. Not my daughter, as you would qualify this quality. ‘The Daughter’. Or just ‘the daughter’. Still my daughter, too, though… It’s not important for you to understand that nuance now, so let’s get right to the ‘First Telling’, too, but from my perspective; That will answer most other questions quite well.”

Fairy Moon raised an arm, and the air above the atrium shattered into another place and time, myth and legend reorganizing all around everyone as the King took her throne in a great hall of some mythical kingdom somewhere…

- - - -

Erick and every other mortal member of the Feast stood to the left side of the atrium, each of them wearing something new, either robes of hunting leathers or armor. Each of them looked like a member of a court which had reported for duty in an emergency, without anyone having had time to change into something more respectable. A few things stood out on their side of the gathering. Quilatalap stood in a barbarian’s loincloth, which was very much too small for him. He wasn’t the only one wearing something scandalous, for Aisha wore little more than a skimpy sheer dress. Quilatalap briefly looked down at himself, and then ignored what Fairy Moon had done to him, while Aisha tried and failed to transform her body back into real clothes, or at least that’s what it seemed like she was trying and failing to accomplish. With a quick bit of deduction, Erick guessed that everyone Fairy Moon disliked personally was now wearing as little as possible, in some sort of embarrassment tactic. Erick wore normal, nice robes. Zolan wore booty shorts and a crop top…

Well. He had the body for it, and he wasn’t embarrassed at all. So… Whatever? Whatever.

Whatever the case, the atrium was divided in half by a long pink and green carpet ending at a bright white dais, where a throne of wood and crystal stood resplendent. All the members of the Feast were on the left side, standing near enough to each other. Volaro and Bright Smile were also on the mortal side of the gathering. Their part in this play was now to watch, it seemed, and not to participate.

The other side of the gathering held a whole lot of strange people indeed. Long ears. Angled faces. Large eyes and lithe bodies. Most of the tall, beautiful people wore normal courtier clothes; fancy noble stuff. There were also quite a few short stocky people wearing metals for clothes, and then there were the very small people in extraordinarily gaudy clothes made of jewels. A few people looked like elementals, and a few people looked like shadelings, but that was probably completely incorrect, for surface similarities did not mean deeper similarities existed at all.

At the head of the gathering, Fairy Moon stood upon the dais, standing before her throne made of twisted wood and myriad glowing crystals. She looked completely unwilling to have an emotion, as she gazed down at the only person on the pink and green carpet, in the center of the gathering, facing Fairy Moon directly.

The woman kneeling upon the carpet was nondescript.

Erick tried to focus on her face, but he could not. Her face was not there. Her body shifted to be taller, or shorter, or more pointy-eared, or to have green skin or blue skin, to be wearing a dress, or to be wearing pants and a tunic. She was a shifter of uncountable possibility; that was Erick’s first impression. Erick realized that his impression might be wrong, that something else could be happening. Maybe the girl in the center was too painful a memory for Fairy Moon, and Fairy Moon would not conjure the girl correctly. No one else in the hall looked as myriad of form as this person…

Though some of the people on the other side of the gathering didn’t look wholly there, either, now that Erick knew what he was looking for. Faces a bit wrong. Hands a bit odd, with too-long fingers, or too many, or not enough. The lettering on clothes could change from one angle to the next—

Fairy Moon’s mask slipped as she stared down at the shifting girl. The Last Fairy was suddenly sad, with a heaviness to her face and a slump to her shoulders that Erick had seen before when Fairy Moon recalled old memories best left ignored—

And then the metaphorical mask went back on, as though it had never left. But Erick knew what he had seen.

Fairy Moon spoke to the gathering, “My People of my minor kingdom of the neverwas. The daughter of Our People has gone and done her expected duty, but in doing her duty, she has gone far, far beyond our expectations. Stand and inform your family of what you have done, daughter.”

The daughter rose from kneeling. She addressed the gathering, “I have finally birthed a True Universe.”

The fae side of the gathering gasped—

“Yes,” Fairy Moon said.

And then the king of neverwas raised her arm and opened the roof of the atrium, revealing the Darkness Beyond that enveloped the world, ever spreading, ever deepening. Only the throne room remained untouched, and only by the grace of the king. She only allowed this much of the Darkness to show itself, and it was enough. The Darkness moved inside that endless expanse as it was wont, but that movement slowed completely when a man in a space suit appeared in the center of the sky, so far away, like a distant star. The king focused the gathering on that pinprick of light that was a man, speeding up time just barely enough to get the gathering closer to the sight above.

The man, Xoat, had struggled for a while, but now he just floated there in a slight fetal position. Tendrils of Darkness had wrapped around the man, poking at him. The man had lost his left arm somehow, and the man cradled that stump, as Darkness played in the globs of blood floating like spherical rubies in weightlessness. Erick glanced over to the other side of the sky, and saw the arm in the process of being flayed by tendrils of Darkness. White bones came apart in spirals of calcium and marrow. Muscles unspun. Blood separated into parts, and then separated further.

The king spoke, “Since we are so close to the creation, I am able to slow our perusal of this production long enough for us to come to a common cause.”

A man stepped out of the audience of fae, wearing overalls with paint splotches all over them, saying, “This should have been my production! The daughter has corrupted my work! And so, I will work to make this work better, since she is obviously incapable of knowing what she does at all! I cannot do this alone, and I will not forsake my own work, though. I will assist those who choose to assist.”

Fairy Moon asked, “Then we expand? We educate, colonize, and create?”

A woman wearing a thin crown of leaves stepped out of the air, onto the dais beside Fairy Moon, saying, “If we do not nurture with true knowing, then it could end up another mundane making. I wish for wishes and I mandate magic. We go forth, and be fruitful.”

Fairy Moon asked, “What sort of magic? What sort of making?”

The guard wrapped in time stepped from the air beside the dais, saying, “Fate is made and magic it shall be. We go in at the getting, and the getting is now. I call upon the four fated few, for we are already here at the hearkening.”

The sky of Darkness shifted.

The walls of the atrium fell away, revealing Darkness everywhere. The floor was the only thing that remained solid in all of creation, for like the guard said; they were already here. Every single person on the mortal side of the gathering looked concerned, and Erick was no exception. But the fae didn’t seem to care that they were already inside of the vast, consuming Darkness.

Fairy Moon asked, “Who shall be the four fated few?”

Three fae stepped forward.

A tall man in leathers. A very short woman in jewels. A metal-wearing man.

“I choose the blood.” “I choose the breath.” “I choose the bones.”

There was no fourth volunteer.

Fairy Moon looked around, and she spotted—

The daughter spoke up, “I would see this universe go far. I choose all the rest, and all the further hidden parts yet to come. I will become what needs to become to make it all work.”

The painting prince said, “Then you shall have my help the most, daughter.”

“Then go!” Fairy Moon said, “Go forth! To our new universe!”

The four volunteers exploded into blood, and wind, and stone, and everything else in creation. The painter’s paints flowed with them. Those parts of something new flowed into the sky, becoming like hidden prizes being placed into that which already was. The fae became the blood, breath, and bones of Xoat, along with everything else, their souls sundering as well, under the ministrations of Darkness, spilling forth from the shivers of the First Wizard’s dying body. The daughter was briefly visible as a shadowed embrace around Xoat’s shoulders, but that shadow passed, for everything turned into something new.

Something more.

Time fractured fast.

The man in the suit died and was pulled apart by Darkness, piece by piece.

But those pieces did not remain small, and separate. Bones grew large, as the Darkness tugged on them, pulling power out of the ephemeral space where the metal-clad man had joined with Xoat. Blood spilled forth in great waves, powered by the tall, thin man who was now Xoat. Breath filled the sky, powered by the small jeweled woman who was also Xoat. And everything else slowly grew, for when the Darkness finally understood what he was touching, that something rapidly began to expand.

Erick witnessed a version of the First Telling that he saw last year, but different. One where the lives of fae gave a hook for the Darkness to pull upon, as though they were saying ‘pull here!’ and ‘touch this here!’ to create more and more of whatever the Darkness sought to create. It wasn’t until the Darkness had fully broken and transformed Xoat into something new that he tried putting Xoat back together, to understand what he had broken, and to know that it could never truly be put back together. In that act, Darkness understood that it had killed. In that act, Darkness understood death, and life, and the difference.

Creation followed.

As a universe of people spilled out above, as world and worlds and pathways to other universes opened, Erick and everyone else at the party watched as the tall man reformed out of the blood of a battle. The tall man stepped back into the gathering of fae across the aisle, followed rapidly by the jeweled woman falling out of a windstorm that had scoured a world bare. Next, a world of metal split and cracked, and the stocky, metal-armor man came back to the party.

And it was a party. Music. Dancing. Revelry. Guests pulled out of the forming cosmology up above and brought down here for a while, only to go back to the Old Cosmology and find everything they knew to be changed beyond recognition.

Occasionally, a shadow would pass across the sky, looking like a dragon with wings. The shadow came and went two times now, but on the third pass it came into the gathering, landing directly onto the green and pink carpet which separated the gathering into the Feast, and the History.

It was the daughter.

But she was not herself. As she stepped toward the dais which held Fairy Moon, the daughter solidified from something unknowable, to a half dragon, but more human. Black scales and wings and a tail, but with a face like a supermodel and a body to match.

Fairy Moon rose from her banquet table and turned to the daughter, saying, “Welcome back, daughter. What shall we call you now that your nascent power has precipitated?”

“I have joined with the Darkness and given myself the name of Shadow, but now that the Third Cosmology is solid it is time for the true joining to commence.” Shadow turned and regarded the fae party. “It is time for us to go to our new home.”

The party of the fae stopped and stared at the daughter who now called herself Shadow.

Fairy Moon said, “Continue, daughter; Shadow.”

Shadow nodded, and then spoke to them all, “I am a god in that land, as these things are sometimes called. My duty is to expand my universe, and that is all I care for, but there is much work yet to be done. Blood and Breath and Bone and myself have paved the way to a true population of The People, and so, I ask The People if you would join me in this land. Do as you will. That is all I ask.”

