With sadness in her voice, Fairy Moon asked, “Will you remain this god that you are for all eternity?”

Shadow shook her head. “I would rather not, for though I am the Darkness, I am also not, and I wish to see all the other stories alongside the smaller lives that come afterward. I will give up this mantle to one of my children as soon as they come of age and of power. I call them dragons, as they are beings of power and wrath and greed, and the name suits them. I might give up this power sooner than I wish, for it is good to give trials to those who aspire, and if someone should best me in combat then they have more of a right to this power than I. There are a lot of aspirants for this power.”

Fairy Moon smiled wide, and so did everyone at the party, each of them for uncountable different reasons. Erick saw love among most of those people, but he also saw pure greed. He saw people eager to live something new, and to shape what was to come. He saw eyes fixed on distant mortals high, high in the sky above; a desirous look, an uncomfortable stare. Some fae readied spears and swords. Others readied fire and lightning. Some held out brilliant golden hope to help against their fellow fae.

Erick saw the fairy side of the gathering expand, as though he had forgotten to look to the left and right and in the distance all this time. A million fae of a million sorts all looked ready for what was to come.

This entire party had been going on all this time while the Old Cosmology expanded up above, but the fae had been waiting for this moment. This split in time, where the new universe was ripe for the taking, for the toying, for the bolstering and the blasting. For the guiding.

For the growing.

This ageless party which had lasted an eternity and merely an hour, was finally at an end.

Fairy Moon declared, “The time is nigh. New lands are set.”

And the fae party responded with thunder, “The time to break and make is met!”

Fairy Moon waved her hand over them all, like the signal to start a race.

And what a race it was!

Fae turned to mist and light and lightning and fire and everything else conceivable, and many things that were not. A storm of power flowed into the heavens, into the Darkness, to take root on worlds at the real start of the Old Cosmology, after the Darkness had stabilized everything to an acceptable level. That storm took hold of the places just out of sight, each fae cloaking themselves in the matter of the Old Cosmology, each of them living new lives in this new land.

Except for Fairy Moon.

The pink/green/white fairy waved her hand, and the Darkness and the Old Cosmology and the empty party retreated to a painting held at the side of the atrium. It was a painting 20 meters long and curved along the top wall, looking like a window into another universe, for that is what it was.

Fairy Moon remained upon her dais, near her throne. She did not go into that other cosmology. She remained.

The Last Fairy remained.

As she would always remain.

From one nearness to the next, the tale was terminated, and the singing of stories had come to a close.

- - - -

In the atrium of House Benevolence, Fairy Moon spoke to the mortals, “I eventually went with them, to a land beyond the last, but that is a tale for another time. A story of song and storms and war and want, and a time of troubles for us all. For My Precious People were but the first to follow in the daughter’s footsteps. Other fae from other courts waged war, to claim countries and creation, and My People needed my help to win that war. We were the first in that land, though. We had precedence. When we died, we reformed there. When others died, they reformed elsewhere. In this way we lived alongside many mortals for many millennia.” With a suddenly-tired expression, Fairy Moon added, “And since I have to secure the same answers every single time I tell this tale, let me secure one or two of them now:

“We fae are not your souls, though mingling is possible, for the original Xoat had a soul not unlike our own and the Darkness made do with that originality rather well. All souls from all lands are similar in scope.

“Yes, that really was me. I am the king, but the kingdom was given up many great eons ago, so even I cannot recall what it once was. Only that it neverwas… I will stop there.

“But that is never the nadir of the not-truly-necessary questions.

“I will answer one more question from the host of this party, this Feast made in honor of the daughter of Shadow, subsumed into herself so long ago, because an honor of tales told true must be returned in kind to those who care. And Wizard Flatt...” Fairy Moon asked Erick, “You care so much it hurts sometimes. Ask your question, and let all other questions go unanswered. For now.”

There were many things to say to that little ultimatum of Fairy Moon’s. Primarily, Erick did not like the idea of being limited to one question only. He appreciated being able to fully talk to a person, and to get to understand them through more than what he could read of body language and between the lines. What good then was a single question, but as a springboard to misunderstanding?

But Erick got over that feeling rather quickly. There would be time for more questions later. Fairy Moon was purposefully limiting the questions that could be asked right now, due to the very mixed company and her own heavy emotions, and Erick could understand that.

His next impulse was to seek the most important answer he could. But how would he even gauge such a thing? By the possible importance for the world? Or for him, personally? For the future? Should he ask if he was Xoat? Should he ask how this universe connected to the Old Cosmology? What was the connection between universes that allowed fae to travel freely? How did wizards exist in this New Cosmology? How did planars travel to the Old Cosmology, and how did planars fall to Veird?

That string of thoughts led Erick to his actual question.

Erick began, “According to your own history, you could go into any universe you wanted until you settled into the Old Cosmology. Now that we are in this Other Cosmology that is not the Old Cosmology, and isn’t really a ‘New’ Cosmology either due to it being a part of some other existing cosmology… I could ask if this is Xoat’s original Cosmology, or whatnot, but I have a concern for interloping fairies of your own power level coming in and smashing what we plan to build as soon as the lesser Scripts go out into new lands. So here is my question: since the Old Cosmology is trapped on Veird... how does your expression of Fairy here on Veird interact with the rest of this particular universe?”

“Receptive transmission only, yet any fae who steps here will die instantly, and be trapped, though they might maybe be reborn in a future Script that doesn’t contain us all. My Own People are forcibly transposed into this New Cosmology, though, so we will be at war with the other courts of fae eventually. Maybe. War is not always all that must be. It is my hope that I can welcome family back to life soon enough, and maybe even be able to host parties again with others of my kind, as well as ameliorate any anger that they might have for having been accosted by blue boxes for the last living age. On that day, you are welcome to dine with us, our Wizard of Benevolence, and help me make up for all those failures of proper hosting, though you will need to make proper merriment when that time comes. Less presentations, more productions. Anything to assuage the anger of the ancient fae of this much, much older land than any I have ever been in before. I hope you can secure yourself before that date and get over your insecurities about my magic; it will make life so much simpler for us all if you are not so skittish, or so weak.”

Well that was suitably terrifying.

“Well then!” Erick forced a great amount of cheer into his voice as he tried to banish all problems, saying, “That’s a much appreciated story, Fairy Moon. Maybe we can talk later about some of the particulars of it all, but that was a lot to think about!” He said to the others, “So how about we get that band up and playing? We’re supposed to have four more nights of this Feast, and it’s time for the music and the talking! Or dancing, if you’re up for that— You know what? No talking. Only dancing for now. Talking will happen later.”

The audience was less than enthused. For the Shades, Fairy Moon’s story had been rather blasphemous. Those light-eyed people still had no idea what to really make of what they had heard. Bright Smile and Volaro were rather shaken, though that had happened during Fairy Moon’s second tale. Erick would ask them about all that later. Aisha looked terrified. Zolan was relaxed; he had hit his maximum level of shit about twenty minutes ago, and everything else that Fairy Moon had thrown out there had simply rolled off the man… And those booty shorts looked hilariously too small in every possible way, but he didn’t seem to care about that, either.

Erick’s request for dancing and music and no talking seemed to have fallen on deaf ears—

Music started playing from somewhere as Fairy Moon alighted on the floor next to Erick.

Ah. Well she had heard his request.

The music was proper and smooth, to go along with Fairy Moon’s actions as she bent one knee, while her other leg swept backward, fluttering her dress in the action. Her opposing hand went forward, toward Erick. She looked up, asking, “May I have this dance?”

Erick was wary, of course, but if everything went correctly, then this whole last year was still the bare start of a long term relationship between Fairy Moon and him. He needed to be something more than diplomatic, so he said, “You may have a dance lasting no more than one hour, or one dance, whichever comes first.”

The wording was tight, but Fairy Moon could always undermine him if she wished. It was what it was.

Fairy Moon smiled, and Erick took Fairy Moon’s hand.

They danced.

It was not a dance that Erick had ever danced before, but after an initial flubbing made passable by his Dexterity, Perception, and Intelligence, Erick caught up, and began dancing in truth. In the third revolution he even got into the song, smiling lightly as he held Fairy Moon’s hand, she held his hip, and he held her shoulder. She took the lead half the time, setting Erick to spin before they came back together, and then she switched it up, where Erick held her and she spun twice in quick succession, outdoing Erick’s own single spin, her dress flying out almost level with the dance floor.

Hard emotions seemed to melt a fraction.

For in that moment, Fairy Moon was perhaps the most graceful person he had ever seen.

When they came back together, Fairy Moon was giggling, small and polite. She whispered as they drew close, “You caught on quick to the quickening.”

Erick had no chance to ask what that all meant, for they separated fast, for that is what the dance required.

When they came back together Erick whispered, “I learn from the best.”

Fairy Moon laughed happily.

And Erick relaxed a little more.

The dance was light, and kinda fun. It was only Erick and Fairy Moon out there on the dance floor, skipping across pink and green tile where once there was only white eternal stonewood and a long carpet. Erick chuckled as he finally looked down at the flowery design underfoot, but he returned to the dance instantly as the music reached new heights and depths. The Wizard and the Fairy spun away from each other, then came back together in a twist of hands on hands, and then another spin away, mirroring each other as they whirled and then slowed in a sudden crescendo of song—

Suddenly, the dance was over. Erick lightly sweated as he stood there, a meter away from Fairy Moon, his right hand in her right hand, their lefts at their hips. Fairy Moon was as poised as ever, and looking simply radiant in the light. She bowed. Erick bowed. The music had departed, and so they split from each other—

A few polite claps came from the audience of Shades and guests, with Fallopolis being the only one to really clap like she meant it, her shouts of ‘Wonderful! Wonderful!’ rising above the sound of music. Fairy Moon giggled like a schoolgirl as she lightly took a step back, and then she was suddenly on the edge of the dance floor, twenty meters away. Erick remained in the center, upon a circle of white stone in the middle of a mosaic of flowers of all colors and kinds, his emotions still fraying over everything he had learned, and then over the dance they had had.

He turned to the audience to open the floor to others—

But then Fallopolis stepped forward, happily declaring, “I’m next! Everyone out of the way!”

The Shade of Civilization came forward, relentlessly, seeming to drop in apparent age, leaving behind her eternal grandmother look and appearing, in a certain light, to look like a rather normal, nice person.

Well this was fine, too, Erick supposed.

Erick held out his hand, saying, “Care for a dance?”

“We’ll be dancing around each other forevermore, Erick, so yes—” Fallopolis took his hand, smiling as she said, “Some booty shaking events are a welcome reprieve from all the other Events we’ve had so far.”

Erick pulled a false frown, saying, “I have a boyfriend, Fallopolis.” Erick smiled at Quilatalap, who was still standing on the side of the dance floor. He mouthed, ‘You’re next!’ and the big guy grinned. He was still only wearing leather loincloth like some sort of wonderful barbarian, and Erick almost wanted to discard everything but his own underthings for their own dance. But he turned his attention back to Fallopolis. The music rose, he pulled the Shade to a normal starting position, eliciting a schoolgirl giggle from the old woman, as he said, “Don’t be trying to break up my relationship, now.”

Fallopolis threw her head back and cackled. “Break you up?!” She stared at Erick. “I’m the one who told you two to go for it! Now that’s enough nonsense! Let’s dance~”

The band played.

Erick twirled Fallopolis on the dance floor, for that was exactly what she wanted. Soon, others came out to dance, pairing off together as they desired. And a curious thing happened.

Extra people started showing up. The Cooks and the staff. But also…

Others.

Erick ignored the extra people for now.

