Toren could do that. He’d interviewed with almost every major undead band in the area, and by the time a day had passed, the Unmarked Coach had taken him to most of them. It wasn’t a huge haul for Nerrhavia; barely three hundred undead, but she had a few decent ‘sub-lieutenants’.
“One Skeleton Magus, a Draugr, and a pair of Bone Horrors.”
“Trash, Great One.”
Astival was resigned as Toren glared at him. He hadn’t done more than just step out and show off! Nerrhavia’s lips quirked upwards.
“Trash is all one can hope for in a world built on the ruins of great empire such as this, Astival. Undead are delightfully simple to upgrade. Have them follow the prescribed route to my rendezvous, Toren. There they shall wait. Doubtless, we shall lose them upon the first engagement, but those that absorb enough death magic shall become potent weapons. Better we did not find a Skeleton Giant; transporting it would be too difficult.”
Toren was nodding eagerly; he was using his [Command Lesser Undead] Skill to coordinate with the others. The stronger undead wouldn’t be under his authority normally, but because they’d agreed to work for Nerrhavia, he could reach out, which was a fascinating thing he hadn’t thought of.
But he…stopped when he heard that comment.
The first engagement? Well, obviously he knew the undead were going to fight. You didn’t have much use for them outside of that. But did that mean the Skeleton Lich was going to die?
He liked that guy—well, he wasn’t sure the Lich was a guy, but he had great vibes. He’d been first to sign up, and Toren had vouched for him because he’d thought this was a good gig.
Be destroyed? Did that mean he and Maviola were going to be fighting too?
Nerrhavia read the skeleton’s uncertainty and seemed amused.
“Not you, nor the girl. Lesser undead are disposable, and every army needs footsoldiers. How amusing. The Skeleton Magus you care for?”
Toren shut his jaw. He didn’t know if it was a bad thing that she knew that. He was worried. It wasn’t like he knew the Lich. The Lich didn’t even have the power to level or a personality like the Revenant undead. Just…it felt bad.
He was afraid of Nerrhavia, though, and what she might do with the information. But to his astonishment, her smile widened.
As she had been in life, so again. Her skin was dusky bronze, faint stitching on pristine cloth. Her eyes were red, deepening to black, like holes cut in the world, and even sitting in the carriage, it felt like she were upon a throne, peering down at him. Yet she was so…
The Immortal Tyrant spoke.
“You do not understand what it is to serve me, skeleton. Witness. Karsaeu, return to the Lich.”
“What? We just—”
Nerrhavia lifted a finger, and the Djinni’s voice, audible throughout the carriage that was her body, cut off. The coach swerved, and Toren sat there, sweating dead mana as he waited.
 
——
 
The Lich was marching its undead by cover of nightfall to avoid detection, a long, long route that would take them towards the New Lands of Izril, mostly because the ‘rendezvous’ point was there. It stopped, confused, when the coach pulled back up.
New orders? The window rolled down, and it saw Toren staring at it, nervous, and the Lich felt a moment of…uncertainty.
Why was Toren afraid? It saw the Immortal Tyrant glance at him. She sipped from a cup and spoke.
“Astival.”
A hand pointed out the window, and the [Puppetmaster Sadivictus] spoke.
“Her Majesty’s Will: [Promote the Pawn].”
The Lich jerked, stumbled backwards, and Toren’s jaw dropped as black shadows billowed up around it. Nerrhavia watched, highly amused, then murmured.
“A scepter, if we have one. One of the more powerful staves, if not.”
Falamizural fumbled around, then tossed a staff out—a bony hand caught it in the swirling shadows, and Toren’s jaw dropped off his face. Maviola was clapping her hands as a pair of blue, burning flames shone brighter.
The Demius Warlock Bonelord was twice as big as the spindly Lich it had been, and it raised the new magic staff as its face—which was so much cooler than before, no longer a skull but a kind of face unto itself, made of bone, craggly like wrinkles down to a handsome chin—burst into a huge, beaming grin. Spell-circles appeared around it as it raised a hand, conjuring miniature Death Familiars, which swooped around it.
Whoa. The rest of the undead horde was as stunned as Toren. Nerrhavia spoke.
“Onwards. Back to Manus.”
The carriage began moving, and the Warlock Bonelord stood there, hesitating. It gazed after the coach and then around.
…What just happened?
 
——
 
“So you see. That which you value, I shall take note of. Whatever image you have of the Tyrant, know this: I am no fool. That which my servants value is part of my calculation.”
She’d done it for him, he realized. Like a—a perk. He’d been worried about his buddy, Lich, and so she’d had Astival upgrade the undead.
…He had no idea you could even do that. But as Toren quickly realized, any trick and technique you could dream of, like knowing you could toss an enchanted staff at an undead upgrading itself to give it more power—Nerrhavia knew them all..
And she wanted an army, oh yes. He had gotten her foot soldiers and saw the next part of the plan. She even told him to his face.
“To make war, I require an army. The army I have, dead and living. More shall come. There are three qualities by which any force shall be victorious. None of which I prefer to fill; I am no warrior, nor do I wish to lead armies.”
Healing Slime was nibbling on some dry flowers as Toren listened. Okay. He could count to three. Nerrhavia indicated Astival at her side.
“One I have. The General. Next, The Champion. Lastly—”
She smiled.
“The Strategist. You need only help me secure one of them.”
He felt like this was a good point to laugh ominously. She stared at him as his jaw opened and closed silently, until he stopped.
“Such laughter is not forced.”
Oh. Right. Sorry about that. Toren sat back and patted Healing Slime as it burped. Nerrhavia didn’t seem to mind. Very accommodating for an Immortal Tyrant, really. Maviola was delighted by all this and listened raptly as Nerrhavia turned back to her.
“I shall test your ability to perform as a living, breathing woman when we reach the city, girl. If you detest the living, then you are a fool. Your mother yet lives.”
“But she’s special, Nerrhavia! Why do I have to be nice to them?”
Nerrhavia gave Maviola a look of impatience, and Maviola squeaked.
“Your Majesty.”
In reply, the Immortal Tyrant turned to Falamizural. The Garuda spoke, pale.
“I will not be that champion you wish, Nerrhavia. I—I yet resist you there.”
Nerrhavia chuckled.
“Your resistance does amuse me. Mostly that you call it that. I have no need of a failed champion such as you.”
Falamizural bristled, and Nerrhavia indicated Maviola.
“This child is a monster in the making. You see her contempt for the living?”
“I do. She is nothing like the honored dead and has only that hatred which they must rise above. A perfect weapon for your armies.”
The Garuda seemed troubled by Maviola. Nerrhavia flicked a finger as Maviola glowered at Falamizural.
“Agreed. So I render her unto your care. You are to raise, train, and educate her. Create out of her that weapon to oppose my ideals. I swear by the bones of my palace that they might break and cast the entire structure asunder into the chasm of the earth that I shall not interfere in any way.”
“What?”
“What?”
Maviola and Falamizural both sat up and screeched, and Nerrhavia snorted.
“She needs an instructor better than Belavierr or the Necromancer. Friends though we art…she is a terrible mother. I say this without having even met her first daughter. Go, raise this child in however you scheme, Falamizural. It serves. Oh—”
She lifted a hand, and the two fell silent, unable to speak. Nerrhavia’s eyes swung to Maviola.
“—And you, child, think of a new name. Maviola befits you not. You merely wear a woman’s flesh.”
“It’s my name! You can’t—”
Nerrhavia’s finger flicked, and Maviola fell silent.
“One does not rise upon a name so storied. Regardless of the body you took. It would be one thing if you had her soul and were comixed and mingled. I have researched it; the [Innkeeper] told me she was a woman of stories that would have thrown herself at my Immortal Empire like a flame to burn away the darkness. In my time, every great foe, every ally and servant of note, was inscribed upon a book. No one in my empire was permitted to bear the name in any form thereafter. You shall be your own story. Now, enough. Sleep is a wearisome companion in life.”
She sat back and closed her eyes, and Toren turned to Maviola, who looked horrified. But also…she glanced at Nerrhavia, then sulked, but seemed to be thinking.
Nerrhavia seemed like someone Maviola actually admired. Which was a first for employers. Toren sat back, as the carriage moved on, and then wondered…
Why Manus?
 
——
 
He had a dream of dying in his inn.
Then waking up in a dark cave without lungs, without body nor flesh, and screaming. One endless scream of rage as a piece of him tore away and lines of magic meshed with that voice.
That dreadful voice echoing up from his very being, telling him to slay the living. To destroy—
He forgot, even as his bones reassembled, and the young [Necromancer] danced in place, uttering commands, not knowing fully what he’d done.
Then—the dreaming Toren realized he was not that man.
Just an echo.
When he woke from the vision with a jerk, he saw one of Nerrhavia’s eyes had opened, and she was gazing at him.
“Yes. That is what you are.”
The skeleton sat there. Not the [Innkeeper]. Not his ghost.
Just death and fragments of dust.
 
——
 
You had to understand: Toren had no context for any of this. So he was sure this meant a lot to other people, but he had no clue what was going on. Nerrhavia did.
When they reached Manus, they did not go inside the City of War through the gates. Mostly because they were a bunch of ghosts—one of whom was the Immortal Tyrant—a skeleton, a dead [Lady], and a slime.
Manus had sharp gatekeepers, too, but Nerrhavia had a plan. Toren was realizing that she was Miss Plans. Sometimes, though, she didn’t even have it all figured out; she just knew there were levers to pull, and if they didn’t work quite right, she made them function.
Case in point: Corregrione had returned by now, having caught up to the Unmarked Coach. Nerrhavia sat in it, hidden down the road from Manus, breakfasting with Maviola as she gave orders.
“Karsaeu, you and Corregrione shall locate a way into the city. Approach smugglers or rogues and inform them I require entry.”
They were bordering the Hivelands, and Toren could see the desolate wastelands begin to the northwest. The Djinni protested.
“No fucking way. I’ve had enough! My contract specifically says I don’t have to do this kind of thing.”
“And I should care…?”
Toren learned that it didn’t matter if you didn’t word a Djinni’s wishes just right. Not if the Djinni was so scared she’d do whatever you wanted. Corregrione just grinned.
“Your Majesty, such groups always require signs of one’s status…”
“The Unmarked Coach shall do. Karsaeu doubtless has such items. Find the most successful group and bring them here.”
And that was that. They stepped out of the coach, admiring the fortifications of towers and stone, walls meant to hold off the Black Tide the third time a war should break out. Layers and layers of defenses, like cliffs trying to hold back a sea of bodies they knew would soon come.
That’d be cool to see. I hope they get on with it before I die.
Manus was the northernmost Drake city here where the Black Tide had stopped. Every city they’d passed had reinforced walls, even the villages having a fortress-like design.
It didn’t look super-rich, but he saw trainees practicing fighting in huge, cleared fields outside the walls and thought this place was neat. Old Toren would have loved all the fighting and whatnot.
New Toren was buffing his Relics. Nerrhavia had said to get them ready. He put them on as Maviola bounced in her seat.
“You shall remain in here, child. You have no decorum—but I shall see how you fare in the city. Watch and observe.”
“Don’t listen to her. I mean, aside from her orders. Watch those who appear and judge their actions along with their words.”
Falamizural instantly tried to correct Maviola, who glared at the Garuda.
“You’re not my real mother! What are we going to do, Queen Nerrhavia?”
The Garuda was doing her best. Toren nudged Maviola, and she turned.
“I’m sorry for saying that. Nyeh!”
She stuck out her tongue at Falamizural, who gave Toren a surprised look as he poked Maviola hard. He sort of liked the sad Garuda. She had an awesome class. He was almost done buffing his boots as Healing Slime helped by acting as a towel when the group appeared.
Three Gnolls, eight Drakes, all of them high-level. They didn’t dress like, well, [Rogues] or [Smugglers], but that was who they were.
In fact, two of them had that military back-stiffness that Toren equated to [Soldiers], even former ones. Their leader was a Drake with knife-scars on his cheeks, and a fur coat, who folded his arms. He was backed up by underlings, all armed.
Single side-arms—swords, mostly. A few had daggers, and Astival murmured.
“Level 30 for three, Great One. That one is approaching Level 40…they must not be allowed more weapons than a side-arm. Shall I guard you from harm?”
“Merely stand, Astival. Toren.”
He emerged with his illusion spell on, and they saw what seemed like three Drakes, one with purple eyes and impressive Relic-class gear on, the next gaunt and perfectly erect, standing and bowing. The last was Nerrhavia, illusions or not.
Corregrione fell in with them, a smiling old Gnoll, and Karsaeu hid behind her coach as one of the Drakes in charge coughed.
“We’re able to get you access to the City of War. I’m Shadowmajor Vrilt of the Dark Veteran’s Alliance, and this is Undercaptain Goisa, who heads her Crime Company.”
Oh, so it was two major groups. Toren saw one of the two military-type Drakes throw a salute. Nerrhavia was entirely amused.
“This was entirely worth the jaunt for amusement’s sake alone. So this is how Manus ‘allows’ its criminality? Doubtless, you two are loyal to the City of War. Do you report to an officer privately or is it public knowledge?”
Every eye swung to the two gang leaders, and they froze up. Vrilt snapped back, eyes flashing.
“You might have the vouching of the north’s top gangs, but entering Manus isn’t cheap or easy! Nor do we report to High Command.”
