“It means your gear and enchanted objects are losing mana. Stay in a place like this too long and you’ll lose a poorly-made artifact. At best, they just go dormant. I ran into spots like this in my career; they’re hell on [Mages]. You might think you can rely on your Skills and mana reserves, but you won’t regenerate nearly as fast—if you even can! Watch out. Frankly, I think the best move is to avoid even lingering here. The Haven will head…south. We’ll skirt this region and go mana-low until we’re clear. You should do the same. I’m not telling you to, but you won’t find any good loot in a mana-negative zone anyways. Plus, any lower-grade healing potions, scrolls, low-level artifacts…”
All would run out of magic. The adventurers muttered, exceptionally relieved Larracel had warned them. Viecel whistled.
“Trust the Haven to know that. Hey, you think that’s what happened to Deni? It’d be just like him to walk in here and lose his [Message] scrolls.”
Eldertuin groaned as Mihaela slapped her face.
“I bet that’s what happened. Hey, Larra, you heard that?”
If anything, the realization that might be why Deni was out of contact made Larracel smile. But she stood there that night as they headed south, bumping along, and Barnethei could barely sleep. He saw her measuring with that odd vial.
“Trying to see where the mana drain is coming from? Is it atmospheric?”
“Sometimes. The mana’s going down…somewhere in the earth. Might be a huge magicore seam. Or monsters. It’s a strong drain. I won’t keep going if it’s this strong, Barnethei. The Haven won’t have its enchantments break; the magic’s too good for that. But most of what we have is magic.”
A true problem for a [Wizard]. Barnethei wasn’t worried—until he saw Larracel’s face.
“What? You spotted it and we’re not even in it, are we?”
“No…but all these new explorers might be walking into it. They’ll lose bags of holding, everything. We should put the word out. I’m just trying to figure out how far it goes. Barnethei—we’ve gone twelve miles and it’s still draining mana.”
That was a big region. The [Vice Innkeeper] frowned as he stared across the New Lands, dark and slightly ominous now.
“Get some rest, Larra. Tomorrow’s a new day, and we’ll enter properly after we find a good spot.”
She nodded, but stayed up, and he knew better than to talk her out of it. She stood there, measuring the mana, and when Barnethei woke the next day…
They didn’t find a spot where the mana drain stopped.
If anything—it got worse. And after six days of moving back and forth along the New Lands, Larracel reached the conclusion that most other groups would take another week to realize.
The entire New Lands was a trap for [Mages]. The Haven halted in the north, having headed back that way to find a gap, anything—
Then it rolled deeper into the New Lands. From that moment on, Barnethei was suddenly on a time limit.
 
Year 24, Month 1, Day 22 — The opening of the Explorer’s Haven. An ominous start.
 
Almost all the adventurers were gone by the time Larracel decided to take the Haven further into the New Lands from the outskirts where she’d been searching for a safe passage. Despite her warnings, they went. Viecel summed it up for the others, uncharismatically, bouncing on the heels of his feet, head turning, eyes locked on the horizon. An addict—but they all had that look.
“Look, Larra. Even if it’s draining mana, we have to go. We’ll leave all the shit you said won’t last here, but we’ve gotta explore it. I’ll see you in a bit, alright?”
She didn’t like it. She argued with them, especially Eldertuin and Viecel, to stay put, but they had the itch. They had to go.
The one saving grace for the Haven was that they’d caught the problem before they were days into the magic drain zone and out of options. And Larracel, as a [Wizard], had solutions.
“It’s called [Zone of…uh…Enriched Mana]. Dead gods, I know I have it in my spellbooks somewhere.”
She spent an entire day in her library finding the text she wanted before studying it and sighing.
“I always wondered why you needed it. I thought it would be to make my familiars more powerful. If I project it around the Haven, everything within should stay magical.”
“But…?”
She glanced at Barnethei.
“—But I’ll be out of mana. Keeping the spell up means no floating Haven, no Tier 5 spells from me. It’ll keep our gear safe, but the moment we pass fully into this magic drain, we’re on a time limit. I won’t recharge my mana fast enough to hold the spell up. Six days from this spot. Six days, and we’ll retreat.”
“Six days?”
She’d planned on keeping the Haven here for a year! More! And his inn—Larracel snapped at him.
“If the mana drain lessens further in, we can find out! Otherwise…I think your new inn either has to go right along the border, or it’s not going to be a magical one.”
Barnethei, the [Vice Innkeeper of Spells], stood there, and all his plans began to develop cracks. All his Skills, all of his preparation—
“Impossible. We can’t put it down here! Drake cities are nose-to-nose with the New Lands. And without mana—! What about Runes of Preservation? Bags of holding?”
She was scratching at her chin.
“…There are ways to store mana. A few spells might be maintainable. With your own mana supply? You’ll have to ration what you want active. We have to check it out. It’s a business opportunity, Barnethei.”
He didn’t see it at first. He was so frazzled he went striding around the inn, telling the staff the news and trying to reassure them—mostly to reassure himself. But then he had a sit with some goat’s milk and rum, a Kaliv Darkhoof, and thought.
This was an opportunity. Think about it. If this mana drain thing was the New Land’s feature, okay, that was nasty. However—if you had a bit of mana, and he was a Level 42 [Innkeeper] with a not-insubstantial amount, then suddenly you had all the magic around.
“[Message] scrolls, dead. Healing potions? Dead gods, dead unless a Level 20 [Alchemist] made them. Which means if you need it, you come to the Explorer’s Haven! Preserved food, magic—a place to replenish mana—”
He pitched the new concept to Larra as they rolled into the New Lands, and she sat there, thinking.
“You don’t have the mana for that, Barnethei. I think you could maintain three enchantments if I laid them on your inn, a single [Room of Preservation], a temperature control spell, and…probably a bug spell or something. No familiars, no magic of your own. Nothing like a mana-dense zone.”
“Well, can you give me an option? You’re the Named-rank [Wizard], Larra. There’s got to be something.”
That made her smile sardonically, and she walked around, thinking and running experiments as they rumbled into the New Lands.
It was pretty. The first thing Barnethei saw was an entire ground of pink…he had to run down and see it.
“What is this?”
It was actually hard, not soft, and it was slightly spongy, breaking apart when he stabbed a knife into it. Tiny little holes and plenty of life—mostly buggy. The oxen tried to nibble on it but found it wasn’t edible, and Larracel called down.
“Looks like coral. Must have changed with the wild magic. At least you’ll have something to grow, Barnethei. Drowned Folk always told me coral was a sign of a thriving location.”
He cast the bit of coral aside, nodding. She pointed down.
“I have a solution. It’s not pretty, and it’ll mean I’m tethered to the area, but I think we need a mana well.”
“As in…the Skill? I can’t just level up on command.”
“No, a literal well.”
 
——
 
The theory was simple. You had a finite amount of a resource that would vanish? Evaporate? Well, you did what people in deserts, or anyone with a valuable resource, did.
You made a container, filled it up, and drew from it. The key would be making it isolated so the mana didn’t drain away. Larracel drew up a plan.
“It needn’t be underground. It will be a room, isolated with thick stone, enchanted, and the mana inside. Monsters will want at it, but I can hide the mana, hopefully. Then I link the zone spell to it, and the area around the inn—or maybe just the inn—has mana. But the well will run out; you or I will have to recharge it. Hopefully I can put in enough to give you a week’s supply and, in time, maybe upgrade to a month’s. To do it properly I’d…I don’t know, fill the walls with magicore? Something like that.”
“If you enchant the walls, won’t the mana leech it out?”
She gave him an arch look.
“I can enchant the wards to prevent that from happening! Well, not perfectly. Damn. This is one of those times I’d want a master [Enchanter] with me. Or an [Architect]…I’ll prototype the room. Your job is to find that spot.”
They were still going forwards with this expedition, so for four days, Larracel holed herself up in her workshop while Barnethei and the staff…explored the New Lands. They had almost no guests; a few people had stayed to tour the New Lands, even from as far as First Landing, but aside from that, the staff became almost a crew of [Sailors] aboard a ship marching overland.
 
——
 
“Monster attack! Monster attack! Everyone, wands up! Larra!”
She came storming out of her workshop when she heard the shout. Larracel gazed up and saw bats.
Dropbats. Hundreds of them, swarming in a huge circle, then coming down for the inn, trying to tear and bite at the people within. The oxen were mooing in terror, and she spoke.
“[Barrier of the—] no. [Threefold Extended Barrier of Air]! Take them down before they hit us! Everyone, seal the windows and fire from them!”
She didn’t put down the barrier she wanted. The tri-levelled barriers held back the first waves of bats crashing into them just long enough for everyone to scramble inside and shut windows. Then the staff were firing out of them.
It was hard to wing the flying monsters as they slammed onto the deck of the inn, but the bats had no chance of getting indoors. When they realized that, they circled as spells flashed out of windows. Barnethei nailed eight with his wand that shot a [Ray of Acid] spell—until he heard a shout.
“They’re going after the oxen!”
He cursed and shoulder-charged out the door. Navien shouted at him.
“Barnethei! Be careful—”
He could use a sword, not nearly as well as a Gold-ranker, but the adventurers had taught him, and Colth had said he’d match a Silver-rank [Warrior]. His sword was enchanted, anyways, and Barnethei ran down to see the bats trying to kill the oxen. He slashed at them, cursing as they bit at his enchanted clothing—until someone spoke.
“[Seeker Fire Arrows].”
Larracel lifted her hand, and a mass of red arrows swirled up—then fired from under the Haven. It blasted the bats down, and, screaming, they died or fled.
The air stank afterwards, and Barnethei called for help soothing the terrified oxen. He would have healed them, but they had no way to get more healing potions. So he dashed upstairs to mix a poultice, then saw how many bats were littering the ground.
 
——
 
The Haven took little damage in any physical sense, even the oxen. But in another sense…
“We lost a lot of mana doing that.”
“All wands. We can recharge them.”
Barnethei was grimacing as they hucked Dropbats into a storehouse where the preservation spells would keep them. They were worth a bit to an Adventurer’s Guild, so Larracel had said to keep them. Another reason he wasn’t cut out to be one; half the staff had gloves on and still refused to pick up a bat except with a pitchfork or shovel.
Larracel was unhappy.
“I’m not wasting mana on them right now. We just lost another day before we have to turn! That gives us one more before I’m taking the Haven out.”
She refused to be caught without mana and, indeed, announced every magical function in the Haven was turning off aside from the essentials. No light, no heated water, nothing.
Barnethei was exasperated.
“Surely we could do two days? Larra—”
She glared at him.
“I’m the adventurer here, Barnethei. You don’t run out of mana. Ever! That’s how you die.”
But you have mana potions. Hers were still good since she was juicing up the air to keep them fresh. Barnethei bit his lip on a retort. Larracel had her reasons for her paranoia. In the end, time forced his hand.
 
——
 
The last day they were scouting out a spot for the New Lands, Larracel was in an uncharacteristically good mood, despite the mana problems and the bat attack.
No guesses why. Barnethei himself had gotten some cakes out of storage that morning, and one of the serving boys had eyes almost as big as the massive slice that Barnethei was cutting—there was no coin-pinching right now.
Larracel, who’d be the first to upbraid Barnethei about wasting money, just grabbed a slice with a telekinesis spell as Roreen offered her some champagne. The [Bartender] had poured a small amount for everyone, and she waved a hand over the glass.
“[Transmutation: Favorite Beverage]. Congratulations, Larra!”
“I don’t know what you mean, Roreen. And isn’t it a waste of champagne if you’re just going to transmute it to whatever everyone likes?”
That was a bit of classic Larra, but Roreen just smiled.
“The quality of the drink makes the output different.”
“Hmph. Well, I haven’t heard from him yet, and he’d better have a good reason for not [Messaging] me. Probably avoiding trouble at sea, that paranoid idiot. Or maybe he and Pisces were using all their mana to stay afloat. What is that idiot doing now? First the King of Destruction, now they’re attacking another nation?”
“It’s Roshal, Larra.”
No one else was upset; if anything, the staff were cheering the images being replayed on the scrying orb almost as much as Drassi. But Larracel just folded her arms.
“He should know better than to make enemies.”
With that said, her eyes wouldn’t move from the image of Colth diving off a flying carpet after Pisces. Barnethei was near-breathless himself.
This was Named-rank adventuring. He watched as Elena swung the scrying orb around again—and he’d seen the scene six times so far.
This was the day that the Horns of Hammerad attacked the caravan of Roshal’s [Slavers] and found themselves on television again. Prior to that moment, there had been rumors aplenty, sightings in improbable locations from the Claiven Earth to Medain—and rumors, but nothing concrete.
Barnethei wasn’t going to trust that Yvlon and Ceria had spent the night in King Perric’s bed, then made off with his crown after humiliating him in public and riding off with Mars the Illusionist, nor did he trust the man himself. And Colthei…Larra hadn’t seen him alive and well, up till now.
