He injected such scorn into the words that Nerrhavia tilted her head.
“Ah, not you, then. Merely pained loss of the discarded. She is a [Soldier] still, though.”
She indicated the Undercaptain as Vrilt’s eyes swung towards the other leader.
“She’s bluffing. Who is this Drake?”
Goisa tried to laugh it off, but the air went deathly silent. Toren didn’t reach for his sword; he’d been told to stand here and look good.
The criminals stepped away. When they came back…there were more of them, and Goisa was missing. Toren didn’t sense death on anyone, but he felt like something significant had occurred.
Vrilt was certainly unnerved. He licked his lips with a long tongue, like a snake, as he spoke. He began introducing more of Manus’ gang leaders, who all stood there like lambs before the Landshark.
They knew what she was, but not who. Nerrhavia cut him off.
“I require entry and exit from Manus. You shall escort myself and those of my choosing through the gates.”
She had that way of speaking that said this was how it would happen, and Toren saw one of the other gang leaders try to say, ‘that’ll cost you’ or something to that effect. But he couldn’t actually make the words come out.
There was a pressure behind Nerrhavia’s eyes. Her amusement had grown into impatience. She swept her eyes over the Drakes and Gnolls, and some of them reached for their blades. Or wanted to.
They glanced at Astival, then Toren. The Unmarked Coach, where Falamizural sat. Then even Corregrione…and all of them were radiating danger. Toren was the lowest-level of them, and he was carrying over ten Relics.
Reach for your sword. Try. The thought of cutting Nerrhavia made your mind spasm. One of the [Bodyguards] dropped, biting their tongue and blood oozing from between their teeth.
“Well?”
The Immortal Tyrant’s words forced a response from Vrilt. He breathed hard.
“Wh-why would we help you? We don’t know who you are. Anything you do falls on us. There’s no reward for this…”
Her chin tilted up. Nerrhavia smiled like a dangling noose, inviting someone to come forwards and drop.
“I am the monster who lurks outside your walls, Drake. When I appear, you do what is desired, then cower and pretend the walls stand. Pray that I require only little of you.”
“—And if you come back? Do we—how many times do we just cower in front of you?”
Another Drake murmured. She was an older woman trying to meet Nerrhavia’s eyes. Her head kept jerking away, flinching.
“You continue to oblige me. What else can one do?”
The question seemed to annoy Nerrhavia. All the patience she had for Toren was not for this group. When they continued to glance at each other, clearly unsure if they wanted to help this dangerous woman…her eyes flashed.
“A reminder.”
They stepped back, reaching for their blades, and halted. Astival had torn his sword free from his scabbard with his left hand. His other hand had come up—and they had frozen. Hands copying him.
He wore his sword on his right, slightly behind where most swords were placed—thus, the majority of the criminals had plucked empty air when they copied him, even if they were left-handed. Each one was copying the [Puppetmaster Sadivictus]—then they tore back and realized he was now armed and they were not.
“Astival. I informed you I required none of your aid. Kneel.”
He knelt at once, thrusting his blade into the ground, head bowed. Nerrhavia seemed annoyed by the interruption, and Toren stood there, arms folded. He still had no clue what was going on, but he was pretty sure something horrible was about to happen.
So were they. The Drakes and Gnolls, Manus’ top underworld criminals, moved back as she walked through them, peering from face to face. The Immortal Tyrant was searching for something, inspecting both the leaders and bodyguards alike.
A reminder…she settled on one of the original Drakes, whom Toren had picked out for his military stance. He had a hand on a sword hilt, despite having been outplayed by Astival. Was he the one close to Level 40? He seemed less affected by Nerrhavia’s overwhelming authority, but more aware he was outmatched despite that.
He had a weird scar across each cheek that seemed too symmetrical to have been done in battle, unless someone had a very weird and ineffectual blade. Nerrhavia peered at him, pursing her lips.
“Hm. You. Yes, Astival, you are a blunt tool from my empire, not subtle enough by far. You are much more useful in war and waste my time in such moments as these.”
“As you say, Tyrant.”
He spoke to the earth, shivering, and Nerrhavia tapped the Drake on the chest. He recoiled.
“I—”
“This one will be my new bodyguard. You shall serve me until such time as I release you; abandon your city. I leave you one hour to pack all that belongs to you and to say your goodbyes. Rejoice, for you enter the service of the legends. Weep, for you shall never again know normalcy.”
His mouth opened, and the others stared at Nerrhavia. This wasn’t the same job pitch she’d given Toren, and he tilted his head.
He was waiting for the Drake to say, ‘up yours’, though he’d never actually figured out what was going up or where—it was an Erin saying. However, Nerrhavia’s authority was like a hand plucking the Drake up. A vast giant of shadows picking up a piece that interested her.
“I—I don’t w—we’re just criminals here. If we do as you say…”
He was pleading with her, no, Vrilt was. They were drawing around the Drake protectively, like hens trying to guard a chick marked for culling. The man himself trembled as Nerrhavia smiled cruelly now.
“You have offended me. Be silent or I shall choose another, and the rest of you hold less value than him. Your name?”
They backed away from the Drake, and he replied, voice raspy.
“Kalnis Felscale. [Disgraced Veteran]. I—don’t wish to serve you, whomever you are, Miss. You might be able to compel me, but I don’t wish it.”
She didn’t need his class. Nor did she push her authority onto the Drake. Oh. Toren realized why he felt so…strange. So uneasy.
She wasn’t forcing Kalnis with sheer power to kneel, like a [King] might. There was something else that was scaring these people spitless. It was like…
…Erin…
The skeleton’s eyes blazed as he watched Nerrhavia smiling. In actual pleasure. She didn’t know Kalnis. They had just met. But he was terrified she could make him do exactly what she wanted.
She knew she could. She lifted a hand, and he stepped back, turning away to run.
Run, run and never look back! Toren almost shouted at him, and Nerrhavia’s eyes flicked to the skeleton.
“He will, though. They always look back. Drake. [Your Desperate Wish, Granted].”
Her hand glowed, and she plucked something out of the air. With the power of the [Immortal Tyrant]. One of the highest-level beings to ever walk this world.
She had bested the Blighted King in his own Skills. She had made pacts with Belavierr. Her corpse of an empire had endured until now…Toren saw the running Drake slow as he heard her.
Don’t.
He looked back.
 
——
 
What did she pull out of the air? Toren craned his head, but he couldn’t see it. Astival was peeking, too, with a look of true, rapt wonder on his face. Glorying in her. Nerrhavia was speaking.
“One hour. The way it is done is thusly: thou shalt crawl, and with each hand of ground you crawl across, kiss my shadow. Not my feet, for thou are unworthy. Then rise. No more oaths need be said. We are past words.”
It sounded pretty egregious to Toren, but the Drake, Kalnis, didn’t hesitate. He just took the object she handed to him, got to his hands and knees, and kissed the ground, crawling towards her.
The gangs of Manus were standing like terrified children as they watched him break ranks with his city, his home, and his gang. Nerrhavia clicked her tongue at them.
“I shall enter the city now. Toren, Maviola, Astival, Falamizural, with me. Kalnis in an hour’s time. Seek us out.”
“Yes, uh—how should I address…?”
“My name shall be rendered unto you later. Astival shall train you a moment. Go.”
He got up, stood there, and then marched towards Manus, not even glancing at his companions. They fled towards the gates, and Nerrhavia turned.
“Such a waste of time.”
“Yet another servant has been gained, Tyrant. Does he not meet expectations?”
“Not one, Astival. Come.”
They began strolling towards the gates as Corregrione walked back to have a drink. Karsaeu had pulled out a bottle of brandy and was chugging it, and she silently shared it with the [Traveller], which sort of proved how Corregrione could charm even Karsaeu a bit. Everyone wanted to know…but it was Astival who brought it up.
“Your Dark Majesty…”
“I don’t know. I didn’t pay attention.”
They all peered at her, and Nerrhavia grew amused.
“How it fascinates you. What do you think it was?”
“A great and wondrous cure would be traditional. Or…poison. He might fail to use the latter.”
Astival speculated, and Falamizural shivered.
“You didn’t have that Skill when I was alive.”
“I associated with Djinni long enough to gain it, Falamizural. It was more fun to guess. As I suppose it is to parse what it was. It was neither, Astival. I held a piece of paper in hand.”
“A scroll of magic? Contract?”
“Neither. It was not magic.”
“Fascinating, Your Majesty. A will?”
Nerrhavia tapped her fingers together as Toren tried to puzzle out what the hell they were talking about. She glanced at him and Maviola, then explained.
“Ah. You see, it was what he desired. The price of his service. It does not work on all, of course. But in his case…the evidence is simple. You observed the scars on his cheeks? Two diagonal slashes? His class.”
Astival’s head snapped up, and he let out a delighted laugh of rich amusement.
“Of course. A dishonorably discharged Drake. It must be the custom to mark him thusly. So that was…”
“Evidence to clear his name, perhaps. A military man fallen into criminality and mocked for his deeds, possibly to further an enemy’s career. Would you trade your service for that?”
“I would fight my way out of the gladiatorial pits for vengeance, Majesty. But to sell myself to anyone but you…that it is you means there is no question.”
“Indeed.”
 
——
 
They got through the gates no problem. A bunch of Drakes were there with passports that admitted them as [Merchants], and while the [Guards] gave them the side-eye, the paperwork was excellent, and their contacts smoothed over the entry.
“Inner city passes as well as outer. Mind the laws, civilians. Any military personnel have right of way and may use their authority when needed. Keep your documents on you. Welcome to the City of War. Are you here to inspect the academy? To visit an officer?”
“Recruitment.”
Nerrhavia informed the [Guard] lazily, and he nodded.
“Very good, Miss. The academy would be the place to do that—”
He gave instructions she ignored, and they strode into the city. There, as promised, Nerrhavia had Maviola act as a normal person for an hour, as Falamizural tried to give her lessons about not being an undead, murderous psychopath.
 
——
 
Kalnis caught up with them after an hour. He bowed to Nerrhavia, but she bade him stop.
“A curiosity, Drake. My [General], Astival, will be trifling upset otherwise. To whom did you present that paper?”
The [Disgraced Veteran]’s voice was husky, and his eyes were red.
“I gave it to a member of High Command. Spearmaster Lulv. He read it and heard me out. And believed me. There will be an inquiry. May I ask, how did—?”
“I don’t know. I didn’t read it, but the Skill is the Skill. Whom did you tell next?”
He paused.
“No one. I would have told my son. But he’s on rotation. He’ll know, though. He’ll…know. But I won’t be here when they finish, will I?”
Nerrhavia gave Astival a look as the man smiled.
“No. My interest has concluded. Guide us now to my destination, and we shall waste no more time.”
She spoke, informing the Drake who she wanted; the name made no sense to Toren, who stood there, wondering why all that was worth throwing away everything. Then again…this fellow didn’t seem like he’d had that much to begin with.
A son. His voice had trembled so hard when he’d said the son would ‘know’. Toren shook his head. Living people were so…
If it had meant Erin would listen to me? Understand what I wanted to tell her? If I could go back again and—
The thought burned Toren so hard he nearly ripped his head off and threw it into a trash bin. He slapped at the sides of his face and hurried after Nerrhavia. Then he saw why she was terrifying. Maviola was agog with delight as she listened to Kalnis talking.
“I know who you’re searching for. It won’t be easy. She’s always around High Command or in the keep—getting her alone? Might be tricky.”
“Direct me towards her. I shall do the rest.”
“Of course.”
They marched past the first layer of walls and into the second. All the streets were winding, weirdly cramped, and Toren realized it was so you’d have an advantage defending this place if someone was attacking. Astival appreciated it.
“I always wanted to see the City of War in person. To assault it…”
Falamizural sighed.
“Drakes. Always with their cities. Where are all the Dragons?”
They were attracting attention since they weren’t warding their comments. Kalnis half-turned, and Nerrhavia spoke.
“Watch your comments. We are approaching higher-level members of Manus. Kalnis.”
“Yes?”
“Inform me of all your new Skills once you hear your new class. One should be congratulated on reaching Level 40.”
His mouth opened, and she swept on. Toren patted Kalnis on the shoulder enviously. Nerrhavia seemed pretty good at empowering her minions. All Erin gave you were jars of acid, which was a good benefit, but this was the major leagues.
Why did he keep thinking of Erin?
His head rose as he saw a furiously shouting young woman, her azure scales reddening until she was almost purple. She was pointing a shaking finger, red-faced, howling at a woman with two wings on her back, who was uncertain, even afraid. Both had wings, actually. The young woman just had one.
“That’s the Dragonspeaker—”
Kalnis hissed as Dragonspeaker Luciva raised a hand.
“Rafaema, wait—”
The young woman turned and ran, a Gnoll dashing after her along with a number of others. Nerrhavia smiled and whispered.
“Falamizural, divert them. The rest of you, with me.”
She strode after the fleeing Drake.
Toren had no idea what was going on or who that was.
 
——
 
He stood there as Nerrhavia caught up to the Drake named ‘Rafaema’. The Drake ran into an alleyway, and somehow, all her pursuers vanished. Falamizural, probably. A [Summoner].
