Even Astival stopped in complete surprise as the Immortal Tyrant erupted into gales of laughter. She sat, cheek bruised, laughing her head off. Uncontrollably, authentic, spontaneous—evil laughter.
The greatest villainess of Chandrar laughed like she had only done once before. Louder than the first time she had used her mass-execution Skill. The delighted, nigh-hysterical guffaws she had once uttered when she’d sat upon her throne and seen that final army coming for her head.
Merindue.
She stopped laughing and wiped at her eyes.
“Kill the skeleton. Grind its bones to dust.”
 
——
 
He thought some of them held back, like Falamizural, Deimos, or even Rafaema, trying to let him get away.
But there were too many. Too high-level.
Too quick.
Once his first piece of armor went, the rest followed faster and faster. His shield was spent, blown away by Rafaema’s breath attack, and the helmet meant fire spells were now burning his armor, whose enchantment no longer shielded him from the countless impacts.
They got one of his boots, severing his kneecap where the armor failed to cover him properly, and his leg came off. Then it was over. He kept fighting, hopping, cursing his kneecaps—he’d always known they’d do him in—
Falling. Astival sliced his other arm off, and Toren bit at the man’s leg, then was kicked up by the Garuda, who knocked him into the ground like a meteor. They ripped the Relics off him, and he heard Nerrhavia speak.
“A bounty in items, regardless. I had feared I would only retrieve that, but I did value him. Maviola, come.”
Maviola? Why wasn’t she running away? He’d expected someone to, but the Garuda, Rafaema, they were staying.
Oh, right, contracts. Falamizural was too afraid. Rafaema couldn’t run. And Maviola.
“Don’t hurt him, Your Majesty! Please!”
She liked it here. Well, poop. Maybe Nerrhavia would be good for her. Toren hoped so. He lay in a pile of bones on the ground, trying to reanimate the pieces. His cracked skull couldn’t reassemble; they were smashing his bones to pieces.
“Your Majesty. His hands…”
Astival showed Nerrhavia the odd bones, and she spoke.
“Stellar Ivory. No, I do not need a potion. I shall savor this unique feeling. Save those bones. No, wait. Put them with the skull. Smash the rest and separate the powder, or he may well regenerate. If he can transmute the rest…a servant he shall be. But not a favored one.”
Oh. So much for quitting in style. Toren tried to roll his skull away, but he couldn’t. She was smiling at him as Astival tossed his hands down and picked the rest of his bones up. Toren was growing…fuzzy.
At least Healing Slime had escaped. Yeah. He felt guilty about what he’d done, now. Stupid. But he’d finally done it. Showed it to the man. The woman.
She was receding from him as the world grew foggy. Rubbing at her cheek, as if it was so novel, still amused, glancing his way with those eyes that were so terrible. Even Erin had kinder eyes. They opened wide in surprise, then alarm, then she was pointing at him.
Hey. She seemed really far away. The skeleton realized it wasn’t just his mind doing that ‘fade into the distance’ thing. She was literally distant. And growing more so each moment.
Then he realized he was, in fact, moving. Toren’s eye flames shifted downwards, and he saw, to his astonishment, he was being carried by a rolling ball of frantic, purple-colored jelly.
Healing Slime. Or rather, Speed Slime. It had grabbed his skull and half-buried it in its body, and it was dragging along his hands and a lot of the bone dust. It zoomed across the ground as they tried to pursue it.
A slime with a permanent [Speed] spell baked into it. It rolled frantically as Toren tried to tell it to let him go. They’d both be caught—but the little Slime bore its friend and protector away. It wouldn’t leave Toren. Not him.
A purple tear rolled down the skeleton’s eye socket, blazing bright. Then he saw a Garuda taking wing. She soared after him as figures spread out, darting after the Speed Slime; it must have been hard to see as the grass rose around it. She flew higher, and he stared at Falamizural’s turning head.
Eyes of a hawk. And the Djinni was also in the air, Karsaeu, craning left and right. The eyes to see magic, especially a skeleton and slime. He saw them point, dive, and thought—
Wow. Either they were as dumb as he thought they were or they’d done that on purpose. Healing Slime raced away until, two hours later, it rolled to a stop and spat Toren onto the grass. He lay there, amidst the yellow tufts, and realized they’d done it.
 
——
 
Nerrhavia knew they’d let Toren get away. A Djinni and Falamizural, who’d spent aeons as a mounted head on a wall, seeing a servant making his escape?
She punished them, of course. Both with the fear of it, then the knowledge she could be infinitely worse. And then with the knowledge she was letting them have their little victory.
After all…the skeleton surviving didn’t strike her as an ill consequence. It was related to Erin Solstice, and if it wouldn’t serve her as she wished, better to let it stir the pot of the New Lands.
Assuming it survived. It had gone in a poor direction. At any rate, she had its Relics and her amusement. The Immortal Tyrant went back to her work and put Toren mostly out of her mind.
The Dragon was a better puppet, and besides—she had a feeling its loud thoughts would have gotten on her nerves sooner or later.
She did wonder what would happen to its class, though.
 
——
 
He was trying to piece together his body and failing, Healing Slime rolling around him anxiously, when the words struck him like a final cherry lightning-bolt on top of this entire disaster.
 
[Class Conditions: Relic Guardian failed.]
[Class – Relic Guardian → Skeleton Knight Class.]
[Skeleton Knight Level 35!]
[Condition – Thickbone Body Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Sword Fighting – Basic → Sword Fighting – Expert Obtained!]
[Skill – Empower Artifact Removed.]
[Skill – Greater Artifact Analysis Removed.]
[Skill – Curse Mitigation (Equipment) Removed…]
 
Oh no. His Skills! It was removing all of them and giving him—
Toren’s heart sank—well, it would if he had one. The voice took all his new [Relic Guardian] Skills, but left him [Artifact: Doubled Charging]. Even so—
His gear gone. All the things that had made him so powerful—stolen!
However, he was alive—well, undead—and his body was smashed, but Healing Slime had gotten his hands. If he had a body—Toren almost felt a sense of relief. He hadn’t earned the Relics, just stolen them from Az’kerash.
But Maviola! And their cushy jobs and—Healing Slime was trembling with fright. It hugged his skull, and Toren apologized to it. He had really messed this entire thing up, hadn’t he? Like always.
His eye-flames dimmed, but Healing Slime just picked his skull up and put it on top of the Slime. It rolled around, and to Toren’s surprise, it felt…proud?
Proud of him. As if him making an enemy of the scariest woman in the world and getting nearly destroyed or converted to a mindless undead was a good thing. Because it was the right thing.
The Healing Slime had opinions! It thought about Nerrhavia and had decided she was a Bad Person. Toren realized that, and his jaw fell off his head. Healing Slime picked it up and collected his bones, rolling forwards, determined to take care of its friend now.
Into the New Lands. Toren lay there, staring at the dark horizons, and then, as he left everything he’d gained behind again, he heard that voice.
It filled him up, no longer that dispassionate voice removing what had made him powerful. This time, it was with impartial delight, as if pride were warring with professionalism, and the skeleton’s eyes blazed bright as it heard the words no other had ever heard.
A title for the skeleton that changed pieces of the world.
 
[Title – The Hero of Nerrhavia’s Fallen obtained!]
[Title Skill – Throw It Back: Counterattack, Twofold Vengeance obtained!]
 
[Title – He Who Struck the Immortal Tyrant obtained!]
[Title Skill – Parry the Tyrant obtained!]
 
[Reputation – Nerrhavia’s Fallen (Heroic) granted!]
[Reputation – Stitchfolk (Favored) granted!]
 
 
The next day, Queen Yisame sent for her [Grand Sage] to analyze why everyone in Nerrhavia’s Fallen was going around beaming.
Not that it was a bad thing, you understand, but given the war with the King of Destruction, all these problems—maybe they could do it again? No one could say why, but she rose to greet the Horns of Hammerad with a huge grin on her face and actually kissed Pisces on the cheek.
Again, no clue. Sometimes things were just like that.
