Bind the soul into his bones? Toren wavered. Nerrhavia assured him he’d stay in control.
“The soul would merely be fuel for you in this particular binding. Other methods exist, but I prize you far more than an [Innkeeper].”
Oh. Great. Toren sort of pictured a screaming soul chained to him and hoped he wouldn’t hear it. It sounded…
It sounded a bit…
Cruel.
Where had that thought come from? Toren didn’t know. He’d killed countless people, but he had an image of Venitra tearing his head off as he pleaded for mercy. Or Healing Slime being used as an expendable potion.
He didn’t want to say, ‘no thanks, please no soul binding’ to Nerrhavia. But then he saw her inspecting him and remembered she could read his thoughts.
“Hm. If not that, then perhaps an amulet. To draw upon the strength of what once was. It matters, you see. That fragment of who you were—you could delve into your past life and choose again. That Which Counts, the force that assigns levels to all things and people, weighs one’s past life.”
She spread her arms, and then gazed up, as if staring at something.
“I understand it more than any other being save for they who wrote the Book of Levels, you see. Though it seems it yet does not desire to acknowledge me.”
His boss really did have it all figured out. Toren sat there as Nerrhavia informed a [Mage] to stop making the circle and switch to another one. She retired to her tents, beckoning Rafaema to instruct the Dragon further, and the hunched Rafaema did nothing before Astival hauled her up and marched her there.
Toren watched as Rafaema vanished inside, and heard nothing more—the tent was obviously spelled, so he stood in the camp, kicking at a stone, and realized more of Nerrhavia’s servants were here. Ones he’d never met.
Lesser than Corregrione, Falamizural, and Astival, then, but that was a matter of perspective. He kept glancing at Nerrhavia’s tent, but she was busy with Rafaema, so Toren got to actually meet some of the other former ghosts. Or rather, they came up to him and Maviola.
 
——
 
“Dark sands warm your step! More servants in Her Majesty’s employ! Welcome, welcome! Do you want drinks?”
The first ghost that Toren met was…weird. She just strode on over, an almost round woman wearing robes and holding glasses up.
Toren thought she was as dumb as one of the rocks she was kicking—until the [Mage] handed him a drink which wafted mana upwards, and Maviola gasped.
“Death drinks! I haven’t seen one since Az’kerash’s castle!”
She greedily sipped, and Toren felt the vapors of the drink enhancing his magical essence even just by inhaling it. Incredulously, he lifted the cup and ‘drank’ it, then nearly dropped the cup.
Mint! The idea exploded into his head, and he had never had tastebuds, but the image of it, the flavor, almost overwhelmed him. The [Mage] rubbed her hands together with delight; she wore, he realized, a very colorful costume, long stripes of color running down huge pantaloons and a vest adorned with various artifacts like feathers, corked bottles, and gems all festooning her front.
“I made it when I heard you two approaching. Greetings! I am Majori, a [Magus de Divertissement] of the old world. I had the honor, the honor, of once performing before one of the Immortal Tyrant’s Sadivicti when I toured the Empire of Black Sands, as it was known at one point. Now, I serve Her Immortal Majesty directly! The honor!”
She was…a performer? The [Mage] beamed when Toren guessed it correctly—Maviola said it for him.
“Correct! My magic is to entertain, to impress—and to create substances that even Djinni might enjoy! I am somewhat useless, as the Tyrant has said, but my paltry cantrips can cast some magic in this day and age until she finds a more suitable tool. At this moment, I cast some of the magic in camp, and if you need anything within my poor means, ask away!”
Toren had the vague idea of asking for…bug repellant spells or for someone to repair a broken chair until he saw Majori point a finger.
“We’re setting up a grand spell beyond my knowing to transport us. So, a thousand pardons if I don’t have the time to speak long.”
She flicked a finger, and the ground tore up, yellow grass billowing into the air, and a line of magic flashed into a complete circle. Then Majori caught sight of the undead coming.
“Ach! More? We’ll need to pen them up somewhere. I’ve heard they might bite—[Walls of the Elemental Palace]!”
She threw up her arms, and walls of magic blazed upwards, forming pens for the undead to move into. Toren’s jaw dropped. Maviola breathed.
“That’s paltry magic?”
“To one who knows neither great spells of war nor grand workings? I merely passed a school of magic to receive my title of ‘Magus’. But it seems the world has waned.”
Majori laughed, embarrassed by the praise, then swung Maviola around.
“And you are a delight, death’s child! Such a beautiful girl. Would you like another treat? I used to make them for all manner of servants—a toffee?”
“A what? You can make snacks?”
There went Maviola like a shot. Falamizural trailed after her as someone else approached.
“This be the warrior I heard of? A proper adventurer indeed!”
Toren saw a bloom of silvery hair, like a bush standing on end, before the young Stitch-man bowed. He seemed nervous and repeated the bow three times.
“I am the unworthy warrior who has also pledged my loyalty to She Who Rules, sir. I beg your indulgence, for I am merely a ghost saved by Her Will, and we are all alive at Her Convenience. I hope to regain my levels and to become worthy of—continuation.”
If Majori was worshipful but somewhat content to merely be helpful—and Toren got why she might annoy Nerrhavia if she was one of the best spellcasters here—then he saw why Nerrhavia didn’t care for this ghost either.
He was terrified, even more than Falamizural. The Stitch-boy was only twenty-six years old, which he claimed was the same age of his death. But his class and identity surprised Toren; he had a turban around his head and light, long clothing for braving the desert, with enchanted chainmail underneath and sandals instead of shoes.
“I am no hero worthy of Her Service, great warrior. Merely, I am Silver-rank [Adventurer], Wetar, who was once known as Wetar the Sandscrosser, for I worked in the Zeikhal. As you see me, I have no weapons a tenth as wondrous as yours.”
His only weapon was, in fact, a long staff capped with some metal at both ends. It was an unenchanted stick. The Silver-ranker bowed again, and Toren wondered why he felt like Wetar…was more dangerous than he appeared.
No ordinary ghosts had reached Az’kerash and escaped the Seamwalkers. The Necromancer had remarked they were all powerful by this age’s standards. But Silver-rank was Silver-rank. Toren shook Wetar’s hands, and the young man practically bowed himself away.
Wetar, Majori…and he saw a number of [Mages] clustered around the spell circle they were drawing up. It looked like there were two dozen ghosts, tops—which explained why Nerrhavia wanted all the undead.
Deimos waved a hand as Toren turned to him and then tried to look professional as the Draugr stomped over, visibly trembling, raring for a fight. Both quailed as Astival walked forward, inspecting them.
“Present the finest undead under your command. We shall see if they can keep up with basic movement.”
What that meant, Toren had no idea—until he saw the [Sadivictus] raise his sword and demonstrate. He had the new Drake, Kalnis, spar against him—or rather, a trio of Ghouls armed with a sword.
Kalnis was high-level and should have taken the Ghouls to pieces in seconds; his sword swings were insanely sharp, and Toren decided he could learn from this Drake. But Astival just raised his hand—and the Ghouls attacked in tandem, swinging their blades as fast as Kalnis!
“[Puppet Army]. These are still substandard to my full range of movement. Very well, Her Majesty has indicated I must be light on the troops.”
What he meant was that when he took command of their actions, the Ghouls moved and attacked so fast they were tearing apart their own muscles. Toren saw one of their arms rip and winced as the muscles tore as it struck at Kalnis.
Lots of high-levels here. Whomever they were up against was going to have a bad time, but it made Toren wonder—what were they doing? He had some reservations about this morning. The Rafaema thing hadn’t been cool.
However, Maviola had the exact opposite impression. She had two toffees in her hand, glowing a pale green, and offered one to him, one to Healing Slime. When neither one wanted it, she stuffed both into her mouth and gazed adoringly at Nerrhavia’s tent.
“She’s so cool, Toren.”
Maviola loved all of it. Toren? He felt something beating against his chest, a painful thudding of his heart.
…No, wait, that was just Healing Slime. He pulled the slime out, and it cuddled him. Toren thought to himself.
Nerrhavia was a considerate boss, you know. She’d checked his reaction to the entire ‘binding a soul’ thing, and when she saw he didn’t like it, she adjusted. She wasn’t like Erin, who made you do things her way or she got mad.
She was like a better Erin. An Erin who had all the foresight, poise, levels, and none of the silliness or morality, but who kept the ability Erin had to make things happen. Why, the only thing Erin did better was sing…and Toren was pretty sure Nerrhavia could sing better if she wanted to.
Erin. Toren’s eye flames dimmed as he thought of her. He shook his head. She’d been a bad employer. A worse mother…if he or she had ever thought of her like that. Nerrhavia was so much better.
She just—
Made people cry. Not always visibly like Rafaema, but Toren thought that was part of who the Immortal Tyrant was. If Erin made you weep with heartfelt emotion sometimes, knives of feeling stabbing, Nerrhavia was different. She sat upon a throne that leaked tears of blood. Of gratitude, despair; they were a byproduct of her will, tears of the soul squeezed out onto dry, midnight sands.
He’d never get a better employer. Toren walked over to the tent where Nerrhavia was deigning to reside and heard Rafaema’s trembling voice from within. He pushed open the tent flaps, standing there as Nerrhavia spoke.
Again, not really listening to her. Thinking as he held Healing Slime in his hands.
He wasn’t going to get a better boss than Nerrhavia. Seriously, where did you go from here? The Demon King? For a down-on-his-luck skeleton, there wasn’t a better employer.
In this economy? He turned his head, and he could see Deimos giving him a wink with one eye in his new body, leading the undead around. Toren, we’ve made it! Look at this gig!
Toren waved weakly, then squared his shoulders and tried to appear professional. He wished he’d polished his armor better. A tie. Erin always said ties were professional, and suits.
He had no idea what they were, but he could get one. Yes, everything was splendid. His boss cared about him, got him levels, respected his will…
But his heart hurt. No, wait, not him.
Healing Slime again.
 
——
 
When Toren knocked on Nerrhavia’s tent, she bade him enter. Healing Slime was afraid, and squirmed, wanting to flee his grip.
Rafaema stood before Nerrhavia, who sat at a desk she was using to organize paperwork, which she had already accumulated a lot of. The Dragon, her scales jet black with whatever effect was on her, was crying.
So was the Healing Slime.
It was a gentle creature, and it saw Nerrhavia and didn’t just fear her…
It was crying too. Little droplets of rainbows as it saw Rafaema standing in front of Nerrhavia, who was reclining in a chair. Healing Slime missed their old boss.
Doren.
Doren wasn’t like Nerrhavia. He didn’t know what to do. He didn’t pay well. He had no confidence, no vision, and he would work at Cormeng’s until he retired or died.
If Toren could have chosen, he’d have worked for Doren instead of Nerrhavia.
The Immortal Tyrant’s head turned slightly, and she broke off from whatever she was saying with a frown. Toren tried to keep his thoughts quieter. Don’t be stupid! Don’t mess this up or he’d get fired again!
Fired. Like that time he’d fought Erin to the death. Or run away from Az’kerash. Or beaten up Doren’s aunt. At least one of those times he’d thought he was doing the right thing, but the skeleton was a failure. A nobody. He wasn’t a former [Innkeeper], he was just some undead with levels made by a silly, low-level [Necromancer] as an experiment.
The only good thing he had in this life was Healing Slime, his Relics, and his levels. He couldn’t lose a job like this. Not with his prospects.
Certainly not—quit.
Quit? Hah, he knew that was the one thing he could never do. Not to Nerrhavia. You couldn’t—just like Erin—and Az’kerash, really.
He couldn’t quit his job…right? Even if she sucked.
 
——
 
“—last member to join my army. I expected the moment to occur before now, but—”
Nerrhavia broke off speaking again, and her head turned back to Toren. She narrowed her eyes, as if trying to hear something really quiet she didn’t like. The skeleton was playing with Healing Slime before he put the creature down, and it zipped away from Nerrhavia. She wasn’t sure what to do with the slime other than empower it. Creatures without brains were less interesting to her; she had entertained menageries of horrors, but more like pets. People were far better pets.
The Dragon child especially. She paused a second, though, as Toren walked forward and began to play with objects on her desk. It truly was an arrogant skeleton.
A puzzle, in some sense. She had formulated its personality, put it into her plans, and it had served just as she intended. Few beings ever surprised Nerrhavia; that was why she was so successful and often bored. She played on a board against few opponents with pieces that almost always moved as she wanted.
“Skeleton, attend. Stand here.”
He snapped to attention and stood back, next to her. Nerrhavia eyed him as he came closer. Now it was easier for her to hear his thoughts; it was a difficult trick, even for her to pull off, to hear the voice of things. Sometimes, he seemed like an entertaining pawn, like a better Astival. Others, a bit of chaos, an unpredictable wild card. But right now, she had a flicker of uncertainty.
There were only a few people who had ever slipped out of her predictions so much they surprised her. Erin Solstice? Yes, she’d been entertaining, but Nerrhavia would always remember and honor one name. For her deeds, for her nature as ally and enemy.
