Year 24, Month 1, Day 3 
 
Hard work meant something to Barnethei. He’d been a boy, fourteen years old and tiny as could be, when he’d first reached The Adventurer’s Haven—run by a retired [Wizard] and Named-rank adventurer—and begged for the free piece of bread and a job.
A raggedy kid with no prospects sitting in a magical inn as the [Innkeeper] looked him up and down, a short, black-skinned woman who didn’t seem like a former Named-rank, asking him where he’d come from and why he wanted to work for her.
She’d given him a day’s work, clearly expecting to send him on his way with a bit of money as charity. And he’d known it—you couldn’t just get a job at an inn like this, especially if she had magical familiars who could clean almost as good as a person. So he’d obsessively cleaned each table, under them, watched the places the familiars were missing; she’d found him after closing, still scrubbing away.
Hard work had gotten him the job and his first real class. From that day, for the next twenty years, Barnethei had worked hard, and it had paid off.
Not fast, not all the time. Twenty years was an age, but at 34 years old, Barnethei was now a Level 42 [Vice Innkeeper of Spells]. Level 42—forty levels in twenty years. From nothing but a runaway kid to the face of Izril’s most famous and prosperous inn. He talked to nobility daily, he’d met more Named-ranks than most Adventurer’s Guild [Guildmasters] had, he’d entertained monarchs in the inn, and he was about to start his own inn with Larra’s blessing.
That’s why Barnethei valued hard work, you see. Hard work made things happen. It was also, incidentally, why he hated The Wandering Inn. Oh, he was sure they worked hard, but you had to compare his life, twenty years of backbreaking effort to reach his level, to…her.
Erin Solstice, who, if the rumors were true, had passed his level in two years flat. Which was impossible, it had to be. Or if it was true…it wasn’t fair, and he hated it. He didn’t hate her or even her inn, really, though it wasn’t up to his standards.
He hated the idea of her inn. The entire way it operated with that off-the-cuff chaos, the lack of organization, the spirited amateurishness of it all. Barnethei liked having the plan, executing the plan, and watching it all go according to said plan. His inn would have everything set. Staff, supplies, location, entertainment—the works.
He’d been prepping for this day for the last four years, and now it was coming true. Not as he’d thought, an inn around Invrisil or in one of the Walled Cities; somewhere even better.
The New Lands. Truly new lands, and he was poised to open an inn that would make both his and Larracel’s fortunes skyrocket. After all, if you could place an inn in an area that would become a major crossroads and establish yourself as the premier spot for adventurers and the important to mingle, then you’d monopolize the region.
That was the dream. He’d hit Level 50 before the age of 40, and Larra would have enough to retire on and bring all her friends into retirement with her, the Named-ranks she cared about. Then he might be managing two inns or a network of Havens, and from there? Four, five top-level inns across Izril? You’d pull so much gold and influence in you could do anything. Start a full guild for [Innkeepers], hire or buy out all the inns across Izril, upscale even more.
Barnethei was honestly hazy about the future past his own inn being a success. He liked the concrete goal there; he’d worry about the future after a decade of making this the best place he could be. He was going to work hard, and that paid off. Hard work = success. His equation for life.
The problem was…at some point, he had realized that his boss, his beloved prickly, magical Larra, known as Larracel the Haven, the Level 50 [Innkeeper]/[Wizard] hybrid—she didn’t believe in hard work.
 
——
 
Or rather, Larracel believed hard work was something that mattered and other people should do. She was willing to do it, but she didn’t see it as the key to success. What did she believe in?
Well—
“I wish we’d taken that child with us from Liscor. The less-cute one.”
Several months had passed since they’d left Liscor, and The Adventurer’s Haven was still floating south. Floating…the inn floated, every section of it on huge, enchanted platforms, the bases pulled by oxen.
It was a sight; the inn would lower or throw down ladders or [Light Bridge] spells to let people climb up, and they’d see glowing imp-creatures flitting about, carrying food, inhale the scent of fresh bread, and feel the [Dome of Warmth] spells drying them out from the snow and cold outside, and they’d realize they were here. The Adventurer’s Haven.
Beautiful, grand, with a staff of very attractive people dressed in bright, professional clothing—shinecloth dyed blue—who could do any job to the highest level. The Haven had multiple bars, a farm, dedicated rooms that even nobility called luxurious, massive kitchens—and every visitor got a free basket of bread. Everything you could want.
The real magic was deeper inside the inn, like the Seat of Best Angles or Larracel’s enchanted workshops where you could design your own spells—a great delight to amateur magic-users. The inn was a wonder, and right now—the only fun thing for miles around.
It was raining. Raining and turning the snow to slush. Which wasn’t a problem in the inn; it was shielded, but the oxen weren’t the most happy with it. Also—it just got you down, seeing all the mud and rain.
Six days of rain straight had Larra bring up that odd comment. Barnethei stopped writing up an entertainment list for today and glanced over. Work was a bit light right now; almost all the nobility had left after Pallass. All their usual highbrow clients didn’t want to stay in Drake lands, and this was it.
Which wasn’t to say the inn was empty, far from it. Moving down the trade roads, they still got a lot of business. People would slow, stare up at the inn, then abandon their plans and visit, but they weren’t high spenders.
High spenders were how the Haven made lots of money. Drake nobility or their equivalents were Barnethei’s targets, but they didn’t know the Haven, and he didn’t have time to advertise, so he wasn’t putting on exclusive events for them. They’d open the inner bar up, let everyone have a taste of the real magic, and just rake in quantity over quality.
…The rain didn’t help, though. Everyone was indoors and didn’t want to trek out to the Haven, magical spells or not. Barnethei was smiling, keeping the mood high, but Larracel was glowering at the rain.
“One more day of this and I’m casting [Clear Skies], consequences be damned.”
“Ah—Larracel. The Drakes have laws about that kind of thing, remember? We might run into trouble if they catch you doing it.”
That didn’t improve her mood. The south had all kinds of tedious regulations and laws that the Haven kept running into. Permit for a magical building? Permit for a caravan convoy weighing over 20,000 pounds on a trade road? Permit for oxen?
It was annoying, and Barnethei got why Larra had never really made the Haven go from north to south, Bloodfields aside. There was a certain…delight in being pedantic that Drakes could develop. But he greased the wheels with charm and explanations—no gold; bribes might make things worse—and called on favors to get them going.
Larracel hated it, of course. She was obsessed with gold and profits, because her dream was to retire so rich she could convince her adventuring friends to go with her and stop risking dying on the job, which was how 96% of Named-rankers died. That was a fact, actually. Almost none of them did what Larracel had done and stepped away. They kept going until they died on a job.
Colthei, Deniusth, Eldertuin, Mihaela, Viecel, Valeterisa—she sort of counted—they were Larracel’s family, and each one was mad as a loon. You loved them, but they were all self-destructive narcissists as far as Barnethei was concerned. To get them to retire and stop risking their lives, you’d have to have a fortune. Hence all this…
Larracel kept glowering at the rain, and he feared she’d cast [Clear Skies] anyways—but instead, the [Wizard] just pulled out a wand. It was alabaster white, made with some kind of very pale stone, and heavier than it appeared. It had Unicorn hair inside.
Named-rank gear.
“Larra—boss—”
She ignored him and fired a single arrow of magic straight up. People on the roads flinched as a crystal clear arrow, only visible as a thin outline like translucent glass, flashed upwards. It looked like it was made of glass; it cut a clear path through the air above, and the rain parted down the road. Then she fired two more such arrows, one behind them and one straight up.
Barnethei gazed upwards, and he was too used to her magic to have his mouth drop open—but the sight of the rains peeling away from the veil of air, like someone had pulled the rainy skies apart like a curtain—well, it still took his breath away.
“I haven’t seen you use that one before.”
The [Vice Innkeeper of Spells] pulled out a spellbook and rifled through it. She shot him a sardonic glare.
“Copy it if you want. It’s not very useful. [Glassveil Arrows]. It leaves a trail behind it or just clears the air in an arc. In this case, it’s [Glassveil Arrows] mixed with a simple [Canopy of Air] spell.”
Ah, so she shot the arrows out and they spread her spell like a net and anchored the spell up there. It saved her from having to remotely tether the spell, which was a huge mana cost, or fly up to get into position.
Clever. Top-tier [Wizard] magic, that. Barnethei fussed with his spellbook, then bit a lip.
“It’s a nice trick. I’ll drop, eh, [Fireball] and put those arrows in. I have a few canopy spells.”
She snorted at that.
“[Fireball]? You’re dropping [Fireball]?”
“It burns too much and explodes. I’m not in the combat game, and it’s not suitable for entertainment.”
She shook her head, appalled.
“How many spells can you copy from me with your class?”
It always affronted her that he’d learned magic just from being her best employee. The [Vice Innkeeper of Spells] snapped his spellbook closed.
“Twenty-one. Half my level. Well, I say ‘twenty-one’, but it’s twenty-one slots. Tier 4 spells take two slots these days, Tier 5 takes four…”
“Yes, yes, spare me. Slots. You have such ridiculous magical rules. You could just study it, you know. No slots. Just this.”
She tapped the side of her head, and Barnethei grinned.
“I’ve done that until my eyes crossed, Larracel. This is good enough.”
He still had to memorize each spell and commit them to memory, but his Skill, [Spellbook of Wizardly Acumen], let him learn and use spells despite being an [Innkeeper]. Larracel rolled her eyes as she inspected her handiwork.
The umbrella of clear skies certainly made everyone perk up, and more people started coming their way, if only to ask about what had happened. Free advertisement; Larracel knew the job.
Larracel was still mad.
“The less-cute girl would have done fine here. Especially if we could have gotten her mother.”
“Er…which one? You mean from The Wandering Inn?”
“Yes! She had luck powers, didn’t she? We could use some of that. I hope this is just a bad patch and we get some luck for the New Lands. A bad hand and we’ll have wasted all this coin and opportunity.”
Oh, there she went again. Barnethei sighed. Luck.
“Not everything’s an adventure, Larracel.”
She put her boot on the ledge of the 2nd floor of the main inn, peering across the landscape like a [Captain] of a very odd ship. She was wearing a maid’s outfit; she liked to pretend Barnethei was the [Innkeeper] and she was just an old woman, hired help. It let her sneak around and make judgement calls. He wondered how she’d do when he left and she had to become the face of the inn again.
“If you talk about hard work, Barnethei, I’ll leave. It’s all luck. Either you walk into Liscor’s dungeon of shit or you find out this is Chalence like Orchestra did. No hard work did that.”
“Except the hard work that got them into the position where they could clear it.”
Everyone knew Deniusth the Violinist and his team’s famous conquering of Chalence, where they’d pulled so much loot out they’d become minor nobility and been set for life. Well, they’d spent the money like water, but they were still extraordinarily rich. Larracel snorted.
“And luck gave them the shot! It’s all luck. Not a single Named-rank will ever tell you they got to where they were because of ‘hard work’.”
He bit his tongue on a reply. Instead, Barnethei changed tacks and checked a notebook with names and notes in it. He organized and wrote down everything; she’d taught him how to write and how to keep ledgers. She was much like a mother as well as a boss—and that meant he loved her and quarrelled with her twice as much.
“Mrsha or Nanette? Mrsha’s the Gnoll girl, the Doombringer. No, wait, Doombearer. Nanette’s the little witch. Mrsha’s the less-cute one?”
“Ah, yes. Her. I’m thinking we should have taken her and the [Princess] instead of that Ishkr one. [Princesses] would be trouble, but they often bring interesting events around. And luck’s very useful. She’s the less cute one, though. I hate food thieves. That little witch? Adorable.”
Of course Larracel had a soft spot for girls with pointy hats. Barnethei closed the notebook as he saw the first group of Drakes waving up at the inn. He strode smartly over, waving his own wand and conjuring a [Light Bridge].
“Well, luck can wait until the New Lands. Any word from Deniusth? Colth?”
Then he saw Larracel’s shoulders hunch and wished he hadn’t asked. She glanced at the sky, and so did he.
That image of the Horns of Hammerad riding across Izril’s horizon was still burned into his eyes. That—that was real adventuring, the first he’d seen in a decade. Colth, the youngest lad of Larracel’s group, truly cementing his name as a Named-rank.
Glorious…until they’d seen the battle at sea and heard the Horns had gone down fighting. Erin Solstice killing a [Prince] of Erribathe. Madness.
Larracel whispered.
“Nothing. Not from Deni—but they said the New Lands make [Scrying] hard. He could have [Messaged] me—but he must be hunting the Gold and Silver-rankers with Albez’s relics. Colth…nothing.”
“I’m sure he’s fine. If anyone—”
“Yes.”
She didn’t want to talk about it and turned away. Her face closed off, and he knew she wouldn’t be fit to help with entertainment. Larracel the Haven had seen too many friends die, adventurers, to play the game of ‘I’m sure’. She stood there as he strode off to work, hoping something would arrive to distract her.
