Certainly, his little adventures explained the Haven’s absence for the last few months. Nerrhavia turned the page and snorted lightly as she read what had happened to him next. Entirely amusing for her; she enjoyed suffering.
She wondered if he was still alive and placed a little bet, but she couldn’t spend all her time having fun, sadly. Nerrhavia bookmarked that report for reading later.
At this point in time, it was far more pleasant to read of a man like Barnethei than current events, which included the fallout from what Nerrhavia had termed the ‘Palace of Fates incident’.
When she picked up the numerous reports from various [Spies] and [Informants], her smile faded. Because of the things in life Nerrhavia hated, a lack of information or uncertain intelligence was close to the top.
Liscor. The Wandering Inn. Mrsha?
She couldn’t even confirm that third piece, only that she suspected the girl, and Chieftain Rags, had been far more central to the events therein than most people guessed. And Nerrhavia was establishing that based almost entirely on instinct.
She had a bunch of folders of documents she’d organized, because the [Spymasters] she had paid were incompetent, and little crystal chits attached to some documents. She tapped one now, and a recording of the inn played. Someone at a table—the Drowned Man spy? He had a very good view of Mrsha and her little stunt where she intimidated the spies and revealed one of the Calanferian agents in front of the entire inn.
Nerrhavia paused the recording, picked up another image of Mrsha the day before, and glanced at it. Then she overlaid the two girls—before activating two more images, of Chieftain Rags and the odd Goblin [Strategist] who’d appeared on a broadcast of the news.
I require a spymaster capable of filling this role. The fact that Nerrhavia was one nearly unsurpassed didn’t change the fact that she needed one. Nevertheless, Nerrhavia made a single observation that she doubted many others in this world had caught.
“These two children are not the same.”
She touched the thin Mrsha as she compared the first against her. One could not lose that much weight in a day, and their demeanors were subtly different. She wished she had more recordings, or more comprehensive ones that could have delivered smell or their auras for her to see. Alas, magic of this era…she tsked.
“Whereas…this is the same Goblin. Again, different people, but the same Goblin.”
She flicked a finger at the two Ragses. Just like the two Mrshas were different but were the same person, the mannerisms, the way their faces were composed, even how they shifted and moved all read the same to the Immortal Tyrant, who had studied people inside and out for thousands of years.
But how and what? She spoke, irritable.
“Astival, find me every instance of all four. Subtly. Put the Drowned Man on the job.”
“What about the [Informant], ah, Bloody Secrets? You had some praise for her, Great One—”
Astival, her somewhat useful servant, inquired, and if he were not needed now, Nerrhavia would have had him lashed she was in such a bad temper. Her tone was biting.
“That is Fierre val Lischelle Drakle. My praise was for her discretion in selling what information she could without compromising her alliances. The Vampiress will not give away anything useful.”
“Of course, Immortal Tyrant.”
Nerrhavia sat back, putting her cup aside and pinching the bridge of her nose with her fingers. She didn’t like this.
The Palace of Fates. That was a single phrase, snatched from a passing comment from one of the staff in the inn—the Goblin Asgra to Inkpaper the Hobgoblin. She doubted anyone would put the significance she did on a Goblin’s words or read into it on the level Nerrhavia was doing.
It chilled her blood. An experience she did not like. Because it suggested a Skill of a magnitude she herself would acknowledge.
“The Goblin King.”
At this, even Astival looked up from his work, and the rest of the carriage shifted. In the case of the purple-eyed skeleton, with interest. Others, with nerves or simply—confusion.
His appearance is out-of-place. The Goblin Lord and her Skills—that of Earth I glimpsed in the Gnoll’s Skill. Time, then. Time and fate, which is natural, but how can any Skill appear of that magnitude?
Erin Solstice’s inn. The connection…
She’d never run into that particular Legacy Skill—the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Nerrhavia had never needed it, and she suspected little sanctuary could be had in her kingdom that she did not will. However…she employed a number of lines of reason.
Erin Solstice was possessed of knowledge of ghosts, even Gnomes. Her ability to break this system of classes and levels could not be discounted. Mrsha, a Doombearer, doubly so with luck. Yes…she was piecing together an image of the Skill.
“Erin’s Skill. The mnemonic is obvious. [Garden of Sanctuary]. [Palace of Fates]. That is the link. By which means was it enabled? Unclear. Almost worth taking this coach up north, but I have not the time nor inclination at this moment.”
Also—it was dangerous. And she did not enjoy danger or unpredictability, which the inn was at this moment.
If it was not abundantly clear, Nerrhavia hated not knowing what was going on. So her eyes flashed as she lowered her fingers and exhaled.
“The inn continues to exceed even my expectations. First it crashes the world gold economy, now this.”
She had, of course, identified Lyonette du Marquin as the culprit behind that particular incident already. Another fascinating ability—the confidence in the value of gold coins had decreased before the value itself fell.
It would almost be worthwhile to take the inn and those within and make them my loyal servants. There is a wealth of potential in each, despite the time it might take to shape them.
However—she didn’t like the unpredictability, nor the defenders of the inn, like the Dragon, and it would make Erin Solstice an enemy of hers. Later, perhaps. Today, it was merely a headache that Nerrhavia was sorting through as she rode south on her own tasks.
She actually picked up the report on Barnethei’s inn and read it for a few more pages to relax. Then put the report down.
This huge agitation in the Immortal Tyrant did not go unnoticed in her servants. Rarely had they seen her this restless, even when at war with great foes. She would betray nothing, posing and giving the impression she pleased to her courts and enemies. Even if this was a carriage where she was surrounded by her people—
High-level Skills were one thing. Goblin Kings were one thing. Mortemdefieir Titans crawling out of mountains and Dragonlords? All of them were actually events that would make Nerrhavia smile, because they represented opportunities for her.
She’d never tried to make a Goblin King a servant, but Dragonlords and Draconic Warriors would make for excellent champions, even if it took work to ensure they were sufficiently motivated to obedience.
No, what Nerrhavia really didn’t like, what was actually unsettling her and tied into this event, was a feeling she was being…pranked.
Made fun of.
She couldn’t tell if she would be more disturbed if this was genuine or mockery. But either way…Nerrhavia’s lips moved.
“Contract fulfilled.”
Falamizural shivered, and Astival glanced up from his work as Nerrhavia uttered words that had spelled the doom of nations. Yet she hadn’t issued any contract of late. There was only one extant one that would qualify, and it had slipped her mind.
It could not be. And yet…
Was she being told this as a warning? Or was it indeed a kind of mockery from the system of levels and classes, which she believed had a personality, capricious and careful as it was?
She was so suspicious that she’d been thinking it over for the last week in great paranoia, but she had to conclude it was genuine.
Thusly…Nerrhavia spoke.
“So she is dead twice then. Or three times? Twice—always better to suspect an enemy yet lives. It is passingly obvious that one has three lives; four I would have said, as a hidden aspect unveiled herself, until I realized her lack of subterfuge. How? Why?”
Her fingers drummed harder on the armrest of the carriage until those within shifted uncomfortably. A rumbling had begun that felt like they were jolting over stones or uneven terrain repeatedly.
But this was The Unmarked Coach, and it never experienced rough terrain—ever. After a minute, a breathless voice begged.
“I-Immortal Tyrant. Please. Your fingers.”
“Hm? Ah.”
Nerrhavia stopped drumming her fingers, and the rumbling halted. The skeleton stared at her, and her eyes narrowed. She forced her body to cease displaying emotions, then decided to take it at face value.
“So it is done. Let us then operate…hm. Yes. Such a rare chance it may be, as one like unto catching a meteor as it falls into one’s hand. But if this is such a moment, I should be remiss not to take it.”
Then she smiled, and her head rose. Nerrhavia rested her chin against four fingers pressed together and thought. Everyone watched, uncomprehending.
This was the weirdest first day on the job for the skeleton it had ever had, but it was game to listen. Nerrhavia spoke, eyes closed.
“How death has waned my creativity. Nay, I was already lacking it at my end. Suffering. It is so much more difficult without the tools of my old empire.”
The way she said that one word made the Garuda, Falamizural, flinch and begin shaking so badly that the [Lady] put an uncertain hand on her shoulder. Maviola patted the Garuda’s wing-arms; Nerrhavia glanced at the Garuda almost indulgently.
“Fear not, Falamizural. I would not be so crass as to copy your punishment. Nor would it be appropriately severe…”
She sat back, folding her arms, seeming genuinely concerned, as if she couldn’t rise to the occasion. Nerrhavia frowned.
“But how would one…? For a being such as that—yes, this is quite entertaining as a puzzle. One must sew while the thread kisses needle, though.”
She sighed dismally, glancing around as if searching for inspiration. So few tools, such lackluster results…she turned her head as if embarrassed to even ask.
“Astival. Do you have any particular sexual fetishes of a depraved nature?”
Almost hopefully, the Immortal Tyrant turned to him, and everyone’s head snaked around to the man. The Puppetmaster General of the Immortal Tyrant’s legions, Astival, one of her most loyal servants to ever live—hesitated one second.
Which went to show how much he didn’t want to answer the question. Then he replied with a deep bow.
“None so depraved as to merit note, Great One.”
“Any at all?”
“…Exceptionally large bosoms, Your Immortal Majesty.”
Falamizural’s beak opened, but Nerrhavia waved it off.
“I feared as much. It would be passingly clichéd of me, anyways.”
Then she stopped and glanced back at Astival. Much like someone who knew this didn’t matter, but had to indulge her curiosity, she gestured with her hands.
“As so?”
His face was straight, and he stared out the window. Nerrhavia spread her hands.
“No?”
Her hands kept moving apart until the skeleton’s jaw dropped and Astival spoke.
“Around there, Great One. Naturally produced, not sewn or enhanced.”
“I see. I believe I recalled seeing that once.”
Nerrhavia’s face didn’t move. Everyone else in the carriage—including Karsaeu—was staring at Astival, who wore a faint smile on his face. The Immortal Tyrant thought about it.
“That could work. But no, no—we must elevate this. Alas.”
She snapped her fingers, and a bright red quill tipped with black ink appeared in her hands. The black stain of ink flitted across the air, which writhed as if it were being stained by original sin itself. Everyone, including Astival, leaned back. Nerrhavia murmured as she dictated.
“To the wretched foe…besmirched of her nature, last of the three…who has taken her own life upon my will and command in full recognition of her worthless life…”
She glanced up and spoke almost defensively.
“This is, of course, written to her level of understanding and that I am too pressed to compose a proper missive.”
No one spoke. Nerrhavia went back to writing.
“…my list of titles here, [Fill Pertinent Information]…shall throw themselves into my service and be protected, though thou are unworthy. Thy service shall be one of complete obedience with neither malice nor treachery, Djinni clause of loyalty, [Again, Again, and Ever Again], [Fill Pertinent Information]…the first of three penances.”
Three was very appropriate. That gave her plenty of breathing room. After some thought, Nerrhavia tasted the tip of her quill, and smiled at its flavor, before writing.
“—such as the marriage to my servant, Astival, and the proper adherence to his personal standard of bodily beauty. Thou shalt kneel and beg when this is the last scrap of hope before the end, last of the Three-in-One.”
Then she decided to sign the document as Astival, her ever-loyal general of horrors, gave Nerrhavia a very uneasy look as he finally realized to whom she was sending this contract.
Nerrhavia wrote her name with a flourish, flicked her fingers, and sent the contract out. She sat back and chuckled to herself.
“Great One, you have forced even Dragonlords to kneel at your feet, and bound [Archmages] to your will like dolls dancing upon a child’s string. But is that likely to succeed? Even for your might…that one?”
Astival breathed. Nerrhavia smiled indulgently at him.
“It is unlikely, but it appears one such offer was fulfilled in some spirit. I give it no more odds than if I were to put out my hand and a cat fall into it from the sky.”
She put her hand out to demonstrate, and everyone stared at it—even Karsaeu gazed up. Nerrhavia murmured.
“Not inconceivable. If that hour should come, Astival, I have laid a plan, as ever. I did this not because I wish it or even deem it likely; I owe that one, of all, a true grudge. However—”
Her lips curved upwards.
“It shall be endlessly amusing if it is accepted. You may get your wish.”
The Puppetmaster Sadivictus stared at the Immortal Tyrant with a look of mingled respect, adoration, and horror, which, if you really got down to it, was typical of all her time ruling. He bowed slightly. Nerrhavia decided that was enough of current events.
Back to business.
 
——
 
“The New Lands. Puppetmaster Sadivictus Astival, amuse me. What are the New Lands, in your mind?”
Three servants sat with her at any given moment. There were others whom Nerrhavia would acknowledge when they had value, other ghosts saved from the Lands of the Dead. But only three were principal pieces.
Corregrione, the [Traveller] who had once visited her lands.
Astival, her ever-loyal [Puppetmaster Sadivictus].
Falamizural, [She Who Summons Victory], an old foe humbled.
