He’d been warded by a superior spellcaster, she claimed, possibly even the Death of Magic herself, but that made no sense to Barnethei either. However, the result had been Larra’s inability to see that Colth was actually in one piece until this moment. And seeing was believing.
She’d had a [Scrying] spell aimed at Colth all month long, and been telling Barnethei quite often that it wasn’t locking on, but the fact it was activating meant he wasn’t dead.
She glowered at the image on the television of the Horns diving towards the [Slavers], as if resenting the fact that regular [Mages] could see him when, apparently, anti-scrying spells were still working on the duo. She rolled her eyes as Ceria dropped off the carpet, throwing ice magic as she fell.
“Typical. He just had to join the one team without sense or experience. Chandrar. They’re not going to be easy on the Horns, and Colth hates Chandrar. I can’t say I enjoyed it much myself. The sunburn.”
She shuddered, having apparently once been so badly sunburned that even a healing potion hadn’t saved her entirely. She glared again at the image.
“Making enemies of a nation like that. At least his team has his back. They’re decently crazy.”
Decently crazy. That was the kind of compliment Larra almost never gave. Then the woman swung around pretended she wasn’t relieved and began harassing Navien about whether she was prepped for the new job.
No one bought it. In fact, Barnethei had a clever idea. [Vice Innkeeper] he might be, but he still had all the powers of an [Innkeeper]. He knew for a fact that Larracel had been busy, even while on the move, using one of their new powers.
“Larra, do we have a list of active <Quests>?”
“On the board over there, Barnethei. No one’s done more than the gathering one.”
She scowled at him. So the [Vice Innkeeper] strode over to a new board, much like that of an Adventurer’s Guild, and read. Unlike Erin Solstice’s <Quests>, Larra was far less public about hers; she’d post them in the middle of the night with a Mana Familiar. And they were formatted differently, which Barnethei hadn’t known you could do.
Style, he supposed.
 
<Basic Quest — Flora Samples #1>
Time: 10 days on acceptance.
Type: Gathering.
Client: The Adventurer’s Haven.
Reward: 8 gold pieces with bonuses for exceptional results.
Difficulty: Level 20+. Remain vigilant in this area.
Region: New Lands outskirts.
Objective: Collect up to 15 samples of different flora unique to the New Lands. Plants indigenous to the rest of Izril unwanted. Each sample must consist of (5) mostly intact plant samples, roots included.
Conditions: Adventures, beware of poison or hazardous seeds or spores, monsters during the course of gathering, infectious disease, or pernicious insects. Consult an almanac to ensure the plant is indeed unique. Failure to collect an exceptionally rare or unique plant sample in the required amounts may be compensated for by a [Mage Picture]. Also, transcribe locations of where each species is found.
Failure: Delivery of ordinary plants native to Izril, delivery of toxic, infected, or otherwise dangerous plant samples. Excessive damage to samples.
Additional Notes: This is a gathering request open to all adventurers, not a Silver-rank dedicated <Quest>. The Adventurer’s Haven or an Adventurer’s Guild will accept the delivery of items, though a fee will be deducted for the cost of a City Runner delivering samples to the Adventurer’s Haven. Wear gloves when touching all samples, and wash them thoroughly.
 
<Basic Quest — Map Cartography #3>
Time: 60 days as of 24/1/20.
Type: Cartography, exploration.
Client: The Adventurer’s Haven. Adventurer’s guild.
Reward: 40 gold pieces upon confirmation and truth spell delivery, escalating rewards up to 600 gold pieces for detail of map. Each new location is eligible for a bounty. First come, first paid.
Difficulty: Level 20+. Remain vigilant in this area.
Region…
 
She’d been posting a lot of <Quests>, essentially doing the job of an Adventurer’s Guild, but Barnethei could skip past the numerous low-level <Quests> to the ones only Larracel could post.
Namely—<Rare Quests> and he suspected <Heroic Quests>, but he hadn’t seen her do them yet. Certainly nothing like <Mythical Quest> or higher…whether or not Larra was even capable of issuing one, it wasn’t something she did lightly. That was a sore point given the fact they all knew Erin could do better.
 
<Rare Quest — Locate Orchestra>
<Rare Quest — Confirm ‘Landshark’ Threat>
<Rare Quest — Maird’s Massacre needs a [Ranger]>
 
Quests like that. Barnethei didn’t miss that the first quest on the board was to find Deniusth and his team. However, Larra cared about all adventurers—she just wasn’t honest about her feelings.
On the pretext of checking the quests to see if any adventurer had accepted them or completed any, Barnethei slipped a bit of paper up onto the board. He winked at Roreen, who came over to see what he’d written, then gave him a smile.
 
<Rare Quest — Colthei, Call Larra!>
 
He supposed it had to be ‘rare’ given how busy Colth was, and Barnethei hid it under another <Quest>. He didn’t actually expect it to work, but less than half-an-hour later, Larra broke off from talking about how the Horns of Hammerad were too well-connected to be assassinated, and that Roshal had troubles of its own, too many to go after them, and raised a finger to her temple.
“Colth’s [Messaged] me. One moment—”
She floated away, and Barnethei high-fived the other senior members of staff and poured himself another drink. He tried to look innocent a minute later when she poked her head back into the room. Pointedly, Larra strode over to the bulletin board and found the quest involving Colth and yanked it off the list.
“He’s a busy adventurer, and he’s fine. It’s not his fault if it slips his mind to check in.”
“Of course, Larra. I was just trying out my <Quests>. I’m amazed it reached him, to be honest.”
She glared at him, but then her lips quirked.
“Apparently, he and Pisces were sailing a reanimated ghost ship for a month. He was worried about pursuers after all, and in Medain, he was fleeing before he got involved in a war.”
“What’s his excuse in Jecrass?”
Barnethei was smiling hugely. Everyone liked Colthei. His nickname of Colth the Virgin and all the jokes that got told at his expense by the older adventurers and Mihaela were just the group’s dynamic. In truth, he was probably the Haven’s most popular adventurer with the staff, the young star who had yet to fully shine. He was helpful, positive, and not a pain like the others—only Larra still saw a Bronze-rank rookie to be mothered.
She rolled her eyes, but again, couldn’t help but chuckle, shaking her head.
“Keeping Pisces from jumping into bed with the Arbiter Queen, apparently.”
“What?”
Navien was delighted, and they pestered Larra for details, which she shared. Barnethei was highly skeptical that Pisces had gotten that far, but she was fairly convinced Colth was telling the truth.
“He doesn’t exaggerate that kind of thing. Plus, I had to do the same thing with Deniusth back in the day. Pulling him out of an El [Lady]’s bed before her brother had us all strung up—dead gods. Though Eld was actually worse of the two. No one suspects him, and he was all broad-shouldered [Farmer] charm—”
It was a convivial way, an appropriate way to spend their final day, celebrating Colth’s survival and then seeing a huge river come into view. Barnethei’s spirits were high, despite some of the tribulations getting this far. If Colth could go on a continent-spanning adventure, then it was his turn. And setting up the new inn? Well, it wasn’t hard once you found a spot.
 
——
 
The Explorer’s Haven was an actual building, already made and ready to go. It had a bunch of lovely magical enchantments; they’d been storing it in one of the warehouses.
Like a magical building spell, the idea had been to plop it down. An inn, already made! Well…Barnethei gazed up at the sign as Navien and a few of his staff began hammering the letters into place.
The Explorer’s Haven. But all the magic of the glowing building would soon vanish. It wasn’t nearly as amazing as the Haven; it was about half as big as The Wandering Inn from the outside. Plenty of room to expand; there were doors that would let him put down a new area to customize it as he needed, in theory.
Larracel stood, surveying the spot he’d picked. The only option he had, really.
Barnethei had picked his spot along the big river that came down from the hills in the north. He’d elected to put it against a hill rather than on top; it was a very small hill that wouldn’t have even fit the entire inn if he wanted to put it there, and it gave them shelter from the wind. It also made the inn harder to spot, which he didn’t like, but she’d convinced him to do it.
“One less approach means monsters can’t flank you. I want you to put up walls first, Barnethei. Big ones, and a watchtower. You’ll need security.”
“We’ve got bows, wands, and thick walls already, Larra.”
He protested mildly, watching as Navien began setting up what would be the staff’s quarters, hauling out what seemed like a miniature doll’s house and stepping back as it expanded and grew. Larracel pursed her lips.
“You don’t have to do this. This doesn’t feel like the lucky break I wanted.”
“On the contrary, this is perfect. It might not be much, but we’ll get it going within a week. You just direct everyone you meet to us—and don’t forget to come back after that week!”
That was the plan. The Haven would act as a mobile base. It would move along the New Lands’ outskirts, just outside of the mana drain zone, warning people, acting as a magical attraction and gathering news. Then it would roll towards the Explorer’s Haven, refilling the mana wells or dropping off supplies and collecting coin and their own news.
“It won’t be every week. If we head further south, it might be two; someone said they thought Deni was south. Your well lasts two without you charging it up. I’ll be back in one week for now, but then I’ll range further afield.”
“Deal. I guess…this is it. Thank you, Larra.”
He held out a hand as he stood back, heart pounding, and regarded his new inn. Larra eyed him, then hugged him hard. The short [Wizard] glared up at him.
“[Message] me if there’s trouble, Barnethei. Don’t be stubborn. The Haven can be rebuilt. I’ve done it more times than I can count. Lives can’t.”
He smiled down at her as he made shooing motions.
“Just try to be personable without me, Larra. We’ll be fine.”
He stood with two dozen employees, waving, as the Haven turned, and he felt that flutter of trepidation in his stomach. But then Barnethei rolled up his sleeves.
“Alright, let’s get to work! Are those outhouses ready, Navien? We need to dig the latrines first. Then some scouting things out, walls, and I want our farmlands planted and ready to go! If, by chance, we run into customers, we’ll play it from there, but let’s assume we’ve got time.”
They cheered, and he broke out a bottle of wine that night in high spirits as he took one of their horses to ride around, staring at the local sites. This was better than he’d thought; not only was there a forest across the river, but potential guests would have a good, flat area to spot the inn from. There was some quite promising-looking canyons he could see in the southwest and, if his eyes didn’t deceive him, a veritable field of something-or-other to the north.
The first day of the Explorer’s Haven’s grand opening was excellent. At that time, Barnethei didn’t realize the ground was salted, or that the ‘forest’ was filled with the bats that had attacked his inn. And giant raccoons.
At first, it went very well. He ran into eighteen different groups by the time Larracel came back, and he’d hit Level 43. And she’d made contact with Goisedall.
 
——
 
There were three [Innkeepers] in Izril that mattered. Three whose actions were worth monitoring, who might influence events to come, who had made themselves pieces on the board of the world’s stage.
Erin Solstice, Larracel Delais, and not-Barnethei.
Barnethei Levout. Oh, how he amused Nerrhavia. She kept tabs on his little enterprise purely for amusement’s sake and because he would influence Larracel. She had a month’s worth of his antics she was reading from, starting with the Adventurer Haven’s entry into the New Lands. This was unto a novella for the Immortal Tyrant, far more entertaining than mere fiction.
Nerrhavia sipped from a cup of grape juice as she sat in The Unmarked Carriage, reading several reports on paper—such a nuisance, having to read paper—a smile on her face as she occasionally plucked a date and ate it.
Even for her, the novelty of taste hadn’t worn off. After being a ghost for so long, she savored her new body, a Stitch-woman’s vessel. Not nearly as good as her old body, despite Perril Chandler’s work, and not worth losing ten of her levels for.
However, a delight in many ways. The reports were from her network of people, who in turn had hired [Informants] and set up the beginnings of a spy network. Rudimentary, really, but she had hijacked other, pre-existing groups, added the security and methodology she knew to be superior, and set them to work.
It was quite enjoyable, you see, to be destitute, without empire or armies, and have only a handful of her old followers, rebuilding her strength while no one knew she was here. Rather like…playing a game the second time, only you had almost all your levels and knowledge of the past, and few people even knew you were alive.
The grape juice looked like wine, but Nerrhavia never drank wine while actually working. When she had been a lowly [Clerk] moving her way up in that kingdom she had usurped, she’d observed how it addled the brain, even if the imbibers felt more confident. She preferred sharpness, so she had kept the habit. Unless she had tonics to grant immunity to alcohol, she would go without.
The [Vice Innkeeper]’s entire life was easy to read. A runaway who had been from a poor couple of [Tailors] in a town when the Haven passed by. An [Innkeeper] in time, who had set his parents up with his wealth and become enmeshed in Larracel’s life. Now trying to break free, make his mark—but as perhaps he and she were unconsciously aware, not quite there.
He had levels, but he was a [Vice Innkeeper]. Larracel was the magic; he was the cupholder with dregs of who she was. He was attempting to capitalize on the New Lands, which meant he had basic instincts. No…vision.
