Each one useful. Each one substandard to what she required, and they knew it. Astival had served her to the end, but he hadn’t ever been more than a Level 55 [Sadivictus]. A term from her time, that. Language she had invented and the system of levels had accepted—‘[General]’ was a good equivalent, but his role encompassed more positions such as steward of lands, royal attendant, and so on. Loyalty was Astival’s one asset, and now he’d lost ten levels.
Corregrione was far better, as was Falamizural—but neither one had loyalty. Falamizural was in theory a powerful Garuda who had been a good foe, but she was broken now. She flinched even when Nerrhavia’s eyes passed over her, and Corregrione’s dedication was purely out of convenience.
Still, they were her tools, so Astival sat up and bowed. They were dancing attendance to her in the coach, and each one was waiting for her next command. Though now and then, they did stare at Astival and the skeleton was still trying to measure out something with his hands, clearly wondering if a body could support that much mass. Astival ignored the looks as he pondered.
“The New Lands…a trap, Great One?”
“Banal. Oh, you amuse me, Astival. I can just hear my courts echoing the sentiment now. A trap. From the Archmage Kishkeria to the world of non-Gnolls?”
“That is all my fragile insight can elucidate, Tyrant.”
A deeper bow until he almost put his head on the table. The skeleton, lady, and slime sitting across from him stared at the [General], then Nerrhavia. She didn’t acknowledge them, but knew they were listening. Nerrhavia balanced all things around her in her calculus.
“That implies the last act of some of the greatest Gnolls—a trio—was to spitefully make these New Lands as miserable as possible for the living. The living, whom they wished to warn and arm against the dead gods. No. But then, you have no knowledge of minerals. No understanding of the sea. Nor magic. You are such a limited man, Astival.”
The Stitch-man knelt before her, beaming at all the insults.
“I am merely the blade to cut as you direct, Tyrant. I regret I have no greater function, but a tool knows what it is.”
She pursed her lips and turned her head to the skeleton then, Toren.
“So you see. He reached Level 55 with that mindset. Ambition may have let him rise to 60, for you were ambitious, Astival. But he never had the sheer desire that set him apart in ways that would make him invaluable to me. Wise, for many such I have had to slay when they desired my throne. Pitiful, for I expect more. It is my role, though, to use him well. Because he knows I shall, he serves unto death and past it.”
Toren’s head tilted, and his jaw opened and closed, but the skeleton made no sound. She was not surprised; he had not deigned to speak to her the entire time he was in the Necromancer’s castle. She had seen him often, and the skeleton was as familiar to her as few others by sheer proximity.
He was, of course, worth the trip and wait to find him, though she truly had not anticipated the shop coming into play again. A delightful error. The game was not fun without such randomness.
“Falamizural. Do you know why I took the skeleton into my service?”
The Garuda flinched. She spoke huskily, hating Nerrhavia as she stared at her feet and shook like a fly trapped in a web.
“Because he—and that other one, the lady—can level. They are masterful creations of [Necromancers]. Few would serve you, and if I guess, you think he has this character you value in so many.”
Nerrhavia sighed and put down her papers. She pinched at the bridge of her nose.
“Betimes my head aches. You could have saved your breath, then, to speak what need not even be mentioned.”
Banal. Obvious. She sighed louder, then explained.
“An anecdote so you understand. This skeleton has a voice.”
Everyone turned to look at Toren, and he fidgeted. The Healing Slime was in his chest, and he cared for the little thing. Which was also amusing. Nerrhavia’s eyes flickered over the slime, and it trembled; Toren held his hands protectively over his ribs. He seemed to be questioning his decision to serve her, which was also predicted. Loyalty in a valuable piece. She whispered.
“He was given a voice by the Necromancer of Terandria. Not once in the months I was in his company, not before Belavierr nor myself, did the skeleton deign to speak. To him, we are, all of us, unworthy. He only spoke once, in a moment that was worthy of his voice. That is character, Astival.”
“Would you wish him to speak, Great One?”
Astival eyed Toren, and Nerrhavia lifted a finger.
“If I wish it, he shall sing. If I wish it, it be done. To work.”
She broke off her musings and picked up a second report, reading it while speaking. Her eyes flicked up, and Toren’s purple gaze was confused.
The last important [Innkeeper] was a dead man. His bones sat there, but no one had ever asked who he was.
Until Nerrhavia, of course.
 
——
 
It was not arduous to find someone who knew the answers he sought. Corregrione the Traveller walked into Liscor and spoke. First to a Gnoll he bought a hamburger from, then to the Silverfang’s camps in the third district—yurt huts rather than buildings—then to a Drake who directed him to the Adventurer’s Guild only for the [Guildmaster] to inform him that Tekshia Shivertail was dead, and onto a street of pubs where some old Drakes and Gnolls sat, an empty seat among them.
They were old and sad—but they had seen friends and family go and not broken with it, and he was old too. And good at listening. Walking and talking was not hard for him. Corregrione had an easy way about him and drew people into conversation as his ears flicked up and he sipped a cup of tea.
“Hmm. This is fine tea, traveller. What’s that you wanted to ask?”
“The [Innkeeper].”
A Drake with scars who’d served in Liscor’s original army before retiring blinked a few times, and one of the female Drakes snapped trembling fingers.
“Oh, him. Not the new one. Anyone remember the name?”
“B…B…no. When did he die?”
“Must have been over ten years back. Poor man. The Necromancer—”
“Ah.”
Everyone fell silent, and Corregrione peered over his cup. The rain was falling on an awning overhead, and he loved the patter of sound, the heat from the liquid running down his throat.
“A tragedy. I heard of the siege, of course.”
He had studied the history of this world’s present era. It was a delight to him, learning all that had passed. A delight, a heartache…so different. This is what he was good at, of course, travelling, understanding. He was relieved Nerrhavia gave him tasks so in line with what he did.
He was her greatest spy because he was no spy. Just someone who asked questions. The Drakes and Gnolls conferred, then painted the picture he wrote down for her. Why it mattered, Corregrione didn’t know, but Nerrhavia did. Who you had been—mattered.
“I knew him. A big man. He came striding into Liscor one day, asking for some Shield Spider glue because he wanted to see if it was better than nails. Then announced he was building an inn in a village—that’s where it was, you know. Not all the way in the corner of the Floodplains. They were rebuilding after the First Antinium Wars, weren’t they?”
“Yes, it was smashed—but back then, people were more willing to live outside the walls. Wasn’t he a Gold-rank adventurer?”
Corregrione’s ears perked up, but the female Drake shook her head vigorously.
“No, no! Don’t tell lies—he was just—good at things.”
“Good at things?”
The [Traveller] blinked, and she clarified.
“Building, fighting, dancing—just talented. You know, someone who can pick up a task in a few minutes and do it better than most? A big man with a big personality. I think he even knew magic; he did some rune writing, you know.”
“Fascinating. Much like the [Magical Innkeeper] now, then?”
The Drake veteran chuckled.
“Far less obnoxious. He ran his inn, paid his taxes, and that was all there was to it. A Human before the Crazy Human. How did you know of him, perchance?”
Corregrione lifted his wet travelling hat.
“I had heard it from a relative who came here way back, but he thought The Wandering Inn was run by the man’s daughter. Not the same?”
“Oh, no. He died, poor man. The Necromancer’s plagues ran through the area, and…well, the entire village was condemned. Until the Human—the Crazy Human, excuse me, the new girl—came along, no one went there.”
The group quieted down and grew somber. Corregrione asked, but it wasn’t a very interesting story. Plague had come before the Necromancer’s armies advanced.
“He refused to leave the inn. I think he was taking care of some people too sick to move; they wouldn’t have been let through the gates. Poor fellow.”
“So I see, yes. Did he have any relatives?”
The Gnoll was jotting down notes, and he paused, quill raised, as they gazed at each other.
“None I knew of. But as I say, few people still around would have known him too well.”
Corregrione nodded. He closed the book, thanked them for their time, and exchanged some gossip. He didn’t know what to make of it. A man who’d been good with his hands, a minor spellcaster…why did it matter? Well, the man had become a skeleton. And it seemed that warranted Nerrhavia investigating his background.
The Gnoll was watching some Antinium march past him when he received orders. He read from the enchanted notebook and grunted. He had to catch up to her, far south. At least she would be making several stops, but he had a long way to travel.
So he went—after one small detour. It was harder to get to the hill a roughly forty-minute walk outside of Liscor, especially because it was raining and there were no bridges there. The walk wasn’t hard—he could take it at a stroll, even over water. Getting there unnoticed…
It was all rubble and debris. He had to dig down to find what she wanted, tossing stones aside, sighing as the water covered the pit, but then he found what it was and brought it with him.
A piece of the inn’s foundation, a stone brick that had been part of the inn. As large a piece of wood as he could find. She’d asked him for that cupboard piece if it were around, but there was no chance of finding that in this decayed spot.
He wondered what it was for.
 
——
 
Toren, Job-Hunter.
Toren the Vengeful One.
Toren, Employee #1 of Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop.
In Service to the Immortal Tyrant: Toren.
 
Look, he wasn’t stupid. He knew that working for Nerrhavia was risky. She was Bad News. She was BAD NEWS. She was, in fact, BAD NEWS, and that might be underselling it a bit.
—However, after Doren, he was all broken up inside. He didn’t know what to do, and there were perks to working for an Immortal Tyrant. For one thing, she was smart.
Unlike Doren, she knew exactly what she wanted, and she was actually very reasonable and adaptable. She didn’t say, ‘Toren, go shovel snow’ with vague instructions. Nor did she give him overly-wordy diatribes he had to laboriously carry out. Short, sweet, efficient.
And very practical! Nerrhavia was building up forces. Materials, both in persons and resources, so her first job to Toren, ironically, was to become a recruiter and do a sort of inverse loop of his original trip with Maviola.
Hey, hey! My friend! How are you doing?
He actually smiled when he caught up to the enterprising band of seventy-some undead, and the Skeleton Lich’s jaw dropped when he saw Toren hop out of a carriage. They stopped moving forwards on the attack, and the two nodded at each other.
The Lich had gotten busy after Toren had met him. He’d absorbed a bunch of Eater Goats into the pack—at cost since they’d taken down some of his undead—and had been making a push into Gargoyle territory for some prime undead Ghouls. Toren sidled over, indicating the carriage.
He had a job opportunity here. It didn’t pay well, but heh, you know, what did in this economy? But the boss was quite good at what they all valued—y’know, killing things. You’d get as many corpses as you could kill, no unpaid leave, and fascinating vistas.
The Skeleton Lich considered the offer, floating off the ground, eyes glowing bright blue, and lifted the remains of a staff. It made a curious gesture at the carriage.
Toren vouching for the job meant a lot, really. The employer, though…living things. It wasn’t discrimination! Just—you know—they had a mandate, and not killing everything living was a hard sell to the team.
Toren convinced the Lich to approach the carriage alone, and the door swung open a second. A very amused Immortal Tyrant flicked a date at the Lich, who recoiled, as Astival got out. Toren expected that to go bad—but then the wave of death magic made his eye flames turn into a miniature inferno.
He and the Lich recoiled, and then the undead behind them knelt instantly. The [Puppetmaster Sadivictus]’s face seemed to become skeletal, suddenly, and far more handsome—Toren gazed at the Immortal Tyrant, who spoke in a voice in their heads.
<SERVE ME AND I SHALL LET YOU WITNESS DEATH OF WHICH EVEN THE UNDEAD DO NOT DREAM OF.>
She…was no [Necromancer], but she had authority over death. The Lich floated backwards, then looked at Toren. It knelt, and Toren let out a metaphorical breath.
Sometimes, it was nice working for a cool boss.
 
——
 
For the first few days, Nerrhavia had the Unmarked Coach stop at undead spots where he’d been trying to find work, gathering up some of the undead she wanted. She was actually very picky.
“No Crypt Lords. Mark down where this Crypt King drew its den. That it has advanced into a full Command is paltry significance.”
No Crypt Lords? Those were common leadership-type undead. Toren tilted his head, and she seemed to know what he was saying. Perhaps it was her time as a ghost, perhaps it was just—her. Falamizural and Astival couldn’t understand him. Nerrhavia smiled, amused.
“They are insubordinate, not half as intelligent as I desire, and their greater forms even more so. Primarily, however…I simply detest their appearance and behavior.”
The lumbering Crypt Lords were pretty ungainly, come to think of it, and they liked that hodgepodge look you got from stuffing a bunch of eyeballs into one spot. Toren thought this was a great point; they were always trying to push other undead around. Even back in the dungeon, they’d been always trying to usurp his authority Skills.
“The Lich—hah!—the Skeleton Magus and its ilk will do. Find me more of that sort.”
