Toren didn’t do anything. The skeleton folded his arms and looked good. Nerrhavia, again, totally understood what was going on.
“Who are you? How’d you lose Ferris?”
“I am Nerrhavia, Rafaema of Manus. The Immortal Tyrant reborn. I have come to make an offer to the last Dragon of Manus, lightning’s child.”
Toren was glancing around for an [Alchemist]’s store to buy snacks for Healing Slime, wondering if he could run into Doren’s shop here. His head cracked around at ‘Dragon’.
What, really? He’d thought they’d look cooler. But Rafaema freaked out. She drew a sword, and Astival and Kalnis parried her blade. She opened her mouth, and Nerrhavia made a motion; it clicked shut.
“I don’t know how you found out, but one shout from me and Luciva and the entire city will—h-how did you even get in here?”
To that, the Immortal Tyrant smiled and brandished something. A scroll—a contract. Toren hadn’t gotten one when he started working; he supposed she was behind on paperwork. But she had a lot of very old paperwork…
“Your city once warred for me, girl. I hold it, like Zeres, within my hand. Pallass…amusingly, one of the newest cities becomes a stronger obstacle than the famous City of War. City of War. Manus? I was a student of history, and that student knew that in my time, they had pivoted from being the ever-fickle mercenaries in service to the true city of warfare, Lesegoth. They didn’t dare claim that title, then. I could crack this half-made Walled City if I chose.”
Rafaema wasn’t exactly oozing confidence so far, but the contract made her grow pale.
“That’s a lie. That’s just—no contract could endure that long.”
At this, Nerrhavia seemed even more amused, if ruefully.
“I never made plans in case of my death. Truly—that the contract is still quite useful in evading Manus’ detection and wrath is merely because I anticipated losing power or needing to walk here undetected, and they were poor at reading. However, my great enemies took it in their heads to preserve all the contracts I once made. Power is power—but they were useless without my authority. It is so very funny to think they were hoping to one day suborn the clauses to their own ends…and left me with all my weapons.”
Astival laughed in that ominous way that Toren felt was cheesy, but it was apparently genuine, so Nerrhavia only waved him to silence after a moment. Then…Rafaema was holding the hilt of her sword.
“Whatever you think you can get from me—”
“Girl, you do not even know what I am offering.”
“I know better than to take it! Do you think I’ve never heard of the Spider?”
“Belavierr? She was a friend, confidant—but ever-capricious and greedy. Between the two of us, girl. Who do you think was the more powerful? Whose favor do you think was truly worth more? She offered legendary magic at great price. I gave it away as I willed. That is what it means to be Tyrant. Gloriously hated, terribly loved.”
Oh, Toren got it now! Rafaema was like a fly in a web, even if that was apparently more of a Belavierr thing.
A Dragon in a web? Oooh. No, wait, a dragonfly in a web. Heh.
Nerrhavia’s head twitched left slightly, and her nose wrinkled up as she suppressed what might have been a laugh? Toren was so busy laughing at his own joke he missed the half-glower she shot him. Astival’s head cricked back and forth, amazed and envious.
Anyways, the point was Rafaema was in trouble. She knew this was a trap, knew Nerrhavia wanted something, but once you started talking, you were losing, because Nerrhavia won in anything that involved words. He wondered how you dealt with that. Probably by punching first.
Threats, assurances from Nerrhavia—Toren sort of got why she got bored. He was adjusting his head as he saw her eyes flicking amusement his way.
Yes, indeed. It is trivial, isn’t it?
He jumped and stood straighter, then heard Nerrhavia speaking to Rafaema again.
“I can restore your wing, child. That is what I offer.”
Ooh. Toren peered at the stump of a wing on Rafaema’s back. She stuttered.
“I—I was told that it wasn’t possible. Even—”
“The Dragonlord of Flames knows how it may be done. He just does not wish to pay the cost. Whereas I? I have troves of knowledge even he lacks. Come, let us talk. The price of service shall not be onerous.”
“Hah! Luciva will tear up the continent to find me. Even if I agreed—which I wouldn’t, because that’s insane—I could never do it!”
The Dragon’s voice was wobbly, but she clung to what Toren suspected was going to be bad logic. Nerrhavia’s eyes twinkled at him again.
“And if I told you that you would never leave Manus? That I would not take you from your duties nor endanger you in any way?”
“I won’t betray—”
“I have no interest in Manus, this failing City of War. I merely require your service.”
Rafaema didn’t get what Nerrhavia meant, and neither did Toren, but he bet something horrific was going to happen. He eyed Rafaema as she tossed her head back.
“Why me? Get him if you’re so interested, or a Named-rank.”
“I wish for a Dragon. Despite your many weaknesses, there is something about a Dragon, one that I can control, that is effective. If I wished for a capable servant, I would have my pick. This is in your favor, girl. I shall make you far stronger. As it stands—you would be one of the weakest of my servants. Even Toren here far surpasses you.”
Oh? Toren’s head rose, and Rafaema glared at him, taking in Toren at last.
“Him? What’s so sp—”
Nerrhavia told Toren to deactivate his illusions, and the Lightning Dragon jerked back in horror. Then Nerrhavia informed Toren why he was here, and he brightened up.
“Toren. Humble the Dragon-child for me.”
Well now. He decided working for Nerrhavia really did mean you weren’t bored a day in your life.
 
——
 
Psychologically, Toren supposed there was something really upsetting about losing to a skeleton that appeared mundane. Nerrhavia told him to take off his relics before the fight and do something annoying, so he did some stretches before putting his gear back on.
They threw down outside of Manus, in the woods. How they got out without the [Guards] recognizing Rafaema or her absence raising all the alarms, he didn’t know. Not his job.
His job?
Punch the Dragon in the face. Which was actually—pretty tough!
She was quick and fought first in her Drake form, then in her Dragon one. She wasn’t a big Dragon; he was sort of disappointed by that. But wow—
Her tail slapped him into some trees, and the skeleton tumbled down as she opened her mouth and exhaled lightning at him. He reappeared on a tree branch behind her, but she was already swinging around, her mismatched eyes wide.
—She was good.
Not as good as he was, though. The [Relic Guardian] lifted a shield.
[Empower Artifact]—gotcha. His shield tore the air apart with a shriek as the lightning hit it, diffusing the energy. The bang blinded Rafaema, and before she could recover, he activated his sword.
The anti-light sword projected a long beam of a blade, and he sliced down with it as he leapt at her.
Nerrhavia slapped him out of the air, and Toren hit the ground as Rafeama dodged.
“Unharmed, Toren.”
“He can’t cut—”
Rafaema backed away from the glowing blade as Toren got up, sighing. He sheathed the sword, which made her madder; she drew breath, and he belched flames from his Wyvern helmet. She was so enraged she came through the flames, snarling.
He punched her in the jaw.
Gauntlets of Giant’s Strength said it all, really. The skeleton got a shot from her claw to his armor, but she cracked a claw on his enchanted breastplate, and then he activated his greaves. Heavy as stone—he stopped her charge, saw her snarling, panting at him—
He flipped her. Then, while she was rolling, he blinked to her side and kicked her in the stomach as hard as he could. She threw up.
 
——
 
Healing Slime rolled over to Rafaema as Toren put a boot on her back. She was lying on the ground, bruised and beaten up, and he’d cracked a lot of bones, but he felt like he’d been beating up a kid.
Entertaining, but sort of embarrassing, in short. Nerrhavia had already thrown her off mentally, and seeing his skeletal body had meant he’d gotten a lot of good shots in before she started fighting tactically. Without the ability to fly, he was way faster than she was with his boots.
Toren was inspecting his right hand and his pinkie. He felt like he’d damaged them punching her in the nose. No…it had been like that ever since Scotty. Actually…he pulled off his gauntlet as Nerrhavia laughed.
“A skeleton who slays Dragons! ‘Twould be better to let him finish the job and become a [Dragonslayer] than to seek her aid, if I truly wished for strength alone.”
He could do that? Toren glanced down at the Dragon, but any thoughts of getting a snazzy new class faded.
She was crying. Big tears were rolling from her face, and she covered her eyes with a claw as he hopped off her. Toren backed away.
Great, now he felt like a bad guy. Just because he was serving the Immortal Tyrant, didn’t, uh…
Kalnis was just staring at Rafaema, stunned by the revelation of her nature. He seemed like he was realizing just what he’d gotten into, but here they were. Stuck.
Toren gathered up Healing Slime in his arms as Nerrhavia went in for the metaphorical kill. She had a contract and assurances in hand. Toren didn’t pay attention to the conversation; he was understanding something.
The Healing Slime was poking at his right hand, and Toren flexed it. They were just his bones; Az’kerash had left him as he was, without major alterations, though he’d taken Nekhret’s bones. Toren could mend cracks or even fuse broken bones together with [Limited Regeneration], but he’d always been fragile without armor. Still…
Was he getting sick? Healing Slime poked at the bright, pale bones on his right hand. It had just been his pinkie, and now it was his entire arm! They felt…magical.
He was worried he was coming down with something. He had no idea what was changing his bones like this! Erin was his former master, but they were quits. And Pisces…
Was that scruffy [Necromancer] up to something? Toren only glanced up when Rafaema began screaming. She was in an ominous-looking circle, and it seemed like black sludge was rising upwards…no, draining out of her? Nerrhavia was getting in the Unmarked Coach, and Toren realized they were done.
He hurried after her, then turned. Rafaema lay there, panting, as the light show finished, and she didn’t have a new wing…nor was she coming with them? Toren pointed at her, then at the coach, and Nerrhavia appeared genuinely amused.
“You truly weren’t paying attention, were you? Come, we’re bound for the New Lands. The closer we get to the southern coast, the easier it will be.”
He scratched at his head. Could…someone get him up to speed? Anyone?
No one said a word as Toren sat back. He heard the Dragon sobbing behind him as they left.
That hurt, and it was hard to forget.
 
[Relic Guardian Level 34!]
[Skill – Lightning Punch obtained!]
 
——
 
It took them a day to get to the New Lands, or rather, a camp where several former ghosts had set up. They were preparing a gigantic spell circle, and when Nerrhavia’s party arrived, Toren got two surprises.
One: they weren’t actually staying in the New Lands. Nerrhavia was done with it. Or rather…
“We have what we need for now. I would rather claim the bounty of it than expend the effort. I trust you gathered enough for our purposes?”
“With great ease, Your Majesty. The amount of seith—! Would it not be better to remain here?”
“Seith is a tool. I crave an empire. Fuel the teleportation spell. Astival, you shall prepare for the last of my champions. Toren, with me. You shall keep me company until the final piece is in place, whereupon we shall all depart.”
She was sending a lot of them, including all the undead he’d gathered, somewhere else. Chandrar. Toren watched everyone getting ready with the big summoning circle and heard Astival talking.
“Sixty thousand more [Slaves]—ah, freed ones—shall be awaiting us. While I am away, you shall attend to Her Majesty’s every will.”
He was lecturing Kalnis, who wore that shell-shocked expression of someone who was in deep and saw no way out. But Kalnis was loyal; whatever Nerrhavia had done, he’d gotten a new class and seemed at peace with his decision. Selling your soul for your honor, your reputation.
…Rafaema was the second surprise. She was there, sitting with her knees hunched up, looking fully traumatized. Well, he thought it was her.
Her scales were black, and she was in her Drake form at the moment. She was shivering, and after he poked her a few times, she bit his hand and spat out his bones.
“I can taste. I can—”
“Of course you can. Did you think I wanted merely your likeness? You shall grow used to it.”
Nerrhavia laughed as Rafaema sat there. The Dragon’s voice was plaintive.
“What have I done? What—”
“You desired power. To embrace the heritage that Manus pushes you towards and keeps you from. I have known Dragons. I shall use you as I will. And you shall have your wish.”
Nerrhavia lifted Rafaema’s chin up, and the Dragon flinched away from her. That…really was Nerrhavia, Toren realized.
He, Deimos (the Warlock Bonelord whom Toren had named), Astival, Rafaema, all of them were pawns upon Nerrhavia’s board. She knew them. She’d use them. Perhaps, if they were unlucky, they would be pieces she didn’t need, and she’d sacrifice them, but waste nothing.
If he stuck with her, she’d upgrade him. Make him truly powerful. In fact, she’d told him that was why Corregrione had investigated his past.
She was having a ritual circle made to ‘bind his past life into him’, via the objects the Gnoll had picked up. Nerrhavia turned away from Rafaema, who was crying again, to explain.
“When an undead is created, the life they had is ripped asunder, a ghost. If the ghost can seize the body, it remains, a Revenant or merely a haunted spirit. Otherwise, it passes beyond. Something…changed, and undead have been all that remain. Imprints of the self. Belavierr was ever a master of using both the undeath and ghost. Now, it seems the order of the afterlife has been restored. I have heard tell of ghosts in the New Lands. Perhaps more shall rise, though it makes sense why they linger there. The undead fare poorly there.”
He glanced at the circle. So…what was that for?
“You are not the dead [Innkeeper]. A copied fragment broke off when he died. That echo became you, Toren. But binding the past soul into your bones will grant you some of his powers. Assuming the soul exists. The odds…mm. I shall take them.”
