Merindue, the 2nd ruler of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and one of the rebels who had been part of Nerrhavia’s downfall. She had been a servant of Nerrhavia’s, a capable woman that Nerrhavia had acknowledged as such. Predicted and put into her plans.
I never did understand her. She was one of the first to rebel. 
Nerrhavia shook the thought away; none here were of Merindue’s stature. She fixed her attention on Rafaema as Toren’s purple flames grew brighter.
“I don’t want to do this. I wanted my wing back, but this? You didn’t say I was going to another continent!”
Rafaema was having regrets. Children often did. She’d been manipulated into the contract by pride and her many flaws, but she tested Nerrhavia’s impatience. The Immortal Tyrant spoke; she had a sense Toren had come here for the same reason.
Neither one saw her full plan for the future. Well and fair; Astival and all her other servants did not either, but she decided to illuminate their path for a fair span. She spoke to Toren, ignoring Rafaema; one of them was more important to educate in this moment. The other would learn.
“I require a nation from which to work. My Skills require a nation to function in the fullness of strength. Moreover, there are deeds that can only be done by a great volume of people. Educating and training a force to my liking also requires a population base of size. Hence, it shall be acquired.”
As for why Chandrar? Well, the answer was simple: she had an advantage on her home terrain in more sense than one. She knew the continent, even if it had changed. Most of her old pacts were still there, and most importantly, it wasn’t the center of attention like Izril was at this moment.
So we’re going back to start a new empire just as evil as the old empire?
Toren’s thought displeased Nerrhavia, and her eyes narrowed so much that the Healing Slime oozed and hid behind him, shaking. It slid towards the entrance of the tent and peeked around the corner, but that was an unguarded response, actually.
She wasn’t angry at Toren, who often amused her. Rather, the comment had sparked…Nerrhavia’s voice was a touch defensive.
“It is not a retreading of old ways, for I have sworn to change. Merely that the foundation of any base of power requires the same. If it were the same path I had followed, I would have left the Meeting of Tribes bare of any great enemies, leashing every Chieftain and Gnoll of note that did not bow to me. I have left potential enemies alive and left allies I wish for to their own purposes. I could have made them kneel.”
Her eyes glowed, and Toren nodded slowly. Rafaema whispered.
“Another continent? If Luciva or Teriarch finds out—!”
“You will never be missed. This benefits you, child. Or do you think I came purely for a champion such as you? The last two Dragonchildren of Izril and both are weak. You, at least, I shall begin with. Strength is needed of all species, and I will have yours if I must shave your marrow away to build it myself.”
Nerrhavia was annoyed with Rafaema and reached out and dragged her head back by the neck-spines. The Dragon wanted to tear free; her eyes blazed with fury, but the Immortal Tyrant was overwhelming, so she made a soft sobbing sound.
“I didn’t want this!”
Now she saw an obstacle like morality, an ‘unjust’ war, she balked, as Nerrhavia had known she would. Mercilessly, the Tyrant pressed Rafaema’s face against her desk, like someone disciplining a dog.
“I have no patience for the lies you tell yourself, girl. You did want this. Hence, you agreed. You are no noble warrior, Rafaema of Manus. You pretend to be; I shall strip your illusions of pride away. Do you think a Dragon has some inherent nobility? I shall show you the Dragons I knew. Whether you will it or not, we shall see who you are. Unlike the kindly Pyrelord, I shall hold your eyes open and make you drink deep of the truth.”
Tears again. Manus truly had raised a fragile heroine. The Oteslian Dragon might have been better, but…Nerrhavia saw potential in Rafaema, a young woman. The [Tyrant] listened, wishing to confirm the skeleton’s treasonous thoughts, but Nerrhavia didn’t hear anything.
She frowned, then tapped her foot on the ground rhythmically. She glanced up suspiciously at the tent flaps, then realized—no. It wasn’t coming from outside. Who would play music in the camp?
It was coming from the skeleton. Toren was thinking of a song. It played in his head, a perfect recreation of the music he’d heard once—for you see, he was undead. He never forgets.
“How intriguing. You do amuse me, Toren. I hope some of your personality will rub off on Rafaema. Or else I fear our new Dragon will be a dull champion.”
Unshed tears stood out in Rafaema Manusara Coloseuvia’s eyes, one topaz, the other amethyst. Nerrhavia smiled and heard a distinct thought from her left.
See? Now that—that just sounded evil, nasty, and sort of generic. Do you just say stupid stuff if you became a [Tyrant], or was it an old person thing? Because she was older than a grandmother, whatever they were.
Her eyes narrowed. She turned her head and opened her mouth to upbraid the skeleton.
He slapped her. Nerrhavia’s head snapped left, and she, Rafaema, and Toren were so surprised, they all stared at his Stellar Ivory hand for a moment.
“Skelet—”
He punched her. Nerrhavia was quick, and she had a host of protective spells on her—though nothing like from her old empire—but he was wearing his gauntlets.
The punch caught Nerrhavia and tossed her and her chair out of the tent, tumbling her two dozen times past Falamizural and Maviola, practicing bows, over a zombie that Deimos was trying to put armor onto and—Nerrhavia caught herself on her feet, stumbling.
Rafaema gaped at Toren. He stared at his fist.
Oooh. The skeleton stood there in the silence as he cast around, then glanced at Rafaema. Nerrhavia, the Immortal Tyrant, glared at him as Toren had a sudden thought.
I’ve never quit my job before. Not once. Never quit—even when I had every right to. When I should. 
Nerrhavia had predicted him, his loneliness, his inferiority, his mixed morality—but she hadn’t anticipated a skeleton’s desire to really, really throw in his name card, punch the boss, and walk out that door.
Even in this economy.
Toren grinned, and his eyes blazed like what they were: magical flames.
 
——
 
He came out of the tent in his armor as Astival howled.
“Traitor! Kill the undead who dared to—”
The [Puppetmaster Sadivictus] lunged, thrusting his sword at Toren, and the blade skated off the Skeleton’s armor, which refused to let the magic ignite. Astival gazed into the helmet, and two triumphant eyes blazed purple. Toren grabbed his arm.
Falamizural’s head rose, and Karsaeu, drinking, gazed up as a flying man passed hundreds of feet up, like a bird.
Maviola whispered.
“Toren? What are you—?”
“Skeleton, kneel and I may spare your life.”
Nerrhavia spoke, and Toren paused. The other resurrected ghosts were gazing at him in horror, and Corregrione had retreated into his tents, fur pale. Falamizural—the Garuda wore a mixed expression of awe, delight, and total, pants-wetting terror. She might have soiled herself already, actually.
They were all terrified of Nerrhavia. And he’d—punched—
How many people in any era had ever laid a hand on the Immortal Tyrant, let alone in violence? Toren was shaking in fear and excitement. He knew he was dead—but he raised one fist. The [Relic Guardian] gazed at Nerrhavia and offered the Immortal Tyrant a finger.
Then two. She gazed at his middle fingers and exhaled. And Maviola, the undead girl of flames, saw the skeleton grin.
“Traitor! Slaughter the unloyal!”
The first person to leap at Toren was Wetar, the Silver-rank adventurer. The Stitch-man struck the ground with his staff as he vaulted at Toren, leaping up, and brought the quarterstaff down.
“[Giant’s Mallet]!”
Rafaema and Kalnis were hesitating as they saw Toren facing down a camp of Nerrhavia’s servants. They were waiting to jump in, but they saw the adventurer, the Silver-ranker, drop at Toren, his weapon growing until it cast a shadow on the ground. Then he combined the Skill.
“[Flurry of Blows]—[Combination Skill: Dance of the Titan].”
He started hitting the ground, a flurry of blows that tore dirt up and pounded huge, ten-foot wide depressions in the earth, shaking everything like a minor earthquake. Rafaema’s mouth opened wide as she choked on her Dragonbreath.
Is that what Silver-ranks were like back in the day?
Wetar the Sandcrosser’s combination Skill had allowed him to survive even Jaws of Zeikhal in the Great Desert. The rain of impacts thundered down, but a single figure didn’t move. The skeleton—Wetar’s eyes went round—
Toren caught the quarterstaff as the Skill ended, and his golden armor was gleaming. Adamantium-Truegold, enchanted with indomitability. The ground was pounded flat except a circle where he stood. He hadn’t even moved.
He tossed Wetar, quarterstaff and all, and the air exploded around him. Majori and the other spellcasters turned the air to fire, and the skeleton adjusted his helmet.
Greater Flame Resistance. His head turned, and he caught a blow from Falamizural that did knock him back a step. Her sword—she swung it, and Toren’s [Dangersense] screamed.
Death. He pulled off a glass puzzle hanging from his belt, and the glass warped and activated, layers of intricate, magical glass coming to life. The Garuda’s sword hit what looked like a cube made out of magic—there was a flash, and Toren’s gauntlets absorbed whatever she’d slashed at him into a pocket dimension. She flapped back, sword raised, and he pointed a finger at her.
Unleash. 
Half the camp turned bright as dawn, and the only thing that saved the ghosts and tents was Astival and Falamizural cutting whatever Toren had sent back at them. The [Puppetmaster Sadivictus] whirled his sword up, eyes blazing.
“[Puppet Army: Simultaneous Strike!]”
The undead. They were charging. Toren saw Ghouls holding swords sweeping at him like [Soldiers], the Draugr swinging an arm—his armor rang as arrows pinged off him, and the skeleton grinned.
He leapt into the middle of the undead, ghosts, and warriors, drawing his sword, punching—and they were all coming for him.
Deimos, shouting at his friend, the Draugr, Kalnis—Toren blocked a whirling staff Wetar swung at his head. He slashed the Draugr’s head off, pulled his sword before he could cut Deimos down—
“Skeleton!”
Astival’s stab went through one of Toren’s armpits; the skeleton twisted and headbutted him, then breathed flames all over Astival. Undeterred, the [Sadivictus] slashed across his neck. Toren’s sword glowed bright. He planted it in the ground, and the light went down—and came back up.
A pillar of anti-light burned up everything around him. Deimos flew backwards, ward spells flickering, the Warlock Bonelord falling back. He was a greater undead, but Toren—
My friend? His new co-worker? He saw Toren wink one purple eye at him as he rose, the ghosts falling back despite themselves.
Hey, buddy. Do me a favor?
Deimos listened as Toren put in a request, then realized the Immortal Tyrant was glaring at him. Astival was shouting.
“Surround the skeleton! Take his relics off!”
Deimos lifted a staff, and it glowed with magic. I’m sorry.
He fired one of his best new spells.
[Blackflame Siege Fireball]. Toren’s armor might be weathering all attacks, but the magic was reducing fast. The skeleton grinned at Deimos. He drew a shield and bounced the spell back in Deimos’ face.
The Warlock Bonelord hit a tent and lay there as a pair of giants descended to humble the skeleton.
Whoa—
Then Toren saw a Dragon and a gigantic Djinni—Karsaeu in a giant’s form, like a thundercloud of a woman, a driver holding a cudgel—striding towards him.
Still, Deimos thought Toren was having the time of his life. The skeleton lifted a hand, and Rafaema exhaled as Karsy swung the cudgel at his face. His shield flashed—then overloaded in front of the spell, and the skeleton stumbled. The cudgel swung into his armor, and the Djinni blinked.
“Those gauntlets.”
Toren’s hand caught her cudgel, stopping it effortlessly. She tried to twist back, dropped the cudgel, and stepped behind Rafaema. Too late.
The skeleton’s fist rose, and then he threw a punch.
A giant’s fist punched the Dragon and Djinni head-over heels. Astival and his forces advancing on Toren halted, and the skeleton swung around. The ghosts fled. Astival and the undead did not.
The Gauntlets of Giant’s Hands clapped together, and the only person who survived the shockwave was Astival; undead were smashed to pieces in an instant. Wetar backed up, face pale, and Toren swung around.
His third punch went straight for the fleeing magi—and the woman standing there, narrow-eyed. A fist crossed across three dozen feet, coated in glowing Adamantium writ with Dwarven rune magic, threatening to destroy everything in its way.
Nerrhavia stopped the first with one hand. Toren’s gleeful smile turned to one of concern.
Uh oh. He saw her raise a hand—
 
——
 
The skeleton crashed through two tents, rolling and leaving a trough in the earth. He slammed across the ground, rolled up—
—parried an arrow—he’d lost his helmet—
He blocked a spell that Deimos fired point blank, catching the orb of black magic and a kick from Falamizural. The Garuda wore an expression of delight as he tossed her back. Despite it all, he was still fighting, even as Nerrhavia’s voice rose in true annoyance.
He was laughing. 
The skeleton turned away. He slapped his butt at the Immortal Tyrant. Then he blinked towards her.
Kalnis blocked the sword before it could slash Nerrhavia across the chest. She didn’t move as the skeleton strained, then leapt away. Her face was utterly blank. She saw undead piling onto Toren, go flying—the skeleton swung a Ghoul around like a living shield, laying about him with his sword.
“Stay clear of his sword! It will cut anyone—Dragon, fight! [Formation:—]”
Astival was taking command. He tried to usher Nerrhavia back to safety, but she just watched Toren. He executed a jump-kick and hit a ghost in the nuts for the first time since they’d been resurrected. Then he pointed his sword at her—
Rafaema’s charge knocked him off his feet, and he tried to hold onto his sword, but she bit his arm off. Then he was retreating, activating another artifact at his belt. Rafaema tried to rip the rest of him apart, and walked into the trap-rune.
She turned to stone, and Majori began screaming.
“Petrification spell! Help me dispel—”
Rebellion. A servant defying her will. Nerrhavia felt something foreign building in her chest. It emerged as she sat down in her chair.
Laughter.
