At least Mihaela was still about. He saw her jump out a window of her room, land in a chair on the floor, and put her legs up in one motion. She coughed, her damaged lungs wheezing, then raised her voice.
“Barnethei. Food. I have to run to another Runner’s Guild today.”
The Guildmistress of First Landing was one of those permanent guests who always came by. Larracel’s friends, but Barnethei was glad she was here. He jerked his head at Larracel, and Mihaela glanced up. She stood, vanished—she was so fast he couldn’t track her, just a blur—and promptly ran away.
She came back, dragging Eldertuin the Fortress and Viecel the Mad Gambler and shoved them at Larracel. Which was really classic Mihaela. Barnethei got to work, a smile on his face, as the first Drakes staggered onto the Haven’s floor.
“Welcome to The Adventurer’s Haven!”
He was dressed like a maestro of a theatre or a ringmaster of a menagerie. The [Vice Innkeeper] couldn’t wait for his own inn. He was tired of being second-best, even to Larracel. His own inn.
He couldn’t wait.
 
——
 
Year 24, Month 1, Day 15 — The Haven Reaches the New Lands. Mihaela hops off. Larracel smells a magicless rat.
 
The New Lands were amazing to see. The moment he saw the ridgeline where the new part of the continent had risen, sloping upwards, Barnethei’s heart leapt. Everyone was there to witness it.
All the Named-ranks. Eldertuin, Viecel, even those who weren’t Larracel’s family like Rasen and Teithde, the Champions of the Coast, or Caleis Berkesson, the Favor of the North. They stood along the railings, gazing out and talking. Just—talking in that way that made Barnethei think they were trying to say something memorable, as if they were defining history.
Well, they might. Gold-ranks and Named-ranks had come with the Haven, and this group might define exploration into the New Lands. In fact, one of them was transmitting the moment to Wistram, hoping perhaps to get this on the news.
Barnethei doubted they would; the inn had been watching coverage of ‘explorers setting out into the New Lands’ all month. But even so, this group thought it was important, and they did have expertise.
“Not as mountainous as I feared. Lot of flatlands by the looks of it. Horses will be the thing to cover ground. You’ll have trouble catching us, eh, Eld?”
Teithde, the flashy woman who claimed to be a Wellfar (without proof), was needling Eldertuin lightly. He was a huge man, an actual Terland by virtue of marrying into the family, and covered in armor. He adjusted his huge tower shield as he spoke.
“I think it’ll be better to know where we’re going. I’d love a mountain to climb; we’d be able to mark any spot that seems good. Shame there’s no [Scrying] spells. Then again, we’d all be racing to the first ruins.”
He was so polite, so congenial and friendly even despite his level and rank, that it was hard for anyone to hate him. A rare case of a good-natured Named-rank, so Teithde dropped her elbowing, abashed. She flung her arm around her husband, Rasen. He was a far plainer man; Teithde had blue hair, gold eyes, and looked like a real heroine; Rasen was brown-haired, stocky, and yet the duo were inseparable.
And weird. Larracel didn’t know them as well, and she’d once told Barnethei that Teithde ‘gave her the creeps’. Larracel had good instincts about adventurers, so Barnethei had wondered if Teithde was secretly more dangerous or depraved than she let on. Named-ranks could be, ah…interesting.
“Bet you five fingers we find an artifact worth selling within the month.”
Viecel the Mad Gambler was a Selphid, bouncing up and down in his new Human body. Instantly, Eldertuin slapped his arm.
“Viecel, knock it off. We don’t have more bodies for you!”
“It’s a sure bet, Eld. Doesn’t this make your blood boil? I’m ready to leap down and ride!”
They were raring to go. Teithde nodded as she waved her one good arm; she’d lost the other one to Zeter during the Trial of Blades, but Barnethei hadn’t even noticed her complaining about it. Losing an arm for a Named-rank was disastrous, but she was entirely cheerful.
“I can’t wait for some alone time with Rasen. No offense!”
She blew a kiss at the others, and Rasen sighed.
“We’ll set off after we get a bit closer. Larracel, how far in are we going…?”
“We’ll see. I don’t want to put the Haven at risk. I’ll be warding it well; assume we’ll be along these outskirts if you want to find us. I’ll [Message] everyone with our spot and wherever Barnethei lays his stake. Probably near the edge—unless he finds a good spot closer inland.”
Everyone turned to him, somewhat respectfully. He might not be Named-rank, but he knew them all, and Barnethei wiped suddenly sweaty hands on his coat.
“That’s right. It’s all down to location. I’ll try to find a water source that puts us at the center of traffic, or even a settlement if it’s obvious it’ll be booming in the future.”
Not too far in unless I know there’s a settlement that’s going to work. Somewhere visible, defensible—I have to watch out for monsters—with good arable land for farming.
He had a plan. In fact, Larracel glanced at a warehouse, floating with the Haven, filled to the brim with supplies to set up his stake. Including magical buildings she’d worked on. She nodded at him.
“It’ll take the oxen a moment to climb the ridge. I heard there’s a path past Goisedall, but we don’t need one. [Earthen Ramparts]!”
She cast a spell, and the ground rose to cheers, forming a path up the ridgeline. With magic like that, no wonder the Haven was secure enough to move into the New Lands. Mind you—Larracel was cautious.
“Have everyone arm up, Barnethei. Just in case. Roreen? Break out a cask and give everyone a complimentary shot. Don’t double up; I want clear heads.”
Their [Bartender] got out glasses for the adventurers and people excited to see the New Lands, but many were already planning their exit. In fact, Mihaela turned down the drink as she strolled over, hands in her pockets.
“This is where we’ll part, Larra. I’d like to stay, but I’m not actually an adventurer. I might run to Goisedall, keep kicking the Runner’s Guilds into shape. Head down to Zeres, back up and—if you’re about, I’ll see you before I head north.”
That was her excuse for coming south. Larra turned, and her face fell.
“You don’t want to wait a week?”
Mihaela glanced at the New Lands and coughed.
“No. Otherwise, I’ll go tearing into it, and I can’t. Not in my condition.”
Wrymvr the Deathless had poisoned her during the 2nd Antinium Wars. It meant that one of Izril’s best Couriers couldn’t run long without her lungs betraying her. Mihaela offered Larracel a crooked smile.
“If I get an interesting Courier’s job, maybe. [The Courier’s Last Road] works here, you know.”
“Really. Fascinating. Well, you’ll stay for a final dinner. No arguments!”
Mihaela sighed, but nodded, and Barnethei saw Larracel gazing ahead.
“If you hear where Deniusth is, tell me. He’s too old to be headhunting fellow adventurers. They will fight back.”
“He’s lost it. Cutting up rookies for stealing some artifacts…talk him out of it, would you?”
Mihaela shook her head, and Larracel scowled.
“I intend to if I find him. Eldertuin, Viecel! All of you, tell me if you find Deniusth, understand? Keep in contact! Don’t go haring off and come running to the Haven without so much as a warning if you find trouble!”
“Yes, Larra!”
She got a chorus of amused, fond voices. Some of the younger adventurers seemed annoyed to have a former adventurer lecture them, but even the ones she didn’t know well were respectful.
“I can’t believe she’s bossing us around like she’s still active.”
One Gold-ranking group was grumbling, but Caleis Berkesson, whose entire face was made up of handkerchiefs, a man of cloth, turned and whispered back.
“Be more respectful. You might have forgotten, but she’s not ‘the Haven’ for nothing. If you’ve got a monster pack on your back, her inn’s a true miracle to see. The odds are she’ll be bailing out more than one group in need. She can rain down magic from her inn, so if I were you, I’d treat this like the base you want to have.”
That contextualized the reason the Haven was so valuable to the others, and the adventurers decided to cosy up to Larracel and thank her for her hospitality. Barnethei, though, wondered how much Larracel wanted to risk.
He was the one who’d have a static inn…they were rolling up the ridgeline into the New Lands when Larracel stopped toasting everyone and turned.
“Hm?”
She was truly a master [Wizard], despite her current profession. Moreover, Larracel was highly, highly attuned to how much mana was around her. Because of how hard it was to lift the Haven, she had to regulate the mana she expended; she couldn’t cast nearly as many spells because of all the mana that went to floating the enchanted buildings.
So the moment the Haven began to roll into the New Lands, Larracel noticed something was off.
“The ambient mana levels are decreasing. That’s odd. Or perhaps not; the New Lands might not have any mana. Though I’ve met Drowned Folk, and they always tell me there’s plenty of mana in the water too.”
Every adventurer turned to her, and a few of the [Mages] confirmed Larracel was right. A Gold-ranker in Eldertuin’s team nodded as they cast a spell.
“Good nose, or whatever it is, Larracel. How bad is it?”
“Not bad…but it’d make casting spells a bit harder. Fewer higher-tier spells per day. Barnethei? I’m lowering us and pulling back the [Dome of Heat] spells. It’s warmed enough, anyways.”
Larracel lowered the elevation of the domes and pulled a spell off, and Barnethei nodded. He didn’t think much more of it; he was helping adventurers check out and settle their tabs—no telling when they’d be back. And of course, glancing around to see what the best spot was.
No clue yet—he hoped Larracel could raise a building and let him stare around with a spyglass a few days into the New Lands. However, no less than an hour later, he saw all the [Light] spells flick out.
“Larracel?”
“No mana. It’s dead air, Barnethei! Put on the lanterns!”
He had the staff do just that; there were dozens of the mostly-female staff that Larracel hired. She insisted on giving them a chance to succeed and often favored those with darker skin tones like herself, who got the foreigner treatment even if they were Izrilian.
“Found us a spot, Barnethei?”
Navien teased him—the Head of Cleaning was one of the old guard, and she was someone who’d signed up to join his new inn. She was a [Staff Manager of Cleaning], Level 33. She could have been at the top of her own establishment or worked for nobility, but she was as excited as he was.
“Not yet. Got your wand ready? Larracel’s a bit jumpy, but there’s no sense in being unprepared.”
She turned serious and patted a wand at her side. Larracel issued all employees with weapons—Navien had a Wand of Starry Shot, which fired, well, [Star Arrows]. The Haven had fought off [Bandits], even the Bloodfeast Raiders one time, and if they weren’t all [Marksmen], several dozen employees firing Tier 3 spells from behind Larracel’s barriers could kill almost any foe.
“We’re all ready, Barnethei. The new girls are too trigger-happy with the wands; Larracel pulled all the wild ones to us. Enchanted bows, even—Maxine knocked over all her trays since she’s swaggering around with it on!”
“Well, she was a [Hunter]—we need some survivalists, Navien. I’ll tell her to put it somewhere while she works, though. Close to hand but not in the way.”
A good mix of classes would keep the inn thriving. Barnethei had gotten new employees who had backgrounds as [Farmers], [Hunters], even craftspeople. The inn-related classes tended to absorb the old classes, but the knowledge would be vital. He himself had been brushing up on some alchemy and other survival skills. Larracel’s magic covered so many angles.
Barnethei expected that to be the worst of it and was realizing they’d be so light on customers they wouldn’t have much to do tonight. He was organizing the farewell dinner when the Haven suddenly…stopped.
It was almost always moving. So when he felt it jolt to a halt, he stumbled. Several of the staff did too, and he leapt forward and caught a tray before the drinks could topple off it.
“Larracel, what’s wrong? Monsters?”
She’d halted dead in place, hence the jolt. The [Wizard] was standing, staring around, holding her wand up and a vial of what seemed like…glowing water? A translucent, blue, levitating liquid. It took Barnethei a second to realize what it was.
Mana. Her mana. It was pulling away as Larracel gazed about. Her face, which had been excited, was suddenly troubled.
“Something’s wrong. Barnethei? I’m lowering the Haven onto the oxen carts.”
“You’re—is it trouble?”
If there was, the Haven went up. Larracel half shook her head. She pointed.
“I want us to steer…northwards. Straight north, then west.”
It took a moment to get the oxen to do that; they were used to plodding forwards, and Barnethei jogged up into the Haven as Larracel frowned.
Thirty minutes of heading north and she called a halt.
“North’s no good. South. I’ll speed us up. [Mass Speed]!”
They went back down south now, and the guests realized something was wrong as the Haven bumped and jolted on the enchanted carts, not flying. They came out, and Barnethei had to lie and tell them they were just adjusting their course. Larracel was silent, but after nearly forty minutes of heading south, she lowered her wand.
“We’ve entered a mana-negative zone.”
“Oh, is that all?”
He relaxed, and she scowled at him.
“It’s not good! The Haven is far too heavy to lift without ambient mana! And in this area—adventurers, muster up! Who’s left? Navien, give me a list! I’m [Messaging] all of them!”
She herded them into place and spoke.
“This area’s mana-negative.”
“Oh really? Shit!”
Only a few adventurers even knew what that meant. Eldertuin groaned.
“Argh, that’s no good. Are you trying to go around?”
“Excuse me, what does that mean?”
Teithde raised a hand, and Larracel spoke.
