The small yellow and orange flames on Lan Xin’s skin grow, bursting outward as she yells.

“I didn’t agree to any of this! I had no choice but to submit under that late stage foundational demon’s aura… I had nowhere else to go!”

It is not only on the surface of her body. The flames in her soul become erratic too, straining her already fractured physique.

I grit my teeth while swapping out the spirit contract in my hand with two offensive talismans.

“Look around you. Why do you think you deserve a choice? Who cares if you knew exactly what I was demanding? You’ve known I do not have simple origins since the day you showed up at my minor peak begging for firestones. You had plenty of time to go your own separate way. Do you really think you have room to negotiate here?”

She runs forward, hardly listening while flames explode off her with the same intensity she used during battle with foundational cultivators.

Her aura is filled with dangerous killing intent, but it is complicated. It doesn’t feel like it's directly targeting me.

I don’t waste any energy trying to figure out why, and activate my Azure Lightning Attack Talisman first.

The fiery woman’s outline glows with a bright azure hue as she’s struck directly, filling the air with static.

I jump back as she keeps running forward yelling through the blast. “Don’t do this to me! Don’t downgrade me to nothing but a servant! I already offered myself to be your woman. I’ve done everything you ask, I’ve been obedient, I’m the most beautiful woman in the entire outer sect, I- Am I not enough?”

Lan Xin grits her teeth while her dantian’s stored qi is emptied out, and the density of flames grows in her body. “You know… you’re the first person that’s ever made me consider that maybe there is something more than cultivation in this world! Everyone else just looks past my eyes like I’m a piece of meat or some trophy they can flaunt… You… you say you just want to use me as a tool, but, I don’t know, it just feels different! You feel different! I don't know why I feel this way, but I do!” she coughs out burnt blood as static remains in her flesh.

Her cracked mid-stage physique vibrates violently, and thin wisps of invisible flames begin to fill her aura, destroying the azure lightning left behind completely.

This only causes more of the flames around her to turn transparent, and her physique cracks open even wider.

“I’m sorry! I wasn’t thinking straight when I used that peach blossom talisman on you! Is that what you’re still mad at? I- wish I never did, and just waited… I was scared! And confused about what I wanted! I thought you said I could build back your trust naturally, now you’re not even giving me a chance? If my dantian is bound with qi, I can never prove it to you myself! Maybe it was something I did wrong during that battle with the Jiang Clan? Let me fix it! For the first time in my life I thought maybe I wouldn’t be all alone in this cruel sect! I thought I could stop pretending to be some perfect version of myself in front of someone for once! You can see through me, can’t you? What more do you want?!”

I quietly listen with an unreadable expression.

After her 12th level qi refinement breakthrough, and the result of the Jiang Elder’s battle, these two near death experiences were followed by time alone in the silence of this hidden realm to reflect.

Her mindset is by no means stable, but there is a glimpse of authenticity in her words that has never matched her soul before. Some of her false ambitions and weaker learned teachings from the past have been broken away.

It is quite the interesting sight to witness in real time, as she’s subconsciously rejecting the facade of a shallow woman she’s built up for years, but has no new identity otherwise to fall back on. The only clear thing she can relate to, or rely on for stability is me.

To make the best use of a moment like this, I continue to keep a cold, unmoving expression while I summon jade steps into the air behind me to step off of the array.

She raises a palm and releases a dense ball of flames the instant I take a step. “Come on! Say something! Don’t just stare at me like that!”

I trigger the enchanted stone bullet talisman in my hand while jumping backward into the golden mist.

Both her attack and a heavy, vibrating chunk of dark stone collide.

They create an explosion just as devastating as the azure lightning moments ago, mostly canceling each other out.

I escape up a few floating stairs as my heart beats loud in my ears.

Lan Xin stands on the edge of the array, looking up at me with anger on her face, but the only emotion pouring out of her soul is a potent heartbroken sadness.

Using the spirit contract to gain her guaranteed loyalty has mostly failed at face value, but it has brought her to a breaking point where she’s actually speaking her mind.

It makes me doubt a contract will even be necessary. She has offered to be my woman multiple times now in sincerity, but I have refused due to the dangerous pressure that forms every time we get too close.

I take a deep breath, close my eyes, and consider a few things.

“It’s about time I get serious…” I murmur, and reach into my storage to pull out a bright tier 3 artifact.

The pressure it gives off on standby spreads out in this hidden realm, tinting the array below with a bright yellow glow.

Lan Xin’s pupils shrink, but she doesn’t back down.

I let the blade shaped artifact fall into my arm, ready to trigger with a single thought, then yell.

“Step back and retract your flames! I’ve heard what you have to say, and have decided to give you a final chance to make your intentions clear.” I begin slowly walking down the jade steps.

Her legs tremble, but she listens to my words, forcing the fierce flames in her aura back into her body.

Lan Xin takes a single step back, but doesn't look away.

I get to the final step right in front of her, and the golden mist behind me slowly begins to move.

It takes me a few seconds to gain control of it perfectly, but once I do, the mist surrounds us and locks her arms and legs in place.

The serpent in her chest trembles and shows pleading eyes on the surface of her skin, but Lan Xin’s gaze doesn't waver.

Her soul is erupting with fire, but her mind seems quite focused and clear.

“Your resolve has grown stronger. You’re being far more honest… with me, and with yourself. ” I whisper, and let my arm glow hotter.

She doesn't flinch. Only a tear trickles down her cheek as the artifact’s golden glow lights up her face.

I stare into her soul, pouring my spiritual senses into every twisting wave of flames to search for inconsistencies or signs of deceit, but find nothing.

The golden glow on her face fades, as the formation never triggers and the sword artifact falls back into my storage.

At the same time, the mist around her limbs retracts.

Lan Xin regains her freedom of movement, and I open up the mental pathway to the bronze door.

Her eyes open wide as she realizes with a single thought, she could leave this hidden realm.

I pull out the tier 2 spirit contract again, and wave it around leisurely.

“See? It does not feel good to be on the opposite end now does it? You’re beginning to see the value in being true to yourself, aren’t you? It would have been a shame to force things. I accept your apology for the peach blossom talisman, let’s call it even.”

With a shrug, I break the unsigned imprint to revert it to a blank slate. A potent cloud of wasted white qi fills the air between us as it returns to a dull piece of jade without any commands stored inside.

I look down at Lan Xin from my raised jade step, and our eyes meet for a few seconds.

“Leave if you wish, I won’t follow.”

Her eyes quickly dart around the mist, but she doesn’t move.

Instead, her gaze returns to meet mine and she steps forward to stand right back on the edge of the array.

“I’ve already told you how I feel. Why… would I leave?”

Both of our breathing grows heavy, and her cheeks blush light red with a mixture of anger, and embarrassment.

Her soul at its core is still filled with nervous doubt.

Last time we were this close, and could feel each other’s breaths, she was rejected without a clear reason, and mentally tormented for days afterward.

She lowers her head when I don’t reply.

Fire twists in her body, trying to suppress the feelings from fully coming back up, to prepare for the worst.

At the same time I feel the familiar unnerving sharp pressure growing stronger in my instincts, already making my souls twist in strange directions the longer I stay in her presence.

This time however, I don’t let the unknown risk hold me back.

I gently lift Lan Xin’s chin, and lean in to kiss her trembling lips.