She giggled, "Nope, but I'll take you to heaven later tonight."

I liked the sound of that. She pulled me to the dance floor, Althea going crazy. I stood there like a fish flopping out of the water. I looked around, awkward as fuck. Althea slapped my back, "What are you doing? Could you relax a little for once?"

I frowned, "I'm relaxed all the time."

She scoffed, "Then why aren't you dancing?"

I shrugged, "I have no idea how."

She giggled again, "What? Just...I don't know, pretend you're in one of you're...training sessions or something."

She stumbled sideways, but I held her up. She downed her drink. She dropped the glass, but I caught it with some magic. I sent it off to a nearby servant, saving some people from a foot full of glass. I grabbed Althea's shoulders,

"Not everyone here has skin of stone. Dropping a glass like that's dangerous as hell."

She rolled her eyes again, "You know what? You looked so cool at the tournament. You always do. I knew you'd...handle it. You always handle everything."

She put a hand on my chest, "You don't have to handle everything always. You know that right?"

I nodded, "Of course I do."

She spread out her hands, "Then just let go for one night and enjoy yourself. You don't always have to compete with a flagpole to see who's more stiffer."

"You mean more stiff?"

She shook her head, wagging a finger at me, "Nope. More stiffer."

I rolled my eyes, smiling despite myself. I tried out a goofy jig, getting a laugh out of Althea. I slapped my thighs, "There, happy?"

She lifted herself to her tippy toes, hugging me, "Yes."

She grabbed my hands, lifting them up and down while twisting her hips. For some reason, every girl could dance like a champ. As a guy, it took severe training to get good on a dancefloor.

Without the skills to pull off anything even remotely impressive, I played up how awful I was at busting a move for laughs. Hell, you could probably tell how bad I was at dancing by how I called it busting a move.

Despite my mediocrity, Althea and I had a blast. Caprika ended up walking up to us, dressed in a gown that worked with her fur. The albony shouted up at me over the music,

"Having fun?"

I nodded, "Yeah." I looked down at Althea, "I have good company."

Caprika nodded, "Remember all of this. This is how the empire throws feasts."

I gave her the thumbs up before dancing again with Althea. After a while, we moved like no one was watching. It amazed me how private a party could feel at times. The dark lights, loud music, and pulsing lights hid you from the attention of other people. That's why Althea and I danced like we were in our own little world.

After a few hours of eating food and being goofballs, Althea and I left the feast. It wasn't my scene, not even the slightest bit. Althea thrived there though, and she let me loosen up while we were there. It was a lot of fun because of her.

As we left, she kept stumbling around. From what I saw, she was playing up how drunk she felt to keep the good energy flowing. I appreciated the effort, steadying her without complaint. We got back to an inn in the middle of town. I didn't want to camp outside for a night. Besides, we could appreciate the privacy.

Once there Althea flopped on the bed, spreading out her arms and legs,

"Ahhh, this bed feels so soft."

Her figure showed while she spread out. Her toned legs and arms, curvy hips, and voluptuous chest pressed on her clothes. Her hair went down to her waist, the purple hair smelling like lavender. She hugged a pillow, giving me a sly look out of the corner of her eye.

Fire flared in my chest as she moved her hips back and forth. With her voice dripping with seduction, she whispered,

"You want to be a little wild tonight?"
