Chapter 514

Matt sat next to Liz, who lounged against Aster, while the three of them picked at an array of food he’d thought they'd find enjoyable before the war, as they watched the Tier 15 battlefield below them. The food wasn’t exactly working, but it wasn’t not working either.

He took another bite as he watched another million man army of Collective Tier 15’s charging the Empire held fortified planet. Most of his attention was on a pair of Knights who fended off two high elite bloodline combatants. The Empire’s newest elite program had spat out more than a few successes since their refounding, but the Tier 15s on the field still managed to impress him.

One used their Talaria Seed to move like a speedster, but paired each dash, dodge, or duck with a slash of his wind coated scimitars. The ranged contingents had tried to lock him down, but he moved so quickly they struggled to deliberately land a shot on him.

Next to him was another with blades, however her Living Edge Natural Treasure let her merge with the weapons as if she and they were made from clay. She wasn’t as fast, but kept in close to the Collective elites, shifting the blades in her to block and attack in a fluid pattern. He didn’t miss the inspiration they’d taken from the Federation’s First Warrior when founding their ‘Order’, but there was a reason they’d been elevated to Tier 47 in the first place and it wasn’t because of how well they did paper work.

Together, they disrupted the enemy advance, taking Collective elites out of the fight with every exchange. Those same battles left wounds they couldn’t heal from before they were beset by someone else looking for a challenge. There were just so many Tier 15s. It wasn’t an ocean of bodies, only because the Tier 15s were both water and ecosystem in one. Spells, Domains, and cultivators merged into a grand but horrifying tapestry of carnage.

And the Knights created a ring of calm in those seas. However, that came with a cost. Calm always gathered the larger fish's attention, and the duo weren’t the top of the battlefield food chain, just near it.

That was when he’d want to stop watching, but he knew he wouldn’t be able to truly look away. He’d need to watch. It wasn’t much, but it was what he could do.

If nothing else, it was different. In their last war, they hadn’t really had time to sit around and smell the roses, given Allie’s Talent. Not that they necessarily had such spare time to faff around without her, but reality didn’t care about their wants or desires.

In their current situation, it was a simple matter of priorities. Once they’d pacified a corner of the battlefield, they could race to another and repeat the process. But that would have been a greater waste of their time than sitting here doing nothing.

The war hadn’t stopped, or even settled down, after their victory over the pinnacle elite trap. From that battle they’d gone directly into the next, clearing out the Tier 35 battlefields and repelling the invasion by removing their top Tier anchor and returning the fighting to the border worlds.

The real reason they got any sort of reprieve afterwards was due to the main Empire push that broke through in a more core sector, which forced the Collective to redirect their troops.

It wouldn’t last for long, as another invasion fleet was being prepared by both sides, and there was a chance the Collective would choose to send it at them. Something would eventually change, whether from the Collective or the Empire, but high command seemed content with them doing the job at the moment. As such, their orders were to hold their positions until reinforcements arrived or the situation changed enough that the current priority was moot.

They’d spent their first free day or two calmly sitting in their ship, working on their various projects, but all three of them had grown antsy almost immediately, given their constant brushes with danger.

Matt didn’t like the idea of sitting around when he could be useful and it tore at him. At first, that driving force was enough to let him make some progress on his Image, but after looking at his changes he realized how little progress he’d actually made.

Through their recent fights he’d come to understand himself better, but therein lay the problem.

His Image felt not exactly wrong, but it wasn’t right either.

In and of itself, that wasn’t surprising. He knew his current Image wasn’t perfect for him, that was the reason he was tweaking it. But the more he thought about it and how it interacted with him, the more that feeling of wrongness cemented itself into an inescapable reality.

Normally, that would have prompted him to start picking at individual pieces that felt particularly out of place, where he’d start rebuilding those sections. After sitting around and having time to mull over the last battles, he’d come to the realization that such actions weren’t enough anymore.

He needed to discard his current Image and make something new. He liked the core of his idea but he needed to play around with different methods of harnessing energy on a celestial scale. His dyson sphere was good but not exactly what he wanted from himself and his Aspect.

He’d found some amount of clarity with the latest fighting, limiting himself to his sword and his muscles, but it was that insight that reminded him he wasn’t a single anything.

Matt wasn’t only a great melee fighter, even if he thoroughly enjoyed living up to the unstoppable legend of physical cultivation. He may not have a single iota of essence in his mana core, but at this point, it was hard to deny he was one of the strongest mages. Maybe more so than he was a melee fighter.

Matt sighed into the vacuum of space. Both for the Tier 15s and himself.

Tur’stal had said there wasn’t anything he could do and she was right.

Not that he particularly wanted to be able to do something. The knowledge that he couldn’t intervene did more to protect him than he’d given it credit at the start of the war, and he was grateful for the rules being both firm and long established.

The Tier 15 battlefields were awful on a level that not even the Tier 25s had been able to match. There were just so many people, he had to wonder if the Pather war he’d experienced with massive troop moments culminating in large, only semi-coordinated formations hadn’t been more accurate to the battlefield than he’d given them credit in recent years.

Even the light engagements where only a percent or two left their bodies on the battlefield still meant tens of thousands of cultivators fell. He hated that his Insight had put it together, but more people died in that single push than all of the Tier 35s they’d fought, let alone killed, in the war so far.

And that was only one medium importance Tier 15 battlefield among a sea of them.

Their battles may have been a part of the population war, but this was its true purpose. Seeing it, he couldn’t help but be happy the Tier 50s had initiated the war now instead of letting the problem reach the Tier 25, let alone Tier 35, battlefields.

While the higher Tier battles may be smaller in scale, the danger they presented was an order of magnitude higher. Not only for the combatants, but the Realm itself.

Matt would need to check the historical records, but he was fairly sure the destructive capabilities of such an overwhelming number of Tier 35’s battling it out in a low Tier world might just be able to pierce the barrier between real and chaotic space.

Though even without that threat, he was sure there was another reason they deliberately kept the influx below Tier 25. Tier 15 materials were a lot more common, and therefore less expensive, than Tier 25, let alone Tier 35, ones.

Outfitting hundreds of millions of Tier 15s was possible, if difficult. Doing the same for that many Tier 35s would require a true war in and of itself.

As they watched, the attack failed and the army retreated, collecting their wounded along with their corpses. The defenders didn’t get any reprieve as another equally large formation of troops moved to replace the first.

He suspected the fortress' shielding would collapse in this or the next push, where the inevitable would happen and the fortress world would change hands. Again. Though given said world's current dilapidated state, he wasn’t all that surprised by the new world the Collective army had brought along.

Fortress worlds were replaceable by design, and after a point the damage got so bad it was easier to swap them out rather than try and rebuild one between attacks. Any full scale army could and would make repairs, but that wasn’t their main focus. Especially not during a population war, where unit compositions trended towards combat heavy allocations.

In other words, the war continued the same way it always had. Both sides tried to gain ground while preventing their enemies from doing the same.

From the reports they got about the other wars, that was far from unique. The Sects and Guilds’ war was unsurprisingly the bloodiest one, with the Sects showing the benefits of Winter Hornet’s reforms combined with the Hall of Aspirants.

Their collection of self-creatable skills, designed and developed by their best and brightest cultivators, showcased its usefulness right out of the gate, especially in the low Tier brackets. Not in the skills themselves, which weren’t inherently any more powerful than traditional skills, but through the familiarity they had with said skills.

The Sects’ central authority had allowed nearly any lesser sect to select and use a single skill as their sect's core technique. Many sects fumbled the opportunity by choosing the wrong skill, but those same sects became fodder for their more successful brethren through the normal internal infighting ever present in the Great Power.

Most of the sects that succeeded in adapting to Tier 0 skills did so by choosing ones that already fit the established theme of the sect. A fire sect choosing a fire fist skill instead of modifying something like a [Fireball] into a fist spell fared far better than the ones who overreached by choosing one of the creatable Tier 8 skills.

The results were apparent in the war effort.

The newest generation of Sect cultivators fought with a fluidity and cohesiveness of style that had Sien crowing to anyone who would listen in the Ascender chat. It was a refinement of everything the Sect’s had already been doing, and their showing in the first stages of the war had everyone else watching just in case they had something else up their sleeves.

That information was a small additional weight on Matt’s shoulders, but one he’d already accepted when he came to terms with the consequences of releasing the Tier 0 skills to the wild.

And it wasn’t like the Sects were singlehandedly winning the war.

The Guilds hadn’t been sitting on their laurels while everyone else advanced. None of the Great Powers had.

In fact, they were almost too prepared for the Sects.

Where the Sects had leaned further into hyperspecialization within each sect, with variation only coming from the individual, the Guilds went the other way and ensured their cultivators had access to a wide variety of skills, similar to the Empire and Republic.

That still meant each cultivator was weaker on average, but they had a breadth to their skills the Sects fighters lacked. If the Great Powers had been smaller, that might have proven to be an issue, but the Guilds had been able to slant most of their battlefield combatants to counter the single sect armies that had led the initial push.

Being met with a countless sea of similar but different elemental counters had seen most of the Sects early aggression blunted, if not outright halted.

That advantage would be nullified when the individual sects started working together and created mixed units, but their own culture of infighting ensured that wouldn’t happen until things started to hurt.

It was very similar to the Republic and Corporations’ war, in that the Corporations had kicked the war off by declaring open season and letting the mercenary groups run rampant on the border with seemingly no direction.

The mercenaries caused serious damage to Republic military infrastructure with their raids, but they were rebuffed with significant losses. If Matt didn’t know the bird in question, he’d have considered that a blunder, but he and most others had noticed exactly which units had taken the worst of the casualties.

When the dust settled, the Corporations had traded their most bloodthirsty and unruly mercenaries for damage that would take at least fifty years to recover from. In addition, it was the perfect cover for less flashy missions, as seen by the deeper sabotage that only became apparent as new ships fresh out of the shipyard had their engines fail spectacularly on their first engagement. Or supply stashes found suddenly empty.

Not that the Republic had taken the hits lying down. They’d assembled their legions in step with their manufacturing capabilities and made the most territorial advances out of any Great Power. They’d occupied most of their shared border region and pushed the line back five or six systems before being stopped dead in their tracks.

The final remaining war, the Federation and Clans’ war, was a whole other beast.

The Federation had led the war with their latest iteration of rune soldiers. In both the general troops and purpose raised elites, the enchantments were more powerful and more synergistic, leading to greater applied power.

