They’d made good progress until the Clans brought out a poison that disrupted bones, and, more importantly, bone-based formations. If the poison didn’t require direct contact, it would have single handedly turned the war, but the Federation took it in stride. They issued new counter measures brewed up by their best and brightest alchemists as a new arms race was kicked off and tests were shuffled to the frontline.

He and most other Empire soldiers were quite content with the current policy of pretending they weren’t a part of that shit show, though they all knew it couldn’t last.

There was a tension in the air, but one that was slowly lessening as the wars found their footing. Everyone seemed content to let things take their course.

The worst part was he enjoyed the act of fighting, but hated this war and his place in it. Pitting himself against other combatants who were close to his level without needing a Tier advantage was just plain old enjoyable, and he savored it while it was still possible. That clashed with his general distaste for the war, and that resulted in both surprising insights and frustrating roadblocks when working on his Domain.

While Matt worried, he’d also accepted the realization that his Image would need to be scrapped. He didn’t do so immediately, rather he started with his Aspect’s Phrase, where he had a solution.

He had two frontrunners. Two options he felt might work, but at the same time, neither felt perfect. At first, he’d thought it was because neither were right, but the more he fought against other Tier 35’s with their own Aspects and their own unique understandings of themselves and the Realm, he started to realize his indecision came from the fact both were perfect for him.

Unlike his Concept or Intent, Matt’s Aspects Phrase hadn’t boiled down to a single choice.

‘I am Limitless’ followed his previous trends, but ‘Overwhelm’ also felt like a good fit.

Matt felt like he was at a crossroads.

Neither were wrong because he hadn’t decided. Did he want to be limitless? Did he want to overwhelm?

The way he could just smash through so many obstacles with his newly enhanced and empowered body had been refreshing, and ‘Overwhelm’ would definitely strengthen that ability. It could also make his spells hit that much harder. At the same time, ‘I am Limitless’ theoretically offered the greatest highs.

If his guesses were correct, both could have similar effects on his combat style, in that they’d let him fight better, but at the same time, he was sure they would manifest themselves in vastly different ways.

Matt forced himself to confront the truth as he watched another wave of Tier 15’s rush to their deaths.

He didn’t fear death. Not really. His greatest fear was that choosing ‘I am Limitless’ would shift him even further into the role of a mana font.

Icliz had been limitless, or some variation of it, and his fate was what Matt considered worse than death. He may have come to terms with it being at least partly Icliz’s choice, but he refused to take steps that led him to such an end.

If Matt wanted to be limitless, it had to include not just self imposed limits or physical limits, but the limits others tried to put over him. And he wasn’t sure his particular blend of ‘I am Limitless’ encompassed that fact. It might, but he wasn’t confident in that fact.

‘Overwhelm’ might not necessarily cover that weakness, but something about it told Matt it wouldn't have the negative effect on his Aspect should he be captured compared to what ‘I am Limitless’ would cause. It also had decent odds of being more directly relevant in breaking free of any cages.

While speculating about the effect of a Domain before it was solidified was guesswork at the very best, most people had half decent ideas. Part of recognizing its compatibility allowed one to get a glimmer of what the part might do. ‘I am Limitless’ felt like it would allow Matt to utilize his mana and body efficiently. If he was correct, he’d be able to throw his entire mana pool at a spell and the spell would be able to handle it while raising the scaling ceiling.

On the other hand, he felt that ‘Overwhelm’ might allow him to ‘punch through things’. His spells might hit harder for the same amount of mana, his sword might buckle armor with even a glancing blow, but all of it would be about applying his force. At the same time, he also got the impression it would have a positive overlap with his Truth’s resistance to restraints, due to how they synergized.

Both had so much potential, he couldn’t easily make a decision as he had before.

The endless questions that led him in well trodden circles were also why he’d insisted on a break. Admittedly, he could have chosen a better vantage point.

Aster must have felt the same as she stood up with a silent huff as she stomped the void. “I can't do this!”

Matt was about to offer some reassurance when she raised and dropped her hand in a hard chop, preventing him from speaking.

At the same time, she whacked him with her tail and grasped Liz’s hand to speak securely through spiritual perception. “I’m not giving up because I don’t know what my Aspect is. I’m giving up because I know what it is and it revolves around me succeeding in my bloodline swap. That, in turn, requires me to actually figure out my space ice mana aspect. Which I would have done if I could, putting me right where I was before.”

Liz used her connection to pull Aster right back down as Matt made proper contact, grabbing the flapping tail firmly enough that he could transmit through the appendage.

Her question was the same as his, saving him the effort. “What? You figured out your full Aspect?”

***

Aster wanted to have a hissy fit. She wanted to pound the ground, roll over, and cry loud enough her problems were everyone else's. It would have been cathartic.

She settled for throttling the air as she replied in a burst of her own spiritual fluctuations that she transmitted back. They were still on an active battlefield after all, and it was her duty to keep the many prying eyes off them. She couldn’t let her own Domain problems get in the way of her actual role.

That would make everything so much worse.

“Yes, but it doesn't do me any good, so also no. This sucks! I was supposed to be excited! If nothing else, I fixed my Truth. Even if I can’t actually claim it because it's not true yet. I was first.”

Aster felt the near surety of the words only possible thanks to her Inspiration. She may not have succeeded in her Truth, but she knew she would, she had to. It was that confidence which had allowed her to recognize the Truth as being her own despite not embodying it yet.

Because she would be first. The first of a new bloodline, a new mana type, a new species. It was a burden she’d have to bear, even if she didn’t necessarily want to.

Once she made it, she’d be responsible for those who came after. Maybe not in actuality, as she had no intention in having children any time soon, but in lineage if nothing else. If she wanted to make a new Rank one bloodline with the power and burden of a Level five mana aspect, she’d have to see things through properly. To carve the path into the Realm for others to walk in her wake.

Because that was her Truth.

She was first.

Or, she would be if she succeeded in making the thrice cursed mana aspect in the first place.

At the moment, her Truth rang hollow with the knowledge that she wasn’t first. She hadn’t taken that step. At least not yet, not in the way that mattered. Aurora fox wasn’t her end goal, it was merely a stepping stone.

Aster only needed to take that next step and everything would fall into place. She was sure of it! It was so close, she could almost taste it.

Matt was giddy for her, their bond wide open and his feelings served as a comforting snowbank of love and excitement.

That was nearly enough to turn her mood around, but she forced it down. This was a time to be upset, not a time to be happy! Besides, when the inevitable movie came out about this war, she wanted to make sure Cynthia had some places to show her range. That, and she was determined to do something so interesting her actress friend willingly came out of ‘playing Aster retirement’ to reprise her role as Aster’s premiere actor.

If she complained enough, maybe she’d trick her own mind into giving her the answer via the most dramatic moment imaginable.

Her stupid bond’s words threatened that beautiful dream. “That's an awesome Truth. I bet it will be a powerful one. Did you also figure out your Image?”

Liz looked especially eager for Aster's reply, and she tried not to disappoint. “I came to that first realization by figuring out my Image, so yes. That one I’m confident enough now that if I had my bloodline, I’d form my Aspect right here and now. Maybe.”

Aster would at least try. She was confident in her realizations, but she also wanted to hedge her bets. At least privately.

Liz twisted their clasped hands and used her strength advantage to poke Aster in the ribs. Or where her ribs would be if she wasn't in armor. “So what’s your Image then? Stop drawing it out and spill!”

Aster stopped and quickly sketched a mental picture with her [AI]. It didn’t do what she saw in the center of her triplicate essence core’s justice, but that was true for all attempts to draw Images.

Still, it was enough to give them an idea of what her words described. “My Image is me being born. It's me hatching from my icy egg.” She leaned into Matt and headbutted him the same way she’d have done in fox form so many years ago before adding. “Except instead of my egg, I’m hatching from a star. Except that isn’t right either. I am the star, even as I hatch from it. It's that first light of a star which will give rise to a planet that will eventually house life. That's what my Image is. It's a moment like a sunrise. It's not just a fire ball coming over a horizon, it's the specific act of a sunrise. It's its own thing.”

Aster still felt like she hadn’t described it properly, but the appreciative nods and silent coos from Phoenix Liz made her feel better.

“You know, this feels logical given where you started with your Phrase.”

Aster nodded at that. Her phrase had seemed out of place at first, but now that she’d completed the set, she saw the shape of the whole.

She hadn’t been entirely sure what the phrase ‘Regent of the Cosmos’ said about her and her mental state, but now that she’d put the rest of the puzzle together, she was far less concerned. She had always known that she wasn't trying to take over the cosmos in a literal sense, her Phrase had always been more about her spirit space and the world inside than it had the real world.

However, the lack of context left her confused for the longest time. So had the word choice for that matter.

Regent wasn’t all that different from Duchess, Queen, or Empress, but she’d tried all of those words and they hadn’t felt right either. She wasn’t exactly the ruler, nor did she want to be. She was the first, which put her in a position of authority but not necessarily or inherently one of power.

It was an important distinction, even if she couldn’t exactly explain why it mattered so much.

It hadn’t helped that the revelation had come at a time where she’d realized how little she actually wanted to become a royal. Being a duchess or any noble was hard, unrewarding work with few actual upsides for someone like her.

One childhood fantasy she’d completed like an obsession. One she’d discarded before she’d even stopped holding it close. The irony wasn’t lost on her, but she did her best to ignore it.

At least when she combined it with her created anchor scepter, she was done. She was ready to create her Aspect.

Or, she would be when she could embody her Truth.

Which meant she needed to create her level five mana type.

Or find it.

Her mind went back to the Seekers who insisted they could find her elusive level five mana type. None of them had succeeded, but that didn’t mean it was a hopeless endeavor. She just needed a better Seeker.

Like access to the Collective Seeker Gideon had mentioned might be able to help. Albert Wittelsbach had quite the reputation for finding the impossible, even if his Talent came with quirks of its own.

Maybe she could leverage the war to her advantage in a bit more round about way?

The idea suddenly had far more merit than it had a few seconds ago.

***

Milton Barrett didn’t know where things had gone wrong. Or rather he did, but he still couldn’t understand how the events had led to him joining the Tier 15 battlefields, where he was going to die.

Only a few thousand years ago he’d fully intended to sit the war out, relying on his clan to shield him from the storm. However a few hundred years ago they’d been ousted by the very O’Neil clan they’d replaced seven generations ago.

The other clan had bided their time while the Barrett rose and then stagnated without surpassing their predecessors. The O’Neil’s gathered their strength, then, right before the war, they’d struck the moment both his clan uncle and aunt were removed from their positions in the army. They’d been caught skimming resources and had been made examples of.

They’d pleaded their innocence right until the end, but the evidence had been damning and indisputable.

Personally, he’d thought they’d have had a better chance by admitting fault, but they’d remained persistent until everything unraveled around them. At that point, no matter what Milton thought about the situation, things had escalated. Or rather crumbled.

He felt that was a much more fitting description.

