Milton wasn’t jealous that all of the extra resources had gone into propping up his cousin, he really wasn’t. Or he hadn’t been until he’d found himself staring down the barrel of a Federation armada.

His position in a secondary line of defense was supposed to have been one of the safest in the Clans. It was why he’d used some of the last remaining connections the Barrett clan still had in the army and pushed to get himself a position off the frontline.

It had been one of the first times in his life that he considered himself lucky that his Talent had taken after his human father rather than his dwarven mother.

For most of his life, he’d considered the ability to time his shots a decent but ultimately supplementary Talent. His Talent didn’t make holding a weapon easier, it didn’t inherently make him more accurate, it didn’t make his shots more powerful. All he got was a feeling on when to let loose for maximum effect.

Like a crescendo in a majestic musical score, he could sense when the moment was right, but it did nothing for his actual aim. That was a skill he’d needed to work on all on his own.

Knowing when to shoot wasn’t all that useful if trembling fingers bungled the shot anyway. Still, he’d considered himself lucky when his Talent had earned him a secondary placement off the frontlines.

But that was then. And this was now.

Caressing his trigger, he followed the clattering song only he could hear, sending out gouts of mana as fast as the orbital cannon could fire.

As the song’s tempo changed, his finger hesitated as he tracked his latest target. The background notes of other possible songs, other possible targets, started to make themselves known and he considered tracking one of them, but he didn’t waver.

The note was almost there.

Rising. Rising. Rising until his ears wanted to bleed.

Milton pressed the trigger, not bothering to linger and watch his shot travel. He knew it would hit exactly where he’d aimed. The cannons were good like that. Also, he could already feel the next note rapidly approaching. While the fifty foot cannon he was controlling could move quickly, that was only true when engaging targets at its expected orbital range.

His current targets were much closer, and as such, much harder to hit.

The Clans defense had repelled the first wave of attacks with minimal casualties, as the Federation seemed content to throw soldiers at them as if the losses were irrelevant. They’d repelled both the second and the third with slightly more casualties, but had taken significant damage to their shielding infrastructure. Then the fourth assault had come.

The Federation troops had brought their own orbital platforms in and attempted to shatter their orbital shield through overwhelming fire power.

It would have worked too, except General Ickthor had shut down the planetary shields before they were irreparably destroyed. That meant they had to take the cannon shots on their hardened emplacements, but it was that or permanently lose the shields altogether.

Milton didn’t know how many had died then, but he’d only been happy to be underground and safe from such attacks.

With the shields down, it became a game of cat and mouse between the planet and their orbiting assaulters. Without the shields they were at a severe disadvantage, but that was why the bunkers were dug deep into the planet's protective surface. That didn’t stop the troop transports which brought more and more cultivators down through the anti-air fire. Each successful landing made their situation all the more grim.

It wasn’t fair. He never should have been in this war in the first place, and yet here he was. Stuck and about to die.

An explosion rocked the bunker he was in and it was only the pause in his song that prevented him from firing at the worst time.

Someone else wasn’t so lucky as emergency doors dropped as their neighboring cannon pulled power and exploded.

Milton waited until his song told him the disturbance in the mana supply had settled and he continued to fire up into the sky.

He took down three dropships, a full squad led by a captain reckless enough to try and brave the descent unprotected, and had even taken out two of the dozen remaining orbital platforms himself.

While he didn’t want to be here, he wasn’t going to roll over without a fight.

So when he saw the last functional orbital cannon directly above him unleash a payload of white hot mana, he knew his end was nigh and accepted it.

Except all of his bad luck turned into good in that moment, as the orbital shielding reasserted itself as a blue wall of protection, blocking the shot and cutting off the descending Federation troops.

Cheers echoed through the halls, but Milton wasn’t one of them. He’d never stopped listening to the song of battle and firing even as the last reserves sallied forth and cut down the Federation troops that had been trapped inside the shields.

Milton hardly knew what was going on, as a few minutes later he was dragged into a leadership meeting, but he knew he didn’t like finding out he was the highest ranking dwarf left in his section. If that hadn’t been bad enough, he learned that General Ickthor wanted to talk to him personally when he tried to send one of the humans to meet with him so he could inspect his cannon before the next assault.

The general looked haggard as he spoke to the surviving leadership, including humans who’d been forced to take up the position as he had. “We’ve done our best to hold and we’ve succeeded as best as anyone can ask or expect. However, the battle isn't over, the enemies are still at our shields! Therefore, we still need to do more, and I think I know how. We need to take a gamble.”

The room buzzed at that but no one directly interrupted him. “The Federation hasn’t gotten reinforcements either, and they are as low on troops as we are. If we can survive the next assault, I’m pretty sure they’ll be forced to pull back, or at least rethink their tactic of throwing bodies at us.”

Milton didn’t believe that, but he kept a straight face until the general looked directly at him.

“And it relies on you, Lieutenant Barrett.” Milton was too shocked to speak, which the general took as acknowledgement. “Those cannons have the same flaw as ours; they are prone to exploding upon being hit. We need you to hit them at just the right moment and cause a cascade that can take out several. That’s our best shot with what we have. We will be defending your position, and will make that our last stand. Worst comes to worse, we overload the battery ourselves, taking out every Feddie we can!”

Milton didn’t know what overtook him as he stepped forward and proclaimed his willingness to do his part. That same part also had far more grit and determination than the Milton he saw in the mirror every morning, because his voice didn’t crack or waver.

He was ready to die.

The next assault came far too quickly for his liking. Only minutes after the remaining defenders consolidated around the orbital cannons, the next assault pushed forward.

Following his song, he took out two of the last three orbital platforms and their respective cannons, even as they took fire in return. Deployable shields were thrown out, used, and left discarded where they fell.

The same was true for people.

Bodies were everywhere, and were growing more and more numerous with every passing minute.

General Ickthor came by at some point, but Milton couldn’t stop firing as he tried to take out their final opposition. He didn’t know the exact battle situation, but through his song, he knew he was making a difference.

He just needed to aim carefully and fire at the proper moment.

When another fireball lit up the sky, he was confident they’d won. That was until the main Federation troop transport nosed itself into the battlefield as it brought its even larger cannons to bear.

That was when he knew they were all going to die.

It seemed they were done playing around and were willing to risk a very much non-disposable asset to take their world. He didn’t understand why the Federation leaders were in such a rush, but he didn’t stop.

Milton tracked a covered cannon port, waiting for it to open. The second it did so, he’d fire. It would be his best hope. To hit one of their cannons the instant it fired so that he could bypass both the physical and magical shielding.

He just needed his moment.

The hidden cannons were revealed for only an instant, like a reverse blink.

Except in that all important moment, his song stopped. It didn’t mellow, it didn’t quiet, it halted, taking his brain with it.

The massive gouts of mana slammed into the ground around him, missing their bunker by the miracle of sacrifice. Two entire units fell, intercepting the shots with deployable shields, but through it all, his song remained silent.

It wasn’t time yet.

Milton didn’t know what to do. He’d always listened to his song, and right now, he knew without a shadow of doubt it wasn’t time to fire. To fire meant an early death.

General Ickthor screamed at him. He even tried to force his hands to press the trigger, but Milton couldn’t move.

It wasn’t time.

Another volley came down, landing closer. General Ickthor left, but there was still no sound to tell him to fire.

It wasn’t until the third volley, where the gigantic Federation ship felt comfortable with the lack of return fire to nose in close, that he heard the song restart.

It started low and deep like a planet’s breath, and Milton followed its rhythm, waiting.

On instinct, he swapped firing mode and pressed the trigger down.

The cannon only a dozen feet away that had been still despite the shouts and screams blossomed to life, and mana started to gather in its long tube. Thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, maybe even nearing or approaching a million mana, Milton didn’t know, nor did he care. General Ickthor had already input the overrides, and Milton had never been one for numbers.

No one else mattered in a moment like this. It all revolved around his ever building song.

He released his finger and it felt like the planet bucked as his cannon spat out its maximum accurate payload. A second later, the Federation opened its cannon hatches as it tried to finish him off.

The overlap was less than an instant, too close for anyone, let alone a Tier 15, to correct the mistake.

His cannon shot hit one of the Federation ships' cannon mid-fire. By chance or happenstance, it was the leading shot, the one meant to draw covering fire and allow the following shots to make it through.

The Federation ship bucked as ever-building explosions rocked the ship. A moment later, the rest of the ship started to twist as the remaining working cannons tried to cause as much damage as they could before they crash landed.

Milton felt the song surge once more, and held down his trigger again, gathering mana. However, this time he waited as he watched the still falling ship point one of its final remaining cannons at them.

It wasn’t one of the broadside cannons, but rather its forward main gun, meant to be used against other capital ships. And it was glowing.

Milton knew he was going to die; he just wanted to go out with someone remembering his name. That he wasn’t a coward. He’d done his duty, even if it hadn’t changed anything.

He released the trigger right before the last return projectile from space came directly down their firing line, aimed directly at their fully charged cannon.

Milton wanted to loose the shot, but he waited. He waited as death crossed the minuscule distance that was orbit to the ground for a ship to ship projectile. He waited until the mana bolt was so close that he could feel the scorching heat. He waited until he was already dead.

He waited for his song to reach one final peak.

Only then did he release the trigger.

As the two projectiles collided right above the bunker, they rocked the fortress world in an explosion larger than any the system had seen before or would ever see again.

He almost thought he saw a hand reach through from the very heart of the explosion, but he died before he could process the thought.

***

Milton Barrett didn’t know where things had gone wrong. Or rather he did, but he still couldn’t understand how the events had led to him joining the Tier 15 battlefields, where he was going to die.
