Erin’s first observation was movement. Of course, the entire area was moving with the wind and whatnot; even the bushes waved, but the sound of the waves receded enough for her to hear…nature.
Buzzing insects. Distant chirping. Rustling—and not to put too fine a point on it—other living things. Erin’s first sight of them?
Blurring little dots, leaping around in the sand ahead of her. Erin couldn’t make them out, but she didn’t like whatever it was she saw. Nor the suggestion of other things in the greenery, far bigger than she was.
“[Innkeeper]. Six inches high. Silvenia, I hate you so much.”
The Death of Magic had saved her life. But, Erin felt, she really could have reversed whatever spell she’d hit Erin with; put a time limit on it after a week? Then again, Erin might have drowned at sea. But still. How hard was it to cast [Teleport] along with [Polymorph] or whatever it was?
She had two hands. Couldn’t ancient, half-Elven [Archmages] dual-cast?
Focus. What Erin noticed was that the sand had, among the hopping things, some holes in it. It wasn’t obvious, but her instincts said ‘don’t go near those holes’.
“[Dangersense]. Right. What lives on the beach? Crabs? Snakes? Not snakes…something’s in those holes. And…is that a berry bush?”
Her eyes locked on a bunch of blue dots in the distance. It looked like a bush with blue berries on it. And that tree…Erin craned her head back.
“Is that a palm? Can’t tell…right, this has to be Baleros, right? Berries. Palm. Huh. Or do I want that tree?”
She eyed one of the biggest trees around, which, in theory, might let her scale it and give her a commanding view of the area.
Hm. Could she climb a tree? Not in general; Erin had never been that athletic, but she was desperate, higher-level than before, and Fraerling sized, which meant she could jump higher than normal. If her conversations with Niers served right, that meant Erin was also functionally a lot stronger than her size indicated.
Still incredibly weak compared to an actual Human, but it gave her an edge in fights against things her size. Or so Niers said. She hoped he hadn’t been exaggerating.
In fact, this reminded her a lot of when she’d first come to this world. Here she was, nothing but some clothes on her back, lost, injured…
…Her friends dead at her own hand…
Erin Solstice stopped, and the anxiety of her situation was overwhelmed a moment by memory. She lowered her head, exhaled hard, and some of the fear left her.
Not from courage or inspiration, but a kind of terrible apathy. If I die—I have it coming.
That made it easier to start walking through the sand. Easier to be sunburnt, throwing up honey, or lying awake in agony night after night.
I deserve this. Erin Solstice began striding through the sand towards the largest tree. She’d eaten enough honey right before her landing on the beach. Positioning first; food second. Survival.
She really wished she’d gone camping with her family more. Or remembered anything from survival training.
 
——
 
Walking across the beach slowed her a bit, but the sand wasn’t as bad when she was smaller; it didn’t shift as much, so she got up to a good clip of speed, awkwardly jogging forward as she looked around in every direction.
The problem was that the moment she landed in maybe-Baleros she was under attack. The first blow hit Erin in the arm. When she swung at it, the square-shaped sand flea bounced off her. Another landed. Erin stared at a weird, mosquito-like thing with a fuzzy, vaguely rectangular body and long, clawed legs.
They were hopping—beige—sand things! They reminded Erin of mosquitos because of their proboscis-like faces, which were trying to pierce her skin and suck her blood.
“Aw. Come on.”
She tried to punch the second one off her; they were like small dogs relative to her size, even now, but that was a dog with a sharp stinger for a ‘mouth’.
Erin’s fist hit only the air as the sand flea leapt off her. She spun, ducked as another careened towards her, and realized all the movement in the sand was these things.
“Heck!”
It reminded Erin of some beaches from earth with similar infestations. Little stinging bugs, only they were actual threats now. She began running as a cloud of them bounded towards her.
Now was the moment where Erin Solstice would produce a jar of acid and melt a flea. Or, with the knife forged by the [Hammer of a Hundred Metals], begin cleaving them in half.
She didn’t have her knife. Or an acid jar. Or any weapon. Her knife had snapped as she killed Prince Iradoren, and any shards had been lost at sea.
Good. Erin didn’t know if she could hold it right now. With that said—she finally managed to punch the first sand flea as it rocketed towards her.
Erin’s fist hit it, and she felt little resistance; she sent it tumbling into the side of a dune and saw its six legs flailing in the air. Then the sand flea got up and began hopping away.
“At least that works. Bring it on, you stupid—ow, ow, ow.”
The first minute of fighting was sand fleas relentlessly slamming into Erin and trying to suck her blood or vital fluids out. She swung wildly, kicking them off her, but they were so light she just hurled them away.
They didn’t manage to really hurt her; they were light, small, and sharp as their beaks might be, Erin’s improvised sackcloth cloak actually made it so the worst they did was poke her hard.
After her third kick, the fleas seemed to realize this was getting them nowhere and backed off a bit. Erin, swearing, cleared a dune, took one look down the ridge, stopped, and began to jog the other way.
“Aw. No way.”
She realized she’d made an inadvertent tactical error from the start; she looked straight down the ‘valley’, which was really an indentation worn in the sand from tidal action at higher tide or whatever. And what she saw was…
A rotting fish.
Just a rotting fish. Nothing too gruesome; it didn’t even stink to high heavens yet. Yet it had clearly washed up, died, and was in the process of feeding the beach dwellers. Including, not to put too fine a point on it, a horde of sand fleas and two snails.
“Nope!”
Erin jogged left, away from the fish, instantly. Most of the fleas that had gone for her were on top of the fish, sucking it up. Gross. As for the snails…Erin had no idea they ate fish. She had no idea about most beach-life.
Crabs—she knew crabs. That was why, as Erin ran across the beach, she didn’t fall prey to her old enemies instantly.
Crabs. They were definitely in the holes in the ground she’d spotted. Erin ran across the edge of the first depression in the sand away from the fish, skirted a hole, and kept up a running monologue the entire time.
“Okay. Sand fleas—not a threat. Crabs? Maybe a threat. Is that a crab? That’s a crab. Huh. They’re small…compared to Rock Crabs. Relative to me, they’re, uh…”
She hesitated.
“Only up to my chin? Great. So they’d be tiny in real life. Pincers could probably take a hand off. No thank you! What do mini crabs eat? Oh. Sand fleas.”
It made sense; if her image of a distant crab hunting was accurate, it was seizing the sand fleas and smaller insects and crushing them with its pincers before transferring the contents to its mouth.
Was that normal for crabs? No clue. This was a different world, unless she’d actually ended up back on Earth.
Given the system had actually offered that as an option for her last level up…wouldn’t that be fun? Erin knew she had her Skills. Which was worse? Ending up on Earth on a beach somewhere with all her Skills and no potential help from magic or her friends—or Baleros, where magical monsters abounded?
“—Silly question. I don’t think berries like those on that bush exist on Earth. But that means I get to fight magical monsters. Great. What do Fraerlings fear most of all? Cats. Doors. Anything taller than they are…which is almost everything…I need a weapon.”
After thirty minutes of jogging, Erin’s legs hurt; small wonder after being on the plank so long. At least all that pacing and exercising had let her move about without her problems from resurrection; she slowed to a walk, panting.
Her legs and arms hurt all the time. Less than during the first few weeks, but there was an ache in them far deeper than the burning of lactic acid. She was not in good condition.
When Erin paused to rub at her hair, her hand brushed one ear, and she felt…rough skin and an absence of the round top of her right ear.
Missing. She had lost it during the battle at sea. Someone had shot the top of it off. Erin wondered what it looked like. She could still hear, but that, like her other scars, was a reminder.
Her very soul had been spent, then restored, but sometimes she felt like there was a crack in her very being. She had scars on her wrists; discolored skin from where she had worn cuffs.
Each one a—what? A lesson? A victory?
“A scar. I need a weapon.”
Erin kept going on. She was trying to establish an order of operations to this. Survival.
Water, shelter, weapon, food, location. Not in that order, surely? She tried to prioritize logically.
Location had to matter first, right? Survey the area for more dead fish or dangerous things. That gave rise to food and water.
Water was more important than food according to her understanding of the lack of which would kill you first. But there was the ocean…
I could barely collect any condensation even by boiling it and using the tarp to harvest the stuff. If it doesn’t rain, I need to find good, fresh water. Damn! What about bacteria? 
She almost wished she were small enough to just see a bacterium and punch the heck out of that as well. Yes, water had to be high.
So—location. Water. Food she could actually do without for a bit. Shelter for the night. Those were her three criteria. A weapon? A weapon could wait.
She had her Skills and her craft. Even if both weren’t exactly in good condition for that.
Not many survival Skills or even the best combat ones. I am Level 55 for what that’s worth; I didn’t feel particularly strong fighting the sand fleas, but I only have, what, four direct combat Skills? 
Her craft was more likely, but the [Witch]…
The [Witch]’s hat was empty right now. The flame out. She was tired. Grieving. Perhaps that would lead to power of its own, but right now, Erin didn’t trust to magic, least of all based in wonder.
She just wanted to run. So she did. Erin ran for the tree, legs and arms pumping—and nearly ran into the next crab-hole.
“Raaaaaaaah! [Flutter Step]!”
—She was not without means. As the crab snapped its claws, trying to attack the prey that had literally fallen into its hole, it saw the desperate [Innkeeper] pump her arms and legs and…stop falling.
Like a cartoon character, she actually floated, moving over the hole by sheer, desperate pumping of her arms and legs. The crab stared up at Erin as she floated to the edge of its hole, landed on the other side, arms flailing as she overbalanced, then ran for it. She shot a glance over her shoulder; the crab was so perplexed it was half out of its hole, eyestalks staring at her.
“Skills. Gotta love ‘em. Whew!”
She probably could have taken that crab. But Erin had crab-related trauma. Don’t pick fights she didn’t need to.
Wait, crabs are edible. I don’t really like crab…but that’s definitely edible.
Erin glanced over her shoulder, and the crab slowly edged back into its hole. Then again, she wasn’t hungry…and she’d need to roast it.
“I’ll be back. You better hope I forget where you live.”
Erin pointed at the crab. Then she jogged onwards. Fire. She’d need a fire to cook anything, but at least that was no problem.
Fire was easy.
 
——
 
The tree was hard. When Erin finally got to it, the ground had changed from sand to soil and given her real footing to work with.
She also had a stitch in her side and had to lean against one root, wheezing, trying to breathe.
“I’m—so—out—of—shape.”
It had probably only been forty-five minutes of jogging, walking, and panting for air. Not even a full run, but Erin was exhausted.
“I really should have worked out more. Mrsha never gets tired! How does she do it?”
If Mrsha were here, she’d already be another hundred feet into the jungle and probably have run into Skinner 2.0: Jungle Edition. Which was probably just a giant leech. But Erin was not Mrsha, and therefore she looked up at the tree and groaned.
“This is such a bad idea.”
Her memories of the blue fruit tree debacle came back to her. Unable to do a single pullup, reduced to kicking the tree for fruits.
No such luck this time. For one thing, this wasn’t…Erin craned her head up and stared into the foliage.
The jungle was dense. And loud. Buzzing was everywhere, and contrary to her image of nature, everything felt alive and big around her. Erin had seen a huge worm rolling through the soil here; she paused as, high above, vast wings beat.
Probably just a regular bird. I wish Bird was here.
Is Bird even alive? Is Mrsha? She suppressed the thoughts.
Climb.
It wasn’t as hard to climb as Erin thought. She was no rock climber, and if she’d had to keep moving, she would have run out of energy and fallen after the first minute.
Size. Size, relative to the bark of this tree, meant that Erin could literally walk up parts of the tree, using the cracks in the bark as easy foot or handholds. For the rest? Well…
“[Lesser Strength]. Makes it—easy! I’m so awesome. I could be an athletic person after all! Whoa, I’m high up.”
Erin looked down after ten minutes and blanched. Again, it was all relative, but she felt forty feet up. In reality, she was probably only six…feet.
The tree was, perhaps, fifty.
After twenty more minutes, Erin wondered if she’d made a mistake.
“I’m not gonna reach the top! Can I?”
Her arms hurt. She was sweating, and she’d been climbing up some fungi: soft, light-green stuff that she found gross and fuzzy. Erin clung to a patch of bark and stared up.
There was a lot of tree left. And she might have [Lesser Endurance], but that was only proportional to her actual fitness. Frankly, climbing for thirty minutes was probably all she had in her.
“This is not a good idea.”
She should have gone for the bush. Cursing, Erin had to admit that getting to the top of the tree—even if she could do it—was going to take at least an hour of climbing, probably two, with her rest breaks.
Was that worth it? Absolutely not! It was a waste of the energy she had. Her first miscalculation as a Fraerling.
Her arms hurt intensely. Erin was worried; it wasn’t the same as muscles burning from fatigue. Something deeper hurt.
