“I told you. Stop invoking us. Speak to her. We’re dead. Keep on living.”
Erin’s head turned, and then she and Ulvama saw a man standing behind the [Innkeeper]. Erin’s face grew pained—the unsmiling man just glared at her. As if he had said it before—his voice was low. His face—
Halrac the Grim didn’t move. He stood there, and Ulvama knew, this time, he wasn’t here. But at the same time, he was. A man in armor resting a hand on a thorn, as if he’d just walked out of nowhere.
A ghost.
No.
Erin ducked her head to Halrac Everam. Then she turned to Ulvama and wordlessly gestured.
“I’m sorry. I didn’t realize anyone else could see them. Don’t worry. He’s just—”
“A statue.”
Ulvama knew what it was. What it had to be. She leapt to the one sane conclusion. Erin’s [Aspect of the Inn]. She had said she’d experimented with every Skill that applied to her inn. So this had to be.
“My [Garden of Sanctuary]. It doesn’t provide anything else. I can’t go home. But it seems I can call on the one thing it was made for. Memories.”
When they looked back at where Halrac had been, only thorns and branches remained. That was what they were.
Statues.
Statues that spoke in the voices of the dead. Neither a ghost nor…an illusion? A fragment of recollection?
The [Shaman] of the Mountain City Tribe had called on the memory of the dead. Ulvama could recall the lives of past Goblins, their loves and losses, their very ends. She knew of classes like Numbtongue’s that invoked the spirits of the dead.
She had committed deeds she would never find proud to live.
Erin’s Skill horrified Ulvama. She saw the [Innkeeper] smile slightly.
“Sorry. They mean well. Sometimes they give advice. It’s them—and not. I—I can turn it off if you want.”
“Have you…is that your [Aspect of the Inn]?”
“Yep. I use the theatre to see. [Reinforced Structure] to fight.”
“And this one? When you’re not using the other two? You’ve been seeing—hearing them for a month?”
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes flickered, her mouth opened slightly, and she paused, as if sensing what Ulvama thought of this. She didn’t have to lie. The truth was written on her face.
“Stop it.”
Ulvama was on her feet. Erin tried to smile. Her lips moved, but her eyes were suddenly roaring voids.
“I will. Don’t worry. It’s just—”
Ulvama took two steps and grabbed Erin’s shoulders and shook her.
“Stop it.”
“I’m sorry I scared you. They scared you. It’s just a Skill, Ulvama. It’s not them. Or maybe it is. Maybe it’s how I think they’d talk. Or—”
“Don’t do it again!”
Ulvama insisted, and Erin put her hand on Ulvama’s arms, trying to make her let go.
“Ulvama, chill. I deserve to let them talk. Most don’t even have bad things to say. Halrac’s just grumpy.”
“He’s dead. Stop torturing yourself. All month?”
“What? All month? Don’t be silly, Ulvama.”
Then she lied. Ulvama saw it. As if called, a figure appeared in the corner of her vision. A white-scaled Drake, head mid-shake.
They didn’t really move, the statues. Or even talk. It was more like the idea that they had just moved. Someone raising their head, speaking—before coming to perfect rest, and that was when you saw them. As if they could spring to life again, and you had caught them in an eternal repose.
An immortal moment.
Ulvama flinched as she saw Tesy give Erin a sad look. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes flickered to him, almost reproachfully.
“Come on, Tesy. I thought we were pals. Even if I should have protected you.”
“Stop it.”
This time, Ulvama shook Erin so hard the [Innkeeper]’s head rattled. But Erin just forced Ulvama’s hands off her. Then held her hands.
“I am! Ulvama, I’ve switched it off. There. Done. See? I know I’m freaking you out.”
Erin apologized. She looked remorseful. But suddenly, she was a stranger again. A woman with haunted eyes, reasonable, seemingly sane—
Torturing herself with statues. 
How long had this been going on? Erin didn’t even react to them appearing. She spoke to them—out loud, Ulvama realized—and the [Shaman]’s overwhelming relief at seeing Erin finally spotted what she would have seen in a moment if she had been well herself.
A crack.
It wasn’t visible, unless you counted her jagged smile now. The way she faced down danger or leapt from a branch, faced her fears as if hoping the next blow would split her apart.
It was intangible, invisible. A fraction of Erin’s soul had been cracked in half. And that was before Visophecin had done anything with it.
“I killed them all, Ulvama. They deserve to speak. Even if it’s just a memory of them.”
Erin’s voice was very gentle. Ulvama stared at her.
She could have punched Erin at this point, tried to literally knock her out. Or scolded her. Or hugged her. Or broken down herself. All of these things were reasonable. But they would have done nothing, nothing at all.
Instead, Ulvama raised her clawed hands, fingers searching Erin’s face until she cupped Erin’s cheeks in her hands.
“Hey.”
Ulvama stared at Erin’s face. They were equal in height, and Erin’s hazel eyes were dreadfully calm. The [Shaman]’s lips moved.
“Don’t keep hurting yourself, Erin. Please. He—Halrac told you to stop. They’re telling you to stop, aren’t they?”
It was just a guess. But when Erin flinched, it was for the first time in a month. Not the seagull or the isolation or the water or the beetle or anything else had made her take a single step back. That hollowness in her gaze flickered.
“You worry too much, Ulvama. And they don’t say the right things. You silly statues. You…friends. You haven’t even blamed me for what happened on the ship.”
Her eyes searched Ulvama, as if trying to find hatred or resentment. Like someone who craved it. Waiting to be stabbed.
In response, Ulvama just shook her head.
“No.”
“Did they hurt you? Halrac is dead. I failed Tesy. I didn’t even look for him. Look. I gave him a sword.”
Erin pointed. Her eyes were gleaming, and Gershal of Vaunt sat there, a glittering sword on his knees, hands resting on the blade. Caught midway between cleaning it. The only thing that moved was his mouth.
“I asked you for it. Listen to her.”
“Look at this imposter. He didn’t even mention cheese. Did you hear him, Ulvama—?”
The Hobgoblin blocked Erin’s view of Gershal. The [Innkeeper] was still smiling—but now her pupils were quivering. Ulvama put her head in front of Erin’s, blocking out her view of the world.
“Erin. You can’t do this.”
“I killed them.”
“Even if you did. This isn’t good. This isn’t anything. Your Skill shouldn’t work like this.”
“Sure it should. It’s the most perfect thing. [Aspect of the Inn]. [Garden of Sanctuary]. I’m so grateful, Ulvama. This is a Level 50 Skill in itself. The most powerful—the most essential. Who doesn’t want to hear someone again?”
Now, the [Innkeeper] was trying to convince Ulvama with her endless charisma, but it wasn’t working. The [Shaman] just shook her head in horror. Not this. This was a curse.
“You’re using your Skill wrong. You—it shouldn’t work like this. No normal Skill should.”
“Well. That’s how it works. So there.”
“Did you make it do that? Are you sure?”
Erin hesitated and bit her lip. Her eyes darted away, and she tried to pull out of Ulvama’s grip.
“Hey, let’s figure out where Nerry is or do something with the colors, huh? I get it, Ulvama. Message delivered. I’ll use my other Skills.”
Ulvama refused to let go.
“Erin. Have you cried for them? You’re allowed to weep and let them go.”
The [Innkeeper] jerked and tried to pull back suddenly. She grabbed Ulvama’s arms, and she was strong.
“What? Of course I’ve mourned for them. Ulvama. Let go. I’m serious. Stop it.”
The [Shaman] refused to. Now it made sense. The first time they’d met, Erin had looked misty-eyed. But she hadn’t actually shed a tear. Ulvama had been sobbing in terror night after night.
But Erin? The [Innkeeper] had been in Ulvama’s company mere hours, yet Ulvama would have bet her very life and any fortune and magic and levels she’d had that Erin Solstice hadn’t wept a single tear since the Solstice.
Not once.
And not because they weren’t there. The [Innkeeper] was struggling now, getting angry, because that was easier than having to look Ulvama in the eyes. But she was careful to be gentle and tried to make the Hobgoblin let go.
Guilt. Her every glance at Ulvama was guilt incarnate. Sorrow?
You didn’t ‘see’ it when a statue appeared. Or in how Erin acted. How could Erin be sad? It embodied her. It wasn’t an emotion, it was a defining piece of her. She breathed it. Everything she was experiencing was a result of it.
When she stood here in this small clearing in a bush in the middle of an unknown continent, injured, lost, scarred beyond belief, she could smile because she thought she deserved it and worse.
That was the hole in her eyes. An urging of the world, of Ulvama, of anything.
Hurt me. Do your worst.
Ulvama wanted to kiss Erin on the head and hug her. She wanted to wrap Erin in a blanket and make sure there was good food and bring her back to the inn. This deserved a [Thought Healer] if Humans had any that were good. It called for Erin’s friends. For good food and quiet and—
There was none of that here. Ulvama was a [Shaman]. All the good things Erin deserved might help her in time, but Ulvama had seen those eyes.
She had looked into Goblin eyes, into the expressions of men and women of many species. Erin Solstice had the eyes of…her uncle. The [Shaman of the Old Ways]’ eyes glowed, and she saw, for a moment, through the eyes of someone besides a Goblin.
A brown-haired man with a neat beard and a penchant for flannel driving a strange vehicle day in, day out. Imagine that man, his favorite IPA in hand each weekend.
Ulvama could see him.
Thomas Solstice.
A father, which is one of the ways he might define himself. An employed, hardworking fellow who labored every day. His job was not easy. Some days, some weeks, might be thunderously painful. There were bills to pay.
His father was dead. He had buried him three years ago and done everything right. His relationship with his spouse was rocky at times, but they’d raised two good children. The proper, American dream.
His brother was fine. His brother’s kid—odd, but okay. Going to college already, imagine that. It was just yesterday she was a chess prodigy, knee high to a gnat.
His sister had gotten out of that marriage with that bastard, and if this man, this father, ever saw that bastard again—why, he’d have done something if he didn’t have a family to raise.
He loved his family. He didn’t always show it. Sometimes they pissed him off. He was not perfect. If you asked him about his boss or work, you’d get a litany of complaints, but he wasn’t about to quit.
At times, the world squeezed down on him so hard it felt like he might pop—and that was before you accounted for the news. All the terrible things in the world. This bastard in politics—don’t even start. What the man could control was his work, his life—things weren’t going well right now, but they’d improve.
His mother he’d buried a decade ago. He had a picture on the mantle, a bit dusty. His father—from three years ago.
Now, imagine Thomas’ eyes, that contained this life. All this and more. All the things he’d never tell you, the thoughts that no one could ever prise from another person’s head, if they could even be articulated. That was a man such as you might find on any street, in any city in the world.
Then understand this: this man, this uncle, this father, this worker, this son, this husband, this Human being had not cried in, oh, over thirty years.
Not wept.
Tears of pain? Of course. Maybe when a girlfriend had broken his heart in college…? And maybe he’d gotten misty-eyed during a movie or watching his team finally win at that sports thing. If his daughter got married, perhaps he’d shed a tear at that moment. Or when his son graduated.
But you weren’t supposed to cry. No one had told him that…well, at some point a boy had been told that, but it was largely implicit. So this man continued, year after year, until he forgot the reason you shed tears. To him, it was something other people did. And he thought it was perfectly natural not to cry in a year, or decade, and if you asked him about it, he’d give you a strange look.
Perhaps he could die of it. Or maybe it did nothing to him to never weep. He could put his fist through drywall, but not cry, let alone weep. If the right sad event happened, he might say, of course he’d cry.
He just hadn’t had enough of a reason for three decades. He had to be strong when he buried his parents. Someone had to be. What would happen if he broke down? He might never find the pieces.
Ulvama’s hand flinched away from Erin’s arm. When she looked upwards, a reflection of that same stare was in Erin Solstice’s eyes. Like a curled knot of muscle, a piece of fabric stretched tighter and tighter. A waiting piece of wood refusing to split before the lumberjack’s axe.
Erin had seen the same thing Ulvama had. Her hazel stare, a copy of her uncle’s, flickered as she passed a hand over her eyes. She had seen that man many times over her life. But now she had found the reason behind his stare—her voice rasped as she looked at Ulvama.
“I don’t need to cry, Ulvama. There’s no point. I killed them. What—what am I supposed to do? Apologize?”
She laughed hollowly. Shaking her head as she forced Ulvama’s hands away. Stepping back.
“I knew what I was doing. I knew the cost. They paid it for me. I have done this before. This time…now they can remind me of it. If only they could be angry. I know it’s not them. If it was them—”
Her eyes flickered.
“They’d tell me what they truly thought. This is fine. I don’t have time to shed tears, Ulvama. We need to get you somewhere safe.”
“You are allowed to cry, Erin. The world won’t end if you do. They deserve it.”
The [Innkeeper] grew angry at that.
“They deserve to be alive. I’ll—what are we even talking about? I’m sorry I scared you with the statues, Ulvama. Come on, let’s figure out those paints. I wonder if I can harvest the colors from your spell. What about a regular fire? I can’t do it with my flames.”
She turned. Ulvama called out, looking at the [Innkeeper]’s back. All the magical fire from Rhir and Terandria hadn’t killed her. She was metamorphosing into something tough. Stronger than mithril. Stronger than Adamantium. More rigid than a diamond.
And you could shatter a diamond with a simple hammer. Ulvama had seen Erin and felt like hope had come back to the world. So grateful had she been that she had missed the obvious for a few hours.
