Green light? Erin Solstice’s head rose slightly. She had been so thirsty, tired, and frankly, despondent that she’d missed that last bit. Slowly, she pushed herself up, shedding a bed of sand fleas and automatically delimbing one. Then she wiped her hands on her jeans and shaded her eyes.
“What’s that?”
The sky was indeed too bright. The sun was unrelenting without clouds, and Erin definitely was dehydrated. But adding to the brightness was a twinging glare from some green light.
Ahead of Erin. Not straight overhead. There was a light coming from…Erin’s neck craned back.
Over the forest canopy. If she weren’t standing on the beach here, she never would have seen it. Certainly not inside the jungle itself. It was small too. A green twinkle.
Erin’s dazzled eyes focused on the light, and she tried to make it out. She couldn’t. Cursing, the [Innkeeper] looked around, judged the sand fleas to be distracted, took several steps away from them and any immediate threat, and spoke.
“[Aspect of the Inn: World’s Eye Theatre]!”
Her eyes sharpened, and Erin clapped a hand to her forehead in agony. Sand! She’d forgotten about the sand—
A third eye opened on her forehead and stared upwards with the other two. Erin Solstice’s head rose and, ignoring the stinging pain, the itching—focused on that little green light in the air.
What she saw made her pain, exhaustion, itching, and everything else vanish. Erin stared—took two steps—stopped staring, and then spoke.
“[Aspect of the Inn: Reinforced Structure]!”
Then she was running, ignoring the sand fleas, crabs, and everything else. Running straight ahead towards what she’d seen.
It was small, hanging in the air. Unmoving; bright enough for her to see in the daylight, but surely it would have been even more visible at night. That mark—
No.
That beacon wasn’t intelligible in a way a monster or animal would understand it. Even a person probably wouldn’t get it.
After all. It was just a few squiggles in the air. A word—
But not a real word that most of the world knew. It said:
 
Næfoma.
 
Then, the [Innkeeper] had a reason to keep going.
 
——
 
After twenty minutes of running flat out, when she was almost at the jungle, Erin realized she had to slow down. She stopped, checked the position of the Goblin word, and took a huge breath.
“Stop. Focus. You can’t lose it. It’s—here. Relative to the sun—here…there’s actually that blue bush almost in line with it. Looks like a bit into the jungle. Twenty feet?”
Maybe. If she lost it or it vanished, she had to remember the exact location. Also—she had to avoid bringing trouble.
Move fast, but smart. Erin stopped rushing and proceeded at a fast walk, now with a head on a swivel, thinking.
The beetle was bad enough. Would that symbol attract a predator who noticed the light? No, come to that…would a person notice that symbol, besides Erin?
She doubted anyone but a Goblin could read the word. But any sentient being would surely notice it; it was very small, but bright enough to catch the eye at night.
How did I miss it? Well, she’d been in the jungle. Not hard to see how it had been blocked from her sight. Was it who Erin thought it had to be?
There were only two Goblins she’d been with. Three—but Rabbiteater was in the company of others, and he couldn’t cast magic. And only one of them…
Only one would use the one word she’d taught Erin.
‘Help.’
The [Innkeeper] began to activate her aura, then suppressed it. She exhaled.
“Stealth.”
She picked up her pace and activated [Reinforced Structure], thinking hard. Flames. Color magic? No; there was no time to make another throwing stone. Move fast.
Color magic did not work on sentient beings. Erin couldn’t even use it on living plantlife. If she could have turned the giant, red beetle into a fragile, colorless bug—no. If there was a color-related class that could do that, it would be deadly.
Her flames were also not as much use at her height as she wanted. Throwing a ball of merciful fire was a good effect, but until the flames consumed something else, it was weak. Her fists?
What other [Aspects of the Inn] can I use? She’d tried almost all of them.
[Garden of Sanctuary]—she knew what that did. Minimal utility in a fight, if any. [Reinforced Structure] was probably the best. She also had [Twofold Rest], which she hadn’t really wanted or needed; it let her sleep faster, but it just meant she had more time to stay up in the dead of night, thinking.
[World’s Eye Theatre] gave her a third eye and sharpened her vision; she’d used that to see various things, but it was disorienting, even after weeks of experimenting with it. The third eye did let her see without going sunblind, though; she’d stared straight at the sun with her other two eyes closed, a novel experience.
[Lease Lesser Room] didn’t work. Erin didn’t want to know how that’d work. [Compartments of Holding]…not much use in a fight either. [Field of Preservation]—she had no idea what it did if it was even active. [Door of Portals] didn’t work as far as she could tell.
Some of the aspects must have had other conditions or effects that weren’t immediately obvious to her. [Magical Grounds], [Partial Reconstruction]—ditto for non-obvious effects.
And her last inn-related Skill she’d gotten—
[Pavilion of Secrets].
—Didn’t work. At least with [Aspect of the Inn]. So, [Reinforced Structure] it was. And if she needed to fight something big?
I should have made a better weapon.
The [Innkeeper] focused all of a sudden. Kicking herself for not being more proactive. She stole through the jungle, interrupting a whole procession of little ants the size of her feet. Erin strode past them, sensing something big crashing through the forest far to her right.
Where was she?
It took her twenty-six more minutes of hurrying through this section of the jungle, wondering if she was lost, but Erin didn’t think she was.
This section of the beach had led into the jungle at a slight incline on two sides of a narrower gap; perhaps the result of a former cliff or the flow of water. Nothing recent, because the greenery had overgrown the sides of the small bank.
Erin would have stepped over this small selection of land as a regular Human and thought nothing of it save to watch her step. But as a Fraerling, she saw the banks as a natural guardrail that kept your line-of-sight low and out of the way of a larger predator.
Also, the blue berry bush was right there. Erin actually passed by it and saw several smaller insects industriously gnawing at the blue berries, which looked like bright, blue bulbs joined together to form lumpy raspberries.
Erin passed the bush and saw more than one of these fruit-bearing bushes in the area along with a number of thorny plants of the shrub variety.
They had beaten out the trees in places, leaving access to the sky. The thorns made a natural cover for smaller creatures against large ones. More cover from a swooping bird.
There was a definite logic to choosing this place as opposed to Erin’s random wandering. You might infer that the berry bush was edible, or at least, expect it to be near a body of water. The channel of dirt provided cover while exiting the beach, and this spot meant that if you were sending a smoke signal or light spell into the sky, you’d have the best chance of being seen.
Of course, the real clue for any traveller was the faint trail of smoke in the air. When Erin saw it rising from one of the bushes with spade-like leaves and long, sharp thorns, she made a beeline towards it.
But stealthily; she was most alert for insects or something nasty as she passed into the bushes. The thorns were sharp enough that Erin would have worried about them poking her without her Skill; they were like lances. She tried to break one off, thinking it might be a weapon, but decided she was wasting time when they proved flexible.
Not many bugs in the bushes? Ah—nope. There’s one.
Erin stared up at the gnarled stems and branches of the lance-needle bushes and saw a crawling, huge…cricket-type insect? Resembling one of those bugs that infested bushes like this. Big, winged, an inch or an inch and a half long. She grimaced when she saw there were dozens above her.
They eyed Erin. She was bigger than them, but they had numbers. The black bugs buzzed briefly—then desisted as she passed out of their realm.
Stealthy. Where there were those kinds of insects, you got predators. Be it birds, maybe, who’d land on the bush and hunt for the bugs despite the thorns, or…
Mantis.
Erin flattened her back to one of the stems as a familiar insect appeared. It wasn’t exactly like a praying mantis; it was grey and had a more interesting design. The same long, stalking body and clawed legs, but an even longer set of ‘arms’ and a single, domed eye like a helmet.
The cyclopean mantis also had, instead of scythes—a set of two long lances that it was jabbing into one of the black, buzzing cricket things. It lifted the dead bug up and began to chew on it.
Great. An adapted mantis. It might not beat Wailer Frogs for sheer deadliness, but Erin didn’t like how said mantis was almost as tall as she was—and longer.
It seemed like its evolutionary adaptation of lance-arms didn’t keep it from being relatively dextrous either. Mantises could use their scythe-arms to grab prey; this Spear Mantis could retract the long barbs of its spear-arms to maneuver what it killed.
It could probably run me through without [Reinforced Structure]. Erin slid sideways, trying to use the branches as cover. The Spear Mantis was either too busy with its current meal or didn’t see her with its dome eye, and she kept moving.
 
——
 
The smoke trail was coming from one of the bushes on the edge of this thorny maze, and, as Erin stared upwards, she could see the faint glint of the green word as well. The sun was turning towards evening; she’d taken longer than she thought.
Erin was hungry, and she hadn’t gone back for water, but she was almost there. She could definitely see smoke rising and wondered if it was a lure; wouldn’t the fire attract enemies? Or maybe it would keep away bugs and animals who associated fire with danger.
She had to climb up some rocks that formed a kind of plateau towards the next bush. This one was set right up against what might have been a large boulder or something; Erin only saw a mass of grey rock.
Blocks off other creatures from surrounding you unless they literally crawl down the side of the rock. Bush is good cover and thorny; the only things that are going to get close are going to come either through the branches with thorns or on foot, like me. 
In fact, as Erin drew even closer, she realized someone had thought of that. The [Innkeeper] was moving quiet now, checking the branches for bugs, but this bush seemed deserted; it wasn’t fruit-bearing, and the few creatures around were the tiny aphids or other insects just as small.
However, there were objects strewn around. Erin froze as she saw a small…
Rope? 
Not quite! Rather, they were pieces of leaf, the stem or tougher components of one, lashed together to form a long rope. It ran at foot-height across one section of the bush, and there was another rope at mid-section height that Erin could see.
“Smart.”
Anything without a brain might blunder forwards and slow themselves on the ropes, or at least make noise. Then Erin noticed more security.
A glowing rune.
The [Witch] might be without magic, but she’d learned to see it, at least. There were faint, glowing runes on the ground at regular intervals; one look told Erin intuitively that they probably made a loud pop or other sound.
Alarm runes. Erin began to smile, but, conscious of danger or that she could be mistaken, she stepped over the first rope and avoided the runes. The protective layers weren’t meant to keep a sentient creature like her out, and once she got past that layer, she saw the branches and thorns grew so dense as to be a wall in places.
So smart. I should have done this. Erin hadn’t meant to creep up on whoever was here—okay, she had—but she hadn’t expected to be so successful.
There was a part of her that had wondered if this was a trap or mistake on her part. If so, Erin had known she was going to walk into it, even if it was Roshal or…or anyone else.
She had gone as stealthily as possible, but she was a Level 50+ [Innkeeper]. Not a [Rogue]. Just like how a [Warrior] at her level wouldn’t have feared anything she’d faced but maybe the Wailer Frog, Erin’s stealth and trap-making Skills were virtually nil.
—Still. It wasn’t like she couldn’t move quietly, and if she suppressed her aura, there were actually far fewer noisy sticks or leaves to step on at Fraerling size. So Erin actually got the drop on the being hidden in the center of all these precautions.
Past the rope traps and alarm spells in a narrow den of cleared space between the branches and thorns—barely the size of a small bedroom relative to a Fraerling—was a light. Erin pulled back a leaf, cautious, senses on high alert.
And she heard the faint crackle of something burning, smelled the faint odor of smoke, and saw the Goblin before she heard her.
Ulvama was sitting, staring into the flames, covered in scratches and mud drawn into vague approximations of her magical paint. She had on the same clothing that Erin remembered the last time they had seen each other: a kind of leather skirt and hide top that covered her chest and midriff and shoulders but left most of her arms exposed.
A [Shaman]’s gear. The Hobgoblin had put her hair in an odd bun; she had what looked like one of the needles from the bush jutting out of it.
Planted in the ground by the small fire made of burning bark from a tree were several more needle-spears and a leaf with some of the blue berry, sliced up and glistening. The Hobgoblin had even made a bed out of a few more leaves and placed more pieces around this sanctuary, save for a hole to let the smoke rise; more visual cover.
She was here. Alive. And yes, small as Erin. The [Innkeeper] almost shouted there and then, but she wondered, for a second, if this was a trick.
Then she looked again and saw that Ulvama looked terrible. If this was an illusion, it was a good one. It seemed like Ulvama had been fighting; she had scratches on her body, and the mud ‘paint’ on her was flaking. She was staring with crimson eyes narrowed into the fire she’d made, sitting with her arms clasped around her knees.
And she was crying. Erin stopped when she saw that.
The Hobgoblin made as little noise as she could, but tears were rolling down her face, dripping down her cheeks, and turning to mud as they dripped onto the ground. Her lips were squeezed together, and she looked—
Terrified.
