A bat was not her ideal weapon of choice in this jungle. It couldn’t cut anything, it was heavier than she wanted, she couldn’t use it like a walking stick, and her fists had [Minotaur Punch], even if it was probably only a Fraerling-sized Minotaur doing the punching.
“Sorry, bat. You had a good run. Now, I present the Ultra Grey Stone!”
Erin lifted a stone she had infused with the power of three other stones! A rock three times as grey! Three times as strong! Three times as heavy—
She tried to throw the stone, and her arm twinged.
“Gah! Heck! My arm!”
The Ultra Grey Stone might have [Unerring Throw] helping it fly…but it could only fly about what looked like ten feet to Erin. So…ten inches.
She covered her face and had to sit down. She was rapidly running out of energy. [Infuse Color] took something out of her.
“Damn. No. It’s too heavy! And if I remove color—everything gets worthless and weak.”
The three rocks she’d drained to make her ‘better’ rock were so fragile she could stomp on one and turn it to powder. They were light as a feather…and it seemed like the color didn’t obey all the rules Erin expected it to.
The more ‘focused’ a color got, the more intense the effect. So the attributes of weight and hardness from the stones intensified the more she infused it. The problem was, she now had either a super-light rock that showered you with powder—or a rock she couldn’t hurl.
Come on, Erin. Think, think! If only these were blue fruits.
I wish I had a blue fruit.
I’m thirsty.
Uh oh.
She’d wasted at least two hours so far, and how often did you have to sip water? Erin had to stop messing around with the colors, but she stared grimly at the stones. She still needed something. Her eyes focused on the three white rocks—well, two since she’d powdered one. Then the ultra-dense one.
Then…Erin wondered if she wasn’t making an amateur’s mistake. Think like a [Painter], she’d been told once. An artist. She was applying the logic of Earth to a magical idea of literally stealing color.
“Hm. Wait a second.”
Erin got up and performed a final test. She spoke.
“[Drain Color].”
She pulled all of the color out of the Ultra Grey Stone until it was almost black in color. Then, Erin took the glob of grey and carefully inserted it into one of the pure white rocks. But not to make the entire thing grey, oh, no. The blob dripped through the stone as if it were liquid passing through other liquid. Like oil through water…sinking until it formed a dark core.
Then—Erin felt the weight of the rock change. But not to the same weight as the Ultra Grey Stone.
She hefted a rather decently heavy, translucent, pale stone…with a dark core of dense stone. Erin tossed the ball up and down, then inserted it into her carrying sling. One would do for now.
“Betcha this will sting.”
She walked off, leaving the Splinterwood Bat behind. She dubbed her new creation the, uh…uh…
Densecore Stone? Sure, whatever. She needed water.
Erin had cause to use the rock soon enough.
 
——
 
She hadn’t wasted all her time trying to make a tool. Erin had done some thinking, and the journey up the tree had proved illuminating in some ways.
A survival situation was really hard. She had no idea where she was, she was small—but it occurred to Erin she did have clues.
Like someone searching for answers on a test she hadn’t actually studied for at all—she had to read the context of the question and prompts to gain a foothold.
For instance—how did she find water? Simple! She followed something that knew where it was!
Of course, choosing the right creature was important. As far as Erin knew, bugs were pretty resilient and didn’t need the same levels of moisture she did.
Erin needed either actual water or, failing that, a fruit or something with equivalent supply. She decided that a rodent or bird would have to drink water at some point during the day, so she set about finding one.
That cute hamster she thought she’d seen from the tree was the most harmless thing in this jungle. Erin’s first foray into the jungle instead of climbing a tree saw her adopting a far more stealthy approach.
Cloak drawn around her, she kept to plants or the roots of trees, peering around them rather than walking in the open. It wasn’t hard to see the danger of being out in the open; she had just seen a bunch of ants being devoured by a spider. Both far smaller than she was…but comparatively horrifying given the spider was as high as her knee.
Not threats to her; both ants and spider actually seemed more aware of Erin than they usually were when she was a giant Human. They scuttled away from her, and Erin, correspondingly, froze when the bushes around her rustled.
What the heck is that? She stared up as the biggest damn frog she had ever seen in her entire life appeared like Godzilla overhead.
It had to be four feet tall, and it had a huge sac at its throat.
Riaaaabiuuuult! The sac inflated as the Wailer Frog—at least, that’s what Erin assumed it was—gave the world a bulge-eyed glance. Then it hopped forwards, opened its mouth, and something shrieked and tried to fly off before ending in a squawk.
The circle of life at its finest. Erin was really wishing she was on Earth right now. She had forgotten how big some monsters got.
…She followed the Wailer Frog.
She had to! Erin hesitated, but the stupid amphibian was a textbook example of a creature that not only needed water, freshwater, to drink, but probably couldn’t stay outside of it for too long! It dried up, right?
The air wasn’t that humid; it was still definitely winter, and Erin tip-toed after the Wailer Frog, head on a swivel.
Following the frog wasn’t fun.
For one thing, Erin was afraid it would turn at any moment, see her, and decide it wanted a snack. Second? It hopped forwards, so she had to run and stop, dashing from cover to cover. It was a lot bigger than she was, so she was constantly running.
Third? It had no regard for people following it or how pleasant it was to watch the frog.
The poor bird was crunched noisily into the frog’s mouth, and it made a huge garooping sound, inflating its throat-sac. The very sound chased potential predators away, Erin was sure. Then it began hopping forwards, still masticating the bones and flesh.
Then it pooped.
Frog poo was long, runny, and stinky. Erin wished it were not also up to her shoulders and gagged as she ran after the frog. It kept pooping for a while, hop-poop, hop—
“Please take me to water. I hope you get eaten. Please—”
The frog hopped in seemingly random directions for twenty-five minutes. Then—it tilted its head, made a brauuum noise—and Erin heard a dozen echoing replies.
Her eyes opened wide as the Wailer Frog turned and began hopping steadily—left! She ran after it.
“Yes! Water! W—”
Erin’s shout-whispers turned not into a scream of triumph, but a groan. She found water.
Or rather, she found a huge patch of mud with about a dozen Wailer Frogs happily braurping around in it. To Erin as a Fraerling, it looked like a pond in itself, but if she had been Human-sized, it would have been a puddle just about ten feet across, with a muddy sandbar in the middle, covered in grey-green poop and inhabited by huge, muddy forms, who wallowed in the muck.
To say it stank was to be charitable.
The Wailer Frog she’d found hopped towards the others, who were all emitting the deafening sounds, and Erin stared at the water.
Aside from the fact that she bet they pooped in it—and that the frogs were wallowing around in the mud—
It was definitely not drinkable. Erin closed her eyes. Then she opened them.
“…It has to have a stream.”
No mud pond like this would remain without some kind of water. Erin hoped it wasn’t groundwater or whatever; surely the Wailer Frogs indicated this was a longer-term residence?
Surely. She began to circumnavigate what was, to her, a vast lake with giant, dangerous monsters burping and humping each other in the distance.
“You’re so gross. I hate you. And you. And you. I especially hate you, Mr. Hop and Poo. Oh, you have little babies! They have teeth! I hate you all!”
The sight of the Wailer Frogs bumping uglies in the distance as Erin hurried around the muddy ferns where they met soil was so distracting that Erin forgot there were other creatures. Wailer Frogs or not—they were not the only creatures in this ecosystem.
There were also centipedes.
A long one, four feet long by Erin’s standards, crawled out of the mud and tried to bite her leg. She yelped, kicked it, and got a foot full of pincers for her trouble. Erin swore, checked her foot, and was glad the skin was unbroken. The centipede jerked away, and she shook her fist at it.
Then she heard a warning bell in her head, turned—and realized she’d kicked the baby. The mother was the kind of centipede you got in the Amazon rainforest. Seven feet long with pincers big enough to take a toe off a Human.
Erin? Erin looked like a meal.
“Aaaaaaah!”
Fun fact: centipedes of that size were fast. It came after Erin, hundreds of orange legs moving, sections of its body undulating as it snapped pincers together, and she ran, screaming. The Wailer Frogs actually stopped croaking a second as they heard the sounds.
The centipede’s mouth snapped around growing ferns, and Erin dove, rolled to the side, got up, and pulled out the Densecore Rock.
“Don’t make me use—”
It nearly took her head off, and Erin ran. She half-turned, saw the centipede barrelling down on her, and realized she had to fight or get rid of it. So she spun and threw the rock with her best baseball pitch.
It was a baseball-sized rock with a super-dense core, proportionally not that far off from a baseball in weight either.
The centipede looked like a bus-sized monstrosity, pincers well able to snip Erin in half at the waist. Its fractal, insectile eyes were locked on Erin, and she could see its organs through its mouth as it thundered at her with an armored carapace she had never really respected as a bigger person until now.
Her baseball-sized rock smacked the centipede in the eye, and the rock powdered. Erin turned and ran.
“I should have kept that stupid [Prince]’s magic sword! Argh!”
She was waiting for the thunder of skittering legs to catch up with her. Time to use her big Skills! She hurdled over a tree root, saw an opening under it, and spun—if she could trick the centipede into crawling under it, she might tangle it up or have the advantage in a fight!
Instead—Erin saw the centipede had stopped behind her. It was crawling jerkily around where she had hit it with the stone. And when Erin blinked, narrowed her eyes, and stared—
She saw part of its face had been blown inwards, exposing blood and orange-tinted insides. Erin’s jaw dropped.
The Densecore Stone had worked! The exterior had done nothing, but the internal part had hit the giant centipede hard enough to blow a hole in its face! It was woozy; had Erin hit the brain?
Lucky shot, perhaps. Or maybe the Densecore Stone had been more dangerous than she gave it credit for. Either way—the centipede seemed to be rallying itself. It began to skitter after Erin, unsteadily—then stopped.
Erin, tensed, almost bolted for it when a shadow covered both her and the giant centipede. Both of them looked up, and the woozy centipede tried to run—but the monstrosity looming over it just opened their mouth and made a pleased sound.
Ribbit.
The Wailer Frog took some time to eat the giant centipede, large as it was. By the time it was done, Erin had made tracks away from the frog and stopped, panting, in the shadow of a bush.
About three dozen ladybugs tried to headbutt her, and they actually bit at her sandals, but they were so tiny Erin kicked two hard enough to crack their shells, and they backed up to let her relax in cover.
“You’re not as cute as you look from afar. And I never liked you anyways. Okay. Okay…I didn’t even have to activate a real combat Skill.”
Maybe she should. Her aura? Another Skill she thought would have utility? The thing was—Erin didn’t want to draw attention to herself.
She had a feeling that magic or auras were things animals might track down, and even if hers was strong…if a bird hunting for auras decided it wanted Erin dead, she’d be in the fight of her life.
Better to bravely run away than risk a confrontation. Erin was exhausted as she trooped out of the bush a few minutes later. But oh, heavens be praised, or at least, Pawn’s heaven—
She found water at last.
 
——-
 
It was just a small stream, barely a trickle a Human’s hand width across, running through grass-covered mulch, coming downhill and feeding the damn Wailer Frog pond. But Erin almost fell on her hands and knees.
Water! She could follow it and find a river. She could drink, bathe, cook—water!
She was intensely thirsty now; the sun had receded after the beach, but her diet of honey had been barely hydrating as it was, and this exertion had left her sweaty—and then, worse—hot without any more sweat coming out.
Erin almost fell on her hands and knees to drink the sort-of-clear water running through the soil, but every conscious instinct told her it was a bad idea.
Boil it. You have to boil it. Erin groaned and looked around.
“How the hell am I going to do that?”
The area leading away from the Wailer Frog territory had fewer tall standing trees, lots of fallen leaves and mud, and she kept seeing bugs moving in said mud. There were tiny snails, and Erin eyed their shells before asking herself if she really wanted to drink water out of a snail shell.
No. No, she did not.
The easiest solution, it seemed to Erin, was to find a stick and use her color-technique to create a pot…no, wait. That was the dumbest solution because of how tiring it was.
“Hm.”
A thought occurred to Erin as she looked around and saw some muddy water trapped in a leaf. Evidently, this stream overflowed now and then, or it had rained recently.
Leaves held water. Erin found the cleanest, freshest leaf she could see. She tore it up, marched over to the water, and, after tying the plant fibers together, made a crude ‘bucket’ out of a leaf.
“No way. It actually feels…solid?”
Erin incredulously sloshed around a bunch of water. Leaves! Nature’s buckets! Stronger than paper, at least at this size!
Who knew? To hold her bucket, she found a twig and just snapped a section off for a carrying rod. She had to figure out how to tie an anchor at both ends because her leaf-bucket slipped…twice…but after only a few minutes, she had a good quantity of water, about a gallon relative to her, in a pale-yellow leaf bucket, shining semi-translucent to reveal sloshing liquid within.
“Now, to boil it.”
