This was, of course, the hardest part of any survivalist’s training. Erin had watched some survival shows—the real survival shows, not the silly ones—and even with a fire-starting ferro rod, or whatever they were called, professional bushcraft experts might struggle.
Especially with a lush jungle such as this around them; they would need to find good kindling and nurture a small spark into a proper flame. Even the way you piled wood up would matter—that first spark might take hours to create if you were unlucky.
“[Like Fire, Memory].”
Erin pointed, and an orange flame of frustration—she had a lot of that—sprang up on the ground. Erin looked around, then anchored her leaf-bucket on a stone with some other rocks and held up the other side herself.
She stood there as the fire rapidly warmed her feet and the bucket, hoping it wouldn’t burn through the cellulose of the leaf.
A lizard the size of a golden retriever relative to Erin, a cute, small one, shuffled up to the water and began to drink. It eyed Erin and the glowing, orange flame. She nodded at it.
“Hey.”
The lizard lapped at the water and waddled away as steam began to rise from the leaf. Erin checked the underside, and it was browning…but the flames weren’t eating into the bucket. She stood there another minute, licking her lips.
The water began to bubble at last, and Erin decided to give it a minute to boil—just in case—and then had to wait another few minutes after taking it off the flame to cool. When she had to drink, she had to balance the water bucket in both arms and shift it upwards to pour water at her face.
It was messy—the water was hot and slightly brackish—and she gulped, washed her face, drank, and then poured the rest over her and went to boil more.
Oh, it was the best thing ever. All her toil making a single rock or tool or finding the water or even crossing the damn beach? This was easy.
Fire was something Erin could do. And with water, her fogged mind began to clear, and other feelings began to assert themselves.
Like hunger. And an awareness that the sun was lowering.
“Shelter. Food. Damn. If I can find a fish, that’d be perfect. I doubt there are any here. Either I follow the stream or I go to the beach for that crab.”
Roasting one of them wouldn’t be hard, right? Erin was not going to eat a bug and do a Ceria…unless she had to. But she had fire and drinkable water, assuming that she hadn’t just given herself a virus, boiling or not.
She was refreshed and optimistic. Erin reckoned that, if she had to, she could literally hollow out a piece of stone with her Skill—it wasn’t the best use of her energy to use [Drain Color] like that. But she could.
Probably find a place in a tree and put something in front of it to sleep. She had fire for light. Fire for boiling water and cooking food.
She might live after all. Erin Solstice exhaled and turned. The little lizard was still lapping at the water, a blue-black forked tongue flicking at the little stream. The ferns growing up around this water source were green, despite the winter, fronds of many little leaves open to the sun.
They were tall trees to Erin. And the trees were actual mountains or skyscrapers overhead. Relative to her, the fronds were taller than houses. If she looked at where a cluster of them twined together, she could almost see shapes in the tangle of plantlife.
Moore stood against one of the fronds, a hand resting on a stem. He looked down at Erin, his face approving.
“I believe you’ll make it, Erin. If any [Innkeeper] could, it would be you.”
The [Innkeeper] stopped, hair dripping wet. She wiped at her mouth, but she was suddenly no longer thirsty. The leaf-bag, too close to the flame, began to catch on fire as the flame of frustration burned anything it could find. Even stone and what shouldn’t burn. And the flame of hatred could burn even more. But the [Innkeeper] paid no attention to that. Her eyes were on Moore.
The half-Giant didn’t move. His beard did not blow in the faint breeze. His clothing was patched; an adventurer’s gear, cobbled together for a half-Giant too large for the rest of the world.
Erin Solstice’s eyes did not widen. She was not surprised to see him. Not exactly. Slowly, she exhaled. And her eyes closed heavily. Painfully.
When she opened them, he was gone. Erin Solstice stood there, staring at a clump of ferns. If you looked closely, a few of them might form the vague impression of a face. Perhaps—a beard.
But only if your mind let it. She turned away and knelt to splash her face with water. But the voice had been real as her memories.
Real as Moore? 
Moore was dead. She knew he was. He could not have appeared like that if he’d been—alive. That was how she knew who had lived and who had not.
“I have to make it.”
That was all Erin said. When she turned, the little lizard had fled. Either because it was alarmed by the fire, Erin’s voice, or it had just sated its thirst.
She was glad. A lizard was quite edible as far as she knew. Erin kicked the rest of the bucket’s water over the flames and walked off.
 
——
 
The first food that Erin found that she trusted was a fallen acorn. She didn’t waste time now that she knew what to do; she used [Drain Color] to weaken the shell, removed the exterior, and found the interior nut section was exactly as she expected.
Proportionally, a single acorn could yield a stomach-sized serving. Per acorn. The [Innkeeper] was lucky enough to find three in close proximity to a tree she scouted out close to the stream.
You might think that was ample food for her, but Erin realized that her activities—and perhaps Fraerling constitution—meant that she could eat a lot more than she expected. The third nut she roasted over a flame in her hand still left her wanting more.
So she went scavenging as she searched for places to sleep. Erin wanted somewhere off the ground, and she actually found both ample dinner and a home in the most obvious of places: a literal knothole in the tree.
It took her an hour to climb up to it, and Erin was ready to fight whatever was inside to its death—but the den was deserted. There were nuts aplenty inside, and Erin cracked several and ate their insides while waiting for the owner to come back.
“…Must have gotten eaten.”
That was Erin’s only conclusion that night. She piled up nut shells to form a vague door and lit a single, blue flame inside as she slept on the far end of the den. Her cloak made for a blanket; she used some old fur and one of the nuts as a pillow.
Then she passed out.
 
——
 
By morning, Erin had remembered how to smile again. So she did, if only after she realized she’d eaten eighteen nuts of various kinds for breakfast. She ended up cracking the shells with a bit of magic, then roasting them over the flame of glory.
Of all the flames, it was the most controllable right now—and one of the few that could actually make edible food. Ironically, for a flame-expert, which was what she sort of was, Erin Solstice had a lot less utility than even a basic [Mage]. Maviola’s flames would have been far better in situations like this. Erin’s?
Blue flames froze food—which was useful for balmier nights or preserving something, but hardly what you wanted with walnuts. Mercy was a cutting flame; if it burned, it didn’t leave much behind, and other flames like frustration, hope, or wonder were nebulous, harder to activate—and frankly, not that hot all the time.
Erin could have used rage or hatred…but she wouldn’t have trusted what came out of the black or invisible flames. So, glory it was, and small as the fire was, it burned hot.
She also experimented with breakfast, perhaps unwisely, by infusing the nuts with colors drawn from each other or the shells of the acorns. She had to do it.
Using the light-beige inside of one of the acorns on a walnut-type inside gave her a rich flavor. By contrast, she could add the ‘shell’ color to an acorn’s interior, and it was edible…sort of. Erin ended up chewing for three minutes before deciding she didn’t need to actually swallow the incredibly tough meal.
What was most astounding was that she ate the entire stash of nuts in one sitting for breakfast as the sun rose over the noisy jungle.
“I guess I’m hungry. Wow, Fraerlings eat a lot.”
Erin poked at her bulging stomach, which was actually visibly distended from how much she’d eaten. Even more uncannily, it seemed to shrink before her eyes. Fraerlings really could eat more than their body weight in food.
What was her first move today? Recovering witchcraft, analyzing her new Skills on land, building new tools, or locating a more permanent base all sprang to mind instantly.
Peeing off the side of a branch came first. Erin surveyed the area around her as she ate and did her business, conscious of all the life moving around her. At least her branch gave her a good view of what was above and below.
The tree canopies were definitely active; Erin saw several huge shapes above and suspected the birds would be hunting in the morning. She edged closer to the knothole, knowing how fast a hawk could dive.
By the same token, though, she was doubly wary of the Wailer Frogs; she’d heard how deadly they were from Termin and the others, and their ability to deafen her would be horrific out here without potions or healing.
—And they were really annoying. Wailer Frogs marked their territory by ribbiting. They had mercifully been silent by the time Erin had gotten to her knothole den, but she realized they would be hellish neighbors.
Raaaaaaaaaabiiiiiiiiiiiit.
That was sort of the sound, but the frog’s volume meant Erin felt it in her bones. She didn’t like annoying, loud sounds like construction or frogs anyways, and her morning relaxation was broken every few minutes by that obnoxious sound.
She could even see the mud pond with the Wailer Frogs in it. They were definitely a top-tier predator, or so she assumed; their ability to attack with sound, and sheer size, meant most ordinary animals had no chance against a four-foot-tall frog who could munch an unwary Silver-ranked adventurer.
—Or so she assumed. But Erin noticed a few more interesting species in this moment of vantage. Including one she’d seen yesterday.
“Huh. It is a hamster. The heck.”
Erin stopped sipping some water she’d hauled up this far in a leaf ‘bag’ that hadn’t leaked much overnight and stared down. It was just a hamster.
She could tell. Not a mouse or a rat. It was a bit too squat and round, more compact than the other two, but without a long tail; just a stub on this one. And it had those big cheeks; this one was a brownish grey with stripes running horizontally around its lower half, but it was a hamster.
In Baleros? Drath? Izril? Erin was impressed the fellow was alive, but then again, rats and ordinary deer survived. Why not a hamster?
A lot of animals were foraging for food, and Erin understood how lucky she was to have found this stash of nuts. Of course, as a Fraerling, getting food was easier than if she’d been Human; if the worst had come to worst, she could probably eat enough bugs to survive. Still, she watched as the hamster scurried around.
It had visible scars, even from as high as she was up here. Erin narrowed her eyes, then adjusted her eyesight with a Skill so she could see better.
“Only one eye. Life’s tough for a hamster, huh, little buddy? Oh, and there’s a chipmunk.”
An industrious chipmunk was scouting around her very tree, picking up more seeds and acorns that had fallen and doubtless surviving as best it could. The hamster made a beeline for the chipmunk, who didn’t see it coming, and Erin wondered if they’d have a cooperative moment or argue over the seeds.
What she wasn’t expecting was to see the chipmunk freeze the moment it saw the hamster—then try to bolt—and for the hamster to lunge, pin the chipmunk with one paw over its back, and start stealing all the seeds the chipmunk had gathered.
“What the…”
The next five minutes of Erin watching were of a hamster extorting a chipmunk. How, you might ask? Well, the hamster sat and ate acorns. The chipmunk ran and fetched three more acorns for the hamster, who ate six total, before letting the chipmunk scurry away.
“It’s a mafia hamster. It’s a gangster hamster. It’s—a jerk.”
The hamster looked very pleased with itself. And Erin noticed another rodent scurrying off the moment it saw this hamster. Who knew there were seed taxes around here?
“Better not eat my nuts, buddy.”
Not that she had any left. The hamster was definitely not one from Earth. For one thing, Erin could now actually make out some muscle that rippled each time it moved or cleaned itself, relaxing after its meal.
Second, it could stand on its two legs—well, hamsters could do that. But it stood rather adeptly like a person and craned its head upwards, one eye swiveling, and found her.
The [Innkeeper] stared down at the hamster as, somehow, it looked unerringly straight up at her. The two locked gazes as the hamster inserted a final acorn into one cheek pouch, and Erin wondered if it was going to go after her. Could hamsters climb trees? Maybe she’d pee on it if it tried.
…Was it trying to intimidate her? The hamster was bouncing on its little paws. Was it making a tiny rodent fist?
“This has got to be Baleros. Even the hamsters are mean.”
For some reason, Erin debated making a shield out of the acorn parts she had left over. If she had some twine…
Odd instinct. The [Innkeeper] stared at the hamster, then slapped the side of her head.
“Stop it. You’re not working properly, [Dangersense].”
Before she could make a decision, and before the hamster did more than hop forwards a few steps—on two feet—something decided to interrupt the two’s showdown.
Riiiiiiiiiiiiibooooooooot.
A Wailer Frog had spotted breakfast. Or maybe just a snack. It hopped forwards, and the chipmunk fled as the frog snapped its mouth closed. They weren’t even really a meal for it, but the hamster and chipmunk were in the frog’s territory, and it was surprisingly fast. It made a massive leap, and Erin put her fingers in her ears.
The frog was going to ribbit, and it was going to stun or deafen everything around it. No wonder few things, insects or otherwise, were here! She gritted her teeth as the one-eyed hamster turned.
It didn’t actually flee as the Wailer Frog leapt at it. The huge, bulging throat-sac of the Wailer Frog inflated like a gigantic balloon, and Erin saw the grey-green monster frog visibly inhale.
“RIIIIIB—awk!”
That—was the sound of a deafening ribbit that shook Erin’s bones and the tree branch she was standing on beginning and stopping. Stopping—when the hamster turned, leapt, and headbutted the Wailer Frog in the throat-sac so hard the air left the frog’s mouth and it went over onto its back.
