She tensed; she knew she could leap from the top of any height and land safely, according to Fraerling physics, but that was a terrifying notion. It was like jumping off a building back home and expecting to be safe.
“Oh boy. Oh no. I’ve made multiple mistakes.”
Before she did a swan dive to her terrifying not-demise, Erin did look around from where she was.
…Ten feet off the ground. It—helped? A tiny bit? If she shimmied left or right, Erin could see more forest. And what she saw was…more forest.
“Heck.”
Okay, she did get some insights. For one thing, there was a lot more ground traffic than Erin liked. She saw, for instance, a massive beetle crawling along, a lot bigger than she was.
Erin was still six inches tall. That actually beat most ordinary bugs for height. Back home, even a big roach would be shorter than Erin if you took out the antennae. Of course, relative to her, it would be…what? A waist-high, super-fast, armored bug that did eat flesh? Did cockroaches eat flesh or other insects?
“Great. So a cockroach is like a Juvenile Creler.”
That was not comforting. How the heck did Fraerlings survive anything? A mosquito would be…a face-sized attacker with a huge stinger.
“So a mosquito would be a Face-Eater moth, except one that jabs a needle into your face instead of eating it. Great!”
Focus on the ground. Erin had seen the big beetle she estimated might be two feet long—definitely magical—rooting at the dirt. It was digging with huge pincers and was therefore a cousin to the stag beetle or Earth varieties.
It was currently pulling up a worm, perhaps the same one Erin had seen. This had to be Baleros; the area was lush.
“Is it spring already? Hey. There’s a cute hamster as well. And birds all over…oh heck, they’re big. And is that a roly poly? Ants are still sorta tiny.”
Your average ant was still really small compared to someone six inches tall. Excellent! The last thing Erin needed was for an ant to pose a threat. Even a red ant was, what, the size of her hand? Maybe a bit bigger…okay, that was a nasty ant.
Conventional wisdom said that, aside from a super-beetle, her biggest threat was going to be actual animals. Like birds.
Erin grimly considered the activity higher up, which she would have run into if she’d kept climbing.
Definitely a lot of birds. And even a sparrow would be around her height, with a huge beak. She doubted smaller birds would want to take her on, but big ones?
I can’t put myself at risk. What’s next? It has to be water, but I don’t…see…any…
Aside from the ocean, of course. Erin did a slow rotation around the trunk, arms still hurting, and decided she needed to head for that blue berry bush. The problem was…she couldn’t tell where it was anymore.
“Great. So I leave here, jog back out into the sand…”
Argh! She had no mobility or sense of direction. Erin realized she was panicking. She wasn’t cut out for this!
Any one of her friends would have done better. Even Mrsha! Okay, probably not Mrsha or Lyonette, but anyone with a different class.
Pisces would have just animated a bunch of undead. Or turned invisible. Ceria could produce magical ice. Relc or Klbkch could have climbed the tree in a second and wouldn’t fear the animals like she did.
Were any alive? Erin saw Ceria vanishing into the ocean, covered in ice, shot. She heard a voice, shouting, as she pushed a young woman into the ocean.
From Earth.
She’d killed someone from home. Erin’s fingers loosened on the bark. She almost let go—then caught herself as she saw something.
“…Is that sap?”
Two feet up, hardened on the bark…Erin hesitated. Then climbed upwards. Yep. It was clouded over due to exposure with the air, but it looked like sap.
Was tree sap edible? Yes?
Was it watery enough? Erin scraped at it with her hand. Grimaced, stared at her fingernails, and groaned.
“Okay. I need tools.”
She cracked some bark off the ledge she was on and tried to harvest the sap with that. But the bark barely gouged any of the hard resin, and Erin ended up digging her hands under a section of the dried sap, yanking a chunk away with a crack—and staring at it.
It was brown, filmy, and…she hesitated.
Then she licked the sap.
“…Eugh.”
It didn’t taste like much. She bit it and decided after a second not to actually take a section off.
“One. It’s not enough like water. I’d need water to wash this down. Two. I don’t know if tree sap is edible. At least, this tree sap. Maple? Definitely. Three…”
It reminded her of honey, so she tossed the fragment off the tree and watched it land below. Then Erin closed her eyes.
Panic and fear. Water. Oh, what a mess. A weapon? A tool. She exhaled.
The image of a young man, green liquid running down his face before he began to melt. A boy from Earth. Trying to kill the Horns. Yes…understandable reasons. The feeling of pushing the girl into the sea.
Erin Solstice’s bottom was sitting on a lip of the bark. She pushed herself off it, then she was falling, tumbling, stomach reeling as the ground rushed up to meet her.
She landed on her front, splatting into the ground with all four limbs spread. Contrary to what Fraerlings told you—it hurt a bit. But the fall was easier than she’d thought. Overriding her instincts of survival…
Erin rolled over onto her back, staring up at the tree she’d failed to climb. Failure. Okay.
She stood up after a second and looked around.
“Something sharp.”
 
——
 
Remember what you have. [Advanced Crafting], for one.
It didn’t take long for Erin to find a stick near the tree. Making something useful out of it? Now that…that was tricky.
She could actually lug a huge stick around, dragging it along the ground, but her Skill said she needed a sharp rock or something to cut a usable length of wood out of it. Then, if she wanted a club, a smaller rock and twine to tie together.
Something pokey or sharp? She needed more time and either an appropriate edge in nature—another rock, likely—
“Damn!”
Erin kicked the stick over, forgetting she had no boots on. She hopped on one foot for a while—and stood there.
“I’m so bad at this.”
How lucky she’d been to find an inn and tools, no matter how run down it was! Here, she was spinning her wheels, and even her Skills—like [Advanced Crafting] or [Advanced Cooking]—weren’t helping.
She was a Level 55 [Innkeeper], and she had all the abilities of, well…no one. Even her time at Pallass Hunting had seen her using provided gear.
Come to that, Erin bet even a Plains Gnoll wouldn’t want to be dropped in the middle of nowhere without a tool or two. The only person who would have an advantage in this position was a [Mage].
Which got her thinking. Erin took a break on a root, back to the tree, eying a bunch of tiny, foot-sized things hopping up what looked like a clover.
“…Are those aphids? They’re teensy!”
Part of this new landscape was wonderfully distracting. Horrible for her survival prospects, but Erin enjoyed staring at the aphids a second.
Magic.
She had levels. She had Skills. New Skills. One, no, two were the most powerful and important of all. Erin Solstice closed her eyes.
[The Transient, Ephemeral, Fleeting Vault of the Mortal World. The Evanescent Safe of Passing Moments, the Faded Chest of Then and Them. The Box of Incontinuity].
And—
[Aspect of The Wandering Inn].
She was now [The Wandering Innkeeper]. She had levels in her other classes, of course, and more Skills than that, but Erin hadn’t used either Skill fully. Experimented with the latter, of course, and tried to summon the former.
She could not. She felt, strongly, that her first Skill was in use. In fact, she knew it was.
The inn. Lyonette must have found it. Erin had been willing the box to Lyonette; the [Princess] would know what to do with it. Perhaps, know that Erin was alive. If she, Numbtongue, or anyone else was looking for Erin, they hadn’t found her with the theatre.
Silvenia, again. Is she trying to help me by making me small? That won’t save me from a [Scrying] spell, especially without my gear. I must be warded somehow if Lyonette didn’t find me first off.
So pursuers might actually be unlikely. Which meant survival was her only priority. Better and worse.
Erin cracked one eye open. Her worst aspect. Wonderful.
—She had to figure out how to gain a resource to enable her to collect water, food, or build a shelter or tools. Right now, everything she was trying to do was disabled by having no objects or usable Skills she could adapt. Right?
“Right. So use your Skill, Erin. Activate—[Alcohol Brewing]!”
Erin Solstice held out her hands, eyes wide—then laughed.
“Okay, for serious. What am I gonna do?”
She closed her eyes and ran down her list of Skills. It would have been handier if she could make the list pop up like an actual game. But she did know them if she concentrated…
Magic’s low. My craft…no, not good to rely on that. Use the Skills that don’t require magic. I have good balance and rhythm from my [Dancer] Skills; that probably helps me climb and fight. Not much use right now. 
[Innkeeper] lets me cook, clean, and craft—but that requires more than I have. I can fight, brew, sense danger, and do stuff with crowds, and if anyone with a crossbow comes at me, I’m golden.
Shame there are no crossbow beetles or something. I have my aura, but I’m not an expert. I have fire…fire doesn’t make much unless I can activate [Like Flame, Blowtorch]. 
When she thought about it, it occurred to Erin that her best Skills she could try experimenting with were…[Unerring Throw] and another set of Skills she hadn’t tried.
[Infuse Color] and [Drain Color]. As well as [Distill Simple Concept].
That was [Witch]-stuff, and Erin hadn’t needed to use it much in her inn. Right now? Erin cracked one eye open.
“Hm.”
 
——
 
The first thing she did was find some pebbles. It wasn’t hard to find some rocks big enough to toss. She doubted they’d do much damage even to a bug her size, but she ripped some of her cloak up to make a kind of pouch-sling she could carry around one shoulder.
“Storage acquired. Damn! I should have stored some honey in this! Eh, it’d be gross.”
Four stones would do. If, of course, she could make them useful. Erin thoughtfully held up one grey, slightly dirty stone as big as the palm of her hand.
“[Drain Color]. Whoa!”
Instantly, some grey ran into her palm, and she held it carefully; it wasn’t quite liquid, but it felt like it. And the stone turned paler, not quite white, but far paler than before and accordingly—grew light as a feather.
When Erin tossed it, the rock sailed through the air. It was a fraction of its weight! She could barely even hurl it, but it smashed into powder the moment it hit the tree’s root.
“Huh. So this grey is how tough it is…and maybe how heavy.”
That was what she was getting from the stone’s color. Erin considered the grey, then tried to harvest some brown from a section of the stick.
This time, she bleached a small area of the stick, which grew pale and weak—and again, turned the wood into something so fragile a single kick sent splinters everywhere. The brown of the wood felt more…strong to Erin. Resilient. Perhaps with a sense of life? A stick was still from a tree, formerly alive.
“Nature magic, probably. Brown and grey.”
Erin put both colors on the ground; they looked like blobs of paint. She studied both, then wiped her brow.
“This gives me an idea.”
Carefully, Erin went back to the stick she’d found and began to bleach it of color. She drained brown away carefully, then began breaking the soft wood with her hands. It was so weak she didn’t even get splinters, but when she was done, she extracted a piece of wood, a splintered bit of the stick, that was vaguely as long as her arm.
“How’s that for cheating, huh?”
She’d managed to get a tool after all—but without needing to carve! It was still rough, and Erin wanted to sand the stick down a bit. She tromped over to the tree root and used an edge to wear at the new stick she intended to make.
…The wood of the stick was not that strong, so, to Erin’s displeasure, her strength allowed her to wear down part of it to make a handle.
“Great. It’s not exactly gonna do much good if I’m fighting a big monster like this, is it? I…oh. Huh.”
Erin was almost through grinding the handle down when she wobbled and nearly fell on her face. She felt tired all of a sudden. Okay—it wasn’t a good idea to overuse this. Still—
She held up her first tool—a splinter-club. It had a sort of splinter-like design aside from a soft handle. It was weak, and she had the bad feeling she could crack the thing over her knee if she tried.
Still…it was a tool-like object, and she leaned on it as she caught her breath.
This club isn’t going to do much good. I need to reinforce it. What if—
Erin turned back to the place where she’d put her colors, eyes lighting up. Then she groaned.
“Aw. No, no!”
The colors had leeched into the ground! Erin ran over, snatched up as much of the brown glob she’d made as she could; the grey had fully leeched into the ground along with a good portion of the brown.
Erin saw a rough blob, like a water stain, of grey in the soil and poked at it. To her fascination—the soil had changed to stone! Or at least, it was all of one portion and had the same quality as a rock.
The soil that had turned brown…was odd. It wasn’t wood, but when Erin picked some up and squeezed, it was hard. And she had a distinct impression it was more like mulch.
“Wild. So if this is stone and this is more like—compostable soil—how I use the colors matters.”
It made Erin remember Tesy and Ulvama’s conversation with her. Her heart sank as she recalled Tesy—then she focused.
“Colors. Color matters. Think like an [Artist]. Okay…”
She had brown. Erin had her splinter-club. She stared at the club. She stared at the brown.
…Painting with one color wasn’t exactly impressive. Nor did Erin have a brush. But that was not to say she did not do something.
“[Infuse Color]. Let’s see. I don’t want to just coat it. I want to make the wood richer. Deeper. Not some dry wood, but…”
A color of brown closer to a polished oak club or solid, heavy wood. Something beyond the mere brown of a plywood plank. Solid. Heavier…
The splinter club was half again as heavy by the time Erin lowered her hand. Her brow was covered in sweat, but when she swung the club around and then banged it on the root—it was solid. In fact, when she swung it like a bat and hammered it down hard as she could on a stone—it didn’t so much as dent.
“Alright. Now we’re cooking.”
Erin dubbed her new creation the Splinterwood Bat! She abandoned it after five more minutes.
