Look at her. The [Innkeeper] turned expectantly, and Ulvama saw her job. Which was to shatter that visage like glass before it snapped her in half.
“Erin. Are the rest of Griffon Hunt alive?”
The [Innkeeper] froze. Then she smiled.
“Revi? Briganda? Typhenous? Yeah. I haven’t—seen them. Or Cade.”
Her voice slipped.
“Which is good. It’s only—Halrac is dead. He’s dead. He—fought Kasigna. Didn’t you see that?”
Her eyes vanished behind a cloud. Ulvama had seen it. She closed her own eyes.
“I saw an [Archer] with a golden arrow. Facing that woman.”
“Kas…the three-in-one. Her. With an arrow. He almost stabbed her. He was going for her name. Halrac. Yes. Halrac the Grim. The bravest man in the world. He did that.”
Erin stood there, staring at a memory, then shook herself. Her voice grew brisker, or tried to.
“I’ll repay his team. I’ll—he doesn’t have a family. I swear I’ll find a way. Never again. Except—”
She stared at her hands, then at Ulvama, and chuckled.
“—Maybe you’d better join Rags’ tribe when we get you out of here, Ulvama. Safety. Look at me.”
She turned and bent down to the mud, taking a bit of blue from the berries and pooling it into a bowl. She tried to look away, but the [Shaman] said another name.
“Seve.”
“I will find Erek. I killed the best—the only good thing to ever come from Tombhome. I won’t forget.”
“Gershal of Vaunt.”
Erin’s head snapped up. Her voice roughened, and she began to snap—stopped herself—and the words burst out.
“I killed him too. He didn’t run away. He should have, but he wouldn’t. Like Gerial. Zel Shivertail would have been proud—”
Erin caught herself. She was breathing harder now. Hung her head.
“…No. Proud isn’t the right word. Zel would have been…”
Her eyes roamed the empty clearing. Erin whispered to herself.
“I don’t see him. He’s just a statue, then. Eaten. Taken. He would have been…he and Gershal deserved to stand together. They deserved to live. He refused to run when he should have. If he had lived, I wonder what he would have become.”
[The Wandering Innkeeper] looked at Ulvama, and her lips curved. The pits of those eyes deepened.
“You see. They might say I…made him. And I did give him a sword and lead him to his death. But he made himself the moment he took that blade. If not for me, he might have had time to follow Zel’s path. I pushed him. And look how he fell. Gloriously? Bravely?”
Her lips twisted as if she were about to spit bile. Ulvama’s voice was soft.
“You gave him a chance.”
“Yes. To die.”
Erin stared at the bowl of mud, pushed it aside, and shook her head.
“Who else do you want to know about? I know all of the ones who’ve lived or died. At least—the ones I cared about. I killed far, far more than that. Rosech doesn’t haunt me. Or Iradoren.”
A painful smirk. Ulvama sat down slowly. She remembered them. And she knew Erin did.
“Who else?”
Erin’s eyes flickered. She stared over Ulvama’s shoulder. Her voice was hoarse.
“Ulinde. And Moore. And Tekshia. The—[Guildmistress] of Liscor. Selys’ grandmother. I didn’t even know. Razia. Xarkouth. Alcaz. Kevin. Prost. Oliyaya. Khorpe, of course. Silvermop—”
Her voice strengthened by the end, and the procession of names began a litany. A kind of dirge. Ulvama ruthlessly interrupted Erin.
“I wish they hadn’t died.”
Erin gave the [Shaman] a blank look, an angry one.
“Yeah. So do I. Obviously.”
“Do you speak to them?”
“—I don’t think they can even hear me. And if I do? They don’t say what I expect. They offer me warnings. Advice. They don’t scream.”
The [Innkeeper] was staring around the glade, and Ulvama saw faces amidst the thorns and roots. Her voice was very gentle.
“They want you to take care of yourself.”
Erin flinched.
“What are you doing, listening to them? That’s how I know they’re fake. Not a single one has something to say to me. And they should. Tersk? Duln? Aldonss? You don’t even like me.”
The [Innkeeper]’s empty eyes turned, and she stared around. Ulvama was afraid to look. A month like this. The [Shaman] spoke for the dead.
“They’re surely angry. They didn’t want to die.”
“Oh, yes. They have to be.”
Erin turned to Ulvama hungrily and gestured at her chest.
“Maybe the aspect is flawed. Or the garden is. The voices are new. Perhaps Sheta—the Harpy who made this place—couldn’t bear to hear it. I don’t know.”
The Goblin met Erin’s eyes.
“I think they’re real. I think they are angry. At you, at the things that killed them. But they won’t tell you their regrets and anger.”
It was another shot in the dark, but from the way the [Innkeeper] started, Ulvama knew it was dead on target.
“They should. I’m listening.”
“They won’t. Because you can’t even mourn them properly.”
This time, Erin tensed up.
“—So you’re expecting me to cry? They want me to—”
Her head rose again, and she stared past Ulvama. Then she developed a crooked, cracked smile.
“Yeah. That is fitting. I guess I can’t break down enough. Maybe later. I do deserve that.”
She was so distracted she didn’t see Ulvama get up to take one of Erin’s hands. The [Innkeeper] tried to pull away.
“Hey, I know I need therapy and to talk about it—but let’s focus on surviving right now, Ulvama.”
“No.”
The Hobgoblin’s eyes were glowing a gentle crimson. Erin gestured around.
“We’re lost in a foreign land. We have to survive.”
“The dead deserve to be remembered. To be wept for.”
So said the [Shaman]. The [Innkeeper] agreed. But she looked around.
“Okay. I can’t, though.”
“Alright. But will you tell me what you said to Halrac?”
The [Marksman] sat on the other side of the fire, the flames outlining his face. His face was stoic. Bitter? Angry? Of course he was these things. But he didn’t look at Erin with all of it painted there in wrath.
The [Innkeeper] glanced at Ulvama, then the statue, then looked past him.
“Halrac? Why do—of course. However many times. I’m…sorry. I’m so sorry. There’s not enough words for me to say. I got him killed. He might not have known it, but I did. Each time I called, he came. I should have let him go off to Laken. The [Emperor] was far kinder than I. He deserved to be a Named-rank adventurer. It is my fault.”
Her voice grew soft and quiet, and her hand tightened painfully over Ulvama’s. The [Shaman] put her other hand on top of Erin’s.
“Can you look at him?”
Erin jerked her eyes up—then glanced away at Ulvama. She wore another painful smile.
“—You’re right, it’s hard. I have to.”
Slowly, her eyes swiveled, and her body was as rigid as the statue. Erin whispered as she saw the stubble on his face, his jaw—unclenched.
He leaned on his bow, and no matter how much Erin searched, eyes flitting, desperately, trying to jerk away, she couldn’t see the reproach she longed for. The vengeance. The anger at her.
“I’m sorry, Halrac.”
Her hand began shaking in Ulvama’s grip. Erin’s hand was sweating, and the [Innkeeper] began to look away. Forced herself to meet those eyes again.
“What—what’s the point of—? No. Say your piece, Ulvama. Halrac. Why are you so silent? Say something. I deserve it.”
The [Innkeeper]’s voice rose until she was almost shouting. She wanted something, anything other than this. But all Ulvama did was sniff. When Erin turned, angry, she saw the Hobgoblin’s eyes were running with tears.
Again, they dripped down as she looked at a man who was dead. Ulvama saw him reaching for the arrow, teeth bared, eyes desperate, facing down the Goddess of Death.
Swinging a sword to end Kasignel itself. In Ulvama, there were tears and regret and guilt and sadness. But more.
The [Witch] saw it. More than one emotion in Ulvama. They were like the burning colors of her fire. Blue sadness, of course. But also pink fire.
Glory.
Her hand tightened further, and it hurt Ulvama. Then, Erin was angry. Why glory? Why?
A thought stopped her. Why not? Why not glory? Didn’t he deserve…?
Moore was sitting under the canopy of thorns, craning his head up as if fearful of being pricked. The half-Giant, the last of his kind on Izril, looked sorrowful. But he refused to shout at her. Gentle Moore would never do that.
But she wished he did. 
Erin was breathing harder now, chest shaking with inhalations. She knew Ulvama was doing…what was the point?
“What’s the point, Ulvama? My tears are useless. It’s not like they’re going to make me weaker. I know that. But do you have to push—”
I deserve the pain. Ulvama’s nose was running. She tried to wipe it on her arm. But she didn’t let go of Erin’s hand.
“I’m just sad. You are too.”
“Of course. Of course I am, but—”
The [Innkeeper] was holding something back. She felt her face cracking, but she tried to hold it in. Why?
Because she didn’t deserve to weep. Because, in a nonsensical, painful way, it felt too good. She suppressed a trembling breath.
This dingy camp. This humid, hostile jungle—the vivid colors felt like a shade of grey. But the pain in her chest felt real. Her voice wobbled.
It felt like she was young. Tears that made her know she was alive, sadness so real as to make the world vivid and new—she didn’t deserve it.
She wanted to mourn them. But—
“What’s the point, Ulvama? W-what’s the point? Am I allowed to even say it? Now? After all’s said and done?”
The Hobgoblin was holding the young woman’s hand as tightly as she could. She looked at Erin.
“Say what?”
Her eyes were blurring. They were all there whenever she looked up. Erin’s voice was thick, and her body was shaking now, like a leaf. She couldn’t keep it in. Her voice broke.
“Am I allowed to say I regret it? After all I said and did? Now? It’s too late. Too late. I was so certain, when I was about to die. When it was me and death herself. Now? It’s too late, Erin! It’s all over! Look at what you did. Why are you regretting it now?”
She tried to keep her voice level. Tried to keep meeting their eyes, Ulvama’s, but the world had blurred over. Erin shouted at the statues. At Ulvama. At herself.
“You should have regretted it from the start. They’re dead. It’s all your fault. You—you idiot. Why won’t they shout at me? Please. Just hate me.”
The first tears trickled down her cheeks. Erin blinked them away and looked at Ulvama.
“You didn’t even hit me.”
The Goblin held Erin’s hands, refusing to let go, even as tears trickled down her own face.
“The moment I saw you, I felt hope again. Today I am happy. You found me again. You’ll save me.”
“You were in Roshal’s grip because of me.”
“That was not your fault. We went for you.”
“I wish you hadn’t. I regret it all. I have too many. What have I—why? Why did it turn out like this?”
Teardrops were falling onto the ground. Erin looked around and began to break down. Ulvama hugged Erin, and the [Innkeeper] shook uncontrollably. She wanted them to shout. To rage. To scream.
The statues of the dead vanished. She couldn’t force them to haunt her any longer. Then it was just Ulvama and her memories and reality. The Hobgoblin—Erin knew what had happened to Ulvama. To her friends, living and dead.
“I’m sorry. I am.”
“I know. I’m sorry too. It wasn’t your fault.”
“It was.”
The Goblin shook her head.
“Bad things happened. It wasn’t your fault.”
“Stop lying to me.”
Erin Solstice whispered. But Ulvama just hugged her tightly and patted her on the head as the [Innkeeper] sobbed. Shedding tears, crying uncontrollably.
Not just for the dead. Nor for her own guilt. But for the terrible things that occurred. Because they had happened. Because somehow, despite it all, she was alive. Alive and so grateful for it. She never wanted to forget how it felt, as if this moment were realer than all the others. Uncapturable, even with an [Immortal Moment]. She didn’t deserve the feeling. She didn’t deserve the happiness or to be here.
But Erin clung to it. Drew it into her to fill that void she’d tried to keep empty all month.
The [Witch] closed her eyes, and her hat fell softly onto her head from high above.
 
——
 
When Ulvama let go of Erin, the [Innkeeper]’s face was a mess. She had to take a leaf to wipe at her face—she only saw the [Shaman]’s eyes fixed on her head after a second.
“What?”
“Your hat.”
The [Witch] reached up, and her hat of a thousand unknown flames burned in her grip. Her craft…she lifted it up, and it was heavy. The beautiful flame lit up the small camp as Ulvama stared at it.
“It’s—back? But that wasn’t wonder.”
Something had reactivated Erin’s powers. Yet, even if there was wonder, Ulvama didn’t think that was what Erin had felt just now.
For answer, Erin Solstice gave Ulvama a sad smile. She touched her hat, and it vanished. Then—Erin Solstice closed her eyes, and it appeared again.
This time, Ulvama saw it appear. Flickering trails of fire, green and red and yellow and blue, but shades of the colors that the [Shaman] barely knew, colors that existed in dreams and magic, poured downwards.
Not like flames—but like rain. Droplets of flame falling until they formed the outline of that hat. When Erin Solstice lifted it, the [Shaman] knew.
“Your class changed.”
“Yes.”
The [Witch]’s eyes were still wet. She wiped at them and her nose, but she couldn’t stop crying. She shouldn’t have, but perhaps she’d been too afraid to begin.
As if it would make her weaker. She raised her eyes to Ulvama. Then, gently, the [Witch of Remorse] lifted the heavy brim of her hat. Magic shone in her eyes.
She had thought pain was her craft. But it was more than just suffering. Slowly, Erin Solstice reached out and brushed at Ulvama’s cuts, scrapes, and muddy, ruined ‘paint’.
The mud dried and fell off Ulvama’s arms. The Hobgoblin flinched as something bright ran through her. Then she lifted one arm. A cut from a thorn, half-healed, began to fade. She blinked as the scratches, the filth, the little bites from opportunistic bugs, and her worn clothing—flickered.
Then, the [Shaman] looked down, and her clothing was in the condition it had been back in the inn a day before the Solstice. Her scratches had faded, not vanished. It wasn’t healing. It was—
Regret. If only they could go back to that day and try it again. Ulvama studied her bare skin and gasped. Her magical paint was back! Worn; she hadn’t kept it as fresh on that day. But it had returned, the familiar power coursing through her.
“I have always said it. Never again. And again, I regret.”
The [Witch] lowered her hand. She had no more power for her ragged clothing; perhaps she still didn’t have the will to give that magic for herself. But she looked at Ulvama with a sad smile.
