“—I’ll keep you safe, Ulvama. I promise.”
It was the lie Erin Solstice always told. The [Innkeeper]’s promise she broke to so many. The [Witch]’s oath. This time, it would be different. Please, let it be different.
Ulvama embraced Erin without a word. And she didn’t let go for a long while. After a bit—the [Innkeeper] began crying again.
 
——
 
That night, as the fire was reduced to embers, Ulvama and Erin slumbered, or at least, one of them did.
The [Innkeeper] was no longer alone. And the [Witch]—the [Witch] had found her hat.
She had more scars than she thought. She was not herself…she might never be the same one who had left. But this was not the first time, nor would it be the last.
It had all started on a day she’d gone to the bathroom. That Erin Solstice had gotten up from her computer and a game of chess—walked down the hallway, turned, and seen a Dragon.
She had never come back.
She would never go back. Not that Erin. Part of her continued on. Whether it was for the best or worse, the [Innkeeper] could not say. But she knew she changed.
“…At least this time I didn’t get teleported.”
Erin walked back from the toilet, mildly relieved about that. Ulvama needed her. Erin needed Ulvama; by herself, she was too empty.
When the [The Wandering Innkeeper] sat a moment, staring at the fading embers of the fire, she wondered what new flames awaited her. What her class and nature might change into.
[Aspect of the Inn: The Garden of Sanctuary].
She saw no statues. They did not whisper to her. Perhaps Ulvama had been right. Perhaps it had been a curse of her own doing. Or perhaps they would come again when she was ready.
The [Innkeeper] stared into the glow of faint light as the jungle sounded around her, alive even in the darkness.
She hated nature. Bugs and frogs and everything else—that was why she’d first come to the inn. A place to be safe; a place to keep someone else safe.
“Now here I am. An [Innkeeper] lost on another continent. With someone to protect and not even a frying pan or acid jar or plate of spaghetti to my name.”
She shouldn’t be here. She was not qualified to protect Ulvama, let alone herself, but someone had to. She was here. And—Erin realized one more thing.
Level 50. A change in her. A great, profound shift in her being from her deeds and experiences that she could not come back from, even if she wanted to. And she didn’t know if she did. She hoped, this time, it would be better with that naïve, idealistic, desperate, necessary hope she always had.
—But she did realize something. It had not broken this time. It had, time and again. Her inn had been shattered by Skinner, destroyed by Toren—twice—unmade by Crelers, and each time it had been rebuilt.
It had withstood Death herself at the greatest of costs. But it had not saved Erin from Roshal or come with her to sea, when she thought all was lost.
Now, she was bereft of it.
“Good. Let it protect the others.”
Someone, something had to. Yet as Erin Solstice looked at the slumbering Hobgoblin curled under her leaf, her paint glowing with magic, relieved and hopeful, she knew that she had to protect Ulvama. At any cost. It mattered more than anything else right now.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous was not so cruel. Erin was not so incompetent. An [Innkeeper] she might be, far from home…but she had always been that.
In the silence of the night, Erin Solstice gasped as she finally understood. A soft exhalation and a note of wonder.
She lifted something up in her hands.
The Key of Reprieve.
A key made of a feather softly glinting with a light of its own. Not even there in a real sense. A key to her final great Skill.
[The Pavilion of Secrets].
It did nothing when she called for it. As far as Erin knew, and it was certainty in her breast—no one had accessed it in her inn. Yet it was hers. So, Erin breathed her realization as the Key of Reprieve rose. The feathered key seemed to flex as if alive—
And Erin slowly drew the Key of Insight, dark and hidden within the feather of the Key of Reprieve, out of it. A tiny, crooked feather with painfully bright teeth.
A key for a door. But the door was a world away. Of course. Surely. Except that Erin realized it now.
“I am my inn. [Aspect of the Inn: Pavilion of Secrets].”
Gently, she turned the Key of Insight around. And there it was. A tiny gap in her chest. Erin inserted the key in the lock—and somewhere, a door trembled. Her breath shook, the door shook—and Erin turned the key.
Click.
