Like a tiny person lost in a jungle with no signs of civilization, or anyone else, with giant insects and predators roaming around her. The [Innkeeper], frozen mid-crouch, saw Ulvama shuddering.
Not like she had on the ship with Roshal. No; that had been grim and desperate. Someone braced for the worst they knew would come. Brave beyond reason, for all the horror and fear in her.
This? This was different. This was a scared person who flinched when she and Erin heard a loud bird cawing high overhead.
Erin had never seen Ulvama so scared. She hesitated, opening her mouth to call out—then silently replaced the leaf. She backed up, ducked under the branches, avoided the thorns, stepped over the ropes, and avoided the trap sigils.
After a few seconds of thought, Erin strode over to the edge of the bush, hopped down the rocks this bush grew on, and landed on the dirt. She walked back another thirty seconds away from Ulvama.
Then Erin let her aura appear. Not too much, but she let it be ‘visible’, for lack of a better word, rather than suppressed. She eyed the rocks, then began to climb a dirt incline and spoke, raising her voice.
“Is that smoke? Dat’s smoke. Stupid flying beetles. And was that a lancer-mantis? This place sucks!”
She climbed, crackling off a few branches and cursing.
“Ow. Stupid thorn. Take that! Ow. Hey! Is that a rope trap?”
The [Innkeeper] crashed noisily ahead, ‘noticing’ the sigils and ropes, listening for anything ahead of her. She strode forwards, finding the natural entrance to this hideout in the bush.
“Hello! Please don’t be a trap or a trick. Is anyone—?”
Erin ducked slightly to enter the little camp, smiling slightly. She didn’t know how she looked. But she expected to find Ulvama sitting there, maybe with her arms folded, hopefully smiling. Or at the very least for the [Shaman] to have a moment to compose herself.
—The moment she emerged, someone seized her. Erin almost punched Ulvama, despite knowing she was there—and then she found two green arms hugging her fiercely.
“Whoa! Ulvama? It’s me! Ul…vama?”
The Hobgoblin squeezed tighter. The [Innkeeper] looked up, raising her fists—but stopped, a fake grin on her face.
The [Shaman] was still crying. She was trembling. The [Innkeeper] stared up at Ulvama, and the joke she’d been about to say vanished from her lips.
“You found me.”
Ulvama’s voice was shaky. She was shaking like a leaf. And Erin? They were of a height, rather than her being shorter; the spell had made both of them exactly six inches tall. It was strange.
They had been on the ship as hellfire rained down on them. Ulvama, Nerry, and Erin leaping towards the other two as the Death of Magic dove—trying to grab Ulvama’s hand.
On the ship, seeing Ulvama’s terrified eyes as the [Slavers] dragged her from the cell.
A comet shooting through the sky with a word written on it.
Erin looked up, and the [Innkeeper] forgot to pretend. She inhaled, and her voice began to shudder too. Water sprang to her eyes, but she kept her voice level. She didn’t know what to do—so she patted Ulvama on the head.
“It’s okay. It’s okay. Ulvama? It’s going to be okay. I’m sorry it took so long to see your message.”
“You found me. I thought I was alone.”
Ulvama’s voice broke. Erin swallowed hard.
“I’m sorry. I didn’t see it until today. I came as fast as I—I should have searched for you the moment I got here. I’m here. You’re safe now. It’s going to be okay, Ulvama. I promise.”
She hesitated, then squeezed Ulvama back in a hug. The [Shaman] was warm, covered in dirt, smelled like mud and nature—and she was real.
A person in whatever hell of a jungle they were in. Erin realized she was holding Ulvama with all her strength. She breathed in and out.
Trying not to burst into tears herself. She couldn’t. Erin took a shuddering breath, and then she realized she had to keep that promise.
It’s going to be okay. She had to figure out how to keep Ulvama safe. Then—Erin wondered where Nerry was. But for this moment, she just held the Goblin who’d saved her.
 
——
 
Erin didn’t know how long it took for Ulvama to let go, only that the fire was embers by the time she persuaded Ulvama to. And even after that, Ulvama kept crying, tears making her face muddy.
So—because she didn’t know what to say, Erin fetched some water for Ulvama. It turned out there was a local stream, another small one, nearby. Erin took Ulvama by the hand and had the [Shaman] show her around.
Forest nearby that Ulvama had avoided; she’d gathered some nuts, but been scared by a bird attack. The bushes had edible berries, if incredibly bitter, and the insects inside were mostly herbivores. The Spear Mantises and some carnivorous insects roamed about, but they couldn’t enter narrow areas like Ulvama’s camp.
With the branches or bark from the trees for wood and the nearby stream, you could survive here for a while. Not comfortably—but Ulvama had done the logical, smart thing from her experience as a Goblin.
Erin, by contrast, had gone off, tried to climb a tree, then followed a Wailer Frog to a muddy pond and found a place to sleep by chance.
Erin got most of this out of Ulvama by whispers and pointing and being shown around. The Hobgoblin was still teary as Erin lugged a leaf-bucket back to the fire.
“Here. Your face is all muddy. You—you alright, Ulvama? I found you. I saw the word. Næfoma. I knew it had to be you. I—we made it.”
The Hobgoblin looked up as Erin splashed some water into a smaller ‘cup’. Ulvama took it, felt at the mess on her face, and didn’t do anything. She just looked at Erin.
“I thought I was alone. I was—scared.”
“You? Psh. You’re a tough Hobgoblin [Shaman].”
Erin tried to play off Ulvama’s shaking tone, smiling. But Ulvama wouldn’t play along. Her hand shook.
“You found me, Erin. Thank you.”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated. Then she drew closer. She had been about to sit around the fire, across from Ulvama, but she walked over and sat down next to Ulvama. Put a hand on her shoulder.
“I’m so sorry. I didn’t think you’d be here. Much less small. Silvenia transformed us both.”
“Yes.”
Erin’s mouth opened, and suddenly, all the events that had led to this moment recontextualized themselves in her head. The Death of Magic’s strange actions—
Why Ulvama and me? No, there was a logic to it. Erin wasn’t sure how to address Ulvama’s tears, so she went on.
“The last thing I remember was Silvenia casting a spell. I was shrinking, and I thought I was the only one. When I woke up, I was on this plank with my bag of holding, and my clothes weren’t shrunk; the ones in the bag were. I—I didn’t know if you were alive. I thought you and Nerry had maybe gotten rescued by Rabbiteater. What happened to you?”
Ulvama’s breathing had calmed a bit, and she looked at Erin. Her eyes were crimson, but if you looked closely enough and knew Goblins, you could see the irises and pupils, just tinted different shades of red.
“I remember the Death of Magic pointing at me. Then something hit the ship. There was a wave—I woke up on a plank of wood too.”
“What? You as well?”
Erin’s senses tingled. Ulvama took a shaky breath.
“Yes. It had magic in it, I think. I—I couldn’t move. I shouted for you. For anyone. I didn’t realize I was small for…then I lay there until I could get up.”
“How did you survive? Did you have any food?”
Ulvama half nodded, half shook her head.
“I had my own bag of holding.”
“Me too! In that case—Silvenia shrunk us and must have enchanted the planks and made sure we had our stuff! That stupid half-Elf—couldn’t she have teleported us or given us an actual boat?”
Erin puffed up with anger, but Ulvama just stared at her.
“She saved us.”
“…Well, yeah. No one was firing Tier 7 magic when I woke up. I guess they thought we were dead. And they can’t scry us, or I’m pretty sure someone would just toss a [Fireball] down.”
Ulvama half nodded. She poked at her body.
“I…we…are magicked. I can’t tell what. She made us small. Invisible. Then put us on planks.”
For safety. Erin shook her head.
“So you had your bag of holding? She didn’t shrink that. And you lived off of…”
“Snacks. From the inn. I had snacks. Then I was running out, so I summoned fish. With magic. I ate one for days with fire spells and…”
Ulvama had, in her way, proved to be even more adaptive than Erin. As a [Shaman], she’d been able to cast basic spells, and she had been less wounded than Erin. The [Innkeeper] knew it had taken a toll on Ulvama, though.
Her tough mask was gone. The normally snooty, arrogant, and aloof [Shaman] kept touching Erin, as if to make sure she was there.
“It must have been a horrible month being at sea like that. I think it was a month. Twenty-eight days was my count before I hit shore. How did you pass the time?”
—Ulvama stared at Erin.
“What? Twenty-eight days? I was on the plank for nine days.”
“…Huh?”
Ulvama’s eyes went round.
“I ran out of snacks on day…five. Ate fish for three days. The next one was too big; ate my bag of holding. Then I washed up here.”
“Two weeks ago!? But I was at sea for twenty-eight days! On the plank!”
Ulvama stared at Erin.
“How? It was moving towards shore, even with waves.”
Erin’s mouth opened. She choked—then had a horrible thought.
“Wait. Which plank? I had two.”
Plank I had died an ignominious death. Burned at sea during a fight with a seagull; Erin had been forced to swim with her bag of holding towards another piece of driftwood that was smaller and barely able to take her weight. When Ulvama heard that, she looked horrified.
“But the one you were on…”
Was magicked. And if she’d been able to stay on it, maybe she would have reached shore at the same time as Ulvama. Erin closed her eyes.
“No. No—there was this seagull that tried to eat me, and I used one of my fires, and—so you’ve been here for three weeks?”
Yes. Ulvama’s eyes crinkled up, and Erin stopped with the self-recriminations or anger to listen.
When Ulvama had landed, she’d had a much more stable entry to shore; she had lost her bag of holding, but repelled the sand fleas with a spell and instantly tried to send signals for help. She’d done that at sea too, of course, but she’d assumed someone would be with her.
That might have been Erin, but, on the slower piece of driftwood, Ulvama had lingered three days along the beach before realizing she had to make camp.
After several mishaps, she’d found the bushes here and learned to survive on the berries and avoid the natural predators. This camp was proof she’d made it, but she looked desperate, and the isolation had clearly worn on her.
“A…a big bird. The one who pecks on the trees? It almost ate me. Twice. I stopped going into the forest.”
“Woodpecker. The birds haven’t gone after me since the seagull. I ran into a giant centipede, a Wailer Frog…and a huge beetle.”
Ulvama shuddered and stared at Erin.
“You were here only two days?”
“Yeah…well, I think I might have been less stealthy than you. What have you been doing?”
Ulvama gulped.
“Hiding. How—how did you go around? Are you crazy?”
She gave Erin a strange look, and the [Innkeeper] tried to make a joke of it.
“Well, I wasn’t the smartest. But we’re high-level people, Ulvama! You have your magic—”
“A bird nearly ate me. It almost ripped my arm off.”
Ulvama’s voice grew shrill, and Erin stopped. She looked at the [Shaman] and realized how insensitive this all was.
She really is terrified. I should have been here. That’s what Silvenia must have intended. Erin spoke.
“I’m sorry, Ulvama. I—I have a Skill. And I guess I wasn’t afraid of dying. My new Skill. One of them. [Aspect of the Inn]. It makes me tough. That’s how I survived the big beetle without getting more than my shirt torn, see? Aside from the rash, I’m healthy.”
Ulvama focused on Erin’s shirt and the mud and sand caked over her irritated skin for the first time. Neither woman had noticed in their reunion, but now Erin felt the damn itching again.
“Let me see. Agh. What is this?”
“Sand fleas. I’m allergic or something.”
Ulvama poured the cup of water over Erin’s arm, revealing nasty, raised bumps. Instantly, Ulvama tsked.
“Is bad rash. You need poultice. Maybe aloe plant or—or—I found mergrass, and I have some things. Wait.”
She got up, and Erin saw that Ulvama did have some containers with rudimentary herbs and components of her craft she’d gathered. Not much. When she came back, she had some dirt, water, and chopped up bits of a common mushroom she mashed into a paste.
“[Soothing Balm]. Here, I’ll make it. You…you talk.”
She mushed up a paste that had mostly her Skill in it and little else of value. Even so, the moment she began applying the muck, Erin’s skin soothed a bit.
Ulvama was a Level 30+ [Shaman]. But Erin realized the difference between the two really was down to their capstone levels.
“—I guess I would have struggled a lot more without my one Skill. I felt really stupid this entire time, trying to climb trees, and…I bet you were really put together out there.”
“I had some magic.”
Ulvama was rallying a bit, but she still felt raw, and she was focused on the making of the balm and applying it to Erin. It clearly gave her comfort, and Erin’s itching skin soothed. The [Innkeeper] tried another joke.
“Well, I was pretty mad. I got my Level 50 Skill and everything—multiple ones! And they were all sorta useless. I kept thinking, ‘if Larracel were here, she could summon food from her inn’! That’d be so useful, wouldn’t it?”
The idea of a meal from her inn, or using that to tell Lyonette and the others she was alive, was incredibly appealing. Ulvama’s head rose.
“Level 50. You reached it.”
She processed that fact at last, then stared at Erin.
“Is [Aspect of the Inn] your big Skill?”
“One of them. One of three. But it’s like—the lesser one? I have three big ones. From my [Innkeeper] class. [Aspect of the Inn], [Pavilion of Secrets]—that’s like the upgrade to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Remember the door I showed you? And…the box.”
Erin’s mind flashed back to her conversation. And reminded of her [Aspect of the Inn] Skill, she switched off the [Reinforced Structure] power and replaced it. It wasn’t like she and Ulvama were in much danger if they were here together.
Ulvama was blinking at Erin.
“Box? What box? Your new Skill is a box?”
“Um. Sort of. You see, when I was getting it, I was sort of—negotiating about which Skill I’d get. With the system.”
“Huh?”
Erin tried to wave her hands, but Ulvama kept dabbing her with paste.
