“…Hah?”
The frog waved all four legs wildly. It tried to get up, making a choking sound, and Erin saw the hamster, the Battle Hamster—because that was what it was—punching and biting the Wailer Frog in its throat. It looked like it hurt; the frog jerked, tried to ribbit, then pushed itself upright. It rocked as a speedy, furry bullet struck it on the side, gave it a flying uppercut to the same spot, and then hopped off towards its mud puddle.
The hamster pursued it, and the two vanished out of sight. Erin craned her neck, then heard the Wailer Frog colony in the distance begin ribbiting thunderously. She kept staring.
“Okay. That’s why there are hamsters here.”
 
——
 
That was a mildly entertaining way to start her day. Erin actually walked up and down the long branch after hydrating and eating, checking the leaves to see if they were better than the ones on the ground.
She had the idea she could make something out of them. A backpack? Use the leaf cellulose for improvised rope? It wasn’t soft enough for fabric, so she put the idea of using it for clothing as a last resort.
“I need a change of clothes. Underwear. I guess this will do for a water container. A backpack? I need some wood for that. Hm.”
Then Erin realized she had still not solved one of the greatest issues to plague her that had reared its horrible head from her month at sea.
“Sanitary pads! Argh!”
Her bag of holding! She had to get it! Erin’s mind instantly flashed to the beach. If she couldn’t get it—she was going to have a bad week soon.
Come to think of it—her coins! Maybe she could melt them and cast a sword or something? Erin hadn’t used most of her skills at sea; after having to chase the seagull away and losing Plank I, she’d been exceptionally cautious about any fires onboard.
Especially the stronger flames.
Her depression was smaller than some might think. It had kept the squirrel’s den cool, and Erin wondered if she should mark this spot somehow. Then again, she had eaten the entire hoard of nuts, and she didn’t know how.
“Do I stay here?”
Erin stood on the branch and looked around the jungle.
“…No. I keep moving. I have to find someone who can change me back. Or just civilization in general.”
The odds were the first person she met might try to kill her if they knew who she was. Depending on where she was…
Roshal can’t have me.
Things would have been easier if she was still in a pact with Visophecin, but Erin suspected that if they were linked, she’d be killing his people.
No…there was a relief in this misery. And there was some misery to it when Erin looked around, trying to find the beach, and barely saw what she suspected to be the sea in the distance.
“It’s going to take half a day for me to get there. And I have to watch out for animals or insects the entire time.”
She didn’t know if she’d been lucky to ‘only’ have three run-ins with hostile creatures. Crab, sand fleas, and centipedes. Well, it didn’t matter. If it came to a fight—
She was good at getting things killed. Friends, enemies.
Erin stood on the branch until she remembered she was terrified of heights. Then she stared down, breathing in and out—she closed her eyes and spread her arms.
Major Khorpe’s possessions are still in my garden. Where his body lay.
Halrac’s dead.
She fell backwards and let herself drop down until she hit the ground.
 
——
 
What the [Innkeeper] didn’t know was that there was a reason she hadn’t been attacked as often as a fleshy, six-inch-high morsel should be.
Not that your average squirrel was always in danger, for example. But even in a suburban neighborhood, death came quite often for anything that wasn’t a Human or top-tier predator like a cat, raccoon, or dog.
As the [Innkeeper] went down to the small stream and then circumnavigated the Wailer Frogs’ den, before engaging on a long hike through the forest, she was neither as stealthy with her t-shirt nor as knowledgeable about how to avoid predators’ trails as most creatures.
Any water source was inherently dangerous given how many creatures needed access to them. Added to that, the tree cover was less prevalent in that muddy terrain, leading to sporadic fauna; the muddy banks left Erin even more exposed.
Yet she wasn’t attacked all morning. Or in the night?
Why?
Well, even if she was far from home. Even if she wasn’t actively using it—the tiny Fraerling-Human had a presence.
An aura.
Most animals weren’t aura-users at all, but they had instincts. Like how they could sometimes tell another animal was rabid—the literal instincts that kept predators and prey alive could interface with her nature.
A Level 55 [Innkeeper] was walking across the jungle floor. More than one snake, circling bird of prey, or spider paused, considering this foreign meal, and decided they didn’t need to eat just yet. The unknown was dangerous, and this Human was unknown to most creatures.
Thus, only the unintelligent creatures, the desperately hungry, or the ones who sought out beings like Erin Solstice considered her a target of first priority. Or the ones who just didn’t care.
 
——
 
Erin had been walking for four hours at a good clip with a small leaf bag of water over one shoulder. She hadn’t bothered to make another stone; she was saving her color-energy for nightfall. She was feeling good today, even if that damn ache in her body continued.
She had taken a lot of damage from the battle at sea. She needed to find a [Healer] and soon. But before the [Innkeeper] could do that—her bag of holding. Thus, the beach.
She reckoned she was halfway there when she heard a huge buzzing sound and looked up—and something landed on the ground in front of her, pawed the ground like a bull, and snapped two huge mandibles together.
“Uh oh.”
The two-foot-long beetle was a stag beetle—or close enough. Only, it had a dark red coloration to its armored carapace and spikes on top of the already-formidable pincers. It also, apparently, flew, and it looked like it was ready for a meal.
“Hey, buddy…beetles don’t eat meat, do they?”
Erin thought beetles ate sap or something. She froze as the beetle snapped its mandibles again. It was acting like a bull, literally pawing the ground, and it was massive. Two feet long? It was the size of a water jug, and if Erin had seen it crawling around her home, she would have freaked out.
At her size? Those pincers could literally snap her in half. She was looking right and left, seeing a bush to her right and some sprawling tree roots to her left. She edged towards the tree, raising her hands.
“Nice beetle. Nice—aw, heck. My [Dangersense]. You’re after me, aren’t you? At least you look slow and f—holy shit!”
It charged at her so fast that Erin dropped her leaf bucket, turned, and ran—and she was only halfway towards the roots when she turned her head and realized it was right on top of her. 
It was faster than she was! Worse, it came at her, mandibles open, clearly ready to snap her in two. Said mandibles caught Erin by the edge and slapped together.
The clack was not followed by a scream or blood; the young woman was still flung across the ground and rolled to her feet. The beetle spun, confused.
What happened?
What had happened was that Erin had grabbed the edge of the mandibles and tried to swing herself under the beetle’s pincers.
They had closed so fast the impact had thrown her. Erin rolled upright, shaken.
I nearly lost my arm. If it had closed on her—she exhaled. The beetle was turning, fanning its wings and preparing a charge. Behind it, the tree roots…
It’ll be able to follow me in there. The gnarled roots seemed, for a second, to resemble legs. A club?
Alcaz was polishing the end of a club, sitting amidst the shadow of the tree. He looked up and shook his head warningly.
“Not here. Don’t take anything lightly. Even a poor fellow can kill you. And he’s a mighty little beetle, ain’t he?”
“—Yeah.”
Erin whispered to—not a ghost. Not a ghost. Just a statue. She blinked, focused on the beetle, and saw it brace to charge.
That was what she sensed, she realized. Not hunger. But a powerful rivalry. As if the beetle were fighting off a threat to its domain. A competitor?
Her?
It was fast, strong, and, Erin was sure, tough. Its armored front was scarred from battles it had won. If it were sized up to Human height, she bet it would be a Gold-rank threat at least. Rock Crabs weren’t this fast.
To buy herself time, Erin tried a [Feather Hop], making for the bush. She gained two feet of air and used her [Flutter Step] to extend it. She expected to jump over the beetle or for it to charge under her, but to her dismay, it buzzed at her.
“Aw.”
Erin dropped. She landed amongst the bush, scattering a cloud of ladybugs, who ran from her approach. The beetle landed after her, clacking and buzzing—Erin sprinted out of the bush, swearing, the leaves cutting at her arms—her cloak tangled on something, and it tore off her.
Stumbling, Erin got out of the bush and saw the beetle was trapped. It had flown in, and the branches and leaves had stymied it. All it had cost was her cloak. Erin backed up, wiping at her brow.
“That’s okay—oh, come on.”
Crack. Snap. CRACK.
That—was the sound of the red super-beetle cracking through the bush. As Erin watched, a huge pair of red pincers snapped the stem of the admittedly dry bush of thorns and leaves. The entire bush collapsed sideways, and it pushed out, her cloak caught on the end of its mandibles.
Okay. This beetle was a super beetle. Erin exhaled. She called out.
“I don’t want to do this, you stupid beetle. See this?”
She produced a handful of flames. Grey. Not large; the ball of mercy’s fire was small, but it still existed. She tossed some on the ground, hoping it scared the beetle.
It did not.
The beetle certainly recognized the threat and maneuvered right, shuffling to get another lineup for a charge. Erin felt at her cheek; it was stinging, and she realized the branches or leaves had cut her. The wound wasn’t bleeding, but it was definitely lacerated skin.
No potion. No backup if it got its pincers around her. She couldn’t deny the danger, as silly as it was.
“A beetle. I don’t care if you look sort of cool. You’re a beetle. Back off.”
Erin tried her aura. She narrowed her eyes and concentrated—
“Aw! Aw, aw!”
At first, Erin thought it was a person. As it turned out, it was a bunch of birds. They exploded from a tree above her in a shower of cawing voices, and above, a rodent fled screaming across the branches. Erin saw the cloud of ladybugs whose home she and the beetle had disturbed spin away from their bush and go flying off.
The beetle fanned its wings like a crimson champion of the world of bugs. It was so loud it sounded like a jackhammer.
Clack! Clack!
Then it ran at Erin. The [Innkeeper] exhaled.
“Okay. [Aspect of the Inn].”
She hadn’t wanted to do—heck, it was fast—
Erin put up her arms in a guard a fraction of a second too late. The arms tried to shield her face, and they met the mandibles a moment before they snapped together.
This time, the beetle snapped its mandibles together, perfectly on target. The force of the impact could crush an enemy’s skull, sever a snake in half. Or tear bark off a tree, which was how it normally got at sap.
The beetle felt the mandibles grind together and then—stop.
When it slowed its charge, incredulously, it realized it had not cut in half the dangerous thing invading its territory a second time. Rather—said thing was pinned between the mandibles, kicking, cursing—
Completely unharmed. The beetle squeezed harder—and then she blew grey fire on top of it, and it jerked away, rolling its shell to rub the flames on the ground. Parts of the edged, grey flame tore at the carapace, but the beetle wiped the flames away, turned—and slashed with its mandibles.
The [Innkeeper] had been running at it. She took a blow to her face from the blunt edge of a mandible, faltered, punched the beetle in the side of the head.
“[Minotaur Punch]! D—”
It knocked her sprawling, trampled her, spun, and then slammed her down in a second charge as she tried to dive out of the way. When the beetled turned:
Erin Solstice was getting back to her feet, brushing at the dirt on her body. She regarded her torn shirt and stared at the beetle with narrowed eyes.
“Had enough yet?”
The Corumdon Beetle clacked its pincers together.
 
——
 
She was not entirely unhurt. But it didn’t know that. Functionally, Erin was unharmed. Her arms stung a bit from the impact of the first mandible snap. The charge, the trampling? No damage.
That wasn’t because of her size, either. Erin was pretty sure that regardless of your size, getting hit by what was essentially a big bull would kill, or at least injure, you.
—But for her Skill, she’d be dead. Erin threw another ball of grey fire, and the beetle tried to dodge. The flame of mercy bit into the shell, and the beetle rolled again, getting it off.
“Smart bug. Why don’t you—”
It turned out the beetle could switch tactics. It flew at her now, snapping, like a flying lawnmower. Erin threw herself down on the principle that its horizontal mandibles couldn’t get—
The beetle dug its jaws down into the earth and then raised them, sending Erin and the ground flying upwards in a shower of dirt. Erin’s mouth was open, and she got dirt in her throat.
It could do that? Again, the mandibles snapped in the air, and the [Innkeeper] kicked out of the way with [Flutter Step].
She landed as the beetle scythed around the raining dirt. Okay—
[Minotaur Punch]. [Flowing Footwork]—[Rhythm Combo]!
She dodged under its head as it turned towards her and started throwing punches below the line of its red shell at its dark underbelly. Erin began to hammer the red beetle, trying to crack its side open.
She threw six punches before a blow from it sent her rolling. When she stood, the beetle’s shell wasn’t even cracked. And it was coming—
Clack.
This time, it was so fast it caught Erin before she could even shield herself. Two spiked mandibles closed around her arms and torso, pinning them to her sides. Erin struggled, but she couldn’t move!
It was squeezing, trying to cut her in half. The mandibles were sharp! They were tearing her shirt apart with ease and, she was sure, could crush stone or even the bush with ease.
So why not her? The Corumdon Beetle seemed confused. It raised Erin higher, staring at her as it tried to squeeze with all its might—
Erin’s teeth were gritted. It hurt! But she kicked the beetle in the face once, then again.
“Confused? So was the seagull. Back off, buddy.”
Her eyes flashed hazel.
[Aspect of the Wandering Inn: Reinforced Structure].
“I’m a Level 55 [Innkeeper]. Let. Me. Go.”
