Her fifth kick made the beetle recoil. It dropped her, and Erin surged forwards. She threw a punch with all her might into its ‘face’, and the beetle skidded back a centimeter.
It snapped its mandibles closed over her. Tossed her through the air. Erin landed and raised a hand.
“Frustration!”
A ball of flames glanced off the beetle’s shell as it charged. Growling, [The Wandering Innkeeper] raised her fists.
 
——
 
Nothing would be the same. She knew that.
Level 50.
Even if she was an [Innkeeper]—no, especially because she was—it had changed her. Not just the box, whatever that was.
Her Skill. [Aspect of The Wandering Inn]. If she used another aspect, she could be hurt. But [Reinforced Structure]?
The beetle couldn’t kill her. It tried, but after biting her nearly forty times with its mandibles, it seemed to finally realize that the most it could inflict was a scratch or light bruise.
Which—to its credit—was more than Erin had thought it could do. Her walls had been so tough that only Moore could damage them with sheer brute strength. And that was when she was Level 32.
She supposed, proportionally, she wasn’t as strong as her actual inn. Her skin wasn’t as tough as a wooden wall…or maybe it was?
Either way, after thirty-four minutes, the panting [Innkeeper] and the Corumdon Beetle backed away from each other. It kept clacking its mandibles, and Erin backed up, a ball of orange-red flames in her hands.
Neither one was happy. Erin’s shirt was shredded down her arms and sides, and she was cursing; her clothing! She’d lost her cloak, and both her pants and shirt had holes in them, and she was cut lightly.
The beetle looked a bit concussed, if insects could even get dizzy. Repeated punches hadn’t broken its armor, but it was clearly exhausted.
“Get lost, you stupid beetle.”
Clack.
The red beetle backed behind a clump of grass, its mandibles last to disappear. As if to say—this isn’t over.
Erin kept the ball of flames in hand until the beetle vanished. Then she backed up until she was sure it was gone and hurried on her way.
That was way more dangerous than I thought. If two of the beetles had been there and tried to pull her apart or something—she was glad the Wailer Frog had missed her.
She was way tougher to kill than before. Inconceivably stronger.
—Still vulnerable, she had to remember. Erin walked forwards, panting.
“[Aspect of the Inn: G—] no. I’d better not.”
Safer to keep it like this for now. The Skill had no limit on how long the effects lasted, just that it was only one aspect. Sweating, Erin staggered forwards, no longer caring if she ran into an insect or run-of-the-mill predator.
“What’re you looking at?”
A giant bearded dragon—just one of those huge lizards the size of a Human baby—paused in chomping down on a regular beetle. It had no teeth, just a gaping gullet it could open disturbingly wide and spikes around its face. Hence the name.
It opened its mouth and hesitated, as if sizing Erin up for a meal. She flipped it off. The bearded dragon hovered around her, mouth open, and then shuffled back a few steps.
“Get LOST.”
Erin’s [Loud Voice] Skill scared it off. The [Innkeeper] exhaled as she heard the sound of waves at last.
“Why didn’t that work on the beetle? Flames, aura—is that a magical beetle or something? It has to be to be that big. This has got to be Baleros.”
Either that or Izril and Terandria had way more aggressive beetles than she had dreamed of. If she ever got out of here and found an Antinium…she’d feed them the damn beetle for lunch.
Erin was feeling rightfully tough with her aspect of [Reinforced Structure] active. But she had to admit…she hadn’t exactly come out of that fight well, either.
If the beetle hadn’t hurt her, she’d outlasted it rather than scared it off. Turned out a [Minotaur Punch] wasn’t much good against a beetle related to stag…beetles. As for her fire? The amount of flames she was proportionally putting out wasn’t enough.
Weapon. I need a sword or knife or something sharp. Or just something else that could hurt something bigger than her. Another reason to get her bag of holding; Erin’s mind was now set on the gold coins.
Were they real gold? She’d have gold, silver, and copper. Which one was best to make armor out of?
Could she actually cast armor out of coins? It sounded stupid. Maybe just a sword? A golden sword?
“This isn’t Minecraft. Wait, even in Minecraft those swords suck, don’t they? Unless you enchant them.”
Oh, she really was going back in time to her roots. Erin wanted to laugh. She wanted to cry. She kept walking—until she realized she had a new problem.
To find her bag of holding, Erin had to exit the jungle, then walk across the long stretch of sand. No problem, right? Crabs, sand fleas—with her [Reinforced Structure] Skill, none of them had even a shot at harming her.
Of course, Erin didn’t know where she’d washed up; she should have taken a landmark, but if she got close to the tides, she could at least see what had washed up. It would take hours to move up and down the beach, but if the bag of holding was here—she’d find it.
Right? Solid plan. It had occurred to Erin to use her [World’s Eye Theatre] in conjunction with her aspect powers, but she’d tried that at sea ages ago.
It did not work like that. At least, not as a free scrying spell. Nor did the other Skills work exactly one-to-one. By rights, [Reinforced Structure] could have theoretically just made her organs really tough. Instead, it was just her skin, and her organs could have all kinds of diarrhea, thanks.
—The problem Erin ran into after forty minutes of stomping across the sand was unpleasant. She had been swatting the sand fleas off her, not even bothering to punch them. It was hard to kill them, they were gross when she exploded one, and their stupid beak-probuscii couldn’t harm her.
Or so she thought. After forty minutes, something began to happen.
Erin began to itch. She started scratching at her sides first, then her arms. And then at her skin—and when it got bad, she thought she had some crud on her skin and might need to dip in the ocean.
Then she looked down and froze—then began swearing and plunged towards the tide.
“Oh no. Nononono—you little—you bastards!”
She swore at the sand fleas hopping away from her in alarm. Because, even after saltwater had washed over the dust and crap on her arms and legs—the unmistakable red swelling remained.
An allergic reaction! Or irritation from their bodies! It was like a poison ivy rash, and it itched almost as bad. Erin splashed water on the affected parts, wondering how she—
Her cloak! And her clothing! She groaned as she realized, yesterday, she’d been far more vigilant. She hadn’t used [Reinforced Structure], and now, she’d ignored the bugs to her detriment.
Her stronger skin didn’t stop rashes or anything else from getting her. That meant—
Poison could kill me. And now she was surrounded by bugs that would inflame her skin—and Erin had no idea how bad the allergic reaction might be.
You could die of allergies. Was her throat swollen? Erin didn’t think so, but she shielded her face, backing up into the wet sand, where the fleas were hesitant to go. They still kept coming at her; it wasn’t that they didn’t realize she was impossible to harm. It was that every flea who learned it bounded off, never to bother her again.
…There were millions of fleas on the beach, and each one was both too simple to notice her aura and too stupid to realize its buddies had failed to take Erin out.
The [Innkeeper] acted swiftly, faced with this new threat. She had limited options; bereft of any tools and surrounded by sand, she did what she could.
Wet sand plastered Erin’s skin, and she piled it on despite the itching, hoping it would provide a protective layer between her and whatever scales or other aspect of the sand fleas caused the itching. Then she retreated to the border with the tide and began using the waves as cover.
The sand fleas, hungry as they were, knew the risks of the water, and only a few came after her there. But if Erin stayed too close to the water, she risked a bigger wave dragging her into the sea—and drowning was a possible death, Skill or not.
To say this made her beach expedition unreasonably difficult was an understatement. Suddenly, Erin had to either fight off fleas or watch out for every next wave—all the while scouting around for her damn bag of holding.
The benefit was that her frustration quickly led to an [Innkeeper] stalking along the beach, orange flames in both hands, hurling them at sand fleas, which bounded away from the bright fire.
“Maybe if I use some of my craft I can cast a bug-protection spell. I just don’t have any—”
Wonder.
Her hat’s flames were out. She was hatless, a [Witch] without power. Perhaps wonder might never come again. Erin knew how to summon other forms of magic. Perhaps another…no.
Either way, it wasn’t easy to harvest magic or use it spontaneously. She was no [Mage]. Part of her was still at sea. Part of her was shattered by what she had done and seen—
Let the [Innkeeper] suffer.
Erin walked on.
 
——
 
After two hours, Erin realized she was getting sunburned despite the dry sand, so she reapplied a coating. At least after two hours, she had figured out how to mitigate the attacks from the sand fleas.
Firstly—she had used her Skills out of sheer necessity and was getting increasingly creative with them. The [Innkeeper] had often called on friends for help or used tools instead of her abilities.
Erin? Erin quickly began thinking of how to use Skills. And the first thing she hit upon was—
“[Memorize Routine]! Sand Flea Murderer!”
She tried it out. The next time a sand flea came at her, Erin’s body moved instinctively. She didn’t punch the flea; the boxy, springloaded, scaled creature with grasshopper legs and the spiky proboscis was light. A punch would just send it flying, unharmed.
Instead, Erin grabbed it, ripped off a leg, and tossed it sideways. The maneuver released some clear ichor into the air, and the sand flea jerked—stumbled around, and tried to hop away. Erin watched as the fleas attacking her stopped—turned—and went after their friend.
They stabbed the flea she’d de-limbed, ignoring Erin, and she strode on, letting the sacrificial decoy buy her several solid minutes of harassment-free walking. Did she feel bad?
…No. They were insects in a true sense of the word. Not Antinium; there was nothing in those blank eyes that she had sympathy for.
She was covered in rashes, and her hands were increasingly swollen. So no, Erin didn’t feel bad.
“Bag of holding. Bag of holding. Come on, please! What else can I do without my witch-line Skills? Argh. Nothing. [Feather Hop]! [Flutter Step]!”
That was her method for leaping up as high as she could and getting as much vantage to see further ahead and behind her for the bag of holding that was increasingly not showing up. Erin was getting desperate; it was time to cut her losses and go.
Another setback! Did she go find another lair, hopefully some more nuts, and try to sleep off the rashes? She didn’t know good plantlife.
“I have [Basic Brewing]. I could try that…no, I need the right ingredients before. Damn, damn—”
She had to collect some witchcraft. Or build a weapon. Or get some clothes. Any or all things, and this beach was the least valuable area for finding resources.
Erin finally cut away from walking down the beach after another hour of hoping that, at any second, she’d see a familiar brown bag on the shore. It hurt. She itched. But she had to continue.
“Witchcraft tonight. Shelter. Go find the damn river again. I’ve lost my position, haven’t I? Okay…water. Food. Shelter. And along with that, I need a permanent backpack and canteen.”
She had to make one, even if it was a simple wooden stopper and a stone canteen or something.
At this point, Erin Solstice was seriously considering trying to summon the box again, futile as that was, and evaluating her remaining Skills gained from her level up.
She had been in worse predicaments. A month ago, sailing into oblivion, she had felt sure she would die.
This was harder, in some ways, because of how daunting the idea of finding civilization was. The sheer enormity of being lost here, set back to the beginning day after day—arguably—Erin looked at her swollen rashes—worse than before?
The determination that had kept her going in the darkest moments on board Roshal’s ship wasn’t there.
Her enemy wasn’t Roshal or Kasigna. It wasn’t a struggle for the fate of the world, revenge, or to save a friend against impossible odds.
She was lost on a damn beach in the middle of nowhere, and she had either nuts or the idea of murdering a bug or lizard and cooking it over a fire for dinner.
“How did I do it back in Liscor? Maybe I’m just not as scared of dying as I used to be.”
If a Rock Crab began chasing her across the ground now, Erin doubted she’d feel that same burst of terrified adrenaline to run. She was older.
Not wiser.
Just older.
The [Innkeeper] was empty of powerful emotions beyond frustration…a terrible apathy was upon her, suppressing the true weight of the feelings that made every step tiresome. Pieces of sand cascaded down around her like gravel as another sand flea died for no other reason than she was tired of them attacking her. Her hands itched, and her neck, already sunburned, craned to stare at the jungle, without any sign of where it might end, a journey of months.
Perhaps years. Terrible odds. Without even a sanitary pad. The idea of marching along with stained underwear—if she even had underwear after a few weeks—was incredibly demoralizing. Erin Solstice shaded her eyes.
I wonder how much of that jungle I could burn down. Could her flames run without end if the right ones started?
The sun was baking at midday. If it wasn’t actually the new year and spring hadn’t started—Erin didn’t want to know what summer felt like on this continent. She stumbled, fell forwards, and lay there on the ground as a pair of sand fleas landed on her back. Erin lay like that a second, then raised her head.
“I’m thirsty. My head hurts. My arms and legs hurt. My eyes hurt. I itch.”
She complained for the first time. Just once. She deserved this, after all. Or…if not this…she squinted. It was too damn bright. The sun was glaring in blue skies. During the long winter, she’d longed for this so much she’d made an artificial beach.
Now? The glare was blinding, and the bright yellow-white light clashed with the green until her eyes were dazzled. She had to get to the forest. Erin squinted up at it. The neon green light was making even the foliage dim by comparison. A hat. She needed a hat…
Wait.
