“Okay, let me begin. So I was lying on the plank, right? Plank I. And I was sick; I couldn’t move. I started doing pushups and exercises and even tried the dancing you showed me to keep in shape later…but right after I survived the battle, I kept getting notifications. My level up was delayed because my big capstone Skill was, like, under question. Then the system kept assigning me Skills, but I didn’t want them. So I kept rejecting them and demanding better ones.”
“Hah?”
Erin tried to explain. Ulvama put a hand on Erin’s forehead at one point and checked her temperature. Then her eyes went round. Her mouth opened—and Erin tried to explain.
“It’s…okay. It’s one Skill. I think. I can’t use it with [Aspect of the Inn] or summon it; I think it’s literally a box, and I think Lyonette’s using it. Or someone in my inn. Someone I like, I hope. I’m not sure what it does. So—here’s the Skill. It’s [The Transient, Ephemeral, Fleeting Vault of the Mortal World. The Evanescent Safe of—] see, it has a period in it. It’s still one Skill. [—The Evanescent Safe of Passing Moments, the Faded Chest of Then and Them]. Then with a ‘t-h-e-n’ and them as in…them. Then and them. [The Box of Incontinuity]. All one Skill.”
Erin waited. She looked at Ulvama for a reaction. The [Shaman]’s tears had mostly dried, but she still seemed afraid Erin would vanish. That fear might have been replaced with an uncertainty that this was reality—but that was a good thing if it made her feel better. She touched Erin gingerly on the arm.
Erin tried a smile.
“So, uh. Not sure what it does.”
In response, Ulvama just hugged her again. She patted Erin on the back. Erin’s muddy arms were messy, and they were both feeling feelings, but the [Shaman] hugged Erin tighter now, with less shaking, and then let go. She looked Erin up and down, eyes lingering on Erin’s hair, ear, face, wrists—
Scars. Erin saw Ulvama inhale slightly and promised that if nothing else—
She would get Ulvama back to the inn where the [Shaman] could eat snacks all day. And never have to go out again. 
Ulvama herself seemed certainly more resolved, calmer, and she looked at Erin until the first smile appeared. Slight, fragile, but a smile nonetheless. She said:
“You are so stupid. You and your Skills, Erin Solstice.”
The [Innkeeper] only grinned in reply.
 
——
 
The talking took them well into the evening. By the time dusk had fallen, the distant damn Wailer Frogs began croaking, and Ulvama claimed the bats were out in force. Erin and Ulvama had gotten through a number of essential conversations, but still had far, far more to go.
One of the essentials was actually the bathroom, which Ulvama had wisely dug far off from her location. Leaves weren’t the best toilet paper, but they weren’t the worst.
Ulvama also had the berries for food, but she craved legumes or meat. The problem was that gathering the nuts took her into dangerous territory, and meat attracted predators.
Erin declined to go out and put both in danger at the moment, but she assured Ulvama that come morning, she’d help with any task with her far more robust defensive Skills. In fact, Ulvama had a number of spells that had kept her alive that Erin realized would make life so much easier.
“I am not a [Mage]. I can’t cast [Cleanse] or…make walls. But I can make myself bigger. Or stronger. Or throw magic. Just—not enough to fight most things. Even a bird is too dangerous.”
“Leave the birds to me. I fought that red beetle down to the wire.”
“…You didn’t kill it? With a Level 50 Skill.”
“Um. Well, no. It was super tough. And strong. He was like the Beetle King. We fought for like an hour. He was two feet long!”
Ulvama stared at Erin. She hadn’t met the red beetle, and she refused to believe Erin’s tale about the Battle Hamster too. She gestured at herself.
“I can make you taller if we fight. [Wild Growth] is the spell I know.”
“Whoa. Hey, that solves a bunch of problems!”
“No. It only makes you…this big.”
Ulvama indicated a new height. Eight inches. Erin hesitated.
“Ah. That’s, uh—well, it’d be pretty good if that was feet instead of inches. I see the problem. But you can make fire and cast spells, right?”
She was trying to talk Ulvama up, but the [Shaman]’s ego had taken a beating. She shook her head as she wrapped some of the blue berry in a leaf to roast over the fire.
“Don’t eat raw. Might be larvae inside. Bugs eat.”
Erin instantly dropped the blue berry slice. Ulvama went on.
“I…am small. My magic is small. And my magic is in paint and charms. I lost my powders and paints. Mud is all I have. And it is weak. I am weak.”
“Oh, Ulvama—come on. Now there’s two of us! Double the weak! Plus, you can rely on me. I can punch things. And I was using my color to make this super dangerous rock! Making tools is a pain in the butt, but with your magic and my weird colors, we’ll make, like—super swords! I was gonna melt down some coins to make a gold sword, actually. I guess we have to start with stone.”
Erin shadow-boxed the air and cheered when she saw Ulvama smile slightly. Then Erin had a thought and dropped her hands.
“…You haven’t seen Nerry, have you?”
The Hobgoblin instantly shook her head.
“You’re the only one. If Nerry was made small…”
She and Erin fell silent. After a second, the [Innkeeper] shook her head.
“There’s no way Silvenia would be that cruel, right? I bet, if Nerry’s here, she’s Sariant Lamb size.”
So bigger than they were…but still tiny. Both considered how likely Nerry would survive in this jungle. Erin whispered.
“I bet she’s okay. She has to be. If she’s here—we’ll find her. Somehow. But I don’t think Silvenia would risk her here. Do you? She’s supposed to be smart.”
“She saved us. Made us small. Warded us against magic. Or Lyonette would use the [World’s Eye Theatre] to find us, right?”
Erin began to pace back and forth, now thinking far more concretely about their situation. It helped that Ulvama was there to bounce ideas off of.
“Right. I think, logically, Lyonette would have found you or me if we could be scryed. But we can’t. And I know it can be blocked. Niers and Silvenia both have; if no one’s found us, we’re protected. And making us Fraerlings…makes it way harder to find us. She saved our lives.”
“By sending us here, surrounded by the jungle.”
Ulvama’s tone was dark and indicated that her gratitude towards Silvenia was in short supply. Erin felt guilty again. If they had washed up at the same time…no, she went on briskly.
“We have to find somewhere safe. If you didn’t find anyone after weeks, then we’re either far from civilization—or we’re just tiny. It was luck that I saw your signal; if I’d gone into the forest or washed up anywhere else on the beach, I might have missed it. We need tools to get our magic back, to find out where we are, and then to get big again. And then find Rabbiteater and—and go home!”
Daunting tasks, but Erin had known that was the goal, and with someone else, it looked so much more manageable. Ulvama’s eyes rested on Erin with that same rekindled hope, and Erin felt it.
Her other class. Ulvama invoked it now too.
“You’re a [Witch]. Where’s your hat?”
Erin felt at her head, and her smile flickered.
“Oh—still around, I think. Just not active. I’m out of craft. Out of…of wonder. I think my magic’s changed. I know it has. I—not much wonder after all that, you know?”
The Hobgoblin studied Erin, then gave her a gentle nod. She pulled the first piece of roasted berry off the fire and cut it with one huge needle—then put one half on a skewer and handed it to Erin.
“Thanks, Ulvama. Cheers.”
They dinked the two squishy pieces of now-purplish berry together and began to chew. After a few minutes of chomping and swallowing, Erin got some water for her hands and to wash down the stuff.
“You know, I ate honey for like a month straight. I’m glad this is more, uh—bittersweet. Sorta chewy.”
“Mm.”
“I’m sure it’s a lot better if you’re eating the berries when you’re bigger.”
“Yah.”
“…Sorta sucks?”
The Hobgoblin’s long face told Erin that this was not the first time Ulvama had had that thought. And because of that, Erin leapt up.
“Y’know what? Let me try. I have [Advanced Cooking]. All we’ve got’s some berry and fire, right? Well, what if I took just a bit of some of this berry’s color and…”
She performed her color-swapping trick and came up with a super-rich, vividly blue berry that, after six minutes of roasting over the fire, was oozing drops of nectar. Ulvama took it, dubiously, but took a bite, and her eyes widened.
“Is sweet! Almost like blue fruit! And not as tough!”
Erin grinned as Ulvama began to eat furiously. She took one bite herself of the hot berryflesh—then almost puked. Ulvama stopped in alarm, but Erin washed out her mouth.
“Sorry. Too sweet. I’ll—I’ll eat the berries with less color, okay?”
Then the [Shaman] began studying Erin. They were both changed; how much, neither had truly said. There was a lot they had not spoken of.
Like Roshal. Or the conclusion to the battle. The conversation hung in the air, unspoken, but not like some dark miasma. It was there—but when Erin looked at Ulvama, she just remembered seeing the Hobgoblin’s eyes as she produced the paints, or the way Ulvama had known why Erin had to go after Rabbiteater.
It was like being with Lyonette or Mrsha or Numbtongue or Pisces or any one of her oldest friends. Ulvama was one of them now, if she hadn’t been already.
“We’re gonna get through this. You’n me, Ulvama.”
“Mhm. Now I have a meatshield, I is okay.”
Ulvama used her fake pidgin-speak, and Erin grinned. Suddenly, Erin felt exhausted, but her mind was racing. And Ulvama had lots of questions.
“So you levelled up. Tell me more about [Aspect of the Inn]. And your box. What does it do? Is something in the box? What about your [Witch] class?”
“Hold on, hold on! I’ll tell you what I know. And I wanna know what you got for your levels!”
“I got more than a stupid box.”
“It’s an amazing box. I think. P-probably. I mean, it’s got to be good. I was gonna get a portal to Earth, a door to hell, or…”
“And you asked for a stupid box.”
“An amazing box of ephemeral, transient, uh, incontinuity!”
“That’s not a word.”
They were bantering now as Erin pulled more color out of the berries. She could see Ulvama eying the colors, but they weren’t ‘paints’ like Ulvama needed; they’d literally dye Ulvama’s skin, and Erin did not think infusing yourself with the essence of a berry was a good move. But maybe if she colored the mud?
Erin had a thought.
“At least with the box, Lyonette will know we’re alive. We shouldn’t rely on it, but help may come from her or Fetohep or someone. That’s actually a reason to hurry. We don’t want to put any of our friends in danger. Find Nerry if she’s here; she’s the likeliest person to have Silvenia-magic on her. Then the others.”
She took a breath, and the twisted camp of thorns and needles and leaves shifted in the wind. And three people sat there.
 
——
 
Ulvama was nodding, eyes determined, cleaning her face with some water. The Hobgoblin dipped a clawed hand into the cup.
She was watching Erin. Trying not to go over and touch her again. She was here. Ulvama wasn’t alone.
She wasn’t going to die here. And Erin’s presence was more than reassurance or company after so long. She…
Erin must not know how she looked. Part of it was all familiar. Different than the ‘normal’ Erin—she was sitting, resting her arms on her knees, across from Ulvama. Firelight played off her face, and she was smiling, head slightly turned as she clasped her hands together.
A genuine, determined smile on her face. A pure confidence not born of certainty, but of understanding.
I will find them.
I will see you home.
Promises [The Wandering Innkeeper] intended to keep.
She looked a bit like she had holding the wheel on that ship, setting herself against Terandrian kingdoms and [Pirate Admirals]—but without that hopeless death in her gaze.
Ah, but the damage. The [Shaman] saw it…everywhere.
A ragged edge had been blown off the top of Erin’s right ear. She had a huge scar around each wrist, discolored skin from burns, and her hair—magic had dyed the edges. Ulvama’s sense of magic made Erin feel like she was aglow—not the craft of [Witches], but too much of it.
She looked ill. For all she had fought her way here, she had lost weight, and Erin seemed more like a survivor of a shipwreck and terrible days at sea than Ulvama. Still. If a bird swooped down now, Ulvama would have put bets on Erin to survive.
It was like she had been worn away by the weather, and it had exposed a wiry, tough woman of scars underneath the smiling façade Erin Solstice always wore.
She looked like she was Level 50. She looked…like she was still bleeding from the wounds she’d taken. Ulvama had seen Goblins hurt just as badly as Erin.
She hoped the [Innkeeper] could heal. However, Ulvama had not seen all of Erin’s scars. And as the Goblin sat there, trying not to burst into tears again—she realized three people were sitting around the fire.
Erin, on a little log of bark firewood. Ulvama, washing her face with a cup on the ground, cross-legged. And with his back to the stone ‘cliff’, tattoos aglow in the light, a dark-skinned man bare to the waist.
Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier, raised his head.
“Don’t forget Erek. My dear friend is alone. All of them are, and they will die and suffer now that I am dead. I made my choice, for I feared no mortal foe. But Erek—you gave him a sword. You owe him.”
His voice was clear, low, and intense, and Erin’s head rose, and she stared at the Hundredfriends Courier.
“Yes. Of course.”
She murmured. Ulvama jerked. The cup of water went flying as she scrambled back with a cry of horror.
“What?”
She recoiled from Seve, who gave her a level look. Erin jerked, turned to Ulvama—and then blinked. And the surprise stole over her face, as if delayed. Ulvama was half-splayed on the ground. Erin rose slightly, incredulous.
“Wait. Did you hear that?”
“Hear—he’s dead. He’s dead. Why is he here?”
Ulvama pointed a shaking finger at Seve. Or—at what had been Seve. When the Hobgoblin turned her head back, she just saw a gnarled twist of branches that might have looked like someone sitting down, if you really tried. A patterning on the wood that might have resembled a tattoo.
“What? What was—”
Erin Solstice stood there, surprised, shocked that Ulvama had heard something. But not surprised to see Seve. The Hobgoblin’s eyes stole to Erin. And then she heard another voice.
