“This is it! Oh poo! Oh g—oh dead—aaah! This is it!”
A wave crashed down on a beach like an avalanche, the foam of the rushing, white water caving out sand, slamming down with all the force of a moderate, two-foot section of ocean.
Terrifying. The next wave queued up for a run at the beach, and there were thousands, millions more in reserve. Put me in, coach! They’d eventually wash away the continent if they tried hard enough, right?
The huge section of sand, patchy white and yellow leading up to what looked like a forest of impossibly tall trees filling the sky, was proof enough of—
The next wave was coming.
“This time, it’s it! Brace! Brace! Aaaaah!”
The wave began to crest towards shore, and what it did not bring any closer was the surprisingly loud voice. The wave crested and broke; it washed a bunch of seaweed and some scraps of wood onto the sand.
“Okay. This time. Just get it over with, would you?”
At this point, the voice grew a tiny bit exasperated. But the trepidation was real. After all, being buoyed forwards by the third wave was a small plank of wood. Barely a few feet long and splintered at the end, rot and salt water had turned the board into deadwood. It had been splintered from some great impact, and all that remained on it was a scrap of broken fabric somehow snagged around the board, like a miniature tent.
And a tiny person, six inches tall. She was, at this moment, paddling around with a tiny, toothpick-sized paddle that did absolutely nothing as the wave brought the plank forwards.
“Don’t tip. Don’t tip—no, nonononono—”
Her concerns about the waves breaking on the beach were well-founded. After all, mild waves at this time of day could still get up to two feet high. Not bad if you were six feet tall and watching them lap at your knees or something.
A huge concern if they were four times your height and you had a valid fear about being sucked back underwater when the wave pulled back.
The little figure had thought for a long time, ever since she’d seen the shore approaching, about her exit strategy. Obviously, jumping off and swimming to shore had been a thought until she’d considered the possibility of the undertow or the waves hitting the beach locking her in a cycle of tumbling around like a piece of laundry in a washing machine.
Death by beach wasn’t her first option. Not after so long. So, the young woman paddled, cursing, legs unsteadily wobbling as the board lifted—
Her name was Erin Solstice. She had on a t-shirt and jeans and, on top of that, what looked like a sack: a piece of grey, burnt cloth with holes poked in it for her arms. A cloak for the sun, cold weather, and rain up till now. But she’d added clumsy sleeves fashioned out of loops of cloth. She was sunburned, her skin was peeling, and she had lost weight. How much, she couldn’t have said, but her hair that sometimes fell out looked discolored at the tips.
The ocean water was a bad mirror, but she knew she had more things wrong with her than she could see. Even now, her lungs felt like they were burning as she spoke. There was a tingling in her body, and her veins had stopped pulsing with strange fire each night.
Erin would have worried about anyone else in this condition. For herself?
Her wounds had mostly healed. She was alive.
Soon to be dead if the wave flipped her. The board went up, and the little figure realized the worst was happening.
“It’s tipping. Abandon ship!”
She braced—and hoped like hell this worked. The wave was reaching a crest, and she could sense the plank spinning despite her best efforts. The laws of energy or something meant that it wanted to tip with the wave rather than remain straight on like a surfboard as she’d been trying to keep it.
Now, as the wave began to descend, the plank began to tip—and it was going to drop her straight into the full weight of the wave as it came down on the sand.
So she took two unsteady steps—bent her legs, and hoped this worked.
“[Lesser Strength]! Jump!”
She leapt as she felt the board tilting below her and flew into the sky.
The jump was as good as she had hoped; Erin had realized she could fly into the air, at least, relative to her height. When she’d practiced at sea a few times, she’d managed incredible jumps of what she guessed might have been a foot or more.
Desperation and momentum must have given her two feet, four feet of height and distance. The [Innkeeper] whooped—then saw wet sand below her.
“Aw—”
She hit the beach, turned her head, and the wave slammed into her. The next few moments were what every beachgoer who’d ever run afoul of a big wave had faced: tumbling, being ground against the sand, limbs flailing with no sense of direction—until at last, miraculously, she ended up face-first in the sand, gasping for air, and pulled her head up.
“I’m alive?”
She had little time for celebration. Water was rushing away from her, and the young woman crawled away from it, looking over her shoulder.
The ocean water was pulling back, taking the little board with it, rolling it around like the rest of the flotsam being deposited on the beach. Trash. Scraps of fabric. Seaweed. Floating bits and bobs. A piece of bone.
Fragments of ships. And—the little board. Her home for a month.
“Goodbye, Plank II.”
That was all the young woman said. Then she saw the fourth wave coming, and to her eyes, it looked like what she imagined a tidal wave was. Water, many times her height, coming in a line across the horizon. Of course, it was just a bigger-than-average wave.
But she was a smaller-than-average person right now. A Fraerling. That much, Erin Solstice knew. Where the heck she was, what had happened while she lay there thinking, surviving, and waiting for something to attack or kill her besides a seagull one time—
She had no idea. She pushed herself up, and her arms shook. She was exhausted and probably malnourished. Despite exposure or whatever you called it, her arms worked. Her legs responded to her.
A month of doing sit-ups when she could or those exercises Grimalkin and the [Healer] had shown her to make sure her body wouldn’t fail her. She hadn’t been able to walk for nearly a week and a half. Now, she stood—and began running.
Away from the incoming wave, which threatened to wash over her current position. Erin Solstice’s footwear was backup sandals from her bag of holding; the boots she’d been wearing had been badly damaged like everything else she’d had on her during the battle at sea.
She was down to her last set of clothing. The rest had been either so badly irradiated from the magic—that was how she could describe it—that it had melted, despite the bag of holding, or she’d had to burn it when the snow had begun falling to keep her warm when she slept.
No knife. No potions. And her bag of holding—Erin glanced over her shoulder—
Was currently rolling around on the plank of wood, if it was even still attached. Along with all the cloth she’d used as a shelter from the sun and rain.
“You could have shrunk my bag of holding too. Damn you, Silvenia!”
The [Innkeeper] began running, arms and legs pumping as she dashed over the wet sand. It was about the eight hundredth time she’d cursed the Death of Magic’s name. At least she had her health and enough energy to run.
Go, go, go! Don’t look back, don’t look—
“Holy poop, that’s a big wave!”
She sped up. It was still coming, and now she heard it! A dull roar behind her. It was the most action-movie thing she’d ever felt in her life; water was cascading down now, pounding the sand, and she could see sand and bits of water flying upwards from the impact.
A wave. Who knew they were so terrifying? Water rushed forwards and reached her ankles; she yelped, leapt—and the water pulled back as Erin Solstice landed in the sand. Dry sand.
It clung to her as she stumbled, stopped, turned, and realized she’d made it. She was alive. Shaking, breathing in, exhaling hard, Erin Solstice looked back.
She had just survived her first contact with a beach. Not her first challenge at sea; the seagull, having to switch to another plank when the first almost burnt down overnight thanks to a fire she’d started, and bad diarrhea had all been considerable problems.
…It didn’t bode well for wherever this was, though. Erin Solstice looked around. Her legs were covered with bits of sand particles, still smaller than her, but gravel-sized relative to her height. Her eyes took in a vast, desert-like land ahead of her; that was the beach.
Then the great forest they sang of in tales of Norse legend, like the ancient forests she’d heard of, where Treants and Dryads sprang forth; vast conifers of wood (she had no idea if they were actual conifers) looming upwards towards the heavens, and twining bushes the size of huge apartment blocks, leaves and vines snarled every which way.
A wall of plantlife; a land of Giants.
That was the forest. Probably not even a big forest. Jungle? Erin Solstice had no idea.
“I am in so much trouble.”
The [Innkeeper] swallowed hard. She was alive. She hadn’t expected that. In that sense, she was grateful. In that sense, she deserved everything coming to her.
She wondered who else had made it.
 
——
 
The blessing of being marooned in a strange land while being tiny was that she didn’t have the luxury to think about the big things.
Like the people who’d died at the Solstice. Like the nature of Roshal or evil or herself. Compared to having to think about that—Erin would have suffered a thousand waves at the beach.
Of course, she had thoughts, but they had to be practical, and she was eminently grateful for that. And her first thought was to actually turn around and debate heading back to sea.
Not because she wanted a different landing spot; there was absolutely no way to maneuver at sea. She’d tried; be it plank or sail, even if she’d managed to conjure a wind like Ryoka, it had been abundantly clear to Erin’s mind that she couldn’t head anywhere else.
Even if she had Ryoka’s complete ability set, sailing to another island would take days upon days at her height, wouldn’t it? Flying, now…that might allow her to travel wherever she wanted.
But she was stuck with this location. What Erin wanted was Plank II.
It was an ignominious vessel. Miserably wet when the water dampened it, littered with trash despite her best efforts, and hollowed out with a pit she used for fire and to try and boil water and make it drinkable. She hated it; the ‘tarp’ she’d covered one half with was a jacket that had belonged to Admiral Dakelos. At least that had been waterproof, but Plank II was a miserable prison she had stayed on for a month.
…It was also burnable. And it had had, until recently, a waterlogged bag of holding with at least a few valuable items inside—along with a lot of water. Erin shaded her eyes, squinted, and swore as she saw the plank continuing to roll with each wave.
“Fuck. I think it’s gone.”
The bag of holding’s drawstrings had been looped around a piece of the plank, but the rolling of the wave must have taken it out. Which meant one of the only magical things she had left was gone—along with her remaining food supply.
Then again, the thought of having more multicolored honey nearly made Erin heave on the spot. And her butt clenched simultaneously at the thought.
A month. A month of eating Apista’s Ashfire Bee honey. There hadn’t been much…for a regular person. Even for a Fraerling, it had ‘only’ been roughly Erin’s mass, a few tablespoons at most. But it was dense honey made from Faerie Flower nectar.
A single handful was enough to sustain you all day and night and, Erin now knew, give you a rush of magic and the other effects of the Faerie Flowers. Like memory. Or hallucinations.
It tasted like, well, honey mixed with something slightly bitter and was actually chewy if you ate it in unwise amounts. Erin’s teeth hurt just remembering it; she’d been cleaning them with some toothpaste after every meal, but that much sugar…
Erin suspected Apista’s fondness of Dreamleaf cigars from Palt had added to the honey, making it highly hallucinogenic as well. Either way, a month had given her a tolerance to whatever was in the honey. And a desire to never eat honey or sugar again as long as she lived.
There was about six days worth of honey left. That was still invaluable if she could lug the bag of holding or little jar to shore.
Unfortunately, or fortunately, the bag was nowhere on the plank or the beach. Erin stood there, muttering to herself as she shaded her eyes.
“I can check back later to see if it’s washed up. It’s not like I can carry it far…it’s really heavy. And if I fall into it I might die. On the other hand, it can hold…everything. And there’s some stuff in there, like the inkwell and coins.”
She wasn’t sure how much use some of the things in her bag of holding would be if she didn’t find a way to get big or friendly help soon. But something was better than literally nothing but the clothes on her back.
No help for it. Erin stopped staring at the sea, turned, and took a huge breath.
“Okay. Where am I? The Hivelands? Terandria? Chandrar? No, Chandrar doesn’t have trees. I think. Unless this is the Claiven Earth? Rhir? Please let it not be Terandria. Or Rhir.”
She didn’t think it was, but Erin wasn’t good with maps, and she had no idea where she was given her last position at sea. They had been near Wistram, which was dead in the middle of the ocean.
Erin had actually hoped she’d wash up at Wistram, Eldavin or not. Her knowledge of coastlines was…pretty bad, but judging by the balminess of the air, despite it probably still being the end of the year and winter, her best guess was actually—
“Baleros. Baleros on some coast. The, uh…eastern side. Probably south or middle? The north’s supposed to be cold. No harbor or civilization for miles that I could see. Or hundreds of feet. Crap.”
The beach was literally all she could see. If she looked left? More beach. If she looked right? More beach. It stretched to the jungle, and maybe Erin could see a rise in elevation to her right, but that was all the clues she had.
It was overwhelming, frankly, after weeks of just staring at the waves and grey skies and, sometimes, storms. Erin’s eyes hurt from the vivid colors, but she forced herself to concentrate.
I may die, and I can’t die…not yet. 
Not until she—well. She just didn’t want to die here and now. Not after all that had happened.
So, Erin focused on her surroundings, trying to pick details out from the two biomes ahead of her. And what she noticed, when she was able to focus, was that there were hazards and things to at least aim for.
“Hm. What the hell is that?”
