No one would miss them, a group of cowards willing to betray Sanshu. Their deaths would go unnoticed since the city was undoubtedly doomed. All was arranged and this time tomorrow, Yong would be safely away from the city, sailing down the Xiang Mi river. Distracted by his relief, he accidentally glanced out the window and saw the billowing plumes of dark smoke, his mood souring in an instant. Tearing his eyes away, he tried to pour himself a cup of tea, but his hands shook too much to manage it. Tossing the pot aside, he stood so forcefully he upended his chair. “Come, I return to the Manor to rest.” Ten hours, he only needed Sovanna and her guards to hold for ten hours, then all would be well.

He prayed the incompetent bitch could manage as much, though it was optimistic to say the least.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Vithar stood in the darkness at his garo’s side, hand clamped firmly around the beast’s muzzle. Though unhappy at the treatment, the creature waited patiently, motionless and silent. The northern wastes were unforgiving and noise carried vast distances in the frozen plains. Creatures incapable of silence rarely survived adolescence.

Things were much different here in the southern forests. Even now in the dark of night, unfamiliar noise filled the air as creatures skittered and flit about in search of food. A bountiful, merciful land, the south fostered weakness and carelessness, though Vithar was too tenacious to let his vigilance slip. Too many of his foes and rivals laid dead in the north because of their negligence. He would know, since he often took advantage of their failings.

Too sloppy and haphazard these southerners, if not for the Uniter’s orders, Vithar would have slain them all and offered their blood to the ancestors. Still, the orders had been to work with the Southerners, not take their orders, so when the aged thief instructed him to wait outside the city, Vithar had disregarded them and left, bringing his riders west.

An army of ten-thousand rode to the city’s aid according to the aged thief. It was not Vithar’s way to sit and wait. He was no goat to be staked out for the garo, he was the hunter, the pursuer. A clever hunter would know this army would be tired and weary. A clever hunter would take the field, killing on his own terms and not the enemy’s. His three-thousand garo riders were easily worth thirty-thousand of these weak southerners, they’d proved as much in the first battle, for the city called Shen Mu. Here, tonight, he held every advantage and he never liked to see an opportunity pass.

His scouts returned and Vithar grinned at their tidings. The southerners were camped only an hour away, fatigued and overworked, their spirits low and bodies taxed. Tonight, his riders would taste blood once more and make a great offering to the ancestors, before returning to the city in victory to partake in its destruction.

Bending knee to the Uniter was the best decision Vithar ever made. War and bloodshed without end, a promise made and a promise kept.

Chapter Meme
