[Move the Tides] took effect, settling into the enormous quantity of power held within the mana channeler. For a split second, Cale felt the connection between him and the spell build—no doubt the piece of mental control that would ordinarily have allowed him to move the tides, if he'd actually wanted to

Then something changed. A loud, echoing sound tore through the ambient mana all around him. Damien and Leo both stiffened, their eyes darting to what appeared to be a message from the Gift, but—

"Cale," Leo said, his voice strangled. "Why did the Gift just disappear?"

Cale blinked. "...Oops?" he offered awkwardly. "I'm sure it'll be back in a moment."

Spell combination attempt detected. Evaluating request...

Priority mage detected. Allocating resources...

A storm crackled over the ocean.

Allocating resources...

"It might take a little more than a moment," Cale said.

Relevant resonance detected: draconic resonance, first rank. Insufficient assistance provided from resonance. Allocating resources...

Ah, that was why the resonance bit was important. Cale felt like Akkau should probably have told him this part.

"Um," Damien said. "What's happening, exactly?"

"I think the Gift is shutting down a bunch of things so it can combine the spells?" Cale offered. "Apparently combining spells is hard."

"Cale," Leo said, staring at him. "Don't just—help the Gift if it's struggling! We can't just shut off the Gift!"

"How am I supposed to help with whatever this is?" Cale protested. "I just add mana to things! I mean if the Gift wants mana to help, I could—"

...Yes. A mana offering would be appreciated.

Cale blinked. "Okay," he said slowly. "That's direct. Uh... sure, I guess. Take whatever mana you need."

"Cale—" Leo looked like he wanted to strangle him. "Phrasing!"

"What? You asked me to speed it up!" Cale protested.

Consent acquired. Additional processing power obtained via mana donation of 1.0e70 units of mana.

Now combining [Auric Dominion] with [Move the Tides].

The Red Commander glanced out at the ocean, tilting his head slightly at the brewing storm.

Storms were not uncommon for the Endless Deep. Compared to most realms, Utelia had very little inhabitable land; the tiny strip of four continents, aligned in a single row, was laughably artificial. It was clear to him that the ocean served some alternative purpose, and the sheer density of magical phenomena within them only confirmed his suspicion.

Magical phenomena did not emerge without cause. They were products of chaos, more often than not the result of magic colliding with itself. But always that chaos was a result of another action elsewhere, like the flap of a butterfly's wings writ large upon the imprint of a world.

The Red Commander did not like chaos. He did not like the Endless Deep. But he'd placed his office next to it very intentionally, for one simple reason: he did not like when things happened without his knowing.

The Endless Deep was a record. Not one that could be read by most, certainly, and even for him it could only ever hint at the happenings of the world. But he had learned, in his lives, that even a hint was enough to tilt the scales.

A report from the Observers filtered in. Beneath his hood, the Red Commander's eyes narrowed.

The dark lord's involvement would explain the movement of the oceans... but the karmic lines had yet to move.

He drummed his fingers on his desk, then frowned at the movement of his own digits.

"I do not think so," he said, then directed a burst of mana at his fingers, severing them neatly. The wounds closed after themselves, politely, like they should.

He tossed the fingers in with the others.

Strange, strange, strange. Too many things were strange.

Perhaps he needed to get personally involved.
