Ophiel twittered. Yggdrasil moved his eye to inspect the amulet on Erick’s chest. Erick lifted up the amulet a bit so the big guy could get a look, while he said, “I got about 80 points yesterday. Today, I should get 130-ish… Minus the two hours it took to do this and also test myself.”

Yggdrasil looked up at him, almost questioningly; about what, Erick could not say. He missed being able to talk to the big guy, and for some reason, direct telepathy didn’t reach all the way in here.

Erick said, “I’ll see you again in person, soon, Yggdrasil. I’ll be able to answer all your questions then, but until then, stay safe out there, okay?”

Yggdrasil’s eye bounced a little in recognition, and in answer, like he was saying ‘okay’ back.

Erick grabbed Fairy Moon’s necklace and put that one on, too. And when nothing happened between either his new monstrosity of an amulet and Fairy Moon’s tiny pink/green crystal, he smiled; No resonance issues.

It was time for another break.

It was time for breakfast.

His new amulet bounced against his chest as he took the stairs two at a time, and Erick was thankful that his provided shirts were of good quality, for the amulet was very pointy. It was pretty damned fancy, though. Probably too fancy. He’d only be wearing it around the house, he decided, so this much bling was probably fine.

Erick walked into the dining room right as Fairy Moon and Maid Maria walked in from a corridor on the other side. Both of them looked at the new shininess on his chest. Both of them had also seen the old amulet, too, but this new one was much bigger.

Erick began, “Good morning. Time for breakfast?”

Fairy Moon narrowed her eyes at Erick’s amulet, then she looked at him. “Yes. Maid Maria was just on her way up to alert you, but I see that is not necessary. I ask, though… Does this day feel auspicious to anyone else?”

Erick instantly smiled and brightly said, “Nope!” shutting down all other options.

Fairy Moon and Maid Maria looked at him, questioningly.

And then Fairy Moon said, “Very well then.” She said to Maid Maria, “I will be having the sausage, pancakes, eggs, and steak.”

Maid Maria curtsied. She asked, “And for you, Archmage Flatt?”

“White rice and fried chicken and assorted vegetables. I’d call it a stir-fry, but I don’t think you know that phrase.” It wasn’t the ‘breakfast’ option, but Erick had been awake for a while, and he felt like having dinner right now.

Maria curtsied again, then turned around and went to fetch the food.

Erick sat down at his usual spot.

Fairy Moon took her spot, and she began, “Are you sure you don’t want the day to be detailed?”

“I’m not sure your meaning, exactly, but I am at another breakthrough with my accretion, and I do not desire a distraction.”

Fairy Moon narrowed her eyes, then decided she knew better. She plucked a pure white staff-sized bit of wood from the air, and set it on the table between them. Yggdrasil hopped from Erick’s shoulder and alighted on the branch like he knew it, personally. Which he did.

It was a twig from Yggdrasil.

Erick frowned. “Explain?”

“I asked Yggdrasil for a branch and he broke one off and now here it is for your enchanting education.” Fairy Moon said, “Do with it what you will, though I suggest you start experimenting with the manawood I provided for your purposes before you break open this white wood.”

Yggdrasil’s eye spun in recognition. He seemed… Happy? Clearly, yes. He was happy.

So Erick ignored what he was going to say to Fairy Moon, and instead told Yggdrasil, “I will be sure to use it well, Yggdrasil. I appreciate this.”

Yggdrasil bounced up and down again in acknowledgment, and then he nuzzled into Erick's shoulder. He was still immaterial though, so Erick felt nothing except good, distant thoughts of joy.

Maid Maria returned with the food a moment later.

And then she joined them for breakfast, sitting across from Erick, while Fairy Moon sat at the head of the table. Though the conversation that morning was stiff with Maria barely saying anything, Erick couldn’t help but smile a little that she had finally decided to join them for a meal. Like, sure, these people were his kidnappers, but Erick was getting over it. As long as they didn’t do anything else to him, or to his people, this was fine.

Despite how he had arrived in Ar’Cosmos, now that he was here, he was learning a lot, and unlike how the Script could be stripped from him the moment he crossed that final line, making magic himself meant that it could never be taken from him, again.

After breakfast Erick went back to accretion.

12 hours later, Erick had gained around 8 more Points in every Stat, and according to the books, he was either at the very end of his First Foundation, or in the middle. The cutoff point for everyone was different, but the normal cutoff was somewhere between 20 in every Stat, or 50, or 75, according to how much power the body and spirit were accustomed to before one began accretion.

Erick was used to 87 in everything except for Willpower and Focus, which had been at 227. With a core that was still rather like a flat-ish, faceted computer mouse than a true spherical core, Erick suspected that it might be a long while before he achieved spirit saturation.

Another 12 hours after that, the morning sun had risen once again, Erick had gained around 9 points in every Stat, and he once again ate breakfast with Fairy Moon and Maid Maria. Both of them eyed him the whole time, Maid Maria with concern, and Fairy Moon with judgment, because Erick almost nodded off right on top of his omelet. No one actually said anything about his obvious sleep deprivation, though.

And Erick gave no comments, either.

24 hours later Erick had gained around 24 points to every Stat. He was finally starting to feel like his old self again, and not just his old self back before he was kidnapped to Ar’Cosmos; he was starting to feel like his old self back on Earth, where everything was so much easier and all his worries were over silly, small things like filing paperwork.

Accretion had some sort of calming, centering effect. It was more subtle than when he [Renew]ed himself, and it was more encompassing than his old way of cycling; of just stirring the mana inside his core to work out the kinks inside.

He felt…

Better.

- -

Strength: 68

Vitality: 69+15=84

Dexterity: 69+4=73

Constitution: 68

Perception: 68

Willpower: 79+19=98

Focus: 79+59=138

Intelligence: 69

- -

Mana: 980

Mana Regen (Vit+Foc): 2220

- -

He did not share his exact gains over breakfast, but he did not need to.

When Erick tried to put a spoonful of sugar into his tea and ended up putting sugar onto his omelet instead, Fairy Moon had seen all she needed to see. Maid Maria had too, but she just winced, and kept silent.

Fairy Moon frowned at him, saying, “Erick Flatt. You can barely bother to keep your eyes open! I insist you sleep and soon. The world can wait a while—”

And suddenly Erick was wide awake. “You are NOT forcing me to sleep again, Fairy Moon. You hear me! I will sleep when the time is right and right now I have to be ready to either tell Redflame that I already made [Renew] and deal with the shitstorm that follows, or I have to let him find out for himself, and still deal with that shitstorm.” Erick forced himself to calm down, then said, “And so I need to be ready for that. I will sleep later.” He stabbed a fork into his sugar-covered omelet. “Sugar omelet is fine.”

Fairy Moon sat back in her chair, her eyes a little wide and full of surprise. “Fair is fair. Your choices are your choices.”

Maid Maria, though, instantly looked from Fairy Moon to Erick, and then back, worried over something that she was not putting into words. Erick looked to her— And that seemed to be enough to break whatever dam she had built. She said, “You have to tell him. If you don’t tell him then he’s going to waste a fortune in mana—”

“Maria.” Fairy Moon looked to her, then softly said, “This is Erick’s Path.”

Maria went completely silent and proper at the small recrimination.

But Erick wanted to know. “What do you mean, waste it?”

Fairy Moon resumed eating her meal, giving Maria a definite ‘you’re on your own now’ sort of look.

It took Maria a minute to start talking, saying, “Redflame’s mana means… Our… Redflame doesn’t actually need to—” She gathered her wits, and calmly explained, “He could use that mana to assist with the removal of the Curse from a hundred people. Or to expand Ar’Cosmos to house a hundred more people, or to create a new layer of the city, or— The true tale is that Redflame is a good man, who does not deserve to have a fortune in power wasted on something already created. He deserves to know the truth.”

Erick thought for a long moment about his response…

He almost nodded off after taking too long to think.

So he said, “I have heard your complaint. I will think about this and… Likely ask for something in return from you for telling him so he doesn’t waste his mana. Or something. I don’t know.”

Maria sat a bit straighter, and then purposefully calmer. She gave a slow nod.

Fairy Moon looked on from the sidelines, silent.

Erick looked to Fairy Moon, and added, “Or maybe I’ll ask for something from Fairy Moon, instead.”

And now Fairy Moon was invested. She smirked, asking, “What do you desire?”

“… I will get back to you on that later, as well.”

Fairy Moon grinned, and then went back to eating breakfast. Maid Maria and Erick resumed eating, too, and there was no more conversation.

Afterward, Erick accreted once, took off his necklace and took a quick bath, and then hopped into bed. He slept for the first time in days, but he slept perhaps more poorly than he had slept ever since coming to Veird, and experiencing the casual power of Stats. He woke up twice and accreted both times, but only hours had passed between wakings. His third attempt at sleep lasted ten hours, and when he awoke the moon hung outside his room, and his head throbbed with a dull ache.

A midnight journey to the kitchen was just what he needed to set himself right, though.

Erick had three days left till Redflame would use up his ‘fortune in mana’, which, if anything like a war was going to happen between Ar’Cosmos and the rest of the world, perhaps Erick needed to let Redflame waste that mana. But then again…

That would just cause a lot of deaths, wouldn’t it?

Yeah. If people thought Ar’Cosmos was weak, they would attack.

Erick got back to accreting while he thought.

In the morning, he joined Fairy Moon and Maid Maria for breakfast, and laid out his demands, “In exchange for preventing Redflame from spending a fortune in mana to accomplish nothing, I want all untoward influences you have cast upon me, Fairy Moon, to be removed. And I want higher-level enchanting manuals and accretion manuals.”

Fairy Moon spoke seriously, “The first is impossible, for it would require removing the past and we are not doing this, ever. But! Take pleasure in knowing that nothing untoward is on you, save for the restriction against returning to your Other Self. Of that, know this: I required you to rise to the peak of your power before you birth the solution to Sundering, and neither I, nor you, will imperil those plans. If you demand I decide to forgo this future then you are not as benevolent as you would believe, and mayhaps we may need to rethink this entire revolution.” And then she turned dismissive, saying, “But the books are an acceptable request for the paltry pleasantry of saving Redflame some minor misfortune.”

Erick frowned, but all of that had been expected. So he asked the question that he truly wanted answered, “If Redflame knew of my nature, would he try to bend me to his own goals?”

“I would put up a resistance to such requests and Redflame might honor my asking. It might not matter, though.” Fairy Moon said, “If House Carnage captures you then run to Redflame. Don’t let Bright Smile snag you.”

Maria shuddered at the name ‘Bright Smile’. Bright Smile was the current head of House Carnage, and she was the only one Erick had not met yet. There seemed to be something between Maria and Bright Smile, specifically, but Erick barely knew anything about any of the people around him. He did not know nearly enough about Maria to know what her problem was.

And so, because Erick had to know, he asked, “What is wrong with Bright Smile?”

Fairy Moon said nothing. She just went right back to eating breakfast. After a moment of continued silence, it became clear that Fairy Moon wouldn’t speak about other people when those people were not around.

So Maid Maria answered, “Some dragons take to Carnage really well. Bright Smile is one of those. If you fell to her hands, she would enact a world war with your power. She’s tried to do similar things with other Wizards but none of them had had… They all died before her desired spells could be cast.”

Ahh.

So.

Bright Smile was the real threat of Ar’Cosmos, then? Seemed plausible. On the surface, anyway. Erick didn’t know nearly enough about this place, at all.

Erick glanced to Fairy Moon.

Fairy Moon set down her fork, and just stared at her food. The food was unimportant. It was just the thing that happened to be in her line of sight as she gazed off into nothing. Erick felt some sort of recognition in her empty gaze, and then it clicked. She didn’t want to participate in the Fate that was forming all around them. She already had a history with Bright Smile, because of course she did; Bright Smile was the head of house Carnage, and she had been for the last century and a half. It would have been impossible for Fairy Moon to not have a history with a person like that.

So while Fairy Moon wasn’t willing to speak now…

Erick recognized what was going on. Talk of war. The threat of a Wizard of great power falling into the hands of House Carnage. It was obvious.

He would need to kill this person he had never met before. He would need to kill Bright Smile. Or else she would capture him and use his power to wage war on the world.

Fuck.

- - - -

After accreting a few times and while in the middle of planning his next enchantment, Erick decided to backtrack on his previous thoughts.

There might not be any reason to kill Bright Smile.

