Erick had never heard of her before now, so her exploits were likely not that interesting. Erick did not doubt that Bright Smile was a terror inside Ar’Cosmos, though, for House Carnage worked security inside Ar’Cosmos, therefore the head of House Carnage likely had to be a certain kind of way. She needed to be truly feared enough to make all the dragons of the world scared of her, after all. Even Fairy Moon had warned Erick off of Bright Smile.

But fuck that noise! Like, obviously he would take their advice under advisement, but Erick had Blessed Shades before. How bad could a single dragon be? Erick was trying to make a better world, and there was no ‘better world’ without redemption included. This was just another test of the Worldly Path, and he was going to pass it with flying colors—

Knock knock.

It was midday. Erick set aside his book, went to the door, saw who it was on the other side, and opened it, saying, “Hello, Maid Maria.”

Maria curtsied with one hand, while her other held a box of books by its handle. “Your advanced enchanting books have arrived.” She set the box down in front of Erick. “Unfortunately, your accretion manuals are a more restricted item. Illustrious Moon will arrive tomorrow morning with those, but, if you will pardon the rudeness of this question, Illustrious wishes to know how far you are, and what topics you wish to know, specifically.”

No harm in telling her? Yeah. No harm in telling her.

Erick said, “Stats are around 75 according to the counting crystal. According to my estimates I am 85% of the way to Second Foundation.”

Maria’s eyes briefly widened, and then she controlled herself, curtsied again, and said, “Then I will inform Illustrious of this development, and she will likely wish to speak to you over breakfast. If this is amenable… Do you have any requests for breakfast? Or for dinner tonight?”

She seemed to truly be warming up to him.

Erick smiled softly at that thought, then said, “I like pancakes, bacon, and lots of cactus syrup— Oh. And coffee. Do you guys have coffee here, yet?”

Maria said, “I am sure I will be able to find some by tomorrow morning. As for dinner?”

“Whatever you feel like making will be great, Maria, I am sure. So I’ll take that.” He added, “But potatoes, if you got ‘em.”

Maria seemed to blush a bit as Erick used her name, without her title. She curtsied again, muttered how ‘It will be done’, and then she rushed away, down the stairs and out of sight. Erick ignored whatever that was and had Ophiel grab the box of books and move it into the room.

As Erick pulled out the first book, he felt a minor joy.

Every single book was absolutely packed with dense writing and denser ideas, and even some pesky math, but Erick read through them like he was reading one of Teressa’s adventuring novels. Quick, painless, and a bit of a joy, if Teressa’s facial features were enough to go by. Erick had never actually read any of those books himself, but maybe he should, now that he thought about it. Might learn something fun. Erick smiled as he read. Finally getting his Intelligence back was more of a comfort to him than he realized it would be.

Math still wasn’t fun, though.

… But Erick did sort of like the architectural and engineering aspects of magic item creation, and other things like that. Math was fun for those things, he supposed.

Dinner that night was great.

Fairy Moon seemed to love the small potatoes that Maria had included with the meal, so Maria spoke of how the next dinner would include more potatoes, and more potato-based options. Erick spoke of those options, and then of the history of the potato plant, which was part of the nightshade family, which was actually highly poisonous.

Fairy Moon seemed to get a particular kick out of the idea of generations of farmers cultivating potatoes to make them what they were today.

- - - -

Erick messed up the next tier of his amulet, causing the amulet to grow so fast and deep that it split the platinum in half, breaking the thing wide open and wasting an hour of accretion time. The problem was that he had tried to include the rune for [Renew], and something overloaded. His goal was the creation of an amulet that automatically accreted the wearer’s mana, based on their excess production, but the runic system he had devised was way too complicated, and probably wrong.

He was on the right track, though, but he could not afford to waste more mana or time trying again.

Normal accretion would have to suffice, for now. It should be enough. He felt he was getting close to a breaking point… He almost wasted more mana to use the counting crystal, to check himself, but he did not. He accreted that mana instead.

- - - -

The green-sliver moon gently passed beyond the horizon and the sky began to shift from dark and full of stars, to something less dark, and gently purple. The people in the city beyond Fairy Moon Manor’s walls began to come out of their homes, to go to work, or to go to school in the cases of the young ones. Erick hadn’t really studied all of those happenings, far below his tower, but he had noticed that they were probably real people. Their goings and comings were too varied to mark them as anything but real.

He couldn’t really tell from this distance, of course, and he might not even be able to tell if they were truly real even if he was up close and personal with any of them, for such was the power of Fae Magic. But he had noticed a few of the farmers at the fields down below were occasionally [Grow]ing different foods, and one lady who always wore a great big hat seemed to have a variety of hats that she changed out every day. Today, she was wearing some sort of spiky headdress that was larger than all of the hats her friends wore. Erick suspected she was a hatter with a store nearby, because her and her friends always ate at the same table every morning, gaggling with each other all the while, and always really early, too.

Their laughs did not always reach all the way up to Erick’s tower, but it was a close thing.

Erick came out of his most recent accretion to the sounds of that distant laughter. He blinked a bit, heard the laughter again, and then put all that out of his mind, and went back to accretion—

He stopped as a spike of something… not unpleasant, rippled through his entire body. It was a change. Something had changed.

… Erick suspected he knew what was going on, but he had to be sure. So he let his aura envelop his body with mana, once again pushing out all the ambient mana that happened to get in, and then he let that power fall through his body, into his core. And yup. Something had changed. Erick kept at it, cataloging the change.

As his aura had dripped droplets of white mana through his skin, that power had been soaking into his flesh, his bones, and every part of him, before eventually finding its way to his mana veins, to flow as though it was blood, to his core. But now, that power passed through his flesh and bones, immediately hitting his mana veins. All that power flowed directly to his core.

The thousand-faceted gem that was his core soaked in his mana, the facets moving and multiplying like someone turning up the number of polygons on a computer-generated sphere. The shadowy space around his core where all his veins connected was rapidly though gently filling with the growing gem that contained his soul.

A smile came unbidden to Erick’s face, for he knew what this was.

He had just reached body saturation; half of Second Foundation. The current crop of accretion manuals didn’t talk much about what happened past Second Foundation, but they all spoke of what accomplishing body saturation and spirit saturation felt like. This, then, was body saturation.

Now all of his gains would automatically and directly support the Stats that composed his ‘spirit’; Willpower and Focus, but also a bit of Perception and Intelligence, unless he was mistaken.

30 seconds later Erick bottomed out on mana.

Opening his eyes, Erick gazed at the sky beyond his window. Golds and blues crowded out the night sky, and the sun began to rise. A quick check with the clock told him he had at least two hours before breakfast with Illustrious. That meant around 5000 mana, or 20 more Points of growth in his spirit Stats. That might be enough to reach spirit saturation…

He wasn’t sure, but was going to try anyway.

A little over an hour later, Erick watched his core with his mana sense wide open as his core plumped up and then flexed for the last time. The polygons of the surface vanished as the cut crystal rapidly shifted into a perfect sphere, and a ripple of power flowed across the surface like the chiming of a gong. Erick shuddered as his very soul seemed to pulse and his tenuous grip on his aura suddenly failed. The sphere of white light around him broke apart, scattering his mana and his power into the room like a gust of vanishing fog.

Erick opened his eyes. He saw his core with his mana sense, and it was good.

Time was wasting, though. Illustrious would be here soon. So Erick went to the bathroom to run through his morning routine as fast as he could, though it was more like his ‘evening routine’ or some other timeframe; for his circadian rhythms were completely fucked.

He donned some decent clothes and by that time, he had regained enough mana to use the counting crystal. What he saw surprised even him.

- -

Strength: 86

Vitality: 87+15=102

Dexterity: 87+4=91

Constitution: 86

Perception: 93

Willpower: 104+19=123

Focus: 104+59=163

Intelligence: 94

- -

Mana: 1230

Mana Regen (Vit+Foc): 2650

- -

Second Foundation, for Erick, was quite a bit higher than Illustrious’s estimates of 75 in every Stat. Of course, the counting crystal was for estimation purposes only and it might have been off as much as 15%, but according to Erick’s own experiences, it seemed to be completely correct. Maybe off by a point or two. Whatever.

Erick flexed his shoulders, made a pair of fists, and then did a quick two squats to get the blood flowing. He punched the air and likely threw the punch completely wrong, but that didn’t really matter, either. He took off his amulet for this next part, because he didn’t want those spikes smacking him in the face, and then he leaned down like he was a trained contortionist and put his palms flat on the ground, keeping his legs straight the whole time. With a gentle lift, Erick raised his legs overhead, and walked around on his palms for five steps, before doing a little hand jump, twisting in the air. He almost splattered on the ground, but he caught himself, recovering to stand once again on his feet. It had been awkward and fun, because it was fun to have a nice body. He had missed this, too.

And this time, this power couldn’t be taken from him…

Though he supposed Fairy Moon’s Fairy Edicts, or whatever they were called, were still a threat… And he was rather low on mana compared to his usual numbers… And he had no Health. And his current numbers were with his amulet, which he would not be wearing much in the future—

Okay. So. Don’t get a big head, Erick, just because you cheated your way through to Second Foundation in less than a week.

Erick collected himself and his thoughts, then he spared a glance at the cyan-crystal amulet sitting on his desk along with all the other enchanting doodads and trinkets. That thing could stay here for now. With a final check, Erick mana sensed his core. It hadn’t changed. It sat beside his heart like a baseball-sized pearl, nestled inside the center of a web of shadowy mana channels that had no correlation to any physical structure inside his body. His right lung had been remade to provide space for the core, too, so its growth hadn’t actually moved anything around, at all.

And it just…

Felt good.

He kinda wondered why he felt better with a whole core, though, instead of the smaller thing he had had before. Erick hadn’t expected that particular emotional surprise, but it was welcome nonetheless. It was like he had finally arrived at some important milestone.

And now, it was time to reach for the next milestones and hopefully get home sooner, rather than later.

Erick exited his room. When he was almost all the way down to the ground floor he ran into Maid Maria coming up the other way. She startled.

Erick just smiled, and asked, “Time for breakfast?”

“You are correct, Archmage Flatt.” Maid Maria said, “Illustrious Moon is here, along with the asked-for accretion manuals.”

“Let us not keep them waiting.”

Maria curtsied then turned around, leading the way.
