Similarly, he decided he’d learned all there was to learn from sneaking up behind the tenders, and while a potential fight within the tunnels might’ve provided some valuable practice, he didn’t fancy his odds of winning.

On the other side, out in the hallways he could practice spotting tenders hidden in the roots, a skill at the moment he found somewhat lacking.

Decision made, Edmund picked a direction and set off, carefully scanning the walls on both sides for signs of ambush.

He didn’t spot his first tender until it was already within striking range.

But it didn’t strike.

“Huh,” Edmund muttered, blinking at the humanoid plant as it stared up at him. “I guess they aren’t intelligent.”

With the roots and the tenders both pacified, as far as Edmund knew nothing remained on the floor to challenge him. For safety’s sake he kept a watchful eye as he progressed, but he no longer bothered to kill the tenders he found. Thrax knew how many of the things Edmund walked right past, but he did manage to start spotting them from further and further away.

Denied any meaningful way to wring more practice out of the floor, thoroughness demanded he at the very least fully explore the maze of hallways. After the rootmother, he doubted there would be more secrets to find or new monsters to kill, but he wouldn’t know for sure unless he checked.

Keeping his eyes open, he picked a wall and followed it exclusively until he found himself back at the floor’s entrance. Continuing along said wall, he made an entire revolution around the level until he reached the entrance again. Stopping for a moment to visualize the layout, he concluded there was an outer hallway that circled more halls in the center. Once he knew that, finding the unexplored section proved easy enough.

True to expectation, no new traps or monsters revealed themselves, leaving Edmund somewhat confident he’d cleared as much of the floor as there was to clear when at last he found the exit.

Unlike the floor with the rats, the door hadn’t opened when he’d killed the rootmother or cleared out the tenders. Instead, he needed only lay a hand on it for the invisible bell to chime, the loot chest to rise from the floor, and the broad wooden door to swing out and reveal the veil of shadow between levels. Apparently this floor’s clear condition was simply to find the exit.

He forewent both the exit and the wooden loot chest to first claim his more exciting reward: another Aspect.

He shut his eyes and envisioned the constellation of Aspects, thinking for a moment that many of them seemed to glow either slightly brighter or dimmer than they had a few weeks ago. Edmund wondered if that meant he’d changed as a person.

Madness, of course, maintained its strange prismatic hue and blinding brightness, while most of the others flickered a dim gray. Edmund skipped right past the base Aspects, already knowing his optimal choice would be to combine Madness and Perseverance into their confluence. The resonance with which it shone confirmed his decision.

It wasn’t yellow. Nor was it orange, nor brown, nor anything in between.

Obsession glowed gold.

That made two Aspects that resonated with colors Edmund had never heard of. Gold he could somewhat understand. He’d probably consider himself a man obsessed, and if there were levels of resonance beyond the colors of the rainbow, copper, silver, and gold all made sense. He supposed it was possible prismatic was beyond gold, but it was equally possible it meant something else entirely.

Adding it to his list of questions for Liam, Edmund set the matter aside and locked in his choice. Just as before, the flickering golden glow solidified as Obsession joined with his soul.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab

Aspects Unlocked: 3

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 2 - Gain limited health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 2 - See beyond reality.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.

As expected, the two Aspects he’d combined had both gone up in level, though the increase in their power didn't show in their descriptions yet. As a second tier Aspect, Obsession was already more powerful than Perseverance, even without the difference in resonance.

He found his newest Aspect’s description both his most detailed and disappointingly vague. Edmund had no idea how to quantify an increase in strength or agility, nor how much he’d gain for each day that passed. At least he knew his obsession.

He was going to destroy the Eternal Depths.

A part of him wanted to stay back, live and train on this second floor for some extended period of time simply to stack up Obsession’s bonus, but that irked Edmund for two reasons. Firstly, as long as he could survive, pressing further would always progress him faster. Secondly, he had no idea where the Aspect would draw the line between actively pursuing the dungeon’s end and waiting around for Obsession. If he waited around for a day longer than he felt he truly had to, he risked losing his streak. Edmund made his mind up then and there.

He had no intention of resting until he’d accomplished his goal.

Happy with his progression, he set his sights on the loot chest. It was wooden again, like the one on the first floor rather than the silver one from the rootmother. He knew that meant his barkskin ring was more powerful than Rat’s Fang or the piece he was about to get.

He opened the chest.

The first item he spotted was a coil of rope wound from the cordlike roots that coated the walls. Edmund needed only stare at it for a few seconds to summon the ethereal text.

Strethian Lash

When swung at a target, strands of root will unravel and attempt to grasp it.

Edmund slipped the coil over his shoulder with a manic grin, already imagining a dozen uses for the lash. He’d spotted at least eight different merchants selling both magical and mundane varieties of rope back in dungeon square, but had been unable to afford any at the time. He’d make good use of this.

Beneath the coil sat what at first glance seemed to be a pile of tree bark, but once Edmund lifted it, it unfolded into a pair of pants. He imagined wearing them he’d look quite a bit like the Strethian tenders had with their unclothed torsos and bark-covered lower halves.

Strethian Barkbreeches

Provides protection against physical damage. Vulnerable to rot and fire damage.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to disrobe and don his new leg armor. He would’ve preferred something to replace his long-destroyed shirt, but torn and bloodstained as his pants had been, they wouldn’t have lasted much longer anyway. He’d take what protection he could get.

His loot equipped, his Aspect chosen, and the exit open before him, Edmund stopped to take one last look around the maze of earth and roots. He thought back on his discovery of the tender tunnels and the fight with the rootmother, resolving to be more careful in the future. If Liam was right and he did have the dungeon’s attention, he shivered at the thought of what that might mean.

With a satisfied grin, a hand resting on the coil of rope around his shoulder, and the barest hint of pride at the rewards he’d won, Edmund took a deep breath, squared his shoulders, looked ahead, and stepped into the darkness.
