If the first floor had been a cellar infested with rats, the second one was abandoned.

Edmund stepped from the darkness between levels to find himself standing in a narrow hallway, lit in the dim orange of a single torch. Instead of wooden paneling covering the walls, nought but two crossing beams supported each section between regular vertical arches. At least, they had once.

About one in five of the crossbeams had collapsed to the floor, sitting or leaning there in various states of decay. Those that managed to stay on the wall remained so not through stakes or nails, but through the web of cordlike roots that had crept through the dirt walls, capturing the rotting beams as if in a net.

The ground was the same packed earth as the floor above, although there it’d been trodden yet well-kept, while here it cracked and bulged where yet more roots pushed out from below. The place looked like it’d been abandoned decades ago, a thought that contrasted with the still-burning torch upon the wall, but Edmund supposed affordances must’ve been made for visibility. There was no way the fairness accords allowed for a second floor in pitch darkness.

The one new feature claimed Edmund’s attention first. Before taking a single step away from the exit, he reached with his spear for the wall on his left, only a few feet away. With a deep breath and a watchful eye, he prodded at the network of roots.

Nothing happened.

Not one to set his paranoia aside at a simple poke, Edmund drew his knife and carefully stepped closer. Slowly, cautiously, his jaw set and his eyes squinting against the gloom, he reached out with his dagger. It wasn’t until the very tip of his knuckle made it within precisely six inches of the roots that they struck.

Three thin whipcords burst from the web of roots, lashing themselves around Edmund’s wrist even as he tried to jerk away. He let out a gasp, instinctively pulling and twisting with his hand, but the bindings held tight.

Heart pounding, he let his spear fall to the ground, freeing up his left hand to draw the rusty sword from his belt, unwilling to bring his free hand any closer to the grasping plants than absolutely necessary. The roots let him.

Allowing his caution to slip away in the face of urgency, Edmund stepped closer to the wall of roots to bring about his blade, swinging it with all his might at the cords around his wrist. They bowed under the force of the blow, his dull sword bending the roots rather than cutting them.

Edmund cursed.

Sweat beaded on his brow as tendrils of fear began to twirl in his mind, failing to latch on and fully cultivate the seeds of panic, yet managing perfectly to accelerate his breathing and narrow his focus. He gulped.

Taking a deep, but quick, breath to force himself to calm, Edmund pulled back with his right hand, the bindings chafing against his wrist as he held them taut. With a grunt, he hacked at the roots. The blade bit, but didn’t pierce. He swung again.

It took seven awkward, left-handed swings to cleave through the three cords, sending him stumbling back when he finally cut free. He caught himself before back-stepping into range of the roots on the other wall.

Edmund exhaled, returning his sword to his belt to pull the loose roots from his wrist. Other than a red ring around the base of his hand where he’d against them, the roots had left him unharmed. No thorns had pierced his skin; no toxins had leached through. The roots hadn’t even held tight enough to cut off circulation.

Edmund recalled a passage he’d read from Laura’s pocket guide that he hoped applied to the roots.

Trap Difficulty

Traps on the first five floors must either be visually apparent or non-damaging. Traps on the first twenty floors must either be visible or non-lethal. Traps on the first fifty floors must be detectable.

Considering how well the roots blended into the environment, Edmund concluded they didn’t qualify as visually apparent, and thus weren’t allowed to deal damage themselves. Of course, getting a wrist or ankle caught up in these roots could prove plenty lethal in the middle of a fight, but at least on their own the roots were probably harmless.

Of course, ‘apparent’ or otherwise, the roots were visible, and on later floors such things could certainly prove deadly.

Resolving to keep away from the walls as much as he could, Edmund put away his knife and cast his eyes downward to collect the spear he’d dropped. He found only empty floor.

His spear was gone.

“Thrax damnit,” he swore, realizing his mistake. The spear was neither gear he’d brought nor loot awarded to him, but a part of a trap, a piece of the dungeon itself. The moment he’d let it go for longer than a few seconds, the Eternal Depths had reclaimed it. Edmund cursed again. He’d known this would happen, that he couldn’t keep a hold of the spear forever, that it would either break or return to the dungeon eventually. He’d just hoped to find a replacement before that happened.

Not allowing himself to wallow in his mistake, Edmund drew his sword with his right hand, reprioritizing his weapon with the greatest reach. He kept his left hand free for the time being, resting it on the pommel of his dagger, ready to draw or whip away to grab something or grip his sword with a second hand.

Prepared as he’d ever be, Edmund stepped down the hall.

“You need a bath.”

Edmund whirled, acting on instinct hard-won against the rats as he whipped his sword around. It passed clean through a smirking Liam.

“Seriously, you stink.”

Edmund scowled and took a long, thin breath in. Long accustomed to his own stench, he caught only the scent of moisture and stale air. He frowned. “And you don’t.”

Liam paused, visibly confused by the words as he furrowed his brow. “Do… do you want me to?”

Edmund grunted, pulling back his sword and returning to his exploration. Despite the lack of footsteps behind him, he knew Liam followed, mostly because the dead adventurer refused to keep his mouth shut.

“Strange floor you’ve found yourself on,” Liam spoke with a volume that spat in the face of any attempt Edmund might’ve made at stealth. “It looks like nobody’s been down here for quite some time.”

“It’s by design,” Edmund whispered. “The roots are a trap.”

“Oh, sure,” Liam said, casually dragging his hand along the roots. They ignored him. “I just think you might be the first delver to find this floor in a long while.”

Edmund stopped his careful progression down the hall. “What does that mean? And how could you know that?”

Liam shrugged. “I know lots of things.”

The words sent Edmund’s mind reeling. If his hallucination could know things he didn’t… perhaps Madness actually would prove a powerful boon. Of course, it was just as likely Liam was making shit up, a concept Edmund really didn’t want to deal with at the moment. They’d have all the time in the world for discussion once the floor was clear.

Shaking focus back into his head, Edmund continued on along the passage, until, after some hundred paces, it came to a junction. Without looking back, he asked, “Which way?”

Liam didn’t reply.

A cursory glance down each passage revealed more hallway up until a corner blocked all vision. Edmund spent a solid few minutes squinting down each path, counting the number of torches, the fallen crossbeams, how far each seemed to go before turning, every detail he could gather without stepping foot down either path.

Liam let out an exaggerated fake yawn.

Grunting once more in annoyance, Edmund turned down the rightward path. He made eighteen steps of careful progress down his chosen tunnel before the spear pierced his thigh.

He didn’t cry out. He didn’t jerk away. He didn’t flinch. What was a spear in the leg compared to claws through the gut?

Edmund reacted immediately, plunging his sword through the roots in the wall. A high-pitched screech rang out as he struck something. He pulled his sword back and struck again.

He felt more than heard the thing die as the wooden spike in his leg jerked painfully downward before falling out entirely. For eighteen tense seconds, he jerked his head back and forth, watching both ends of the hall for anything coming to investigate the screech. Nothing came.

He allowed himself to sink to the floor to take weight off his wounded leg, panting as he did. Without pulling his gaze away from his vigilant watch, he hissed at Liam. “What the hell was that?”

“All ambushes on the first ten levels must be visible and strike non-lethally before going in for the kill. All ambushes on the first fifty levels must be visible. See accord one-three-nine-oh-nine-point-two-three for further details,” Liam quoted from the pocket guide.

Edmund took deep, angry breaths as he sat there, figuring he may as well try and wring some answers from the hallucination while his leg recovered. “You said nobody’s been to this floor in some time. Why?”

“It was phased out,” Liam explained, “the design deemed too difficult. Death rate hit over fifty-eight percent at one point, when second floors are only supposed to sit around thirty-nine.”

Edmund paled. “Fifty-eight percent?”

Liam nodded. “While difficulty goes up, death rates actually need to go down the deeper the floor is. The first floor sits around fifty, and it falls by roughly ten percent each floor before eventually settling around two percent. That’s an oversimplification—it’s actually a logarithmic scale optimized for…” He shook his head. “You have no idea what I’m talking about.”

Taking the hallucination at his word for the time being, Edmund followed up. “If this floor was phased out, how did I end up here?”

Liam shrugged. “I can think of two reasons. After your stunt with the rats, either the dungeon thought you could handle more of a challenge, or it thinks you’re a problem and is actively trying to kill you.”

“It’s actively trying to kill everyone,” Edmund snapped. “It’s a dungeon.”

“Not entirely,” Liam replied. “If everyone who came in died, no-one would come in. The death rates are very optimized.”

Edmund growled, “You mentioned that.”

Liam clapped his hands a single time, holding them together just below his smiling face. “Anyway, the good news is if you do survive, there’ll probably be some real nice rewards at the end.”

“Enough chit chat,” Edmund snarled, pushing himself to his feet against the protest of his now scabbed-over leg wound. “Let’s see what we’re up against.”

With that he turned to the roots to his left, from which a short wooden spear still protruded. He bent down to peer through the gaps in the roots, finding the three-foot-tall corpse of some kind of plant creature behind them. He sighed. The thing was visible, but only by the loosest of definitions. No wonder the death rate had been so high. He could already imagine an unaware delver taking a spear to the leg and reflexively jerking away, right into the grasping roots of the opposite wall.

The good news was, if the floor’s predators were ambush-based, Edmund would be relatively safe as long as he stayed put. He’d take advantage of that to gather as much information as he could.

He stood, leveled his sword at the roots between him and his dead attacker, and started hacking.

The comparatively long reach of the weapon meant his hands never got close enough to trigger the binding roots, but its rusty edge meant each root took several swings to fully cleave. He spent the better part of three hours heaving and sweating as he labored to clear the roots, but time was one of the few resources Edmund had in excess.

When at last he’d cut enough of a gap to feel comfortable getting close, he kneeled down to examine the corpse.

A humanoid the size of a nine-year-old greeted him, with green skin and verdant leaves instead of hair. It bled yellow sap from the two stab wounds in its torso, fortunate hits from Edmund’s perspective as he noticed the layer of bark protecting it from the waist down. Its weapon, the spear that had pierced Edmund’s leg, was unfortunately scaled for its size, and thus not much longer than Edmund’s sword. It would be useless to him.

Just as he was wondering why the dungeon hadn’t yet absorbed the corpse, the ethereal floating text he’d come to associate with Madness popped into view.

Strethian Tender

These plantoid warriors dig tunnels beneath the root systems of trees they consider sacred. The roots protect them, and they protect the roots.

Edmund blinked and the text vanished, leaving him with yet more questions. The description had mentioned tunnels, yet the tender he’d killed seemed to have been lurking in a gap between the wall and the roots. He didn’t see any tunnels.

Scowling, Edmund craned his neck back to look up at Liam. The hallucination didn’t speak, but the slight upturn of his lip and the glimmer in his eye was all Edmund needed. The dungeon hadn’t reclaimed the body for a reason.

Edmund grabbed the corpse by the ankle and tugged it away from the wall. It left a trail of sticky sap on the floor, but Edmund didn’t care. His eyes were fixed on the place it had hidden.

A tunnel, less than three feet in diameter, revealed itself.

“Well,” Liam said, “I guess now we know how they get around. I’m not sure that’ll help us spot future ambushes, but more info is always—what are you doing?”

His sword belted and his dagger drawn, Edmund answered with his head and shoulders already in the tunnel. “Exploring.”

Liam blinked, muttering just loud enough for Edmund to hear, “Madness, huh? You paragons are a special lot.”

“What was that?”

“You really are mad,” Liam clarified. “Who in their right mind crawls into a tunnel barely big enough to move in, let alone fight, when they know it’s teeming with monsters that can fight inside?”

Edmund grunted. “They’re waiting in the walls to ambush me. If I can come at them from behind, they can’t do that.” He didn’t bother explaining further before lying prone and wriggling into the passage. Soft blue light illuminated the tunnel just enough that Edmund could make out the few feet in front of him, its source a mystery to the delver. No torches burned here.

His lean and wiry form just barely squeezed through the tightest sections, his shoulders rubbing against the walls on both sides. The earth was damp around him, moisture from the soil mingling with the blood and sweat on his skin and seeping into what remained of his clothing. He pulled himself forward through the claustrophobic space with his elbows, Rat’s Fang clasped tightly in a reverse grip with his right hand.

