Should another Strethian tender appear, he would be ready to bat its spear away with his left arm before going in for the kill with his right. It wasn’t a good plan, but in Edmund’s experience, good plans fell apart just as quickly as bad plans.

Liam didn’t follow him into the tunnel, the hallucination apparently above crawling through the dirt. Edmund welcomed the lack of distractions.

Loose bits of stone and dead root mixed in with the soil tore at Edmund’s elbows as he moved, but he paid the minor cuts little heed. Now that he was in their tunnels, he couldn’t trust the tenders to simply wait in ambush. If they found him, he’d have a fight on his hand.

But they didn’t.

He found them.

Four times as pushed on through the cramped tunnel did Edmund turn at a junction that led him directly to the exposed back of a tender lying in wait for an unaware adventurer to pass through the hall in front of him. All four died with a single strike from Rat’s Fang.

The nature of the tunnel meant after each kill, Edmund had to shimmy backward until he reached the junction again and could take a different path, the space too cramped to turn around normally. Edmund readily accepted that bit of discomfort in exchange for the easy takedowns.

By the fifth monster he killed, he began to wonder just how large this second floor was. By the seventh, he began to fear he’d never find the exit crawling around in the tender tunnels. Just after his eighth kill, Edmund found something better.

The tunnel opened up into a broad, circular chamber, easily ten feet across, though short enough that Edmund couldn’t stand fully upright. He counted four additional tender-tunnels leading away from the room, but they didn’t hold his attention for long, competing as they were with the space’s dominant feature.

A web of roots stretched along the floor and ceiling alike, gathering together from all directions to join with the thing at the room’s center.

It had a humanoid face, soft and wrinkled and grandmotherly, yet green as any he’d seen on the tenders. Its eyes were closed, its expression that of peaceful slumber. The thing had no body to speak of, at least not in the way Edmund thought of bodies. Instead its face seemed to peek through a column of roots attaching it to the networks on the floor and ceiling. As Edmund drew his sword, Madness gave him a name.

Strethian Rootmother

He received no description other than the angry red color of the text and a golden crown that seemed to hover above the rootmother’s face for a few seconds before vanishing. Edmund didn’t know what that meant, but he had a guess or two.

He drew his sword.

The rootmother didn’t move.

Edmund charged.

The roots quivered beneath his feet.

He swung.

The column burst into action all at once. Four cordlike roots whipped out from four different spots to grab Edmund’s wrist mid-swing. Two more swept at his leg, leaving red scores across his left calf. The pain failed to even register through the haze of adrenaline.

With his left hand, Edmund grabbed his knife, swiping it at the roots around his wrist. He failed to cut through them, but as yellow sap beaded on the spot he’d struck, the roots recoiled as if in pain.

He pressed his advantage, stepping in even closer to swing with his sword one more. Dull as it was, it barely made a score in the column before bouncing off.

The roots struck once more, six of them striking at Edmund like whips across his bare chest. Six red lines appeared where they’d passed. The attack didn’t force him back. It didn’t knock him over or scare him off.

It did distract him long enough for the rootmother to grab his sword.

Foregoing his wrist entirely, dozens of roots swept over the blade where it’d struck the column, wrenching it from Edmund’s grasp.

Edmund jerked away, switching Rat’s Fang to his newly free right hand.

The rootmother took the offense. A score of roots lashed out from all sides of the column, striking at Edmund from every direction. He kept his arms high, keeping the cords away from his throat as they cut shallow gashes all over his body. He let them.

With his right hand he swept with his knife, catching three of the roots midair. Again he failed to cut through them, but again they recoiled.

He stepped forward.

Again the roots whipped at him, and again he warded them away from his neck at the cost of his body. Blood dripped down his brow, his back, his chest. It fell into his left eye, forcing him to shut it.

He struck with his dagger again, drawing yet more beads of sap with Rat’s Fang. The rootmother seemed to shiver with each hit.

But she wouldn’t go down that easy.

The roots swept at him again, this time carefully avoiding his blade and body alike.

Seven roots from different directions grabbed his left wrist, yanking his arm out of the way to expose his throat. Nine more wrapped around it.

Panic laid claim on Edmund’s mind as he took one last desperate gasp of air before the roots crushed his windpipe. He swung wildly with his free hand, his knife biting into roots wherever it could.

Even as they choked him out, the roots continued their barrage. A thousand whips dealt him a thousand lashes, each cutting deeper and deeper into his flesh. Still he fought. Still he raged. Still he claimed what blood he could with his dagger’s razor edge.

But it wasn’t enough.

However he writhed and kicked and cut, however many glancing blows he made with Rat’s Fang, the roots around his throat refused to budge. As his lungs screamed for air, his heart raced with adrenaline, and his body burned with the agony of a thousand lashes, consciousness began to slip away. First his struggling slowed. Then, as the weakness of his body finally overcame his will to fight, he stopped lashing out entirely.

Only then did the darkness take him.

Edmund came to to Liam’s face staring down at him with disdain.

“You’ve really done it now,” Liam said.

Edmund blinked the fog from his mind. “Done what?”

Liam sighed. “If you didn’t have the dungeon’s attention before, you definitely have it now.”

Edmund scowled. “I thought I already did. How else did I end up on a phased-out floor?”

Liam didn’t answer.

Edmund pushed himself upright, rubbing first his eyes and then sore back of his head where it’d struck the ground after he’d fallen. “What happened?”

“See for yourself,” Liam replied, stepping aside with a flourish and he gestured to rootmother behind him.

Two dozen fist-sized black spots littered the column of roots, from each of which stretched a spider-like web of jagged lines along the root network. They had just begun to crawl across the green, grandmotherly face when the rootmother had died.

Edmund blinked. “What happened to her?”

“You did.”

Perhaps it was the fuzzy state of his recently-conscious mind, or the blood loss from his vast array of wounds, but it took Liam’s glance at the curved dagger on the ground for Edmund to realize what had saved him. “The pestilence damage.”

Liam winked at him. “You might be simultaneously the luckiest and stupidest delver to ever set foot in this place.”

“What does that mean?”

“Besides being grossly under-leveled to attempt a dungeon at all?” Liam asked. “Maybe the part where you crawled into that deathtrap of a tunnel, except wait, that wasn’t even the stupidest thing you’ve done today. You managed to top that by running headlong into a fight with a rare boss that nobody’s managed to kill in the entire history of this Thrax-damned floor, only to actually fucking beat the thing.”

Edmund stared wide-eyed at the hallucination. “I’m… I’m sorry?”

“Oh, don’t be.” Liam’s mood flipped at the drop of a hat. “You’re remarkably entertaining.”

Edmund sighed, deciding he’d had enough of humoring his hallucinations as he pushed himself to his feet. He approached the dead rootmother, wondering why the dungeon hadn’t yet reclaimed it. The matte gleam of rusted metal answered his question quickly enough.

The damn thing still had his sword.

With a sigh he stooped over to collect Rat’s Fang from where it’d fallen and went to work sawing at the roots that’d stolen his sword. He found them a lot easier to cut when they weren’t actively trying to kill him. As he worked, he peppered Liam with questions.

“You said I killed a rare boss, what does that mean?”

Liam shrugged. “It means what it sounds like. A boss is a uniquely powerful enemy for a given floor. Sometimes fighting them is required to progress, sometimes it’s optional. Rare enemies are just that, rare. Usually hard to find or otherwise out of the way, generally especially dangerous, and always optional.”

“If they’re optional, why would anyone kill them?”

“Spawn killing those rats for two weeks was also optional, but that didn’t stop you.”

Edmund didn’t reply. Liam knew he’d needed that practice.

Liam let out a long breath. “Check your constellation.”

Edmund obeyed, lowering his knife and shutting his eyes to bring up his Aspects. Above the constellation of stars claimed, unclaimed, and undiscovered, floated a simple image. He recognized it immediately as the rootmother’s face. “What’s that?”

“A sigil,” Liam explained. “Unlocked for accomplishing a difficult feat. They’re rare. Incredibly rare at such an early floor. The fact you’re the first person to beat this particular boss likely means it’s especially powerful.”

As Edmund’s focus honed in on the sigil, a description popped up.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Edmund read and reread the tooltip three times before he managed to speak. “That’s incredible.”

On the face of it, the sigil bore little combat utility, but the simple advantage of being hydrated and well fed could make a world of difference. Not having to worry about scrounging for safe food or water on floors that may or may not have had it was already a greater boon than he could’ve hoped for.

“Sigils generally are,” Liam replied. “Be warned, you can only have three at a time. If you unlock a fourth, you’ll have to lose one. Permanently.”

Edmund nodded, too excited about his latest ability to care about potentially losing sigils in the future. “Do optional bosses always drop sigils?”

“No,” Liam said plainly. “Neither do all rare enemies. Rare bosses usually do, but again, not always.”

“So why do people kill optional bosses if they don’t get sigils for it?” Edmund asked as he cut through the last root in his way and yanked his sword free.

“Because,” Liam said, gesturing to the rapidly-disintegrating rootmother, “they do always get that.”

As the column of roots dissolved into the floor, a small silver chest appeared where it’d stood. Edmund made a mental note of ‘bosses equal loot’ as he kneeled down to open it, resolving never to skip an optional boss if he had the choice. As he lifted the lid to the chest, his Madness generated a description of the simple-looking polished wood ring within.

Lesser Barkskin Ring

Increases skin toughness.

He didn’t question the ethereal text before immediately slipping the ring over his middle finger. It fit perfectly.

With a few hesitant flicks to his arm, Edmund felt somewhat tougher, but certainly not enough to stop a blade. He hoped his Madness would provide more details as he upgraded it, but the skill had already granted him a wealth of information. Aside from helping him find the tender-tunnel, the enemy and item descriptions so far had proved invaluable. Even Liam, as disconcerting as it was to converse with a hallucination, had proven a veritable wellspring of important knowledge.

Madness being Madness, he did have to question the veracity of any bit of information it granted, but at least for the time being Edmund knew the ring was harmless. He recalled the passage from the pocket book on the subject.

Cursed Loot

Items in loot chests may not be cursed. Loot obtained through alternative methods cannot be cursed on the first ten floors. See accord 08159.74 for further details.

Of course, Edmund had no idea what alternative methods there might’ve been to obtain additional loot, but he figured he’d know them when he saw them. He looked away from the wooden ring on his finger to ask Liam another question, but found he stood in an empty room.

Liam was gone.

Edmund figured he’d grown tired of answering questions, though he did wonder where else exactly hallucinations had to be. Adding that to his list of questions to ask when Liam next appeared, Edmund took one last look around the rootmother’s chamber and picked a passage by which to leave.

The moment his bare chest touched the moist soil of the narrow tunnel, he felt a trickle of something flow through him. A moment later his belly felt fuller and his throat less parched. It seemed his sigil of the rootmother activated whenever his skin made contact with usable dirt. Edmund whispered a prayer of thanks for the boon.

Similarly, thanks to his barkskin ring, the bits of dead root and stone mixed in with the soil no longer scraped and cut his elbows, making the entire tunnel-crawling process altogether more comfortable.

He killed the first tender he found, slitting its throat as it lay waiting for an unwary delver to walk down the hallway in front of it. Shoving its corpse to the side, Edmund cut his way through the roots that hid the tunnel entrance—the task far easier when said roots didn’t try and grab him—and stepped out into the hall.

He stopped to stretch his neck left and right, working out the stiffness that had built up after hours spent in quarters too cramped to stand fully upright, before deciding what to do next.

With his new sigil, the roots on the walls no longer posed a threat, but Edmund had no idea if the tenders counted as intelligent or not, and he didn’t particularly like the thought of walking up to one to see if it stabbed him. He considered his two goals.

The first, of course, was to clear the floor and find the exit, two goals which required further exploration one way or another. The second was to learn as much as he could before moving on.

With the roots pacified, walking through the halls felt significantly safer. He’d open himself up to ambushes from the tenders, but if any of them took to moving about and found him crawling through their tunnels, he’d have no way to escape. At least in the halls he could move around.

