After leaving the watchtower, I was greeted by some very boring travel for the next few hours. I mean, normally boring would be kind of pleasant if there were a nice river to walk beside or some natural-world wonders to enjoy. But man, the scenery here was so dreary, and I just couldn’t shake this unnerving feeling.

I had gotten used to the red sky of this world; it actually felt completely natural to me now that the sky was red rather than blue, but now, in the middle of nowhere, I really did feel like I was in some kind of hell world.

Heh… hell world.

That’s what I had thought when I first laid my puppy eyes on the world outside my den. What had seemed so strange to me then had eventually become natural, and really beautiful in a way. The vale was beautiful… intense, but beautiful.

This place, though, I don’t think I’d adjust to it in the same way. No, the Umarii lands were definitely just plain creepy.

I spotted a figure moving far to my left and stopped to watch it. It was some kind of horned monster. It was quite large, on four legs, and seemed to be meandering around. It stopped at one point, lowered its head to the ground to sniff something, then kept walking.

Not sure what kind of snack that thing might be looking for out here. Of course, all monsters needed snacks once in a while, but there wasn’t really any vegetation, so surely that thing was more interested in finding something alive to eat.

That got me thinking, and I started paying closer attention to the ground. A Pulse Sense would have answered the theory I was working on, but soon I spotted a tiny hole, like the ones in the walls of the vale's caves.

Could there be some Dirtling-like monsters living underground around here? I don’t know what else that horned monster would be finding to eat. And if there were, then I’d bet that horned monster had some kind of earth-related magic to push those little rodents up to the surface.

I looked ahead towards the ruins, then back to the horned thing, which still had some decent distance from me, and I considered observing it for a little while. This could be vital information to learn, as I myself would have to eat something sooner or later.

I looked to the sky, sighed, and decided against it. The sun was beginning its decline, and I did not like the idea of trying to sleep completely exposed and out in the open. I therefore wanted to get to those ruins where I could surely find a little corner to tuck myself into for the night. Even if I didn’t find a proper meal tonight, that’s something I’d just have to deal with until I figured out breakfast in the morning. I had overeaten a little this morning in preparation for such a possibility.

And so, I continued trotting along, scanning the ground for those little holes, spotting a few more. Once I changed my Path back to Arcane Nightstalker, I bet I could dig them up easily with some terra claws. I sure wish I could have Pulse Sense along with my magic Path as well, because man, that would give me such a simple hunting strategy! Pulse Sense to identify what’s underground, then scoop them up with earth magic. It’d be like an all-you-can-eat buffet!

Soon, the terrain began to change in a way that wasn’t obvious from a distance. As I neared the ruins, the ground around me became rockier, some decent-sized boulders were strewn about, and I began seeing more and more evidence of other living things. I stuck my nose to the ground just to see what I might sniff out. After all, there wasn’t much else to do while I was busy just trotting along.

There were definitely more scents around here compared to the expansive nothingness I’d just trotted across. Although it was certainly not like the fresh forest scents I’d grown accustomed to. More like moldy, muskiness, and old dried droppings that rain hadn’t properly washed away…

That kind of stuff.

I snorted out. I could also smell that obvious scent of death, which around here seemed to just linger and grow worse and worse compared to a corpse left to the forest.

My stomach gurgled, wondering what kinds of nasty foods I might be subject to out here. No, that horned thing I’d seen a while ago seemed fine, so I’ll just have to find another of those! Even the rodent-digging strategy would have some viability, I’m sure.

Then, following a musky scent trail, I spotted a bigger hole, one I definitely recognized, or at least, it reminded me of something.

Back in the skylight cavern in the caves of the vale, there were those plump mouse things. What were they called again? Come to think of it, I’d never actually killed one myself. I’d scavenged a couple from the martins, but lacking Analyze back then, I didn’t actually know what they were called.

All the same, I licked my chops, remembering their soft, fatty flesh that just melted in my mouth.

But I wasn’t in the mood for digging, especially when there was a chance I might dig up a bunch of babies, so I decided to wait until I caught one outside of its hole. If I did spot one before arriving at the ruins, that would be a nice mid-journey snack. If not, maybe I’d snag one later for a midnight snack instead.

But man, as I kept going, I really didn’t see anything. Was everything that lived around here just nocturnal? I guess that would make sense. Since there wasn’t any grass or things like that for smaller creatures to thrive off of, that meant that everything that lived here must be either a predator or a scavenger. And predators, especially small predators, had better luck doing their thing at night. I would, of course, know this truth better than anyone.

But wait, what did that mean for the plump mouse things? Well, I didn’t know for sure that’s what they were, and after all, the scent wasn’t exactly the same; the scent of whatever had made those dens was a bit muskier. So yeah, probably not plump mouse things. At least not the ones I remembered.

Maybe some trash-eating variant?

I shuddered at the thought, wondering how that would affect the taste.

The terrain got rockier, and I found myself having to climb and maneuver around boulders more and more, and soon I arrived at the ruins.

I slowed as the first of the broken stone walls rose up in front of me.

From far away, I had thought this was a simple pile of ruins, but now that I was close, I could tell it had once been what seemed to be some ancient city. The stones weren’t just scattered randomly. There was a road made of dark flat stones half-buried beneath the dirt and dust that I could imagine once upon a time may have looked pristine. It wound its way between the collapsed buildings, most of them made from that same black stone as the watchtower, and now that I think of it, the same stone as the collapsed church where we had first met Fox. That made me wonder if that church belonged to the same lost civilization that had built this now clearly dead city?

I guess that would be the Umarii themselves, right? Or could it be some other people who were now gone? After all, why would the Umarii abandon this city if they were still around? I mean, it looked like it was abandoned a very long time ago. If it were not for being constructed of such dense stone, and instead made of wood or something, then I could easily believe there would be little trace at all left that this city had ever existed.

As I padded deeper in, I felt that sense of unease coming back to me. Looking back and seeing nothing but that wasteland behind me through the few collapsed buildings I’d already passed between, the green forest completely gone from my view by now, I truly felt like I had made my way deep into something I could no longer simply turn back from. Like, imagine jumping off a cliff and changing your mind halfway down. I was committed.

Looking up to the sky, I couldn’t see the sun through the buildings and it would soon be setting. There was no other shelter around I could tuck into for the night, so I would just have to find somewhere in this creepy place!

I hoped I wouldn’t run into any of those undead Nobaru had warned me about.

Oh, hell no! Dealing with a zombie invasion is one thing, but doing it in this creepy place?

I’m the one who's supposed to be the horror movie monster! Not the other way around!

I shook off my fears and kept moving. Yeah, that’s right! I’m the monster who stalked the caves of the vale and took out the Red Mask hunting party. I’m the apex predator that hunted the Empire’s forest and picked off that camp of bandits. I’m a self-respecting Hell Hound! I’m not some scared little pup!

So, with more confidence, I continued to trot into the ruined city. I kept myself in the middle of the road where nothing could suddenly snatch me from around a corner. But that’s just smart to do! It’s not because I’m scared! I’m just using strategy!After walking down a few blocks, the road led to a much more open area. It was like a giant circle, with several other streets branching off between the ruined buildings. Was this the town square?

Somehow, that made the place feel even more dead than the narrow streets behind me. I could almost imagine the ghosts of people gathered here, walking around, shopping at market stalls, chattering, arguing, living their lives.

At the very center of the square was another mound of black stone. Rising from it was what seemed to be the remains of a statue.

Most of it had collapsed. The head was gone, the entire left side had broken away, and one raised arm ended at the elbow. I couldn’t tell if it had once been reaching toward the sky, holding something, or pointing at something far away.

I prowled closer.

The statue seemed to depict a person in loose clothing, maybe a robe or a dress. Enough of the body remained to make out the curve of a lady’s waist and hips, and a carved belly button between the folds of stone cloth. Yeah, this was clearly once the statue of a woman.

But as my eyes followed the statue lower, something about it stopped seeming human.

The legs were wrong.

They were too thick at the thighs, then too sharply angled towards the knee. They didn’t have the shape of human legs at all.

And at the bottom, where her feet should have been, the stone ended in something that was clearly not human—a pair of unmistakable hooves.

Creepy!

Then, I heard a scraping sound that sent my fur standing on end.

I backed away from the statue and looked around. The scarping sound was getting louder.

My eyes darted from one roadway to another, trying to figure out where the sound was coming from. It seemed to be echoing from all around me and steadily getting louder and louder.

The shadows that cut across the town square seemed to be getting longer by the second as the sun descended lower behind them, and then I was sure I heard more than just one scraping sound.

What is that, what is that, what is that!? I thought, spinning circles, trying to figure out where it was coming from.

Then finally, I saw it.

A skeleton.

A walking skeleton!

It wandered from a street, dragging a rusty and dented blade behind it that scraped the stone roadway with each lethargic step.

Then it stopped and stared at me. Its eyes had a faint glowing light inside of them.

I stared back.

Then its jaw fell open, and it let out a high-pitched screech as its skeletal legs bounded into sudden motion and started running right at me, lifting its sword high into the air as it screamed!
