“I'd usually pay for a bunch of weeks work right away, but we've hired someone to take care of everything. She's at the Main House. You can tell her to pay you early this week.” Ren started to walk away, then turned back. “The Barracks are done as well. I just have to get an armory ordered to store all the weapons and shields.”

“That's great, sir.” Broxor said. “The tent is starting to smell.”

Ren chuckled. “It wasn't intended to be used this long.” He waved at the guard and went inside the house. Ren went to the Sending Stone for the Main House and touched it. “Hi, Ereka, it's Ren. If you're there, a guard or two might pop by tomorrow to pick up their pay for this week. I know it's early, but pay it anyways. It's 10 gold a week for the guards.”

“Yes, Ren. I'm still here. You caught me as I was about to leave.” Ereka said. “I'll pay the guards early this time, but it'll be a regular schedule from now on.”

“Of course.” Ren said. “I wouldn't have it any other way... except I already paid Wohrum and Golir for 10 weeks, and they've worked almost 2 so far... so you don't have to pay them again until then.” Ren waited for a minute, and Ereka didn't respond. “Are you still there?” Ren asked. “If you are, I may have forgotten to tell you that these Sending Stones work better than normal ones.”

“R-R-R-R-R-REN! YOU HAVE CONTINUOUS SENDING STONES!!!” Ereka shouted. Ren took his hand off the Sending Stone and leaned into the kitchen.

“Sorry about that.” He said to Nathalia, who was laughing as she helped her mother Narhilda serve the plates of food.

“I didn't tell her when I gave it to her, either.” Narhilda said, trying not to laugh herself. Ren went back to the sending stone and touched it.

“Yes, they can keep going.” Ren said. “I've used them so often that I didn't even think about telling you they were different.”

After a minute, Ereka responded. “I'm really glad I didn't find that out while someone else was here.” She said. “Otherwise this secret would be out.”

“What secret?”

“That you have these stones!” Ereka said, exasperated. “If people knew they could get them...”

“How would they get them?” Ren asked, and Ereka didn't know what to say. “Exactly. Only a select few know they even exist right now.”

“O-okay.” Ereka said. “I'll try to not use them if clients or residents are here.”

“Why?” Ren chuckled. “If they see something here that they can't get anywhere...”

“I... I see.”

“By the way, your salary is 60 gold a week.” Ren said, then corrected himself. “Sorry, I meant 10 gold a day, with a day off if you want.”

“But... but...”

“You're already earning it.” Ren smiled. “By the way, can you find out if I can buy a weapon armory for the Barracks, or if I have to build one? Tomorrow that is, not right now. Thanks.” He said. “I have your brooch done and will drop it off in the morning. Goodnight.”

“G-goodnight.” Ereka said and Ren took his hand off the Sending Stone. He went into the kitchen and sat down to eat.

“What else can we do to send the poor thing into shock?” Narhilda said, and Ren laughed.

“I'm sure something else we take as normal, will send her into fits when she finds out.” Nathalia said, and Ren reached a hand over to caress the side of her face.

“That's definitely true.” Ren said. “I know I'm amazed every time I come in here and see your smiling face.”

Narhilda made a fake gagging noise, and Ren turned to her.

“My Lady, I hope you realize that your face is nearly identical to your daughter's.”

Narhilda's mouth made that little 'o' shape.

“Ren! You finally made Ma speechless!” Nathalia said and laughed.

They ate supper together and then had pastries and cream for dessert. Ren took some food out to Princess, and when she was done, he told her he had a surprise for her. Princess looked at him with concern, and he laughed.

“I'm not going to measure you again.” Ren said and placed a pastry in her bowl. “Go ahead.”

Princess inhaled it and he didn't think she even tasted it. He shook his head.

“You know, it would taste better of you chewed it, even only a little bit.” Ren said, then built a wall with a door around Ruck's cabinet, making his own little space with the cabinet inside. He knocked and Ruck opened the cabinet. “I made you a bigger cabinet.” Ren said and showed Ruck the new door. “Do you want to keep this one, too?” Ren asked and tapped on the old cabinet.

Ruck gave a 'thumbs up' gesture, and came out of his cabinet. Ren left him there and shut the door. He turned to walk away, then tossed another pastry into the air to Princess. She caught it in her mouth and stared at Ren as she chewed it exactly once, then swallowed it. Ren laughed and waved as he left the stable. He went back inside the house and told Nathalia that he had some Adventurer's business to take care of, but it would only be an hour or so. She kissed him and went to the old bedroom, and Ren sat on the couch in the main room. He looked at the baby fire elemental on the table and smiled. There was still several squares of Spider Silk Cloth left, and it was lounging in the flames he'd left on.

“I'm glad you're happy.” He said to it, and tickled it's back. The flame's color changed slightly and he leaned back to relax.

See you in a bit, Teepo.

“Bye, Ren.”

“Logout.”

********
