There was no more power from the heart. Nothing left to keep the ravening scourglings away. Injury meant nothing to them. The ones that were alive had been slavering all this time for the magic and meat from the upper world. Arthur and Brixaby provided both.

Arthur’s mind was buzzing from the impact, and he felt like the world was strangely tilted. Brixaby was yelling something, but though Arthur could hear, he could not understand.

All he could do was keep his shield up and scrabble clumsily on Brixaby’s back. The moment he sat, the dragon surged upward.

Thanks to the earth powers their Counterfeit Siphon card picked up, the rocks and earth meant nothing.

He felt Brixaby still moving upward—a bubble of space among the clawing, whistling scourglings.

But the strain on the shield was enormous, and Arthur’s mana was down to a sliver.

“Brix . . . I can’t keep up the shield.”

Brixaby roared and once again siphoned life force from the hapless scourglings around them. Though Arthur thought he was prepared, receiving the raw power felt no better than last time.

Again, he shoved as much as he could into his mana pool, and again the shield snapped green with unbridled energy. This time, Arthur felt something inside of him burn. His scream was lost in the howl of chaos all around.

But no matter what, he kept the shield up.

The infusion of power gave them perhaps a minute of cover while Brixaby clawed his way upward. But soon the mana was running low again.

He didn’t want to get another infusion of life force. There was something wrong with it—life should not burn.

So Arthur kept quiet and held on. Looking back, he wasn’t quite sure how he did it. He kept the shield up until his store of mana completely ran dry, and the shield began to eat into his life force. Not the energy stolen from the scourglings. A vital part of himself was flowing out to power what his mana no longer could.

Brixaby roared again, this time using his Stunning Shout and blasted a path straight upward. Arthur caught a glimpse of blue sky.

It was still too far away, and the gap was filled by scourglings a moment later.

Though it was dark, Arthur felt the world darken still more around him. The bubble shield started to contract, and he knew the moment it failed, the crush of the scourglings would fall on them both. He would be torn from the dragon’s back.

So when he felt Brixaby reach back and grab him, Arthur gave his silent consent.

The next thing he knew—though he didn’t know it at all—he was in Brixaby’s Personal Space.
