He stepped through the portal, disappearing. After he left, Caprika stood up and raised her hands, each of them clasped as fists. She shouted,

"Yes! I did it. I finally got him."

Caprika looked at us, realizing what she just did. She coughed into her hand as she sat down, "Ahem, excuse me. I'd like to apologize about my indiscretion."

Althea grinned, "That must have felt amazing."

Caprika nodded, "Indeed it did. Helios has always disapproved of my choices. It's always been like a ghost that haunts me."

They chatted away, discussing their feelings and relationships. I rolled my shoulders and stood up. As I did, Althea turned to me, "Hey, what's up?"

I cracked my neck, "I'm going back to our room. I've got studying I need to get done."

Althea sighed, "Ok...Uh, have fun with that I guess."

I gripped her shoulder, "You have fun too. I'll miss you."

She grabbed my arm, "Me too."

I jumped out of the arena, wasting no time walking out. After about two minutes, I arrived back into my hotel room. Seated and in the right frame of mind, I got back to my research of the cipher. As I sunk my teeth into my work, Torix sent me a message.

Torix Worm, of Darkhill (Giess: 2:15 3/17/26) - I don't meant to pester you, but I'll be needing the locations of at least one Skyburner base relatively soon. The sooner the better in fact.

Dimension-C138 (Giess: 2:15 3/17/26) - Of course. I'll have them by tomorrow or the next day. Sorry for the hold up.

I closed out my status and got back to work. I intended on finding the Skyburner bases when it was dark out. That lowered my chances of being seen or caught. Even if I was strong right now, I didn't want to fight a dozen Skyburners all at once.

With that in mind, I stayed there, studying until the sunset off in the distance. Althea returned from the tournament, chatting away with Caprika. She got back into our room and fell asleep with me by her side. After an hour of her sleeping, I stood up from my study.

I gripped my fists and rolled my shoulders. I prepared myself for diving into silver territory. With my eyes closed, I visualized the carnage and destruction. It was a different world there, a darker one. I wasn't going out to get groceries. I headed out for a bloody war.

Ready and waiting, I opened my eyes.

It was time to rip and tear.
