“Your army. Yes…there’s a good number of them. All far to the east of here. You think you can reach them in two hours?”
If Lord Tyrion was surprised by Laken’s knowledge, he didn’t show it.
“I have the Skills to move quickly. I will reach them and return in that period of time. In truth, I had intended to arrive with all my forces to provide escort to the nobility gathered here to their lands. The Goblin presence here necessitated splitting my command.”
Laken’s brows drew together.
“I see. I’m sure the nobles will be pleased to have your escort. However, that may be a problem.”
“Indeed? How so?”
“No one is leaving Riverfarm. Not yet. Your men are free to go of course, Lord Tyrion. I doubt I could stop you. But the nobility here will submit to questioning before they leave my empire.”
The nobles, who’d gathered around Lord Tyrion in relief turned to Laken, suddenly confused. Lady Bevia raised her eyebrows.
“Emperor Laken? This is quite unexpected. What sort of questioning do you mean?”
Laken turned his head, his closed eyes seeming to ‘look’ at Lady Bevia. The effect was unsettling—one instinctively felt that he was aware of everything around him, yet his eyes told the opposite story.
“Someone ordered my [General] to assault the Goblins. Someone abducted my mage—knocked him out and then impersonated him. I will find out who. And until I do, no one in this village will leave, noble or otherwise.”
The nobility fell silent, as did the villagers around Laken. Tyrion frowned. It was another of the nobles, Lord Tourant, who coughed nervously and spoke.
“We did hear about that, ah, Your Majesty. But surely you wouldn’t implicate one of us—”
His voice delicately indicated he was referring to the nobles, who were, of course, beyond suspicion of any crimes, himself included.
“—of such a heinous deed, would you?”
This time Tyrion watched closely as Laken turned his head with unerring accuracy towards Lord Tourant. The [Lord] had met those blinded before and Laken was too precise, too…accurate in his movements. An intriguing puzzle. The [Emperor] gave Tourant a ghost of a smile.
“Of course I wouldn’t dare to question your integrity, Lord Tourant. This is a precaution, nothing more. It wouldn’t do for the perpetrator to slip away in the confusion, would it?”
“Oh, no. Of course not.”
Tourant relaxed. A hair too soon as it turned out. Laken turned to the old farmer standing next to him.
“But just in case, I feel that we should make a complete investigation. Of everyone. With magic. And when I find the criminal who started all this—Mister Prost?”
“Your Majesty?”
The man bowed precisely. Tyrion eyed him. Not a [Farmer], then? No, he had the hands and look of one. But he had the air of a trained majordomo. Another point of interest. Laken grinned, but without any humor.
“When we find the criminal, I have a mind to execute justice on the spot. So…find me an axe. It doesn’t have to be sharp.”
The people went silent as Prost nodded slowly. They looked at Laken, and then the nobility looked towards Tyrion as one. They didn’t quite ask him to intervene, but the suddenly nervous expressions on a good half of the noble’s faces said far more than words could. Lord Tyrion glanced at Laken.
“You plan to behead the criminal who sabotaged your command? What if one of the nobility were responsible? Hypothetically, of course.”
Laken turned back to Tyrion. His head tilted up. The air around him, already tense, grew a bit more intense. The atmosphere around Tyrion froze over as the two looked towards each other, though Laken never opened his eyes.
“Hypothetically? I would consider that an act of war. I might not behead who was responsible right then and there if they were…hypothetically…a noble, but I wouldn’t rule it out, either.”
Something invisible pushed in the air between the two. Tyrion didn’t draw back, although the soldiers around him were wincing and shifting uncomfortably. He slowly stroked his beard, and then, to the surprise of everyone, nodded.
“Very appropriate. Of course I will support any investigation to the fullest. If you would like me to lend you a few of my [Mages] to cast truth detection spells, I would gladly provide them.”
His reply caught Laken off guard. The [Emperor] wavered and the static feeling in the air vanished. He frowned.
“Really?”
Tyrion nodded, cool as an iceberg in the winter.
“If you have a mage of your own capable of casting the spell, I will submit to any test you wish, Emperor Laken. I have nothing to hide. The truth will out. If there is such a traitor in your kingdom, the axe is the least they deserve. And if, by some incredible chance, a peer of the realm was found to have resorted to such underhanded trickery…”
He shrugged fractionally and flicked is gaze towards the nobles of Izril, who were giving him very unhappy looks.
“I will leave it to your discretion. Although I would ask for clemency if a member of the fair sex were to be found to be guilty. Of either gender, I suppose. A more formal accusation would be more appropriate. Were you to desire it.”
“I appreciate the suggestion.”
Laken looked like he appreciated nothing of the kind. His head turned from Tyrion to Lady Bevia, suspicion once again creasing his brow. Tyrion noticed the gesture and nodded.
“Ah. I see your confusion, Your Majesty. In the interest of transparency, I did receive a number of [Messages] informing me of the Goblin presence in your lands. From Lady Bevia, among others.”
He nodded at Lady Bevia, who gave him a charming, and slightly vexed smile as everyone stared at her. Tyrion went on, undeterred.
“My war camp was also found by a desperate [Knight] in the service to Lady Bethal Walchaís who had escaped the Goblins in question. But that was the extent of my knowledge of this affair. My reasons for seeking you out were of a practical nature, Emperor. But I swear on the honor of my house that neither I nor any of my subordinates took any part in this…unpleasantness. I will swear that on any truth spell you wish, in any framing of words.”
“Huh.”
Laken paused. He tilted his head back, and then nodded. Now he seemed somewhat amused.
“It seems I have no reason to distrust your word, Lord Tyrion. I will hold you to that promise. Later. For now, I will interview those in Riverfarm. I think the answers I find will be…illuminating. Possibly messy. You said two hours from now you’ll return?”
“Indeed. Please excuse me.”
Lord Tyrion nodded to Laken. The [Emperor] stepped back and Tyrion looked pointedly at his aide.
“Reform the company and begin riding back towards Lord Pellmia. I will catch you on the road.”
The aide nodded and spurred her horse. Tyrion whistled and his warhorse trotted towards him through the crowd of people, forcing them to move aside or be knocked flat. He put one foot in the stirrups and paused.
“Ah. Lady Bevia.”
The old woman was making her way towards him, letting her nephew and guards elbow everyone else out of the way. She smiled at Tyrion, although her smile had an edge to it.
“As straight as an arrow as ever, aren’t you, Tyrion? Then again, I’ve seen arrows with more give than you. Thank you for throwing us all upon the mercy of Emperor Laken.”
Tyrion swung himself into the saddle and looked down at Bevia. His lips twitched, and he looked slightly amused.
“I spoke my mind as I saw fit. If you are innocent, you have nothing to fear, Lady Bevia.”
The old [Lady] cackled.
“Who is truly innocent? Don’t worry—it wasn’t me who made a mess of that young man’s army. I would hate to see one of the nobility go to the chopping block for that trick, though. It would make things…complicated.”
Tyrion shook his head.
“Trickery has its place. But leading thousands of innocent soldiers to their death? That is a cowardly, pathetic act.”
“Mm. That’s practically a warm hug among the Reinharts, as I’m sure you know. And half the peers of the realm wouldn’t bat an eyelash if they thought they could get away with something like that.”
“This one would. I am relieved to see you are well, Bevia. However, I have pressing business to attend to. If we might converse another time? I will return to speak with the emperor. You may find me after that.”
Bevia waved a wrinkled hand.
“Yes, yes. You go and play your war games. I’ll stay and convince my peers not to run for it. I do believe young Laken means what he says about the axe. Until we meet again. Bring me back my [Mage], would you?”
Tyrion didn’t respond. He kicked his horse in the flanks and took off, dodging past the Mossbear who ambled past him into the village. It was a mark of Tyrion’s personality that he didn’t allow himself to stare at the green bear who whuffed and sniffed at a fallen body. The [Lord] sped out of the village, moving twice as fast as someone on a horse should. It looked like he and his horse were flying rather than galloping, so fast were the legs of his horse moving. Tyrion caught up to the group of [Knights] and [Riders] within minutes of leaving the village. He slowed and they sped up to match his furious pace. They raced eastwards down the road.
“Lord Veltras! Another report from Dwarfhalls Rest!”
“Speak!”
Tyrion snapped. The [Mage] galloped next to him and shouted. She spoke in an awkward manner—taking care not to bite her tongue as the surging motion of her mount carried her up and down.
“The Goblins are in full retreat! They are moving southbound—not scattering! It appears the Goblin Lord or another leader has taken command! Several parts of the army have reported contact with undead! Lord Byres’ command is entrenched in battle with thousands of zombies, ghouls, and a number of advanced undead!”
“Send him reinforcements. Move forwards slowly. Do not break encirclement. Have the main body of the army move towards the Goblins as soon as they arrive. What of Lord Pellmia?”
“He reported engaging the Goblins, but has not sent another [Message] yet, Lord Veltras!”
“Very well.”
Tyrion turned his attention back to the road. At this furious pace it would be less than an hour before he reached Laken’s army and the Goblins fighting there. However—Tyrion glanced over his shoulder and saw that several of the riders in his company were lagging behind.
They had been riding furiously all day. Even with stamina restoring Skills, there was a limit to how far his men could move. Or rather, their horses. Lord Tyrion raised a hand.
“[Knights]! Fall back to Riverfarm! Anyone who deems their mount unfit will join them!”
The riders in heavier armor immediately slowed, and a handful of the other riders fell back as well. Tyrion checked his mount. The stallion he was riding looked as if it could ride another hundred miles with ease. He smiled and patted it along the back of the barding on its neck.
“Lord Veltras!”
His aide called out. Tyrion looked up. His gaze spotted a group on the road ahead of him. Goblins. The very same Goblins that had been attacking Riverfarm, in fact. They were desperately riding their Carn Wolves down the road and when they heard the galloping they turned and shouted in fear and alarm. Immediately they broke off, riding madly towards the woods.
“Should we pursue—?”
The aide raised her hand and her fingertips glowed with magic. Tyrion shook his head. He calmly eyed the group. Less than two thirds remained and they were almost all wounded. Tyrion’s gaze picked out two Goblins in the bunch. The small Goblin with the black crossbow, and, riding beside her, the Goblin with the scar on his face whom he’d wounded. Tyrion saw both turn. He spoke loudly.
“Ignore them.”
He rode ahead, ignoring the Goblins who found themselves falling behind Tyrion and his men. He turned his gaze back to the road ahead—and then heard another warning shout. Tyrion turned and saw the Goblin with the red scar charging at him.
Redscar’s Carn Wolf howled as he dashed forwards, catching up to Tyrion’s insane pace for a moment. The Redfang leader’s shoulder was healed, though his face was still deathly pale. He raised his sword as he rode at Tyrion, howling. The aide raised her hand, but Tyrion stopped her. He didn’t slow as Redscar drew alongside him.
The Goblin slashed at Tyrion with his enchanted blade, aiming at Tyrion’s stomach, his arms, his legs, his warhorse. His blade blurred with speed.
[Flurry Strikes]! Tyrion’s eyes narrowed. His shield rose and he blocked. The clanging of blade meeting metal became an unceasing drumbeat. Redscar snarled in disbelief as Tyrion continued to block. His arm slowed as he desperately tried to score a hit and then his Carn Wolf slowed. The large wolf gasped for breath and despite Redscar’s urging, slowed its pace more and more, pulling the Goblin out of reach of Tyrion. Redscar fell behind, shouting helplessly as Tyrion kept galloping.
“Not bad. For a Goblin.”
Tyrion lowered his shield. He glanced over his shoulder at Redscar whom the other Goblins were catching up to. His aide stared back at the Goblin with distaste.
“Was that the Chieftain, Lord Veltras?”
“Possibly. I should have asked the Emperor which Goblin it was. No matter. We have two marked.”
The little Goblin was pointing at Tyrion’s back. A fiery arrow shot towards Tyrion. The aide waved her hand and the fiery arrow vanished. They continued ahead, leaving the Goblins behind.
 
——
 
Within the hour, Tyrion reached the site of the battle unfolding between Pyrite and Wiskeria’s army. Or rather, what had been the battle. He slowed as his mount reached the site of churned mud and bodies. Tyrion glanced at the fallen, counting the Humans who’d died at a glance. Then he saw how the tide had shifted, and where ranks of Goblins had fallen, first in droves, and then in scattered groups from behind. He rode towards the first group he saw on the field, a [Lord] wearing enchanted plate and a young female [Knight] dressed in borrowed armor.
Lord Pellmia and Welca Caveis were both talking to someone standing on the ground. A [Witch] of all people, wounded lightly on her arm. She was pointing at the distant city. Tyrion glanced at it. Goblins were clustered on the walls, armed with crossbows. They were staring warily at the large force of Humans on horseback gathered just out of range. The city had multiple holes in its wall and was taking fire.
As Tyrion watched, a huge boulder soared over his head and crashed into the city. At the same time, a much smaller stone was launched back towards the Human army. It would have struck a group of riders, but one of them, another [Mage], pointed up and blocked the falling stone with a shield of magic.
“Lord Veltras!”
