Lord Pellmia exclaimed the instant he saw Tyrion. He rode towards him, smoothing his mustache importantly. Pellmia was a broader man in the shoulder and gut than Tyrion, but he still cut an impressive sight on his white stallion. Tyrion nodded to him.
“Lord Pellmia. How goes it?”
“Well! We scattered those pestilential Goblins on the first charge. It wasn’t hard to send them scurrying back to the city. It’s been cleanup ever since. Half of the army was fleeing for the hills and the rest were wounded. I’ve been rationing out healing potions among the wounded and searching for survivors since. I would have assaulted the city, but the damn Goblins have a lot of pikes and crossbows! I’ve been letting them sit while that er, trebuchet keeps pounding them. Damndest thing! Never thought I’d see a weapon like that sitting about in the middle of nowhere!”
He laughed, and then motioned towards the two women.
“Lady Caveis here has been searching for her missing companion. Sir Kerrig. Apparently he rode south. You didn’t happen to see him? And this is the [General] of the army. General Wiskeria. A, ah, [Witch].”
The bespectacled [Witch] bowed towards Lord Tyrion. He blinked at her and then shifted his attention to Welca.
“We did meet your companion in Riverfarm, Lady Caveis.”
“Sir Kerrig? Is he well? Is he unharmed?”
Welca looked worried and relieved. Tyrion nodded.
“Both. We arrived in time to prevent the Goblins from sacking the village. I encountered their ruler. Emperor Laken Godart.”
“So there is an [Emperor] in Riverfarm? Five Houses, that’s another wonder!”
Pellmia whistled. He glanced speculatively at Wiskeria and nodded to the Goblins.
“I suppose he wants these Goblins gone, does he? Give the order and we’ll charge the gates, Lord Veltras. It won’t be pretty, but once we’re past those pikes it should be a rout!”
“Lord Veltras? Lord Veltras!”
The [Witch], or rather, [General] protested loudly. She bowed hurriedly towards him as Tyrion nodded.
“Forgive me. But I keep telling Lord Pellmia that attacking the city would not be wise! He took the Goblins off-guard, but they have incredibly strong warriors! They have hundreds of Hobs and their regular Goblins use twenty-foot long pikes! Any cavalry that charges them will be impaled! Not to mention their crossbows!”
“Nonsense! We have [Knights] who can break their lines.”
Pellmia dismissed Wiskeria’s complaint with a wave. Tyrion frowned at Pellmia, but smoothed his face before the other man could notice. He spoke calmly, nodding at Wiskeria.
“I’d prefer not to take a single casualty if possible, Lord Pellmia. Driving the Goblins from the city is a priority, but I would prefer avoiding a pitched battle in the city.”
The other [Lord] sighed dramatically.
“As you say, Veltras. Still, not a bad job of it, eh? We arrived just in the nick of time! Another minute and the Goblin Chieftain would have cut a hole right through the army!”
“You say the Chieftain’s here?”
That caught Tyrion’s attention. He glanced at Lord Pellmia and gestured towards his aide.
“Fetch me an artifact enchanted with [Appraisal]. I wish to sort this out. Pellmia, I have marked two Goblins as possible candidates. Yourself?”
“One. The fat one with the enchanted battleaxe. Over there. Lady Caveis claims that he might be the Chieftain.”
“I see.”
Lord Tyrion frowned at the monocle his aide handed him. He lifted it with his gauntleted fingers and peered through it with a frown. He searched the walls of the city for the Goblin until he spotted him. A fat Hob with an enchanted battleaxe, as Pellmia had said.
“Lady Caveis, you were captive of the Goblins for a period of time. Was this the Chieftain to your knowledge?”
Welca jumped. She stared at Pyrite.
“I uh—yes. He…might be the Chieftain. I can’t be sure. They all look the same. I advised Pellmia he could be the one.”
Pellmia snorted.
“Not hard to figure out. Dangerous, that fat Hob. He was cutting down [Soldiers] like flies when we charged him. Nearly got one of my [Knights], but we drove him back!”
Tyrion squinted at the distant Hob. He frowned as he slowly read and then nodded.
“He certainly has enough [Chieftain] levels. However—ah. There they are.”
His head turned. Behind him, a group of Goblins appeared in the distance. They spotted the army of soldiers, Tyrion’s five thousand or so cavalry, and then the Goblins in the city. They rode left, making a mad dash for the safety of the walls. Tyrion saw his aide calling back the riders who rode to intercept. As the Goblins fled, Tyrion once again picked out the Goblin with the red scar and the small Goblin. This time his eyebrows rose.
“The little Goblin has nearly as many in [Chieftain] as the fat Hob. The warrior…none. Interesting. He appears to have a Goblin commander class. [Raid Leader]. A powerful combatant then, but not of interest besides that. Mark the small Goblin and the large Hob, Lord Pellmia. Circulate their descriptions.”
“A difficult task given that all Goblins look like the other. At least these two have their size to tell them apart. How tiresome. Shall we disperse the rest of the mob now, Lord Veltras? Those trebuchets are fun to watch, but the Goblins don’t seem particularly deterred by the rocks. They have a few of their own. Annoying things.”
“Indeed. Give me a moment to plan the attack, Lord Pellmia.”
“Naturally.”
The man rode backwards and Welca did likewise. Tyrion dismounted and saw the [Witch] hurry up to him. She hesitated and tried to bow awkwardly again.
“My apologies, Lord Veltras. You’re the commander of this army, correct? Thank you for coming to our aid.”
Tyrion nodded.
“It was my pleasure, General Wiskeria. How many losses did your army take?”
Wiskeria tugged the brim of her hat down.
“Many. We’d have been slaughtered completely without Lord Pellmia’s arrival. As it is, there are thousands dead. I don’t know what Laken—excuse me. Did I hear that Riverfarm was attacked? Laken—Emperor Laken, his majesty. Is he safe?”
“He is. He claims that the order to attack the Goblins did not come from him. He is investigating the matter. I will return to Riverfarm within the hour. It only remains to root out these Goblins.”
Wiskeria gaped at Tyrion in horror. When she managed to recover she stared at the city apprehensively.
“Do you mean to assault the city? As I told Lord Pellmia, that was disastrous for our army. Even your soldiers might suffer if they tried it.”
“That was my analysis as well. Tell me, are you a trained [General], Miss Wiskeria? Pellmia claims you are a [Witch].”
Wiskeria reddened.
“I’m both. I—just obtained my [General] class. I was never trained. I don’t know that I belong in the position. Certainly not after a disaster like this.”
She stared numbly around the battlefield soaked with blood. Tyrion shook his head. He paused and searched for comforting words. He found none and spoke abruptly.
“Every leader fails. This battle was poorly chosen to begin with. Learn from your errors and continue to level. That you were able to lead an army at all without formal command training is impressive. Tell me, how did you obtain your class?”
Wiskeria hesitated. She bit her lip, and then answered slowly.
“From his majesty. It was…a gift.”
She eyed Tyrion from under her pointed hat. He nodded slowly.
“A gift from an [Emperor]. May I assume the trebuchets are also his devising?”
“You might. May I assume that you are an ally of his majesty, Lord Veltras?”
“You may. And I intend to make good on my promise to him. Jericha?”
He turned his head. His aide, the Human woman and [Mage], rode forwards. She had naturally grey hair, although she was only a little younger than Tyrion herself.
“Lord Veltras? Your orders?”
“Gather the [Mages] under my command. Have them form a link and assault the city. I want the Goblins driven out. Lord Pellmia is to take a wedge of the highest-level [Knights] and any [Lords] who wish to participate and assault the gates on my signal.”
“By your order.”
Jericha rode away, calling out orders. Wiskeria watched the soldiers riding forwards and a group of around twenty [Mages] dismount.
“A link? But if they move into crossbow range—”
She glanced apprehensively at the walls. Tyrion shook his head.
“There is more than one way to unseat an enemy from a fortress, General Wiskeria. This trick would not work on a Drake city. But a Human one without enchanted walls—observe.”
He gave a few orders and stepped back as the [Mages] formed a small circle just outside of the range of the Goblins. Tyrion opened his saddlebags and offered his stallion a feed bag. His horse ate hungrily as Tyrion watched the city with one eye. Wiskeria saw the twenty mages plus Jericha link hands. She saw the mana surge around them. To her eyes they shone like a small sun, and in the air between them a glowing orb appeared. White hot fire gathered into an orb, a spell which blazed heat. The Goblins on the wall stared at the ominous spell and looked at each other. By the time the [Siege Fireball] shot from the gathered mages the Goblins were already fleeing the walls into the city.
The thump and roar of sound appeared a few seconds after the blinding flash. When Wiskeria’s vision cleared she saw the gates of the city were blown inwards and the walls around the city—already damaged—were nearly completely caved in. Lord Pellmia whooped and raced towards the city with a group of a hundred or so [Knights] and [Lords], ignoring the crossbow bolts that glanced off his enchanted armor.
“A rout. Not that the Goblins intended to keep the city in any case.”
Tyrion calmly raised two fingers and pointed. Two thousand more soldiers raced after Pellmia’s band through the breach. Wiskeria heard the sounds of fighting in the distance, but didn’t hear the roar she expected. She saw a stream of Goblins pouring from the city’s west side, fleeing Pellmia’s soldiers.
“They were planning on running the entire time?”
“They would have tried sealing the gaps in the wall otherwise. Goblins are predictable. They leave escape routes in almost every situation. The Chieftain—whichever one it is—will have decided to flee rather than fight. But they will put up a token resistance. Perhaps even—ah. Here it comes.”
Another group raced out of the city. Goblins, mounted on Carn Wolves. Goblin elites, although the word made Tyrion’s lips twist. He calmly mounted his stallion as Wiskeria stared apprehensively at the group of Goblins. They were charging at Tyrion by the hundreds.
“They’re attacking you, Lord Tyrion! Should we retreat?”
She looked around wildly for Tyrion’s escort, but there was no one close by. Tyrion shook his head. He drew his sword and kicked his stallion forwards.
“No. This band is trying to buy time. They will disperse once their leader falls.”
He stared at Redscar. The Goblin was locked onto him, howling with fury. Tyrion kicked his stallion forwards. He rode at the Redfang Warriors. Alone. His horse accelerated as Wiskeria shouted something after him. Tyrion didn’t listen. He surged in his saddle, his sword bared, his shield raised. No lance for him this time. His gaze narrowed and he saw Redscar draw ahead of the pack. Tyrion’s voice was meant for him and him alone.
“The truth about Goblins is that they’re predictable. They do the same things. Over and over. The truth about Goblins is that they are a tool. Manipulable. And ultimately—”
He lifted his shield. An arrow glanced off the metal. Tyrion swung and one of the Redfang Warriors fell from his saddle, his side slashed open. The [Lord] slashed again and a Carn Wolf fell, the Goblin warrior riding it howling in grief and fear. Redscar screamed and slashed at Tyrion’s unguarded head. The [Lord] sighed.
“—expendable.”
He cut through the air in an arc. Redscar’s blade slashed across Tyrion’s shield. Tyrion’s blade caught the Goblin and spun him in his saddle. The Goblin fell onto his Carn Wolf’s front. He’d dodged the blade—for the second time, which was impressive. But his entire side was laid open, and at least four of his ribs were cut open. He gasped as his Carn Wolf tried to turn. Tyrion turned his horse, cutting down Redfang Warriors who tried to block him. He bore down on Redscar. The Goblin lifted the blade. Tyrion raised his. He brought it down and the little Goblin riding towards him pulled the trigger. Her crossbow twanged and Tyrion’s shield snapped up.
The crossbow bolt slammed into Tyrion’s shield. He turned his head. Rags flicked fire into Tyrion’s warhorse’s face, making it rear. The [Lord] saw the little Goblin push her Carn Wolf in front of Redscar as a huge Hob caught the fainting Goblin. Pyrite turned and ran with Redscar, letting a Goblin child clinging to the back of his head frantically pour a healing potion over Redscar’s chest. Rags remained. She faced down Tyrion, barking orders as the Redfang Warriors surged around her, pulling back in confusion.
The little Goblin had a shortsword in hand. Not an enchanted blade. And the fire magic she called into her other palm was barely more than Tier 2. Tyrion’s longsword gleamed with ancient magic that had infused it for thousands of years. His armor, shield, and weapon were all heirlooms of the Veltras family. He was a foremost [Lord] of Izril with decades of combat behind him. But the little Goblin faced him without fear.
She had a spark in her eyes. A glimmer of comprehension, of understanding. Tyrion felt a jolt of surprise. She knew. Rags raised her sword and struck at Tyrion’s side with a quick slash. Compared to Redscar’s strikes her blade was slow, but it still cut with deadly force. Tyrion blocked the blade with his sword.
Rags shot fire at his face. The [Lord] adjusted his shield and blocked the stream of fire. Undeterred, Rags shifted her aim and tried to blast his warhorse in the eyes with flame. Tyrion turned his horse sideways. The flames glanced harmlessly over the warhorse’s barding and Tyrion’s armored leggings. Rags growled and threw a [Firefly] spell at Tyrion’s face. He cut the spell in half. She slashed across his side. He blocked the blade again.
The two stared at each other. Tyrion’s sword was light and balanced in his hand. He made no move towards Rags. She stared at him with helpless anger. With frustration. He looked at her. And smiled.
It was a cold smile, a quirking of the lips. Tyrion’s eyes never changed throughout. He stared at Rags, without pity or hatred. As if she were dust. He waited. Rags turned her head, saw the fleeing Redfang Warriors and the rest of her tribe running. She looked back at Tyrion, hesitated. He kept smiling. Then he spoke.
“You have an hour to run. Run quick, Goblin Chieftain.”
