“They called me Greybeard here. Greybeard, the old, useless Goblin. Good name, though. Every Goblin needs a name. But decades ago they called me another name. Greydath of Blades. A worthy name for a Goblin. A better name than yours.”
Greydath lifted his greatsword. Garen tensed. His mind raced as he watched the old Goblin approach. He walked casually, but Garen’s instincts screamed at him not to make the first move. He felt like the old Goblin could block him from every angle. And he had the reach on him. Garen retreated. He was trying to think. That face! And that name! Where had he—
His eyes widened. Greydath? But he was d—
The first thrust of the greatsword came at Garen’s chest faster than an arrow. It nearly skewered Garen and only a desperate parry threw the tip of Greydath’s greatsword off target. The second thrust made Garen dodge back and he blocked the third with the flat of his blade. His arms shook and Garen nearly gaped. Greydath was fast and strong. The other Hob gave him no time to breathe, though. He thrust the greatsword twice more, slashing with the tip at Garen’s right arm and then his leg and then he brought the sword up and down in an overhand slash.
Garen didn’t try to block that one. He threw himself out of the way and saw the sword split the packed earth floor like it was butter. Garen charged with a roar, but Greydath pulled back his sword and blocked all six of Garen’s cuts.
[Frenzy Cuts]! Garen howled as he rained strikes down on Greydath, hitting harder each time. The old Goblin grunted as he blocked each sword cut, and then blinked. Garen’s red blade was glowing—
On the sword’s sixth and final blow, Garen activated the magic in it. His crimson blade glowed and the magic within turned the blade transparent. His sword passed through Greydath’s greatsword, seeking his right shoulder. Greydath blinked—and leaned back.
The sword missed. Garen overbalanced and nearly stumbled. He jumped back, raising the transparent blade. Greydath blinked at it and touched his greatsword. It was unharmed—the power of Garen’s infamous Redfang blade was to pass through unenchanted armor and anything that wasn’t living flesh. He had slain scores of his enemies with it. But his secret trick hadn’t worked on Greydath. The other Hob had avoided the sneak attack… with ease. Greydath lowered his greatsword as Garen breathed heavily, waiting. Then the old Hob grinned.
“Good trick! But only a trick. My turn.”
He raised his greatsword. In the corridor Greydath was at a disadvantage in that he couldn’t extend his greatsword without hitting the walls or ceiling. Or so Garen thought. But when the Hob slashed left, his sword cut through the wall and flashed at Garen’s chest impossibly quick! Garen blocked, felt his arms compress, felt the sword slam into his chest and then he felt himself flying. His feet left the ground and Garen gaped at Greydath as the force of the impact hurled him back several feet. When he landed the other Hob was already charging at him.
Left slash, overhand, thrust! Garen parried, attacked, dodged left, blocked, slashed with both hands, took a cut to his cheek, roared and punched with one hand—nearly lost the hand, blocked, fell back, slashed upwards, ducked, retreated three steps, struck and took a wound to the thigh—
He hadn’t fought this hard for years. He hadn’t been this desperate…Garen couldn’t think. All of his body and mind was thrust into fighting, keeping Greydath’s blade from touching him, fending the Hob off. He was losing! Greydath pressed him backwards down the corridor, grinning manically as Garen fought. The sounds of their blades meeting overwhelmed all other sounds. They fought like that for hours, days, or so it felt. But possibly only a few minutes had passed before Garen saw Greydath lower his sword. The Hob stopped, panting, covered in sweat. Greydath grinned at him and laughed.
“Good! Haven’t done that in years. You were a Gold-rank adventurer, weren’t you? Strong. They must have loved you and feared you. Your team. Didn’t they? Is that why you killed them?”
Garen didn’t reply. He was trying to get his breathing back. His mind raced, but all he could ask was the obvious.
“What do you want?”
Greydath bared his teeth. It was not a smile. Garen felt a cold shiver as the former Goblin Lord lifted his blade. How could he be alive? He tensed, but Greydath just rested the flat of his blade on his shoulder.
“What do I want? To see how strong Garen Redfang is. And the answer? Very strong. As strong as the coward, nearly. If you two fought and you had a bit more magic, would you win? You are stronger than the Goblin Lord. With the blade. Little else, though. You’d be a fine warrior in any tribe. You are the poorest of Chieftains.”
His words made no sense. But they annoyed Garen all the same. He growled.
“I’m not here…to fight, old one. Leave!”
“Make me.”
Garen hesitated. He couldn’t. Greydath grinned at him.
“A poor leader. A failure who can’t keep his tribe fed. Can’t keep their loyalty. But strong. Strength would be enough. But you are no Goblin. You betrayed your tribe. Your first tribe. That’s what they called you. Even the Humans know you. Team killer. Tribe killer. Not Goblin.”
The words struck Garen like arrows. He gritted his teeth, but didn’t reply. Greydath shook his head.
“Enough. A not-Goblin isn’t enough to challenge a Lord. Not at all. If you changed, maybe. But what did you do? You stuck with the coward, while the child ran away with your tribe. And the slave came and you lost your tribe again. Look around, Redfang. They desert you each time. And why? Because you are no Chieftain. Not worthy. Not a Goblin.”
For the third time he said it. If it had been anyone else, anyone in the entire world, Garen would have killed them then and there. But Greydath he couldn’t kill. So Garen stood where he was.
“What. Do. You. Want?”
“Nothing from you. Not now. I just wanted to see what would happen. The coward’s tribe is broken. The slave runs, but the Humans play games. And they brought her. Look.”
Greydath pointed. Garen risked a glance and realized that the Hob had pushed him back towards the central chamber. Elia Arcsinger was still standing above, watching the last of the Goblins fleeing the mountain. Greydath bared his teeth again. Only this time, he didn’t look amused. A flash of fury crossed his face, and then, disconcertingly, it turned into a grin.
“Good to see her. Good to remember! Good test for all of you. Especially the slave. I’d stay and greet her, but she knows me. And there’s something strange to the south. So I go. I’ll see you and the others soon.”
Garen had no idea what he meant. He watched as Greydath turned, and then the old Hob seemed to think of something. He looked around.
“But before I go…maybe a present for her, eh?”
He reached for something. He’d picked up the dead [Swordsman]’s blade when Garen hadn’t been looking. Garen moved backwards as Greydath advanced. The old Hob grinned at him. Then he stared up at Elia Arcsinger. His arm tensed and Garen braced himself. But the old Goblin wasn’t aiming at him. He turned and hurled the sword straight at Elia, hundreds of feet above like it was a spear.
The sword flew like an arrow. It shot up towards Elia, flashing in the torchlight. At first she didn’t see it. But then one of the adventurers—the other, younger half-Elf spotted the blade. She screamed one word.
“Mother!”
And the Kingslayer turned. The half-Elf’s eyes widened as she spotted the enchanted blade flying at her. Her bow rose. She loosed the arrow as the other adventurers cried out. The shining arrow met the enchanted sword in the air and Garen heard a terrible, ringing screech of sound from above.
Pieces of metal rained down, fragments of the enchanted sword blown to bits. Elia Arcsinger lowered her arm and the other adventurers stared around wildly. They pointed down and shouted.
“There! That Goblin!”
“That’s…Garen Redfang!”
Garen started. He looked around. Greydath had vanished. The adventurers above wavered. Then he heard a voice.
“Kill him!”
A [Witch] standing on a bridge high above pointed. A giant fireball flew downwards. Garen shouted and ran. He dove for the safety of the corridor and felt something hot kick him in the back. His ears rang. He scrambled further into the tunnel as more spells and arrows blasted the ground around him. Garen ran back into the tunnel. He rounded the bend, saw the three dead adventurers—and then a group of Goblins. Garen nearly cut them down until he saw the red paint on their arms and faces.
“Chieftain!”
One of Garen’s Redfang Warriors shouted in relief. The Goblin looked wide-eyed at Garen’s injured body, and then at the Gold-ranks.
“Chieftain kill adventurers? Alone?”
Garen hesitated. He looked around. Greydath was gone. Garen cursed the old Hob. What had he been doing here? Had he been testing Garen? What did he mean by the slave and the coward? The child?
Not-Goblin. He had called Garen that. Lost in thought, Garen blinked as he realized his Redfangs were staring at him. He looked at the dead adventurers.
“No. Loot bodies. Get armor—artifacts! We leave mountain! We ride!”
The Goblins hurried over to the bodies and began looting the Gold-rank adventurers. Garen bent and hurriedly peeled the leather armor off the [Swordsman], grimacing at the blood. Enchanted gear! At least that was something. He stood up and felt the back of his neck prickle. The adventurers were coming after him. More Gold-ranks. They’d find the dead adventurers, blame him for it, no doubt. He pointed and his warriors ran.
Out of the mountain. Garen found himself pushing past the last of the fleeing Goblins, ducking spells as the adventurers spotted him. He wasn’t concerned about escaping—they were far overhead and even the most dangerous spells missed him. [Mages] had bad aim. No, he was worried. About what Greydath had said. About the attack.
Something was wrong. Garen’s crimson eyes narrowed as he stared back up at the adventurers. They were being far too passive, even raining spells down on his position as they were. They could have been throwing [Fireball] spells this entire time, killed thousands of Reiss’ and Tremborag’s forces. But they hadn’t. Why hadn’t Elia Arcsinger moved? Was her only target the Goblin Lord? If so—
He didn’t like it one bit. Garen ran, whistling for his Carn Wolf and praying it would hear him amidst the chaos. He had to find his Redfangs, rally enough Goblin warriors. This wasn’t over. Not yet! Garen cursed the Humans with every step. He hated losing. And he hated traps. All of this felt like one big trap. Inside of another trap.
 
——
 
The Goblin Lord fled the mountain. But to the south and west, another [Lord] stood on the ground, perfectly at ease. He had not fled anywhere. Indeed, Lord Tyrion Veltras looked perfectly at ease as he stood in Riverfarm. His [Knights] and mounted [Soldiers] were pursuing the last of Rags’ Redfang warriors as the relieved folk of Riverfarm watched. Tyrion seemed content to watch. He was speaking to a [Mage] on horseback, and only when another [Message] was relayed did his brow crease.
“How many casualties? Four?”
The [Mage] nodded.
“Yes, Lord Veltras. Apparently, two of the hunter teams encountered trouble while attempting to locate the Great Chieftain. They were ambushed and one team was completely killed. The giant Hob—er, Tremborag—killed one, and it is believed another Hobgoblin slew the other three.”
“One Hob?”
“Yes, Lord Veltras. Garen Redfang. He was identified by adventurers on the scene.”
Lord Tyrion frowned.
“Have a report readied. I will view it when I return to the main camp. For now—”
He glanced at his soldiers. They were pursuing the Goblins. The Redfangs mounted on the Carn Wolves were fleeing east as fast as they could. Tyrion eyed a pair of Goblins clinging to their mounts. Rags was trying to hold up Redscar, who was nearly falling out of his saddle. The [Lord] raised a hand.
“Pull the soldiers back. Let the Goblins run.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras.”
One of the soldiers raised a horn and blew twice sharply. The riders turned and immediately halted their pursuit of the Goblins.
“What are you doing?”
Tyrion looked around. Laken Godart turned from talking with an older man who looked like a farmer and another [Lady]. Though his back had been turned, and though his eyes were still closed, he strode instantly towards the returning soldiers.
“Follow them! That Chieftain cannot be allowed to leave! Don’t let the Goblins escape!”
His voice snapped through the air and took hold of the soldiers. They turned back again and half of the villagers started forwards at a run. Even some of the nobles moved. Tyrion did not. His brows snapped together. He raised his voice and shouted with a battle commander’s voice.
“Hold!”
His soldiers paused again. They started and looked back shamefaced. Tyrion raised a fist and his soldiers rode back towards him. The villagers had likewise paused. Tyrion Veltras strode towards Laken.
“Your Majesty, I will thank you to not command my men.”
“The Goblins are escaping. The Chieftain of the tribe that attacked my people is running!”
“Really?”
Tyrion’s eyebrows rose. He glanced back at the fleeing Goblins and shook his head slightly.
“Do not worry, Your Majesty. I will pursue the Goblins shortly. My men and I are capable of catching the Goblins no matter how quickly they flee.”
“Why not catch them now?”
“I do not deem it necessary.”
“Really.”
Laken folded his arms. Tyrion frowned and stroked his beard. He glanced at his aide and attempted to moderate his tone. For Tyrion, that meant there was a bit less of a snap to his cold voice.
“Emperor Laken. If you wish to pursue the Goblins, by all means send whatever forces you possess. But I have given you my assurance that I will safeguard your lands and your people. However, I must coordinate with my main forces which are currently besieging another force of Goblins.”
“All of this has to do with leaving the Goblins here alone how?”
Tyrion did not quite look around, but his glance to the left pinpointed a woman standing in the crowd. Sacra, dressed in her maid outfit, stood out in the crowd of Riverfarm’s villagers.
“A discussion for a more private setting, Emperor Laken. I look forward to it. Give me two hours time to reconnect with my soldiers to the east. I will handle the Chieftain at that time as well.”
Laken Godart frowned, but Tyrion had given him very little to object to. He hadn’t the soldiers to follow the Goblins, as both men knew. He scratched at his hair with one finger.
