For Monk Eyebrows to thank Hideo for the opportunity to teach him warmed his heart in ways he never expected. This was what a Mentor was supposed to be like, helpful and nurturing rather than haughty and hurtful like Juichi, or absent like Hiroshi. Saving all these feelings to parse through later, Hideo choked back his tears and silently nodded back, unable to speak for fear of being overwhelmed. It was a curious feeling, a mixture of friendship, camaraderie, and almost paternal affection, so by all rights, he should indulge and experience it, but he couldn’t bring himself to do it because… well, he wasn’t sure why. There was simply a sense of foreboding lurking behind all these warm, happy sensations, and a voice warning him to turn away and never look back.

So he did, because he feared what further introspection might expose, and he did not wish to risk the happiness he had now.

Pushing aside all his disquieting thoughts, Hideo thought on the message Monk Eyebrows was trying to convey. It was merely a different way of saying ‘each Warrior must forge their own path’, except it applied to everyone rather than just Martial Warriors and actually explained why, rather than hand-waving the reasoning aside by saying, “Such is the way of the Martial Dao”, as Juichi was so fond of doing. The Dao was different for everyone, because they all perceived it differently. It was as simple as that. “This is why you’re always going on tangents about other possible theories,” Hideo exclaimed, having picked up on this just now. “To tell me there are other possibilities so as not to colour my perception.”

Chortling as he waggled his bushy namesake, Monk Eyebrows replied, “Of course. One must always be open to other possibilities, Junior Brother, because what is True for one may not be True for another, and it is up to you to discover your own personal Truth. That is why we are Cultivators, because we pursue the Truth, and through this, seek to understand all Daos under Heaven and ascend to Divinity.”

“All Daos under Heaven.” This was the first time Hideo had ever heard it framed in this manner. Essentially, Monk Eyebrows was saying that in order to progress along the Path to Divinity, one must study all Daos under Heaven, or quite simply, the Dao as a whole. This explained why the Brotherhood trained in so many different subjects, not just the Martial Dao which they put to good use by Healing, but also the Dao of Art, Poetry, Calligraphy, Music, Cooking, Woodworking, Astronomy, and so much more. There were only some thirty monks who’d seceded from the Brotherhood alongside Monk Eyebrows, but collectively, they’d mastered almost every craft and pursuit under Heaven, or at least were making an effort to. Eyes widening at the sheer scope of their ambitions, Hideo asked, “How is it even possible for one man to understand all Daos under Heaven?”

“Even an entire lifetime of study is not enough.” His smile melting away, Monk Eyebrows took on a melancholic expression. “This is why the cycle of reincarnation exists as it does, to afford our eternal souls the time required to learn and grow. Though our memories are wiped clean during each pass of the wheel, our souls, the core facet of our very existence, remain untouched and unchanged save for those changes we bring upon ourselves. This is the source of our Insights, Inspirations, Awakenings, and more, the fruits of labour from past lives returned to us anew. Through these gradual efforts, it is Heaven’s plan for us mere mortals to study the Dao in its entirety over countless lifetimes, and eventually, master them all and ascend to True Divinity and Nirvana beyond.”

It struck Hideo as odd how Monk Eyebrows explained such a grand working, the purpose of life and reincarnation itself, in so subdued a manner, and Hideo couldn’t help but ask, “Is there something wrong? You seem… disheartened.”

“Because he sees the task before him as a futile one, and mourns his wasted efforts.” Appearing at his side without warning, the aged Wisdom who led them patted Monk Eyebrows’ shoulder before taking a seat beside them. Though he moved in the careful, deliberate manner of an aged senior, Hideo knew that the Wisdom Vyakhya, or ‘Clarity of Thought’ as he was so fond of stating, was far more powerful than he appeared. On the fields of Sinuji, Hideo had trembled at the sight of six Divinities readying to do battle, and Wisdom Vyakhya had stood among them, though he looked more tired and frail now than he did before. No doubt he paid a great price in that battle to kill Guan Suo and bring two other Divinities low, but since then, the Wisdom had done little besides guide them in their daily penance. Why he chose to eschew the Brotherhood’s tradition of never sharing names, Hideo couldn’t say, but the other monks, Eyebrows included, seemed scandalized by his decision.

That said, Wisdom Vyakhya was still their leader, and Monk Eyebrows didn’t contradict his statement, leaving Hideo to wonder why. Settling into his cross-legged posture, the aged Wisdom massaged his knee with thin, knobbly fingers and studied Hideo with approving eyes. “Good, good,” the elder monk intoned, and Monk Eyebrows positively glowed at the slight praise. “My Disciple has taught you well these past months, as I knew he would, but I fear he has yet to find his passion again. No matter, we will work on this together, but before this, I must point out how he has failed to explain why we parted ways with the Brotherhood and adapt his lessons accordingly. Such is the Right View, Disciple, to approach everything with the correct mindset and adapt to changing circumstances as new Truths reveal themselves.”

“Disciple understands and acknowledges his failings.”

Favouring Monk Eyebrows with a fatherly smile, the Wisdom said, “My Disciple has revealed his past and origins, so you understand how far he has come since, yes? From tribal outlander to educated ascetic, few can claim to have made a similar journey. Despite this monk’s many efforts, my Disciple is the only outlander to take up our ways, for the sole reason that he is the only one I’ve met who wanted to change.”

“You’ve tried with other Defiled?”

Frowning, the Wisdom shook his head in stern reproach. “Defiled. Bah. You see the difficulties we face in our quest for the Truth? Even now, after all you’ve seen and done, still you believe this Imperial lie, your perspective unchanged despite the evidence before you. Defiled? No, they are merely outlanders who by and large follow a different Path, but even then, there is some overlap. Your comrade, the Chieftain Vithar, he is one such example, an outlander who retains control over his thoughts and actions even after surrendering to base emotion. In fact, this monk has observed that most Chieftains and Peak Experts are similar to Vithar, in that they exhibit more control than any of their clansmen, but it is difficult to say if this is because it is the superior Path or because their role as leaders require it. It could also be confirmation bias, in that Path of Surrender has a much steeper learning curve, where failure is punished harshly with death or Demonization, and thus there are not many who survive long enough to reach the pinnacle.”

Taking a cue from Monk Eyebrows, Hideo swallowed his pride and bowed his head. “Initiate understands and acknowledges his failings.”

“Good, good. A difficult thing to do, to admit one’s wrongs, and even more difficult to do without resentment.” Chuckling as he gestured for Hideo to raise his head, the Wisdom added, “Though it seems you still have yet to master the latter. Pride is such a fragile thing, a fascinatingly complex emotion, but in time, you will learn to put it aside, the same with all other emotions.” Waving at the castle walls standing off in the distance, the Wisdom snorted and muttered, “It’s a wonder any of us can get anything done with all this ruckus about. All this pointless posturing, made all the more redundant when our ally could simply end it all with a wave of his hand, such sin, such suffering.”

Almost as if on cue, Hideo spotted movement from the castle walls as a single catapult rocked in place and launched its payload high into the air. Reflectively flinching at the imagined sound, he double checked to be sure he was well out of range, but even this wasn’t enough to calm his nerves. Who knew if the canny slave had come up with some modification to improve his catapults, whether it be longer beams, lighter ammunition, or whatnot. As he traced the single projectile arc through the air, he noticed it tumbling through the air in an odd, uneven manner, and realized something was off, but it wasn’t until Monk Eyebrows dropped the Sound Barrier and Hideo heard the screams that he realized it was not a stone projectile after all, but a living, breathing person who’d been launched from the castle walls.

Well, not breathing for much longer, as the unfortunate bastard’s body splattered across the grassy plains, and for long seconds, the oppressive calm of shocked silence weighed heavily upon their shoulders, until a good number of Defiled tribesmen and Chosen Warriors burst into laughter.

The Defiled, Hideo could understand, but the Chosen were supposed to be better than the Defiled, those who’d seen the Truth and were destined to rise above Imperial lies and Defiled flaws. For both groups to burst into laughter at the sight of their comrade’s grisly death however, showed Hideo two things: the Defiled and the Chosen were both cut from the same cloth, and he was a fool for not seeing this sooner. As the second human projectile shot through the air, his screams magnified by whatever Chi working Gen’s Demons had set up, Hideo realized that this was Falling Rain’s intent, to show Castle JiangHu’s defenders and the Defiled prisoners that the Chosen, most of whom were enjoying this grand spectacle immensely, were no different from the Defiled. Much as he hated to admit it, whoever was pulling the slave’s strings was no less adept than the Uniter behind Gen, for this was a lesson the Imperial Warriors and prisoners sorely needed. So many prisoners had been turned to the Chosen because they seemed a more palatable alternative to the Defiled, but now it was clear to everyone present that they were both one and the same.

“Disgraceful,” the Wisdom proclaimed, utterly incensed by the scene unfolding before him. “This, from a man the Abbot ordained into the Brotherhood himself, one raised to the rank of first of Five Wisdoms sight unseen. If only our former Brothers could see this for themselves, then they too would know the Abbot for a fool.”

The Brotherhood’s split also had much to do with Falling Rain, and Hideo wondered how one man could be the source of so much discord and strife. Less than a week past, the runt almost brought the Empire to ruin with his ill-timed rebellion, and despite having his intentions and status revealed for all to know, the sheep of the Empire still kowtowed before his demands. The Empire was beyond saving now, a sick, crippled beast still struggling to survive, so the least Hideo could do was play a part in putting it out of its mercy.

Putting up a new Sound Barrier with a wave of his hand, the Wisdom gestured for Hideo to turn away from the distraction so they could resume their discussion. “Time is precious, so it must not be wasted on frivolous suffering.” Running a hand over his bald head, the Wisdom sighed and explained, “You see? This one had no choice but to part ways with the Brotherhood, for the Abbot would have inevitably brought us into this futile conflict.”

This wasn’t the first time the Wisdom made mention of the futility of this struggle, and Hideo couldn’t help but ask, “What did you mean earlier, when you said our ally could end things with a wave of his hand?”

“The Uniter has discovered… a tool of sorts, a means to end all suffering as we know it.” Taking on a wistful expression, the Wisdom’s voice dropped to a whisper. “Anathema. That is the solution to that which plagues us, the incessant cycle of needless suffering. Wipe the slate clean and begin anew, for the chains of karma bind us all too tight, with no one able to free themselves save through mastery the Dao. However, if there is no Dao, then there are no chains of karma and no barrier to Divinity, so our eternal souls would then be free to escape this meaningless cycle of suffering and ascend to Nirvana.”

