“What does the Dao mean to you?”

A simple enough question, but one Hideo struggled to answer. According to his daft old Mentor Juichi, the Martial Path was the means through which Martial Warriors utilized the Energy of the Heavens against the Enemy, but Monk Eyebrows who voiced the question was not asking about the Martial Path, but rather the Dao itself. It was a topic covered early on in every Martial Warrior’s life, but children were expected to simply accept the explanation for truth without questioning it. As far as Hideo understood it, the Dao was found in anything and everything, for it was the underlying essence which made up reality as everyone knew it, and study of the Dao would reveal the Path to Divinity, but again, this textbook answer was not what Monk Eyebrows was asking for. The gangly, thick-browed teacher was specifically asking what the Dao personally meant to Hideo, and for the life of him, he could not come up with a suitable reply.

The Dao simply was, and that was the end of that. It existed, but only as an abstract concept, not something he pondered or deliberated on. Though the Martial Path was written ‘Wu Dao (武道)’, he never paid much thought to the etymology, the same way he didn’t wonder why tea was called tea or why a house could also be called a manor, dwelling, residence, or so many other different terms. They were simply words used to describe a thing, and for Hideo, the Martial Path was merely the term he attributed to his pursuit of Martial strength, the principles of combat and Chi manipulation which he used to rise above his peers and step into the ranks of the Hwarang. Beyond that? Why did it matter?

Such was the mindset of Mitsue Hideo, the Imperial Warrior and Disciple of Mitsue Juichi, but that person no longer existed. The Hideo of today was a different being altogether, an enlightened man who’d seen past the lies spread by the Imperial Clan and embarked upon a new Path, which made this a question worth pondering. What did the Dao mean to him? “I do not know,” Hideo sheepishly answered, head hung low in embarrassment.

Were it Juichi across from him, the old fool would have sighed and made some pithy comment about how his time was valuable and Hideo’s comprehension lacking, but Monk Eyebrows merely nodded in approval. “Good, good. There is no shame in ignorance, Junior Brother, for there is so much to learn, how can any one person know everything? However, to admit ignorance and do nothing to correct it is to embrace wilful ignorance, so this monk will endeavour to help you arrive at an informed conclusion.”

This was how they spent most evenings, discussing anything and everything which came to mind in search of the Truth. Much of it tied back to theological doctrines such as the Three Desires, Four Noble Truths, Noble Eight-fold Path, and so on, but Eyebrow’s arguments were always grounded in truth and logic, with his religious musings thrown in at the end. Today, however, Monk Eyebrows surprised Hideo by beginning with the theological portion instead. “Let us first do away with the idea of the Mother and Father,” he intoned, and for the life of him, Hideo couldn’t understand why. What sort of monk began an argument by doing away with his religious figureheads? Smiling at Hideo’s surprise, Monk Eyebrows explained, “We humans are a prideful lot, so we tend to view everything through our uniquely human perspectives, but who is to say the Mother and Father were ever human? Even if they were, who is to say with certainty that they are the creators of this world? The tale is one told throughout every corner of the Empire, of how the Mother gave birth to the four Elements, Earth, Fire, Wind, and Water, and worked with these primal forces to create the world as we know it. She began with Fire in the core, Earth for the land, Wind for the air, and Water for the oceans, and from there, through the melding of all four elements, She gifted the world with life. This is the tale you were taught, correct?”

Hideo nodded, but then he was struck by a glaring discrepancy, one Monk Eyebrows no doubt was leading up to. “If the Mother created the World and gifted it with life, then how could She have been human like us? She could not have ascended from this world and created it as well, only one or the other.”

“Indeed.” Beaming as he nodded in approval, Monk Eyebrows scratched at the newly grown stubble covering his chin, and for a moment, Hideo marvelled at how young this wise monk appeared. Most of the monks who defected from the Brotherhood were aged at best, while their leader and figurehead was positively decrepit, but Monk Eyebrows could be mistaken for a man in his early thirties, young enough to be Hideo’s older brother rather than his Teacher and possible Mentor. Despite his youthful appearance, Monk Eyebrow’s eyes revealed the depths of his experience, as did the respect he commanded from his fellow brothers, so Hideo suspected his youthful looks were just that, and that the Monk was far older than he appeared. “As you say, it does not make sense for the Mother to be both Creator and ascended Divinity, for if She made the world, from where did she first ascend? There have been arguments made that the Mother Above is the Creator, and that she ascended from another plane of existence or created a new world out of nothingness, the reasons for which vary. Some say our reality exists within the Mother’s Natal Palace, and we are each but a figment of Her hallowed imagination. Others claim this world to be a prison for damned souls to redeem themselves, or even a training ground for Martial Warriors in which the end goal is to ascend to Divinity and aid the Mother in Heavenly battle against the Father’s foul minions, but for our discussion today, the origins and purpose of our world has no bearing on the subject, so let us set it aside for another time. All that matters is that there are the Heavens above, the earth below, and we are but mere mortals who seek to ascend.”

Though he nodded in agreement, Hideo tucked away everything Monk Eyebrows just mentioned so he could peruse at his leisure later, for he found it all fascinating to the extreme. Knowing or not knowing would have no impact on his Martial Strength, but Monk Eyebrows encouraged Hideo to indulge his curiosity and said he should experience everything that life had to offer, which was a strange thing for an ascetic to say. While he was only an initiate, Hideo intended to join the ranks of the Brotherhood in time, so he did his best to live by their precepts, but apparently this was not the way. He wholeheartedly believed in the Brotherhood’s teaching, and had individually concluded what Monk Eyebrows, Gen, and several others had shared with him, that the Path to Divinity was not in divesting oneself of emotion, but in understanding and experience the full breadth of the human experience without losing control of one’s self. The Razor’s edge as Gen and his mysterious Mentor called it, logic and emotion in perfect harmony and indulgence balanced by restraint, this was his new Martial Path, one he would see to completion.

Thus, when questioned as to why he would encourage Hideo to ignore the precepts and indulge his curiosity, Monk Eyebrows gave Hideo a knowing look and explained, “This monk lives the life of an ascetic for two reasons. The first reason is the fifth facet of the Noble Eight-Fold Path, Right Livelihood, which itself is an extension of the First facet, the Right View. The Right View is that our actions have consequences, so we must endeavour to do no harm. The Right Livelihood means to live a life in which no harm is brought about by our decisions, whether it be through direct actions or inadvertent consequences. Among other things, this means to abstain from eating meat, forging weapons, and partaking in any product produced by slavery or some other means of coercion, for all these can give rise to harm, whether it be the weapon used to kill or the slave beaten to work. As such, this does not apply to you, someone who has yet to take the vows of the Brotherhood and set forth on the Noble Eight-Fold Path, so you need not concern yourself with this just yet, as you must first learn to walk before you can run. Secondly, and more pertinent to your situation, this monk abstains from worldly pleasures because it falls under one of the Three Poisons, Raga, or greed and sensual attachment. However, this monk encourages you, Junior Brother, to go forth and experience the red dust of the mortal world in order to better prepare you to leave it all behind, for how can one let go of that which they have never held? How can one know the true burden of sacrifice without ever knowing what they have given up? Only then will your suffering have meaning, and drive you along the Path to Divinity.”

All of which fit perfectly with Hideo’s new Martial Path, so he set out to do as instructed, indulging his curiosity wherever he may before repenting alongside his fellow brothers every morning, chanting the Sutras as they collectively whipped and beat their own flesh while reflecting upon past experiences. Biting into a thick, juicy morsel and feeling the warm juices stream over his tongue, charging into battle with the heady rush of excitement coursing through his veins, resting in the arms of a lover and listening to her beating heart race, then slow, then still, Hideo relived these moments each and every day, until he grew numb to those experiences which once overwhelmed him beyond all measure. Some days he focused on other, darker emotions, the humiliation he suffered at the hands of Dastan Zhandos or the betrayal he felt when his father Hiroshi revealed his true strength, and during those moments, as he ruminated upon the highs and lows of his life whilst embroiled in physical suffering, Hideo found a new Balance, a superior Balance, and while he had yet to unlock any secrets of Heaven, he knew it would only be a matter of time.

If a mere upstart farm boy like Gen or a tribal slave like Falling Rain could do it, then why not Mitsue Hideo?

“Very well,” Hideo said, bringing his thoughts back to the matter at hand, what the Dao meant to him. “If we do away with the concept of the Mother, then what are we left with?”

“The Dao.” Flashing a knowing half smile, Monk Eyebrow gestured at the ground below, the sky above, and everything else in between. “The Dao is in everything, in every blade of grass and gust of wind, every mote of dust and speck of light. Think of Fire, Earth, Wind, and Water not as you know them, but rather as a representation of all the fundamental forces of the universe, all moving as dictated by the Dao to create everything beneath Heaven. The Dao is within you, within me, within all living things and without, for without the Dao, there is nothing but the Void.”

Seeing his frown, Monk Eyebrows paused his sermon and waited for Hideo to put his question into words, one which he struggled to voice. Eventually, he found what was bothering him and asked, “If the Dao is everything, then why is it so important to know what the Dao means to me, specifically? Is that not your answer?”

“It is an answer,” Monk Eyebrows replied, still wearing that same half-smile, “But it is not your answer, nor is it mine, because your interpretation of ‘everything’ is not the same as mine, the same way my Dao differs from yours. This is not a criticism, but a fact of life. Earlier, this monk said that we humans have uniquely human perspectives, but each of us in turn have our own unique experiences which further colours our personal perception. I have seen more and lived longer than you have, but I will never know what it is like to be born into the Mitsue Family, just as you will never know the childhood of a Defiled tribesman.”

Rocking back at the unexpected proclamation, Hideo almost leapt to his feet and drew his weapons, but he stilled himself at the last moment. “Apologies, Senior Brother,” he said, offering Monk Eyebrows an embarrassed seated bow. “It’s just…”

“Imperial Indoctrination?” Wearing a grin which made him look even younger, Monk Eyebrows waved aside Hideo’s apology and continued, “You expected me to look differently, I suppose? Mangled skin, protruding brow, giant fangs and such, a monstrous, twisted sort of human, or at least one physically discernible from the people of the Empire, no doubt, but alas, our peoples are more closely linked than your Emperor would ever care to admit. Yes, I was born outside the borders of the Azure Empire, and I say this without pride or disdain, but your sins pale in comparison to mine, Junior Brother. I found my way into the Empire by sheer happenstance, and once here, I raided, plundered, and pillaged my way through the Western Province until my entire tribe was hunted into extinction and I was forced to flee into the Arid Wastes to escape certain death. It was there the Wisdom found me, caught in a race to die of thirst, starvation, or exposure. He took me in, helped me master my impulses, showed me the ways of the Brotherhood, and convinced me to take up the Noble Eight-Fold Path.” Reaching over to pat Hideo’s shoulder in a warm, familiar gesture, Monk Eyebrows added, “And now, this monk hopes to do for you what the Wisdom did for me, so I thank you for offering me this opportunity.”

