With that declaration, the Wisdom fell silent, and soon after faded away in Concealment. Confused as to what he meant, Hideo looked to Monk Eyebrows for an explanation, but the youthful monk merely pursed his lips in thought. After long minutes of quiet deliberation, Monk Eyebrows sighed and said, “Mentor would not have mentioned it unless he believed you ready. We spoke of the cycle of reincarnation earlier, and of how it would take many lifetimes to master the Dao in its entirety.” Hideo nodded, though it was hardly needed as Monk Eyebrows continued, “However, this is predicated upon we mortals actively pursuing the Dao in every one of our lifetimes. Look at the Brotherhood, and how we devote our entire lives to study of the Dao, and yet even the Abbot or my esteemed Mentor cannot claim to have mastered a single facet of the Dao. All told, there are over 108,000 lesser Daos which we of the Brotherhood have identified, and if one lifetime of dedication is not enough to master one, then how many lifetimes will it take to master them all? How many millennia must pass before even a single soul is offered absolution? What’s more, who is to say every lifetime will be spent immersed in study, or worse, even as a human, much less a Martial Warrior? Animals have their own Dao, which means it too must be mastered before our souls can move on, but since time immemorial, we have only evidence of a single Animal Divinity, a True Divinity mind you, that being the recently ascended Divine Turtle. If we assume the Mother and the Father existed and were once mortal themselves, then this means only two mortals have ever succeeded, and now, perhaps a turtle is poised to follow in their footsteps, assuming she succeeds.”

There was no longer any need to explain, for Hideo understood why Monk Eyebrows was disheartened. “Two Ascensions, with a possible third in the making,” he said, furrowing his brow in thought. “The odds of success seems greatly stacked against us.”

“But now the Uniter has the means to change those odds for the better.” Leaning in close despite the Sound Barrier around them, Monk Eyebrows whispered, “My Mentor is too fixated on Anathema and wiping the slate clean that he fails to see the benefits of allowing our eternal struggle to continue. Young Gen spoke of improving the Martial Path, perfecting it even, and removing all the flaws we’ve become so deeply dependent on and making this knowledge known to all. Take, for example, how we plunder natural treasures to forge Spiritual Weapons, which creates a dichotomy in our efforts to become One with the Weapon, and in turn, One with the World. Young Gen also pointed out the fallacy in the Brotherhood’s ways, in how we seek to become One with the Heavens, yet flagellate and mutilate our bodies to suppress our natural desires. The words make sense, but the precepts still hold true, and this monk is unsure which Truth suits him best, just as Junior Brother struggles to define his Dao. Do I seek out a new Path, a superior Martial Path suited for every human under Heaven, thereby drastically increasing the odds of eventually reaching Divinity in another lifetime, or should I trust my Mentor’s judgment and follow him wherever he might lead us?” Offering an apologetic smile, Monk Eyebrows shrugged and said, “You see now why I thanked Junior Brother for this opportunity? In teaching you, this monk seeks an answer to his own doubts, for his perception can no longer be trusted. My fellow brothers envy me this opportunity, for they are unable to find willing initiates of their own with whom they can discuss the Eight-Fold Path with and reaffirm their convictions.” Gesturing at the Defiled tribesmen in the distance, Monk Eyebrows sneered at his fellow outlanders and shook his head. “As Mentor said, most lack the desire to change, haunted as they are by the sins of their past. Unlike you, they refuse to acknowledge their actions in favour of indulging every whim and instinct, until they are no better than the mindless beasts they tend to. That is the difference between us and them, Junior Brother, and you would do well to remember it.”

For some reason, this last statement seemed particularly important to Hideo, but he quickly brushed it aside to ponder on his dilemma. All this time, he believed the Brotherhood’s teachings would guide him towards the Truth, but now Monk Eyebrows was telling him that this may not be the case, for he himself had his doubts and was open to other options. Then again, this fit well with the Eight-Fold Path, as both Monk Eyebrows and Wisdom Vyakhya had only just stated. Keep an open mind and adapt to changing circumstances, for even though the Truth in its entirety was immutable, human perception was limited and ever changing.

So where to go from here? Continue blindly following the Brotherhood’s precepts, or forge his own Path? The answer was simple, or so Hideo thought, but just to be sure, he asked, “What is the purpose of the Eight-Fold Path?”

Taken aback by the question, Monk Eyebrows carefully deliberated his answer before replying. “According to the Fourth Noble Truth, the way to Nirvana lies in living one’s life according to the Eight-Fold Path.”

“Which is?”

“A higher plane of existence.”

“And why do you seek Nirvana?”

“To break free from the chains of mortality and escape the cycle of reincarnation by ascending to Divinity.”

They’d already covered all this, but now that Hideo had confirmed it, he asked one more question. “Knowing what you know now, if you were nearing the end of your life and still had yet to come close to ascension, which would you prefer? To enter the cycle of reincarnation and continue forward in a new life, or to wipe the slate clean and begin anew, free of the karma which binds you?”

Understanding dawned on Monk Eyebrows face and he fell into silent contemplation. “A clever initiate you are,” he murmured, glancing at where they last saw the Wisdom. “To think, this monk failed to consider his Mentor’s perspective.” Indeed, for as Hideo had seen with Juichi, the older one was, the more they feared death, for they had that much more to lose. “I must think on this more,” Monk Eyebrows said, offering an apologetic smile, “But for now, this monk would choose to wipe the slate clean.” His eyes took on a haunted expression as he ruminated on his past, and Hideo truly believed that the monk’s sins outstripped his own. “My earliest lessons were not in language or numbers, but on how to make use of every part of a human body. I rendered fat into an unguent to protect us from the harsh sun, smoked meat into jerky to fill our bellies, harvested bones to fashion into killing tools, and tanned flayed skin to fashion headwraps for our faces, oftentimes while my victims still drew breath. This was all before I learned to fight, and I learned so much more in years to come, but I would forget it all in a heartbeat if given the opportunity. When I came to the Empire, I thought it was paradise on earth, a land of plenty where all could prosper and thrive, but how wrong I was, for here, there is only suffering in a different form. Now, I seek Nirvana in hopes it will provide what the lands of the Empire could not, but knowing my goal has never been within reach…” Stopping to cast his gaze to the sky, Hideo saw the glint of tears streaming down Monk Eyebrow’s cheeks. “Having been a slave to my instincts stained in the blood of my sins, and having suffered through the years to keep from sinning again, I believe oblivion would be preferable to another lifetime like mine. It is cruel of the Heavens to expect so much of us, burdened as we are. Perhaps I committed some heinous sin in a past life, for which I was punished for by being born Defiled and subjected to all my trials, but if that is Heaven’s Will, then perhaps it would be better if there is no Heaven at all.”

This was also how Hideo felt, for despite reliving and suffering through the experience each and every day, he still yearned to taste Eri-Hime’s flesh once more and feel her beating heart still against his cheek. The memory haunted him yes, but it tempted him too, and he feared he would live like this for the rest of his years. So too would he be haunted by the aching disappointment and boundless love in his father’s eyes, and the knowledge that his actions led to Mitsue Hiroshi’s death. Things could have gone differently, with Hiroshi and Hideo working as father and son to prop up the Mitsue Family after Juichi’s death, but that was no longer possible, all because of a single mistake.

Falling Rain should have lived and died as a slave, but by rejecting his fate, he ruined Hideo’s in turn. The Heavens were cruel and unjust, for Hideo had done no wrong and now suffered for the sins of another, and he refused to suffer under them for any longer than necessary. “Tell me about Anathema,” he demanded, hungry for more knowledge. “What is it? How will it wipe the slate clean?”

“It is as it sounds,” Monk Eyebrows whispered, still crying silently to the sky. “A… substance, for lack of a better word, which consumes the Dao wherever it might be found, and renders that which is left behind to nothingness. It is the antithesis to Heaven, the Destroyer and Unmaker, and the Uniter holds the secret to its... creation. Why he does not use it against the Empire and render reality into nihility, this monk cannot say, only that the Uniter sees some value in prolonging this meaningless suffering.”

After pressing the weeping monk for more details, Hideo stopped to comfort Monk Eyebrows while considering what he’d just learned. Already, Hideo could think of several reasons why the Uniter wouldn’t use Anathema to defeat the Empire, the most obvious one being that he didn’t have enough yet. Anathema was inert until activated by sunlight, but quickly died out if left without enough to consume, which meant in order to utilize such a weapon effectively, it would be best to stockpile enough to end the Empire in one fell swoop. Given that the Bristleboar Divinity had a part in its creation, Hideo pieced together that it required some amount of death or suffering to create Anathema, judging by the rumours of tortured, tormented slaves left at his properties who had to be put down following Zhu Chanzhu’s defection from the Empire.

Knowing this, Hideo set forth with a new goal in mind, though on the surface, it seemed no different from the old one. He would fight alongside the Uniter and help him conquer the Empire, at which point, the Defiled and Chosen would tear themselves apart and leave almost nothing behind. If at this point, the Uniter had yet to deploy Anathema, then Hideo would steal the secret for himself and render the world to the Void, with the help of his brothers and the Wisdom.

Not solely for himself, but for the world and all souls suffering within, for it was nigh time to put an end to the endless trials and tribulations.

Striding through camp in search of Gen, Hideo found him hard at work persuading Imperial prisoners to turncoat against the Empire, but from the looks of things, he wasn’t very successful. There was a time when Gen would Orate to an entire City filled with Imperial Citizens, and by the end of his speech, the audience would turn out in droves to join the Chosen, but alas, those days were long past. Now, Gen would be considered lucky if he could convince a horse to drink, much less sway an Imperial soldier over to the side of the Enemy. According to the Wisdom Vyakhya, it took passion to Orate, genuine belief in one’s cause, but even the most passionate zealot would grow jaded with time, and it seemed Gen’s passion was fading. There was a time when Hideo considered Gen a rival, but since then, the farm-boy’s control had slipped and he was beginning to come apart at the seams. “What?” he snapped, only just noticing Hideo’s presence despite having been standing in striking distance for some time.

Not that he would have attacked, considering the twin-forms of armoured Demon’s standing at Gen’s side. “Chieftain Vithar,” Hideo stated, wondering what anyone saw in this empty shell of a man, one filled with rage, loathing, and little else. “Where was he deployed? I seek to join him on the battlefield, alongside a retinue of my own.” For Hideo would need more allies than just the fractured remnants of the Brotherhood to overthrow the Uniter, and Vithar was as good a place to start as any.

“Oh?” Appearing out of the shadows with Chosen guards flanking him, the commander of the army regarded Hideo with some curiosity, his gentle voice and kindly eyes entirely at odds with his vicious reputation. “So the wayward son of Central thinks he can command troops in my army? What do you know of tactics, boy?”

Were it anyone else, Hideo would have cursed him for a fool, but this honey-skinned man here was a Living Legend in his own right, and therefore worthy of respect. What’s more, he sensed a kindred spirit in this wise commander, an aged hero who could no longer stomach the Empire’s atrocities and struck out on his own. There was no sign of surrender in this man’s eyes, no loss of control or change in demeanour despite his new allegiance, and though Hideo had only ridden in his army for a handful of weeks, it was clear the commander was no Defiled Imperial.

