Something prickled at him. From the way Thorn's eyes narrowed, he'd noticed it too.

"For though your sun may set, the light you leave lingers; the Fifth will paint it on bone."

It was nothing malicious, but this was more than a mere funeral song. The format of it was archaic, but Cale recognized that focus on calling to a greater entity. A more modern version would group the mentions of the Fifth Intersection together, but ultimately...

"We carry you forward, your heart and will in ours; the Fifth will hide us alone."

This wasn't a song so much as it was an incantation, which meant they had just cast a spell.

It had worked, to be fair. Leo let out a gasp as he finally let go of the magic, and the spatial distortion shrank abruptly as it collapsed in on itself, but Cale's mind was more fixated on the oddity of that final verse. He said nothing about it for now, though.

Syphus reached out to catch Adam as the boy collapsed, exhausted by that simple demonstration of magic. In front of them, Dione's body was finally visible, perfectly preserved. There were dried tracks of tears on her cheeks, though Cale could only catch a glimpse of them before they—along with the rest of her—dissolved into motes of light.

"She's with Ashvali now," Adam said quietly, the words coming out choked. "I miss her so much."

"I know," Syphus said, awkwardly patting his back. "It will be okay, Adam."

Cale stepped forward. Nothing stopped him as he reached beneath the cot to pull out a dirtied, dusty sheaf of papers.

Even through the dust, the writing on that first page was clear. There was a sketch of what Cale assumed was an ice shambler, and then beneath it, circled several times in frantic handwriting, were the words: Are they what we become?

Akkau glared at Headmaster Naor, who stood across from him in a tiny nook within the Haelforge Library. They would ordinarily have opted for a much more ornate venue, but Akkau didn't care much for pomp and ceremony at the moment.

"That is not good enough," he said. "Six of my students and one of my professors is in there."

"Which is why I came to get you, is it not?" Naor folded his hands behind his back, perfectly calm and expressionless. Akkau hated that most about his counterpart. No matter how dire the circumstance, he never showed any emotion.

"You came to get me to solve your problems for you," Akkau growled out. "Which I will, but only because I will not leave my students trapped within some dungeon you did not have the sense to properly survey!"

"My faculty can hardly be blamed for a mutation," Naor said with a shrug. "It seems more likely that this was triggered by a student of yours, and that may well mean that you have cost me a valuable dungeon. If anything, you are in debt to me."

Akkau snorted. "We both know you are desperate to get your bony fingers on that mutation to study it, or you would not have brought me here to help."

"I would consider that a debt repaid, yes," Naor said idly.

"You are lucky I do not have the time to argue with you," Akkau said flatly. "A dungeon locking itself and mutating with mages still inside it is a serious matter, Naor. Has lichhood stripped you of your sense?"

"It has allowed me to realign my priorities." Naor clicked his fingers together, then stood. "Regardless, I believe we are done here. You are welcome to study and attempt to break open this dungeon as you wish. Please call me when you do; I am most curious to find what has changed."

With that, he stood up and left. Akkau stared after him for a moment, his eyes narrowed before he let out a snarl and stood as well.

Sternkessel let out a hum. "Perhaps it is the jacket, but I found myself remarkably tempted to teleport his soul anchor into orbit," the professor said.

That made Akkau snort, and he relaxed slightly. "Good thing you kept the jacket, then," he said. "We might still need you to do that. But we will examine this dungeon mutation first."
