Erick unfurled his wings over a battlefield he had seen in passing, days ago. Or maybe a year ago.

The first time he had seen it was when he was so deep underground that he was on the other side of Fenrir, standing under a true sunny sky. And then he had seen it from ten thousand other perspectives here and there.

Now, he was here, where he had seen himself, wings unfurled wide. He could probably hit 30 kilometers long if he wanted, but he was building a Present here, not shredding this land into countless smaller pieces of infinity, all separate from each other. He was merely 15 kilometers long.

As Erick stood here, knowing that he was watching himself from so many different angles, Erick kinda imagined himself as the needle pulling a thread through countless different Presents. If he had been a different sort of person, perhaps like Lionshard in Margleknot, with his brand of fateweaving magic, then maybe that would have actually been the form this unstructured Wizardry would have taken. But he wasn’t like Lionshard. Erick was just playing it by ear, moving where he needed to move to stand in step with the Pantheon and the fae in order to help the gods do what gods have always done; Decide which reality is the main one.

That decision was being done with violence right now.

The land was Greensoil, but different.

The city was Greendale, the capital, but not really Greendale at all.

This was a Nexus Point upon which most of the counterattack against Plan Surround and Consume was focused, for this was where a major twist in time had taken place, splitting this version of reality from the Godpact.

In this land, Atunir had erupted from the Glimmering Depths from the north of Greendale, Red towers spreading like wheat that had become calcified red/white tumor-spires all across the land. The castles of Greendale were rife with spikes of the stuff, all of them weirdly angled and filled with breathing holes and funnels, while all the land between those spikes was patrolled by demons. The spikes were not natural at all. They were part of a vast ritual. The demons were not Old Demons, but rather incani-based demons.

Those demons had grabbed people and then shoved them against the red/white spikes, and then the spikes had grown around them, trapping them.

The spikes were all deathsoul shrooms, taken in a weird, demonic direction, and instead of trapping just souls, they trapped the entire person and forced them to sing, amplifying their voices through the funnels in their throats. Or rather, what could be considered their throats. The person under that spike, stacked up against other people, did not look like people anymore. In addition to the body twisting, Erick suspected there was also some sort of soul mutation effect going on to make it pleasurable for the people to sing, and with each other, because instead of being some horrific sound…

It was a rather hauntingly beautiful symphony. Organized. Deep and powerful. It called people to join the song, and that is what happened to this land. The people joined the song willingly, unless they were incani, and then they became demons here on Veird.

Erick suspected that the Breach Demon responsible was one of the bigger spikes, but it was hard to tell.

The entire human capital of Greendale and every other major city of Greensoil, from Riski to Kendry to Tower Town and beyond, had become a coordinated song to a Demonic, Red Atunir. There weren’t many song spikes out in the countryside, where entire villages only numbered in the 10s, or 50s. From those places smaller song spikes rose into the sky, singing hymns to a Red Atunir.

In Greendale, the spikes were the size of skyscrapers.

Champion Yetta from Godpact Veird stood opposed to the demonic version of her childhood friend, Allan Trow, who was the Champion for Red Atunir in this version of this world.

On Godpact Veird, Allan had taken on the Curse of the Shadeling back during the Daydropper incident, because Fallopolis wasn’t about to let a Shade be murdered without having a replacement lined up, and that was their ‘tax’ for entry into Ar’Kendrithyst to begin their divine Quest. Allan had died in that fight with Planter in the Godpact world.

He had not died in this world, and it seemed he had become a demon. Perhaps he had become the Breach Demon? He certainly seemed to be in a position of power that he could be mistaken for one, and it would be just like the Shades to do such a thing to Greensoil… or at least it used to be that way.

Champion Yetta was here because Godpact Atunir was focused here, to combat the horrors of this land that most threatened to twist her into Red.

Red Champion Allan was here because this is where he had been, working his world, even after it had been taken by Nothanganathor and dropped here on Fenrir.

It had been 13 minutes since Erick and the Pantheon and the fae of Veird had called the sun/moons into full being, and then quelled the Whirlpool and crushed Fenrir’s Scheme. It had been 10 minutes since Erick and Solomon and others had restored general gravity and air containment to Fenrir, along with a host of other things necessary for life.

It had probably been 18 or so seconds since Yetta had found herself drawn here, to combat the Red Breach Demon of Atunir, in the grand gardens of the palace of Greendale.

The largest songspike of them all twisted up from the ruins of the palace. It was a skyscraper of red and white that tapered to a point. Pulsing red veins led into sound funnels that dotted the entire structure. It sort of looked like a unicorn horn, but with enough holes in it to make a trypophobia sufferer convulse from the horror of it all.

And then there were the holes at the bottom of the spire that spawned eggs that then hatched into baby demons. That would be the Fertility aspect of this Red Atunir, holding onto the shoulders of Allan like a red/gold aura.

Red Champion Allan was a demon with digitigrade legs and wings made of grappling veins. He wore nothing, and his legs and arms were red with blood, or with Malevolence. Probably both. He clung to the side of the large songspike sticking up from the palace. A second ago, Yetta had appeared and thrown a beam of golden light at him, piercing through his heart and the songspike behind him, but he was doing fine. The hole in his chest was healing.

Yetta had been surprised at herself for attacking that fast.

Allan had been too surprised at Yetta’s appearance to do anything but gape at her.

Yetta stood upon the ground, a few hundred meters from Allan. She was resplendent in golden armor, her dark skin shining with golden radiance. Shield in one hand, sword in the other, her face was a mixture of hate, surprise, homesickness, sickness, revulsion, and complete need to annihilate the horror she saw grasping onto the side of the large song spikes.

Erick saw her almost want to apologize to Allan for striking him, in some sort of shock-based impetus, but she pulled that emotion back and let all the other ones happen instead.

There was some sort of divine clash happening in the air, here in Red Atunir’s stronghold. It was important for both of them to resolve this themselves. But when necessary, Erick would step in on the side of Godpact Atunir.

Erick watched.

Yetta had been dragged here without warning at all. She had reoriented as fast as she could, and now she screamed, “ALLAN! WHAT THE FUCK!”

Her voice was a wash of gold across the land. Veins withered in the garden and fruits made of meat popped like so many blood balloons. Golden wheat spread where Yetta stood, and the mockery-garden decayed into a field of gold.

The Red Song faltered.

Allan’s voice was a mumble in the sudden silence, “But you died. Everyone di— oh.” He calmed. He realized something. He said, “Ah. Another test. Of course.” He regained composure. He said, “I do wish Atunir would tell me about these things before she sends Quests my way.” He detached from the side of the songspike and fell to the tumbled bricks of the ruin below, landing like a crash of metal, his body much stronger than it appeared to be. He broke rubble as he walked down the rubble, toward Yetta. “You even brought the Evil Dark with you, huh? I suppose there was no time to warn me, but I’m getting lots of warnings right now.” He pointed at Erick in the sky. “Is Melemizargo going to interfere?”

“That’s not the Dark, you… you.” Yetta had had some harsh words in her mind, and almost on her tongue, but then she calmed, and said, “You’re a puppet who knows nothing, and I need to put you down.”

“Ha! ‘That’s not the Dark’ she says. Yetta. I know what the Dark looks like, and I was a Shade for a while. You know what the Dark looks like, and you fought them with me. Everyone knows what the Dark looks like. And that’s the Dark.”

“You know nothing at all. That’s Erick.”

Allan laughed, not stopping his walk down to level ground at all. “That bubbling archmage? What kinda nightmare did you crawl out of!”

Yetta’s dark eyes turned to brilliant gold. Her voice doubled upon itself. “Godpact.”

Allan froze for a moment. And then he kept walking. “… Ah.” His voice turned harder. “This was the one I have been prepared for.” He doubled in size and grew an extra pair of arms. The veins in his back wrapped around his body, forming hard red armor, and then a sword in each arm. “I will end my Goddess’s nightmares and the Dark in which she drowns.”

“And I’m telling you, that’s not Melemizargo.” Yetta’s voice doubled. “I am not drowning in the Dark.”

Ah, Erick thought, as Yetta clashed with Allan, swords severing, feet and stances treating the world as a suggestion and not as actually necessary for footing. I know what is happening here.

One sword blocked four at the same time in a way that made no realistic sense at all. One slash cut through a shield and the arm holding it, but the broken shield and the arm holding it flowed back onto Yetta, and she blocked another two sword strikes and one kick at the same time.

Atunir had been stuck in that small existence for so long. During that time she had been the only one who ever almost ‘went Dark’.

People still talked about that time she almost fell; about the Fall of Quintlan a full thousand years later, as though it were current events. It appeared Atunir still harbored doubts that anything was real. She even thought that Erick might be some incarnation of Melemizargo.

Erick’s draconic form certainly didn’t help.

There had only ever been one black, winged dragon on Veird before Erick showed up and got a dragon form that also had wings, and was black. Dragon horns were rather solidly unique to every individual, too. Melemizargo had 6 horns, like a crown, and Erick had the same.

Back when Erick had first revealed his dragon form, a lot of people had directly asked him if he was Melemizargo. The conspiracy theorists of Veird had mostly calmed down since then, but they were right back at it in the last several days, now that Erick had displayed true time travel magics. ‘If he is jumping through time, he might actually be Melemizargo! We’ve never seen his humanoid form, right? It might be true!’

Erick wasn’t Melemizargo, though, anymore than he was Phagar.

Allan cut off Yetta’s head with a flashing Red sword, rending through golden armor with a horrible screech, but Yetta’s head and body went spinning away to land back together and her armor repaired.

Allan pulled back, bleeding from the massive separation of flesh that Yetta had delivered into his chest in turn for taking that neck wound. He laughed darkly, clutching his chest with one hand while his other three switched up weapons, two swords becoming two shields and his final swords simply vanishing. The veins of his armor held his wound together as his body healed under Red glows.

Yetta taunted, “You finally going to get serious, old friend?”

Allan chuckled horribly, coughing twice. “Damned Dark Regenerator. I had soul-poison on my swords but you just don’t give a fuck about that, do you. All the world is poisoned. All the world is dying. Even the Script is shit these days. Not a single damned blue box at all. How are you able to still heal that well?”

“The world isn’t poisoned at all, Allan. You’re the one that died in the real world. You’re the one drowning in evil, here in this mockery made to pit friend against friend and inflict pain upon us both.” Yetta asked, “What color is the divine light of Atunir, Allan?”

“Gold,” Allan said, with a disbelieving smirk, as though he didn’t see his own Red aura, as if he didn’t see the Red in the spires all around him, and in the blood on the ground. What did he see everywhere? Gold? Perhaps. Allan sneered, “What color is your light, Nightmare?”

“The color of wheat, ripe and ready for harvest. The color of prosperity, building upon generations and generations. The color of Gold,” Yetta said, and it was the most true thing in the universe at that moment.

Allan stared at Yetta.

And then his vision went Red as he screamed, “DIE DIE DIE!” and he began using his real strength, throwing around disks of black/red force that carved through the air like sawblades, ripping up the world around them. Allan had never been a swordsman. He had always been a Battle Mage, specializing in ‘Sawblade Magic’.

“That’s more like it, Allan,” Yetta whispered to herself.

The blades came for her, carving through her body, but her body reformed from those wounds like gelatin splashing away and then reforming from that splash. She only raised her sword to stop the worst of the blades, her sword sparking with White Benevolence, shattering the Red out of this and that sawblade, and then shattering the sawblade itself. Everywhere she stepped, wheat poured out of the ground, golden and radiant.

Allan retreated, blood pouring from his eyes, the Red flowing out. He almost stumbled on the ruins behind him, but two more legs slashed out of his digitigrade legs, allowing him to spider climb backward. He retreated up the songspike. He never stopped throwing sawblades. Left and right they flew, curving hard and in some cases boomeranging back for a followup attack.

Yetta stepped into the air, upon golden platforms that only existed where she walked, and every sawblade that touched her did less and less.

She advanced, and Allan retreated.

Red Sparks flashed in the ruins of the palace, and in the city. Several songspires broke apart into bone and flesh and flowing Red blood, mangled bodies forming demonic constructs that aimed toward the battle between Champions.

That was when Erick chose to get involved.

