Nothanganathor ignored that. “I once tried to resurrect Xoat. You think that Solomon was the first to create an un-Sundering magic? I was the first, but I followed in the footsteps of countless other cults. Every time a cult got too close to the truth they were killed by the God of Magic. That is why I was damned to never win against Melemizargo in that tournament. That is why our mother sent my brother against me. I could not be allowed to bring him back. That would have Sundered the entire universe.” He smiled wide, and it was full of Red. “I Sundered that universe without even touching that magic.”

Erick said, “You’re insane.”

“I’m furious for ten thousand reasons. Not insane.” Nothanganathor said, “I can understand how you would not be able to tell the difference.”

A moment passed.

“Anger is no reason to kill so many,” Erick said. It had taken him a moment to realize where he stood after those ‘revelations’ that felt so true, that vibrated the Dark Mark inside of his soul with a resonant Truth, shaking what had once been his foundation. Erick had arrived at a new position as fast as he could, floating black among the white. “Being wronged is no reason to bring more wrongness into any world.”

“ ‘Wrongness’? Ha! The deciders of right and wrong are those who are the strongest, as it is in every reality, in every universe.”

“Might does not make right.”

“Strength is the only foundation worth building upon at all.”

Erick was almost ready to call it there. But he tried, “You don’t have to do this. You could choose forgiveness for the wrongs they have done to you, and you would gain forgiveness in turn.”

“Do you have the strength to ensure that outcome?”

“What is this, Nothanganathor? What is this thing you are trying to achieve? Why the pain? Why the suffering?”

“When I become God of Magic of the Dark, I will right every wrong that has ever been committed against me or any other by the Dark and those who infested the Dark in the beginning. I will Erase the gibbering mind of the Dark and use the carcasses of the Dark and Fairy Moon and Gregarious to build a universe worth living in. I will make Shadow into a slave. I will be the best possible tyrant, for there is never any other way for any true ruler to be.” He said, “And you, I will have as my eternal foe, thus ensuring that I know where my eventual End will come from, and which I will always win against. The Wizards will be in charge in my universe, and the Dragons will be cast down for all eternity to live as their own kin, or perhaps lizards. I have not yet decided. But you can remain. You can retain this hated form. I will allow that much.”

Erick pulled back, black body spread wide, the light of the land coloring him white. “You cannot be allowed to become a god.”

Nothanganathor coiled, his bright white body backlit enough to make him look black. “I have already won. You should work on damage control.”

“You have won nothing yet.”

“My Curse of Obscurity broke 19 hours ago, while you were still setting up your encirclement. I became True Wizard and then Fae Ascendant before you walked into this cease fire. I am brimming with so much strength that I wonder who will win when we actually fight. Will you and your forgiveness win? Or will me and my fury win? I’m almost tempted to fight you now, just to find out.” Nothanganathor said, “But I have won everything already, and I desire fewer fae games in my life, so run home now, True Brother of mine, and see how they treat you now that you know who you really are, and who I really am.” He glared with eyes of deepest Red, “If you pursue me then we shall fight as universes do; through actions, and no more words at all.”

The white world vanished all around them—

Erick floated in front of the sun, a black dot in the sun-lit void, hovering at a Venus-distance.

Some time passed.

And then Erick connected back to the moment. The sun loomed in front of him, full-white, flickering with iridescence. It was not Benevolence white. It was simply True Prismatic.

There was no field of stars beyond. There was just the inside of Fenrir, solid as could be except for in 6 spots, equidistant around the interior surface, where moonlights the size of planets glittered among the black. The sun swirled light and power outward, and while all of it soaked into the black out there just fine, it mostly swirled into those moonlights.

Grand terraforming storms swept across the interior surface of Fenrir like great cloud banks, but at this distance they looked like gossamer spiderwebs floating on a fractal breeze.

And then there were the spots of war out there.

It was about 2 hours post-Crush of Fenrir’s defense systems, and the gods and Erick were all still busy putting Fenrir’s systems back together.

Erick cleared his mind.

He ignored everything that Nothanganathor had said.

Erick counted at least 19 major issues out there right now, from that weird patch of the Inner Fenrir, where something white was spreading in a mold-like pattern, to that other part over there, where something like a zombie-propagation event was doing… a lot. It was as though tiny grey dots were washing out from an original part of the patchwork surface. Those tiny grey dots had already expanded past at least 5 different patchworks.

Erick turned back to the white sun.

… He took another minute to just think.

- - - -

Erick held out Cascadio’s trinket to the white sun, and intoned, “Cascadio. A temporary granting of this sun is now yours, if you want it. Full granting of this sun will come from the Pantheon of Veird, depending on how this all works out. Please help us burn out the unwanted problems littering this land and help us help ourselves.”

The strong, brown-skinned avatar of Cascadio appeared before Erick, in a halo of light and gold. “I accept this honor on a temporary basis. You and your progeny Valkyries will be empowered while under any sun that I inhabit during this time, and for all always, should this cooperation work. I will begin talks with your Pantheon now.”

Erick hadn’t expected that, but… Erick smiled. “Good to hear, Cascadio.”

Cascadio grinned. “We’ll share drinks when you’ve truly wrangled this land to something closer to peace.”

Cascadio faded away—

A boom of white light flickered from the sun, spreading outward and dissipating as it got far enough from the source. Erick felt warm air fill the void, like whispers of substance that tickled his wings and body as it flowed past him. Ah? Cascadio was creating an atmosphere? That was—

A planet the size of a small nation appeared under Erick. It was good brown dirt at first, but then the dirt sprouted golden grass and golden trees, and then came a glittering, glass cathedral. It wasn’t anything overly special, but its position was special. Erick shrunk down and stood before glass perfection that acted like prisms. The iridescent white sun shone behind it, sending rainbows across the planetoid.

A kindly-looking older man in soft brown robes stepped out of the front of the cathedral. He was Brother Smalls, from Margleknot, from Cascadio’s Cavalcade. The guy had been Erick’s introduction to how Cascadio operated, before Erick had gotten to speak with Cascadio himself, on that golden hill in the center of that land of islands.

Brother Smalls bowed a little. “Fae Flatt. Welcome.”

Erick was as personable as he could be, considering the situation. “Brother Smalls! Are you okay to be here?”

“I am forever in the embrace of My God, but I’m not getting closer to the actual battlefield. I’m okay here. I appreciate your concern, though.” Brother Smalls said, “To cut an epic to a few lines of text: Cascadio is going all-in on this as much as he can. It will take years to form a proper atmosphere up here, but we wish to make it possible for people to go anywhere they want, just like in Margleknot. Further details of spatial-expansion properties to follow, if that’s okay with you—” Brother Smalls looked to the side. Then he turned back to Erick. “My God has made contact with your Pantheon here. There are issues. They can wait.”

Erick said, “I’ll be adding this place to the [Gate] Network soon enough… Eventually. Are you okay here on your own?”

Brother Smalls plucked a Vivid Gloom drink out of the air, grinning as he held the big glass of cold, glimmering blackness. “I’m happy. Good fortune taming these wilds.”

Erick nodded a fraction, and then he departed.

Somewhere between hours 4 and 6 of solving more problems on Fenrir, Erick decided that he didn’t need to confront Melemizargo or Shadow about the Xoat thing. That was probably what Nothanganathor would have wanted, and Erick wasn’t going to give him what he wanted.

- - - -

Erick appeared in the skies over the Valkyrie staging area on Veird, unfurling his wings. He was larger than the entire staging field 5 times over. Squadrons of Valkyries were ready to go, though they had been in rather lax formation until that moment, until Erick darkened the skies with his presence. Within a flashing second, people got into formation and Erick handed out small paperworks to the Mind Mages and Book Mages among the Valkyries, detailing what Erick had seen out there, giving them general instructions on where to start. They hadn’t been doing nothing, though, so they knew some of what Erick would want them for.

Shivraa stood at the head of the army, her body vibrant white and subtly violet, the air tensing around her like the freezing of a lake’s surface. She scanned the papers that Erick had deposited next to her. She already knew everything they had said.

Erick flashed down to person-sized to stand level with Shivraa, who instantly bowed.

The entire army of 60,000 people bowed.

People from House Benevolence stood to the side, listening and preparing for everything else that was to come. Burhendurur and Mox were there. Sitnakov and Killzone showed. Solomon stepped through a silver portal, along with Destiny. Ophiel peered out through a hole in the air, and Evan stepped out of a nearby building, to see, and to hear.

“My Valkyries,” Erick spoke, his voice flowing over the staging area. “It has been 6 hours and 30 minutes since the start of this theater of war. Nothanganathor has fled the battle. We will confront him on another slice of infinity another time. As for now, you are commanded to take Fenrir completely. From the smallest child lost in the woods with no way to survive on their own, to the lich holding hostage 10,000 souls or more, to the people behind grand fortifications and holding out against the onslaught, you will test them all and bring all who you can into the horde. You will especially leave no vulnerable persons untaken, for ten thousands are dying every minute out there to poisons spreading wide and soul attacks killing without anything to stop them at all. Even if someone looks safe, they are not safe at all.

“The only ones you will leave alone are those who have Personal Scripts and who are defending their parts of reality adequately. You will still test them, though, with your swords and your blackgold flame, and if those tests are failed, then so be it, but if those tests are passed, then you move on. You and those with Personal Scripts are the only ones capable of truly surviving down there, as there is no Script down there to even the playing field at all between person and person and everything else.

“Reap all who you can.

“Burn everything that seems like it needs burning. A lot of the infections down there are plant and monster-based, so there will be a lot of burning necessary. Rearrange the squads for proper firepower.

“When we are done here we move onto Nothanganathor.

“Every squad will be starting in the thick of the largest problems out there. World-sized problems. Every squad will be linked to here, but not directly; to the quarantine worlds outside of Veird. You all know what to do, or at least you will.” Erick opened 60 portals for each 1000-man group, each of which led to 60 different staging areas in 60 different worlds far above Fenrir. From there, Erick would open more portals later. The distance involved in some of those portals meant that they couldn’t be traversed instantly, but instead had a delay of minutes to half an hour. Fenrir was large, after all. Still, magic made the trip faster than physics should have allowed. When the gods fully took over the land, determining how time worked, then the trips would be instant. But for now, there were delays. “Connect to your grouping in the Script, in your Classes given to you by Rozeta, and let us [Cleanse] away the problems of Fenrir.”

The Valkyries roared, and it was the sound of war.

They raced into portals and the reaping began.

Minutes later, Erick was flitting around the Valkyrie staging area, answering questions for Valkyrie squadron representatives about what they were seeing out there.

Without warning, Kromolok appeared through a golden portal. He waited at the front of the army, while Erick answered a question about what they were dubbing Section 899, the Fungal Infection. It was one of the more dangerous areas, because what looked like a white fungus spreading far was actually ten million different fungal infections, almost all of them derived from the Deathsoul Shroom. Erick had eliminated that soul-stealing mushroom on Veird, but the multiverse was the multiverse, and some shroom variants were a lot tougher in those other worlds.

“Burn burn burn it all,” Erick said, “Even those who are only half-infected, those who live with it. Burn it all and reap every soul into the collective. No one likes living with fungus spilling out of one eye socket; they are lying to themselves, and thus also to you. They’ll get their bodies back later, anyway.”

That Valkyrie, just by hearing that information, transmitted all of that to all of their entire wargroup. The Valkyrie bowed and then stepped back. Erick glanced around the place, and saw many other questions waiting on the lips of many other Valkyries.

Erick went to Kromolok next.

“We need to speak,” Rozeta’s Head Inquisitor said, without preamble.

“Do we have to, Kromolok? Really. I mean that. Is it actually necessary, at this moment? Or at any moment. This topic does not need to be broached.”

Kromolok held his tongue. And then he sighed, and did what he had to do, asking, “Do you have designs upon taking the Painted Cosmology for yourself?”

Erick couldn’t believe what he was hearing—

