Erick blasted the larger ‘demons’ apart with beams of Benevolence. Smaller demons tried to get to the fight, but Erick rained [Benevolence Bolts] upon all of them, popping those demons like overripe zits.

Yetta said to Allan, “See? That is not Melemizargo.”

“It’s a trick! Melemizargo is the God of Magic! He could do Light Magic if he wanted!”

“You still don’t See.” Yetta shook her head. She stood ten meters from Allan, her in the air upon golden radiance, and him clutching to a tower of bone and song made of people. “That’s not Light Magic, old friend. It was magic which you never got to see in your world. It was magic from the Wizard of Benevolence, cast by the Wizard of Benevolence, by Erick Flatt. He has gifted that magic to many others, and I am one of those people. Allow me to end your nightmare, Allan, and through you, the Red Goddess you champion will know that the nightmare is over.”

Allan breathed hard. He held his shields between him and Yetta, while his two extra hands held spinning black/red disks. He stared, and his eyes flickered Red, his lips snarl—

A gold and white flash passed through reality, forming a plane of separation where Yetta had swung her sword. Allan’s magic failed. His Red armor crumbled. His blackened legs calcified along with his body, as he clutched onto the songspire at his back.

The song died.

The spire began to slide apart, broken and dead, behind Allan’s stiffening body. Red sparks gathered where she had cut Allan in two, from the right side of his head all the way through his left hip. As the spire crashed to the ground behind Allan, Allan backed up, onto the harshly-angled surface of the spire, Red Sparks still trying to hold him together.

The monster hiding inside the main song spire was already dead. It was not a Breach Demon. Allan was the Breach Demon, but that time was coming to a close.

Yetta stood tall as she stepped closer, to stand above him. “We won in Ar’Kendrithyst, and later, against the Daydropper. Erick helped. Crashed an iceberg into the Daydropper Queen. Tenebrae was there for levels, just as we plotted with him. You never saw that. You died fighting Planter, giving it your all so that we would live.”

Allan’s breath hitched. “I… I gave it everything?”

“You did.”

Tears flowed. “And you all lived?”

“No. But we won. You died. Dorthy and Basil, too. Cyril and I lived. We were rescued.”

Allan chuckled, his voice breaking hard. “I would have called you a liar if you would have said you had all lived.”

“I ended up marrying Cyril Odaali. Have some kids now. They would have loved you, as you were, before whatever happened here.”

“Ha.” Allan said, and the Red began to clear from him, replaced with gold. His extra limbs broke, and he held on as color returned to his body. He looked almost human, though he was not human at all. “I had the chance to use the big spells on Planter… the ones I wasn’t sure would kill me or not. And I didn’t. I didn’t take that shot. We lost. The Shades captured us and killed Planter for us. They did this big ritual… I ended up twisted into an incani by Melemizargo and then let go… And then stuff happened. Breach Demon.” He looked across the city. “… These weren’t incani, were they.”

“Some of them. I’m not sure what they were, really. A nightmare, whatever it was.”

Allan breathed out, “Probably some nightmare.”

Allan began to fade into a golden light and the world pulsed. A Red tint in the air began to fade away, pushed away by gold and white, leaving the brightness of white moons overhead, shining down on a Greendale that was still demonic.

Allan vanished.

Yetta looked up at Erick. Golden tears streamed down her face. “I can’t… I can’t do it anymore. Can I get a portal back to a quarantine space?” She looked away, rubbing her face, muttering, “Wherever that is—” She paused and muttered, “Oh. It’s there.”

She was in communication with Atunir right now, so yeah, she was getting information from outside sources. Erick opened a portal right beside her and she stepped through, back to a moon about 3 moons from Veird. It was a quarantine space that Past Erick was still setting up, but it was good enough for Yetta.

Yetta had arrived here to do battle with Red Atunir’s Champion with nothing but a mission and no time for any of it, and yet she had done well.

Erick had been prepared to burn all of this version of Greensoil to burning white-hot ground, to eradicate the demon and trapped-soul problem, but the ego-death of the Red Atunir had done the necessary killing for him. The song that had filled the air was now gone, and the people trapped in those spires had died when Yetta had swung her sword.

This abomination of Greensoil had been culled.

Some of the details had been different from the last time Erick had seen it, but now that he was here, and now that Godpact Atunir was in full power, the world got a little bit more stable. This was the good outcome.

Erick moved on.

- - - -

Fenrir didn’t have any specific nodes of control. The encirclement of the sun/moons around Fenrir didn’t have any specific nodes of control, either. That room with the blue sphere at the Northern Spellsurge Mountains of Veird was more like a general overview of the encirclement now that it had done its job. Every planet out there, stacked upon Fenrir’s surface like distant pearls reaching into the sky, was its own secured location.

It was the same general idea that Solomon had used when creating Fenrir, but updated. Version 2.

Fenrir was the original version, and apparently it had some exploitable parts that had allowed parts of the dyson sphere to be turned into control nodes. Erick was rather sure that Nothanganathor had imported some side-slice, multiversal-derived parts of Fenrir in order to pull out one section and replace it with a section that could be exploited, but he had no way to know that for sure. Not right now.

Erick floated inside Fenrir, in the part that faced the sun.

Everything was blasted wasteland and dead ocean full of horrors, and the sky was a Red wash, the sun turned Malevolent. Nothanganathor was not there, but he had left behind lots of toys that had turned the sun into a Malevolence-generator.

The Malevolence from the sun twisted into 6 offshoots, like beams of Red Lightning, each Jupiter in thickness, traveling faster than the speed of light and softer than a feather’s touch to siphon into massive collections of collectors on the inside surface of Fenrir. Those collecting areas were like a forest of black Christmas trees that sparked with Red, taking that Red into itself and then flooding that Red out into Fenrir, to overload and take over the systems that Solomon had created when he had made Fenrir.

Nothanganathor had replaced a vast number of 100-kilometer-wide hexagon-shaped worldplates with the same worldplates, but with those christmas-tree collectors.

Looking at the whole collector array from the side…

It kinda looked like glowing red rain falling on a black forest.

The five other collector stations equidistant around Fenrir’s interior were all sorts of fucked up, with the sun/moons of the [Seeds of Atunir] having plunged through those spaces and destroyed those collectors. The sun still spilled Malevolence out into Fenrir, though, so there were 5 spots on Fenrir that were more like holes in the world, with Red fountaining outward. Erick had already fixed (or more like his past selves would in the future fix up) those spaces so that they would heal themselves in due course. Solomon helped (or more like he would help) a lot with that.

But this collector space had defenders. Automatic defenders, but still defenders.

The other spaces probably had the same system this one had, but the Crushing Ritual had broken those other lands. Erick suspected, based on a certain kind of absence in the space above this collector zone, and based on how half the collector zone was underwater and that which was above water had giant gouges in the adamantium…

The black christmas forest had gaps in it that looked like giant tendrils had been there, and then removed. Those tendrils had grown into Fenrir itself, but then they had been pulled away, and a little violently, too—

Ah.

That’s what Erick was looking for. White wood. A broken root.

Everbless had been here.

He was gone now, of course. What remained was a land of horrors that hurt to look at. Literal horrors, that literally hurt to look at, too. Erick tilted his head a little, and allowed the horrors in the space to appear to him, and what he saw was several worlds of Janes and everyone he ever knew and loved, from Quilatalap to Poi to Teressa and Teressa’s daughter, crucified and spiked upon black needles and caught between crushing, growing, black branches. It was a cacophony of horror.

It was real, too. In a multiversal, infinite sense, it was real. It was a manufactured horror, meant to keep away anyone who dared approach. It was effective, because in this space, Erick saw that they all died no matter what he did, because their very lives had been tied into the collector array. When Erick backed away, the screams stopped. When Erick advanced, the screams were enough to fill several worlds.

Erick tilted his perceptions backward, flying away, and the cries of everyone he ever knew faded as the pain stopped for them, and they themselves faded away, to Elsewhere. They were still there, though, just beyond a veil of Wizardry and Malevolence, tuned to keeping that collector array active against all odds.

A gold haze hung in the air around the collector zone, like the protective embrace of the entire Pantheon. Erick held in that protected space, deciding how he wanted to proceed. He had seen this space before now, and he knew what he had done before…

He had tried to rescue the people down there, and that Erick had been drawn into a killing field where even more horrors assaulted him.

Erick quelled his heart and took aim.

A million Janes appeared out of Elsewhere, asking not to be killed.

Erick wondered what the gods saw when they looked upon this space.

Perhaps it was better not to know.

Erick obliterated the collector array in a wash of dragonfire filled with [Metalshape] and Benevolence that scoured Fenrir’s black forest clean, killing every multiversal person to exist in that space. They screamed at him. They hated him. He obliterated them all anyway. The fire spread and spread and consumed every black tree, boiling oceans and erasing the dead.

A dome of Godpact gold divinity swept into the space, further obliterating it from even the memory of this land, carving a Jupiter-sized hole in the surface of Fenrir. Briefly, the soft Red Lightning/light from the sun had an exit, into the lands beyond Fenrir, but then a sun-moon appeared in that hole, sliding in from outside, glowing radiant white, full of Benevolence. Similar moons appeared at every other hole in Fenrir where a collector array had been. They blocked the Red fountaining into Fenrir from the sun… And that was it?

The last time Erick had looked here, Erick had watched himself die. He had pushed that problem away when it turned out to be the wrong course of action, and then he saw this battle end in the Godpact’s favor somehow. He had just secured that win…

But he had kinda expected the sun-moons blocking the Jupiter-sized holes in Fenrir to shine some light upon the sun and erase the Malevolence inside of it. That’s what had happened last time, after all.

But the moons were just floating there, blocking the way out. When were they going to—

“Ah. I’m the one that turns the sun. Right.”

Erick got going.

- - - -

Erick hovered in front of the Red sun.

It had been yellow/white the last time Erick had been here, a slice of Infinity away, when Nothanganathor had been curled around the whole thing like a dragon guarding its hoard. He had been here on this sun, too, of course, but he was gone and that long bastard had done something to this sun and now it generated Malevolence.

Welp!

Erick could break that production.

Probably.

First test.

“I knew I would eventually use this thing,” Erick said, bringing out a shiny golden disk from his personal space.

Cascadio, a sun god that Erick had met in Margleknot, had given Erick the golden disk to help Erick project into the Waiting Room and pull people out of that space. The disk was barely a mote of light compared to the radiance of the Malevolent Sun, but it shined ever more brightly as Erick shrunk down to person-sized, and held the token in front of him, in front of the sun. Cascadio was a god with trillions of followers all across the Fractal Cosmology, so there was no chance that whatever was happening here would affect him at all…

Well. If this led to something bad, then Erick would simply deal with it. Honestly though, he wasn’t sure how to clean an entire sun of Malevolence, or clear out whatever bad things Nothanganathor had left planted for Erick to find. That’s why Erick hadn’t even tried to blast the sun or anything like that.

Cascadio was a great guy, and there was no way that a god wouldn’t jump at the chance to be installed inside a space where trillions of more people would soon be living. All of the Pantheon-gods were already super excited about that very same prospect.

Erick spoke through the token of the sun god, to the god himself, “Cascadio, the Radiant Sun! I invite you to this land to see if you would get along with the current Pantheon, here in this space without a sun god.”

Cascadio was suddenly there, and not there at all. “Nothanganathor just spent a great deal of favors on my behalf in Margleknot, and I am taking them. I ask you now, Erick, to meet with Nothanganathor as a person, and there will be no violence. There will be a small conversation. He will escape to a side slice of infinity, and you will let him. You can pursue afterward.” Cascadio added, “Or you can ignore this deal and proceed on your own. I hope, if you do proceed on your own, that you invite me back in less dire times.”

Erick sighed.

Typical. All around typical, too. At least Cascadio had offered Erick the option of not doing this sort of deal at all, and ignoring this whole plan he had set up with him. So maybe not that typical at all.

Erick asked, “How many favors did he spend?”

“Hundreds. He threatened to spend them on behalf of my enemies if I did not try to get you to have some words with him.”

“Your enemies? … And yet you still suggest that I ignore this deal?”

