Very much not typical. Gods thought of their followers most of all… But Erick suspected that by inviting Cascadio into this space where the risk and reward were both enormous, more of the gods were present in this dealing. He was able to make actual choices. He was able to allow mortals to have a say.

“Nothanganathor is desperate and a desperate Nothanganathor is not something I wish to unleash on anyone. Word is getting around that he Sundered the Painted Cosmology. I am unsure how long his various favors will remain useful, and he feels the same, but his favors still carry weight, for now. He is spending them like a dying man spends prayers.”

Erick stared at the sun, at the boiling, Red surface. It was like watching colored, illuminated water boil. Crackling solar flares brushed against Erick, against his aura of Benevolence, and vanished like steam in a blizzard.

Erick made a decision. “I’ll go talk to him for a moment of ceasefire.”

He expected the sun itself to be a trap, but the second Erick started floating toward it, a hole opened up in the Red. Erick turned back into a dragon.

… Another trap? Certainly not an obvious one, if it was a trap. Erick floated into the hole and flicked his tail at the liquid nuclear surface of the sun. Nuclear fire spilled outward and then fell back down to the surface. Nothing else happened.

Erick kept expecting a trap, but he floated down the hole and the absolute inferno of the sun turned cooler. Calmer. Erick slipped into an open space underneath the mantle of the sun that held a small moon that was solid white, and a little iridescent.

It was a pearl of Benevolence the size of a small moon.

Erick had no idea what was going on with it, but there was no more tunnel beyond the pearl. Erick imagined that the whole thing was some sort of bomb disguised as Benevolence, but it sported a little house on the other side of it, away from the tunnel leading out of the sun. A Red tree the size of a normal tree grew to the side of the house, overlooking a 1-story flat that would not have been out of place anywhere on Veird, or even on Earth.

A picnic table sat out front, and Nothanganathor sat at the picnic table. Or at least an avatar of him did.

He had a tea set and some chocolate chip cookies set out.

Erick turned human-shaped and stepped down to the pearl and to the other side of the table. “A ceasefire meeting.”

“You have accepted my offer, and I accept the temporary meeting we are having here. Let no one disturb us, and let neither of us be taken from our bases of power by the words or actions committed in this place.”

Erick frowned a little. “There wasn’t any Wizardry in that.”

“Of course not. To solidify the statement would be taken as an act of aggression against you, and so I chose to leave the statement open, which is also a sort of aggression, but an unavoidable one.” Nothanganathor said, “Want any tea or cookies?”

Gods, he pissed Erick off.

“Absolutely not. Say what you want to say, and then we will get back to war.”

Make a single threat, and I will stop this farce right now.

Make a threat.

Just do it.

Erick wanted the man to say something vicious. Anything at all, and then he could give up this farce.

Nothanganathor said, “I have realized a few things in the last few days since you returned from your trip across the universe, since you became a fae. Mainly, that I am going to win, and there’s nothing you can do to stop that. So I’m not fighting anymore. Witness my benevolence.”

Nothanganathor knew of his win.

Shit.

He waved a hand, and some mechanisms somewhere clicked.

The Red of the surrounding sun dissipated under nuclear fire, and the red light of this under-mantle place became white and yellow. The Benevolence pearl they stood upon flickered. White lightning flashed from the edge of the pearl, heading into the sun, impacting the solar wall and then traveling further, further, further, into the core. Reality clicked and the pearl underfoot became something like a manaminer, or maybe it was a controller of some sort. Either way the white lightning that struck through the mantle of the sun had continued onward, into the very core of the sun, which was a manaminer.

A screen popped up next to Erick.

Welcome, Master Erick Flatt.

Current settings are being switched to producing all mana in equal measure.

Switchover from Malevolent Fenrir estimated to take: 9m;21s

Ostensibly, Erick had control over the sun of the system now.

This had to be a trick.

“I give you the sun of Veird, Erick, as I am sure you can already tell. I will give you the battles from now until I win the war.” Nothanganathor said, “For I have won, just like I said I would. I have won, and left you and yours as alone as much as I could. Now that I am where I am, I am sorry that we were on opposite sides of this war. We never should have been opposite each other, but thus has my Curse of Obscurity always brought me back to Zero, through levers which you do not know.” He went silent.

Erick glared. He did not give the man the satisfaction of asking him about whatever it was he was about.

Nothanganathor smiled. “You’re not curious? I want to tell you, but you won’t believe me, which is the usual state of affairs for this particular Curse of Obscurity. It took you a long, long time to get to the point that you won’t listen to me, which is why I never spoke to you in the first place, and why I culled all the other ones to come before you. Melemizargo was uniquely smart when he fucked me over all those thousands of years ago, but I suppose he had the Dark to tell him how best to act when it comes to this particular poison that the Dark himself created all those ages ago.”

Erick ignored that. “Nothanganathor. I offer you forgiveness for your crimes if you repent and make efforts to repent more. When you gain the Mantle of Magic of the Dark, you will resurrect Melemizargo with your second-to-last act of godhood, and then give the Mantle back to him in your actual last act of godhood. In return, I will stand on your side, and as long as you voluntarily never wield power enough to ever threaten the Sundering of any universe ever again, or inflict unjust pain on anyone ever again, I will protect you. Melemizargo will do the same.”

Nothanganathor listened. He nodded in understanding of the offer even before Erick was done, but when Erick got to ‘unjust pain’, Nothanganathor went dead-eyed and hateful.

Silence stretched.

Nothanganathor pulled back from whatever words he wanted to say, and simply said, “No.”

“Why not?”

“Because the Dark has been served by draconic tyrants for too long, but I will be a better sort of tyrant—”

“Are you even fucking listening to yourself?!” Erick said, “Holy fuck, man! ‘A better sort of tyrant’! Fucking hell!”

Nothanganathor shot to his feet, yelling, “It was made from my body! It’s my universe by rights! I will have it, and no others, nevermore!”

Erick was dumbfounded. “What the fuck you talking about?”

Nothanganathor continued, “I never believed it at first, just like you. But people called me it every time I saved a world, while Mother’s Shades only stood and watched and in some cases even worked with the evils that killed those worlds I saved. Melemizargo would often come in and steal all my glory, too. I was just any other Wizard. He was the Second. I was a savior of light for all my life and he—”

“You’re talking without saying anything.”

“On purpose! On purpose. You’ll figure it out soon enough. Every time I tell one of us they always break… But you’d do fine, wouldn’t you.” Nothanganathor looked at Erick. He stood taller. “It would be an attack to tell you this. I will not break hospitality first.”

… He was inviting Erick to allow an attack.

Stepping into the sun had not been the trap, for Erick could escape just fine. Perhaps there had been a real attack in this sort of cease-fire dealing, but Erick had avoided it, or Nothanganathor had decided not to pull that trigger. But then Nothanganathor dangled something that he deemed to be an attack, asking for Erick to let him hit him.

He was trying to use the idea of hospitality against Erick.

Fae hospitality was sort of a trick. Mainly, it didn’t really exist. The act and the idea of hospitality and the rules around it was a way to gain or lose advantage over a person and thus gain a Wizard-like leverage to use upon them. That is what Nothanganathor was constructing at this moment.

“Are you attacking me again, Nothanganathor?” Erick asked, punting the opening to attack back to Nothanganathor.

“We are in a truce right now.”

“A cease-fire is not a truce.”

“Close enough to count in all the ways that do.”

“I can maneuver resources in the background, too.”

“Surely you do not begrudge a man the desire to not die before he becomes a god.”

“I promised you that you will have nothing and I will uphold that promise, unless you change.”

“You can’t promise anything. You are the same as me, and they will do to you what was done to me a thousandfold. Melemizargo is not your friend. He is your user.”

“What a strange way to put it. He imposed upon me my draconic shape, just as he did to you, and that somehow makes him my user?”

That was a wrong step. Erick had stepped into Nothanganagthor’s argument.

Nothanganathor’s eyes widened almost imperceptibly. He pulled back, not taking the direct shot, angling for the verbal win first, saying, “The gods are all users, Erick. They take and make and break. Surely you have heard the Shades singing. They speak of breaking all the time, from the First Telling to the current tellings, and all the ones between.”

Erick countered, “You have some secret that you value above all others. You have allowed yourself to be twisted; to commit death and malevolence. You think you are the only broken person to ever exist? You are not. You have chosen the path of the wrong-doer in all courses in life. That is why you must fail, for the alternative is another Sundering.”

Nothanganathor stepped into Erick’s argument, saying, “My secret is the greatest secret of the Painted Cosmology. I would like to make a guess about the future you saw, when you came out of that Time Out crystal. Do you invite me to make a guess?”

Once upon a time, Erick had been tricked by a fae and sucked into Ar’Cosmos.

This time, Erick did the trick.

“Display who you are, Nothanganthor, and let the judgment commence.”

Nothanganathor’s eyes went wide, and then he grinned and laughed, a horrible sound, even as the solar light all around turned brightest white. Nothanganathor twisted, his avatar coming apart at the seams, blood bursting, flesh ballooning— He flickered, and then his body stilled, half-transformed. Half of his face was human and sized to a house, the other half was smoothly draconic; the face of a leviathan. Half his body had twisted and elongated, his clothes shredded as he became a leviathan several kilometers long.

Erick was a dragon once again.

Hovering in some liminal space between Benevolence and Not, Nothanganathor’s voice came out like a rumbling tide, “Once upon a time, they built a universe upon a corpse. My corpse.”

And that had done it.

Like a door had opened, Erick realized several things that he had not.

Nothanganathor said, “You see, now. That was enough. Now you are cursed as well, and in a much worse way than my Curse of Obscurity. You are cursed with the Truth.”

“You’re not Xoat and neither am I.”

“Not directly, but we are him! And yet, that’s not even the whole Truth! You have barely scratched the surface of that Truth! You know how fae are born and survive, don’t you? They cast parts of themselves into all the universes and when one part dies another awakens. You have already become that sort of existence already, with your Benevolence, but there was another like you, long, long before you came along.

“Xoat, the First Wizard.

“He has become us, in all the ways he is capable of becoming, because they broke him to make a universe, and they keep breaking him all the time.” Nothanganathor’s broken, [Polymorph]-accident-looking body shifted, the human-shaped parts flowing away and the leviathan coming into full strength. He was still a physical match for Erick, now, which was ten million times smaller than his true self, but he was whole and strong. He explained, “Bodies and souls continually churn through the stuff of life and existence. Parts discarded. Parts picked up. One of those parts came to me when I needed to save my adopted family in my first century of life from the predations of an enemy that had been beyond me before then. Another piece of Xoat came to you, at another Dark moment in your life, when you were staring at a weapon and a baby cried in the other room, and you had no idea how to do what you needed to do, but you fought anyway.

“Ignition to Wizardry is different for everyone, but it all begins in the same place.

“A desire. A Calling to the Dark, where Xoat resides and is continually shredded at the pleasure of the Tyrant Gods. Those shreds are cast everywhere, far and wide, and anyone can pick one up. Becoming a Wizard is as easy as discarding a part of oneself and the taking up of a power far beyond oneself. Some of us take that power further than others, like you, like me. None of us are the original Xoat. All of us are still him. All of us are Wizards because all of us have a piece of him.

“Of Xoat.

“Of The Prince.”

Erick almost told him to shut up, but he could not. The Dark Mark within him resonated. It needed to hear the words being said.

“All of us are the Eldest Brother of Shadow, Son of Fairy Moon and Gregarious. All of us created untold universes through our art and our gifts of life to all. You wonder why all Wizards start off good? Your friend Poi wondered that sometimes, and you did too. That is why.

“We are the Prince Reborn. All Wizards are.

“You wonder why all dragons are basically evil? Why they are tyrants? Why gods of the Dark are tyrants? Why dragons are the Gods of Magic, and not Wizards? It is because the dragons are made of the Dark in order to keep Xoat from coming back! All of us are the victim of the Dark, and of Shadow, of she who took her Brother, murdered him, and stuffed him into the Dark to ensure his continual, ripping death, and through that death the creation of so much more life, for she hated his success and she wanted it for herself.”

The light was too bright.

Erick felt weird.

Erick said, “I reject your narrative.”

