Ren didn't take his eyes off of Elerlyth. “Like the captain said... you were going to be kept in there, and possibly sentenced to hard labor. I couldn't allow that. He said a fine of 50 gold would cover it.”

Elerlyth dropped to her knees, put a hand on the side of Ren's neck, and stared at him.

“I offered the same amount to get Betrach out of the 30 day sentence.”

Silence filled the space around them for a moment.

“A platinum.” Elerlyth had wonder in her voice. “You paid a platinum to get us out.”

Ren nodded.

“Why?” She asked. “Why do such a thing for us? People you barely know?”

“I like you.” Ren said. “I really did learn a lot. If I'd never met you, I wouldn't have known about all of this.” Ren shrugged. “The way you were being treated didn't seem fair at all. I had to do something about it.”

Elerlyth leaned in and kissed Ren. She wrapped her arms around him and squeezed tightly. Ren reacted automatically to such an empassioned kiss and hugged her back. Elerlyth could feel Ren's reaction to her and it fed her ability... which in turn made her more enthusiastic in her kissing, which in turn made Ren react even more. This went on for several minutes and didn't look like it was going to stop.

“AHEM!” The captain of the guard said.

Elerlyth and Ren broke the kiss at the same time and then started at each other.

“That...” Elerlyth started to say.

“Was...” Ren added.

“Amazing!” The soldier said and everyone looked at him. “What? You couldn't feel that?”

Ren looked around and they were all within the 10 foot radius of his Aura. Only the soldier seemed to be affected by it, however.

“Sorry, Ren.” Elerlyth said and let go of him. “I just... I wanted to thank you properly.”

Ren smiled. “I think I should thank you... and so should he.” Ren said and motioned to the soldier. Everyone laughed.

“Okay, break it up.” The captain said, but he had a smile on his face. “You better get out of here, before I find something else to charge you with.”

Elerlyth stood and they all nodded.

“Ren, you be careful.” The captain said.

Ren smiled. “Like a virgin on her wedding night.”

Elerlyth snorted a laugh and everyone joined in again.

“Come on, come on. Shooo!” The captain waved his arms in a 'go away' motion and the 4 non-soldiers left the mansion's back courtyard. Ren started walking up the street to Donan's shop and asked the others to follow. Elerlyth walked beside him and Betrach and Emanon followed close behind.

“How? How did you do it?” Emanon asked. “How did you get them to listen?”

“I'm just a good talker, I guess.” Ren shrugged and looked at Elerlyth as they walked. “I can't let you go on your way without replacing that thing you wore.” He said and motioned to her chest. “Will you let me make you something to replace it?”

Elerlyth stared at him. “You want to replace it?”

Ren nodded. “I told you. That someone would give you that and tell you it would protect you... Ugh!” Ren said in disgust. “I want to wring his neck, whoever it was.” Ren clenched his hands together, pretending it was someone's neck. “He's a disgrace to the blacksmith's profession.”

Elerlyth reached out and touched Ren's cheek. “You really do care about that, don't you?” She said and Ren nodded. “It's not like there's a vow or anything that you take, but if you are supposed to make things to protect people... the least you can do is do it right.”

Elerlyth nodded and Ren smiled. He was looking forward to making something new.

They got to Donan's shop a few minutes later and Ren turned to them. “This shouldn't take too long. Maybe half an hour to an hour.” Ren said and handed Elerlyth 5 gold. “Why don't you go and get something to eat while you wait, and take these mooches with you.” Ren grinned at them.

“Hey! I resemble that comment!” Emanon said.

Betrach chuckled. “Yeah, food sounds good. I need to get my Health back up for some reason.”

Elerlyth smiled. “We'll be back in an hour, then.”

Teepo. Ren thought and took Elerlyth's hand in his, bent down and kissed it.

“On it, Ren. They won't leave my sight.” Teepo said and crawled over the held hands and onto Elerlyth's shoulder. Ren waved to the trio and went into the shop.

*

Once they were far enough down the street, Emanon spoke.

“We're not going back, are we?”

Betrach shook his head. Elerlyth didn't say anything and kept walking.

*

Ren smelted some of his high quality iron bars and let it simmer. He stirred it fast to get extra air into it and skimmed off some of the impurities that were left. In between, he worked on the breastplate pattern he'd received from examining the old one. Ren modified it a bit, reinforcing the edges to stop wear and tear, added an armored back and a filagree and leaf pattern to the front with the help of the system (adapted from his High Elven Court Uniform).

Teepo had kept Ren appraised of the trio's whereabouts. They'd even gone to eat.

Ren poured out the blank big enough for the shape he needed and started hammering. It didn't take long to get it to the right shape with the system's help. When he was done shaping it, he used the dying station to make it the same dark blue color of Elerlyth's leather pieces. After smelting a single gold coin in a small crucible and adding a bit of steel, he stirred it and then slowly poured it onto the filagree leaf pattern. When Ren was done, he polished it to a shine.

“Ah... now there's a nice piece of work.” Donan said and clapped Ren on the shoulder.

“Thanks, Donan.”

Donan waved the thanks away and went back to his own work. Ren took the new breastplate and stored it into inventory.

Teepo.

“We're in the Market District. It looks like we're heading to the South Gate.”

Thanks, buddy. I'll be right there. Ren thought and then took off running. Ren ran down the street to the main road between the North and South gates and took the corner to go south. 10 minutes later, Ren reached the South Gate just as the trio were passing through it.

“Hey! Wait!” Ren shouted and the trio turned around. “I told you I couldn't let you leave without a new breastplate.” Ren said as he caught up with them and stood still to let his Stamina recover.

“How did you find us?” Betrach asked, stunned.

“Did you enchant us or something?” Emanon said, equally stunned.

Ren shook his head. “I just figured if you were leaving for good, this would be the way you'd go.”

Elerlyth looked at Ren like she knew he was lying, and Ren smiled then winked at her.

He knows I can tell? Elerlyth thought as Ren approached her.

“Elerlyth, please accept this gift as a token of my thanks.” Ren said and took out the steel and gold breastplate. Emanon whistled at the high quality workmanship.

“What are you thanking me for?” Elerlyth asked, perplexed.

“Making me feel alive.” Ren laughed then grinned. “That kiss was amazing.”

Elerlyth's face flushed darker and Ren continued. “My girlfriend is going to kill me for it, though.”

“Girlfriend?” Emanon said.

Ren nodded. “We just recently got together... but she doesn't like how things feel in here. She says it's too fake for her.”

“Maybe she has a cheap VR headset, or her settings are off.” Betrach suggested.

“That's what I thought, too.” Ren said.

“You have a real life girlfriend, then.” Elerlyth took the breastplate from Ren.

Ren nodded. “At least, I hope I do.” Ren said. “She only just found out that I thought of her as my girlfriend.”

“So... you're not really together in the game?” Elerlyth asked as she equipped the new breastplate and the gold filagree stood out like a hologram floating above a dark background.

Ren shook his head. “No, when she said she didn't like the feel of things, I put a stop to it. I don't want her feelings in here to affect her feelings out there.”

“Good.” Elerlyth said. Ren looked at her in surprise as she took him into a hug.

“Because being in an electronic relationship is just fine by me.” Elerlyth leaned down and kissed Ren on the lips. Of course, Ren reacted accordingly and got excited that a woman had accepted him for who he was and was kissing him, Elerlyth could feel that Ren felt that way and it matched her feelings exactly, that a man accepted her without judgment and she became more excited and fed on Ren's feelings.

Teepo took their closeness as an opportunity to crawl down Elerlyth's arm and onto Ren's shoulder.

A few minutes later, Elerlyth felt doubt enter Ren's thoughts and his excitement ebbed. She kissed him until he broke away and looked at her.

“Are you serious?” Ren asked.

Elerlyth nodded. “Sure, why not?”

“But... don't you think...” Ren started to say.

“That's it's cheating?” She finished the thought for him. Ren nodded.

“There's a saying some of us live by. What happens in the game...”

“Stays in the game.” Betrach and Emanon said together.

“So, what you're saying is, that no matter what happens in here it doesn't affect what happens out there.” Ren said.

“Right. In here, we can do whatever we want. Good, bad, nice, nasty... but it doesn't change how things are in the real world.” Elerlyth replied.

“And you were trying to leave without saying goodbye because...” Ren added.

“We don't want to owe anyone anything.” Betrach said.

“You don't owe me anything.”

“You bailed us out of jail, man!” Emanon said. “Of course we owe you!”

Ren shook his head. “I told you before. Once I knew how you were all getting shafted, I couldn't just let you stay in that cell. That's all on me, Emanon.”

He really believes we owe him nothing. Elerlyth thought. We were sneaking away for no reason.

“Like you said... it's just a game. It's hard to have fun if you're stuck in a cell most of the time.” Ren said. “What's a platinum coin between friends?”

Betrach and Emanon shook their heads in disbelief. Is this guy for real? They both thought.

“Come over here for a minute.” Elerlyth said and led Ren off the road and walked about 20 feet away from where the 2 men stood. “There's something I should tell you.” Elerlyth said. “I've... I've been...”

“Feeding off my Aura.” Ren said and smiled.

Elerlyth looked at him in surprise. “So you did know!”

Ren nodded. “I figured it out when we were talking last night. When I first saw your reaction after I entered the cell, I had no idea what was going on and I thought you were making fun of me or something.”

Elerlyth tried to respond and Ren shook his head. “Let me finish. Once I sat by you and took your hand, I could almost feel you taking it in. After a while, you looked so much... happier? Pleased?” Ren said and shrugged. “Anyways, I knew then that whatever was happening, I was helping you feel better. That was good enough for me.”

Elerlyth leaned into Ren and put a hand on his face. “I thought I was getting away with stealing from you all night, feeding on you even while you were asleep, but you held my hand for most of the night. On purpose.”

Ren nodded.

“Thank you, Ren.” Elerlyth said as a tear formed at the corner of her eye and she kissed Ren slowly and tenderly. It was only a brief kiss, but the feelings being shared then were 10 times more intense.

“Wow.” Ren and Elerlyth said together when the kiss ended, and they both laughed.

A moment later, she took a deep breath. “Okay, Ren. Now that I've come clean, it's time for you to come clean, too.”

Ren looked at Elerlyth in surprise. “What do you mean?”

“What the hell is that?” Elerlyth asked and pointed right at Teepo.
