I woke up the following morning, or rather, probably afternoon…

Yeah, it’s definitely the afternoon.

But after filling up on some more of those mouse things last night, I found a reasonably secure spot to sleep between some boulders. It wasn’t as comfortable as sleeping in the forest; there really was no way to get completely comfortable on solid ground. Plus, I slept in my human form just out of convenience, so I wouldn’t have to get dressed again in the morning.

I poked my head up from between the rocks, ears twitching, and looked around.

As much as I disliked that cursed city, there was still so much benefit I could gain from farming there for just another day. These skeletons were just way too easy to kill. Another level, or even possibly two, would go a long way toward increasing my mana reserves and, hell, maybe even something else worthwhile would get unlocked with the Veiledfang Stalker class.

Either way, breakfast is first.

I grabbed my belt off the ground, which had the daggers holstered inside it, and slung it around my waist. I pulled one of the daggers free from the sheath and looked at it in my currently human, non-skeletal hand, claws wrapped around the hilt. Learning to fight like this could certainly have its benefits, especially if I ultimately needed to infiltrate human towns to get back my brothers and Iris. Iris was still stuck with those red masks, so if I could work on Veilform and get to where I looked even more human, and then hide behind one of their masks…

The red masks even used daggers, though their main weapons seemed to be spears and those shock poles, with the occasional sword.

Yeah, it would be a lot easier to get to Iris if I could just walk in as one of them. I might be able to sneak in with stealth abilities and skip the disguise, but it was too risky in the event I did get caught and still too limiting, as any crowded areas would be out of the question. Their ability to ride Direwings would make them hard to escape from, especially if I went right to the heart of their tribe where hundreds or even thousands would search for me.

But sneaking in while disguised. That was different. I might even get a chance to assassinate that person who had been gifted Iris. What was her name again?

Elva Wyrmscar?

That’s it. And I couldn’t wait to make her pay for what she’d done. Her father, Valrok, was at the very top of my hit list, however, once I became powerful enough to defeat him. Frankly, I looked forward to the day I got to kill more red masks.

I returned the dagger to its sheath and then gracefully jumped up onto a boulder where I crouched, my nose sniffing and my eyes scanning below me for breakfast.

I didn’t see any mouse things, and I had suspected they were nocturnal. However, far in the distance, through the distortion of heatwaves, I saw something lumbering through the wastelands.

I licked my lips, tongue running over my fangs, then hopped down from the rock and started heading towards my next kill.

I truly felt the limits of human legs as I moved toward it. I wasn’t low to the ground, and I was way slower. As soon as I got close enough that the monster started to resolve itself more clearly through the haze of early morning fog, I used Analyze.

Level 20 - Furthrum Wastewalker

Huh, wasn’t that furthrum word used for something else I’d seen? Yeah, back in the forests of the vale, but it was a Furthrum Wanderer.

Anyway, I kept myself angled so that I was out of its line of sight. It wasn’t dark enough to sneak up with Veil of Shadows, and there wasn’t much else to hide behind. I’d just go about things the old-fashioned way and expect things would work out in the end. A level 20 was nothing to balk at, especially since I wasn’t in my stronger class, but I still felt confident I could win. I could visualize the fight cleanly enough, anyway.

Just slash him up real good, and then, when the time came, go for the throat. Hell, if I could get up on its back, I could attack the back of its neck quite effectively. One thing human legs and arms were better for than puppy legs was climbing, so that was something else I’d have to think about utilizing if I was able to.

As I drew closer, the creature’s shape became clearer. It was about the size of a large bear, but definitely not the right shape. It was closer to an elephant as far as that went, but without a trunk, and unlike the one I remembered from the vale, it wasn’t fuzzy. It had scrappy bits of fur here and there, like an old man’s mostly bald head, and its skin seemed dry and wrinkly. Besides that though, it looked nice and meaty so I was sure it’d be a tasty meal.

As for threats, it had thick horns coming from its forehead. Its thick body and legs indicated its greatest strength was probably when it charged toward things and rammed them. If that were the case, I’d be at a huge advantage by bringing the fight in close and sticking to its flank where it couldn’t utilize attacks with its head easily. Its bulkiness meant circular movements would likely be difficult for it.

At least, that was the game plan.

The creature suddenly raised its head. Its nostrils flared, and then it turned directly toward me.

Ah. Apparently, I smelled bad. No, no, that couldn’t be it. Surely I was actually the best-smelling thing in this sad wasteland, so I stood out due to that reason!

Whatever the case, the Furthrum Wastewalker turned toward me, lowered its head, and scraped one thick foot against the ground, sending dust curling around it on the slight breeze that touched the wasteland.

I stopped advancing, drawing my daggers and taking a stance.

This was not how I wanted to initiate the fight, but I still wasn’t too worried. I just had to dodge that initial strike, get along its flank, and cut up one of those legs when I saw an opening. Charging at me would be impossible if it had a bad leg, so it was clear to me how to take away its advantages.

The creature dragged a single hoof through the ground as I relaxed my body onto the balls of my feet. “Come on…” I whispered.

Finally, it charged.

The ground shook beneath each pounding step as the creature accelerated far faster than something that large had any right to. Its horns were angled perfectly to rip me open upon collision.

I waited, watching the thick wall of muscle barreling toward me. The vibration of its heavy steps rattled under my heels more noticeably as it drew closer and closer.

I waited until it was just about on me, then, at the last possible second, I dove at an angle toward the outside of its leg. One of its horns passed so close to my ribs that I felt the air move across me, but I twisted as it rushed past and I forced a dagger to drag across its shoulder.

I didn’t get a cut all the way down the length of its body as I had intended. I was new with daggers, after all, so I misjudged how hard it would actually be to keep it in position.

It was still a successful attack, but not successful enough, as the beast slowed to a stop far outside my range and turned, giving a loud snort and shake of its head as it faced me from a distance once again.

I rolled my wrist and looked down at the dagger. I needed to lock my grip a little better next time, keep my wrist tight.

Unfortunately, it seemed plan A of sticking along its flank would be impossible. Before I could even reposition after the dodge, it already had plenty of distance on me again. I didn’t like the idea of just dodging over and over again and slowly whittling it down that way, so I had to think of another plan.

Meeting it head-on in any way was a sure death sentence, and I wouldn’t risk trying to jump over top.

Dodge to the side and swing myself up onto his back?

Yeah, I don’t think I was quite skilled enough to pull that off either. Maybe if it had some fur to grab onto, but even then I wasn’t exactly skilled with this human body. Maybe I’d practice some parkour while hunting skeletons later. That seemed like something the system might reward me for with a new skill and an achievement or two.

Anyway, worst-case scenario, I could always go ahead and path change and hit it with a pentaclysm. But not yet. I wasn’t going to give up on my skeleton-farming plans just because my breakfast was playing hard to get!

The ground rumbled as it charged forward once again.

I got into position, deciding to try the same maneuver. As it came closer, I dodged to the side at the last second—but so did it.

It turned so suddenly, and my feet were already off the ground, so I couldn’t avoid it. Its massive head rocked into my body and pivoted upward, tossing me over its back as all the air left my lungs. I just barely managed to bend my body away from the points of its horns and avoid far worse injuries.

I flipped through the air before landing hard on the rocky wastes, letting out a pained groan as I felt stiffness throughout my entire body to accompany my lack of breath.

But I couldn’t just lay around! Cracking my neck left and right, I forced my way back to my feet and did a quick check of my HP to see the attack only cost me about 150 health.

Yeah, this was nothing. I got this; I just had to recognize this thing wasn’t some stupid bull seeing red. It adjusted to my strategy.If I was on wolfy legs, I bet it’d have a hard time headbutting me one way or another, but I wanted to get better at fighting as a humanoid, and this seemed like the perfect opportunity to test myself. After all, stuff like this could very well be what the hands-like-claws achievement was all about. It certainly indicated Aberrant Triune wanted some competency in a human form, after all, though I still didn’t like that what very well might be my strongest Path one day would be a human-form one. I’d much rather have a strong wolfy Path than something like that, but I supposed I wouldn’t know for sure what it had in store for me until that day came.

For now, I was staring down a foe that could be a real threat if I didn’t adapt, and it was already stomping its hoof, sizing me up for its next strike.

When it was ready, it came charging forward with the same speed. Was it smart enough to expect a feint?

Let’s give it a shot.

As it closed the distance, I made a move without committing, making it seem as though I wished to dodge left just as the previous two times. Its head turned to intercept me, and I quickly shot back the other way. I reached out my dagger as it came barreling past, the wind of its massive form like a miniature shockwave, but I got my dagger deep along its side, pushing further and locking my wrist, making it a much more significant cut than the last one, and the way it let out a wailing growl indicated the severity of the strike!

I whipped around, brushing back my cloak as a breeze caught it, and eyed down my opponent once again.

It turned with some distance between us, lowered its head, and snorted. I let my eyes drift lower to spot out a trail of blood, and along its side, a pool was growing in the dirt. I had really gotten it good!

The way its hoof dug at the ground, it surely desired to come at me again, but it seemed unsure of itself.

“Come on…” I whispered, tensing my grip on my daggers. “What are you waiting for?”

Then, it turned, and my mouth fell open as it started running away.

“H-Hey! Get back here!” I yelled, and started running after it. “You’re my breakfast! You can’t run!”

I growled in frustration as it quickly gained on me, my human legs just absolutely not fast enough to catch it! Truly, being a human was so limiting!

Rabbits and smaller prey run all the time, but big things are not supposed to be so cowardly!

But it quickly became clear I had no choice.

{Veilform}! Hell Hound!

I was trying not to rely on this, but I didn’t see any other way. As my body morphed, I fell to my hands—soon paws—and awkwardly bounded on all fours as my limbs changed shape. I had to shake off all of the clothing as it loosened on my body, which slowed me down further, but once I was on my proper legs again and managed to shake my wolfy neck free from the cloak, my speed increased tremendously.

I didn’t have Give Chase to make this even easier, since that was a Whisperfang Juvenile ability, but that’s okay, because the big lumbering beast wasn’t actually that fast, and not only that, after only a couple minutes of chasing him into the wastes, he was slowing down and getting tired. Probably a combination of blood loss and simply not being built for endurance running.

It looked back, seeing me hot on its tail, and it gave up on the idea of fleeing as it spun around and reared back on its hind legs.

But I didn’t need any fancy abilities for a fight like this. Fighting four-legged prey like him, no matter how much bigger than me he was, was exactly where I was most comfortable.

As it tried to stomp down on me, I easily pivoted to the side, then dove inward, snagging his leg right on the joint with a {Crippling Bite}!

The monster let out a cry as I twisted and ripped. I didn’t quite get the clean snap that I’d wanted—its legs were pretty thick, after all—but I had an easy time arcing around behind it as it tried to turn and keep me in sight. Though it soon gave up, stomping its back hooves repeatedly, which only opened it up for a shot on its thinner front legs.

I dove at its front leg from behind, getting my teeth perfectly around the joint for a {Crippling Bite}, and this time it took just a quick twist to get that satisfying snaaap I was looking for!

It wailed as it fell over onto its side, kicking without any proper strategy, really just flailing, and I now had an easy time getting at its neck.

I went right between its front legs, practically giving it a big wolfy hug, but we were not exactly snuggling as my teeth dove in for a little more than a love bite. Its flesh was soft, but its neck was thick, so I had to chomp a few times. It continued to flail, but couldn’t bend its legs in such a way to grab me or throw me off.

After ripping free more and more meat, deepening the hole in its throat, its cries turned strained, and finally it was time to end things as I burrowed my muzzle in deep, ripped and pulled.

I yanked out something stringy that sent a spray of blood following me out, and the red stuff rained around the System notification that popped up.

Prey Eliminated! Level 20 Furthrum Wastewalker

Experience gained!

I let out a breath of relief and started sniffing around the corpse as I decided where to dig in. I opted for legs today, sometimes just preferring tougher muscle over squishy insides. When my belly was full, I looked back the way we had come.

I’d chased him rather far, the ruined city a bit of the way in the distance, and somewhere between me and it was a trail of discarded clothing.

I double back, scooping everything up and carrying it awkwardly between my jaws until I found a couple boulders to hide between while I changed. There was nothing really in sight, but I still didn’t like the idea of doing it out in the open.

Once I was in human form again, I walked out from my hiding spot dressed like a proper assassin as I rewrapped the bandages around my arms and set my sights back on the city I’d be farming today.
