He had been told he’d be going for a walk and talk in a place that eased the mind, but he’d been imagining more of a nature trail. What he was seeing here looked like it might instead be a maze with paths that had been dug out rather than walled in. The entrance was a few steps in front of him. It was wide enough for four people to go side-by-side without bumping into each other, and it sloped downward so that several long strides would have him in a corridor made of the ground. It would be open to the sky, but the sides would be taller than his head.

Off to the left, the person who would be his traveling companion waited for them up in a tree. She was pinching pieces from a small loaf of bread and popping them into her mouth while her legs and bare feet swung. Her hair—a pale, purplish gray that almost matched the strips of bark that had peeled from the tree—hung in a single loose braid. Her skin was darker, and her face was unmarked by wrinkles.

The first impression she gave off was younger than Alden had expected, though he still thought she must be quite old. Surely you had to be at least a hundred and downright venerated to kidnap little Stu-art’h and have his father actually listen to you when he caught up.

She had a pair of thin lines tattooed across her forehead, alternating blue and silver rings were on her toes, and while she ate, she was bobbing her head slightly like she was listening to a song she liked. Her mouth stretched into a smile when Stuart approached the tree and called out her name.

After shoving the loaf of bread into her mouth, she threw the last pinch she’d taken toward a petite animal that looked like a chubby, big-eyed monkey with pointy ears and a squirrelish tail. Alden hadn’t noticed it clinging to the limb above her until just then. When she dropped down from the branch, her feet didn’t hit the ground with the thump he would have expected, considering the height. He wasn’t sure if physical technique or magic should be given credit for the soft fall.

“Dear Stu!” she said. “The days have been long. You do know you’re welcome to come for visits even if you don’t need me, don’t you? I’m proud, though. I like it when my patients can leave without looking back.”

Stuart responded to the warm greeting with a bow, then introduced Alden as Avowed Alden Thorn, who the whole of the Triplanets—especially his family—should recognize as an absolutely extraordinary person because of his deeds. Just look at that commendation from Alis-art’h!

He sounds a little mad at his family still, but I guess it’s not too obvious with all the praise.

“So you’re angry with your family?” Yenu-pezth said, cutting the intro short. “How angry?”

Alden was impressed.

Stuart…was still in his bow, not answering.

Yenu-pezth gave him a knowing look. “I suggest you stay here in one of the places you like until I have given care to my first human patient. I’ll talk to you later.”

Stuart rose, a protest on his face.

“Just talk,” she said. “Are you not at a point in your journey when clear thoughts are as needed as water?”

Before he could respond, she turned to Alden. She looked at him quietly, with both eyes, for a minute. He forced himself to stand still.

“Hello,” she said finally, shoving her hands into the pockets of her pants. “I am Yenu-pezth. What have you come to me for today?”

He didn’t know how she did it. The question was a simple one, almost a banality, but the air seemed to thicken in response to it. He felt something—a magic she’d performed or called on in this place, he thought, rather than herself—surrounding him but not touching him. The feeling it evoked made it hard to answer her.

He wasn’t being prevented from speaking whatever he wanted; he knew he could if he really needed to. Instead, it was as if the first responses that sprang to his lips were too weak to penetrate the atmosphere. He didn’t want to say them, knowing they weren’t up to the task.

…okay, this is different. I know I can just say, “healing,” but it would be like deliberately giving a wrong answer on an important test.

He eventually realized he was just standing there, face pointed toward the healer without really paying attention to her because he was so tangled up in the search for the answer to the question.

“Don’t be nervous, Alden.” Stuart took a step toward him. “Maybe the <<weight>> of the path is making him nervous, Healer Yenu. Maybe it doesn’t work correctly on humans. Maybe you need to—”

“How fast do you think this usually happens the first time?” Yenu-pezth said calmly. “I will be careful with your friend. You go contemplate in one of the places you like until your ears aren’t such an angry shade. We might see you if you choose the <<inward>> path, too.”

Stuart hesitated. “That bag he brought has his things in it. Also, he said when we were talking about how mind healing works that he prefers to keep some of his thoughts private.”

“Most do,” Yenu-pezth said calmly. “And you told me that already, dear Stu, when you called to ask for my help. I don’t forget things.”

Stuart looked at Alden one last time and gave him an encouraging smile before he headed down the corridor, which gradually curved until he was out of sight.

What have you come to me for today?

There were so many answers that were true without being true enough. Yenu-pezth kept her hands in her pockets and her posture relaxed. She just…watched him. Slowly, the pressure that he felt knowing he was taking a stupidly long time to respond to her faded.

When it was all gone, when he was just standing with the question and no sense of urgency, even the answers that he’d decided not to speak became interesting to him. Accessible. Like objects he could pluck from a shelf and examine if he chose.

Here was a thought about how much he’d hated almost losing control of himself on the bus.

And there was another about how threadbare he felt sometimes when he woke up from a nightmare in a dark room, in a new home that didn’t quite fit like a home.

How he felt a thousand years older than most of the other teenagers he knew and also how he was sometimes afraid he was missing a critical part of being alive that the rest of them were breathing in like air.

How the universe kept proving it could take everything from him, and how he really struggled not to believe that it would.

But there were other possible answers, too. Brighter ones.

Boe asking him to stop chasing after an old ideal that was making him miserable so that he could find something that worked better. Giving him permission not to feel guilty about it.

Telling Stuart he hoped his life would make the world a better place but also that he hoped it would be joyful a lot of the time.

Stuart telling him to stop being envious of choosing seasons when he was in the middle of one of his own.

Putting away the skill machine with its cold switches and hard limits, discovering something more playful and flexible instead.

Looking at himself in mirrors—in a tailored coat that accentuated the breadth of his shoulders, in a pezyva marked with his commendation, bare-chested and with a hand held over the place where a tattoo had once been.

A decision to come here, to Yenu-pezth, even though it wasn’t a hundred percent risk free.

“I’m here because I’m ready to change,” Alden said. “Because I’m ready to grow in new directions. But I keep getting dragged back by what’s happened in the past and blocked by what I’m afraid might happen in the future.”

Yenu-pezth removed her hands from her pockets. “Helping people change themselves is my work. Did you like how the weight felt?”

The weight. Alden looked in the direction Stuart had gone. He realized he didn’t have a good sense of how much time had passed since then.

But the nerves he’d arrived with had faded, and in their place he had some clarity, not just about the answer he’d decided to speak but also about how it connected to all those other moments he’d thought of. If she asked him the same question again, he wondered if it would all get even clearer.

“I liked it. Was it you or the…inward path?” He nodded at the entrance to the corridor.

“It was me telling the inward path what to do,” Yenu-pezth said. “The weight is stronger the deeper we go, and there is more to be found within. You will be very calm. The weight will tell you about yourself. You will tell me what things hurt you or halt you, and I will help you with them. Do you want that?”

“I do,” he said.

“My new patient is Stu’s friend. What a delightful happening! Come with me. We’ll go for a walk.”

******
