The use of {Royal Presence} on the two warriors had been both a test and misdirection. She was pretty sure it wouldn’t work on them, but she wanted to make sure that they wouldn’t notice it either so that they wouldn’t know that her presence Skill didn’t do what it seemed. Ideally, they would think that she had some kind of fear-inducing Skill that made the monsters run away, rather than the much more sinister truth that she was mind controlling them through the walls.

If they had any suspicions, they did not voice them. Instead, as they went further and further without encountering any monsters, the conversation turned light and casual. They told each other about their classes, and a little about their pasts. Cassian and Leonidas had apparently come from the same small village and were childhood friends. They both wanted to become adventurers, exploring dangerous lands and finding ancient treasures, so when they got old enough, they applied and got accepted into Jelor University. Elise was pretty sure they had skipped a couple important events in there, such as how they had gotten their mental immunity Skills, but they didn’t seem to want to share, so she didn’t press.

Elise herself earned some sympathy points by giving them her fake backstory of growing up on the streets before being adopted by the Grays after her mother died. She also skipped quite a few details, and while Leonidas was a bit oblivious, Cassian caught her reluctance to share and helped change the topic of conversation.

While Elise was taking classes that mostly focused on increasing her own personal power, Cassian and Leonidas were taking a surprisingly wide variety of subjects. Both were in Intermediate Magical Combat, having gotten a special exception to advance, but they were also taking a class on survival, a class on cartography, a class on cooking, and a class on taxonomy.  As Cassian explained it, an adventurer wasn’t very useful if they weren’t able to bring back information on where they had been and what they had seen, which made a lot of sense.

They came across a few difficult spots where the rooms were simply too big for Elise to reach the other side before they entered, but in those cases, she just activated {Royal Presence}, freezing the monsters in their tracks before sending them fleeing with {Royal Decree}. Cassian and Leonidas didn’t seem to suspect a thing, and even praised the effectiveness of her fear aura.

At the end of the hour, they reached a fork that had Cassian poring over the map for longer than usual.

“What is it?” asked Elise.

“I think that this is probably as far as we should go tonight,” he said. “We got here faster than I thought we would, but it’s still getting late, and this is a pretty important crossroad. If we go that way—” He pointed to the left cave. “—The silver checkpoint is still another twelve hours away. Of course, with you here, Eleanor, that’s probably more like eight, since we don’t have to waste any time fighting the monsters. But it’s basically a straight shot from there. There’s only one real path, and everything else is a dead end, and all the monsters are pretty weak.

“If we go that way—” He pointed to the right. “—The checkpoint is only four hours away. However, there’s a big cave that regularly spawns as high as tier 4 monsters right in the way. According to the info I have, there are generally hundreds, if not a thousand monsters in that big cave, and while most of them are pretty weak, and we could probably take them, I don’t think any of us were planning on doing that tonight.”

“Yeah, makes sense,” said Leonidas. “I’m cool with turning back. The sooner we get back, the sooner we can eat.”

“Does that work for you, Eleanor?” asked Cassian.

Elise pondered for a moment, then shook her head.

“Those four hours include the time it takes to clear that one room, right?”

“Pretty sure, yeah,” he said, looking closely at the map. “Without monsters, it doesn’t look like there’s more than two hours of cave between us and the checkpoint.”

“So if we were able to clear the room quickly, wouldn’t it be faster to exit at the checkpoint?”

“I guess…” he said. “But I didn’t really bring an extra change of clothes, so I’d rather not get all messy. We can do it next time.”

“You won’t need to get messy,” said Elise. “I think I can do it on my own.”

“You’re definitely strong,” said Cassian. “But that’s a big risk.”

“I guess…” said Elise.

She didn’t want to press the issue too hard, but the prospect of reaching the silver checkpoint so soon and being able to go deeper was too tempting. Especially since she was fairly certain that even with hundreds of monsters, she would be able to handle them just fine.

“Can I at least go scout it out first?” she said. “I have a powerful stealth Skill. It doesn’t work on you guys, since it’s aether-based, but even at tier 4, none of those monsters will be able to detect me.”

“Well…” started Cassian.

“As you said, we got here pretty quickly,” Elise continued. “We’re not in a rush, right? We have a bit of time. I’ll come right back. I promise.”

Cassian wavered for a few seconds, then shrugged.

“I guess,” he said. “If you’re sure. Just try not to get into trouble.”

“I’ll do my best,” said Elise.

“Alright. It’s not too far from here. There’s only one more fork a little way up, and if you take the middle path, you’ll be there in a few minutes.”

“Got it,” said Elise. “I’ll be right back.”

“If you’re not back in thirty minutes, we’re coming in after you,” said Cassian.

“Sounds good,” said Elise. “See you in a bit!”
