Shaking off dark thoughts of what might have been, I hum a little song beneath my breath, careful not to disturb Lin’s nap. For the next few weeks, I’ll only have friends and subordinates around me, so I can finally cut loose and be my regular, goofy self. Keeping up appearances really sucks the fun out of life, and it’s been so long since I could be myself without worrying about saying the wrong thing or offending the wrong person. Nothing but open roads and empty skies ahead, aside from a small detour to explore Yo Ling’s hidden island fortress.

How cool is that? Plus, who knows, maybe I’ll uncover some pirate booty while I’m at it...

Arriving at the gate, I find a large crowd sitting in wait, passing through the gate before us. Recognizing a few faces, I ride ahead to greet them as decorum demands. Nodding to the occupants as I ride past the carriages, I stop at the foremost carriage. With his arm resting on the window, Zian half-sneers at the world as he sits in waiting, a naturally arrogant and aloof air about him. Though we’ve made some small progress in our frosty relationship, we’re still a ways away from burying the hatchet, so I greet him with a cordial, if strained smile. “Good morning, young magistrate Zian. What a coincidence, to be leaving together.” Why didn’t he leave another day? Or later? Now, I have to think of a reason to convince him to move aside and let me through, else we’ll be stuck behind them the whole way back to Shen Yun...

“No coincidence,” Zian says, still icy and detached. “I heard you were leaving today and decided to travel with you. After all, there are still Defiled at large in the province, and Mao Jianghong has yet to be found.”

Welp, there goes the nice relaxing trip I’d envisioned. Channelling my inner politician, I smile and nod while extending a formal invitation, pretending to be thrilled to have them with us. It’s not like I hate them, but I don’t like them, and I can’t be myself if they’re around. More games of face and pride, except now, I outrank them, which makes me a target for their envy and resentment. After a few minutes of polite chit-chat, I turn to leave and switch places with Baledagh to check if there are any Tainted or Defiled among my new travel companions. Zian and most of the other Warrant Officers are ‘window-tainted’, and my little brother takes care of them instantly, but even in the few dozen of people we pass, he finds more than one person who fits into the other categories, including BoShui who is almost as badly afflicted as Dastan was.

Nothing is ever easy. Now I have to figure out how to cleanse them without being noticed or outed. Maybe I can talk them into a group swim at the lake or something, on the way to Yo Ling’s island... Stifling a groan, I close my eyes and choke on heartbreak and sorrow. I’ll need to come up with an excuse to leave them behind if I want to visit Yo Ling’s island in secret. Otherwise, these Society brats will want to tag along and probably even demand a share of the treasure. It’s fine if there’s nothing of value, but this is a bandit fortress that’s been in use for decades. Who knows how much wealth the Butchers have stolen over the years? They can’t have spent it all...

God dammit, I wanted to plunder pirate booty in secret. IN SECRET! What if there’s something super awesome and expensive which can’t be split? It’ll be like the Contest all over again, hunted down by the Society for my treasures, only this time, they won’t underestimate us.

Mark my words: nothing good ever came from sharing.

Chapter Meme
