“I missed you too,” Yan replied, putting the curvy bitch out of her mind while returning Lin’s hug. As much as she loved Grandpa and her new life with him, Yan missed the little things like hugs and holding hands, actions frowned upon here in Central even when both parties were of the same gender. In fact, especially when both parties are of the same gender, which made no sense. “How have you been?”

“Bored! There’s too many rules about where and when you can go out, and even if you listen, there’s nothing to do. Daddy is busy with the ugly octopus and Mi-Mi is always working or too tired to play, so only Luo-Luo keeps me company, but all she wants to do is paint, embroider, and do other boring stuff, ya?” Pouting adorably, Lin rested her cheek on Yan’s shoulder and asked, “How long will you stay for? A few days again?”

“Maybe longer this time.” Possibly even permanently. It was high time Yan gave up. She wasn’t cut out for a leadership, not without more preparation and education.

“Yay! Come say hi to the floofs, the quin pups and bunnies are so big now and I taught the bears how to clap and dance...” Always happy to gossip, Lin filled Yan in on everything she missed while she reacquainted herself with the pets. Only one quin pup was present because like Shana, the others were a danger to the rabbits, but the little squeaker seemed determined to make up for his absent siblings. Recognizing her scent as the person he used to share a bed with, the pup flopped into Yan’s lap and wiggled about, chirping up a storm and clutching her hand as she sank her fingers into his fat, furry belly.

Sadly, the other animals were less enthusiastic about Yan’s arrival. Aloof and uninterested, the wildcats lazed in treetops while the bears were still too timid to approach. Unwilling to climb up to greet them, Yan turned her attention to the bicorn bunnies, all fifteen bouncing about in their enclosure. Almost fully grown, the rabbits showered her hand with kisses and tolerated her petting until it became apparent she had nothing to feed them, at which point they went back to hopping around like maniacs and headbutting one another into unconsciousness. They were stupid and greedy creatures, but she loved their silly antics, not to mention their silky soft fur and adorable noses which never stopped twitching.

Cuddling the affectionate pup, Yan listened and laughed along with Lin’s narrative and forgot about all her worries and regrets for a few short hours. In the middle of tea and snacks provided by the accommodating Death Corps, Yan steered their conversation to Rain. “Do you know when he’ll be back?” Yan asked, praying the answer would be ‘soon’. Though she wished it were otherwise, they’d been stationed at different zones and working on different timetables. While he defended Sinuji, she would be off on patrol, and vice versa.

Mother in Heaven, why must you tease your children so? They shared one, incredible night together and had been separated ever since. The worst part was, Yan couldn’t even fantasize about sating her needs with another man, and imagining Rain only made her that much lonelier...

Raising her arms in an exaggerated shrug, Lin replied, “He keeps writing he ‘hopes to come back soon’, but in his latest letter, he said he thinks the commander hates him or something.”

“You mean Colonel Hongji is denying his request for reprieve?” If so, then it was an abuse of power and he had a rude awakening before him. An unaffiliated Colonel dared to keep Yan from reuniting with her lover? As Grandpa had recently started saying, this was simply seeking death.

“Hang on.” Running inside for a moment, Lin returned with a sheaf of documents and shifted through them before holding one up for Yan to see, the barely legible scribbles a sure sign it was written by Rain’s hand. “See? It says, ‘Commander Hongji seems friendly, but he works my retinue hard. We are sorely in need of a break but I may have offended him somehow as he has yet to provide us with one. I hope to visit soon, but I don’t know when he intends to schedule our reprieve.’ That’s what hubby wrote, so I dunno.”

“...That idiot. No wonder he hasn’t had a leave of absence yet.” Re-reading the passage with a wry grin, Yan rolled her eyes and shook her head. “He’s waiting for Commander Hongji to schedule them a reprieve, but that’s not how it works. Rain needs to put in a request, which I’m sure will be approved.”

“...Hubby is a big dummy.” Thoroughly angered, Lin puffed her cheeks in a childish pout and tossed the rest of the documents down for Yan’s perusal. “You know what’s the worst? He writes a letter every week, but he never talks about anything important. He just drones on and on about something stupid like he feels obligated to fill the page.” Slumping her shoulders and pretending to sulk, Lin gave her best impression of Rain speaking slowly, as if he’d taken a head-injury. “Pong Pong loves shrimp, but when the shrimp arrives, it’s almost spoiled. Can you send more shrimp? Faster too. A faster delivery, not faster shrimp, because that would be silly. Can we get ice in Central? Frozen shrimp might last longer. Also, please look into dried shrimp and see if this is a feasible option, as well as any other shrimp preserving methods you can think of. Pong Pong really loves shrimp, so I need a way to provide him with more shrimp.” Crossing her arms, Lin crinkled her nose and huffed, too angry at Rain to continue with the mockery. “Stupid Rainy. Stupid Pong Pong. Luo-Luo! Why didn’t you say anything?”

“Apologies Lin-Lin, but this one has little experience in military matters.”

“Write hubby a letter and tell him what Yan said! If he doesn’t come back soon, I’m gonna eat all his stupid rabbits.” Pointing angrily at Luo-Luo, Lin barked, “Don’t write that last part!”

Doubled over with tears streaking down her face, Yan gasped for breath and silently begged Lin to stop, her stomach cramping and lungs burning from laughing too hard. It wasn’t just Lin’s spot on impression or uncharacteristic anger, or even how she bullied the concubine like a stereotypical evil wife. What she found most comical was that Lin wasn’t even exaggerating, but repeating a passage Rain wrote word for word. Communication had always been Rain’s biggest problem, right above his trust issues and inability to read social cues, but the problem seemed so much worse in writing.

When she finally got her laughter under control, Yan felt like a weight had been lifted off her chest. This was what she needed, an afternoon of relaxation and cathartic release. So she wasn’t Officer material and would never command an army of thousands. It wasn’t important. She was Du Min Yan, grand-daughter and terminal Disciple of Du Min Gyu, betrothed to the love of her life, Falling Rain, and sister-wife of Lin and Mila.

...Zheng Luo too, but as a concubine, she barely counted. Lin was already bullying her, so Yan had no qualms against joining in.

Aside from this wonderful life, Yan also had her Martial skills which had won her the title of third strongest young talent in the Empire, losing only to Wu Gam and her beloved husband-to-be. With her skills, her options were limitless. She could have her pick of Officers to serve under, whether it be her childhood hero Akanai, her former idol and future father-in-law Baatar, or if needed, she could even join Grandpa and learn at his side. Better yet, she could join Rain’s retinue and they could learn the ins and outs of command together. As evidenced by his misunderstanding, Rain had just as many gaps in his knowledge as Yan did, except his issues were largely social in nature. It would be so romantic fighting side by side, just like they used to when they were younger, but this time as comrades in arms on the battlefield and lovers in the bedroll, their days filled with glory and nights filled with pleasure.

...

Perhaps it’d be better if she stayed with Grandpa. If Yan and Rain served together, then neither one of them would ever get a wink of sleep. Regardless, Rain had best return, and soon. Having tasted the sorrows of separation during these long weeks apart, Yan yearned to see his smile and feel his touch again, raving like a silly, sappy, love-struck maiden straight out of one of her favourite novels.

Not only that, but she was curious to know what he could do with all his limbs intact...

Chapter Meme
