By the time we made it out onto the street, the building behind us was fully ablaze. I was carrying Ash on my back, as he had been the slowest of our group.

Even Claire had kept pace surprisingly well. She'd always been careful not to show exactly what her various bodies were capable of. But speed was definitely not an issue for her. And carrying one of the destroyed automatons hadn't slowed her down all that much either.

I took a moment to watch the inferno. It was oddly contained. The Blessing probably had some mechanism to prevent us from burning down the entire city due to one stupid mistake.

We had things to discuss, like our next steps or what the fuck had just happened. Why the Oath had returned to being merely the Oath of Two. What exactly the guitar could do.

But I wasn't in the mood for any of it. There was something much more urgent to do.

"Hey, Ash," I said using Queen's Voice.

"Yes, Eve?" he replied carefully. He already knew I was up to no good.

"Hold on tight."

I took a running start and launched myself into the air. Even without wearing the goggles, flying in this shape was a delight. Whatever magic this was running on, it made every beat of my wings far more powerful. I could build speed, gain height, and adjust my trajectory far better than anything of this mass had any right to, even without using Breaking Newton's Laws.

During a moment of gliding, I checked its traits.

[Mythic Flight (Trait)

As a legendary creature of the skies, flight defies the laws of physics.]

Well, that explained things.

"You didn't faint on me, did you?" I asked.

"Still with you," Ash mumbled. His face was pressed next to my neck.

"I'll return you to the others now."

"Thanks, Eve."

They'd settled away from the fire in a pizzeria. With another shriek, I landed in front of the building. I lowered myself so Ash could comfortably climb off my back before I returned to my infernal self.

Ahead of me, Ash went around and tapped everyone once with his cane, magically cleansing them of all the oil, blood, and soot they'd been covered with. Lastly, he tapped me on the head, doing the same for me.

"Huh, thanks," I said.

"Anytime," he said, before he tapped himself, too.

I slumped into a chair across from Jamie.

"That was… more complicated than expected," I said.

"Bit of an understatement," Jamie said.

At a table to my left, Stephen was idly plucking away at the guitar. Jamie tossed me a water bottle.

"Thanks. Give me a second," I said.

While I drank, I took mental stock of everything. Claire wasn't with us anymore, which wasn't surprising. She had gotten what she came for.

I was only two shapes away from the next upgrade to Mind over Matter. And I had two hearts in my inventory, though one would be significantly more troublesome to devour than the other.

Jamie had actually reached level twenty, which meant that the Oath of Two had gone up to giving us +4 to all stats. Ash was behind at eighteen, with the other two at nineteen.

And the mastery bar for that stupid boar sat at the halfway point. I had let myself get baited into wasting experience on something I definitely did not want to return to. Liz and Stephen might have hit level twenty if I hadn't. The only consolation was that I could take this as the Blessing firmly stating that 'Worldender' was not who I actually was, deep down, despite losing myself to it far too easily.

All of which led to an important conclusion. I needed to kill Nemesis. Personally. If the Blessing insisted on throwing shapes at me that would be this angry, I needed to slay Wrath and become resistant to its influences. While not dying to those influences or her in the first place.

Continuing my UI examination, I found that I had a handful of Task Rewards for first kills, reaching five infernal shapes, and reaching five feline shapes. The gryphon counted for that.

And then there was the reward for staying until the end of the performance.

[Prodigious Heritage

Gain a one-time bonus of +15 levels to a musical skill of your choice.]

I blinked at that for a moment. This was not at all what I had expected. Unless I was missing something, this wouldn't at all make us any better at defeating Hell. But it was a lot of talent, just like that.

"So?" Jamie asked. "What'll be your pick?"

I looked up to see him, Liz, and Stephen exchanging glances.

"You've got another bet running, don't you?"

All of them laughed. "Guilty," Liz admitted.

"What are yours?" I asked them.

"I didn't get a choice," Stephen said. "The reward went straight into guitar. Thanks to the levels I'd gained during that one song, I'm at nineteen now."

"Damn," I said. "No wonder you pulled that song off. Excellent choice, by the way."

"I figured I'd go for singing if it's an option. I can teach myself enough bass to not embarrass myself if we ever do a group gig," Jamie said.

"I'm leaning drums," Liz said. "You up for the keyboard, Ash?"

Ash nodded. "Already considered it."

Jamie leaned forward. "So?"

There were a couple of options, but only one true choice. "Violin."

Jamie and Stephen cursed, while Liz grinned.

"How did you know?" I asked her.

She just winked. "Lucky guess."

"Why did you pick that?" Jamie asked.

"I'd enjoy playing one as much for myself as for others. It fits into my inventory. It's something I always wanted to learn but never had the patience for."

Jamie shrugged. "Reasonable."

"What was your bet?"

"Piano."

"I thought about it. Pretty sure Claire will pick that."

"Have you even considered the sax?" Stephen asked.

I laughed. I hadn't. "You got me. No, I didn't. But I lack the attitude for that."

I looked around at the others. I had a ton of rewards waiting, and Jamie had a list of subclass options to comb through. "Should we visit Team Zoo? Their hideout isn't too far from here, and we might want to discuss the next steps. Not to mention process rewards."

"Did you even sit for more than three minutes?" Jamie asked.

"Sitting is for people with less on their plate."

Liz got up. "And those who don't have a girlfriend waiting for them they haven't seen for like six hours at this point."

"She's not my… actually, I don't know. Maybe she is. Anyway, that was not my reasoning. At all." I also stood up.

"Which reminds me." I didn't like the tone of Liz's voice there. "Are both of us still missing our 'Mount Another Blessed' reward, or did you get yours last night?"

I gasped. "Liz!"

"It's important to know, don't you think?"

"It is not. Not—in such detail. No, I do not have that reward," I muttered while I left the building.

Though she was right. Ash and Stephen were both sitting on that reward now. What an absurd reality we lived in.

Why not, though? I wanted to fly more anyway. I put on the goggles and shifted back in the gryphon shape.

"Okay, Liz, do you feel ready for a ride on the Eve Express?"

"Fuck yeah," she said. I had barely enough time to cast Spectral Tackle before she jumped on my back.

I started running. "We'll cover you from the skies," I called out to the others before I took off. On my back, Liz whooped with joy.

As I carried her through the scrambled skyline of New York, I was reminded of that talk with Helene. How I sacrificed my dignity for others like this. But this was neither undignified nor was I ashamed anymore.

It was horses who sucked. Creatures bred for servitude. Being a predator of the skies and sharing the joy of flight with another was a whole different story.

"Say, Eve?" Liz asked while I was perched on a rooftop, looking out for any threats to the others below.

"Yes?"

"You and Sarah and Helene? What's the deal? One day you only had eyes for the mad genius. Next day you do the deed with someone you barely met?"

"I… I hadn't planned for any of this to play out this way."

"That's not really an answer. Though I'm obviously not owed one either."

"Helene—it's complicated. Despite the very obvious fact that she's a grieving widow. Also, it wasn't anything more than a crush. Based more on surface-level stuff than anything else."

"And Sarah is more than that?"

I hopped off the building and resumed scouting ahead for the others. Though I kept the flight calmer so we could keep talking.

"Not exactly, but also a lot less baggage. Helene feels… dangerous. You've seen how much she adores her dogs. And they love her unconditionally. And yet—yet she sends them into combat. Risks their lives." I had to finally admit what I hadn't been willing to spell out before. "She's too much like Claire."

Liz didn't ask any further questions and instead patted my neck.

To my disappointment, we found no foes roaming the streets on our short trip. I needed to land that first kill in this shape soon. I needed to embody that owl shape.

Adding to my disappointment, the moment we approached the entrance to the community center, I knew that Sarah and the others weren't around. Their trail was present, but faint, leading away from the building.

I hoped they wouldn't mind our intrusion, but it was a community center, after all. Would be antithetical to claim that for their own.

As we entered, I prayed a silent prayer that whatever reward those three got, it wouldn't be as weird as the one Helene had gotten. But I somehow had the feeling that this was Fate's favorite part of the day.

Maybe it would be merciful, because I had done a really cool job of killing that gryphon. That had to count for something in the eyes of the showmaster, didn't it?

The moment I crossed the threshold into the sanctified space, Lucy manifested.

"Hey, friends. Pretty sure they have some shabby instruments in here somewhere. Also, you just have to tell me what you got for that Task."

"Nice to see you, too, Lucy," I said.