“Maybe I should have made the bigger forge.” Ren said and chuckled. “I'm glad I went with the paving stone floor, otherwise I wouldn't be able to do this.” Ren set out the stone bricks that he had into a 6 foot by 9 foot rectangle in front of the forge, then stirred up the molten metal. He let the smelter simmer for a while and went outside to gather up some of the dirt that he'd dug up while making Teepo's cave. Ren went back and forth, making quite a large pile inside.

“What are you doing?” Teepo asked when he came out and saw Ren making a big mound of dirt near his place.

“I'm making a tub... and a sink... no, 2 sinks... and then possibly a stove.” Ren said and slapped the mound of dirt quite hard to pack it tightly together. Ren didn't have an actual recipe for a tub, so he hoped that the system would let him use a heavily modified 'shovel' recipe instead. Teepo crawled over the mound and pointed out parts that needed to be packed better.

There was a knock on the door and Ren went to see who it was. A delivery man brought in a large, thin wooden crate, and set it on the floor next to the door.

“Your mirror, sir.” The man said.

“That's great!” Ren said and handed the man 11 gold. 10 for the mirror, and 1 for the tip.

“Thank you, sir!” The man said. “If you need any other glass work done, just let me know.”

“I'll do that.” Ren said. “What's your name?”

“Medius, sir.”

“You can call me Ren.”

“Yes, sir.” Medius said.

Ren chuckled. “Thanks for the prompt delivery.”

“You're welcome, sir. Have a good day.”

“You, too.” Ren said as Medius left.

Notice!

You have made a contact at the glassworks factory. Extra options are now available in the Business and Order menus.

Ren smiled and went back to packing the mound of dirt into a tub like shape, only it was upside down. Once that was done, Ren made a small one in the shape of a bathroom sink and one for a kitchen sink, both upside down as well. Teepo crawled up Ren's leg and perched on his shoulder. If this idea works, the metal will form on the outside of the mounds to make the right shape. Ren thought as he skimmed off a few impurities from the molten metal and stirred it slowly. It won't be long, now.

Ren walked around the mound of dirt that the tub would be made on and cleaned up the edges. There. The metal should sit right down onto the paving stones. Ren thought and smiled. Of course, that's assuming I can lift the partially molten cast over the top of it.

There was another knock on his door and Ren went to see who it was. The young boy that had delivered some parchment paper over a week ago, was back and had 10 more sheets and 10 pieces of charcoal for drawing. Ren looked at the boy, who seemed to be out of breath. “I ordered those last week. They were supposed to be delivered the next day.”

The boy nodded. “Sorry, sir.”

“You're not going to give me a reason why?” Ren asked.

The boy opened his mouth and then shook his head.

“It must have been important if you don't want to tell me.”

The boy's eyes widened at Ren's statement.

“I'll take those.” Ren said, took the roll of parchment papers and charcoal, then stored them into inventory. He handed over 44 copper in payment. 30 for the paper, 10 for the charcoal, and 4 for the tip.

The boy stared at the money in his hand. “M-mister... it's a week late! You shouldn't tip me for that!” He said and tried to hand the 4 copper back. Ren shook his head.

“I'm sure a lot of your customers might be mad about the delay, but I'm not. I wasn't home anyways, so it worked out well.” Ren said. “I also noticed that you ran all the way here. You're not wasting any more time, are you?”

The boy shook his head.

“Good! Now get out of here and go make your other deliveries.”

“Thanks, mister! See ya!” The boy took off running down the street with the pack on his back shaking back and forth.

There goes a boy after my own heart. Ren thought and Teepo chittered in laughter.

“Mine, too!”

Ren closed the door and went back to the forge. I think it's time, Teepo. Ren poured the molten metal into the 6 foot by 9 foot area he'd surrounded with stone bricks in front of the forge. Using the skimming tool, he tried to push the molten metal into the rectangular shape. “Damn. I need another pair of hands.” Ren said.

Ruck came out of his cabinet, crawled across the floor right after Ren spoke, and gave Ren a 'thumbs up' signal. Ren chuckled. “Ruck, you're just in time. Can you pour the smelter for me, please?”

Ruck nodded and climbed around the back of the forge and used his arms to tip the smelter forward. Now that Ren had both arms free, he spread the molten metal and it filled the space up to about an inch.

“That's enough, Ruck.” Ren said and Ruck tipped the smelter back to stop the flow of metal. Ren waited only a minute and moved one of the bricks away from the metal cast. It was starting to cool and Ren grinned. “Perfect!” He moved another brick, took out his spare tongs and grabbed the slightly molten slab and lifted it up.

It started to warp and bend and Ren flicked it, just like it was a sheet he wanted to cover a bed with, and the metal flopped onto the mound of dirt. Since the underside was cooling and the outside was still mostly molten, it slowly eased down into the shape that Ren wanted. Using the tongs and the skimming tool, Ren pushed the corners down to the floor. In a moment of inspiration, Ren took out one of the wind stones he'd made and used it on the metal to help it cool in the proper shape. It eventually turned from the red molten color to a dull grey.

“Ha ha! Sweet!” Ren shouted and Ruck clapped. “I couldn't have done that without your help. Thanks, Ruck.”

Ruck gave the 'okay' signal and then climbed down off the forge. Ren rubbed Ruck on the head and went to the workbench with the high quality iron bars under it. Ren grabbed a handful and tossed them in the almost empty smelter.

“I won't need as much metal for the sinks.” Ren said and moved the stone bricks to make a smaller rectangle, only 3 feet by 4 feet. He had some time while the metal simmered, so he went over to the crate and opened it. The mirror was a 3 foot square and Ren smiled. “It's just the right size.” Ren closed the crate and went to one of the work benches, and pulled up a stool to sit on. He opened up the table design, thinned the legs and made them longer, and added a drawer from the dresser across the middle. Ren then shrunk the same drawer and added three of them on each side, then put a piece of plank on the back to hold the mirror. “Nice.”

Ren looked at what wood he had left, and there was only 2 planks. “A quick run to the lumber mill, I think.” He said and Teepo chittered in delight. Ren chuckled and turned around. “Hey, Ruck. Want to come along?”

Ruck gave the 'thumbs up' gesture and crawled over to the door.

“Climb aboard.” Ren said and thumb-pointed to his back.

Ruck crawled up and tucked his back legs around Ren's waist, his middle legs around Ren's chest, and then his front legs over Ren's shoulders.

Ren glanced back and saw that Ruck was a little too low to see properly and would probably be kicked when Ren ran. “Can you shimmy up a little bit, Ruck? I don't want to kick you when I run.”

Ruck moved up about 6 inches and Ren smiled.

“Even the balance feels better. Can you see okay?”

Ruck gave another 'thumbs up' gesture.

“Great. Let's go.” Ren said and opened the door. Ren took a deep breath, closed the door behind him, and took off running. He ran the other way this time, as it was Ruck's first journey out of the building. He ran down 2 blocks, around the corner, up 2 blocks, around that corner and past the Housing District. They arrived at the lumber mill and Ren got a popup.

Stat Change!

Running Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)

Ren bought 2 dozen more planks, even though he was supposed to get the wood for free, and tipped appropriately. Ren passed the planks to Ruck, who stored them easily. He waved to Jhulune, who waved back enthusiastically and came over to talk, and Ren asked how the horse was. Jhulune said the horse was doing fine and that the healer said that giving the horse an antidote potion was the best thing to do, because it might not have lived otherwise.

“I'm glad to hear that.” Ren said.

“You saved our horse, Ren.”

Ren smiled. “Anyone could have done it. I'm just glad I was there to help.”

“Me, too.” Jhulune said. “Say, I like your backpack.”

“Thanks. This is Ruck. Ruck, this is Jhulune.”

Ruck reached out to shake hands, and Jhulune's mouth dropped open in shock.

“R-R-Ren! Your... your backpack has hands!”

Ren laughed. “Of course it does. How else is Ruck supposed to pass me stuff?”

Jhulune still looked a little shocked but she reached a hand out slowly and Ruck shook her hand.

“It... it's nice to meet you.” Jhulune said, and Ruck gave her a 'thumbs up' gesture.

“Wow.”

“Yeah, Ruck impresses me, too.”

A few other workers came over and Ren introduced Ruck to them and they all had pretty much the same reactions as Jhulune. After a few minutes of chatting, Ren spoke.

“I have to go.” Ren said. “I've got my forge going and I don't want to leave it for too long. I'll see you later!”

“See you.” Jhulune said and waved. Ren and Ruck waved back and Jhulune laughed. “I won't be getting used to that anytime soon.”

Ren laughed and started running. He went back and checked the forge, skimmed off some impurities and stirred the metal. “It's still going to be a little while. How about a quick trip around the city?”

Ruck gave the 'okay' gesture and the three friends went for a run around the main streets of Aurora.

It's just another day in the game. Ren thought and smiled at all the people staring at him as he ran by.

Fame Increase!

The citizens of Aurora have seen you running and carrying a backpack. They assume you are training for an important mission.

Fame: +100

Ha! I think they're right. Ren thought and kept running.
