Heron paused, halfway bowed, as he looked through the [Gate], and saw his own back.

Erick dismissed the [Gate]s hanging to the sides of the room, saying, “That’s acceptable.”

Heron snapped to attention then tried to relax as he dismissed the Privacy all around. He almost said something, but other people were watching from outside the space, and he wasn’t quite sure how to play this off without sounding compromised. Heron decided to say, “Looks like we need to kick this concern up the chain of command.”

And then he left as fast as he could, running right into the other guards who were watching now that the Privacy was down. Rapid [Telepathy] passed between them, with disbelief and distrust briefly flashing on the faces of the others, but as Heron sent to them, they started to believe whatever it was he was sending them. Erick wasn’t privy to those specific conversations for all the people here had necklaces on that obscured their throats with Privacy spellwork, to prevent spying on their words.

‘Well they’re going to be a while,’ Erick sent to Poi, ‘And I get the impression that you’re going to trigger that clause about leaving early.’

‘… I never really like lying, and this feels like lying to me. I will stick around, though, because when you go into that dungeon someone has to be ready to move in and tell you to come out in case of emergency. But I would rather not do this subterfuge at all; not when there’s the Storm Prophecy happening.’

‘House Benevolence is riled up more than I know, eh?’

‘Not more than you know, but more than you’re willing to personally placate.’ Poi sent, ‘22.5 million people are expected to need to move in the next 4 to 6 months, and House Benevolence is working overtime to try and figure out the nature of the Prophesied Storm.’

‘Ah… I’m sure we’ll figure it out.’

‘You already know what it will be; It’s Yggdrasil, and his unsealing. It has to be.’

Erick shook his head. ‘If that is the problem then the ‘storm’ would happen in a lot of places besides the Archipelago. Yggdrasil is planted on the far western end, at New Towery, but if he were the cause of the ‘storm’, then there would be similar ‘storms’ prophesied here at Candlepoint, and Stratagold, and elsewhere. The ‘storm’ is not Yggdrasil.’

‘… Hopefully.’

Now it was Erick’s turn to give Poi a Look. ‘I know you don’t like adventure a whole lot, and this land is rather tense and racist, and you don’t want to walk around Unnoticeable all the time. Plenty of reasons for you to not want to be here and I didn’t expect any of that, and that’s my fault. I expected us to walk up, and for me to talk to some people and reveal myself, and then for us to go off to the dungeon, and yes, that is happening… But I get it, Poi. I can have Ophiel wait outside the dungeon if you need to get me a message.’

Poi banished his tension as much as he could. ‘Nope. You can’t get rid of me that easily. I’m staying. I might even join you on the first floor of the Gem Dungeon. And besides that, Odaali is a lot better than Greendale; it’ll be a lot better over there.’

Erick felt a bubble of mirth rising within. ‘Good. Glad to have you aboard.’ Erick turned his attention back to the guards mana sensing them through the walls, and to Heron, currently lambasting a pair of coworkers who looked —by their clothes— to be just as important as the archmage. ‘Looks like their argument is finally settling down.’

‘I’ll stay Unknowable until we get to Odaali.’

‘I like that better than [Don’t Know Me]. ‘Unknowable’.’

‘The skill has many names. Who’s to know which one is more correct?’

Erick chuckled at that—

And then he prepared to speak to whoever it was Heron was bringing with him, back to the room.

Events proceeded rather rapidly from there.

- - - -

“And you’re sure that this is only a request for Odaari to stand trial?” King Cyril of Odaali asked, for the second time.

Yetta Wheat, the Champion of Atunir asked, “It’s not about the Storm Prophecy?”

Erick said, “I even checked the Benevolent Sky five minutes ago, before I got here. The sky is clear; nothing is happening in Greensoil. There is no need to be worried about anything. This is why I came as ‘Ashes’; and not as myself. If something was truly wrong, then I would tell you.”

Yetta looked to Poi, asking, “Is that true?”

As Erick chuckled, taken aback by Yetta’s need to verify through multiple sources—

Poi easily said, “As far as we understand, Atunir wants the Kill and Exterminate Quest to be closed. However that happens is fine with her. I’ll be staying here to help with those needs, as the contact between Odaali and House Benevolence, and as a personal show of the force of this demand without Erick needing to be involved himself. Erick will be occupied elsewhere.”

Erick and Poi had decided that on their own not too long ago, and both of them were happy with that arrangement. Poi didn’t want to go die in the dungeon, and Erick didn’t want to see that happen. Erick was rather certain that he could protect himself from anything that a dungeon could throw at him, but he was less sure about protecting others.

“That is what Atunir has told me, too… I just needed to hear it from the Wizard on scene, too.” Yetta solidified her stance. “We will be glad to have you here, Poi; the kids love you.”

The four of them were in a Private space off to the side of Odaali Castle’s throne room. The sun was beginning to set over the high white walls of Kingdom Odaali outside, but there were no windows in this Private space to allow such a sight. It had taken Erick a little while to get to this meeting, and caused ‘Ashes’ true nature to be revealed to a few people in charge over at the Odaali Embassy in Greendale, but they had told Erick that they would keep his alternate persona in confidence. A lot more people knew about him visiting Odaali itself, however, because Erick was currently the Apparent King, and this was now an official meeting of nations.

The Viridian Throne would probably get involved later, but for now, this was simply House Benevolence interacting with Odaali.

Yetta and Cyril were both rather nervous and cautious at the beginning of this meeting, but Erick knew them both rather well, and he had even been a guest at their wedding, years ago. Cyril was no longer the crown prince, of blonde hair and pale, skinny features, who had been the Warder at Yetta’s side when they challenged Ar’Kendrithyst, to kill Shade Planter. He was thicker, for his current duties were much more political than of an adventuring nature. Yetta was still a strong woman of dark skin and heavy braids, who worked with swords and shields every day that she wasn’t harvesting fields. Her eyes were still filled with the same bright yellow flames of divine fire, too.

Erick knew both of them well. He had only really visited once before, to see Yetta’s twin children crawl across the floor, and eat a celebratory meal with their little family, as an honored guest, but he checked in on them with Ophiel every now and then. From what Erick could not help but mana sense, Yetta was again pregnant with twins.

Cyril sighed a little, and then laughed. “Then this is good news, yes?”

“As good of news as you being pregnant again, Yetta.” Erick said, “Congratulations.”

Cyril smiled brightly—

Yetta’s cheeks heated a little, and then she put on a frown and tried to be serious with Erick, “Atunir has always told me that she wants this Denutha problem solved, however it can be solved, but the Viridian Throne always runs us around, never giving proper respect to the lives that were lost in the Daydropper disaster. Why has she involved you, though? That was never part of her guidance to me.”

Erick said, “I want something from her, and she wants to help me, so she’s giving me some minor tasks, and this is one of them. The other one is to go into the Gem Dungeon and check out the place as a normal delver, to check out her ideas for a Second Script.” He looked to Poi. “We might be going into at least the first floor together, after I check out the place myself, but Poi will be staying here as a representative of House Benevolence, for the Odaari case.”

Poi nodded.

Yetta’s shoulders relaxed. “Ahh. I see.”

Cyril turned almost jubilant. “That’s perfect, then! I’ll file a formal grievance and you can sign that paperwork, and maybe in two weeks we can even have a court date. They’re not going to do anything until the Feast is over and the Triumph of Light is one big vacation for everyone, but after that...” He smiled, saying, “Now, with you pressuring them, they might actually do something.”

Erick was only really confused about one thing, about this whole process so far, and so he said, “Last time this came up, Greendale tried to curry favor with me by offering me Denutha’s head, but I turned them down, saying she should have her day in court and be done with it one way or another. I never checked up on that, and never had the inclination to revisit this issue at all. But if you two had needed help to make this happen, then you could have asked me.”

Cyril smiled a little, his voice tainted with the barest bit of sarcasm as he said, “The Viridian King expressly told us not to get you involved with Odaari, for according to Grand King Darundi Raivo, this whole Odaari situation was his to command and control, and all that nonsense. But since you came to us, that’s different.”

Yetta was eager to move the conversation along, since nothing was exploding and nothing was happening right now, so she said, “That’s all for the paper shapers to figure out now, and I’m hungry.” She asked Erick and Poi, “Have you two eaten yet? We were about to sit down to dinner.” She said to Erick, “And the kids would love for Ophiel to play with them. Ritta asked for a stuffed Ophiel doll last Triumph and she got several.”

Ophiel perked up on Erick’s shoulder, turning to him with all of his eyes. “I play?”

Erick chuckled. “Go find Ritta and Trudy. We’re staying for dinner.”

Ophiel zipped away—

And Cyril said, “Excellent! Not to get too far into business with the day already done, and my pregnant wife needing to eat, but I heard your apprentice, Kiri, is trying to get her family out of some debts here, or something to that effect? Do you wish for me to step in with that?”

“I’ll let Kiri know the option is open, but she’s trying not to rely on my political power right now.” Erick looked to Poi as he said, “Poi would be able to help with that, though?”

Poi nodded.

Erick repeated, “Poi can help with that.”

Yetta smiled as she looked upon Poi, her eyes turning slightly predatory in a distant, golden sort of way. “Now Poi. Have you found a woman to settle down with, yet? You might have a Wizard willing to [Reincarnation] you younger whenever you want, but that doesn’t mean you should neglect your duty to the future.”

Erick smirked; he had almost forgotten that Yetta was all about Field and Fertility back when she was pregnant the first time.

Poi just paled a little, humming noncommittal as his sapphire scales turned ever so slightly less shiny.

Yetta grinned as she said, “You’ll be here for a while. Maybe someone might catch your eyes?”

“Maybe I might join Erick on two floors of that Gem Dungeon.”

Cyril laughed, slapping Poi on the back, saying, “You might find someone you like here in Odaali!” And then he added, “Gods, it was probably awful being in Greendale, wasn’t it.”

Poi softly smiled. “It wasn’t that bad.”

“Well maybe they’re better than I remember them being,” Cyril said, as the four of them walked toward the dining hall. “I have several non-human members of the court here at Odaali, and they all tell me horrible things about quite a few different nobles in Greendale. And I get told horrible things by those different nobles about my choice of courtiers all the time. It’s all kinda tense around here at the moment, but when is that ever not true. It’s probably part of why the Viridian King doesn’t want Odaali involved with its own justice against Odaari.”

Yetta grinned in a happy, vengeful sort of way, as she said, “But now that House Benevolence is involved, we’ll get our day in court, and so will Denutha.”

“She was my aunt, you know?” Cyril said, “And she helped to kill her own countrymen.”

Erick said, “Tell me about her; who she was before all that Daydropper and Halls of the Dead.”

Cyril breathed deep. As they entered the dining hall a nearby butler stepped out of the nearby kitchen space, into the room. Cyril looked to the man, and nodded. Soon, the butler was back in the kitchen and telling everyone there not to panic, but The Wizard was here for dinner. There was a little bit of a panic anyway, but soon enough, people came out of the kitchen carrying appetizers and drinks.

As Cyril sat down on his chair at the head of the table, a woman delivered him a drink at that exact moment. That server was a dragonkin maid of red scales and wearing a nice dress, and she delivered more drinks to everyone else at the table, quick and as professionally as she could.

Cyril began, “Aunt Denutha Odaari might have been my aunt, but mostly she was a branch family member who most people thought of as ‘aunty’. She was always a difficult sort of woman who liked her plants more than she liked her family, which was much more than she liked the Odaalis, probably because she was always something of a revolutionary… Which is what she ended up doing. Hard to say where her hatred started, but I remember several incidents involving plants and my father’s penchant for Fire Magics, which resulted in her desire to make her ‘babies’ fireproof...” His voice trailed away as he looked to the door to the private wing of the castle. “And that might be enough of that discussion for now, if you would oblige.”

Erick nodded—

The door to the private spaces of the castle opened and the laughter of children and Ophiel filled the air, along with a pair of nannies that looked upon their charges with calm joy. The rambunctious kids rapidly joined the dinner table, and they didn’t care at all about Erick or Poi or even their mom and dad, but they did want Ophiel to try out all the desserts that the Cooks knew how to make.

Soon, purpleberry and blueberry and red tarts exploded under Ophiel’s feathery ministrations, as everyone else ate, and little Ritta and Trudy laughed like only 3 year old children could.

- - - -

