“The metiron and metamonds you get inside the dungeon are yours and yours alone. No one can take them from you and use them themselves, but they can be destroyed, so take care of them.

“And that’s it! —Well. I could talk a lot longer, but you should try out a delve. All of the spells you have active will remain that way, but they’ll erode when you get deeper, and everything except the meta-casting system is blocked once you step into the real parts of the dungeon. The first floor is more like a tutorial, where everything feels mostly normal; there’s not even a mana-pressure gradient on the first floor. There is an actual tutorial, though, if you feel like it. From there, it’s as deep as you want to go, with Script-assistance failing completely at floor 5, where the real learning ‘outside of the Script’ truly starts.” Blacksmith added, “And that’s where the gold starts growing, too. Everything a person needs to survive exists on the upper floors, of course, but actual money is to be made on floor 5 and below.”

“… I thought you couldn’t make a living here?”

With a happy voice, Blacksmith said, “Most people barely make it past the second floor. I have a good feeling that you might actually go all the way, though, for that thought came to me in a dream right before you appeared, and I trust those sorts of visions.”

Erick paused. “… A vision, eh?”

“Atunir smiles upon the Glittering Depths, delver, and we are ever in her service, even in our dreams.” Blacksmith gave one final, “Good luck!” and then he walked back toward the tunnel leading toward the Platform Station.

“Well then...” Erick said to himself, as he turned and gazed upon the grey crystal castle, rising up from the bare stone ground. For a long moment he stared at the grey crystal edifice. And then he put one foot in front of the other. As he neared the open gates to the main courtyard and spied the black portal hovering, unprotected in the center of the castle, Erick felt as if he was floating. “Time to learn some magic ‘outside of the Script’, eh? That could be fun.”

Actually, now that Erick had heard about what the Gem Dungeon was truly trying to accomplish…

Magic outside of the Script, like what he had supposedly done to drag him and Jane here to Veird, eh?

Well that sort of experimentation sounded… Really awesome.
