In the morning, Erick was introduced to a woman who would become the side of the prosecution against Denutha Odaari; an older human woman by the name of Ilulia Whitefield who was the royal barrister for many of Odaali’s legal cases. Ilulia spoke at length about the problems of Denutha Odaari, and of the issues with getting a court date. Eventually Erick signed some paperwork, solidifying his stance that he would be weighing in on this matter, and that he wanted a court date for Denutha Odaari to discuss her side of the events that led to the Daydropper, and the deaths of a third of Odaali’s people over a decade ago.

At the end of the meeting, Ilulia said, “It was a pleasure to speak with you, Wizard Flatt, but now I must disappoint both of us, for though Wizards work fast, the law is slow with this sort of thing. In addition, the Feast is happening tomorrow night and then there’s the Triumph, so we won’t get anywhere for at least 15 days, unless the Viridian King decides to weigh in himself, and he might, but we believe he will [Force Wall] us as much as he can. I ask you to allow the law to work as it is wont.”

Erick chuckled. “I won’t be doing any vigilantism here on Greensoil.”

Relieved, Ilulia turned a fraction toward Poi, saying, “Then if it is alright with you, I would begin some of the smaller workings with Mister Fulisade here. We’ve got lots to do.”

Poi nodded.

Erick asked Poi, “If you’re sure you don’t want to do the dungeon?”

Poi happily said, “I’m not dying today, thank you. Maybe when you’ve had your fun and you know how it works, I might join you.” He looked to Ilulia, asking, “Where shall we begin?”

Erick said, “Then if you will excuse me, I have a dungeon to check.”

Ilulia bowed deeply. Poi waved.

And Erick stepped through a [Gate], into Benevolence Itself.

After a quick change of clothes and a check on the sky (nothing new) he stepped through another [Gate], onto a Platform hovering over Greensoil, about 2900 kilometers northeast-east from Odaali. An invisible Ophiel floated close behind, and then took his place on ‘Ashes’s’ shoulder.

Erick asked him, “Do you want to be visible? You can if you can take another form.”

Ophiel wiggled his body; a ‘no’. He liked himself, and he could be invisible for a lot longer than this. He was very good at hiding.

Erick patted him, and then flew the Platform forward.

- - - -

The Gem Dungeon was one of the less popular Grand Dungeons of the world, but it was still a Grand Dungeon, and was still treated as such.

It was a compound, foremost, and like the Pit down in Storm’s Edge it had some monster roads leading to it, but this was Greensoil, and the only monsters coming into the dungeon from the outside were random slimes, or gremlins, or monsterized cats. The Gem Dungeon didn’t need massive monster roads to funnel any monsters. The Gem Dungeon just left some disguised side entrances open all across the nearby land, and monsters generally fell into those holes, trying to follow the mana.

The Gem Dungeon itself was one central building that looked like a diamond-encrusted castle, surrounded by several satellite structures. A pub-carriage rail line on the southern side of the compound led all the way past the farmlands of Greendale, past the horizon to the south, where anyone who wanted to could step through the Dungeon Guildhouse inside Greendale and come out over here. It was a bit of a trip, but it wasn’t a bad trip at all. Most people came in that way every morning, but a lot of out-of-towners took their own transport, flying into the place on Platforms, to land at the Platform Station on the north east side of the main building.

One just had to stay above the Denials blanketing the land until you got to the dungeon itself, or else you might find yourself falling out of the sky.

As the wind whipped past Erick’s face, he stood firm on his Platform, guiding the soft-blue colored Force construct onto the public landing zone. A small team of delvers left on their own Platform, but aside from them, it was just Erick and a sleepy dungeon guide. The guide was currently slumped over his desk, where the hallway to the main structure joined with the Platform Station that Erick had just landed on.

At Erick’s approach the man woke up.

Erick tried being personable, “They must work you hard around here.”

The man blinked a few times. “Ah. Who are—” He rapidly turned professional, as if he realized he shouldn’t be sleeping in public, or something to that effect. “Welcome to the Gem Dungeon. How can I help you?” And then he looked ‘Ashes’ over, and came back unsure of everything. “Are you here to delve?”

“I am here to delve,” Erick responded, though he certainly didn’t look it.

No weapons and no armor, but his clothes were of a rather solid make.

The guide nodded, almost forlornly. “Ahh… You know you won’t get rich here, right? Literally none of the things that work in there will work out here. The Gem Dungeon, also known as the Glittering Depths, and Ironcrystal, is a Second Script dungeon. It’s about learning new magics under a different Script; not about making people rich.”

“I’m aware of some of that, but not much of it at all. None of the specifics. I’m still interested.”

The guide perked up. “Well okay then. Uhh…” He got up off his chair, saying, “I’m Guide Blacksmith. A pleasure to meet you…?”

“Ashes Woodfield.”

“Mister Woodfield, then.” Blacksmith walked down the hallway, saying, “Follow me, please.”

Erick followed.

Blacksmith led him out of the Platform Station, to the grounds surrounding the main building.

The central structure of the Gem Dungeon was a collection of iron-colored crystal, shaped mostly into a castle. A lot of people were sitting or standing around, talking to each other about monsters and about spellwork, and though Erick wanted to listen, every little thing he heard made him want to go inside the Gem Dungeon even more.

He let Blacksmith say what he wanted to say, though. Hearing someone actually explain what was going on would be better than listening to everyone talk about random things.

Blacksmith began, “The main entrance is right in there, and you’ll find delvers all over the place. We’ve got leaderboards inside for depth distance and more besides, which you’ll get to see when you go in there, but before you go, I’m a dungeon guide—” He tapped the pin affixed to his coat; it was a Dungeon Guild badge, but nicer. Not every place had guides, but this place did. “—And I can almost fulfill the role of a Registrar of the Script; not in function, but in information. Any questions you have. Any concerns about how anything works. I can tell you all of that. But I know most people don’t like to listen to lengthy explanations so I’ll leave it for you to come to me or any of my fellows if you wish to know how everything works. We’re a lot more open than Registrars of Rozeta, here at the Gem Dungeon.”

Erick was already looking around the entire compound, and every question he had he could mostly figure out from context and from the small words spoken about this or that, here or there. The largest clue that this place was not normal, was that almost everyone here wore ‘ironcrystal’ bracelets, or necklaces, or belts, and all of them had differently-colored gems socketed into those ironcrystal items.

The richer-looking teams with their nice clothes and their healthy faces, and their small laughs over beer or breakfast, served at a cafeteria to the side, even had staffs of ironcrystal, or wands. One particularly impressive woman who was probably a Juggernaut based on her muscles had a full chainmail tunic made of ironcrystal that shimmered upon her upper body like a layer of diamonds in the sun. A large shield held on her back, with three large hunks of red crystal embedded in the front, like someone had temporarily made the crystal malleable and then shoved the red crystals into it.

Ashes asked the Guide, “A small overview would be good, if you could.”

Blacksmith smiled. “I would love to.” And then he held up his hand, and began to lightshape images as he spoke. The first image was of an ironcrystal hunk. “This stuff you see all around us is a simple blend of iron and carbon, and this is what happens to it when it is exposed to the real world. It’s called ‘ironcrystal’ over here. But.” The ironcrystal image shifted, like an ice cube melting in zero gravity, the lump of crystal turned into a sphere of shimmering iron. “But this is its true form, inside the dungeon. It’s called meta-iron, but most people call it metiron. This is what you use to interface with spellwork. Find a hunk inside and shape it into a form you want, like a wand or a bracelet, depending on the spellwork you want to put inside, and then use. Armor makes for good defensive constructions, weapons make for good offensive constructions.

“The metiron will naturally absorb mana from you at rather fixed rates depending on your own production of mana, which is augmented by however much natural mana you produce while inside the dungeon. We don’t have access to your Script self, though, so we estimate your production through trials inside, which is how you increase your mana production to then stick that mana into the metirons.

“To use that mana, you have to find or make a spell into an item called a meta-diamond, and then you have to stick the meta-diamond, which most people call metamonds, into the metiron, and then you can use that spell, based upon the amount of mana that the metiron is able to absorb into itself.

“The bigger the hunk of metiron, the larger your well.

“Now to get spells themselves, you have to complete challenges inside the dungeon, and you can either be rewarded with a very basic metamond, based on how you completed the challenge, or you can make your own spells using a spell creation tome. Most people opt for the tomes, because the tomes teach you how to cast higher-powered magic, and if you can manage to cast that spell yourself in one of the specialty rooms provided to you by the tome itself, then you can make that spell into a spell gem, and take it with you outside of the creation room.

“Now that might seem complicated and different from spellwork here on Veird, but it’s really not.

“This whole thing is designed to show people how to make magic in low-mana environments; other worlds, or even space itself.

“In places like that, you would have a mana-collector and then a spellwork-activator, which is already sort of what happens with the Script right now. But this would be a way to do all of that without the Script. Even the part where people make their own magic in the tome-room would be possible outside of the Script, on new worlds where mana was thin; all you’d need to do was make a room of antirhine and dense metals or other sorts of specialty spellwork to up the concentration of mana inside that room, and then you could use that denser magic to manually make new ‘spell gems’.

“We prefer the official term of ‘metamonds’, though. Not spell gems.

“This whole system is basically a simplified form of the Script, by a great deal.” Blacksmith closed his hand and ended the minor lightshow, finishing with, “And we look forward to what spells you make and what you can do in a world with a whole lot less magic than the one we have here.”

Erick was enthralled.

With a slight excitement in his voice, Erick asked, “Where did the idea for this dungeon come from? It’s a lot different than the other ones I’ve visited.”

Blacksmith lit with calm joy. “That’s a good question! No one ever asks the good questions. It actually came from when The Wizard fought Anarchy and went out into space beyond the Script. Some guys got to thinking about how to work with that horror show of no-mana he told the world about, and now we’re here.”

Erick nodded slowly. He had been afraid of that, but also very excited. “So it’s going to be like stepping into space?”

That supreme emptiness. The Lack of Everything. The pain.

Erick shuddered.

Blacksmith noticed. “Not as bad as I heard from the story. Cores don’t explode inside the Gem Dungeon from the mana pressure. Otherwise all the monsters would die! Can’t have that.”

… Erick hadn’t ‘exploded’ back then, but it had been a near thing. Sometimes stories got exaggerated in the retelling, so he let it slide. Besides, he wasn’t The Wizard right now. He was simply ‘Ashes’. It wouldn’t make sense to truly ask all the suddenly important questions he had about how this place worked at all. He loved magic, and he had to know the Rules of this place, and how it all worked entirely, and if it really was a good approximation of what a no-mana world would actually be like, but he wasn’t going to go break his cover this soon, and definitely not by asking too-perfect of questions.

Yggdrasil needed to exist in 0-mana space when he got older, or at least his seeds did—

Erick had a lot of sudden questions.

The place was safe enough to delve on the regular, as evident by all the people standing around, getting ready for the day of delving, and by those constantly walking in and out of the main building. And it had monsters inside. So Erick wasn’t worried about his own core fracturing.

All Erick really wanted to do right now was to get inside that dungeon, and see what Atunir and some humans of Greensoil thought of, when they thought of 0-mana space.

Rather more like low-mana, though. Not in a true vacuum.

Erick asked Blacksmith, “Any words of advice before I head inside?”

“Lots! You’re a great listener.” Blacksmith happily said, “But I won’t hold you up with too much of an explanation. The dungeon is free to delve for anyone who shows up, as all Grand Dungeons need to be to retain that designation. There are lines and such in other places, but not here, and that’s because nothing that you do inside the Glittering Depths translates out here at all. All the ironcrystal you see on the people out here? All of that is just to show off how far they’ve gotten inside, and nothing more, since it’s useless iron-diamond when outside of the dungeon. Only the stuff that you actually earn will turn back into metiron inside the dungeon, though, so don’t think about breaking off a bit of the castle to make your first levels go faster. There’s a reason we have a castle made of the stuff, and that’s to deter would-be thieves by showing them how little it's all worth.

“And that’s another thing: Some of the people here have fake ironcrystal, trying to make themselves look stronger than they are. But it's a small community and those sorts of lies get called out fast.

