“If we do this, we're breaking the law.” Detective Ramirez said.

“Hey, I got you covered partner.” Officer Stonewall said, put a hand over her mouth, and the detective heard another voice close by.

“Help me!” A soft voice said from the basement window.

“What the hell was that?” Detective Ramirez asked her.

“That was 3 years of ventriloquism practice as a child.” Officer Stonewall chuckled.

“I've known you for over 2 years, and I didn't know you could throw your voice like that.” He said, and used the crowbar to break the basement window.

“How would that come up in conversation?” Officer Stonewall asked. “Hey, that case we worked on was a real bitch, wasn't it? By the way, I can make inanimate objects talk if I hold my lips closed.”

Detective Ramirez laughed as he cleared the glass away from the window. He took off his jacket and laid it over the window's bottom edge, and stuck his head inside.

“It's just a storage room.” He said, turned around, and slipped in feet first. Officer Stonewall heard something fall to the floor, and then a loud curse. She looked in through the window to see her partner laid out on his back on the concrete floor.

“Are you all right?”

“Why do people always ask that when someone gets hurt?” Detective Ramirez asked, picked himself up, and wiped off his pants.

“Are you hurt?”

“Only my pride and my backside.” He said, and she smiled.

“All right, I'm coming in.” Officer Stonewall said, turned around, and slid in feet first. She over-compensated with her movements, just like he did. “Ahhh!” She said and started to fall.

Detective Ramirez caught her easily, because he had positioned himself where he would have wanted someone to be when he had fallen. Officer Stonewall ended standing on her feet instead of on her butt; but, she was also in a deep hug with her partner. She stared up at him with surprise on her face, and it matched the surprise on his own. Both of their faces started to flush slightly red as the hug went on a little longer that it needed to. They let each other go quickly, and looked around the room.

“A door!” Detective Ramirez exclaimed, and went to it.

“Great!” Officer Stonewall said and banged into him as the door wouldn't open.

“It's a good thing I brought a key.” Detective Ramirez said, and used the crowbar on the hinges of the door. He pried them out, and moved the door out of the way. He glanced out, and ducked back.

“Do you see anything?” His partner asked.

“No, but I can't see all the way down the hall, either.”

“Any electric eyes?”

“Not just outside this door at least.” He said, nodded to her, and stepped into the hallway. She followed him out and was surprised by what she saw.

“Um, are basements supposed to have this many doors?” Officer Stonewall asked.

“It's not just the number of doors that's odd.” Detective Ramirez said. “Look at the length of the hallway.”

She turned around and looked where her partner pointed, and her eyes widened. “Okay, that's weird.”

The hallway was almost three times the length of the house.

*

Denise drove Ren and Stella to the mall, and they went into the custom tailoring shop.

“Welcome back!” The sales lady said. “Are you looking for more pajamas today?”

“Not today.” Ren said. “The others are working out great.”

“I'm glad.” The sales lady said. “What can I get for you?”

“It's not for me.” Ren said, and pointed to Denise. “She needs some custom fit clothing.”

“Wonderful!” The sales lady said and poked her head into the back room. “Lily! He's back!”

“Awesome!” A young woman's voice said, and she came out of the back room. “Hi!”

“Hi.” Ren said, and Lily looked at his two companions.

“Where's the tall redhead?” She asked. “She sure was a knockout.”

Ren chuckled. “She had to work.”

Lily clapped her hands together. “So, what magic do I have to perform today?”

Ren pointed to Denise again. “I've got a woman here who desperately needs your help!”

Lily looked her over, and gasped. “Oh, you poor thing!” She said. “That bra must be killing you.”

“How would you know that?”

“I've seen so many ill-fitted bras that I dream about them.” Lily said and laughed. “Come over to the underwear section, and I'll see what I can do.”

“I'd rather just get some clothes, if that's okay.” Denise said, a little uncomfortable.

“Nonsense!” Lily said. “How are you going to get clothes that fit over the bra, if your bra doesn't fit properly?”

Denise couldn't think of a reason, and Lily smiled.

“Look, just leave it all to me and my magic fingers.” Lily said. “I'll have you all snug and comfortable in no time.”

Denise looked at Ren and Stella, and they made shooing motions to her. She sighed, and Lily practically jumped for joy.

“Right this way!” Lily said, and dragged Denise by the arm to the underwear section.
