How did that… work? Despite her dire situation, the surprise at seeing her intact barrier holding against the overwhelming force of his potent death magic kindled a tiny spark in her chest. I am… stronger? What changed? Maybe I can get out of here? She had been convinced it would shatter, and the consequences of finding her magic to be insufficient did not bear contemplation. But she was still alive.

“Annoying pest! Just like your mother,” the Lich spat, unintentionally triggering a surge of pride in Ali’s heart. But he continued with ice-cold anger lacing his unnatural intonation, “And like her, you will surely perish.”

Ali gritted her teeth, but a different formation sprang up within the darkness of his form.

The sheer power of the new rush of mana surging within him staggered Ali, pressing down on her with nothing more than the intensity of what he was about to wield. It was a spell far more potent than most domain-empowered spells she had studied. The very same skill that had taken Nendir’s life right before her eyes. The same skill that had incapacitated Lyeneru in the final battle for Aman Rak. Yet this working was far stronger than either of those.

Decrepify!

Ali threw her mana into her barrier, gathering all the surrounding domain mana as well. She thickened and fortified the shield with all the power she could muster while staring aghast through the golden wall at the impending doom that mounted within him. The dark bolt of energy shot forth from his hand in a stream as thick as her torso, smashing into her barrier with a force that shook the very ground. Had her back not been braced against solid oak, she might have found herself smashed into the next realm.

Despite her resistance, he didn’t relent. Magic poured from the Blind Lich like a torrent drawn straight from an underworld ocean. Her pool filled instantly from mana reclaimed by her barrier, blasting out in all directions as a cascade of sparks, but it wasn’t her mana she was worried about.

Crack!

The sound she had been dreading pierced through her soul. A distinctly loud crack. Right down the center of the strongest barrier she had ever wrought. Decrepify fractured her barrier.

Crack! Crack!

Another crack shot out from the epicenter of his spell. Then, another.

In an act of pure desperation, Ali reached for her Life Channeling. From deep within the core of her being, she felt her soul being shredded as she fed her life essence as kindling to fuel her magic. A tiny golden speck floated up from her hands and pressed up against her barrier. Another speck drifted away, her life spent to power her barrier. More and more in number, they began to float up and her barrier grew rapidly denser, projecting a shimmering, thrumming aura as the force of her mana pushed several meters of moss and dirt away. The cracks vanished as she poured more of herself into opposing the Lich.

“I don’t think so,” Nevyn Eld declared. “That will not work on me a second time.”

A bolt of his Sacrifice spell shot off to the side, and the Greater Wight of Tol’brekk collapsed like a marionette with its strings severed by a reaper’s scythe. The immense energy within Blind Lich suddenly multiplied, growing several-fold stronger in an instant. The oppressive aura of despair crashed down on Ali, driving her to her knees as his dominating power ripped her Fear Ward asunder like a giant troll crashing through a spiderweb.

Ali’s scream echoed silently in the shattered halls of her mind. Her will, her grit, and her life channeling snuffed out.

It cracked. In an eyeblink, her barrier shattered into a thousand shards. She stared helplessly down the oncoming bolt of death framed picturesquely by the cloud of sparkling gold barrier fragments, flying slowly end over end. A tiny spark of her mind contemplated her death with the aid of her drastically enhanced mental speed.

I tried. Mom… I tried.

She had given everything, and in the end, she wasn’t enough. She didn’t know who she was trying to reassure. Herself? Her mother? Her friends? She was going to die, and with it, Nevyn Eld would raise a fearsome death knight from her corpse to serve him. Inwardly, she quailed at the anguish she had heard in Tol’brekk’s voice as he was forced to attack her. That will be my fate. She just hoped that with her death, and him getting what he wanted, he would leave her friends and the town alone. Not much chance, the tiny spark of her that was unburdened by the aura of despair answered. She stared at the roiling ball of oncoming death.

A gust of wind blew a cloud of leaves across her field of view, dancing and fluttering. Leaves that glowed bright green with nature mana. Leaves that she could see right through. A dense cloud of verdant wisps spontaneously manifested from the air as a ripple of dense nature-affinity mana rippled outward.

Suddenly, Lira stood there, kind eyes smiling down at her, and the despair seemed to fade.

“Aunt Lira?” Ali stared at her in bewildered surprise.

“Aliandra, dear. Please run.”

A bone-shattering explosion rocked the forest, flattening trees in a detonation of splinters and sap. Yet miraculously, she still knelt there looking up at Lira.

Ali froze, her lungs seizing as Aunt Lira jerked in front of her, a shock of darkness ripping straight through her chest. A wheezing gasp escaped her lips. For an instant, Ali saw only the gaping hole where her aunt's heart should’ve been, an impossible emptiness framed by the scorched edges of her leaves and flesh. Her mind bucked violently against the sight, refusing it, denying the sudden collapse of Lira's body onto the scorched and withered moss beside her.

She crawled forward without feeling the ground on her knees, breath caught somewhere deep inside, her throat tight enough to choke. Hands shaking wildly, she reached out, fingertips brushing her aunt’s skin – still warm, impossibly warm – but Lira’s eyes stared past her, blank and glassy. Ali pressed both palms desperately against the wound, but her hands were too tiny to block the warm, sticky sap that pulsed weakly between her fingers.

“No –” she rasped, voice cracking, breaking under disbelief and terror. “No, no…please –” The words dissolved, smothered beneath a thickening silence. Ali clung harder, as if holding on tightly enough might keep Lira there, might make the nightmare disappear. But already, beneath her trembling fingers, her aunt's vibrance and life stilled into nothingness, taking every trace of warmth with it.

A hissing cackle echoed in the silence.

A strange rushing noise swept through the dungeon as every last shred of Lira’s mana was suddenly drawn into her body, forming an intense glowing kernel of green within her breast. And then it winked out, leaving only the soft echo of Lira’s fading voice in her mind, “… run …”

“A… Aunt Lira?”

“Oh, my. What a lovely surprise,” Nevyn Eld drawled. “The Great Mother of the Deep Woods herself.”

Ali looked up in a daze, not comprehending what he was saying.

“I came for a pest, and I caught the prize.”

What… what is he saying?

“Arise!” the Lich intoned.

Under Ali’s desperate embrace, Lira stirred. Against all odds, she moved.

She’s alive! For a brief moment, hope surged in Ali’s heart.

But the thing that stood up was no longer her aunt. The kind person who looked out for her, offered emotional support when she was down, made tea for her, and listened to her problems and worries was nowhere in sight.

A shiver of dread took Ali, and she recoiled as the… thing… shook off her hold.

It got up wearing Lira’s shattered body and walked calmly over to the Blind Lich without even a backward glance. When it arrived, it placed its hand upon a floating pyramid of black stone. Runes flared to life, and suddenly Ali was driven back down by the oppressive force of dungeon rage that tore into her mind with the power of a thousand daggers. It was like nothing she had ever felt before, dwarfing even the dungeon rage she had been forced to endure from Alexander Gray’s Lyton Ruins.

Ali’s mind was swept away in the onslaught of power and pain.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
