High praise coming from Mila, she’s never said anything nice about my skills. Just like her mother. God if I ever said that out loud, I’m pretty sure she’d kill me. “You know, I’ve also learned a thing or two while I was gone. We should spar when I’m fully recovered.”

Sticking out her tongue, Mila grins and snatches a fried dough fritter from my tray, munching away with confidence. “Don’t be jealous. I’ll spar with you anytime you’d like, I’ve missed smacking you around, it’s great stress relief. It's only fair since you're the source of most my stress.” Skipping away to return to teaching, she appears to be nothing more than a carefree young woman, no hint of the unrivalled warrior to be seen.

She doesn’t stand a chance against me anymore, and if it weren’t for Yuzhen ordering me to keep my Aura hidden, I’d challenge Mila now. I can already see it, her eyes shut as she’s frozen with fear, helpless before me as I raise my hand, only to bop her lightly on the nose and declare victory. It’ll be magnificent.

I don’t care if it’s using an unfair advantage, I need a win in my column. Call me misogynistic, but I refuse to always be the weaker one in our relationship, a man should protect his woman. Even if it’s only for a few years until she condenses her own aura and beats me black and blue again.

Finished with my breakfast, I sit and watch with Lin nuzzled against my shoulder, enjoying the peace while drowsiness and discontent settles in. The calm before the storm, I couldn’t come up with any ideas for saving people from their imminent doom, the Purge growing closer with each passing day. Gerel explicitly warned me against speaking of or acting against the Purge, and for once, I’m inclined to agree. They’re willing to slaughter tens of thousands of innocents, what’s a few hundred more in the scheme of things?

Despite all the progress I’ve made and the strength I’ve gained, I still don’t have the power to change a thing. I’m leery of announcing ‘I’ can sense the Defiled, since I’m fairly certain it’s a Defiled skill. Who knows what the Empire's learned over millennia of combat with the Defiled, and I’m not willing to martyr myself for people I don’t know. I’m no hero, that’s never been a dream of mine. I only hope to live well surrounded by people I love, a simple dream for a simple man. This isn’t my fault, Laughing Dragon’s been around for years, who knows how long he’s been Defiled. The Purge was bound to happen sooner or later.

So why do I feel so damn guilty?

It all comes back to one simple question, something I’ll never truly understand short of Divine Intervention.

Why was I given a second chance?

...

Trying to uncover your cosmic purpose really takes the fun outta life.

Chapter Meme
