Many of the applicants looking at the manifested contracts in front of them press down on options, pushing a finger into the fragments of blue crystals.

I watch the holograms of text fold back into the floating devices, and the crystals shift their form slightly into compact cubes with data swirling inside of them before they float back to the oval table at the center of the room.

A majority of the crystals hover back toward the Apex Region's Director, while Dane and Nat's fly toward the Silca Region and Veridian Region's Directors respectively.

The only people who still look at their contract options in the line are Marcie, Emrie, and myself.

Marcie speaks up in the silent room.

"I'm not interested in signing any of these, am I free to go now?"

She pushes the floating crystal back toward the table without making any counter offers. In the same motion, she makes the move to put her new hunter's ID in her item box, but misses it on purpose.

It falls to the floor next to her feet, making a noticeable sound as it settles onto the hard mana shielding below us, then she just crosses her arms and waits for a response.

I feel auras of shock and confusion come from many of the Region Directors.

However, the Talton Region's Leader emanates pride and a bit of amusement from this display.

The other new B-Class hunters in my line are worried about what Mr. Freeman's reaction will be, but once he speaks up, it's clear he expected something along these lines to happen.

"We're happy to see our long-lasting agreement with the Talton Region is still producing strong warriors. Of course, it's not mandatory for you to sign. You may leave with your Director once our conversation here today has finished."

He pauses, then in the same instance, all of the blue gems are sent flying back from both him and the other two directors to their hunters.

"For those of you that have sent offers back, or wish to think things over longer; you will have 5 days until the yearly contract terms begin. So, I hope we can settle things by then. You may stay here in the Apex Region; we will happily accommodate you while you think about your future."

I think about his words and continue reading over the terms of many of the deals in front of me as the blue crystals are sent back and forth between hunters and directors.

Some of the blue crystals stop glowing and stay in their consolidated cube forms once agreements are settled. They all stack in a pile in the center of the table.

The only two people left in the room who haven't decided on their future are Emrie and myself.

The thought of spending time here in the Apex Region is partially appealing because I want to gain access to whatever facility is used for training A-Class Hunters, but at the same time, there's no way I want to be alone in a room with Mr. Freeman again before I can return to the Dark Continent and think up a plan to secure my victory in overpowering him without any unforeseen risks.

I send out a telepathy channel between all of my teammates during this exam and talk to them one by one, detailing the fact that I have a long-range communication ability and will be reaching out to them in the near future.

Dane has signed a 4-Year Guard Duty Contract with the Silca Region Director, while Nat has signed a 1-Year Dungeon Exploration Contract in the Veridian Region.

Marcie responds to my telepathy link with a message I expected to receive, but it is still a bit sad to hear it come from her.

"It was a pleasure working with you, whoever you are, but my loyalties still hold true to my leader. I thank you for the help, and hope to see you again soon."

She looks forward at her leader in the room, and I feel our link of loyalty slowly disintegrate.

It feels cold, like I'm losing a small part of myself, but she did tell me this would happen when we first started.

I smile inwardly, replying to each of them.

"The pleasure was mine; I'll see you all very soon."

Then, both Emrie and I push our crystals back without accepting, countering, or declining any deals.

I speak up to the board of Directors in front of us.

"None of these contracts seem very appealing to me either."

Emrie talks next, echoing the words I tell him to speak.

"We do hope that the presence of two Bedrock applicants passing the B-Class exams this year positively impacts our Region's funding. I wish to come back to a prospering home Region as a result of all my hard work. I have to agree with Ray, none of these contracts suit my needs."

Director Maylack smiles at these words, dimly lit by the golden light of Mr. Freeman.

He speaks up while catching the two dormant contract gems with light tendrils of energy.

"Very well, based on your performance, the Bedrock Region's funding will increase by 20% this coming year. If you'd like to privately negotiate for better terms in your contracts I'm happy to have a meeting set up for us while you rest in our facilities. Making such a life-changing decision deserves some time to think."

His aura emanates with more pressure now, like a wild animal staring down its prey.

I don't react to the instant change in his tone and aura, nodding slowly while replying with a cool and calculated tone.

"You gifted me a transport crystal back here to the Apex Region during the trial period of the exams. Emrie and I will use that to return here in 5 days if we've changed our minds."

The Director's aura completely shifts to one filled with confusion and unease.

"That is true, but if you could at least give us one meeting to talk things out. What is it that you want more than guaranteed access to a labyrinth that will bring you up to level 1000 within a month?"

The whole room's eyes shift toward me, as it seems these terms are one's they all envy.

The golden collars around Callum, the battle healer, and the Phantom Region's B-Class hunter all pulse golden, invisible to everyone in the room that doesn't wield Qi. They all step forward in unison as the Director speaks again.

"You have been given the chance to join your fellow applicants here on the path to an A-Class hunter, to join us in an upcoming war in the Dark Continent. This opportunity is once in a lifetime, what else could you possibly want?"

I think for a full 3 seconds, looking up at the dark ceiling before responding, then smile.

"You know what? There is something I want."

I look over all the seats of Directors before continuing.

"I want you to appoint me publicly as a Regional Director. If I'm going to be such a valuable A-Class hunter asset in the future, I want the world to know."

Gasps fill the room, hunters and Directors included, as I continue looking all of the Directors up and down, pretending to make my decision, but I already know exactly what I'm about to say.

My finger hovers in front of the Bedrock Region's Director for a moment, but he's never done me wrong; if anything, he's been the most helpful and pure-hearted one here.

At the last moment, before I speak again, my pointer finger lands right in front of Brutus, the Regional Director that ordered me to be killed in the Dark Continent, being the catalyst to my entire unorthodox methods of growth and journey back here.

"I want to be the Director of the Vice Region. Give me his spot..."

Inwardly, my smile is stretching ear to ear, but I only let my lips curve upward a crack to make my decision seem less targeted.

The room goes silent, as this wasn't expected at all. Requesting a position like this is far out of the realm of reasonable asks for a mere newly appointed B-Class to demand.

The dimly lit faces of all the Directors, and hunters behind them can't believe the words that just came out of my mouth.

After there isn't a response for a full 5 seconds other than more gasps and whispers, I decide this is more than enough to keep them talking and suit my short-term needs.

I shrug and speak again while putting a hand behind my back to reach into my fake manifestation of an item box to grab a teleport crystal out of my storage.

"Think about it. I'll be back in 5 days to take a private tour of these A-Class facilities you say can bring me up to level 1000 and then we will discuss the salary and contract time frame. If you won't accept this first simple term, then our negotiations end here."

Before there is any time for a response, I crush the fragile shimmering gem in my closed fist.

A flash of bright white light brings The Lich King and me back to the underground bunker beneath the Crimson City.
