She had separated the two when part of what made a beach the beach was walking in the surf.
She brought it back. Her grumbling guests didn’t see Erin terraforming the garden. They sat, shivering in the cold inn where Ishkr had to stoke the fireplace to warm it back up. She had told them an hour, and it was closer to an hour and a half as she worked fast.
The only two people allowed in the garden were Ulvama and Apista. The [Shaman] paced around, giving Erin advice, critiquing her placement of objects, and Apista buzzed about happily as the entire place shifted.
It truly was a powerful room, even if the original owner had left it blank. Most gardens didn’t have this ability to manipulate elements. This time…Erin took advantage of it in ways she hadn’t thought of before.
“Is this…good…?”
She was sweating by the time she got the ‘sky’ looking right. Ulvama clapped her hands together, and then she did hug Erin, much to the [Innkeeper]’s embarrassment. She ran up and down the beach.
“Yes, yes! You do get it! But do more!”
“Oh, is this all it is? I just thought it’d be nice for everyone to do. Not just two people.”
Ulvama gave Erin a pained look.
“If it’s fun for everyone, it can be fun for two people, right? That’s all it is.”
Erin wavered a long while as water began to run downhill.
“But there’s not something more to romance? To love? What about…a special connection? What about the rest?”
“That’s just liking someone a lot. Sometimes because you want to have sex. Hm. Make water warmer. Make ocean stupid and stormy more over there, okay?”
Apista listened to Ulvama’s wise words on relationships as Erin, sighing, adjusted her garden. Then she was done. She threw the door back open and shouted.
“Okay, everyone! Sorry! Beach 3.5 is ready to go! I had to do it. Come back in—and we’ll change our menus a bit.”
Lyonette stomped through the door first, glowering and shivering from being wet in the cold winter air.
“Honestly, Erin. You needn’t have changed it after half a day! What could possibly be better ab—oh. That is better.”
The other guests came into the beach fast, ready to be unimpressed. But rather to their surprise…this new beach wasn’t as dramatic as the last one. In fact, Mrsha began to complain, loudly, until she stopped and stared twice.
 
——
 
The ideal beach should have a shore. It should have the wild parts, the ten-foot waves, the surfing, but the beach was more than just a day swimming around.
What was a beach? Erin remembered playing on Michigan’s lakes as a girl. But she forgot—some people lived on beaches. And what about rivers?
An estuary was where a river meets a sea. It was a fast current sweeping down the long beachfront on a gradient. It was so strong that when Nanette jumped in, she was halfway down the beach, and it was a struggle to even fight the brisk current and resist being swept to the ocean below.
“The water’s warmer! Did you do that, Miss Erin?”
It was warmer, and the sun was less harsh. In fact…today, everyone turned, and Bethal gasped.
“Oh my, it’s beautiful.”
Erin did smile at that. The blue skies had changed. The illusion of light in the garden had become an evening sunset, red and orange and even purple and hints of green lit up the fading sky. She’d even fixed a fake sun in the back, as if it were setting against the sky.
Completely different in mood. The air still felt like salt, but there was a brisk wind moving around, and most crucially of all—the guests did a double-take as they saw what Ulvama had insisted on.
“Erin, what is that?”
“A bar.”
Rufelt and Lasica had set up a kind of primitive bar in the garden, but now there was an actual one with beach-chairs set up in the shade. And more than that—there were a bunch of sand walls dividing parts of the beach up. Erin pointed to a wall that was essentially a privacy screen on one half of the river.
“Okay, here’s how it is. The bar area is where people get to eat and socialize. But that’s the private relaxation area. In fact, if you want to put down a hut, go ahead.”
“Say what?”
Erin waved her hands as Bethal’s head snapped around.
“A hut. Like a resort. I didn’t have enough time, but people can spend the night on the beach if they want. I’ll call it Liscor Beaching!”
“That’s copying my thing!”
Menolit roared, but in delight. Erin’s eyes twinkled.
“Oh yeah? Well, I offer beachside walks, and I’ll let people rent a villa. Though again, they’ll have to make it first. I made that one.”
She pointed at a sandcastle ‘villa’ that was basically just a house made out of sand, minus furnishings. But it was catching people’s attention, and Bethal walked over fast.
“Miss Solstice, do you mean that if I had, say, a very lovely tent, I could set it up and pay you to sleep here overnight? I assure you, Thomast and I would be the best of guests.”
“Plus, the tent has silence spells.”
Pryde muttered, and Lyonette clapped her hands over her mouth. Bethal shot Pryde a warning look of ‘don’t mess this up for me’, and she gave Erin a huge smile.
“We would assuredly keep to your beach rules, Miss Solstice! I swear on House Walchaís’ name!”
Bethal lied like she breathed. But Erin just heaved a huge sigh and, after glancing at Ulvama, spoke loudly.
“That won’t be necessary, Lady Bethal. I am not saying it’s open season, especially if people don’t wanna be kissed, but I’ve been told that banning kisses is stupid.”
Gasp. Lyonette almost fell over in shock. Had someone replaced Erin? The [Innkeeper] spoke quickly.
“I’m just easing the restriction! That’s why we’re having the living area there. Then we’ll have sports here, and maybe even a spa or massages here. Wishdrinks’ staff says some of them know how to do it. The actual swimming part is nice over here—and over there is the whirlpool and storms and ten-foot high waves.”
She grew visibly happier when she pointed to the chaotic part of the beach, where, yes, she’d kept the diving board. But this…
This was a beach that combined the elements of the last beaches and improved them. In fact, it was even more profitable, because Bethal immediately put down a deposit for a spot, and people began asking Erin if they could haul in lumber and how much for a night. In fact—Wailant looked at his ship, which had been taking longer to build than he thought, and at Erin and came to a quick decision.
“Erin!”
She jumped as he strode over, arms spread wide. Wailant pointed.
“Sell me three spots. Here’s the deal: you let me set up an inn…inside your inn. Something plush. Blankets, pillows—we’ve got loads of the older stuff in the farm. Dead gods, we’ll throw in the guest bed!”
“And why do you get three spots, Wailant? Viceria, you, and Garia all get a house? What about the others?”
The [Pirate] looked askance at Erin.
“What, I only need one! But then I rent out all three each night. You get…one-fifth of the profits? I’m doing all the labor.”
Erin folded her arms, impressed at how fast he’d come to his new business model. Timeshares? Someone should stop this man from bringing them into the world, but in truth, Wailant was more like a resort owner.
“Don’t you have a farm to run?”
“Bah, it’s all snowy, and it’s just animals. In fact, I’ll sell you my spitting sour melons! There’s no wildlife here—let’s have a few animals roaming around! Fish in the water? I reckon there has to be some bastards for fishing. Imagine it.”
He took her by the shoulder and held his arm out, envisioning the gold pouring in. Erin had to laugh.
“Oh, alright. But just make it a nice place for people to stay. Okay? Somewhere to get away from it all.”
She was eying Jelaqua and Maughin, who were looking at the very polite Dullahans and others and eying Erin. The [Innkeeper] had, in fact, set up that part of the garden like a maze, and you could walk along that section of beach without being seen.
Privacy, Ulvama had claimed. Not romantic petals floating in dubious bathwater or candlelight dinners like Erin pictured. You could have that, but what she really meant was…a beautiful sunset. Warm, pleasant air, and the ability to do what you wanted in peace.
Erin could get behind that. Wailant was getting nervous because more people, Menolit included, were pushing forwards and trying to copy his idea.
“How about it, Erin? Let’s shake on it. One…fourth?”
Erin held out her hand, and he grabbed for it—only for her to raise it.
“Gotcha! Lyonette, Yelroan! You’re in charge of dealmaking.”
The [Pirate]’s face fell. Erin backed away, beaming, and then turned just in time to see someone celebrating the raising of her kiss-ban.
“Yay! We don’t have to not-kiss? It was a stupid rule, anyways!”
Visma hugged Mrsha, and Mrsha kissed her on the forehead. Even the kids had been mocking Erin. The [Innkeeper] shook a fist at them as they laughed and pointed at her.
“I did it for you! For public—aw, nevermind. Enjoy.”
It was like Erin had opened a dam, because now they saw the private area, there were a lot of people suddenly asking if there was room for a group and keen to introduce themselves to members of the opposite sex.
That was only the visible flirting. Liska stared about and decided she had to build a nice spot—and then make some introductions when there were fewer listeners. Onieva was laughing as she waved at Erin in thanks—and Visma, who was also laughing, planted a kiss on Ekirra’s cheek.
The Gnoll boy went scarlet under his fur, then ran into the surf, shouting. Mrsha laughed at him until she saw Visma’s smug smile and frowned, confused.
“Oh, what have I done?”
Erin rubbed at her forehead, but Ulvama just patted her on the shoulder.
“Good things. See? Look how they smile.”
Erin turned…and Jewel and Normen were in line to buy a spot, laughing. Her face softened, and Erin remembered why she’d made this damn beach to begin with.
She’d lost sight of it along the way of trying to perfect her beach-making Skills, fishing underwear out of the water, kicking jerks and people trying to buy tickets out of the beach, and enduring Lord Tyrion’s presence.
“Oh. That is nice.”
She kicked at the sand again, and this time no cat poo emerged. So Erin turned to Ulvama and whispered, a bit embarrassed.
“I didn’t mean to ban kissing as in…people having fun. I just—it wasn’t just for the kids. Mrsha doesn’t care. I guess I just thought it was weird for us to see.”
“People kissing?”
“Yeah. I mean, it’s awkward. I guess it was stupid to ban it explicitly, huh?”
“Yep.”
“But—you’ve never seen how some of them kiss!”
Erin turned redder, and Ulvama sort of wanted to ask what kind of professional-grade kisses Erin had seen. But she hmmed, because it made more sense. Erin never looked more lost than when someone confronted her with romance. And few people even thought to do that, these days.
Poor [Innkeeper]. She was just like Tremborag, though Ulvama would never tell her that. He’d had lots of sex, but he had pretended he had no actual heart. At least in Erin’s case, she was trying to change. After a while, Erin glanced about.
“Whatchu gonna do, Ulvama? Are you going to find—fun people?”
Erin scowled a bit at the thought, but the [Shaman] just patted her on the head.
“Nah. Something more fun.”
“Like wh—oh no.”
Erin got pulled over and almost resisted, but the [Shaman] was grinning.
“This time, you choose your hair. I can even do only tips or striped-patterns…you want rainbows? I can do that. Mrsha! Come over and we dye your fur crazy! You want a black skull on your back?”
Mrsha came racing over—and so did Lyonette to demand Ulvama not do that. But Ulvama just waved a claw at her.
“You don’t speak. You can barely dye your hair another color when you’re ‘hiding’. I am a professional. I do amazing hair. I’ll do yours.”
“Me? Well…”
Lyonette eyed Erin’s rather impressive dye-job in, what, less than an hour? If Ulvama could do that—
“I suppose I could patronize your work, Ulvama. If you and I go through the available colors. I’m not opposed to new looks.”
The Goblin snorted as she put out her dyes.
“Yeah, sure. Bring money.”
“M-money?”
Lyonette’s face fell again, and Ulvama grinned.
“Sure. I do hair and neck-spines and fur.”
Even the Drakes looked around as the Hobgoblin rubbed her claws together. And she had a rare thing too. Erin Solstice lay down on the beach and stared at the sunset, a clone of the ones she’d seen before.
“It is nice. Alright, Ulvama. I guess I could do my old hair…but with, like, some cool strands of color. Can you give me green and blue? So it sorta looks magical, like Garia’s hair but a bit more pronounced?”
“Mhm. You want white?”
“…That sounds cool. Is that too many colors?”
Ulvama rolled her eyes, but she grinned as Mrsha held up her image—a crudely drawn skull on her back with flames coming out the mouth. Nanette wanted golden highlights, and there was already a line.
But the real magic was Erin lying there and relaxing. She murmured, counting down the days.
“We’ve still got plenty of time. But not enough. If only it could last.”
Day after day…Ulvama patted her on the forehead as someone came down to lie next to Erin.
Rags had no interest in canoodling, but she pointed at her hair.
“Give me something good, [Shaman].”
“You got money, random [Chieftain]?”
Rags threw some gold coins at Ulvama, and the [Shaman] prepared their dyes, sketching with a claw on a bit of paper as she decided to enlist a curious Nanette, Visma, and Kenva, much to Watch Captain Venim’s horror, as helpers. Erin smiled at Rags, and for once—
Relaxed.
The surf rose and fell, and Onieva looked back at Erin as she leaned on the new bar that Rufelt was already demanding upgrades for, and Antinium were clattering around with boards and nails and furniture.
This beach would get even better, and she had a feeling this one might be here to stay.
“Well, well, well. Do you think it was the [Shaman] or Erin? They can’t have done this for us, right?”
Mirn just eyed the ‘private villas’ and thought about all his friends who would definitely come here because it was a popular beach. So all the male Drakes could kiss all the female Drakes just like the Ancestors intended, and definitely not anything else in the private villas. Nosiree.
He smiled.
“I think…we could rely on her a bit more, Onieva. I’ll go and spread the word. You have fun.”
She smiled and winked at someone who was watching her across the bar and got a blush.
“Oh, I think I will.”
 
[Witch of Second Chances Level 20!]
[Skill – Spell School: Color Magic Proficiency obtained!]
[Skill – Drain Color obtained!]
[Skill – Infuse Color obtained!]
