“Sure. Not like Rags and Taganchiel. They have…what’s the word? Mutual respect. Psh. Tremborag was different. He was worried about having power. I kept trying to steal it. His lieutenants tried to steal it. He grabbed it back, lost it—you mess up, you get punished or killed. I understood that.”
“So you…were a better fit for him?”
Erin was troubled and wished she could see more than Ulvama’s stomach as the Hobgoblin kept working. Ulvama’s voice was level.
“Oh, sure, sure. Taganchiel was never a good [Shaman] in Tremborag’s tribe. Like Rags couldn’t be. Me? I know Tremborags. We had sex. I made his lieutenants like me. He couldn’t get rid of them. But I also helped him. Like…two people holding knives at each other’s throats while stabbing a third person together.”
That sounded terrible. Erin stared upwards.
“Did you like him?”
“Me? Not really. He was strong, and the tribe was rich. Why?”
“—You said you had sex with…?”
Ulvama waved that off as she poured more shampoo-stuff into the bowl.
“Oh, that. Mountain City tribe isn’t like—wasn’t like—Redfangs. Some tribes are like that. Garen was a strange [Chieftain]. So is Rags. They have different roots.”
“I don’t get it.”
Ulvama tapped her chest with a sigh.
“My tribe was more…purer…than Rags’. Or Garen’s. Or even Pyrite’s. You know Molten Stone tribe?”
“Rags said there’s a [Witch] in it.”
“Yep. All of those tribes are different because Garen was an adventurer. Pyrite learned from an old, stupid Goblin who never talked to me or Tremborag. Rags talked to you. The Goblins from Molten Stone come from further off. Respectable Goblins. Mine was always just…Goblins. Hungry Goblins. Dying Goblins. No one ever gave us blue fruits and spaghetti. We were hunted, not hunters. That’s how I grew up. Like that.”
She didn’t look happy when she said it, but there was a kind of pride in her tone. Erin looked up bleakly.
“How hard was it?”
Ulvama paused and seemed to weigh her words. She stopped, then poured something into Erin’s hair-washing bowl and spoke.
“Almost done. Few last washes. I need more water. Open door to water?”
Erin had a store of water in big kegs now, as well as the well. Ulvama drew more water and began washing Erin’s hair to clean it out before she spoke.
“Before the Mountain City tribe was strong…Tremborag was not always the one Goblin. Before, it was factions. They killed us after Velan died, we rebuilt. I am older than Velan, like Tremborag. Not six. I am twenty-nine years old! One of the oldest except Tremborag!”
She puffed out her chest. Erin gave her a surprised look.
“You look as young as Numbtongue!”
Ulvama splashed her with some water.
“Goblins don’t age like you silly people. You focused on the wrong thing. Twenty-nine! Twenty-nine! Few Goblins, even before Velan, got that old.”
“Oh. Congrats?”
Ulvama looked incredibly disappointed and added more of her tonic into Erin’s final washes.
“Yeah. Thanks. Mountain City Goblins have always been…nasty. To women they capture. To men. You know what they did.”
Erin stared up at Ulvama.
“I know. I’m glad that tribe’s gone. Even if I don’t think they should have been slaughtered. Do you feel bad?”
For a reply, Ulvama just sighed.
“Bad…bad? I didn’t think of it until Rags and Pyrite complained and screamed and rebelled. You say ‘good’ and ‘bad’. I say it was how it always was. We did these things to Humans and everyone else. Tell me, Erin. What do you think they did to Goblins who got captured that they didn’t kill right away?”
Erin stared up at Ulvama as something ran through her, cold and unpleasant.
“…They didn’t do that to Goblins?”
The crimson light in Ulvama’s eyes was harsh and, suddenly, intense. But her claws were very gentle.
“Why. Not? All the things you can’t do to people, you can do to monsters. Especially if they die afterwards. See? My tribe is pure. Rags is the one who thinks of a kind [Innkeeper], of good people, and wants to come to the inn. She and I don’t fit. Do you understand now?”
In a way, Ulvama did fit with Erin’s moods because this was not the restful hair treatment either had planned. But it was honest and real, and Erin lay there. She didn’t ask Ulvama if she had seen anything like that firsthand.
She thought she knew. But after a lot of searching, Erin said the thing she felt she had to and hoped was right to say.
“I don’t know about your past, Ulvama, but you took care of Numbtongue and Mrsha when I was dead, and you helped save Mrsha, and you’ve done nothing here but, like, steal food. Which is fine. I don’t want you to leave. I was just asking. You’re a big help, and you can stay here forever, like I said.”
Ulvama gave Erin a long, searching look. Then she patted Erin on the head with sudsy, oddly pale hands and began to wash them in some soap.
“Hah. Is easy to stay here and be nice to an [Innkeeper]. Free food for life. Why would I go with Rags and work hard?”
She scoffed and began putting away her supplies. Erin wasn’t fooled, and neither was Apista. The bee latched onto Ulvama’s arm and tried to hug her until Ulvama swatted at her.
“Gah! Get off, stupid bee!”
It was an odd friendship, but when Erin glanced at Ulvama, she had another sense. Ulvama had done a lot of what Lyonette and Numbtongue and others had observed to be calculated flirting—at the start. But now she seemed ready to loaf around, tease Mrsha, and do her own thing.
Maybe that was a sign she felt like she didn’t need to buy security. And her kind of transaction was one Erin was uncomfortable with. She liked Erin’s gardens. It was safe here. No one could get in.
“Y’know, I haven’t had that background, but I once had a similar—I mean, it was—”
Erin began as Ulvama packed up her supplies. Then she trailed off. The [Shaman] looked at Erin, then flapped a hand after Erin hesitated a good minute.
“This good. Too much deep talk makes heads hurt. Tell me later when it pops out. Show off nice head to people. We’ll do face and skin and clothing later.”
Erin was a bit relieved, and she nodded. There was more to life than the beach, which this proved. She and Ulvama went to the new beach of today, and Erin showed off her new hair of today.
…It took her a few minutes of people staring at her to realize that Ulvama hadn’t just stopped with washing, conditioning it to be glossy, and drying and combing it out.
She’d also dyed Erin’s hair.
 
——
 
When Olesm Swifttail, [Strategos] of Liscor’s army, came by to visit the beach and consult with Erin about moving his people back towards Liscor for the Winter Solstice, he was walking down the beach garden and wondering how far Erin’s powers stretched.
She’d created an actual plateau over the miniature sea below where people were swimming. True, she’d had help getting the quality sand and water and such, but how much power did she have?
Not to mention her acquaintances. In fact, Olesm had arrived just in time to see some Wyverns landing in the distance, and Rags had come striding into the inn moments before him. They’d nodded, and Olesm had wondered if he’d have to fight her.
When he saw Erin, the [Strategos]’ head turned, and he kept walking—then tripped over the edge of the plateau and went tumbling into the water. Lyonette had her hands over her mouth as Erin chased Ulvama around; the [Shaman] was cackling.
“You’re just mad because it looks good!”
“It’s very—I don’t think she’s wrong, Erin! Your hair looks wonderfully glossy, and you’re so—regal.”
Erin turned, red-faced, but nowhere near as red as the crimson, fiery hair on her head. She and Lyonette looked related, and the mark of Terandrian royalty…
Olesm had to climb up to the plateau, using one of several rope ladders, and he was glad someone else said it first.
“She’s like a younger Maviola El. She needs more black and just a bit of the red and orange…but she’s got the Skill and temperament.”
Erin’s head swung around, and Lady Pryde refused to retreat as Erin turned redder.
“I’m not Maviola! Ulvama! Undo this right now!”
“What, you want blue? Green? Purple? White? I can do those. How about rainbows? It only last until you use the right soap.”
The [Shaman] poked her head out from behind a rock and smirked. Erin calmed down a bit.
“Oh. I thought this was gonna be like this for weeks. Well, if that’s the case—do I look like Lyonette, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll girl had come out of the water to look at Erin, and she eyed Lyonette and Erin and shook her head. Erin scowled.
“Darn. I thought we could fake people out or something. ”
Then she noted Olesm standing there and turned towards him.
“Olesm! And Rags? You made it!”
“I got your invitation.”
Rags was steady. Olesm—still looking at Erin. He started, then nodded as Erin’s beaming smile became less pronounced. Their invitation was…well, a reminder. She halted, and Ulvama glanced at Erin as the [Innkeeper] stood there seriously a moment.
“Come on in, guys. Relax—do you have anyone else? If you need anything, just ask.”
Olesm hadn’t brought more than Belgrade, but a bevy of Goblins had come with Rags. Erin looked around for a huge Minotaur, but Olesm shook his head.
“He thought he wouldn’t be welcome in Liscor. Besides, someone has to coordinate the army moving.”
“Army moving? Are you bringing them back to Liscor? What about the war?”
Olesm hesitated and felt at his belt pouch.
“We’re—repositioning. Hectval’s silent, but I’m bringing back as much as I can for Liscor as well. I need to balance carefully.”
Rags nodded, taking off her boots and wiggling her toes in the sand with happiness.
“Me too. Lots of Humans and Drakes moving about. Like some idiots camping in the mountains just past the Bloodfields. We have to stay away from them.”
Somewhere in the distance, General Shirka slapped a claw over her eyes, and Chaldion sat up slowly. He snapped his fingers, and someone was getting demoted if Goblins had seen them from the air.
All this serious talk had Erin nodding and asking what, exactly, they planned on. Which was interesting because for once, she wanted to know how many…and where.
It was Ulvama who noted how hard Erin was working, and despite the [Innkeeper] having outlets and actually liking her beach bonanza—she had limits.
If Ryoka was the pot with the covered lid, which just exploded after pressure built up—Erin was more like a tea kettle who knew how to vent steam and often did. But even a tea kettle could run out of water or just melt under enough heat.
Still, as Ulvama had observed, Erin did not relax when someone pampered her or took away things to do. She got more stressed by people taking care of her, sometimes.
“Silly [Innkeeper].”
However, the solution lay in the problem. Ulvama glanced around, stared down the whirlpool funnel where Ekirra was being swept away to the water level, and then up at the huge diving platform. And she came to a simple conclusion.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice didn’t keep tabs on everyone in her inn. Laken was better at it because he was blind and had more attention to give to his [Emperor]-sense, but he was also a leader and had practice.
If she didn’t focus, she didn’t notice Tessa, for instance, creeping around in the basement and throwing things at a wall, or so Erin guessed. Since they were only potatoes, Erin let her vent. Tessa was a whirlwind of emotions, and every time Erin tried to talk to her, she just ran away.
Something was wrong, but Erin was unable to actually get close to her. When someone high-level didn’t want people to be around them, it was almost impossible to d—
“No, wait a second. Someone is talking to her. What’s that about? Sorry, Rags. I’ll be back in a second.”
Erin had just set up Rags with a beach umbrella and a drink when she frowned. Then—a door opened under her feet, and she fell through it. Olesm nearly spat out his drink at the amazing mobility.
“When did she learn that trick?”
“Handy. Maybe this time she’ll get out of danger. Or into it faster.”
Rags observed as some of her Goblins raced about, complaining they weren’t getting the beachshore experience. When Poisonbite, who’d found Kevin at once, saw the surfboard, she instantly demanded it.
 
——
 
“Tessa?”
Shriekblade instantly tried to vanish the moment Erin appeared. Her face, already twisted into a scowl, turned into such an aggressive snarl that Erin stopped. Shriekblade tried to go—but someone had a claw on her arm, and the one person in The Wandering Inn who could stop Tessa, who thought of Tessa or even noticed her, had a grip on her.
Onieva Oliwing was inspecting Tessa’s condition, and her claws skated over the ground as Tessa tried to move. But Onieva was stronger.
“Tessa, in the name of the Ancestors, stop it. You haven’t eaten, and you’re spiraling.”
“I’m fine. Let go of me. I’m cured. I have the flowers.”
“Oh, yes? Then why did I find you throwing potatoes at a wall? When was the last time you ate or drank?”
They blurred—and Erin saw hands flying so fast that the twisting figures only resolved into Onieva, with Tessa in a headlock, as the Drake clawed at Onieva’s side. Tessa grabbed a dagger, and Onieva spoke.
“Don’t, Tessa.”
“You’re just Saliss’ cousin. I’ll kill you.”
Tessa was hissing. Onieva slowly let go of her, but she kept a claw on Tessa’s arm.
“How about you have a drink of something? Water or milk, and a bite of something? Then I’ll let you go. Deal?”
Tessa’s face was waxy, but she hesitated, then pushed Onieva aside hard and went upstairs. The Drake exhaled as Erin followed.
“Calescent! Bring something simple out for Tessa, please! And a drink of milk?”
To her astonishment, Onieva intervened again.
“I’ve got this. Tessa, what do you want to eat?”
“I don’t fucking care.”
The Drake had curled up at a table. But Onieva brought over a menu.
“Anything?”
The [Rogue] refused to speak, so Onieva patiently pointed at the top.
“How about a pizza?”
“No.”
“Well, me neither. How about…a bagel sandwich?”
“No.”
“A Yellat salad?”
“No.”
“Pancakes?”
“No.”
“Cracklefish fry? Spicy?”
“No.”
It was fairly incredible how patient Onieva was. She read off fifty-eight items until Tessa finally said ‘yes’ to a double-toasted-mushroom-instead-of-bun Corusdeer burger, so rare the meat would run off the plate, on top of a stir-fry of scallions and carrots.
And a glass of goat’s milk.
It was amazing to Erin, but she saw something in Onieva’s patient way with Tessa that said at least one knew the other fairly well. When Onieva was done, she patted Tessa on the arm as the other Drake began eating and came over to Erin.
