“Beach. Beach. Beaaaaaaaaach…”
At this point, it was growing concerning. Nanette and Mrsha came down with two new tools for their ongoing fun. They’d made—with Kevin’s help—two long wooden tubes they reckoned they could use to swim around underwater. Extra-long scuba tubes, Joseph had called them.
The sight of Erin Solstice lying face-down on the floor of her inn, muttering one word over and over in the pre-dawn darkness, wasn’t scary. It was so not-scary, in fact, that the girls woke up Lyonette.
The [Princess], Ser Sest, and the girls stared at Erin.
“She’s fine. I think she’s just stressed out, you two. From cleaning the beach, the tiff with Garry yesterday, not murdering Lord Veltras, and him befriending Garry of all things…why don’t you say good morning?”
“Why don’t you, Miss Lyonette?”
Nanette whispered back as Mrsha shook her head vigorously. Lyonette turned to Ser Sest.
“Sest, take her a morning cup of coffee.”
The [Knight] hesitated so long she raised her brows.
“That is a [Princess]’ order, Ser Sest. Or are you invoking your right to refuse?”
The [Knight] gave her a covert bow as he whispered.
“With respect, Your Highness, all my honed instincts tell me this would be the moment when Miss Solstice sacrifices me to the beach…or turns me into a watermelon. She is a [Witch]. I am a [Knight]. I rather feel that I’m disadvantaged when it comes to this encounter. Which is why I vouchsafe Calanfer’s [Princess], who surely stands above an [Innkeeper] and [Witch].”
Lyonette looked incredulous as he stepped back behind cover. She was so incredulous that she had to wake up Numbtongue…and coincidentally, Lady Salkis. Mrsha gave them a long stare as the two crouched with the others.
“Why are we scared of Erin, again?”
Salkis hissed at them. Numbtongue peered at Erin, wearing only his trousers.
“Because she’s muttering scarily. And because she’s very stressed?”
“Psh. This is a joke, right?”
Numbtongue gave the Drake a skeptical look.
“She turned into Sserys, remember? You go poke her. I’ll watch.”
The Drake almost did just that. She’d been nervous for no particular reason and avoiding people in The Wandering Inn—again, for no particular reason—until recently. She almost stepped out there and then, but thought about it.
“What’s the worst that could happen?”
The rest of the people peeking at Erin conferred. Sest raised a hand.
“Turned into a watermelon?”
Lyonette eyed Erin.
“Roundly insulted and humiliated like Jewel?”
Erin opens a garden door into some horrific place where you fight for your life against whatever monsters are in there?
Nanette had the most reasonable take.
“I don’t know, but go ahead and touch her. She’s clearly waiting for someone to bother her. I rather think Miss Erin’s in a bad mood, and we need someone to suffer.”
She and Mrsha pushed at Salkis, and the Drake suddenly decided she wasn’t in the mood to go out there. This did feel like a trap. Especially because someone pointed something out.
“Uh. Guys.”
Ryoka Griffin. Everyone jumped and shushed her as the newest sacrifice came downstairs. But Ryoka just stood there, peering at Erin.
She knew stress. She’d had an embarrassing cry in front of Xitegen, Tyrion, and all their guards yesterday. If Ryoka had that…she had seen Erin’s letter.
Her friend had to be feeling the same. This was her way of dealing with it. It was rather…Saliss-like, actually. Lyonette whispered urgently.
“Ryoka! You go!”
“Nah. Nerry? Shaestrel?”
The Spring Faerie and the lamb hadn’t even come downstairs. They were both watching Ryoka with sinister amusement. Both knew how to avoid the death-radius of incoming fire.
“Ryoka, keep your voice down!”
More people were waking up, but they were clustered on the stairs, and Ryoka shook her head.
“What’s the point? She’s clearly going to get one of us.”
“Right, so let’s not make it me!”
Everyone chorused, but Ryoka pointed out something they’d clearly forgotten. She glanced upstairs as more people noisily banged downstairs.
“She knows we’re here, you know. Remember? She senses everything in the inn.”
The group huddled by the stairwell paused. Then someone shouted.
“Hey, sheep, outta the way! I’m starving! Morning, everyone! What’s going on?”
Relc Grasstongue came stomping downstairs in good humor. Everyone stared at him in horror and perked up. Perfect!
“Oh, Relc, why don’t you say hello to Erin?”
Lyonette whispered. Relc stared past Lyonette’s right shoulder.
“Hi, Erin?”
Lyonette felt all the hairs on her neck standing up. Like a horror movie that Mrsha and Nanette had watched…the two girls turned slowly, and Erin Solstice had gotten up. She threw up her arms and screamed as everyone shrieked in surprise.
“Beach!”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was tired. She was glad she hadn’t actually done something mean to her friends today.
She’d nearly unleashed something on them…but it was a surprise, and she’d caught herself just in time. Why was she attacking her friends?
Well, if it made Chaldion or Laken or Lord Tyrion take things seriously, she’d give them an object-lesson. But she thought they were serious, thanks to Ryoka in part.
Erin realized she might be stressed and said as much to Ulvama.
“I think I’m stressed.”
The [Shaman] stopped in their morning dance routines and turned to face Erin. She was sweating in the koi-pond garden that the two had essentially turned into the dance-garden. Ulvama was one of the few people who were allowed in at all times, and she had even brought some of her supplies here.
The paints she liked to mix up, a pillow, books…Erin sometimes caught her napping here when she didn’t want to share space with anyone.
“Yeah, I’m worried. Do I look stressed to you?”
The Hobgoblin eyed Erin.
“Today, you lay on the floor muttering ‘beach’, then scared everyone. Yah. Sounds stressed to me. You need more dancing. Or restful, non-stress things. Or sex…”
She peered at Erin, then waved a hand.
“…Nah. Not for you. You need Erin-beach made for Erin. An [Innkeeper] for [Innkeepers].”
“That sounds sorta nice.”
Erin thought Ulvama had a point. She raked a hand through her hair, and the Hobgoblin noticed Erin’s rather frazzled look.
“You look bad.”
“I know. It’s just that I was up all night working on the new configuration of the garden. It’s training, plus I wanted to keep it going, and I am worried. Ryoka said she actually had a meltdown, so we’re both—”
Ulvama went over to her things and came back with a wooden comb.
“No, you look bad. Hair’s bad. Bleh.”
Ulvama had dreadlocks when she cared to, or her own braids with beads or stones at other times. Erin felt at her hair.
“It’s not bad. Is it?”
Ulvama, for reply, inserted the comb into Erin’s hair, then took her hand away. Erin didn’t have long hair; she liked it shorter.
The comb stayed where it was without help. Dried sand and sweat, among other things, were calcifying Erin’s hair in place.
“Okay, maybe that’s bad. I’ll wash it later.”
“You don’t take care of your hair. Also, like the weird Courier-girl.”
“Ryoka.”
“Yes, her. You two don’t take care of hair or skin like the [Princess]. Hold still. I have nice hair-gel here.”
Erin protested.
“Aw, Ulvama. Come on! I wash my hair!”
“Yes…just that. You need to do more.”
“Ryoka gets away with just the minimum, and she’s pretty good!”
“Yeah. She also has bare feet. Some people like it. Some people, like Redfangs, can run around stupid and sweaty and look good. Not us.”
Ulvama, surprisingly, lumped herself on Erin’s side of things, glowering at the imagined Ryokas of the world. Nothing would do but that she found some fresh, non-koi water, her homemade hair gel and soaps, and began washing Erin’s hair.
She had the oddest priorities. Erin squirmed and protested.
“What are you, a [Barber]?”
“Nope. Just better than you. Hold still.”
“How long is this gonna take? I’ve gotta—”
Ulvama swatted the back of Erin’s head when she tried to get away. Erin yelped and punched at Ulvama.
“Ow.”
“Sorry! But don’t do that! I’ve gotta—”
“Hair first.”
Erin could either try to walk off or sit still. If she opened the door under her butt, she could fall into another place. But Ulvama had her fingers in her hair, and either the Goblin would break her fingers or rip out Erin’s hair by the roots.
She was oddly…stubborn about Erin’s hair. Few people could bully Erin these days, and Ulvama, who was now in charge of Erin’s physical conditioning, was someone most people didn’t even think about.
If they saw the lazy [Shaman], they hardly expected her and Erin to be talking every day. But Erin’s life was filled with the [Innkeeper] of chaos she presented to the world and quieter moments like this.
Erin supposed she was weird from the outside. So…that was how she ended up sitting in a garden where no one but Apista could see them as a Goblin washed her hair.
She needed days like these. No, she needed routines like these.
If Erin was just the Erin who stomped around acting as a beach lifeguard, she would go insane. Or, if she was the one preparing for the Winter Solstice with wrath and fire…she would not be an [Innkeeper], but a [General].
“…So? What’s the beach look like today?”
After a few minutes of fussing around, Ulvama got Erin to lay back so she could dunk her hair in a bowl of water. She began massaging Erin’s scalp, and the [Innkeeper], tired after the morning dances, lay there and tried not to be uncomfortable.
She’d been to barbers, and it was a surprisingly analogous experience. Even comfortable, but Erin didn’t like having people attend to her.
“I can wash my hair with your stuff, Ulvama. I won’t run off—”
“Hah. Shut up. Why is it so hard to let someone take care of you if you take care of everyone? What’s the beach like?”
The [Shaman] blithely ignored Erin’s comment, and the [Innkeeper] gave up. She lay there, staring up at the blue ‘sky’ of the garden’s dome.
“Well…there’s a huge frickin’ cliff.”
“You made a cliff?”
“Yup. It must be, like, forty feet high. You climb up it and go diving into this big pool. But the pool’s actually more like a whirlpool.”
“Wat.”
Ulvama gave Erin an incredulous look. The [Innkeeper] tried to explain.
“I’m saying it wrong. Okay, so imagine this huge pillar in the center of the garden. It goes to the top of the garden.”
“I didn’t know it was that big.”
“Eh, each garden’s like a hundred feet at least. Probably more. Mine has the smaller hill and then the one with mists on it, remember? So you start there, and if you climb up—it’s got a ramp on one end—you can jump into this big, beautiful pool in the center. There’s also a whirlpool sloooowly draining into this hole in the center.”
“Okay. Where does the hole go?”
Erin beamed happily.
“Down! To the water below. Y’see, this entire pillar and the ‘beach’ is actually a plateau on four huge pillars of water. And everything below it is water, moving about. Tons of swimming water. It’s got to be twenty feet deep.”
At this point, Ulvama gave Erin such a look of skepticism that Erin had to open the door, and Ulvama heard screams.
“Mrsha, don’t you dare! Don’t you—Mrshaaaaa!”
She and Erin saw a plummeting little Gnoll go diving down off a cliff into a swirling vortex of water. A horrified [Princess] stopped at the top of the too-high cliff, and Nanette pushed her. She went screaming, head-over-heels, and Erin hesitated.
“…Maybe I should make it shorter. And add protective cushions so you can’t die. No, wait, a diving board. And guardrails everywhere else.”
She twiddled her fingers, and the sandstone rock began morphing as Lyonette and Mrsha appeared in the pool…and began getting sucked down to the water-level below.
“You made that?”
Ulvama stared at Erin. No wonder Erin was tired. The [Innkeeper] gave her an exhausted smile.
“I wanted a more action-packed beach today. Plus—it was an experiment in figuring out how to make structures and get the water to do weird stuff.”
“You worked hard. Good job.”
Ulvama continued washing Erin’s hair, and the [Innkeeper] peered at the garden, already filling with people.
“I should go greet people—”
“Lie there. Your hair screams for mercy.”
Nothing would do but for Erin to lie back, and the door vanished. Apista buzzed down and landed on Erin’s stomach.
“Hey, Apista, whatchu doing?”
The bee waggled her repaired wings at Erin, and Ulvama swatted at her.
“Shoo, shoo.”
“Don’t bully Apista!”
Erin protested, and Ulvama snorted as Apista buzzed around her angrily.
“Silly bee. She eats nectar all day and doesn’t give any honey. I checked.”
“She’s one bee, Ulvama.”
“I am one Goblin, and I poo and eat. Give honey and I’ll be nicer. Otherwise, what good is a silly bee?”
Apista smugly perched on a nearby tree branch and rubbed her legs together. Oh, if only you knew, you stupid [Shaman]. My honey’s too strong for you. You could not handle my honey.
She gave Ulvama an innocent antenna-wave as the Goblin glared suspiciously at her. Ulvama had a sweet tooth, and she’d followed Apista around an entire day one time, hoping to come across a honey store.
“Ulvama, do you have fun in my inn?”
Erin, observing the interaction, felt the [Shaman]’s clawed fingers halt a second in massaging her hair and scalp.
“Me? Do you have fun?”
“Aha. See, you’re doing the thing I do. You eat and sleep and stuff, but you were a bigshot [Shaman] in your old tribe. Is Rags actually refusing to work with you or would you go if she asked?”
Ulvama sat there a long moment, then began to scrub Erin’s hair more vigorously. Erin winced, but the [Shaman] did speak after a few moments.
“Rags is silly, prideful, smart…and I was mad. But she was also right and wrong. I was the Mountain City tribe’s [Shaman]. I was them—and their ways. Now, Rags is building a new tribe, and I do not fit.”
“But she didn’t like you. I know you’re powerful, and if—”
Ulvama flicked some sudds to the side.
“No, you aren’t listening. I don’t…fit. A [Shaman] and [Chieftain] are like you and Lyonette. They have to be right. Even if I try and she tries…we are different. You understand?”
“Did you—get along with Tremborag?”
Erin had heard tales of the Great Chieftain, and she had never brought it up with Ulvama. By any metric, Tremborag had not been a good person. But Ulvama just shrugged, face blank.
