“She’s not doing well. Has she been…trying substances?”
“No! Thank you for coming, Onieva. Did Saliss tell you about this place?”
Onieva laughed. Erin had been hoping to see more of Saliss, actually. There was a lot she hadn’t discussed with him about…well. His being a Turnscale.
Onieva? She didn’t quite know Onieva, but she saw Mirn hanging around, and she had to assume Onieva was Saliss’ talented cousin who hung in his shadow. Especially if she could catch Tessa.
“Saliss is sleeping. He’s been getting ready for your thing at the Solstice. I came to have fun. With Mirn! Mirn, don’t be scared. She’s not going to bite your head off. Nice hair, by the way.”
Onieva ruffled Erin’s hair, and the [Innkeeper] waved at Mirn. He looked slightly tense, but Erin gestured to her beach.
“Well, come on in! Saliss told you about that? I guess it makes sense. You’re a welcome guest!”
Onieva smiled gratefully and went to tug Tessa into the beach with her as Mirn gave Erin a mixed smile.
 
——
 
It was hard to have Onieva present and both know she had no idea that she was Saliss—and he couldn’t tell Erin because Erin didn’t know Saliss was Onieva!
Mirn had a stomachache. But that was what came of this life, and he was more intent on seeing whether or not Erin was the right stuff.
In that she was supposed to be one of the few people Saliss trusted with the knowledge he was Turnscale. Even if Erin didn’t know in what form…she knew Mirn as well, and she was very blasé about it.
“You guys are always welcome in my inn. You haven’t come by. Are things, y’know, well?”
Five raids since they’d talked to her. Two arrests…but that was normal in a Walled City, and they weren’t on his bar, just the ones he knew about.
“It’s up and down. I think we’ve been cautious about pushing too far.”
Especially because not many people in Pallass wanted to go to a Human’s inn and risk it all there, even if they could fool the door guards into thinking they were just visiting the inn or travelling.
Pallass loved lists, and they would be noted at regular gatherings. Erin hmmed as Onieva looked around.
“Well, just say the word. I dunno what I can do to help, but I want to. If that makes sense. What do you need aside from someone to kick half of the senators’ butts?”
Mirn smiled at that.
“Oh, safe places are always important. The Watch often raids my bar, so I’m always wondering when I have to get people out the back door. If they get arrested, there’s not always proof, but being detained or having a finger pointed can ruin someone’s life.”
Erin was nodding and waving at Rags when she stopped.
“You what now? Raids? They raid you?”
It shouldn’t surprise Mirn, but it did, sometimes, that regular people never knew how aggressive the Watch could be. He put his claws in his pockets, trying to sound casual.
“It’s not with swords. They’ll haul you off with bruises and broken bones…usually. Unless you fight back. There was a time when they were a lot worse—until they found out that anyone who beat a kid until they passed out wouldn’t come back from a raid. There’s a high-level somebody who fights back. Mutually assured violence.”
Erin would take it as ‘Saliss’, but Mirn meant Onieva. The [Innkeeper] just stood there a second.
“But they did that. They actually do that? Like…like…”
She snapped her fingers and put her hand to her head. It fascinated Mirn, and Onieva, who looked up from Tessa. The Named-rank was burying herself in the sand like a grumpy clam, but she was still eating her burger.
“[Perfect Recall]. Darn, it doesn’t work on anything but art! I swore I remembered…there was, like, something in history class about it? Speak…speakeasies?”
Erin was demonstrating a lack of knowledge that came from her background. She vaguely recalled something about this in cities, but she didn’t know.
It made Mirn wish that the interesting kid, Rose, were here. Of all of them, she had seemed the most aware of things. Even so, Erin focused on the important part.
“They do all that? Then come here! If they come after you—”
“You’ll kick them out, and then they’ll just arrest everyone when they get to Pallass. Or burn down their shop, throw paint at the door, and bully the poor people until they leave Pallass or worse. Hello—Mirn, are you sure Saliss trusts her?”
Onieva appeared, and Mirn developed a headache. Because now Onieva was aware that Saliss had revealed his secret—but she thought Saliss wasn’t her, and she was giving Erin a very intense stare.
“I’m trustworthy! I don’t want anyone getting hurt for something like that.”
Erin held up her hands, and Onieva raised her brows.
“I almost believe you. But your inn’s about as safe as a cat’s litter box. We don’t want protection—we have protection, at least in Pallass. Secrecy matters more. How secret are you?”
Erin opened her mouth and had the good grace to hesitate a long second. She looked around the beach and realized Mirn and Onieva had deployed silencing spells while she hadn’t thought about it. She kicked at the sand.
“…I’d like to help. Maybe tell me how? I—ew!”
A piece of poop had appeared in the sand. Speaking of litter boxes…Erin saw an orange cat staring at her and began shouting.
“Numbtongue! The beach is not Reagen’s poo-spot! Clean this up!”
“Aw.”
The [Bard] looked over from where he and Salkis were hanging out. He chased after his cat, who leapt away—and then went tumbling over the edge of the plateau into the sea. Numbtongue dove after him.
“Now there’s a Goblin I wouldn’t mind seeing naked.”
Onieva stared at Numbtongue, and Mirn elbowed her.
“He’s a Goblin.”
“You’re telling me you’re blind, Mirn? Ignore him, Erin. He’s a former [Soldier], and he can’t put it aside for one second to notice…”
“I’m exceptionally happy about the scenery, Onieva. You’re the one getting stuck on one green frond and missing the trees! Have you seen the [Hosts]?”
They began joking around and then noticed Erin’s uncomfortable smile. Instantly, Mirn and Onieva exchanged a look. Maybe she wasn’t the best friend to have after all? If she was just all talk…
Before they could come to the wrong conclusion, someone entered their bubble of privacy, and Onieva whirled too casually. She eyed Ulvama, and the [Shaman] waved.
“Hi. Is the [Alchemist] and Drake who has good taste in clothing. Is this all about Drakes and Turnscales? Me, me.”
She was the one who’d noticed Saliss. The only other person to do that had been Eldavin, before her. Onieva looked twice as wary, as did Mirn, but a Goblin was a more trustworthy person to know than, say, Chaldion, who was a known problem.
“You can trust Ulvama, guys. She’s a good person. Ulvama, this is Mirn and Onieva.”
Mirn elbowed Onieva as the [Alchemist] bared her teeth.
“Hackles down, ‘Nieva. She’s one of us.”
The [Protector]’s eyes gleamed as he realized what was up. Ulvama rolled her eyes as Onieva did a double-take, then smiled.
“Oh, so that’s how it is?”
The [Shaman] just laughed at the two.
“For you. Goblins don’t care. One of us, not one of us…doesn’t matter to me. But Goblins have long memories. I remember the same problem.”
She tapped her forehead knowingly, and Mirn felt tired as he wondered how long that damn well meant. Had this been in the Walled Cities for thousands of years without change? However, Ulvama patted Erin on the shoulder.
“You be nice to Erin. She is silly—”
“Hey! I’m totally on their side!”
Ulvama gave the protesting Erin a look.
“Except for even people kissing. You banned it on the beach.”
She did what? Now, Mirn and Onieva realized that Erin’s objections might be more personality-driven than they thought. Erin turned red.
“I just thought—think of the kids!”
“Kids can see people kissing and not die. What about Mrsha kissing Lyonette on cheek?”
“Well, obviously that’s okay. But look at them!”
Erin didn’t even have to look around to point, red-faced, at Lady Bethal and Thomast. The [Lady] of House Walchaís was the kind of woman who would both break the rules and bend them.
“Oh, Thomast, you musn’t kiss me! Remember the rules? But here, I’m about to burn in this weather. Why don’t you apply this sunscreen?”
Off went her top as she lay in the sand. Onieva whistled.
“She’s got charm and style. I like her. And you banned her from kissing?”
She gave Erin a look like the [Innkeeper] was a monster. Erin held out her hands.
“Guys. This is a beach. I just thought…are we a nude beach or a fun beach?”
“Why not both?”
Erin was losing her audience rapidly, but Onieva just nodded.
“I think the beach is great, even if there’s a law against kissing. We were scoping it out—can we bring a few people over? Casually. Mix them up, Mirn? I’ll pretend I’m having a party.”
“They’d like that. Can we do it, Erin?”
They turned to her, and she agreed instantly. Onieva smiled in relief and took Erin’s hand, squeezing gently. She was strong, and Erin’s hands tingled—she wondered what about Onieva was making her mind ping. She couldn’t place it, not entirely.
“Slow steps, Miss Erin. We’ll trust each other in time.”
 
——
 
Turnscales, Goblins, and more guests. Erin Solstice was a genius of her craft. She had, after all, created a beach such that Lord Tyrion, Chaldion, [Ladies], and all kinds of people were flocking here in the dead of winter.
Like Wailant, who was currently building a more-permanent ship. Viceria was slightly askance, because he’d gone out and bought gold’s worth of lumber and tar and he was making a literal ship.
Erin was top-tier for what she did, which was wonder and fun.
But here was the thing. Ulvama pointed this out after Erin had seen Mirn off. She looked around Erin’s latest beach-incarnation and whispered in Erin’s ear.
“Psst. Erin. Question.”
“Huh? Whatsamatter, Ulvama? You not getting enough sun? Want more coconuts? I think we actually got some shipped from Oteslia, and I sorta want to try and crack one open and just sip from it. Do you think Mirn and Onieva like it here? They said they got raided in…that’s crazy. Does Chaldion know about it, you think?”
Ulvama gave Erin a long look as the [Innkeeper] babbled.
“He’s a scary Drake with magic eyes. What do you think?”
“But Saliss is…”
“Yah. What do you think?”
Sometimes, Erin didn’t engage with her brain, and Ulvama suspected it was on purpose. She was here to make up for Erin’s many flaws. If she was going to stay at this inn rather than Rags’ tribe, as Erin had said…and it might be for the best…
She was going to show Rags how great she was. The [Great Chieftain] was giving her a suspicious look, and Ulvama waved as she kept whispering to Erin.
“Onieva likes hot guys. So does Mirn.”
Erin twisted her Ring of Silence hurriedly as they observed the two Drakes.
“Both of them? But I thought they were Turnscale. Mirn makes sense, but…then what’s Onieva? Guys and girls? Maybe she’s just a good person?”
Ulvama decided not to get into it right now. She rubbed at her forehead, then spoke.
“You want to make this beach nice for her?”
“Oh, of course.”
“Okay. Good! Then don’t make this beach so lame.”
Erin stared off at Onieva and Mirn for a good ten seconds before her head slowly turned.
“Excuse me? My beach is amazing. Do you not see the whirlpool diving board over the sea?”
She pointed in outrage at her entire beach, and Ulvama patted Erin on the head patronizingly. Much like she had once done to Rags.
“Oh, it is a very fun beach, Erin. Such fun for kiddies. Almost as if a child designed it. But this beach bans kisses? Where are the spots for Onieva and Mirn to have fun? For Lady Bethal…well, she makes her own fun.”
Erin turned red.
“That’s not fun you need to see! We don’t need nudit—ow!”
This time, Ulvama actually smacked her on the head, and her scowl was bigger than Erin’s.
“Not everything is just sex, stupid! Where is the spot for people to have a moment together? To smile? Look!”
She pointed at Jelaqua and Maughin, who were socializing somewhat awkwardly with some Dullahans and people they knew. Jelaqua seemed to be the odd-one-out, and Erin remembered her saying that a Selphid marrying a Dullahan wasn’t the most accepted thing by the Pallassian-Dullahan communities.
“Oh. Jelaqua?”
“She and the small War Walker are here. Talking. Sitting. Playing volleyball.”
Ulvama made a retching sound and stuck a finger towards her mouth to show Erin what she thought of that. Then she poked Erin a few times.
“Where. Is. Their. Happy. Moment? You can make it for Mrsha, but not for them? Is it because you’re a bad [Innkeeper], so you’re only Level 40 or something? Larracel is better. Even other [Innkeepers] are better. Give them a happy moment, especially for those two.”
She pointed to Mirn and Onieva. Erin turned red as she tried to slap Ulvama’s hands down. She was getting mad—because Ulvama had hit a nerve.
“I’m not—you don’t need—how would you even do it, anyways? Without making a kissing beach or something?”
She folded her arms, displaying an obstinate lack of imagination. Ulvama sighed. The things she had to do here. She whispered in Erin’s ear as the [Innkeeper] frowned.
“Wait, just…uh huh. And just that?”
This time, Ulvama gave Erin a look almost as surprised as Mirn and Onieva. Because even she…
“Have you never enjoyed something like that? Even a hug?”
Erin hesitated and turned red, and Ulvama stared at her a long moment before patting her arm.
“Oh.”
“I’m not—I’ve had—”
The [Shaman] patted her more, since people were around, even with the [Silence] spell.
“Nevermind. Let’s talk later of it. But trust me. Okay?”
Erin took a deep breath—and then thought of Larracel. She closed her eyes, folded her arms, then stared at…Jelaqua and Maughin. Erin’s eyes swung to Onieva, to Rufelt and Lasica, and she exhaled.
“Aw, heck. I guess I could try something new. Alright—”
She clapped her hands together, and half the plateau collapsed. Ulvama and Erin turned as people playing volleyball screamed and the entire third of the beach collapsed into the sea below. Erin hesitated as everyone stared at her.
“…That was a mistake. Everybody out! I need an hour!”
 
——
 
The world’s greatest beach was not a theme-park. Oh, elements of it should be.
There should be tremendous waves, at times. Places to surf, even, yes, a whirlpool. But Erin had to confess that she might have been a bit overambitious and missed the forest for the trees.
After all, her latest design had made it so the beach was just this plateau you could fall off into the sea below.
