Aliandra simply nodded and indicated for her to use the shrine. For a moment, nothing happened, and then suddenly a powerful light illuminated the entire Grove, silencing all the conversations as lightning arced from her body, hands, and head – striking the ground and the obelisk nearby in a display reminiscent of Hala’s potent attacks a few minutes ago. A few moments later, the powerful display dissipated, and the Gnomish girl stepped back with a happy grin on her face and sparks dancing across her fingertips.

She must have unlocked her Lightning Mage class, Sabri thought as she watched the rest of her group go through the process.

Finally, it was her turn. She didn’t think her exhausted body could be nervous, but she was. She placed her hand on the cool stone of the shrine and found the option Aliandra had mentioned. Carefully, she let some of her mana flow into it.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Exposing latent magical affinities may permanently alter your current and future class choices. Proceed?

She accepted the vaguely ominous-sounding warning.

A surge of power tore through her tired body and mind as a loud rushing noise threatened to deafen her. Her body rose from the ground as she began to glow with a powerful bluish light that seemed to burst forth from deep within her core. Sabri screamed, but the sound that came out shook the very air around her with a rush of power and shimmering light.

Suddenly, the power rush cut off and she dropped, hitting the ground at the same time as her chime sounded.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Reserved mana reduced by 50,000You have gained an affinity for Soul Magic. Your Aptitudes have been updated.New class options are available.

I just spent fifty thousand mana? She shook her head trying to clear her mind as she sat up. Finally, after a few moments, she placed her hand on the shrine and activated the class advancement.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Reserved mana reduced by 35,0006 Alternate classes found.Natural class:- LaborerAvailable alternate non-combat class options:- FarmerAvailable alternate combat class options:- Warrior- Monk- Sword MasterAvailable alternate magic combat class options:- Soul Mage- Soul Defender

Sabri stared at the options in dismay.

How do I choose? What do they even mean?

Carefully she read through each of them, envying Brena who had known before she even started. But the pressure and significance of the decision she faced crashed in on her, stalling her thinking and making her balk. She looked up as someone sat beside her on the moss of the Grove.

“Did you get a good class?” Malika asked.

“I… don’t know. I don’t know how to decide – I haven’t decided yet,” Sabri mumbled. To come so far and then to be stymied by her own exhaustion and indecision was almost enough to make her cry. Malika’s a monk. And she’s so, so strong. She wished she was as confident as her. But Monk was an uncommon class, and she knew she should be considering the rarer magical options.

“This might sound a little corny,” Malika said. “But when they were alive, my parents always told me to check each option carefully, and once it has a little time to settle, go with the one that most resonates with who I am.”

Who I am? Who am I? She wanted to be strong and powerful like Malika, but was that really who she was? She remembered the first slimes and how terrified she had been. All her martial arts training had evaporated from her mind in the face of a battle, and she had simply stood trembling in fear.

Am I that useless?

She shared each class option with Malika, and they read them over together. “If I take a combat class, will I be able to earn gold to help my mom?” she asked, latching on to the one idea she could definitely grasp.

“Definitely,” Malika answered. “And if you take the guild membership, they have quests even for the early levels.”

Sabri felt a little better, she had eliminated Laborer and Farmer. “You’re a monk? Do you think I can be like you one day?”

“I chose a class called Soul Monk, not the mundane Monk class.”

Sabri frowned looking at her options, again. Her only two magic options were Soul Mage and Soul Defender, neither of them matched Malika’s choice.

“Should I pick the Soul Defender because it’s the magic class, then?” She felt like she needed to pick one of the two magic options, and Soul Mage wouldn’t allow her to grow her martial arts skills in any meaningful way.

Why is this so hard? If it had just given me Soul Monk, it would have been so easy.

“Do you like Monk because you see yourself as a Monk? Or are you just trying to walk my path? The Soul Defender looks like a strong class, but you have to see yourself in that role, otherwise you won’t flourish.”

In the midst of her struggle over her class choices, a small figure walked over. Brena looked much better now that the slime and terror had been washed off her face, and the burns had been healed.

“Thank you again for saving me, Sabri. If you choose the Guildmaster’s internship program, I was hoping we could team up together?”

Sabri nodded to the Gnome. “Ok. I think I would like that.”

As Brena moved away, Sabri caught the curious look from Malika, and slowly, haltingly at first, she explained what had happened. She was as honest as she could be about her fear and hesitation – her mother had always taught her to be truthful. Sharing the story with Malika felt like baring her soul with all its flaws.

When she finished, Malika sat in contemplation for a moment, before speaking. “I think you know who you are.”

“Someone who’s weak and scared?” She shrank into herself at the admission of what she knew to be true. She had overreached herself by dreaming of being strong like Malika. Maybe she had been offered Laborer because that was all she deserved.

“Someone who will overcome their darkest and most paralyzing fears to protect their friends and allies.”

Sabri struggled to hear the words. Did she not hear how scared I was? “I couldn’t even hold the sword straight. Malika, I –”

“Everyone gets scared,” Malika interrupted gently. “But you overcame it, and Brena is walking around with a fancy Lightning Mage class because of you. Your actions. Did someone else’s hands pull her out?”

Sabri stared. What Malika said was true. However, she had simply not thought of it that way – she had never been strong enough to save people.

“Hey, Mato, come tell Sabri what you do in our group,” Malika called out, and the large Beastkin boy walked over with an easy smile on his face.

“Want another?” he asked, sitting down, and offering her another shiny red apple. She took it this time and listened in awe while he told her about a crazy battle against a Skeletal Wyvern that seemed even more epic than the fight she had just watched, and how terrified he had been falling down a hole into a Kobold nest with Aliandra. The stories didn’t matter so much to her, but how he felt about himself, his role as a tank, and his dedication to protecting his friends – somehow, that all resonated powerfully with her. She glanced over at Brena, seeing her talking with the Guildmaster. Then she found Elder Rezan sitting with Hala and Basir, watching her conversation with Mato and Malika. She considered her mother, and how much she wanted to be able to help and protect her.

By the time Mato finished up his stories, she knew what she wanted to be.

“I want to protect people.”

“I think that’s a great fit for you,” Malika smiled at her.

Happy, she finally made her choice and let a sigh hiss between her teeth as lines of glowing text carved themselves into the granite cliff face that warded her heart.

Your class has changed to Soul Defender.Soul Defender has reached level 1.+10 attribute points.You have lost the general skill: Basic Martial Arts.You have gained the Tenacious Aptitude.Tenacious (Class): When you are below 50% health all healing magic targeting you is 20% more effective.You have gained the class skill Defensive ArtsDefensive Arts – level 1You are proficient in the use of basic one-hand weapons (sword, dagger, mace, axe) and a shield. You may use either for blocking or attacking.Stamina: Strike at your enemy with your weapon or shield.Stamina: Block an incoming melee attack with your weapon or shield.Physical, Melee, StrengthYou have gained the class skill Soul PowerSoul Power – level 1Mana: Imbue a Melee attack or block with the power of your Soul Magic. Your attack gains +32% [20 + skill + wisdom] additional Soul damage, or your block absorbs that much more damage.Soul, Melee, WisdomYou have gained the class skill Unyielding BodyUnyielding Body – level 1Mana: Your Vitality, Strength, and Endurance are increased by +42% [40 + skill + base endurance / 10]. Reserve: 20%Soul, Buff, EnduranceYou have gained the class skill Shield MasteryShield Mastery – level 1Requirements: Shield.The defensive attributes of your shield [Armor, Resistance, Evasion, Block] are increased by 21% [20 + skill]Physical, Mastery, EnduranceYou have gained the class skill Plate MasteryPlate Mastery – level 1Requirements: Plate or heavy body armor.The defensive attributes of your body armor [Armor, Resistance, Evasion] are increased by 21% [20 + skill]Physical, Mastery, EnduranceYou have gained the class skill Soul ShoutSoul Shout – level 1Mana: Taunt and damage all the enemies around you with a shout imbued with the power of your Soul Magic. Range: 10.3 feet. Recharge: 30 seconds.Soul, Area, Taunt, Wisdom

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
