His creation of it by dint of will was a powerful manifestation and statement of control, and the authority inherent in such and act shouldn’t be discounted.

There isn’t a right answer, is there… He groaned. It’s all nuance and perception and concepts. It’s the bedrock of arcane magic, of course it doesn’t have easily quantifiable roots.

Enar took that moment to remind him that gated magic wasn’t much different with the impression of a pointed look.

Rane disagreed. Oh, we have easily quantifiable foundations, we just can’t investigate them to deeply or it limits our growth.

Enar tried to offer a counter, but Rane was unmoved.

Of course that’s better. We are capable, but choose not to. They don’t even have the choice. But we’re getting distracted.

He moved over and sat on the chair, instantly feeling…. that it wasn’t very comfortable.

Rane sighed and shifted the structure of the seat until it was better formed.

As to the point of the test? He thought that his expressions of aura and authority on the superficial were marginally more… effective? Efficient?

He wasn’t sure, and it could purely be in his mind. Still, it bore further investigation and—

Enar interrupted him, dropping a bundle of communications into his mind.

Rane’s eyes widened, and Terry clearly noticed something as well, his eyes snapping open.

Rane chose to speak out loud for Terry’s benefit. “Black Legion attacks, or at least confirmed movements. Makinaven has incoming, and at least one other group has been spotted coming out of the southern forest near a wandering village.”

Terry perked up, tilting his head inquisitively.

Rane sighed. “Unfortunately, it was more to the west than where we are, and we’re a few hours away. Tala is going to engage as the nearest asset, travel time wise.”

Terry ruffled his feathers in clear irritation.

“Yeah… I wish I was with her too.” He sighed, turning back to his task. At least the hold was showing no signs of strain or fraying connections with Tala. They should be good to go.

He had promises to keep miles to go before he could sleep.

North!
