Suddenly before his eyes, the cavalry formation underwent a massive change, pivoting with precision towards the Defiled that meant to cut off their retreat, renewing their charge in the blink of an eye, their flagging strength a ruse that both the Enemy and DuYi had fallen for. The warriors of the Empire slaughtered their way out of what should have been a death trap, striking while their opponents were still in transition, charging towards the Central gates, which opened for them as they approached, allowing the cavalry to enter safely. DuYi turned to Nian Zu, eyes wide in disbelief, who smiled at him.

After a moments thought, DuYi cleared his throat and spoke. “With the amount of training and precision required for such a maneuver, you seem to have nurtured some hidden talents.” For that tactic to succeed it would have required near fanatical trust in the commander's judgment, and there were no soldiers that DuYi was familiar with capable of inspiring such devotion.

His old friend smiled enigmatically at him. “I'm glad that you were here to witness this. The Empire will rise to further glory in the near future, without a doubt, but there is also a personal matter I wish for your aid with.” Rare for Nian Zu to ask for his aid. “It is about some youngsters that have insulted the Society. They have ties to a mercenary under my command, a Baatar of the Bekhai.”

Sighing deeply, he prepared himself for the worst. He deeply regretted having sent an invitation to the Bekhai, but hearing of a 16-year-old boy crossing swords with a Warrant Officer was simply too splendid to ignore. He had intended to protect the youngsters, grant one a military ranking, but he had not expected for their luck to be so bittersweet, forcing the Bekhai out of the contest too early for him to justify such a reward.

The Bekhai had shown their ferocity though, even with children and civilians they had managed to survive, and now, even in the midst of war, the Society demanded retribution. Family was family, and blood could not be ignored, no matter how much he wished to. He cursed the fools at home and their desperate need to regain face. He could already guess what would be asked, and knew it would not bode well for the youngsters.

When Nian Zu left, he began penning his orders with renewed vigor, sending Lieutenant General Akanai towards the west to deal with the scattered Defiled once the Flying Tiger Fortress was secured. The Bekhai tribesmen would be safe there, away from the Society, so long as Martial Law was upheld. While it was not a glorious job, the Brigadier Kai had mucked it all up, losing the majority of the soldiers under his command. A worthless fool of a man, DuYi lacked the authority to take away his rank, and he regretted even giving the man a chance to redeem himself after his blunder at the camps.

In the meantime, he would need to find a way to moderate the situation, a small matter grown too large. Sighing in regret, he sipped his medicine, grimacing at the taste. There were too many tigers on the mountain, and left to their own devices, the Society and the Bekhai would cripple one another, to no one's benefit.

As if there were not enough problems for him to deal with. Truly, the position of Marshal was akin to tending to children. Loud, arrogant, murderous children. He dreamed of simply retiring, and leaving all the problems to whomever the Emperor appointed. Let those fools deal with these headaches, while he lived in quiet retirement with Yuzhen. Perhaps then she would find a husband and settle down. He looked forward to being called grandfather, a far more rewarding title than Marshal of the North.
