“It’s level one-sixty,” Lyeneru said. “Dangerous for us, but we should at least try to get some intelligence on it. Don’t be afraid to abort if you see something too risky.”

“Ok,” Malika answered, happy that Lyeneru was being appropriately cautious. At level one hundred and sixty, this was the most powerful monster they had yet seen in this dungeon, and a new, unknown variant, too.

Malika waited while Mato shifted. When he sprang into action, she chased him into battle. The bear roared, rushing forward at great speed, so Malika responded by feeding more stamina to Divine Step, accelerating to keep pace with his Charge.

You have been afflicted with Healing Suppression.+1 minute recharge to all Healing skills. Magic – Aura

Oh, shit! Malika felt the aura settling in on her, a powerful sense of tiredness that somehow affected her mind and not her body.

“Mato…”

He roared, crashing into the monster, his strike tearing out great fungal chunks and sending them flying. The monster let out what could only be described as a terrifyingly shrill shriek, but with powerful low undertones that shook the ground beneath their feet, and lunged forward, maw snapping shut on Mato’s shoulder. With its roar, a dark, roiling cloud of miasma rippled outward from the monster, filling the area with an overwhelming stench, and to Malika’s horror, her own skin began to rot off her body.

You have been infected by Creeping RotA wasting disease that rots the flesh, spawning fungal growth within its victim.Rot Vulnerability (-10 to resistance against Nature and Death)Nature or Death damage causes the Creeping Rot to grow.Small chance per vitality point to recover from Creeping RotDisease – Count: 1.

The miasma pulsed with virulent potency, and the disease grew stronger, settling into her bones. Crap, that’s strong!

The monster’s uneven fangs tore chunks from Mato’s shoulder as he dislodged the powerful bite, but it immediately followed up with a devastating rush that crushed Mato between the massive fungal behemoth and a nearby tree. The tree snapped like a twig, sending Mato flying, blood spraying from his bite wounds as parasitic fungal spores sprouted from the gashes.

Malika darted in and touched him, pulsing her Healing Mantra. Her magic pulsed, powered by her stamina, and yet it felt somehow sluggish, as if pushing against a pliable veil. It worked, and Mato’s wounds evaporated, muscle and flesh knitting together in seconds, but she was worried enough to pull up her skill description.

Healing Mantra – level 70Excess healing above maximum health is shared by all nearby allies. Range: 40.3 feet.Mana: The connection between your body and soul is strong. Instantly regenerate mortal wounds and restore health to anyone you touch. Your healing grants your target Clarity for 35 [skill / 2] seconds. Range: 9.3 feet. Recharge: 1 minute.Soul, Melee, Area, Healing, Wisdom

Her eyes widened at the sight of the unfamiliar recharge timer. Instinctively she tried her skill again, but nothing happened. “Fuck, run!” she yelled, getting surprised looks from her companions, but she didn’t care. They would not survive if she couldn’t heal.

“Why did you call the retreat so early?” Lyeneru asked as they came to a halt several hundred yards away in a clear spot, having lost the pursuit of the Fungaloth Ravager.

“Did you not see the aura?” Malika asked, sharing the information. “It has a Healing Suppression. My Healing Mantra got a one-minute recharge the first time I used it.”

“Oh. Good call,” Lyeneru said, falling silent for a good long while. “I don’t have any healing trait skills, so I didn’t see it activate. At least we learned two of its domain abilities.”

“This one is going to be very problematic,” Vivian said, her voice somewhat subdued.

“Perhaps we should return to camp and think about it?” Malika said. It was late, and they had been fighting for a substantial portion of the night, and without recall potions, they would have to fly out with her carrying Mato.

“That’s a good idea,” Calen said. “Especially seeing as this area is about to respawn.”

On the way back, while wishing Mato would finally learn a flying skill, she decided to check on her progress. Although they had failed at the Fungaloth Ravager, they had defeated a raid boss and an elite monster, and more trash mobs than she cared to count. That has to be worth something, right?

Eyes of the Soul has reached level 116 (+5).+50 attribute points.Martial Artist has reached level 61 (+2).Soul Strike has reached level 62 (+2).Healing Mantra has reached level 74 (+4).Perfect Body has reached level 41.Soul Armor has reached level 53 (+3).Enlightened Evasion has reached level 49.Divine Step has reached level 56 (+2).Clarity has reached level 42.Soul Sight has reached level 38 (+2).Dancing has reached level 14.Appraise has reached level 29.

Not bad. Hopefully, this means tomorrow will be a little easier. Truth be told, her growing strength would likely just mean they would be able to push a little further into the dungeon till they met something else that was stronger than they were.

She spent twelve points on dexterity, and then six each on vitality and perception, having come to really appreciate the importance of Soul Sight lately. Next, she spent nine each on endurance and wisdom, bringing up her mainstay attributes substantially. For the remainder, she spent four on strength and intelligence.

Right, tomorrow is a new day. Only, every day they spent getting stronger was an extra day Ali had to survive on her own.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
