Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Rezan Jin.Has an awakened Ahn Khen Bloodline.Clarity has reached level 20.Wisdom has surpassed 550.Endured the Desolation aura of a Death Knight.Survived the Soul Terror of a Lich.Survived mind magic, up to second-tier level.Resisted a Taunt.Resisted an Intimidating Shout.Survived being knocked unconscious by a Sleep spell in battle.Retained your wits under the influence of a Pit Lord’s corruption.Clarity gains Adamant Mind.(You gain + [40 + Bloodline + Skill + Wisdom] % increased Resistance to mind-altering effects).Mentor: Rezan Jin.Has an awakened Ahn Khen Bloodline.Clarity has reached level 20.Wisdom has surpassed 550.Trained extensively under continuous magical damage.Endured raid-level death, bone, blood, and fire magic.Endured second-tier blood, hellfire, mind, and death magic.Clarity gains Diamond Body.(You gain + [(Bloodline + Skill) / 2] % increased Resistance).Choose one advancement.

Her first bloodline skill had finally advanced. And it sure didn’t disappoint – against creatures at her level, she would gain a whopping thirty-three percent boost to resistance against magic. Ordinarily, she would have immediately taken the general resistance over the specific one, using the same logic she had employed when advancing Soul Armor to add Resistance, but her eyes stuck to Adamant Mind like glue, while the scene of them laughing and giggling like teenagers in the Abyssal Realm replayed in her mind.

What use is a bit more fire resistance in the face of that?

When she had first run into Mieriel’s magic, she had been forced to consider the implications of someone stealing her will. Without her knowledge or consent, she had not even known to fight back. Then, in the Abyssal Realm, it happened again. Mieriel’s feedback had been clear – it was far harder to fight back against a threat you didn’t even know about.

Adamant Mind would make her effectively immune to mind-altering effects. Fear, charm, mind control, intimidation, the list of skills and attributes that affected the mind was substantial – nearly all of which stripped a person of their ability to defend themselves. Certain death.

There were always ways to boost skills higher or penetrate resistances, but with an increase of over six hundred percent resistance, her Clarity was a passive skill that would provide extraordinarily robust protection for her mind. Even the requirements for the offered advance showed the breadth of mind-altering effects she had already endured; everything from the lich’s fear to what must have been Mieriel’s mind magic, and the mind magic of the demonic Sentinels. Even taunts and the Violet Dreamcloud mushroom spores that had put her to sleep fighting the Forest Guardian in the jungle were on the list – simple mind-altering effects that could have easily ended her and her friends.

“Hey, Calen? I’ve got an advancement choice. What do you think of these?”

“Adamant Mind,” Calen said, without an instant’s hesitation.

“Why?” she asked. She was strongly leaning that way herself, but she wanted to understand his reasoning.

“Mind effects are so catastrophic that failure is almost certainly going to result in death. If even one of us can reliably avoid losing their minds, they can save the rest,” he said. “It will hurt to lose thirty percent resistance, but you can heal more most of the time. Lose to a mind mage and you can’t even conceive of escaping.”

“That’s what I was thinking,” Malika said.

“Also, doesn’t your Clarity skill buff the people you heal?”

“Oh, shit, you’re right,” Malika said. “Will it work like that?”

“I don’t see why not.”

And that’s why I consult with you, my friend! Malika selected Adamant Mind and felt something shift, a settling, like girding herself with armor – only inside her head. Quickly she checked her bloodline aptitude for any signs of problems, but everything seemed alright, so she inspected her skill.

Clarity – level 21Your proficiency with meditation is enhanced by your Ahn Khen bloodline. Your mind has reached a permanent state of clarity, during which mana and stamina regeneration is increased by +355% [40 + skill x 15]. Bonus is doubled if you sit and focus.Your mind remains focused and clear in the presence of danger. You gain +674% [40 + Bloodline + Skill + Wisdom] increased resistance to mind-altering effects.Soul, Bloodline, Wisdom, Endurance

“Here goes,” she said, feeling a sudden prickle of anxiety. She retrieved a saved Essence of Fire and waited a moment for the pure flame to burn her skin before she healed herself.

You have gained Clarity.The path to restoring your energy begins with a calm mind. +355% to mana and stamina regeneration.+674% to resistance against mind-altering effects. Buff – Duration: 20.5 seconds.

She gasped. Incredibly, her new Adamant Mind was now also part of Healing Mantra’s buff. Instead of just boosting regeneration, she could use Healing Mantra to double the warding effect on her mind. If only she had had this when meeting the Death Knight, exploring the Abyssal Realm, or when overcome by the soporific violet dreamcloud mushrooms, those encounters would have turned out vastly differently.

“Does it work?” Calen asked, curiosity brimming in his eyes.

Wordlessly, Malika handed him the Essence of Fire and then healed him.

“Holy shit,” he whispered.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
