to back out of that room, leave it to the resident arson expert,” he nodded to Cois who gave him a serious nod back.They just… understood each other on a level. That level was the screaming of the flammable idiots of the world but it was still a legit connection for a friendship.“Next up would be the menagerie. Think a petting zoo but the animals pet you,” Jack pointed to a slightly melted door.“Lots of the beasties that the woman with the horns sliced up came from there… do you know if she's got a lover? A fling? My heart is still pumping at seeing the beasts who chewed me alive get turned to puree and I think I have a crush,” Jack asked, pretty sure he was serious but he couldn’t trust Jack.Damn Kobold was madder than a hat.“I think she’d break you by accident,” Numb pointed out. Jack shivered but got his grin under control.“Last two I think are basic storage, with one being uh… a disposal area,” Jack finished. His tone had become clipped. Rale, who had returned, peered at the two doors.“Why do you sound more upset at those than a potential nightmare laboratory?” Cois asked bluntly.Jack shifted, trying not to think of the exact reasons. That… area…“It’s just a hole for dumping things they unearth deeper down. They got some miners and skeleton crews constantly trying to relink the different forts,” Jack began to fidget. He really didn’t want to think on the exact reason which was upsetting him.This don’t-think-of shit was harder in practise than theory.Jack eyes darted about in need of a quick distraction.“Does Delta pay? Do I get holidays?” he suddenly asked and everyone blinked.“Pay?” Cois echoed.“Ya know… for our services and company. Do we get pocket change?” Jack added.“She gives us the lifeforce to exist and protection from being eroded by the World’s Mana. She made us and let us exist as people… and you want pay?” Devina asked blankly. Jack looked down.“Well when you put it like that… yes! I exist very much on my own thank you and… well… I haven’t been employed in about 100 years,” he said with an embarrassed laugh.Devina’s foot impacted into his face and Jack was reminded that, frog folk, even lovely figures like Devina, had big feet.“Stop increasing the number of years!” she snarled.“We get to annoy folks and free drinks. I get paid enough,” Cois agreed with Devina.“I GET TO SWIM!” Rale flexed.Jack blinked up at the dark ceiling. He was smiling.He… felt… alive.That was when Cois’ words finally registered.“Free drinks?!” he shot up so fast he swore there was a bomb under his tail.He wanted free drinks over stupid shiny pieces of metal.As the monsters took up guard positions around the room, waiting for Delta to awaken… Jack worked on forgetting all about the thing that was upsetting him. The disposal room that hosted the ‘Empty Eye’ which was an unnecessarily fancy name for a single hole where dirt and trash was thrown in and fell until they fell out the bottom of the world and into the Silence below.Jack forgot all about the fact that he had been forced to stare into that darkness and it had…stared….back. But Jack didn’t blink.He simply plotted with Cois and planned with Devina.Jack felt real again and he was going to be double plucked damned if he would let some memory of something he couldn’t remember take that away again!---As Delta rested under the watchful eye of the shrinking Fran, her Mana finally took the first steps into the feast hall. Finding no barrier this time, the Mana slunk forward. It was a hive of tiny orange particles. It was the glorious Mana of Delta!It took a lost ball of dust and web and converted it. Victory! The first of many. It urged itself on to convert more! More things for the Delta! It came across a large foe. A chair.A terrible adversary, but they attacked all four legs at once and broke it down to be added to the collective. The war of the feast hall was going according to plan. What that plan entailed exactly was not as important as the great and amazing Delta’s conquest, who the Mana thought very highly of. They rabidly attacked a table and it bowed and fell to their mighty mana chompers.This room was weak! It would fall to the mighty Deltaverse! The Mana was quite sure that the changing room it left behind was of no concern to it. The fabled System had taken effect but the Mana did not care for the puppet strings this system pulled. It was here for only one thing.Victory.Another table fell to its purpose. Then it began to climb the walls.Nowhere to hide! All would fall to Delta!They stopped for a quick break and idly nibbled on wall slime and talked about Mana related things like converting and Delta. It was a very philosophical discussion that ended in the Mana reaching the ceiling with renewed eagerness.In the deep shadows of this ceiling were countless shapes. The Mana paused.This was different. Not slime or evil chairs. These shapes were… rough. It covered one and it took time to break it down and even then… they tasted lots of new things. The Mana reared back at the hint of resistance.A CHALLENGE!The mana attacked and the immobile object didn’t do much but the Mana knew it was screaming for mercy!No mercy! Only GLORY! FOR DELTA!---Delta snored and Ruli matched her, like a violin being backed by a cello.A nervous menu box appeared and Nu who was floating nearby turned and began to laugh.

Nu’s text rang with more laughter.

Delta turned in her sleep. Unaware of her various forces at work.---In Durence, a boy stopped sweeping. He turned slowly on the spot before looking down at his shiny shoes.“You seem bothered by something,” a deeper voice called from the workstation on one side of the room.Vas eyed his Master with a frown.“Master Japes, I felt like someone… something is calling to me. Like...this feels silly but like family just appeared and then vanished. Fellow children of stone and earth,” Vas closed his eyes and for a moment, under his shirt came a kaleidoscope of rainbow colours that shined. Japes appeared and put a hand on Vas’ shoulder, stopping the glow.“Do not wear your heart on your sleeve… it belongs to me after all,” Japes smiled and it was a human one instead of his normal face splitting one.“I know, but it’s been getting harder to control now that Miss Delta is growing. Like I’m getting filled up,” he complained childishly.Master Japes merely patted his head, making his cap go askew.“Then you best go and spend some of that energy. It’s a nice day. Why don’t you go find that child, Deo, and go on an adventure!” Japes clapped his hands. Vas looked up at the Potter of Durence in despair.“Go outside? Be around people? I'd much rather stand still in the garden!” Vas protested but he blinked and found himself outside the front door with his master closing the door.“No sass. Be a good child and go be a child. I shall be gone for the day and I’ve turned on the wards so you can’t sneak in through the window… have fun! I have a lot to do with the samples I got from the Spider Domain. Shame it exploded, but this is Durence…” the cheerful evil voice of Vas’ master called before the door slammed shut.Vas stared at the sunshine. At the passing animated people… at the very town coming to life.He turned and began to hammer on the door.“I’ll be a good golem! Don’t make me go outside!” he begged and he felt a chill as something loomed up behind him.He turned to see the sun beaming down at him. The godly being spoke and windows rattled.“HI VAS! MISTER JAPES SAID YOU WANTED TO HANG OUT! I GOT THE LETTER A MINUTE AGO! IT CAME INSIDE MY CHOCOLATE EGG INSTEAD OF THE TOY I WAS EXPECTING! HOW DID HE DO THAT?” Deo ‘spoke’.Vas smiled weakly.“Master Japes is very good at manipulating closed spaces,” he said politely then he said the worst thing he could have.“I can also make some enchanted spaces and such,” he humbly bragged.Deo’s smile reached his eyes and Vas cursed his master. Silently, deep inside… and backwards… just in case his master could hear.Even then he apologized in his head.“I GOT SO MANY SPIDER BITS I NEED TO HIDE BEFORE MY MUM SEARCHES MY CLOSET!” Deo carried Vas into the busy life of Durence.“ALSO YOU NEED TO MEET KEMY! SHE’S REALLY NICE!”Vas prayed that his Master would get bored and come for him soon.“SHE’S WITH QUISS IN THE BAR RIGHT NOW!”On the other hand, Vas really had not been outside in a while and it would do his complexion good to soak up some heat.---Wyin watched as Sir Fran climbed the stairs and entered her boss room.Such a scene… every fibre of her being protested that this should not be. Two bosses in one room when they were not part of a pair? It wasn’t even like Mother Delta had a boss rush mode… this just felt alien.She opened her mouth… closed it then tried again. But no words would come. Damn it. She was a boss too so why was she so flustered around Sir Fran?The first… of them all. In so many ways. How could Wyin even bother to try to live up to that. It wasn’t like many folks would make it past Sir Fran and the jungle to reach her.She was just a needed element but Fran was wonderful. A true boss.“May we sit and chat?” Sir Fran asked politely. Wyin cleared the mist and with some minor effort, pushed two roundish root knots up for Fran and Mister Bacon to sit. Mister Bacon settled down and blinked up at her.What a cute little pig. It was Sir Fran’s, so of course it would be cute.“How can I help you?” Wyin aimed for casual calmness and came off as frigid. She wanted to hit herself with a thorny branch as Fran seemed to hesitate..“I want to apologise,” Fran began and Wyin’s mind went blank. Apologise? To Wyin?Had Wyin missed some letter or maybe Fran tried to talk to her before?! No, Wyin would have known… she was always hoping to get a message from the other Boss when her own floor monsters didn’t seem to interact with her outside of Luna. That energetic frog was lovely if not a bit of a child at times.“I meant to congratulate you on becoming a fellow boss and should have asked if you needed help or tips, but thankfully it seems like that won’t be needed,” the knight peered around and smiled at her room. Wyin was glad she had bark. She felt sap flowing to her cheeks.“You and Mother did a great job. This is a lovely grove for a boss,” he praised. Wyin gave a choked laugh and tried not to look or sound too pleased as she made nonsense words and smacked Fran lightly in jest.The poor knight was sent flying and Wyin felt her world screech to a halt as he bounced three times. Mister Bacon watched this, tail wagging as if amused.Sir Fran stood and stretched.“And strong as I expected. I feel quite happy, Lady Wyin. I know that the lower floors are safe under your protection,” the knight grinned, a little fang sticking out from his lip and Wyin wanted to grow legs and run.Maybe she could?She focused but all she got was the feeling of her roots curling in nervous glee.“I was thinking that perhaps we could start daily meetings? For the bosses that can move. I can come down and we can discuss issues that only us bosses would feel would be important, if that’s okay?” The knight asked and Wyin blinked.A meeting…for bosses?A union? Or Bosses Anonymous?It meant spending more time with Sir Fran…“I would be fine with that but do remember to knock, I am a lady after all,” Wyin tried to look sultry and Fran bowed, missing the look.“Perhaps I should sit outside the room and we can talk from a distance. I do not want you to feel like I am invading you,” Fran mused.“NO! I mean… a waste of time and energy. I shall prepare a meeting table and refreshments. Honey…fruit… rabbit haunches. We shall feast in glorious success of bloodshed and victory!” Wyin crooned then froze as she rethought what she just said.Damn it, she had promised Mother Delta not to kill!“I’d like that. I’ll bring fish and booze,” Fran agreed with another one of those fanged smiles.He bowed once more.“Until next time, Lady Wyin of the second floor,” Sir Fran left, Mister Bacon trotting after him.Wyin gathered her mist so no one could see her smile.“And to you…Sir Fran of the first Floor.”Maestro began to play some slow dance music, but Wyin’s frosty glare muted him after a few seconds.
