"Um, I mean, I wouldn't exactly call them slaves."

"Very well," Valor scoffed slightly. "Let us call them something else. Perhaps exploited prisoners, or orc entertainment, or human resources. The fundamental action behind what is going to happen to them does not change." Valor let out a quiet sigh. "Shiv, when they killed the Inquisitors, how did they do it?"

"Well, there wasn't really one way they killed them. Some of them..."

"Was it fast?" Valor asked again. There was no heat to his voice, and his expression was unreadable, yet Shiv’s mouth ran dry. He licked his lips as his stomach grew taut.

"...Fast-ish," he replied, sounding extremely unconvincing.

"Do you have a time for how long it took them to finish the inquisitors off?"

"I don't know." Shiv coughed. "Maybe ten minutes or so?"

"Ten minutes," Valor said. And for a while, the Legendary Pathbearer spoke no more. He stopped in place, right beside the infirmary, and he directed his gaze skyward at the abnormal mana core, glowing bright in the distance.

Shiv went still a step away from him, and discomfort began to build inside the Deathless as the silence dragged on, like barbs digging through his own flesh. "Valor?" Shiv asked. "Is there something wrong?"

"Is there something wrong?" Valor asked in turn. He looked down at Shiv again, studying the Deathless. "What do you think, Shiv?" Shiv wasn't sure how to answer that question. Before he could, Valor asked him another. "Do you enjoy the attention the orcs gift you?"

"Gift me?" Shiv said. He fought the urge to reach inside his cape, to push the armor in even deeper.

"They are lavishing you with attention, and mostly positive attention at that. Brutal as they are, the reinforcement they have provided you thus far has been overwhelmingly affirming. They have included you among their number. They have allowed you to partake in activities they usually only enjoy with other orcs. You're a celebrity. Do you enjoy it?"

Shiv's mouth opened and closed several times, and he fought through the discomfort. "Yeah," Shiv said. "Yeah, I like it. I haven't forgotten what they are, if that's what you're worried about."

"No," Valor cut him off for a third time. "I'm no longer worried, Shiv. But now I see what must be done. You are already compromised."

"What?" Shiv said. He had no idea what Valor was talking about. He reached inside his mind using his Psychomancy, but he felt nothing there. Even Uva has Psychomancy strands. I would have noticed if one of the orcs...

"I don't mean that they have touched your mind, at least not directly. No, you are not compromised psionically. You are compromised socially."

A reflexive swell of burning anger arose inside Shiv, but before he could reject that, he noted the anger, noted how foreign it felt. He never felt such petulance towards Valor before. Right now, however, he wanted to tell the Legendary Pathbearer to stop bothering him, that he was perfectly fine, perfectly aware of who he was and what the orcs were. But was he perfectly fine? Was he perfectly aware?

“The fuck did they do to me?” Shiv muttered, blinking hard. It was like Valor’s words just woke him from a stupor.

"Finally," Valor said, with a slight hint of joy to his voice, "you've noticed. That is a good start." Slowly, the anger began to dissipate, and a rush of other emotions followed. Disgust, horror, and... "Shit," Shiv muttered to himself. At some point, while talking to the orcs, there was less him imposing his will on them, and more them influencing him.

"Yeah, look, Valor, they didn't take ten minutes to kill all those Inquisitors. They took about twenty. And a few of them, uh, did stuff that I normally wouldn't like very much." He looked down at the ground, slightly ashamed. "They, uh, they might have also bribed me with a new piece of armor."

And instead of chiding Shiv, the Legendary Pathfarer just chuckled humorously. "Of course they did. It is a very reliable way of influencing someone. Silver Tongue, Sweet Talker, Heart Render, Gaze of Affection, Bribery… These are all Social Skills. Social Skills that you do not have, that you are ultimately unaware of. And these are Social Skills that you have been exposed to before the orcs."

"So, you mean they've just been manipulating me all this time? Well, I kind of knew that already."

Valor shook his head. Shiv paused and let him continue his explanation. "There are two layers to orc manipulation. The first is the obvious, their overt approaches. But the orcs are cunning and insidious creatures. More than anything, they are also subtle creatures. Their overt actions allow them to learn your ways, to see how you react to certain stimuli, to certain ideas."

"And from there, they adapt, and they make a more subtle approach," Shiv guessed.

"Correct," Valor said. "You are honest. You are brutal. You are direct. And so the orcs avoid being direct. Worse, every now and again, they let you catch them making an overt attempt. They let you think that you are noticing. And that decreases your suspicion. It makes you think you have the better of them. This has two effects. The first, it increases your Psychology levels. It amplifies your Social Skills. But it still allows them to manipulate you. Still.”

Shiv breathed. "Godsdamn fucking orcs." He felt his hands start shaking a little at how hard they twisted his head. "So everything I've noticed so far might be something they've fed to me on a silver platter."

"Yes," Valor confirmed. "But this is good. It is a useful lesson, and it has done what I wanted it to."

"What you wanted it to?" Shiv asked, confused. “Wait, you wanted me to get fooled?”

"I thought of intervening earlier," Valor mused. "I thought of intervening several times. In fact, I wanted to take your place, to deal with the Challenger in your stead. But with how the orcs were fixated on you, with how much they valued your presence, I realized this is to our benefit as well."

"Me getting manipulated is to our benefit?"

"Yes," Valor said without any hesitation. "The orcs are formidable adversaries socially as well. And so, you will have to grow quickly to face them, to even protect yourself against them. This will prepare you for future social encounters. The fact that they have managed to manipulate you is good. It will increase your paranoia. It will make sure you think thrice before assuming anything. In the future, whenever the orcs say anything to you, you will likely think back to this moment. Back to how they influenced you. How they turned your character in on itself using your flaws. And how they managed to compromise your efforts."

"So you wanted me to learn a lesson," Shiv said. The Deathless clenched his teeth as he felt frustration boil underneath his flesh. "You know, Valor, I think I'd rather you intervened instead. I, uh... The fact that you allowed them to brutalize those inquisitors means that you didn't care much for them in the first place, doesn't it?"

"Psychological manipulation isn't mind-control, Shiv. Once again, you are not compromised psionically. You are compromised behaviorally and socially. Your flaw here wasn't that you are bribable." Valor paused and cocked his head. "Being bribable is also a flaw, however. It allows people to own you, to own certain decisions you make. I recommend that you get rid of it. However good a piece of equipment might be, or however much someone may offer you in terms of treasure, understand that it is not yours. Because you have given a piece of yourself away to gain such things. It doesn't make you a slave, but it does make you predictable. And those who become predictable are easy victims."

Shiv tried to think of something to say, but nothing came to him. There was just an ill feeling in his stomach, and a growing sensation of shame.

Awareness 36 > 37

Psychology 31 > 32
