Also, despite invading so many Territories, Jake had not encountered a single major faction yet. He hadn’t even met a faction affiliated with a major faction. At least not to the point where they tried to use it as a defense to keep Jake from attacking them. Making matters worse, none of the other invading forces sent by the Milky Way Territory had encountered major factions either, making him feel as if they were really on their own little island with no worthy opponents anywhere nearby.

While Jake found this incredibly disappointing, Miranda was ecstatic. Their Territory was expanding rapidly, and as they grew in a circular pattern, they increased the buffer zone between their borders and the Beacon every single day. That, and the daily income was only going up.

The fact that they weren’t in any immediate rush to expand their defenses also meant Miranda could focus on some of the special structures suited for long-term plans. Jake hadn’t been back to the Beacon since leaving to conquer their many neighbors, but he was confident that by the time he returned, the city would be entirely different from what it was now.

Regarding the others from his Territory, they had at least found some challenge, though that was only due to their inferior power. Especially one person had managed to have some truly good bouts.

The Northpeak Wyvern had taken part in many attacks and fought several B-grades while still only a peak C-grade himself. In his latest battle, only a day ago, he’d even faced a Chief Administrator in a prolonged battle that took several hours, with the wyvern coming out on top, half-dead in the end.

A peak C-grade in this kind of system event, truthfully, wasn’t that useful, even if that peak C-grade was powerful for their level. The disparity between grades was simply too big, and the kind of opponents they would end up facing were geniuses who had been fully capable of also crossing grades on their own.

That’s why it was fortunate that it would no longer be an issue for the big ice lizard.

Jake had started flying toward the next Territory where he happened to overlap with another group from the Milky Way Galaxy. A group that had suddenly grown explosively more powerful within the last day, and as Jake approached the border, he saw something glinting in the distance.

A large, scaled creature more than a hundred meters in length flew in the air, reflecting the sunlight from above using its body that seemed to be made entirely of ice. The very air itself froze in its surroundings, and with every wingbeat, cold winds capable of creating a new temporary ice age for anything below blew.

Looking good, Jake thought with a smile as he used Identify on the newest asset of the Milky Way Territory, as they could no longer refer to the Wyvern as, well, a wyvern.

[Boreal Frostpeak Dragon – lvl 350 - Divine Blessing of the Everfrost Dragon God]
