“Tee-one, this is Teepo.” Ren said and motioned to his shoulder. “Can you see him?”

“I can.” Tee-one said. “Hello, Teepo.”

“Hello.” Teepo said. “It's nice to meet you.”

“It's nice to meet you, too.” Tee-one said, and looked at Ren. “What do you want me to make first?”

“You were just born.” Ren said. “I'd like for you to meet some more people first.”

“Of course.” Tee-one said. “Do you want to add me to your party as well?”

Ren grinned. “You're already anticipating what I want.” He said, and sent the party invite. Tee-one accepted, and Ren got a popup.

Notice!

Your party, Virtual Survivors, has reached the limit of available members (7).

“We need to wait for a few minutes.” Ren said and motioned to his hand in the hardened metal. “I kind of got it stuck making you.” He took out the stone brick that he had enchanted with a single Wind rune and 7 Fire runes, that he'd used to heat up and cut the chute in half. He used it to blast the metal around his hand and used his Fire Manipulation ability to distribute the heat down to his fingers. It took about 5 minutes for it to soften enough for Ren to pull his hand out. Ren set the brick on the top of the smelter and left it to melt the metal. He was glad he hadn't touched the bottom of the smelter, so there was still molten metal underneath the cooled portion. It was just going to take a while to smelt it again.

“Come with me.” Ren said, opened the door to the forge room, and stepped out. Tee-one followed him and a woman gasped when she saw him. “It's okay.” Ren said. “Everyone, this is Tee-one. He's going to be working here from now on.”

“Oh!” The gasping woman said. “He's as tall as you, and all metal!”

Tee-one walked over to her and took her hand. “It's nice to meet you.” He said and bent over it. She gasped again, and several women chuckled. He repeated this for each woman, and then knelt by Ruck. “Hello, brother Ruck.” They gave each other a hug, and Tee-one went back to where Ren stood.

“Over here is Dorcot.” Ren said and walked into Dorcot's section. “Dorcot, this is Tee-one.”

Dorcot held out a hand and Tee-one shook it. “I really have to stop being amazed at what you do.” He said, then shook his head. “No, even if I knew you could do something like this... I'd still be amazed.”

“It's nice to meet you.” Tee-one said.

“Likewise.” Dorcot said.

“He's going to be working here, and helping me with everything.” Ren said. “Which reminds me.” He said. “Dorcot? Where's your brother-in-law?”

“What do you mean?”

“I went out to the mines and there's a new foreman.”

“No!” Dorcot's eyes widened. “They couldn't!” He stood up. “They didn't!”

Ren nodded slightly. “The new foreman is the fat dwarf from the Hole.”

Dorcot frowned. “I have to go.”

“Of course.” Ren said. “When you find him, tell him to come and see me.”

Dorcot looked at him. “Why?”

“For a job, of course.”

“He's an administrator, Ren.” Dorcot said. “He can't do general labor.”

Ren chuckled. “I'd planned on him keeping the same job he already had, actually.”

“W-what?”

“I own a whole string of mountains up along the coast.” Ren said. “They're just sitting there. I'm sure he should know how to find out if there something inside them.”

Dorcot grabbed Ren's shoulders and held on tightly. “I'll tell him as soon as I find him!”

“You better get going then.” Ren smiled. “Don't run the whole way, though.”

Dorcot laughed and let go, then left the workshop. Ren motioned for Tee-one to follow, and they left the workshop as well. He led his new familiar down to the house and stopped at the guard.

“Golir, this is Tee-one.” Ren said. “He'll be working here from now on.”

“Of course, sir.” Golir said. “I'll let the other guards know.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and went through the gate. Tee-one went in and followed Ren into the stable.

...who... this...

“Princess, this is Tee-one.” Ren said. “Tee-one, this is Princess.”

Tee-one knelt in front of her and picked up a hoof. “It is an honor to meet you.”

...good... manners...

“Thank you.” Tee-one said.

Ren looked at him. “You can hear her?”

Tee-one shook his head as he let Princess' hoof go. “You can, and I can hear her through you.”

“Oh, right.” Ren said. “I forgot that my familiars have a mental connection with me.”

Tee-one nodded slightly. “We can keep our thoughts separate, even though we are only extensions of you.”

Ren put a hand on his shoulder. “You're not 'only' an extension of me. You are your own separate identity.”

Tee-one smiled. “It's nice to think so.”

“You'll see.” Ren chuckled. “There's 2 more people you need to meet.” He led Tee-one out of the stable and into the house. He noticed the stone pen, and cut up a few more squares of Spider Silk Cloth for the baby fire elemental. Tee-one looked into the pen and watched as the elemental tried to eat. He picked up one of the squares, and crumpled it a little bit, then dropped it into the pen. The baby grabbed it and shoved it inside of itself and then it changed color slightly.

“That's a great idea.” Ren said and crumpled up the other squares. “It's been having a hard time eating them.”

“It's probably delicious, but a little too hardy for one so young.” Tee-one said. “Removing some of the Durability seemed like the right thing to do.”

Ren put a hand on his shoulder. “See? You are separate. I didn't think of that.” He smiled and turned around. “Nathalia?”

“In here.” She said from the kitchen. “Can you guess what we're doing?”

Ren walked into the kitchen and gave her a hug from behind. “Being beautiful?” He asked, and she laughed.

“No, silly.” She said and turned her head to kiss him. “We're baking bread.”

Ren smiled and looked over her shoulder and saw that she was kneading a huge pile of dough. “Do you need a hand?”

Nathalia shook her head. “Thanks to being a part of your party, my stats have jumped higher than I ever imagined they could be.”

“Speaking of my party, I'd like to introduce a new member.” Ren let her out of the hug, and she turned around to see the metal figure standing behind Ren. “This is Tee-one.”

“Hello.” Tee-one said, and bowed slightly.

Ren walked over to Narhilda. “Tee-one, this is Lady Neram, Head of House Neram.”

“My Lady.”

Ren walked back to Nathalia. “This is her daughter, my fiance, Nathalia.”

“It's nice to meet you.”

“Ren.” Narhilda said. “Where did he come from?”

“I made him.” Ren said. “You reminded me that I could make more help. He's my familiar.”

“This was what you meant?”

Ren nodded slightly. “I'm not done, though.” He said. “I've got two more constructs I can make, but they'll only be semi-sentient.” He looked at the recipe. “Actually, according to the recipes, I can make a 2 foot tall humanoid, or a 3 foot tall metal dog.”

“Dog.” Narhilda and Nathalia said at the same time.

“A dog would be nice.” Tee-one offered. “An extra pair of hands wouldn't hurt, but a dog can guard you.”

“I didn't actually put it to a vote, but...” Ren chucked. “...I guess I'm outvoted anyways.”

The two women laughed and Tee-one smiled.

“We better get to it.” Ren said, and kissed Nathalia before leaving the kitchen. He left the house and Tee-one followed closely behind him.

*

“That was kind of scary.” Narhilda said.

Nathalia nodded slightly. “Did you vote for the dog just because it was better than the chance of having another one of... that... walking around?”

Narhilda nodded.

“Me, too.”

*

Ren went back to the workshop and into the forge room. “I don't have to show you how to work these, do I?”

Tee-one shook his head. “You gave me the necessary knowledge when you made me.” He said and tapped his temple. “Dedicated Servant Crafter.”

“It's easy, anyways.” Ren said. “It was harder when I only had the one forge; but with three going, I've always got a constant flow of metal going.”

“What shall I make?”

“I need 10 suits of full plate armor.” Ren said and took out his portable dye station. “Dyed a mottled gray.”

“For the Garrison.” Tee-one said.

Ren nodded slightly. “I need to have something ready for when I go and visit.” He said. “I'm tempted to only cast the pieces, but that wouldn't be fair. Fold each piece three times before making them.”

“It shall be done.”

“How many slots do you have in inventory?” Ren asked.

“100, with double capacity.”

“Nice.” Ren grinned. “Pop outside to the pile of iron ore and fill half of your inventory. You can keep the smelters full while using them.” He said. “I've had them simmering since yesterday, so the steel content is really high.” He knocked on Tee-one's armor. “As you can see.”

“Yes, you did an excellent job.”

“That reminds me.” Ren said, and concentrated on the Minor Healing spell he now had access to. He put a hand on Tee-one's chest, and poured some Mana into him. “There you go.”

Tee-one closed his eyes for a moment, then opened them. “You gave me Minor Healing?”

Ren nodded slightly. “It's only one use, but you can cast it yourself.” Ren said. “I'll be making some wands with it, so you won't have to worry about being damaged and not getting fixed.”

“Thank you.” Tee-one said. “That's a relief.”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, even though I know the spell, I can't cast it. That's why I need wands.”

Tee-one nodded slightly, and went outside to gather the ore. Ren checked the smelter he'd left all that hardened steel in, and it was almost melted again. Thanks to his 100% Fire immunity and affinity, he reached into the smelter and lifted out the chunks of metal that hadn't melted yet. He put them into the forge itself and let it sit there, then stirred the molten metal while he waited. Ren checked the pieces, and they were like jello, so he put them back into the smelter and they broke up easily.

Tee-one came back in and Ren stepped aside for him to get to work, and Tee-one refilled the first forge's smelter with ore. Ren took out another paving stone and used his Stonemasonry ability to carve 1 inch deep, 1 inch wide, 11 inch long troughs in the stone. He actually made 40 troughs in the 2 foot by 2 foot paving stone by the time he was done, and smiled at his handiwork. Ren opened the Wand recipe, and saw that he needed something for the tips to hold the Store Spell rune, and went to Dorcot's area. He took out the crate of odd-sized diamonds and searched for as many 1 inch wide diamonds as he could find. It didn't matter about the shape, as long as it had a flat surface for the rune to sit in. He found 40 of them eventually, and used his Appraisal skill on each one. They were worth anywhere from 1 platinum to 5 platinum.

“Wow.” Ren said and chuckled. “No one will be able to afford these wands.” He went back into the forge room and poured some molten metal out of the third forge into his new wand mold. He ran his hand over it and absorbed most of the heat from one of the wands, leaving the tip a bright reddish yellow. Ren popped it out of the mold, and then took a diamond that he had chosen, and dipped it into the smelter full of molten metal. He quickly placed the diamond onto the tip of the wand and it fit perfectly. He used his finger to move some of the molten metal to ensure the diamond was held securely, then absorbed the heat. He enchanted the flat edge of the diamond with the Store Spell rune, and added the Minor Healing spell to it. It took about a tenth of his Mana Pool to do it, but when it was done, he examined it.

Superior Wand of Minor Healing

This wand was created by the artisan blacksmith, Ren the First.

Number of Charges: 50

Durability: 200/200

Ren used Appraisal on it, and saw it was worth 3 platinum coins. He stored it and repeated the process, refilling his Mana by absorbing the heat from the metal of each wand. Ren made 19 more wands of Minor Healing, then switched to making Fireball wands for the other 20. Since it didn't cost him Mana for fire-based spells anymore, he refilled his Mana Pool with the excess heat. He turned around and watched Tee-one work for a few minutes, and liked what he saw. It was efficient, fast, and well done. When Tee-one completed the first set of armor, Ren interrupted him.

“That's great, Tee-one.” Ren said. “I've got the wands ready.” Ren said and gave him 2 Minor Healing wands, and 2 Fireball ones.

“Thank you, Ren.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “Can I ask you a question?”

Tee-one nodded.

“My skill 'Improved Homunculi' says that you have weapon proficiency. Do you want a sword and a shield, or 2 swords?”

“2 swords.” Tee-one said without having to think about it. Ren nodded slightly and handed him 2 swords. Tee-one stored them and Ren smiled.

“I'll figure out how you can practice with them later.”

“I have no doubt about that.” Tee-one said. “You are always thinking.”

Ren laughed. “Yeah, I'm definitely guilty of that.”

Tee-one looked down at Ren's hand. “You are also guilty of forgetting to take care of yourself.”

Ren looked down at the wrapped hand and smiled. He took out one of the Minor Healing wands and used a charge on his hand. He took off the bandage and there wasn't a mark.

“Well, now we know it works.” He said and put a hand on the wand and put a little more Mana into it, to replace the charge and stored the wand again.

“You didn't have to empty the wand before you can recharge it?”

Ren shook his head. “I'm not casting the spell, only adding it to the wand.”

“That's an odd distinction.”

“Tell me about it.” Ren snorted a laugh. “I have the ability to learn spells, but can't use them unless I have a wand.”

“Yes, quite odd.”

“It's how my class works, I think.” Ren said. “If I could cast spells, I wouldn't build things to cast them for me.”

“You don't know for sure?”

Ren shook his head. “There's no information available for my special class.” He clapped Tee-one on the shoulder. “I'm not going to complain.” He said. “I'd have been trying to rush through everything to get access to making you as fast as I could; and it wouldn't have worked. If I hadn't gone through everything I've gone through...”

Tee-one nodded. “I understand.”

“Well, I've got a stable to build, and a track to make for Princess to run on.” Ren said. “I'll see you later.”

“Bye, Ren.” Tee-one said, and got back to work.

Ren went out to the main room, and stored all of the cement powder sacks the women had filled.

“You're all doing a fantastic job.” Ren praised them. “I've never seen so many sacks done at once.” He said. “Thank you.”

Several women blushed at his praise, and Dorathy chuckled.

“You're going a little overboard with the flattery, your highness.” She said. “It's just grunt work.”

“That may be true, but I couldn't do anywhere near this amount by myself.” Ren smiled. “I just hope you are going to accept your normal pay, and not deny yourselves like last time.”

“It's still too much money, sir.” One woman said. “A silver a sack? For each of us? We've done nearly 300 so far, and the day is only half-gone!”

Ren chuckled. “I can honestly say that you're the first group of people I've ever met that didn't want to get paid for the work they do.”

Several women blushed, and Dorathy laughed.

“It's because we think the work is too easy.” She said. “Much easier than tending house, or the cows, or even our children.”

Ren grinned. “What's the world coming to, if shoveling silt is easier than raising a child?”

She snorted a laugh and a few of the women laughed, too. Ren looked at them.

“Please, accept the proper payment; or I'll give you that toy I promised.”

“A toy?” One woman asked. “Can we see it?”

Ren shook his head. “It's a parting gift.” He said. “Once I give it to you, I'll probably never see you again.”

“You... you want to... see us again?” She asked, a little flustered.

Ren nodded slightly. “I enjoy having good people work for me. If they enjoy the work, they work more; and the more they do, the more they get paid.”

“So that's why you're paying a silver coin for a sack.” Another woman said. “You want us to work harder.”

Ren shook his head. “No, I want you to work better.” He said. “You're already doing twice what you did before, only because I split the chute; but you've doubled that because you're enjoying yourselves.”

“You're right.” Dorathy said. “We've just been talking about things, and enjoying the company. Working is just... something we're doing.”

Ren walked over to her and knelt. “That's it exactly.” He said and took her hand and bent over it. “When you enjoy yourself, it's not work anymore.”

Dorathy blushed slightly as Ren let her hand go, then he stood up.

“I'll be back in to gather everyone in a few hours, so I can get you home in time to make supper.”

“T-thank you.” She said. Ren left the workshop and went outside. He saw the large wall he'd made to put over the hole in the side of the Keep to block out the spiders.

“I really have to get down there and do that.” Ren said.

“You need that stable built.” Teepo said.

“Right.” Ren said, then ran down to the road, and then over half a mile. “This looks like a good spot.” He said, as it was well away from the Keep, and Dorcot's house, but close enough to the both of those and the housing development, that it was only a couple of minutes to walk. Ren opened the stable plans, and didn't change anything. He reproduced it exactly as the plans said, and set out all of the wood he needed for the frame, after clearing and digging out the lot. Since he didn't have an extra set of hands to help hold things, he made it in sections on the ground, and added braces so when he stood the pieces up, they would be straight and he would only have to nail them together. It took a little longer that way, but he wasn't going to bother anyone else with it; because they were just as busy as he was. Ren heard several carts approaching on the road an hour later, and he stopped working to look around and see who it was.

“Barnar!” Ren said and ran to the road. “I figured you were too busy to come out this early.”

“I took a break.” He said and climbed down out of the cart, and told the driver to keep going to drop off the stone bricks. “I wanted to see what it was that you made.”

“You already passed it.” Ren chuckled and pointed down the road. “The Main House is a mile and a half back that way.”

“The Main House?” Barnar asked. “I saw a big building, and felt something when I passed by.” He said. “But it didn't look like a Main House.”

“I really should get a sign made.”

“It would help.” Barnar said and motioned at the pieces of wall ready to be stood up. “What are you doing here?”

“Making a stable.”

“You don't have any horses.”

“Not yet, no.”

Barnar shook his head. “You're really building your own town out here?”

Ren laughed. “No. It's just the things people need to live. Houses. Transportation. A Church.”

“A Church?” Barnar asked. “Where?”

“Across the road from the Main House.” Ren said. “I'll show you.” He led Barnar back down the road and to the Main House. The outer frame of the Church was almost completely up, and Ren grinned. “That's the Church.”

“You're kidding!” Barnar said. “It's huge!”

“It didn't start out that way.” Ren said. “But once I started changing things, it became a big deal.”

Barnar chuckled and turned around. “Now tell me what this is.”

“That is the Main House.” Ren said and walked over to it. “Go ahead and feel it.”

“Why is it dark gray?” He asked, then ran his hand over it. “It feels like mortar, but not as rough.”

Ren nodded slightly. “That's because there's not much sand in this.”

“What is it?”

“It's called cement.”

“How did you cut pieces this big?” Barnar motioned to the mold lines, misunderstanding their meaning.

“I didn't cut anything.” Ren said. “This was poured into a mold right where it stands.”

Barnar's hand froze on the wall and he stared at Ren. “W-w-what did you say?”

“I made a mold for the wall, about 4 inches thick, put in metal bars, and then filled it with a mortar like putty.”

Barnar's mouth fell open.

“I told you it would change your world.” Ren laughed. “I had to make the first floor, let it set for a day, then made the second level with a floor.” He looked up. “The roof is wood, though.”

“The prince's design...”

Ren nodded. “Easily made if you use metal bars inside the walls as reinforcement, and made from a mold.”

“By the gods, Ren!” Barnar looked at the building.

“Have a look around.” Ren said. “I've got to ask the Head Assistant about a couple of things.” He left Barnar outside and went into the Main House. Ereka's office door was open, and Ren went to it. He saw 2 healers standing next to Ereka, who was sitting on the couch. He rushed over to her, and she felt his deep concern for her welfare.

“What happened?” Ren asked the healers as he knelt beside her and took her hand. “Is she okay?”

“I... I'm fine.” Ereka said, and blushed at the intensity of his emotions.

“We came in a short while ago, and found her passed out on the couch.” One of the women said. “She apparently fainted.”

“This was my fault, wasn't it?” Ren asked, and Ereka felt his deep regret.

“No!” She exclaimed. “I just...”

Ren felt her embarrassment and he smiled. “It's okay.” He said and turned to the healers. “Are you bound by oaths to not divulge information?”

They both nodded slightly. “We're not a part of the guild yet, so we haven't taken the final Oath of Devotion.” One said. “All of our other oaths are in full effect.”

Ren turned back to Ereka. “Go ahead. Tell me what happened.”

She tried a few times to tell him what happened, and he felt her exasperation. He squeezed her hand and smiled.

“I promise to not judge you, or anything that you say.” Ren said. “Or hold it against you.”

Ereka sighed. “After you left here this morning, I...” She looked at the two healers for a second, then back at Ren. “...I thought about sharing the Aura, and... and sleeping with you.”

Ren's eyes widened for a moment, then he tilted his head slightly. “That's a neat idea.” He said, and she felt his curiosity and that he was intrigued. “Sharing feelings like that, and then sleeping with someone...”

Ereka nodded. “I... ah... fainted thinking about it.” She felt his surprise; then Ren remembered she was only 22 and hadn't had her training yet, and she felt his understanding flow into her. She blinked at him a few times.

“You're not angry.” She said, surprised.

“Why would I be angry that a woman was fantasizing about sleeping with me?” Ren chuckled, and Ereka felt he was really flattered. “I'm actually really flattered.”

“I... I know.”

Ren felt her surprise, and smiled. “Coming here to the Dwarf Kingdom has been the best thing I've ever done.” He explained. “Where I come from, people usually look down on me, because I'm so short.”

Ereka let her shock flow out without trying to stop it. “How can they do that?!?”

He laughed. “In this land, I'm one of the tallest people here; there, I'm one of the shortest.”

“But... but... you're a Lord!”

“Only here.” He said. “Influence and Honor means very little to anyone else.”

Ereka clamped her mouth shut to stop her hot retort, but Ren felt her anger.

“Thank you.” Ren said, and bent over her hand. “You'd defend me, even though we've only just recently come to know each other better.”

“Y-you're welcome.” She said, flustered. Ren let her hand go and stood up.

“Can I assume you're here at her request?” He said to the healers. Both healers nodded slightly.

“The messenger arrived this morning at the Keep. They sent word to the medical wing for anyone willing to join a House, and that they were welcome to come here to House Neram.”

“I assume she asked for one, or both, of you by name.”

One healer smiled. “We're old friends.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “I've known Artrude since we were kids on neighboring farms.”

“By the gods, I hate raising sheep.” She said, and grinned when Ereka laughed.

“You and me both.” Ereka said and stood up. “I was so glad to get a job that didn't involve climbing part of a mountain looking for lost sheep.” She rolled her eyes. “Every. Single. Day.”

Artrude chuckled. “I was right there beside you.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “When I found out they wanted a healer full time, I thought of you immediately.”

“Thank you.”

“And your associate?”

“This is Malenka.”

“Artrude! You can't give my name away like that!” Malenka said.

“It's okay.” Artrude gave her friend a one-armed hug. “Not only will he be our Lord, his fiance is the daughter of Lady Neram.”

Malenka's eyes widened as she stared at Ren.

“You'll understand once we're sworn into the House.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Speaking of that, you aren't leaving another House to come here, are you?”

“And if we are?” Artrude asked.

“If you are, we'll send a messenger over to your old House with enough money to cover the one year wage penalty, and then you can be sworn in.”

Malenka's mouth dropped open. “He's crazy!”

“Malenka!” Ereka and Artrude said together.

“Didn't I tell you, Ereka?” Ren laughed, as she looked at him in surprise. “Everyone sees me as crazy.”

“You seem to be quite accepting at the insult.” Artrude said, and shook her head as Ereka nodded slightly.

“I don't consider it an insult.” Ren said. “I wear it as a badge of honor.”

The three women gasped, and Ren smiled.

“I usually get that response, too.” He said, and looked at Artrude. “I want you to tell Ereka what requirements you'll need for a fully stocked medical building.”

Her mouth dropped open and Ren chuckled.

“Yeah, I get that one a lot, too.” He said. “I'm serious, though. Anything at all that you need, I'll either provide, or buy for you.” Ren said, and took out a handful of platinum coins to give to Ereka.

“I haven't spent everything you gave me the last time yet.”

“You will.” Ren said. “Send a messenger to the stables in the city in 2 hours, and tell the woman in the office that the stable is built.”

“You've built a stable?”

“Mostly.” Ren said. “I just have to stand the pieces up and nail them together.”

“And what is it for?”

“Horses and carts, obviously.” Ren chuckled. “They'll be available for House Neram residents to use, with certain ones reserved for people I designate.” He said. “The first one is for Dorcot and his wife, Angeilin. The second is for the Main House. The third is for the medical staff. The rest can be first come first served for now.”

“How... how many?”

“Only a dozen to start. I think.” Ren said. “Rentals of the horses, buying the supplies, stuff like that. The staff will be full hires; but, I don't think they'll be joining House Neram. They will only be working for us.”

“How much?”

“I have no idea.” Ren shrugged. “You can ask when you send the messenger.”

Ereka looked at him and didn't say anything.

“She's going to hire them in my stead, so you don't have to worry about any of that.” Ren said. “She wants to make sure the horses get treated well, and taken care of. I figured letting her deal with it would be okay.”

“It is.”

Ren smiled and turned to Artrude. “When you decide what size building you'll need, and what to put in it; like living space, apartments, or anything at all... let Ereka know. She can contact the house and they'll let me know. I can't promise I'll get to it today, and the work crews are busy building the Church across the road; but, it will get done as soon as possible.”

The women stared at him.

“Or you can go and pick a house. There's half a dozen empty ones in the sub-division, so you've got a bit of a choice. I'm having more built after a few days, once the crews are available.”

Ren turned back to Ereka. “Any word about the armory?”

She shook her head. “Not yet. I told the messenger to stay for a response.” Ereka said. “It might be a while.”

Ren nodded slightly and looked at Artrude. “What's a healer's pay, by the way?”

“Paid?” She snorted a laugh. “Healers get free room and board, and provide healing when needed.”

“No pay?” Ren frowned. “That's not how I do things here.” He said. “I'm tempted to pay you the same as a guard.” He looked at Ereka. “What do you think? 10 gold a week, with a day off?”

“That sounds good.” She said.

Ren smiled. “You know, maybe a cafeteria or a restaurant might be a good idea.” He said. “I'll have to talk with my fiance and her mother about it.” He stepped back and bowed slightly to the three of them. “If you'll excuse me, I have work I need to do.”

“O-o-of course.” Ereka stammered.

“See you later.” Ren said, and left the office, then out the lobby door.

*

“By the gods.” Artrude said and sat down on the couch. “Is he really crazy?”

Ereka shook her head and sat down next to her friend. “I think... I think it's just everyone's reaction to him... and his ideas.”

“Imagine! Paying a healer!” Artrude chuckled and rubbed her hand over the couch. “This is a really comfy couch.”

“Ren made it.” Ereka said.

“Really?” Artrude asked. “He's got talent then.”

“He made this, too.” Ereka said and pointed to the brooch. “And before you ask; yes, it's real and not fake.”

“Will we get one, too?” Malenka asked and sat down in the comfy chair in front of the desk. “This is a nice chair!”

“He made that, too. And the desk. And the building we're in.” Ereka said, and the two healers looked at her in surprise. “You'll probably get a brooch, too.” Even though I don't want you to. She thought, selfishly.

*

Ren met Barnar out behind the House as he marveled at the entire structure.

“You have got to tell me how you did it!” Barnar exclaimed as he finally noticed Ren standing beside him.

“Sure.” Ren said, and explained making the rebar, the wooden mold, then pouring the cement into the mold.

“Then you did the upper floor?” He asked, and Ren nodded. “Amazing!”

“It takes longer than building with wood at first.” Ren said. “Once the mold is done, you can take it apart and use it to do the next floor. It takes a day to harden enough to stand on, and a week or so for it to set completely.”

“You've put me out of business.” Barnar said. “I'm ruined.”

“Barnar.” Ren laughed. “Would I have shared so many things with you, if what I wanted was to run you out of business?”

Barnar opened his mouth to speak, and stared at Ren. “What do you want?”

“To help, of course.” Ren said. “I had intended to keep this secret to myself.”

“Why didn't you?” Barnar asked.

“You need it.” Ren said. “I won't leave your Influence or Honor suffer, if I can help it.”

“Ren, I can't build this.” Barnar said. “I don't have rebar, whatever that is. I don't have wood to make the mold. By the gods, I can't even mix huge amounts of cement like you can!” He sighed. “I'm turning the job down.”

“Barnar, don't!” Ren said. “I'll give you everything you need!”

“No, Ren.” Barnar said. “You've shown me that my profession is now obsolete.”

“I HAVE NOT!” Ren yelled, and Barnar's eyes widened. “Do you see any other buildings around here that looks like this?”

Barnar looked around. “No.”

“That's because it's a pain in the butt to make it this way.” Ren said. “And I don't have that much cement powder. I'm using it to repair House Neram's Keep. I really can't take the time to do another job.”

“You can't do the job yourself, but you can make the parts to give to me?”

Ren sighed. “I can make the parts needed between some of the other things that I'm doing, but I can't dedicate time to it exclusively.”

Barnar nodded. “Then I'm going to refuse your generous offer, and the job.”

“Barnar.”

“Ren, I can't do what you do.” He said. “Even if I could do what you do, I wouldn't do what you do.”

“You looked inside through the windows, didn't you?”

Barnar nodded.

“Did you see any stone brick fireplaces? Stone figures? Pillars?”

He shook his head.

“Do you really think I could do what you and your crew did to the top of the Keep?” Ren asked. “What about picking out the right stones? What about assembling them to build all of the things you make?” Ren shook his head. “I don't know how to do any of that!”

Barnar looked at him.

“I thought you'd be happy to learn about this; not be devastated.” Ren said. “I'm sorry I didn't keep it a secret.”

“It's not a secret anymore.” Barnar said. “What are you going to do about it?”

“Nothing.” Ren said. “You can tell anyone you want. People are going to notice the building is different when they see it up close; or care what it's made of. I won't be building anything like this for anyone else.”

“Why not?”

“Because if everyone had it, it wouldn't be unique.” Ren said and turned away. “I'll check to see if your delivery cart left already, and if it did, I'll give you a ride home myself.”

Barnar didn't say anything, and Ren ran up the road to the house. The delivery cart was coming down the road from the workshop, and he told them to pick Barnar up at the Main House. Ren ran down the road to where he had the stable pieces laid out, stood them up in the right spots, and nailed them all together. He went inside and built the stalls for the horses, then the office walls, and a desk and chair. There was a knock on the door and Ren opened it to see several workers.

“That was fast.” Ren commented. “Take look around and find out what you need, then order it at the Main House.” He said. “If you've got the horses with you, get the hay and things you need in the stalls first.”

“We know how to do our jobs.” A male dwarf in the group said, indignantly.

Ren concentrated on his Command Aura and frowned. “I didn't say you didn't.” He said. “I merely stated what to do IF you had the horses with you.” Ren looked at the dwarf. “Do you have the horses with you?”

“No.”

“Then why did you comment?” Ren held up a hand. “Never mind. I don't want to know.” He said. “If you have an attitude like that around the normal residents here, you won't have a job if I find out about it.”

“That's a little harsh.” He said. “I thought you were supposed to be nice, and a bit of a pushover.”

Ren closed his eyes, used his Connection ability, and activated his Screaming Terror ring.

“I'm not going to ask you where you heard that.” Ren said and opened his eyes. “I'm not in a good mood, because I had a fight with a friend over something stupid. Do not piss me off right now.”

The male dwarf nodded, and Ren deactivated the Screaming Terror ring, then ran his hands through his own hair.

“My apologies to you all.” Ren said. “If you do your jobs, and do them well, you'll get paid more than a fair wage. There will be residents using the carts and horses daily; sometimes several times a day. You will be courteous to them, and give them the respect they deserve. If they don't give you the same respect, tell me, or someone at the Main House; they will tell me and I'll talk to any offenders.” Ren looked at the male dwarf that commented earlier. “Do not talk back to them indignantly or dismissively, or argue, or the gods forbid, raise a hand to them. For that matter, that goes for the horses, too. No one but you, or the drivers, touches the horses without supervision or direction. If they ask to visit the animals, or want to pat them, allow it... after telling them, nicely, what to do and not to do.”

The group stared at him, and Ren smiled.

“Also, if any of you mistreat or hurt the horses in your care, you'd better hope I don't find out about it.” Ren walked past them and then turned around. “Is there a manager here as well?”

A female dwarf raised her hand. “That would be me, sir.”

Ren switched to his personal Aura and walked over to her. He took her hand, and bent over it. “I leave this building and it's contents, to your care.”

She blushed deeply at the Honor gain, and nodded slightly. “T-thank you, sir.”

“Take good care of it.” Ren said, and let her hand go.

“Sir.” She said. “What about the carts?”

“I'll have several made by tomorrow morning.” Ren smiled. “Right now, I have to take some workers home, so they can make supper for their families.”

“That's... really nice of you.” She said. Ren looked at her, and then at the other workers. “How many of you need to, or would like to, do the same?”

Three of the women raised their hands, including the new manager.

“I'll pick you up on the way by.” Ren said. “In about 10 minutes.”

“Thank you, sir!” The manager said.

Ren chuckled. “One of the first things I agreed to before hiring anyone, was if they needed time to spend breakfast at home before coming to work, and time to go home to make supper for their families, then rides will be provided.” He motioned to the stables. “Welcome to your job.”

“Does that mean we can all leave early?” The male dwarf asked.

“Quiet!” Someone said to him, and he shrugged.

“It's a good question.”

Ren sighed. “Is your job finished? Are the horses in their stalls? Are they fed and watered?”

“No.” The male dwarf said. “We just got here.”

“If you can get that done in the next 10 minutes without making a mess, then yes; you can go home with the women that need to leave to tend to their families.”

The male dwarf frowned. “So we have to do their work for them.”

Ren turned to him. “No. You don't have to do their work. It's just work that has to be done. You don't have to work here at all.”

“Are you firing me?” The male dwarf puffed out his chest.

“By the gods, Ogshorn! Shut UP!” Another male dwarf said. “He beat House Lodur's Champion, you fool!”

“I'm not firing you.” Ren said. “But if you don't drop the attitude, you won't be welcome anywhere on House Neram lands.”

“You can't do that.” Ogshorn said. “Only the Head of a House can.”

Ren smiled and held up his fist and thought of Nathalia. Everyone backed away, and Ogshorn put up his fists to fight.

“Darling.” Ren said, as his ring glowed. The gathered dwarves froze in shock as Ren had called Ogshorn 'darling'. “Can you ask your mother to ban Ogshorn...” He turned to the manager. “What's his last name?”

It took her a moment to recover from the shock. “Flatchen, sir.”

“Ogshorn Flatchen.” Ren said.

“Of course, My Love.” Nathalia's voice said from the ring, and Ren watched the reactions as all the dwarves realized he was using something they'd never seen before; a Sending Ring. Their mouths dropped open and they stared at him. No one gasped, however.

I think I'm losing my touch. Ren thought. They didn't gasp.

Teepo chittered in laughter, and Ren waited for a minute.

“She's doing it now.” Nathalia said.

“You're not going to ask why?” Ren asked her, and everyone gasped. There we go.

“Why?” Nathalia said. “Do you want me to?”

“I'll tell you about it later, when I get home for supper.”

“See you then.” She said, and the glow faded.

Ren unclenched his fist and smiled. “Any moment now.”

“What's this?” Ogshorn asked.

“I'd say it's a popup saying you have to leave, or you'll lose all your Honor.”

“You... you...”

“You did this.” Ren said. “Causing trouble for no reason. Delaying these women from getting home to feed their families.” He shook his head. “You should also know that when your Honor is gone, you'll be forcibly removed.”

“You and what army?” He spat.

Ren chuckled, and stepped aside. “You obviously have no idea.”

A few moments later, the dwarf's eyes widened as House Neram's magic protection picked him up off the ground, and he was carried gently to the road.

“What the hell is this?” Ogshorn asked as he was dumped onto the paving stones. He tried to walk back to the stable and hit the invisible barrier. “Hey! What did you do?”

“I told you that you wouldn't be welcome on House Neram lands.” Ren said, and turned to the crowd. “Does anyone know why he was trying to provoke me?”

The male dwarf that told Ogshorn to shut up, stepped forward. “His brother was one of the soldiers that came here. After hearing what happened... he hasn't been the same.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I felt really bad that it happened.” He sighed. “The Council forced my hand, and the battalion was caught in the middle.”

“So you didn't want to massacre them like that?”

Ren shook his head. “I didn't massacre anyone. No one was killed. Unfortunately, I had to show them what things could be like, and scare the hell out of them.”

The male dwarf chuckled. “You definitely did that.” He said. “Almost all of the recruits that were there, quit.”

“I'm sorry to hear that.” Ren said.

“You really are, aren't you?” The female manager asked.

Ren nodded slightly. “That wasn't my goal. I wanted them to see what it could be like to come up against a House on their own land, and violate their rights.”

“So that's why!” She exclaimed.

Ren looked at her. “What are they telling people?”

“That you were a criminal and they were taking you in legally.”

“Even after they rescinded their illegal orders?” Ren asked.

“What illegal orders?”

“So, no one besides the people in the Council chamber know what happened.” Ren sighed. “I'll have to fix that.”

“What are you going to do?”

“I'm going to tell everyone what really happened.” Ren said. “Right after I get you home.”

“Yes, I forgot.” She said. “We'll get the horses settled right away.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and turned to the male dwarf. “Can you deal with him?” He pointed at Ogshorn, who was still yelling at the barrier. “I don't want to humiliate him any more than he already has been.”

The male dwarf nodded slightly, and ran out to his friend.

“I'll be back soon.” Ren left them standing there, then ran up the road to House Neram. He went inside and hooked Princess up to the cart, and then attached the large cart. Ren made some cushions for the benches, and led Princess out to the road and then up to the workshop.

“Okay, time to go.” Ren said to the women shoveling, and he went inside to tell the women baging the cement powder the same thing. They all gathered together, and Ren turned to the woman who had spoken earlier. “How many sacks?”

“625!” She said automatically, then covered her mouth. Everyone chuckled, as they had no way to downplay how many sacks they'd done, like they'd planned. Ren gave each of them 6 gold and 25 silver coins, and a couple of them a coin pouch to put the money in.

“I really couldn't have done that many alone. Thank you.” Ren said, then repaired all of their clothing and equipment. “Load up.” He went out with them and helped the women climb into the back of the large cart. “I'm picking up a couple passengers down at the stable.”

“There's a stable?” A woman asked. Ren nodded slightly and walked around to get in the driver's seat.

“Slowly. We have to stop soon.”

Princess huffed and trotted down the road easily and then half a mile down the main road to the stable. Ren climbed down to gather the last three passengers, helped them get in the back, and asked them their addresses. He told everyone to hold on, and climbed back into the driver's seat.

“A good pace this time.”

Princess ran at a good pace, which was quite fast; but, not so fast that it scared the women in the back. Ren delivered them all back to their houses, and got the popup completing the quest.

Quest Complete!

You have delivered the workers home in time to make supper for their families.

Rewards: 1200 XP (100 XP per worker, 12 workers).

Influence: +120

Honor: +50, Lady Neram +50

Ren closed the popup, stored the large cart, and told Princess to not waste any more time as he climbed into the driver's seat of the small cart. She blew a raspberry, and ran as fast as she could. They both could feel each other's pleasure that she could run so fast with him in the cart. They got back to House Neram a few minutes later and Ren unhooked the cart and led her to the stable.

“I'll have your track made before supper.” Ren said. “I hope you'll like it.”

...have... fun...

Ren chuckled. “It'll be fun to make, and to destroy.” He left her and ran around the Keep, then up behind the workshop about 300 feet. “Here's a good starting point.” Ren took out his hammerpick and set it into the ground.

“Ready!” Teepo said. “Steady!”

Ren bent down and grinned.

“GO!” Teepo shouted. Ren took off running, and dragged the hammerpick behind him.
