Erick kept his eyes out for the person outside of the encounter as he instantly put up a few more defenses, most notably, he had a lightform Ophiel surround and hold onto the exterior of his sunform, covering his back and most of his front like the shell of a turtle, as that Ophiel then turned on [Pure Reflection Ward]. Erick’s rapid defense might not stand up to Domain-infused magic, but it was better than nothing.

The grey orcol sighed. “It would have been easier if you’d have let me win.”

She stepped away.

Three seconds later, when nothing else happened, Erick found himself asking, “Who the fuck was that?”

Whatever had happened, the woman was gone.

Erick stepped backward in time with his mana sense, just a bit, quickly rifling through the last few moments over and over again, three times. When he came back to himself, thirty seconds had passed, and he had recognized something weird. Whoever that was, had very much been sucked into his [Luminous Trap]. But she had also gotten out, due to a [Dispel] that came out of nowhere, about twenty meters away. In that space, Erick found a mana construct that had detonated itself in order to [Dispel] the [Luminous Trap].

So. Not a secondary person. The orcol woman was just prepared in case Erick trapped her.

That made sense. Erick had displayed his trapping spell twice; once days before, too. Someone would have had to have made a counter by now, and this grey orcol had. Pretty simple counter, too.

Erick would need to add a reflective Ophiel around the bubble, along with a counterspelling blood ooze, and maybe that would be enough.

But who was that lady! Erick had never heard of a ‘grey orcol’ from Killzone. The woman had normal eyes, too, so either she was a Shade hiding her white eyes, or someone else getting involved for the fun of it, or some shit.

And then there was the fact that she had noticed the [Cascade Imaging] almost instantly, and then had a plan set up to take advantage of Erick’s willingness to parlay. Shades were always watching, so that sort of made sense.

Whatever. This was a war-zone. No time to pursue all of that right now, and Erick had never heard of a grey orcol shade who wore rags and dealt in illusions. Considering that there was an illusion, who he had just met could be almost anyone.

So. Moving right along.

Erick had an Ophiel reset the [Cascade Imaging] to search for [Shades].

He waited a full minute before giving up on that pursuit. ‘Shades’ didn’t show in the search. He switched the search to ‘Fallopolis’, and found the woman. She was now in the Spire, near where Erick had searched for and found Tania. Huh.

The implications were… Something.

A possible-Shade had found his map and used that map to try to get to him by impersonating Fallopolis, while Fallopolis had simultaneously found and used the map to find Tania? Or. No. Fallopolis had been fighting Tania this whole time.

Then who the fuck was fighting Queen back there?!

Erick did a quick check back in time, back to when he set up the map, itself. He came back to himself, right away. In the near past, this not-Fallopolis had shown up almost instantly, after Erick had put up the map. And she had remained. She was still there, and had not done much, when Erick had walked into the scene. Good illusions? Or something else? Because right now, Fallopolis’s blue marker was over in the Spire—

Erick switched the imaging to ‘Tania’.

A blue dot appeared in the Spire, near where Fallopolis was.

Okay. So. There was something fucky going on over here.

Erick glanced to the Spire.

He was not walking into that shit show. He needed a plan to survive and thrive in this warzone, and he needed it now.

… There were still 6 days till the Feast ended, and the Feast Barrier went down. Killzone had said that the Feast Barrier always vanished with the first rays of the new day. So, theoretically, Erick had to survive 6 days.

Maybe.

Maybe the Feast Barrier only dropped when Tania dropped it. She had cast it, after all. She could still go in and out whenever she wanted, too. But Tania wanted to kill all the humans and have incani-only Shades. That would only happen if she made it happen. That was why she and Fallopolis were fighting right now, wasn’t it?

So. Best case scenario: Erick needed to survive for 6 more days.

To do that, he could either hide and wait for Tania to kill him, because he was human, and that seemed to be her desires right now, if Caizoa’s tirade was any indication of Tania’s plans.

Or he could get some powerful, temporary allies.

Erick had absolutely no illusions that his ‘Untouchable’ status was good for anything, anymore. And hiding would not work. Only fighting would see him through this night. Therefore, allies were needed. At this point, Erick recognized that his thoughts were circular, and he was not in his right, calm mind, at all. He shook his head, and focused.

Fallopolis was already fighting Tania, so she was not an ally at the moment. Maybe later, though.

Quilatalap was… Somewhere.

Erick switched the map to search for Quilatalap, and found nothing. For a moment, Erick worried.

… The 3000 year-old archlich was probably fine, but if Erick couldn’t easily find him, then he was probably not going to be found. So. Erick decided to pursue the Shades he had seen as the lesser evils, wherever they might be.

Erick switched the Imaging to another, and a blue marker appeared over in the Temple District—

A roar happened right behind Erick. Caizoa had showed up again. Erick sighed, then went to find the only possible Shade worth saving in all this mess. Killzone had said that Priestess was the only Shade who never did wrong by anyone, after all.

- - - -

Erick had briefly seen the Temple District before now, when he scouted the place with Ophiel. Where Truedark Arcanaeum was a green land of floating mountains, tall castles, and many, many residential areas, the Temple District was almost the same. The only true difference was the height of the towers, the building materials, and the ornamentation. All of that was of a much larger scope.

Soaring towers of crystal and gold, of darkness, light, and flowing water, provided the backdrop for daily worship of the Dark Dragon, Melemizargo. Statues of Shades occupied places of prominence. Statues of Melemizargo occupied places of endless devotion. Choirs sang in constant song, with rotating rosters so that the harmony would never falter. Scribes wrote the words of their god onto paper, to be distributed out into the rest of the world.

And at the moment, all of that was on fire.

Over there, green fire. Over there, black fire. Blue fires, too. Red and yellow fires glowed here and there, but they were small things, and most likely the result of wooden structures burning as naturally as they could, when everything else in a 10 kilometer radius circle was burning with some other, stranger flame. Black smoke billowed into the sky, while heat stress cracked crystal towers and sent monuments to the Dark Dragon tumbling into the burning churches and temples and shrines below.

Erick counted at least five Shades in the sky or nearby the temples, adding to the flames, or fighting each other. There was Hollowsaur with his shadowflames, burning a statue of Melemizargo in the ruined temples of a cathedral. Some harpy Shade seemed to make it her job to topple the tallest towers. Her flames were blue. Others, non-Shades, ran away from the destruction, but fleeing was hard when everything was on fire. Erick’s desire to find Priestess multiplied, as five people were consumed by the flames in front of him. More parishioners attempted to swim out into the Brightwater, only to fall to the snapping jaws of glowing monsters under the waves. A river ran through the Temple District, and though it had been a shallow, wide thing with many picturesque waterfalls and wide pools that could have easily defended some people from the raging inferno, there was a Shade in those waters, too, floating above the calm stream, setting the water to burning with radiant yellow flames.

Back up in the sky, where an Ophiel waited by Erick’s map, Erick made sure his target had not moved yet. And she hadn’t, according to the blue dot. Priestess’s position was not five kilometers from Erick’s position, though while Erick was in the sky, Priestess’s location was a problem.

According to what he was seeing, Priestess was at the center of a massive conflagration of black flames, flanked by burning spires and dwarfing them in its height. She was at the center of the fires. Dead center. Ah. That couldn’t be good.

Erick did not want to risk himself. He sent a sunform Ophiel forward. The [Familiar]’s bright sphere of light carved through flames as he stepped through the black conflagration. Erick expected to find Priestess tied to a stone pole and burning, or something. Instead, Ophiel burst into a ceremony absolutely full of people. For a moment, Erick was stunned. Priestess was holding Mass, or whatever she called it, in the middle of a world of black fire.

In a small, public amphitheater, Priestess floated, surrounded by onlookers, while flames raged beyond the area, threatening to engulf everyone inside, but Priestess kept those flames out, magic pulsing from her body. Her body was much the same as it always was. Priestess was still a stretched-out skeleton, with black ribbons wrapped around her pelvis and chest and arms; ribbons that gave the impression of flesh that was not there in reality. The white orb inside her chest was cracked; the black line in that central part of her spreading by the seconds. Her bones were already flaking away, like ash. Yet she was not ready to go. She pulled magic into her bones, solidifying them while they continued to disintegrate, warring with inevitability.

The parishioners looked to have come from all walks of life. Some wore expensive robes. Others looked like they had just gotten out of bed. Women, children, men, of all races, all gathered close to Priestess, listening to her words, but they mostly watched the black flames. The flames were already eating away at the edge of their secured space. Some people on those edges caught fire as Ophiel burst into the ceremony; into their safety. Ophiel noticed what he had done, and so did Erick.

Erick tried his best shot: a 10,000 mana [Grand Dispel], cast from his own hand, through Ophiel, at the flames. With all his own multipliers, that was almost like a half-million mana Chaining-[Dispel]. He hoped it would be enough.

The blot of shadows struck the black flames, and spread, consuming fires as it passed, like a scythe through a harvest, turning deadly spellwork into naught but a memory. Erick breathed deep, over five kilometers away, as he watched the conflagration around Priestess and her flock turn into nothing. In a flashing second, the amphitheater was cleared of all danger.

It was only after he was done with the black fire that he heard Priestess’s communion, and saw that the edge of his [Grand Dispel] had swept outward, and then inward, back to its caster. Back to Priestess.

“We offer up our lives to you, our Dark God! May we be forever held in your embrace—”

The [Grand Dispel] reached the Shade. She flinched. Her white core cracked a little bit more.

Erick could not contain his anger. He yelled through Ophiel, “What the FUCK?! You’re burning your people to death?!”

Some of those people saw the writing on the wall and ran away as fast as they could. Not many got very far. Parishioners in priest outfits held spells of restraint upon the people who looked like they just got out of bed. Priestess was burning these people to death, along with herself, as her priests acted as accomplices.

Priestess did not deny it. She reveled in it, as she happily called out, “Erick! You should join us! Melemizargo surely has plans for you, too! We just all need to die to escape this current crisis! The faster the better!”

So she was insane.

Maybe he could work with that?

Erick rapidly thought about what was needed.

He turned his voice angry, which was not very hard, and forcefully said, “There will be no mass-suicide today, Priestess. I need you to help me figure out which Shades should live through this, and which should die. I demand this of you, here and now. So pull yourself together and HELP. ME.”

She chuckled; a friendly sound. “But Erick. The solution to our problems is already here. Just die with me, and it will all be better!” She was not insane in the usual way. Melemizargo had already brought her back several times, if her own words and those of Killzone could be trusted. But as the starlight in her eye sockets swirled, and she glimpsed people struggling against their captors, her voice took on a harsher tone, as she spoke to the captives and her priests, “Everything will be okay when we pass beyond the flames. It doesn’t hurt that much.” Priestess turned back toward Erick. “Come with us, Erick.”

He played along, “I’m not prepared for what comes after the resurrections. What sort of world are we going to fall into? And besides that, how am I supposed to make this Mana Generation Wizard Core without knowing more about all of that, first? I need you to tell me all about that. I need you alive!”

“No, you do not! Worldly affairs are meaningless in the face of Melemizargo’s displeasure!” Priestess spread her arms wide. Black flames licked across the sky, as she declared, “Die and be reborn with the rest of us!”

Erick came back to himself, recoiling from a destroyed Ophiel, just in time to see black flames roll across the Temple District like a Red Dot explosion. He was already five kilometers away, but he stepped backward, fast. He was barely fast enough.

Black flames washed across the Temple District like the unfurling of the world’s largest lotus. Petals of flickering flame blossomed outward, continuously, blasting away towers with their shockwaves, sundering crystal, evaporating the river, extinguishing all other colored fires and pushing back the Brightwater with concussive force.

Erick’s sunform flickered as the very air bent and broke, but he was far enough away to avoid the death and destruction which claimed everyone else. Fire passed him, and he withstood its destruction. And then the outward force turned inward. Erick watched as the black lotus turned into a mushroom, and rose in the sky, blackening the world as it passed, carving a hole into the ever-present light that rested like a false-sky across the whole Brightwater District.

