The few other fires, the reds and greens and blues, were sucked into the sky as the black cloud lifted higher and higher, and winds whipped across the Brightwater and into the dark cloud. The lake followed the sudden inward tempest and broke its banks, flowing into the former Temple District. Massive plumes of steam lifted from the molten land, as the glass near the waters cracked and broke under temperature fractures.

A minute passed from explosion to black mushroom, before Priestess’s spell vanished completely into the sky above. Another minute passed, while Erick processed what he had seen, while he calculated the loss of life, and the aftermath. He looked upon the land, and felt despair, like a tiny knocking on his soul, loud enough to drown out the power of [Hunter’s Instincts]. The land of the Temple District looked like the outsides of Spur looked, after the Red Dot. All he saw before him was a land of glass that had been whipped up to stiff peaks, and burned, like the meringue coating of a freshly baked lemon pie.

Belatedly, he recalled seeing Caizoa’s sandform self flying through the air. She was not dead, at all. But apparently, explosions this large could overcome some of the Black Star’s invulnerability, and move the user with the power of excessive physical force. Erick filed that thought away for now. He filed away many of his weird, current thoughts, and tried to stay on track.

But what sort of track was he on? He had not exactly lied to Priestess. He had hoped to enlist her into finding those Shades worth saving. Maybe? Is that why he was here?

… Why was he here?

It was for allies, yes, but also…

Erick looked down upon absolute destruction, and felt his heart move back into the correct position. He could find temporary allies, yes, but if there were Shades that could be saved, then that would be good for a transition period, wouldn’t it?

He breathed out, and felt a minor panic, as he wondered just how insane the Clergy actually was. They had all seemed like perfectly normal Evil People until now…

But they were burning the Temple District specifically, weren’t they. They had lost their faith, when the secret got out that Melemizargo hated them all. That Melemizargo’s displeasure was why Tania had been Judging them and killing them these past days.

And that fact broke more than a few of them. Priestess had been broken, too. It was hard for Erick to imagine a sane person doing what she had done, even if it was true that she had come back to life multiple times because of Melemizargo’s desire. Erick doubted that all of those parishioners would be coming back. Did Priestess not see that?

Did Erick have that right? Priestess had been the off and on priestess for Melemizargo’s Clergy since before the Sundering. She was only a skeleton because she was an alvani, the child of an angel and a human, and alvani were impossible under the Script, ever since the Old Demons had killed all the Halves and made the incani.

… Erick put away those old thoughts. They were getting him nowhere.

The Temple District was gone. The fires that burned had been extinguished, either when the black bomb destroyed the place, or when the land had melted into liquid and then cooled into glass. Here and there, parts of the place had survived; the lee behind a particularly large temple, or where a boxy, sturdy building had managed to be buried by the blast, instead of being blown apart like so many others.

With a cold detachment, Erick thought about calling in some rains to cool the place down. But if he put water down there, it would steam up, and maybe kill anyone who had managed to find a place to hide out?

… No. That made no sense. Anyone down there who survived…

No one survived that. And if they did, they were probably under the glass, and praying that it would cool down faster.

Unsure what he was even doing anymore, but knowing that he really, really wanted to make it rain because he liked the rain and he felt like doing something that he wanted to do, Erick had an Ophiel cast a [Control Weather] into the sky, and hoped that it would be enough for whoever still lived; if anyone. It would take a while for the rains to fall, though. The Temple District was a good 30 kilometers below the surface of Veird.

The blackened sky turned to cold wind.

Five minutes passed before the rain reached all the way down to the glassed land, turning black as it fell through the sky above. Another four minutes passed before the rain managed to remain liquid long enough to actually touch the black glass. It didn’t remain liquid for long. Steam filled the sky. More minutes passed. Half a kilometer away, Caizoa stood in the air, her eyes affixed to the land ahead, tears rolling down her face. Erick could only guess at what she was seeing, and what she was thinking.

The Brightwater glowed down below, but Erick’s rains washed black ash into those waters, forming dark tendrils of ink that seemed to poison the light, dimming the radiance, turning the world a little bit colder. The glass of the Temple District crackled with a sound not unlike breaking glaciers.

With a thought, Erick moved on. He needed to find allies, right?

… Or he could help people survive this current crisis.

There were two ways to go about this. He could hunt Shades, and prevent more Red Dots from happening, or, he could… try to rescue people? Doing the first would automatically do the second.

… Whatever the case, he could try a different method to search for Shades. He considered the core at the center of each of them. Fallopolis had one. Priestess had one. Maybe they all did. What did it look like again? Oh yeah. A 10-15 cm wide white sphere, right where the stomach would be. Could he just search for something of that general size?

He tried it.

He got over three hundred positive results.

He almost sat down in the air and had a cry. 300 Shades? Fuck!

And then he noticed that only some of the blue dots moved around. The others were stationary. Maybe he had simply managed to get multiple results with his single search? It seemed likely. Or, at least, it seemed possible.

With [Hunter’s Instincts] allowing him to work through the pain in his heart, Erick decided to check the two orbs that remained in the Temple District, first.

The first orb was locked under a wave of black glass and inside of a building. With a wave of [Stoneshape], that glass came away like so much churning mud, to fall out and over into the pouring rain. The uncovered orb was nothing special. It was locked to the claws of a sculpture of Melemizargo, in what had likely been some sort of small worship center. It was almost like a grand-rad, in that it was solidified magic and a knot in the manasphere denser than most grand-rads, both sucking in and expelling mana in some sort of natural flow. It was definitely similar to the sphere at the center of Priestess, though Erick had never seen this kind of ‘flow’ among Priestess’s body, or the body of any other Shades. Maybe this was a dead Shade-core? Or something?

Erick left it behind, and stepped over to the other blue dot on the map.

He found what remained of Hollowsaur. Or, at least, what might have been Hollowsaur.

A plume of black glass rose from the surroundings, like a singular wave crested out of nowhere. Most of the interior was clouded, but Erick spied the searched-for orb inside of a charred skeleton. The bones were of orcol size, with a skull that had large lower fangs, exactly like an orcol. The orb was whole. The skeleton’s arms were crossed over the chest, protectively. Slight magics radiated from the white sphere, giving a gentle glow to the surrounding glass. This… was probably Hollowsaur.

… Was he still alive?

If Erick wasn’t in his sunform, he was sure he would have felt his heart sink. Hollowsaur’s orb still glowed. He might still be alive. So, the next question naturally flowed: Could Erick murder this man? Was that the right thing to do? To murder in cold blood, when presented the head of an enemy-of-the-world? Erick gazed upon the trapped skeleton with several sights. He felt himself go cold, even though the glass all around him was still billowing steam into the air, as he recognized a truth.

Erick whispered, “Holy shit you’re still alive.”

Hollowsaur responded with a pulse of light from his core that left him dimmer than before. Erick had an Ophiel set a [Weather Ward] up above to keep the black rain off of them.

“Severely weakened.” Erick said, “But alive.”

Erick watched as Hollowsaur’s orb ebbed brighter, radiating some sort of anger, but then it cracked, dimmed, and darkened; A candle flickering its last breath.

Panic swelled.

From the deepest, most true part of himself, Erick knew he could not kill this man. Not like this. Never like this. And yet, he couldn’t let the Shade die. And yet, he also couldn’t let him live.

Something else swelled in the mana and in the shadows and light all around. Power built, and demanded to be used. Like a flickering light on a dark street at night, Erick saw a way forward where he wouldn’t have to kill. After all, Veird was a world of magic.

And the solutions of ‘kill or regret’ was a silly binary, when you truly thought it over. Erick decided a few crucial things about himself in that moment. He decided to make his first Blessing.

Or maybe it was a Curse? Hard to say. ‘Both’ was surely an option, too.

Erick decided he wouldn't let his curse be a noose around Hollowsaur’s neck. It had to be something else. Something more honorable than that. Something that included way too much soul magic that Erick had read about, but not yet truly tested.

But that was okay, too.

Erick turned to flesh and bone, and breathed in the harsh air all around him, feeling the mana as it flowed through his body, and around his soul. It felt like an old friend visiting for the holiday.

“Hollowsaur.” Erick’s voice rumbled, “Hear me. This is a binding. You will accept it, or you will die.”

Hollowsaur’s corpse flickered, angrily, and then reluctantly. His orb glowed, for perhaps the last time. And then his defenses lowered, completely. Erick watched as the Shade’s soul unfurled, the Shroud breaking, exposing the interior, opening like a flower. And then Hollowsaur’s Shroud dropped, completely.

Erick saw Hollowsaur, in that moment, as he spoke in cadence, “A little help from me to thee, a blessing for you now to see, the people in the light who plea, for worlds where Shades are loved to be. Amends you’ll make eventually, a life well lived, a life lived free, but till then there is to be, a leash round you, without a key. Now tell me true, are we to see, the end of woe; rebirth of thee?”

Something swirled in Erick’s own aura, like the start of a tsunami in the middle of the ocean, right after a quake had been set off far, far below. Without buildup, that wave crashed through Erick. A pulse from his soul erupted outward, blinding in its intensity of need, dimming his sight as it passed like an unseen weight upon the world.

That unseen weight flowed from Erick, into the dark glass, and into the body below the surface, wrapping around Hollowsaur’s core before sinking in and becoming one with the Shade’s entire being. The Shade’s Shroud folded back inward, a flower closing, back to how it had been before Erick had demanded the man’s life, and everything that went with it.

For a startling moment, Erick wondered what the fuck he had just done. And then he put aside thoughts of warcrimes and mind control. This obviously wasn’t mind control, after all. It was a blessing of sight and emotion that would link Hollowsaur back to the people he had tormented his entire life.

… If Erick had fucked up, maybe he would know sooner, rather than later.

A blue box appeared.

Blessing of Empathy, 30 seconds, Sound + Understanding + Acceptance, 1500 mana

Blessing magnifies when harm is committed.

[][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][]

That line of smaller boxes was inscrutable and worrying, but that was a thought for another time.

Erick acted fast. With one Ophiel, he instantly [Stoneshape]d the dark glass out from around the Shade, rapidly excavating Hollowsaur’s front half before taking a bit more care with the bones, and with the dull orb in the center of it all. Free of his glassy prison, the orb began rapidly sucking up mana, becoming a well in the manasphere, as all power flowed in.

The crack in the orb repaired itself, mostly. Blood appeared out of shadows, to flow into veins and arteries that came out of nowhere, and were supported on invisible scaffolding. And then the flow of mana flickered. The orb shimmered, and cracked again, as all the blood and nascent organs in Hollowsaur’s body fell from their scaffolding. The man was dying.

Erick hadn’t done enough.

But what could he do to help, more? He wasn’t too sure, but he had some ideas.

With a thought, Erick had the Ophiel with his go-bag, who was currently stationed far out of sight, step across the Brightwater and into sight, carrying the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] and a canteen of water. While that was happening, Erick had another Ophiel conjure a [Prismatic Ward] above the Shade’s body, while another [Stoneshape] turned the glass cavity into a true bowl, cupping all of Hollowsaur like a massive bathtub. The canteen of water emptied into an Ophiel’s grip, inside the [Prismatic Ward]. With a flick of [Cleanse] to clean out the water and the glass around Hollowsaur, but not Hollowsaur himself, an Ophiel released his [Duplication Aura]. Erick controlled the flow with his own solid lightform, so the high-pressure flow didn’t harm Hollowsaur. In a short while, Erick raised the water level around Hollowsaur, until the Shade was fully covered with minor-mana-potion water.

Shades were beings of mana, right? Erick had even trapped Hollowsaur and that other guy, Mallor, into a [Luminous Trap]. So even if they looked solid, they were not truly physical. Maybe. So a mana potion would help, right? Too bad Erick didn’t have any of those. The few stocks of potions he had seen in his various searches of this land, were here, in the Temple District, and those potions were very much gone.

The dark scaffold supporting Hollowsaur’s bones and bloody bits reappeared under the mana waters. As Erick watched, arteries and organs seemed to fluff up, as his white-orb center began to glow again.

