They moved in staggered groups, one leading the way while the next waited, in case of any alarm or sentries. If his people were discovered too early, at the very least, he would be able to save the majority to fight another day. His ancestors urged him forwards, telling him to damn the losses and to begin spilling blood, but he ignored them as he had grown accustomed to. They were the dead, and the dead did not fear death, but they held no sway over him. Only the living mattered. He slowly covered the ground back towards where the tents had been spotted, the weak southerners unwilling to sleep beneath the trees, needing shelter in this mild land. Every step he took, Vivek was prepared for the cry of a watchmen, for someone to give away their position, for a sentry to spot them, but they continued forward without pause or incident. Perhaps the All Father truly did look over him, not that Vivek cared. His strength was his own, and he needed no god to look after him.

Despite all the odds, Vivek and his tribesmen were soon in position, ready to attack the southerners. He positioned himself at the edge of the treeline, his warriors remaining further back, each knowing what needed to be done, each having complete trust in his judgment. Vivek had led them through countless battles, more than any War Rider before him, and his people had prospered beneath his guidance. They had lost tribesmen to reach here, but the land before them was flat and grassy, the moon shining too brightly upon them for a stealth charge. A line of watchmen stood by the camp, illuminated by their warming fires. Another foolish act, as the light allowed Vivek to count each guard with ease. These southerners lacked the fortitude of his tribesmen, needing shelter despite the warm air that flowed everywhere. Even more foolish to stay so close to camp, their watchmen useless but for a few seconds of warning. He smiled to himself as he checked for traps, but all was well, the enemy commander a blind fool.

Belly to the ground, Vivek crawled through the tall grasses, and his tribesmen followed suit. He was in no rush, the night had only just begun. He moved slowly, his distance tracked in finger lengths, doing all he could to bring his warriors in close before the alarm was sounded. The moon moved through the sky quicker than his tribesmen across the field, and still he continued to crawl, his warriors following in his wake. They had crawled over frozen lands, cut by the jagged ice, their blood freezing to the ground, their skin peeling as they moved in total silence, and this was nothing compared to that, only soft dirt and smooth rocks. This land was far too kind to its people, and Vivek meant to stay and raise dozens of fat children with a handful of wives. No southerner would force him away.

The moon had yet to set when he arrived at the edge of the field, the camp less than fifty meters away. Grinning to himself, he rested slowly as he lay prone, waiting for his tribesmen to arrive and ready themselves as well. He spied upon the watchmen as they yawned sleepily, the sweet hour before dawn lulling them into false security, the sun soon to be up and their post nearly at an end. Little did they realize that so too were their lives. Finally he gave in to the incessant cries of the ancestors, and made ready to attack.

Gripping his blade, feeling the pommel thorns bite into his flesh, he summoned the power of his ancestors, the power of his blood. Strength and anger surged through him, irritating his skin and invigorating him as the gloom cleared, his vision sharper, more defined, his rage mounting as he charged forward, screaming his battle cry. Lopping off heads with a single sweep, he felt the blood offerings strengthen his blade, and in turn, his ancestors. His tribesmen swept through the lines, killing soldiers by the dozens, screaming their fury with him. This was their land now, their home, and none could say otherwise.

Giving his body to the spirits of his ancestors, Vivek fought, his weapon more skilled, his steps more steady as they guided him. His body moved without thought, charging towards each new opponent as Vivek studied the movements. Uncounted generations had fought in such a manner, learning through the guidance of the venerated spirits, until such a time that they needed guidance no more. They spoke to him, telling him to slaughter and maim, to become powerful, powerful enough to kill any who would drive him away, and he gave himself fully to them, to the bloodshed.

Vivek went unchallenged for minutes as he worked his way through the half-awake soldiers, cutting and crushing all who approached, soldiers half-dressed and woefully armed. It was child's play, laughable that these shrimp soldiers had the gall to hunt him. He should have simply led his riders here and crushed them wholly had he known how weak they were. The soldiers began to scatter before him as he approached, laughing as he spilled blood and guts across the plains, a sacrifice to the lands, his ancestors strength unmatched by these pitiful soldiers.

A bardiche chopped down towards him, blocked by his blade, the spirits guiding him. The impact rocked him back, and Vivek rejoiced! Finally, a soldier worthy to be called enemy, worthy to die by the skills of his ancestors. Decorated with the armor that spoke of a Champion, this new enemy, with a smug, superior look upon his hateful face, pressed Vivek, harder than any he had met in the south lands. Perhaps not all of the southerners were weak. Drawing upon his blood, he moved forward, speed and power surging as he attacked. Locking his weapon with the perfumed soldier, he grinned into his opponent's face, enjoying the challenge. Biting his lip, Vivek hooked the weapon in close and spit his blood into the warriors face, delighting at the screams elicited as the green fluid burned away the man's flesh. The ancestors had many tricks, this one something he had never done before, turning his blood to acid. Lifting his sword, he watched as his arm swung down for the final strike.

It sliced through flesh and bone, severing an arm, his opponent saved by yet another soldier. A new enemy to kill, this one fought with sword and shield, not quite as skilled, but far more powerful. With every blow, Vivek felt his bones shake, his muscles quivering as they resisted this fierce warrior. The soldier fought him desperately, making up for lack of skill with sheer strength, forcing Vivek back, even with the aid and guidance of his ancestors. Good, good, more worthy sacrifices, more blood to spill to empower his blade.

His people were home, and he would kill any who tried to take it from them.
