“Or whiskey. I’d sooner cut off my leg. At least that grows back. We ran out last night. You lot were lucky you had some left! I’d have come calling if I knew you still had some!”
Inky hung over the railing, looking miserable. Like any true alcoholic—she was already looking antsy. Wil glanced at her.
“But it can’t be that bad, Inky. If you had to go without drink for a week—”
“I’d kill you and eat your liver, Lord Kallinad. You think your lot drinks? That’s cute.”
The [Storm Sailor] didn’t bat an eyelid. Venaz folded his arms.
“I’ve seen you [Sailors] drink, Inky. I’d say the Titan’s students can keep up with you.”
The part-Octopus woman laughed. So did the other [Sailors]. Inky shook her head at the Minotaur.
“Sea Cow, you think that’s all there is to it? We might not be able to outdrink Minotaurs, but—we have a stiff glass of whiskey for breakfast. We’re always drunk. You’ve never talked to me when I’m not partly sloshed.”
“Dead gods.”
Even Yerranola looked impressed. Inky stared into the sea.
“Hard enough keeping sky watch, sea watch, and undersea watch while you’re sober.”
“So all that stuff you told me about enjoying the sea…?”
Wil raised one eyebrow. Inky glanced at him.
“Obviously I was tellin’ the truth, Lord Kallinad. But the drink makes it better. Think you’d get [Sailors] willing to stare at the sea for hours sober?”
And that was that. The Emerald Signet cut through the waters. And soon enough, Wil saw a distant ship.
“Ship sighted! I’m readin’ The Gold of Paxil, Captain!”
“That’s a Balerosian ship. [Merchant] name. Seems true enough. Take us closer. And raise the flags!”
Captain Lasc ordered. Wil saw the other ship doing the same. It was indeed a merchant’s ship. A galleon, same as The Emerald Signet.
Nevertheless, the crew was leery of the other ship. They’d thrown a tarp over the treasure chest, and they stood at the railing, calling out to the other ship.
It was crewed, Wil saw, by Lizardfolk. And the [Captain] was a Naga.
“Hail to you, Storm Captain! What seems to be the problem? Or are you here for trade?”
A bestrewn Naga, covered in wealth from bangles to rich clothing as they so liked to do was at the helm. He was a [Merchant Captain] and smiled as the Lizardfolk called greetings. Captain Lasc shouted back.
“Trade is our goal, sir! Do you have spare drink? We’ve spent our Sailor’s Ration and my crew is in dire straits!”
“Why of course! For a small fee, we can share our drink! Come aboard! I’ll swear on truth spell that we mean only to trade in peace! And we’ve other goods—we’re bound for Wistram! More than enough alcohol to go around!”
“That’s a relief. Those [Mages] won’t miss a few dozen kegs.”
Merrik murmured to Peki. The Garuda snorted.
“They drink a lot.”
Wil wasn’t sure that his fellow students and he were the ones to be throwing stones. But the two ships were docking.
There was a procedure for making sure the opposition wasn’t planning something devious or underhanded. Lasc shouted across the deck while the other side cast a [Detect Lies] spell.
“I’m not a [Pirate] or planning to attack you in any way!”
“Me neither!”
The Naga [Captain] shouted back. The formalities completed, the two strode over the gangplanks and shook hands.
“And what takes your ship around Minos’ waters? Trade? We run this route; it’s preferable to save time by going through Minotaur waters. And yourself?”
“Escorting a few of my passengers to Terandria. We ran into some trouble along the way. [Necromancers]. But all’s settled; we just happened to use up most of our rum celebrating. We’d have stopped at Minos, but you were closer. You have our thanks.”
Captain Lasc lied fairly smoothly, blending truth with omission. The [Merchant Captain] chortled.
“So I see. May I know your name, sir?”
“Lord Charles de Trevalier.”
Wil lied smoothly. It was standard practice for the Kallinad family to pretend to be one of their enemies if they had to pretend to their nobility. Wil had chosen a particularly annoying member of the Trevalier family he’d known as a boy. The [Merchant] beamed, shaking his hand and going down the line.
“Charmed, charmed! Welcome, Lord Trevalier. And if I can interest you in my wares? I’ll have the drinks delivered at once. Let’s talk about the price…”
Lizardfolk [Sailors] were already merrily rolling up barrels of relief for the crew of The Emerald Signet to cheers from Lasc’s crew. The [Captain] began haggling with the Naga as Wil and his fellow students stepped aboard the other ship.
As a formality. Wil hissed at Peki (whom he did not exactly trust to keep her mouth shut), and Yerra (whom he didn’t trust for the exact same reason) to stay with the covered chest. They did so, much to Wil’s relief. And Captain Xenic, for that was his name, seemed to be exactly what he seemed to be: a [Merchant] who plied his goods across sea routes.
He had an interesting ship. Wil spotted a wide, glass deck in the middle of the ship. Perplexed, he found himself staring down into a veritable greenhouse of growing plants.
“What’s this? I didn’t know you could grow plants at sea!”
“And why not, Lord Charles? We have a fishery as well. We add to it with what we catch of course, but as you can see—I have [Expanded Cargo Hold] as a Skill.”
The garden and interior storage was indeed larger than the dimensions of the ship should allow. Fascinated, the students stared through the opening.
It was a neat little system. Sun would shine down through the glass ceiling, giving the plants light. For air—the crew could pull back parts of the deck. And water?
“[Hydromancers]. And water is easy to desalinate! Well, the garden is a huge savings. Each ship has their little secrets. Storm Captains and their ship spells, Drowned ships which can dive…we have mostly food products bound for Wistram. The [Mages] import all sorts. Lots of sugar and some rather smelly beans for some reason. Cacao, I think. But can I interest you in any of it? Prices may be steep…”
“I’m not in the market for much, Captain Xenic. But I’ll gladly purchase some…sugar? My Garuda friend loves it.”
Out of politeness, Wil spent some gold on a few bags of sugar. Costly, but Peki did love it. As did Yerra. And Feshi. And probably Inky if her gold teeth were any indication. Or maybe that was bad dental hygiene.
Xenic insisted on taking Wil below and showing him more of the garden and fish tank, which was impressive. The Lizardfolk crew could help themselves to snacks from the breeding and growing fish; they were mostly Lizardfolk. Only a few Nagas on board, including Xenic himself.
“That should be enough for two weeks without another party; more than enough time to get you to port without a disaster. Can I interest you in anything else?”
“No, Captain Xenic. And I thank you for your hospitality.”
“Not at all! Not at all! It’s a fascinating company you have, Lord Trevalier.”
The Naga twinkled at Wil. To the [Lord]’s relief, Venaz had kept his mouth shut and Merrik and Feshi had stoutly done the same. Now, the Naga looked at the different species and Wil tensed.
“May I ask where such a group gathered?”
Wil hesitated, then did his best impression of a Trevalier. He turned his head and narrowed his eyes.
“The Minotaur is a bodyguard. As for my companions—I believe that is my business, wouldn’t you agree?”
The Naga instantly bowed slightly, looking abashed.
“As you say, Lord Trevalier. My apologies. I am a curious sort.”
“Well, I shall accept your apology.”
Wil copied Fetohep’s mannerisms there. The [Captain] apologized again, and rather to Wil’s relief—that was the end of it.
No one asked about the covered treasure chest; the [Sailors] were doing their best to block the view of the other crew anyways. The Naga didn’t press too hard about Wil’s companions; why would he? It was polite conversation.
The barrels were loaded onto The Emerald Signet and paid for. All without a hitch. Because, and this was important: that was normally how it worked. Coincidental hijinks and unfortunate events did not occur.
Even so, Wil heaved a sigh of relief as the other ship sailed off. But it was done. He turned to Captain Lasc.
“Now may we continue our voyage?”
“Yes, Lord Kallinad. And we have the drinks to do it.”
The [Storm Captain] snatched a cup out of Yerra’s hand as she bent towards the first barrel, already being breached.
“With restraint to our passengers, of course. No more drinking games.”
“Damn.”
The Selphid sighed. But that was it.
 
—-
 
As The Gold of Paxil returned to its trip, Captain Xenic glanced over his shoulder. He had not asked about the odd passengers. Or the tarp over the chest. Or anything else, really.
Because he hadn’t needed to. The Naga already knew…all of it. And he carefully slithered into his cabin and checked the map.
“Aha. I have the coordinates. Someone, get a [Message] spell to Wistram, and…Lord Seagrass. I’m sure he’ll be happy to pay for the information.”
Captain Xenic chuckled to himself as his ship sailed at speed towards Wistram. He also had an [Aeromancer] on board and he could have outrun or caught The Emerald Signet if he chose. But he was a [Merchant]; he didn’t rob ships, even if he thought he could have taken the treasure.
And he’d earn a large enough bounty for relaying the location of Wil Kallinad to these sources. Xenic was laboring over his [Message] scroll, neatly writing down a few observation and the coordinates when he glanced up.
“Captain! Ships sighted on the horizon!”
“Oh, what now? Do they need more water? Food? Wait—did you say, ships?”
The [Merchant Captain] slithered out of his cabin. He stopped on the deck as the Lizardpeople [Sailors] pointed.
In the distance were a trio of ships, headed straight for The Gold of Paxil. Each one was flying a black flag, with a skull. And that skull was bleeding from one eye socket.
“The Bloodtear Pirates.”
Xenic’s smile vanished. He whirled.
“Take us about! Now! We sail for the House of Minos! Send a [Message]! Now!”
The Lizardfolk scrambled to obey. Xenic shouted.
“Fire every single scroll-spell we have! Dump the cargo! All of it!”
The ship turned, shedding inventory as fast as it could. But the Bloodtear Pirates were sailing straight at them. They did not respond to Xenic’s hails. They did not slow. And this?
This was just a diversion. A snack before the main course.
 
—-
 
Thirty minutes later, Captain Xenic slithered into his cabin. He stared down at the blood on his scales. He listened, as his crew surrendered outside the cabin. They had been…
Slaughtered. The survivors might live, if the Bloodtear Pirates didn’t seize the ship. And if they did—they’d still live. As [Slaves].
But not the [Captain]. Someone crashed into the door that Xenic had locked. The Naga looked up.
“I should have known they’d be followed. A costly mistake, that.”
He lay against his map table. Watching blood run onto the precious paper. An odd sight. The Naga slipped.
He was looking for something. His head was fuzzy. But he had a purpose. The [Merchant] had been cheated. Not by Wil. He’d made a business decision—been unprepared for the stakes. He bore Wil no ill-will.
“Funny.”
The Naga chuckled, and then refocused. He was rather bitter about being a small player in this…story. A casualty at the wrong place and the wrong time.
But even he could have one last bite. The door shook as someone cracked the reinforced wood. But Xenic had found it. He idly studied the [Message] scroll. With a flourish, he wrote a few last lines.
“…have been ambushed by the Bloodtear Pirates. In pursuit of The Emerald Signet. Captain Seagrass, hurry, if you intend to reach the ship on time. Yours…”
Xenic signed his name. Then he activated the scroll. It flashed and vanished as the Naga sat back. He was smiling, content, as the first [Pirate] strolled through the door. The Naga rose—
A sword cut through his midsection. The [Captain] of the Bloodtear Pirates turned.
“Loot the ship quickly. We’re returning to the hunt.”
That was all. A small detail on the waves. But it had mattered. The Emerald Signet sailed on, blissfully ignorant of what had happened. More days passed, without crisis or incident.
They were three days from their destination when it happened.
 
—-
 
Shocking Revelations and Sand Gets Everywhere
 
“I can tell you now we’re three days from our destination, Captain Lasc. But we’ll be taking a different route than what we have planned. And I’d like to discuss what will happen when we arrive at the shipwreck. It may be…the [Divers] will recover more than they can immediately haul.”
Wil Kallinad was speaking to Captain Lasc as the man plotted their course across the sea. They were relatively far from any useful landmarks. In the…well, sea. Featureless, at least from the air.
But they were still within range of the House of Minos. Wil pointed to it as Captain Lasc turned.
“Your final destination is yours to keep, Lord Kallinad. I’ll sail wherever you point me. If you want to steer us in circles for a few days, you have my command.”
The man really did seem to be decent and honest. Wil nodded at him, grateful.
“Thank you, Captain. Once we reach the shipwreck I think we’ll know as soon as it’s found. Assuming it’s there. If it is…significant, we may end up calling in the House of Minos for support. Venaz assured me their navy would respond to his call.”
Lasc’s eyebrows rose.
“That’s a force of the sea right there, Lord Kallinad. Begging your pardon—no, I won’t ask what we’ll find. But what manner of danger might there be?”
Wil hesitated.
“…I don’t know, Captain. But if it is anything like the crab, I’ll defer to your judgment.”
“Yes, Lord Kallinad. I wouldn’t have it any other way. Then—tell me where we’ll go today.”
Wil was giving the [Captain] a slightly circuitous route towards their final destination that would get them there in 3 days—if he corrected their course the next day. That done, he left the cabin.
“How much longer, Wil? I’m booooored.”
Yerranola announced as she stared at the treasure chest. The students were now playing cards and relaxing next to the chest. Inky was teaching them a sailor’s version of the game.
“Three days, Yerra. Be patient. We’re nearly there.”
“Fine. But I’ve gotten bored again. And the drinking is—okay, it’s helping a bit. But now I’m bored again.”
The Selphid flopped onto the deck, spread-eagled. Wil sat next to her as Feshi glanced suspiciously at Merrik’s hands. He was gambling well; Venaz, and Feshi had tells. Peki and Inky on the other hand were doing well. Merrik’s beard concealed most of his expressions.
