The Minotaur turned back to Venaz. He looked gravely at the younger Minotaur.
“I do not rule the House of Minos, Venaz of Hammerad. My life is worthless before that of my King. And honor is everything.”
He spread his arms, indicating the sea, the sky, the ship, the other Minotaurs. As proud as the sun. Fearless.
Wil looked at Venaz. The Minotaur’s jaw moved. Then he clasped a fist to his chest.
“You do us the greatest of honors, Prince Khedal. We will not dishonor you!”
And that was it. Captain Lasc was swearing as he moved his ship and the Minotaurian vessel kept pace. The two ships raced forwards, propelled by winds blown from a jar Khedal held.
This was the final hour. Wil saw Fetohep rising from his casket.
“The world has not forgotten Khelt’s treasures, it seems.”
The undead [King] smiled. Wil looked at his friends. And in the distance—the fleet of over a hundred ships drew closer.
“[Stormlord Captain] Seagrass. He uses his fleet to trade and make a fortune. He’s tamed his parts of the sea. No one challenges him—he’s a [King] of the waves.”
Inky breathed. Wil looked at her.
“If he’s a [Stormlord], don’t you owe your allegiance to him?”
The [Storm Sailor] grinned at Wil.
“Even a [Stormlord] doesn’t command us [Storm Sailors]. We pledged to this cause and we’ll…”
She eyed the other navy.
“…Run as long as possible and then surrender when we’ve done most of what we can. We might still make it. There’s one trick Lasc has left. A [Storm Captain]’s desperation.”
“Which is?”
“Lord Kallinad! To the prow! More ships ahead!”
“Alright! I’m done! Stop with the ‘more ships’! It’s getting ridiculous!”
Yerranola threw down her hatchet on the deck and threw her hands up. She stomped up the deck with Wil. Lasc was calm.
“Don’t worry, Miss Yerranola. I don’t think we’ll have more.”
“How do you know?”
“…Don’t reckon there are many more ships in the sea, Miss.”
He pointed. Ahead of them, Drowned Ships were rising out of the sea. Captain Therrium eyed the Minotaurian warship, and The Emerald Signet as dozens of Drowned Ships rose around him. The Undersea Crews, all of them in the area.
From the west came an armada. Captain Lasc was counting.
“The Bloodtear Pirates, the Death’s Heads, the Salt Dogs—I see a dozen [Pirate] bands. More.”
“Ooh, the Death’s Heads? They’re Selphids. Maybe I can talk them out of killing us!”
Yerranola stared into the distance. Merrik stared.
“Good. That leaves only…a few dozen warships. From that side.”
“The Salt Dogs are Gnolls.”
“Think you can talk them out of fighting us?”
Yerranola looked at Feshi. The Gnoll [Strategist] shook her head.
“Nope. They’re evil.”
“Ah.”
The students and [Sailors] stood at the railings. Looking around. Wil wondered aloud.
“How did they all get here?”
“I think everyone was following us already. Kind of flattering, when you think about it. What’s our game, Wil?”
“Toss the swords over the edge and pray they fight over it while we run?”
Yerranola suggested. King Fetohep gave her a cold look. He seemed amused.
“I should mention this to Atwood.”
Wil had no idea what that meant. And then—well—he saw the final ship show up. The last, fitting element.
A glowing ship on the horizon. It sped after both ships, faster than any other ship on the ocean. It shone with brilliant light. Wil recognized it now, the second time.
The Illuminary. And standing on the deck was Captain Rasea Zecrew. Yerranola called out as the ship sailed at them.
“Oh, thank Rhir! They’re going to save us! We can get on the ship, speed out of here—”
“Ahoy! Looks like a real fight! Look at all these ships! I haven’t seen so many in a decade in the same place! It was worth sticking around!”
Captain Rasea excitedly drew up alongside The Emerald Signet. The Minotaurian warship was turning and Prince Khedal was staring at Captain Rasea with clear rage. The ballistae on her ship were duplicates of the ones on his warship.
The [Pirate Captain] gave Wil a wink. He just looked at her.
“…Are you coming to bail us out, Captain Rasea? Help us escape?”
Her eyes widened.
“You know, that sounds like a lot of fun. But no. We’re robbing you. Mind handing over the Swords of Serept?”
She winked at Wil. Then she did a double-take.
“Hey, did you recruit an undead sand-person onto your ship?”
Fetohep looked offended. Wil just stared at Captain Rasea. He felt…let down. Not so much by the impending doom and the three vast navies as…her.
“Captain Rasea, you promised me you’d let our ship go.”
She had promised. And somehow, in this moment, this singular broken vow stung most of all. The [Pirate Captain]’s eyes widened.
“Well—obviously, I lied. I just thought you wouldn’t give up the treasure beforehand. I was right to wait. The Treant proved that. But I didn’t lie, lie. I gave you my oath.”
“But you still broke it.”
“Not exactly.”
The [Pirate Captain] smiled. Lord Seagrass was pursuing from behind. The Drowned Crews were advancing, chanting. The [Pirates] were roaring as they came on. But Rasea just smiled. She stared at the sky as Wil looked at her.
“Here’s a lesson from the sea, Lord Kallinad. You can trust a [Pirate] like me—but only her words. I swore by the Flag of Savere that you’d not be troubled by us.”
She pointed at her mast. Everyone looked up. The flag hung beneath her colors. Wil nodded slowly. And Captain Rasea swept her hat from her head.
“So. Lads? Burn the flag.”
Her crew pointed up. Wands and arrows. The Centaur fired two shots. Wil saw the flag explode into flames. He stared at Rasea. She laughed as she put the hat back onto her head.
“But that’s Savere’s flag.”
It burned in the scrying orb as Noass commentated fast as he ever had and Seborn stared at the sight. And Niers Astoragon watched his beloved pupils. Captain Rasea laughed without a care in the world.
“So? I only put it up because my sister gets prickly if I don’t! I care nothing for nations! For rules! For laws or armies!”
She stood on her ship as it turned towards The Emerald Signet. Captain Rasea Zecrew bowed. And her eyes shone with the purest light of adventure.
Insanity.
“After all, I’m a [Pirate].”
Then she grabbed the rope as the boom swung by her head. She soared through the air. And landed on the deck of The Emerald Signet. Captain Lasc drew his sword and Rasea leapt at him. They locked blades as the other fleets shot through the waves.
The final battle for the Swords of Serept began.
 
—-
 
The Final Battle. A [Storm Captain]’s Skill. A Choice is Made.
 
War at sea. That was the only word for it. Three navies were clashing in the ocean. The first, a massive trading fleet and armada led by the [Stormlord Captain], one of the five most powerful [Lords] in the world. The 4th most famous…according to landfolk.
Lord Admiral Seagrass. He stood on the deck of the largest ship in the fleet. Smiling like steel. His trimmed beard, his precise, almost flamboyant but also military dress and his words all added to his appearance. Each syllable was clipped and clear.
He had been both lawbreaker and the law itself on the seas. Now, his fleets that brought goods from continent to continent ruled the seas. He spoke as his [Storm Captains] angled, loosing spells.
“An odd detour from our trading route. The cargo had better be worth the cost. Get me those blades. Send the eastern fleet to stop those [Pirates]. The rest—down the Undersea Crews! Encircle The Emerald Signet.”
Over a hundred ships sailed forwards, crewed by [Storm Sailors]. The [Pirates] turned their ships, swearing as they saw one of the powers of the sea headed at them.
But the Undersea Crews came on. Captain Therrium was leading the charge. They were aiming at The Emerald Signet, which was locked in battle with the Illuminary. And a single warship from the House of Minos stood in the way.
The battle looked like a…dance from above. The watchers through the scrying orbs, from Niers Astoragon to the King of Destruction and Archmage Nailihuaile and the rest saw the ships meeting, clashing, and separating.
They did not form an untidy scrum like some landfolk battle. Too many ships locked together meant that if one sank, it would pull the others down as masts and rigging entangled. And fire would spread. So the ships formed smaller knots of combat, boarding each other, separating—leaving vessels to drift into the ocean depths.
Some of the Drowned Vessels did it on purpose. They rose, smashing into Storm Ships from below. The [Storm Captains] hurled magic from their decks; the [Pirates] attacked with every trick, from improvised firebombs to swinging across the gaps to light parts of the other ships on fire.
Chaos and confusion. And at the heart of it—Wil Kallinad and his friends. He saw Captain Lasc moving backwards across the deck, dueling Captain Rasea Zecrew.
The Shining. Her entire body was lit up by the light and it was blinding the [Storm Captain]. But he refused to flee. He stepped backwards, his sword slashing at hers. And his left hand moved like lightning, punching, deflecting her sword. He struck her twice, but the [Pirate Captain] moved back each time. And she was laughing as she cut him deep across the leg.
“To arms!”
Venaz roared. The Illuminary’s crew were joining their [Captain]. Or trying to—Delivan had the helm. He roared at Venaz.
“Help Captain Lasc! We won’t survive if the Illuminary boards! They’ll cut us to ribbons!”
“Ah! Three at once? A fine battle!”
Rasea whirled as Venaz charged her from the left. She slashed and the Minotaur halted. She ducked as Peki kicked at her head; she was too fast! And her body lit up in a flash.
The half-Anglerfish woman darted forwards as the others were blinded. She stabbed Peki in the arm and the Garuda recoiled. Rasea kicked her across the deck, blocked a slash from Lasc—and turned to confront Merrik. The Dwarf charged in, and her blade cut into his armor. But he forced her back.
“Wil, get back! She’s too high-level!”
Yerranola shouted. Feshi was trying to aim into the melee, but Rasea was now fighting four-on-one. And pushing all four back. Wil looked around desperately. The [Pirate Captain] was the least of their worries.
“Drowned Ships incoming!”
Inky pointed ahead. The Undersea Crews were streaming forwards. Wil saw Therrium pointing at him. The Blowfish [Archer] was aiming her bow. And two ships were in the way.
The Illuminary and Prince Khedal’s warship from the House of Minos. A portion of the Illuminary’s crew swung onto the nearest Drowned Ship, stalling them, fighting against the larger crew fearlessly. And Prince Khedal stood on the sides of his ship as his Minotaurs fired their siege weapons constantly, focusing on single ships before moving to the next.
“So. This is the product of greed. Minotaurs. For a son of the House of Minos. For honor. We do battle. Nothing less. To me.”
The Minotaur Prince looked around. A group of Minotaur [Sailors] stood at his back. They were armed with long-handled axes. Armor. Khedal stared at the dozens of ships headed for him.
“Give no ground. The Emerald Signet must escape. You—join the Humans. The rest of you—board and sink these trespassers.”
A group of Minotaurs rushed towards The Emerald Signet. They dove into the waters and swam towards the other boat. Prince Khedal locked eyes with Captain Therrium. He pointed as the first ship crashed into his warship.
“For the House of Minos! Charge!”
He leapt off his deck and onto The Passing Shadow. Drowned Sailors stared up at the Minotaur as he drew two large axes from his back. Captain Therrium looked around. Prince Khedal had landed on his ship alone as the Minotaurs fought the other Drowned Crews.
“Are you mad, Minotaur?”
“No. Surrender now and I will spare your ship.”
The Minotaur looked around. Therrium’s crew laughed. Prince Khedal’s eyes narrowed. They were green-and-yellow. Not red, as Venaz’s were, or the other Minotaurs fighting into a rage. They were hacking through the Drowned Folk. But Khedal just waited, axes in hand.
He turned his head. The Blowfish [Archer] loosed an arrow tipped with the deadly toxin. The Minotaur leaned out of the way. The arrow missed. The old prince turned. He saw a [Depth Sailor] leaping at him.
He hacked the Drowned Woman apart with one of his axes. Turned. Gracefully, he cut two [Sailors] in half with his other axe. He brought the other axe back, cleaving through a [Depth Sailor]’s guard. The Minotaur walked forwards, ignoring the blows to his armor. He began cutting down Therrium’s crew one by one, his blades leaving a trail of red.
Captain Therrium stopped smiling. He snarled as the Minotaur’s blades flashed. One minute, then two—the crew assaulted him from all sides. But all that happened was that they died. Khedal had no helmet, but he kept turning his head, avoiding arrows and spells. And the rest of his body was too armored. And he was cutting apart dozens of the crew, headed straight for Captain Therrium.
“Take us down! Drown that damned Minotaur!”
The [Depth Captain] ordered. He drew his sword and clashed with Khedal. The first blow from the Minotaur threw him back across the deck. Therrium’s body surged with electricity. He slashed, connecting with Khedal’s side as the Minotaur turned, hacking apart another [Depth Sailor].
The deadly charge of electricity made all of Khedal’s hair stand on end. And nothing else. He turned and Therrium leapt back before an axe could end him. The Drowned Crew backed up as the Minotaur turned.
“Worthless. You are all without honor, much less skill at arms.”
He glared about. And blocked an arrow to the back of his head from the [Venom Archer] with the flat of his axe. Therrium stared uncertainly. But then he felt his ship sinking into the waves. He grinned.
“Diving! Depth shields aren’t down! Brace!”
The [Helmswoman] bellowed. Khedal looked around as the Drowned Crews grabbed ahold of parts of the ship. The ship was diving into the waters, and without the magical bubble that kept oxygen and atmosphere on the ship. Waters engulfed him as Therrium felt his other, eel-half breathing in the water.
He grinned. The Minotaur was stranded on his boat. Khedal was suddenly underwater as the Drowned Crews slowly moved through the water around him. They swam at him, as the Minotaur looked around. Blinded. Slowed. Unable to breathe.
The Drowned Folk closed. Hand-to-hand underwater; no arrows and fewer spells would work. They swam towards him. And the Minotaur Prince? His eyes slowly turned red.
 
—-
 
Blood turned the waters crimson where The Passing Shadow had sunk. After three minutes, a form surfaced.
