They were done with discussing who might use the Swords of Serept best; Wil had considered everyone from The Blighted King to an Archmage of Wistram for maximum benefit. He’d stuck with Talia getting a blade if she wanted one, and possibly Foliana, but Venaz had assured him that there were better people to give the third blade to than Pheislant’s monarchies. Wil would see.
But it was in the future. Right now? Boredom, or rather, anticipation had resumed. And anticipation was worse, in a way. Yerranola stared up at Wil.
“Do something.”
Wil patted her on the head. The Selphid bit at his fingers. She was going stir-crazy.
“Unless you want to make that more serious, do something else, Wil.”
“Like what? Play chess?”
“No. Don’t wanna.”
“Play cards, then.”
“Don’t wanna.”
Wil exhaled. Yerranola was being willfully childish. He envied her, in a way. He cast around, had another lazy idea.
“How about we put on the scrying orb?”
“Oh—fine. We haven’t done it in…a while. Actually.”
Yerranola sat up. The other students glanced at her. They hadn’t used the scrying orb; Umina and Marian had kept them abreast of the Professor’s newest lessons. Wil set it up as Yerranola complained.
“I’m just sick of that Drake. Noass? He’s so—dismissive of non-Drake events. You know?”
“We know.”
Feshi growled as she put down her hand and folded her arms. Yerranola watched as Wil prodded the scrying orb. A figure flickered into focus. Well—two.
Noass was there. He was the regular anchor now—Sir Relz was more of a commentator while Noass delivered all the news. And the broadcast now had a system.
“If you’re just tuning in, you’re watching live, Wistram Worldwide! The WWW’s broadcast has all of the most important events in—the entire world! And of course, our first topic tonight: the sea. Obviously, essential. And we’ve been keeping an eye on this story the entire time.”
The Drake’s voice made Wil stir a bit. In the left side of the screen, he had a picture within a picture, a separate viewpoint. Of a ship. On the ocean. The other students looked up.
“Did he say the sea?”
“Mhm. We might find something interesting.”
Inky snorted as she shuffled the deck.
“From a landsman? I doubt it.”
“Joining us today is a special guest with a—seafarer’s perspective. Of the sea. I’m joined in the studio by Gold-rank adventurer, Seborn Sailwinds. Adventurer Sailwinds, I understand you grew up on the sea.”
“That’s correct. I’m a Drowned Man.”
The half-Crab [Rogue] sat at the desk, staring unblinkingly at Noass. The Drake was sweating a bit.
“Er—you’re new to Pallass, but I understand you have a historical career with the Halfseekers. But before that you were a [Sailor], correct?”
“I wasn’t a sailor. I was a [Pirate]. A member of the Undersea Crews. And I’m here to advertise my team. Hire the Halfseekers. There. I said it, Jelaqua.”
Seborn sat back in his chair. He stared into the ‘camera’ as he spoke. He didn’t seem as…eager to be here as most of the guests Noass brought on. The [Commentator] coughed.
“Er—we try not to advertise directly, Mister Sailwinds. So—so you were at sea? I understand it’s a lifestyle, to uh, sail. Different perspectives.”
“It’s Adventurer Seborn. And I’m a Drowned Man. Of course I lived at sea. I thought you were asking me intelligent questions.”
Noass colored.
“Well then, can you give us a rundown on the different sort of…enemies that might be inhibiting our people of interest?”
He gestured at the ship in the orb. Wil leaned forwards. It looked…familiar. But Seborn was speaking.
“It’ll mostly be [Pirates]. Or the Undersea crews. They’re on a Storm Ship—I doubt many [Storm Sailors] will attack their own, but it might happen for treasure of this magnitude.”
“Storm Sailors? Ah—you mean—no, but [Pirates] attack ships. [Storm Sailors] are, er, just [Sailors], correct?”
Noass was metaphorically at sea, up to his earholes, and floundering. Seborn took a long drink of the complimentary water with a lemon he’d been provided and spoke irritably.
“[Storm Sailors] aren’t always honest; they can turn to piracy, but they don’t have the class. And some Drowned Folk or those with some aspect of the sea can still be [Storm Sailors]. In the same way, [Pirates] can be Drowned Crews or airbreathers. And only Drowned Folk join the Undersea Crews; they become [Depth Sailors], not [Storm Sailors]. And the Undersea Crews are only loyal to Drowned Folk. Understand?”
Noass hesitated.
“It all sounds…er, very complex.”
“It’s not.”
The Drake was mopping at his brow with a handkerchief. That task was taken over by a Gnoll [Assistant], standing mostly off-screen.
“I—well, let’s cut to this attack. I understand The Gold of Paxil was sunk by a group of [Pirates] on an intercept course with this ship in all likelihood. By—the Bloodtear Pirates. What can you tell us about this group, Adventurer Seborn?”
All the students looked up. Yerranola sat up.
“Did he just say…?”
Seborn was nodding as an image of the Bloodtear Pirates’ flag appeared on screen, disappearing the one of the ship.
“Bloodtear Pirates. Marauders. They keep their word, but they give no quarter. They have a number of ships in their armada, spread out. Three is just an attack force. Still, more than enough to destroy a single Storm Ship.”
“I see. However, our, ah ship in question is carrying a full complement of [Storm Sailors] as well as regular ones and captained by an experienced [Storm Captain]. As well as six [Strategists]. Could that even the odds?”
“Three-to-one against Bloodtear Pirates? Not likely. How long do I have to be here?”
“Aw, come on, Seborn! At least smile for the audience! Hey, I’m his Captain. Can I go on—”
Another voice from the side. Noass snapped as Jelaqua, wearing a Drake’s body, was pulled off-screen.
“No! Er—apologies for the interruption, everyone. So—The Emerald Signet’s only chance is to outrun the opposition, is that right, Adventurer Seborn? But I doubt any group would lose the opportunity to seize The Diamond Swords of Serept. Can you rate that as a treasure on a scale of one to ten?”
“Eleven?”
“—And I think we have Archmage Nailihuaile waiting, who can give us a rundown of some of the effects of the blades! If you’re just tuning in, you’re watching Wistram Worldwide live! With me is Adventurer Seborn of the Halfseekers, and we’re…”
The image flicked back to the ship as Noass kept talking. Wil stared. He stared at the ship. Which was…very familiar. He just hadn’t recognized it because he hadn’t seen an aerial view of it.
It was a good view. It had, well a deck full of [Sailors], a nice view of the ship. A [Captain] at the helm. A treasure chest in the center…and sitting next to it…a group of students sitting at a table. Two were sitting on the ground and one was staring into a scrying orb.
Wil stared up at the sky. Then down at the orb. After about a minute, the image of the young man on the deck glanced up straight at the viewers for a second, and then looked back down.
“…Wil. Why are we on the scrying orb?”
Yerranola spoke very, very slowly. Wil’s ears were just ringing.
The Diamond Swords of Serept. And that—that Drake was saying it over and over again. Announcing to the entire damn world that—
“We’re being scried? We’re on the orb?”
Venaz stood up, incredulous. Feshi stood up, hair on end. She stared up, as if she could see the spell monitoring them.
“But how? Why? But they shouldn’t know we have the Swords of Serept. Not unless—”
“Captain Lasc! We have an emergency!”
Wil was on his feet, shouting. The [Captain] looked up, and vaulted over the command deck. He ran towards Wil, looking alarmed. So did the other [Sailors]. Delivan—Venaz swore.
“Wil! We have a spy! We have—”
He turned his head. Merrik and Peki put down their cards. They stared at Inky. The [Storm Sailor] stared back.
“Ah, no. Inky?”
“It wasn’t me!”
Venaz slowly reached for a sword. Merrik was swearing, pulling his armor out of his bag of holding. Captain Lasc looked at Wil, bewildered.
“What’s going on? Lord Kallinad?”
For answer, Wil pointed into the scrying orb. The crew stared into it. And—on the orb—Captain Lasc was captured vaulting over the deck. The view cut back to Noass, who spoke urgently.
“Um. It looks like something’s going on. Hold on, viewers. We are of course monitoring the ship via [Distant Vision], not scrying; the ship is warded. Let me see if we can get ahold of our contact on board the ship. Mister Begal? Hello?”
Suddenly, the voice was duplicated. One of the [Sailors] swore, recoiled, and clapped a hand to his side. A voice was speaking from the man’s pocket. Wil’s head slowly turned.
“Begal?”
“Damn idiot [Mages]—”
Captain Lasc whirled as the [Sailor] grinned and backed up desperately. Lasc turned to Wil.
“What’s going on?”
“They know. Everyone knows we have the swords! They’re broadcasting it from Wistram! They have our position—and we have [Pirates] on our tail!”
Wil leapt to his feet. The [Storm Captain] drew his sword with an oath. Noass peered at the stone in his claw.
“Oh wait, I’m being told we might have to wait until later. We’ll check back in later—uh oh. What’s happening on deck?”
Someone slapped the scrying orb. It went dark. Captain Lasc advanced and Begal stumbled backwards. The [Storm Captain] had drawn his sword and his metal gauntlet flashed.
“I should have known a crew like this would have one or two traitors. But you served on my ship four years. What did it take?”
“Just gold, Cap’n. No hard feelings, eh?”
Begal was smiling widely, desperately as he backed up. Captain Lasc aimed his shortsword at the man’s chest.
“Who hired you? How many more are with you? Tell us—and I might not keelhaul you right where you stand.”
The [Sailor] looked from side to side. His eyes darted. And then—he smiled.
“How many, Captain? More’n one or two. Looks like the jig’s up, boys. Show Captain Lasc how many of us were bought.”
There was a sound. Metal, sliding on metal. The crowd around Wil moved. [Sailors] stepped back. The crew of three hundred was on deck. And of that number—
Over two thirds of the crew drew their blades. Wil felt his stomach drop through the deck. Captain Lasc stared around, eyes wide. Delivan swore.
“All of you? You salt-sucking traitors!”
“Sorry, Captain Lasc. But everyone heard that there’d be real treasure on this voyage. We’ve been keeping our real employers updated every day and night.”
Another [Sailor] spoke up. She had a hand-crossbow aimed at Delivan’s chest. The loyal crew, less than a hundred, faced over two hundred mutineers. Wil looked to his side.
Inky stood with the loyalists. So did the [Storm Sailors], all of them. The female [Sailor] didn’t seem concerned as the [Storm Sailors] stood, looking around tensely, outnumbered two-to-one.
“I know [Storm Sailors] are good, but you and the [Strategists] are flanked, Captain Lasc. Throw down your blade. The treasure belongs to our employers.”
The mutineers nodded. Captain Lasc’s jaw twitched. Wil saw Venaz tensing by the table. But he had two dozen blades aimed at him. Merrik and Peki were standing together. But there were so many—and they had the drop on Wil’s side.
“Let’s negotiate. You heard King Fetohep. The curse—”
Wil croaked. He saw the female [Sailor] turn the crossbow towards him.
“I reckon that Fetohep will negotiate with whoever had the blades, boyo. And my bosses can defeat one curse. They know treasure. There’s no negotiations.”
Begal nodded. He bared his teeth. He opened his mouth, but the female [Sailor] spoke over him.
“The Bloodtear Pirates will have the swords. And any man, woman, or Selphid who don’t want to be slaughtered will surrender now.”
Wil stared at her in shock. So did the [Sailors]. Begal hesitated.
“The Bloodtear…? We’re working for the Undersea Crews! Therrium himself’s paying us, you idiot!”
The female [Sailor] blinked. She turned her head.
“The Undersea Crews?”
Another [Sailor] laughed incredulously.
“We’re hired by Savere! Are you both mad?”
“Wait—who’s with Savere? And who’s Bloodtear?”
“I’m with the Screaming Sails. The Bloodtears are our enemies!”
Another [Sailor] shouted. The organized mutineers looked at each other. They tried to point their blades at each other. And that was a mistake. Because one man knew whose side he was on.
Captain Lasc. As the [Sailors] around him wavered, his hand moved. He stepped forwards and beheaded Begal. He turned, stabbed his sword through another [Sailor]’s face. And his fist moved. He struck four chins and the [Sailors] crumpled. The mutineers stared as the [Storm Captain] raised his blade. He brought it down, slashing through the [Sailor] threatening Wil.
“To me, [Storm Sailors]! Slaughter these mutinous dogs!”
The stalemate erupted into chaos. Wil saw Venaz explode upwards. The mutineers began attacking Lasc’s crew—and each other, shouting. Three stabbed Venaz in the back.
The Minotaur ignored the blades. He grabbed the table, lifted it with a roar and swung it around him. Wil dove as [Sailors] were sent flying by the blow. The Minotaur lifted the table and threw it. A group of mutineers screamed as he drew a battleaxe.
“Form up! Wil! Get behind us!”
Yerranola and Feshi were fighting next to Delivan. Inky and the [Storm Sailors] howled as they drew their blades and cut into the lower-level [Sailors]. Merrik had his hammer out. He ignored the weapons bouncing off his armor and charged into the fighting. Peki was already punching and kicking, striking every mutineer—and some of the loyalists—around her.
Wil stood. He drew a sword and the emergency wand he carried. He locked blades with a traitorous [Sailor]. The man was strong. He raised his off-hand as Wil raised his wand. Both of them stared at the wand aimed at each other’s chests. They shouted and dodged.
A bolt of fire hit Wil in his chest. But his enchanted armor that Yerranola had made him wear took the spell. The other man was not so lucky. He fell with a hole in his neck. Wil turned, aiming his wand, slashing—
“[Battalion of Glory]! Use your damn Skills! Peki! Yerra! Wil! Get back here, Venaz!”
Merrik howled at the students. They began activating their skills and Lasc’s loyalists formed a formation against the disorganized mutineers. Too late, the traitors realized they had to work together or die. They tried to rally. But they were unprepared for the students being able to use their Skills. Merrik and Peki.
