But there were none left. The storm engulfed the ships. And the Tearwhales—
Wil felt an impact that threw him to the deck. All the ships were fleeing. And the predators of the deeps were hungry.
“Take us out of here! We’re sailing into the storm!”
Captain Lasc seized the wheel. Wil Kallinad saw Fetohep studying the whales. The ruler addressed Wil.
“If they eat the swords, I shall be displeased. But I have been entertained enough. Bring my swords at all haste, Wil Kallinad. You have proven you were worthy of wielding them. For now. Do not ever be less.”
He vanished. The sand fell to the ground. Wil, disbelieving, looked around.
“Sail into the heart of the storm! We’re still being followed!”
Lasc overrode Delivan’s objections. He pointed back. Wil saw two ships swirling, refusing to give up the chase as the whales battered them.
The Illuminary and The Passing Shadow. Seagrass was lost to the waves, possibly dead, but probably not. The Storm Ships were in disarray. Even the [Pirates] and other Undersea Crews had had enough.
But the other two ships? They were coming at The Emerald Signet. Therrium had blood in his eyes. And Rasea was laughing as she dodged a whale.
As The Emerald Signet sailed forwards, Wil saw a ship block the two coming at them. He saw a warship, a horned head.
Prince Khedal had a deep cut down one cheek. And his armor was damaged around his side. His Minotaurs were wounded. Depleted in number. But the Prince looked at Wil. He clasped one fist to his chest as he looked at Venaz.
“We will buy you time. Sail on, Lord Kallinad. And Venaz of Hammerad—you are the pride of the House of Minos. You must not die.”
He raised a hand as his ship intercepted both [Pirates]. Wil shouted after him. But Prince Khedal didn’t look back. They disappeared as the rain shrouded the world. Venaz stared at the Prince of Minotaurs. And the sword he held. He started.
“Prince Khedal will not die. He is second only to our King. And I—”
He held up the sword. Wonderingly, he looked at Wil.
“You gave me the blade.”
“I guess I’m not trading it for favors. You can pay me back later.”
Wil weakly grinned. Venaz looked at him, and then reached out and hugged Wil, one-armed.
“I will pay you back. Somehow.”
“I—I have it? It was meant for Yerra. I—”
Feshi had managed to make the undead go back into the dagger. She held it out. But Yerra stepped back.
“You got it first, Feshi. And you heard what Fetohep said. It might be cursed.”
The students looked at each other. They might have said anything, or everything. They were alive, against all odds. And at that moment—Lasc shouted.
“All hands on deck! Move! I need all hands!”
The students jerked. Inky was trying to move, with her severed tentacle-leg. She pointed.
“We don’t have enough hands! We need your help! I’ll show you what to do!”
The students saw her pointing. The sails were in danger with the rain coming down. There were holes in the hull. And only a few [Sailors] were left. Venaz raced forwards, using the speed-enchantment of his blade. Wil saw one of the mirrors on his blade recharging and a second Wil ran to help patch the holes. Feshi, grimacing, pointed her blade and one of the undead appeared and began to scale the masts.
The ship entered the storm.
 
—-
 
An Ending. A Port, a Final Chase
 
That was how the battle ended. Not with capture, the loss of the treasure. But a storm. The storm Lasc had called.
And it was a terrible storm. A storm at sea; a [Storm Captain]’s first and last Skill of resort. Even in dire straits, they feared to use it.
Because the storm obeyed no one. And it could crack even a ship like The Emerald Signet in a moment.
Wil and the crew fought through the storm, securing the deck, patching holes in the hull. He watched his alter-self thrown off the deck and experienced the darkness of the sea until the fragment of him vanished.
Captain Lasc bellowed orders. He was navigating the ship, somehow finding a course. The waves grew higher. Wil saw one rise over the ship; it would have destroyed the mast had the sail still been attached. It smashed the deck.
A [Storm Sailor] was blown over the sides. No one was able to find them in the surf. The students and most of the crew sheltered belowdecks as water ran below. They bailed, desperately, running up and taking cover from waves.
Only Captain Lasc stayed at the helm, refusing to budge. The waves shook his ship. But the [Storm Captain] screamed defiance and sailed through wave after wave.
Wil didn’t know how much time passed. Hours. Then—days. The battering of the storm became background noise. He didn’t know where they were—if they were nearing the edge of the storm.
But they were still being chased. Twice, Wil saw the two ships. The Passing Shadow surfaced and Lasc took them into the storm rather than fight.
Yet, the Illuminary was the more deadly foe. It broke through the waves, a beacon in the darkness. Wil saw Lasc turning his ship. It was hot on their tail.
“Captain!”
One last ploy. One bit of strategy. Wil saw Rasea, a glowing figure on her shining ship. He thought he heard her laugh as she shot after his ship. Captain Zecrew shot forwards as a massive wave engulfed The Emerald Signet. Wil shouted.
“Now!”
Captain Lasc turned the ship. It stopped—the crew extinguished all the lights. Wil saw the Illuminary shoot over a wave.
Rasea was at the helm of her ship, staring ahead. She was laughing as the wind whipped at her hat and clothing. She shot forwards, chasing The Emerald Signet. She never saw the hiding ship as the waves rolled up, obscuring everything.
“I hope I never meet her again.”
Yerranola had found a new body. She shuddered as the Illuminary became a distant glow in the waters, surging forwards. Merrik stared after Rasea.
“Ah, but I like her. Shame she keeps trying to kill us.”
They lost the Illuminary. Therrium’s ship? They saw and lost and saw it again. But the storm was their foe. Lasc traded places with Delivan, and then Inky, as they lashed themselves to the helm. And—slowly—they broke clear of the storm.
The rains lessened. The waves stopped throwing the boat. Wil didn’t know when it happened. But one day he woke, and the heaving was gone. He stumbled up abovedecks and saw a blue sky.
“Sky!”
Peki was laughing and flying overhead. The crew cheered. Captain Lasc, panting, looked around.
“If any of you were [Sailors]—you’d be [Storm Sailors], Lord Kallinad. After that? After that battle?”
“We’ve all leveled. That’s prize enough, Captain Lasc. What now?”
Wil had the Mirrorblade sheathed at his side. Venaz had constructed a harness for it on his back for his greatsword; he only moved like a blur when he was holding it, though. A small flaw in a miraculous artifact. Even Feshi acknowledged the power of her sword. But she candidly feared what her clan would say.
Yet—they were not done yet. Lasc looked around. And he calculated their position.
“We’re in range of a port. We’ll make for it at once. Fortune favors us. We’re close to the exact spot you’d want us to be, Lord Kallinad.”
“Really? Where?”
The [Storm Captain] smiled wearily. He pointed in the distance, and far, so far Wil could barely see it, something broke the horizon.
“The Walled City of Zeres. Once we reach it—we’ll be safe. The Drakes are as secure as The House of Minos.”
“Almost.”
Venaz had to be contrary. But the sails rose and The Emerald Signet shot forwards. The wind was at their backs. Wil was staring as, in the distance, he saw land. And a tall—city. It was curved around the mouth of the harbor, the walls massive.
“A Walled City. Zeres, the City of Waves. And from there—my clan. Izril.”
Feshi murmured. Wil nodded. He had only been to First Landing. Izril. He inhaled, breathing in the salt air. Nearly done. The adventure was nearly—
The Passing Shadow surfaced behind The Emerald Signet. Every head turned. Merrik groaned.
“It’s him.”
Captain Therrium stood at the prow. His face was thunderous. He pointed as his ship gave one final chase.
“Drop everything. Drop the anchors. Drop the food! All we have to do is reach the harbor!”
Captain Lasc roared. His ship sped ahead. But it was battered. And the Drowned Ship was—keeping pace. It was throwing spells as the two ships raced towards Zeres. Wil stood at the prow, looking back.
In the distance, the Walled City was waiting. Wil saw a distant fleet of ships moving in and out of the harbor. He looked backwards. Therrium was pacing up and down the deck. His ship was beginning to gain.
“What if Peki throws an artificial Wil at Therrium? We can waste them. No offense, Wil.”
“None taken.”
Peki tried. But even the fake Wils were heavy and a hail of attacks came up from the enemy ship and nearly blasted her out of the sky. Therrium pointed at Wil.
“My swords.”
Wil looked back. His friends lined up near the railing.
“Time for one final clash. Wish I had one of those swords. But my hammer will do good enough. Let’s show this Drowned Man what the Titan’s students can do!”
Merrik roared. Peki landed next to him. Venaz drew his blade and his eyes gleamed.
“We won our treasure. And I have a debt to pay.”
“None of you die now!”
Yerranola warned the others. Feshi sighed as she summoned more of Khelt’s warriors. The two ships began to close. And Wil saw a flash in the distance.
Zeres’ towers lit up. And the Walled City shot something into the distance. Captain Therrium looked up with the others. He ran for the helm.
A ball of magic hit the water next to his ship. It exploded like Lasc’s [Depth Explosion] but twice as big. The Drowned Ship rocked. Wil saw a bolt of lightning arc through the sky and hit the sea.
“Zeres is attacking! Look! The navy’s coming! They know it’s us!”
Delivan was dancing and shouting; Drake ships were storming out of the bay. Wil saw distant crews of Drakes rowing against the wind. Magnificent Drake warships as their Walled City launched more spells.
“Damn you landfolk! Damn your Drakes! Damn your Walled Cities!”
Captain Therrium was shaking with rage. He saw the Drake armada coming at him.
“Captain. We can’t fight that.”
His [First Mate] was regrowing her lost limbs. The [Depth Captain] stared in despair at the distant ship. His was still pursuing. But—
It was over. Wil and the others were laughing. Cheering the Drakes. Yerra was yanking at them.
“Come on! Get below! Let’s get down before that Therrium launches a spell at our rears! It’d be like him!”
The [Depth Captain] was fuming. He saw Wil laughing, Merrik hugging Peki, and Feshi—Venaz raising his greatsword over his head. He bowed his own head.
“We’ve lost the treasure. All of it.”
His crew looked at him. The Depth Captain turned. He’d never hear the end of it. But—he had one last thing. No victory.
Just vengeance.
“Glisal. Aim for that [Lord]. Kill him.”
He spoke to the half-Blowfish [Venom Archer]. She looked at Therrium’s face. Silently, she spat the deadly venom onto one arrow. She sighted. The Passing Shadow pursued for a second longer.
A bowstring twanged. Therrium turned the ship. It sank under the waves.
A single arrow flew, curving through the air.
 
—-
 
“We did it. What do we do?”
“Go to Feshi’s clan? Deliver the swords? We have to get to Chandrar! We promised Fetohep, didn’t we? Dead gods! Another sea adventure? Can we hire a Courier to deliver the swords?”
“Let’s just get to harbor. We’ll sort the rest out later. I hope House Kallinad can pay Lasc for his ship!”
The students were celebrating. Merrik kept slapping Wil—and since he was short, some of the slaps were more on the lower back and buttocks. But everyone was laughing. Venaz was nodding.
“This—I have to repay you, Wil. The swords are bound to us.”
He gestured to the greatsword. Feshi stared at hers. Peki eyed it.
“Can I fight the undead?”
“I don’t know. I mean—yes, Peki. But I don’t know. The undead? My people hate the undead. Ever since the Necromancer slew the Great Chieftain, Kerash…it may be trouble, no?”
“We’ll deal with it, Feshi. Maybe Fetohep will allow us to trade blades? Let’s just—”
The arrow fell. Curving with the power of a Skill, towards Wil’s back. Yerranola laughed.
“I just wish I’d picked up the blade. I just never thought—”
She looked up. Saw the flicker in the sky. Without a word, Yerranola shoved Wil.
He hit the deck hard. He saw her shielding him, arms outstretched.
“What? Yerra, why did—?”
Venaz blinked. He saw Yerranola stumble. A black arrow shaft was sticking out of her chest.
“Yerranola!”
Merrik shouted. Peki’s head whipped around.
“Arrows! Take cover!”
The others looked around. But The Passing Shadow was gone. Yerranola lay on the deck. Wil scrambled to his feet. He ran to Yerranola.
“Yerra? Speak to me! Are you alright?”
This couldn’t be happening. Not now. Not after so much. Not after their adventure had—he saw the Selphid raising her head. Grinning, weakly.
“I’m okay. I just got scratched! Dead body, remember? I’m alright. I just—”
She was smiling. Laughing. Her expression froze. Her head fell back. Wil reached for her.
“Yerranola?”
The Selphid was silent. Wil shook her.
He waited. But the dead face didn’t move.
“…Yerra?”
