The Drowned Sailor called down to Therrium. His head rose as he hunkered down, avoiding flaming arrows from the damned Bloodtear Pirate ships. He looked up.
“We’re already in Minos’ waters? Damn. Catch that ship! Fire all spells!”
He pointed at The Emerald Signet. His [First Mate] moved to obey. She strode to the front of the ship. Therrium saw a flash. He raised his head, then felt something hit his ship.
“What was that?”
He roared. Then he saw a plume of splinters. His [First Mate] stared at her missing legs. Then—at the ballista bolt made of metal that had shattered the deck.
“The warship is firing at us! Damned Minotaurs!”
The Bloodtear Pirates saw the impact on The Passing Shadow. One of the [Pirate Captains] saw the warship presenting broadsides, far, far in the distance.
“Then close with them and destroy the ship! They can’t reload in—”
Splash. The [Pirates] ducked as something hit the waters next to their ship. Another ballista bolt.
“So they have two ballistae. So wh—”
Crack.
A third ballista bolt hit the side of the ship. The Bloodtear Pirates looked up. Then—a stone cracked into the decks of the other Drowned Ship. The boat rocked.
“Three ballistae and a catapult. Damn. Fine then—”
Another bolt hit the decks. The [Pirates] slowly turned to look at their [Captain]. He snatched a spyglass up. Impossible. They couldn’t have four—
The warship had four. And a catapult in the center. As the [Captain] watched, he saw distant figures reloading.
They did it like this. Two Minotaurs pulled the arm of the catapult down. One slammed a boulder out of a bag of holding into the firing arm—the catapult was adjusted and fired. In less than thirty seconds, another boulder was in the air.
And the ballistae? Just as fast. Minotaurs just pulled the massive siege weapon back, reloading it.
“Devils in the deep.”
The Bloodtear [Pirate Captain] had heard stories. But the Minotaurs surprised him. They kept firing; before a bolt landed, another was in the air. All five ships began to take evasive action.
Captain Therrium was swearing. But he pointed his ship ahead at The Emerald Signet.
“Bring down the Minotaur’s warship first! This isn’t over! Send out a call to any Undersea Crews nearby!”
 
—-
 
The Minotaurs weren’t even using spells. Wil stared. They just had siege weapons, but the weapons had incredible range. And the Minotaurs were expert marksmen. They were pumping out a rain of fire that the other ships had to dodge or be sunk by, even with [Reinforced Hulls].
“Dead gods! I had no idea that’s how Minotaurs fought!”
Yerranola was staring. Venaz was laughing proudly.
“No [Pirates] challenge our waters! Well—a few do, but most know better! Minotaur warships are a terror of the seas! And we fight on land just as well! I told you—”
The students looked at each other. Venaz’ boasts were being backed up a bit—if only by the dramatic save. The Minotaur stood on the prow, bellowing towards the distant ship. Wil heard an answering roar back.
But—Lasc kept glancing back.
“They’re still coming, Mister Venaz! And they might be damned experts at close quarters, but they’ll be outnumbered five-to-one! Those are all expert, high-level [Pirates]!”
“Don’t worry, Captain Lasc. The other ships won’t make it. See?”
The Minotaurian ship was moving backwards, as The Emerald Signet fled in its wake. But the other ships kept coming; they were tough and even the impacts from the ballista bolts and catapults weren’t doing more than slowing them. Wil glanced over his shoulder.
“Venaz? Are you sure?”
He could see Captain Therrium in the distance. The [Depth Captain] was pointing. And—Wil heard someone swearing.
“My [Dangersense] is going off. Captain Lasc—”
Delivan looked backwards. An [Archer] was standing on the deck. Lasc peered through a spyglass.
“Damn. No wonder the Bloodtear Pirates have abandoned attacking The Passing Shadow. Everyone! Get belowdecks! They’ve got a poison archer!”
The others looked up. Lasc pointed at the [Archer] that Therrium had placed on the prow. She was sighting—and she was half-Drowned. Wil saw yellowish skin, something like…spikes? He saw her spitting something. Lasc pointed.
“Blowfish. One dose from her arrows and you’re dead.”
The crew ran for the decks. Wil looked at Venaz. Within a few more minutes, they’d be in range. No—were they already? Therrium was pointing at Wil.
“Stop your ship or die. This is your last chance.”
The Drowned man shouted. One of the Bloodtear Pirates was accelerating, using a skill on the right. Wil saw Lasc’s eyes flick from left to right.
“Mister Venaz—”
“Hold course. We’re nearly safe.”
The Minotaur crouched behind the safety of the deck, but he looked—confident. Wil saw the Minotaur vessel turning ahead, offering more covering fire. But the two ships were catching up to the wounded Storm Ship. Wil saw Therrium raise a hand. The [Archer] drew back, sighting.
And the Bloodtear Pirate ship began to draw alongside. The [Pirates] whirled grappling hooks, shouting. Wil saw Lasc bare his teeth.
“Prepare to repel boarders!”
He reached for his sword, planted in the deck. Wil reached for his blade, staring at the casket. He saw Venaz looking up at the sky as the Bloodtear Pirates’ ship drew alongside. Wil looked back.
“Time to fight. Wil, stay behind us.”
Yerranola rose, Merrik and Peki by her side. Feshi reached for another arrow. And Wil saw Venaz close his eyes.
“Ah. Her wrath. Honor to you.”
He stood. Wil looked up at him. And then—he saw a shadow flash across the sky. Venaz knelt.
The [Pirate Captain] drawing alongside The Emerald Signet looked up. He saw something flying through the sky. Rotating. It fell towards him. He stared up. It looked like—but it was too large.
“Is that…an axe?”
It cut through the mast, crashed through the deck and the [Captain]. The ship buckled, and then—sank.
Captain Therrium stared at the gigantic axe buried in the ship. He stared at the sky. He reached for the helm.
The Bloodtear Pirates turned. The Minotaur warship launched another volley, but the other four ships fled. Fled, in a moment. For reinforcements, to regroup. They asked no questions.
That was an axe.
 
—-
 
Axes, the Minotaur [Prince], a Moment’s Peace
 
“What in the name of the Grandfathers was that?”
Merrik stared at the place the ship had sunk. Wil looked at Venaz. The Minotaur replied calmly, smirking.
“That. Was an axe.”
The students looked at him. The other ships were fleeing. Wil turned to Peki.
“Peki, punch Venaz.”
The Garuda raised a fist. The Minotaur stepped back, scowling.
“It was what I meant! We’re in range of the House of Minos. Well—it must have expanded last I checked. She leveled.”
“She? Who?”
“Captain! Lord Kallinad! Minotaur warship is turning! They want to board!”
Inky called out from the crow’s nest. Venaz’s head turned. But he pointed at the place the Bloodtear Pirates’ ship had sunk.
“Her range. That axe was thrown by the King of Minotaurs herself. It was her great Skill. One of the reasons we are safe. The [Axe of Gigant]. A shipbreaking blow.”
He pointed into the distance. Wil saw the other warship drawing alongside. He looked at Venaz.
“Venaz. I’ve known [Kings]. Even the King of Destruction. We studied him. I’ve never, ever seen a Skill like that.”
“Because your [Kings] were rulers. Our King won her title by strength, Wil. Strength and honor. And her class, her first class? Was [Axe Thrower].”
The Minotaur warship was filled with Minotaurs. And like Venaz, they had knelt the direction the axe had come. Now—Wil saw Venaz pointing.
The waters were stirring. Something rose, from where the [Pirate]’s ship had sunk. An axe rose out of the waters and slowly flew back the way it had come.
It was much smaller than when it had landed. But it flashed through the air, rotating. Wil and the others stared.
“The pride of the Minotaurs. Be honored, Wil Kallinad. For you, our King threw one of her personal weapons. She does not do it often; even most [Pirates] do not know of her strength.”
Venaz beamed. Wil nodded, speechless.
“And are we…safe?”
Merrik looked up at Venaz. He nodded.
“So long as we remain here? Of course! We’ll have time to replenish our stocks. Repair the ship. And perhaps even sail with a fleet as an escort—depending on if Kallinad can pay for it. But once we reach the House of Minos’ harbors even The Iron Vanguard would fear to invade!”
He laughed, spreading his arms wide. Wil looked ahead. The other warship was moving alongside theirs. He saw the ballistae, the catapult. And—striding alongside the decks, his arms spread in welcome, a Minotaur in full armor. Venaz’s eyes widened. He turned to Wil.
“And here I thought we couldn’t get more lucky. Wil—you’ll have the honor of being escorted by a Prince of Minotaurs.”
“A Prince?”
Wil stared at the distant Minotaur. Venaz was nodding.
“As you understand it. He is next in line for the throne. Excluding our King’s son—this would be her younger brother. As honorable as she is. And nearly as mighty. Er—he’s not the one I beat to take the Professor’s classes. Don’t tell him I bragged about that. And be respectful.”
He was older, gray mixed into his mane and fur. But as big as Venaz. He roared a greeting.
“Venaz of Hammerad! In the name of the House of Minos, I welcome you home!”
“Prince Khedal! The honor is ours! Your timing was most fortuitous!”
The two Minotaurs strode up the gangplanks as the ships docked. Khedal was a unit of a Minotaur, even as they reckoned such things. He and Venaz struck each other on the shoulders and grabbed each other’s forearms as they locked horns.
And he had a presence, like that of the [General] of Pheislant. A high-level person. He turned to Wil as Venaz began to introduce the crew.
“Ah, Lord Kallinad. I have seen your story unfolding. It is the privilege of the House of Minos to aid you, as well as one of our own.”
He inclined his head. And he was suddenly, incredibly formal. He gave Wil a bow—a Terandrian courtier’s bow. It was impressively done. Wil found himself fumbling his reply.
“The honor was ah, mine, Prince Khedal. Your warship was timely. And the aid of your Que—your King was impressive.”
Khedal was nodding. His horns were actually gilded with silver—and his armor was as ornamental as functional. Wil saw dozens of Minotaur [Sailors] hard at work; the [Storm Sailors] eyed them nervously.
“The King of Minos directed our ship to your defense as soon as she saw you were inbound. That she provided the honor of her Skill was unasked for.”
“I shall surely thank her. And if my companions and I are worthy of it—we would be honored twice by an audience.”
Venaz was nodding. Khedal studied Merrik, Peki, and the others. The Garuda whispered.
“Strong Sea Cow.”
The Prince’s eyes narrowed. But then he was nodding.
“Few are worthy, but she would wish it. And of course, we shall bring your ship to harbor. Come—have you replacement sails? If not, my [Oarsmen] will bring you to shore. It is not far.”
He turned to Captain Lasc. The [Storm Captain] saluted.
“Our sails are going up as we speak. It is an honor…Prince Khedal?”
“Yes, it is. We were prepared to fight to the death in your defense. I do not know if it would have been fitting for those not of House Minos, or even one son. But our King is far wiser and more honorable than I.”
The Minotaur Prince nodded slightly. Lasc blinked. So did Wil. Khedal was somehow more uptight and arrogant than Venaz. Wil saw where he got it from if it was a cultural thing. However—he was also commanding.
“Let us return to harbor before we speak more, Venaz of Hammerad. You have been gone too long. No doubt you will be feasted in the Thronehall of Minos. You must tell of us of your accomplishments. We have witnessed some, such as Daquin.”
“Yes. I have failed as much as triumphed. But I hope to speak of the accomplishments of my companions as well.”
Venaz hung his head as Khedal nodded. Wil felt his knees going weak.
Safety. He looked at Yerra and saw her and Feshi staring into the distance. Perhaps they were just shadows, but the Archipelago of the House of Minos awaited. A mysterious place. Wil looked back at the casket.
And saw something on the horizon. The [Lord] stared.
“Venaz. Prince Khedal.”
The two Minotaurs turned. Wil pointed silently. Prince Khedal looked over his shoulder and frowned.
“Spyglass.”
One was placed into his hands. The Minotaur sighted. Then he looked up abruptly.
“It seems my boast of safety was premature. There is a fleet approaching.”
“A fleet?”
“Storm Ships. Sixty of them.”
“Sixty?”
“Prince-Commander Khedal. Another sighting. Southeast this time.”
The Minotaur turned. He sighted again.
“Eighty warships.”
A third call. Khedal looked.
“Thirty six. Closer to forty.”
“What is it?”
“Did he say Storm Ships? That can only be—Lord Admiral Seagrass. The Tyrant Seagrass.”
Delivan’s eyes were wide. He looked at Lasc.
“But we’ve broken no laws of the sea, have we, Captain Lasc?”
“Not a one. Perhaps Lord Seagrass is here to give us an escort.”
“Yeah. And perhaps my beard is a nest for baby chicks.”
Merrik snorted. He looked at Prince Khedal. The Minotaur was consulting with his subordinates. He looked up, abruptly.
“We could sail for the House of Minos’ shores. And repel this Lord Seagrass. We have clashed with his ships before. He will never take Minos’ shores. However. I do not believe this is wise. Not for a single son of Minos, and a treasure that is not ours.”
He looked at Wil. The [Lord] numbly nodded. Venaz looked at Khedal, clenching his fists.
“But Prince Khedal—! Are we to surrender the treasure after all this time? Fetohep of Khelt has charged Wil with delivering it! Do we bow to dishonor?”
Khedal’s hand moved like a blur. He grabbed Venaz so hard Wil saw the other Minotaur’s armor move.
“Never.”
Khedal’s voice was low. He pointed.
“Captain Lasc! Head north! Now! We will sail past the House of Minos! Open the Bottle of Winds!”
“We?”
The Minotaurs leapt to follow Prince Khedal’s orders. The Minotaur turned as he strode across the gangplank. He nodded at Wil.
“I cannot in good conscience risk the life of our King and subjects in a siege if this Lord Seagrass would dare it. However—I have placed you under my protection. The least we can do is escort you closer to another harbor. We will delay this Lord Seagrass and his fleets as long as we are able. Minotaurs! Make ready for battle!”
A roar came from the warship. Venaz clung to the railing, looking alarmed.
“Prince Khedal! You cannot risk your life! You are Prince to the House of Minos.”
