Yerranola whispered. Captain Therrium bared his teeth. In the distance—Lord Seagrass’ warship was on fire. But the Admiral was on deck. He glanced up at the sky.
“Some idiot summoned a storm? Surrender. All of you. And I’ll let you live.”
The Sea Serpent hissed. Captain Lasc and Therrium gave each other another look.
“I take no orders from landmen.”
“And I don’t sail under your command.”
“So be it.”
Lord Seagrass drew his blade. The two [Captains] leapt forwards. The Sea Serpents hit the decks, biting [Sailors] in half, but the Drowned Folk were already leaping for the railings. They attacked the gigantic monsters from the water.
“Kill them! Take the swords!”
Therrium bellowed. Seagrass pointed as he deflected the two swords in a duel.
“[Pride of the Waves]. Get me my blades.”
The [Storm Sailors] pushed back, suddenly fighting twice as viciously. Both sides hit Lasc’s crew and the students. They fought, desperately. And—fell back. Back, towards the mast, the treasure chest.
This was it. Wil saw the waves of enemies incoming. He looked at Fetohep. And he could have sworn he saw the undead king’s left eye flash at him.
“Choose, Lord Kallinad.”
Wil nodded. He closed his eyes. And then he reached down and picked something up.
Inky’s head turned as she reloaded Delivan’s crossbow. She saw the [Lord] holding a transparent blade that glittered in the fading light as rain began to fall. A magical sword.
A relic. Wil held the Diamond Sword of Serept aloft. The fighting crews looked at him. And Wil understood.
“Blades are meant to be used.”
“Just so.”
Fetohep nodded, pleased. Wil took a breath. He felt the blade humming in his hands. He saw Admiral Seagrass turning as Lasc staggered backwards, cut. The Illuminary was sailing at his ship and more.
Rain was falling. The waves were growing choppy as heavy winds began blowing. A storm was coming. And Wil held the blade.
Green diamond. A greatsword. Yet it was light. He marveled at the power rushing through his hands. And then—Wil turned.
“Venaz.”
He tossed the sword. Every head turned. The Minotaur whirled. He dropped his axe, saw the sword curving towards him. And he grabbed the hilt.
“Wil?”
Stunned, the Minotaur looked at the [Lord]. Then his eyes focused on the blade.
“He has the damn sword! Get it!”
A [Depth Pirate] shouted. She lunged. Venaz whirled. And his form blurred.
The [War Strategist] turned. And the greatsword whirled through the air. Fast. As if he were under a [Haste] spell. He slashed—a Bloodtear Pirate looked down at her sundered blade and the deep cut in her chest.
The Minotaur brought the blade down. So fast Wil didn’t even see the arc. The greatsword cleaved through armor and blades. The Minotaur slashed left and right—the [Depth Sailors] and [Storm Sailors] fell back, crying out.
“The Windblade of Serpisel.”
Fetohep of Khelt smiled. Venaz swung the sword and cleared the deck around him. Wil heard a bellow in the distance.
Prince Khedal was raising his axes. Roaring in delight and surprise. The Minotaur crews bellowed as Venaz held up the blade. And the enemy crews fell back in disarray.
All but Lord Seagrass. His eyes narrowed.
“Stop that [Lord]!”
He pointed a finger. Crossbows snapped, but Fetohep calmly cut the bolts down as Wil ducked behind the chest. And he was reaching for another sword.
The second blade was clear diamond. It had an odd hilt, with three reflective leaves. Wil rose with it as a [Storm Sailor] charged him. He raised the sword and the man stumbled back. Wil slashed—but the blade didn’t speed him up. The [Storm Sailor] ducked left, grinning.
He was fast. He lanced out and caught Wil in the shoulder. The enchanted leather peeled away as the [Storm Sailor] cut Wil shallowly. The [Lord] cried out. His friends were engaged, even Venaz. He saw the Minotaur turn and blur towards him. But the [Storm Sailor] was right there. He raised his blade as Fetohep watched.
And Wil stabbed him through the side. The [Storm Sailor] turned. He looked at Wil. And then—down at Wil, trying to shield himself with the sword.
The glowing sword. And a third Wil Kallinad raised his sword. He thrust—the [Storm Sailor] staggered back. He looked at the three Terandrian [Lords]. Down at the two holes in his body. They weren’t…illusions.
“That’s not fair.”
He murmured and collapsed. Wil Kallinad, shaking, saw another Wil staring wide-eyed at him. And on his right—another Wil. All three looked at each other; mirrored perfectly but for the cut on one of the Wil’s shoulders. Then they turned to Fetohep.
“Threefold Mirrorblade. A pity. I would have given that to young Atwood.”
The ruler of Khelt looked highly amused. Wil saw the crew charging forwards, trying to get to the chest. Through three pairs of eyes. All at once.
The image should have unsettled him. But—he heard sounds, tripled. And three minds could process it. The other two Wils looked at each other.
“Take the left side. I’ll take the right.”
One Wil spoke. The other fake-Wil nodded. He raised a hand, concentrated.
“I can’t use any Skills. But I can see—”
“Think—wait. My gear?”
All three pulled out a magical wand and stared at it. Then—all three aimed. Three enemy [Depth Sailors] went tumbling down with holes in their chests. Astonished, the [Lords] looked at Fetohep.
“Lesser artifacts.”
The [King] looked pleased at their expressions. Two Wils plunged forwards, into the fighting. Yerranola stared at a second Wil who cleaved into a [Storm Sailor]’s shoulder. He ducked a blade—the other Wil had seen it coming.
A [Depth Sailor] planted a sword in Wil’s stomach. All three [Lords] cried out. But the illusory-Wil just blinked. Then he stabbed the woman in her chest. Yerranola looked at Wil.
“Wil?”
“Didn’t hurt. Is that how it feels, Yerra?”
The Selphid’s mouth dropped open. The fake-Wil grinned. And advanced, fearless. The tide was turning as Venaz whirled, fast, putting his entire weight behind the swings of his enchanted blade. He was pressing Lord Seagrass back; the [Stormlord] was wary of the enchanted blade, and Venaz’ reach.
 
—-
 
Tulm the Mithril stared into the scrying orb. He turned to Xol.
“I want that one.”
“I as well. If desire were deed.”
The War Walker nodded slowly. He didn’t take his eyes off the battle reflected in the scrying orb. And even Tulm the Mithril was gazing at the blade Wil held.
Envious.
Relics. Everyone was fighting twice as hard to get to the blades. But Venaz, the two illusory Wils—and the final blade. The entire world watched as Lord Kallinad reached into the chest.
 
—-
 
The last blade. Wil stared at them. There was a red scimitar, a yellow single-sided blade, the black dagger, a blue—
“Which one?”
Fetohep was watching as the other two Wils fought.
“Just pick a damn color!”
Merrik roared. Wil looked around. Venaz stumbled backwards—Lord Seagrass had nicked him with his blade.
“Idiot. You don’t deserve that sword.”
He reached for the greatsword as Venaz swore; he had grown pale as Seagrass’ enchanted sword had cut him. The Minotaur rolled as a Wil charged forwards.
“Seagr—”
The [Lord] beheaded the artificial Wil. The real Wil recoiled; and he saw one of the leaves grow dark as his clone vanished. Did it have to recharge? But Venaz was running back and Admiral Seagrass was staring at Wil.
“Give me the third blade, boy.”
“Throw it here and my crew will give you passage!”
Therrium ordered. One of the Sea Serpents was screaming as Drowned Sailors clung to it. It dove, escaping the fighting. Wil reached into the chest, fumbling, as both [Captains] approached. He saw a flash of light off the portside bow. But one of the swords rose in his hand. He turned.
And shouted.
“Yerranola, catch!”
He threw the black dagger—it had been chance that guided his hand. Yerranola whirled. Her eyes went round.
“Me? But—”
The dagger clattered onto the deck. The Selphid had missed. She ran at it as everyone shouted. She dove—and a foot kicked her away.
“Aha! Mine!”
Captain Rasea Zecrew crowed. She grinned; she’d swung off her ship again! She reached down—and a fake Wil tackled her. The [Pirate Captain] cursed. She stabbed Wil through the chest multiple times and he vanished.
“Get the sword!”
Inky dove for the blade. A dozen hands yanked her off. Wil saw the blade skittering across the deck, slicing a few feet—where was it?
Someone grabbed the blade. And held it aloft. The fighting deck stared at the black dagger, held aloft. And at the furry paw.
Feshi met Wil’s eyes with her wide, brown ones. The black dagger flashed.
“Ah. That would be the Sarcophagus Dagger of—”
A figure rose out of the decks. No—it stepped out of Feshi’s shadow. Out of the blade itself. Wil saw glowing eyes. A skeletal figure.
In fact—a skeleton. Wearing faded armor. The figure was dressed like some ancient warrior of old. And it—no—she—spoke.
“Protect Khelt’s chosen.”
She held a glaive. And she swung it around. Two of Seagrass’ [Storm Sailors] fell down, screaming as the frozen blade cut them, turning their skin black with frostbite.
A second shadow stepped out of the blade. This time a skeletal [Archer].
“Serve eternal.”
It loosed an arrow through a Drowned Man’s chest and into another figure standing behind him. Feshi stared around, terrified.
“What is—”
“Ancient Kheltian protectors. The Sarcophagus Dagger of Devi. A good tool for a [Strategist]. Let the champions of Khelt fight. They will rise eternal. Now, we have made our bargain. Return the rest of my blades, Wil Kallinad. And you and your comrades shall possess these blades until you die.”
Fetohep’s eyes glittered. Feshi looked around, horrified.
“No. I do not want this. Necromancy—”
The Gnoll staggered back from the undead, staring at them. But more were rising. Fighting. And Lord Seagrass pointed.
“Claim the chest!”
He advanced on Feshi as the undead servants of Khelt formed a wall. They were good—but the admiral was hacking them apart. Their shadows returned to the dagger as Feshi fled.
“Protect the chest!”
The last remaining Wil ordered. The real Wil stood. And his friends placed themselves in a circle around the box. Merrik grumbled at Fetohep.
“Mind loaning me a blade?”
“No. They have been given to their owners. Fate has chosen.”
The storm was whipping the deck. Sailors slid back and forth as The Emerald Signet began to rock. Therrium was cursing. He looked at Wil.
“You could have been saved.”
“Indeed.”
Seagrass from one side, Therrium from the other. Lasc blocked Therrium. And Rasea slid forwards.
“You can’t get away, Seagrass!”
“Damn you, you idiot!”
The admiral cursed as Rasea leapt at him. Wil looked left and right. He saw ships being blown by the storm. It was getting worse and worse.
“It’s time! Delivan! Take us into the storm!”
The [First Mate], unnoticed at the helm, spun the wheel. The boom moved—everyone ducked. Peki and Merrik charged left as Therrium backed up. Venaz was hacking at the Drowned Crew and they were afraid of the Minotaur with the enchanted blade.
And Feshi’s undead. The Gnoll, looking terrified, but resolute, pointed the dagger and Khelt’s elite undead charged, forcing the Drowned Crews back. But that left—
Yerra, and Wil. Rasea was battling Admiral Seagrass, but he was pressing her back. He tore left as Wil and Yerranola attacked the remaining enemy [Storm Sailors]. The last Wil went down as they hacked him apart. But the real Wil was unharmed but for a few cuts. And his Mirrorblade could still cleave flesh and metal.
“Push them off the decks! We can do this!”
Wil raised his sword. He saw the Drowned Crews falling back in disarray. The Emerald Signet was sailing into an oblivion of rain. It hammered the decks. And the storm was blowing the ship forwards.
“Admiral! We can’t stay in the storm! We have to—”
A [Storm Sailor] broke off as Seagrass snarled. He slashed at Rasea and she staggered as the energy-sapping blade cut her. He looked at Yerranola and Wil.
“Sword or not, you can’t defeat me. Give up.”
He warned the Selphid and Wil. The two [Strategists] looked at each other. They glanced at Fetohep. The [King] waved a hand.
“I have given you enough aid.”
Damn. Wil saw Seagrass advancing. He saw a Sea Serpent rising behind the [Stormlord Captain]. Seagrass gestured. The Sea Serpent reared back.
And a shape exploded out of the depths. It yanked the Sea Serpent down. The surprised monster screamed once. As something larger ate it.
Seagrass paused. He was still pointing. He turned his head. Wil froze. He saw the waves move. And in the distance—one of the Storm Ships making for The Emerald Signet exploded.
A shape burst out of the waves. It snapped the frigate in half. Wil saw the entire ship crash into the waves. And he saw the waters break as another ship disappeared. It was—
“The Kraken?”
Yerranola whispered. No. It was—a whale. Wil saw a gigantic head. And—teeth. The Tearwhale surfaced, and snapped a [Pirate] boat in half.
“Tearwhale pod! They’re in a feeding frenzy!”
A [Storm Captain] turned his ship. Captain Rasea leapt to her feet.
“Evasive! Damn! Stop attacking my ship!”
“Damn them! Damn you all! Back to the ship! Dive! Get out of range!”
Therrium howled. His crew flooded back to his ship. Captain Seagrass stared at the frenzy in the waters as the whale tore apart one of his pet Sea Serpents. A massive shape surfaced and Wil saw a frenzied eye. Biting jaws—he shielded his face as the Tearwhale crashed back into the sea.
“Get out of here!”
Even Rasea was running for her ship as a whale hit it from below. But Admiral Seagrass? He turned back, blade poised. And a figure charged him. He swung his sword. And beheaded Yerranola.
“Yerra!”
Wil shouted in horror. But the Selphid’s body kept moving. She tackled Seagrass. And he stared at the headless Selphid. Too late—he put the sword through her chest. But he missed her. And she rushed him towards the railing.
“Get lost!”
The [Stormlord Captain] went over the railing. Yerranola raised her arms. Wil saw something orange peeking through her decapitated neck. She turned as the [Storm Sailors] looked after their leader and then dove over the sides.
“Selphids rule! Did you see that, Wil? I did it!”
A tiny voice was coming from her inner body. Wil stared as the headless body held up a hand to high-five. He weakly slapped her hand.
“Did Yerra just throw Lord Seagrass off the ship?”
Inky was leaning on Venaz as the Minotaur dragged her over. Wil looked around.
Peki was lying on the deck as Merrik flopped down. Feshi was backing up from the obedient undead who were following her. Delivan was leaning on the helm as Captain Lasc clutched at his side. [Storm Sailors] were looking around for the enemy.
