“The Diamond Swords of Serept. One of the true relics of this world. Six blades, each forged by Serept of Khelt. A [King] beyond mere mortal [Kings]. He reigned for three thousand years before time consumed him. And no foe less than that ever humbled him.”
The swords shone in the ancient chest. Each one a different color; each one shaped of diamond.
Most people didn’t even know diamonds could take on color. More fools, they. But these blades had been forged of colored diamond. For instance—one was the shortest of swords, curved, a mix between a dagger and sword, really. And the diamond it had been made of was black.
Yet—transparent. Yet, lustrous. It shone in the light, the first time it had been seen in hundreds of years under the sun. Beautiful, deadly.
Magical.
“They are among Khelt’s great treasures. Each one is fit for a [General] or [King] of the old world. Perhaps none now live who are worthy of them. But a blade is meant to be used. And so—I offer my bargain.”
The speaker moved. His form was made of sand. Magic. An ancient curse. But it had replicated Fetohep of Khelt to perfection. He stood on the decks of the Emerald Signet, no longer the visage in the air. Speaking as he regarded his treasure.
“The chest is cursed. As are the artifacts. Death will befall any thief, as it did to those who stole the treasure from Khelt long ago. Yet, the blades endure. If Serept the Creator had any flaw, it was that his work was too perfect; the curse consumed the [Thieves] at sea so completely they never even uttered a word of distress. So my treasure was lost.”
The Revenant, the undead [King] turned his head. And he met a young [Lord]’s eyes. Wil Kallinad stood with Venaz, Feshi, Merrik, Yerranola, and Peki.
Staring. This was their adventure at sea. A tale of boredom, sea creatures, danger, friendship, failed romance, and hope, mixed with awe and fear throughout. But it had been their small adventure. Until this moment.
Now, they looked at a legend. And who more fitting to this story than Fetohep of Khelt? A ruler of an ancient nation. He looked at his blades, at Wil, and pointed.
“Boy. I say again: this is my bargain. It is no joke, or prank.”
His eyes flashed as the apparition spoke. It was powerful magic that gave Fetohep a presence thousands of miles from where he actually was. He gestured at the swords, each a different color and style.
“Three of the six swords. Half of the treasure that belongs to me. You will return the other three blades to my presence. And in exchange—I will grant you the use of the other three swords. For as long as you live. No longer.”
He turned his head, expecting a response. And Wil Kallinad was frozen. Because he had expected treasure, dreamed of it. But with it in front of him he couldn’t help but feel like he was dreaming.
It was Merrik who found his voice first. The Dwarf looked at Fetohep, gripping his beard in one fist. But his voice was steady. Forged of his own species’ resilience. He had seen wonders.
“Er—you, sir. You’re undead, ain’t you? Who are you, then? Some old spirit? How can we return your swords to you? Chuck ‘em back over the sides?”
Wil choked. Fetohep’s head slowly turned. But Merrik looked genuinely confused.
“I am Fetohep of Khelt. Dwarf. Ruler of Khelt, paradise of Chandrar. Do you not know of me?”
Peki started. She bowed slightly. Fetohep’s gaze flickered to her. Venaz copied the gesture.
“Khelt? Dead gods.”
He whispered, looking as stunned as Wil. Yerranola copied the gesture on the grounds that it was probably wise. But she and Feshi looked as confused as Merrik. The Dwarf bowed, eying his companions.
“I apologize, er, King Fetohep. I haven’t heard of Khelt. But I’ve never been to Chandrar.”
“And Khelt’s name has not reached Deríthal-vel? Do the Dwarves forget old friends so easily? Perhaps even legends fade. Perhaps young Atwood was correct…”
The [King] looked—disgruntled. Wil Kallinad spoke, trying, suddenly, to remember how to bow to the Chandrarian ruler. Just so—he made an attempt of it, putting his hand just below his heart, two fingers extended, sweeping his leg back like…
“King Fetohep. I am Wil Kallinad of Pheislant. I greet you and beg your majesty’s forgiveness.”
The eyes flashed at him.
“It is given, young man. As is the ignorance of your companions. I did not think to find my lost treasures today. But you have found them. So, once again, for a third time, I offer my bargain.”
He sounded overly patient. And he emphasized ‘my’. Wil gulped.
“Three swords, your Majesty?”
“Yes. You may pick each one. And you will make haste to Chandrar to deliver the other relics to me. Yes. You alone, Wil Kallinad.”
Fetohep twisted his fingers. The swords flashed in the light—a trick of the blades, or magic? The sand-figure turned.
“The curse shall seize whomever touches my swords. However—Wil Kallinad, I grant you the right to touch my blades. And those three blades you first pick will be yours to share. Again, until your deaths.”
“What happens then?”
Fetohep looked at Yerranola. The Selphid hurriedly bowed again. The [King] sounded impatient, and moderated his tone as if he was speaking to dullards.
“The blades shall return to me. Upon your death. In the light of the sun they cannot escape my gaze. So they will come to Khelt. Any attempt to hide them away will meet with the curse of Khelt. And it will consume the blood of any who attempt to withhold them, down to the last child of those who would steal from me. Do you…understand what I am offering you?”
The [King] seemed to fear this was very much in doubt. The students traded looks. The [Sailors], Captain Lasc, and everyone else were just staring. Wil still wanted to know if this was a trick. But Merrik spoke up again.
“So, three of the six swords, your Majesty? And you can locate them after our deaths? Seems a rather fortuitous deal to suddenly make. What’s to stop us from claiming six? There are…six of us. Perhaps we could take all six and return them to you before we die? Anyways, if three of us were to get the swords, what about me? I’m a Dwarf. Time lasts for me longer than most folk.”
He sounded like he was debating the Titan, the Professor in class. But Fetohep was not Niers Astoragon. He looked at Merrik. And then he laughed.
With dark humor. With amusement at the effrontery. The sand making up his body expanded. The [King] rose, looking down at Merrik. The people on the ship.
“Your lifespan is still short compared to mine. And if you would try Khelt’s wrath, pick up the sword, Dwarf. Do not take my offer as weakness; I make it because my generosity outweighs the gratitude you have done me for locating my treasure. I could take my swords back.”
He flicked his wrist. A vortex of sand engulfed the Kheltian chest. A miniature maelstrom. And the stone chest and swords began to lift off the ground. Higher, higher. Wil cried out with dismay. Feshi sighed.
“Damn it, Merrik.”
The chest soared across the sea as Fetohep pointed. But it circled back. And the ruler spread his arms.
“But I still offer this bargain out of the mortality I remember. Gratitude. For acts of daring, for luck, for these things should be rewarded. Now. Tell me, Dwarf.”
He leaned down. Merrik stared up at the glowing eyes.
“Do you wish to bargain with me? For I am no [Merchant].”
Merrik raised his hands. He grinned, backing up, as the chest lowered itself to the deck.
“No, your Majesty. Please excuse my impertinence. I’ve a tongue on me. Too chatty by far. That’s what the old grandfathers used to say.”
“It is excused, Dwarf.”
The [King] shrank back down. He looked from face to face. Now, curiously.
“A Terandrian [Lord]. A Dwarf. A Selphid, a son of the House of Minos, a Plains Gnoll. And a Garuda. Do you hail from Chandrar, girl?”
He looked at Peki. The [Martial Artist] bowed, in a different style. A warrior’s salute.
“I come from Pomle.”
“Ah. How did such a group come searching for my treasure?”
Fetohep turned to Wil. The young [Lord] replied, trying to explain.
“We’re…students of the Titan of Baleros, Niers Astoragon, your Majesty. And we…”
The undead [King]’s eyes flickered at the Titan’s name. And he smiled—although his emaciated face was always smiling.
“I see. Youthful adventure. Then, thank your luck, young Kallinad. You have the right of choosing of the Swords of Serept. If you choose, choose wisely; each one is different. If not…I shall return in one day’s time. Give me your answer then.”
He raised a hand before Wil could respond, and his form collapsed into sand. The sand blew off the side of the ship, and into the sea. And then—only the diamond swords remained. Wil stared, wide-eyed, around at the others.
It had been such a quick encounter. And yet—his mind was spinning. Venaz exhaled slowly.
“He could have blasted our flesh from our bones. What was that? Some kind of astral projection spell. And yet, the power. Wil, you didn’t tell me the chest was cursed.”
He gave Wil a vaguely reproachful look. Wil weakly spoke.
“I didn’t think it was worth mentioning. Even the Professor’s notes said it was unlikely to be the actual treasure…”
He looked at a [Storm Sailor] standing to the side. Inky’s eyes were wide. As awed as the other’s. She looked at him.
“It was just sitting there. In a pile of bones. Was that undead a…ruler of Khelt?”
“The Kingdom of Undead. Ruled by nigh-immortal monarchs. A beauteous place, or so it’s said. For the few that enter. Never conquered; even the King of Destruction struck a deal rather than invade.”
Lasc murmured. He shook himself. And stared at Wil, purely shocked. The swords glittered in the chest. A black dagger, a green diamond greatsword. A rose blade, with only one edge. A yellow longsword…
Magic. Treasure. Relics. Relic-class artifacts. Wil felt light-headed.
“This isn’t happening. Yerra? Pinch me.”
“I’m trying. But it’s not working on me. But if I feel something, I know I’m dreaming. Dead gods. Dead gods—we found something.”
The Selphid was pinching her dead flesh. Feshi was sniffing the air, wide-eyed.
“We found them? Just—lying there? What will you do, Wil? Take the offer, surely? But would not someone steal them?”
“Fetohep might object. But maybe he only knows where the blades are. How strong’s the curse? How…am I dreaming?”
Wil murmured weakly. He looked around. His friends were gazing at him. The [Sailors] were murmuring. But it was a different kind of awe than seeing the Treant.
Treasure. Wil felt it tugging at him. But he had to know. He reached for one arm, and hesitated.
“Peki? Hit me.”
The Garuda turned her head. She nodded. Merrik’s head snapped around.
“No, wait. Peki, don’t actually—”
Wil saw the Garuda raise a fist—
 
—-
 
Wil Kallinad woke up in his bunk with a jaw that felt broken.
It wasn’t. But he groaned and would have shouted with the pain except that just made the jaw feel worse. He felt for a healing potion, drank it, and got up.
Someone—something was going insane abovedecks. Wil stumbled up the stairs. It was dark. But the entire crew of The Emerald Signet was on the decks.
Drinking. They cheered as they saw Wil, lifting mugs. Countless barrels had been breached, and food and liquor was being consumed liberally.
The ship was celebrating. Including Wil’s friends. He saw Peki duck her head and hide behind a wing as he stumbled towards them.
“Wil! Never ask Peki to punch you! But she’s sorry, right, Peki?”
“Sorry.”
The Garuda looked shamefaced. Wil stared around. Everyone was partying. The chest was closed and guarded by a group of [Storm Sailors], but even they were drinking. And Captain Lasc was toasting Wil.
“A treasure of Khelt! Now there’s a story worthy of the seas!”
He looked at Wil, raising his mug. Wil looked around. Feshi was passing around a refill to his friends. Then a huge arm grabbed him.
“Wil. You’ve done it. That is to say—the Professor was right. A treasure. And relics. I’m envious. However—it’s yours by right. And this all started of Daquin. Come, you have to toast with me! The world won’t forget your name in a hurry! No—this is the beginning of your legend.”
Venaz was slightly wet-eyed as he raised a mug. He towed Wil towards the center of the ship and everyone shouted as Venaz slammed a hand on Wil’s shoulder.
“Treasure!”
The Minotaur roared. Wil could smell how drunk he was. Dumbfounded, the [Lord] looked around. But he’d missed hours of this. Apparently—once the shock had worn off, a massive party had begun.
And everyone had convinced themselves this was real. Feshi had even plucked some fur off her arm—electing not to be hit by Peki. The Gnoll, Yerra, everyone was looking at Wil.
So, gradually, he realized it was real. Wil had to have a drink. And there was plenty about.
“Three blades. To give to anyone of your choosing. Imagine if the Professor were to get one? You could trade them.”
“Fetohep might not approve of passing them about. Sounded like Wil had to choose.”
Merrik was wagging a finger. But Inky, Delivan, the other [Sailors] were staring at Wil out of the corner of their eyes. Venaz was nodding.
“Well, yes. Perhaps it’s not that simple. But if Wil says ‘yes’—and what benefit is there to saying no?—he suddenly has a mission.”
“Chandrar. It’s far from Izril. But—well, the blades are important. If you could drop me at a port before we go there, I could go to Izril.”
Feshi was nodding. The others were looking at Wil. And he—well, he was about four drinks in by this time and his head was spinning.
“I just can’t believe—”
“Enough of that! It’s real! As real as anything! What are you going to do, Wil?”
Yerra was happily soused. She leaned on Wil, hugging him with excitement for her friend. And Wil Kallinad thought as he downed his drink.
 
—-
 
The next day, Fetohep of Khelt appeared in a whirling spectacle of sand on the decks of the ship. He paused, and looked around.
Face-down [Sailors]. A few comatose forms. Had the ship already been attacked for his treasures?
No—they were just drunk. Or hung over and wishing they were dead. Fetohep saw a group of people start.
“Oh—oh—dead gods, he’s here. Is it day already?”
A Selphid stared up at the bright, blue skies. She wobbled out of her seat and rolled over on the moving deck. The undead [King] stared at her as she waved at something past his shoulder.
“Hey. Heeey. It’s me. Yerranola. Wil—he’s got a decision.”
A [Lord] unsteadily rose to his feet. He was still drunk. But he had made his decision.
