Prince Khedal. His head broke the waves and he inhaled. He looked around—saw another ship passing by. The Minotaur swam towards it with one arm. He drove the axe he was carrying in his other hand into the side of the ship—and then drew the other one. He began to climb onto the ship.
Blood and water ran from his armor as the Drowned Crews saw the Minotaur coming over the side. Khedal’s eyes were red with rage. But he was calming down.
“Worthless tricks.”
He pulled himself over the railing and stood up. The [Depth Captain] drew her sword. Khedal threw one of his axes through her head and strode forwards.
Behind him, The Passing Shadow surfaced. The waters were still red with blood. Therrium gazed at the body parts of his crew that ran across the deck. He looked around.
“Keep away from that Minotaur. Get me those damn swords!”
 
—-
 
“Boarding from the port! [Storm Sailors]!”
The battle on board The Emerald Signet was a wild melee. Wil saw figures fighting around all sides of the ship. The students and Captain Lasc and his crew had formed a desperate circle around the chest. And their ship was being assaulted from all sides.
“By order of Admiral Seagrass, surrender!”
A [Storm Captain] strode over the decks. His [Storm Sailors] charged a group of Drowned Folk who snarled—another Octopus-type spat ink into the faces of the [Storm Sailors] before a crossbow bolt took her down.
Inky was standing next to Wil, aiming Delivan’s crossbow; the [First Mate] was desperately trying to steer the ship out of danger. Merrik and Peki were defending the Helm. But the ships kept coming.
“We can’t get away. Wil—”
Yerranola was shouting as she thrust back a pair of [Storm Sailors]. They stabbed her—the Selphid buried her hatchet in one head, ignoring the blades in her chest. Wil pointed his wand, blew the other [Sailor] off her.
It was a hopeless battle. All he could think was that they had to abandon the chest. But even that was—
Difficult. There was nowhere to run and the chest itself was being guarded. Fetohep stood in front of it, calmly looking around. An enemy [Storm Sailor] stumbled through Captain Lasc’s defenders. He looked up.
“Thief.”
The undead [King] swung a blade made of sand. Sand—but it cut through the [Storm Sailor]’s face. Fetohep calmly blocked two more [Depth Sailors] slashing at him. The ruler of Khelt turned, and his blade cut both down, finding holes in their guard.
He was a [Warrior]. And a good one! Even the other high-level [Warriors] were avoiding him. And—Fetohep looked amused.
In this battle, there was no amusement in Wil’s heart. Just thundering adrenaline. But Fetohep wasn’t the only one.
“Hail to Lord Seagrass!”
A form swung across the air. The [Storm Captain] cutting towards Lasc turned. Just in time for Rasea to shear the top of his head off. The [Storm Sailors] cried out as Rasea the Shining landed among them with four members of her crew. They diced the invaders in a blur. Then they pointed at Wil’s group.
“Oh dead gods. Here they come—”
Yerra turned. She charged one of the four [Pirates]. Captain Lasc punched at another.
“I’ll take that one! Inky—the other! Wil, Feshi, cover us!”
Venaz cut with his battleaxe at the Drake with a cutlass. Wil aimed his wand as Feshi shot an arrow. The four [Pirates] slid across the deck. One was dueling Lasc—another cut Yerra straight down her body.
“Ah! Dead gods! They got my inner body!”
The Selphid shouted. She kicked and the Gnoll went flying.
“Rampaging!”
She roared as she charged forwards. Captain Rasea was laughing. She was dueling Fetohep himself. The [King]’s eyes flashed as he parried her enchanted blade, but his hardened sand-sword was breaking with each clash. Rasea speared him through the chest.
“Well done, mortal. Your name?”
“Rasea Zecrew. Your Majesty.”
She swept him a bow. Then beheaded the apparition. The sand-Fetohep collapsed.
Rasea reached for one of the Swords of Serept. A glowing, blue blade. Then she flicked her hand up.
Fetohep’s reaching hand missed hers by an inch. Rasea winked.
“Thought so. What a pain—”
The ruler of Khelt rose out of the ground again. He had reshaped himself out of the magical sand. Rasea grinned. She saluted him.
“Back up, lads! We need a full crew to grab that damn box!”
Her four [Pirates] and Rasea leapt backwards as more [Storm Sailors] flanked them from the left at Wil’s direction. None of them had fallen—and Venaz was bleeding. He cursed.
“They’re high-level. We can’t hold them off!”
“Crew of the Illuminary. On me.”
Captain Rasea stood at the railing. And Wil saw sixteen more shapes swinging onto the deck. His heart sank.
“Step aside, Lord Kallinad and you lot. Be a shame to cut your adventure short today.”
Rasea’s eyes glinted. Wil raised his sword and wand.
“Captain Rasea—”
Thwoom. The ship shook. Wil and the [Pirates] whirled. Three Storm Ships had docked.
“For Lord Seagrass!”
Hundreds of [Sailors] poured over the railings. Rasea grimaced.
“Well, well. Merchant Seagrass brought his trading fleet. Back up!”
Another impact. Two Drowned Vessels. Therrium strode onto the deck, eyes blazing.
“Get. Me. Those. Swords!”
The Drowned Crews and [Sailors] hit each other in a melee. Rasea looked towards Wil and Captain Lasc’s crew, a shrinking knot in the center of the fighting. She eyed Fetohep, defending his treasure. Her eyes…slowly passed over the diamond swords.
“Cap’n? Are we going in?”
The Oldblood Drake hacked apart a Drowned Woman. Rasea looked at her crew. A Centaur with a pair of crossbows calmly shot two [Sailors]. The Illuminary’s crew was waiting.
“Huh. You know, lads. I just had a thought.”
The [Pirates] groaned and grinned. Captain Rasea eyed the diamond swords.
“Back to the ship. Now!”
They dove over the railings, taking themselves out of the fight. Rasea swam like a fish towards her ship; she grabbed the line and was flung onto the deck.
“Captain? Too hairy for you?”
The Gnoll [Helmsman] laughed in disbelief. Rasea just grinned in reply. She pointed.
“Take us out of the melee. Get me to the Bloodtear’s ships. Over there!”
They were sinking two Drowned Vessels; giant holes had been taken out of the Drowned Vessels and the crews were swimming to other friendly ships. The Bloodtear Pirate group, eight ships in total was pulling back.
Seagrass’ navy was on the advance. And the Undersea Crews and [Pirates] were still outnumbered by them. It was Prince Khedal and the Minotaurs who were taking on the ships on The Emerald Signet’s starboard side. They cut through the [Sailors]. And only Therrium and the other Drowned Folk were keeping the battle equal on The Emerald Signet.
The Illuminary shot towards the Bloodtear Pirate’s ship. They saw the famed [Pirate] ship coming and the Bloodtear Pirates began aiming spells.
“Hey! Hold!”
Captain Rasea bellowed. Her ballistae were aiming at the lead ship. But she hadn’t fired. Yet.
The Captain of the Bloodtear Pirates hesitated. He met the shining gaze of the woman and held up a hand.
“No one attack! Yet.”
Rasea strode up the gangplank. She wasted no time.
“Hey, Bloodtear’s Lot. I had a thought. We’re all going after that damn treasure. But the way it’s looking, only one of us is going to get it. And there’s a treasure worth more than even the Swords of Serept or whatever. Waiting to be claimed.”
“A bigger treasure? Which is?”
The Bloodtear Captain looked incredulous. For an answer, Rasea pointed. The Bloodtear Crew turned their heads. And Rasea the Shining grinned.
Lord Seagrass’ command ship floated in the middle of his navy. The Bloodtear Captain looked at Rasea. And her eyes blazed.
“Merchant Seagrass himself. Why are we wasting time on swords? You with me? If you are—spread the word.”
The Bloodtear Pirates looked at each other. And then they grinned.
 
—-
 
The navy of ships began turning. [Pirate] vessels and Drowned Ships broke away from The Emerald Signet. Wil didn’t know why at first.
Nor did the others. Lord Seagrass turned his head, spotting the ships moving in concert. Thirty in total, Undersea Crews, [Pirates]—but they weren’t fighting each other.
“What are they doing?”
His eyes narrowed. But then he saw. The ships were turning. Coming his way. The [Stormlord] saw a glowing ship leading the charge.
“Admiral Seagrass! The Illuminary is coming about!”
“Send forward all ships!”
The [Stormlord Captain] bellowed. But the Illuminary was shooting across the waters. It surged past a group of Storm Ships. And Rasea was standing at the helm of her ship. Her eyes shone.
“Lads, today we topple the tyrant of the seas. Merchant Seagrass, I’ve been waiting to meet you! With me!”
She grabbed hold of the rope. The boom snapped. And Rasea flew.
“She’s insane.”
One of the Bloodtear Pirates remarked. The others nodded as they saw Rasea let go of the rope and fly through the air with her crew.
Eight landed on the deck, scattering [Storm Sailors]. Lord Seagrass stared as Rasea the Shining pulled her hat out of her bag of holding. His warship was the largest ship on the sea bar none. Hundreds of [Storm Sailors] for each of the [Pirates]. But more [Pirate] and Drowned Ships were sailing on his ship.
“Rasea Zecrew. Today’s the last time you haunt my trading lines.”
The [Stormlord Captain] slowly drew a sword with a green-grey blade. The [Pirate Captain] drew her shining blade.
“Ah, Merchant Seagrass. If you’ve the guts—come and take my head! I’ll wear your hat. Boys—get ready. Strobe pattern.”
The glowing Anglerfish side of her body began to light up, flashing bright, disconcerting patterns of light, blinding everyone but her crew who kept their backs to their [Captain]. They advanced, fighting.
 
—-
 
The knot of Lasc’s crew was shrinking. Inky was lying against the chest. Someone had cut off part of her tentacle-leg.
“It’ll grow back—just—just—watch your backs!”
The [Storm Sailor] cocked the crossbow and shot. Venaz whirled. He brought his axe down and cleaved open a head.
“We’re lost. We have to retreat. Take another vessel. Wil, what’s our plan?”
“We go with the [Storm Sailors]. Or we fight with Prince Khedal. Either way—we abandon the treasure.”
Wil looked at King Fetohep. The [King] stood next to the shining swords. He looked at Wil Kallinad.
“Lord Kallinad. We can still make it out.”
Captain Lasc was clutching at his side. He looked at Wil, wide-eyed with battle’s fury. Wil stared at him.
“How? There are too many ships! The Emerald Signet can’t outrun them, let alone—”
“We won’t have to. Lord Kallinad. By your order, I’ll use my Skill. A [Storm Captain]’s first and last Skill. It’s an act of desperation. It could sink us all. But if you want to fight—”
He bared his teeth. Wil looked at his friends. A [Storm Captain]’s…? Inky looked alarmed. But all eyes fell on Wil.
“It’s your choice. If there’s a chance—I say take it.”
Venaz lifted his crimson axe. Feshi hesitated.
“Wil—there’s such a thing as a battle you don’t have to win at any cost. The Professor taught us that.”
“Yeah. But—”
Yerranola glanced at the swords. She saw Peki kicking people off the command deck, Merrik smashing an enemy [Captain]’s foot into the deck. The Selphid turned to Wil.
“I don’t want you to die, Wil. But whatever you decide—”
The [Lord] closed his eyes. He didn’t know. Too many lives were in his hands. But so much blood had been shed already, for this treasure. He looked to the figure standing there.
“King Fetohep. What would you say? Is your treasure worth all this?”
He gestured around at the fighting groups, almost ignoring the treasure as they tore each other apart. And the ruler of Khelt—smiled. He spoke, as Wil saw the Undersea Crews pushing back the [Storm Sailors]. The Storm Ships were retreating; covering Admiral Seagrass whose ship was under attack from all sides.
“Show me your resolve, son of House Kallinad. Or do you think my blades are so easily won? Risk everything for them. Or leave them and I will take my treasure.”
He flicked his sand-sword up. And Wil saw his flaming eyes glinting in amusement. The [Lord] felt a chill.
He knew this would happen. He had known from the beginning. This—was this all the undead [King]’s amusement? Or—Wil’s eyes snapped open. And he thought of the Professor.
Was it a test? He met Fetohep’s gaze. And turned his head.
“Captain Lasc? Use your Skill. Everyone—this is it. King Fetohep? I hope these blades are worth it. On me! [Stoneskin Formation]. We have three minutes.”
The crew spread out around the chest. Their skin deflected blades—for three minutes. Captain Lasc closed his eyes and raised his hand to the sky. Wil didn’t hear what he said. He turned.
A single force was advancing along the deck. Drowned Folk. And at their head—Captain Therrium. Prince Khedal’s warship was engulfed on all sides; there was no one coming to help. The Drowned Man looked at Wil.
“Lord Kallinad. My crews have paid a heavy toll. There’s no second chance. ‘Twould have been better if you’d given over the blades to begin with.”
“Captain Therrium. We’re the Titan’s students. We make our second chances. If you want to lose more—come and get them.”
Wil felt relaxed. Venaz grinned as he hefted his axe. The [Depth Captain] sighed. He raised his sword. And glanced up.
Clouds were racing over the skies. He looked at Captain Lasc as the [Storm Captain] sighed.
“You fool. Summon as many storms as you like. We’ll be done with this ship and it will be sunk before it arrives.”
“Perhaps. But if you take too long, this [Storm Captain] will brave it. Come on, Drowned Man. Take my treasure off my ship. I dare you.”
Captain Lasc strode forwards. Wil edged to the side. It was time. He saw Fetohep smiling. He just needed—
A distraction. Captain Lasc and Therrium were striding towards each other as Merrik and Peki jumped over the deck. The Drowned Crew outnumbered the waning [Storm Sailors]. And a shadow fell over…all of them.
Water hit the decks. The Undersea Crews, Captain Lasc’s [Sailors]—and the students gazed up as something made a sound. A hissing roar.
A wall of flesh and scales. A serpent’s head. Gigantic. The Sea Serpent rose, as high as the masts. And standing on top of it was a very angry man.
“This investment has cost me. But I will have those swords. Now.”
Admiral Seagrass landed on the decks. Therrium and Lasc looked at each other. They turned to face the [Stormlord Captain]. A second Sea Serpent and a Nelgaunt’s head rose out of the surf. The sea monsters regarded the deck full of—food.
“He owns sea serpents?”
