The Emerald Signet emerged from the sandstorm with the two Drowned Ships in hot pursuit. Captain Lasc had a death-grip on his ship’s helm. His lookouts were shouting information as Delivan strode to the back of the ship.
“Permission to fire ship-spells, Captain?”
“Granted!”
“Aye, sir! [Depth Explosion]!”
A blast rocked The Passing Shadow. Therrium’s ship listed for a second—but it was reinforced.
“Damn! They have armor on them! These aren’t ordinary Drowned Ships! And they’re fast!”
“Not as fast as we are! Which is why they’re throwing spells! Brace!”
Inky shouted. She was halfway up the mast, staring backwards. She dropped to the deck as magical bolts of light began shooting from the other ships.
“Dead gods, that’s a bombardment spell! Watch out! Those are [Light Spears]!”
Dozens of the oversized magical arrows were hitting The Emerald Signet. Wil saw one burn a [Sailor] off her feet. He took cover behind the mast with the others.
“Take cover! We’re gaining! We’re headed straight for the House of Minos!”
Captain Lasc bellowed, ignoring the spells raining down around him. Two tore through the sails and he swore as the spells caught the fabric on fire.
“Douse those flames! Get to cover and get the wounded belowdecks! Drop all unnecessary cargo!”
He was steering the ship, trading some speed for a slight variation in their movement. A huge blast of fire missed the sails as Lasc spun the wheel, anticipating it. Helplessly, the students could only watch the other two ships gaining.
“We have to do something!”
“King Fetohep—can you help—King Fetohep?”
Wil turned. The casket was inert again. Merrik swore.
“Damn. I knew something was up! The ‘curse’ must have limited magic! No wonder the [King] wanted us to take the casket!”
“Don’t worry. A [Storm Ship] can outmaneuver Drowned Ships. And Lasc has a final option if we keep our distance. We can do this—”
Delivan was reassuring the others as he peered from the bow, using the few ship-spells Lasc had available to him through his bond as [First Mate]. Wil saw the other ships slowing a bit, even as they used their own wind spells to fill their sails. They were indeed slower; they were heavier in the water, built for withstanding pressure in the depths as well as above the sea!
But something made Wil loathe to celebrate. He turned his head. And his mind recalled a pertinent detail. Just in time too.
“Captain! Ships from dead ahead! They’re flying [Pirate] flags!”
“Ah.”
The [Strategists] looked up. None of them looked surprised. On the other hand, the sailors whirled, looking alarmed. Captain Lasc stared ahead.
“Those flags. Those are the Bloodtear Pirates.”
Inky went dead white. Feshi poked her head up as she aimed a bow at the ships to the rear.
“Any relation to the Bloodfeast Raiders? It’s a very common name, yes?”
“Maybe because both groups slaughter anyone they catch!”
Delivan shouted. Feshi paled. Wil saw Captain Lasc turn his head desperately, but it was the sea. There wasn’t much room to maneuver.
And—if the Drowned Ships were slower, the Bloodtear Pirates were not. Their sails were filled with magical wind and they were as fast as The Emerald Signet. Maybe…faster?
Wil saw the [Storm Captain] turn his head again, and then caught his eye.
“Lord Kallinad! Anything you and your friends can do would be appreciated!”
“Me?”
Wil started. And then he realized—the [Captain] was asking him for help. Inky, Delivan—the [Storm Sailors] were outmatched.
Yet, Wil knew nothing of the ocean. On the other hand…he narrowed his eyes as he saw the approaching Bloodtear Pirates. The pursuing Drowned Ships. And he realized.
This was his forte. A battle. It didn’t matter where or when. He knew little of the majesty of the sea. But war? He glanced at his fellow classmates. This was all they did. Wil took a breath as his mind began to race.
“Venaz, are you thinking what I’m thinking?”
“Absolutely not. But I’ll listen to your idea and decide which one’s best.”
The Minotaur grinned. Yerranola looked up.
“You two have ideas too?”
“Almost like a time quiz, but the deadline is death. Eh, Peki?”
Merrik was calculating something on his fingers. Feshi nodded. The students broke into a huddle as the [Sailors] stared. Inky looked at Delivan.
“They’re mad.”
“Landlubbers.”
The [First Mate] agreed.
 
—-
 
Action, Drama, Reaction, and More Action.
 
The Bloodtear Pirates stormed through the seas towards The Emerald Signet and the pursuing Drowned Ships. They flew the colors of [Pirates]. And they issued no [Messages], shouted nothing.
They had only one desire when they hunted. They were quite genial other times. But on the chase? Never.
They saw the pursuit and closed on The Emerald Signet at all speed. Three ships. Captain Therrium hesitated when he saw them, but he bore on, cursing. It was a race to the treasure, nothing else.
The Bloodtear Pirates were readying attack spells when they saw something move from the first ship. A Garuda flew off The Emerald Signet. She raced ahead of the boat, screaming.
“Help, help! We’ve been attacked by Drowned Folk!”
She didn’t seem to notice the [Pirate] flags. The Bloodtear Pirates exchanged glances. The lead [Captain] saw the colorful Garuda flying at them. Definitely a landlubber.
“Heave to!”
He bellowed. The [Pirates] aimed at the Garuda. She landed on the deck, crying, in front of the [Captain.]
“But they’re trying to kill us! They stole the treasure! But they want to kill us all!”
“They did?”
The [Pirate Captain] stared at Peki. He eyed the water dribbling down her cheeks. She didn’t seem to be actually…crying. She nodded. The Bloodtear Captain glanced at his crew. He shrugged.
“Capture her. Get all three ships. We’ll have to sink them all, anyways.”
The Garuda stared at the [Captain] as he grinned at her behind the helm.
“You’re going to attack us?”
“Yep.”
He laughed. Peki thought about this and shrugged.
“Okay. Watch the boom.”
“Huh?”
She kicked the wheel. The [Captain] swore, grabbing, but a foot kicked him off his feet. He went tumbling—
And his ship turned as the boom swung around. It crashed into the second ship, and both slowed. Peki flew off as the Bloodtear Pirates loosed spells and arrows after her back. The [Martial Artist] nimbly dodged. They ruled the seas, but she had trained to fight in the air. Everything but booms.
The third ship came on, though. It was on a collision course with The Emerald Signet! Desperately, the Storm Ship turned, but the pirate ship turned to catch it. They too had a magical wind in their sails. A magical wind—
“[Galewinds].”
Peki flapped past them and cast the scroll. The [Pirate Captain] of the third ship looked up as a second wind blew crossways, blasting the sail around. He swore as the ship turned against his will. He began to fight the two winds as Peki flapped off.
“Ah, the old, ‘distract them with Peki’, and then ‘catch them off-guard with Peki again gambit’. Classic.”
Merrik chortled as he watched The Emerald Signet racing past the ships. All three turned to join the chase. Now—five ship’s worth of spells were flying at The Emerald Signet’s rear.
A Gnoll braced behind cover as she stared at Merrik. Peki landed on the deck, panting, but only slightly singed.
“How often do you use that tactic?”
“You’d be surprised.”
“Our turns.”
Wil and Venaz appeared at one side of the ship. They winced as a hail of [Fireballs] exploded around the sails.
“Sails are down! Replace them now!”
“We need five minutes!”
Inky howled as Captain Lasc felt his ship slow. Desperately, the [Storm Captain] looked over his shoulder. The other ships were coming alongside.
“Board them and take the treasure! Repel the Bloodtear Pirates!”
Therrium was howling as his ship exchanged fire with the others. Ahead, The Emerald Signet, floundering, was throwing up a white flag.
“Kill them.”
The [Pirate Captain] pointed. But he saw Wil, Venaz, and Yerra dragging something to the port.
“Stop! Stop! We surrender! We’ll give you the casket! But kill us and it goes over!”
Wil shouted. All five ships stopped. They drew alongside.
“It’s a trick!”
The first mate opined. Therrium peered through a spyglass.
“No. It’s the real casket! They can’t create a fake although—get me a [Detect Magic] spell!”
It was the casket. Genuine. One of the Bloodtear Pirate ships streamed forwards and the other Drowned Ship, The Sinking Light, rammed them. They began to fight.
“Give us the treasure.”
Another of the Bloodtear Pirates was blocking The Passing Shadow. Fearless, their crews were boarding, hacking at Therrium’s crew. The Drowned Man slashed through the enemy as he roared, trying to get his ship closer.
The [Pirate Captain] had a crossbow aimed at Wil’s head and the [Pirates] were poised to catch. Wil nodded.
“Take it.”
“Open the casket.”
The [Pirate Captain] was in no mood to play games or be tricked again. Wil slowly did so. The diamond swords shone from within the casket. The [Pirate Captain] stared.
“Get me a null magic net. And hand it over.”
Slowly, the [Strategists] balanced it on the railing. The Bloodtear Pirates yanked it away. They stared at the treasure, forgetting The Emerald Signet for a second. One of the [Pirates] reached for a shimmering blade.
“Stop, idiot! Wait for the net—”
The [Pirate Captain] saw a hand grab the unlucky [Pirate]. Fetohep rose, sighing.
“Sand.”
He didn’t cast a spell. Sand just flooded the [Pirate]’s nose, mouth, eyes, ears—she fell back, choking. The Bloodtear Pirates drew back.
“Neutralize the magic.”
The [Pirate Captain] ordered. Fetohep looked at him. He glanced to the side.
“This is tedious. But amusing in its own way.”
The undead [King] pronounced. He said that, but he was grinning. Always grinning. The [Pirates] turned as The Emerald Signet shot forwards again; the sails were full and restored. The [Pirate Captain] frowned.
“Do we pursue, Captain?”
“…No. Let them go. We’ll deal with the spectre and the two Drowned Ships.”
The [Pirate Captain] came to a quick decision. He looked around. A pair of [Pirates] had a net that cancelled magic and were sneaking up on Fetohep’s left. The [King] pointed a finger.
Magical sand blasted the ambushers. Then, the undead [King] lifted his other hand. A whirlwind blasted the [Pirates] back. It whirled under the casket, pushed it up. And—to the disbelief of the [Pirate Captain], the casket flew through the air.
It landed on The Emerald Signet as the ship stormed ahead. Wil saw Fetohep rise from the casket as the Bloodtear [Pirate Captain] screamed curses and resumed the chase.
“I warned you that once you lost the casket, I would grant you no more chances.”
“Yes, your Majesty. What about a ruse?”
One of Fetohep’s burning flames in his eye sockets flashed.
“I shall consider it amusing. Show me how you continue to struggle, young [Lord].”
The Bloodtear Pirates and Drowned Crews stopped fighting as they realized The Emerald Signet was getting away again. They continued chasing, fighting each other as well as the ship ahead. And now—the [Strategists] were in their element.
“You want one of the swords? Fetch!”
Feshi howled. She heaved over a glittering blade into the sea. One of the Drowned Ships began to dive until Therrium cursed the other [Depth Pirate] out.
“It’s made of glass, you idiot!”
“Glass and string. Nice try, Feshi. My turn.”
Yerra consoled the heartbroken Gnoll. The other [Strategists] were trying another trick. They dumped the barrels of liquor overboard. And as they floated towards the other ship, Feshi loosed an arrow for Yerra.
“[Bursting Arrow]!”
The barrels exploded with fire. The other ships swerved. The [Strategists] were laughing, trying to exchange ideas.
“Peki, fly one of the spare sails in front of the other ships! Blind them!”
“No, we’ll have you attack the rudders! Anyone got a powerful wand?”
They were throwing ideas around left and right. Peki took into the air and began dropping explosive alchemical flasks Feshi had brought, from out of arrow range. But the other ships were coming on, doggedly.
It was a chase. The Emerald Signet had managed to gain a five-minute lead. And it kept to it; it was lighter in the water with less weight. And the Bloodtear Pirates, for all two were smaller ships, were fighting it out with the Drowned Crews.
For all that, it was neck and neck. And—Captain Lasc looked at his stash of emergency wind scrolls.
“Three left.”
“We just need to get in range of the House of Minos! I’ve sent a distress call!”
Venaz shouted. He was staring ahead, trying to see the distant archipelago. But they were still far distant.
“How many ships are in the area? How fast are they coming to rendezvous?”
Wil turned his head, trying to calculate over the map table. Venaz looked at him.
“No, we just need to get in range of the isles! We’ll have support! We’re nearly—”
Crash. Something from behind. Wil turned his head.
“What was—”
“Harpoons! They just shot them into our hull!”
Merrik howled. One of the Bloodtear Pirates had launched the metal harpoons. Inky raced up from belowdecks.
“We’re taking on water! I need hands below! Help me patch up—”
More explosions. The other ships were loosing more spells.
“Dead gods. They’re recharged. Captain Lasc! We might not survive a volley! It’ll tear us apart—leave us dead in the water at the least!”
Delivan hunkered down as spells rained around The Emerald Signet. The [Storm Captain] bit his lip.
“I could use my last card, but we might all perish. Lord Kallinad! Have you anything left?”
“Not unless King Fetohep aids us. I think—”
Wil ducked his head as something shredded the command deck. Lasc fell back, swearing; something had opened his shoulder. He looked back; the ships were gaining; they’d put more holes in the sails.
Here they came. Therrium was in front this time. The Drowned Man’s blade was bared. Captain Lasc slowly drew his blade and planted it in the deck. He turned back to staring ahead.
“Captain Lasc! A ship to the port!”
“Another [Pirate]?”
Yerranola shouted hopelessly. But Venaz’ head had turned. He snatched Delivan’s spyglass.
“No! That’s a warship from the House of Minos! Keep going! We’re going to make it!”
He grinned wildly.
“Just one?”
The young [Lord] looked alarmed. There were five ships in pursuit! And this Minotaurian Warship didn’t look that much bigger! In fact, it was turning in the distance!
“Is it not engaging?”
“No! It’s—”
 
—-
 
“Captain, warship ahead! It flies the colors of House Minos!”
