Naia squished her way into the Grand Library Arcana through a small gap in the second-floor doors, probing with her senses, cautiously searching. She had scoured the entirety of Ali-friend’s dungeon and challenged every monster with all the affinity combinations she could think of, even going back to retry certain bosses as more complex ideas began popping into her thoughts. She had achieved a certain amount of success, but the influx of new intelligence had made her hungrier for more options.

In the second layer of the underground ruins, the part she had just left, she had encountered death magic. It had worried her terribly, but she had made herself enter – at least she had made some oozes to enter the area with. Was that what Ali-friend calls ‘fear’? Still, if Ali-friend could make death affinity, then so could she. Her reward was a Zombie Puddle that could fire death magic bolts while resembling an ordinary mud puddle. A nice companion to her Rot Ooze.

She had augmented her fire-affinity oozes with a Living Flame Ooze and a Hellfire Jelly down in the hot caves, a place she was sure Ali-friend called the ‘mines.’

She had even managed a strange combination of light and nature by dropping a Luminous Slime into the pool of liquid nature mana in the jungle, resulting in a Burgeoning Ooze which grew flowers and plants wherever it went. She liked that one. It was big and squishy, and it had a calming scent.

But she was stuck.

Naia hovered on the threshold, her membrane quivering. She could feel them inside the library, talking. The stone she clung to vibrated with their complex sounds. What would they say if she… asked? Would they get angry? The dragon had told her what to do, but they didn’t know that.

Maybe they will find out I’m not that smart?

Will they laugh at me?

These, and many new and unfamiliar thoughts had been plaguing her mind lately, and she wished they would go away. She never had to deal with this before. Had Azryet known this would happen? If so, why had he suggested it?

“Hi, Naia, how’re you doing?”

The voice came to her out of nowhere, and she snapped into the form of a rock before she could even think.

“I’m not going to hurt you,” the voice said.

Malika?

“I… I couldn’t see you,” Naia said, slowly releasing the rock formation, embarrassment burning inside her. Even her mana sense struggled to make out Malika’s skill patterns. Did she not use any mana?

“Oh, I’m sorry,” Malika said, and then her foot touched the ground, and suddenly Naia could feel her presence. “I was floating. You see with Tremor Sense, right?”

“Yes,” Naia answered, surprised. But being able to see Malika soothed her, and her membrane stopped vibrating. “And mana.”

Malika paused for a moment and then asked, “What are you doing? Did you need something in the library?”

“I’m looking for oozes,” Naia said. But confusion rippled through the vibrations in the ground, and she added, “New affinities for my oozes.” She didn’t know when it had started, but she was beginning to understand some of the ‘emotions’ of the stiff-bodies – the humans, elves, and dwarves.

“New affinities?” Malika asked.

“I can learn the affinity of any damage that hits my oozes,” Naia answered. “But I can’t find anything new in the dungeon.” It had been a few days since her last Slime Mutation.

“Do you have soul affinity yet?” Malika asked.

“No? What is soul affinity?”

“This,” she said, and then a pulse of strange, prickly magic rippled through her body, and Naia realized she had experienced it before.

“I see it,” Naia exclaimed. “Why didn’t I see it before?”

“I was using stamina to move through the air,” Malika said. “How does your skill work? Do I just have to punch your ooze for a while?”

“Yes,” Naia said, her membrane rippling with fresh excitement. “I have to make a healer slime, so it doesn’t die.”

“I can heal and hit,” Malika said. “Make me a punching bag.”

Punching bag? But Malika’s intent was clear enough, so she spawned a higher-level Sacred Ooze.

Magic ripples suddenly buzzed across her membrane as Malika exploded into rapid movements nearly too fast to even track. Her Sacred Ooze took hundreds of punches in a scant few seconds, but each attack, Naia saw, was laced with powerful healing magic. A few moments later, her notification rippled across her membrane.

Slime Mutation has altered your Sacred Ooze.Imprint: Amorphous Animus completed.Amorphous Animus – Ooze – level 91 (Soul).

“There you go,” Malika said, as she settled back onto the ground.

“Yay!” Naia exclaimed, bouncing up and down, her excitement overriding her earlier worries.

“You should consider asking Calen if he knows of any nearby slimes. He’s a great tracker.”

“Calen? Ask?” she warbled. That tremble of anxiety at the thought of asking intensified. Now she was having thoughts about being anxious, being so worried about being worried and it was only getting worse, she realized. How did thinking people manage this? Why wouldn’t the noise inside her just go away? Could she ask–

“Don’t worry, he’s nice. He won’t bite,” Malika said meantime, doing that strange breathing thing that was meant to show amusement. The ripples of air across her membrane and through the stone felt nice.

“I can try,” she offered. After all, it had worked today. Malika had been nice to her. She hadn’t laughed.

“Come on, friend, let’s go ask him together,” Malika said.

Feeling how her words vibrated her membranes, Naia paused. Friend… together. Is this what ‘friend’ means?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
