"I don't even know if they're alive," Shiv choked out.

The skill paused, letting Shiv's words linger. And what if they're dead? it finally asked.

Shiv flinched at that. He didn't want to think about that. He never even wanted to consider it.

But you need to. You need to face the pain. You can survive it. You know you can.

"I don't want to," Shiv said through gritted teeth. His breathing was speeding up again, and he gripped his chest. "I don't want to." And something inside him ached. It hurt so bad that he would rather be tortured by the Recollector again than feel this pain.

Yeah, that's called emotional agony, Psycho-Cartography said. No one deals with it very well. Tell yourself why it hurts.

"Because I'll be alone again," Shiv admitted. "Because I'll lose the only people who've ever cared about me." He covered his face as he let out a shuddering breath.

"I don't want to go back," he whispered. "I don't want to go back to being who I was on Blackedge. Every day, every single day, they treated me like I was less than human. Every day, I pretended I didn't care. I dealt with it. Every day, for all my life."

And they were pieces of shit for doing so, Psycho-Cartography said gently. Fuck Roland Arrow, and fuck the people of Blackedge.

Shiv nodded, and he swallowed and swallowed again. He got his breathing fully under control and slowly drew his hands away from his face. The cool air washed against him, and he was beyond the soil now. The constant blast of force had cut so deep that he found himself sitting in a trench. His ass was pressing against stone.

"You know what, you're probably right," Shiv said. "The last skill was better."

I know. And you would have known that too if you weren't so consumed by anger.

"Well, what the hell am I going to do?" Shiv asked again, more calm this time. "Every time I run into the clone, I just…" His hands shook. "Even if I get the old skill back, I'm not… It's not strength that's the problem anymore. It's not the skill, it's…"

You?

“Yeah,” Shiv said, “it's me. It's me and all the shit I didn't deal with so far. You're right.”

A sigh came from the skill. Look, knock that off. I'm going to give you this opportunity and not press you on it because you're emotionally compromised. But we're not a child. You think I'm not helping because I am, you dumbass. I want you to get better. I want you to get through this so that we can stop being trapped here and deal with our next nightmare problem: the Ascendants and their prison. But this is important. This is an opportunity. Because if we can handle our weaknesses here, then we'll be better prepared for the outside.

Shiv wasn't sure if that was just his psychology coping with him being trapped in the Delve for so long. But he let it go. He wanted to cope anyway. He wanted to get out.

You won't get out unless you do this well. Unless you finally figure out how to overcome jackass you, Psycho-Cartography said. And you know what I'm thinking? I think you already have the tools.

Shiv was surprised at that. But as he slowed down to think about every line of dialogue he'd exchanged with his clone, he suspected the skill was right. The clone wasn't exactly calm in the encounter, either. He was mocking. He was vicious in his sneering. He hit every single sore spot inside Shiv by the end of their earlier encounter. But the clone also raged. He was upset. Upset that he was just that. A clone. Upset that he was generated specifically for this Delve to be used as a challenge for Shiv. Nothing more.

That's right. He hates that. Because we would hate that. We would hate that more than anything else in the world. You were wondering why he's a jackass. Well, that's why: Imagine yourself being generated by the System to serve as nothing more than a temporary challenge for another, realer version of you. After that, you go back to the darkness, never having existed, never being real.

A faint shudder ran through Shiv as he considered that line of thought. The cold tendrils of existential horror gripped him. "You really think he's self-aware?"

He certainly believes it. We don't know because we can't glance into his mind without overpowering him. But I suspect that the truth is about as ugly as we guess. It's the System we're dealing with here, after all. The System is a fucker. And it never fucks halfway. But don't consider that for now. Consider what you might say to yourself. And before you're doing that, just breathe. Take a minute off. Take a few minutes off. Hell, take an hour.

"But the others…" Shiv choked out, his nose clogging up again.

They're Pathbearers too, the skill said, voice stern but gentle. Remember what Valor told you. You're going to take wounds at some point. But, at the same time, I don't think Adam's that easy to kill. And neither is Uva. Have a little faith in them. And if you're wrong, you will have time to mourn, and you will have retribution to inflict. But that's a problem you have to deal with seriously as well. Right now, you are not dealing with it seriously. You're just using it to self-mutilate.

"I know," Shiv whispered. "I know. But it's hard."

Silence followed for a moment. Then, Psycho-Cartography spoke once more. I know it's hard. I'm sorry that it's hard. You deserved better. We deserved better. We have to be honest with ourselves right now. Our life has mostly been a bitter horror show. It wasn't the worst life in existence. You've seen the slaves out there, you know how their lives were. But no one enjoys coming in second place in this shit-sucking competition that is life. Because we are all still sucking shit in the end.

Shiv managed a humorless laugh. "Thanks, skill."

Thank yourself, and be softer with yourself. Maybe not when you're fighting, maybe not when you're training, but right now. Right now, deal with your problems. This, too, is a Skill Evolution. It might not feel like it, but you're dealing with something. You're building your health up. Stop breaking yourself. Start building. Treat yourself like… The skill paused. Like a meal. Like a dish. You can be your own masterpiece.

Psycho-Cartography 53 > 61

And that opened something in Shiv’s mind. Suddenly, the world didn't feel quite so miserable anymore. A rush of energy filled him.

"Make myself into my own masterpiece," Shiv said. "Because who else is going to do it, right?"

Yes, Psycho-Cartography replied. Who else is going to do it?

Shiv nodded, and he spent a few minutes just waiting. Waiting for his mind to calm down. And when he was done, he reverted the simulation by walking up to a slave. They disintegrated into a bloody smear. The Delve reset. And as it did, Shiv demanded his previous Legendary Skill back.

Initializing Unconfirmed Legendary Skill Evolution: Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides

When it was returned, Shiv began running the gauntlet once more. Instead of lashing out recklessly and brutally, he took his time learning more about the nuances of his Legendary Skill. Previously, the Jealousy claimed that this was a Void Leviathan skill. Shiv didn't know much about the void, but he did know there were creatures up there. He'd even seen some when the Tarrasque teleported him up into space a few hours ago; the strange, dancing beings moving west.

Based on how his Legendary Skill worked, Shiv suspected that the creature the Greater Demon had mentioned wasn't just overwhelmingly powerful. It was likely very intelligent as well, and probably highly competent in the use of physics.

Right now, he could convert any physical force used on him and have it serve his own means. Or he could continue cycling his generated pulses to build up his force reserve. Yet, that was only scratching the surface. He'd seen how his clone had managed to tear Blackedge apart using the skill. Clearly, he'd built up quite a surplus of force before he did.

But the main part there was grappling. He was a grappler. He needed to fight like a grappler using the skill. It meant less striking, less reckless blows, less violent discharges, and more channels, more control, more crushing, snapping, twisting. And that was ultimately the word, control. The skill was all about concentration and control.

The other Legendary Skill he'd adjusted to was simple. It was something he didn't even need to think about. If he had to guess, it was a Tarrasque skill, because all it did was break the world around him. But if someone with that skill fought him right now, he liked his odds. He liked his odds because he was a shaper of forces, instead of just being a hammer or a bomb that constantly set itself off.

And it was in pursuing this line of thought that he came up with a new plan to deal with his clone. A plan that replicated what the clone did to him earlier. I need him to be mad, Shiv thought. So mad he loses control and comes right at me. I can't beat him on the defensive, and I can't outplot him; he has too much room to operate compared to me. And he moves too fast with this skill and with a golem of his own. He can attack Blackedge in any number of ways. So I need him to focus on me and only me.

And he would do that by attacking the only thing the clone really cared about. His sense of self.

***

"What do you think of many?" Shiv asked the Recollector. The eldritch entity answered by screaming as Shiv unleashed his full might. Every overflowing tide and innately generated pulse of physical power surged out from Shiv's hand into the Recollector's body and spiked in five directions at the same time.

The abomination didn't even get to scream as it was ripped apart. It was strong, it was fast, it was tough. But now, it was just a victim to Shiv. And when he next faced an eldritch enemy, he might fall again, but it wouldn’t be for a lack of might.

As soon as the Recollector died, Shiv let out a breath. He acknowledged that the clone made him unnerved. That he even felt a little sympathetic toward him now. But he also focused on the fact that the clone was just that. A clone, nothing more. He would never be real. He would never be the actual Shiv. And that bothered him. So, Shiv decided to do something drastically different when he made his golem this time.

Shiv gave the golem Psycho-Cartography.

"Time for a little psychological offensive," Shiv said to himself.

The clone descended once more. He yawned, his arms folded. He looked down at Shiv with a hint of derision in his eyes. "Oh, so you're finally done throwing fits. Gotta say, that was pretty pathetic. In the last few attempts, you weren't even trying. Hells, you broke Blackedge yourself half the time. I just needed to sit by and watch."

"Yeah," Shiv admitted, swallowing the shame. "Not my best moment, but at least I'll get to live with it."

The clone went still. He cocked his head. "'You'll get to live with it.' Is that what you're telling yourself now?"

"That's what I'm telling myself," Shiv said, nodding. "Because, well, you know, there's no point in telling you. You're not real."

"You're not real," the Vitae golem suddenly said.

Shiv's Farsight was concentrated on the clone's face. And for a moment, there was no expression. No expression until Shiv noticed the tightening of tendons in the clone's neck and the soft snarl that passed from his lips.

"Okay," the clone breathed, nodding, "I see what this is."

"It doesn't matter what you see," the Vitae Golem continued.

"It doesn't matter what you think," Shiv added. "You're not real, you're never going to be real. You think just because you have a Psycho-Cartography skill, or you have any of my skills, that you're going to, what, break out of this prison? Escape the Delve that created you?"

The clone was silent, but the way he was glaring at Shiv told the Deathless his hit was working. "So, how long do you think you can make this last? Another hour? Another day? You know, I just need to win once, right?"

"You're not going to win once," the clone said with a slight hiss. “I won't let you.”

"And now who's lying to themselves?" Shiv pressed. "Now, who’s the drunk? I'm going to inevitably win once. You know that. You are me. Well, a pale shadow of me. Maybe just a simulated interpretation of me, but still. You are me enough to know that I won't give up. And you're going to screw up once. You're going to get unlucky once. And after that…" Shiv shrugged. "Well, I guess I'll leave. And I guess you won't exist anymore. I'll try to think of you sometimes, but… I suspect there will be other versions of you, in other Delves I'll have to deal with later. I'm guessing that whatever the Psychology Delve will throw at me will be a lot more painful for me than you are. Maybe I should view you as a warm-up for the actual challenge. But that would probably be giving you too much weight. There's no point in getting mad at a fucking mannequin, after all."

The clone wasn't moving at all, but his mana hydras were coiling tighter and tighter around his body.

"Adam and Uva were never your friends," the Vitae golem said to the clone. "They will never be your friends. You will never meet them. They don’t know you. And even if they die screaming our names, they will always be calling for us, not you.”

"Your jealousy has been noticed," Shiv said, clicking his tongue

“And," the Vitae golem gestured to Shiv, "he got to meet the girl. He got to have friends. He got to be loved, feared, and respected. You… It’s such a pity you’ll never get any of this.”

A loud snarl escaped from the clone as he blasted toward Shiv and the golem. The clone's own golem punched down from the sky, aiming for Blackedge. Focus took hold inside Shiv. He activated both his Blessings as he went into battle against a darker version of himself.

"Go get the other golem," Shiv told his own. It responded by casting itself back in time. The other golem predictably pivoted and went for Shiv.

