Four bodies came together in the skies above Blackedge, but there were no shockwaves. There was no destruction. Instead, Shiv greeted his clone with a massive amount of kinetic energy stored. But he didn't unleash it on the clone directly. Instead, he counter-grappled against his other self.

The clone pushed his tides against Shiv, and Shiv sent tides back. They fought to control wrists, to hook their arms underneath the other's armpits to maintain a dominant hold. With every passing second of struggle, the clone grew larger, his muscles grew tenser, the force he generated exceeding Shiv’s fivefold. He was growing with Berserk, but he didn't quite have Shiv's surplus, and that proved to be his mistake. He wasn't thinking. The clone had the same faults as Shiv.

And so, as the Deathless began to batter him using his mana hydras, the clone was taken by surprise. He spent his strength fighting off Shiv's magical skill. As he went to rip the head off a hydra, Shiv seized him by the arm and slammed a pulse of force against him. He had to spend strength to shrug off Shiv's grasp, but then came two more mana hydras. Both collided with the clone's body. Both were flung back in desperation as the clone channeled surging vectors of force against them. The clone's body was alight with solid stripes of red mana, but the stripes were constantly being spent to keep Shiv’s own strength and Biomancy at bay.

The clone was fighting a defensive struggle. And you couldn’t defend forever, though you could technically attempt to spend forever trying to smash through a foe that had a proper surplus—and kept building on it.

Meanwhile, Shiv kept building up, kept gathering more force, while he alternated between his mana hydras and his brute force. By the time the clone responded using his own magic, he was running so much of a strength deficit that he barely kept Shiv off of him, and so he failed to protect his Biomancy field. Shiv slammed one of his hydras against his clone’s, and as the two magical serpents wrestled with each other, he reached out, seized the clone's mana hydra, and ripped it in half.

A scream of pain came out from the clone, but as he was like Shiv, he didn't let that stop him. While the clone’s Biomancy mana bled into the world, he fought on, swinging haymakers with brutal force, trying to overwhelm the Deathless. Shiv intercepted a blow and locked his foe’s shoulder. With a sudden twist, Shiv dislocated his arm. The clone snarled. Shiv held him in place and kept channeling waves of force into him.

The clone regressed, becoming feral and sloppy. He slammed awkward hooks against Shiv’s abdomen, but those punches just circulated within Shiv, and he returned the kinetic energy. But not against the clone's body. Instead, he targeted the clone’s mana fields.

Shiv knew his weaknesses now, could think about them. While the clone was consumed with the urge to rip Shiv limb from limb, Shiv wrapped his hydras around the clone and forced the clone to waste another innately generated tide of force. While the clone struggled to push Shiv's hydras back, he drove his fingers into the clone's chest, and he tore, not at the clone’s Biomancy, but his Psychomancy. The clone screamed. Shiv twisted again—and deboned the clone’s right arm. Then, he shredded the clone’s Pyromancy as well. His Hydromancy followed suit a moment after.

As the clone doubled over, Shiv wrapped an arm around his neck, and he suddenly plunged down. He didn't plunge down just with his Shapeless Tides. He used his Biomancy as well, and it was that coordination, that combined synergy of skills that finally overwhelmed the clone.

The clone spent what remained of his strength to counter Shiv's just to make sure his neck wasn't broken, but then the hydras were inside him, and his Biomancy was already shredded. At once, Shiv burst the clone's heart and lacerated his brain.

The clone let out a violent gasp, and with a ragged jerk, a final exhale escaped from him.

But as the clone dangled there, Shiv didn't mutilate him further, didn't break his body or crush his skull. Instead, Shiv pulled the clone tight against himself, offering him a proper embrace. He brought the clone's left ear close, not sure if he could somehow hear him, not sure if he was ever real. If he was, however, if he was more than just a simulation...

"I'm sorry," Shiv whispered. "We deserved better. We… we deserved more than being treated like shit, being used and hurt over and over again."

The clone didn't say anything. He was dead. Dead in Shiv's grasp. This fight was over. This Delve was over. But instead of feeling relief, Shiv enjoyed a subtle triumph and a feeling of bittersweet understanding.

Slowly, awkwardly, Shiv patted the clone on the side of the head. "I'll try to do right by you. I'll try to make it all worth it. I'll get better. I'll be better. I'll become a real Pathbearer. One that no clone will ever stop. One that you might be able to be proud of. One that’s better than all the godsdamned cowards, hypocrites, and assholes we had to deal with all our life.”

He sighed. “We live in a pretty pathetic fucking world, man. But I’m not going to add to that. I’m gonna stand. I’m gonna stand.”

Maybe the clone couldn't hear, but the words felt like a balm for Shiv himself. And as he bit his lip, he felt a sense of peace replace some of the latent rage that always resided deep inside himself. A sense of peace that came from knowing he was more than just his own pillar. He was his own friend. He knew he could push himself to incredible heights. He knew he could drive himself to the very limits and beyond, to the point where most would break.

And now, he knew he had kindness to offer as well. Kindness, love, and decency.

He was becoming a full person.

Imagine that, Shiv thought to himself.

Encounter Complete (5/5)

All encounters complete

Do you wish to evolve to your current Legendary Skill?

After everything Shiv experienced, he had no doubt. The first choice was the right one. “Yeah.”

Skill Evolution: Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 500 (Legendary)

Feats (3/4)

As the Delve Quest came to a close, Shiv felt the Legendary Skill cement inside him. Power flooded him. Power washed over him with every heartbeat. And power kissed his flesh as the wind brushed him, as force itself became his clay.

Shiv let out a breath of relief. Psycho-Cartography, thank you. You really saved my ass.

Psycho-Cartography: You saved your own ass. Now, learn to use your Shapeless Tides Skill a whole lot better. Considering how the brute force version of you is such a social nightmare, I hope you get really good at fighting, because you're probably going to need to beat your Legendary Psychology clone to death with your fists.

Shiv let out a muted laugh. "Yeah, I suspect that's the case. Well, I think we'll have a little time until then. Enough for us to get healthier. Enough for us to get better."

You know that will make the clone better too, right? Psycho-Cartography replied.

Shiv snorted. "Then he just becomes very good practice."

And for the first time, Shiv thought he heard the skill laugh.

Finally, the clone disappeared. The Delve collapsed. But this time it didn't restart. He got a final chance to look down at Blackedge, and a rush of pride went through him as he saw it as pristine as it was at the start of the battle. Not a single blade of grass was out of place.

This was the true flavor of victory.

Shiv felt himself ascend. Felt himself ascend and felt light and color return to his senses. His vision was blurred. The sounds around him were muted. But as he tried to move, he heard the jingling of chains and felt the cold touch of metal press against his bare skin. Shiv blinked. He looked down and realized he was utterly undressed.

And as he looked up, he found a badly damaged automaton kneeling before him. The ground was slick with blood, and the automaton was knee-deep in the gore, meditating. Shiv guessed that was where the Animancers used to be. No Animancers now. Just one jacked-up Avatar.

A flare of rage passed through the Deathless, but he controlled himself. He kept it contained until he needed it.

He learned more than one lesson in his Delve.

"So," Shiv began, “where are my clothes? If you touched my ass or cock while I was out, I’m going to do things to you.”

Slowly, the automaton lifted its head. Lines of color ignited upon its triangular skull, and it offered Shiv a slight nod. “You return. You are a Legend now.”

That was Cripple’s voice. Shiv couldn’t hear the Avatar at all.

Shiv shrugged. "Took a while. I could’ve done better.”

The Ascendant let out a low drone of discomfort. “Have you Delved before?”

“Nah,” Shiv said. Part of him wanted to lie. But he didn’t see the point, and he wanted to know how good other people usually did. “First time.”

Cripple looked down and nodded. “You are a martial talent, then. Many spend weeks to months trapped inside themselves, struggling against their inner Quest, falling to their own shadow time and time again.”

Shiv frowned. "How long was I in there?"

"A day and no more." The automaton rose and stared Shiv straight in the eye.

The Deathless clenched his jaw and flexed his fingers, ripples of force splashing across his body. Shiv began to circulate the force he generated. He started building up an overflow. "You gonna ask what my Legendary Skill does now?" Shiv asked, trying to provoke a response from the automaton.

"I know what it does," Cripple answered. “I have faced a pod of Void Leviathans and suffered defeat at their hands. As a god.” The Ascendant’s admission caught Shiv off guard. “And so, I must ask… How did you attain such an evolution? It is not for Individual Pathbearers. How is this possible?”

The Deathless leaned back and looked the Ascendant up and down. And an idea tickled his mind. “How about a question for a question. I’ll tell you something. You tell me something.”

The automaton considered his request and nodded. “Acceptable. What do you wish to know?”

Shiv clenched his fists and started letting his shapeless tides flow along the Orichalcum chains holding him in place. “Blackedge and its survivors. Where are they right now? What is their condition?”
