“You defeated Gal’Meth after he harvested my soul?” I asked Kaelor.

He nodded, flashing the Soul Anchor Ring on his finger. “I showed him some magic none of you have ever seen before—or at least, no one besides Meriel.”

She nodded. “Lightning magic. A rather impressive one.”

He glared at her. “Hey, you weren’t supposed to tell them about it.”

“Why not? It’s something your allies should know.”

“That’s true, but still!”

Reina crossed her arms. “Lightning magic…? How come you never showed us before?”

He pointed at his chest. “Because it comes with a cost I would rather avoid. My chest hurts whenever I use it—my heart, to be specific. For some reason, my body isn’t compatible with such an element, despite it being so similar to wind.”

“I would argue it’s more similar to fire,” Meriel said.

He shrugged. “I beg to differ.”

We turned our attention back to Camille, the very reason we even came back into the dungeon in the first place.

“So what do we do now?” Talon asked. “We’ve got the soul spell we need to save Camille now. How does it even work, anyway?”

We stood around the table in the room as we tried to figure out what to do next. Though I had to say… something about my body felt incredibly different now that I was wearing these clothes from Callia. I had a weird feeling that these clothes were far from anything ordinary.

“If I remember correctly,” Kaelor began, “Gal’Meth mentioned that the spell works by taking a person’s soul and moving it from one vessel to another. In other words, we can transfer Camille’s soul out of her current ghost form into whatever objects we have currently.”

I chuckled. “So what do we do? Empty our pockets on this table and let Camille decide which object she wants to live in?”

Oddly enough, everyone seemed perfectly okay with that idea.

“Sounds good to me,” Camille said.

“And there we have it.” Kaelor clapped. “Let’s empty our pockets now. And Allene—pull out all the things you have from that void rift.”

The others went first. I saw a hair tie, several weapons, and something that looked awfully similar to a Rubik’s cube, but in a more… makeshift, fantasy-like version. That one in particular came from Talon.

“What?” he said, noticing my gaze. “I get bored often. It helps me kill time.”

“Right,” I said.

Meriel had even pulled out another robe from underneath the one she was wearing currently. This one was a shade of pink.

“How surprised would you be if there was another robe beneath the one I just pulled out?” Meriel asked.

I blinked. “Uh… I don’t know? Why are you asking me?”

“Because you have an awfully dumb expression right now.”

“Don’t you mean dumbfounded?”

“No. I mean dumb.”

Tch. How brave of her to make such a statement. I literally had a spell that could force her to bow in front of everybody right now.

She’s lucky I’m in a good mood.

Camille didn’t look particularly enthusiastic with all the current items on the table. Considering we were doing this to save her life, she shouldn’t have been so picky, but I completely understood her. If I were in her situation, I would not want my soul to be stuck in a damn Rubik’s cube.

With that said, it was my turn to bring out all the things I had. I brought out a blanket, a crushed pillow, a hand warmer, a camera, and flowers. I also considered bringing out the tiny magical rubber duck I’d picked up after we narrowly escaped its giant, bouncing boulder form before it deflated, but I doubted Camille would want her soul trapped inside a rubber duck.

“Aren’t you missing something?” Kaelor asked.

I tilted my head. “What?”

“My severed arm.”

The entire room fell dead silent.

I sighed. “You know… it’s becoming awfully hard to tell whether you’re joking or serious nowadays.”

He scratched the back of his head. “Hahaha, of course I’m just joking! Yeah… Yeah…”

Something tells me he wasn’t.

The rest of us backed away, letting Camille look at all the things laid out on the table. I heard Kaelor and Talon making bets about what she’d choose. For some reason, Talon was awfully confident she would pick his Rubik’s cube.

Camille went through each of them one by one. I could see her trying to imagine what it would be like to live in each of them, which inevitably led to many disgruntled expressions.

“Would you even be conscious while your soul’s inside of one of these things?” Reina asked. “You wouldn’t even have a brain.”

“Oh! That’s a good point!” Talon said. “In that case, please take the Rubik’s cube, Camille!”

“I think she would be conscious,” Meriel guessed. “Gal’Meth was able to hear all of our conversations despite living inside of a ring.”

“Maybe that’s just the quirk of being the demon of souls,” I said.

She shrugged. Before she could say anything else, Camille already came to a decision.

“This would be perfect,” she said, pointing.

We all looked at the object she was talking about.

“The camera…?” Reina said.

“Ooh!” Talon’s eyes lit up. “That’s a good one! If she actually does stay conscious, she would know what we’re up to as long as we take a bunch of photos and videos!”

“That…” I began, “is actually not a bad idea at all.”

“How perfect!” Kaelor said, picking up the magical camera. “Are you okay with this, ghost lady?”

Camille nodded, completely ignoring the name he had just called her. Before saying anything else, she walked to the front of the room, faced us, and bowed.

“Thank you… all of you,” she said. “You didn’t have to do this, but…”

She stopped, choking as tears came from her eyes. Seeing this, Reina was about to run up to her to hug her, but I held her back just before she could.

“She’ll faint if any part of your body goes through her,” I said.

“Oh… I forgot about that,” Reina said.

Meriel picked up the blanket from the table, wrapping it around Camille. Then, she patted Camille on the back, using the blanket to shield her from direct touch.

“You…” Camille said. “You’re touching me…? And I’m not fainting?”

Meriel smiled. “Looks like my theory was right. Since you’re able to interact with objects just fine in your ghostly form, I had the idea of putting something soft in between you and my hand. Since the blanket won’t go through you, neither will my hand.”

The blanket was large enough to cover her entire body. Meriel repositioned it in such a way that she could give Camille a hug without having her faint.

I smiled. “You and your theories… What would you have done if it didn’t work?”

Meriel shrugged. “Well, it did work, didn’t it?”

Reina ran over to Camille as fast as she could, wrapping her arms around her.

“Hey, gentle!” Meriel yelled.

But Reina didn’t listen. She gave Camille a hug as tight as she would to any normal person.

“Reina…” Camille muttered, smiling. “Thank you… Thank you, all of you! I… I haven’t felt anyone’s touch in so long…”

I walked up to her, putting a gentle hand on her shoulder. “We’ll find you a proper body as soon as we can, alright? Just hang on tight for now. We’ll take plenty of photos and videos while you’re inside of that camera. We promise.”

She nodded enthusiastically. “Yes!”

With that, Kaelor picked up the magical camera and walked over to Camille. The rest of us moved away from her, taking the blanket off.

“Do you even know how to use the spell?” I asked.

He nodded. “I think so. It comes naturally since Gal’Meth directly gave it to me, but we’re about to find out. Anyway, could you hold this camera for a second? It’s a bit hard to do all of this with one hand.”

I held the camera for him. Kaelor then hovered his hand over Camille. She covered her eyes and clasped her hands together in a prayer. Purple light emitted from Kaelor’s hand, causing mist to slowly leave her mouth.

“I pray we’ll find a suitable body for you as quickly as possible,” Kaelor said.

She nodded and wiped away one last tear. As the last bit of mist left her mouth, her ghostly form began to dissipate into the air, disappearing within seconds.

Her soul floated on Kaelor’s palm. A fragile, vulnerable soul. I’m glad she was able to entrust us with it.

Kaelor slowly moved the soul toward the camera in my hand. With a gentle nudge, the soul naturally floated toward the camera, glowing as it made contact with it. Then, her soul disappeared into the camera. For a split second, the camera turned on, as if acknowledging her presence.

“Did it work…?” Reina asked.

Everyone else surrounded the camera in my hand, looking closely at it. Nothing seemed particularly out of the ordinary. That was, until it turned on by itself and quickly snapped a photo of Kaelor, who was standing right in front of it.

I smiled. “Looks like she’s able to control the camera.”

Talon shivered. “Yikes… So now we’ve got a haunted camera in our party. Good thing we’re on good terms with the soul inside of it.”

After gathering all of our stuff from the table, we headed out of the room, ready to leave the dungeon.

“Do we really have to go through the remaining parts of the dungeon again?” Reina complained. “Meriel, could you just teleport us out of here?”

She shook her head. “I already told you the first time we were here. The dungeon doesn’t allow me to—Ah. Actually, it might be worth a shot considering how broken this dungeon is now.”

Meriel made a circular motion with her hands. In an instant, a portal that led directly to the entrance of the dungeon opened. We saw the island on the other side, with several soldiers running over to check the portal out. One of them poked his head through.

“Are you all done?” he asked, looking side to side. “Also, I didn’t think it was possible to cast a portal inside of a dungeon! All of you really are as powerful as they say!”

Meriel smiled. “Yup.”

Looks like she didn’t want to admit it was only because the dungeon was broken.

We stepped through the portal one by one, making a quick exit from the dungeon. All the guards bowed and greeted us as we headed across the island to get back to Sparrow’s ship.

As everyone else walked up ahead, I noticed Kaelor hanging behind, occasionally sneaking glances at the Soul Anchor Ring on his finger.

“I could put the ring in my void rift if you’d like,” I said.

Kaelor looked at me. “Actually, I was thinking of holding onto it instead. Would that be alright?”

I tilted my head. “Sure, but how come?”

He stared at the ring for a brief second.

“Since I defeated the demon, I’ll be able to keep him in control if he ever decides to make another appearance.”

I shrugged. “If you say so.”

He caught up to the others, leaving me behind.

…

But I would be a fool if I didn’t notice it.

He was acting differently from usual, wasn’t he?