If he did navigate his choosing season wisely, if he lived and determined his own fate for a long time…some large issues were going to have to be addressed.

Bearer of All Burdens would keep growing. Alden could slow it down by affixing other skills and focusing on them instead, but he felt resistant to that idea at the moment. He doubted feelings of resistance were going to lessen as the time approached.

Power.

He was most likely going to have a lot of it. If he made it through at least a few more affixations. Definitely a lot of it by Earth standards, even if he did end up being someone who slowed down in the future.

One day, if I use my full power openly, I will absolutely out myself as someone worth looking into. And from then on, my future will be determined by the whims of wizards and the politics of planets.

If I can’t use a power without laying waste to my life, what does that mean?

It would still be his.

Deciding how to handle gym classes and the fake profile were micro problems, as strange as it was to think of them that way. He didn’t plan to get by saying, “I dunno. The System’s just weird with me,” for the next year or more. But he probably could if he had to.

The macro problems, the choosing season problems, were more about who he wanted to be farther in the future. And if he could get to those places on a rocket-powered bicycle that would upset billions of people if they saw him zooming along on it.

Wanting to copy Hannah Elber, to be a good person in the same way she was, was so simple.

He could see that it had been now. Not bad, just simple. The alternative ideas he’d had for himself back then had been simple, too.

Graduate with good grades, go to college, become the functional kind of grown-up he remembered his parents being. He knew they were idealized in his mind, but that was okay.

Alden Thorn, doctor. Alden Thorn, fireman. Alden Thorn with the clean, welcoming house—it didn’t have to be as big as Jeremy’s—and the canned cinnamon rolls in the fridge and some combination of friends and family around to feed them to.

Maybe I’m still simple, he thought as another Avowed zipped down the line and landed on the “Rank Up!” mat. Because all of that sounds pretty great.

Better than it had before even.

Elementary school teacher. He’d try to be a cool one who took all the kids seriously, without making them feel like they were problems just because they had problems.

Or if I wanted a more superpowered job…what about neighborhood watcher for one of the family neighborhoods here on Anesidora?

It could be dull, like being a hall monitor for other Avowed. Or really stressful because the point of the watcher was to anticipate problems coming from other superhumans and get in front of them before they happened. And if you screwed up, you screwed up in one of the worst possible spots on the island.

With my luck, a forty-year-old Marsha would move into my neighborhood.

A stray swipe from her Mutable Haft would blow through the wall of her apartment and hit his shield, and when he shrugged it off, people would be like, “Wait a minute. What’s that Rabbit guy’s rank again?”

That’s what I should be thinking, isn’t it? One day, at some point…I can just take a hit from a strong S-rank Meister’s weapon without worrying at all?

He balked at it. Not as much as he had when she’d shown him the view of Lind-otta stopping the wave and asked him if he didn’t believe he could do something like it one day. But a bit.

Make yourself think about it. The rocket bike goes past Marsha eventually. It goes past much scarier S-ranks than her. You know it must. If you survive the ride.

Power.

What am I supposed to do with it?

Knighthood.

That one was not a career choice. It was a leap into the dark with no way back. And no way forward unless he found the acceptance and protection of others. If Alden took a leap like that, he would not land on his own feet but in the arms of Artonans, who were not under any obligation to agree with the kernel of their home planet’s Contract that the human wizard was a neat new addition to their forces.

He wasn’t sure he’d ever be ready for Intensity 99.9, even if the Rapports and the Grand Senate welcomed him warmly. And there were so many ways for it to go that weren’t remotely warm.

I need more information. And I need time. I shouldn’t do anything irreversible so soon.

After high school. After university even.

Waiting, studying the darkness for a few more years before he made a final decision to take the leap or not—that would be wise.

I want to be wise.

He listened to the music from the hamster tube floor until he noticed himself yawning. Then he stood, shook off his thoughts, and headed back down the staircase.

Not long after he reached the bottom, the sound of someone yelling made him turn his head just in time to see a boy plummeting into the moat of foam blocks with something in his arms.

That sounded a little like Lexi. Or Kon?

He doubted he was right about that, but he was going to take a look at the plummeter until he was distracted by an interface notification.

[Video call from General Emban-art’h, Artona I. Connection fee waived.]

She doesn’t list a rank number. But she does get the title.

He stopped walking. Why was Emban calling him in the first place?

“Answer.”

Emban-art’h appeared, sitting at a floor desk in her room. She was filling a paper card with lines of colored ink. One eye stayed focused on that task; the other fixed itself on Alden.

Stuart’s not with her.

That made him a little nervous.

“Hello,” he said in Artonan.

“I invite you to come with us to the Here-to-There,” she said. “You do not have to say yes. If you do say yes, you’ll have to help Stu with the work.”

The Here-to-There. Something that had sounded to him like a parade or celebration for people moving into new houses. An outing that Emban-art’h was hoping would be a treat for a couple of her squad members. All three young knights had affixed around the same time.

Skipping wizard school when you can’t cast spells must be normal, or at least acceptable.

“Does Stu want me to come?”

She set aside her ink brush and turned the other eye to him. “If he doesn’t <<crave>> your company, then his behavior lately has been distressingly weird.”

“He’s not eekeekeek.”

“Then he will probably be happy when I surprise him with you.”

Is this because she liked throwing paper planes with us? I think it might be.

“I appreciate the invitation. I’ll come.” If Stuart wasn’t in the mood to weave friendship and do votary stuff at the same time, Alden would just leave.

“The teleportation will be before dawn tomorrow. Thank you for banana.”

“You’re welcome. What should I—?”

The image of her disappeared. She’d disconnected them.

He was almost positive she meant Rapport I dawn, so that was going to be Thursday afternoon for him. How long does a Here-to-There last? I had questions.

And why did she thank him again for bananas?

Is it a hint? It’s a hint, isn’t it? She ate them already.

He’d given her a selection of banana varieties in her personal fruit basket, but she had divided them up for sharing with her friends.

He debated calling her back for a second, decided against it in case it made her think the human was annoying, and headed toward the moat.

A familiar boy with a familiar kind of lifematter bag held over his head was squashing his way through the foam blocks toward the edge.

“Kon? It is you. Did you bring that weight bag all the way here from the gym?”

Kon spun around to see him.

“Alden? What are you doing here!?”

“Sitting on the staircase thinking about my future. You?”

“Climbing the tower. Or falling off it…. Is anyone else here with you?” Kon was squinting into the shadows behind Alden.

“Nope. Solo trip.”

Kon looked relieved at that.

“I was about to go back to campus,” Alden said. “It’s pretty late. Are you going up again, or do you want to walk with me?”

Kon didn’t answer right away. “I’ve been here ever since MPE let out. So maybe—”

“That’s crazy. I’ve had recovery potion, a shower, and dinner. You’ve got to be exhausted by now.”

“You’re not wrong. And I have started dropping Everly more often.”

“Everly’s with you?”

Kon patted the lifematter bag.

“She looks different from the last time I saw her.”

“She smells bad, too. I think whatever they stuff in these things molds sometimes.” He tossed the bag onto the ground and then climbed out of the moat. “I’ll head back with you. Just let me find my shoes.”

******

******
