“Oh, a Wyin tree! Did you know there’s a legend about these trees? That when the world tree was afflicted with a sickness, these trees appeared around the world near tragedy. The most popular myth was a woman who was born with the name Wyin who waited for her lost love-” Yattina told Alpha and Quee. The spider-boy raised his hands and backed away as the mist shifted in the room.“It said the woman was a gentle maiden who appeared as a head priestess of the world tree itself, but she vanished, presumably taken by the sickness that hit the world tree, or perhaps she could be an allegory for fledgling innocence or new love,” Yattina mused as she tapped her glass eye.The mist thinned, and the tree came into sharp focus.“Actually, I did wait. I could appear as human. I did love, and he was mortal. I was sick… and I didn’t get better,” Wyin said slowly, and Alpha didn’t exactly tense his shoulders, but the grip on his sword tightened.Wyin wasn’t a ‘bad’ monster, per se, but she had an odd temper that could be triggered by the most innocent of comments. Yattina seemed to stare up into the beautiful face of Wyin with wide eyes.“You’re… alive,” Yattina said, then cleared her throat.“Of course you are. You’re a magic tree of legend; you have more power in one leaf than I do in my entire body,” she said, muttering furiously to herself. Wyin looked away, deciding Yattina wasn’t too interesting.“Don’t take it personally. All Wyin trees are ‘me,’ but they’ll never be me. That imposter was clever. I escaped, but he all but ensured I’d never grow to my full might again. It’s only due to the ‘luck’ of some goblins that I came to be planted here,” she purred and then looked over at Quee.“My little star. You’ve not come to dance for me in some time,” she said, sounding hurt. Quee grinned.“I’ve finally gotten to be a guard! People can skip to the second floor and not bother Sir Fran all the time,” he explained, and Wyin let out a throaty chuckle that reminded Alpha of a smoky bar room with the rich scent of whiskey.“And that is the best thing, truly. Still, I see you’re stuck being a tour guide,” Wyin said, and Yattina hadn’t said anything. She looked stunned.“Are you okay?” Alpha asked, stepping closer, and she turned slowly to look at him.“The World Tree is an imposter?” she asked, and Alpha shrugged.“Most likely,” he said, and Yattina’s face turned pale, and he tried not to wince as the party bond shared a deep flash of horror and some fear.“Isn’t that common knowledge?” Alpha asked, and he stepped back as Yattina’s voice raised in volume.“No! We know that the tree used to be welcoming and have a famous town called ‘Small Joy’ surrounding it, but about hundred and fifty years ago-” Yattina said, and Wyin interjected.“One Hundred fifty-four if you wanna be precise, sweet thing,” she said as Quee twirled for her on a rock.“-Fifty-four years ago, the tree suddenly became violently sick, and the town around became shut-off. No one could get close, and then the tree attacked whoever got close. We presume it just learned too much of humanity and grew disgusted by us or blamed us for the sickness!” Yattina said, looking like she wanted a dozen empty notebooks right about now.“Oh, I sort of was disgusted by you all, in a friendly way. You all walk around with functional acid factories in your trunks and are sloshy,” Wyin chimed in again.Yattina nodded firmly.“The human body is a necessary evil that I only tolerate to hoard books and have a working brain,” she agreed without hesitation. She frowned and looked ponderous at something.“I read something about the World Tre- the Fake Tree in a report recently. What was it about?” she asked herself, and Alpha waited patiently. Yattina snapped her fingers as she remembered.“It gained a legendary-ranked monster that lives in its branches. The monster has been seen all over the world, carrying out all sorts of strange activities. The monster appeared about ten years ago, and it’s messed with Fairplay a few times,” she explained. Delta’s avatar looked down and whispered something that made Alpha’s skin prickle unpleasantly.“Beta.”“It’s a shapeshifter, I think, but all its forms share the same symbol on its neck. People speculate it’s half of a tree, but… but…” Yattina trailed off, and Wyin’s smile grew as the woman seemed to recall something.“Alpha… why is the monster’s symbol on Delta’s front door?” she asked with an odd tone. Delta and Alpha shared a look.“The symbols on the door stand for ‘Alpha, Beta, Delta and Gamma.’ I’m Alpha… you know Delta…” Alpha trailed off as the woman stared at him. A few seconds passed.“I think you broke the poor thing,” Wyin said with a tutting noise as she waved a branch in front of Yattina’s face.Yattina suddenly took Alpha by the shoulders, her grip surprisingly tight.“Never repeat that name,” she stressed, and Alpha blinked, confused as the woman suddenly looked nervously around.“What? Beta?” Quee asked, scuttling over as well as glaring at how she manhandled Alpha.“No, the… the last one,” Yattina said and swallowed hard.“Gam-” Alpha said, and she covered his mouth.“Don’t! It’s a curse word,” she said in panic. There was a long pause.“Gamma? Sounds like a weird name, this Gamma. Gamma, you say? I would like to know more about this Gamma,” Wyin announced, and Yattina covered her ears as if trying not to hear it.“Woah…” Delta suddenly said, and Alpha could feel it too. Due to his new title as Archmage, he had gained a very potent magical sensing skill, and he could feel what could only be described as a dozen eyes trying to settle on the Dungeon, but not quite finding it.“People are tracking the name. Everyone wants the King-Maker sword!” Yattina said quickly, trying to crouch low as if to avoid something.“If you say the name, and they find you, you’re marked until they come for you. The Sword-Collectors, royal-wannabes, fourth or six in line for the throne, or…” she trailed off before making a deep gulp of actual concern.“The Calculators.”---The lone island that sat between two edges of the world looked benign from high above, but from the clouds, a rapid shadow darted to the edge of the island. A mix between a falcon and a snake, the form shifted until a stoic looking teen girl stood where the monster had, a symbol on her neck glowing before going inert, she looked around as her clothes consisted of tough leathers she had roughly sewn together of different beasts.This island gave her the creeps.“Barkface is really reaching with this one,” she sighed and looked around for any signs of trouble. Ever since the strange Dungeon and ‘He’ attacked the tree, the old man had been working her ass overtime.Beta was beginning to think the old tree wasn’t telling her something, but Beta accepted that was a thing a long time ago. Likely, treebeard did one of his stupid schemes and pissed them off, but that wasn’t Beta’s concern.But if the Brother reacted, then they must be doing something right.She didn’t care for the eyes or the tree’s desire to have it. She just wanted to get revenge on those ‘gods.’ The feeling of being made whole was still fresh in her mind.Horrible flesh bubbling pain, bones snapping and reforming, muscles being woven inch by inch, organs built, then melted to be redone. Beta remembered it all.The damn girl had a cheek to tell her that they had done much better with Beta than ‘Gamma.’ She mentally shuddered.She didn’t want to think of what that poor bastard might have experienced being made if her formation was ‘better.’She walked forward on the island that was drowning in cloying Dungeon Mana. What sort of place needed five Dungeons in one close space? She inhaled, and the mana was easily converted into energy for her, as if her body had been made to live inside a Dungeon with ease.If she was? She would burn them all to the ground rather than be an obedient pet for the gods and their little murder holes. Everywhere she looked, their screw-ups were clear between the rampant ‘other-gods,’ Dungeons, monsters, the cults, and more.It was…Beta didn’t know for sure, but she had a feeling that ‘before’ was better. Before had someone smiling at her, people she didn’t want to punch… a smiling teacher-She winced as her flesh rippled, and for a split second, she saw vines and leaves emerging from her hands and fingers; so like Yggdrasil, how did it get there? Her veins seemed to bulge as they expanded towards her neck then her head and then… green.When did--the cults, and more. Seriously, screw them. Beta scowled as she rotated her shoulder as if it were stiff. She just wanted to get this job done already. She walked deeper into the island and came to a stop as all her senses started screaming at her that she was not alone.Beta had gathered quite a selection of monster forms in the two years since she had been here.Sometimes, she found forms she had no clue about getting and chalked it up to the gods and their system that they kept trying to make her use. She wanted to at least check it out, but she never found the time.She found the idea appalling.Beta would not open that system. She would not. That was final.She had found Yggy a year ago, and time just seemed to fly by when she was doing his jobs. He always insisted she rest before taking another mission. Beta was getting real tired of him trying to cozy in on her time.Where would she even sleep for longer than a day? Small Joy? Psh, that place was a ruin.‘But where did you get the clothes, the food you eat, the conversations of the world?’ some insidious part of her asked.Yggdrasil. Everything she had was because of <YGGDRASIL>.Movement all around her revealed themselves to be ducks. Dozens of black ducks with red eyes.A lot watched her as she slowly moved forward to a clearing, where a massive hole in the middle of the island seemed to vanish into complete darkness.This was what old treebeard wanted… for Beta to see if there was quicker access to the Eye through this hole on Funeral Island. One of the ducks was close.<Consume. Grow. Perfect.>The Beast lunged for it, arms splitting into a dozen claws, but the duck was strangely powerful, knocking her to the side as the flock surrounded her.She was in danger-<Consume>She would kill them.Beta raised her arm to strike when something very strange occurred. The system opened on its own, and her mind tried to rebel, but she couldn’t look away.‘W-W-Welcome Be-Be-Beta! To DELTASUN 0.5. You have 99+ messages. You have to ‘remember.’ You need to ‘escape.’Beta’s mind, her body, her soul was trying to split into two. Something inside her was trying to pull her apart.Error: Infection is at 95%. This will not be enough.“Make it stop!” Beta screamed as she clutched her head.Solution: Do a ‘Delta’ move! If the parasite is using ambient mana to keep control, you will be sent somewhere where only Delta Mana will be available and not Yggdrasil’s.Beta could barely read, let alone understand the message.With permission of Prince Waddles, the seal to Demon World will open. Enjoy your trip!Beta turned slowly to see a puffy black duck raise one webbed foot, and then she was tumbling down the dark tunnel on the island.Find Delta. Her Mana has not been idle since going to the demon world.And… I’m so sorry I was a terrible god. I will make it up to you, even if it costs me my life.Beta felt oddly strange as she fell into a dark ruinous world, crashing into a crystal clear pond filled with Black ducks and pure-white duck chicks. Only when she was nearing the bottom of the pond did she understand that she was swimming in near pure-salt water mixed with something akin to vinegar.She breached the surface, clinging to a rock that jutted out of the pond, coughing and sputtering as she failed to transform, the mana far too loose and free flowing around her to complete the task.Ahead of her made of what looked to be the largest duck she had ever seen sitting on a throne of human teeth.“Where am I?!” she demanded, and the duck quacked.There was a long pause.“…I don’t speak duck,” she said, gritting her teeth as the stinging water burned her skin slightly. There was some movement, and the ducks brought someone out. It was like a human tongue grew legs and had a foul attitude about it.“What the hell are you?” Beta snarled, her fear feeding into her anger easily.“I’m a demon tongue, ain’t I? I speak tongues!” the demon snapped. The big duck quacked again.“His royalness, the Duke of Wrath - the Duck of Wrath - says you are here under invitation of his son and will be free to leave once you are purged of the ancient foulness clinging to your sad sack organs and shriveled brain,” the tongue said with a nasty tone.If you discover this tale on Amazon, be aware that it has been unlawfully taken from Royal Road. Please report it.“It said that… with one quack?” Beta said, doubt leaking off every word.“I paraphrased for our benefit,” the tongue said with deliberate slowness.“I don’t… what… no, I need to go! This place is making me feel weak,” she said, wading towards the shore and trying not to step on what looked to be thousands of eggs stretching as far as the eye could see.The moment she left the hellish water, she began to have trouble breathing.“His dukeness should mention that the pond has been the only source of Flat-World Mana around for some time. Since you no longer have a base form and cannot devour demons, you cannot breathe in the demon world,” the Tongue explained.“I have a human form; this is my human form!” she protested, trying to get her lungs to work.“No. It looks like what your form might have been, but it’s just that: an imitatio