n of shifted flesh. You no longer remember who you are, according to the Sun Sister, and thus, can no longer transform into that form,” the annoying tongue went on.“They took… my memories… from me…” Beta wheezed, crawling on hands and knees. She was afraid she might kill the eggs, but they were harder than diamonds under her touch.“Truly, my heart bleeds for you, but you will now be enjoying the purging of your body in a few moments. How do you feel about leather or rope?” the tongue asked, translating more quacks of the large duck.“W-What?” she asked, looking back. The duke held up two straps of material for Beta to bite down on.“The Duke suggests leather, less threads in one’s teeth,” the tongue smirked.“I don’t consent to this! I reject it!” Beta tried to crawl away faster.“Quack.”There was no need for the tongue to translate that. Beta could almost hear the words in her mind.‘Bite down hard, this is going to be rough.’---Delta watched as Yattina nervously opened the door down the hallway to the left of the Map Room. She was nervous and a little shy as Yattina marveled at the third floor.“It’s pretty dark in here,” Yattina admitted before Delta focused and soft lamps around the library turned on, revealing rows of books. There was a soft gasp as Yattina took a few steps forward, then stopped.“I… may I…” she stumbled over her words.Delta focused and pulled all her power into a single word.“Yes,” she said, and the word breezed through the room, and Yattina turned, wide-eyed.“Was that her?” she asked Alpha, who nodded, shooting Delta an impressed look. Delta was too busy leaning over, panting as if she’d just ran a damn marathon. How could she create a whole host of creatures, and magic enchantments, but projecting her own voice was this hard?Was it like trying to speak, but only inside one’s kidney?“So many books! Goose-bumps?” Yattina asked with wonder, picking up a book with a ghostly white bird on the front before she quickly moved on.“I’ve never seen so many books in even a specialist store! You have a mix of rare tomes, unique stories, and children’s books. I could spend months here!” Yattina gushed as she pulled out a copy of ‘Short Stories and less’ containing only three sentences on the first page, and the other 100 pages were blank.She opened a book of ‘100 soup recipes with lickable pages,’ the ‘In-depth Study of Studies,’ ‘Death: Villain or Hopeless Romantic?,’ and she even grabbed a copy of ‘Optics: A Light Reading.’“Alpha! Quee! Join me! Books are friend-shaped!” Yattina insisted excitedly as she sat in some sort of sealed bag of squishy beans.“I thought that was people?” Alpha asked, confused. Quee strutted past.“Books? People? They both spread their contents for me,” he said, and Alpha looked at him.“It’s because I’m going to be a rockstar, and supposedly, people open up to them. Like therapists,” Quee explained excitedly.“Therapists; never liked them. They want to talk about my past, my pain, my injuries, my inability to sleep for longer than three hours,” Yattina muttered.“Isn’t that to help you get better?” Alpha asked slowly.“Help, smelp. Science and being right all the time is how I heal,” she winked with her good eye and went back to tasting the soup book.A book slid out near Alpha titled ‘How to spot and help troubled individuals, by Seeri Ink’ for him to grab.“Maybe you can… tell me about… your issues?” Alpha tried and pushed the book back on the shelf. Yattina gave him a long look before smiling with a placating look.“I’m fine,” she said and buried herself deeper into her book. Alpha frowned and looked down at his feet, trying to figure out how to be empathetic or even sound concerned. He didn’t mean to come off as if he would rather not talk to people.He just… spoke like that. A second book slid out towards Alpha.‘Neurodivergence: It’s okay to be different.’“Thanks,” he sighed, taking the book to join Yattina. They both jumped as Quee slammed down what seemed to be a twenty series book collection of ‘Karamel Rider: Delicious Hero.’“This place is great! I should have visited ages ago!” he said brightly. On top of those, he had music books, stage performances, and a signed book of Maestro’s autobiography. It was a very thick book, in spite of Maestro’s actual lifespan thus far.Delta watched them all talk and chat, all while knowing who was watching them from the shadows.“Jack, you can join in,” Delta said to the watching Kobold.“Shh… I can’t let myself be known until I know her levels of acceptance to the good word of Death,” Jack hissed back, barely heard by anyone but Delta.“You mean cheap romance novels?” Delta summed up.“The cheaper, the better,” Jack nodded seriously.“Yattina, what do you think of mouth touching and wiggly wooing?” Quee asked, having superior hearing.“Is setting myself on fire an option?” she responded without looking up from her book. Jack narrowed his eyes and looked ready to retreat.“I like the chase, the idea, the sort of dancing around, and the learning. I love people connecting, but I skip past any…’wiggly wooing,’” she said, smiling at the phrase.“Are you reading an age-appropriate book?” she asked suddenly, eyes narrowed. Quee held up the cover of some chocolate-themed hero kicking a sour-sweet in the face.“I think so!” he promised.Jack had turned, going through a series of shelves.“Ogre on Dryad… Mermaid in love with a horse…ah! Woman in love with a magic mirror, doomed to never touch, but see each for whom they are inside. I can convert her!” Jack pumped his fist and nearly knocked a shelf over in his excitement .Delta took a look.“It says in book four, the magic mirror can astral project into her dreams-” she pointed out, and Jack took book 4 to 22 and hid them behind a series of books called ‘Filler: the encyclopedias of taking up space.’“Every religion has some white lies,” Jack shrugged.“How wonderful! ‘Where’s Wallace’! A puzzle book! And look, Alpha, a companion book on feelings called ‘How is Wallace?’!” Yattina’s voice drifted out to them.“Do you want to read about feelings?” Alpha offered.“No time! I have a book here about the ten functions of a goblin liver. I didn’t even know there was one use for them,” Yattina said excitedly.Delta was beginning to think Yattina had a small issue about discussing her feelings.Before she drank from the Mana Well, Yattina might need to discuss her feelings to smooth out the process. A working seed contained thoughts and echoes of a person… if Yattina was to grow one from the well and have all these issues bubbling inside her?She might crack.But who did she have that specializes in-“Luna!” she said, standing up with purpose.But Yattina didn’t seem the type to publicly bathe…Ten minutes passed, and Luna walked into the Library with a bundle of items. Her usually elegant form looked heavy, and she puffed with effort to keep walking. Delta winced.“Sorry,” she said, and Luna shook her head.“It’s only one floor, but I am not going down to the fourth floor. I might drown in Mana,” she muttered.She unpacked a selection of herbs and an incense burner.Nearby, Yattina was watching the frog ninja, engrossed in the process.“So, we’ll be sharing a group vision quest to deal with issues of our past, and by doing that, I can see a rare ‘Mana Spring’ that the Dungeon wants me to test?” Yattina sounding both terrified and extremely happy at the idea.“You don’t have to. There’s no rush, and you can always come back,” Alpha said, and Yattina blinked then rubbed his head with a small smile.“I’ll likely be punished to hell and back for this little trip. Likely, I won’t be coming back for a long time,” she admitted, and Delta wouldn’t count on it. She had a way of making sure people left this Dungeon better than they entered.Well, unless they were the majority of Fairplay, but that was on them.As Luna was setting up, something bizarre entered her Dungeon. A sort of ‘fake’ life force that repelled her mana with unnatural ease.She teleported to her entrance to see five spindly marionettes of sorts moving over the ground. Delta stared at them, then took a step back.“Oh God,” she said, covering her mouth. The dolls, the robots really, were complex beings with a mana-system that drew power from shards deep within their bodies.Each shard spoke in a near never-ending stream of words.“Grow the blades, sharpen the doors. Grow the blades, sharpen the doors.”“Snow on the hill. Snow on the hill. Snow on the hill.”“Create new boss. Create new boss. Create new boss.”Each was a fractured, but unique voice that spoke like a badly recorded audiotape.“Dungeons… they’re using dead dungeons like batteries,” Delta whispered, back against the wall in sheer horror.One of them turned to her, and before Delta could follow what was happening, it plunged a blade at her, cutting her avatar along the arm. She stared at the fizzling wound on her avatar as a flash of pain looped back to her.Each of their weapons were made of Dungeon Mana, opposing Dungeon Mana. These things were like human-sized dead Dungeons being controlled from afar. Delta moved back into the tunnel and eyed them with deep sorrow.“I’ll end this,” she promised them as their babbling picked up in tone and volume.“Danger level: Max” she intoned, and the entire Dungeon shuddered.The once cheery flickering orange torchlight turned a deep ominous red. Delta’s eyes dropped a single tear in combination of sorrow and the pain of her wound.Stage 6: You made Delta cry activated.Error:Stage 7 released: You broke Delta’s Heart.---Outside, Ruli gripped her hands into fists and held out her arm, stopping any more of these junk robots from going in.Delta’s entrance now had a dark hazy white mist over it, not quite preventing entrance, but there was deep rage and sadness coming from it.Ruli didn’t need to hear it for herself to know that whatever was ‘up’ with these robots, it wasn’t good. She couldn’t prevent them from entering, but she could slow them down.“You better hope she’s okay,” she warned the nearby Caline, who ignored her.“These are but the test models, the first batch. If she can’t handle these, then the Dungeon’s fabled strength isn’t as much as I feared,” he shrugged. Ruli opened her mouth, but then noticed that the forest all around Delta, usually so vibrant and filled with life… had gone silent.As if the world was holding its breath.She shifted, and the row of HE-RO dolls toppled over like dominoes.“Oops,” she said without shame.“Cute, but it won’t matter,” he said as he ordered his men to pick them up.“You prevent me from entering, and your friend Quiss is honor-bound to enact the law in my favor,” he reminded, and Ruli narrowed her eyes on him.“I’ve bent him over crying before, I’ll do it again,” she said, and this made Caline frown in confusion.“You’ve fought him before?” he asked for clarification, and Ruli smirked.“Oh, in a manner of speaking, but you think Delta’s got shit endurance?” she asked, and Caline rolled his eyes.“She has four floors at most; of course she has bad enduranc-” he froze and grabbed his rear as he made a face of pain.“I… didn’t talk about… the town!” he gasped as he turned to waddle away.“She’s part of the town, you butt waffle,” Ruli muttered.She turned back to the misty door and drew a line in the soil before it with her large sword, Magma.“Cross it, and I’ll break a random thing that sticks out of your body,” she warned the rest.“Isn’t that stopping us from… going in?” a Fairplay man asked.“Nope, you can go in. But you’ll be in a lot of pain while you do so,” Ruli said easily, sitting on her small wooden stool with glowing yellow eyes.No one crossed the line.It was all Ruli could do for her friend right now, and it just didn’t feel like enough.
