“…I think it would be strange if I hadn’t. Given what I want to do. And other things.”


In an urgent situation, rushing because she couldn’t quite keep up with the pace of a fight, Hannah Elber had counted the number of floors on a building wrong. Because of that, Arjun Thomas had smashed through the side of it and into an occupied apartment across the street. That he hadn’t collided with Alden, or someone else, and instantly killed them was luck.


“Then why do you hope to become a support hero?” Skiff seemed to be trying to give Alden an encouraging smile as he asked. “I really enjoyed your essay by the way.”


“Oh. Thank you. It’s because heroes can work better in pairs. More good guys bringing more types of magic to a fight should be an amazing thing. The ideal situation is perfectly orchestrated teamwork. Just because it’s more difficult to achieve that ideal doesn’t mean we should give up on it and settle for the status quo.”


He felt good about that answer. It was so much more satisfying to give an answer that rang true. He tried to study the interviewer’s faces, to get a read on what they thought.


Skiff seemed to be in comforting cheerleader mode. It was probably his default. Or maybe he just liked Alden because of the Chicago connection.


Instructor Colibrí hadn’t stopped smiling since he entered the room. It was a great smile. It didn’t look fake at all. But it was confusing that it never faded.


And for some reason, Instructor Klein looked tired and resigned.


Not a fan of the support-focused superhero concept in general? Or of B-ranks going for it?


Support heroes, as he was describing them, were supposed to be able to take care of themselves well enough not to cause problems. Old-timey sidekicks were a thing of the past because they’d often been highly-killable low ranks.


“Next question!” Colibrí said, still beaming. “What active heroes do you currently admire? And why?”


Alden talked.


And talked.


He was on edge, waiting for the harder questions. They had to be coming. They’d rejected a ton of the returnees first thing this morning after a single, five-minute long interview. They must have asked something difficult. And Winston Reginald Heelfeather was wearing sunglasses because he was so scared of the “mind games” he claimed his committee had played with him last time.


However, as the time slot for his interview approached its end, they hadn’t asked him anything that was even particularly new. These were all questions that had been on the application or in previous interviews. Occasionally, Instructor Klein would ask him to clarify his opinions, which made him think a little.


But the questions were harder in the first interview. The formulaic ones on the B-ranks only, we-really-wish-you’d-reconsider-applying interview had been semi-hostile and stressful to answer because of it.


With two minutes to go, Alden was confused. I thought this would be deeper. I thought they’d want to really get to know me.


It said something to that effect in the admissions office email he’d read a hundred times—that prospective students should be prepared to answer more personal questions in the third interview.


They’ve got to be sitting there with everything I sent them pulled up in front of their eyes.


Maybe Body Drainer and Moon Thegund were considered too personal?


But wasn’t the point of this to make sure he had the right reasons for wanting to become a hero?


Alden hadn’t wanted them to ask if he had some kind of revenge-driven need to fight supervillains because one had killed his parents, but he’d expected them to. He had also been dreading detailed questions about how he’d earned the commendation. He was sure that someone idly saying the wrong thing about Kibby was his Achilles heel. Nothing had fazed him badly all day, but that definitely would have. He suspected that someone else overanalyzing and judging the harder decisions he’d made on Moon Thegund would have set him off in some way, too.


I brought it up myself because I just knew something along those lines was coming. Was I completely wrong? Do they not care about the commendation at all? Do they not care that I’ve been on the Triplanets until just recently?


Maybe Neha was mistaken, and he wasn’t getting the serious questions because he wasn’t a serious candidate at this point. They could have already decided he wasn’t good enough, or that he was too much of a risk with the messy personal history. And so there was no reason to ask him the hardball stuff.


That must be it. They’re not even asking me about being a Rabbit. That’s got to be the surest sign that they’re not taking my interview seriously at all.


Even if the darker personal material was off-limits, asking the superhero hopeful why he’d chosen nearly the worst possible class for superhero work was so obvious. They should have been grilling him about that one.


As Alden reached the conclusion that it was all over for him, this time around at least, he tried not to let his disappointment show.


I really did try hard. I know I’m not feeling it quite like I should, but I do want it and I didn’t slack off any…it’s fine. I’ll just spend a lot more time with Bobby at the gym while I wait to re-apply. I’ll go to Franklin High for a while. Maybe I’ll apply to the other two Apex high schools next time, too.


“Thank you so much for your time today, Alden,” Colibrí said. “It’s been wonderful to get to know you better. Do you have any questions for us before we send you off to lunch?”


So it was over. How anti-climactic after the intensity of the combat assessment.


Since it looks like I’ll be doing this again in the future, I guess I should ask…


“I was wondering if there was anything I should think about or do to improve myself? I know I’ll be getting evaluations from the people who were watching combat today, but are there other obvious things I’m missing right now that I should be aware of?”


“I think you’re on the right track,” Skiff said. “Just keep working and keep your chin up, and you’ll get there!”


Alden hoped his smile looked realer than it felt.


“You should think about what kind of impression you want to give off in front of cameras starting right now,” Instructor Colibrí said. For the first time since the interview had started, she seemed really intense. “Point placement is going to be so important for you as a B-rank. Rabbit hasn’t ever been seriously attempted in the superhero market, so you have options. But that only means you have to narrow your choices down that much more. The bouncing things you can do with your trait—”


So she’d at least seen some footage from the running assessment.


“—it makes me so happy. You may want to play into that. Speedy, agile Rabbit! And don’t neglect your Appeal. You have to make it work for you every step of the way. The System will just generalize it if you don’t make special requests, and no, no, no…that’s for amateurs. You want to be a professional, so you have to decide as soon as you can and start tweaking. Cute? Soft? Sexy? Ironically macho bunny?”


Alden stared at her. Her hand disappeared and reappeared from the front pocket of her spangled pinafore so fast that he didn’t even see her move. In a blink, she was holding out a hummingbird-shaped card. The foil letters on it showed her name, address, and school office hours.


“Call any time! Definitely before you affix that next Appeal point.”


I don’t want another one, though. Alden took the card because you couldn’t just not take peoples’ cards. But he found her a little frightening.


“When you start living on campus, we can—!”


“You want my advice?” Instructor Klein interrupted. Halfway through the interview, he’d crossed his arms over his chest, and he hadn’t removed them since. The body language there definitely wasn’t inviting.


Skiff’s eyebrows went up and he bit his lower lip as he glanced sideways at the other man.


“If you don’t mind?” Alden said.


“Your rank is bad for what you think you want to do. Your class may very well be insurmountable.”


“I think that’s an uncalled for assessment, Instructor Klein!” Instructor Colibrí said quickly. “I personally believe in the untapped potential of the Rabbit class. I can’t wait to see what Alden does with it.”


The other teacher didn’t even spare her a glance. “My advice is that you focus on leveling for the next couple of years before you even consider joining a hero training course. And do some research into other skill options for your class. If you can’t put together a list of known Rabbit skills and spells that will see you performing as well as other currently active B-rank heroes who are in their thirties and forties, then you should find another job.”


“Torsten!”


“After doing my own research into your class’s talent choices, I do not believe you have the potential to be a superhero. Thus, you attending Celena North High is a waste of your potential as a person. And it is a waste of our faculty’s time. I recommend that you enjoy a normal high school experience, learn your way around Avowed life, and then, if you are still determined to try this path in a couple of years, return and apply for the university’s hero program instead.”


He really doesn’t want me to come to school here.


It wasn’t that his words were a shock. But they were harsh on the heels of so much hard work today and such unexpectedly lackadaisical questions from the interviewers. Alden took a few seconds to collect himself.


“Okay,” he said at last. “Thank you for the super honest advice. You’re worried that one preservation skill isn’t enough to see me through an entire career?”


“It’s not enough,” he said bluntly. “One skill is not enough for hero work.”


Colibrí looked pissed off. Skiff was chewing on the end of his stylus.


“That makes sense,” said Alden. He was having an emotionally confused moment. His hands were death-gripping his shirt hem, because having someone tell you to your face that they thought you sucked and would be a waste of everyone’s time was…yeah.


But on the other hand…


He tried not to smile; he thought he might have a little anyway.


“Rabbit is a skill-based class. So the skills I choose are the most important thing. If Let Me Take Your Luggage is the only one in the class that’s really good for hero work, and it tops out at a low level, that would be a career ender.”


Instructor Klein uncrossed his arms and rested his elbows on the table. “That’s just a fact you have to contend with,” he said.


Facts are facts, Alden thought in Artonan. They don’t have to be fair.


He could practically hear Kibby saying it.


Oh, it was a mistake to think of her.


He was really smiling now. It probably looked like he didn’t take the Instructor seriously. That was bad. It was Earth bad and Triplanets unforgivable.


“I will consider that,” he said, forcing his face straight. “I will seriously think about what you said. Thank you for interviewing me.”


He shook their hands again. He hurried out of the room so that he wouldn’t lose his self-control and start laughing in front of them.


It’s not that funny, Alden, he told himself as he rushed down the hall to get out of earshot. This is serious. They think you stink. They’re not going to let you into their school ever, even if you did run across a moon and impress a Knight. Welcome to Earth. Where you are only a shitty B-rank, and an even shittier Rabbit.


He just kept going until he was out of the MagiPhys building and racing across the lawn. His legs were sore from all the weird running demands the coaches had made at the track earlier. It felt good to move anyway.


Why’d they even bother to make me hop around the track and fight an S-rank and come all this way if Rabbit was that much of a problem for them?


He ran down the paved pathway, jumped over the back of a bench, and took a seat. He leaned back and smiled up into the tree branches.


“One skill is not enough for hero work,” he said.


Then he did laugh. And he directed his growing amount of free authority to run along the edges of the affixation, to really feel the shape of what it, too, would one day be. Most of the hypersensitivity was gone. He still woke up in the middle of the night feeling wounded. He still fought it when he knew he shouldn’t. But right now…


“Hey, we did amazing today,” he murmured . “You worked like a dream. I’ll try to think up a better metaphor for us, like she told me to. Because you can be pretty cool. And you’re going to get big. And strong. And awesome.”


He considered the epiphany he’d had earlier.


“I wonder if we could pick up a car? That’s probably way too greedy at this point…but just think of how much luggage we could carry now.”
