“Want me to fix your umbrella?”


Alden looked over at Konstantin. The Adjuster was sitting beside him, running his fingers through his dark hair, trying to straighten it out. He was breathless, red-faced, and sweaty—the same as almost everyone who’d taken part in the heroes vs. villains battle. Alden himself hadn’t realized how depleted he was until it was over.


Now both teams were sprawled across the bleachers. Most people were sitting slightly apart from each other. Emotions were still running hot for several of them.


The Strength Brute from the hero team had started cussing out the Wright before they’d even left the floor, and it was probably only the fact that the guy had high-tailed it out of the gym that had prevented a real fight. The Object Shaper was crying while Emma patted her on the shoulder. The Sandbagger was shooting death glares. She only spared a couple for Alden; Kon was receiving the bulk of them. Lexi was wringing the handle of his whip like he was imagining it was someone’s neck. He was glaring a lot at Kon, too, but to Alden’s surprise his ire wasn’t just for his brother.


He seemed to be mad at every single one of his own teammates and Alden’s as well. He wasn’t yelling at anyone, though. Just darkly stewing.


Kon was staring straight ahead, watching the latest batch of duelists.


Alden glanced down at his umbrella. One of the spokes was bent and poking out through the fabric, and of course there was the broken fishing line.


“I don’t think they’re going to make me fight much more,” said Alden. “But I’d appreciate it, just in case, if it’s not going to wear you out.”


“Hand it over. I didn’t get to show off my amazing powers anyway.”


“I think you showed off well enough.” Alden passed over the umbrella and the broken piece of line.


“It was when I nut punched my big brother, right?” Kon said with a grin that didn’t quite reach his eyes.


“That was a memorable moment.”


“Probably extra memorable for him.” Kon held the umbrella across his palms and stared at it. “Now you get to experience my dolphin impression.”


“Huh?”


The other boy opened his mouth, and the weirdest spell chant Alden had ever heard came out of it. Many chants were purely sound—the vocal equivalent of weaving a pattern with the auriad. Some peppered in very old Artonan words Alden could occasionally recognize.


This one sounded…a lot like a dolphin trying to speak a foreign language. It was extremely alien, and surprisingly un-pretty. Artonan tastes didn’t always run in the same direction as human tastes, but their chants usually sounded pleasantly musical. This one was just strange.


And astonishing.


There was a cloud of glittering light around the umbrella, then its damaged spots rapidly repaired themselves. It suddenly looked like it had before the fight started.


“Let me do the fishing line next.”


“Are your vocal cords modified?!”


Kon looked surprised. “Most people are more interested in the instant restoration thing. Yeah, they are.”


“Bullshit.”


His brows drew together. “You think I was born speaking like a cetacean?”


“No! It’s just…I’m sorry. That was a positive ‘bullshit,’ I guess? I’ve never heard of an Adjuster getting body modded for vocal casting, and I think it’s cool.”


I’m so jealous I could scream. A human scream. Not a scream perfected for spell casting.


“Positive bullshit? Must be an American thing. There are only a couple dozen other Adjusters known to have vocal mods for some of their spells. My parents helped me look into it after I affixed.”


“It’s so cool.”


“You said that already.” He looked happy about it though. “When the System spat out a rare type-path opportunity for me, I was completely caught off guard. I was going to focus on spells that manipulate electrical energy. I’ve been planning to be an S-rank Adjuster since I was nine, and it was going to be perfect. But when the Contract offers you something you know is one of a kind, you have to take it. It’s a thing, right?”


“A thing?”


Kon nodded. “Yeah. Everyone knows that singleton paths, subclasses, or talents are usually higher potential. Sometimes they’re a flop, but most of the time, they pay off. It was just one starter spell, which seemed so ungenerous. But I took it, and the next thing I knew the System was like, ‘And here is your new alien voice to go with that spell.’”


That wasn’t something everyone knew. That sounded like something you only knew if all your friends and relatives were Avowed. “Can you make any sound an Artonan can?”


Kon shook his head. “Not quite. I’m assuming if the other spells in this category the System has stuck me in require it, I’ll get additional mods.”


“Awesome,” Alden breathed.


Kon grinned. “You’re really into my dolphin impression. Most people think it’s creepy.”


“I wanted to be an Adjuster so bad.”


The other boy tilted his head. “Then why are you a Rabbit?”


Alden didn’t know what to say.


“Did you just get super nervous and accept the class assignment as soon as it popped up? I heard sometimes globies do that.”


“Rabbit seemed like a really good idea at the time.” Alden was unable to think of another excuse for himself that would make sense.


“Well, your shield thing is cool at least.”


Kon picked up the fishing line and held the broken end to the piece still wrapped around the umbrella handle. He stared at it, performed the spell again, and the two pieces of line were reconnected.


“Thanks,” Alden said, targeting him before he handed it back.


“I hope the school is as enthusiastic about it as you are.”


“You sounded more confident this morning.”


Kon shrugged. “I’m confident the spell is capable of amazing things. And that I’ll get more spells that do similar stuff in the future. And that my rank gives me a big advantage. But I’m not quite as sure that the school will be willing to risk it. Just because it’s special doesn’t mean it’s going to be the right thing for hero work. Instructor Plim was really excited about it, but…”


“You have a skill, too.”


“Yeah. They might let me slip in because the skill alone has applications. Knowing the previous state of objects is an odd one to work with, too, though. So who knows?”


“You use the skill before the spell every time?”


“I have to,” said Kon. “If I don’t, it’s like my brain can’t conceptualize the exact state I’m trying to restore the object to. I can’t even trigger the spell impression to cast without it.”


They both stopped talking as a man with a bushy mustache approached them. “Kon,” he said, scrolling through something on his interface. “Are you all right with the interview on your schedule being brought forward half an hour? We’ve had some drop outs.”


“Sure.”


“Then I’m sending you the update now. Alden, is your skill still working? We have you listed as having hit your limit during that last fight.”


“I’m okay,” said Alden.


He was starting to feel tired. Approaching skill exhaustion was a strange experience now that he had an authority sense, and he didn’t have a chaos attack to occupy him. It wasn’t like the authority went away. It was almost like the world around him became resistant to it, and his authority itself became…less authoritative. Stiller. Unwilling to be moved by his will or to move things around him in turn.


“I can keep going until the end of the combat assessment.”


The man rolled his eyes. “You’re one of those, are you? You don’t know when skill fatigue will hit you, kid. Don’t just assume you're tireless because your talent hasn’t quit yet.”


Right. Act like a normal Avowed, Alden.


“I mean my skill was still working fine the last time I used it.”


“We’ll give you one more duel then. Toward the end of the session. If it completely quits on you, just yield. No penalties for that. It’s normal for it to hit low ranks in the last half of the combat assessment.”


He walked away.


“Ouch. He called me a low rank. The principal included us B’s with the rest of you in her speech this morning.”


“She was being generous. B’s are usually ‘high’ if you’re living in F-city and ‘low’ if you’re in Apex. You live between two worlds.”


“What happened to middle? Why can’t we be middles?”


Kon shrugged. “Maybe they’ll build another island when we get a couple million more people, and we can call it mid-city?”


“Mid-city?”


“B’s can hang there with the C’s. Feeling all superior. And then we mighty S’s can have two islands to look down on instead of one.”


“How long have you been an S-rank even?”


“About four months.”


“Does the System affix a massive dose of self confidence when it gives you that rank?”


“It’s just that I’ve been an S in my heart from a young age,” said Kon, holding a hand over his heart. “My parents are both A’s so there was always a decent chance.”


He looked over at Alden. “They’ll put you against an S. For your final duel.”


“It’s not random?”


“It’s semi-random. If it looks like you’re toughing it out all the way to the end of the assessment, though, they’ll make sure you get hit really bad at least once. If they can. It’s a thing.”


“A thing everyone knows,” Alden said.


“Exactly. At least one terrible match-up if they can swing it. For you, any S who isn’t me will do. And it won’t be me, since I’m not dueling. It was all private testing with Instructor Plim…except for me showing off my brother-punching skill just now.”


“Thanks for letting me know.”


Kon shrugged. “You were cool in the fight. I thought you were way overestimating yourself when you said you could bonk the Shaper’s sandbags with your umbrella. But you bonked them really well.”


“My skill’s Level 3.”


Kon looked startled. “That’s nice. Did you hide out and train for a year before you showed up here or something? But I still wouldn’t have thought you’d just fling off those bags like they didn’t weigh anything.”


“They didn’t.”


“What?”


“They didn’t weigh anything.” Alden pulled his legs up and crossed them. “I should have realized…but I’m an idiot. I haven’t seriously used my skill like this before.”


“It would be uncommon if you had a lot of sandbag attack experience.”


“No, I mean I haven’t used it as a shield. It’s not…that hasn’t been its main function for me. I knew it would be a big thing for hero work. But up until now, it’s the preservation element that’s been important. Until the past couple of weeks, I usually really cared about keeping the thing I was carrying safe. So I’m geared to think of it that way. And I missed something incredibly obvious because of it.”


“What?” Kon asked curiously.


“I don’t feel the force of things that impact my preserved object. Physically.” He’d definitely felt every impact in other ways. “Impacts strain my skill. They make it reach the exhaustion point faster. I knew that. But if the magic takes the impact of outside things, it also takes their weight.”


“I don’t quite see where you’re going with—”


“The victims,” said Alden, staring across the gym without really seeing it. “Whenever I’ve carried people before, it’s been because they needed to be preserved. Their whole bodies. For their protection.”


“Have you had to do something like that often?” Kon said slowly.


Alden ignored the question.


“And people are heavy. I just got so used to thinking of people as heavy things I have to preserve. But for this exercise, we needed to move fast. That was more important. So I suggested you carry the first girl because you’re stronger.”


“Right…”


“You could have entrusted her gym suit to me instead. I mean, she could have.”


“You mean you could turn her suit into a shield?”


“Yes, but more importantly, she wouldn’t have weighed anything inside it,” said Alden, not even trying to keep the exasperation out of his voice. “She would be carried by the magic wrapped around my preserved object. From my perspective, she would have weighed as much as a gym suit. It might not have been comfortable for her. But I could have carried her all that way in one hand.”


Kon stared at him. “Are you sure?”


“Yeah.” Alden paused. “I’m sure that it would have worked, but I guess the faculty would most likely have made us stop. I don’t know how the suits and the bands work together with each other and in conjunction with the magic on the gym. Preserving just the suit…it could have been really bad if something had hit her somewhere unprotected, and the gym couldn’t register it properly?”


“That’s a dark thought. Glad you didn’t try it and find out the hard way.” Kon stood up. “I’m off to be grilled by an interview committee. It was fun to play superheroes with you. It sent me right back to primary school. Only there was never a Rabbit in our superhero games. Even if you don’t get into the program you should come to that party at my house.”


“Are you having it even if you don’t get in?”


“Don’t jinx me,” said Kon. “And of course. It will be a consolation party in that case.”


“Thank you for the invitation.” Alden tapped his umbrella against his knee. “By the way…”


Kon looked over his shoulder.


“You probably didn’t have to cast your spell twice. You could have just done it once.”


The Adjuster might have been an S-rank, but that didn’t mean he could infinite cast his spell. Impressions could be exhausted just like skills. They used their own discrete portion of your bound authority in a similar way.


