“What do you mean?”


“To repair the umbrella and the fishing line. You said you use the skill to read the object first. You could have used it on the umbrella and the fishing line at the same time.”


“They’re two different objects.”


“No they’re not.” Alden held it up. “This is one object.”


Kon frowned.


“Imagine the line was superglued to the umbrella. Or that it was made that way from the start. Maybe by some Wright who’s way too fond of multi-function tools. In that case you would have read it as one cohesive piece, right?”


“…right.”


“Just something to consider. Good luck in your interview.”


Alden watched him leave.


About twenty minutes later, he was called up for his final duel. The opponent was an S-rank speedster. He ran at Alden, dodged around the umbrella much faster than Alden could react to protect himself, and shoved him sideways into the barrier. Perhaps he was concerned about hitting a B-rank Rabbit in the torso, because he shoved Alden’s partially outstretched arm.


Pain flared. Alden could have sworn he heard something pop as his shoulder dislocated. He shouted, but it came out muffled as the speedster grabbed the back of his head and pressed his face into the wall.


For the first time all day, Alden felt fear.


Then the ten seconds passed, and his arm was completely fine. His panicked brain slowed down enough to realize the attack was already over. The S-rank was just pinning him to the barrier. He wasn’t even trying to be harsh about it. The other boy was only going for maximum efficiency.


It’s way worse when it comes at you so fast. It makes it so that you can’t even understand what’s happening.


His heart was racing. He would have dropped the umbrella if not for the wrist strap. His right arm was bent behind his back and held in a grip that didn’t budge no matter how he tried to twist.


“You good, pal?” the speedster asked in a Scottish accent. “Your nose all right?”


Fuck. I’m not sure whether this is sad, scary, or funny.


His nose did, in fact, hurt. The guy was smashing his face into the barrier too hard.


“You could crush me less,” Alden finally admitted. It came out sounding like, Oo cud cuff me leff.


The Scottish boy let up on the pressure.


“Sorry. You’re my first B. Didn’t want you to get a hit in from being too careless. I’m on a winning streak.”


Alden cleared his throat. “It’s fine.”


“I feel like I’ve been here all day pressing people into magic walls,” the other boy mused. “It’s not a fun way to spend time, is it?”


“It’s probably less fun for the people who are getting pressed into the walls, man.”


“Guess that’s why so many of them have left already, eh? Didn’t think that was the right choice even if the rules did say we could go whenever we liked after the first fight.”


“It’s definitely a trap,” Alden agreed.


“The locals didn’t start leaving until halfway through. Suits must be nasty. Haven’t taken a bad enough hit to feel it myself. Think they meant for that last Meister to get me good, but I beat her, too.”


“Sounds like you’re doing well.”


“I’m going to be a hero.” The boy’s accent was becoming heavier as he started talking faster. “I’ve always wanted to help people. I want to make a difference, you know? I never thought it would happen, but now it has! I’m going to be the hero I always imagined in my head. ‘If you can just run fast enough,’ I used to think, ‘you can save everyone, can’t you?’”


Alden stared through the barrier. It wasn’t quite invisible when you were being pressed against it. There was a fluctuation in the air. Beyond it, he could see the bleachers. They were nearly empty. Most of the people who weren’t currently dueling had already left, either to head to interviews, to move on to other assessments, or just to go back home and lick their wounds. And reassess their life choices.


“I hope it works out that way for you,” Alden said as the timer ran out and their duel officially ended. “I hope you get in, get your dream job, and it works out just like you imagined.”


The speedster gave him a confused look. “Thank you?”


“You too,” said Alden, saluting with his umbrella. “Good fight. It was informative.”


 


*********


 


Alden only had minutes between the last duel and his interview. It was barely enough time to change back into his normal clothes. He didn’t have to bother; plenty of people didn’t. But he wanted to make the best impression he could, and Sweaty Unitard Guy wasn’t that. He stripped and toweled off in the same shower stall he’d gotten dressed in a few hours before.


The morning had been so intense that time was behaving differently. It felt like it had been a week since he met Maricel on the bus. He hoped her own combat assessment had gone well. She’d been in the group that had done it right before his.


I wonder if they gave her sandbags to use. He wrapped his auriad around his wrist and covered it with the leather cuff bracelet. Actually, I wonder what stats she has. Now that I’ve met other beginner S-ranks, she seems outside the norm.


Maricel had been stronger and faster than Alden when they were practicing with the suits, but not stronger and faster enough. She couldn’t have sunk an S-rank’s worth of points into Processing, and Dexterity seemed like an odd choice for her. Maybe she’d gone for ultra specific enhancements. Or it was all in Stamina.


He threw on the green plaid shirt and stepped out to take a quick look in the mirror.


Decent. Now, don’t say anything dumb in your interview. And remember, you’re sure you want to be a superhero.


Often during the application process, especially when he was writing essays or answering questions about goals, Alden had felt like he was trying to time travel. Why do you want to join the program? Why do you think you’d make a good superhero? What does being a hero mean to you?


He had some answers to those questions, but they weren’t the answers anyone else wanted to hear. They weren’t shiny. They weren’t charming.


So he relied on Alden from a year ago instead. He’d had all the answers back then. And they were shiny. They sounded good in person and on paper.


He remembered them all by heart because he’d meant them for such a long time.


Is it still a lie if I’m just trying to copy a younger version of myself? The version they would have gotten to meet if I’d shown up on the island when I was supposed to?


It was. Of course.


I wonder what Hannah would think of me now.


She came to mind more often when he was on campus. Alden wanted to talk to her…almost as much as he wanted to talk to Boe. He wanted to tell someone the things he wasn’t willing to tell the other people who were curious.


If Hannah hadn’t died, he would have asked her if she minded him being different than the Alden she’d known.


Walking down the hall to the classroom where his interview was being held, he met Lesedi Saleh.


“How did your final duel go, Alden?”


“I lost really fast, Principal Saleh.”


She chuckled. “That tends to happen versus strong speedsters.”


She even knew who I was fighting l? Did the principal keep track of everything that was going on?


“What did you think of it?” she asked


“Of the combat assessment overall? Or the last duel specifically?”


She smiled. “The last duel. What did you think when you lost?”


“That I need to get faster.”


Belatedly, he realized that might sound flippant, so he added, “I know getting as fast as an S-rank speed Brute would be ridiculous. But I’d like to at least be able to keep up well enough to understand what was happening as it happened and respond in some kind of way.”


“I see.” The principal’s tone was friendly, but it didn’t reveal what she thought of his answer. “Thank you for all your hard work today. You’ve almost run the whole gauntlet. Good luck in your interview.”


She nodded to him, and they parted. A few seconds later, he heard her greeting another student heading into their own interview room.


When he arrived at the right spot, he took a moment to collect himself before he knocked.


The three interviewers were sitting at a table at the front of the classroom. The first thing Alden noticed was Skiff—Chicago’s very own Water Shaper. He stared at the hero in surprise.


Of course he was wearing his board shorts. He’d been wearing them the last time Alden had seen him, too. And it had been freezing then.


What are the chances that he’d be one of my interviewers? Is it on purpose?


Well…Skiff had always seemed to like all of the parts of hero work that involved hanging out with kids and teenagers. The fun, big brother PR stuff appeared to be his comfort zone. It stood to reason that he’d volunteer at his old high school, too.


Beside him was a petite, older woman who was somehow making a rhinestone-studded, emerald green pinafore dress look like a casual thing to wear. The third member of the group was a strong-jawed man with blue eyes and short, graying hair.


None of them were speaking to each other when Alden entered.


They seem kind of tense.


Maybe they’d argued during the last interview?


They all stood as he entered, and he shook everyone’s hand, starting with the man on the right.


“Torsten Klein,” he said. “I teach some courses here at the high school. Offensive combat mostly.”


“Nice to meet you.”


“Hello, Alden!” said the woman, leaning across the table. “I’m not teaching at the high school, but we’ll see each other eventually. I teach at the university and advise Seniors who are finalizing their public personas. I just go by Colibrí. My hero name grew on me over the years, so I made it official.”


Alden shook her hand. It makes sense that the university faculty would be involved, too. Graduates from the high school hero track were automatically accepted to the university one, so there was no question about where you’d eventually be going to school unless you dropped out or were booted.


“And I’m Skiff. Or Lawrence is fine. I haven’t quite decided. You might—”


“Of course. It’s really cool to meet you in person!” He wasn’t even lying. It was cool to shake hands with someone he’d been watching on television for several years.


Boe would probably make fun of me. And remind me that the last time I saw this guy he was trying to figure out who had Chainer for the Velras or the anti-Velras.


Which team Skiff was doing a favor for that day when they’d walked past him at the consulate had never been settled.


Alden sat in a chair facing the trio.


“So! Tell us what kind of hero you imagine being in the future,” Colibrí said. “Take as much time as you need.”


Okay. So it’s that question. They’d asked it in both of the previous interviews. And it was the main subject of the essay he’d written. So it wasn’t like he couldn’t answer.


He could answer it so well, in fact, that he didn’t even have to think about most of the words coming out of his mouth. Battlefield support. The guy whose work makes the other heroes more effective.


Hannah’s dream.


For the first time, Alden added on a bit about how difficult he’d found it to be the only responsible party on Moon Thegund. He was assuming they were finally going to ask him about what had happened in this interview, since it had barely been brought up the last one.


“I know lower-rank sidekicks, and even hero duos, aren’t as popular these days unless they’re…”


He tried to think of how to say ‘just for the sake of the show’ without offending Instructor Colibrí, who seemed to be someone who was in charge of making the show more showy. “Unless they’re unique cases. But I think there would be a lot of benefits to having a dedicated partner and learning the ins and outs of each other’s power set. Working alone isn’t the ideal scenario.”


“That’s a wonderful point!” Colibrí said brightly.


“Do you know why so many superheroes operate on their own when it comes to higher level combat?” Instructor Klein asked. “You do see hero teams working together to fight regular crime. It makes for exciting footage if nothing else. So do you understand why an S-rank in pursuit of an equally powerful supervillain might prefer not to have help beyond the usual…which is to have other individually capable members of the hero team evacuate civilians, relay critical information, and block off access to the battle site?”


“It’s for a lot of different reasons, isn’t it?” Alden said. He ticked them off. “There’s the whole ‘What if I screw up and kill my partner?’ factor. Which I’m sure makes a lot of people just not want to deal with it at all. Then there’s the fact that you need to dedicate additional training time so that you understand how to fight alone and in a pair or team. Trust would be a huge issue; if you don’t absolutely trust your partner to do their job, then what’s the point? And…if the support hero is, for example, functioning in a way that makes it possible for the primary damage dealer to safely deal more damage than they would otherwise be able to…then an error on the support’s part means that their partner might cause much more harm to infrastructure and bystanders than they would have if they’d been working completely alone. It makes both heroes look bad, and it’s the support’s error. But people don’t understand. They usually blame the person in the limelight who dealt the damage, not the person in the background who was supposed to prevent it.”


Instructor Klein looked surprised. “Those are a lot of reasons. You’ve put some thought into it after all.”


