This was Tala’s element, and even with all of Rane’s advantages, she still matched him more often than not, even overcoming his defensive magics through proper positioning to force him to withdraw or have his attacks spoiled as his own magic tried to keep him from being struck.

It was a testament to their different fighting styles. Hers was specifically geared toward taking hits as appropriate, where his style was almost entirely around not allowing any to connect. With that in mind, his contact with her was as much a part of her defense as his magic moving him out of the way.

Because of that, they both were quite well aware that she was actually ‘engaging’ his magical defenses more often than he engaged hers, as stood to reason. Though, in truth, she wasn’t actually counting.

…Alat was.

Alat—and Tala’s perfect memory—made not counting impossible, but Tala wasn’t keeping track, herself. Instead, she was simply enjoying yet another facet of her relationship with the man she loved.

* * *

Tea time came sooner than they’d have preferred, but Alat and Enar ensured they had enough lead-time to bathe and get cleaned up after their sparring before Master Grediv arrived.

Mistress Petra and company had laid out a wonderful spread of tea-time snacks as well as ten different types of tea, each brewed to perfection and kept warm by amazing magic.

I do so love this place. I have to be careful or I’ll become indolent.

-Become?-

Hush you.

Tala almost asked a silly question like, ‘Are there really that many types of tea?’ but she thought better of it, and simply thanked the woman after she’d presented the layout for their approval. Mistress Petra, of course, accepted the thanks, bowed, and departed with a minor act of will exactly as Tala opened a portal out to Alefast, Waning at the appointed time.

The gate opened right in front of Master Grediv as he walked into range of Kit, causing the man to hesitate momentarily before walking through. He huffed a laugh and shook his head before muttering, “That’s only slightly disconcerting.”

He had a smile on his face even before Rane walked over to give his old mentor a hug.

Tala hugged the older Paragon after, a smile tugging at her lips. It wasn’t every day she was able to surprise him, and so it was entertaining to have been able to do so.

She only felt a bit uncertain at the man’s presence. After all, Master Grediv had willingly entered into their domain, placing himself under their authority. To be fair, they were in his city, so they’d done the same to him—even if to a less extreme degree given that his authority was on the superficial of Zeme and therefore not as contained as theirs within Kit.

Still, they were, all three, currently a tangle of overlapping authority, both actual and granted.

She shook her head and grinned. It was going to be an interesting afternoon.
