The stars sparkled. And then they began to wink out. The moons vanished all at once. The night sky was such a deep blue that it looked black, but it wasn’t until actual blackness began to spread that one could tell the difference. Now, as darkness swept the sky, Erick could see.

Like ink, it spread.

And then, came the light.

A single, brilliant star, exploded into being in the center of the spell, illuminating everything and nothing all at once. The star cascaded black ink through the manasphere, like a continuous detonation. It hurt to look at, for the star was set beyond the darkness, and yet it was a part of the darkness itself.

Erick watched the star cascade for a little while, sending out tiny bits of disrupting Extreme Light, no doubt. At that thought, Erick’s calculating mind came back to him. The rift was about three hundred meters up there. The true stars and the moons had reappeared beyond his spellwork, though looking upon the spell, the central star was surrounded by a good twenty meters of deep, deep shadows, with tendrils of shadows that reached out up to a hundred meters away—

No. That wasn’t right. Some of those tendrils reached all the way to the ground, with one of them only twenty meters away from where Erick stood. Some of those tendrils reached far, far into the distance.

The spell had a range of kilometers. That was unintended, but Erick was thankful. He had thought he would need to Shape this spell to make it bigger. Maybe he wouldn’t need to—

A blue box appeared.

Undertow Star, instant, super long range, 4500 mana

Summon the Undertow Star! All are the same; all are different.

You may designate allies and enemies at will. All others are still subject to the star’s power.

Allies are excluded from the star’s wrath unless they get too close.

Drain 2x WIL Health and 2x WIL Mana per second from every target in a super large area of effect. Effect is stronger in the depths. Distant targets might not understand that they are being drained. Prevent all non-allied spatial travel within the star’s sight. Gradually erode any non-allied spellwork within the area of effect. The star will defend itself and allies with extreme light and against encroachment with worse.

Lasts 24 hours.

For every 10 resources drained, the spell will last 20 more minutes, gain 3 more points of [Dispel] protection, and be able to erode enemy spellwork with WIL extreme light damage.

It was a pretty big box! It was a pretty good spell, too.

Erick looked to his party.

Teressa stared up at the [Undertow Star], her eyes rolled back in her head a bit; no doubt trying [Witness] the spell as it was created up above, or… Hmm.

Perhaps she was mana sensing at a distance, to understand what the heck the tendrils of shadows were doing to the manasphere. Now that Erick wasn’t making the magic, he noticed a large oddity.

Normally, the mana around here flowed from north to south.

But now… Mana floated up, toward the [Undertow Star], like the spell was a hole in the manasphere, only to flow out once again, through all the shadow tendrils all around. The star wasn’t actually absorbing the ambient mana… But it certainly looked odd. Spells didn’t normally do that.

Jane looked up at the working, then down to her father. She seemed concerned, in that ‘are you hurting yourself again?’ sort of way.

Poi was worried, too, but for some other reason. Probably because of the noise.

The [Undertow Star] hummed into the world, with a constant, low grade sound. It was almost like when Erick had made Ophiel, but distinctly different; less otherworldly, for sure, but still supernatural. It wasn’t an unpleasant sound, but then again Erick liked Ophiel’s original sound just fine, too. In fact, [Undertow Star] sounded sort of like the air conditioner turning on, but distant, and barely audible. A very quiet AC. Erick always loved that sound because it made falling asleep back on Earth a lot easier. He had been missing that sound, now that he thought about it.

And now he had that sound back? Well wasn’t that interesting. Erick had made this spell so that he would feel safer falling asleep, after all. [Undertow Star] would prevent people from blipping into his sleeping space, lock down everyone who wasn’t admitted, and suck away all their resources, while also making itself rather [Dispel] resistant, too! Domains were likely still a problem, but if Erick ever added a Domain to some future version of this spell, then he could kill that particular weakness, too.

Magic was pretty awesome like that.

Nirzir’s reaction was not subdued at all. Her voice was filled with glee as she shouted for joy, “That’s amazing!” She asked, “What is it?”

Teressa softly said, “I got no idea what it’s supposed to do, either.”

Erick smiled. He almost spoke of his new [Luminosity] spell, but he decided not to.

That was probably the paranoia talking, but whatever!

Poi knew! That was enough, for now.

Erick didn’t hand out the blue box, yet, for there were parts of it that were concerning, so he first explained, “I put a lot of different spells into this working in order to produce a guardian for when we’re all camped out. It does quite a few things—”

“Where’s the box, dad?” Jane asked. She had caught on rather quickly that he was hedging his new spell.

Nirzir asked, “Can I see the box, too—”

A tendril of shadows rapidly moved across the intervening space between Erick and Nirzir, and the rest of his party, racing off toward the west. Everyone looked up, and watched as several thin tendrils, each multiple hundreds of meters long, joined together in the far distance, touching down upon something.

Erick sent an Ophiel a kilometer over to investigate.

“Ah,” he said, watching through Ophiel’s eyes with half of his focus. “It’s a pack of red dogs, or something. Not sure if they’re different from what we have over in the Crystal Forest, or not.”

The red dogs were each half as large as a cow, with massive teeth and fur that looked as sharp as needles. The [Undertow Star]’s tendrils reached for them, and caught them. The dogs panicked a bit, growling and trying to chomp at the shadows with their large teeth. Teeth met nothing, and soon, the dogs stopped caring about the spellwork touching them. [Undertow Star] had no obvious effects, unless you were paying attention to your resources, after all, and monsters were still monsters, even if they were zeroed out on both Health and Mana.

Erick said, “They’re headed this way.”

“Red dogs? Are you sure they’re not wolves?” Nirzir asked, “Do they have four eyes?”

“Oh. Well.” Erick looked again, then said, “No. Two eyes, and something that looks like eye spots just above their real eyes.”

“Oh!” Nirzir’s face flushed with light embarrassment. “Uh. Yes. They’re still called four-eyed wolves. They are expert nighttime hunters. They’re attracted to magic.” Nirzir said, “I’ve been told they’re harmless, but they are monsters. Best kill them.”

Erick had already seen that they were monsters; they had cores in their chests.

Poi ignored the discussion over monsters, and spoke about the spell Erick had made. “You can’t cast this spell in a city, Erick. It doesn’t matter if you can make it not affect anyone.”

Erick hadn’t given out the box yet, but Poi had already read what Erick had read, for sure.

“You have a good point, Poi, but I can already think of a few ways that this spell would be perfect for inside a city, if it was Shaped properly, anyway. It doesn’t do any actual damage— But I can see that you are probably correct.” Erick shrugged. “It’ll be good for when we’re out under the stars, and wary of our surroundings. These tendrils seem to automatically find everyone around! Isn’t that something! Just think of the applications.” Erick prevented further discussion on the topic, for now, saying, “Now watch. I’m going to designate those wolves as ‘enemies’.”

Jane, Teressa, and Nirzir, all cast a spell to see in the distance. Poi did not; he remained on watch.

Erick designated the wolves as enemies.

High above, the [Undertow Star] radiated a baleful light. The tendrils of shadow surrounding the wolves began to rotate and pull, becoming hungry, ethereal twisters. The wolves instantly resumed growling and chomping at the darkness, their fangs flashing in the night. But when that did nothing, the forward wolf made a decision and howled into the night air, then charged forward, toward the thing attacking it. Running toward the star in the sky. The pack followed.

The wolves had no hope of ever assaulting the spell hanging so high in the air, and yet, still, they rushed toward the thing that was hurting them. Well. Not ‘hurting’ them. There was no actual damage taking place. The wolves were likely out of Health, though.

[Undertow Star] didn’t kill! Point proven.

So Erick finished the monsters off with the quick squiggle of a [Luminous Beam].

Erick came back to himself, just in time to see the light of his spell upon the horizon.

The others came back soon enough.

Erick handed out the spell, saying, “This’ll be good if I have to fight an army. Or a dragon. It can shut them down without injury.”

As Teressa and Jane read the spell, their eyes went a little wide. Nirzir got a wonderful, crazy grin on her face. Poi didn’t bother to read the blue box.

Jane got a weird, worried look, as she asked, “When did you learn [Teleport Lock]?”

“I didn’t.” Erick smiled. “I doubt this prevention is absolute, because the denial you’re seeing is the [Spatial Denial] I made a while ago, and that is certainly not absolute.”

Jane jerked, then relaxed, and said, “Oh.”

Teressa tentatively asked, “What would happen if it absorbed a million mana, or something like that? Surely there has to be a limit… Right?”

“Probably.” Erick said, “The Propagation Ban is certainly a thing that exists.”

“This is amazing!” Nirzir’s eyes were wide as she shook the blue box for [Undertow Star] in her hand. She looked to Erick, saying, “If this spell was under the control of Void Song then we could extend our peace and prosperity far beyond the Void Wall. We can reach all the way to our borders!”

“[Undertow Star] is not ‘Particle Mage Only’, though I did use some of those tricks in there.” Erick said, “You might be able to figure it out through your own methodology.”

Nirzir stood straight, and nodded.

Erick warned, “And you can handle the headache of bringing about a new world order through the single failure point of a single spell, when you do.”

Nirzir stood a bit less straight, and nodded again, a bit less sure this time.

Teressa furrowed her brows at the young girl, but since she was a good meter and a half taller than Nirzir, Nirzir didn’t even notice. Teressa didn’t like that the Void Song was the Songli solution to the problem of everyone having magic; she preferred for everyone to get stronger so that everyone could fight when needed.

Jane actually said the words aloud, though, “I think that too many people already have it too safe inside the cities.”

Nirzir softly said, “Safety is not a bad word. Everyone should be able to live their lives free of monsters.”

“It’s a nice thought, for sure!” Erick said, ending that discussion. He flicked his intent at the [Undertow Star], canceling the spell. The star burst into a nebula of dark light, taking the tendrils with it in a cascade of return to the mana. “But for now, we go back to Holorulo. We’re leaving the city in 3 days.”

Nirzir mumbled, “Right.”
