“No. I don’t. I may be able to walk through a marketplace and know the problems people have, but you can do the same thing on the scale of a hundred marketplaces, and you’re allowed to act on what you see. I cannot act on anything I see, unless someone is in direct physical peril, and maybe not even then.” Poi said, “But even so, maybe some advice I was given a long time ago might help you: There are limits to giving of oneself to the world, and you are so far past your own limits that you don’t even know where you last left them.”

Erick frowned; knowing Poi was right, and yet still feeling some kinda difficult way whenever he saw someone in trouble.

Erick said, “I suppose I shouldn’t discount the ability for others to do well by themselves, either.”

Teressa said, “Exactly!”

Nirzir had watched the discussion with rapt, quiet attention.

After lunch was over, Erick allowed Nirzir to have her pick of the extra rooms, to set herself up, and then he decided to take a nap so that he could ignore whatever conversation Poi needed to have with the young girl.

Hours later, Erick awoke to the smells of burned something.

Nirzir was desperately trying to make dinner. By herself.

She had the rice in the steamer but there wasn’t any water under the basket.

The fillets of fish had been mangled beyond belief.

The frying oil was barely hot enough to fry—

And now there’s a fire. And! The girl was crying. Nirzir had been crying a little this whole time, but now came the waterworks.

Erick rapidly got out of bed to go help her.

Teressa, who had stopped practicing with her aura to watch the show from three rooms over, sent to him, ‘It’s just food! Let her burn it! And then let her eat it.’

‘I may not recognize all of my limits, but one of them is little girls crying over failed dinner preparation.’

Teressa laughed; her boisterous voice carried through the house.

- - - -

“… Thank you.” Nirzir said, her face red as she joined Erick in his library, after dinner. “For helping… With everything.”

Dinner had been well-seasoned and seared pork chops, buttered vegetables, bone broth soup (which was much better than it sounded), and rice, along with an assortment of sauces. It had taken two hours for Nirzir to make the meal, with much of that time spent restarting, and with Erick helping her the whole way. To Nirzir’s credit, she powered through; she might have cried a bit but she got it done. Erick even offered to take over for her twice, but Nirzir assured him that him ‘taking over’ was not an option for her. She had to do this. Erick had said that everyone cooked, and so, Nirzir would cook.

Erick had offered to let her try something simpler, but that was a non-starter of an idea, too. No; Nirzir wanted a good dinner, and she was going to make it happen.

And after a fashion, it had.

“You’re welcome,” Erick said, looking up from his book. “Learning how to cook takes time and patience and recipes.” He smiled, and joked, “Just like how they say you’re supposed to learn magic.”

Nirzir asked, “I don’t understand why you cook for yourself, though? Other people are much better at it. You could hire a world class Cook if you wanted.” She added, “I mean… There are wait lists to get good Cooks, so I can understand that.”

“… Wait lists?”

“Oh yes. A good Cook is hard to find! I can’t imagine that you wouldn’t get your pick of Cooks… though.” Nirzir eyed Erick and frowned a little. She sat down in the seat across from him, saying, “You have no idea what I mean when I say that, do you?”

Erick smirked. He closed his book, saying, “Not really.”

“Cooks? In the guilds? The Cooking Guilds?”

“What? Oh my gods!” Erick laughed. “There are cooking guilds?”

“Of course there are cooking guilds! You don’t know— Oh! They’re big on this side of the world. Maybe not so much over in Glaquin? I don’t know about that.” Nirzir said, “I do know that if you don’t get in good with them, then you might never get a decent Cook in your life! My family has a branch family of Cooks and I might be lucky enough to hire one of their 8 stars once I become an actual archmage, but even that is not for certain. My brothers have joked at committing an inter-family polite war when the next 10 star Cook comes out of Eralis…” Her voice trailed off, then turned serious, “We don’t think it’s a joke anymore.”

Erick’s eyes went wide as he gave a nervous chuckle. “Oh my gods.”

“Oh! Uh. No one will die…” She softly said, “Probably.”

“Ah. Well…” Erick asked, “So I take it these cooks are rated like Adventuring Guild threats?”

“Oh yes. I think the two guilds originated together, but only the Cooking Guilds survived Nelboor. There’s all sorts of different specific Cooking Guilds, too.” Nirzir said, “If you know where to look, you’ll see their Cooks everywhere. There’s a 9 star in the Void Temple. We have a 10 star at the palace; Neri Fei. She’s been with us for thirty years. The Headmaster collects as many 10 stars as he can get, but he’s at the bottom of the waiting list right now. Void Song is next in line, and we’ve been waiting for a decade. Neri Fei is fantastic, but she’s looking to retire. I never tried cooking before tonight—” Her eyes went wide. She looked away.

Erick’s heart beat hard as a thousand terrible scenarios raced through his mind.

Instead of panicking, though, he calmly asked, “What is it?”

With a completely normal, happy tone of voice, Nirzir continued, “I was just remembering a conversation— Did you know that Matriarch Lingxing is a 7 star cook? Not a classed Cook, so she can’t go higher than that, but I was just remembering… that. I don’t think it’s a secret? She really likes food and that’s not a secret at all.” She paused. She asserted, “It’s not a secret.”

Oh.

Nothing was happening.

This was just a normal talk.

Erick relaxed.

Nirzir glanced at the book in Erick’s hands, asking, “Reading about the grass travelers?”

“Somewhat.” Mostly, he was thinking about a spell that would be useful against entire armies without actually hurting them. Erick held up the thin book. “I got it with Ophiel while you were cooking.”

Nirzir smiled a little. “I know a little bit about that, if you are interested—” She dropped her hopeful expression, as though remembering something else. She rapidly continued, “But I will let you get back to your reading.” She stood up, saying, “Thank you again for helping with dinner. It was most informative.”

“… Anytime.”

Erick looked up to Nirzir, and the girl blushed.

And then she turned tail and tried to rush out of there as fast as—

Erick said, “I’ll be making one more spell before I’m ready to leave Songli behind. It’ll happen around midnight, or a bit later. Do you want me to wake you up for that?”

Stuck halfway through the doorway, Nirzir turned, and brightly said, “Yes!”

And then she rushed away, down the hallway, toward her room.

Erick chuckled a little, thinking it cute that Nirzir had a crush on him. That was unexpected! That was probably what Poi talked to her about, too. Ha!

He went back to reading.

- - - -

Some time much later, when the only ones awake were Erick and Ophiel, Ophiel sent Erick a ping because something was happening in Jane’s room. Erick switched over to his mana sense and watched as a dark blue [Scry] eye bobbed around for a moment, and then popped all on its own. A second later, dark blue light blipped in the air, and Jane tumbled out of that light, directly into her bed. She discarded a metal sword to the ground where it clanged and thudded against the carpet. Within seconds, Jane was asleep.

Ophiel tapped her with a [Greater Treat Wounds] and a [Cleanse], healing the few cuts she had on her arms and cleaning away the filth she had tracked into her bed.

Jane shifted around a bit more, then settled down, looking a lot more relaxed.

“Tough day, I suspect,” Erick said to himself.

And then he went back to playing around with Ophiel and magic, well outside of everyone’s sight.

- - - -

Ophiels tumbled through the sky, supported on auras of [Physical Domain], lighting the darkness around them with brilliant magenta explosions. Sometimes the explosions were too brilliant, and Ophiel ripped himself apart. But soon enough, another Ophiel would pop into the world and flit over to the party, to join the rest of himself, to fill up the gap that had been created by his temporary diminishment.

To learn to fly through the use of a spell that was very much not suited to the task.

Flying on [Physical Domain] was difficult. Erick could suspend Ophiel upon vibrations in the air and turn that air dense around him, becoming practically immovable. Doing so usually carved a crater into the nearby ground and sent Ophiel upward. Ophiel stopped ascending, though, when the magenta vibrations of suspension equalized Ophiel’s weight, with the size of the vibrational sphere having a large correlation with the distance Ophiel could achieve from the surface. Erick suspected that since Ophiel weighed a lot less than him and had wings that could hold him aloft, that Erick wouldn’t be able to get himself very far off the ground, using this method.

Erick confirmed this suspicion with Ophiel holding aloft a small rock that weighed about as much as Erick did, and yes, [Physical Domain] was not useful for flying. And besides that, flying with [Physical Domain] left a lot of destruction behind.

All of that was just to test to see if he could shift away from [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk], and surprise surprise: he could not.

So Erick moved on to the next part of the magic making. He plucked a few books from his library, and went over what Veird knew of Extreme Light. Among those books was one that had followed Erick all the way from Treehome. There was another which Erick had picked up from Tsung, at the gathering at Red Ledger’s new clan mountain, but that one was more of a pamphlet, really. Some Knowledge Mage had published them with the goal of informing people of why Terror Peaks’ Extreme Light bombs had worked so well against their defenses. Erick had acquired another, similar pamphlet from the Clan Exchange, when he sold all those monster cores to them.

All of them were shit at explaining Extreme Light.

But, still, there was enough there to get an idea of what Extreme Light was. So Erick tried it.

With Mana Altering for the idea of Extreme Light, Erick cast through Ophiel, willing [Force Bolt] to strike a [Force Wall] he had already cast on the cratered plains. A brilliant shard of light zipped through the air and struck the Wall, embedding in the glass-like surface, sending a spider web of cracks of bright white light a meter from the impact point.

The Wall held, though.

A blue box appeared.

Extreme Light Bolt, instant, long range, 50 mana

A bolt of extreme light inexorably strikes a target, causing 2x WIL points of damage to magical structures.

[Force Wall]s normally had 500 points of defensive capability, which meant that for 50 mana, Erick had inflicted just over 300 points of damage to the construct. This was technically good. Force was harder to disrupt and dispel than normal magic.

To [Dispel] normal magic, one usually had to spend as much mana as the magic cost, in order to [Dispel] that magic.

To [Dispel] Force, one usually had to spend as much mana as the Force was worth in defensive points, and Force that was attended by the caster required a lot more than that; sometimes as much as twice as much.

Erick had already created [Force Breaker], though, through Trick Magic, and that worked a lot better against Force than did this new [Extreme Light Bolt].

Force Breaker, instant, long range, 75 MP

Trick a Force spell into breaking.

Erick came back to himself, in the library of his temporary house.

He went over the books before him and decided, “Okay. So I made the good Bolt. But...” He cast a glance back to the cracked Wall on the plains. “Doesn’t look like a proper version of radiation destruction, though.” He mumbled to himself, “Probably a function of how much power was put into the working, and [Force Breaker] is better, anyway...”

His voice trailed off as he thought.

Erick devised an experiment.

An Ophiel let his [Physical Domain] loose, letting it expand to the full distance of nearly five kilometers in every direction. And then that Ophiel took a hundred meter sphere of that space and shifted it into both Harmonize and Amplify, while other Ophiel set up completely normal [Force Wall]s, each worth 500 points of defensive power, in a curve distribution that arced away from the vibrating space. Each Wall would be exposed to the radiation coming from the [Physical Domain], but each one would be further from that vibrating space by one more meter than the one before.

The setup was complete.

It took thirty more seconds for the experimental space in the center of the [Force Wall]s to begin to be visible to the naked eye.

It started like seeing the pressure wave from an explosion. And then, small white waves of power bounced around inside the sphere, like ripples on a 3D pond surface.

A minute later, the white waves flickered magenta; a threshold was crossed. Magenta power crashed from the edges of the space, into the center, and then out again, like the beating of a massive heart. Glows built upon glows. Power grew. Soon, the magenta space was as bright as the sun.

Radiation began to break away from the pulsing sphere.

The [Force Wall]s had been barely visible glass-like monoliths, floating in the night air. But now, they began to glitter as ionizing radiation showered upon them like invisible, sideways rain.

The nearest Wall was all of a meter from the vibrating sphere. It lasted ten seconds. Then it burst away from the magenta light like cotton candy dissolving in water. In that time, the pulsing sphere pulsed larger, but a surrounding application of Normalize kept the sphere from further expansion.

Walls two through ten, each positioned about that many meters from the sphere, lasted from ten seconds for the nearest wall, to 14 seconds at wall number 10, while the wall at 50 meters away lasted nearly 40 seconds.

Erick smiled, even before he did the math. Force spells needed [Dispel]s based on the power of the underlying [Force], not on the mana needed to cast that Force. Each one of those Walls should have taken 500 mana to [Dispel]. Force was good like that.

