I watched her. Her skeletal face didn’t have much in the way of expression, but the way she stared at nothing… Her past life was obviously clearer to her than mine was to me.

“There was this guard,” she continued. “I managed to talk him into letting me have a smoke. Hadn't had one in years. Maybe he was in a bit of a nice mood, considering the world was about to end and all.”

“World was about to end?” I asked.

“The meteors dropping out of the sky and killing all those people. I thought it was a joke when I first heard about it. But the prison started going on lockdown, could tell something big was going on out in the world.”

I nodded, thinking back to my very last memory of Earth. When I was cold, and then that bright thing came at me. Plus, that’s how Genzo said he had died, though he was from a different world.

“So what caused that to start happening?” I asked her.

“Can’t say I know too much about it, but even when you're locked up, news from outside manages to trickle down to you. Whole world was going fucking insane, apparently. Meteors weren’t even the biggest problem as far as casualties, really. Governments freaking out and launching all their bombs. Cults forming, believing it was all God’s doing or something. Mobs, witch hunts, you name it.

“But I remember, when I was standing there in the yard, shackles on my wrists and ankles, enjoying that smoke, I was just staring at the sky and thinking how nice it’d be if one of them meteors were for me. If it came down and took me out right then.” She let out a raspy chuckle. “Sure enough…”

“Then you woke up here?” I asked.

“Yep. I don’t really know what this place is. Or what’s going on. Why getting hit with a meteor would put me here.” She turned to me for just a moment. “I’m assuming you got hit with one too, huh?”

“Yeah. Most people in this world don’t know about people like us. We’re called transmigrators.” I thought for a moment, then added, “Earth isn’t the only one either. Apparently it happens every few years or so with a different world.”

“Even more worlds, huh? Funny, something about that idea makes me feel a whole lot better.”

Her gaze was off me, just staring blankly at the ceiling once again.

I moved my hand down to one of the daggers at my waist. I thought for a moment. I thought for a very hard moment as I stared at her. But I had known all along how this would end.

I tightened my grip around the hilt. “I’m going to kill you now.”

“Thanks for the warning,” she muttered.

I drew it from its sheath and carefully stepped towards her. I wanted to ask if there was anything else like her here in the ruined city, but decided better of it. Not after I made my declaration. It felt wrong to keep drilling someone I was about to kill for information to help with my own survival. I think the right thing to do at this point would just be to make it quick.

I raised the dagger, my focus locked onto her eye sockets. I really hoped I could end it with a single strike and—

She suddenly lurched up from the ground and tackled her shoulder into me. It happened so suddenly I wasn’t prepared and lost my footing, being taken to the ground with her. She was still tied up, and she kicked and struggled, trying to break free.

“GRRRRRR!” I growled, grabbing her shoulder and wrestling to get on top of her. I succeeded at spinning her around, and as soon as she kicked her legs free, a bony knee slammed at my side, trying to force me off. It seemed I’d tied her hands well enough, at least, because she hadn’t managed to get them free.

I gripped the dagger and plunged down with all of my body weight, slamming it right through her eye socket. A raspy gasp escaped her, but there was still light in her other eye, so I yanked the dagger free from her skull, spraying shards of bone, and plunged it down again. This time, her body shuddered once, and then collapsed into a detached pile of bones.

Great Foe Eliminated - Skeleton Night Sentry Level 25

Experience Gained!

Achievement! A Sentry’s Final Watch

Working the graveyard shift is a tiring lifestyle. She should thank you for helping her with the early retirement.

Minor Bonus to all stats

Achievement! Should have gone for the head

You defeated an enemy who repeatedly hunted, wounded, and toyed with you. Mercy is dangerous when one’s prey has teeth. She should have gone for the head.

Minor bonus to all stats

Bonus experience awarded!

You have leveled up!

You are now level 21!

+8 Vigor

+8 Strength

+7 Dexterity

+10 Attunement

+9 Sense

I nodded at each of those, flicking them away one at a time. But then, one final Achievement popped up. I blinked as I read it...

Achievement! Oops, was that important?

You just killed another transmigrator! Was it important? You’ll find out eventually.

A@234!$AF!d Awarded!

What… the hell…?
