Reach for Balance, or you're dead again. Breathe. My sword is me, I am the sword. My head clears, the pain falling from me like removing a cloak. Lifting Peace once more, my chi strengthens the weapon and sharpens the blade. I stab, the point sinking deep into the snake's cheek. Opening its mouth in reflex, I fall to the ground, the fangs exiting my body with a sickening squelch. Landing lightly on my feet, I launch myself forward at the snake, Peace leading my charge, the Honed weapon biting deep, gouging through the snake's body as easily as cutting grass.

Huushal and Sumila have joined the fray, weapons brandished, as Adujan fires arrow after arrow at the snake, impacting uselessly on its scales. Huushal's sword glances off the scales, but Sumila's spear bites deep, triggering a frenzy of movement from the snake, almost hypnotic to watch. Jamming Peace straight down into the snake, I slide atop the snake as the tail slashes past me, air hissing a sharp and angry sound, missing by scant centimeters. The snake's body wraps around my legs, coiling tighter, rising higher around me, muscles flexed. I feel the crushing pressure around my legs, my knees bruising one another, almost cracking, as the snake tries to crush me into a pulp. The snake brings its face in front of mine and watches me, intent on its prey, readying for another bite.

Sumila's spear launches through the air, but the snake dodges with a smooth, sinuous motion, almost effortlessly. Wrenching Peace out of the snake, the creature twists as the blade slides free, issuing a primal, hissing cry with jaws wide open, straight ahead of me. Lifting it above my head, I throw Peace into its open maw, the blade spinning end over end, my chi Honing the blade as it pierces through the roof of its mouth. The snake drops dead, still coiled around my legs, dead weight tangling me and forcing me to the ground. Fuck you snakey snake. We could have been friends. You just had to be an asshole.

My breath comes erratically, gurgling as I start to drown in my own blood. Frothy, pink bubbles come up with every breath, my body shivering uncontrollably, pain once again surging through me. They gather around me, speaking to me but unheard, grasping at me but unfelt. My eyes close as I focus on healing myself. My lung and liver are punctured, shredded by the impact of the two fangs. Legs, badly crushed, broken in several places. Three ribs, broken clean off, a mass of bruises on my arm, chest, and back. At least it only had the two fangs, if it had bottom fangs as well, I would have been dead on impact. I really hope it wasn't poisonous.

Most of my chi was spent enhancing my blade and blocking my pain, and the Energy of the Heavens rushes into me like water poured into sand. I seize it, direct it, working damage control, stopping myself from bleeding to death, trying to restore some function to my liver. I know I can survive with one lung, but how long will I survive with no liver? Hours or weeks? No idea. I should find out, if I survive this, triage is important. I continue to direct as much chi as I can towards my injuries, focusing on nothing else. Time is meaningless as I work, slowly keeping myself alive.

A cooler, more controlled stream of energy arrives, wresting control away from me. Wherever the energy lands, I watch as the broken and mangled bits of bone and tissue are broken down and repurposed, my liver reforming slowly, ribs regrowing from the broken stumps, flesh mending. Rather than starting at one point, and healing outwards, the energy splits into hundreds of thousands of tiny pinpoint locations, healing small areas individually, faster than anything I could accomplish. It comes and goes while I watch, healing me in frequent, short bursts, and when I've seen it dozens of times, I try to mimic it on my own. Split the chi, let it seep into every iota of my injuries, a cloud of energy rather than a focused beam. Splitting the chi is simple, but giving it purpose, making it heal me instead of simply flowing through me, it's damn near impossible. Like trying to knit with a thousand needles at once, using only one finger, and managing to weave a complex tapestry. Too difficult for me, I need to ask how. Finally, the healing is completed, and I fall into a deep, dreamless sleep.

I guess it's time to reset the counter.
