“This is unbelievable!” Her friend said. “No wonder everyone was saying it was an easy quest!”

Hidden Quest complete!

You discovered the truth about the missing crewmen and took it upon yourself to free the captives at great risk to yourself.

Rewards: 8,245 XP; 5,000 gold coins

Both women gasped at that. When the metal man had given them the Protection amulets and told them that if they ever did fall in the water, they could breathe normally no matter how long they were in there. It gave Dana's friend the idea of going underwater intentionally when they were at the stranded ship. They had met the Sea Dwellers beside the boat, and when they were asked where they had received their enchanted items, they were taken to the cavern and given the captives.

“D-D-Dana, did... did you... you got that too, right?” Her friend asked, and Dana nodded, then both women's eyes nearly bulged out of their heads at the next one.

Optional Quest complete!

You have safely returned one of the stranded crew to port (the woman's husband).

Rewards: 5,000 XP; 5,000 gold coins

Recovery Bonus (for getting one of the expensive cargo crates back to port): 25,000 XP; 5,000 gold coins

“I can't believe this!” Dana exclaimed, and then started to tremble as she and her friend received the popup for a level up. They read it several times, dismissed it, then kind of walked and stumbled as they held onto each other and walked up the dock towards the East Gate to go back into the city. A bunch of shadows passed over them, and Dana looked up. Her mouth dropped open and her hand gripped onto her friend's arm very tightly.

“Ow, Dana! What are you...”

Dana pointed up, and her friend's mouth dropped open as well. They could see Ren flying high above them and he had a large pair of leathery bat wings. There were 4 red-skinned women who also had leathery wings flying around him, the metal woman on one side of him, who just happened to be flying without wings, and a short woman who had pearlescent bug-like wings that fluttered fast like a hummingbird's. A giant ram was somehow running circles around the group, and they could hear what they thought was Ren's laughter.

“Did... did we just see...” Dana's friend's words trailed off as they watched Ren's group make a bank turn, swoop down, then rise back up into the air and flew over them again.

“Yes.” Dana said, her voice filled with wonder. “Oh my god, yes.”
