“My dear, I don’t say this often…”With a tinge of blood still lingering around the side of her lips. Hecate let out a deep exhale.  “I almost, sort of… regret my approach today.”

“Oh, really?” Marina said in a bitter voice as she rubbed the side of her neck. “I thought you were pretty nonchalant about almost dying.”

“I have already told you, my dear, I’m not even close to death, and even if I was, why would I lament about myself being alive?”

Turning to the other side of the pillow, Marina raised a brow. “Then what are you regretting?”

“Oh dear, have you seen what those insects did to my dress?” Hecate cried. “I can’t believe it!” She pointed to the punctured fabrics. “Oh, they didn’t ruin my face as well, did they?”

“Yes… Yes, they did.” Marina nodded with a straight face. “You look absolutely hideous now.”

Hecate’s eyes widened. “Noooo! This can’t be!” She yelled, kicking her legs up and down on the bed. “Our relationship won’t be ruined by this, would it?”

“No, Hecate, you’re still as beautiful as the day before.” Marina complained, “How are you so gullible at your age?”

“Ah. Thank the realms! I don’t think I’m gullible by any means. You’re just too persuasive, my dear.” Resting her bare foot on the blanket, Hecate settled herself down. “But tell me, how old do you think I really am?”

“Uhh…” Marina quickly ran her eyes through Hecate’s features. “Vampires age differently, right? I felt like you’re in your thirties.”

“Seriously? Am I already an old hag to you? That is even worse news than having my face ruined.” She turned away from Marina.

“Well, if you take away the confidence, the composure, and your taste in style, then you could be in your twenties.” Marina pointed out.

“I am forever twenty-two, my dear!” Hecate cried. “...Even if it’s only in my heart.”

Marina refused to believe any of that. “You do realize that is younger than me, right?”

“What a pleasant surprise…” Hecate paused. “Given the way you have reacted to certain things.”

“Wow, is it wrong to try to be a better human being and be kind to other people?” Marina pulled on the blanket toward her end. “It seemed to have worked on you.”

“There is nothing wrong with being kind, my dear. However, there is such a thing as being kind in the wrong place.” Turning back to face Marina, Hecate said. “...Such as the Underworld.”

“Still worked on you,” Marina smirked as she extended her hand, tracing the bloody mark left on Hecate’s cheek. “I guess I wasn’t exactly kidding when I said they ruined your face.”

“My deflection attempt was rather futile with that attack.” Hecate softened her expression to a smile. “It’s not bad, is it?” She caressed Marina’s hand with her long, delicate fingers.

Marina whispered, “Not at all, it’s almost… beautiful in its own way.”

“How interesting. Now that you’re the older of the two of us, would you like to take the lead?” Inching her face closer, Hecate asked.

“Quit teasing me, Hecate. We both know you’re older than twenty-two. Mental age means nothing.” Marina argued softly.

“Fine, fine, looks like only the truth may please you now.” Hecate sighed. “I have existed for ten millennia and twenty-seven years more.”

Marina stared. “Wait–ten millennia as in ten thousand years?”

“The curse of knowledge, my dear, the curse of knowledge.”

“How many people have you dated before me?” Marina blurted.

“What an unexpected question. You’re my first.”

Taking her hand off Hecate’s face, Marina blurted, “Liar.”

“My dear, let me put it this way: existing is different from living.” Hecate continued to hold onto Marina’s hand. “Many of these years were spent idling away. I did more with the twenty-seven years I spent living than the ten thousand I spent trying to exist for another day.”

“Oh. I’m… I’m sorry for asking that.” Marina wrapped her arms around Hecate’s neck, pulling herself closer. “It must’ve sucked.”

“It did. It was the worst.” Hecate gently nodded.

“I’m twenty-four, by the way, not as old as you, haven’t lived or existed for as long as you have,” Marina said. “And I’m really passive.”

“Mm… was the last thing regarding taking the lead of our relationship?” Hecate giggled.

“It was, absolutely.” Marina watched as Hecate’s face touched hers, slowly melting into a slow kiss. “Alright, umm…” She broke away after a few moments. “I uh, need to go cook some stuff for the bee girl, cuz ya know…”

Hecate rested her head upon the palm of her hand. “Yes, I’m quite well-versed, my dear.”

“You need anything in the meantime?”

“Mmm…” Hecate pondered. “A bucket of water would be amazing.”

“Yeah, I would be back.” Hopping off the bed, Marina searched for her shoes in the corner.

By the time Marina climbed down the stairs, the time displayed by her System screen had already turned 8:30 pm. It was going to be yet another late dinner. But Mellie still seemed to be buried in her own work in the lab, with no cry of hunger or anything. Though considering her personality, she’d be too shy to do that even if she was indeed hungry.

“Mellie,” Marina knocked. “I’m coming in.”

“Yeah, Miss Marina.” She replied from the other side.

“You hungry yet?”

“Not particularly. I have been snacking on bee breads,” Mellie replied as she set down the jug in her hand. “How is Miss Hecate?”

“Oh, Hecate is recovering fine.” Marina grabbed a bucket before filling it with water using the pump. “How are things on your end? Finding anything extraordinary yet?”

“Not yet. Progress has been slow, same bottlenecks as always.” Mellie transported the jugs onto a workbench. “What did you two actually do today?”

“As I’ve said, we were in a collapsing cave while exploring for some materials, but we made it out alive—”

“Then explain the puncture wounds on Miss Hecate.” Mellie pointed out.

“Well, Hecate was doing Hecate things and was trying to protect me, so…” Marina shrugged. “That’s all that happened—”

“There were ants, Miss Marina.” Mellie raised her voice. “Those wounds on Miss Hecate are caused by their spears.”

Marina stared at the now-overflowing bucket in silence.

“Did I guess correctly, Miss Marina?” Mellie continued.

I knew this couldn’t get through her easily. Marina sighed as she turned off the pump switch. “Yes, Mellie, there were ants.”

“And neither of you told me anything about that?” Mellie cried. “And just flew off for like the entire afternoon, and then Miss Hecate came home covered in blood… Am I really just that useless to the two of you?”

“No, Mellie, you’re not useless. You’re smarter than both of us. We just didn’t want you to worry.” Marina tried to refute.

“Not to worry?” Tears fell from Mellie’s cheeks. “How could you just leave and come home like that, and expect me not to worry!” Running out of the lab, the front door slammed behind her.

“Damit!” Marina cursed. “Throw me back to the ant caves, will you?” She yelled at the reflection in the water.

Lifting the bucket with one hand, she stumbled across the room toward the ladder. She leaned forward, balancing herself with one hand on the shaky ladder before setting down the bucket on the attic floor.

“What a pain in the ass,” Marina complained as she caught her breath. “Genuinely!”

Sitting cross-legged on the bed, Hecate glanced over. “Was it as bad as I had observed from up here?”

“It’s worse. She literally left the house.” Marina sat down on a chair. “You doing yoga or what?”

“I have heard it’s an interesting exercise done by ladies in the cities, though, I’m not exactly athletic, nor can I stretch my body right now,” Hecate said. “But to answer your question, I’m stabilizing my Authority, and closing up my wounds.”

“That’s good.” Marina looked up to the ceiling. “You need help with cleaning them afterwards? I can wipe your back if you need it.”

“What a straightforward suggestion? So much for being passive, my dear.”

“Just get over here already!” Marina flustered.

“Yes, yes, almost there.” A red glow shone briefly around Hecate’s body. “Alright, my dear,” getting off the bed, Hecate undressed herself before placing the clothes neatly on the bed. “Feel free to do whatever it is you want to do.”

“Don’t make it weird, please!” Marina damped a towel in the bucket. Standing behind Hecate, she carefully wiped down the first grotesque puncture that healed for the most part. “Sorry.” She apologized as Hecate let out a shiver at the touch.

“My dear.”

“Yes?”

“We owe Mellie an apology,” Hecate turned her head back slightly. “That girl, I could tell, she really does care for us.”

“Yeah, you’re right. I suppose because she doesn’t really have anyone else, she really does value the few people that she has.” Marina sighed as she rinsed the towel. “And she really wants to live to see those people happy and well.”

“...”