Rolling his beautiful eyes, Gerel said, “You presented them with a lavish red pocket at their wedding not four days ago, spent a quarter-million gold on War Bonds yesterday afternoon, and still you wish to gift them more? Peace, wife. A gift would demand reciprocation, and I assure you Rain would not thank you for it, nor will Mila if she thinks you insincere. As Imperial Scion, he and his wife have hordes of people seeking to worm their way into their good graces, but precious few allies to rely on, so you need not worry about pleasing either of them. If they forget their manners, then bring it up with their respective mothers, and they will set their children straight.”

An amusing thought, assuming Yuzhen had the courage to criticize Rain or Mila in front of their formidable mothers. Neither Sarnai nor Akanai suffered fools lightly, and both doted on their children fiercely. “I gifted them coin at the wedding, because they didn’t give me enough time to prepare something thoughtful and intimate, yet now he has ten million gold to play with and will not remember small gifts of coin.”

There was more to it, but Gerel would not understand, or rather he would refuse to understand and call it a distinction without a difference. Everyone had expected Rain to use the War Bond funds to line his own pockets and bribe the necessary Imperial agents to look the other way, but instead, he announced his intention to loan gold to peasants in order for them to buy land he owned, and Yuzhen was still awestruck by his brilliance. This one, simple declaration turned everything neatly onto its head. Even though he was still lining his own pockets, he kept his word and invested the War Bond funds into the future of the Empire and offered a solution to a problem which had plagued all three Marshals of the Empire.

For an entire year, they struggled with how to entice commoners to come live and work at the new Western Wall. Higher wages was ample incentive for porters, waiters, cleaners, and other unskilled labour, and Imperial Mandate was enough to force construction experts to lend their expertise, but the same could not be said for other professions. Even allowing for premium purchasing prices due to proximity, farmers and tradesmen would earn more or less the same amount no matter where they did their work, and in far more comfort and security if they did so away from the Western Wall. There were fortunes to be made here, but not by farmers and tradesmen, only by those who bought and sold their goods, so why put themselves in danger and misery to earn a piddling few silvers more?

But for the chance to own land, a chance to have an inheritance to pass down to their children? This would bring them flocking to the Western Wall in droves.

When the announcement was made, Yuzhen thought Rain was making a big fuss about nothing, but after going home and checking the numbers, she discovered that depending on the values involved, he could see a return on investment in as little as three years if one only took the War Bond funds into account. If she included the private profits to be made by ensuring his existing businesses claimed a monopoly on supplying the Western Wall, then by this time next year, he might well be the wealthiest man in the outer provinces.

Granted, as the only Imperial Scion to hail from the outer provinces, Rain would have eventually become wealthy by virtue of status alone, but now he was on track to earn vast, unheard of sums while being beholden to no one but the Legate. True, Yuzhen and many others had contributed to his War Bonds and incurred a debt owed in face, but now, they would have no choice but to use those debts to ensure their business interests survived the coming financial upheaval. The Imperial Army was by far the largest consumer of goods and services in the Empire, and with the majority of soldiers stationed along the new Western Wall, it had become a significant focus of the entire economy. Now, Rain was poised to seize control of all those profits by virtue of controlling the means of production. Who would these new land owners sell to? Merchants and Nobles who previously took advantage of their labour and paid them in scraps, or the magnanimous Minister of Finance who worked hard to make it possible for anyone to become a landowner?

And if gratitude was not enough to sway their hearts, there was also the unspoken implication of what might happen if they should upset the man who made their very lives possible. What the Minister of Finance gave, he could also take away, for even though the land was theirs, the heavy debt hanging over their heads gave him ample leverage when it came to matters of negotiation. Genius is what it was, and Yuzhen was not the only one cursing herself for being too short-sighted to see the benefits of turning peasants into tax-paying land-owners.

As for the true beauty of this scheme, by putting the War Bond funds to public use and only personally benefiting due to forethought, he all but ensured the next batch of War Bonds would sell for even more. It was clear that as Minister of Finance, Rain single-handedly held the power to make or break the market in whatever ways he might choose, which meant remaining in his favour was almost a matter of survival. All across the Empire, merchants were turning green with regret over lost profits once Rain’s plans came to fruition, and were no doubt making plans and alliances to predict and take measures against his next move.

Good luck to them. Even Yuzhen, who was arguably his closest ally in the Empire, hadn’t known of his plans in advance, nor did she have any inkling of what he might do next.

Truth be told, there was a simple solution to all this, except it was so simple, it would never work. If everyone agreed to abstain from buying War Bonds, this would leave Rain toothless and ineffective, but his blind auction format and the ability to make multiple offers meant no one would know what their rivals had bid until it was already too late. Who would dare trust their enemies and allies to act in good faith in a matter of this magnitude? No, three months from now, a quarter-million gold would be a laughably small price to pay for ten War Bonds at auction, and Yuzhen had only paid the written value for the other five War Bonds she’d purchased from Rain’s soldiers, because she bought them before his big announcement.

Which meant that despite giving them 9,523 gold each, Yuzhen owed a debt of gratitude to Pran, Saluk, Viyan, Birca, and Silva, because they could have earned much more if they’d held out for a better offer like Bulat and Ravil had...

Her fifteen War Bonds were a mark of honour now, and she had them framed behind glass and hung all about her manor and office so that her guests could hardly miss seeing them. Another mark of genius on Rain’s behalf, revealing his expensive and fragile clear glass at his wedding only to unveil a brilliant use for it a few days later.

The accomplished genius himself stood waiting to greet them outside the restaurant, and Yuzhen was appalled to discover she was the last to arrive. Her counterparts from Central and South were waiting there with him, with all three men standing in the protective embrace of the Divine Turtle. “And there she is, the pearl of the North herself,” Rain quipped, grinning from ear to ear while Marshal Yo hid his envy and Marshal Quyen glowered like always. Beside her, Gerel quietly glared and grumbled, no doubt taking offence because of the idiom ‘a pearl in the palm’, which made it seem as if Rain were calling Yuzhen his personal prized possession. There was no truth to it and he meant no offence, but like she noted earlier, he had a way of raising her husband’s hackles with every word and gesture.

Jealousy, most likely, because as the Northern Marshal’s Consort and a thirty-three year old Peak Expert, Gerel would undoubtedly be the pearl of the Bekhai if not for Rain’s existence. The frail pride of men, but alas, Yuzhen had no time to coddle her husband’s bruised ego. “My most humble apologies for keeping you all waiting,” she began, favouring all three men with a smile, “You know how we women are with our hair and make-up.”

“Well worth the wait,” Rain replied, heading off Quyen Huong’s curt reply with his silvered tongue, though Yuzhen noticed the once moon-struck boy was only paying lip service and barely paid her appearance any mind. Marriage had matured him. How... disappointing. “Besides, you’ve nothing to apologize for,” he continued, inviting her to follow him into the restaurant, “Because you are not late, but rather we are early. I just wanted to keep Ping Ping company for as long as possible.”

A touching, and more importantly, believable sentiment, which did much to alleviate Yuzhen’s nerves, so she set to chatting up her counterparts in short order. Inside the private dining room, Marshal Yo and Marshal Quyen’s wives were already seated and listening to a delightful rendition of ‘Summer Moon over Autumn Skies’ by Luo-Luo herself, and Rain used this as an excuse to see everyone quietly to their seats. Had he not used this gambit before, Yuzhen might have been fooled into thinking this was coincidental, but Rain was famously bad at making small talk and took every opportunity he could to avoid it. Still, it was a marked improvement from his old tactic of visiting the bathroom every few minutes, and a world of difference from Gerel’s favoured gambit which was to scowl and glare until people left him alone.

When Luo-Luo’s musical performance ended, she set to navigating the social waters and keeping conversation flowing while they began dinner in earnest. The food here was exceptional, as were most places Rain picked out, and once liberally lubricated with alcohol, he jumped into the conversation feet first without embarrassing himself too much by regaling them with an amusing tale of a verbal misunderstanding between him and Luo-Luo. Though a tad too personal for present company, they were all used to his peculiar ways, and in truth, he had a certain disarming charm about him when plied with drink.

Granted, there was a delicate balance to maintain to keep him tipsy, but not drunk; no one was more sombre or cheerless than a drunk Falling Rain.

There was no need for surly Mila or disapproving Sarnai to rein him in tonight however, and combined with the complete absence of pets and Rain’s other beloved brides-to-be, it meant there was business at hand indeed. Making a mental note to inform him that not every dinner needed to be an eight course meal, Yuzhen counted the minutes until the eating was over and done with and they could finally sit down and talk business. Again, Luo-Luo brought the wives away, and while Yuzhen thought it prudent to send Gerel off in solidarity, Rain motioned for him to stay behind. “Marshals,” Rain said, once the room was clear. “Would you mind if I asked Gerel to make us private? I’ve a personal matter which I require some help with.”

“Of course, go right ahead,” Marshal Yo replied, while Yuzhen and Marshal Quyen merely nodded.

Thankfully, Gerel didn’t insist Rain actually ask, and Rain was considerate enough to do so. Why they butted heads so often was a mystery to Yuzhen, but men would be men regardless of their upbringing. Pulling out three folders of documents from a nearby drawer, Rain handed them out one by one with both hands and gave them all some time to look through them. “In your hands is a detailed outline of what I plan to do over the next few weeks.” Smiling at their surprised expressions, Rain shook his head and said, “This is not payment in advance, nor is it necessary you keep these plans secret, because it is not all I have planned. To be brief, I would like to have one and a half million families settled along the new border before new years, and I’ll need your help to do so.”

Marshal Quyen was the first to pick up on the unspoken implication. “You mean to have us select these families?”

“Not just select, but also secure transport and ensure they are adequately settled in so they have time to plant and harvest at least one full crop before winter.” Holding a hand up to forestall arguments, Rain explained, “I don’t expect you to hold their hands and build their houses, nor am I asking you to do this for free. As part of their loans, I’ll also be lending coin for transportation and housing costs, though I would ask that you present me with a set fee for transportation, rather than charge on a case by case basis.”

It took Yuzhen some time to come to terms with what Rain was offering, because it was almost too good to believe. Not only was he giving them control over which commoners would settle the western border first, he was also willing to pay for their transportation. It made sense, since it could take weeks for a commoner family to walk here from the North or South, compared to only days if they rode in military ships and wagons, but why was Rain giving them this power freely?

