Knowing him better than the other Marshals, Yuzhen voiced her question out loud, which earned her the disdain of her counterparts. They thought her inept and tactless when dealing with Rain, but she knew better than to dance around the point, because Rain genuinely preferred forthright discussion over veiled implication. Proving her point, Rain smiled and replied, “Good question. It’s because it’s too bothersome for me to handle myself, especially since I intend to personally oversee things to ensure the transition goes smoothly. We can’t just throw a bunch of farmers into unfamiliar territory and expect them to thrive, so we need to ensure they are set up for success. If you could turn to page twelve? I’ve marked out each of your designated areas and which crops my people believe thrive best in each farmland, but I’m asking you to plan out the rest. I’m sure the three of you know better than I to keep tanneries away from restaurants, smithies away from residential homes, waste dumps away from drinking water, and various other things which need to be kept in mind, so I’ll be relying on your expertise to make this work.”

Even with all this extra work, Yuzhen was thrilled to have this opportunity, for it would allow her to cripple her opponents back home by luring away their entire workforce. A half-million families could be anywhere between one to five million commoners in total, since it was possible some families might band together to purchase one parcel of land, or a tradesman might bring his aging parents along with them, and this was only the first wave of new land owners. Already, she could see various other ways she could twist this ‘favour’ to her advantage, and once again, she felt herself falling into Rain’s debt.

For the second time, Marshal Quyen was the first to speak, all the while flipping through the pages so quickly it all but proved the Southern Marshal was a Martial Warrior of note. “Very thorough,” he said, before reaching the end and gently placing the documents down after no doubt having memorized them with help from his Natal Palace, “But I see no mention of your future plans, only what you intend to do with the ten-million you’ve already collected.”

Bold, asking for more information so soon, but Rain was not one to take offence. “That’s because even I don’t know what I’ll do next,” Rain lied, grinning all the while. “Until these first million and a half families are settled in, I have no intentions of releasing more War Bonds for sale.”

Which of course was exactly the opposite of what everyone expected, but was clever to the extreme, as it gave his early investors a chance to recoup their losses or even turn a profit by reselling their War Bonds. “Ha, ha, ha,” Marshal Yo boomed, stroking his long, silken beard in appreciation. “Of course, of course. More funds will not be needed until this first venture is underway. What good will so much coin do for the Empire if left sitting in cold coffers?”

Unsure whether Rain came to this decision for diplomatic reasons or because he truly had no idea what he would do next, Yuzhen thought things through before chiming in. “There’s more,” she said, and was promptly rewarded with another grateful smile for giving Rain an excuse to move on. “You have something else to ask of us?”

“Yes.” Scratching his cheek in embarrassment, Rain sighed and shook his head. “It’s come to my attention that the incoming families will need tools and materials to build homes, and probably a lot more I haven’t considered, but when I looked into purchasing said tools and materials, the prices all catapulted to unprecedented levels.” Shrugging, he added, “I expected some opposition to my actions, but I underestimated how quickly people would act. Already, all of my brokers and agents have come under intense scrutiny, and they can’t even look at a document without all relevant prices soaring in concert. I suppose that’s how they intend to make back their future losses, by banding together to gouge prices until all the War Bond coins are spent, so I need your help to get around this.”

Though she wanted to help, Yuzhen shook her head. “I doubt any of us would have more success purchasing materials for you, as we are your most obvious helpers in all this.”

Quyen Huong was quick to disagree. “Note down what you need, and my people will deliver it at an appropriate cost.”

While Marshal Yo voiced his support as well, albeit with less confidence, Rain held a hand up to silence them. “No, I don’t need your help buying materials, though I appreciate the offer and will gladly take you up on it so long as it won’t inconvenience you or adversely affect your operations. I was actually hoping you could help me set up new merchant companies using figureheads unrelated to any of us, but owned outright by me and vouched for by your subordinates. This way, I could work through these new companies to place orders and make moves without tipping my hand to anyone outside this room. A shell company, pretty much, one without any business operations or assets, just a fake name any of my people can pick up and use for whatever clandestine purpose I might need.”

Exchanging a glance with the other Marshals, Yuzhen was glad hers was not the only surprised expression in the room. Since Rain was trusting them with the names of his covert companies, this was tacitly agreeing to share information on his Office’s actions with all three Marshals, since all they would have to do is watch said companies. What’s more, he also handed them a new tool to use against their opponents, and these shell companies were... well, they were brilliant. Most merchants wouldn’t accept large orders from a company they’d never heard of or had previous dealings with, but that wouldn’t matter if the company was endorsed by a local official. It happened all the time, usually as a favour to help buoy up an associate’s new venture, and Yuzhen wouldn’t even need to include her subordinates in the matter. All she needed to do was distribute a list of companies they were expected to support, and they would think nothing of it except that the owner had done her some small favour or some other meaningless excuse.

There was still more to discuss, and by the end of the night, Yuzhen and her counterparts had all pledged to offer Rain a tremendous amount of support, but it was well worth the rewards. So pleased with the meeting, she hummed a merry tune all the way home, right up until she noticed her husband’s sour expression as she pulled him into their bedroom. Cupping his strong chin with an exaggerated pout, she asked, “What’s got you in such a mood, dear husband? Jealous because you wish to monopolize your wife’s attention?”

“Yes,” he grumbled, batting her hand away so he could kiss her hard and leave her breathless. “A lesser man might feel offended after watching his wife spend all night batting her eyes for a man half her age.”

“I did not bat my eyes,” Yuzhen growled, loving every second of their little dispute, for she would take it out of his hide soon enough. “And you need not be jealous. Yes, Rain has an impressive mind, but I know better than most that many of his ideas come from or are refined by Luo-Luo.” Unable to resist any longer, she threw him onto the bed and pounced atop him. Laughing at his feigned helplessness, she drew her dagger. “What’s more, I’ve long since made it clear,” she purred, slowly cutting off his topmost shirt button before moving down to the next. “So long as you keep me satisfied, I’ll have no need to seek out another, younger lover.” Tossing her knife away and embedding it into the wall, she tore the rest of Gerel’s clothes off in animalistic hunger, all words lost as she sought to sate her burning hunger and he rose to meet the challenge.

Hours later, as she lay atop his heaving chest with her brow covered in sweat, she idly remembered she meant to hold back so he might try impregnating one of the maids, but it was too late for regrets. No matter. Worst comes to worst, they could always adopt. There were so many orphaned children out there, why should she sacrifice just to bring one more into the world? She would have to talk to Sarnai about this and ask what the protocol for adoption was, but the next time Rain sold a batch of War Bonds, she hoped to have a child in her arms to share such a historic moment with.

Her old man would most certainly approve, and Gerel would still have plenty of time to get the maids with child...

Chapter Meme
