Resisting the urge to chew her nails, Yuzhen went over her mental checklist for the umpteenth time, making certain every last detail had been accounted for.

First and foremost was her appearance, because like it or not, most people considered her as a woman first and a Marshal second, third, or perhaps even further down the line, depending on who you asked. Thus, going out in the same outfit twice in one week was absolutely unacceptable, while twice in one month would have the rumour-mongers whispering of a destitute Northern Marshal. To complicate matters even further, she could not afford to dress as she pleased, in tight, low-cut dresses or scandalously short robes which bared her shoulders and/or thighs for all to see. Her Office demanded decorum in her manner of dress, while her gender required she present a pleasing image, which left her with a thin margin to tread upon when deciding her various outfits.

It hardly seemed fair considering her old man wore his robes of Office to almost every event he attended, but she’d tried that already and had been branded as a dowdy, inelegant woman who’d aged long before her time. Men and women alike had seen fit to comment on her lack of style, and if she had a copper for every time she heard how it was ‘such a shame’ for her to hide her natural beauty, she could have easily paid for Gerel’s Runic armour even without her income from Sanshu.

Well, not really, but it would have made a sizable dent in the staggering expense...

For today’s private and ‘informal’ dinner, she picked out a billowy, blue-silk dress that covered everything from chin to ankle and left absolutely everything to the imagination, save for her arms which were bare from her elbows down. This had nothing to do with femininity or fashion however, for she only eschewed the standard wide, voluminous sleeves because they made it almost impossible to eat quickly, and she could not afford to give her rival Marshals time to converse while waiting for her to finish each course. While not the most flattering dress, it was a stately, embroidered piece with gold, red, and green floral patterns, which paired well with her matching silk stole which would serve to cover her exposed forearms until she was seated in their private dining room. As for her shoes, she guiltily settled on a pair of open-toed heeled sandals which left her pale, dainty feet almost completely uncovered. The ensemble was far more feminine than her usual fare, which largely consisted of different, manly jackets thrown over decorated long-shirts, but tonight was special, because for once, she wanted to be seen as a woman first, and Marshal second.

Even though Rain might call tonight’s dinner a ‘casual’ affair, there would certainly be matters of business discussed, and while he was newly married and head over heels for his new wife, he was a rare person who was biased towards the fairer sex when it came to matters of business, often offering women better deals than their male counterparts. At first, she found it refreshing to be treated so kindly by a business partner, especially after working with the arrogant and dismissive Southern Marshal Quyen Huong, but then she discerned that Rain went easy on women out of pity, which was infuriating to the extreme. He never came right out and said it, but despite being surrounded by exceedingly competent women, he still somehow expected men to outperform women on a regular basis, and as such favoured them whether they needed his help or not.

However, in dealings of this magnitude, Yuzhen would need every advantage she could get, so she had no qualms about using her feminine wiles against the all too powerful Minister of Finance. Were he a decade older, Yuzhen might even be tempted to pursue a carnal relationship with Rain, assuming Gerel and Mila would allow it. Hard to say, for her beloved husband was not a jealous man, but he was a prickly sort when it came to matters involving his most famous clansman.

While her handmaidens busied themselves picking out accessories and doing her hair and makeup, Gerel strode in looking more handsome than ever in his elegant formal attire. Gone was the quietly arrogant soldier who wore furred tunics under leather armour, and in his place was a fierce and wild prince, with eyes of gold which shone brighter than any jewellery ever could. A wavy, white-silk long-shirt sat under his loose, buttonless outer robes, a light, flimsy affair festooned with flowers and foxes embroidered in black and silver thread. His collar, lapel, sash, and wide sleeves were lined with lace in similar colours, though more black than red or silver to frame his figure, and his head of black, lustrous hair had been pulled back into the beginnings of a ponytail, and kept out of his eyes by a beautiful silver crown studded with honey topazes and yellow diamonds.

There he stood, bedecked with all manner of adornments as befitting the consort of the Northern Marshal, yet still a lion amongst men, groomed and ornamented like any fop or dandy, but unmistakably dangerous nonetheless.

Though initially drawn to him due to his brutish appearance and thuggish behaviour, it was his fiery personality and heartfelt devotion which won her over, and she rather enjoyed this startling transformation. To spare his ego, Yuzhen refrained from licking her lips and silently devoured his appearance, and he played along by giving a graceful little twirl which had the handmaidens blushing like virgins. They weren’t, and Yuzhen had made it clear she wouldn’t pay any mind to his dalliances so long as she was allowed to adopt any offspring as her own, but thus far, he’d refrained from taking any other women to bed besides the ones she brought along with her. A maddening man, making his wife insist he bed other women in hopes of securing a child, but Yuzhen didn’t want Gerel to make the same mistake as her old man and wait too long to start a family.

They would try again tonight, she decided, though it meant she would have to hold back. Even her younger, Peak Expert of a husband didn’t have the stamina to keep going after sating her voracious appetite, which was likely why he had yet to take another lover. Weakling.

Grinning at the thought of things to come, Yuzhen Sent, “My oh my, aren’t you looking handsome tonight, my dear beloved husband.”

“Your husband is always handsome,” he retorted, brushing a single strand of hair out of his eyes. “And you are always beautiful, but tonight, you are even more ravishing than usual.”

Eyes sparkling in delight, she fished for more compliments while marvelling at her dashing husband. He still wasn’t used to having hair and fussed with it more than most, but at least she could put to rest the rumours which came with his baldness. Though still a handsome and vibrant man even without hair, once word spread of Rain’s affiliation with the Penitent Brotherhood, people began speculating on how this relationship came about, and one prominent explanation was that Gerel was a failed initiate. Complete fiction of course, since he shaved his head because he couldn’t be bothered to wash, comb, or style it, not to mention a soldier’s ever-present risk of lice, but when Yuzhen brought up the rumour that he might be a failed eunuch monk, Gerel never shaved his head again.

Had she known that was all it would take, she would have told him this years ago...

Truth be told, she found it alarming that so many of Gerel’s decisions could be traced back to Rain. Take her handsome husband’s stylish outfit, for example, an ensemble he would have refused to wear six months ago, yet now that it had fallen out of fashion, he wholeheartedly embraced the style because it was so different from what Rain wore. While he might be dressed differently for tonight’s banquet, one could predict the Minister of Finance’s outfit with remarkable ease on any given day, because outside of his ceremonial armour, he always wore the same outfit. A plain black cotton shirt, with narrow sleeves that buttoned up at the cuffs, a waist-length hem that hung loosely from his torso, and a folded collar which he always left unbuttoned to shamelessly display his surprisingly muscular upper chest. In addition to this, he wore a pair of plain black cotton pants that hugged the curves of his legs without clinging tight, and serviceable soldier boots despite never needing to march or run.

Odd for an Imperial to favour cotton over silk, but Rain’s explanation was that he sweat too much and soaked cotton was more comfortable than damp silk. Madness.

As if dead set on bringing fashion standards to an all-time low, Rain’s slovenly outfits were utterly lacking in decoration save for a small, embroidered numeral and a beautifully stitched golden dragon, one no larger than a finger-tip, prominently displayed over his left breast pocket, a pocket he added for the sole purpose of allowing his Cloud Chaser Hare to sit inside. It was only by coincidence that she overheard Rain talking about how his pants also had numerals sewn on the inside of the waistband, which he proudly proclaimed were there so he didn’t accidentally wear the same clothes two days in a row. Yuzhen suspected he would have no qualms about doing so, and the numerals were only there to prove to his mother that he wasn’t. As for the dragon, he only included it because Zheng Luo insisted he prominently display some form of Imperial insignia, but she failed to specify that it should be large and eye catching as well.

Plain, humble, and easily replaced, that was how Rain decided upon his outfits, and while most nobles and peasants didn’t understand what Rain’s numerals signified, this didn’t stop them from imitating his manner of dress. Thus far no one had been foolish enough to wear an Imperial Dragon and swapped them out for their own household crests or family names, albeit in more distinct fashions. It was strange seeing crowds of noble youths dressed in such muted colours and cheap fabrics, especially considering black dye was second only to purple dye in cost, but such was the way of things with the eccentric Minister of Finance bucking traditions and breaking unspoken rules with each passing day.

In contrast, Gerel eschewed his fellow clansman’s trendsetting ways and went in the opposite direction, wholeheartedly embracing traditional Imperial fashions with a zealousness which shocked and amused. Yuzhen’s husband had a deep-seated need to separate himself from Falling Rain, to the point where he would rather grow his hair and change all his habits than be mistaken for the boy’s supporter, even though she knew Gerel would go sprinting to Rain’s aid if he should need it. When they visited the Central Citadel for the Legate’s banquet some three months ago, he spent his days fast asleep on his feet and his nights guarding Rain from the shadows, even though no one, not his Mentor, his idol Baatar, and not even Rain himself asked Gerel to. There was a story there, one he refused to ever speak of, for it was ‘not his story to tell’, but he also asked her not to bring it up with Baatar, Sarnai, or anyone else. The Bekhai were a strange people, but they were Yuzhen’s people now, and she did everything she could to conform to their customs.

Reminded of the matter at hand, she double checked the finishing touches on her makeup and asked, “Are you sure I shouldn’t bring a gift? Even if we aren’t dining at the Minister’s house, it’s customary to bring wine, tea, or snacks.”

“No, beloved wife.” Offering a hand to help her out of her chair, he pulled her close without wrinkling her dress or messing up her hair and makeup while leading her out of the manor. “Bringing food or drink to a meal would imply you have no faith in your host to provide adequate alternatives. Such is the way of the Bekhai.”

Which she would be expected to adhere to, since they counted her as one of their own. It was both a blessing and a curse to have these fiercely loyal people at her side, because while she could always count on their support, she was also expected to support them. Three months ago, that meant preparing to join an open rebellion which she was unlikely to survive, and before that, there was another stressful and illegal matter they expected her to handle without question, but their trust was given freely, as was their considerable support.

Even more surprising was how they demanded no Oaths of her, even though she was privy to details which could easily see the Bekhai declared as rebels and apostates.

Still, a loyal and powerful support base to fall back on was more than her old man ever had, and Yuzhen was grateful for the Bekhai assistance. Between Nian Zu and Baatar, she had the military firmly in her pocket, and Rain’s brilliant spymaster Junior Yimu was a veritable font of actionable intelligence which helped her consolidate her grip on the North. She was still a long ways away from achieving the sort of control Quyen Huong held over the south, but no longer was she forced to play her enemies against one another and resort to blackmail in order to cling onto what few scraps of authority she still had. No, now she was a Marshal in truth, with people undermining her authority in secret instead of out in the open like before, and she had Nian Zu and the Bekhai to thank for it.

As she settled into her Golden Heartwood carriage, an extravagant gift from Rain and Charok, Yuzhen resisted the urge to rummage through her husband’s robes and opted for a kiss instead. “So no food or drink, but what about gifts? Books perhaps, since he loves to read, or something pretty for Mila like a bracelet or hairpin. Oh, what if we commissioned some clothes for his pets? He does so love to dress them up.”

