Not a question so much in words, like a Sending inquiring as to his intentions. No, this was something far more primal and instinctive, a question delivered not to his mind, but to his heart and spirit instead. One he’d heard countless times before, yet one he could not remember ever hearing, for it was not a call he’d been blessed to receive in this life, but the last. Tears sprang to his eyes as a deluge of emotions awoke from within, ones he’d long since forgotten here in the twilight of his life. It was love, but not of that between a man and a woman, or even two men or two women if that was what you preferred. Nor was it the love of a parent and child, a pair of siblings, or even close comrades who shared weal and woe all their lives. This was a love more basic and all-encompassing, a love based upon a more fundamental need than lust or companionship, but rather on the mere act of survival alone. A partnership of sorts, a call to arms in a manner of speaking, but these human words were unable to do the bond true justice, yet words were all the wolf had.

For he had never truly had a pack to call his own, and now he was being called to join one.

That was the question he heard within the call, one which could be summarized as, “Pack?” There was nothing else attached to the query, no demand for authority or expectations placed upon the invitation, no promise of rewards or embellishment to persuade, only an honest, guileless appeal to work together in this hunt, and for all hunts thereafter. The details were non-existent, the specifics left to fate, and the wolf would have rejected it without a second thought had it come from anyone else, but there was something about this call that spoke to the beast inside him and told him that whoever it was making this offer could be trusted without doubt. There was no basis for this trust, but he believed in it with all his heart, so he responded to the call with a baying howl of his own, one filled with a youthful exuberance he’d not felt in centuries, if not millennia though he knew not how long he’d truly lived.

“Pack,” was his reply, in similar vein to the succinct query, and though he was unable to filter out all his doubts and concerns, the other party accepted him without question.

There was no hesitation or misgiving in the acceptance, not even a word of encouragement or gratitude in reply, only a deluge of pure, unmitigated love and excitement that made the wolf feel ten-thousand years younger. No, not just feel, but become, for laced within the wordless and soundless reply was the very Energy of the Heavens themselves, bound in a package of what the boy called Life Force and more that breathed new life into the wolf’s old and ailing body. Gone was the weight upon his shoulders and the hitch lodged deep within his upper spine, while the tension in his hips abated and left him breathless with surprise. The swelling in his ankles, knees, elbows, and fingers floated away on the wind, and his eyes grew sharp and clear as the vivid scent of the battlefield sharpened to levels unmatched in memory. This was a power beyond the wolf’s comprehension, beyond anything he’d ever even imagined before, yet his packmate had presented him with this princely gift without question for no reason other than to welcome him into the pack.

Truly a packmate worth having, and the wolf raised his voice in a second howl as he set upon the Demonic Divinities with a strength and vigour he’d not felt in far too long to remember.

A smash of his claws threatened to bring Heavens Wrath down upon him, but his Domain Materialized to reinforce reality around them as his heart soared in glee and bloodlust both. There were no words to describe how he felt right now, no memories to compare or contrast it with, not because he felt so youthful and carefree, but because the hunt was finally on. A lone wolf stalks his prey and might well bring it down without aid, but this was no true hunt, for there were too many risks to fully enjoy the thrill of the chase. That was the true nature of a wolf, to track and pursue their prey across open fields and dense forests until they could run no more, only for their pack members to take up the hunt. Then, when their prey was tired and spent, they would work together to close in for the kill, a hunt which was as safe as could be in the uncertain world they resided in. This was something he’d been missing all his life, the deep-seated desire which drove him into the arms of a woman every so often when it grew too strong to resist. Even though he knew that siring a child would only end in disappointment, he still hoped for the best each time because he desperately desired a pack to hunt alongside, so that he would no longer have to face this tiresome world all by his lonesome.

His pups weren’t a bad sort by and large, and he was proud of them all in his own way, but no matter how much he tried to love and accept them, they were, in the end, still pups. They possessed potential, but none ever managed to reach a point where they could hunt with the wolf, nor did any of them ever come close. While he had Wu Kong, Machali, Ling Lu, and the others, they were not truly a pack, for they did not understand what he himself had only just comprehended about his compulsion to find companionship. A pack wasn’t about making friends and building bonds, or even finding a lover to spend his long life with, but about safety, security, and companionship while they progressed through life side by side as comrades, family, friends, and more. That’s what it meant to have a pack, to share all weal and woe without hesitation, yet their group of gathered Divinities in the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains was based on mutual benefit. Were this not the case, there would be no need to concern himself about what would happen to the other Divinities after his passing, no reason to thank the Heavens for the little doe’s Ascension, since it meant he now had someone to pass along the mantle of leadership. If they were truly a pack, he could’ve sat back and rested easy knowing they would figure it all out themselves, when in truth, they were liable to fracture and scatter soon after his death.

Which meant the wolf had run alone for the vast majority of his life, but at least now he would have someone to run with for what little time he had left.

Hence why he fought with such reckless abandon, launching himself at no less than five Demonic Divinities who’d been keeping him in check for too long, because powerful as his new pack-mate might be, his skills surely lay in Healing and support. As such, the wolf was determined to be the fangs and fury for them both, which was only right given how his counterpart was likely an Ancestral Dog, though it was unlikely to be either of the ones he already knew of. Both men and dumb as a bag of bricks, but his new packmate seemed sharp enough given how –

The thought froze in the wolf’s mind as a tiny bundle of brown fur and floppy ears threw itself into the fray without warning, his jaws snapping at an unprecedented rate as he gobbled up a Demonic Divinity in the blink of an eye. In his surprise, the wolf’s punch missed his target, not because his aim was off or the Demon dodged, but rather because his opponent had fled for dear life. Licking his chops with spirited greed, the tiny brown dog turned its gaze upon the wolf and huffed in displeasure, a muted, compressed heave of derision as if to ask, “Why didn’t you keep them from running?”

…Because the wolf thought he would be the fang and fury, while his new packmate would support him from the side, but it would appear that he had their roles reversed, and it was he who would play the role of support.

To a small, brown-furred, brown-eyed, floppy-eared, saggy-skinned dog, who quite literally had no balls. What manner of monster had robbed this creature of his testicles and turned him into a eunuch? And how could this wild dog have grown so powerful without anyone’s notice? A Divine turtle emerging from the Azure Sea was one thing, but this hound was less than twenty kilograms and looked like easy prey for anything or anyone with teeth. Most importantly of all, where did it learn to devour a Demonic Divinity, and why was it willing to help them in their fight?

A question asked and partially answered when he saw the boy’s rabbit hopping through the air to make its way to the hound’s side.

So this dog was another one of the boy’s pets? Should’ve guessed from the way it Devoured the Demon, but when did he adopt it? A powerful, Divine dog at that, though the wolf was only guessing. Had he not just seen the hound gobble down a Demonic Divinity for himself, he would have thought this creature nothing more than a sorry excuse for a failed wolf, one he wouldn’t think twice about throwing into his stew pot for dinner. A good thing he didn’t try, because having experienced the hound’s power first-hand, he could only hope that his pack-mate’s appetite was limited to Demonic Divinities and didn’t carry over to proper Divinities as well.

“Woof,” the hound exclaimed, a truncated statement teeming with judgement and disapproval as he urged the wolf to action. Another call to action demanding he lead the hunt and distract the prey so the hound could swoop in for the kill. At least the eunuch was generous, passing over another portion of Heavenly Energy, Life Force, and more, though far less than before. Or perhaps it only felt that way because the wolf had been revitalized so thoroughly by the first, making this subsequent infusion of power so much less effective. Either way, his diminutive but highly capable packmate was fast losing patience with his lack of haste, so the wolf threw himself back into the fray with a howl of unmitigated glee. The closest opponents were the three Demonic Divinities laying siege to the doe, who fought them off with the skill and competence of an Ancestral Beast thrice her age.

Which was why he picked her, since he knew how she thought and fought, and thus could use this to keep their foes corralled. “Pin the left one,” he Sent, while bringing down his claws to rend and tear the middle Demon apart, knowing full well the doe was smart enough to avoid the splash of Ichor. What he failed to account for however was his new packmate’s ignorance as he dove in with a howl of mournful fury to stand between the Demon and the doe. The wolf’s claws ripped his target’s arm from its socket, but rather than seize this opportunity to Devour the Demon, the hound instead Devoured the Ichor to protect the doe, who had already moved out of the arc. Luckily for them, her pointy spear axe slowed her foe long enough for the hound to Devour it as well, which made for a highly unsettling sight as the tiny hound’s floppy jowls and ears flapped about in the wind while his wild eyes went wide with glee and greed.

And when the second Demonic Divinity was dead and gone, the hound licked its chops once more and gave the wolf a look of pure derision before turning to the doe with a fawning gaze, his tail wagging so hard the entire back half of his body wiggled about while he pressed his shoulders into her ankles and yipped and yelped up a storm, simultaneously begging for forgiveness and proclaiming his love, respect, and affection to the one he saw as pack leader.

Why was the hound so sweet and deferential to the doe, yet so rude to the wolf? They were packmates, while she was merely a newly ascended Divinity, a powerful and talented one, but still raw as could be. Shooting the doe an inquiring gaze, the wolf wanted to know if she recognized the hound, but she seemed even more confused than he. “When did little Rain tame a hound?” she murmured, echoing his earlier sentiments, “And how is it able to Devour Demons?”

A full second passed as the hound continued his gleeful greeting, then another, and a third before the doe’s patience came to an end. “Enough,” she said, somewhat gently yet still lacking patience as she commanded, “Go Devour another Demon.”

And to the wolf’s great surprise, the hound snapped to attention and ran off, stopping only to turn and bark at the wolf to reprimand him for moving too slowly. Stifling a sigh of indignation, the wolf followed the hound’s heels and threw himself at yet another Demonic Divinity, wondering just where in the pecking order did he stand in the eyes of his new packmate. Even if the hound was powerful and capable, the wolf was no mere cabbage, so would it really be so terrible to give a little face and treat him with at least a modicum of respect?

Baying Hound Loud Video

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
