Much as he loved his daughter-in-laws, they were formidable talents who thrived in massed warfare like the siege here today. As such, he was most concerned for his youngest sister Li-Li, who was no less capable or talented than little sister Mila, but Li-Li’s talents lay in single combat rather than one against many. Especially when outnumbered by foes who surpassed her in strength and skill, for she was a proponent of Brother Du’s Martial lineage which placed great emphasis on a single powerful Warrior overcoming multiple weaker opponents in a series of successive one-on-one duels. Despite having risen to the challenge and displaying a level of skill approaching Peak Expert, every single opponent in this overwhelming Half-Demon army could match a Peak Expert at the very least. Thus, all little sister Li-Li could do was endure as best she could, fighting defensively save to strike whenever the opportunity presented itself, all the while single-handedly holding back the mountainous tide of Emotional Aura bearing down upon them. Should she fall, then Shi Bei was lost, so in light of this, Baatar had already dispatched six Peak Experts to bolster little sister Li-Li’s position, which combined with the guardians Mother and Father set up for her and little sister Sumila meant they were as safe as could be on this battlefield.

So not at all safe, or even close to it, merely with a better chance than most of surviving to the inevitably bitter end.

Shaking off the subtle touch of doubt and apprehension, Baatar refocused on the fight before him, but it wasn’t long before fear’s icy grasp clutched his heart once again and his attention turned to the one person he’d avoided looking at all along. There his precious daughter stood with spear in hand, a woman grown and parent herself, but in his eyes, she would forever be a little girl, one whom he loved and adored with all his heart. Despite being stronger than his daughter-in-laws and infinitely close to becoming a Peak Expert herself, Baatar feared for the girl’s safety more than he would ever dare to admit. That’s why he convinced her to ride with his Iron Banner instead of joining the Sentinels outright, not just so she could get to know Gerel better, but also so that he could keep an eye on her in battle if a conflict should ever crop up. While being a Sentinel under Mother was undoubtedly safer, Baatar couldn’t bear the thought of the girl riding into any battle without him there to support her, not for those first few years at least, and though he thought he’d long since gotten over this fear, it still made him sick to his stomach to see her struggle against her foes.

Six times now, she’d taken injury and fallen back, six grievous wounds that left her leathers tattered and bloodied, but the girl took great pride in her little brother’s achievements and had long since mastered the art of Healing through Panacea. A boon, most would think, since it meant she could quickly recover from almost any injury so long as she was conscious and possessed Chi enough to Heal it, but here in Shi Bei, it also meant she went right back to fighting as soon as her grievous wounds were Healed. Not a single soldier could be spared to stand idle today, but even if they could, the girl shared his love of battle and bloodshed, for she too was a Warrior born. There she stood amongst the ranks of soldiers, wielding her spear with the grace and precision of her mother to unleash powerful killing blows the way he’d taught her, the best of Baatar and his mountain rose bundled up into one, single, phenomenal person. To think, it was just over thirty years ago when he first learned how to swaddle her, because only then would she allow him to hold her close without screaming her little lungs out all night. Those were difficult days back then, yet he cherished those memories most of all, memories of peering into her beautiful little eyes as she held his finger in her tiny hands and nodded off to sleep in his embrace. She’d been so small back then, yet so fierce and intractable, a firebrand of a baby who ran wild as soon as she could stand. Much as he wished he could’ve been there for little Rain at this same time in his life, Baatar would forever cherish the memories of little Alsantset as a baby while never desiring to go back to them in reality.

And now his baby girl was fighting against powerful Peak Expert Half-Demons, and he wanted nothing more than to Cloud-Step to her side and slaughter the scoundrels who dared bully his precious daughter.

Pride and concern ate away at his focus, a distraction he could not afford in a duel of this calibre, and one his foe made good use of. A deadly thrust came lancing towards him, one he responded to by blocking with the haft of the Crescent Moon as he’d done three times before. As spear met bardiche however, Ankhbayar Amplified his attack in a feat of timing and precision few could match. Timing one’s Amplification to point of impact was simple enough, merely a matter of practicing one single movement until you got the feeling just right, and then doing the same for another movement, and then another, and another until you learned how to gauge the timing for any and all attacks. What Ankhbayar did here was match the timing of his Amplification to Baatar’s presumed reaction, a far more difficult feat had he not all but announced his reaction beforehand by allowing himself to fall into a predictable routine.

The force of impact drove the air out of his lungs as his arms faltered before his foe’s attack, only for him to move his upper body on instinct alone and narrowly avoid death. The blade of the spear kissed the skin of his neck, and Baatar had no choice but to fall back before Ankhbayar’s renewed offensive and turn his attention back to the duel at hand. The younger Warrior was nothing like his father, who fought in a wild, erratic, but undeniably effective manner. Instead, Ankhbayar’s style was more similar to Baatar’s, so full of vim and vigour used to overpower and overwhelm, a compelling and dominant style he’d mastered all by himself. Add in his nigh-impenetrable Demonic armour and his powerful Half-Demon allies supporting him from all sides, and Baatar knew not how to defeat his foe, much less swing the battle in Imperial favour and eke out a victory whilst overlooking the precipice of defeat. With Mother and Colonel General Nian Zu busy battling Divinities after Shattering the Void and little Rain snatched away by Zhen Shi, the burden of command fell upon Baatar’s shoulders and he knew something had to be done, but he knew not what to even try. Rally the troops morale in preparation of the devastating Emotional blow they were about to endure, but what could he do or say to inspire them so? Nothing, save to take the head of his foe and embark on a rampage against the Enemy Half-Demons, but he lacked the strength and ability to do so.

So all he could do was endure and delay for as long as he could, the feeble last struggles of a doomed man.

Their duel continued without rest as Baatar’s strength flagged and his spirits dipped, until a call sounded off in the distance. A low and resounding echo, powerful but too distant to truly make out, yet it pierced through the clamour of steel and screams to drive straight to the forefront of Baatar’s attention. Then, it sounded again, only closer this time, and his spirits rose even as he strained his ears to better parse it. The third time he heard it, he identified the sound immediately, yet he still doubted his ears because he could not understand how this could be, but the fourth time the noise sounded there was no denying it any longer. This was the unmistakable baying of a hound, a deep and resonant call from afar, but this was no mere wild mutt or even a brave sheepdog willing to face down wildcats and wolves. The slow, thunderous barks were not short, but not overly long either, nothing like the terse warnings of street dogs or the booming alert of the sheep dog, but more akin to a crisp and abbreviated howl to herald the arrival of what surely was the king of all canines. There was no anger in the call, no hatred to be found, only a palpable sense of adventure and excitement that bordered on the extreme to the point where Baatar’s wolf tail was eagerly wagging in anticipation.

This was an Orated call to action and declaration of intent, a promise made in affirmation of the oncoming hunt, one which would end only when their appetite was sated and their foes scattered to the winds and beyond.

The message contained within the baying calls reminded Baatar of that which drove him to pursue the Martial Path, the need for excitement and accomplishment that made it impossible for him to sit idle and still. The difference was that this was not built upon a foundation of murderous intent, for this was no call to violence or bloodshed, but rather one of pure excitement and anticipation alone, without any darker emotions to taint it. A child’s voracious desire for sweets, that’s what it reminded him most of, a ravenous greed and gluttony without limit and not a single care in the world for the consequences. Never before had Baatar experienced such unmitigated excitement, not even in his youth, and the emotions lit a fire in his belly and burned away all his fear and apprehension as he let loose with a wordless, bloodthirsty howl in response. The hunt was already on, that was the message he meant to convey, so hurry and join before it was too late.

A reply which drew out Baatar’s emotions and shared them with all who could hear him, and his Aura burst out to meet the crushing doubt and despair emanating from his foes around him. An Emotional Aura of passion and excitement, one which contained the very essence of his love for the Martial Path, one which kindled the courage and bolstered the fortitude of the heroes fighting alongside him. The weight of the Enemy’s Aura threatened to overwhelm him where he stood, a mountain of emotion dragging him down from all sides, and his admiration for little sister Li-Li grew as he came to appreciate the burden she’d been carrying all by her lonesome. A wisp of his Aura went out to her, sharing with his little sister the pride and love he had for her, but that was all he could spare before devoting all his strength to fending off the Enemy once more. The fervor of excitement burning hot in his chest, Baatar raised his weapon and brought it down against his foe’s raised spear, but this time it was Ankhbayar’s arms which faltered and failed. The Crescent Moon hammered home against the traitor’s armoured chest, raising sparks without leaving so much as a single scratch, but Baatar simply followed through and brought his weapon around for a second attack. Then a third, and fourth, as he performed Bear’s Standing Fury, smashing his foe left, then right, then left again until he finally broke through Ankhbayar’s guard to land a direct hit against his torso.

A honed blow to surpass all others, one which bit deep, sent a spray of sickly Ichor out into the air, and saw a feral grin stretch across Baatar’s face. “Heroes of the Empire,” he bellowed, infusing his voice with Chi, “Fight on! Rend flesh! Break bone! Bring Death to the Enemy, and victory is ours!”

Ten thousand voices took up his call in reply, speaking with one voice as they chanted, “Victory and Death!” Hardly the words he would have used, but now was not the time to quibble, for the message itself mattered little. Not only was Baatar’s Aura bolstering their spirits, but it was clear he was not the only one affected by the mysterious baying of this hound, so they could have raised a cry to almost anything and it would still have ignited their spirits. In the span of a second, the stalwart soldiers of Shi Bei rallied their courage and fought with renewed vigour on the battlefield as more and more of them took up the strange and easily misunderstood call. “Victory and Death!”

Those same words left his lips without him even realizing it until after the fact as he brought the Crescent Moon to bear against his foe. There was no finesse, no subtlety, only power and determination both, for he had courage and conviction aplenty thanks to the mysterious hound’s call, one he suspected might well have been the guttural utterance of a Divinity. A neutral party perhaps, such as the Sire or Dam of the two distinct half-dog’s Ral and Chey, or possibly another hound-like Divinity who’d learned how to harness the power of Emotional Aura. Whoever it was, their intervention was most timely indeed, and Baatar looked forward to meeting them in person to offer his thanks.

That would come later though, because for now, he had a battle to enjoy and perhaps even win, but it had yet to be determined if it was victory or death which awaited him in the end.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The call sent a jolt down his spine and set his body to trembling, for laced within this howling proclaimation was a question only he could hear.

