Victory or death.

The rallying cry of Sanshu’s Magistrate and one embraced by many a Warrior who took part in that fateful siege, including Baatar’s cherished son, but he never did like the maxim much.

Victory was fleeting, but death an absolute, meaning victory could always be attained even after a defeat. Where there was life, there was hope, as Mother was so often heard to say, but as Baatar fought upon the battlements of Shi Bei with leaden arms and burning lungs, he accepted that there could only be one or the other. Victory or death, the lyrics to today’s sombre song of battle which echoed with every beat of his heart, pounding in furious rhythm from strain and exultation yet somehow seeming slow and sedate at the same time. Having long since lost count of the number of exchanges, he gathered his Will and swung his Crescent Moon bardiche with all his might time and time again, yet there was no advantage to be had. Meeting his opponent’s spear head on with grit and determination alone, he experienced no heady rush of excitement to bolster his spirits, no sense of progress or accomplishment to inspire him to new heights. The resounding reverberations left his arms numb and fingers weak, his weapon only still in hand because it was a fundamental part of who he was, but with his body having long since surpassed its limits and his spirit sinking with each passing second, he would soon find himself with nothing left to give. There was still no end to this deadly exchange in sight, but a victor would be determined any second now, for Baatar would either overcome his opponent within the next handful of exchanges or fall flat on his face from sheer exhaustion.

Victory or death. Those were his only options, so he strove for victory no matter the cost.

Not long ago, he’d defeated the strongest foe he’d ever faced in Bai Qi, the Lord of Martial Peace, and though it was easily the most arduous and gruelling match he’d ever taken part in, he’d relished every second of their conflict. The challenge alone had been enough to give him a rush greater than anything he’d ever felt before, one which satisfied the wolf hiding within as he sought to overcome his limits and emerge victorious against his most worthy foe. Today, his opponent was even stronger and more indomitable, yet there was no excitement to be found, only a heavy heart as he gazed upon the too-familiar face of his foe and wondered where it had all gone wrong. This was Ankhbayar, exiled outcast of the People turned Half-Demon traitor to the Empire, yet Bataar could only see the little Joy who called him uncle and often begged to be carried up on his shoulders. That bright-eyed child was dead and gone now, and wearing his face was a bitter and broken man, one who Baatar loathed with all his heart while harbouring a wisp of eternal gratitude for the only two good things this man had accomplished in life. Though a traitor and monster both, little Joy had sired two wonderful sons who Baatar cared deeply for, Gerel, a good man and exemplary Warrior who he’d once hoped would be his future son-in-law, and little Rain, the cherished son he’d come to know far too late.

Oh what pride Baatar felt in fighting side by side with this most talented of families. Gerel and Naaran supported his flanks and left him free to focus on his opponent undisturbed. Truly a lineage of Warriors and talents, with the blood holding true for three generations already, so despite having seen the monster little Joy had become, Baatar could not help but wonder what might have been. How might things have changed if he’d done something to slow or even reverse the growing extremism which exploded into violence some thirty years back? A slow burn it’d been, beginning with Mother’s return from Central after a bloody welcome from the locals more than fifty years past. At first, Baatar himself had been consumed by rage over the event, not only because his Mentor had been disrespected and assaulted, but also because his good friend Naaran had returned a changed man. Gone was the genius slacker known for his sharp tongue and twinkling eyes, and in his place was a bitter man who drove away almost everyone who cared for him. Time and discipline helped Baatar master his rage, but Naaran did not fare so well. Though known to slack off and skip training more often than not, he stopped showing up entirely and spent most of his days out with his quin, Kharuul, or his wife Yisu, all but abandoning the Martial Path to drift aimlessly through life without purpose. After what he experienced in Central, not even Mother could fault him for it, but they all thought time would heal Naaran’s wounds and that was that. Things took a turn for the better when Yisu became pregnant with little Ankhbayar, only for disaster to strike as she died soon after childbirth due to circumstances most unfortunate.

A treatable ailment, yet neither Naaran nor Yisu thought her fever and muscle pains important enough to seek help, and by the time they learned otherwise, it was already too late as Yisu had died quietly in her sleep.

Blaming himself for his wife’s death, Naaran retreated even further inwards while raising his son as best he could. With Baatar’s help of course, and the help of all their friends and comrades, even the ones Naaran had driven away with his cutting remarks which were no longer softened by his infectious smile, but clearly, their efforts had not been enough. Though Baatar could make excuses about being young and still figuring life out for himself, the truth of the matter was that it was easier to assume Naaran was doing well than pry the truth out of him as he should have. It only got worse after Ankhbayar grew up and started a family of his own, for Naaran loved his son and grandson too dearly to ever burden them with his own pain, which Baatar would have known if he’d thought to look closely rather than bury his head in the sand.

So much anguish and suffering could have been avoided with almost laughable ease, to the point where Baatar was unable to pinpoint where it all went wrong. Little Joy had been true to his name at first, so full of laughter and mirth, and he possessed talent to match his father paired with the hardy work ethic of his mother. Together, this combination saw him progress by leaps and bounds to stand head and shoulders above his peers, though Naaran took little pride in his son’s martial exploits. Had things turned out differently, Ankhbayar might well have been standing here at Baatar’s side as a Hero of the People and the Empire both, a proud father to two heroic sons who’d surpassed even him. Instead, he had become one of the Enemy’s greatest mortal champions, a fearsomely armoured Half-Demon who shrugged off Baatar’s strongest blows with little to no effort, all the while with his lips half-quirked in a smile so familiar and foreign at the same time. Naaran used to smile just like that, with a subtle smirk that barely reached his cheeks and a mischievous glint in his eye, and little Rain smiled like this all the time, though often for no apparent reason at all, so it was jarring to see this same smile on a Half-Demon’s lips, infused with malice and rancour enough to make Baatar’s stomach twist.

There was no cure for regret, and he was not one to wallow within it, but he had long since recognized that these melancholic musings were the result of a profound and insidious working of Aura. An assault little sister Li-Li was fending off all by her lonesome, for without little Rain, there was no other Warrior capable of doing so. Emotional Aura was a bizarre and curious concept, one which sounded simple in theory but was infinitely complex in practice, so much so that little Rain was at a loss on how to even begin to explain it. Hence, no one but little sister Li-Li was able to grasp the skill, and she was clearly also approaching her limits, else Baatar would not be feeling so maudlin and remorseful during what should have been the most rousing and impactful fight of his life. In his fight against Bai Qi, Baatar had been similarly exhausted, but the thrill of the challenge kept his spirits high and allowed him to surpass his limits. Here in Shi Bei however, the Enemy’s foul Aura of regret and contrition robbed him of any and all delight, and to make matters worse, he knew this was merely a prelude to what would come next.

First regret, which then would give rise to doubt, followed by fear and apprehension aplenty, topped off with a decisive blow of what Baatar assumed would be hopeless despair and futility to drive them to surrender. All in a slow trickle of emotion which slowly built up over time, so that they would acclimate to the ambience imposed upon them like a frog sitting in a slowly heating pot of water, ignorant of the rising temperature and too stupid to jump out. Baatar noticed it clearly because he’d been on his guard against Emotional Aura this entire time, even though he also knew there was little he could do against it, but his allies might not even be aware of the Enemy’s insidious scheme as a dagger of emotion was raised high overhead, one perfectly poised to deal a death blow to the wavering Imperial hearts.

So long as the soldiers of Shi Bei held the walls and the Imperial Divinities stood firm against their foes, then the city would stand against the Enemy assault. At great cost, perhaps even too great to be considered a victory, but once little sister Li-Li was unable to hold back the deluge of Emotional Aura, then the battle would be all but lost. A single soldier striving to flee or surrender was all it would take to break them, for the first to give up would be akin to a stone cast into a still pond, sending ripples out all across the surface to disturb and agitate the rest. No man is an island, a military adage which cut both ways, for powerful though courage and determination could be, fear was by far the stronger emotion. Not many would choose to stand and fight while others ran for dear life, and even in the highly unlikely event that only a tenth of the Imperial soldiers present succumbed to their fear, it would still spell disaster for the defenders of Shi Bei.

And much of Baatar’s family in the process.

The din of battle was deafening as both sides traded blows, the ring of steel and screams of the dying intermingling with the piercing notes of Luo-Luo’s zither which were few and far between. The gentle and hard-working girl’s ivory hands were stained with blood from putting so much effort into her playing, for the strings of her instrument would have long since snapped if not for her becoming One with the Instrument and Plating it with her Domain. When this phenomenal accomplishment took place was difficult to say, but brilliant and talented though the girl might be, she was no Warrior and never would be, for she lacked the temperament and instincts for bloodshed. Since she could Domain Plate her zither strings, then there should be no reason why she could not also Domain Plate her fingers as well, but she was so fixated on her melody that she was either more familiar with her zither than the body she’d grown up in for twenty-five years, or the idea of Domain Plating her body had simply never occurred to her in the first place. The latter most likely, since the zither was an ordinary instrument Baatar’s rose had bought for the girl in Nan Ping, but immersed within Insight as she was, he dared not distract her with a Sending and risk jolting her out of her transcendent state. Still, it pained him to see his most delicate daughter-in-law endure such a wretched and easily avoidable tribulation while giving this battle her all, even though it also filled him with pride to see her rise to the occasion.

Little Yan and Sumila were faring better, fighting with all their hearts upon the battlements and thriving despite being utterly outmatched. Their consummate understanding of their respective Blessings enabled them to slaughter even Half-Demon Peak Experts with effort enough, and though they should have long since surpassed the limits of their endurance and Cores, they continued unleashing scything whirlwinds and scintillating bursts of scorching light to clear whole swathes of the Enemy from the battlements. Sweet and reckless Lin-Lin saw this as an opportunity to flit between her two sister wives, making her way to and fro without a care in the world as if strolling through a peaceful park rather than a tumultuous battlefield. Luckily, she had enough powerful guardians to keep her safe and an inborne strength even Baatar dared not underestimate, but his orders and pleas that she return to the safety of the animal carts went unheeded. Unanswered too, because the silly girl still had yet to figure out how to use Sending, and she’d picked up little Rain’s habit of preferring to ask for forgiveness rather than permission. Young Ancestral Beast though she might be, it was far too dangerous for her to be ambling about the battlefield without a care in the world, but she continued to do so with a look of quiet determination and there was nothing Baatar could do to stop her.

