“Keep your arms at your sides,” Stuart said. “She doesn’t have her claw blunts on, and she’ll shred your sleeves if she lands on you.”

Alden put his arms by his side, eagerly waiting for Stuart’s pet to land and not particularly minding if he got climbed on and slightly shredded by a flying dinosaur. She hit the ground and whistled—a lot like Stuart just had—at the sight of him.

Yes, he thought, delighted as the animal ran toward him. She remembers me!

Only for Other Alden to head straight for his suitcase like it was the only thing of interest in the whole forest. He had to pull his foot out of the way so she didn’t stomp all over his squishboot in her eagerness to sniff the bag.

She chomped on a zipper and tugged.

“No!” said Stuart.

Other Alden looked at him. She seemed to consider the instruction for a moment before tugging a little more.

“No.”

She finally let go and proceeded to climb on top of the bag instead.

They had to fight her for it to get going again, and Stuart ended up apologizing several times while Alden the human tried to coax the pet into acting like he was as interesting as his luggage.

Stuart led him down a path that existed, like all the others surrounding the main house and outbuildings, only because it had been worn by passing feet. And some small thing with wheels, Alden noted as he saw the faint marks of ruts crushing the leaf mulch ahead of them

He looked up at the trees.

Their soft, blade-shaped leaves seemed to start small and grow up to the length of his forearm. All the ones on the ground were brown. Dead. But the one he’d been using as a bookmark for months was still a healthy shade of green with a silvery back.

“How long does it take for the leaves to turn brown after they fall?” he asked.

“They don’t fall until after they turn brown,” said Stuart. “Usually.”

Other Alden was flapping around ahead of them, doing battle with what looked like the remnants of some decoration or toy that had been tied to a branch.

They had passed three cottage-sized buildings already, only one of which had been in use, if the presence of a worktable and tools beside it was something to go by.

“Are most of these peoples’ houses? Or offices?”

“It’s a mixture,” said Stuart. “Father, Aunt Alis, and Uncle Tesen imagined their children and grandchildren all residing together in one large house when they decided to live as a <<siblinghold>>. But they either underestimated the number of children they would have or they overestimated everyone’s willingness to share space. Someone brings up adding another floor or <<wing>> every day, but it’s so much less <<disruptive>> to build the cottages.”

Uncle Tesen was probably the third triplet in the set with Alis and Jeneth, Alden thought. The one who died.

“The cottage I’ve claimed for you is my favorite of the empty ones,” Stuart told him. “It’s near the stream.”

They traveled for a couple more minutes down a gentle slope, then turned aside from the well-traveled path toward another building with no path leading toward it at all. It was small and rectangular. Built very close to the base of a tree, it was camouflaged by its own mirrored sides and the coat of fallen leaves on the roof. Out front, two dark wooden chairs faced down the slope, which steepened suddenly as it approached the stream Stuart had mentioned.

“Our closest neighbors, the en family, live in that direction.” He gestured toward the stream. “Our families have long been <<dear and trusted>> to one another. One of my parents was formerly an en.”

Alden’s attention was captured. Stuart called the Primary his father, using the word that indicated a male Artonan who had both sired him and given him care. And a few times, he’d used words the Systems usually translated as “parent” or “parents,” implying that he considered at least a couple of others in the house to be important caregivers in his life. Most likely the people his father had marriage contracts with, but not necessarily.

He’s never used the word for birthmother, though.

Alden didn’t want to ask outright. But he did feel like now that he was actually standing here in their forest he needed to at least know the names and relationships of the main few adults in Stuart’s life. So that he could make a good impression.

“Before you introduce me to your parents, I’d like to know a little about them. To help me remember who everyone is to each other and you.”

“Do you want to be introduced to them?” Stuart asked, turning suddenly to the cottage to place a hand on the mirrored wall. “Because if you do, I will add it to the itinerary. But I don’t think any of them deserve to meet you today.”

He had such a snippiness to his voice that Alden might have been amused by the sudden shift if not for the words themselves.

“Am I not here to meet your family?” he asked slowly. “At least partially…?”

“I was looking forward to introducing you to them all during the visit I was planning for December.” A hidden door slid inward and sideways to reveal the cottage’s interior. “This afternoon, however, I am looking forward to not being around them.”

Oh boy. “Are they…angry I’m here? Or is it something about Privacy of the House? Evul-art’h said they’d found out about that, but—”

Stuart stepped over the threshold. “To be truthful, my unwillingness to have you sworn to Privacy of the House was the start of extended <<verbal>> warfare. But it would only have been a small disagreement at another time. For a long while now, they have been digging in <<barren>> fields for the <<tenderroot>> that they could hold above the reach of a rich but starving man.”

The need to de-metaphor that made Alden stand in the doorway for several seconds after Stuart had gone in. “You mean they’ve been looking for something you wanted so that they could make you give them something they wanted?”

A bargaining chip.

“Yes. Come inside. We must make sure you have everything you need. Human bedtime will come not long after your third meal.”

Alden laughed a little. “You don’t have to schedule bedtime for me.”

“I did not schedule bedtime,” Stuart said. “I have only arranged my own half of the itinerary to take advantage of your natural bedtime. I will do homework silently and contemplate the day’s events for nine human hours.”

******

The cottage was all window on two sides, with a low ceiling that felt more cozy than confining. It had everything Alden needed, plus a lot of things he didn’t.

While Stuart followed him around, explaining the significance of every fruit in the “bowl of welcome” that had been placed on a special stand by the door, Alden explored. A diaphanous curtain divided the main room in two. The largest bed he’d ever seen in his life was on one side, along with all the closet space and a good fluffy rug.

And on the smaller half of the cottage was the entryway with its shoe cubby, a floor table with cushions for seating, and a cabinet full of provisions that ranged from bottles of dried tea and alien cigars to jewelry.

“Are these magic rings?” Alden asked, staring at a peg inside the cabinet that was covered in the things.

“They’re bad ones. Most will probably break after a single use because the enchantments turned out weak,” Stuart said. “But not everyone who stays feels like casting spells. This way they can quickly air out the cottage or send a message to the main house by grabbing a ring. If it doesn’t work, it’s not serious, but if it does, it’s convenient.”

Not everyone feels like casting spells…I see.

Alden nodded and shut the cabinet. Having seen everything, including the bathroom, there was only one thing left to do. He went back over to his suitcase and grabbed the recently chewed-on zipper.

Stuart was standing beside him holding up a pair of berries joined together at the stem. “These two red ones are prusimentha. They symbolize a first meeting. I know this isn’t our first meeting, but since it’s the first one with the bowl of welcome…”

He trailed off as Alden set aside his messenger bag, toiletries, t-shirt, and jeans to pull out a sack made of soft brown silk. The learning cushion had been delivered in this, and he’d decided to reuse it to keep the cushion from getting scuffed.

He carried it to the stretch of rug on the opposite side of the bed, near the shorter window wall.

“You brought the learning cushion with you.” Stuart was still standing on the other side of the curtain. His bright rust-colored eyes were fixed on Alden.

“I was planning to sit on it tomorrow and—” practice some spells in my hospital room “—learn. So I had it with me when you called. Of course I couldn’t leave it behind. Some wandering human might have ass-abused it. Some wandering wizard might have stolen it.”

Alden knelt on the rug and freed the cushion from its wrapper. Dark leather, gold and silver logograms around the edges, the hidden pocket he was going to find a promise stick for.

“It’s wonderful,” he said. Still kneeling, he looked back around at Stuart. “Thank you for giving me the leather one. You had it made just a little bigger than normal, and every symbol on it means something so thought-provoking and perfect. I can tell you picked them all yourself. It’s one of the best gifts anyone’s ever given me.”

“You like it that much?” Stuart took a few steps closer.

“I was afraid it was going to get lost in the floods. I was more worried about it than about some of the people I met Friday night.”

“You weren’t!” His face was somewhere between horror and delight.

“I was,” Alden insisted. “And then Evul-art’h called me and said you were having an argument in the big living room, and I’d get to speak to you soon or never again.”

Stuart made an angry noise in the back of his throat. “She shouldn’t have called you just to say <<histrionic>> things!”

“I was afraid she really meant it. And that I’d never get to tell you this means a lot to me.” He touched the cushion with his index finger. “A lot.”

“I wanted to give you something meaningful,” Stuart said, the irritation draining away from his voice just as quickly as it had come. “Something that you would have with you for a long time.”

He looked down at the fruit bowl and finally set it back on its stand, before walking the rest of the way over. He passed through the gap in the curtain, his bare feet sinking into the deep carpet, then he squatted in front of Alden until they were eye to eye.

“What happened to you?” he asked. “I heard enough from Esh-erdi to know it was a <<life trial>> almost as difficult as the one you’ve already endured.”

“No,” said Alden. “It was only a single night.”

After a moment, Stuart gave the smallest of nods.

“I did think a Contract was failing again,” Alden admitted. “Even though it wasn’t. Even though I knew, logically, that it wasn’t. And after Esh-erdi rescued me, I still felt deep inside that…maybe Earth was on the edge of ending.”

He remembered being pulled from the dark water into the light. He had seen a mountain of death frozen against the dawn sky by the power of a single knight. He had seen the results of a healthy Contract, the Triplanets, and Avowed working together.

Just a few hundred dead from an event that could have killed tens of thousands.

He thought there was a comforting lesson there, all laid out in front of him. But it was one he couldn’t absorb, couldn’t feel, even though in his head he knew it to be true.

Stuart’s mouth opened again.

“You’re doing that thing where you take us straight to serious land,” Alden said before he could speak.

“Serious land?”

“I can’t say mode in Artonan. I had a question for you, too, though. Your sister said you were trying to explain something to your family in the big living room. She said none of them understood. What was it?”

Stuart stared at him. Alden had almost forgotten what a remarkable starer he was in person.

“You don’t have to tell me, obviously. But I want to understand whatever it was.”

“I don’t know about that,” Stuart said.

Quick rejection of the offer, Alden thought with a wince. “If that’s how you feel—”

“I said so many things, and I thought they failed to understand most of them in the way I wished for them to be understood. I would have to repeat the entire conversation to make sure I told you whatever Evul found worthy of mentioning.”

“You can do that if you want.”

Alden watched in surprise as purple crawled up Stuart’s neck and ears toward his face.

“I couldn’t,” he said quietly. “I got very angry a couple of times.”

“That makes me even more curious.”

“I used <<unbefitting>> words for reasoning with loved ones.”

What in the universe did he say to them? He looked so embarrassed now that Alden couldn’t even think of teasing him about it.

A moment passed. Then, the Artonan rocked back on his heels and sat on the rug with a small thump. He rested his elbows on his knees. “To tell you more about myself is something I want to do. It’s what I planned to do in December. Now, things have shifted. You are already here. But what I should tell you before anything else is…”

“What is it?”

Stuart’s eyes didn’t leave his face. “Maybe you would like the meatpetal first. I didn’t actually mean to turn our conversation to serious <<mode>> until after our stomachs were full and we had taken Alden for her evening flight. I was going to approach the subject of our friendship on soft feet.”

“You don’t have to worry about soft feet. You can just say whatever it is. And then we can recover by eating meatpetal.”

