A new spot of land had opened up at Candlepoint, called the Farm. A few days ago, Erick had hung out in the sky and watched the sand be turned into loamy field by shadelings, while Bulgan put up the sign naming the place ‘The Farm’, himself, taunting Erick with a childish, megalomaniac smile as he did so.

Justine worked in the Farm quite a lot, mainly as a [Grow]er. Valok was there, too, working the fields with magic and tools, as a picker and a planter, alongside others who did the same. He looked happy, and healthy. They all did, really. But a few of the other shadelings working in those fields and greening that space had to be some of the farmers who had been killed at Spur’s Farms. Erick was sure he recognized a few of them, though he had no names to go with their faces.

Poi brought Erick out of his reverie, “Guardmaster Merit has some people she would like you to find in an hour. Three missing people in one day.”

Erick looked away from the window, and its clouds. “Oh? Sure. I’ll be ready. Irogh’s appointment isn’t for hours.” He pushed his empty plate away, and said, “I have something to try out, first, though.”

Poi began cleaning up breakfast, saying, “Good luck.”

- - - -

Erick stood in his tower, and thought back to how Jane had described her [Greater Shadowalk], and how he had failed the recreation Quest to make [Lightshape] out of his own [Lightwalk]. [Lightwalk] was definitely capable of transforming into [Greater Lightwalk], though; Jane herself was proof of that truth.

The differences between Greater and Normal were known to Erick, too. Greater allowed the user to see and hear and be practically everywhere in a large area around themselves. Jane could spy across the room; listening through the shadows in people’s ears. She could see through the shadows under their chins. She could feel into pockets, and bring shadowy hands to bear far away from herself. And, she had a shadow capable of full physicality; one that didn’t deform if she didn’t want it to deform.

So what did [Greater Lightwalk] look like?

Erick wasn’t sure, but he was sure that there was at least one way to get there, and he was going to try. So he held out his hand, and channeled mana through [Lightwalk], as ten Ophiel, scattered around his tower, on lathes and benches, on troughs and tables, stood ready to record and amplify the sound.

A bright wash of rainbow flowed from his hand, like a heat mirage and an oil slick and a flare of white, all in one. It was the sound of revelations, but not in an apocalyptic manner, but in the way that one person tells another about themselves, revealing who they are to the world. It was vulnerability. It was openness. It was strength in weakness, and weakness open to be exploited, but it was also power, pure and unadorned.

And then in the strange way that things sometimes are, it was also its opposite. The sound of [Lightwalk] was one of false fronts, and hidden daggers. A flashy showing in one place that mesmerizes the senses so that you can’t see that you’re being robbed blind.

Sight and soul, but also sleight of hand, and illusions too intricate to ever be understood.

And tying it all together, was the faint sound of possibility, of magic.

Ophiels took up the sound of Erick’s [Lightwalk], their little wings fluttering as their eyes rolled back and each of them raised from their perches, to float around Erick in a ring, each of them mirror images of each other, each of them helping to solidify what was coming. Erick saw none of this, though. He was already a being of light.

With eyes no longer strictly in his head, and ears no longer strictly where they seemed to be, Erick listened to the world, and vibrated with the mana.

If someone were to look from outside, they would see a faint glow coming from the Flatt Estate. The orange stone was a tiny bit brighter than usual, or maybe the clouds above had parted in an odd way, to let the morning light shine down in an odd manner. But the southernmost window on the southern tower, was pure white. That, in particular, was not an odd sight to see. Erick often put up visual obfuscations when he was in-tower.

A few morning farmers looked up anyway, to see the tower, and saw the white light, but they went right back to tending their fields; it was going to rain this afternoon, for sure. Some of them smiled at that fact, and joked about the weather, as they planted seeds and sprinkled potions on the soil.

In another part of Spur, Silverite was working on paperwork, in her office, as the yellowscaled Hera brought her more.

Al was down in the sewers, cleaning up a late night raid on the place, committed by drunk kids and guards at the entrance paid to look the other way. The veteran adventurers had turned part of the place into rubble and plunged through three layers of waterways in what spectators referred to as ‘a good old romp’, but they had not reached upward with their spells; the city was never in any danger.

Mog was checking numbers on the quest board at the Adventurer’s Guild, and looking over reports of larger beasts in the desert, and strange reports of holes found here and there in the sands. The reports were par for the course, though; nothing too odd about any of it.

Sirroco Zago was reading a hand-held book as she pet her black cat on her lap, while the white one pawed at her, but there was only room for one cat at a time; the Guildmaster said as much, in a happy little voice, telling ‘Star’ that she’d get her lap on the next book. It was ‘Void’s turn right now.

Merit waited in the Guardhouse, getting her Scryers together, along with some body parts on silver trays for Erick, later, whenever he felt like showing up. Honestly, what was his problem? It’d take an eyeless, deaf and dumb child, not to see the problems that man had with guards.

Eyes looked out from shadows, as other eyes, made of light, peered into the shadows. There was a smile on one side, and a concern on the other, though it was anyone’s guess as to which was which. Or perhaps it was both. Emotions were complicated things, after all, and light and shadow always chased each other.

Clouds roiled in a deep sky, but sucked into an invisible space, hardly seen by anyone, except for Erick, right now. But it was invisible. Hmm. Erick shifted his sight into the infrared, and saw it all. Cloud Giants. Streets made of air. Houses made of wind. It was an imperfect sight, Cloud Giants were very good at [Invisibility], but Erick could see some of the place, and the people. It was an entire city, hidden in the clouds! It was rather large, too. But the Cloud Giants never bothered Spur, right? So… No bother to Erick.

Erick looked around for a little while, enjoying himself as he spied further and faster, and heard better than [Scry] was capable of achieving. And then he came back to himself. His Ophiels sat around the room in their normal manners, hanging out on lathes and workbenches, twittering and chirping and sounding of violins, harps, and endless expanse. Erick smiled, as he patted the closest one, and dismissed the rest. That single Ophiel squealed in delight as he flipped up onto Erick’s shoulder, proudly taking his spot.

A box appeared.

Greater Lightwalk, instant, long range, 10 MP per second + Variable

You are the radiant day.

Erick smiled. The ongoing costs doubled, but the uses of such a spell more than made up for that. And the distance! How far had he actually gone? This required more experimentation, for sure.
