Kiri’s eyes latched upon the dark gem, as she said, “Oh! I remember!” She laughed as she picked up the black diamond. “Oh my gods! Does it really take in Statlight, too?”

“Yes.” Erick said, smirking. “I worked out some minor problems and got a sphere up to plus-25 All Stat. You have to enchant the sphere with an All-Stat lightmask, though, otherwise stray outside influences get sucked in and the thing rapidly explodes. I got toroid rings over Plus 50.”

Kiri held the spot of void in her hand, saying, “It’s a Blackvoid Gem!”

Erick smiled. He knew Kiri would know something he didn’t.

Kiri explained, “Tulamana Blackvoid was an owl shifter from Nelboor, 500 or whatever odd years ago. ‘Blackvoid’ wasn’t her real name. When she invented the spell that made her famous, she took it as her last name; [Blackvoid]. The Script version is called [Trap Light]. It’s [Ward] and [Rebound], but no one has managed to remake her spell since her— OH! Probably! Now that I think about it! Because they didn’t have an understanding of light, but Blackvoid did! Oh wow! Mystery solved!”

Erick smiled; ‘Trap Light’ was already taken, which was why his spell ended up being called something else. No wonder Phagar had been weird, and Rozeta’s sign off message had been strange. Then, he looked up [Trap Light].

Trap Light, instant, touch, 50 mana

Contain the light in an object.

“That is certainly neither [Blackvoid], or [Luminous Trap],” Erick said.

Kiri said, “Certainly not! [Trap Light] is basically worthless. [Blackvoid] was fantastic, though. Tulamana Blackvoid churned out hundreds of thousands of gems, bracelets, everything, each of them for Plus-50 to Plus-150 of whatever. And the best part was, was that nobody knew how she did it! Because her spell lasted a hundred days, and then the item began to degrade, very rapidly, because she didn’t use gems. She climbed to the top of the enchanting world, with glasswork!” Kiri laughed, then said, “She was a glassworker, by trade! A sculptor and a bottle maker. She never enchanted anything until she made her [Blackvoid]. When that happened, she made glass, briefly, into one of the most studied items in the world.

“Her glasswork was widely considered trash by most of the world, but that was probably just jealousy writing history. She pissed off a lot of people. She was a savant with light, though. Her wardlight sculptures are masterpieces. Some of them still exist, in some parts of the world. Some of her rings still exist, too; they’re enchanted with permanent lightmasks, but the [Blackvoid] wore off long ago. I wouldn’t be surprised if there were some examples of her work at Oceanside. She and the Headmaster were tight friends, until Blackvoid was assassinated by Shades.” Kiri said, “The Headmaster even wrote a biography about Tulamana Blackvoid, after her death, but it’s widely considered propaganda in her favor. Other immortals made their thoughts on Blackvoid’s life choices very well known.”

“Thank you, Kiri.” Erick said, “That was… a lot. I didn’t know any of that.”

Kiri waved him off, saying, “It’s trivia; nothing more.” She added, “But… I guess it works better than your silver coating?” She vacillated, “But it’ll only last a hundred days, and it’s probably prone to internal interference if you get subjected to a lightward. That was one of Blackvoid’s work’s main downfalls. Exposure to exterior light fields killed her gems until— OH!” Kiri suddenly turned serious, as she said, “I know it’s not my place, but I would like to create her— Ah. No. Um.” She calmed, saying, “You should invent the reflective ward she created to combat that weakness. [Perfect Mirror]. You cast [Luminous Void] on the gem, then you maskward it, then you [Perfect Mirror] it. You won’t be able to renew the [Luminous Void] while [Perfect Mirror] is active, but it does get rid of the weakness of contaminating the void.”

“That’s really good, Kiri.” Erick said, “You invent it, I’ll copy from you, and that’ll be good enough. You can have the points. You came up with the spell.”

“No.” Kiri said, “I even feel bad that I got [Hermetic Seal] from you.”

“I insist. Don’t argue. Make the spell, and let me see you cast it, and that’s good enough for me.” Erick asked, “Do you know why the Shades assassinated her?”

Kiri smiled softly, as she looked down at nothing in particular. When she looked back up, she said, “Thank you.”

Erick waved his hand. “Don’t worry about it.”

“Then I won’t.” Kiri said, “Anyway. Uh. Blackvoid caught the Shades' attention and didn’t want to play their games. So they killed her. I don’t think you have that problem.”

He frowned, as he looked away. He said, “I guess not.” He lost his frown, and gestured to Kiri’s piles of blanks, and her green lightwards, asking, “Want some void diamonds to experiment with? How’s your— Oh. It’s all green?”

A thought came to Erick, quickly, and full of fright. Justine Erholme had demonstrated the colors of Constitution and Intelligence to Erick already. If green was a color of one of the new Stats...

Erick said, “I know I told you what Justine showed me; Constitution is sunshine yellow but Intelligence is near-ultraviolet. If some green color is a new Stat, then it’s either Charisma, or Dexterity, or nothing.” He looked to Kiri, worried, and said, “The Mind Mages have kill orders for Charisma users.”

Kiri nodded, all serious like. “I know. Poi already warned me. I’ve already been sworn to secrecy, but I can tell you that if my experiment works, I will gain the backing of a major organization. The Mind Mages are very interested in knowing more about Charisma in a controlled setting.” She said, “You have Oceanside and Spur, but I need something, too, and the Mind Mages are… They’re ruthless and hidden, but they’re also rather good people. Every one I ever met.” She added, “If I end up with Dexterity, then that’s fine, too. The ‘nothing’ would be troubling just for how much time I’ve spent on this, but it is what it is.”

“… Okay.” Erick didn’t know what to think about that, at first, but it sounded… good? He said, “That’s good, right? Let’s hope for Charisma?”

“I’m still staying here,” Kiri said, suddenly. “This is not me running away, but instead ensuring my safety along multiple avenues. I meant to tell you sooner, but… I didn’t know how to tell you. This happened… A while ago. The decision to pursue this option with the Mind Mages, I mean.”

“Kiri.” Erick spoke softly, saying, “That’s fine. Everyone needs their own life. You’re not an apprentice forever, are you?”

“Maybe so, but I’d like to continue bothering you for magic lessons for decades.”

A swell of quiet joy expanded in Erick’s chest. “Good. I’m glad.” He rapidly added, “And I’m glad you have a plan, too! Feels like I’m just rushing from unexpected fire to unexpected fire.”

Kiri grinned, as she said, “There are lots of fires out there that could use some rain.” She enthusiastically added, “And yes!” She pushed her box of blank diamond spheres at him, saying, “I want a whole box of gems turned into [Luminous Trap]s!”

Erick chuckled, as he took the box into one hand and tapped his other fingers across the contents, turning blank gems to black gems, as he asked, “I’ve got Ophiels pathing toward Killtree right now for some [Weather Control] horde kills in an hour. They’re too low level for you, right?”

Kiri nodded, saying, “I’m level 66 right now. Killing spiders would not gain me anything, but I would love to help, if you wish for help.”

“No need, then. Work on whatever you want, and also that reflective spell.” Erick finished tapping through most of the diamonds, turning a small part of the world into an optical void. He set the box back on her workbench, saying, “I am working on some crowns of plus 200 or 250 Willpower. Maybe I can pump it even higher than that, but the point is, I’m considering keeping one or two such crowns on hand for use in remote monster hunts. You’re more than welcome to use the ones I make, or even to make your own, when you hunt monsters for Mog, or whenever necessary.”

Kiri’s eyes glittered green, as she said, “That would be… Most wonderful.” She got a far off look, as she said, “I could actually cast some of my spells if I had— Ha! 250 more Willpower. Damn, that is a lot.” She looked to Erick. “The spells I messed up, I mean. I could actually cast them.”

Erick said, “Me too.”

- - - -

Under grey skies lay a land of streets, squat stone towers, and houses made of wood where every other wooden plank was missing. Some of the buildings were better made than others, but absolutely all of it was covered in mud, with roads that might have been solid in previous centuries, but were now not even fit for pigs to wallow within. And yet, people walked, and talked, and lived in this place, this northernmost Sovereign City of Killtree.

Jane’s description of the place had been too kind, even with the use of such descriptive phrases as ‘diarrhea shithole’ and ‘unending hive of scum and villainy’.

Ophiel hung out to the north of the city, high in the overcast sky, kilometers away from the obvious stench of hammered down humanity and the dilapidated structures they lived in, and yet, Erick could still almost smell the detritus of a strangled society. He certainly saw the problems, though.

Erick spoke through his [Familiar], asking, “What the FUCK is wrong with you people? [Stoneshape] is right there! One fucking point. You can buy it your very first godsdamned level.”

A fully covered black-clad ninja, for that’s all she could have possibly been, stood on a hovering platform nearby, and winced. Her name was ‘Elite Redwood’, but she was not one of the Headmaster’s Elites. That was one of the first things Erick had asked, when she showed up in the sky next to Ophiel and introduced herself, not ten minutes ago.

The other person was a man in full, off-white plate [Conjured Armor], who stood on his own off-white hovering platform. He was Guildmaster Rohn of the local Adventurer’s Guild chapter. Erick had no opinion about the ninja, but he certainly felt that the Guildmaster, of the international Adventurer’s Guild, should have at least felt bad about the state of his city.

The Guildmaster did not wince at Erick’s words, he merely stated, “We do not ask for your judgments, only for your ability to halt the horde, in accordance with bargains of trade laid down long ago with your Headmaster.”

Erick ignored the representatives of Killtree for the rest of the event.

Crafted wind set the grey sky tumbling to the ground, where burning spheres of land sent breezes back upward. Clouds churned, turning dark, as lightning flashed through the heavens, revealing the horde hidden above, on track to assault Killtree. The spiders were not expecting such a sudden change of weather, though. They also weren’t expecting thick air to pull their liquid insides to their outsides, killing every spider large enough to possibly affect what was to come.

Long, airy threads and desiccated corpses caught on each other, while smaller spiders clung on for dear life, as the horde fell to its churning, fiery tornado fate. Erick had gotten much better at this since that first spider horde tried to drop on Kal’Duresh.

Erick set a [Cascade Imaging] down on the ground, in the stone courtyard of the Adventurer’s Guild, set to search for more Ballooning Spiders. Guildmaster Rohn said nothing about that, but he did vacate the field, and Erick did see him tracking down spiders already in the city. Maybe he wasn’t a totally worthless Guildmaster.

Erick almost offered to [Withering] the city, but he was absolutely sure that the Guildmaster and the Elite would say yes, and Erick would end up killing just as many monsters and fully fledged cannibals as he would people suffering from intestinal rads. Maybe ending dozens of hidden threats was worth the bloody cost of such an outcome, but Erick wasn’t willing to pay that cost. No fucking way.

Erick briefly vacated the field, traveling back through strung out Ophiel connections, landing all the way back in his library, in Spur. He shivered in his chair, feeling terrible and not quite knowing what to do about the new problems appearing in Killtree, because of his actions.

Kiri looked up from her book. “Problems?”

“Oh my gods! There are so many.” Erick said, “I put down this imaging down below, of course. And now these adventurers in the local guild just tore through a house, looking for one of the spiders they saw on the map. There’s blood on the streets, Kiri. What the FUCK is wrong with these people’s governors?”

“The Cities are like that.” Kiri frowned, saying, “You always hear of some good nobles gaining a foothold of decent control, sometimes, but then the mob rises up and kills those kinds of people. They have a very strong culture of self governance, and a deep hatred of any and all control, even the kind that is good for them all.”

Erick shivered again. “That’s one way to put it.”

He turned his attention back to the horde, tumbling down from the lightning filled sky, into burning charnel pits. More Ophiels added more fire and more lightning. Ending a threat like the Ballooning Spiders made Erick feel slightly better than how he was feeling, but not much.

- - - -

After dinner, and while the spiders were mostly dealt with, Erick left a hundred Jewels and a few Ophiel in the area, to move the mess into piles of wealth, while he went back to his tower. After recasting the obscuring [Ward] on the large, southern window, he got out his octahedral gem.

He sorely missed being able to look up stuff on the internet, to figure out all of what he was doing, and trying to do, but the purpose of the octahedral diamond shape he had carved from the raw, jumbled octahedral diamond, was to see if carving on perfect, molecular planes, would cause manalight to stabilize better within the diamond. He was absolutely sure that he was missing some deeper understanding of why the diamonds grew like they did, but his gem carving books had not done much better with the deeper understandings, and so, he just [Duplicate]d his octahedron a few times, creating five perfect copies of his perfect gem.

He cast Willpower-Ultramarine lightmasks onto each individual gem, clipping the entire surface, with a centimeter to spare. He smiled. The octahedrons resembled deep blue sapphires. They were kinda pretty. The next casts turned each gem into a light devouring void.

