Kiri eyed the strange chair-table, then, with a whispered apology, made her own, much more normal individual chair and individual table. With a silent smirk, Jane did the same. They sat down at what they had made. Erick dismissed his creations, and threw some [Distortion Ward]s across the inside of the windows. Sunlight still came in, but it came in as a Salvador Dali painting; all melted and soft-looking.

Erick said, “So I’m not sure how you want this to work, but it’s my understanding that you’re the fourth guard at this house and under Poi’s command, but are mostly free to do as I wish.”

Kiri said, “That is my understanding, too. Is there something in particular you would like to organize right now?”

“Yes, actually. Not right now, but I would like to continue our sparring, and I’m even thinking of taking up remedial magic classes at the Mage Guild in town… would you want to sit in with me for those, or…?”

Kiri’s eyes seemed to glow, but she controlled her obvious excitement as she said, “Through my unfortunate time under the direction of Archmage Quel of the Tower, he mentioned that the Headmaster was trying to woo you.” Kiri said, “I really, really, suggest you allow yourself to be wooed into classes at Oceanside.”

Erick smiled softly. “Ah. Yes. The Headmaster has had a lot of glowing reviews from a lot of people. Maybe I should do that. Would you like to go there?”

“Very much yes.” Kiri cleared her throat, then said, “Uh. Archmage, sir.”

“How is your family, anyway?”

Kiri nodded, smiling as she said, “Thank you for asking after them. They’re a lot better, now that Quel isn’t breathing down their necks. They’re actually thinking of moving to Odaali to help with reconstruction and to make a new life there.” She added, “I thought they’d never leave Tower town, but time makes liars of us all.”

Erick said, “Cyril seems like good people. I’m helping them with some platinum rain, but they have yet to ask after that resource.”

Jane spoke up, “Cyril is way out of his depth. Like. Way way way out of his depth. Wilhelmina is going to be the one actually running that country for a long, long time.”

Kiri exclaimed, “Oh thank the gods. That’s good news." She giggled, relieved. "I was concerned when some nobody was slated to be the new Duke of Odaali.”

“You know her?” Erick asked.

“I know of her.” Kiri said, “Duchess Wilhelmina Dominair hates the nobility and strives to include the peasantry in all of her decisions, so that automatically makes her better than ninety percent of the rulers over there.”

Erick laughed.

Jane smiled, saying, “That’s a shining endorsement if I’ve ever heard one.” Jane teased, “Wilhelmina isn’t threatening your family now, is she?”

Kiri sighed out, “They should just move to Spur, shouldn’t they. I might have to convince them.”

“Heck yeah.” Erick said, “Spur’s great!”

Jane said, “It’s grown on me, too.”

Erick said, “Anyway. Glad to see you again, Kiri. I hope this thing you’ve embarked upon works out for both of us.”

“I do, too,” Kiri said.

Erick turned to the blackboard, then stopped, and turned back to Kiri and Jane. “Uh. So I’m going to make a [Solid Ward] with [Airshape], [Stoneshape], and [Ward]. I’ve heard its a good one. Is it?”

Kiri smiled, saying, “The base version of that [Ward] is called [Stony Air Ward]. Since you have the base spells, it should be available for purchase in the Script. Now that you know the name of the spell, you can look it up, if you wish.”

Erick did.

Stony Air Ward, instant, short range, 12 hours, Solid Ward, 250 MP + Variable

Create a solid, large barrier, that absorbs Variable damage before breaking.

Stony Air Ward regenerates integrity based on half of your mana regeneration.

You and people you touch while casting this spell are able to pass through the barrier at will, all others are blocked.

You may only have one Solid Ward active at a time.

Purchase Stony Air Ward for 1 point? Yes/No

No.

“Okay.” Erick asked, “Do you have a recommendation for a better [Solid Ward]?”

“[Stony Air Ward] is one of the best [Solid Ward]s known.” Kiri added, “Unless you’d like to try for [Prismatic Ward], which is all of the shaping spells and [Ward] combined? One of the easiest [Solid Ward]s is [Ward] plus [Force Wall], but not many people take that one; it’s very limited in what it can do. This is because Force, once cast, doesn’t like to change form. A [Solid Ward] made with a shaping spell can regenerate and absorb damage, rather than chipping and cracking and collapsing all at once.”

Erick grinned. “That’s some of what I've heard, too.” He almost went back to the blackboard, but instead, asked, “What kind of barrier is a Breach Barrier?”

Kiri answered as though reciting for an oral exam, “A Breach Barrier is created through [Ward] and vast, vast amounts of blood magic. I do not know the specific spells, but I do know that to create a Breach Barrier requires a highly secretive combination of spells that all stem from a variant of [Watershape], known as [Bloodshape]. What is most secretive and odd about Breach Barrier, is that it is not referred to as [Breach Barrier] in any text; which could mean nothing, or it could mean everything. It might even be a Skill, and not a Spell. But whatever it is, it is far out of my area of expertise.”

“Thank you, Kiri. I was just curious anyway.”

Kiri nodded.

Erick said, “Let’s begin.”

Erick began stringing mana through his spells, producing white lights and more from his hands. The first spell was [Airshape]; It hadn’t changed since he made Ophiel. [Airshape] was the sound of flying free across the land, playful and happy, and an extremely airy white light that flickered up from his open palm like a breeze given form.

Kiri looked confused, but she said nothing.

So Erick explained, “What I’m doing now is flowing my mana through the spells I already have. Not too much mana, but not too little; just the right amount. It’s different for each spell, but you should know when you reach the point where the magic really arrives, if you know what I mean. It’s like how you enchant gems, but instead of stringing through your Stats, you’re stringing mana through your spells. This is [Airshape], for example. Can you hear the wind, free and breezy? Playful, even?”

Kiri tilted her head, just a little.

Jane said, “I can hear it.”

Erick looked to Jane. She was smiling. She really could hear it!

Erick grinned, saying, “Good!”

Kiri said, “Maybe. I’m not sure.”

“Try it with your own [Airshape], or whatever.”

Kiri flickered green light above her open hand, like a flame nurtured and crackling in the grip of her well-manicured talons. It sounded of hearth and home.

Kiri dismissed the flame, saying, “This is all… very peculiar.”

“Yes. Poi said something similar when I talked to him about this method.” Erick said, “But it works! At least for me. It might work for you, too.” He strung the next spell through his hand, and it came out like a dense, singular hum, and a solid light. “This one is [Stoneshape]. Sounds like solidity, to me. But it also sounds like planets in gravity, too. Or at least what I’d imagine planets in gravity would sound like.”

Kiri tentatively asked, “Are you... Are you hearing emotions?”

“… Probably?” Erick said, “Does your magic not feel emotional to you?”

Kiri shook her head. “Would you allow me to use [Sense Intent] here?”

Erick shrugged. “Go ahead.”

Kiri went from looking at Erick, to gazing at him. She blinked. She went back to simple looking, as she said, “You’re… Very empathic, you know?”

Jane laughed, joking, “Is that his problem?”

Kiri shook her head, saying, “Not a problem. I would like to talk about this in depth, but later. It is unimportant right now. Continue, please!”

Erick strung mana through the final spell, producing a plasma ball of white light around his hand, and a static noise. He said, “And this is [Ward], of course. Sounds like… static? No— Ah ha! Sounds like white water in river rapids. A layer of distortion that hides the life in the depths.” He added, “A lot of magic has watery sounds. This one is more crashing-rushing than most.”

Kiri and Jane watched, saying nothing.

Erick thought as he said, “Now I have to figure out how to put them all together in a way that makes sense, and that the magic would appreciate. And I do mean that literally. They need to like being together, or else you get disharmony.”

Erick went up to the chalkboard, and wrote down some ideas.

Airshape

Stoneshape

Ward

Playful, exploratory

Extrovert

Breezy, windy

Immobile, contemplative

Introvert

Solid hum

Defensive, mystical

Homey

Rushing water sounds

“So that’s that.” Erick said, “I don’t usually do it this way, but here, you can see the pieces that need to come together in order to make a harmony.” He paused. He brought out the box for Ophiel, then handed it out to Kiri and Jane, saying, “This is a [Familiar] I made using this method. He actually likes music, so let’s have him help me on this.”

Erick summoned an Ophiel while Kiri’s eyes were bugging out at the spell, and Jane smiled softly. A dozen-winged, dozen-eyed Ophiel, three foot tall, appeared in the air beside Erick. Ophiel immediately trilled out a violin and flute sound as he hovered, light as a feather, beside the blackboard, a multitude of more eyes opening up across his body, taking in the new sights. There were already several Ophiel flying around out there in the world, but they were on hold, flying around in the sky near where they needed to eventually be…

Erick quickly checked on each of the ones he left out there. The Spur-Farm Ophiel was doing well; he was watching the farmers prepare for the morning rain. Some of the farmers looked at Ophiel, but most ignored him. It was almost go-time for Erick to bring the rain, but there was still half an hour before that needed to happen.

The Odaali Ophiels were doing okay, floating around the sky in formation. They weren’t anywhere near the brown castle, but that brown structure remained in sight, far below; some people were even in the process of [Special Ward]ing the stone castle to white.

Erick came back to himself—

Kiri shook the blue box in the air, saying, “This is amazing! And Ophiel is pretty, too, but wow. This! Now, this is a [Familiar].”

Ophiel trilled in obvious enjoyment of being praised.

Erick smiled, saying, “Okay okay. He’s amazing, yes, but I don’t want him getting a big head.” Erick patted Ophiel, and the [Familiar] pushed into his hand, happy to be touched, as Erick said, “Ophiel is very young, but he likes to mimic sounds. He picked up the violin and flute after hearing them for a few hours, though he prefers the violin, I think.” Erick lifted his hand away. Ophiel held in the air, near Erick, waiting for something more to happen. Erick pushed mana through his spells, asking Ophiel, “Help me figure out how to make these sound good together. It’s okay if you can’t—”

Ophiel immediately began singing and glowing with some arcane song of dense air, wrapped around him like a protective shell. A home made of structure and ease.

“… Perfect.” Erick smiled, saying, “What I’m hearing is a song about an easy home, where people come and go as they want, but it’s still a home. There’s still walls to keep out those who would do harm." Inspiration struck. Erick said, "A home of [Crystalline Air], that reforms as needed.” He began:

Erick stopped. He held out his hands to Kiri and Jane, saying, “I need to do this outside.”

Kiri and Jane each grabbed a hand.

In a blip of white, the three of them reappeared on the roof of Erick’s mage tower. The winds of the Crystal Forest flowed over the northern walls of Spur, twisting around the crenelated roof of the tower. After a moment, Ophiel joined them, hovering alongside Erick, unfurling to his full, three meter, two dozen winged height. Ophiel sang of magic; a duet with Erick, as Erick called to the sky.

“A defense against harm [Ward]

“Founds a home, solid lair. [Stoneshape]

“Add a sky twisting charm, [Airshape]

“Cast a [Crystalline Air].” [Ward]

The air shifted around the tower as a minor amount of magic flowed from Erick, into the surroundings. In a crinkling, all-encompassing rush of sound, ten meters out in every direction, a glint fractured the light, like a massive soap bubble frosting over. A layer of clear crystal formed a sphere with Erick, Kiri, Jane, and Ophiel at the center.

A blue box appeared.

Crystalline Air, instant, short range, 24 hours, Solid Ward, 50 MP + Variable

Create a solid, large barrier, that absorbs Variable damage before breaking.

You may increase or decrease the size of your Crystalline Air for an increase or decrease in Variable cost.

Crystalline Air regenerates integrity based on your Rested mana regeneration rate.

You and those you permit are able to pass through Crystalline Air at will. You may grant or revoke this permission at will.

You may only have one Solid Ward active at a time.

Erick smiled as he read the box. He handed a copy to both Jane and Kiri, then said, “I permit air to move through this barrier.”

Nothing changed.

Erick pushed mana and intent into the spell, repeating, “I permit air to move through this barrier.”

The usual winds over Spur had stopped after [Crystalline Air] went up, but at Erick's granting of permission, the wind resumed. Erick canceled [Crystalline Air], and the layer of clear ice all around him vanished. Erick recast the spell. Sure enough, the winds of Spur kept flowing through the barrier. Erick laughed, happy that the spell remembered his settings, because apparently that’s what permission meant, in this case.

He was also quite glad that he wouldn’t accidentally smother himself in his sleep, or something, if he ever forgot to permit ‘air’ into the bubble. It was a concern Erick had had ever since he learned about [Solid Ward]s, but he was glad to see there was no problem. Erick shivered at that gruesome thought, and tossed that concern away.

Kiri smiled as she read the spell, her eyes going back and forth from the box, to the spell hanging in the sky, to Erick. Jane had already read the box and tossed it away.

Jane said, “Good job, Dad.”

Kiri dismissed the box into the ambient mana, and said, “Thank you, Archmage, for allowing me this opportunity to learn from you.”

“There’s more where that came from.” Erick felt like being corny, and said, “But with great power, comes great responsibility.”

Jane almost groaned—

But Kiri bowed, saying, “I understand.”

