“Three Ophiel, who can hang out above this castle; just send me a message when you figure out exactly what you want out of this. I’ll send you some gems another day.” Erick said, “We’ll see from there.”

“Thank you, Archmage Flatt,” Cyril said.

Wilhelmina said, “We wish you safe journey, and to know that you will have friends in Odaali, should you ever need us.”

Yetta stepped forward, saying, “We couldn’t have won this war without you, Archmage. Your power was crucial; as well as your willingness to do what needed to be done.” She added, “I had severe doubts at the beginning, what with the Avowed Pacifist... stuff—” She paused. She half-shouted, “Those!—” She stopped herself. She blinking hard, her lips crushing against each other like she was holding back something that would shatter the tense moment into a deadly, cutting thing.

Erick saw her have this emotion, and it was easy to put together all the pieces of why she would feel the way she felt. Erick understood, in the vague sort of way that one understands history, exactly what had been prevented this day. He also understood, in a lot more solid way, and from seeing the bodies and the land and the war, how much Yetta had lost, and how much it had hurt her. When he looked to Cyril and Wilhelmina, he saw something similar to Yetta’s emotions, but much more schooled, try to hide away from their faces.

As the tense silence stretched, Yetta broke that silence, by asking, “Do you know why we came to you, for help with this Daydropper quest?”

There were a dozen reasons Erick could think of off the top of his head. He picked one, saying, “Because Atunir told you to?”

Cyril and Wilhelmina sat straighter.

But Yetta simply chuckled, and said, “Not many people would guess at the hand of a goddess right away, but you’re not most people.” She spoke through her emotions, saying, “Before Planter added himself to the Quest, Atunir told me to seek you out for guidance on the nature of the Daydropper, to ask after your use of Withering to improve our war effort. I failed to do this—” She held back angry tears, saying, “Because I failed to accept what was happening around me.” Her voice cracked as she asked, “If— If I had come to you, right away, would you have helped clean the land of Daydroppers?”

Erick answered honestly, “No. I would not—”

Yetta sighed in relief.

“—Because, as I have said, I will not join the Quiet War.”

“Why?” Wilhelmina asked. “You are not blind. You see what they did to us. You might be planar, but you’re still human. If you had landed on Veird in the Wasteland Kingdoms, you would have been dead in an hour.”

“That is likely true.”

Wilhelmina demanded, “Then why!”

“Because there are more dangerous things in this world than a war that only continues due to its own momentum.” Erick said, “Like the Shades. Like Melemizargo. Like the wyrms and all the other monsters out there that I don't even know about yet.” He added, “My eyes have been opened to a lot since living on Veird for this little while, but I don’t think I would ever approve of war just because my dead ancestors demanded it of me. It is very rare that both sides to an argument are equal in pain and truth, but as far as I can tell, this is one of those times.” He added, “What was the result of this war? Just death! Everyone lost. No one gained.”

Yetta laughed. “No one gained, but only because you were able to stop a Breach Demon.”

Erick said, “And next year when you get your own Particle Mages, you can buy [Call Lightning] and do the same.” He added, “Though I have no doubt that the Class Quest for Particle Mage is going to be crazy difficult.”

Wilhelmina’s face turned hard, but she just nodded, and said nothing.

Yetta stepped back, staring off into the distance for a long moment. She breathed hard, but then calmed.

Cyril said, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt, for your service.”

Erick said, “Glad to help.”

Yetta relaxed, asking, “Would you like a [Gate] back to Spur?”

“That would be great. Thank you.”

Yetta glanced to the left, toward where the sun spilled into the room. A yellow [Gate] blinked open, like sunbeams gently parting. On the other side of the [Gate] laid a bright, sandy land of crystal agave, and a desert city in the distance, surrounded by green.

Yetta bowed. Cyril and Wilhelmina leaned over in their thrones; it was sort of a bow. Erick stood tall, but nodded.

His party moved through the [Gate]. Erick left three Ophiel behind, then followed Jane through the portal to Spur.

From there, Erick and his Ophiel [Teleport]ed everyone directly to the house.

- - - -

The house rose in front of them, two mage towers, one north and one south, with three floors, and one lush green garden out front. Greyscale Spice Lady Ratchet and Force Mage Ramizi were in that garden, picking lemons and tending to the tomatoes, respectively.

Ramizi noticed Erick and the others. He stood up from the dark soil, saying, “Hey! You’re back.”

Erick smiled, happy to be back in Spur. As the others began walking into the house, Erick said, “Do you like the red tomatoes more than the purple ones?”

Ramizi held a red tomato in his hand, saying, “They’re different. Can’t turn them into sugars, though that industry is being shoved aside in favor of cactus sugar, anyway. That plant loves the platinum rain.” He added, “These red tomatoes go great in cheese pies and sauces, though.”

“Glad to see you return to us in one piece, Erick.” Ratchet had come over carrying a basket full of lemons, saying, “These lemons are great. I haven’t been able to grow any of the other citrus I usually carry in that rain of yours, but I’m working on tweaking these. Gonna grow my own crop. Soon as I get the flavors right, I’ll give you some.”

“I’d like that.”

Erick smiled, happy that people were enjoying the food he had made. Enjoying his food was much nicer than enjoying his ability to kill. He didn’t want to be the guy that Champions asked to destroy a Particle Magic threat, but he had become that guy, and that was just the way of the world.

He did not blame Yetta, Cyril, or Wilhelmina for their positions or what had been done to their people. Their anger was, if not good, then at least righteous. But righteous people can do a lot of harm in their pursuit of ‘good’. Erick wasn’t going to judge how the people in Odaali chose to live their lives, or what they did in response to what had been done to them; it wasn’t his place to judge any part of the Quiet War, and he desperately hoped it stayed that way.

The Silver Star on his shirt hung there, cool to the touch and still pristine. Erick didn’t feel pristine, though. He had killed a lot of people, today.

He spoke a little while longer with Ratchet and Ramizi, talking about what was happening around town, and then asked if they wanted to come inside for a drink or a coffee. Neither of them could stay; they were just there to check on the plants and keep them tended while Erick was away. Ratchet left first, saying it was time to start dinner.

“I’d like to come over and talk magic with you, in particular, Ramizi, maybe some other day?”

Ramizi smiled, saying, “Anytime.”

“Have you caught that necromancer out there, yet?”

Ramizi suddenly frowned. “No. They’re still out there, somewhere in the north, but they haven’t made a move and our [Familiar]s haven’t picked up anything.”

“Sorry to hear that.”

“Eh. They’re not currently murdering anyone…” Ramizi paused. He said, “Probably. They could be creating summons with souls, but with all this downtime, we’ve been able to investigate what happened in Nergal. This necromancer doesn’t seem like that kind of necromancer, so whatever they’re doing out there, it doesn’t seem to be hurting anyone.” He looked up, then toward his house. Eduard stood by the door. “Ah. Look. I gotta go. Talk to you later.”

“Later.”

Ramizi rushed off to his house with a basket of red tomatoes. Erick waved him farewell and went inside his own house.

Silverite showed up ten minutes later.

- - - -

Silverite and Erick sat around the stone table by the garden, beside the house, under a tall lemon tree. A breeze drifted through the trees and across the vines of red tomatoes and brown potatoes. The air nearby smelled of life, while the wind smelled of dry desert air.

The Mayor of Spur wore a comfortable, airy white dress, while her metal skin shimmered silver under the dappled afternoon light, shining through the trees.

“So.” Silverite started. “You prevented a Breach Demon’s summoning.”

Erick paused. He said, “That’s not where I thought this was going.”

“We’ll get there. I’m starting with this.”

Erick smiled a little, then said, “I understand that Breach Demons are bad, but I’m still at a loss for how bad they are.”

“They're horrific, but only for those who live in human lands. Imagine a Shade loosed upon the world. This is how bad they are.”

“… Is this going to be a problem? In Spur, I mean.”

Silverite was silent for a long moment. Erick let her have her time.

Eventually, she said, “Yes. But also no. This won’t be a problem for Spur, not immediately, anyway.” She took a moment, then said, “If some incani comes to you with a request on the level of Yetta’s, I urge you to consider all the angles, and then accept the request.” She spoke from what seemed like a personal, horrible experience, saying, “You might be required to kill humans to fend off the summoning of a Converter Angel.”

Erick felt a sudden, heavy tiredness come over him, as everything in the world seemed too difficult to bear. He slumped over the stone table, groaning. He wanted to crawl into bed and sleep for a week. He stayed like that for a moment. The moment passed.

He straightened up, and groaned out, “A Converter Angel? Really?”

Silverite spoke without rancor, “You don’t think that the incani were the only ones with crimes of this magnitude to their name, did you? It’s all but proven that the Wasteland Kingdoms became the Wasteland Kingdoms due to the actions of a Converter Angel. It’s not explicitly proven, though, because Converter Angels are much more capable of subterfuge than a Breach Demon.” Silverite said, “Breach Demons bring incani back to Veird, while Converter Angels forcibly create new members for the regimented Celestial Army. Hell is people, but Celes is order and purpose magnified.”

Erick sighed out. He asked, “Don’t they know that there are more dangers out there than each other?” He immediately said, “Sorry. That was childish. Of course they know. They just don’t see it.”

“Not all are blind, but it only takes a few to start a war.” Silverite said, “It takes many to end a war. One of these many is Koyabez. The God of Peace is one of the major blocks to the Quiet War, and is one of the major reasons that total war isn’t always happening all the time.” Silverite cracked a soft smile, saying, “Koyabez likely saw that a Breach Demon was on the table, and guided you into stopping the summoning.”

Erick touched the Silver Star on his chest, saying, “Is that why it never heated? Even when I was killing incani for a human success? It still feels wrong that he was okay with this.”

“Many people make the mistake in thinking that peace is always peaceful.” Silverite said, “If it was just the Halls of the Dead versus Odaali-in-Exile, then I doubt Koyabez would have done more than try to facilitate peace talks through his clergy." She added, "He never would have accepted that the Halls of the Dead were not a part of the Quiet War. Your Avowed Pacifist status would have been ripped from you in a burst of molten silver the second you decided to step through Yetta’s [Gate] to Odaali. Your Star would have been hot whenever the subject came up.”

Erick felt a minor spike of panic. “Really?”

Silverite continued, “But when it comes to Breach Demons and Converter Angels...” She said, “The Silver Star stands between Celes and Hell, in many ways, Erick. One of those ways is physically keeping them from crashing into each other. Koyabez, the Silver Star, does this through pure, constant force.”

“I’m not sure I like being a pawn to the gods, even one as… benevolent as Koyabez.”

Silverite laughed, small and happy, then said, “You weren’t going to say ‘benevolent’, were you?” She added, “He’s a pushy prick, for sure. Especially when it comes to his Avowed Pacifists. All the gods are like that, when it comes to those who have been annointed with their highest ideals. But I believe they have our best interests at heart.”

Erick thought for a moment, then asked, “Rats said that Breach Demons are always summoned once they get the parts together. Is that true?”

“Rats is almost correct, though popular fiction would have you believe that he is completely correct.” Silverite said, “In all the stories you read about Breach Demons or Converter Angels, there’s always some Hero of Peace trying to stop it before it happens.” She sighed, small and sad. “They always end up a caricature of tragedy, though. They never kill who they should. They never see the reality behind the schemer’s eyes. They never succeed in any of the stories or the songs.” She stressed, “But in history? In history, they do succeed, every now and again.”

Erick frowned at nothing in particular, saying, “How did you kill the Participation around here, for incani versus humans?”

Silverite smiled, saying, “That’s easy, and now that you have directly asked the question, and I feel I can trust you with this responsibility, I can answer.” The silver metal of her hand parted, revealing a tarnished four-pointed Silver Star; almost black. “You’re looking at the Head Priest of the Black Order.” The blackened Silver Star vanished back into her silver skin, as she said, “It used to be silver, but then I became ‘The Mayor’ of this neutral town 550 years ago. I’ve had to kill a lot of minor angels and demons along with their summoners and necromancers in order to get the rest of them to back off. That’s the only reason that Quiet War Participation is 1% around Spur.” She said, “You Silver Stars are the face, but we Black Stars are the fists.” She added, “That’s an open secret, but you should probably keep it under your shirt anyway.”

Erick sat, stunned. Silverite was a Head Priest to Koyabez? Did that mean that she knew what Koyabez had said to Erick about Melemizargo?

Erick whispered, “Koyabez told me that Mel…” Erick looked south, toward Ar’Kendrithyst, saying, “That he used to be friends with him. Back before the Sundering.”

