“And then there’s the unicorn, which will be a trial, for sure. That takes care of light essence. Stone is going to be a Kerikil. It’s a dog-like monster in the Underworld. Nasty thing equivalent to the shadowspider of Ar'Kendrithyst, but much easier to acquire, though [Stone Walk] is nothing compared to [Shadowalk]. Basil had a Kerikil…” She got a far off look in her eyes for a moment, before saying, “Air essence is a Bapuali. It’s a near-invisible super fast bird that swarms in groups and preys upon travelers in the Mondariska Mountains. The plan there is to spin a web to catch a dozen of those and pick the best one. Water is a prismatic octopus. Easy choice, that.” She stressed, “The oceans of Veird are terrifying, Dad.” She shivered. “Best to hide and have a form that is useful outside of the water, too.”

Erick asked, confused, “Octopuses can live outside of the water?”

“These ones can, and do; almost exclusively. They're an apex predator on the archipelagos of Nergal. That’s the farthest monster, so I’ll hit that up last.” She picked her sandwich up, saying, “Honestly, I could go the slime-route for all of them except the unicorn. Slimes are really versatile creatures. It’s no wonder they live everywhere.”

Erick joked, “When I get grandchildren, they better be humanoid.”

“Phbbpt!” Jane said, “You might need to get busy making another kid. I’m thinking spider babies.”

Erick laughed as he shivered, saying, “Please gods no, Jane!”

“A whole horde of them.”

Laughing, Erick said, “I’ll disown you!”

Jane scoffed, “What do you have for me to inherit, anyway?”

“Uh! Uh! How about a whole school of magic? Eh? Think about that!”

“Particle magic is for suckers.” Jane said, “Polymage is so much better.”

Erick laughed, happy that he could joke like this. But then he remembered all the people who died. He lost his smile. He sighed out a little.

Jane said, “I won’t leave right away.”

Erick smiled softly. Then he said, “I’m worried for you, sure. But only as much as any parent worries about their children. You’re doing a lot better than I am, Jane, and I’m proud of that. I was actually thinking about all the… the deaths… today.”

Jane breathed deep, then nodded, saying, “It was rough out there, for sure.” She asked, “I told you I got the Skill Quest for [Greater Treat Wounds], didn’t I? I completed it today, too.”

Erick put down his sandwich, shocked. “What! You can do that?” He quickly added, “I knew you could, but— How difficult was it? And congratulations!”

Jane smiled wide. “I got the easy version. I had to ‘provide great aid to 50 terribly wounded’.”

“That’s fantastic!” Erick felt light; weightless and joyful. “I feel… so much better about your chances out there.”

“I do, too.” Jane, still smiling, asked, “After dinner, do you want to keep going? With the skill grinding?”

“Heck yeah!” Erick said, “I’m feeling a little less stupid.” He added, “And I want to see about making a [Conjure Armor] that works like yours. That shit’s fan-freaking-tastic! Did you model it like kevlar, or like graphene?”

Jane paused. “I could try to make it like graphene, couldn’t I?” She leaned in, saying, “Invent a graphene spell for me, Dad.”

Erick laughed.

Jane added, “It’s basically like you did with the diamonds, isn’t it? Make me a space elevator, too.”

Erick laughed louder. "Whatever for!"

"I don't know! I just think it would be cool."

- - - -

Erick woke up bright and early the next morning. Jane made coftea, eggs, and pancakes; enough for everyone, including Rats and Teressa who were just about ready to go to bed.

Kiri Flamecrash showed up at the front door, half an hour into breakfast.

Erick pulled the door open, saying, “Kiri! Hello! Welcome back, Kiri! Poi said you were coming. Glad to see you!” He stepped aside. “Come on in; Breakfast is in the kitchen if you’re hungry. Are you ready for an apprenticeship— or was it a secretary position? I forget exactly what we agreed upon.”

Kiri Flamecrash was dressed in a fabric [Conjure Armor] that looked similar to Jane’s kevlar-fabric type armor, but vibrant green. Kiri herself glittered green in the sunlight; just as much of an emerald-scale as Erick remembered. She smiled, saying, “I have satisfied Killzone and Liquid’s requirements for archmage-duty, and would love to come in, take part in the duties of bodyguard, and also to begin my apprenticeship and all that that will entail, today.”

Erick nodded, “I accept. But I’m not exactly sure what you expect out of this.”

“Perfectly fine!” Kiri stepped into the house.

Jane stepped out of the kitchen. “You!”

Kiri froze, then glared at Jane, saying, “You!”

Jane softened, saying, “I won’t be able to torment you for a while, Kiri, so take care of my dad, will you?”

Kiri gave a slight bow, saying, “It would be my honor.”

Erick asked, suddenly worried, “You’re not going today, are you, Jane?”

“Definitely not now that Kiri is here.” Jane gazed from Erick to Kiri, saying, “Maybe I want to sit in on every lesson. For a week!”

Kiri tensed, gritting her teeth, saying, “It would be my honor.”

A telepathic connection twisted the air from Jane to Kiri, for the briefest of moments, Jane smiling the whole time, while Kiri forced a smile of her own. And then the connection broke.

Jane clapped her hands, saying, “Okay then!” She turned to Erick. “What’s the first lesson?”

Erick said, “Well...” He turned to Kiri. “Uh. Right into it? Don’t you need time to move in, first?”

“I would like to see you make a spell, as soon as possible.” Kiri touched the strap to her shoulderbag, saying, “I have everything I need in here, and will buy the rest when I can.”

Erick grinned. “Sure. We can have a lesson now, I guess?” He thought for a second. He said, “How about a normal spell? I haven’t tried for it yet, but I need a [Solid Ward]. It’s on the to-do list.” Erick added, “And you can tell me what you think afterward.” He brought out [Pure Force Beam Bolt] and passed it to Kiri, saying, “I made this the other day, and—”

Kiri stood straighter, her eyes going wide, as she read the spell.

Erick paused.

Kiri dismissed the blue box, saying, “I would love to participate in this training.”

“Excellent! Maybe you can help me get better, too? I’m sure there’s spells out there that I want, that I just don’t know about. Do you know a lot of magic?”

Kiri smiled wider, saying, “This is wonderful. Yes. I know practically every good spell up to tier 4, and the combinations to get to tier 6 for a few. But— Yes— I need to see how you combine them first.” She adjusted, “I would appreciate learning about your methods before I cloud your judgment with my own.”

“Sounds fine to me. You’re staying here, right? There’s plenty of room.”

Kiri nodded.

“Good. Uh. Just pick whatever room isn’t lived in.” Erick gestured toward the grand staircase at the back of the foyer. “Up that-a way.”

Jane rushed forward to Kiri, saying, “I’ll show her around!”

Jane took Kiri’s arm, and Kiri let herself be taken, though Erick could tell there was some friction in that action. But before Erick could say a contrary word, Jane had whisked Kiri up the stairs.

Erick stood in the foyer, smiling a bit, happy that Jane had made a friend; or at least that’s what Erick hoped all of that was. Jane was always hardest on her friends. Hopefully Kiri could handle it.

Erick needed to find out more about his solid [Ward] idea, though. He pulled that plan out of nowhere, after Poi had told him that Kiri was coming to stay. And speaking of Poi: Erick looked over to see Poi standing by the doorway to the kitchen.

“Ah! Good. There you are.” Erick said, “I need to see Al for a minute.”

Poi nodded, “I’m here and ready, sir.”

Erick rushed out the front door, Poi following close behind.

- - - -

Erick caught Al behind the rad counter of the Sewerhouse, all on his lonesome.

“What?” Erick asked, walking in the gold-colored building, “No Savral or Bacci?”

Al smiled as he saw Erick come in. He stood taller behind the counter, saying, “I heard you iced a city.”

Erick paused.

Al saw the pause, and said, “Ah? You think you did something wrong?”

“Well. Yeah.” Erick walked up to the counter. “But also no… not really.”

“It is good you have these morals.” Al shook his finger at Erick, saying, “But be sure to draw the line where it is good to draw lines.” He put his hands down. “Sympathy for the Shade gets you killed.”

Erick said, “I lost my sympathy for those people after Jane shared some images with me.”

“Bah! It is a multi-purpose saying.” Al asked, “What brings you here so early?”

“Apparently, I have an apprentice now— have you met Kiri Flamecrash? Green scales, young woman?”

“I have not.” Al smirked. “But it is amusing that you have an apprentice. Are you going to fill her head with knowledge of your magic from home?”

“I’m going to be learning more from her than she’s going to be learning from me.”

Al chuckled. “I felt the same way after having you as my apprentice for such a short while.”

“Always learning!” Erick smiled. “Anyway: I wanted to know how you made that solid [Ward], to see if I can duplicate it. You told me once but I forgot.”

“Easy request: [Ward], [Airshape], [Stoneshape].” He added, “But if you are shooting for the best, you need all the shaping spells, and [Ward], all together, all at the same time.” He smiled. “Good luck making that.”

Erick groaned. “I don’t even have all the shaping spells.”

Al shrugged. “Most people do not. And if you try to combine them, you will fail anyway. I know of only one being that ever managed to create that [Solid Ward], and you are no Champion of Rozeta.” He shook his head a little, saying, “Not all of those base spells are useful, anyway, so no one even tries for that [Solid Ward] except for people with the Class: Shaper. [Fireshape] is only useful for the firebugs already throwing around fire. [Lightshape] and [Shadowshape] are really good for non-[Invisible] invisibility, and some other edge cases, but they are also not great.” He declared, “[Airshape], [Stoneshape], [Ward]; this is all you need to make a great [Solid Ward]. Adding [Watershape] weakens the structure in all cases, so don’t bother with that one.”

“… But why those spells?”

Al paused. “What do you mean?”

“Could I make a [Solid Ward] out of [Ward] and… [Force Wall]?”

Al hummed, then wide eyed, said, “I remember now! This is [Force Cage]. [Dispel]able for 50 mana, or breakable for 100 to 500 damage. It doesn’t regenerate like a proper [Solid Ward] regenerates; this is why people don’t rely on this method.” He added, “I’m sure you could try? Though the [Solid Ward] I told you about can easily absorb a lot more damage than 500 before breaking. Thousands or more. And people can walk through it, too.”

“… Those are good reasons.”

“Yes, they are!”

Erick smiled, saying, “Thanks, Al."

"Any time, my friend."

Erick added, "And just so you know: I’m over level 50, now.”

Erick laughed, leaving Al to sputter as he walked away, out of the Sewerhouse, headed back home. He had a class to teach! He had substituted for gradeschoolers before, this would just be like that, wouldn’t it?

- - - -

On the way back, on one of the less crowded streets, Erick asked, “Poi? So Kiri cleared everything required of her, right?”

“Yes, sir.” Poi said, “She’s going to be the fourth guard at the house and under my command, but mostly she’s free to do as you wish.”

“And… Is she a good person? Or… I’m not sure. She has some mental magic, right?” Erick added, “But so do you and I trust you but… How bad can a mentalist be? Should I be worried about mind control?”

Poi smiled softly, saying, “Mind Mages are highly regulated by other mind mages and various regional powers. Kiri is not one of us; she only has [Sense Intent]. Though she’s very good at [Sense Intent], in all the time she has been observed she has never used her skills for selfish gain. She’s only used her mental spell to steer clear of life threatening trouble, which is one of the major tenets of proper Mind Magic.” He added, “Whoever taught her likely saw a young person in danger, and desired to give her the tools to rescue herself.”

A weight seemed to fall off of Erick’s shoulders. He said, “That’s great to hear.” He added, “But you didn’t say anything about dangerous mental magic?”

Poi frowned, saying, “[Psychic Terror]. This spell causes all sapient minds in a super long range to experience limitless fear as long as the caster concentrates. Mind control exists, but all the other Mind Mages out there work to ensure people are unaffected by this category of magic. In any case, you can resist all hostile mind magics if you have a resistance. [Telepathy] even helps you build that resistance.”

Erick glanced south as he walked home, glimpsing the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst through the spaces between the orange stone buildings. He said, “Good to know.”

Poi added, “People are usually more scared of Soul Magic, sir. That stuff changes who you are at a base level and is nearly impossible to fix once the damage has been done.”

Erick uttered, “Well that’s suitably terrifying.”

“I try not to think about it, sir.” Poi said, “Soul mutilation doesn’t really happen outside of human or incani lands, anyway.”

- - - -

When Erick got back home, Jane and Kiri were drinking coftea and laughing near the garden about something, but when he approached, they saw him and rushed over.

Jane said, “Come on! Get with the teaching, already.”

Erick smiled.

It didn’t take long to redo two of the third floor rooms into a studio space. Erick knocked down a wall with [Stoneshape], redid a few windows, and put up a blackboard with [Conjure Item]. He would have to buy a permanent one later, but for now, just having something to write on would be fine. He considered making chairs and tables out of stone, too, but he wanted those to eventually be permanent, and sitting or writing on stone was uncomfortable. So he [Conjure Item]’ed some combination chair/tables, like they had at the gradeschools back home.

