Silverite nodded. “True. And the plan used to be to kill all the Shades and knock some sense into the Dark Dragon. But that never worked, not once since the Rise of Kendrithyst and the transformation of that once great city into a dead home for Shades, 950 years ago. A hundred and four years ago, that plan changed with the Great Purge. We managed to knock some sense into him, though the toll...” Silverite paused. She resumed, “Now, we’re waiting for him to come to his senses.” She said, “It’s a hard wait.”

A spark of anger came to life inside Erick. He said, “But… They do all those horrible things!”

Silverite spoke solemnly, “Yes. It’s a hard wait.”

Erick demanded, “How can you live with this decision?”

Silverite spoke softly, “There’s no decision, Erick. You might as well ask me if I like living with the fact that the sky is blue. Neither I nor you can do anything to change the color of the sky, nor can we kill all the Shades, and we especially can’t kill Melemizargo. Not even if we wanted to. Peace in strife is the only option.”

Erick’s anger gutted. He asked, “And if I found a way to rid Melemizargo of his insanity and kill all the Shades… Would you try to stop me?”

“Only if it looked like you were going to fail.” Silverite said, “And from where I’m sitting, right now, you will. So, as of this moment: Yes, I would stop you, and it would start with a banishment.” She sighed, heavy and tired, as she asked, “And now I must do my due diligence, and likely fuck over every single farmer that has come to Spur, looking for a new, peaceful life, and ask you:” She brought out a green truthstone from her other hand. “Are you going to try and kill the Shades before you are capable of actually following through with your stated goal?”

Erick said, “I will not directly move against them. Not until I’m sure I’ll win. And that includes against Melemizargo.”

The stone stayed green.

“There’s a lot of leeway in that statement. But...” Silverite sunk the stone back into her body, and stood up saying, “Good enough.”

Erick stood as well, saying, “They need to die for their crimes and what they would do if given the chance, Silverite.”

Silverite ignored what Erick had said, saying, “After today, after revealing that the Halls of the Dead were working on a Breach Demon as their true goal, a Converter Angel response will be coming. That’s how they do things up there. One of them tries some shit, the other responds.” She stressed, “Be ready, because the incani will call upon your help to kill that angel, and you must do it, if you wish to remain neutral in the Quiet War, and a citizen of Spur.”

Erick asked, “Why would they come to me?”

“Not only did you stop their Breach Demon—” Silverite gestured to the flat land of the Human District all around, saying, “But you’re one of the easiest to find, most famous archmages on the planet, Erick! Did you know that Guardmaster Merit has the rookies run daily random ‘find the spy’ missions all around the border of this district?”

Erick paled. “No. I did not know that.”

“Ask her about it some time.” Silverite dropped her hands to her sides, saying, “Don’t get me wrong. I think it’s great that you’re here. Everyone does. But have you met any other archmages, yet? I don’t think you have, have you? Or at least not in person.”

“… I understand.”

Silverite paused, looking at Erick. She said, “I don’t think you do, but I pray to all the Relevant Entities that you will.”

- - - -

Erick went right to Rats.

Rats was getting ready for bed, sitting down for some tea by the window of his room, reading from a book. He noticed Erick stand by the door.

“Hello? Something wrong?” Rats asked.

“Will there be a Converter Angel response?”

Rats froze for a moment. Then he calmly set down his book, and said, “A very high possibility. Maybe years away. Maybe less. The humans of the Greensoil Republic will look off continent for a mass of incani to soul-kill to power the summoning.”

“What stuff and spells do they need to create a Converter Angel?”

“Relics of some sort. I’m not sure. And the spell itself. The spell is tier 9, but anyone can buy up to it if they know the recipe, and no, I do not know the recipe.”

“And here’s what I don’t get: What’s the difference between summoning a Converter Angel and a normal angel?”

“A regular angelic or demonic summon is like…” Rats looked up. He said, “It’s like you copy a painting you saw at a gallery. Your painting isn’t the real painting, but it looks the same.” He quickly added, “The analogy breaks down a bit because with a summon, if you do it right, the original demon or angel can activate that body at a distance as though it was their own. A high-tier summon is like reaching through Reality and stealing that painting from the gallery, while you’re at your house. It’s not a perfect analogy, but it works.”

“… So that Breach Demon summoning— That [Gate] in the sky reached all the way to the moon?”

“Yes.” Rats said, “Hence them using so many souls to power the spell.”

“… Zago said that mana is not souls, and that souls are not mana.”

“That is true.” Rats said, “Souls hold a different sort of power than mana.” Rats quickly added, “But that’s what people have told me.”

“… Thank you very much.” Erick walked away.

Rats sat there. He did not pick up his book. He cradled his head in his hands, and whispered to himself, ‘Why’d I open my big mouth?’

- - - -

Erick laid in bed, staring at the ceiling, trying to come to grips with what had happened, and what would happen, bouncing around from one concern to another, to the next.

Who would come to him, and where would they try to create a Converter Angel?

Surely Koyabez would let him know, instead of just maneuvering him into position this time, right?

What sort of magics did the Shades use? Teressa had mentioned a few… But what was a [Comet Storm], and how would Erick counter that spell? How about a [Grand Abomination]? Was it a summon, or a twist of people into horrors? [Psychic Terror] seemed pretty straight-forward, but it also seemed like the most difficult to protect against; Erick had no idea how to defend against mind magic, and [Psychic Terror] had to be mind magic, right?

But Poi was likely a Mind Mage. Maybe? Could Erick ask him?

What was Teressa? A defensive person, for sure. Also rather defensive in general; she rarely talked, but she opened up rather well when they went wyrm hunting. Erick would have to go wyrm hunting again; not only to kill more dangers to the world, but to get Teressa to open up again. She was a lovely person all the time, but it was nicer when she talked.

And what was Rats? A healer, for sure; his healing spell was at range, granted False HP, and healed over time, so that had to be from a Class Feature. Maybe. What was his connection to necromancy? Erick wasn't worried, but he was curious.

…Erick’s repertoire of magic was sorely lacking. That was the main reason he had not spent any more of the points he had gained from…

From killing people.

Erick shoved that heavy emotion aside, and glanced at his Status.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 63, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 399,134,707,157,049/1,061,020,985,772,300

Class: 6/6

Points: 19

HP

1020/1020

1020 per day

MP

4440/4440

17,760 per day

Strength

20

+14

[34]

Vitality

20

+14

[34]

Willpower

60

+14

[74]

Focus

60

+14

[74]

Favored Spell waiting!

He would likely be creating more Particle magic and gaining more points that way, but 19 points was a good start to plumbing the depths of normal magic. What would he do first, though? He should probably take some normal magic classes, like how Poi suggested.

But first, he would go talk to Jane, and see if she was okay. She’d been through a hell of a lot more than him, lately. Erick got out of bed.

- - - -

“Knock knock.” Erick tapped on the stone archway to Jane’s tower.

“Hey, Dad.” Jane sat on a chair by the large window, flaring mana through her hand, producing glows of dark blue unrefined magic. “What’s up?”

“What’s up with you?” Erick walked into the tower, saying, “Are you okay?”

Jane sat a bit straighter. She let the glow fade from her hand, then asked, “Are you okay?”

“No. But I think you’ve seen more horror this last week than I have.”

Jane’s lips quivered a bit. She opened her mouth to breathe, then closed it. She said, “We already talked about what I saw. Tell me about what you saw. Today.”

Erick pulled up a chair, and sat across from his daughter, and began, “I saw a woman get torn to shreds by an undead horde. I was only in the sky for a minute. But the Halls of the Dead empowered their undead while I was still debating how to help. They killed dozens while I watched. But I was only in the sky for a minute.” Erick felt his eyes go watery. He sniffled, then said, “I hesitated, again. And someone died for it. It’s a problem, and I need to fix this problem, but I don’t think I’ll ever be used to combat.”

Silence filled the mage tower.

Jane offered, “We could move, Dad.”

“Move?” Erick asked, unsure if he heard her right.

Jane said, “I [Teleport]ed around some of the Greensoil Republic while I was there. I saw how normal people lived. Level 20 is high level. The most common monsters are slimes, and the people only kill the slimes when they get into things they shouldn’t. Like the grain, or the water. If monsters like oozes show up, the people message over to the larger towns, requesting adventurers to come to their town to take care of the problem." She said, "People use cow-driven wagons to get around, or cow-less, magical wagons if they’re rich. They grow things based on the season, instead of through magic. People are lucky to have one Stat in the 20s. Almost everyone levels exclusively through buying skills and leveling those through daily work.” She finished, “It’s a lot quieter.”

Erick thought for a moment, but already knew his answer. He said, “No. Even if I discounted my responsibilities here, I’m not retreating from this fight. I’m going to hunt wyrms… Try to get a feel for the combat. This is life on Veird, and I need to get better at it. I’m glad that the people in the Greensoil Republic can live that kind of life, but my eyes are open. I’ll never be able to ignore the horror out there, Jane. Not now. Not ever.”

Jane looked at Erick; really looked at him. And then a happy, singular laugh escaped from her. She smiled. She said, “Good.” She sighed out, “I’m glad for that, Dad. I want to stay, too.”

“I want to powerlevel the rest of these HP-cost abilities, too.” Erick asked, “Can you help me with that?”

Smiling, Jane said, “Of course I can help with that. You need to get [Silent Movement] too, though? You gotta get all of them for [Hunter’s Instincts]. It’s a fantastic skill. Saved my life so many times when I was escorting Yetta through Ar’Kendrithyst. And in Odaali.”

Erick went ahead and bought [Silent Movement]. “Yeah. I remember the memories you showed me.”

Jane scooted her chair closer to him, her finger glowing with a heal, as she said, “Go ahead and start whenever.” She added, “And tell me about the rest of what you saw.”

Erick started talking, using all of his HP cost abilities as his Health would allow. Jane listened, poking him with a [Rejuvenation] occasionally, renewing the heal as needed. It healed for 105 HP every second.

Erick talked for a long time, leveling his skills as he did. The sun dipped down in the sky by the time he was done. Health Fatigue crept up on him before the skills could finish leveling; he could feel his words getting harder to string together, well before he ran out of things to say. He had to stop the training, for now.

By that time, Jane had started talking about her own last few days. About what she saw during the battle between the Halls and Odaali-in-Exile. She had to stop several times, but it was good to talk; it was nice to listen to her.

A few times, Erick had had to fill the silence with a terrible joke to get a smile back on Jane's face. He was successful, most of the time, but even when he wasn’t, Jane deriding his bad jokes was okay, too.

They ordered cheesesteak subs and fries from ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’ for dinner, enough for everyone in the house, but Erick and Jane ate alone on the second floor veranda, overlooking the front garden and the sunset over Spur. The air was cool. It would be another cold night in the desert.

Jane coated her fries and her sandwich with a super spicy mix Ratchet had personally delivered while they were out getting dinner. Tears welled down her face as she ate, saying, “She got it spicy enough this time.”

Erick laughed as Jane took another bite.

She offered him the spice shaker. “Try it! You might like it.”

“I’d prefer my intestines intact, thank you very much.”

"You're missing out." Jane ate her sandwich, tears happily running down her face.

Erick said, “You know? I thought I’d miss television more.”

Jane laughed, saying, “I’m perfectly happy here, though I do miss playing D&D with a group. I don’t think anyone would want to do anything like that here; too close to reality.”

Erick nodded.

“I like rescuing people from the Shades, though.” Jane added, “But I can’t go back there; not yet. Killzone’s orders: I can’t return while the Shades want to toy with me.”

“You gonna get that unicorn?”

“And the rest of the full set.” Jane tapped her head with a clean finger, saying, “I’ve telepathically talked to more than a few people since then. Even contacted some Knowledge Mages and gotten some better information.” She added, “They’re like search engines but they’re people. Anyway: I figured out the animals I want.”

Erick scoffed, “Knowledge Mages?”

“Over in the Greensoil Republic; we have none in Spur.”

“What’s your plan?”

Jane set down her sandwich, and said, “I have the slime and the spider, for fire and shadow. I need to play around with the slime form more to get a feel for combat before I attempt the unicorn, but I should be able to consume more fire essences as a slime. So I’m going to visit some fire essence locations and get enough fire essences to upgrade —at least— to [Flame Step]. That’s like, four tiers above what I already have. That trip will take me to the Wyrmridge Mountains up north.”

Erick ate his sandwich while she spoke.

