Liora's heart was pounding. Her eyes were sparkling, and she could barely hold herself back.

The treasure. All the treasure! Liora was observing the guests arriving at the rich mansion.

The mansion itself could be considered a treasure. It was made in a style similar to that of the Taj Mahal. Pristine white walls, elegant arcs for entrances, small but ornate windows clearly made to let in as little sunlight as possible. The most beautiful part, however, was the golden domes.

There was one main dome which covered the majority of the main building, and it was huge. Easily the size of a football stadium. Several smaller domes decorated the tops of towers and special terraces which had been turned into miniature gardens. Liora was currently hidden among the greenery in one of the domed gardens.

But that was only the beginning of all the riches. The main target of her Treasure Sense screaming at her was the guests. One after another, they arrived at the mansion, carrying a palanquin. Some had larger and fancier palanquins and a larger crew to carry them.

Liora felt a little sorry for the carriers. Although evening was settling over the desert, it was still relatively hot. It couldn't have been pleasant, having to carry these rich, lazy pricks in this heat.

Perhaps, she could help these poor workers out a little. Lighten their burden by relieving their masters of their heavy jewelry. Boy, did they have a lot of jewelry, especially women!

Large necklaces, jeweled bracelets (at least two on each hand), anklets, rich headdresses made of gold and jewels. Not to mention that the clothes themselves were embroidered with golden thread and with gold coins dangling and jiggling with each of their steps.

Most women had a translucent veil that covered their nose and mouth, but some went even beyond that and wore a veil made of gold and small jewels. A single golden chain would be anchored on the woman's nose with dozens of smaller strings of pearls or gold dangling down, creating the impression of a veil.

I want one of those! I want them!

It took every bit of Liora's self-control not to swoop down and start stealing jewelry left and right. She had to train her Theft skill, so she would have to choose her targets carefully.

There was another benefit to this party, which was likely the main reason Aenir wanted her to start with this guy. It didn't take place inside the mansion but rather in the rich gardens.

Opulent tents made of expensive fabrics were set up in the gardens, where guests could mingle. There were obviously guards at the entrances as well as mages whose main task was to keep the temperature inside the tents cool and pleasant for the guests.

But even so, Liora would be at an advantage here. The lighting was deliberately kept dim in these tents, and even as dusk came, there were no attempts to illuminate the tents further. It was perfect for Liora. The darker it was, the more difficult she would be to spot with her newly acquired Nightveil ability.

So she remained patient and waited. Observed the guests as they arrived, marking which would be the easiest treasures to acquire. Which targets would be the easiest to rob. Aenir had said that it was safer to target less rich-looking people with fewer guards.

But Liora's heart didn't want to settle on the lesser gems. She wanted the best. The shiniest of them all. In fact, she would have loved to get that precious jewel that the owner of the mansion wanted to present to his lover or whatever.

However, the jewel was currently hidden inside and thoroughly guarded. It would only be brought out at the end of the party, and Liora would have but a brief moment to steal it. She would have to create a perfect distraction for it to work.

Preferably, she should get her Theft level up by then, but caution was paramount. If she got caught before then, the big jewel would be out of her reach.

So Liora remained hidden in the shadows, occasionally swooping down to a more favorable lookout point. Other birds were flying around the garden, and although there were no magpies, Liora doubted that anyone would pay her much mind, especially with her appearing as nothing more than a fleeting shadow in the dark.

Only after all the guests had arrived did the master of the mansion decide to come out, followed by a flock of demure, veiled women. Unlike the arriving guests, these women had thicker, non-translucent veils, so she couldn't even begin to guess what they looked like underneath. But other than that, they had the same style of dress as every other woman.

The dude himself was nothing to write home about. His large belly bounced in front of the man as he walked. He had a thick black beard and distastefully large mustache, as well as a turban with several jewels encrusted in it.

He looked as proud as a peacock with the ten women following after him. At first, Liora believed them to be his servants, but they were far too lavishly dressed for that. No, these were his wives.

Liora couldn't help but frown with distaste. Who the hell made the rule that men could have many wives? Why not the opposite?

The wives didn't seem nearly as happy as the host himself, who laughed boisterously as he greeted the guests. He would often drag one or two of his wives forward, pulling them close and groping either their breasts or their butt.

The women would remain emotionless, although Liora did catch a frown from one of them.

Really? This dude has like ten unwilling wives by the look of it, and he's trying to get another one. What a scumbag! A pervert! I'll make sure this guy regrets it.

In fact, she was determined to ruin this guy's reputation completely by the time the day was over.

It was time to get to work.

Liora decided to go for the easy targets first. As it was often prone to happen in large parties, held in large territories where people often wandered about the place, there were some… promiscuous activities happening in far-away corners, behind the bushes.

After all, humans weren't able to control their perverted nature. They saw someone they believed was even remotely attractive, and then lost all control. Pathetic, really.

But it was the perfect opportunity for Liora.

While the star-crossed lovers were busy trying to eat each other's face, Liora positioned herself in a nearby tree. She concentrated on her Theft skill. Since it was still at Basic level, it didn't give her much information, but even so, it was clearly telling Liora that it was the perfect opportunity to strike.

One of the bracelets had already fallen to the ground, so Liora focused on the skill and swooped down, snatching it and disappearing back into the foliage. The two perverts continued caressing each other, none the wiser of Liora's appearance.

One down. Let's see how many more I can get.

This pair was far from the only one out on a romantic rendezvous. Whenever Liora found somebody with some loose jewelry hanging somewhere, she would swoop down and grab it.

Frankly, it was too easy. With the people so distracted with their partners, nobody even noticed her. She likely could have flown up to them in her dracoryx form without Nightveil active, and they still wouldn't have noticed her.

Much to Liora's satisfaction, one of the host's wives eventually also found herself in an embrace of a younger man. It wasn't that she advocated cheating on one's partner. But if your supposed husband already had nine other wives, when wasn't it fair that you too would have some leeway with your partners?

In either case, Liora snatched away her anklet, which was encrusted with rubies. A truly magnificent shiny!

[Your skill <Theft> has reached [Novice] level.]

[Your skill <Magpie Disguise> has reached [Legend] level.]

Wow, Magpie Disguise too! That's neat. I wonder what this skill could upgrade into. It would be cool if I could disguise myself as some other creatures too.

The difference between Theft upgrades was instantly palpable. She was more aware of neglected jewelry. Easy to remove earrings, loose bracelets, unattended necklaces.

Actually, it seemed like Theft was working in tandem with Treasure Sense. Treasure Sense would point her towards the most valuable jewelry, while Theft seemed to show whether it was possible to steal them.

As Liora was searching for a new target, she noticed another woman enter the garden. Normally, she wouldn't have cared, but this lady, despite having the same black hair and tan skin as the others, was clearly more important than the rest.

She was wearing a beautiful blue dress with gold embroidery, matching the local style, but her jewels were more subdued. They weren't as large, and she wore only a headdress and a necklace, both embellished with small, blue jewels.

However, these delicate pieces were far more valuable than anything else Liora had seen this evening. She barely managed to hold herself back from swooping down. It was actually Theft which clearly screamed that this wouldn't work.

She was surrounded by ten burly guards while she walked sullenly through the garden. Several men tried to approach, clearly eager to share a moment with her, but after exchanging a polite greeting, the woman continued on her way.

What stood out the most was that she looked incredibly sad. On the verge of tears, in fact. Nobody else seemed to notice it, but then again, what could you expect from humans? Their vision was such garbage, especially in the dark.

Eventually the woman settled on a bench, sighing underneath her veil while the guards surrounded the perimeter and shooed away any couples that had dared to be a bit more open with their exhibitionism kink.

She sat there for a long time, looking all miserable. For some reason, Liora stuck around, observing the woman, although she couldn't understand why. No, actually, it was obvious why.

Those jewels! She wanted them so badly! That headdress would look wonderful on her in her dracoryx form. Absolutely marvelous!

But she couldn't find a good time to steal it. There were just too many eyes on this woman. Liora would get caught! Maybe if she used Decoy Fade…

"Princess Nadira, why are you sitting here all alone?" The fat host had somehow waddled his way into the garden, looking at the beautiful young woman with a lecherous gaze.

She shifted uncomfortably, but forced a smile which was barely visible behind her translucent veil.

"Sheikh Rassid. I merely wished to breathe the fresh night air in your wondrous gardens. It would be a shame not to see these wonderful flowers by just sitting in the tent all night. Don't you agree?" She said politely.

The fat sheikh sat down next to her, making the poor bench creak. "Yes. I have a collection of rare plants in these gardens. In fact…"

Liora grumbled in annoyance. The fat man went on a lengthy rant, praising himself and his hard work at finding and paying for rare and expensive plants, occasionally adding in a complaint that the gardeners were so inept with them that they killed the plants. The bastard boasted about cutting off their hands afterwards.

Princess Nadira looked to be just as impressed as Liora, meaning, not at all. In fact, she nimbly stood up on her feet just as the sheikh was about to wrap his arm around her shoulders. Damned pervert!

Liora had the strongest urge to swoop down and just peck the bastard.

"What is this beautiful blossom?" Princess Nadira asked, pointing at one of the blooms.

"I'll tell you all about it once you join me as my wife. Now, come! It is time to reveal my present to you. I hope that with it, you'll understand just how wonderful your life would be, should you become my wife."

The Princess grimaced. The fat sheikh likely didn't even see it, because of the dark and the veil that was covering her face. But Liora saw it. The woman didn't want to marry this guy.

Who would? He already had ten wives, and none of them seemed happy with their situation.

Don't worry, girl! I'm going to help you. Without that expensive gift, this guy will lose his leverage to marry you. Actually… I might just go a step further.

Liora flew up to the higher trees near the mansion entrances, watching and waiting. Any moment now… There!

Two guards were carrying a case covered with a satin cloth while surrounded by twenty other guards. They were going towards the tents, but Liora wasn't going to let them. She and Aenir had already worked out a loose plan.

Liora flew near them and then turned into her dracoryx form, letting out a loud, horrifying screech. It was the one wyvern mother had used on Liora while trying to burn her to a crisp.

The guards instantly startled. Screams of fear could be heard coming from the tents.

Let the show begin.