Matt shrugged, less concerned with the low-level fodder of the society. “For the lower Tiers, we get what we can out of them and then throw them into the legal system. Most of the society members we picked up from the auction house will probably get away with fines at most, given that being in a society isn't illegal in and of itself, and it will be almost impossible to tie anything major to them. As for everyone else, we keep them and squeeze everything we can out of them.”

“And the people just at the market at the wrong time?”

Matt frowned at Liz’s question, not having a good answer. Every member of the Society of Ever Flame would claim they weren't actually part of the society and insist they, like everyone else, were just shopping, which would make it hard to tell the guilty from the innocent, and he didn’t like the idea of imprisoning anyone innocent longer than was necessary. At the same time, he didn’t want to let any of the society members get away with such an excuse.

The two conflicting desires warred with each other, but Aster came to the rescue with an answer.

“Let's throw everyone from that group into an estate. A warded one, obviously. With guards watching them round the clock, escape won’t be any more possible there than in a cell, and the actual innocent won’t have to suffer as much. We can even compensate them with a ride back to Falter Sehen, as well as some money, when we are done with them. Besides, it might be useful to let a few of the fish escape our net and follow them back to their lair.”

Liz made a noise that indicated she wasn’t fully on board with the reimbursement, but she didn’t argue.

Plan set, the three of them went about getting what needed to be done, done.

Liz went with Isabella, Esmeralda, and a few of their other spies as they started interrogating the prisoners. With her clones, she could get through them a lot faster than he or Aster.

Aster, on the other hand, went with Jericho and the more technical spies and started digging through the still-frozen lairs they had transplanted. With her help, they were able to scan hardware that would have otherwise destroyed itself or been wiped during their assault.

Matt went to assist in the brute forcing of the data Aster got out with Tholly. He was really just a glorified assistant using his [AI] to help crack the encryptions while feeding the spies’ own encryption crackers mana stones from his storage. The modifications and mergers he had made showed their weight in mana stones as his computational power increased a dozen times over.

He couldn’t help but daydream about the full suite of mods he and Max had planned out to boost and integrate the [AI] into his subconscious. If [Encryption] and [Encryption Breaking] had been integrated already, this task would have been dozens, if not hundreds of times faster. But those were quite near the end of his list, as they needed to be tightly interwoven through the entire skill structure, including all the early merged in skills, for maximum benefit.

Together, they managed to brute force their way into many of the Society of Ever Flame’s surface level systems, and even in just that small repository of knowledge there, they found a treasure trove of information.

Everything would need to be verified and cross-checked to ensure it wasn’t bait left for anyone who got their hands on their systems to find, but they found a list of nearly five thousand low-level members. They even found a list of potential recruits with their various qualifications and reasons why they might be a good society member, which was a bit of an eye opening experience seeing what the society was looking for.

It wasn’t just the down-on-their-luck and vulnerable, or the overly ambitious; those were present in the lists, but were a minority. Rather, the Ever Flame society’s targets seemed to be the quiet types who were otherwise unexceptional. At least outwardly. Their files’ notes had incredibly detailed reports on their potential recruits and almost all of them had some exceptional quality about them.

In raw numbers it seemed impressive, but Matt had to correct his frame of reference. In just the Tier 5 or lower academies there were billions, if not trillions, of enrollees, and so finding twenty thousand or so exceptional ones hiding their greatness shouldn’t have been that impressive, but it still was.

Seeing the numbers he was initially worried the society was much bigger than they had expected with just how much data they had gathered, but most of it was aggregated from other sources and not sourced directly.

They had scouts that moved around and investigated people before any offers were made because otherwise, they would have had to have tens of millions of members, which would have been incredibly difficult to destroy.

Matt did take note that these people were at risk and that he should do something to help them, even though he had no idea what he could do or how. He just knew he didn’t like seeing a secret society like the Society of Ever Flame targeting these children. Hoping Liz or Aster would have a better idea, he made a second note and continued with his work.

It took them almost a week of going through the easily accessible data, but eventually they struck gold once again. It wasn’t a list of the society's highest members but it was a record of orders that referenced one of the people Raffi had been in contact with that had gone underground before they could arrest them. It was only a record of them selling some of their goods before they assumed a new identity, but it was the first solid link they had between the Society of Ever Flame and Raffi himself.

Suddenly, all of Nardo’s other information became a lot more reliable and less likely to be him using them as an instrument of his own plotting.

Once they cleaned out the least secure data, they started delving into the more secure storage, where they ran into much better encryptions that were much harder to break, which ground progress down to a halt as dedicated hackers needed to tease the information apart by hand. They still used and abused Matt’s [AI] computational powers, but it could take years before progress was made.

Still, Matt had gotten what he wanted, and so rejoined Liz and Aster, who were working together to get through the prisoners.

Thankfully, most of the auction house shoppers were easy enough to identify and therefore cut loose. They were just there for shopping and had much cleaner backgrounds, and therefore nothing to hide.

Matt, Liz, and Aster’s concerns weren’t about stolen goods being resold or unofficial items being created and sold without the proper patent licenses. They didn’t even bother to charge those people, instead letting them get back to their lives as quickly as possible with some compensation in the form of mana stones above their Tier to cover their lost time and hardship.

At least on the surface.

They knew there were at least a few Society of Ever Flame members in the group they cut loose, but that was part of their plan. Their spies were tracking them and waiting for the moment they disappeared. Hopefully they would then track them to Society of Ever Flame safehouses or gathering centers, though the second was unlikely, as it was hardly a new tactic. But it was worth a shot.

Best of all, they had caught several wanted society members who had changed their identities after being outed as society members on other failed high profile missions. Which would end up being quite the feather in their caps as they were processed for their past crimes. The Empire didn’t take kindly to the sort of high-level espionage that the societies often got up to, even if they couldn't always prove guilt or even catch the individuals.

Sadly, the best source of information, the Tier 40 from the training center, refused to cooperate in any way even once she had a torso again.

That just meant they would need to hand her over to the Imperial investigators, as even trying to cut a deal with her hadn’t worked. She seemed far more loyal to the society then Nardo was to the Order of Stagnation.

The captures of wanted criminals weren’t the only feathers in their cap. The capture of an old dynasty loyalist and rabble rouser had broken on the news stations and burned through the Empire, making enough noise that his execution was rumored to be slated to be performed by the Emperor himself.

It may have been over sixty thousand years since the old dynasty fell, but the public didn’t need to think too hard to know they wouldn’t have the lives they did if the old dynasty somehow regained power.

The news also reignited the tales of the old dynasty and the unkillable rumors that there were still descendants plotting in the shadows to try and reclaim the throne.

Unlikely, but technically possible, which was more than enough reason for the news stations of all Tiers to bring up old recordings and documentaries about the old dynasty and how they ruled.

Either way, it was a merit for the three of them and everyone else involved.

They had several messages from dukes waiting for them when they were done. Most were angry at their intrusion through their lands, or in the case of the dukes where the Society of Ever Flame bases had been, angry they had intruded without warning.

Most of the ones they had trespassed through only seemed to want to use the incident as a way to make themselves known and were inviting the three of them to their dukedoms to ‘talk things over’, but others seemed genuinely mad and willing to press the issue.

Liz just wanted to let the idiots report them to the Royals, but Matt and Aster talked her down.

While it would be fun to see them get absolutely nowhere with such reports, these could also be potential leads. They didn’t want to risk an information source clamming up by being slighted like that, so the three of them set aside some time to go and visit everyone they had offended in person after the execution.

Two months after they came back from the initial raid, Allie, Zack, and Susanne finally returned looking worse for wear, with Zack missing his human arm and Susanne having a massive, cauterized hole in the center of her chest.

With Melinda still at Titan’s Torch, they were quickly put back to rights, but they were battle-worn and weary.

As they told it, the first two locations they had hit had been normal enough, and they had gotten a lot of information, but the third had been a trap; a spatial fold that sucked them in when Allie tried to teleport them into the office building, leaving them trapped and fighting automated defenses for a solid two months before they managed to escape the Tier 30 facility.

Still, they had gotten away with the goods, which was what the three of them cared about, even if Matt, Liz, and Aster felt awful for not being there with them as their friends tried to help them and got punished for it.

But as Zack so eloquently put it, “What is another favor between friends?”

Matt knew he was right, but he still made a note of it. Sadly, he had no real way to pay them back, as he would have helped them in any way he could before, so nothing had really changed.

Still, their retrieved data was added to the backlog.

Sadly, all six of them had to leave as they were ordered to attend the execution of Marquess Galip by the finally-reappeared Manny.
