Satisfied with her victory, Mila gingerly moves Mama Bun’s legs off of her lap and hops to her feet, stretching her arms and back with a series of sexy grunts. “I’m in the mood for a little exercise. Song, do you want to spar?”

Thankful to have been spared the shame of a public defeat, I wave goodbye as Mila saunters off with Li Song, leaving me with Lin, Luo-Luo, and all my pets. After waking Lin with a soft kiss and putting my loving Aura to good use, I wrangle all my animals and head back to my yurt carrying Sir Inky’s cauldron, hoping the angry octopus is still alive. He hasn’t made a peep since this morning’s horrifying tentacle mouth molestation and I’m too scared to check. Not in public at least, I have an image to maintain after all.

While I’m distracted thinking about how to get Sir Inky to love me in a less physical manner, Luo-Luo and Lin-Lin share a lengthy whispering session which comes to an end when my lovely, long-eared wifey hops onto my back and declares, “We’re throwing a welcome party for Luo-Luo tonight, hubby. You don’t hafta do anything, you just have to be there, okay?”

Ugh. “Does it have to be tonight?” Or you know... ever?

“Yup. The Legate gifted Luo-Luo to us, but if no one knows about it then he won’t be happy, so the sooner the better, ya?”

“Okay, but don’t go overboard. Last I checked, we’re running low on coin and 360 more soldiers won’t help.”

“Hm, about that hubby.” Resting her cheek on my shoulder, Lin makes sure I can see her big brown eyes before whispering, “We might actually earn coin by throwing a party. It’s not exactly a wedding, but since she’s your concubine, it’s sort of like a wedding, ya? People will bring gifts, so I think we should spend a little more.”

God, it’s been a few hours and Luo-Luo already has Lin and the twins wrapped around her finger. “How much?” I ask, not bothering to lower my voice.

“Not too much.” Judging by Lin’s averted glance, that’s not true at all. After a long silence in which my raised eyebrow refuses to drop, my wifey flashes a sheepish smile and continues. “We need a big space for all our guests, so I said we could rent out the six restaurants around the duelling stage we always go to. As the bride, Luo-Luo also needs a red dress, she only has purple, gold, green, blue, black, and yellow. She doesn’t need new jewellery, but it’d be nice to have something she can show the guests and say was from you. She also needs a zither to perform for the guests and at least two handmaidens to accompany her. We’ll hafta hire servers and cooks, maybe some other entertainment, and -”

“Stop.” Dear sweet Mother in Heaven, has Lin lost her mind or is Luo-Luo’s charisma stat through the roof? How did she convince my sweet wifey to spend so much money? Turning to face the towering succubus, I break the news as gently as possible, because I cannot deal with a woman’s tears. “Look, I don’t know what standards you were accustomed to or what misconceptions you have about me, but I’m not some princeling or rich young noble with vast estates and holdings. I understand the need for a party, but I can’t afford the opulent and luxurious lifestyle you’ve envisioned for yourself. I’ll talk to Mister Rustram and see what we can spare, but I can tell you right now, new dresses, jewellery and handmaidens are almost certainly out of my price range.” Probably the zither too. Instruments are expensive, right? “And six restaurants? I don’t think I even know enough people to fill six restaurants. If you’re upset because I took away your guards, I’m sorry, but it had to be done.” There’s no way I’m letting that many soldiers wander around camp unchecked under the control of a possible spy, but it’d be rude to mention it. “I promise I won’t let you suffer a loss, but like I told you earlier, I’m having money flow issues, issues which a big extravagant party would only exacerbate.”

Throughout the whole spiel, Luo-Luo’s expression goes from cheerful and excited to utterly depressed in the span of a single minute. Visibly choking on her tears, she curtsies and responds with a simple, “It shall be as Falling Rain says. Luo-Luo apologizes for overstepping her bounds.”

God if she’s faking then she’s the best actress in the world. I hate how she says my name like it’s a title, but I don’t want to correct her more than necessary. “No. Don’t just shut down and accept whatever I say. I’m not angry or upset and even if I were, you have nothing to fear from me. Please, be reasonable and let’s work together. We need to throw you a welcoming party to give the Legate face. I have monetary concerns. How do we solve this? Let’s go inside, sit down, and discuss this like sensible people.” Putting the cauldron down, I crack the lid open, toss in a handful of dried fish, and slam the lid back down, all the while praying Inky is still alive so I won’t disappoint Taduk. Leaving Ping Ping to guard our new friend and the bunny enclosure, I head into my yurt with Lin, Luo-Luo, and the rest of my pets to plan a party I neither want nor can afford.

This morning, I became Falling Rain, number one talent in the Empire.

Judging by Luo-Luo’s sulky pout, I’ve earned a new title: Falling Rain, cheapskate party pooper.

Chapter Meme
