“Yes. Tell me all about what the Minotaur did. I haven’t heard that one. And surely I do not know good from evil, yes? Tell me, Kelc. Tell me all about the Minotaur.”
The Gnoll fell silent. Elirr straightened, rubbing his back. One of his huge war dogs trotted over and dropped a rat at his feet. The Gnoll blinked down at it and bent to rub the dog’s ears. In her paws, Mrsha saw the rats wriggling in agitation, squeaking, no, screaming in their language.
And Mrsha, the [Druid], wondered what it was like for them. To see their entire family, their tribe, slaughtered in front of them. If they were Gnolls…
The world swam. The little Gnoll listened to the rats as they shrieked. If they were Gnolls—the white one was biting at her. And she saw a little Gnoll biting at a Runner. On a field of falling snow.
Mrsha dropped the rats. Elirr snatched the dog’s collar before it could grab them. Numbtongue bent and snatched the rats up casually before they could escape.
“Mrsha!”
Erin was scolding. But she stopped when she saw Mrsha’s face. The little Gnoll put her hands on her stomach and threw up. Then she began crying again.
 
—–
 
That night, the Minotaur looked up. He saw the [Guards]. More than just them. Gnolls and Drakes. More Gnolls than Drakes, but both of each species.
They did not hold the blunt end of spears this time. This time, they carried pokers. The kind you’d use to tend to a fireplace. Long blades. And coals.
“Are you afraid, monster?”
The Gnoll with the pale stripe across his face held up a glowing poker. One of the Drakes was a [Mage]. Calruz looked at it. Then he closed his eyes. When he opened them, he addressed the crowd.
“Remember your honor. Do what you will with me. But remember your honor.”
They hissed and growled at that. They would have roared, but they were not supposed to be here. So instead their hatred made them quiet. When the first burning poker came through the cell’s walls, Calruz stared at it. He did not move.
And he tried. He tried, with a [Warrior]’s discipline, with all his strength, to make no sound. His flesh burnt. But when it began to turn black, he groaned. That only encouraged them. They crowded around his cell, faces twisted, egging each other on. Shouting. Forgetting to be quiet.
The Minotaur held still. Until he couldn’t help himself and retreated. But they hounded him, attaching the pokers to long poles, hurling spells.
He began to bellow in agony. Then scream. And the little Gnoll covered her ears as she listened outside the dungeon. She looked up at Tkrn, and the Gnoll’s face was pale. She waited for him to call it ‘justice’, but he couldn’t.
So Mrsha fled, for there was no justice there. Only bad deeds and hate.
 
—–
 
Mrsha did not sleep that night. Even after she snuck back into Lyonette’s room where the exhausted [Princess] was passed out. She could not shake the memory of the Minotaur’s screams out of her head. And when she looked at the little cage and the two rats, she began shaking.
It was not right. Perhaps some part of her had known that. Or maybe it was Erin telling her. But it was not right. If she could go back, Mrsha would have used her [Thorn Paw] spell and cut Calruz apart. If she were in the dungeon. If the Raskghar were there.
But now? She looked into the cage, and the two rats fled from her, squeaking. Crying. And Mrsha felt like they were Calruz. What had Erin said? It wasn’t right. Because they could cry. Because they could scream.
But who could she tell? Krshia? Elirr? Lyonette? Erin? Mrsha thought about each one as she sat in front of the cage. Which ones would get the Gnolls and Drakes in trouble most? Least? Because there was something else at stake.
They were her people. Raekea had said it. Mrsha was a Gnoll. She had called Mrsha one of her own. The Silverfang Tribe might take her in. But would she if Mrsha told? If she—Mrsha stared down at the two rats. Their tails were still bent, even though Erin had given them a drop of healing potion each.
Somewhere out there, a Minotaur was screaming. And it had been bad when they started. It would be worse before the night ended. Mrsha shook in place. She looked at Lyonette sleeping in her bed. Some part of her was still in the prison. And it knew the Gnolls and Drakes hadn’t come there to stop. They were going to do a bad thing. Trembling, Mrsha bent over the cage.
 
—–
 
Watch Captain Zevara sat in her office, too furious to work but too annoyed to stop. She was trying to go over the inventory for the City Watch, calculating her budget. But she was still furious over the day’s deliberations. She’d argued with Krshia until she was coughing smoke. And the Gnoll had barely, barely agreed not to call for Calruz’s death.
It made sense. But Zevara was still furious. Lism had whipped up a mob. Zevara had half a mind to check on the Minotaur, but she’d already done that and doubled the guard. The prison had been silent when she’d walked past it this evening. No people loitering about outside.
So the Drake sat. She stared at her quill until the ink was dried. Then she dipped it again. And stared. She was staring at the place to initial the document, knowing she hadn’t actually read it, when she heard the scuffling and the shout from downstairs.
“Hey! What’re you—”
Zevara looked up. She heard light padding and reached for her sword reflexively. Then something rattled the doorknob, pulled rather than pushed; Zevara heard pounding boots coming up the stairs. She inhaled as whoever was behind the door pushed at last—
And a little Gnoll tumbled into the room. Zevara paused as the fire in her lungs built. She stared at Mrsha as the white Gnoll got up. Zevara’s head swiveled—she turned, grabbed the window, and exhaled. A plume of fire lit up the sky as she spat it out of the window. Then she whirled as the [Guardswoman] on desk duty burst into the office.
“I’m sorry, Watch Captain. I couldn’t stop—”
“It’s fine. But what the hell—”
Zevara began to snap and caught herself. She stared down at the white Gnoll and began to grow alarmed. The little Gnoll was panting, and her eyes were wide. She’d run here. Zevara’s mind instantly ran to her worst fears.
“Something’s happened at the inn. Sound the alarm! Get Relc, Klbkch, put every [Guardsman] on the walls and get me a squad—”
She paused. The Gnoll cub was shaking her head rapidly. Part of the alarm faded. Zevara stared, and the [Guardswoman] hesitated.
“Should I—?”
“Is there a problem at the inn? Err—Mrsha, isn’t it?”
Zevara looked down, trying to remember the little Gnoll’s name. Her fur was beautifully white. She shook her head rapidly. But her wide eyes told Zevara something was wrong. But she didn’t say what it was. Instead, she began making a bunch of strange signs with her paws.
“What? What? What’s the problem? Come out with it already!”
The Watch Captain snapped as she tried to make sense of the signs. The [Guardswoman] stared too, but she knew a bit more than her Captain.
“It’s, uh, I think she’s mute, Watch Captain.”
“She is? Damn. I forgot—okay. What’s the problem. Is it the inn?”
Zevara stared at Mrsha. The Gnoll shook her head. She pointed; Zevara saw her bridge her arms like a wall. Then two arms up? Poking? A contorted face? Two paws over her head? The Gnoll kept doing that symbol.
“I have no idea what you mean. Someone’s hurt? Where? Who? Damn it—can you write? Here—”
“She’s only a child, Watch Captain.”
“I know that! Go stand watch and tell someone to check the inn for fire or monsters or something!”
Zevara snapped at the [Guardswoman]. She stared. Mrsha was running about, frantic. She kept making the same symbol. Two paws, curved over her ears. Zevara frowned. There was something familiar about—
Horns. The Drake’s eyes widened. She looked at Mrsha’s desperate expression. And her mind leapt to the worst conclusion, the right one, at once.
“Calruz? What’s happening?”
She watched the pantomime. Then she charged past Mrsha, leapt down the stairs, and shouted the alarm.
 
—–
 
At some point, he’d stopped feeling pain. He could still see it. Still feel the prodding. And then the retort, the snap of an arrow. They’d progressed from burning. He was only glad the child hadn’t been here to see it.
He laughed as they killed him. Bit by bit. Slowly. It only made them angrier. More vicious. He would have stopped it if he could. Ended it himself. But he wasn’t sure. What was worse, far worse, was seeing the look in their eyes.
It reminded him of the Raskghar. A vicious glee. No—on some it was just pure hatred. He deserved that. But some hadn’t come for vengeance. Or if they had, it had turned too vicarious. Too…he saw them aiming, arguing.
“Too far! Enough!”
A Gnoll [Guardsman] and some of them were arguing with the Gnoll with the stripe. They were split as they pointed to Calruz. He was lying down by now. They’d healed him four times, but—he could have told them that a healing potion couldn’t heal forever. Eventually, the body broke first.
“Enough? Enough?”
The Gnoll was shouting. He had a spear, and Calruz knew it was meant for him. The Gnoll had never intended to leave him alive. The instant he’d walked into the prison, Calruz had been sure today would be his last. He was only glad the child wasn’t there.
This was how he died. Without honor. Not in battle or surrounded by friends or family. In a dark cell. It was fitting. But bitter. The Minotaur waited as the Gnolls fought. Then the spear was raised. He sat up; a Minotaur should die on his feet, but they’d stopped working. He saw the [Guardsman] raise the spear—and then turn.
Sound was gone. But Calruz saw him react. Turn, snarling. Then—a flash of white. A little Gnoll cub tackled him, and a thorn protruding from her paw stabbed into his leg. He howled—then flames ripped down the prison. The white Gnoll child fled, and the Drakes and Gnolls fled, some rolling to extinguish the flames.
Calruz sighed as he saw the Drake stalk forwards, full of honor, as the Gnoll whirled to face her, snarling. Because he knew he wouldn’t die yet.
 
—–
 
She saluted them as she walked. Flames coated her every word. Fire of justice. Fire of rage. The other criminals drew back, but the Gnoll stayed. Blood ran from the wound and coated his fur. But he spat fury back.
“Leave us be, Watch Captain! Leave us to justice! Leave me to vengeance! Turn away!”
The little Gnoll saw the Drake pause. And her sword extended, glowing with heat as she shook her head.
“Drop your spear, Guardsman Ulkel. For assaulting a prisoner, I am placing you and everyone present under arrest. Come quietly or I will use force. You have one warning.”
“You love that monster more than your people.”
The Drake shook her head.
“I love the law most of all. So drop your weapon.”
He never would. And the Drakes and Gnolls in the prison were split. Mrsha quivered as Zevara turned to guard her. A Gnoll moved, and Zevara turned. But it was Tkrn. He saluted her with his spear as he moved to guard Mrsha. And they held a moment.
Traitor. [Guardsman]. Regret and shame and honor grasped at the last moment. So stood child and Gnoll and Watch Captain. She nodded and spun as Ulkel lunged.
No poet would sing of that battle. Brief and short and filled with dishonor. Nor would anyone call it bravery as Mrsha hid behind Tkrn. But perhaps they might spare a word for the Watch Captain.
In the moments before the rest of the Watch arrived, before Lyonette found Mrsha with Erin and the city descended to witness, the Watch Captain fought. She parried a spear thrust, put herself between the Minotaur’s cell and a score. And she slashed and dodged and wove. Faster, more agile than any.
A dozen blades came at her, half-hearted, aimed past her. Each one was knocked down. She even cut an arrow, breathing flame to set the [Archer] alight. She whirled and kicked Ulkel’s legs out from under him. And her sword aimed at his throat.
“[Lawbreaker’s Enemy]. You aren’t [Guards] any longer. Throw down your weapons before I cut you down.”
A dozen blades fell. Gnolls and Drakes wept. And as he lay on the ground, Ulkel’s voice rasped fury. He stared at Zevara. At Calruz. And at the Gnoll cub hiding behind Tkrn. He said only one word.
“Doombringer.”
A curse. A condemnation. Her nature. And the child wept. As the prison filled, as they were led away, the Gnolls looked at her. Traitor to their own. Doombringer. Only the Watch Captain paused. She walked through the Minotaur’s cell as he gasped, the potion healing what could be healed. And she looked at Mrsha.
“Don’t listen to them…kid. They brought this on themselves. No justice was done here. But the law is merciful. But there will be law. So long as I remain.”
The irony was she’d forgotten Mrsha’s name. But it didn’t matter for soon it was shouted and whispered and said in reproach and regret. Gnolls ran into the prison. Krshia and Elirr and Raekea and more. Lyonette and Erin followed, breathless. And the Horns and all but a Hob who stared at a ring of [Guards] who’d arrested him five steps into the city and glared.
“Watch Captain! This is not fair! These Gnolls and Drakes acted out of passion’s sake! For justice, out of respect for their grief, I ask you give them a light sentence! Relief!”
The Gnolls cried for justice and stared at the Minotaur in hate. They argued with voices like thunder and snarls like lightning, coming, going. Mrsha crouched, and her eyes filled with tears. Betrayal.
“Mrsha should have come to us. We could have handled it. This was a tragedy that could have been avoided.”
So said Raekea. Until Lyonette snapped. Lyonette shouted louder than the quarreling voices.
“She did what was right! What was just! What I taught her to do!”
“She is a Gnoll! She is one of us!”
The Gnoll and Human glared at each other. [Armorer] and [Princess]. Lyonette swept up Mrsha in her arms. And it was a hug like no other, warm and fierce.
“She is not yours! How dare you claim her? Where were you when she first came here, when she was lost and afraid? When you judged her by her fur?”
And the Gnolls had no answer. But they looked at Zevara and the Gnolls and Drakes who would fill the very same cells. The [Princess] did not care. She held Mrsha to her and turned.
“Don’t you dare call her yours. Or Plains Gnoll. Or think you can tell me what she is. Because she is mine! My child, and I am her mother! Mine! My daughter!”
She held Mrsha, and the child held her. The prison was silent. But the [Princess] didn’t care. And the little Gnoll looked up. Of course, she knew it was true. Silently, in her heart, it had always been so. But sometimes it needed to be said now and then. That night, the [Princess] said it again and again.
