Tkrn was frozen. And the worried Drake looked at him.
“Ulkel! Don’t tell her—”
“Shut up, Paiss. She gets it. She was there. You think I’m right, don’t you?”
The Gnoll squatted down. Mrsha backed up. But then she turned her head. Calruz stood in his cell. He stared at her, his blue eyes calm. Unwavering. She recognized him at the same time he recognized her.
His eyes widened. She shook. The memories hit Mrsha. The smell. The fear. She bared her teeth, and little thorns grew from her paws. The Gnoll nodded. He held the spear out.
“Here. You want to try?”
It was too large, too heavy for her. Mrsha hesitated and grabbed at it. She tried to lift it. The prison was silent. Her arms shook; she stumbled. She was too weak to lift it and stand on two feet. Tkrn muttered.
“Ulkel. She’s a kid.”
“So? If she can’t do it, she knows what we’re doing. And she won’t tell. Right?”
The Gnoll looked at Mrsha. She met his eyes, and then she looked at Calruz. Hate. Hate, hate, hate—she bared her teeth and shook her head. The Gnoll nodded.
“Anyone got a dagger?”
At that, Calruz stirred. He broke off from staring at Mrsha. He looked up. And his voice was low. It was familiar.
“Keep the child out of this. She does not need to see my face ag—”
He grunted, and his head snapped back as the butt of the spear struck him. The Drake lowered it and spat.
“Shut up. Tkrn, take the kid out of here. And shut the damned door, you idiot!”
“Come on, Mrsha.”
Tkrn muttered as he bent down and grabbed Mrsha. She didn’t protest as he pulled her out. But neither did she take her eyes off the far end of the prison. The Drake and Gnolls were taking turns striking with the spears. And Mrsha wanted to see it. She trembled. She hated the Minotaur in the cell.
The last thing she heard was the Gnoll pulling a potion from his belt. He was talking to the Drake.
“Make sure to splash the healing potion on him afterwards. And mark me, Minotaur, you’re going to earn every drop.”
Then the door closed. Mrsha felt two paws put her on the ground. Tkrn waved a paw in her face. She looked up at last. And he stared down at her. His eyes were bigger. Worried.
“Mrsha. About that. It was—we’re just—it’s Captain Zevara.”
She didn’t respond. Tkrn went on, clearing his throat.
“She’s a good Watch Captain. One of the best. But she doesn’t understand. She’s not one of us. Don’t tell her. Don’t tell Krshia. Or anyone else. This is—justice.”
He hunched over his spear. And she smelled his fury too. Tkrn held her gaze. Mrsha nodded slowly. He relaxed.
“We’ll make him pay. For you and Honored Elirr and everyone else. Don’t tell. Now go before someone comes looking.”
Mrsha went. Slowly. Gazing back at the prison. She kept remembering the sight. Part of her was afraid. Still afraid, even with the Minotaur in the cell. The rest of her wished she’d been strong enough to lift the spear, that Ulkel had given her a dagger. She shivered with hate.
That was how Raekea found her with Erin. They scolded her, worried, and Mrsha was whisked back to the inn in disgrace. She didn’t care. She had seen a monster. And she had seen him being punished.
It still wasn’t enough. But it was a start.
 
—–
 
This was still the tale of two rats tied up in Erin’s inn. They found themselves there, freed from the captivity of a place darker and smaller than any they had known. A place where they couldn’t breathe, where they were trapped.
And even in the light, in the air, a captive they remained. Tethered by their tails. By hope, perhaps. For one might have gnawed off their tail and saved the other. But neither brother nor sister had the will. The daring. They hoped, and so they remained wandering around on the floor, pulling one, then the other.
Captives of the child. And she stared at them. All the fun was gone.
She had been scolded and reprimanded. Brought back in disgrace. But that was not what consumed her heart. It was memory and agony. It was vengeance.
Vengeance. The paw came down, and the grey rat skittered away, fearful of the wrath that would have laid low mountains. She tugged, and her brother squeaked and scrabbled over to bite her. Oh, how they turned. While, above them, the child pondered.
 
—–
 
In her head, Mrsha saw the Minotaur in his cell. Alive. Whole. While the dead Gnolls, her kin, lay in the darkness. On the altar. The [Guards] did what was right. What Mrsha would have done.
They jabbed him, struck him again and again.
Part of her wished she’d held the spear. Part of her wished they’d used the other end. Mrsha’s paw landed with fury and grief, and a rat squeaked. The sound was funny, and it almost made Mrsha smile. She paused and did it again.
 
—–
 
A hammer fell. The blow crushed the grey rat to the floor. She wailed, but such agony she felt only came out in air, in a sound. And above her, the child laughed. Her brother scurried away, faithless, afraid. And the sister felt her breath explode as the paw shook her.
Oh, tragedy. Oh, wrath. What had they done to deserve this? The two longed for the darkness. For their kin, the People of the Grain Sack. The paw, the dreaded thing, lifted them up, and they beheld two brown eyes.
Tyrant! Fiend! At last, they realized this was not some impartial architect, but a thing! No rat. The not-Rat was giant, but mortal still! It could be felled! So they set to with tooth and fang, striking a blow against their captor. Though they might fall, it was worth it to fight back against the instrument of their fate—
 
—–
 
Mrsha stared at the wriggling, squeaking rats as she held them up by their connected tails. They rotated, lashing out with their tiny claws. She giggled, forgetting about the Minotaur for a moment. Then she heard an exclamation.
“Mrsha! What is that?”
It was a horrified female voice. Guiltily, Mrsha tried to hide the rats behind her back. But too late. Lyonette stared at the wriggling rats in horror.
“Rats?”
Her exclamation made a number of the inn’s patrons look around. Lyonette hesitated, then bent over.
“Throw them out at once! Wait—what have you done to—Mrsha!”
She looked horrified, mainly by the knot in the tails. Mrsha looked up, suddenly afraid. She didn’t want to be scolded! She looked around and then raced over to a group of Gnolls. Raekea looked up from her furious discussion with a group of Gnolls who were all set on arguing with Erin. The [Innkeeper] herself was talking with Rufelt and Lasica at the bar.
“Mrsha, come back here right now, young Miss!”
Lyonette stormed after her as Mrsha hid behind Raekea. The [Armorer] looked up.
“What’s going on?”
“She has two—”
Lyonette hesitated and lowered her voice.
“Two rats in her paws! It’s filthy! I don’t know where she got them—Mrsha, give me—no, put them outside! And why are their tails in a knot?”
Raekea looked down at Mrsha, who was peering around her legs, wide-eyed. She laughed and patted Mrsha reassuringly on the head. Emboldened, Mrsha crept out and held the rats up. Lyonette recoiled. But Raekea just snorted, and some of the Gnolls did too.
“Miss Lyonette, they’re just rats. And the tails are a common thing. Have you not heard of rat kings?”
“I’ve heard of rats. And I know [Kings]. What’s this about a rat king?”
“Ah, it’s a childhood thing! Do Drakes and Humans not…? Well, when I was a child…”
Lyonette listened to Raekea fondly reminisce about doing what Mrsha had done in disbelief. One of the other Gnolls smiled fondly as well.
“Ah, that brings me back! I used to do the exact same.”
“I kept them and fed them to my dog.”
“Bah! The trick was to find as many as you could. What was your record? I got sixteen, but then—”
The Gnolls happily broke out into a debate. They laughed and patted Mrsha’s head, flicking their paws and sending the two rats scurrying across the table, bumping into each other. Lyonette shook her head at last.
“That may be so, but in this inn, those rats don’t belong. They’re filthy, and they could bite. Mrsha, remember Erin’s lesson about hygiene? Throw them out at once!”
She pointed. Mrsha looked up, her mouth and eyes widened in silent protest. But she wanted to keep them! They were funny, and they didn’t fly off like Apista. She patted a rat to demonstrate, and it went squeak!
The Gnolls laughed heartily, enjoying the distraction. Raekea turned to Lyonette, smiling.
“Miss Lyonette, rats aren’t nearly as filthy as you might think. If these haven’t been living in a sewer, why not let little Mrsha keep them? She’s a Plains Gnoll, and I’m sure she did this in her tribe. Come to that, she deserves to run about! That’s probably why she got them to begin with.”
Mrsha nodded rapidly up at Lyonette. The [Princess] frowned. She opened her mouth, hesitated, and put her foot down in both senses of the word.
“Not in my inn. And Mrsha’s my responsibility, thank you, Miss Raekea. I’ll decide what she can and can’t do.”
The Gnoll [Armorer] frowned. She glanced at Mrsha. The Gnoll sulkily held the rats to her chest. They were trying to bite and scratch her fur. The older Gnoll turned back to the young Human woman.
“Miss Lyonette. I understand you take care of Mrsha. But she is a Gnoll. There are some things she should do differently. We are her people; we understand. Let her keep the rats. She’ll tire of them, but she should be free to do things as we did. She is a Gnoll.”
She emphasized the word again, and the Gnolls around her nodded. Lyonette hesitated. She glanced at Mrsha and bit her lip.
“I—”
And that was it. Into that gap, all the Gnolls spoke at once, stories about when they were young, things Mrsha should be allowed to do. Raekea winked at Mrsha, and the little Gnoll beamed at her. She clutched the rats and hurried off. Lyonette nearly followed her, but the Gnolls held her back, arguing, cajoling.
In another corner of the inn, Mrsha lowered the rats when she felt a tug at her fur. The grey rat was biting a tuft of her fur. Mrsha, amused, pulled at it, but the rat refused to let go. She frowned as the other rat dangled and pulled.
Ow! The rat had her hair and was chewing at it. Mrsha fumbled with her paws, trying to remove the tiny mouth. As she pulled, the grey rat suddenly let go. She twisted and, before Mrsha could catch hold of her, bit Mrsha on the paw.
It hurt! Mrsha dropped the pair of rats with a silent cry. It drew the attention of few people, but one [Innkeeper] broke off from her conversation with Rufelt and Lasica and looked up blankly for a second. In her corner, Mrsha felt at the small bite and saw it had drawn blood!
Just a little. But it hurt. And Mrsha was suddenly furious. Bad rats! She raised a paw and smacked the grey rat. It tried to pull its brother away. She smacked it again. Bad things deserved punishment! Like the Minotaur. She smacked the rat and then the other one as he tried to bite her paw.
This was discipline! She swatted at them, hearing them squeak. Again and again—
Until the [Innkeeper] called her name.
 
—–
 
So fell the blows. From above. Light taps from a child. The rats squeaked with each impact. And it was a cute sound, the noise to amuse. To make Gnolls laugh. And in the Gnolls’ story, it was just a cute sound, a little rat’s bite.
But in their story, the rats screamed. Far from home, desperate, they writhed. Their tails were agony. And they screamed as the blows crushed them to the ground, pounding their organs, grinding their bones. They cried out, but they had no language. No words for mercy. There was only now. And now was pain.
No one cared. The Gnolls saw only toys. Lyonette saw only pests. And the rats were rats, tied, screaming. Until the girl known as Erin Solstice came. She looked down and saw what Mrsha held. So paused Erin, and her expression was caught betwixt horror and confusion.
“Mrsha! What are you doing? What have you done?”
Of course, the Gnoll had no words to explain. But she had signs and a voice without. But neither she used. For she was wroth. And her fury came out in a look. The reproach in the child’s eyes that said more than any words. And Erin bent.
“Oh, you heard. I have my reasons, Mrsha. And they are good and right. Even if I am conflicted. Can you understand?”
The child did not want to understand. She swatted a rat, and it screamed in a voice that was comical. But Erin looked down and heard it. She caught the paw before it fell again.
“What are you doing? Why are you doing this? Can’t you see they suffer? They hurt?”
Mrsha looked up blankly. For rats were rats. Why did they have feelings? Erin squatted down, staring at the rats. At the tails. And she shook her head, greatly disturbed.
“But this is wrong, Mrsha, don’t you see? These rats don’t deserve such a fate. Set them free! And untie them first! Animals deserve kindness, the same as people. You should know this.”
Her words stung and bit. The Gnoll child hated to hear them. She would speak for rats, but not Gnollkind. She would save even a Minotaur. For she was too kind. So Mrsha defiantly put a paw on a rat.
“Stop that.”
The young woman’s voice was as sharp as her knife. Mrsha paused, for she had not heard a tone like that. But she looked up and down, and the rats squirmed. They were hers, Raekea had said. So that was that. She lifted the rats up by the tails. It was a simple thing. But she had not considered what it would feel like if someone were to do that to her or a Drake.
The two squirmed. All they knew was pain. The Gnoll who held them yanked defiantly again, and the [Innkeeper] heard the rats scream. Erin’s eyes widened, and she reached. But back Mrsha scampered.
“Mrsha!”
Mrsha lifted the rats triumphantly, in hubris, in vengeance misplaced. And they screamed, a pitiful sound. Mrsha dared Erin. She hated her. She hated the Minotaur. She raised the rats high, squeezing hard because she wanted to hurt him. She wanted to hurt them.
And stopped. Because Erin was staring right at her. And the inn shook.
 
—–
 
The [Actors] on stage paused. On the bar, Rufelt’s drinks shook in their tumblers. The guests of the inn looked up. And the weight that pressed down was smothering. The air was hot.
“Put. Them. Down.”
Erin’s voice ran through the inn. It was thunder. It was a shout. Mrsha froze. And her arms lowered. She put the rats down, and they clung to each other, shaking. But no more than Mrsha. Erin stared at the little Gnoll. And her face—Mrsha shook.
One second the pressure was crushing, the next, gone. Erin blinked. She reached out.
“Mrsha—”
