“And if you think the Antinium won’t turn on the city when it suits them—”
“Do you remember trying to rip me off after that? By making Olesm play chess with me? Hi, Olesm!”
“Shut up! This is not about you, Human! So be quiet while we debate the real threat!”
Perhaps the spittle that flew struck even eight rows of the people standing closest; it sprayed those in front. But it did not stop the [Innkeeper], who replied to the outraged Drake without missing a beat.
“You say it’s all about Antinium. But all you’re doing is painting them in a bad light. There are bad ones and good ones. So maybe Klbkch won’t swear he never thought of doing Liscor wrong. But can you tell me Liscor has no plans to destroy the Antinium Hive? Seems to me you’re a hypocrite, Lism. And a really bad guy.”
On his stage, the Drake spluttered, and some of the crowd laughed. The white Gnoll laughed in silence, the [Armorer] with her voice. But the [Strategist] who stood at his uncle’s side only sighed. Olesm Swifttail stepped up and, in a quiet voice, delivered his counterstroke. Whispered words that made Lism’s eyes light up and announce as loud as could be.
“Miss Erin, it seems to me you have affection for the Antinium you call friends. But they are a handful, a few, a fraction of a larger whole. And the Grand Queen is no Human’s ally, nor Drake nor Gnoll’s. Can you call Antinium anything but slaves who will obey when she points them to war? Can you claim they will not obey her when she speaks?”
The crowd swung back and forth. But Erin spoke again, and Krshia next, and they swung closer towards her than the Drake’s side. Because the crazed Human [Innkeeper] stood there with Pallass’ [Senators] and Gnolls, and that was plain to see. So the Drake, in desperation, promised more and more. And offered less and less.
“I’ll build the walls twice as high!”
The Gnoll laughed and shook her head.
“With what budget? Don’t make promises that you can’t keep.”
“In that case, I’ll call for even more companies from Liscor! Bring our army back!”
“To do what? Guard our sheep? Where were they months gone past? They sent a hundred when we needed all and more!”
The Drake ground his teeth. Mrsha, restless in the crowd, looked up at Raekea and tugged on her hand because she was sure Erin would win and wanted to run and play. And turning, with the two rats in hand, she heard the Drake’s last, desperate pitch.
“In that case, I’ll execute the damned Minotaur as soon as I’m elected! No—I’ll have him drawn and quartered! Vote Lism for justice and a horrible death! Vote Lism and I’ll see justice to every Gnoll who was wronged by him!”
The rats gasped with the Gnoll as she squeezed them tight. And turning back, Mrsha looked up. And her eyes were round with memory and fright.
 
—–
 
“Execution.”
The word came from Krshia. Quietly. Mrsha looked up at her and remembered.
A bloodstained altar. Gnolls being dragged by Raskghar. A bloody rock. A Minotaur, eyes red with madness. A half-Elf pleading.
Calruz.
And the thought of him filled her with true fear. Because his was another face of her nightmares. Raekea turned too, and Lism, sensing the break in the deadlock, leapt onto it.
“Of course! He’s been sitting in our prisons for months! Too long! What’s the hold up? What’s the delay? Let’s execute him already! I think I speak for all of us that it’s overdue; vote for me and I’ll execute him by drawing and quartering! No, by fire!”
He looked around, raising his claws, and there were shouts of agreement from the crowd. Just shouts. But no one looked ready to object. Krshia just sneered.
“Paltry promises, Lism. That…Minotaur will face justice for his crimes. It’s not a matter of how, but when.”
“You think so, Silverfang? Then why isn’t he already dead? He should have been strung up the moment we got him! Along with any Raskghar—if we’d taken those beasts alive! I’ve heard he’s being kept because our Watch Captain needs proof he wasn’t enchanted or some nonsense. Phsaw!”
Lism spat. Someone in the crowd shouted in disgust. He paused.
“Sorry about that. Anyways, I say let there be justice—now! No waiting! Only a monster could do what that Minotaur did. Not only was his team one of the ones that released the undead from the crypts, he sent the Raskghar to attack our citizens. So I say—let’s kill him and make it something that would give even those beasts nightmares! Kill that Minotaur! Kill that Minotaur!”
His supporters took up the chant. On stage, Krshia folded her arms, looking annoyed. And in the crowd, Mrsha saw Raekea bare her teeth.
“There’s something I could agree with. What’s taking Watch Captain Zevara so long? Shut up that Drake, Krshia.”
The [Shopkeeper] clearly intended to. Mrsha saw Krshia waving for silence. She also saw Erin waving her arms in the crowd and making her way to the platform. Krshia didn’t see as she snapped at Lism.
“You’re quick to change your tune, Lism! I thought this was ‘about the Antinium’. You’re just throwing anything you can out in hopes you can distract from the real argument! But if you like, I’ll personally guarantee that if I take office, I’ll have that Minotaur executed as he should be. Are you satisfied with—”
She broke off, frowning. Mrsha heard the voice, quieter, but distinct. Erin. She was shouting up at Krshia on her platform. And Mrsha saw Erin’s wide eyes and the look on her face. Krshia bent. Her expression told Mrsha many things.
“What’s that, Silverfang? Lost your tongue?”
Krshia didn’t reply. She’d turned off the magical enhancement to her voice. But Mrsha and Raekea—all of the Gnolls in the crowd could hear what Erin and Krshia were saying. Mrsha paused. Raekea stared.
“Let him live? What on earth is your Human saying? Mrsha—”
She looked down. The white Gnoll was trembling, holding onto her rats. And Krshia was snapping at Erin. But the [Innkeeper] was raising her arms, making an ‘x’. The look on her face was set. Krshia straightened and stared blankly for a second.
“Well?”
Lism was crowing. Because Olesm had seen the back-and-forth. And he’d stepped forwards to whisper in his uncle’s ear. Because he could see it. No—Mrsha could see it. The rats could see it.
A flaw. There stood Erin. On her face was written one thing. And all of the things she’d brought—the Pallassian [Senators], the door to the Walled City itself, her support of Krshia—it all teetered. The Gnoll stared down at Erin.
“I must discuss this. Excuse me, everyone. I will not be long.”
She muttered with her enchanted voice and then turned it off and leapt from the stage. Lism and his four cohorts crowed in exultation, and the crowd murmured. The Gnolls especially. Mrsha just stared as Krshia grabbed Erin, and the two began to argue fiercely as Selys hurried over.
It couldn’t be. But Mrsha knew Erin. She knew Ceria. Sometimes, the half-Elf came back, smelling of Calruz. But it could not be.
“Let him live? Was that what she said?”
Raekea’s growl of fury made even some other Gnolls shrink back. The [Armorer]’s arms tensed, and Mrsha saw heads turning to Lism. He certainly wasn’t about to give Krshia a break. On stage, he began shouting, free from interruption.
“You heard it, folks! Honorable Krshia would let that Minotaur remain in jail, free as a damned bird, for killing our citizens! No—worse! Have you heard what he did? Would any of you let that monster walk free another second? I say let’s kill him, but make the execution fit the crime! Get some oil, boil it, and boil him, one inch at a time for a day!”
“That’s right! Justice for Liscor’s Gnolls!”
One of the Drakes standing besides Lism howled, and it was Gnolls and Drakes who shouted with him. Not one Gnoll in the crowd would argue against that. Mrsha was trembling. She stared at Erin.
No. But yes. Erin was shaking her head. Krshia was tearing at her fur. Selys looked conflicted. And Watch Captain Zevara—every head turned towards her as she climbed onto Krshia’s vacated stage.
“Shopkeeper Lism! What did you just say you’d do to my prisoner?”
She bellowed straight into a speaking gem she’d snatched from Elirr. The crowd winced because Zevara barely needed the gem to begin with. Lism hesitated, but, like him or hate him, he didn’t back down even with the Watch Captain shouting at him.
“Watch Captain Zevara, I admire your restraint! But this is a matter of public decency! Of justice! That Minotaur—”
“Shopkeeper Lism! I don’t recall seeing your face in my damn mirror this morning!”
Zevara’s bellow cut Lism off. She was actually better than Krshia at rendering the Drake speechless. Zevara went on; her scales flushed darker as she shouted.
“For your information, the Silver-rank Adventurer known as Calruz has not been held to justice for one simple reason: we are not certain he was in control of himself when he committed the crimes he was imprisoned for!”
A murmur ran through the crowd, but a discontented one. Lism frowned and shouted back.
“Even so, Watch Captain. That doesn’t excuse any of what he did. That Minotaur is a criminal!”
Again, Mrsha felt a leap in her chest. She agreed with the nasty Drake! But Watch Captain Zevara just glared at Lism.
“This is not a matter for the election. Nor is it a matter for the Council to decide. I am Watch Captain, and unless you’d like to relieve me of my post, the fate of Calruz the Minotaur is my jurisdiction!”
She threw the speaking stone at Elirr and stormed off the stage. But she’d gotten no further than ten steps when Lism spoke.
“Well then, people of Liscor. That was our Watch Captain, and a finer arm of the law we couldn’t ask for. But there’s law and there’s justice, and I think her tail is tied by the former. Therefore, if I’m elected, my first action as a member of Liscor’s Council would be to order the Minotaur’s execution. What say you, Krshia Silverfang?”
Zevara whirled, her eyes flashing with fury. But Lism, on stage, gave her a look as solid as stone. And she hesitated. So did Krshia. The Gnoll looked up, glared at Erin with fury and—Mrsha saw with disbelief—disgust, and turned away. Lism nodded slowly, and victory lit up his gaze.
“There you have it. It’s not just about Antinium. It’s not just about other races. It’s about justice. Vote for Team Lism, and we’ll make sure that Minotaur dies screaming!”
The roar that followed his words was the loudest yet. The crowd had heard every facet of the debates. The back and forth. But that was argument over minutiae. The rights of Goblins. The presence of Antinium. This was a calling for blood. And the Gnolls who shouted had forgotten who they were cheering for.
The Minotaur. Mrsha felt her insides trembling with fear. But hate was breaking the frozen flow. Hatred, beating with fear in her veins. She looked up as the rats froze, trembling. And Raekea’s teeth were bared. Then the [Armorer] caught herself.
“This isn’t good. What is Krshia thinking? Say she’ll kill the Minotaur too! Unless—is it really Erin Solstice? She’d protect him?”
She looked disbelieving, shaking her head. But Mrsha remembered. Ceria, the Horns of Hammerad, were a guest of Erin’s inn. Calruz had been one too. If Erin had a flaw, it was that she loved people. She was too nice.
But not him. Never him. Mrsha let go of Raekea as dark thoughts overwhelmed her. She was in the cage! The Raskghar were there, snarling, in the darkness. Facestealer was there. Calruz reached for her as Nokha laughed. Mrsha trembled, holding the rats as they squirmed. And Lism was shouting words. Words she wanted to hear.
“Can I have any suggestions? We don’t have a [Headsman], but we can always find a dull axe! Boiling in oil! Burning at a stake? Drawing and quartering, a classic! What about death by exposure? Long, but I hear it’s agonizing towards the end!”
“Toss him to the Shield Spiders!”
One of the Drake candidates was shouting encouragement. He turned, caught up in the moment as he raised his arms. Lism glared, taken out of the spotlight as the Drake went on.
“No—let’s do more than that! I say, let’s chop him up piece by piece and make sure he remembers it! Or find a few zombies and let them gnaw on him! Or—I’ve got it! Let’s eat him!”
The crowd, which had been roaring their approval, fell silent. Lism stared at the Drake standing next to him. The Drake lowered his arms.
“Uh—okay, maybe that was going a bit too far.”
“What kind of lame-brained—get off the stage, you idiot! Sorry about that, folks. Ahem. But spread the word! This is about justice! And I, Lism, guarantee—”
Mrsha could hear no more. She backed away from the crowd, shaking. She didn’t know which was worse: Erin clearly pleading with Krshia or the fact that Lism was saying what she wanted to hear. She wanted Calruz, the Minotaur, dead. Him and all the Raskghar. He’d killed Gnolls. He’d sacrificed them, and the Raskghar had laughed and laughed and—
“Out of the way! Guards! Keep this crowd under control! If Shopkeeper Lism tries to incite a riot, arrest him! I want a doubled guard on the prison! I’m going to yank that idiot’s tail off—”
A voice snapped, and Mrsha saw the crowd parting. Watch Captain Zevara strode past her, her scales pale with fury. A few [Guards] trailed after her, Drakes and Gnolls both. The rest stayed in the crowd. Even they looked like they’d taken Lism’s side. Mrsha heard one of them, a Gnoll, growling at her companion, a Drake.
“The Captain’s out of her mind.”
“Shut up. Don’t let her hear that.”
“But why are we keeping that thing alive in the cells? We have to empty his cage, feed him—I agree with Lism! And I never thought I’d say that.”
The Drake sighed. She looked no happier, although her Gnoll companion looked far more furious. Of course she did. It had been Gnolls the Raskghar attacked. The Drake answered after a pause.
“You heard her. It’s about figuring out whether he was enchanted.”
“And if he was? You think he was ‘magically’ mind controlled and did all that? I wouldn’t believe that if you got an [Archmage] here to say it! No matter what, he deserves to—”
“You’re not arguing with me! Stop snapping! Just don’t let Watch Captain Zevara hear you say that! You know what she’s like about rules. She’s principled.”
“I heard she goes and talks with him. She thinks he’s innocent! Her and that half-Elf.”
“Stop. Snapping. At. Me!”
The Drake and Gnoll glared at each other. At last, the Gnoll [Guardswoman] subsided. The Drake nodded.
“I know it’s personal, Merka. But—hells, at least this way if Shopkeeper Lism wins, you get your justice. The Council could probably force Captain Z to execute the Minotaur.”
