The Gnoll fled. She raced upstairs and slammed the door to her room, then pushed a chair in front of the door under the knob. Then she fled under the bed, crying. Afraid. Because she knew Erin was coming. She heard nothing as she hid in a corner, quivering. Nothing from outside. Mrsha heard someone rattle the knob.
“Mrsha? Mrsha, open the door.”
It was Lyonette’s voice. Mrsha didn’t move. She knew she was in trouble. Big trouble. But she was too afraid to open the door. She hid, curling up and trembling. The door knob turned and rattled, and someone pushed. But the door remained closed.
A minute passed. Then two. Mrsha hid. She’d stay here forever. Even if she got hungry. She’d stay and stay, and maybe if she stayed here long enough, Erin wouldn’t be so mad. She stared at the door, trembling.
And then—Erin climbed through the window. She looked around and spotted Mrsha. The Gnoll went still with fear. Then she tried to run for it.
“Stop right there.”
The voice was quiet. Mrsha halted. She couldn’t help it. She turned, shaking, as Erin walked over towards her. She could read nothing on the young woman’s face. Erin paused, standing in front of Mrsha. Her eyes were very terrible. Disappointed. And sad.
Mrsha trembled, expecting a blow. Krshia would spank her. Lyonette had once, too. Erin reached down, and Mrsha flinched. The young woman paused.
“I would never spank you, Mrsha. I could never.”
Then what? Mrsha looked up. She was already crying. And she saw that Erin was angry. As angry as she ever saw. Angry and disappointed and sad. The [Innkeeper] spoke softly as she sat down cross legged.
“That was a bad thing you did, Mrsha. You hurt the rats. Why’d you do it?”
She waited. But Mrsha just looked away. She was crying. And it was frustrating because she didn’t feel bad! They were just rats! But there was Calruz and—and Erin wasn’t going to kill him. Somehow, the [Innkeeper] sensed it all. She moved to look at Mrsha, and the Gnoll turned around again, shaking and sniffing and crying.
“Mrsha. Rats feel pain. They hurt. When you smack them, they hurt. I know they’re pests. And I know what Gnolls do. Raekea told me. And I understand that you didn’t mean any harm. But if I’d seen it earlier, I’d have told you to stop. I’m not angry about that. I’m sad that you started hitting them.”
Mrsha defiantly looked at Erin. So what? They were rats. She was still crying. She wished she wasn’t. But she was sad. Sad and mad. She pointed furiously at Erin, signaling. Erin didn’t understand until Mrsha made a pair of cow horns.
“Oh. Calruz. Mrsha—”
The Gnoll spat. She bared her teeth. Erin waited as Mrsha’s mouth opened and closed. She waited. Then she spoke as Mrsha was panting, shouting without a voice.
“I know. I haven’t forgiven him either.”
Mrsha paused. Erin stood up. She sat on the bed. She looked at Mrsha, and her eyes were sad. And bleak. She smelled of anger.
“I haven’t forgiven him. I know he took you. I know he took Elirr and he killed the others. I know. I remember. I haven’t visited. I haven’t forgiven him. But he might be innocent. It might not be his fault. That’s what Ceria says. But she could be wrong.”
She paused.
“And if she is, he’ll die. But it will be quick. That’s how the law works here. Back home, we’d keep him in prison until he died. Multiple life sentences perhaps. But that’s home. I don’t know which is meaner. But that’s Calruz. Those rats are different. And the same.”
They were not. Mrsha rubbed at her wet eyes. She shook her head. Erin looked down at her.
“Mrsha—Mrsha—listen to me—”
Mrsha just shook her head. She didn’t want to hear. She went to a corner and sat in it, still crying. Erin sighed. She looked at the little Gnoll curled up. And she stood up and approached Mrsha. She paused there. Then she bent.
And she hugged Mrsha. She grasped the Gnoll child softly and lifted her up. Mrsha tensed. But all Erin did was hug her softly.
“I’m sorry.”
She hugged Mrsha. That hurt more than any spanking Krshia had ever given her. When Mrsha looked up and saw the tears in Erin’s eyes, it was all the worse.
“I know you’re sad. And mad. Listen to me. I’m sad too. The rats are one thing. Calruz the other. But listen, Mrsha. One is like the other. Because both are weak. I know Calruz did horrible things. But he’s in a cage. And the rats are small. They can’t do anything. If you hurt them, if you tie their tails together, that’s bad. I know you didn’t know. But I’m telling you. It’s not okay.”
Mrsha pushed at Erin’s chest weakly. She didn’t want to hear it. Erin went on, holding her.
“You’re a good girl. I know that. And I know it’s different for Gnolls. I know that in this world, you don’t see animals like that. But listen. What would you say if you heard a dog make that sound? Can a dog feel? Can a dog cry?”
Mrsha buried her head in Erin’s shirt. She knew a dog could yelp and cry. But rats were different. Erin held her.
“What’s the difference between a dog and a rat? Between you and me? They hurt, Mrsha. They hurt. A Goblin hurts. I hurt. It wasn’t good to do that. Okay?”
But they were rats. And he was a Minotaur. Mrsha couldn’t say either. She clung to Erin’s shirt, wiping her eyes and nose on it. And Erin hugged Mrsha. She looked so sad. She was crying too, and it hurt Mrsha like a knife. Sometimes she shone too brightly and with such goodness that it hurt.
 
—–
 
When she came below, a dozen Gnolls were ready to argue Mrsha’s case. They were mad at Erin for shouting, and Lyonette was angry too. But Erin met them all with Mrsha in her arms. And she said the same thing.
“A rat feels pain. And to hurt it is a shame.”
The Gnolls scoffed and laughed or disputed the case. But they fell silent when Elirr the [Beast Trainer] showed his face. The Gnoll listened and looked at the little rats lying on the ground. They squeaked in terror and fled when he reached down.
The others laughed. But the Gnoll lifted the two, and they looked up in fear and pain. When he opened his eyes and stared about, there was anger plain. He spoke like this to the others as he gently held the rats. And they looked up and felt his connection with them as he gently untied them and fed them a snack.
“Who says rats have no feelings? Who laughs? I have seen children throw a rat. And they laugh when it goes splat. But I’ll tell you this for a fact. Rats are animals, and they’re all the same. They have wills and feelings, if not thought like us. Yet the largest dog is still a pet. And be it dog or cat or rat, they deserve respect and dignity. Until you learn that, you and all the others are banned from my shop, Mrsha who is dear to me.”
He looked sternly at the child who clung to the [Innkeeper] and cried. But it was the [Princess] who took her and glared into the [Beast Trainer]’s eyes.
“She had no idea. Don’t you dare lecture her! She did not know. And they’re just rats. I’d kill them and go.”
She pointed at the rats, and Erin argued and Elirr snapped and the Gnolls snapped back. Below, on the table, the two looked up, grey rat and white. They waggled their tails and then took flight. Erin shouted.
“After them! Don’t let them get away! They’re going to the—basement?”
And just like that, a rat dove through a crack. And when the trapdoor opened and they descended below, the Humans and Gnolls recoiled. For the People of the Grain Sack were caught in the light. The [Innkeeper] and guests saw nearly a hundred rats having a snack. From a bunch of stored foodstuffs, perfectly preserved.
So Erin stood in the basement with a hammer, and Lyonette with a bag. They looked at each other, one queasy, one pale. But both could agree: the rats had to die.
“Er. Okay, they’re rats. And they’re a pest. So…let’s smack them with a hammer?”
“By ourselves? Didn’t you say rats deserved our respect?”
The [Princess] was horrified and amused by turns. The Gnoll cub stared around and folded her arms. And Erin threw up her hands.
“I said that! But a pest’s a pest! Now help me kill this stupid nest! They’re eating my stuff! What I said applies. They’re alive. So…kill them quickly so it doesn’t hurt?”
So saying, she tried to raise the hammer and chase a rat. But when it came to splatting one, she couldn’t. So the hammer went to Lyonette, who looked queasy and upset. And Erin turned and looked snide.
“I thought you were on the ‘squish the rats’ side?”
“Well, yes, but it’s one thing to hammer them flat! Why do I have to do it myself?”
“Because they’re just pests. And if they didn’t feel a thing, why do you feel bad? Because it’s gross? Or because you think that when they scream, they scream?”
The two began to quarrel as Mrsha sat on the ground and sobbed. Lyonette glared and pointed at the rats.
“And if rats could speak, would you save them from the world? If rats could weep, would you say they were like Goblins?”
Erin had no answer to that. And so the [Princess] threw down her hammer, and a rat went splat. The two stared at it, and they heard a rat scream. It wailed and shrieked, and they both turned green. And there was a great wailing and gnashing of teeth, none of which Mrsha took part in. Until a Hobgoblin came down the basement steps. He stared at the two young women crying over the dead corpse of a rat and the bloody hammer. Numbtongue paused. Then he pointed and asked.
“Are you making rat soup?”
The Hobgoblin listened as Erin told him rats could feel pain. And Lyonette and the Gnolls disputed that they should feel shame. In the end, Numbtongue pointed at the rat. It was screaming, and the Goblin snapped its neck with one foot. He looked up and at Elirr.
“It feels pain, just like you or me. But it is not like you or me.”
He looked at Erin and Lyonette and Mrsha too. And she asked him if a Goblin was like a rat. The Hobgoblin paused and stared down at the ground. He shrugged.
“Rats are not Human or Goblin or anything but rats. When one talks, I’ll think about it. But I know this: when you kill something, you kill it fast. And here’s a plague.”
He pointed. All said that was true. The People of the Grain Sack poked their heads out of every space, and Erin shuddered. She looked at the hammer and then at Lyonette. Then she poked her head out of the basement and shouted.
“Ishkr! My favorite employee!”
The Gnoll with prescience instantly looked up and shook his head. Drassi hid, but Ishkr just spoke with a common-Gnoll’s wisdom.
“No. Miss Erin, you have money. Use that and not us. For if we scramble and swear and run about, the rats will escape, and we will all be upset. But now, in Liscor, the city, there are plenty of ways. [Exterminators] and [Hunters], and do you know what else? Honored Elirr trains the best ratters, both dogs and cats.”
And all eyes turned to Elirr, and the old [Beast Trainer] sighed. But they were pests. So he went and called for his dogs as Erin picked up the white rat and grey rat that Mrsha held in her paws. She stared at them, and Numbtongue lifted the hammer. But Erin protested, and so the two were saved.
From tragedy to grief. The two shuddered at the blood. And the People of the Grain Sack saw their kindred being taken upstairs, into the light, by the titans. They did not protest and instead hid, thinking themselves safe. Until they heard the barking, meows, and the click of ivory on wood.
Then the People of the Grain Sack knew the last age had come, and they took to flight. But down poured a multitude of beasts, led by a Gnoll who spoke of peace. And he meant every word. To kill a rat was one thing. To torture it, sheer cruelty. The People of the Grain Sack screamed and fled either way.
And lo, there was great lamentation and terror. Beasts of fang and tooth, made larger or smarter by a [Beast Trainer]’s craft, fell upon the basement, pouncing, biting, and tearing. The People of the Grain Sack fled into every cranny and hole. To no avail.
Not one of four generations survived. They died in the basement, and Erin poked her head in and decided it needed a wash. Poor Ishkr got that job. For overtime pay and triple the hour. He sighed and got to work as the ratters washed their whiskers and gleefully filled their bellies.
The Goblin watched it all. Did he think of his kindred in that moment? Or of the death of Goblins played out a hundred ways in a hundred times? Did he see kinship between the rats and he as they fled from the predators that toyed and killed indiscriminately?
No. They were rats. But privately, the Hobgoblin thought it would have been kinder to use a hammer and make them go splat rather than use a bunch of dogs and cats.
 
—–
 
So ended a people. In terror and fear. And the last of the rats quivered in Mrsha’s paws. The Gnoll stared down and felt them shake. And they were an echo of her. It made her fear Erin was right.
It couldn’t be. But it was. The [Druid] saw Elirr’s face. The Gnoll wasn't bothered by the death of all the rats in the basement. He’d been angrier when he saw the two rats tied together. Now he just seemed miffed as a cat tried to crawl up one leg. He shooed it off.
“You stupid cats! That hurts! Climb somewhere else!”
Half the cats licking their bloody paws looked up. And all of them decided to flip their tails up and show their butts to the [Beast Trainer]. He glared.
“I hate training cats.”
But that was a lie, wasn’t it? One of the ones adults told. Mrsha turned to Elirr. And he gazed down at her. She sniveled. Her nose was still running. He bent down. Lyonette was giving him a death’s glare. The Gnoll ignored it as he bent down to the Gnoll cub.
“Oh, little Mrsha. I know I was harsh. But I mean it. You can feel them, can’t you? You know they hurt. It’s unkind. But Plains Gnolls are often unkind. That’s how we have to be. We kill Corusdeer or cows or even, yes, cats! You hear that, you fleabags?”
He shouted at the cats, and they scattered, yowling, as Ishkr glumly mopped up the bloody basement and rat corpses. Elirr spoke to Mrsha.
“The difference is that, if we have any decency, we do it quick. Have you ever seen a [Hunter] letting an animal bleed out? Or stabbing an animal and letting it die slow? Those are monsters.”
Mrsha shivered. She could picture that. She tearfully stared down at the rats. Did that make her one? Elirr shook his head.
“No. No. You didn’t know. But remember it, child. I do. And perhaps other Gnolls should too.”
He glanced around sternly, and Erin nodded. Raekea and some of the Gnolls from Liscor glared back. One threw up his paws.
“They’re rats, Elirr. Dead gods! Rats! All of you are making a big fuss over rats when it was the Minotaur who—”
He paused. Elirr’s eyes glinted.
