“My daughter, no matter what comes to pass. My daughter, no Gnoll’s child but mine. Mine, no matter your past.”
And that was enough. Enough to make a bittersweet end of it all. In triumph, in tragedy, the Gnoll held her mother.
 
—–
 
This was the end of it. As Lyonette carried away Mrsha, who clung to her as if she’d never let go, she glared daggers at Raekea and the other Gnolls. They watched her. Until she’d left, bearing away the Gnoll who was brave. Who was brave enough to do what was right.
Erin stood and looked down at the Minotaur. He was healing. But the marks of—torture—remained. You couldn’t paint over that with fancy words. Burnt skin. Holes in him, poked by spears and blade. She felt sick.
The young woman gazed at the Gnolls. And they were full of hate. At Watch Captain Zevara, her face grim, speaking smoke. At Tkrn, who’d surrendered his spear to Relc.
“Disaster. Disastrous. This could all have been avoided. Look at it! Honest Drakes and Gnolls. And imprisonment? Stripped of their duties for doing what they saw as right? How can we call this justice?”
That came from a Drake sighing and clucking over the entire mess. As if it weren’t his fault. Erin whirled, and Lism glanced away. And it was Olesm’s face she met. Disappointed. Haunted. But not ashamed, per se. Erin ground her teeth together. Yet it was Watch Captain Zevara who paused and looked Lism’s way.
“Shopkeeper Lism. One more word and I will arrest you for this entire ordeal. This was caused by your provocation. Your words.”
Lism opened his mouth to protest. Zevara spat smoke.
“One word.”
He eyed her and closed his mouth. Raekea spat. She still hadn’t had enough. From fury at Mrsha not telling Krshia first to hatred over Calruz, she smoldered with it.
“That doesn’t change what he’s done. Krshia! Are you really going to support keeping him alive?”
“I think I must. Although I see no goodness and rather much foolishness in it.”
The [Shopkeeper] glared at Erin. And Erin glared back. She glared at her friend, who was right and also wrong. If. If there was a chance—
But it was the same argument. The same old dance. Into that conversation, into the silence, stepped a Minotaur. He stood up in his cell. And his fur was burnt away. His blood still fresh.
“I won’t deny my guilt. Kill me and be done with it all. It seems I bring dishonor to everyone I meet.”
The Gnolls jerked, and Lism turned a disbelieving head. Calruz looked around. And his gaze passed from Gnoll to Drake. From hatred to disgust. Then to Erin. And she shuddered. Because she had not visited him either. She could not. Calruz only nodded at her.
He stood then, proudly, the Minotaur in a cage facing Gnolls, Drakes, a half-Elf, and a few Humans.
“I will not run from my crimes. I say execute me and don’t look back. I understand this election is about my guilt. So. Let me say that I will embrace that fate. Do as you will.”
He spread his arm. And all of them, Gnolls, Drakes, Erin, and Zevara, all looked at him. Because they had not expected this. Calruz went on, his eyes burning
“But let me die as a Minotaur dies. Give me a weapon. Any weapon! And give me an honorable death. I will cut my way through the heart of the city in the dungeon or die fighting one of those Rock Crabs. Or—”
He paused. Ceria was there, of course, standing near the back. As soon as she’d heard Calruz’s name, in fact. He looked at her and bowed.
“It would be an honor to die fighting a friend willing to look me in the eye.”
She couldn’t. Not then and there. Yvlon could, and her gaze was stony. Pisces’ was almost sympathetic. Ksmvr was scratching his antennae. The Gnolls growled. Elirr, who had been on Mrsha’s side, had no love for Calruz. He nearly howled as he turned on Calruz, snarling.
“You speak of honor? You? The thing I met leading the Raskghar had none. How dare you demand the way you die now?”
Calruz faced him. And Elirr’s fury washed over the Minotaur’s calm face. His voice. And that quieted Elirr. No—it quieted everyone who was present, Erin included. Because she had been there the day they’d fought the Raskghar. The Minotaur of now was not the savage, wild war chief of the Raskghar of then. Calruz dipped his head.
“I do not demand it, sir. I only ask for it. I am aware it is not my right. But I will say this: the Gnolls and Drakes that sought to kill me this night abandoned their honor. For vengeance, they did it. But if there is one thing I have learned, it is that there is no excuse for anything less than honor. I ask for it now. Not for my sake, but yours.”
His gaze swept the crowd. Lism spat on the ground.
“Then tell me, Minotaur. Do you claim that you didn’t commit those crimes? Lead the Raskghar? Slaughter innocent Gnolls and attack your own team? Because if you’re innocent, why not plead for your life? If you’re guilty, you could do us all a favor and bash your head in against a wall.”
Calruz paused. He replied slowly.
“I remember. And I do not. But I know enough. Sir Drake, I only know how I wish to die. If the city wills it, bring the [Executioner]. Bring a noose. Or simply fill a pit with me inside. Feed me to Shield Spiders. If that would give you peace, do it. Otherwise, let us both remember honor. I forgot mine down there. I will never forget it again.”
He paused. And Lism opened his mouth, closed it, glared. Because Calruz’s words were an echo of his own. Only, the Minotaur said them with an unwavering gaze.
“It doesn’t matter. If magic doesn’t find him guilty, how long do we keep him here? A month? A year? Ten years? How long is enough?”
Raekea snapped at Zevara, and the Watch Captain glared. Erin stepped into that. She turned on the [Armorer].
“Until we’re certain, Raekea. Or is it okay to kill someone if there’s even a sliver of doubt they might be innocent?”
“Even if we know he’s committed the crimes?”
“If someone cast a spell on you, or used a Skill, would it be your fault?”
Ceria snapped back. Raekea inhaled, and Zevara bellowed.
“Enough!”
She looked around the prison. The Watch Captain shook her head.
“It’s late. I’ve heard this debate a thousand times. And I am not certain Calruz is guilty. Until that moment comes, magic or not, public opinion or not, Council or not, I will decide what to do with him. And in this cell he stays. Is that clear?”
She pointed at Lism and Krshia. Both glared in unison. Calruz only sighed.
“I meant what I said. It would be easier for all if I died, Watch Captain.”
He put one hand on the cell. And Erin looked at him. He stared back and shook his head.
“You’d like me to live? After all I’ve done?”
“That’s right. I guess. Hi, Calruz. Long time no see.”
She shoved her hands into her pockets. The Minotaur blinked at her. Then he shook his head again.
“How can I make amends, Erin Solstice? For that depravity? For that horror? If I were to hunt down every Raskghar in existence, single-handedly open the dungeon, donate a fortune and a half to those who I murdered—it would not be enough.”
Somewhere behind them, Relc sniggered as he pushed Tkrn into a cell.
“Single-handedly. Good one.”
Klbkch elbowed him hard. No one else laughed. Erin gazed at Calruz. What a mess. What a day. Mrsha, the rats, people torturing Calruz—she turned to Krshia and Lism and shook her head.
“You’re right, Calruz. It isn’t enough. And it won’t be enough, no matter what you do. You—you nearly killed Mrsha. And you killed good people. I haven’t forgiven you.”
He nodded.
“In that case—”
“Shush.”
Erin closed her eyes. She waited, listening to the beating of her own heart. Then she opened her eyes and looked around. At the Gnolls. At her friends. At Lism and Olesm and the others.
“Do you know what I’m going to tell Mrsha when I get back? I’m going to tell her she did a really good job. Really. I don’t care what you say. Any of you. She saw bad things happening to Calruz. And she stopped it. Because a Minotaur is like…a bunch of rats with their tails tied together.”
Calruz stared. His lips moved silently. Zevara, Lism, Olesm—all looked at Erin strangely. The Gnolls growled. They got it. Erin went on.
“He might be evil. He might be innocent. But hurting him because he can’t fight back in a cell is wrong. Sometimes you kill Raskghar. But you don’t torture them or you are the Raskghar. And you know what? Yeah, maybe Mrsha could have gone to Krshia sooner. But guess who didn’t? Tkrn! Ulkel! All the others! And it was the hardest for Mrsha to do. But she did it.”
She glared at Raekea. The Gnoll glared back.
“Do you know what being good is? It’s not doing something you’re supposed to do because it’s easy. It’s doing something you have to do because it’s right. So you know what, Calruz?”
She turned on the Minotaur. He waited. Erin pointed at him, breathing hard.
“There’s no way you’d ever repay your debts, Calruz. Not in life. Or in death. But I think that if you ran away, if you let yourself be killed without trying your whole life to repay people for what you’ve done, that would be the most cowardly thing you ever did. And I think that if people line up to watch you die horribly—that makes them no better than the Raskghar and their sacrifice.”
And that was Erin Solstice. Love her, hate her, as the Minotaur’s eyes widened and he straightened with anger and shame, as the Gnolls turned to stare at her wide-eyed with fury, you had to admit it. Erin knew people.
 
—–
 
This was how the tale ended. The important tale, that was. It was with a half-Elf. A day later. The Minotaur still felt his healed wounds. He still bore the marks. Yet neither one talked about it.
“Well, the election’s today.”
“Really?”
Calruz looked up. He had been staring at a basket, a book, and a strange, symmetrical bar and round thing lying on the ground. It was made of metal and heavy when he picked it up. Ceria had pushed them through. The half-Elf shrugged self-consciously.
“Yup.”
“I thought it was later. Or rather, I had the impression it was an ongoing issue.”
“Nope. It was only a week, remember? I guess this was the last big day.”
“And so my fate is part of the election.”
The Minotaur carefully inspected the basket. It was…moving. Ceria smiled, her face pale.
“Maybe. You know, Lism dropped the line about executing you horribly. But he’s shouting about all the rest. So’s Krshia. She told Erin in private that she’d let you live if she was elected.”
“Hm. What’s this object for, Ceria? And the book?”
“Oh. I bought it in the market. It wasn’t much. I think it’s battle tactics or something.”
“The Conquests of Tulm the Mithril, a History. Hrm. It must be new. I haven’t read about him. I know the name, of course. You got it from Pallass.”
The Minotaur picked up the book and opened it awkwardly with his one arm. Ceria smiled faintly.
“I did. I can’t believe I didn’t think to bring them before. Uh—Krshia said—”
“I heard you. What made her change her mind? I cannot imagine the Gnolls would want me to live. Isn’t she taking a risk?”
“Well, yes. She’s betting on Erin’s support. Wild, isn’t it? But I think something else convinced the Gnolls to pass on demanding your execution as part of her winning.”
Calruz looked up from the book and put it down next to his cot. He eyed the basket again.
“Really? Which is?”
“You saying how much you’d rather die than stay in the cell. Uh—the Gnolls thought it would be better to let you live in that case. Some of them, anyways. Fancy that?”
The half-Elf smiled. Calruz stared at her. Then he guffawed.
“That’s what they said?”
He laughed until his still-healing lungs wheezed, and he sat down. He shook his head as Ceria stared at him.
“Alright. What’s this heavy thing?”
“A dumbell.”
“A what?”
“It’s a weight. Something you lift to build muscle. There’s also a bar with weights—Erin said you need two hands for that, though. She asked me to bring it here.”
“Why? I’m…grateful. It’s an interesting idea. But why?”
Ceria shrugged.
“I don’t know. She didn’t want to come, but she said it was cruel to leave you without anything to do. And apparently, uh, the weights fit a prison? That’s Erin’s logic. Don’t ask me to explain it.”
“Very well. And what’s this?”
At last, the Minotaur shifted his attention to the basket. He opened the lid and recoiled. Ceria grinned at his expression.
“That’s a…problem from the inn. Lyonette decided they weren’t allowed there, and we had no idea what to do. If we threw them out, they’d probably come back to the inn. So it was Mrsha—”
“The Gnoll child?”
Calruz glanced up, and an expression of pain crossed his face. Ceria nodded, losing her smile.
“Yeah. Her. She wanted to give them to you.”
“Me?”
The Minotaur stared down at the two little rats moving around the padded basket. One nibbled at a bit of cheese. The other looked up and inspected him warily. What new fate was this? What hell of tortures, what odyssey of strange lands?
Nothing, for once. The Minotaur spoke a bit more with the half-Elf casually. Awaiting his fate if it came to pass. Then he looked down. And the rats stared up at him, and he stared back. They flinched as he moved. But the hand that had caused so much grief, the hand which had lost and then grabbed for honor, the hand scarred and worn and gentle, reached down.
And the rats nibbled at it, then climbed up it as it didn’t move. Calruz lifted them up. One white, one grey. The lonely Minotaur breathed out. He stared at his companions and nodded. With a slow, careful touch, he stroked each’s head with a finger and pointed at the white one first.
“You shall be Haldagaz, Vanquisher of Foes. And you will be Rhata, Trident-Guardian of the Harbor of Hammerad.”
That was all. The Minotaur lay back. And he smiled.
 
—–
 
Erin Solstice lay back too. As she waited for the results of her election, she lay on the floor of Bird’s tower. It was empty. In the distance, Liscor voted. Below, a little Gnoll followed her mother around. And that was a good thing.
But the rest wasn’t. Erin thought of rats.
“That was Mrsha growing up.”
She thought of Calruz.
“If Lism wins, what do I do?”
And then she thought of Mrsha running to Zevara. Instead of running to her. And risking her neck. No—learning a spell from Moore. Erin frowned up at the sky.
“How many times is it so far? She just…gets into trouble. What can we do? Get Numbtongue to guard her every hour of the day? Lock her in the inn?”
The sky didn’t answer. A Razorbeak flew overhead, cementing Erin’s point. She stared at the giant bird. And she thought of Goblins.
