“Don’t call her ‘Captain Z’. What are you, Relc?”
The Gnoll growled, but she was mollified a bit. She cast around and nodded.
“And if he doesn’t win? If Krshia wins and that Human makes her keep the Minotaur alive?”
The Drake sighed.
“Well, I guess he stays alive. Does it look fun being cooped up in that cell? Come on, let’s patrol a few streets over so we don’t have to listen to this. I’ll buy you a snack, so calm down, okay?”
The two [Guardswomen] walked out of the crowd. Mrsha, listening, saw the other [Guards] on the street talking as well. One of them she recognized. It was Tkrn. He was standing with a group of three Gnolls and a Drake. And all of them looked even angrier.
With Lism shouting in the background and the angry discussions in the crowd—all of which had the same content as the one between the two [Guardswomen]—it was hard for even Mrsha’s ears to pick out any one phrase. But the Gnolls and Drake were talking. She heard…
“…exactly. If Honored Krshia wins…”
“…matter…we’ll make sure that Minotaur suffers…”
“…that Minotaur what he deserves…”
“Come on. Let’s go.”
The last came from the tallest Gnoll, who had a pale stripe across one ear and down to his chin across his tan fur. He gestured, and the [Guardsmen] and two [Guardswomen] followed him in the same direction as Zevara. Mrsha stared. Then she saw Tkrn’s face, the bared teeth. And she, curious, trembling with pain and fear and smelling their intentions, followed.
Raekea didn’t notice. The [Armorer] was pushing her way towards Krshia, trying to weigh in on the debate between Erin and Krshia. The [Innkeeper] was shouting in Krshia’s face.
“No! No, no, no! Ceria says—”
“This is justice!”
Krshia shouted back. The [Shopkeeper]’s eyes were wide with fury, her paws clenched. Erin glared back.
“And if you’re wrong? What if you’re wrong? Ceria says it wasn’t the same Calruz she knew, and I believe her! If there’s a chance, it’s murder!”
“He’s been tested for magic!”
“What if it’s not magic?”
“You mean, what if it’s him? Erin! Lism could win on this issue alone! Would you really destroy all we’ve worked for? For this?”
Raekea pushed her way forwards, past Elirr. Erin took a deep breath. She looked at the Pallassian [Senators], at Krshia, at Selys and around. And she slowly nodded.
“You want my help, Krshia? Let Zevara decide if Calruz dies. Let there be law. Not him being tortured to death! Let’s talk to her. Otherwise, you can go try and beat Lism by saying you’ll do the most horrible things to Calruz. And when you do, I’ll walk back to my inn and slam the door to Pallass. And if you think—”
She cut off as Raekea thrust an arm out and grabbed her. Selys’ eyes went round in alarm, and Krshia turned.
“Raekea—”
“How dare you! That Minotaur killed my people! He sacrificed them and worked with the Raskghar!”
The [Armorer] howled. Erin glared.
“I know. I haven’t forgiven him—”
“Forgiven? He can’t be forgiven! He can only be killed! How dare you argue otherwise? In front of the Mrsha child no less—”
Raekea’s furious paw pointed down at her side. Erin blinked and stared. So did the other Gnolls. Elirr, Krshia, Selys—they all stared at the blank bit of street. Raekea paused. She looked down. Then behind her. Then amid the milling crowd.
“Mrsha? Mrsha? Where did you—”
She stared at Erin. Let go of her. Then Raekea panicked.
 
—–
 
There he sat. There he stood. As time passed, he knew the cell of his world. And a small world it was. The magical field that held him pulsed. The cell was small. Large enough for him to pace in, even exercise.
Small for a world. Smaller still with months spent here. So small it wore him into pieces. Until death was welcome. And if death could erase dishonor, he would have taken it.
So he waited. When the Drake stormed into the prison, he looked up. And she told him of his doom.
“They will kill you. Slowly, by the masses. And they will do it if Lism wins.”
And the Minotaur smiled without rancor. Without fear. He spoke with thought, forethought, afterthought, with the measure of a prisoner for whom time had different meaning.
“Well and so. It would be fair.”
The Watch Captain paced in front of the cell. Smoke hung in the air, her fiery passion.
“The City Watch and the law aren’t tools for politicians to use. Nor are lives of prisoners. And if Erin has her way and I mine, this will never be so.”
“And if I am guilty? If the [Mages] find nothing wrong with me?”
“Then I will consider your crime. But I am the law. And I judge. And I do not see the monster you would die as.”
The words were fire. They warmed even the Minotaur’s heart. But he put one palm on the magical wall of his cell. His one arm, straining against ensorcelled air. And he longed to see the sky.
“I would rather die. Let them have their vengeance.”
“Never. Not so long as I remain.”
The Drake bared her teeth. And the Minotaur bowed his head.
“But a prisoner I stay. And I would rather die than sit here another day.”
To that, there was nothing she could say.
 
—–
 
At last, Zevara stopped pacing. She leaned against the wall of the cell. Calruz waited. His eyes were fixed on her. He stood as still as a statue. And when she looked at him, Zevara saw a Minotaur.
Just a Minotaur. Haunted by what he had done. But she did not see the monster who had led the Raskghar. She had seen him when Erin had brought the battle to the Raskghar far below. And she remembered a monster.
That was not the person who pleaded for death. Though Calruz’s words chilled Zevara, she could not answer his request.
“This goes beyond what you want, Calruz. This is a matter of a threat to Liscor. If something in that dungeon got you, I want to know what it was. If it wasn’t your fault—you deserve to clear your name.”
Was it a lie at this point, or the truth? Zevara was afraid, very afraid, that she was letting her feelings cloud her judgment. Because she liked the Minotaur in the cell, damn it! He understood what it was like to be her. When he spoke of honor, she understood. What honor was to him was law to her.
But Calruz just shook his head.
“No one has suffered my fate. No one. No magic was found on me.”
“But you didn’t see some of the monsters in the dungeon. There was something in the water.”
“A spell. It doesn’t matter. The adventurers are still clearing the dungeon. Have any of them gone mad?”
Zevara didn’t answer. She turned away.
“I’m not debating this with you, Calruz. I just wanted you to know what was happening.”
She turned to go rather than face arguing with the Minotaur. Calruz spoke as Zevara was leaving.
“Why do you fight so hard for me? I don’t deserve it, either way.”
Zevara hesitated. She walked back to the cell, the magical barrier. She had no fear of it breaking despite Calruz leaning on it. It had been made to hold Gold-rank prisoners. He could strike it even with a magical weapon as hard as he liked, and she doubted it would break. Although she wouldn’t risk that. She hesitated—and then reached through the barrier and touched his arm.
The cell could be configured, so Calruz could pass through the waste bucket or receive food. If he tried to grab her, on the other hand, she wouldn’t budge. He started at her touch.
“Maybe you are guilty. Maybe you’re innocent. I cannot tell. But I know this: letting Lism lead a mob to rip you apart is not how the law works, Calruz. And I will be certain before you die.”
He breathed in and out.
“Then I will abide. My confinement is no more than I deserve. Rather, I suppose it’s a fitting punishment until my fate. But, Watch Captain Zevara. Remember what I have done. No excuse will change that. Even if I was truly ensorcelled.”
That was true too. Zevara nodded and stepped back.
“I know. But I just can’t put an honorable person to death. If I did, I think I’d lose my class.”
That made Calruz smile bitterly.
“I see. So we’re both bound by our honor. I cannot be sure it was me that was the monster, entirely sure, so I am not allowed to seek my death. And you cannot give it for the same reason. It’s harder than I thought when I was younger.”
“What is?”
“Honor.”
And there was nothing Zevara could say to that. She moved back. She knew she had to return. To tell Krshia—something.
“I’ll check back on you. And I’m doubling the guard on the prison in case Lism stirs up trouble. No—when he does.”
“Very well.”
The Minotaur watched as Zevara strode away. Then hurry back. He looked expectantly at her. Zevara snapped.
“What kind of Skills does a [Prisoner] get? It had better not be lock picking Skills or…”
“Nothing like that. The first Skill I gained was called [Peaceful Rest]. It helps with the stone floor. And then [Efficient Metabolism].”
“What in the name of the Ancestors is a metabolism?”
“I don’t know. But I get hungry less.”
“Huh.”
Zevara considered it. Then she stalked off. Calruz watched her go. He whispered.
“And then I gained [Recall Guilt]. And I remembered half. But the rest was a dream. So maybe you are right. But half of it is enough. Too heavy by far.”
He leaned on the cell’s wall, and Watch Captain Zevara did not hear the last. She strode out of the prison, snapping at the [Guards] on duty.
“Keep an eye on the cells.”
“Yes, Watch Captain.”
They watched her go. If their eyes lingered on her back and tail, she didn’t notice. The Drake left the prison, hurrying back down the streets. She didn’t notice the other Gnolls and two Drakes filing into the prison after she’d left. And they were so busy keeping an eye on her, they never noticed the little Gnoll creeping after them.
 
—–
 
“Hey. What was she doing in there?”
“Same as always. Talking with him.”
“About what?”
“I didn’t listen. Look, you want to do this, I’m staying out.”
It was seven. Five Gnolls, two Drakes. Tkrn among them. Mrsha watched Tkrn shift as the Gnoll with the stripe conferred with the [Guards].
One of them folded his arms. He was a Drake and looked…uncomfortable. Mrsha didn’t know what they were discussing, but of the three [Guards] on duty, one was ‘in’, one wasn’t, and the last, another Gnoll, was undecided. She looked from the Gnolls to the two Drakes, and her expression firmed.
“I’m in too. Tkrn?”
“I don’t know. If Watch Captain Zevara finds out, it’ll be our tails—”
Tkrn fidgeted nervously. Mrsha could smell his anxiety. Her paws held her rats as they squirmed in her belt pouch. She could smell the prison. It stank. But she could also smell him in there. And she hated and feared that smell.
Hate was all she smelled from the Gnoll with the stripe. Hate and fury. It reeked from all of them. Mrsha wanted to scrub her nose. But she held still, listening. The Gnoll with the stripe was glaring at Tkrn and the Drake who wasn’t ‘in’.
“If she finds out, it’s because one of us let on. You don’t like it? You keep watch. Or leave. Take a walk; we can cover for you. Lassil. Are you going to turn on us?”
He stared at the Drake. Lassil glared back.
“No. But I’m not sticking around for this either. Nothing’s coming from me. But I don’t want to hear anything.”
He stalked out of the prison. The others watched him go silently. The Gnoll with the stripe nodded. He pointed at Tkrn.
“You staying or leaving?”
“I—”
“Then keep watch. You smell Zevara coming or anyone else, signal us! Now move; we don’t have all day before the Watch Captain checks on us. Or one of the Senior Guardsmen. Especially Klbkch.”
The others nodded. Tkrn took up his post outside the prison, and the rest went in. Mrsha couldn’t hear or see what they were doing. But she had to know. So she crept forwards. Tkrn was muttering to himself under his breath. He seemed conflicted. He barely smelled Mrsha until she was right up on him. Then he jumped.
“Who—Mrsha?”
He stared down at her. The little Gnoll looked wide-eyed up at him. Tkrn stared. Then he looked at the prison.
“How did you get—did you hear—go away. Go back to Krshia. Or the inn! Shoo!”
He motioned her back with the butt of his spear. But Mrsha was close now. The door to the prison was iron, but she could hear sounds coming from within; it wasn’t fully closed. The sounds of voices. Something hitting something else. She narrowed her eyes. Tkrn hesitated.
“I’m warning—”
Too late. Mrsha jumped forwards on all fours. She raced through the door, pushing it open. Tkrn cursed and grabbed, but he was cumbersome in his armor. Mrsha ran into the prison. Rows of silent cells, mostly empty, greeted her. Two prisoners stared out. A Gnoll and a Drake. The Gnoll was baring his teeth. The Drake was listening in silence.
At the far end was his cell. And him. Mrsha stopped as the Drake and Gnolls turned. She saw one of them lower the butt of their spear, whirl.
“Tkrn! I told you—”
The Gnoll snarled. Then he saw Mrsha and stopped. He took a step back with two of the Gnolls.
“Doombringer?”
“It’s just Mrsha! She slipped by me—”
Tkrn raced after Mrsha, panting. He caught her, but the Drake made an agonized sound.
“You idiot, Tkrn! Just a kid? She’s seen us!”
Mrsha did see. She saw a Minotaur pulling himself upright. His broad nose was bloody. His fur dislodged. And he was being struck.
By the spears. A pair of [Guards] held them. They were jabbing them into the cell, using the blunt ends. There wasn’t much Calruz could have done to stop them if he’d tried. But he hadn’t. He’d been standing still. Now they lowered the spears. Tkrn turned pale.
“I’ll take her out. Mrsha, you can’t tell anyone. You didn’t see this. Understand?”
He tried to pull Mrsha back. But one of the Gnolls, the one with the stripe holding the spear, stopped her. He looked down.
“Wait. She was there.”
The others looked at Mrsha. She stared at the Gnoll [Guardsman]. Then at the Minotaur. She shrank back. But the Gnoll just raised his spear and jabbed it into the cell. Reflexively, Calruz twisted, but the spear struck him in the chest. He barely moved. Just grunted. But Mrsha knew it had to hurt.
“See?”
The Gnoll turned to her, his teeth bared. He gestured. Mrsha saw the Drake turn. She was panting. Her eyes were locked on Calruz’s. And she smelled of hate. The Gnoll looked down at Mrsha.
“We’re punishing him. We should have done it long ago. Only, the Watch Captain keeps visiting. But we’ve had enough. Lism is right. Election or not, we’ll make sure this thing doesn’t sit happily in here, eating and shitting while we clean up after him. He’ll pay. My brother was one of the ones the Raskghar sacrificed. Everyone here knows someone who was taken. And you were there.”
