Whoops! They were quick! And Mrsha was well aware that, if they ran, they’d probably disappear. She considered the problem, and then her eyes lit up as she remembered something from her old tribe. It didn’t hurt to remember them as much. And this was something she’d used to…Mrsha bent over her captured prizes, and they writhed and protested as she grabbed their tails.
 
—–
 
It was a small knot. But it was all that was needed. As soon as the titan let go, the two rats felt and saw what had happened. Where one’s tail ended, the other began. A knot captured the two. Yet, in that same instant, the constraining paws let go! They could flee!
But hubris and the mortal tale of self-interest was the truer captor. The two rats fled—in opposite directions. And they both felt the sting, the pulling pain, and stopped. They were trapped by their own tails. Trapped by each other! They turned, snarling. How quickly did the bonds of siblings fall away? And the giant scooped them up.
What savage playacting at godhood. What contempt for mortal foibles! The two rats looked up and realized they were bound. Captive. They raced about, intertwined, two separate things made into one dysfunctional whole. The giant smiled.
 
—–
 
This was really fun. Mrsha watched as the two rats tried to escape and kept pulling at each other. She prodded one, and it recoiled, bumping into the grey rat. They tried to scurry off in tandem; Mrsha snagged the linked tails. They weren’t nearly as fast, tied together! She put them down on the steps and watched one trying to pull the other down.
Fun, fun, fun! She had new pets! Mrsha wanted to show everyone. Moore and Lyonette and Drassi and—she looked up and scampered with the two rats in her paws. She looked around the crowded inn when she returned to the light and kicked the trapdoor shut. The rats were still in her paws; they were quivering. Mrsha gazed down at one and realized it had pooed in her paws! Annoyed, she wiped her paw on the rat and looked about.
Now, Lyonette wasn’t here…probably in the kitchens, and Drassi was busy. Moore was over there, but there was where Jelaqua was. And Maughin. Mrsha frowned impatiently. She wanted to show someone else! Who—
Then Mrsha saw her. Sitting at a table with a Drake. She hurried over and tugged at a furry leg. Raekea, the best [Armorer] in Liscor, looked down and blinked at Mrsha. The little Gnoll hesitated, but Raekea’s smile lit up her face.
“Little Mrsha, yes? Hello! And what’s that you have?”
Mrsha brightened. Some Gnolls were still scared of her. In both Liscor and Pallass; you could smell it. Even the nice Rufelt had been a bit uneasy. Xif hadn’t been, and Krshia and Elirr and a lot of the others weren’t, but some still looked at her white fur and whispered the word. Doombringer. Mrsha didn’t like that. She hated it, and it made her feel awful.
But Raekea just smiled, and she smelled only of coal and smoke and iron. She and the Drake sitting next to her looked down as Mrsha jumped onto a chair and placed her prize on the table. The Drake paused, stared at the two rats tied together scampering about on the table, and dropped his fork with an exclamation. Raekea just chuckled.
“Hah! Two rats! Now where did you find those? Wait—you’ve tied them together by the tails?”
“Eurgh! Are there rats in this inn?”
The Drake looked horrified. He was eating a steak and hurriedly pulled his plate back as the grey rat dragged her brother towards it. He was trying to make a flying leap off the table. Raekea wasn’t bothered at all. She looked at Mrsha’s hesitant face and slapped the Drake on the shoulder casually.
“Jekss, hush! They’re just rats. Tiny ones! They couldn’t hurt you even if they bit through your scales.”
“Why are they tied together?”
“Hmm. Because it’s funny to watch them try to run about? I used to do the same thing when I was a cub, Mrsha. Did you only find two? When I came to Liscor, when I was young, I would get as many as I could and tie them all together! They call them rat kings. Did you ever do that?”
She looked at Mrsha as the Gnoll shook her head, delighted. She hadn’t! But then, she’d only found a few rats in the wilderness, and they were a lot faster and harder to catch. Raekea laughed.
“Ah, well, it is easy in cities, yes?”
“Rats. Can they not be on the table?”
The Drake groaned. He was fairly slim, although his arms had lots of muscle. Raekea gave him a reproving look.
“Don’t be rude. Little Mrsha is showing us her prize! It’s what Gnoll children do. You should say how good it was of her to catch them! I was a Plains Gnoll, you know. Don’t be stifling.”
The Drake opened his mouth, saw the glint in Raekea’s eye, and heaved a big sigh. He eyed the rats and Mrsha, who was looking at him expectantly.
“Er, good job, Miss Mrsha. Nice rats. Now…Raeky, treasure of my hoard, I’m eating. I don’t want to have to look at those rats, fond recollections or not.”
He looked at Raekea, and she rolled her eyes, but affectionately. He was Raekea’s husband, and so she winked at Mrsha, and the Gnoll took them off the table. The rats quivered in her lap as she grinned up at the big Gnoll.
“There. Nasty rats are gone.”
“They’re still there. I know they are. I’m almost off my lunch. Almost, I said. Don’t touch my steak.”
Jekss grumbled. He speared a bit of cut steak, and Raekea plucked a morsel off his plate. He sighed as she took another and offered it to Mrsha, who joyfully accepted it. He balked when the third piece went to the two rats.
“Oh come on, Raekea! That’s my lunch! I came here to support you, not feed rats!”
The [Armorer] snorted and flicked her husband’s neck spines with one paw affectionately.
“You came here because I told you they sold steaks at any hour, made well, yes? Don’t lie. And if it bothers you so, I can take little Mrsha into the city. Honored Krshia wanted me to anyways. This inn’s too crowded for a Gnoll child. She should run free for a bit, right?”
She winked at Mrsha. The Gnoll nodded rapidly. Someone understood! She wagged her tail as the two rats squeaked. Raekea smiled at Mrsha again.
“I’ve been meaning to talk to Krshia about this. I know she lets little Mrsha come to her apartment, but we should let her visit more of us. Would you like that, Mrsha? You are a Gnoll after all. And it is not good to be apart from your true people. Ishkr and the others are fine, but you are also a Plains Gnoll, born and true. Some of us in Liscor are such, and you should be with us more often.”
She held out a paw, and Mrsha, beaming, took it. Both [Armorer]’s and [Druid]’s tails wagged, because it was true. They were both Plains Gnolls. Raekea saw Mrsha nod excitedly, and she stood up.
“Well then, why not now? I’ll head to Liscor with Mrsha, husband dearest, to spare you from fear of rats. Better hide them too, Mrsha. Or else Miss Lyonette might kick up a fuss! Humans and Drakes are weird about rodents. But they don’t mind rabbits.”
She laughed, and Mrsha laughed silently too. She ran to get her belt pouch, overjoyed. She’d get to go to Liscor! Raekea bent down and kissed her husband on the cheek. He smiled at her, but then called out as they left his table.
“It’s not just me being picky about rats, Raeky! It’s you Gnolls being weird! It’s not—”
He looked around for confirmation. Unfortunately, he met the eyes of the red Garuda who was enjoying a hamburger at the next table. She shrugged.
“Hey, I like rats, Mister. Don’t know what your problem is.”
The Drake [Blacksmith] sighed. And Mrsha, after some debate, held Raekea’s hand as she hid the two squirming rats in her special belt pouch. Lyonette sighed, but nodded.
“You can go, Mrsha. But don’t make trouble for Miss Raekea!”
She turned to the female Gnoll.
“I do appreciate it. I’d take Mrsha myself, but…”
Lyonette indicated the busy inn. Raekea bared her teeth in the big Gnoll grin. Drakes did it too; only Humans got nervous when they saw all those teeth. She nodded as Mrsha held her paw.
“Of course. Mrsha will be fine, I promise. And we will be among our own kind. I will let her play in the park.”
Our own kind. How long had it been since she’d been accepted by other Gnolls? Not since her fur turned white. Mrsha’s heart leapt, and she smiled proudly at Raekea. The [Armorer] winked as Lyonette nodded distractedly.
“Sounds great! I’ve got to run. Tell Erin I need her help, if she’s not busy! If she’s causing a scene, don’t tell her I said that!”
 
—–
 
In the city, Mrsha walked with Raekea, carefully holding her squirming belt pouch with one paw, Raekea’s paw with the other. She walked on two legs as the older Gnoll gently led her through crowded streets. Raekea chatted to her as only a Gnoll could.
“It will be a grand thing for you, Mrsha child. This Meeting of the Tribes. Not only will you come, you will be the honored guest of the Silverfang Tribe. Ours. I think I will go, if I can. Krshia will, of course, and some others from the city. But you will be with us. You must!”
Mrsha looked up anxiously. Among so many other Gnolls? Raekea just smiled and squeezed gently. Her paws were rougher from swinging a hammer, but her smile was very kind.
“Of course. You know magic.”
She whispered the word so quietly not even other Gnolls walking down the street could have heard. And the [Armorer]’s eyes shone.
“It is a thing we thought Gnolls were cursed by. But not only you; I hear this Ferkr of Pallass has gained it. Two [Mages]! Perhaps—perhaps it may take away from the worth of our gift. But the spellbook speaks for itself. And we have more to offer. Things we learned from your Miss Erin and, hopefully, the worth of Krshia Silverfang being part of Liscor’s Council! That would be hugely valuable in itself.”
Mrsha nodded seriously. But her heart still fluttered at the idea. In Liscor, people had feared her as one with white fur, the sole survivor of a tribe, marked as a Doombringer, a cursed one. And those were City Gnolls. Those who lived in tribes, the Plains Gnolls, would be even…but Raekea was holding Mrsha’s hand tightly and reassuring her.
“It will be fine. Perhaps Krshia might even ask our Chieftain, her sister, to name you as one of our tribe. Not to forget the Stone Spears, of course. But what she plans is to show the others that white fur is not cursed! The Raskghar prove that. You saved our people. Come to that, we will bring some of the dead bodies. Proof of our hated foes. That too is great worth. Although it is not something to be proud of.”
She shuddered, and Mrsha did too. She had been there. Raekea paused and bent to nuzzle Mrsha with her furry cheeks. It was such a Gnollish thing to do—Mrsha couldn’t remember when that had happened last. With Urksh? She clung to Raekea, and the [Armorer] whispered.
“I’m sorry. I should not have brought that up, no. You still have nightmares? Elirr tells me he does. But they are defeated. And if they should return—no—we will erase them from this dungeon and wherever they hide. The Pride of Kelia, they have sworn to Krshia to hunt down the Raskghar, yes? The adventurers will find the last of them in the dungeon and destroy them.”
That made Mrsha feel better. But she did still dream of the Raskghar. Of Nokha and the ritual. And yes, sometimes she woke up in fear, thrashing, until Lyonette held her. It was almost as comforting to see Raekea’s face. Because they spoke as Gnoll to Gnoll. Raekea paused, then pointed at Mrsha’s belt pouch.
“Your little rats might be suffocating. Take them out, yes? No one will mind.”
Mrsha did just that. The two rats came out, blinking in the daylight. She poked one, and it squeaked. The look on its face and the timing made both Gnolls giggle, Mrsha silently.
 
—–
 
Air! The sweet rush of it filled the rats’ lungs. And daylight! A foreign land lay before them, one made of light and giants! Had they reached some land of titans? The two tried to flee, but their captor held them tight.
What irony! That they should find a land beyond which they had ever dreamt of, with sights and places unimaginable to go! Yet they were captive. Prisoner. Above them, the largest titan chuckled as the small one tossed the rats up and down.
“Now, let us find the one we seek. For we may be Plains Gnolls, but we do battle as City Gnolls here, Mrsha. And with words, we must take a place on the Council. It is power and respect and, yes, benefit to the city that drives us. Not vanity alone.”
The white Gnoll nodded, and the two walked until the drifting people of the city of Liscor became thick as flies, then a living, breathing mass. A crowd, listening in a place where four streets met. And in that place, two sides argued, one Gnoll and one Drake.
So spoke the Drake, with fury and ire.
“The Antinium cannot be trusted! Don’t you see the lies in the web they weave? The insects would take your city and drown you in with gold and pretty gestures. Let us build a city alone!”
More than one person in the crowd listened and was troubled by his words because they made sense. Not long past were the Antinium Wars. But standing opposite him, a Gnoll replied in words no less eloquent.
“So you say alone, Lism. But who can be alone? We are Gnolls and Drakes. And here has come Pallass, flooding into our city to acknowledge it! Not because of any one Drake or Gnoll. But because of a Human! The very ones you rail against. Antinium held our walls. Antinium died for us. But it is all species I say Liscor should accept! And I say you would drive all but Drakes out!”
Those words stuck in the Drake’s throat, and he choked, and the crowd murmured. But thus went the debates. As Raekea paused with Mrsha on the edge of the crowd, she whispered to Mrsha.
“It seems to be deadlocked. No, in our favor. It is your [Innkeeper] who tilts the scales. And a truer friend to Gnolls we have yet to find.”
So she pointed, and Mrsha saw Erin Solstice standing in the front. Lism ignored her, and as his nephew, Olesm, for whom Mrsha saw as both good and evil, whispered to him, he replied. Or at least, tried.
“You are deflecting from the point with each statement, Krshia Silverfang. It’s not about other cities or even Humans—”
“That’s me! Hi, Lism! Remember me?”
“—Humans, as I was saying—it’s about one thing alone. Antinium. And I say again: have Klbkch, Klbkch the Slayer, swear that the Antinium offer Liscor no threat. I’m all for other species—”
“Except me! Do you remember how we met? You ripped me off! I paid a gold coin for a cloth bag!”
At that point, Lism closed his eyes and gnashed his teeth, and Mrsha and Raekea both laughed in delight, for Erin was being Erin and had a [Loud Voice]. The Drake went on, huffily, but losing momentum with each word.
