“I am being eminently reasonable. I’m the sewermaster. Zaraanka is headed toward leading both guilds. Slip is the guard, and Valok is the farmer. I thought that you were the leader.” She stared at Mephistopheles, saying, “But you have too readily jumped on this plan of convincing Erick to go, and that doesn’t sit right with me. A leader should look out for their people, and Erick is the only reason this town hasn’t been destroyed by everyone around us. You lead him to a trap. Zaraanka is right, we are a part of this decision, by its very nature of being delivered to the steps of this building, instead of the hundred other ways it could have been delivered directly to Erick.”

Zaraanka nodded.

If one were looking closely, they would see Zaraanka’s usual pink dress was of a distinctly higher quality than before.

Ava added, “That said. We should give Erick this letter and if he asks us, we should tell him what we know, and let him decide.”

Zaraanka exclaimed, “What!”

Ava said, “There is no way we’re keeping this from him, Zaraanka. Mephistopheles is correct about that much. But feel free to tell him it's a trap, because it most assuredly is. I will be telling him this much, if he asks.”

More silence.

Some stared at each other. Some stared at the letter. All thought their own silent thoughts.

Mephistopheles asked, “What is our decision?”

- - - -

While Erick rained on the farms, cleared a few more clusters of violet eels, [Mend]ed and [Cleanse]d constantly across all of Candlepoint whenever anyone came to an Ophiel with a problem, he also cooked dinner, in his kitchen, for his daughter, his guest Justine, and his people. Kiri helped by making the desserts; a nice lemon cake with buttercream frosting. Partway through, Kiri asked why there weren’t more sour and sweet deserts; she quite liked the flavor of sour citrus when it was inside some confection. Erick spoke of how he had once thought of making a sugar empire; he could certainly grow enough sugar cactus if he wanted, all on his own.

Jane came in and had some jerky while Erick cooked, saying, “I still don’t have my chocolate yet, dad.”

“Ugh. Chocolate.” Erick sighed, saying, “Chocolate is a pain in the ass. Did you see the tarip trees out front?”

Jane shook her head.

Erick asked, “Do you remember what chocolate tasted like?”

“Barely. I was hoping you’d make some so I could remember.” Jane mocked disappointment, adding to the effect by saying, “I am very disappointed.”

Erick leveled a sarcastic glare at his daughter.

Kiri said, “It’s hard to make new flavors. Almost all the plants out there were made by someone who fell to Veird in the Sundering, back at the beginning. Sure, there’ve been new varieties. But evolution hasn’t had time to properly function; to create new varieties for people to find in exploration.”

“I find that hard to believe.” Jane said, “[Grow] makes new plants all the time. Dad made ninety percent of those plants out there in the garden.”

Kiri frowned, as she folded whipped eggs into batter, saying, “Most new [Grow]-created plants turn out poisonous, or nasty. Erick has done surprisingly well. I hear the potato is causing a cultural overhaul over in the Republic.”

Jane snorted. “You went and recreated the Great Potato Famine, dad.”

Erick scowled. “They can make new varieties!”

“Of course they can make new varieties. Mostly. I heard from my mother that they’ve got priests of Atunir working diligently on that—” Kiri looked to Jane, then Erick, then a light clicked. She said, “Oh! Your world only had the one variety?”

“Not really. Just that one good variety got spread around to a lot of poor people, and no one bothered to plant anything except the best. Some disease spread and killed the potatoes. Famine killed the people.” Erick said, “There are hundreds of potato varieties now.”

“And soon there will be hundreds of varieties of potatoes, here, too,” Kiri said, dumping cake batter into greased tins.

Jane said, “Let’s talk chocolate. Have you tried the tarip plants out there?”

“Have you tried them?” Erick stuck out his tongue as he made a face, saying, “Tarip is disgusting!”

Kiri laughed, as she re-cast a [Temperature Ward] in the hot box that was the oven. Erick guessed that the quicksilver thermometer in the front of the space, must have shown that the original [Heat Ward] wasn’t the proper temperature.

Jane said, “Tarip can’t be that bad.”

Erick turned back to Jane, saying, “Go get one! I’m not even sure where to go with the taste. Real chocolate is bitter, and I certainly got that part correct. But how the heck does milk and sugar go into it? Liquid? Hot chocolate is not what I want.”

Jane said, “Powdered milk. Granulated sugar. A few grinding stones. Then it’s work, work, work. Grind, grind, grind.”

Erick froze in the middle of chopping vegetables. “… Powdered milk!” He shook his head, adding, “Still tastes bad. Too much oil. Too much berry. The seeds are more seed than bean, too.”

“Then make a chocolate vine.” Jane said, “There’s so much preparation that goes into turning the tree pods into chocolate, but you can cut out almost all of that. Besides. I want real coffee, too. Not this coftea stuff.”

Erick said, “I think that’s part of the problem, actually. In normal chocolate creation, there’s a fermenting process and a drying process. Except when it comes to alcohol and other specialty food items, those processes are all considered to take too long. Everyone expects the plant to be ready to eat, right away, and I just haven’t had time to get around to experimenting with those long-paced projects.”

Jane said something, but someone else spoke, too.

As a mental call to action that sounded more like a flute and guitar trill than words, filled his mind, Erick said, “One sec. Something is happening.” He turned his attention to Candlepoint.

Valok, Ava, Mephistopheles, Zaraanka, and Slip, stood on the courthouse steps, in a line. Mephistopheles had called out to Ophiel. The red-horned man held a suspicious envelope in his hands.

A pit opened up in Erick’s stomach.

An Ophiel descended to the five, all winged and made of eyes, as Erick asked, “Hello? What’s up?”

Mephistopheles said, “You have received a letter from the Spire.”

“… Ahh, shit.”

Mephistopheles handed the letter to Ophiel, and there were some words exchanged. While Erick heard it all, he mostly heard the thumping of his own heart, drowning out all other noise. Things evolved rapidly from there.

Poi was involved, almost immediately, then Teressa, then Justine. Erick did not bring the letter to Spur, yet, and Justine’s frozen, pallid reaction only served to prove that leaving it at Candlepoint was a good idea. Silverite came onto the picture minutes later, concerned, but withholding her judgment. She called in Killzone. Then came Sirocco Zago.

Kiri took over cooking dinner, for Erick was no longer in his house at that point.

In the war room under the Mage Guildhouse, where they had all borne witness to the breaking news of Candlepoint’s existence, Erick sat with a few others, watching a screen of a part of the Crystal Forest, pretty far away from both Candlepoint and Spur. In that sandy, twilight space, the letter hung in the air, suspended on Handy Aura hands.

Silverite gave a brief overview of the letter that was mostly for Erick’s benefit. From the looks in everyone’s eyes, they already knew what the handmade, black-triangle edged envelope meant.

Turning her liquid silver eyes to the screen, Silverite said, “Open it, Erick.”

Erick did so. The wax seal broke with a flash of darkness that quickly dissipated. Erick stopped.

Sirocco gasped, small, saying, “It’s a real invitation.”

Erick looked to her.

She explained, “That was a curse that is keyed to the magical signature of the recipient. If you had not opened it, then whoever was in the area would have been targeted for assassination by Tania’s spiders.”

Erick gave a nervous laugh; small and strained. He turned back to the screen. He directed Ophiel to pull out the thick paper inside the envelope. He flipped the letter back and forth, and inspected the interior of the envelope; the letter was only written on one side, and there was nothing else in the envelope. He turned the words to the screen. The first part of the letter was an obvious attempt at scaring him, and by the hairs on his neck standing up, it had worked.

Dear Erick Flatt, Archmage of our Constant Source of Entertainment otherwise known as Spur, [Prismatic Ward]ed house of the Human District, second floor, western facing wall, second room from the north,

You have been cordially invited to attend the Shadow’s Feast of this year of our Lord Melemizargo, 11,493. The festivities begin at the appropriate time, and end at the appropriate time.

Please be on time, or before, or the barest late, but no later.

Dress code is enforced. None of this brown pant and white shirt nonsense.

You will be expected to show off some interesting bit of magic, or otherwise.

You will be expected to carouse and socialize with others.

You are allowed one guest, at their peril.

Casual violence is strictly prohibited. This clause is strictly enforced by the Shades of the Spire.

Formal violence is permitted, but discouraged. This clause is enforced by the Shades of the Spire.

We wish to see you at your best, so bring your best! This year might be the most wonderful Shadow’s Feast we have ever had.

If you decide to forgo this year’s festivities, you will regret your decision.

This year’s host is Queen, Shade of Opulence.

Themes include Particles, Water, Light, and Shadow.

A note from Queen, to all invited: Blood and filth is strictly prohibited. Ignore this warning at your peril. Do not test me.

A personal note from Queen: As you come equipped with [Cleanse], I request assistance in the cleanup of the party, and in whatever small occurrences may necessitate the deployment of your particular skillset. I will not forget how you choose to assist or deny my requests. Bring some desserts.

Sincerely,

Tania Webwalker, Champion of Melemizargo, Shade of the Spire

Killzone said, “You should go. I’ll work with you for a few days to get you knowledgeable.”

Before Erick could speak, Silverite said, “We could also fake your death.”

Erick laughed once, then fell to silence. “… Shit.”

Killzone gestured to the screen, and said, “It looks bad, yes. But Shadow’s Feast is their only holiday. It is sacrosanct to them, for they’re the Priests of Melemizargo, and that is his day. There will be drinking, booze. Drugs, sex. Since Queen is running it, there will be no pain at her party; only pleasure.” He said, “I can train you to defend yourself from her. That’s not a problem. If it were Tania running the show, or Hollowsaur, or Crimsonair? Spiders and traps. Wild animals. Blood Magic. Each one worse than the one before. Queen was likely chosen as the hostess of this year’s Shadow’s Feast, specifically to entice you to go.”

Erick felt like he was at the bottom of the ocean. This was all too much. He could understand the people of Candlepoint wanting him to go; if he didn’t, then they were in danger. But to hear these words from Silverite? From Killzone? Erick asked, incredulous, “You cannot be serious. You really expect me to believe that I should go to this?”

With knowledge in her voice, Silverite said, “This is a genuine invitation. You are Untouchable. Queen is the hostess. The absolute safest thing for you to do is walk in there, spend the night, and then come back. Forgoing this invitation is inviting reprisal upon Spur and everything else you hold dear.”

Quietly, Sirocco asked, “You’re really for this, Silverite?” She said, “I’ve never seen you capitulate to their demands before...” Her words trailed off, as she went silent under the silver woman’s stare.

“This is not a capitulation to a demand, Sirocco. This is prudence, and playing the games of the Dead City.” Silverite turned to Erick. “These invitations rarely go out to non-Shades, and never to someone in Spur. But I have seen these letters find their ways into the hands of people in other parts of the world. The result of an acceptance is they leave the Feast having witnessed horrors beyond imagining, with gifts of artifacts and power. The result of declining the invitation is fire and shadow visited upon you and yours, with thousands dead at the minimum.” With steel in her voice, she said, “This is not up for debate. Do not make me order you to go.”

Erick almost voiced his displeasure, but then he truly saw the look upon Silverite’s face. Resigned necessity, and loss. He turned to see Killzone, looking at him with almost the same expression, but slightly less forceful.

Erick asked, “What would you do if I said—”

Silverite’s voice came to him, ‘Don’t make me threaten you with exile, and make reality of all of my fears of you leaving Spur. This is the only way that you get to continue the life you have been living.’ She added, ‘But to quote yourself from months ago, using a vegetable that I had never seen until you came along: The stick is exile. The carrot would be personal knowledge of every Shade, in the safest environment you could possibly ask for. Think of this as reconnaissance work.’

Erick appreciated the nod to action via incentive, instead of through threat of pain, though everything else about Silverite’s words left him feeling like he swallowed pure bile. She hadn’t even flinched upon handing down her proclamation. She knew what needed to be done, and she was making Erick do it.

He frowned, but he said, “I guess I’m going to the party.” He turned to Killzone. “I wish for some personal training.”

“And you shall have it.” The massive, black wrought, added, “I’ll be needing some time to set a few things right before we can get together, but it’s five days to Shadow’s Feast. I’ll be ready by tomorrow.”

“Okay. That’s fine.” Erick asked, “Did Syllea’s people make it out? If they didn’t...” He left unsaid, that if they didn’t, that trusting the Shades to do what they said they were going to do would lead to the death of them all. Instead, he looked to Silverite, and no one else, asking, “Did they make it out?”

If they didn’t, Erick was going to damn the consequences and blow some shit up when he got to that party. Hell, he might just blow some shit up anyway! Now that he dwelt on the idea, he found he enjoyed the idea of turning some Shady plot to ash. He would even use [Death’s Approach] and put on his crown, and blast the place with 170,000 point [True Plasma Bolt]s.

