Erick smiled. He cut the rain. The sky remained cloudy, for [Control Weather] made it so, but the million fish grass eagerly consumed the platinum clouds left in the lake, spilling more seeds into the surrounding waters. Maybe one of them would take root, but probably not, unless it got very lucky, or some skilled, hidden alchemists in Candlepoint decided to help it along.

Erick rejoined Slip, who had watched the whole thing from the shore. He joked, “Don’t you have crimes to stop?”

Slip gave Erick a conspiratorial, good-humored eye, saying, “The secret is to be scary, then you have much less work to do.”

Erick smiled to himself. “How are those books working out for you? I’m only through some of them, myself.”

“Mephistopheles is reading them all. I hear he is in communication with Justine?” Slip waved a dismissive hand, saying, “They are working it out. I am just the muscle.”

“Well, thank you for your service.”

Slip bowed, then rose, saying, “It is I who must thank you. So thank you, Erick. We would all be dead if not for you.”

Erick’s fears reignited. But he had Ophiel nod, professionally, then released his control. That Ophiel blinked all over as he rearranged his eyes and his wings, before soaring upward, back into the sky to keep an eye on Candlepoint, along with all of his other selves.

- - - -

Erick sat up. It was late. He patted his shoulder, and the Ophiel on the nearby perch hopped onto his shoulder, singing a happy song, glad to enjoy the ride.

Jane looked up from ‘Esoteric Elements’. “This is an interesting book.”

“Let me know if you figure out how ‘Shadow’ is supposed to work, or how you get Shadow from Light.” Erick said, “I can make the spells, but I still don’t understand them.” He asked, “Have you tried using your [Lightwalk] to empower your [Shadowalk]? That’s another thing I don’t get.”

Jane smiled, saying, “I’m still working on it. Are you headed to bed?”

“… I probably should. Good night, Jane.”

She stood up and walked to him, giving him a hug. “Good night, dad. I love you.”

Erick hugged his daughter tight, saying, “I love you, too.”
