Silverite said, “Justine’s words proved true. Every orcol that made the trip to the Well was returned to their original form—”

Sudden relief and some other feeling pulsed through Erick in time to his heartbeat, feeling like a warm shower on a cold day and a knife pointed at his chest. He knew Silverite was going to go somewhere awful with her statement, but he dared not look at the faces of anyone else in the room. Not yet.

Silverite continued, “—and let out of Ar’Kendrithyst. They are now recovering in Treehome, under heavy supervision.”

Erick blanked. His brain slowly reengaged. “… That’s it? No unforeseen problems?” He finally allowed himself to look to Killzone, and Sirocco. “Really?”

Sirocco sighed, saying, “I’m surprised, too.”

Killzone reported, “It went exactly as Justine said it would. Twelve people entered through the Crack. Twelve people journeyed a hundred kilometers from there to the Spire, remaining undisturbed their whole trip. The usual defenses around the Spire were pulled back as the people came closer, remaining silent the whole time. The people entered the Well. Three hours later, they all came out, eyes clear. Several hours after that, we verified their Status. They were all level 50. Some of them lost levels. Some gained. Some kept their extra Stats. Most did not.” He looked away, as a tendril of thought connected to him, and he offhandedly added, “They’re not our people though, so Syllea and Treehome are...” He stood up. “I have to go. Nothing too important. But I have to go.”

He left in a blip of black. Erick’s eyes went wide at the sudden departure, but Silverite and Sirocco seemed outwardly unconcerned with Killzone’s withdrawal. Silverite’s voice brought him back to the meeting.

Silverite said, “Keep the letter, Erick, but don’t bring it into your home. You’ll need it to identify yourself properly at the Feast. If you choose not to humor Queen’s [Cleanse] requests then the most likely outcome is that she’ll utilize whatever adventurers she’s managed to capture for the event, forcing them to cast at her decree.”

Erick’s voice dripped with venom, “Great.”

- - - -

Jane sat with Erick at the kitchen table. Dinner was over. It was a fine dinner, but a pall hung over the entire event. It was supposed to be a nice ‘welcome home’ meal, and it was not. And now, dessert sat in front of Jane; a slice of lemon cake with white icing. It looked good, but even the potatoes and meats and buttered vegetables had tasted like nothing to Erick. He doubted that the cake would, either.

Was he being overly dramatic? Was he being melodramatic, for not wanting to go to Shadow’s Feast? Everything he knew—

No. Correction. Everything everyone told him about the Shades, made him think that nothing would happen at the party, aside from nightmares made flesh and horrors paraded around like they were novelties. He had never had direct contact with any Shade before. This was a whole new territory. And it terrified him. The simplest outcome was death and destruction, and that didn’t truly scare him. No. What scared him was another possibility.

The Shades would be on their best behavior, and he’d lose all resolve to kill them all.

Err. No. Death and destruction were probably among the worse outcomes. He would die, and everything he had built would fall apart. Candlepoint was finally looking good. The Community Garden Council was getting along with each other, and selling fresh produce to all of Spur. Jane would be left alone, and though she could handle herself, his death would hurt her. Kiri would face people wanting the knowledge he had given her, but she could probably go to the Headmaster’s Elites…

Jane stuck her fork in her cake, asking, “I don’t think it will be as bad as you think it will be.”

Erick glared at his daughter. Over dinner, he had told her everything that had happened at the meeting. He had told everyone everything. Kiri had nothing to add, but she had quickly vacated the room when dinner was over, and Erick began raising his voice to his daughter, and Jane raised her voice to him. Almost everyone had vacated the room, for theirs had not been a calm discussion, at all.

Only Poi remained; silently cleaning up the mess of dinner, all on his own.

Jane said, “I lived in there for a month. Teressa was there for much longer. We lived at their pleasure, yes, but if we followed the rules, then the fang and claw monsters were more dangerous than the Shades.” She added, “But you already knew that. So what’s the real problem, dad?”

He did already know that. Maybe he would actually be okay attending the Feast.

Except...

Erick said, “I will lose my resolve against them should they prove to be less evil than who they have shown themselves to be.”

Jane sat back in her chair. She stared at her father for a long moment, both love and sadness in her eyes. She said, “I can understand you thinking that something like that could happen, but it won’t. The more likely thing to happen is that once you see what they’re like, you’ll either become a hermit, or… Or do something that you will regret.”

And that was enough talking, for now.

Erick tried to think of a task. He landed on one, saying, “I have to plant grasses and stuff at Candlepoint. I’m going to be in the library.”

She picked up her cake, saying, “I’ll watch over you.”

“Okay.”

- - - -

Blue waters rippled under northern winds, but stilled, as a crash of white light blossomed over the center of the lake, briefly illuminating the cloud-filled twilight. Ophiel floated, revealed to the world, in this place where land was nowhere to be seen, hidden by the very curve of Veird’s surface.

With one wing held high, an orb of light blossomed above. White mist floated up from the lake, quickly taking shape into a meters-wide map. It was only on this map that the coast was visible, yet still nearly 25 kilometers away. Slowly, methodically, the blue dots began to appear upon the map. Today’s scan showed far fewer violet eels than before. Far, far fewer, with all pockets of the parasites gone. Only strays remained, and they would be gone by tomorrow. This was a good time to plant.

With a dismissal and another blip, the light atop the lake vanished.

Ophiel reappeared closer to Candlepoint. The city looked good from this angle. Apartment buildings. Roads. Gentle white lights cast here and there, casting the city into gentle shadows, and illuminating the trees that had been planted absolutely everywhere. There was other greenery, too, that normally wouldn’t exist in this desert climate. But Erick focused on the trees, watching them as the wind tousled their canopies and he worked with another Ophiel, on another task.

That other Ophiel blipped in, carrying a head-sized glass orb filled with clear liquid that was not water, with a thin layer of substance on the bottom that was not dirt. Several stalks of vibrant green grass grew inside that orb, but they did not sway; the enchantments on the orb itself keeping the magical plant well preserved in its alchemical and [Ward]ed bath.

The first Ophiel on the scene turned to light, illuminating the shallow, dark waters below, scaring away a single, large, red mud flit. It was monsterized and close to death, but had yet to die. It likely still held eggs.

The flit would die soon enough, but they would plant their eggs and their children would grow up in a better land. Normal mud flits would grow in the grass Erick was about to plant, hopefully leading less dangerous lives than their parents, now that the enemy eels were on their way out.

… Planting the grass right in front of the city was probably not a good idea. Million fish grass needed some space to grow, undisturbed, for at least a few days in the beginning. It would spread throughout the whole coastline, eventually, though. So…

Erick went and found Slip. The guardmaster was easy to find. He was sitting by the lake, near the northern side of the city. Slip noticed the [Familiar], and sat up straighter as Ophiel descended to him.

“Hello,” Erick said, having Ophiel hold aloft the grassy orb. “Where do you want this million fish grass planted?”

Slip had been stoic, but at Erick’s words, his mouth turned into a huge smile, as his white eyes lit fractionally brighter. “Yes! Anywhere. This is a good plant.” Half disbelieving, he said, “You actually paid for that. I can hardly believe it.”

“I heard it was good. That it kept the water clean and the fish healthy.” Erick spun Ophiel around, gently, so as not to disturb the magically locked-down orb. “This orb will last another five days, but planting sooner is better than later. Where should it go? Any ideas?”

Slip continued to smile. Then he got to thinking. He pointed to the west, and a little north, saying, “There is a rise in the lake bed there. It is a good place to plant this marvel. Plenty of space, between one to two meters below the surface. This grass should spread well. From there.”

Erick said, “I also have water lily bulbs and a thousand kilos of lakeseed to plant.”

Slip shook his head. “Not yet. Let the million fish grass spread first. I can seed the lake at a later date.”

Erick joked, “I might not be here to help you if you wait too late.”

Slip’s jovial mood turned sour. He asked, “Are you going?”

“I have chosen to attend. Wish me luck.”

Slip nodded, gravely. “Good luck, Erick.”

“Good luck to you.”

Erick floated Ophiel in the direction Slip pointed. With some [Greater Lightwalk] probing, he soon found the shelf Slip indicated. He had been right; this was a good growing spot, with pretty much the exact specifications the people at ‘Healer’s Light’ had given him. With a help of a few other Ophiel, Erick fully explored the sand bar. The shelf was between a meter to two below the surface, and shaped like an arrowhead, pointed mostly westward. The deeper parts were further west. The whole underwater rise was maybe single square kilometer, with the area near the point turning deep rather fast. The eastern point of the arrow base was only a dozen meters from shore, with a five meter dip in lake bottom separating the shelf from the coast.

This was a good spot.

Ophiel, surrounded by light, lowered the glass orb into the waters, touching down into the underwater plateau. With a small push, he planted the orb into the sandbar, checking that the not-dirt inside the orb was situated under the level of the real dirt outside the orb. He left the orb there, as per the instructions, waiting the required ten minutes for the temperatures inside to equalize with the lake. While that happened, he prepared his own magics.

When the ten minutes were up, three things happened in quick succession.

An Ophiel dissolved the glass into sand with [Stoneshape]. Another Ophiel held the greater surrounding waters in place with a [Watershape], but left the waters around the plant loose, and free. Erick, himself, cast [Grow] upon the magical plant.

Potions soaked into the water from the broken orb. For a second, the grass was like the tendrils of a squid; reaching and twisting in the waters, trying to catch. Then it relaxed, as normal sand slipped into its space, and the roots of the grass recognized expansion opportunities. White roots shot out from the green grass, snaking into the dirt, twisting out, burying. The initial shoots of grass doubled, almost instantly, then they doubled again.

Roots multiplied. Grasses turned long, and languid, to reach up in the waters with the greatest of ease. Small bubbles rose from the grasses, like in a fizzy drink, or champagne.

[Grow] stabilized the million fish grass. This was a good planting. Erick had done it correctly. If the bubbles had not appeared, if the grass didn’t act like a squid, these were the ways he would know that this planting was a failure, and that his grass was destined to die.

Ahh, magic was wonderful.

He almost wanted to cast [Tree of Light] upon the spreading underwater greenery, but not every spell was useful in every situation. [Tree of Light] was good for trees. Not so good for underwater grass. He had asked the people at ‘Healer’s Light’, too.

… But they hadn’t said it was a bad idea, either.

Erick cast [Tree of Light] upon the grass.

Three seconds later, Erick canceled the spell. The grass had turned bioluminescent, looking like bright green ribbons floating upward in the water, and that was it. It didn’t expand, it didn’t enlarge. It didn’t [Grow] like it should have grown.

He cast [Grow], and the grasses began to expand, once again, more grasses growing up from the sands below. Ideally, he could [Grow] it for several hours, helping it to expand to a good kilometer. From there, he could come back every day, and continue to [Grow] the magical plant. Eventually, [Grow] would fail to expand the grass’s borders. It would have reached a maximum size of a few dozen square kilometers, and it would then have to seed on its own. More patches of million fish grass would then pop up here and there in the lake, over the course of months, and years, as it took that long for flowering grasses to get lucky, and for one of their seeds to actually take root. According to the size of the lake, the people at ‘Healer’s Light’ had said that he could expect five new patches of million fish grass per year.

But that would all take too long.

With another thought, he had an Ophiel on the surface call the platinum rains. Silver flashed in the night sky, high above the surface of the lake. Soon enough, liquid silver turned that wavy surface into a glowing ink. With [Watershape] guiding the flow and a few Ophiel to help him along, Erick directed that platinum water into the million fish grass. He didn’t have to direct those waters for long.

The grass exploded in growth, tripling in size, gobbling up the rain water, spreading in every direction, practically leaping up from the sands to stretch meters long into the surrounding waters. In half an hour, it had spread across the whole sandbar, and into the deeper parts around that higher land. In two hours, meter-long flowing grasses had covered a dozen square kilometers, stretching from the shallows of the coast of Candlepoint, to racing further northwest. And then it stopped growing. Here and there among the grasses, some strands began to thicken with nodules inside. Those grasses split, releasing seeds that floated away on the waters of the lake.

