Chapter 496

Quill made his way up to JR’s after a quick goodbye with Max and a promise to meet up later. He expected a chatty bird to reveal what he’d learned about the liquid mana stones, but the silence that greeted him was heavy.

Shaking his head, Quill immediately said, “No way you are going to try and weedle your way out of this by acting all broody. I’ll call mom.”

JR snorted at the assumption, “You think Emmanuel could get me to do anything I wish to not do?”

Scoffing right back, Quill pointed upward. “I have a bigger threat. I’d call Aunt Helen and tell her you are being mean to me after we made a deal. Best of all, I can sit here and watch how you deal with that hot potato.”

JR froze for a moment, before the atmosphere cracked and the stuffiness was replaced by very real laughter. “I was wondering when you’d pull out that piece of leverage. I have to say, this timing is annoyingly well aimed. She’d laugh you off with most things, but you’re probably right in this instance, and I value my six hundred point plan to woo her more than I do an hour I’ll extract from Cosmind anyway.”

Tisking at himself, the bird walked away, muttering indistinctly as he disappeared between rows of equipment. When JR came back, he was holding a small device only slightly larger than himself under a wing.

Setting it on the bench, JR gestured impatiently as if he expected Quill to understand what the unknown contraption was.

“What do you want me to do?”

Sighing as if Quill was the one being difficult, JR explained, “Now you're wasting my time too?” Like he was speaking to a slow child, he added, “Put a liquid mana stone on the device. This should have been obvious from the device itself. Did Max memory wipe you or something?”

Pushing back, Quill crossed his arms instead of doing as instructed. “That’s two petri dishes and four metal tubes. How would I ever know what that is?”

Having been turning around to walk away, the bird halted before slowly turning back around. “Do you mean you don’t recognize a… scanner? They’re everywhere. Sure, this one is a bit stripped down because I’m amazing, but come on!”

Shaking his head, Quill tapped into a few nearby screens to browse locally sold scanners. Not a single one looked even remotely close to the object JR had produced. Most looked closer to the squat, single open face scanner he knew from the Empire, letting him feel extra smug.

JR waved a wing, forcefully cutting Quill’s connection to the screen as he sauntered away. “Your point is made, but I’ll note not well. You should be more ashamed about that than I am about this. Hold yourself to a higher standard. I may be a bit out of date on what the typical general scanners look like, but in my defense, I made that when I was Tier 44. Double sensor plates were all the rage for the increased accuracy you could get out of them.”

“If that’s what lets you sleep well at night.”

Quill made a small liquid mana stone in his palm instead of giving JR time and space to get in the last word. Wanting to show off and hopefully score some free high Tier insight, he showcased his porous mana stone, complete with useless light rune to showcase the effect, while tossing it onto the scanner.

Watching the reading, he was mildly surprised when the mana count showed 499.99 mana count out over five decimals of accuracy. Checking Blake's memories, Quill confirmed the scanners they normally had access to rarely went to four, and five was unheard of except in laboratory settings. Few people ever used sub units of mana and it incredibly was hard to detect.

Realizing the error of his thinking, Quill tried not to let the raven see how impressed he’d been. Really, a crafter of JR’s renown should have made a scanner with at least six digits of accuracy. Merely five out of… two petri dishes and a few sticks was kind of… sad.

He was grateful JR took a few moments to scrutinize the mana stone. His reply wasn’t the analysis Quill had been hoping for. “Very interesting, but this won’t do what I want. Make a normal one please. Let’s have a little fun with it. I saw you scoping out the scanner. How accurately can you control the mana of a liquid mana stone?”

“Pick a number. So long as it doesn't take me more than a few minutes to make it, I can hit it.”

Grinning, JR laughed the challenge off. “No need to brag, though I do appreciate it. A nice and round fifteen million will do us nicely.”

Quill made the requested liquid mana stone and dropped it on the scanner, never taking his eyes off the bird.

The minute the stone was confirmed to have exactly the right amount of mana, JR cawed. “Okay, now put a little seal around it so you know no one touched it. While we work.”

“A high Tier can bypass anything I can make. That's a terr—”

Ushering him to move, JR made his impatience clear. “Less complaining, more doing. You already played with Max long enough. Dawdle on your own time, not mine.”

He spent a few seconds to make a bubble of mana stable enough to last a few days so long as it wasn’t disturbed. That would be more than enough time while he was pulled inside whatever it was that JR did to them when they worked.

The day’s work felt like torture with a sadist. Every few minutes JR would tsk or tut, slowly driving him insane. Once he’d finished the smoothie and recovered enough to think, he found the raven fluffed up next to the scanner and the bubble he’d made.

Quill shook his head slow enough it didn’t hurt while still making his displeasure clear. “I want to make it known in the future that I would like all information pertaining to bets to be conveyed promptly. At least knowing before the work would have made it slightly less…”

Feeling the pain rise, Quill breathed through it. “Torturous.”

“Open your seal and tell me you would have believed me with only words. Go ahead. I’ll refund Emmanuel the full cost of this armor. ”

JR’s words were grandiose enough to get him to open his eyes through the pain.

Quill turned to the scanner with all of his senses. His spiritual perception registered the displayed number the fastest. Needing to confirm what couldn’t be true, he turned too fast and nearly vomited as the world continued to spin long after his head had stopped its movement.

Everything seemed to spin around the scanner display.

15,000,000.00041.

Where had the additional forty-one hundred-thousandth mana come from? He’d made both the gem and the seal. Either could have been tampered with, but even through the spinning of his spiritual perception, he felt the security features he’d subtly and not so subtly left scattered throughout.

Quill forced control over his aching body and temporarily shut down its senses until he had control. With little more than vision, hearing, and a fragment of spiritual sense, he evaluated everything he knew.

After an eternity, he circled back to that first question. Where did the additional forty-one hundred-thousandths mana come from? It surely hadn’t come from him.

That only left a single solution.

One Quill couldn’t bring himself to believe.

His very mana itself was endless. It was—

Quill felt his world warble as he slammed into the wall that was his missing name. Pushing through his combined pain, he tried to find the thread of thought that might have led to an inspiration, but it had slipped through his unprepared fingers and he doubted it was ever coming back.

The moment had gone and even if they later learned something, the initial moment of discovery had been lost.

Meeting deep black eyes surrounded by even darker plumage, Quill felt the fear of being exceptional rear its ugly heady.

Familiar words echoed in his mind even as he saw JR's naked surprise at what the revelation might have led to. “Too exceptional.”

“Don’t get that look on your face 『　』.” Laughing at his flinch, JR at least had the good grace to explain. “I won’t try to speak on the specifics, as I suspect you’ll do just fine with your own research, but do feel free to ask questions during our next session. I might not answer, but asking has its own value if you are clever enough. Yes, yes. It's quite the interesting conundrum you now find yourself in as per our defensive agreement. Wouldn’t you agree, Quill?”

Quill tensed, but JR only grinned, not bothering to hide his pleasure. “Part of my agreement with the Empire is getting access to stones you yourself make. Funny thing about the wording in the contract. Any such liquid stones you decide to give to Emmanuel? I’ll get a small portion. I’m calling it my retirement fund. What a fantastic deal. Wouldn’t you say so?”

“Fuck you.” Quill wasn’t sure why he was mad, it wasn’t about the inspiration. He was already looking into liquid mana gems and without his name, it would have always failed, whether or not it happened in his lab or JR’s. Considering it more as he processed his initial reaction, he realized he simply didn’t like finding out the raven had played and won a game before he knew they were playing.

“I know your head hurts but please try to be more creative if you are going to insult me.”

“I need to tell Manny.”

Quill groaned as he pulled himself to his feet before the scanner.

Rolling his eyes, JR walked away seemingly disinterested. “Twice now you’ve wanted to call for help today. Do you find that at all shameful? Where is your unyielding Chosen spirit?”

Exacerbated, he finally turned and asked, “What good does shame get me when dealing with someone who doesn't feel it?”

That seemed to please JR, and he started humming as he adjusted the blueprint for an arrow that had its own table off to the side, leaving him alone.

Quill had tried to peek at the side project before, but any time he tried to focus on the details, they blurred like a fresh painting dropped in water. Today he didn’t care as he focused on the familiar yet foreign liquid mana stone.

After a few minutes a voice penetrated through his racing thoughts. “You can take both and go. Shoo, shoo. Consider the scanner a loan, not a gift, so don’t think about pocketing it.” JR laughed at himself before growing more serious. “Rest, and only then look into the mana stones. From one crafter to another. Trust me, sleep on it. Far too many immortals ignore a good night's sleep and the benefits it can bring to new ideas.”

Having said his piece, JR's full attention went to the arrow blueprint, dismissing him.

Quill took his words to heart and didn’t try to get any work done, heading straight home and going straight to sleep after letting everyone know everything was okay, but he’d need to talk to them. The moment he woke up, he retrieved a yellow glass rod from his strange realm-given domain storage space.

Snapping it, he triggered one of the high priority but non-betrayal alerts Manny had given him.

Immediately, a pair of giant golden eyes appeared in the room, taking in everything.

Seeing the veins at the corners already starting to grow in prominence from the strain of holding the spell over such insane distances, Quill quickly explained everything he knew. The moment he finished, the eyes vanished and a minute later he received a two word message.

“Understood. Continue.”

It wasn’t much, but it was reassuring to know someone else was there to hold up the sky should it start to fall.

Quill’s next task was telling Liz and Aster. He could tell Aster still wasn’t entirely comfortable around him yet, but neither brought it up. He didn’t particularly like that outcome, not at all, but for something important, the two of them both pretended.

Not that she needed to pretend. Both Liz and Aster’s full attention had been absorbed by the stone and the scanner's display, unwilling to look away until they’d seen it themselves.

Quill wanted to complain, but seeing the 0.00248 on the display after his nap, he didn’t.

He also wanted to see it happen. He’d be starting with a similar enough test in his lab and didn’t mind doing it with them over catered breakfast.

The four of them sat around the table and Liz shook her head while one pair of eyes watched the display, while the other ate. “I can’t believe it. Mana doesn’t work like that. It's not essence. That’s pretty fundamental about most magical theories.”

Aster only had one body, and as such was forced to eat sideways if she wanted to keep her eyes on the scanner. “Blame it on Talent tech.”

“That’s not helpful,” Liz scoffed at her. “Understanding what Talents break is the typical starting place.”

“I’m not disagreeing. But starting at ‘This breaks everything we know’ isn’t helpful either. That scope is uselessly large. What do we know?”

Both turned to Quill, who was only able to shake his head. He hadn’t learned anything more than them at this point.

Bringing up the scanners logs, he charted the rate of mana generation and checked the next expected… addition? Growth? Cycle? He wasn’t sure what nomenclature he wanted to establish for his liquid mana stones, but he didn’t let himself get distracted.

“Don’t we have some older liquid stones in store from your earlier experiments or did we give them all away?” Liz’s question did that for him well enough on its own.

It was also one that forced Quill to go through Blake's previous memories, which took time.

“I think most of them got sent in, but we might have some in my secondary workshop’s backup junk ring. I threw a bunch in there and never got around to cleaning it up. They will make for good growth rate tests at the very least.”

Aster surprised him by asking, “Can I get some? I have a theory I’d like to try out. Ice ones if you can.”

