“Oh, I never wanted to be an alchemist, so my contact was always limited. I think I did five or six experiments per Tier before giving up entirely at Tier 15. Aura was so limited, it was hard to find teams who were willing to sell any of it. Even when they did, they rarely chose to sell to me. Now though, I just need to look up what's available and I can have as much as I can pay for. It's beautiful!”

Quill was going to make an excuse to continue mingling, when Zonta rattled on, not noticing the lull in the conversation.

“If I can have a moment, I must share a quandary that has confounded me lately. I’ve been playing with the basic elemental types. Water, wind, fire, and earth are surprisingly easy to work with once you get used to their individual quirks. A whole lot easier than that resonance aura you were messing with, that's for sure.” The half hearted attempt at flattery was forgotten as Zonta asked, “Do you understand why those four can be used interchangeably a lot of the time? I can’t figure it out. It shouldn’t work like that. Most of the time, you can swap any of those four aura types in a permanent formation without changing anything else, so long as you have an aura rune. It shouldn’t work, and I've tested it a dozen times, it doesn't if there isn’t at least one rune capable of utilizing the additional effects of the aura somewhere in the circuit. That specification shouldn’t make a difference, but it's ruining all of my ideas.”

Quill had never heard anyone call working with any type of aura easy, but Zonta’s following words made him forget all about that.

He was doing what?

One of the others, a Tier 27 woman who he knew was a famous jewelry smith that’d managed to create an aura-wared locket of some renown in local high Tier circles, spoke for everyone when she asked, “That doesn't conform to anything I’ve learned in my testing. Even getting the same type of aura from a different rift can have an impact. How are you swapping auras?”

When Zonta just looked around confused at their confusion, one of the two Tier 40’s in attendance withdrew a stack of Tier 20 blank formation plates as well as a dozen bottles of each Level 1 elemental aura.

Needing no prompting, Zonta immediately started carving a miniature defensive formation. It wasn’t complicated or secret, variations of such formations could be seen in any beginner textbook, but the swirls he added in the free space were new to Quill and everyone else.

No one interrupted him, though several people looked like they wanted to when Zonta uncapped and flipped each vial of aura onto a swirling rune, holding them in place with his Intent. As he activated the enchantment, he fed all four aura types into the formation at the same time.

From everything Quill understood, that should have been impossible with the auras clashing. He wasn’t the only one to have such thoughts and he saw the consternation on others faces.

Everyone’s intuition was proven correct. Zonta struggled to contain the mixing energies as he finished the enchantment. However, once he activated it, all of that resistance and turbulence fell away. That was interesting enough by itself, but before anyone could speak, three of the aura types were pulled and stored in their reservoirs.

It took Quill and most others that long to realize what Zonta had discovered or invented. An aura storage rune. It… wasn’t good. They all watched as it leaked aura that tried to contaminate the general formation, but every rune had to start somewhere.

Seeming unbothered by the reactions of quiet shock, Zonta continued his demonstration, getting to what he considered the interesting part. Tapping the small bubble of protection with a finger wreathed in flames, the fire aura stored in the reservoir poured out and flowed through the enchantment, but wasn't used.

Similar to [Cracked Phantom Armor’s] ability to defend against elements, the aura empowered shield handled the fire attack better when reinforced with fire aura. It was clear that wasn’t an effect of the aura rune, which, as Zonta stated, was only there to stabilize the aura. But it had no effect on the final product, being a light rune, beyond increasing the upkeep costs.

Going through all four elements, Zonta looked to Quill and asked, “But how can I get all four to work at once instead of needing to be switched?”

That question was like a bomb being set off. No one wanted to talk about the theoretical when Zonta had created something immediately applicable, even if he hadn’t seemed to realize it. An internal aura storage enchantment would allow for a variety of new aura applications and everyone else was eager to learn as much as they could.

As Quill watched, he wasn’t quite sure if he and everyone else were being played by the innocent looking Zonta. It was possible, likely even, but he didn’t mind. If the man wanted to bolster his standing in the Corporations by making it seem like he was interested in outside help, who was he to refuse?

He had given Quill something very interesting to think about, and that was a worthy trade. Part of being able to play the game was being willing to be played, so he played up his part, making a few tentative offers to work for him. He didn’t imply Zonta should move to the Empire, but the minute he made his move, the locals were no longer able to sit back and watch.

Wishing the man luck, he returned home, head full of thoughts.

Not ones of swapping aura types mid-use. As novel as that was, needing to replenish the used aura made Quill lose most of his interest in the idea. At least, in the short term. If Zonta or whoever snatched him up didn’t solve those issues, someone else would, and he’d reevaluate then.

Quill knew he should have dove back into his flash talismans after returning, but instead of doing that, he was inspired and followed that feeling. Pulling out his samples of aura types corresponding to the four basic elements, he looked at what he had.

Telling himself that he could only spare a few days of effort, he started working on his second product idea. Aura escape talismans.
