Quill shook his head. “Normal mana stones, sure. I can give you any aspect my ring has. Liquid ones? Not so much. I barely have the control necessary to make liquid mana stones of my own mana, let alone someone else's; and that’s if it would work at all. Which I’m not sure it would. I haven’t done this testing yet, but I should have. I never considered it.”

“I’ll take the normal liquid ones then. Just a few though. I don’t need much for my testing. I’ve been able to contact four other people who have spirit spaces and I have been trying things.”

She didn’t elaborate on what things, but it didn’t feel aimed at excluding him. The sense he got through what was left of their bond hinted she wasn’t entirely sure what she was testing in the first place.

Wanting to be helpful, he made a few more than she’d requested, taking advantage of his doubled mana from Icliz, while shifting the topic to Max and the reveal with her.

As it turned out, the Chosen had already made plans with most of the estate. Liz, Aster, Zack, and Allie understood, but she’d apparently reached out to their friends, offering them unique lesser known experiences only available to the connected.

Checking his own messages, he found a request to meet up and discuss their [AI] modifications.

Seeing everything he had to do, Quill made his exit after the scanner ticked up by 0.00007, despite wanting to stay longer. As interesting as the general discovery was, he needed to turn it into something usable, or liquid mana stones would contribute to his problems rather than solving them.

Returning to his lab, he started his own testing, but almost immediately ran into a problem. His scanners weren’t as sensitive as JR’s, and the rate of mana production they could detect took days. Knowing the raven probably didn’t have any more scanners laying around, he thought about his alternatives.

It didn’t take him long to come to a solution. His initial testing proved there was more than enough randomness that he could scale up to a sufficiently large size and have non-subsequent data points as often as he’d like. Best of all, excluding his preparation time, the testing would take the same amount of time.

Ten minutes later, Quill was surrounded by just over a trillion mana in liquid mana stones of various shapes, sizes, and amounts of mana. The only thing he didn’t mess with was the stones themselves. He had thousands of new ideas he wanted to try, but he needed to control such variations at the first stage, given he clearly didn’t understand his liquid mana stones as well as he thought he did.

When he was done, he was surrounded by roughly a Tier 37 mana stone’s worth of mana, but after a moment of consideration, he quadrupled his testing stones. He’d have made more, but he was already stretched thin on sensors and didn’t trust any he could buy in the Corporations, leaving him stuck with what he’d brought.

Why hadn’t 『　』 prepared better for this?

Cursing his past self’s unpreparedness, he could only make do with a few thousand simultaneous tests instead of scaling to a more reasonable level.

He contemplated messaging Max to see if she had any, but he didn’t trust her that far. If JR’s sensor wasn’t the best one he had access to, and the bird being the one to tell him, he wouldn’t have used it either, but he made due. His musings turned to Allie, but he wrote her assistance off as well.

Even Empire equipment would need to be looked over by Harper’s counter espionage teams, and they were already over worked. He’d make do with the few he had on hand.

After spending two months investigating, he came to a few conclusions. The first and most imperative was that he had no real idea what he was dabbling with.

If liquid mana stones weren’t only made possible due to his Talent and Domain, which was a stance he wasn’t confident in, they certainly weren’t something like a rechargeable mana stone. Those were something any civilization would discover and rediscover over and over as they stumbled on all of the ways mana liked to solidify.

Technically, at least as far as he could tell, nothing about the liquid part of his liquid mana stone required his Talent. It made everything easier, since it allowed him to do all the steps himself, but he was almost sure the process didn’t require it.

Proving or disproving that required testing. In theory that was easy, but in practice it involved waiting for the liquid mana stones to create mana a few hundred, or better yet, thousand times. Thus giving him a set of data points he could actually use.

He quickly realized that even with the scale of his testing, that would take a while. Instead of waiting around watching a pot boil, he decided to use his time more productively and work on his flash talisman project.

Quill kept having the nagging suspicion he was close to an answer but was circling around it. He just needed to keep trying until he hit it.

The first thing he started to alter was, unsurprisingly, the outer shell of the talismans. He’d already spent two months fiddling with it, and wasn’t prepared to tackle the much more difficult to manipulate liquid portion of the mana stones he was trying to use as a base.

That part was… fine on its own.

There was room for improvement, but that was for Blake to deal with. Quill’s goal was to make the liquid mana stones work with his flash talismans.

Learning that his mana truly was endless may have distracted him slightly, but he didn’t forget his goal.

Going back to square one for the third time in as many months, he didn’t bother delaying the solidification of the outer shell of his flash talismans. Instead, he directly started messing with its composition and layering. Most of his answers never made it to the testing stage, but slowly and surely, he started to understand.

Not his liquid mana stones or flash talismans, that would have been too easy. However what he learned about his own mana was even more valuable. Or it would be eventually.

What he found interesting was that once activated by his Tier 25 Talent, his mana wanted to solidify. It was through that process he’d initially discovered his liquid gems and that his Talent sure thought the liquid was, in fact, solid.

Taking that as inspiration, he tried to create truly liquid mana, but got nowhere. He needed the shell to contain the liquid in its ‘not solid’ state. It was also what was causing his issues, and he didn’t have a solution there.

Quill was tempted to go through 『　』's memories and look at the original research he’d already investigated once when trying to develop what would become liquid mana stones. Instead, he went looking for the same material as if it were all truly new information.

His goal was different than Blake’s had been, and this review would hopefully let him find those things in the sea of half familiar ideas and concepts.

Quill wanted… temporary, transient, ephemeral felt like the best word. Where Blake had been looking for stability and longevity.

Material science research on mana stones had reached a fairly high level and in the chase for a better rechargeable stone, the Realm had learned quite a lot about solidified mana. None of them had been very useful when pushing entirely new boundaries, but he was no longer trying to do that, and several formerly dismissed ideas seemed useful under that new light.

A team in the Clans seven or eight immortal generations ago tried to create a modular mana stone out of smaller interlocking single units of mana like sticky grains of sand that would bind to each other. The original idea had gotten exactly as far as he expected, but a note in the research caught his eye and refused to let go.

The few samples they managed to create had been recorded to have great strength until its capacity was reached, where it instantly deformed and exploded. While that was a bad outcome in relation to rechargeable mana stone, it sounded like exactly what he wanted.

Applying the idea to his own liquid mana stones wasn’t so easy. The original design indicated each minuscule mana stone needed to be created independently. The original team found success in their unique interlocking shapes, but he didn’t have that liberty, needing to contain a liquid. Not only would making microscopic mana stones take too long, he needed to create everything all at once if he wanted to liquify the core.

Instead of even attempting to copy their methods directly, he took the core idea and tried to deliberately create a cracked and flawed liquid mana stone. He succeeded in his first attempt, but the hollow shell of a liquid mana stone wasn’t very useful without anything inside and he refined his goal.

He needed to create a cracked liquid mana stone that didn’t leak the second he withdrew his control, held together by the internal pressure and the gem’s geometry. That was much much harder. Impossible, in fact.

Quill's best result after two months was closer to a fragmentation grenade made from hundreds of overlapping rhombuses. He’d envisioned a near random cracking pattern originally, but that much disorder in the gem’s structure resulted in failures while making the liquid mana.

Cleaning up between experiments, he saw a message from Quill’s Quality Quintessentials CEO waiting for him. It wasn’t marked urgent, rather a final notice, but he was still filled with mild trepidation when he opened the message. He couldn’t afford any distractions like more work.

However his instincts proved wrong and instead of bad news it was… news.

He’d been invited to a ‘small gathering of aura enthusiasts’. That more than most other criteria caught his interest. Combined with his need for a break, he accepted the invite to apparently all of his friends' and family's surprise.

Thankfully, the gathering was both small and close knit enough that he didn’t get immediately bombarded by the guests. He was, in fact, just on the lower side of the average Tier present. Better yet, what attention he did get was in relation to his aura tracking talismans more than his status as an Ascender, which was a pleasant change of pace.

Though, the guests' identities themselves might have helped with that. Everyone had created at least one product utilizing aura, even if few of them had been commercially viable, and had their own pride.

That meant they were mildly polite rather than rabid when talking to him. Luckily for them, Quill was more than happy to talk shop about something he himself created. He even surprised himself at how much he learned. Everyone at the event was related to enchanting in some way, but they all had different takes on the field due to their specialties and how they sought to take advantage of aura.

Few were willing to talk about successes but everyone was willing to bring up the problems they encountered, hoping someone might have a good idea.

Through the discussion, Quill came to a single realization he should have much, much earlier. Aura was strange. It could be used in a variety of applications, from talismans to large scale formations and everything in between. However, for all that possibility, there were only a scant few cases of aura enchantments replacing the originals, with his aura tracking talisman being the latest to manage that feat.

While he was the newest, light enchantments for any kind of growing application was undoubtedly the largest. While it hadn’t had the time to do so yet, the writing was on the wall and everyone in the Realm had read it. Anyone who grew anything in real space had started planning around the aura growth lights, even if that plan was to acknowledge that it didn’t make financial sense to adopt them yet.

It might take tens of thousands of years to saturate such a large market, but there was no doubt in or out of the industry that eventually, every artificial growing light would be replaced by aura ones. Many were speculating on the entire light market being opened up and were aiming for cheaper, more efficient variations.

Quill suspected aura-based tracking might follow a slower, if similar, route. He also knew people would take what he’d done with the aura talisman and localize them to their local rifts by tweaking the recipes. He actually hoped for that development, but hadn’t taken steps to help or hinder it.

It wasn’t that he didn’t care; he did. A lot. And that was why he was hesitant to interfere. There already wasn’t enough resonance aura to meet the current demand, and now wasn’t the time to split the markets, but he didn’t want to dissuade anyone either.

Sadly, neither of the two ladies who discovered the light runes were at the party, so he wasn’t able to meet them.

He did, however, get to meet an eccentric Tier 23, Zonta Voli.

Despite being several times older than Quill, the man gushed upon meeting him. “Oh, Chosen Titan, what a pleasure to meet you. I’ve been following your work since the original aura reveal. My family actually had an aura rift under our jurisdiction, so I had more access than most.” Laughing, Zonta waggled a single finger in the air. “A whole one aura type. Wind, if you wanted to know. It made for riveting research when I was a fresh Tier 10. However, now thanks to you, I can just order whatever types I want.”

Unable to help himself, Quill was intrigued. He’d run into a single aura rift on a border world, but was his only time running into one naturally. Meeting someone who grew up near one and studied aura for that whole time was interesting.

“It must have been hard only having a single sample type to work with.”

Zonta immediately nodded as their conversation drew in others.

