The second she appears, arrows reach her as she moves swiftly, avoiding both of them. The thylarin, meanwhile, gets to work putting more distance of two miles in between them, launching more arrows at her that she deflects with her axes and lowers her body. She bursts forth at incredible speed, moving unpredictably as she mimics kinetic movement through sheer bodily power and the regeneration she possesses.

It becomes obvious that the thylarin won't be able to continue putting distance between them with her speed, so he throws the bow away, and the yellow tattoos become thicker, covering more than two-thirds of his skin. The pressure around him becomes stronger, and he feels even more dangerous than he was with the bow.

Lily doesn't let that stop her. She reaches him, ducks under his attack, blocks another fist, and moves in a confusing manner, before bursting forth with speed and dancing around him to slam a palm against his chest. With an almost playful ease.

There is no burst of gray mana as she hits him, but she staggers back as one of his fists slams against her face. Her nose and cheekbone break, caving her face in, but a mere second later, both snap back in place and heal.

The thylarin, meanwhile, looks confused and, with a weird expression, puts his hands against his chest, surprised to see no wound, but panicking more and more. He opens his mouth to say something, but coughs up blood. He then moves to take a step ahead, but sways and almost falls.

His skin starts melting and falling off in long pieces, revealing bare muscles that immediately start breaking apart, disintegrating. He coughs again, covering his mouth. Flesh disintegrates from his blood-soaked hand, and it falls off, and he coughs again.

He then proceeds to vomit out his insides and fragments of bone while his body is left staggering around, as it breaks apart.

Finally, he falls down and, as he hits the ground, his body breaks apart into disparate pieces with a sickening wet noise.

Lily remains standing and looking at that mess. There is no mantle, no visible gray mana around her.

She just calmly turns around and awaits her challenger.
