Waking up to the fourth morning in the village, Marina struggled to open her eyes. After sleeping in for the last few days, she was almost used to waking up naturally right before her [Mental Clock] went off. This morning was different due to an unexpected amount of commotion and chattering happening downstairs. It was not the usual: things dropping on the floor or Mellie yelling in frustration; it was more like the times when family members showed up to her parents’ home unannounced.

Ugh. There’s still an hour left on the clock. It’s 8 am right now… Marina glanced to the other side of the bed with one eye open. And she is gone again…

Getting off the bed, she straightened her hair carelessly. The braids needed to be redone. She grabbed her shoes from the corner, stumbling as she put them on before climbing down the ladder.

“Good morning, my dear.”

Marina turned around. “Good morning—”

Her eyes widened as her mind registered the scene in front of her. Piles of various tools, utensils, and cookware were piled against the walls. And various jars of condiments sat atop the dinner table, all perfectly sealed.

“What is all this? Did I miss a chapter?” Marina stared in awe.

“Oh. It appears that the news of the Alpis had already spread throughout the village.” Hecate replied. “And early this morning, the villagers were thrilled to deliver us some gifts of gratitude, though some of these items were of my requests.”

Marina pointed at Hecate’s wooden cup. “Is that tea? Smells like it.”

“Indeed, it is.”

“Girlfriend tax.” Marina waved. “Let me have some.”

Hecate handed her the cup. “I did not know relationships also included taxes.”

“Instead of building roads and hospitals, girlfriend taxes strengthen the already existing relationship.” Marina took a sip. “It’s really nice. Did the chief send these?”

“Yes, and he also wished to speak to us today about the encounter.” Hecate grabbed one of the items on the table. “What do you think of this?”

“Probably the best gift I would’ve wished for right now.” Marina gently rubbed against the metal surface. It was a classic iron pan. “Feels quite new, not yet seasoned either.”

“It was from Mrs. Alpis, she said this pan was forged a week ago, and she purchased it as a replacement. But she decided that you may find it more useful.” Hecate set it back down.

“That is very nice of her.” Marina began scouring through the items after drinking the rest of her tea. “What is this…” She tilted her head at a large stone pot with a rod placed at its opening.

“This was a device left by a villager who left. It was too heavy to be carried, and the Bee-ple who brought it called it a churner.” Hecate replied.

“Oh, it's a stone butter churner. I haven't used one since forever.” Marina looked closer. “I’m sure Mellie would love this—where is she anyway?”

“She left to gather herbs after most of the villagers visited.” Hecate sighed. “She is not the best around people. I’m sure you know by now.”

It was no surprise that Mellie would find an excuse to get away from the crowd, especially with what Mellie had said. But regardless of what the Bee-ple thought of Mellie, Marina still decided to treat her as a friend.

“Something is off, Hecate.” She pointed out.

“Mm. Please tell.”

There was something similar around all the items that were gifted to them. Sure, there were nice snacks and condiments, but their quantity was nothing compared to the amount of utensils, cookware, and jars. The village was surrounded by dense woods, yet most of the gifts were metallic spoons and forks; even Mellissa did not own many metallic utensils at her house, let alone having less affluent families gift theirs.

“Look,” Marina picked up one of the spoons. “Would you gift your savior a bundle of spoons with rust around the carvings?”

“That is a sign of mockery,” Hecate replied coldly.

“I am pretty sure–” Marina said as she flipped through the bundles of forks. “Melissa’s pan was the only thing new that was gifted to us, and that is only because you asked for it.”

“Would you like me to dispose of them?” Hecate asked.

“No need. A man’s trash might just be another man’s treasure.” Marina said. “We could polish these and then use them as backup utensils for the bakery.”

“I suppose that is true.” Hecate nodded. “When would you like to pay the chief a visit, if one at all?”

Of all the Bee-ple Marina had interacted with so far, the village chief was by far the trickiest one. At first she thought it was a reasonable request for the two of them to stay due to the death of a Guardian, but as the days went on, there were no disturbances at all. It could be that Hecate’s presence itself was strong enough to shield the village all on its own, except there were many days when she was gone for hours on end, and the chief did not seem to care a single bit.

She sat down. “We can go after you braid my hair for me.”

“As you wish, my dear.” Hecate smiled.

*****

The walk from Mellie’s house to the town hall was not too far now that Marina knew the village layout better. Along the way were Bee-ple who greeted them as if they were heroes from legends foretold, opposite from the attitude they had on their first day. Oddly enough, the town center today was much quieter.

In front of the town hall entrance stood two guards, the same ones who escorted them before.

Marina stepped forward. “We are here to see the chief.”

“Miss Hecate, Miss Marina,” The guard on the right nodded. “You may enter.”

Upon her first step inside, Marina was greeted with a pungent fragrance of tea, the same one she had this morning and on her first day.

“Ah. Miss Marina and Miss Hecate, it is so good to see both of you.” Chief Humphrey set down his quill pen on a piece of parchment. “Have a seat, please.” He gestured at the chairs on the opposite end of the table.

Marina seated herself first before Hecate. She kept a nonchalant smile on her face, trying to keep herself devoid of any unwanted expression that may draw suspicion to her own suspicions. Just like the rest of the Bee-ple they encountered on the way, the chief’s attitude changed as well. There was no doubt that what the two of them achieved meant a lot for the Bee-ple of this village, especially Hecate’s feats. But how could one be able to convince the entire village with words alone that someone slaughtered an army of two thousand ants all by themselves? This could only mean one scenario: the individual wields the power and authority to convince everyone, and the same individual was also present at the time of the event, because before trying to persuade anyone to believe, you must be your first believer.

“Thank you for the wonderful tea,” Marina said.

“Well, of course! You two are heroes of this village. You deserve the best!” The chief grinned. “I got some brewing in the back right now. Would you like some?”

“That’s fine. I had some this morning already.” Marina shook her head. “And I’m sure we are here to do much more than just drink tea.”

“Oh, yes, I wanted to see the two of you to let you both know that you are now free to leave.” The chief announced. “We could also lend you a few carts to carry those gifts if you’d like.”

“What?” Marina’s eyes widened. She knew something was off, but this was quite different from what she had expected. “It hasn’t even been seven days yet.”

“Right, and you won’t have to stay for seven days. A new Guardian has returned to us.” The chief patiently explained. “In fact, this morning I received a letter from a messenger from the capital. They informed us that this area will soon be overrun with ants, as shown by what had been happening beneath this village.”

“That is an even bigger reason why we should stay.” Marina raised her voice. “A Guardian won’t be able to handle an army of ants, but Hecate–”

“We will be evacuating, Miss Marina.” The chief interjected. “Back to the Hive Capital. And we won’t be able to house the two of you anymore.”

As Marina registered the meaning of the spoken words, everything clicked. The gifts were not real gifts at all; they were simply junk the villagers couldn’t carry, and it was just an excuse to dump it all on the two of them.

“When do you plan to leave?” She asked.

“Tomorrow morning at the latest. You are welcome to stay one more night.” The chief revealed an almost smirkish grin.

“Well, thanks for letting us know.” Marina stood from her seat. “We really appreciated all the hospitality that was provided during the last few days.” She turned to Hecate. “Let us grab our things now.”

“As you wish, my dear.”

The two of them left through the front entrance with a simple goodbye to Chief Humphrey. As Marina walked alongside Hecate, a creeping feel of unease grew more and more intense by the second. She could tell that what the chief told them was just a half-truth, with the lie bigger than the truth even. All the pieces fell into place just a little too perfectly given the events that triggered in just a few days' time. What’s even weirder was how none of the Bee-ple they encountered this morning seemed to be wary of what had just happened. As if there wasn’t just an army of ants living beneath their floorboards.

“I take it that you weren’t actually planning to leave, my dear?” Hecate finally spoke.

“We can’t, not with Mellie still being here. I don’t know what the intention of the chief is, and I don’t know what will happen tomorrow.” Marina sighed. “And I really don’t want it to be the last time we’ll see Mellie.”

“Agreed, my dear.” Hecate nodded. “It is now inevitable then.”

“...”