“This is delicious, Miss Marina,” Mellie said with her mouth full. “Probably the best thing I have ever had so far!”

“Just you wait, Mellie.” Marina leaned back on her seat as she finished the fulfilling meal. “There are still many, many things you haven’t had. And all I ask is that someone else do the dishes.”

“So what you’re saying is… if I do the dishes, you will cook dishes that are even better?” Mellie stood up in awe.

“I can’t promise they are better, but they will be new for sure,” Marina smirked. What an easy way to bribe someone into doing the worst chore.

“That sounds perfect! I like tasting new things, and I like doing dishes too,” Mellie collected the empty plates. “I will take care of them now.”

Marina glanced to her left, at Hecate’s empty plate. “You finished pretty quickly today. Is it actually that good?”

“Ah. Are you looking for more compliments, my dear?” Hecate handed her plate to Mellie.

“Criticism is welcome too, if you have any.” She grinned.

“It was very delicious.” Hecate traced the side of her lips with her finger. “And it’s all very different from the style of food I’m used to.”

“Oh,” Marina tilted her head. “That does remind me that I have to ask around what bread or dessert people enjoy the most around here.”

“I thought Mellie had made it quite obvious?”

Marina kept her voice down. “Okay, there is no way I will allow bee bread to be within five feet of my bakery.” She got up before pushing in her seat.

Hecate soon followed. “But that girl seemed to be enjoying it so very much.”

“Well. I doubt she has even had a real piece of bread before.” Marina sighed as she turned to the direction of the kitchen-lab. “Mellie, make sure to leave the pot on low heat overnight, okay?”

“Got it, Miss Marina,” Mellie replied.

Climbing up to the attic, both Marina and Hecate threw themselves onto the bed once more. It was almost 11 pm. Marina closed her System screen before staring into the dark ceiling as usual, enjoying the soft, cool breeze of the meadow as well as Hecate’s heartwarming company.

Today was yet another eventful day, just like all the previous days she experienced in the Underworld. It was adventurous and thrilling, though a little too dangerous for her liking. But it all worked out in the end.

“Hecate, I’m bored.” Marina turned to her right.

“Too bored to fall asleep?” Hecate teased. “In need of a bedtime story perhaps?”

“No…” Marina shook her head. “Those are for kids. Why don’t we talk about something more important?”

Hecate gazed with her glowing red eyes. “Around this hour? I thought you’d be exhausted, my dear?”

“I heard from somewhere that, when you’re super tired, you are more likely to speak the truth,” Marina said, inching herself backward.

“Interesting observations… So tell me, what would you like to discuss?” Hecate tugged the strands of hair blocking her face behind her ear.

Taking a deep breath, Marina said. “About us…”

“What about us… my dear?” Hecate questioned. “Have I done something that displeased you again? I thought I had already apologized for my wrongdoings from the afternoon?”

“I felt as if our relationship is moving so fast and yet, I barely know anything about you. Like I didn’t even know how old you were until today.” Marina looked down at the bedding. “And it’s only been a few days since we’ve known each other…”

“But it has been fun, hasn’t it?” Hecate smiled.

“Yes, it has, but…” Marina paused. “It has to be more than just having fun, Hecate.”

“Why?”

“Because…” A wild thought struck Marina as she sat up. “Hecate, don’t tell me this entire time, all the things you did, were solely for the purpose of having fun?”

“I thought this was what you wanted?” Hecate said. “I thought you were enjoying what the two of us shared?”

“I did want to have fun, and I was enjoying the things between us because I thought something special was finally happening to me, and I’m finally going to experience something I haven’t had in a long time.” Marina cried. “And ever since that night, I just find myself falling deeper and deeper for you, because you’re just that stunning, beautiful, and perfect. And I prayed that you share the same feelings towards me as well.” Tears formed around her eyes.

“I do, my dear.” Hecate sat up next to her, reaching to wipe the tears from her face.

“Then answer this.” She grabbed Hecate’s wrist. “Why my blood in particular? You said you have been to the cities, and yet you came to me with a contract when you could’ve found someone else so much easier.”

“Mm. I find your taste to be quite exquisite—”

“Tell me the truth, Hecate!” Marina interjected.

“That was the truth, my dear.” Hecate insisted. “It is the only reason.”

“Okay.” Marina hopped off the bed. “I suppose if we don’t share anything special between the two of us, it would be fairly easy for you to sleep alone.” She looked for her shoes. “Well, the only thing special between us would be that stupid contract you tricked me into. Silly me thinking anything good would come out of it.” The thought of that made her blood boil once more.

“Marina, I can tell you the real truth.” Hecate exhaled. “But you must be ready for it.”

Having heard that, Marina took a seat on a nearby chair. “I am all ears.”

“I want to show you something first.” Hecate took off her nightgown.

“That is not going to work on me. I have seen it all already—” Marina's eyes widened as a blue glow shimmered from the left side of Hecate’s chest, specifically her heart. “That was not there. What is that?” She stared at the crystalline object impaled to Hecate, turning the surrounding skin into a frostbitten state.

“This was an injury I suffered from times past, but it caused me more than just constant pain,” Hecate said. “This ice artifact sealed my heart, which then sealed my Authority. And no matter what flames I tried to create with my Techniques, it would not melt.”

Marina walked closer as her expressions softened. “Continue.”

“With my Authority sealed, I lost a majority of my powers. So I wandered to a nearby city. Doing my best to get by while searching for solutions.” Hecate fitted the nightgown back on. “And it wasn’t until one day I found a capsule containing a trace of Celestial Energy that I found the solution.”

“And what does that have to do with me?” Marina asked.

“With the trace of Celestial Energy, I was able to combine it alongside my own energy, and the result shook the ice artifact. But that capsule was made by draining the soul of a Redeemer who just landed in the Underworld,” Hecate explained. “I investigated further and realized that almost all Redeemers came from worlds that are built upon Celestial Energy. Thus, their soul would naturally carry an abnormal amount as they entered the Underworld.”

“So you came to me, because I had the Celestial Energy you were looking for…” Marina breathed heavily.

“That is correct.” Hecate nodded. “I was planning to return to the North for some things, but encountered your reincarnation process along the way. So, I took my only opportunity.”

“So, you knocked on my door… pretending to be dying…”

“I was not sure how powerful you were, but I was ready to give up everything for you.” Hecate looked down at the floor. “Vampires are special in a way that we can extract energy from feeding off of one’s blood. I was only able to form the contract after consuming your blood. It was just enough for me to use my Authority again.”

“So, it’s all a lie?” Marina sobbed. “You don’t actually care about opening a bakery, or just about me in general?”

“At first I convinced myself that I would provide you with anything. Be it money, power, or my body. As long as I could get rid of this curse, I would do anything that you wanted me to.” Hecate said, “But I was surprised by just how passionate you were about certain things, and how much you wanted to help others, even if you were powerless yourself. You were everything that I wished to have become one day.”

Marina let out a long sigh before sitting next to Hecate. “And then?”

“And then a part of me wanted us to be more than just two people bound by a contract.” Hecate glanced at her. “Especially after spending all these years alone, I had almost forgotten what it was like to love again. Seeing you and Mellie together only made those feelings stronger…”

“Wait, you were jealous?” Marina raised a brow.

“I was, indeed.” Hecate blushed. “I thought you just wanted fun and pleasure. My greatest apologies.”

“Mmm… Are those what you’re looking for in a relationship?” Marina tilted her head at Hecate. “Just fun and pleasure?”

“I’m not sure… I don’t know…” Hecate replied. “But whatever it is that you want, I will do my best to give it to you.”

“Hecate.” Marina stood up. “This is where you went wrong.”

“How so?”

“Relationships are not just about giving. It’s also about receiving.” Marina wrapped her arms around Hecate. “You must have what you expect from me, just like how I have things I expect from you. Relationships are a mutual thing, and it takes time.” She whispered. “And time was what I didn’t have much of in my previous life, but I think I have plenty of it now.”

Hecate lost control of her emotions as tears fell from her eyes. “My dear…”

“It’s okay, even if it’s a lot for us to work on, it would be fun. I promise.” Marina assured. “Also, don’t lie to me like this again. If you would’ve just told me on day one, I probably would’ve helped you.”

“Yes, my dear.” Snapping her fingers, a glowing red parchment appeared in her hand before being burned to ashes by a ghastly flame.

“Wait, Hecate, that's our—”

“We won’t need it anymore, won’t you agree, my dear?” Hecate grinned.

“I really wish I could do that to all the contracts I signed in my previous life.” Marina wiped the tear off Hecate’s face with her thumb. “Alright, I need to go to bed now, scootch over.” She gestured as she lay down. “That was way more tiring than this afternoon.”

“But it was indeed important.” Hecate tucked herself into the blanket.

“And now it’s up to you to prove that you truly want something serious with me,” Marina yawned. “Don’t wander off in the morning again.”

“Yes, my dear.”

“...”