With a rump of meat in her hands, Marina kicked the icebox door shut. The hind legs of the boar were so astronomically large that it’d be impossible for her to prep without Hecate’s help, so the right decision was to portion them and keep one rump in the icebox while freezing the others with Hecate’s Technique.

In the kitchen, Marina rinsed the cutting board before setting the rump down. Using the tip of her knife, she carefully peeled back the tough, dark skin. Right under it was a beautiful layer of fat, as well as rosy-colored lean parts that were well-marbled. Perfect for the dish Marina had in mind. Turning the chunk onto the leaner side, where the muscle connection to the bone was the closest. With the same method, she gently scored along the muscle fiber, trying to preserve as much meat as possible.

The ashen-colored leg bone of the boar was heavier than the bones of most cattle Marina had worked with before. Picking up the small hatchet lying next to the workbench, she began hacking away on the tough bone, which was almost as long as her entire arm. After a moment of slamming that shook the entire house, she only managed to put a couple of dents into the bone’s surface.

As Marina let out a long sigh, the front door clicked open, and in walked two sets of footsteps. Both of which approached the lab.

“Miss Marina…” Mellie stepped through the door. “I’m sorry… for saying those things to you.”

She quickly rinsed her hands before walking up to Mellie. “No, Mellie, I totally get it. I shouldn’t have blocked you out, even if I was afraid or worried. It was my bad.” She gently held onto the side of Mellie’s arm. “I’m sorry, I should’ve done better.”

“Miss Marina…” Mellie’s swollen eyes teared up once again. “I was so scared that something would happen to you two…” Launching herself into a hug, Mellie’s voice died to a whisper. “... Scared that you won’t come back.”

Marina wrapped her arms around Mellie. “Don’t be,” She said with a warm smile, glancing to Hecate, who watched in silence by the doorway. “We’ll always make it back.”

“Promise me that you won’t disappear like that again.”

“Yes, I promise,” Marina replied. “There won’t be a second time.”

“Thank you, Miss Marina.” Mellie broke away from the hug before rubbing her eyes.

“Gotta cook dinner now, you want to help?”

“I would love to.” Mellie nodded. “What are you making today?”

“Well, I had a crazy idea at the very last moment, and I want to see if I can make it work.” Gesturing to the rump of meat, Marina looked to the doorway again. “Hecate, can you help with something?”

“Of course, my dear, your wish is my command after all.” Hecate walked to Marina’s side, her forearm resting along her waist. “What assistance shall I provide?”

Marina picked up the hatchet again. “Just need to break down this bone, so it can fit in a pot.”

“How violent. Why can’t I be requested to perform more graceful tasks?” Hecate complained as she grabbed the handle of the hatchet. “How many segments, my dear?”

Marina briefly measured, “Uhh, maybe four to five is good enough.”

“As you wish.”

The axehead fell down from the air like a guillotine, slicing right through the thick bone again and again until divided into exactly five segments.

“Are you pleased, my dear?” Hecate gestured.

“Yeah, that is perfect, thanks.” Marina gave a thumbs up before turning to one of Mellie’s workstations behind her. “Mellie, can I borrow that one pot you were using?”

Mellie trailed behind her. “The one that I use to boil herbs?”

“Yeah, the big one.”

Bending down, Mellie lifted the stone pot from under the table. “Here, Miss Marina.”

“Thanks.”

Marina brought the pot back to the cutting board, tossing in the bone segments and filling it to around three-quarters full with water. She lifted the pot once again before lowering it onto the coil of Everflame crystals. The flame jumped to life after being ignited with a matchstick.

“Mmm… Mellie,” Marina glanced behind her. “Do you happen to have any vegetables lying around?”

“I think there’s still some leftover wild carrots and potatoes I was supposed to cook up this week…” Mellie scavenged through the wooden baskets. “Here they are… still fresh.”

“Ooh, they look nice.” Marina examined.

The carrots had long, light blue stems and leaves sprouting from one end, with their roots in a darker shade of blue. At this point, seeing blue vegetables and fruits was considered a natural phenomenon to Marina. In fact, it’d be odd to see plants be a different color, like the potatoes.

Placing the set of vegetables on the cutting board, Marina weighed a potato with the palm of her hand. It was similar, if not exact, to how much a spud would weigh on Earth. And oddly enough, it had the classic brownish color and size just like that of a market-bought Russet. She sliced the potato down the middle, which revealed a dark blue starchy flesh on the inside. The color was the same as the carrot.

“So the deeper they grow into the ground, the darker their colors are…?” Marina murmured.

“That is correct, Miss Marina,” Mellie interjected. “Root plants are almost always darker than surface plants.”

Dicing the vegetables into cubes, Marina nodded. “Interesting… How do they taste though?”

“They taste alright, edible at least,” Mellie said. “I didn’t really bother cooking them that well though…”

“Well, let us see if they work in soups then.” Marina plated the prepped vegetables before rinsing them with cold water. “Oh Hecate,” Walking to the pot, Marina slowly lowered the vegetables into the bubbling liquid. “Can you grab a cup of milk from the fridge?”

“As you wish, my dear.” Hecate grabbed the nearest wooden cup before stepping out.

“Thanks,” Marina said while staring at the about-to-boil pot. “Alright, Mellie, I got something for you to do now.”

“Oh.” Mellie approached from behind. “What is it, Miss Marina?”

“Okay, so, once this thing starts to boil a little bit, I want you to skim off the floaties. They look like gray bubbles, and they are not good. And then once it really starts to boil, take out like three of the crystals and put the lid on.” Marina instructed. “Got it?”

“I-I think so.” Mellie nodded. “Skim the bubbles, turn down the heat, and put on the lid.”

“Good girl,” She patted Mellie on the head. “Now I need to make the main dish. If you need help, call me over, okay?”

“O-okay, I got this.”

Back on the cutting board, Marina held the knife once again. The rump of meat had a very nice balance of fat and lean, so there wasn’t much trimming to be done, especially if she was to ground it up. She divided the rump down the middle before cutting it into nine smaller and equal chunks.

“My dear,” Hecate returned. “Is one cup enough?”

“Should be.” Marina pointed to an open spot on the table. “You want to help with grounding up the pork? It’s not very graceful though.”

Hecate stepped closer. “Well, if it is something you deeply wish for, then I don’t mind inheriting an ounce of disgrace, my dear.”

“I just need you to cut up the meat…” Marina gestured at the cutting board filled with cubes of pork all touching one another. “Here,” She handed over two knives. “It’s easier with a knife in each hand.”

“Ah. I see.” With both knives in hand, Hecate took over the cutting board.

“Yeah, you just go up and down, rotating with your hands. Left up, right down, right down, left up type of ordeal.” Marina demonstrated. “The key is establishing a rhythm.”

“Mmm…” Hecate stared for a moment before swinging the blades. The rotation of her arms was both swift and harmonious; not a single movement was wasted.

“Damn, you’re a natural at this.” Marina complimented amidst the steady beat of knives. Actually, I’m not shocked, considering she could probably do this to an army of ants. “Don’t overground them though, we still need a bit of texture.”

“Understood.”

Turning behind her, Marina watched as Mellie scooped up the impurities with absolute focus, which was both humorous and impressive at the same time. She looked out the small glass window bound with wooden frames, out into the twilight-colored sky. The scent, the movement, and the sound of the kitchen. They all felt so alive and so familiar.

This is quite nice… Marina let out a long sigh. I hope they haven’t found out about me… I hope they aren’t worried about me… I hope they are well, just like me.