“Doing normal rain. Rain in evening. Clouds lots. I miss some days. Shadow people yell about missing rain. But I like day. Light good. I like rainbow. I love you.”

Erick smiled wide. He was above the second major layer of outward branches, almost to the center of Yggdrasil’s canopy, but he stopped. Yggdrasil’s declaration of love was that of a child; pure and wholesome, and it had caught Erick far off guard. Fortunately, Erick had an easy, true response, “I love you, too, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil said, “I want cast spells Ophiel. I want help you. How I do that?”

“Do you want to help me, first? Or do you want to cast spells, first?”

“They same, yes?”

“A person can help another with simple words, or with actions that are not based in magic. But people like you and me will most often be helping others with magic, so, in that way, the two things you want are inexorably linked.” Erick asked, “Do you understand?”

“Yes.” Yggdrasil clarified, “How I help you like Ophiel help you? Kill enemies? Save your life? Keep you safe?”

Well.

That was… Slightly worrying?

Ophiel twittered in curious guitar twangs; he had heard it too.

Erick decided that now was the time to make sure that Ophiel was raised right, for sure.

Erick patiently said, “When I made Ophiel, I made him so that I would have a versatile helper to follow me around, to do what I could not do because I am only one small person. When I made you, I wanted a defensive structure to protect me, and other people. You were to be my safe space, Yggdrasil, and so I made you with defense in mind.” He had walked around while he talked, but it didn’t take long to find the spot he was looking for. There was a nice crook in the main trunk, about two thirds of the way up from the water’s surface. The main trunk rose toward the south west before becoming like any other branch, while a large branch squiggled north east. At the split, the ‘land’ was mostly flat. Erick stepped down onto Yggdrasil at this spot, and then sat down. “There is so much more to keeping someone safe than killing everyone else. Killing should always be the very last resort, and I work very hard to try and prevent as much death as possible. But I am very small, and the things that threaten me are wide and varied, and so I sometimes have to respond with lethal force. But you are very big. Nothing should be able to threaten you, therefore you should not threaten anyone else. The use of force to solve a problem is a very large topic that you are too young to fully grasp right now, so we’ll have this conversation again when you’re older. Maybe in a month. Maybe in two months. For now, I will say this: I would much prefer if I could run to you for defense against the other large things out there. I don’t like the idea of you killing things to protect me.”

For a long moment, Yggdrasil was silent, then he asked, “So not like fish?”

“...What do you mean by that?”

“Fish eat whatever jaws catch.” Yggdrasil said, “Some fish kill more than eat.”

“Are you talking about monsterized fish? One with little gems inside their chests?”

Another long moment.

“Different fish?”

Erick gently smiled, said, “I’ll paint some lightpictures for you.” He cast a lightward into the air, bringing forth two images of fish, but one was larger, with a core inside its chest. “Here we have two fish. The smaller one will eat smaller fish, but will stop when it is full. The larger one is a monster, which will kill because it wants to kill. That spot inside the larger one? Do you see it? Near the heart. That is called the core, or the rad. It has a few different names. But that is a crystallization of mana that marks a monster as a monster. Do you understand?”

“… No.”

“Let’s leave that for another time, then. Let’s back up.” Erick asked, “Do you understand that I don’t want you killing unless it is necessary? Killing is almost never necessary.”

“I… I understand. No kill. Only help. How can help?”

Erick nodded. “We will work through some spells, and in doing so, I will get a feel for how you can best help me, and you will learn how to do that helping. Do you understand?”

“Yes. Show me.”

Erick smiled, saying, “First, I will protect myself with a [Prismatic Ward] from Ophiel, and then we can play around with your spellwork, okay?”

“I do [Prismatic Ward]! Here!”

A hundred meter sphere of dense air popped up around Erick, enveloping him and a great deal of the branch he was sitting upon. It was too large. Perhaps Yggdrasil got a massive size modifier to his magic? Erick didn’t know, which was why there was a need for experimenting.

Ophiel twittered in unsure guitars as he hopped off of Erick’s shoulder and landed on Yggdrasil’s branch. Almost experimentally, Ophiel tapped the gently glowing bark with a wing, and then he tapped the dense air.

“That looks good, Yggdrasil.” Erick asked, “How much mana did you put into that working?”

“… Lots?”

Erick smiled. “That is very good, but I’d like you to let me show you how I would defend myself, okay?”

“Okay!”

Erick explained what he was doing while he had an Ophiel cast a 10,000 mana [Prismatic Ward] around himself. It was much smaller than Yggdrasil’s sphere, and it only had permissions for himself, Ophiel, and Yggdrasil; Erick had no idea what sort of permissions Yggdrasil had declared for his own cast of [Prismatic Ward], and he said as much.

Yggdrasil said, “I let fish into [Prismatic Ward]. Should I not?”

“[Prismatic Ward] is one of your most defensive spells. You should only use it on an area that you, or those precious to you, inhabit.” He added, “But normal, harmless fish should be able to move around inside a [Prismatic Ward]. Do some fish stay outside that density? The larger ones, perhaps?”

“All fish small.”

Erick laughed. “The less small ones, then. Do the less small fish stay outside the density?”

“Yes! Are monsters?”

“Not always.”

“Hmm. Complicated.” Yggdrasil said, “How I protect from complicated?”

Erick smiled, saying, “Now that is a very large question, too. First, let’s see how you can cast, and then I’ll help you learn some basic defensive techniques using some of the new magics that I have recently created, and some of the ones you are already using.”

“Yes!”

Erick relaxed, and expanded his senses out to Yggdrasil—

It was like dissolving into sleep, where everything became an impression, and nothing was as Erick knew it to be. The sky was a rainbow. The land was dark liquid. The air was an ocean, and also a lake. Erick saw absolutely everywhere, all around himself, like he was possessed of many, many eyes. Erick pulled back after the disorientation became too much; he was only in there for less than a minute.

He was laying down on Yggdrasil’s upper branch, for some reason. He must have blacked out for a moment there, for only moments had passed.

Erick said, “That was more disconcerting than I was expecting. Bear with me, while I try to understand what I was seeing.”

“I liked that. Try again?”

Huh?

“Why did you like that?”

“World turned solid.” Yggdrasil questioned, “You my coffee?”

Erick laughed, then said, “Nothing like a shot of coffee to wake you up in the morning, right?”

“Right! You say!”

Erick didn’t think he said that that often, but he wasn’t going to split hairs with a child.

Erick returned to Yggdrasil.

The world dissolved into dreams, and Erick knew this was not going to be easy. He realized that spending some time with Yggdrasil needed to become a priority, but that would have to happen later. He decided to spend a few hours at this, and then it was time to go confront some dragons. Erick pulled back again, back into his own body.

He went back and forth like that a few times, each experience gaining him more of an understanding of the dreamscape—

Oh.

Hmm.

The dreams were getting thicker. The world was becoming more impressionist.

Erick pulled back, and asked, “Yggdrasil. Are you feeling sleepy?”

“… Yes.” Yggdrasil said, “Being awake hard. Coffee not coffee.”

Best cut this short for today, then. Erick said, “I’m going to cast a few spells through you, and help you gain an understanding of them, and then I’m going to let you sleep, okay?”

“… Okay.”

Erick took control of Yggdrasil like he would Ophiel.

It was like using his fingers to move an ocean.

And what was even stranger, was that he could move an ocean with just his fingers.

Erick weathered the strangeness, and he designated a spot directly ahead of himself. With a cast, [Spatial Denial] took hold of the air—

The spell blossomed outward, spreading across the entirety of Yggdrasil, flowing into the lake below, and beyond. When the spell finally finished spreading it was twice as wide as the lake, and it was still a spherical cast. Erick’s own [Spatial Denial] had a radius of half a kilometer. With a little bit of math to figure out the volume multiplier…

Erick’s eyes went a little wide. Yggdrasil’s cast of [Spatial Denial] was over 220 times the volume of his own. Going off of the flat area of effect, instead, Yggdrasil’s [Spatial Denial] covered about 36 times the area of Erick’s cast of the same spell. That was impressive.

Erick said, “This is [Spatial Denial]. It will prevent people from [Teleport]ing into your space.”

“OH! I use. Yes. Stop pesky blippers. I use right now.”

Yggdrasil canceled the [Spatial Denial] in front of him and recast the spell, himself, filling out the lake with the spell. He had Shaped it, a bit. And all on his own.

Well then.

Erick said, “Very good. Yes; to stop pesky blippers, and yet, you must leave a hole in the center somewhere, so that I, or Jane, or Poi, or Teressa, can retreat to this location, if we get in trouble.”

“I understand.”

The [Spatial Denial] vanished, then came back, with a large space cut out of the working where Yggdrasil had cast his [Prismatic Ward]; around where Erick was right now.

Erick asked, “Are you okay for mana?”

“I have mana.”

Erick nodded, then continued, “This next one is [Unmoving Air]…”

Erick spent a good twenty minutes going through some defensive spellwork, talking about the strengths and weaknesses of each spell, important edge cases, and various necessities that needed to be taken into account. For instance, Ophiel couldn’t fly if [Unmoving Air] was cast around the space, so [Unmoving Air] shouldn’t really be used unless there was a need to stop some pesky [Air Body].

“Pesky dirt body always around me.” Yggdrasil said, “Poking and stealing. I use [Unmoving Stone] now.”

“… Oh?” Erick was concerned, but… ‘dirt body’ was a problem for Yggdrasil to solve. Maybe. For now, anyway. When Erick got back to Spur and Candlepoint, he’d see what was happening there. Erick said, “You need to stop whoever is doing that, but don’t kill them. [Unmoving Stone] should be a good counter against them.”

“I understand.”

They didn’t get far past a few more spells.

Yggdrasil’s greenery began to fade; the brilliant fire of the leaves becoming more mundane. The glowing white bark under Erick’s butt was turning grey. Yggdrasil was getting very tired, but he wasn’t willing to stop, either.

So Erick put an end to the day, saying, “We’ve had a big day, Yggdrasil. Is it time for another nap for you, okay?”

“I awake!”

“Yes, you are awake, but I know you are sleepy. Do you want to sleep?”

“But when I sleep… you gone?”

“Yes, I have to move on. I’m not big and strong like you, so I have to be proactive toward the threats laid against me. But if anyone threatens you, you let me know, okay? You let me know what happens to that dirty body person.”

“No one threaten me.”

“Don’t let anyone hurt you, either, but in that same way, try not to hurt anyone else in turn.”

“I know these words. I like helping fishes get away from other fishes.”

Erick smiled, for many different reasons. Yggdrasil’s words were improving, for one.

“You’re sure to encounter plenty of different types of fishes on this side of the world. New friends, of all sorts. I hope you befriend everyone.” Erick patted the bark next to him, saying, “I love you, Yggdrasil.”

“Love you, father.”

“Good night.”

“Good night.”

Erick smiled wide, happy as could be. And then he turned to light, and stepped away.

- - - -

Erick stepped into the dining room, feeling great. He said to Poi, “That went well.”

Poi said, “Seems like it did.”

“It’s time to leave.”

Soon, they were ready. The boulder with their stuff would remain in the dirt, and not with Yggdrasil, since Erick decided that Yggdrasil was too young to understand such a burden. And then, wrapped in light, Erick, Jane, Teressa, and their guest, Nirzir, lightstepped out of the house, headed to the north.

Leaving behind Songli felt like leaving behind friends who he would likely see again. It was a nice sort of feeling.

Anyway.

Ophiel had already scouted out their destination.

Clan Pale Cow and their Warlord Niyazo were situated about 350 kilometers from Ooloraptoor. They had been traveling toward that central meeting place for the last week. Erick hoped that they wouldn’t mind the sudden, unexpected visit, but he expected it to go well enough.

He could have messaged ahead, but, according to the travel guide [Telepathy] was taboo unless a war was going on, and even then it was considered ‘wrong’, somehow. Poi was probably in for a specific kind of shunning, but if the man was worried about that, he never said.

Erick could have sent a letter, but he would have needed to use their bird-assisted mail system in order to send that letter. Apparently, [Teleport] was similarly taboo. They still got their cows to the markets of Songli through [Teleport], but only butchered meats; not the cows themselves. Food was fine to transport, just not living people.

Hence, Erick decided to show up unannounced.

Who knew what would actually happen! Erick expected answers about dragons, or at least a direction in which to seek them. In order to get those answers, Erick was prepared to respond with assistance (within reason) for whatever problems Clan Pale Cow was having. He wasn’t hiding who he was, this time.

If need be, and if diplomacy failed, he was very much planning on bulldozing his way through whatever problems were foolish enough to get between him and the dragons.

That was the last resort, though.
