Melemizargo narrowed his bright eyes at Erick, then said, “Of course I can; Paradoxes are not hard…” He looked away, “But this ‘Many Worlds’ idea does… Hmm. Maybe this explains why my memory is so warped by this New Cosmology. I am constantly being eaten at the edges. I knew I should have been more whole than this… I will need to figure out a solution… I will simply have to strengthen and expand.” Melemizargo smiled at that, showing off a hint of his glowing white fangs. “Oh yes. I quite like the idea of that. That appeals to me greatly.” And then he looked to Erick. “Any world I See is a world where I exist, so by that very fact other Gods of Magic cannot exist, for I am dominant in my sphere. I cannot see any worlds eaten by Primal Lightning right now, but I do not doubt that you were in one. Take that information as you will. Perhaps you will come to me with more deep questions, and we will exchange more deep answers.

“Here are a few deep questions for you, for now:

“Why is the Red Leviathan not eating the multiverse from multiple multiverses? Is it only capable of acting from one vector?”

“… Are you capable of acting on multiple vectors?”

Melemizargo grinned. “I can, but I choose not to, for interacting with myself is just interacting with myself, if you could understand that. Another way to say it is that I am Here, and not Elsewhere, though I can certainly see that Elsewhere exists, if I desire it, and then I can act from there, if I desire it.”

“Ah. Well yeah. That makes perfect sense. So maybe… Maybe the reason the Red Leviathan cannot just multiply itself and kill us all is perhaps the Red Leviathan cannot work with itself? It seems filled with malevolence for all life, so maybe it hates itself, too?” Erick shrugged. “Maybe it is working with itself, like how I’m working with Solomon. But both Solomon and I are in the same reality, and maybe the Red Leviathan is in the same reality as other Red Leviathans... But now that you have raised the question... I don’t think that particular avenue of thought is a productive one, so I choose to ignore it.” Erick said, “Let us deal with the facts as we see them and make deductions based on those facts; not deductions based on why the enemy hasn’t been able to kill us all.

“All we truly know is that the Red Leviathan ate the Old Cosmology, and it hasn’t finished the job for a multitude of speculative reasons.

“I would return to the topic of working with oneself across a multiverse of timelines some other day.”

“Sure.” Melemizargo asked, “Who would you raise to a god?”

“Solomon,” Erick said, without reservation. “If he wanted it, and only after he becomes immune to the Red Sparks. He’s working hard on healing his soul, and it seems to be going well. As I understand it he is melding together all the different, competing memories of his Other Lives. I looked at his Bracelet earlier and the broken black line is coming back together, so it might only be a week for him until that whole thing shakes out. He will want to get his Jane back, though. He needs to be promised that, and that has to be something that could actually happen. Whatever the case there, I have very big plans for Solomon, so please don’t interfere with him overmuch.”

Melemizargo nodded. “Naturally. Who else?”

“Maybe Avandrasolaro. His new city is growing fast and strong and I like everything about his policies. He would have to become immune to the Red Sparks, too, but we can figure out how to make that happen.” Erick said, “And that’s all I have for right now.”

Melemizargo grinned as he breathed deep, and exhaled relief. “This has been good, Erick. What is your next step?”

“Well it’s gonna be a lot of side-stepping everything, unfortunately. Circuitous. That Void Well is gonna be a target, but I also have to study astrophysics, which simply does not exist on Veird—”

“Astrophysics does exist. Try Stratagold.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. “… Well okay then.”

“They have plans for what they would do if visitors should appear from beyond the Script, and many of those plans have needed to be used over the years. They also have all that technology recovered from other planars. If the technology they have is not useful, they also have diagrams and plans for things like that ‘dyson swarm’ you spoke of at that Shadow’s Feast where we unveiled the dungeons at House Benevolence. I believe that was the first time you mentioned this idea of a swarm of planets, and though you haven’t spoken of it since then, your words and that floating diagram of the planet system were recorded for posterity.

“That posterity has spread wide and deep and thus flourished in certain circles of this world.”

“… Huh.”

- - - -

Erick sent off some messages to Stratagold and Kromolok and even Rozeta, in preparation for what came next, and he also organized what he had figured out about the Red Leviathan today.

Everything he knew was speculative, but it seemed correct.

1: Mostly, the Red Leviathan operated on its own, constantly eating an infinity of other realities spawned on Veird. It was possible that the red leviathans at the Breaking Ritual were smaller parts of the main Leviathan, and Oozy in that other world was a Champion of the Red Leviathan, so it could definitely work with others if it wanted, but mostly it did not. Probably.

2: The God Pact world stayed ahead of the Red Leviathan through quantum multiversal shenanigans; there was just too much to eat, so the Red Leviathan could not eat it all faster than it came into existence. The God Pact was not perfect, though. Veird only survived through the fact that, in the infinite multiverse, somehow, someway, Veird survived.

(Fate was probably involved. Maybe this God Pact world was a world in which Fate could never be fully Banned. Erick liked that idea a lot, actually.)

3: The Red Sparks did not Mind Control people at all, for it was not capable of doing that. The most it could do was see the future and then [Rollback] events that let its prey escape, giving it a chance to draw its prey into an endpoint where it consumed that prey in a side reality.

4: It also [Rollback]ed events that allowed people to recognize it, or any path where it knows that its actors fucked up. Any path that led to true success against the Red Leviathan was most strongly guarded against.

(Number 3 and 4 were the main vectors of the unknown prognostication war happening between the Red Leviathan and all the life of Veird.)

5: The main force for solidity, in the reality in which Erick recognized that he resided —as opposed to the side realities inside Paradox— was the God Pact, which was arbitrated by Phagar, and stabilized by all the gods working together to keep Veird afloat. (And maybe Elemental Fate, but that was a pure guess)

6: Direct war against the Red Leviathan would not work; it would eat such worlds that warred against it most of all, because those worlds drew its gaze, like the mentioning of Fairy Moon drew the sight of that Fairy King.

7: The malevolence of the Red Sparks was nothing less than total evil. Erick might as well call the Element of Primal Lightning as ‘Malevolence’, but that was probably too ‘on the nose’.

8: Everyone he ever knew was dead. And yet, everyone was still alive.

Probably best not to think about that fact too much.

So Erick thought about a much better fact. Or a pair of facts, really.

9: The Red Sparks had stopped the Star Map Ritual from sending a pulse out into the universe. Therefore, there was something out there that the Red Leviathan was afraid of, that could stop it, that could interfere, and Erick wanted to know what that thing was. He needed to do the Star Map ritual again, but somewhere that the Sparks could not interfere.

And 10: Everything could always be made better; all one had to do was try…

“And kill the bad guys every so often, of course.”

- - - -

Erick stepped through a Benevolence portal down onto white tile in a white cathedral. To the untrained eye the walls of this cathedral-like space might look like marble, all white and clear and with veins of yellow and gold, but Erick easily recognized it as stratagold; the type of crystal of which Geode Stratagold was named, and which was the name of the royal adamantium wrought that ruled this land.

King Alfonin Stratagold stood a little down the grand hallway, not smiling at all, but he at least appeared not-mad. The giant black orcol man was flanked by his eldest son, First Prince Abarnikon, and by the white holyite incani Kromolok, the Head Inquisitor of the Church of Rozeta.

No one else was here and the [Ward]s around this place had to be specifically taken down to allow Erick to [Gate] into this least-defended part of this land. The [Ward]s further in were never taken down for any reason, whatsoever.

“Hello, Alfonin. Kromolok. Abarnikon.” Erick said, “Glad to see you all. I was hoping to see some people with some actual astrophysics qualifications, though? Apologies if you have those qualifications; I did not know.”

Ophiel looked around, his eyes wide. He was probably feeling a little weird because this area was almost [Ward]ed against [Familiar]s. Erick would have to leave him behind when he got further in, which was kinda fine… It wasn’t fine, but Erick didn’t press the issue.

There were no Red Sparks here, so this was probably a safe-ish space.

Alfonin chuckled a little, his entire facade of a stern king easily fading away. “I do, actually, dabble in astrophysics. So that is why I am here. I’m not here as king today, and neither is Abarnikon. This is all Kromolok’s show, so after you’re done with the ships you can come up to the palace for some tea and math fun, won’t you?”

Abarnikon added, “I also enjoy drawing maps of the universe, Erick.”

Erick raised an eyebrow, grinning. “Oh! Well you learn something new every day, I suppose. And yes; that sounds like a great idea.” Erick said to Kromolok, “Hello, Kromolok. I hope my impositions are not too onerous.”

Kromolok was actually-mad, but good at hiding it. “You should be aware, Erick, that this ‘no mental magic’ decree of yours is very suspect. Please convince me that you are not dragging a great big problem into my life, and into this very secured location.”

Now that was what Erick had been expecting.

“I can honestly say that I do not have a meme or anti-meme stuck in my head, and that I am not a sleeper agent of Melemizargo or any other force of evil, and that I only have the best of intentions for all of Veird and all of its peoples, both living and dead, and everything in between.” Erick added, “But if you try to touch my mind then whatever happens is literally not my fault and I cannot help you with that fallout.”

All three wrought were uncomfortable with Erick’s words, with the two royal wrought being most unsure. Alfonin and Abarnikon were here as security measures, for sure. Perhaps their words about being astrophysicists were true, but that was a side benefit to their true presence.

Kromolok was the real power in this particular place though, and he showed it with his obvious displeasure, and yet, he wasn’t that mad. He seemed more secure now, too.

Kromolok still frowned a little, but his words were solid, “I suppose I can accept that. I believe you, Erick.”

Alfonin relaxed first, but not by much. “Then that is great news!”

Abarnikon asked, “I would speak with you about the nature of our starry skies later, Erick, when you are done perusing the Vaults.”

Alfonin asked, “How long do you suspect you’ll be in the Vaults?”

He had already told them his desires and his goals, but that had been through Poi’s Mind Mage communication network, and not directly, and Kromokok had already told him exactly what he would be allowed to do, and how long it would take. But maybe he could get more out of this?

Erick said, “Unless I’m allowed to take samples with me, then it shouldn’t be more than an hour, right?”

Erick saw Abarnikon and Alfonin look at Kromolok.

And Kromolok stood firm, “No samples, Erick. It’ll be an hour, if that.”

“Ah! Well,” Abarnikon said, “I tried.”

Alfonin shrugged.

Erick smiled at that.

“The Star Map you created in that clearing is the best local star map we have, though,” Alfonin eagerly said, showing that even the undying First King of the Wrought had a child-like glee side to him. He was still wary of Erick and his untoward request not to touch his mind, but he couldn’t help but be happy right now. Had he been waiting a while to talk to Erick about the Star Map? Perhaps he had. “Don’t go expecting too much more than what you have already given us with your own Star Map, but we do have some records that you have not seen yet, and I feel you might enjoy those.”

“I was kinda hoping for star maps of other civilizations, if you have them. ‘Where do the other planars come from?’ That sort of thing. There is life out there in the rest of the universe, and I would like to know why it has not appeared on Veird yet. I’m glad to see that is on the table?” Erick asked.

“It is,” Alfonin proudly said.

Erick nodded, then looked to Kromolok. “I believe you and I spoke of lots of technologies kept out of the general populace, like ‘internets with a lot more power than how I imagine them existing’? Are those also on the table?”

Alfonin asked Kromolok, “What’s an ‘internet’?” A tiny flicker of a thought tendril passed from Kromolok to Alfonin— Alfonin’s eyes went a little wide, and then he settled down. “Ahh. That’s an ‘internet’.”

Erick asked, “I kinda wondered why you all didn’t put something like that up in the Geodes. I assumed that the reason not to do it was forbidden knowledge proliferation, and maybe you already have an ‘internet’ with the Mind Mage Crossing.”

“We have that in the Crossing,” Alfonin said, nodding. “It used to be a lot more open than it is, but that version of the Crossing failed due to catastrophic meme proliferation. It’s better now that only practiced Mind Mages can access that well of knowledge, and the whole thing is overseen by Ascendant Minds. If you wish to proliferate some technological equivalent for the common person on Veird then I would assume you would try to put just as many safeguards into such a system as we have put into the Crossing.”

Erick smiled a little. “Of course.”

Alfonin nodded, satisfied. “We’ll be seeing you later then, Erick. Don’t get lost in the Vaults.”

Kromolok led the way beyond the royal wrought, saying, “This way, Erick. Once we get deep enough in all magic will begin to fail, so expect that.”

