“Void is the Element of Emptiness; the great hole in the world,” Guile said. “It is most often used to erase things and to set things to nothing, and for the Heart, it was used to great effect to do just that. The Lost God’s Void Well was a specific version of a generic artifact that was used in many different locations to contain and hold many different deadly things. Or good things. Prisons made prolific use of Elemental Void. The Void Well of that Lost God was specially made to contain the Heart, and also to open up the Heart in small ways, to turn mages loyal to the Lost God into archmages, and other such elevations.

“If you wish to ask around about it, that specific Void Well was found on the world of Andonol, in the Bitter Reaches of the Old Cosmology, in a place called the Barrens.” Guile said, “I can tell you the whole story whenever you wish, but it seems you are eager to go elsewhere, and the story is long. It might be a fruitful story though, because the Void Well has only a few of the same problems as the Grand Cleanser; most notably this ‘Infinitesimal Ban’ of the Script.”

Erick nodded. “I look forward to hearing all about that, and more. But now, yes, I gotta go. There’s something I need to talk to someone about.”

Erick left Solomon and Guile there on that stone platform, his brother and his brother’s fae looking a bit more secure in their station. Solomon even looked a bit happy. He had figured out something big, and the Red Sparks hadn’t gotten him, either. He truly was developing an immunity, wasn’t he.

Smiling a little, Erick went back to Melemizargo’s Throne.

- - - -

“So there’s something I realized, and I need to bounce the idea off of you.” Erick asked, “Did you find out anything you wish to share first?”

Melemizargo lounged on his Throne, having reappeared and swallowed the world with Darkness as Erick started speaking to the air.

“You have only been gone for a short while, Erick… But yes. I have discovered a few things. Continue with your own thoughts. We will get to mine in due time.”

“Okay. Good.” That’s what Erick wanted anyway. Erick began, “So! I have made some observations, and because of those observations, I have some theories.

“The Red Sparks are Primal Lightning, but lesser. With this understanding a lot of facts begin to take a whole lot more significance.

“First fact! Primal Lightning was able to destroy an entire universe in 3 days.

“Second fact: The Red Sparks are not able to destroy Veird, but they certainly do try, and they certainly can turn into Primal Lightning in other versions of Veird, to eat away those other worlds.

“So why haven’t the Red Sparks destroyed Veird? Yes, Veird is slightly special in the God Pact stuff and in the pure density of divine power here, and that is what allowed it to survive its trip through the Yawning Voids left by Primal Lightning, but that is likely only part of what makes Veird special. A very big part, I believe, but not the biggest part.

“Perhaps the truly special thing about Veird —these days— is that it now exists in the New Cosmology, and it is full of mana and possibility made manifest through that mana, and this mana does a lot more than anyone ever knew.

“But let us back up a bit. Regarding the nature of the Old Cosmology, I ask you: How many layers of reality were there in the Old Cosmology? An infinite amount of realities? Or just as many layers of reality as there were people and other mana producers?”

Erick waited.

Melemizargo allowed Erick to wait as he frowned a little. “I saw some of your conversation with Guile, and he was mostly correct. There are only as many manas as there are producers, but an individual does produce mana on a spectrum; not on a singular type. Spectrums can be… Well. Not infinite, but highly varied.”

Erick smiled a little. “Still less than infinity, though.”

“A trillion 9s all in a row is still a number less than infinity; yes.” Melemizargo said, “I see where you are going with this, and I disagree—”

“Let me get the whole thought out there, please.”

Melemizargo rolled his eyes. He said nothing.

Erick continued, “So Primal Lightning took time to kill the Old Cosmology, and it probably set up the whole universe for a long time before it actually took that final murderous step, though that last part is just a guess; I’m not sure. I am guessing that the Red Sparks are the precursor to Primal Lightning, like how a static charge builds before lightning strikes. I am guessing that the Red Sparks is trying to set Veird up for a kill, too.

“These guesses are more of a 99% ‘I am sure’ sort of guess.

“The Red Sparks are the precursor to Primal Lightning. The Red Sparks can erase possibilities where people notice it and cause a bunch of other shenanigans with choosing Paths through time, but at the end of the day, the Red Sparks only want one thing: worlds where Primal Lightning comes down from everywhere and tears all of reality apart.

“And here is another theory: The Red Sparks do not care about people seeing its true form of Primal Lightning, because when you see those planet-sized lines of Red Lightning, you’re already dead anyway. That’s why Veird still has memories of Primal Lightning at all.

“But the Red Sparks don’t like people knowing its true nature, so that’s why everyone thinks Primal Lightning is white, and that it looks like Benevolence. There might be something going on with time and redshifting and otherwise, but Red Lightning is Red, and it might just be a choice of the creator. Perhaps Primal Lightning truly is white, though, because of redshifting and Primal Lightning being a physical-yet-magical force and how Particle Magic and Atomic Magic both have brought you fully out of your insanity and otherwise—

“ANYWAY!

“All of that was speculation and I don’t know enough to say why Primal Lightning is red in this New Cosmology and white in the Old Cosmology, but those are some guesses.

“Anyway.

“The time it took to kill the Old Cosmology and how it is failing to kill Veird in a timely manner means a lot.

“Either there is a conscious force holding it back from killing us all.

“Or maybe it is holding back itself, and farming us.

“Or it simply cannot eat us faster than we produce multiple realities.

“I would like to think that because of the malevolence that it displayed in killing the Old Cosmology, that there is no conscious force capable of holding it back, and that it is not holding back itself. Therefore, the only reason it has not eaten us is the only reason left.

“I believe that the most reasonable explanation for why it cannot kill us is because it cannot eat us as fast as we multiply. It was able to act across the largeness of the Old Cosmology, but it is not able to act across the true infinity of this New Cosmology, with its Many Worlds possible explanation for quantum events… And maybe it’s not a true infinity here, either. But the New Cosmology is a bigger infinity derived from Particles than the infinity that was solely derived from individual mana types.

“And because there are so many realities here, all in the mana and in the Many Worlds, and because of the God Pact solidifying this main reality, all the Primal Lightning can do is eat the side realities, as it did to the side realities in the Old Cosmology, the Elemental Fae and otherwise. And so, this God Pact reality continues to exist.

“We’re literally outpacing the End of Everything here on Veird, and only through pure luck and all the gods working together to solidify this God Pact reality— Which I didn’t even know about until Sininindi spilled that secret in that side reality I escaped from, which I’m kinda disappointed in everyone for not anyone telling me about this, but I’m pretty sure that was the Red Sparks’ fault— ANYWAY. It’s only through the God Pact that we’re able to survive at all.

“The original Veird survived the Yawning Void because of the gods and the divine manaminer of the proto-Script, after all. So gods matter a lot. Big, big deal there.

“And Benevolence is helping now, too!

“Benevolence is helping me to find the right Path. That’s what I designed it to do, though I wasn’t aware that’s what I was doing to myself when I did it. It’s already helped me a lot with staying in this God Pact world, and it’s even helped me to see better conversation options now and then—”

“Don’t tell me that last fact. Don’t tell anyone that, ever again. Never. Now continue.”

Erick paused.

Melemizargo was focused hard on him.

… Erick continued, “So all we have to do to escape the Primal Lightning is to leave behind an infinity of death on our way to the future, and I don’t want to do that, but we’re doing that for now, because it was already being done for so long and that’s the only way we survive. But I want to change that eventually. When we can.

“So how do we exploit this scenario in order to change this scenario?

“I had been thinking of opening up Yggdrasil’s seed options early, but that seems disastrous. There are a lot of options I was considering, but the more I think of what I just told you, the more I think I am right, and that any option outside of Veird, without the other gods following close behind, and without countless people to make more mana and more possibilities… All other normal expansion options would fail, and fail hard. Possibly even harming our infinity of Many Worlds here on Veird.

“Our original idea of giving the next world to Kirginatharp and letting the gods slowly move over there with their worshipers would just be asking for that world to turn against this world and for them to kill us all.

“For make no mistake! The Red Leviathan still wants to kill us all. Its malevolence knows no end, and the Primal Lightning is always just on the other side of a quantum event.

“At the very least, we need some more gods. I’m not sure. A lot more gods, maybe— A lot more gods working for the good of us all. And then, when we open new worlds, it has to be a large, quick event, done randomly and without the Red Leviathan able to respond. Something no prognostication event could have ever conceived of as possible.

“I think I want to make a dyson swarm, Melemizargo, and fill every single land with slimes and dungeons and life ever expanding.

“But! If we can do that...” Erick stared back at Melemizargo. “If we go really big, and really stable, I think the Primal Lightning simply won’t be able to keep up with our expanding possibilities.

“That’s most of how we win.

“A more permanent solution will come later. Such a solution will likely involve destroying the sun, but that is just so insane that if I ever suggest such a thing I will be rightly laughed out of every hall of power, and assassins would be right to try and end my life.”

Erick stood strong. He was sure he was right.

Melemizargo was staring hard, his eyes like stars in the black of everything. His voice was an earthquake of possibility, “Explain this ‘Many Worlds’ concept. I have not heard of it before.”

Erick was absolutely, 100% sure he had told this concept to others before, especially around his [Teleport] experiments and his Worldly Path. Melemizargo should have been listening. But the Red Sparks were always active, and Melemizargo had already proven himself as less-than-omniscient. Honestly, the fact that Erick was here, now, talking about this stuff with Melemizargo, was proof that everything was getting a whole lot better, and rapidly, too.

Just 13 years from Erick inventing [Call Lightning] and Particle Magic, to here.

“The Many Worlds idea begins with quantum physics. Now I’m no physicist, and mana helps me bridge that final gap a lot, but the basic thing to understand with quantum interactions is that every interaction that is possible, actually happens, or it doesn’t happen, and for every split like that another reality is created. One where the photon spins down after an interaction instead of up, for example…”

Erick spoke for a while about quantum events, and particles, and the multiverse of the New Cosmology, and what ‘mana’ might exist in this New Cosmology, and how he had no idea what to call that ‘mana’, but it certainly wasn’t Veird’s mana.

Melemizargo was attentive, then judgmental, then concerned, and finally Erick finished.

“I disagree with the Many Worlds interpretation of this New Cosmology for I am stretched across all these realities and there are a large number of them, yes, but not as many as would arise from this idea of every grain of sand producing another thousand realities.”

“Ah ha! But what if we can only reach the side realities that are nearest to us because those are the ones we exist within? Maybe you’re a constant in this God Pact world, but maybe there’s some other God of Magic in some other version of Veird and you literally can never meet that other God of Magic. Maybe, by your nature as a god, you can never meet other gods with your own mantle.” Erick added, “That’s just a complete guess, by the way, but there’s something about it that makes some sort of sense.”

Melemizargo narrowed his eyes at Erick, and then turned to gaze into the Dark distance.

Erick continued, “I am absolutely sure that there are realities out there where I died long ago, after all. I met one of those other selves in the Deep Paradox.” Erick changed tracks, “But enough about that. I want to know if you agree that it is possible that the size of Veird, in this New Cosmology, might actually be larger than the Old Cosmology itself, if we consider every grain of sand to be producing a thousand different worlds at every single fraction of a second in time.” Erick asked, “If the Red Sparks simply cannot eat us fast enough, for this knife-edge cornucopia gives more than it eats, can we extend this entire world’s physical and god powers out to other lands and keep ahead of the Red Leviathan, too, until such a time happens that we can kill the Red Leviathan for good?”

Melemizargo frowned a little as he continued to stare in the distance.

Erick waited.

“… I do not like being a lizard who drops his tail and flees the enemy,” Melemizargo softly said, “But perhaps there is some merit to your words. I will have to think on this, Erick.”

“I just have one question before I go.” Erick rapidly asked, “Can you see side-realities where you don’t exist?”

