Erick followed, nodding to Alfonin and Abarnikon who nodded back, then he caught up to Kromolok, asking, “Will Ophiel be okay?”

Ophiel chirped, “I’m okay!”

Alfonin and Abarnikon vanished into a [Gate] of Script-making.

“Ophiel will have to stay around here, in the entryway. We have a place for him ahead.” Kromolok gestured at the tall stratagold walls, saying, “Don’t go above head-height. There are spellworks up there in the wardlights that will entangle and disintegrate him.”

Erick glanced around with his All-Seeing Eye, and though the hallway looked like a normal cathedral-like hallway, lined with tall crystal walls and lit with chandeliers above, the walls were more [Ward]s than physical, with wrought standing in hidden alcoves, watching for intruders. They watched Erick and Kromolok walk by, but they said nothing. Maybe they went their whole lives only seeing people every other decade? How sad. But… Some wrought were Like That.

A little deeper in were guardian golems that reminded Erick of the guardians outside the cloud walls that separated the Core of Veird from the massive monster tunnels outside, but these guardians were more like suits of armor and only 4 meters tall, instead of like those giant white monsters with their single eyes and lots of teeth, and so many [Luminous Beams]. These guardians probably had [Luminous Beam] magics, too.

A golden line in the floor came up soon enough, and the world beyond that line was awash in diffuse light. Erick could still see past it, of course; his All-Seeing Eye was doing work.

Kromolok said, “The main [Ward]s start here. The Vaults are a hundred meters further down. Ophiel won’t be able to come any further, but we put a perch here for him.”

It was a nice golden perch, completely devoid of every magical effect that suffused everything else down here. It looked out of place because of that, because it was out of place. The controlling magics got a lot denser further in, but they were already strong here, so Ophiel had to use his own Benevolence aura to move himself onto that perch.

“I’ll be back soon, Ophiel.”

The little guy chirped, “Later daddy!”

Erick smiled at that, and then he followed Kromolok, as Kromolok led the way past the golden line on the floor. The world seemed to dim the second Erick stepped across. Sound failed to travel far. Light turned misty, instead of coherent. Without his All-Seeing Eye the trip to the Vault ahead would have been like walking through illuminated fog. With the Eye, it was like walking down a normal hallway that attempted to crunch all magic down to nothing.

Erick was glad to see that the Red Sparks weren’t here, and that his various artifacts were still highly functioning. His All-Seeing Eye probably shouldn’t have been functioning so well, but it was. The Lightning Shield was a divine artifact, and thus it made sense that it was not subject to these mundane magics filling these halls… Or perhaps the magics in these halls were attuned to allow Erick his Eye and Shield?

A more paranoid man would have thought this a trap.

Erick felt pretty good about what was happening here, though, and for multiple reasons. He said to Kromolok, “I discovered another use for Benevolence that you should try out sometime.” Erick almost wanted to speak of Benevolence being used to see tracks through time and space, to connect a current location with a better outcome in the future, but Melemizargo had told him not to speak of that to anyone, ever, and Erick would accept that warning/recommendation for now. There were other secrets to share, anyway, and he was seeing one of those ephemeral, White Lightning paths laying ahead of him right now. It wasn’t a very long path, but like how the Red Sparks had set up dominoes across all of reality, Erick could set up proper dominoes, too. So he followed that short Benevolent path forward, the Path growing stronger and more solid as he spoke simply, “Benevolence is great against corruptive influences. It encapsulates them, and prevents those corruptive influences from causing harm. Sort of like an immune system response to a foreign body. Of course, the influence still exists, but it is kept separate from this time and space, and thus it is nullified for a while. Just don’t go breaking that barrier and letting it out without having a solution for that, too.”

Kromolok’s eyes went a little wide.

Erick nodded.

And Kromolok looked away, thinking.

The two of them walked for several more steps—

“So this explains why you don’t want your mind touched,” Kromolok said, “This is both more and less concerning than I had feared.”

“Understandable. I’m still not sure what to do with this information myself. It just sort of happened. Short term solutions are working right now, and Benevolence seems to have a natural capability to take care of existential threats all on its own— both to encapsulate and keep from spreading, and final annihilation— but it’s sort of like an immune response. There’s certainly some time-propagation happening, speeding up that immune response, but even still, it takes time and recognition of the threat for this side of Benevolence to function.”

Kromolok looked at Erick for a moment, then he turned forward, saying, “We’ve had Elements that separated and controlled threats before. It does not actually fill me with hope that Benevolence does this as well. It’s truly quite alarming, really. That your Element can erase those threats eventually is also quite alarming, but on the whole, it seems like a good thing. The only concerning thing truly about it is the theoretical reverse of Benevolence which someone will no doubt invent in the future.”

“Glad to see you’re still looking at every possible bad end, Kromolok,” Erick said, not unkindly.

“We should all be a little more paranoid when it comes to forces beyond our understanding, especially sentient ones like your Benevolence, and all of the rest of the other dangerous things from beyond the Script.” They reached the end of the hallway where a simple white door lay, like at the end of any other hallway anywhere else. Kromolok put his hand on the handle, asking, “What do you even want the ship for, anyway?”

Because I need to be able to get a message out into the Void without the Red Sparks interfering, among other reasons.

“Because I need to inspect some truly advanced materials, like I explained already.”

Kromolok pinched his lips a little, and then he opened the door.

The land beyond was much more appropriate for a Vault entryway than the simple door had been. Beyond a solid white room that was large enough to house all of Erick’s cloud castle, a giant black circle of a door stretched up a hundred meters, like a cap upon an edge of the world. Kromolok walked through the smaller door, into the larger space, where all of Kromolok’s magic crunched down to the surface of his skin, and only because he held his Domain strong against the oppressive forces of that space.

Erick followed, also keeping his Domain up and active, feeling like he was stepping into an Abyss—

“Oh.” Erick asked, “Is that door crystallized Elemental Abyss?”

“Hanging liquid Abyss, mostly, but kept semi-crystallized and solid most of the time. So you’re somewhat correct.” Kromolok said, “In order to reach the Vaults you have to be able to actually walk through both the crystal and the liquid version and come out the other side whole. I can’t help you with this part, Erick. I’m sure you can do it, though.”

“Piece of cake.”

Kromolok led the way.

And soon, Erick followed him into an absolute crushing depth of power, where even Erick’s mana sense was crushed down to the surface of his skin. Any normal person in this sort of space would have gotten lost in the black, for sure, but Kromolok knew the way, and it was straight ahead, and Erick could see with his Eye, so it wasn’t that bad.

He wasn’t even sure where he was going—

Ah.

There was a [Gate]. Not one of Erick’s either.
