Elise would have liked to do more so she could get a better idea of the catalog, but she thought that might have been pushing it.

“Then, for my first guess, I believe you’re after the portable library. I’ve heard you’re quite the reader.”

Elise pondered for a moment whether that sounded right, but it didn’t particularly jump out at her, so she shook her head. It was good to know that Eliza was an avid reader though, and that there would be a “portable library” for sale at the auction. She could only assume it was some kind of storage device for books.

“Well, then it must be the original copy of A Treatise on Mana and Spells.”

“Wrong again,” said Elise.

It sounded interesting, but not quite right.

“Hmmmm,” he said, scratching his chin. “Interesting. Very interesting. I was sure it was one of those two. Let me think for a moment. Your main magical element is nature, right?”

“Yes,” Elise confirmed.

“Then it’s safe to assume that you at least have some kind of garden in which to keep your prized plants, but given that you live in a coastal country, it’s likely that certain plants won’t grow well there, meaning you require some kind of climate control. Now, given your family’s status, I’m sure that you already have all the climate control artifacts that you need. However, they aren’t free. The mana it costs to keep them running likely reduces the ambient mana in the air by quite a bit. Therefore, you would need something that is able to replenish that mana, or else your more delicate specimen would be unable to survive. These types of artifacts are incredibly rare though, and plants and monsters that do the same are even more so. So, my third guess is that you are after the Mana Musa seed.”

Elise internally thanked Franz for building out her backstory for her like that before she responded.

“No.”

She and Oberon had briefly gone over the existence of Eliza’s garden, but hadn’t spent too much time on it, so Elise could only assume it wasn’t important enough for her to travel all this way just to improve it.

“Damn,” he said. “Honestly, I’m struggling a bit to remember the rest of the catalogue. I really thought you were going for one of the first two. I suppose my next guess is that you’re here just for fun, and you’ll buy whatever catches your fancy. Or perhaps you’re here for something that’s not on the catalog?”

“Are those your final two guesses?” asked Elise.

“No. Forget the first. Are you here for something that’s not on the catalog? Perhaps a surprise item, or maybe something separate from the auction entirely?”

Elise had some suspicion when Franz first brought up the idea, but hearing him guess it officially made her almost certain that was exactly what “Eliza” was after. It sounded like something Oberon would set up. Send her to an auction, only for her real target to be something completely different.

“Correct,” she said with a smile. “I guess I owe you a favor now.”

“Only a small one,” said Franz with a light laugh. “Perhaps I’ll use it for a dinner date.”

He winked, and Elise made herself blush again.

“I suppose that would count as a small favor,” she said. “I actually had a friend who wanted to meet with you. Her husband is a businessman, and was impressed with your work.”

“Well, I supposed I could never turn down a business offer,” he said. “But I was hoping for something a bit more… private.”

“...Maybe,” said Elise.

She had no interest in the man, but she couldn’t see any reason to turn it down either. Plus she had already put on an act of finding him handsome, so she had to keep it up.

“This may be a business relationship, but that doesn’t mean it has to be only business,” said Franz, winking again.

“I’ll be in your care then,” she said.

Gross, she thought.

About a minute later, they finally arrived at their destination. Franz exited the carriage first, then helped Elise out, and she found herself staring at the entrance to a conspicuously nondescript building. If not for the two guards dressed in black, half-hidden in the shadows, Elise wouldn’t have spared it a second glance. Franz summoned a piece of paper from some hidden spatial storage item and showed it to one of the guards. The guard nodded, then the two opened the doors.

“Shall we?” asked Franz, holding out his arm.

“We shall,” said Elise, linking her elbow with his as they walked into the building.
