Now, Callan was left wondering if he’d ever really known the siren at all. The feeling was probably even worse for Daphne, after what he’d just revealed.

The ghost shuddered. While this entire situation was far from ideal—the extensive destruction throughout the manor and both Pyre and Llyr’s wounds were proof of that—the idea of being halfway through the planned spell only for Llyr to pause it to question them, Daphne’s soul literally on the line… It sent a chill up his spine to even think about.

“Maybe,” Daphne muttered, “but I didn’t realize what my uncle was doing, either. I knew he was up to something, but I still couldn’t put the pieces together until it was staring me straight in the face.”

She lowered her head, gaze shifting to stare down at the floor. “It just feels like I’m always being lied to, and I’m too stupid to figure it out.” She laughed darkly. “Hell, even Pyre was lying about being a demon at first.”

“That’s still not your fault,” Callan insisted. “I don’t think someone else in your situation would’ve done any better. I mean, I definitely wouldn’t have.”

Slowly, Daphne raised her head and turned to the ghost. She was quiet for a moment, simply studying him in a way he couldn’t read. He shifted nervously.

Finally, a small smile spread across the noble’s lips. “Maybe,” she said. She pushed herself away from the wall, straightening and patting the dust off her clothes. Her gaze moved back over to the closed washroom door.

Callan glanced at it as well. He hadn’t heard anything from inside the room, so Pyre and Llyr were probably still inside, but he couldn’t help but be a little nervous at the prospect of facing the latter again. A part of him was holding onto the hope that not everything about the healer had been false, but he still wasn’t sure how to approach the man—the siren—who was now effectively a stranger.

“Guess it’s time to head back,” Daphne muttered.

“Are you sure you’re okay?”

The noble smiled wryly. “Not really, and I don’t think I’m ever going to like Llyr, but it’s more important that we stop that group and find Pyre’s soul piece.”

She took a deep breath and squared her shoulders. “I can put aside my personal dislike to work with him until we’ve achieved those goals. And if he tries anything”—she snapped her fingers, eyes gleaming—“then I’ll deal with him then.”

Callan studied the mage, the confident stubbornness returned to her features, bold and determined as ever in a way he’d come to admire. He felt himself smile unconsciously in return.

He floated forward, ready to enter the room again, when Daphne stopped at the last second. She glanced back at him.

“And Callan?”

The ghost paused. “Yes?”

Daphne smiled. “Thank you,” she said. With that, the noble turned and swung open the door, leaving Callan blinking behind her.
