His skill had completely recovered from last night’s experiments, and the bulging suitcase by the door was light when he lifted it, even though his sense of his current entruster’s location was strangely absent. He maneuvered himself awkwardly out into the hall with all of it and stood collecting himself for just a moment longer.

The lines of doors stretched in front of him. A girl was staring at apartment 909. She had one of the welcome bags in her hand.

She looks scared.

Alden walked toward her.  “Moving in today?”

She took in his ridiculous number of belongings with wide blue eyes.

<<Yes,>> she said in Russian. Then she laughed uncomfortably. <<But I’m just standing here instead of going into the room. Are you moving in, too?>>

“I’m leaving,” said Alden. “Don’t be nervous. This is an okay place. The Warren is the best part of intake. Rabbits are a really friendly group.”

Now that it was over, he wished he’d been in a better frame of mind for the past few weeks so that he could have appreciated it all more.

<<My pre-arrival counselor said the same thing.>>

“You’ve got this.” He didn’t have hands free to give her a thumbs up, so he lifted Victor in salute instead.

He piled into the elevator with all his stuff, and he didn’t bother to stop on the eighth floor to visit the counselor’s desk. Neha had left a few days ago, off to work on Artona I for one of her long-time employers. She’d sent him a personal e-mail encouraging him to call her if he ever needed anything and giving him the name of a financial advisor she recommended.

Gus had talked to him a couple of nights ago and reminded him that a Rabbit should be well-dressed and well-prepared for every occasion and ready to act with less than a minute’s notice.

<<And that applies twice for Rabbit superheroes!>> he’d announced. <<When you are ready for your first tuxedo, you call me. I will show you how to dress for any party on any planet.>>

Then he’d gone back to swearing violently at a goalkeeper from Argentina.

The elevator opened onto the empty lobby, and Alden strode out the front doors toward a waiting SUV.

Intake was a place for people who were just passing through. After the professional cleaners went over the apartment and removed every last trace of cat hair, the only sign Alden Thorn had ever lived here would be a line of high scores on a pinball machine.

***
