She fixed her eyes on the door. This family actually marked their children’s heights there, on the other side, in permanent ink. They could keep on doing that for years to come.

I’ll probably never measure my little brothers again.

Even if she did, it would just be some odd request she made herself on a rare visit.

A text appeared. The sender’s name was J. He was a Wright in intake.

[Are you sure?]

She thought of the heights on the door. She thought of her family. [I can’t. You shouldn’t either. It’s dangerous.]

[I know what I’m doing. There’s plenty of time if you change your mind.]

She wiped her face on her hoodie.

[Maricel, we’re doing the punch thing if you’re still here.]

That one was from Alden. He was trying again.

Thanks.

She’d panicked when Tuyet texted to ask where she’d disappeared to and lied about leaving with a headache. Stupid. Completely stupid.

There was no way to leave the apartment without being spotted by forty people, but if they were all about to start their drinking thing…maybe she could make it while they were distracted. Maybe her new roommates wouldn’t see her and start to hate her.

Carmen hasn’t called me in two weeks. I don’t think she really wants me to call her anymore.

She was jealous of Maricel. She was tired of Maricel’s complaining.

Why didn’t the System pick her? Maricel thought as she pulled her hood up over her head and listened for the sounds of the drinking contest getting underway. If it had just picked her instead of me, everyone would have been happy.

The giant suitcase stood, packed and waiting, by the door. Smaller bags and containers were strapped to it with all the belongings that had been collected at the last minute. The apartment was clean. The furniture was arranged so that it looked like it had never been used for target practice. Victor was in his carrier, and Alden was making a noble effort to lint roll every last strand of cat hair from the sofa.

Boe sat crosslegged in the armchair beside Victor, holding the smashed aluminum disc that had once been a soda can and watching Alden work.

“You’ve got to tell me the second you get back home!” Alden tried to inject some energy into his voice. “You have to make up fully with Jeremy. And you should swing by the consulate and say hi to Gorgon for me.”

“I will. Gorgon was intensely upset when you went missing.”

Alden peeled another layer of adhesive off the lint roller. “You’ve read Gorgon?”

“Yeah. On purpose. He’s a member of an unknown species chained up for crimes, and you were feeding him snacks. I wanted to make sure he wasn’t having sinister thoughts toward you.”

“Boe.”

“What?”

“I think Gorgon’s a good person.”

“Well, he obviously likes you, too. He seems pretty fond of the people who walk through the lobby in general, as long as they’re not there to gawk at him and they don’t dirty the place up.”

Alden looked over his shoulder. “Really?”

Gorgon didn’t offer humanity a lot of praise in his experience, but he had seemed fascinated by Alden’s memories of the city.

Boe was nodding. “Yeah. He’s not easy to understand, even when you’re feeling what he is. He’s got very alien emotions. Sometimes, he seems to make an effort to mimic human expressions and body language—quite social of him if you think about it. But it can be misleading. I knew he…appreciated you, but I would not have expected him to feel something similar to anguish when you went missing. I couldn’t take his alien mess on top of my own human one, so I steered clear of his feelings after that brief glimpse.”

Alden felt rather touched. “And he says we’re not friends. Do you think he wants a robot vacuum for the lobby? I’ve been thinking he might like one.”

“Go for it. If he hates it, I’ll take it.”

A text message arrived, and Alden read it with a weight like an anvil in his stomach.

“Car’s on schedule,” he said lightly. “It’ll be here in ten minutes.”

He forced himself to stop aggressively rolling up cat hair, and he took a seat on the sofa.

“I’ll be back soon,” said Boe. “Maybe not back here, but back. You can brain text me until our synapses go on strike.”

“I remember saying something similar when I first told you I was an Avowed. And you told me long-distance friendships never worked out like people hoped they would.”

Boe cleared his throat. “I must have been having an uncharacteristically stupid moment. It’ll work out. We’re bound in profound new ways now. You know about my powers. We’ve decided to be a heroic tandem. We’ve wept together.”

“I don’t recall you weeping.”

“I offered to weep with you. It’s the same.”

Alden smiled. “You did. Sorry. I don’t mean to mope. By the way, before you vanish, there’s something I need to ask you to do for me.”

His friend stood up and stretched. “Sure. But you’re feeling nervous suddenly—”

“You’re still reading me then? That’s fine. I’m nervous because it’s important to me that you say yes and that it not be some uncomfortable big deal between us.”

Boe lowered his arms. “What is it?”

“Don’t interrupt me before I’ve finished explaining why I made this decision. I’m sending you around two million argold.”

Boe’s mouth fell open.

“Don’t interrupt. It’s about half of everything I have. It’s not a gift. If you’re willing to take large sums of money as a gift, I’d love to give you some, but I know you won’t. This isn’t a present for you. It’s not me being overly generous or self-sacrificing. It’s money for survival. Yours. Connie’s. Jeremy’s. Victor’s. I want you to use it in whatever way you think is best to make sure that all of you stay alive, healthy, and safe.”

Alden leaned forward and clasped his hands together. “It’s better for me to split my resources this way. What if I’m off-planet, and I can’t communicate with home, and Connie has a major accident? What if you get a summons? It would probably be for an emergency in your case since you haven’t formally agreed to the Contract. I’d really like for you to have enough money to call and let me know what’s happening. Or, if they won’t let you because you’re empathing at the Artonan equivalent of a black ops site, I want you to have enough money to do whatever it is you need to do to get back home safely.”

He bit his lip. “Also…I consider it not unlikely that you will one day have to go on the run from actual superheroes. For being an unregistered. A pretty powerful one. And if that happens, I want you to already have some kind of insanely clever escape plan in place. One that’s foolproof because you spent, like, a million dollars on it. I don’t want to agonize over the escape plan, or try to make it up for you from the other side of the planet. You make it up. And buy yourself whatever it is you need, so that I don’t wake up one morning and see you being dragged to jail or stuffed in a bodybag by Skiff and Sharon.”

He sat back and waited for Boe’s answer.

“How dare you?” Boe said quietly.

Alden started to protest.

“How dare you think that Skiff and Sharon could defeat me?” Boe continued. “He trips over his flip-flops. She deleted her own last name. I could take both of them at the same time and not even be late for school.”

Alden smiled in spite of himself. “So someone more awesome then. Big’nLittle Snake. But, seriously, you’ll take the money and do all of that with it?”

“Yes,” said Boe. “And I’ll try not to let my feelings of inferiority get in the way of spending it. Avowed life gets expensive. I want you to have millions of dollars to keep yourself safe. It makes sense you want to put your own millions toward keeping the people you worry about safe. If we get separated again due to some freak event, we each have a significant hoard to make sure everything that needs to be taken care of gets taken care of.”

Alden sighed with relief. “Thank you so much. It’s a huge weight off.”

Boe ran his fingers through his hair. “Around six million dollars. That’s a lot. I’ll ask the System to let me put your name on the account, so that you can access whatever’s in it whenever you need to. Can I ask you for a favor?”

“Of course.”

“If I ever do get summoned or accidentally exile myself for a long time, would you check in on my parents?”

Alden was surprised. Boe gave him a knowing look. “I realize you don’t like them. They contribute nothing of worth to the world, and I doubt they even wonder where I’ve run off to when I’m gone. If you could read my emotions, you’d know that I don’t like them much either. But I do love them. And worry about them. So…”

Alden was very surprised.

And Boe’s feeling you being surprised that he loves his own family…crap, empaths are hard to be cool around.

His face heated. “I’ll add them to the list of people we look after.”

“Don’t put a lot of time and energy into it. It’s a thankless task. Just check in every three months or so if I’m not here to do it and make sure they’re not living on the streets.”

He took off his glasses and picked up their case from the armrest of the chair. “And mail me these. They’re much nicer than the pair I buried in Jeremy’s yard.”

They stared at each other across the coffee table.

“Why does it feel like we’re never going to see each other again? That’s stupid right?” Alden said finally.

“It is. We’re just freaked out because the last time we said goodbye we almost didn’t get to see each other again.”

“So you’re freaked out, too. At least it’s not just me.”

[Good morning, Alden! This is your driver, Gilbert. I’m parked in front of your building. I’m at your service for the day, so take your time. If you need help with your bags, let me know.]

Dammit, Gilbert. Couldn’t you have caught a few red lights?

“My ride’s here.”

“My ride’s here!” Boe said with fake cheer, gesturing toward the cat carrier beside his feet. “And since I’m about to be completely beyond your wrath, allow me to explain something.”

Alden raised an eyebrow.

“I want you to picture me, months ago, trying to hold my shit together on a really bad day. Connie was crying in the bathtub. Jeremy was obsessively vacuuming your house because he couldn’t figure out how else to help. And I was standing ankle deep in garbage outside because the bag had broken. Then Victor—who had been missing for like half a week—sprinted by with a possibly poison-infused rat in his jaws.”

“I knew it! You did do something to my cat!”

“Yes. I chased him yelling, ‘Here, kitty! Give me the rat. Be a good boy. Stop, you orange asshole! That’s a furniture truck!’”

Alden gasped. “He ran at a furniture truck?”

“Oh, he got run over by the furniture truck. Crouched right there in the middle of the lane while it skimmed his ears doing forty miles an hour. Luckily it had high ground clearance. So I run out into the street, grab the cat, grab the still wiggling rat, and I decide we can’t go on like this anymore. It’s time for Victor to retire from his wandering criminal lifestyle.”

Boe leaned down and stuck a finger through the crate door to pet one of Victor’s ears. “I started lightly boosting his happiness whenever he was chilling out on the sofa and being sane.”

“That’s all?” Alden asked, confused. “And it completely changed his personality?”

“I also did it whenever Jeremy was talking to him or petting him.”

Alden imagined Boe stalking Victor around, waiting for the cat to sit on sofas or approach Jeremy so that he could use his powers to engage in feline emotional massage.

“So you do practice Skill 2 sometimes.”

“It’s different with animals. They have emotions; but those emotions aren’t like ours, and they don’t intrude on me in the same way. And it’s not unethical to make a pet feel better when it’s engaging in safe and healthy behavior, I don’t think? It was like treat training him. Only my treats are zero-calorie.” He frowned. “I shouldn’t have done it, though.”

“Victor does seem happier now, so I guess it’s—”

“He’s great. He’s learned how to enjoy the good life as a house cat finally. He got over some of his anxieties and his hardbitten street cat trust issues. He’s only chunky because empty food dishes make Jeremy panic and think he might’ve forgotten to feed him at all.”

He was still petting Victor through the door. “But fixing even an animal’s problems this way is too tempting for me. It makes me think, ‘Well, it worked out that time, didn’t it? Isn’t everyone better off now? I didn’t hurt anybody. What if I do it just a little bit more…?”

“And that’s a slippery slope,” Alden concluded.

“It’s the blackest of ice.” Boe straightened and cleared his throat. “So now I’ve confessed to being a cat whisperer. I’ve stolen half of your wealth. And I’ve made you late for your luxury car service. My work here is done.”

“God, I’m gonna miss you.”

“You’ll be so busy learning to coexist with the other superteens, you won’t even have time to miss me before we see each other again.”

That’s not true, thought Alden. I already do.

Boe waved. “Bye for now. Pick up your suitcase. Try not to save too many lives until I’m back home and I start to catch up. ”

“Stay safe, Boe.”

“Let’s both do that.”

A few seconds later, he was gone.

Alden took a deep breath and let it out. Then he gathered the pile of clothes from the floor, wrapped them around the glasses case, and collected Victor.

