At Emile's behest, the group returned to the Golden Innocence and its private cabin, with the reason given that Sebastian had ears all over town.

Once everyone had sat down, or taken position, in Jordo's case, David turned his attention to their guest. “Just to be clear, we haven't decided to help you. We're offering to listen.”

Emile held David's stare for a second before nodding. “I understand, and I appreciated the chance. I guess I should start at the beginning, then.” He offered, looking around the table.

Niala and Sybil were leaning forward, the former with a notebook open and a pen poised, the latter with eyes wide and ears turned toward him.

The young noble clasped his hands on the table. “The first thing I should say is that the Landretti Company and the Landretti family have been separate entities for a long time. However, we did retain a controlling share of the company, and the board of investors have historically kept a Landretti as grand managers.”

He took a breath in. “That is without mentioning the hundred of Landrettis who simply worked at the company. I say this because it's important to know that there was a degree of separation. The actions of my family were not dictated by the company's and vice versa, or at least, in general.”

Continuing, he looked at everyone in turn. “My father, who died three years ago, was the last grand manager from the family. Under his stewardship, we were forced to sell most of our ownership in the company.” He sighed. “I loved my father, but he was not a businessman. I believe he was elected in place for exactly that reason; to manipulate him and the company.”

Niala lifted a hand, ears at top mast. “When you say manipulate, I'm guessing it was into investing your family's wealth into bad opportunities?”

Emile nodded. “Under his tenure, the company built and scrapped more prototypes and dead-end projects than the rest of its history combined. It was vaunted as a drive to reinvent the core business, to compete with modern designs. All saints' crock. The traditional distillers have been modernized every decade, and the company's order book has never had less than twenty years of future sales.”

He shook his head. “But my father bought into the dream, and my family has had to liquidate three-quarters of our assets just to remain solvable. Our family accountants don't even know if we'll last another generation.”

David tapped his finger on the table. “And you're telling us this because...?”

“Right, sorry. This was orchestrated by the Quaro family, Sebastian's, the current grand manager. He took my father's place a few years back, when he was made to step down due to his lack of financial acumen. More importantly, the Quaro is the family that bought most of our liquidated assets, and all of them were closely tied to my grandfather, Stefan.”

A sad smile splayed on Emile's face. “My grandfather was a brilliant inventor and a shrewd financier, even though he wanted nothing to do with the management of the company. He was more than happy with creating new and interesting enchantments, especially for use on distillers and similar equipment.”

He looked at Niala. “Your distiller, the SL-17 part of its serial number, it stands for Stefan Landretti, design # 17, or his 17th finalized design. It was also his last major one before his health started to decline. I don't know much about it, except that it was part of a key.”

Emile put a hand inside his jacket and retrieved a paper envelope. He opened it and pulled a small stack of yellowed paper out. Lifting out of his seat, he passed it on to Niala. He sat back down and continued. “This is a document Stefan left me before dying. He told me to keep it safe no matter what. If you read it, you will understand why.”

Niala hardly needed more excitement at this point, so a mysterious document passed down generations made her practically vibrate in place. Sybil scraped her chair next to her so she could read as well.

Both women's eyes narrowed as the pieces of paper sucked in their attention. Niala carefully flipped from brittle page to brittle page. Halfway through, she looked up at David.

He quirked a brow. “What is it?”

“It's a sequence, like a code, written with runes, but it's not complete; there are gaps.” She turned her head toward Emile. “I'm guessing the missing runes are related to your grandfather?”

He dipped his head at an angle. “They are. After he bypassed the original lock, he created a new one, made of 17 sequences, each one missing a central rune.”

David frowned. “Ok, stop. Why are you telling us all of this? This sounds like a take-to-your-grave secret. We are not part of your family.” He leaned forward, narrowing his eyes. “What's your angle?”

Everyone turned their head toward Emile, who pulled at his collar. “I understand it sounds suspicious, but you have to understand I am desperate. When the few contacts I have left within the company informed me that one of my grandfather's designs surfaced, I scrambled to learn more about you. The creation of the Allwarden noble house wasn't a small event, you know? And tales of your righteousness followed along.”

He rubbed the back of his head. “I thought that you would be receptive to my plight, and that you would also be invested, wanting to get your distiller back.”

Straightening his back, he held up David's gaze. “So, yes, I am taking a chance, but I'm betting that you are as honourable as the stories make you out to be.”

David kept staring at the man for a moment, eventually leaning back into his chair. “Assume I believe you, for now.”

Emile let out a breath. “Thank you.” He looked back at Niala and Sybil. “As you can surmise, the missing runes are part of some of my grandfather's designs, each one hiding a rune. Seventeen designs for seventeen missing runes on the papers. I think Sebastian, with your distiller, has managed to get all 17 of them by now.”

Sybil tilted her head. “But... you said your grandfather made these ciphers. Does Sebastian have a copy?”

He shook his head. “No, but he knows I have them. He just doesn't know where I'm keeping them. Now that he has all the designs, I think he'll be more inclined to insist on asking me where this document is.”

Niala nodded. “And you said this had something to do with god-runes?”

“Runes rumoured to date to the founding gods, not god runes. Although... it really could be anything. All I know is that there is a door that we need the ciphers to open.”

David glanced at Niala before speaking. “We know it's guarding a treasure, but what can we do about it? Sebastian and his family cleared their tracks, right?”

“Yes, they did, which is why I haven't been able to prove anything, even after spending some of the little funds we had left to have the matter investigated. That is, when the investigators I hired didn't go missing.”

Sybil squeezed her fists. “It sounds like this Sebastian has a lot of closet skeletons.”

Sammie, who had been lying back in his chair so far, cracked open an eye. “Skeletons in his closet.”

“What?”

“The expression, you said it wrong.”

She squinted at him. “It still works.”

He shrugged. “Yeah, but... It's wrong.”

“Not more wrong than flirting with the clerk girl!”

On that, he opened his other eye. “I was just adding some enjoyment to my work.”

“By flirting on the job?”

He rolled his eyes. “Yes, Sybil, by flirting with delightful little Anna, who is exactly my type of woman.”

“And what type is that, Mr. Flirt?!”

“The calm and quiet kind who doesn't throw accusations around. I wasn't just flirting with her.”

She scoffed. “What else were you doing? Groping?”

He groaned. “I was getting access to the files that sweet Anna found in the company archive.”

Sybil stopped and blinked. “You... you asked her for them?”

He flopped a hand. “Not yet. I need to have my first date with her first.”

She sprang to her feet, pointing a finger at him. “You're going to manipulate that girl into giving you those documents?!

He frowned. “What? No. I'm going to have a nice date, then I'll explain that, if she's interested in a little bit of extra money, and helping a just cause, we could totally use a copy of those documents.”

“That's still playing with her emotions!”

He grunted. “Look, I'll be upfront with her that it's two completely separate things, and I won't force her, and besides, you do that all the time when you dress skimpy to go get drunk guys to tell you their secrets.”

She put her hands on her hips. “Yeah, but they're bad guys!”

Sammie grinned. “Well, you know about sweet, nice girls like Anna; they're usually pretty bad girls in private.”

He managed to trigger his Iron Body before Sybil picked him up and suplexed him into the floor.

His speech and plea done, Emile left the ship, escorted by a crewman. The group looked at each other before David knocked on the table twice. “I feel obliged to say it, but we don't have to get involved.”

Niala looked at him with drooping ears. “David, his father was murdered!”

“So he says.”

She opened her mouth to reply, but stopped herself before taking a deep breath. “No, you're right. We need to investigate.”

Beside her, Sybil had stars in her eyes.

David hung his head for a second before looking back up. “Right, so we're getting involved. I guess I'm coming out of courier retirement.”

His wife smiled. “You don't sound too sad about it.”

“I'm not,” he said, smirking. “Ok, first order of business, we need the whole story about the supposed murder. Sybil, Sammie, you two alright with speaking to the city guards? If it was reported as a murder, they would have done an investigation.”

Sybil saluted. “Leave it to us, sir!”

David nodded and turned toward Jordo. “Can you go with them, figure out where the murder took place, and go investigate the scene? Even if it's been a few years, your senses are far superior to ours.”

The golem bowed. “As you say, Sir. If there are any traces left to be found, it will be done.”

“Thanks,” David said, turning toward Niala at last. “You up for talking with the villagers, Kitten?”

She scrunched her mouth. “I guess? Wouldn't it be better if it were you? You have a lot more experience.”

He shook his head. “I'll be talking. I just want you close and observing, spot anything I miss.”

She smiled. “I can do that!”

Sammie held a hand up, not waiting to ask. “Can I still go out with Anna and ask for that folder?”

David quirked a brow, but Niala answered. “As long as you properly ask her about it, and don't manipulate her emotions...” She frowned. “Actually, don't. Ask her, I mean. I'm not going to tell you what to do in your spare time, but just tell her we'd like to speak.”

She looked at Sybil. “That's better, right? That way, Anna won't feel invested in Sammie. Even if he says he'd keep things separate...”

The bunnykin thought and nodded. “Right, what you know and what you feel isn't the same thing. Yeah, that's much better!”

Niala wiggled her ears. “Good! Then we have a plan. We meet back up here for dinner? I can use the galley to cook some-”

Sybil jumped to her feet. “Yes! Please!”

Sammie sighed, addressing Niala. “She doesn't want to admit it, but she's in love with your cooking.”

While Sybil blushed and threw daggers with her eyes at Sammie, David sagely nodded. “Understandable. You have good tastes, Sybil.”

“Sir! Please ignore Sammie!” the guardswoman pleaded.

“No, no, it's fine. You don't need to hide it.”

“But, sir!”

David got up and walked over to the bunnykin, locking gaze and putting a hand to her shoulder. “This way, I know you are doubly dedicated to keeping her safe. Think of a world without Niala's cooking.” He said sombrely.

Sybil's eyes widened, and panic flashed over her face. She pushed the feeling away, her features hardening. “I understand, Sir. For your wife's cooking!” she saluted.

“For my wife's cooking!” David repeated.

“For your wife's cooking,” Sammie added. They looked at him. He shrugged. “What? I love her cooking as much as Sybil. I'm just not shy about saying it.”