Selys looked up eagerly. So did Rufelt—he had a paw in this election after all. Pisces nodded, sipping from his drink and straightening in his chair.
“I did survey the streets discreetly—”
“You mean invisibly.”
“—discreetly the last few days. Given the general distributions of the districts in the election, both Elirr and Miss Raekea occupy Gnoll-heavy districts. And they are substantially popular among Drakes as well; it leads me to be quite certain of their victory. Of course, ironically, Miss Krshia herself has a lower chance in her district. I cannot think what she was intending when she drew up the divisions for each area.”
“She wanted it to be fair. She could have let herself win, but this way each member of the Council will represent a part of the city.”
“Hm. Fair, I suppose. But she could have, ah, excluded the Servail Street and removed, oh, about four hundred Drake voters for instance…”
“But that’s cheating, Pisces.”
“Call it being strategic. For instance, if Miss Krshia had done that, she could have foisted the Drake voters on a district she would have lost—”
“Cheating.”
“But if she had—it’s just a matter of adjusting limits. Surely you’d agree that your presence and funding affected the campaign.”
“Well, the Walled Cities and every Drake with half a gold coin were giving Lism help—”
“My point stands. If you wanted a fair election, the presence of money in any form wouldn’t be germane to conducting a fair election. As it stands, I’m just offering a suggestion that if taken…”
“[Barkeep]! Can I get some wine?”
Rufelt looked up, passed some high-quality wine from his stocks to the Gnoll waving at him, and then had to do a bunch of refills as the first drinkers came back for something stronger. When he returned, he found the two sitting and discussing something else.
“I haven’t had any reports. And your little Bone Horror rats have killed a number of nests. Not that the current Council asked. But I imagine Olesm would pay you to keep it up another month.”
“Ah yes, they have killed quite a few nests. I understand they ran into difficulties at two points; I recalled them and noticed some battle damage. I believe they ran into Acid Fly nests, but the current iteration of Bone Horrors you suggested are quite nimble.”
Rufelt stared. Bone Horrors? Selys was nodding as if it weren’t even an issue, though. She paused as she sipped at her half-finished drink.
“So they’re doing well. And I hear you sit in your room all day. While this morning I heard Ceria was being boiled in a bathtub to train. So. Out with it. I know you’re dying to tell someone.”
“Ah. Well, if you insist, I could talk about some of my experimentation. It hasn’t all been on Bone Horrors, you know. I’ve more or less solidified their designs. The, ah, Warbear form is most effective. At the moment, I’m experimenting with a hypothetical skeleton soldier build.”
Pisces looked pleased as he attempted to gesture and began to draw in the air. Rufelt stared at the illustrations. Selys just raised a brow.
“Right. You remember what my grandmother told you about using bones of people, right? She’ll stab you.”
The [Necromancer] paused defensively.
“Hypothetical. Although Ksmvr did acquire quite a number of, ah, bodies. They were [Bandits]—I have no intention of summoning them anywhere around Liscor. But given the material, it would be a shame to…”
He broke off as Selys rolled her eyes.
“You know, you could just get to the point without trying to make excuses. You’ve got bodies. Fine. I get it. I’m not going to tell my grandmother unless you bring them into the city. But these ‘hypothetical skeleton soldiers’. What makes them special? Any decent Bronze-rank adventurer can knock down a skeleton in a one-on-one fight.”
“Ah, but not mine. You see, I’m attempting to create a formation of bone—rearrange the ribcage for instance—such that the skeletons would have an inner mechanism they could deploy. Their ribs could shoot outwards for instance, catching an unwary foe unawares.”
“So you get close and they explode at you like some kind of spike trap?”
Selys didn’t look impressed. Rufelt, on the other hand, nearly poured ale all over his paw as he listened with one ear. That sounded horrific. Pisces sounded smug.
“Well, yes. The trick is to inflict the most damage. And I have created quite the efficient design if I say so myself—”
“Hah!”
“I beg your pardon?”
Rufelt eyed Pisces and Selys as he poured a drink for Maughin and Jelaqua each. He handed them to the Dullahan’s body, and it turned around and brought the drinks to the table where Maughin’s head and Jelaqua were sitting. Pisces frowned. Selys just laughed. She waved one claw.
“Oh, Pisces. Really? That’s your best? You did this last time. You have a good idea, but—are all [Necromancers] so lazy?”
“Lazy? I will have you know that this design is inspired. Classic [Necromancers] don’t even think to innovate in this way!”
The Drake rolled her eyes gently and snorted as she took another sip.
“That’s them. I know you. And you can do better. I’m just a humble [Receptionist], but even I know that having trapped skeletons is lazy. It’s just a gimmick.”
“Explain.”
Pisces folded his arms, looking peeved. Selys frowned and began doodling on the bar counter since she couldn’t do what Pisces had done with magic.
“Okay. You surprise a Silver-rank adventurer, and they’re dead. Good for you! The rest of her team will just back up and throw a [Fireball] or use shields. I thought you were trying to get an edge. At Gold-rank, anything you fight will probably just walk away even if your skeletons landed a clean shot. And then they know all the rest are trapped.”
“But I would injure one adventurer—even kill them—”
“One. And if she uses a healing potion, then what? If all your skeletons are the same, Pisces, a surprise attack works once and then never again. Why can’t you make all the skeletons different?”
Pisces sighed.
“The problem is standardizing a design that can be quickly animated in battle. Of course, if I kept a standing army—which I remind you I do not—I could freely innovate at will.”
“I hear you complaining, but all I hear are excuses.”
“Then what would you do? Enlighten me, oh fount of necromantic knowledge.”
The two began bickering as they waved at Rufelt. Selys glared as he slid a drink towards Pisces. She grabbed it, took a swallow, and handed it to him. He looked askance as she stopped her drink with a claw.
“I don’t know. Give them crossbows! Stop being so cheap.”
“Cheap?”
“That’s right! Bone traps in the skeletons? Just buy them armor! That’s what scares even Gold-rank adventurers. Not Draug, but Draug with plate mail. I realize that’s not a [Necromancer]’s solution because it means spending money, but it’d work. Crossbows—do you know how much more dangerous Skeleton Archers are compared to Skeleton Warriors?”
Pisces frowned.
“I take your point. But what if I built a crossbow into the skeletons—”
“You’re so cheap! Is that a requirement for the [Necromancer] class?”
The young man shook his head indignantly, but his eyes had lit up with interest.
“It’s just innovating with material instead of having to spend money on a finite resource—see here, Selys. I do believe you are onto something. If I sacrificed an arm, for instance, or modified my ribcage design to create a propulsion system and used a bone arrow…”
“How? They don’t have sinews. Crossbows need bowstrings and, uh, bending parts. Right?”
“Well, yes. But I could create a projectile weapon—”
“Amazing. Five minutes of talking with me and you have a better idea than you came up with in, what, four weeks of work?”
“One week, and I will have you know that I have been diligently experimenting in other areas. The spike trap was simply one hypothetical—”
“Like what? Don’t be vague or I won’t believe a thing you say. Do you know how many adventurers I have to deal with who talk just like that?”
Pisces turned beet red. Selys stared at him. He took a huge gulp of his drink and snapped.
“Regenerating bone warriors with the ability to jump and run—”
“So, essentially faster skeleton warriors? Fancy.”
Rufelt had to turn his head and stifle a laugh. Selys laughed out loud. She patted Pisces on the shoulder.
“Hey, I’m kidding. Stop pouting! See, that’s practical. Do you know how scary running zombies are to Bronze-rank adventurers? How does that happen, by the way? I thought a [Necromancer] had to be present for that to happen, but you hear stories…”
The [Necromancer] sighed as he adjusted his robes. He looked up and nodded. For all his posturing, he was clearly interested in his subject. Even if it was undead.
“Running zombies? Ah, yes. That would occur in a charged zone. High levels of ambient mana tend to augment the undead and create more dangerous varieties. However, a zombie is still fundamentally weak compared to, say, a Ghoul. If Bronze-rank adventurers are so afraid, they could simply set up a rope at ankle-height and stymie most zombies that way, running or not.”
Selys blinked, impressed. She snapped her claws and looked around for some parchment to scribble on.
“Hey, that’s a good idea. Do you have any tips for fighting Ghouls? Because there are some in the dungeon, and they’re nightmares for lower-level Silver-rank teams to deal with…”
The two stood up and wandered over to a table with the other Horns of Hammerad, still talking. Rufelt watched them go. Undead? That was definitely Erin’s inn. He got back to serving drinks. The inn was gaining in customers now, and he reckoned he’d been at his job for an hour and a half.
The sun was reversing its climb in the sky when a small, white shape wound her way through the crowd. She peered up at Rufelt’s bar as he paused. Of course, he’d heard about yesterday. He blinked down at Mrsha as she stared up at the drinks on display. She climbed onto the stool and looked expectantly up at Rufelt.
Now this was a challenge. But Rufelt had had children in the bar from time to time, and after a moment’s thought, he pulled out a rarely used bottle of liquid and uncorked it. Mrsha sniffed and recoiled a bit as he poured the orange juice—that was not orange juice—into a clear cup.
“Hm. How about a little carrot juice? With a bit of sugar for taste.”
It had absolutely no alcohol. But Mrsha didn’t know that. She sniffed the drink as Rufelt sprinkled some grains of coarse sugar in, and he offered her a small bit of sugar she licked up excitedly. He offered her a stirring rod, and she stirred the drink herself, sniffed again, and took a cautious sip.
Mrsha made a disgusted face. Rufelt grinned. The carrot juice tasted like…carrots. And he could count on one paw the number of people who’d enjoy drinking carrots. But the little Gnoll’s disgusted look was followed by her taking another determined sip. She looked at him, and he nodded.
“Rather tough, isn’t it? I could add more sugar—”
The little Gnoll shook her head. She raised an authoritative paw, and he left her there. She kept sipping determinedly. And she had a satisfied look on her face. This was properly adult, wasn’t it?
She was so concerned with the drink, she didn’t notice Rufelt watching her. Because the [Bartender] was conflicted. Neither said anything about yesterday. Not that Mrsha could. But two Gnolls occupied the bar together. And Rufelt wanted to say something. But…
He knew how to cheer up someone who was worn out by a hard day. He’d helped up ten thousand drunks, salved a hundred thousand broken hearts, soothed a bitter soul, a violent rage—countless ailments and more. But bars had few children in them. He didn’t know what to say, and Mrsha could tell him nothing. He could only guess as the Gnoll girl quietly sipped from her cup.
Mrsha had left Lyonette because the young woman was busy, but Rufelt could see her glancing at Mrsha. If she’d looked up, Lyonette would have been there, or Drassi, Ishkr, Erin, or…but she didn’t. After a while, two more customers came up at the same time.
“Do you have anything that smells good?”
“A carrot juice. Thanks.”
Elirr and Hawk paused they looked at each other, then down at Mrsha. Rufelt raised his brows.
“Hawk. A pleasure. I forgot you lived here.”
“I didn’t expect to see you.”
The Courier leaned one muscled arm over the counter as Rufelt passed him the Rabbit Beastkin’s favorite drink. Carrot juice, seasoned with a shot of rum. For Elirr, Rufelt worked on a very herbal cream liqueur that tempered the rather strong base taste with the cream and added complexity with a bit of nutmeg, some mint…Elirr took the glass and sniffed, sighing.
“Ah, thank you. What do I owe you?”
“My pleasure, sir. It’s on the house.”
The [Beast Trainer] didn’t object. Rufelt had a soft spot for old Gnolls, especially ones like Elirr. And ones that had survived damn Raskghar. Hawk looked up hopefully at Rufelt.
“Not a chance. Pay up.”
The Courier sighed. Then he looked sideways and saw what Mrsha was drinking. The Gnoll cub was sniffing at him; he smelled of a dozen places. The Courier nodded down to her with a friendly smile, oblivious to the white fur that gave pause to every Gnoll who saw her.
“Good taste, kid.”
He saluted her with his drink. Mrsha stared as he downed half and sighed contentedly. Elirr sniffed his bouquet and smiled. Rufelt smiled to himself as Mrsha watched Hawk go. He might have given Hawk the drink free just for that unintentional kindness. Then again—the Courier was loaded.
But it was Elirr who lingered. Like Rufelt, he said not a word. But in his case—Mrsha glanced up at him, anxious at first. Rufelt had heard little of how Elirr figured into yesterday, but he had some connection with the little Gnoll. He just sat, drinking slowly. Sitting next to Mrsha.
After a while, he patted her head gently. And she leaned against him, and he wiped her eyes with a gentle paw. Rufelt polished the mugs gently and refilled Mrsha’s cup with milk and Elirr’s after ten minutes. He envied the older Gnoll and wished he could have done that.
You were always evolving. Always. It reminded Rufelt of how far he had to go as a [Bartender]. He busied himself at the other end of the counter, giving the two space and drawing traffic down to that end. Another interesting guest stopped by then, and Rufelt couldn’t help but begin a conversation on his own terms. Sometimes you had to. Especially when a Drowned Man, half-man, half-crab, stopped by and spoke.
“Narwhal’s Knife. Make it a double.”
