“But would I have been true to myself or living a lie? I would rather seek truer love.”
Yvlon paused, frowning.
“How? You’re not exactly throwing yourself out there. Or making a good impression.”
“If I were to find someone, it would be someone who accepts what I am. But again, I am not seeking it.”
Sometimes, Ceria wanted to punch Pisces for always having a response. But right now, she just envied the certainty he could project, real or fake. If it was a lie…she looked sideways at him, and she realized he was tracking Rufelt and Lasica now. As attentively as Ksmvr. Pisces spoke slowly.
“It is a glorious spectacle for those who find it. Rare as it may be.”
The Horns of Hammerad could only nod at that. Ceria looked at the dancing pairs. She muttered into her drink.
“…Show-offs.”
“True.”
Yvlon laughed. Then she got up and held out a hand. Ksmvr stared blankly at Yvlon until Pisces kicked him.
“Me?”
“You wanted to learn it before you die, Ksmvr. Come on. I’ll teach you to dance.”
“But I am not married. I would not like to be perceived as immodest.”
“Ksmvr—”
Yvlon laughed. She pulled the Antinium up. Ceria blinked. She looked at Pisces. And realized he was gone. He was getting up, walking towards the stairs. He never made it. Ceria stared and then realized she was alone. She glanced around. At a blue Drake sitting by himself. But she ended up sitting, even when Moore and Mrsha joined the floor. And sometimes that happened too.
 
—–
 
They stopped dancing when they were done. Not because the bar demanded it. Rufelt would happily burn the bar if it was that or Lasica. Especially because it wasn’t his bar in this inn. But he went back because they were done. And he served drinks with a [Bartender]’s smile while his own hid inside his head.
He was busy, of course. It was evening and passing later with each minute. The elections were coming to a close. In the streets of Liscor, the City Watch guarded boxes where the votes were stored. Voters answered under truth spell before voting, and their votes went to each district and the candidates running in each area. Of course, each area had at least two candidates running—sometimes three or four. But the hottest debate was over a simple split.
Lism and Krshia. Accordingly, almost all Drake and almost all Gnoll candidates on each side. Who would win? Who would lose? Surely there would be riots in either case. Or perhaps not.
The mood of the guests flooding into The Wandering Inn was actually fairly calm. No—not calm, but not shouting or rowdy in most cases. It surprised Erin, but not Rufelt. He just watched. And listened.
The guests came in from the city. They had participated; it seemed everyone in the city had voted. Krshia, Lism, whether they’d voted for them or another candidate in another district, it didn’t matter. They were all coming here.
Hot rivalry, fierce debate—it was giving rise to another emotion. Uncertainty. It was done. They’d voted, and tomorrow, Liscor would be a different place. So it was no wonder the inn—every inn and bar and tavern in the city—was filling. It was important that Rufelt was there. Because such people needed drinks. They needed to be able to talk.
And more than that, there needed to be someone who could wield alcohol with authority. In Erin’s case, she was the [Innkeeper], but Rufelt’s touch was more experienced. Subtler.
A crimson Drake was already drinking with her father when a squad of Drakes and Gnolls entered the inn. The Drake [Captain] marched right up to her and saluted, ignoring Relc.
“Wing Commander! Reporting!”
“Captain Vell. You’re not on duty.”
Wing Commander Embria’s voice was lost as Rufelt passed out drinks. But he was keeping an eye on the squad. They were making no attempt to be quiet—not that the inn was soundless. But they had an edge that he could feel on his fur. They were staring at all the Antinium in the inn. And then the female [Captain] marched up to the bar. She slapped silver onto it and loudly announced to the room.
“A round for the 4th Company of Liscor! And the right candidate winning this election!”
There could be no doubt who that was. The cautious talk instantly grew polarized, as if the [Captain] were a magnet. And she was, in a way. Rufelt could feel it, and the [Bartender] growled internally. But all he did was smile.
“And what will it be, [Captain]?”
“A proper Drake’s drink, of course! Firebreath Whiskey!”
Rufelt rolled his eyes mentally. He looked at Captain Vell and made a quick calculation. The way you handled this—well, you could do multiple things depending on how bad the fire was. Sometimes you let it rage or you snuffed it or fought it yourself—or let someone else do it. If the fire was bad enough, you didn’t even bother with that, but grabbed the money, the most expensive bottles, and plotted your exit, preferably through the back door. Or you could drown it.
The [Captain] and her squad blinked as Rufelt casually plonked the bottle of black liquid on the table and poured a foaming shot. He smiled at her.
“Of course, Captain. But could I tempt you with a new drink? On the house. I wanted to get the opinion of some strong drinkers.”
“What the hell’s that?”
Vell reached for the shot glass without hesitation. But Rufelt’s next words stopped her claw midway towards her mouth.
“Rxlvn. Antinium-made, actually. It’s rather strong, but it’s new. Actually, I’m considering taking it off the bar, but I imagine [Soldiers] have had stronger.”
One of the Gnoll [Soldiers] spat. The rest looked disgusted. Vell wavered.
“Antinium-made? Like hell I’ll drink…”
She eyed the black liquid. Rufelt shrugged innocently.
“I have to warn you, it’s got more of a kick than Firebreath Whiskey. But just as you like…”
Vell snatched her claw back as he reached for it. Her eyes narrowed, and she stared at Pawn as he sat with Lyonette.
“I can take anything the Antinium can handle. Let’s see what they think is strong. Give us all a shot!”
Rufelt did just that. He watched the table of [Soldiers] throw down a shot each, sneering at the Antinium.
Ten seconds later, Rufelt watched them trying not to pass out at the table. He regarded the black alcohol thoughtfully. Now here was a [Bartender]’s aid. As good as the trusty friend you kept in the form of a club or wand or pair of knuckles under the bar. And you could serve this in shot glasses.
So it went. A good [Bartender]’s job was never done until the last customer left, but this wasn’t Rufelt’s place, so he stopped as the sun entered its final descent. Lasica was beckoning to him, and he sensed she was tired. He was too after a day of work. So he abandoned the bar to Drassi, who was all too eager to fill his position with less variety of alcohol, but more talking and quantity.
Rufelt walked to Lasica. And they shared the far end of the bar for a moment. But for a hooded Drake, they were alone. Rufelt leaned on the counter, and Lasica sighed.
“Done, love? We can head back now; I’m sure Erin won’t mind.”
“In a moment. Rufelt. I…”
The female Drake looked around the room. She paused, then looked at him.
“Rufelt? Let’s visit the bazaar tomorrow.”
“Okay. For what?”
“Fertility spells.”
Rufelt paused mid-scratch on his back. He stared at Lasica.
“What brought this on?”
“I don’t know. Seeing this. Isn’t it time? You’re not getting any younger.”
“Hey.”
But that was an automatic response. The Gnoll’s mind was racing, but it wasn’t blown away. Part of him wanted to ask if ‘fertility spells’ couldn’t have been repackaged in more traditional terms, but Lasica was pragmatic. He nodded.
“We can look at them. And discuss this. When you haven’t had four drinks.”
He always counted. Lasica smiled.
“Of course. Lots of talking.”
The two stared at each other, thinking and knowing each other were thinking and imagining—until they were interrupted. The Drake on their right leaned over.
“You two should consider adopting a child instead.”
Surprised, then almost affronted, Rufelt looked up. He frowned.
“Excuse me?”
The Drake peered at the two and shrugged slightly, dislodging the hood a bit.
“There are children living in Liscor who need homes. Some go to relatives. Others…others disappear. Or they go from home to home. Strangers. I have to imagine a Walled City has that problem a hundred times worse. Those children deserve homes. Gnoll, Drake, Garuda, Dullahan.”
Rufelt blinked at the Drake. So did Lasica, but she had a reply.
“I wasn’t aware it was an issue, sir. We have [Alchemists] in Pallass, and there are magical items too.”
“Not everyone buys a potion to deal with that. Or they give children away after they’re born. It’s just a thought for you two to consider. Don’t mind me. I apologize for interrupting. But you should consider it, at least.”
The Drake shrugged and went back to his drink. Rufelt remembered serving it. A mulled wine. He studied the Drake. Then his eyes narrowed.
“You’re Lism, aren’t you? The Drake I’ve heard so much about.”
Lasica blinked, but Rufelt’s nose remembered more than his eyes. The [Shopkeeper] turned his head warily. But no one else had heard. He shrugged.
“I thought I’d see what this place my nephew talks about so much is like.”
“Really.”
Rufelt wondered what would happen if the crowd found out he was here. Or—just Erin. Lism seemed not to want to find out either. He tugged the hood further over his head, which did make him rather suspicious—then again, it was crowded.
“Tomorrow, I’ll be running Liscor or sitting in my shop. Either way, I’d better know the people I want to lead. And I wanted to see her.”
He stared past Rufelt and Lasica at the young woman offering cake around, smiling. Rufelt watched the Drake’s eyes. He saw Lism narrow his gaze. But there wasn’t malice. Just…Lism sighed.
“If I become a Councilmember tomorrow, I’ll do what’s right for Liscor. I always have. I just disagree with Silverfang about what that is. And part of that is letting this place be…this place.”
Neither wife nor husband replied. Lism finished his cup and pushed it back. He stood up and looked around.
“If I do become Councilmember, I’m going to tax this inn, though. Ancestors know it’s deserved. Thank you for the drink.”
He nodded to Rufelt and Lasica and walked towards the door. Lasica frowned at his back. She looked quickly at Rufelt. He was studying Lism’s back as the Drake disappeared out the front door.
“What do you think?”
The Gnoll didn’t reply for a moment. He was thinking over what the Drake had said. Adoption? Then he remembered Lasica’s question and turned to her. Rufelt glanced around for the blue Drake, but he was gone too.
“I think he has a child. So perhaps he’s older than Miss Krshia in a sense. She has a tribe. But he sounded like a father for a moment.”
Lasica paused, then nodded. Without another word, the two went to find Erin. Then they headed for the door. Rufelt had his equipment and alcohols stored in his bag of holding. And as they joined a queue to Pallass, they heard a weary [Mage]’s voice from the other side.
“Anyone to return to Pallass? Last call! We are not recharging the door again! Tomorrow, access is cut off to two visitors per day! There will be no [Mages] available unless they are paid for by the [Innkeeper] or guests!”
Rufelt grunted.
“Looks like Erin will have to solve that herself.”
“Well, I’m sure we’ll see her soon, love. I’d bet on it.”
“Good luck finding someone willing to take that bet.”
Rufelt laughed, and Lasica joined in. They stepped out of the inn and back into their city. And then they were back. Gnolls, Drakes, Garuda, Dullahans, all walked back through the inn and down the street. They mingled, walked past each other, a hundred thousand, millions of souls in the Walled City.
And amid them stood a Drake and Gnoll. They didn’t look particularly special among them all, certainly not with the giant Dullahan who bent towards a tearful Selphid on the other side of the door, or a Garuda who flew back towards her house dead drunk and hit a roof. But the world stopped, and time itself paused as they looked at each other. At least, that was how it felt.
They kissed in a street full of people as the setting sun painted the street in shadows and orange and fading gold. The cool wind blew past them, through the City of Invention, blown from far away. New and fresh and familiar and perfect.
Rufelt inhaled as he stepped back from Lasica. He looked at her, and he nodded down the street as he reached out. She smiled as she took his hand. Rufelt smiled.
“Lasica, let’s go home.”
And so they did.
