Embarrassingly, after two shots, Rufelt lost his balance and nearly toppled over behind the bar. He couldn’t remember the last time that had happened, but the black, faintly savory alcohol was so potent that even his intense tolerance to alcohol couldn’t keep up. And while he could have turned his [Immunity: Alcohol] Skill on, what self-respecting [Bartender] would do that for a drink?
It still knocked him completely off-balance. Rufelt stumbled, and she caught him. He looked at the Drake, Lasica. His wife. She laughed.
“Rufelt! You’re falling over after two shots? And you call yourself a high-level [Bartender]?”
“I—hey. It’s strong.”
He weakly mumbled. But that wasn’t really an excuse. Lasica rested her head against his shoulder. He leaned against her while the world spun.
“Mm. Thank you.”
She only smiled.
“I haven’t seen you do that in years. Not since we went to your father’s funeral.”
He smiled bitterly, remembering that day. The Gnoll rubbed at his dark fur, mussing up the neatly-combed appearance he normally kept while tending to his bar. Then he looked at Lasica and smiled.
“And you caught me then as well. You have a knack for that.”
“Well, that’s why I married you. Steady. Do you have your feet?”
He nodded. But the two leaned on each other for a moment longer. There was nothing more comfortable in this world, after all. They only separated after hearing the quiet, precise cough at the bar. Then Rufelt looked up, grinning. He nodded at the Antinium, and his hair only rose a bit as Klbkch the Slayer glanced at him.
But a [Bartender] didn’t show their emotions. And his Skills gave Rufelt an amiable façade he could hide behind. No—more than that, the Antinium were fascinating. Even if this one was a legend, a nightmare for anyone who’d lived in a Walled City and remembered the Antinium Wars.
But see—he spoke. He acted so normal. So polite and reserved, in fact. Klbkch the Slayer nodded and opened his mandibles as Rufelt eyed the dark, foamy liquid in the shot glass.
“What is your verdict, [Bartender] Rufelt? I take it the potency of the brew is to your satisfaction?”
“I don’t know if I’d say that. Rather, it’s alarmingly strong. Too strong, perhaps.”
Rufelt cautiously felt at the top of his mouth with his tongue. It had gone slightly numb. Klbkch tilted his head.
“I see. I adjusted the formula based on the last feedback I received. It is still too strong?”
“Still…? You mean, it was stronger than that?”
Lasica’s brows shot up as she leaned against the bar. Rufelt wondered who’d died in the first trial run. He sighed as he tapped the liquid in the glass.
“What did you call this? Rxlvn? Frankly, it’s too strong for me to use in many drinks. The purpose of alcohol is to be enjoyed; rarely do I mix something to completely knock someone out. And this is closer to poison than actual alcohol. Uh—is there actual poison in here?”
“Hm. I was under the impression most alcohols were an impairment of some kind. The Workers did add some paralytic elements.”
Rufelt paused as he reached for some water to steady himself.
“…What kind of elements?”
“Mushrooms. Serpent venom. A small dose of Shield Spider venom.”
Lasica looked worried. Rufelt just considered this.
“Maybe ease off the serpent venom. That’s probably why I feel like passing out under the bar. But I could see selling the actual drink. It’s quite savory, actually.”
“That was the intent. Along with the addition of other unique elements in order to create a drink unlike any other. I will see to removing the venom and reducing the strength again. Now, how would you price such a drink?”
“Well…given that the Antinium made it, I somehow doubt it’ll sell well. But if I were putting it out as a curio, I could see…”
Rufelt leaned on his bar as the world slowly stopped trying to turn upside down and carry him with it. Klbkch sat across from him, nodding, taking notes. The Wandering Inn bustled around the two as Lasica took two sips from the Rxlvn and promptly decided that was enough.
“I’ll keep it with my other alcohols today. But I can’t promise I’ll sell much of it. Or any. I will let you know how I do, Guardsman Klbkch.”
The Antinium nodded as Rufelt carefully placed the…container of Rxlvn on the shelf behind him. Rufelt had set up this morning, and the bright and colorful jars and containers were attracting a lot of attention from the inn’s guests. Klbkch stepped back.
“I appreciate your feedback, [Bartender] Rufelt. I must return to my duties, but I will attempt to return by sundown for your opinions. Farewell.”
He walked out of the inn, and Lasica let out the small breath she’d been holding.
“Ancestors, he makes my tail twitch. Klbkch the Slayer. Can you imagine it?”
“I don’t need to.”
Rufelt busied himself behind the bar. It was early for drinks, but he had a feeling he’d be in business soon. Lasica blinked at the door, then shifted her attention to him. She frowned as he put his specialized mugs and cups and various glasses—from shot glasses to specialized drinking vessels designed for smoky drinks, or ones on fire—in a row behind him. She sighed.
“Did you bring half the bar with you? You know we’re giving Erin too much help. Especially you, Rufelt.”
The Gnoll grinned apologetically as he ran his paw across the counter.
“I can’t help it. I see a bar counter, and I have to do something. Especially with a crowd like this! Humor me? Besides, Erin’s given us all the profits I make.”
Lasica rolled her eyes, but she gave in without much fuss. She knew her husband, after all.
“Oh, very well. Just remember you’re putting more people in her seats. Don’t work too hard! We have to open tomorrow.”
“I know. Don’t worry, love. Have fun with Erin in the kitchens! Please don’t tease her too much. Or tire yourself.”
She snorted gently and patted Rufelt’s arm before walking across the bar. Like that, Rufelt got to work. He was, after all, a [Bartender]. And in his bar, or The Wandering Inn, he could ply his trade.
It was simple. Simple and complex. Because a [Bartender] served drinks, and that was one thing. People could ask for something simple, like a mug of ale, and he could fill and pass out a tankard almost before the thirsty Drake had finished talking.
But sometimes a [Bartender] was there to listen or deal with a tricky customer. Of course, sometimes they were just drink-machines, and Rufelt certainly did pour thirty-eight drinks, mostly ales, to the inn’s patrons. A few wines, one stronger spirit too. And then his first notable customer sniffed and leaned on the bar counter.
“Excuse me, [Bartender]. But am I to understand you are a high-level member of your class? The co-owner of the famous Pallassian bar, Tails and Scales, if I am not misinformed.”
Rufelt blinked at the young man in a white robe with an arch expression. He felt like he’d seen him around.
“That would be me. Rufelt, [Bartender]. Reasonably high-level, I suppose. Can I help you, sir?”
“Perhaps. I would like to inquire—among your beverages, do you have anything truly exemplary? I ask only as a connoisseur of good taste.”
The Gnoll took a moment to process this.
“I have any number of drinks. I can find something for you, but do you have a preference? I warn you, some of the drinks can get expensive. Although I’m sure you’re good for it.”
In fact, Rufelt knew that the young man was. That was another [Bartender] trick. The young man sniffed again, and Rufelt remembered. Erin had warned him about a sniffing [Necromancer]. He’d been picturing a Gnoll. Warily, Rufelt eyed Pisces, but again, the mask of friendliness was in place.
“Money is, of course, no object. I’m merely inquiring as to your purview of drinks. I have had a number of supposedly excellent beverages that amounted to no more than a cheap trick. Whilst I wouldn’t object to considered and tasteful entertainment, I’m sure you’d agree that the substance of a libation is more important than presentation, would you not?”
Sometimes you got customers like this. Rufelt took his time in replying as he polished a glass, which was mainly a tic he liked to do for fun because it made him look busy.
“I happen to agree. And as I said, I have a number of drinks available. Would you like a list or for me to select one?”
Pisces paused, frowning. Before he could reply, a Drake with light green scales took a seat next to him. She rolled her eyes.
“Pisces, stop bothering the [Bartender] and just ask for a drink. Dead gods, but you can’t go anywhere without bothering someone, can you? Just admit you don’t know what drink you want. I’m sure the [Bartender] can figure out what you want.”
The [Necromancer] colored and turned. Rufelt was amused to see the young Drake get under the Human’s skin so fast. He remembered her too; she’d been with Krshia. Her name was…
“Selys, I’m quite aware of any number of drinks. I am simply trying to make conversation with, ah, Master Rufelt about the best sort of drink he has to offer. Is it not lazy to ask the [Bartender]’s choice? Educating oneself about the selection of liquor is a mark of culture.”
“Or being pretentious. [Bartender] Rufelt, is it? What’ve you got? And do you do tricks? Hi, I’m Selys. I think we met. I’m a [Receptionist]—er, I mean [Heiress].”
The Drake waved at Rufelt. He smiled and nodded to the selection behind him.
“It’s quite simple, Miss Selys, Mister Pisces. If you want a good drink, I can make you a good drink. If you want tricks—I can give you a flaming drink, make one that floats—but I’m not pouring ten drinks at once while hopping on one foot and playing a trumpet. Aside from that, fancy presentation, substance over style—it depends on what you order, but I can guess for you. I’m fairly good at that.”
The Drake and Human exchanged a glance. Pisces shrugged.
“Well then, by all means, what would you recommend for me? I am in the mood for some considered drinking, but of course, the hour is early—”
He paused as Rufelt immediately turned around and got to work. The other trick with people like the self-styled connoisseur of a [Necromancer] was to give them what they wanted, not what they asked for. Which was why the deep amber drink was at first plain—until Rufelt added in a swirling, palely fluorescent green drink and mixed the rest with a large, fresh leaf of mint.
The drink swirled as both Drake and Human blinked at it. Rufelt smiled as he slid it across the counter with a flourish.
“Here. Try this.”
Pisces did. At first, the strong drink had him frowning, ready to critique, but as the swirling motes of green liquid mixed into his sip, his expression became approving. He lowered the glass.
“A magical draught?”
Rufelt nodded.
“It’s meant to give you energy. I worked with Xif to use the basis of a stamina potion and added some pick-me-up elements. This is a variant of that recipe for [Mages].”
“So I note. Hm.”
Pisces flicked his fingers, and a shower of multicolored sparks landed and bounced off the bar counter. Rufelt sighed. [Mages]. They loved to damage the woodwork. But Pisces was nodding, and Selys, clearly impressed, leaned forwards.
“Let me have a sip, Pisces. I’ll have what you recommend too, Mister Rufelt!”
She took the glass and sipped, ignoring Pisces’ objections. She didn’t like Pisces’ drink as much as Pisces, but he could have told her that. Her drink was more sweet, and the pale pink color was mostly clear, but he’d mixed in a few colorless drops that Pisces noted.
Selys didn’t, and when she took her drink and sipped it, she was at first pleased, then very pleased. She sat back, laughing in delight, beaming.
“Whoo! That feels nice! As good as—but what did you put in this?”
She caught herself, sipping greedily. Pisces reached for the drink, and Selys slapped his hand away. She only gave him a sip after two more gulps. Rufelt waited until she’d put down the cup before replying.
“Hanging flesh-eater caterpillar venom.”
Selys choked. Pisces paused, mid-sip. He looked at Rufelt.
“Are they unnamed, or is that the actual name of the creature in question?”
The Gnoll shrugged.
“I don’t know the exact name, but that’s what they are. Apparently, the venom makes their prey so relaxed they don’t notice the caterpillars dropping on them and eating them. Don’t worry; there’s only a mild dose in that drink.”
Selys looked uneasy, but after Pisces handed the drink back, she took a small sip and smiled.
“Hey! It’s good! I wish you hadn’t told me what was in it, but I asked. Thanks for the drink. How much do I owe you? And, uh—do you have any suggestions for what to eat with it?”
“I like a few slices of cheese myself. I don’t know why, but most people do. It might be the venom.”
“Huh. You know, I want cheese too. Hey! Ishkr!”
Selys turned as she fumbled with her belt pouch. She lingered at the bar as she was served some local cheese on a plate. Pisces levitated a piece over to him, and Selys jabbed him with a claw as Rufelt went to pass some less expensive drinks out to a crowd of Garuda who’d come from Pallass.
Now, Garuda were lightweights. They liked fruit drinks mostly—birds—but some, like Bevussa, loved the more potent Drake favorites, having been raised in Pallass by Drakes herself. You had to know your guests. When Rufelt came back, he found Pisces and Selys were chatting. It was an unusual pairing, but the [Bartender] had seen far stranger. Pisces sniffed as he chewed on a piece of cheese.
“I have noticed your enduring campaign. I simply haven’t taken an active role. I am, after all, an outsider to Liscor’s politics.”
“Yes, but you could have helped. In fact, you did help Olesm! I heard you went into Pallass to help him write that stupid chess letter! Do you know how much that affected Lism’s campaign?”
The [Necromancer] looked apologetic.
“In my defense, I was unaware of Olesm’s intent to involve himself in the election. That was a wholly unrelated issue.”
“Yeah, well, I didn’t see you helping Krshia. Or me. Where was the handy, know-it-all [Necromancer] when I could have used someone arguing against Olesm and Lism?”
Selys glowered. Pisces pretended to be fascinated with the play going on stage. At last, he coughed and turned back to Selys.
“I apologize, Selys. I didn’t think my involvement would be that—welcome, given the Gnoll campaign. If it matters, I would imagine Miss Silverfang has a good chance of seizing victory. And I do believe at least two of your candidates will win in other districts. Based on pure observation, it seems incredibly doubtful that Elirr or [Armorer] Raekea would lose.”
“You think so?”
