It was a brisk order, and Rufelt automatically behaved as if he were in a room where the order fit. The drink plonked down on the table in seconds. First a clear cup. Then—a thick, dark liquor, blue and gray. To that, Rufelt added a shot—and it was a shot from the metal straw in the small container—of an alcohol so potent that it made the eyes sting.
The blue-gray alcohol was thick enough that the clear liquid was caught in the drink. It was like a clear spear of liquid shooting down towards the bottom of the glass. Exactly like a spear, in fact, or a horn. The thick outer liquid didn’t let the clear spear dissipate and didn’t change markedly, even when Seborn picked it up. The Drowned Man took a drink of the potent stuff and nodded.
“Thanks.”
“I hope it lives up to the reputation. It’s been a while since I made a Narwhal’s Knife.”
Rufelt glanced at the Drowned Man, casually leading into the conversation. He caught a half-smile from the [Rogue]. Seborn nodded.
“Tastes just like something I’d get in a port-city bar. Better, actually. The glass is clean.”
“True enough.”
That made Rufelt smile. He and Seborn glanced at each other, appraising.
“You’ve worked in port cities, then.”
“And you’re familiar with them.”
Seborn shrugged.
“Not a hard guess.”
“I don’t mean to assume. If you’re a sea dweller, were you an independent sort? Or…?”
Now here was a question with only three answers. One was ‘yes’. The other was [Sailor]. And the third…Seborn shook his head.
“[Pirate]. Retired. I’m surprised anyone would ask that question in Pallass. Have you served many sea folk before?”
“I did a few years in Zeres, but that’s about it.”
“Huh. Not many [Pirates] there, I bet.”
“Some, but not as many, it’s true. Still, those who pay off their bounty are allowed in. Drake laws.”
“Sure. I remember. Zeres, City of Waves. Not the kind of place most [Pirates] prefer to venture near. One of the places to avoid, in fact. Top…five worst.”
“There are worse places to be? Forgive me, but I’ve always been curious.”
Rufelt polished the bar, watching Elirr leave with Mrsha to join a table where Erin Solstice herself sat staring at a chess board with glowing pieces. She looked up, smiling, and Mrsha happily slapped a bunch of pieces off the other side of the board and watched them fly back into position. Rufelt had offered Erin a drink, but she’d declined, wanting to be at her ‘best’ for…chess?
Seborn nodded. The Drowned Man looked pleased. But of course, he was far from home, and no one looked like him. Mrsha, for all her white fur, was more at home here. The [Rogue] took another sip and looked appreciative as Rufelt poured him a huge tankard of water. Drowned People needed to hydrate, doubly so when they drank.
“Thanks. Yes. There are worse places. The Iron Vanguard’s port cities. No one wants to fight their navies. Wistram, although they can be neutral. If you’re at odds with them, Roshal or the Siren’s territories, perhaps. Although Zeres is probably worse. The Isles of Minos. Drathian waters. And of course, the Lord of the Dance’s waters if he thinks you’re a threat. Those are all nations, though. If you want to talk about just dangerous spots, Zeres isn’t even in the top fifty.”
“Really?”
Seborn’s smile was crooked, at least, the half of his face that would move.
“I left the sea because I was sick of it. Land monsters aren’t bad by comparison to whales that can eat ships whole. Except for Crelers. They’re as bad on land as in the water.”
“Crelers in water? Dead gods, that’s a nightmare.”
“Tell me about it. Oh. One extra-large ale if you have a tankard big enough. Or three for my friend.”
“The half-Giant? Coming right up.”
Rufelt wished he could have chatted longer with the [Rogue], but that was how it went. He was working while socializing, not the other way around. And Rufelt liked his job. Person after person came over. Old or young, friendly or unpleasant.
It didn’t matter. The [Bartender] fulfilled every wish, unless the wish would hurt the customer. If he was a bad [Bartender], Rufelt wouldn’t have cared. But he wasn’t, so he did. He watched. And he came to a realization in the back of his mind. It was Lasica who articulated it. As early evening began, she stopped at his bar.
She’d been working in the kitchen to help Erin, and she paused as he served her a cool fruit drink. No alcohol. She sipped from it gratefully. Then she looked at her husband.
“Rufelt. Have you noticed? They’re so young.”
The Gnoll looked up and peered around the inn. He didn’t see what Lasica meant for a second and glanced back at his wife, his eyebrows raised.
“What, are you saying we’re old? Or are you talking about little Mrsha?”
She shook her head, sighing.
“No. Look at Lyonette, Erin’s head [Barmaid] or whatever she is. She’s a mother. If we had a Drake daughter her age, I’d be trying to keep her from flirting with every boy her age.”
Rufelt glanced around again. Now he got what Lasica meant. He looked—not at the guests of the inn—but at the people who lived there. The adventurers. Staff. Erin’s friends. Erin herself.
Erin, Ceria, Pisces, Lyonette, Selys, Yvlon, and Ksmvr. No—even Krshia, Jelaqua, Moore, and Seborn. Some were older, but if you looked at them, you noticed something. Friends. Teams. But no loved ones.
No couples. Jelaqua and Maughin. But Erin? Lyonette? No one. Not even a Gnoll or Drake or Human they were making eyes at. Rufelt nodded slowly. He looked at Lasica. If they had a Drake girl their age…it wasn’t exactly foreign. But what an odd thought to compare it to the children here. But that was Lasica’s point. He paused.
“And if we had a proud Gnoll son?”
She snorted.
“You’d get to talk with him about hanging out with so many Gnolls and subscribing to that tribal nonsense and pack mentality while I worried about how many little Gnoll pups I’d be grandmother to.”
“Hey! Why are our children both sex-starved maniacs in these scenarios?”
Rufelt mock-glared at Lasica. She smiled a bit wistfully.
“Because that’s young. And stupid. It’s what I’d expect of someone that age in Pallass. But Liscor’s out in the High Passes. Dead gods, little Mrsha just confronted a gang of Gnolls and Drakes torturing a prisoner. They could have killed her, and look at her now.”
She pointed. Mrsha was happily waving a wand, growing flowers at the table where Moore sat. As if she were a child. But she had white fur. And Rufelt remembered her sitting at his bar, sipping the bitter carrot juice. Pretending to be…
Lasica went on.
“They survived undead attacks, a Goblin Lord, the Face-Eater Moths—can you imagine anyone their age in Pallass doing that?”
“[Soldiers], perhaps. If they enlisted at fourteen, they’d have seen that.”
“Hah! Maybe, but Pallass is safe. We’ve got crime, but we don’t have monsters a mile from the city. We’re not Liscor. And Erin? Lyonette? They’re not [Soldiers], Rufelt. Not Erin, nor anyone else in her inn. They’re adventurers. Antinium. Little Gnolls.”
“Children. You’re right.”
Rufelt looked around. And he felt old. Suddenly, though the grey had just started to appear in his black fur. But this wasn’t something a dye from Xif could hide. He turned back to Lasica. And she looked older. More beautiful, somehow. Both at the same time. She nodded at another table where a familiar, huge Dullahan sat.
“Even Miss Ivirith. Her team fits in this inn. I’m almost jealous; maybe it’s an [Innkeeper] thing, but Erin’s found her people. Her team feels like the rest of the guests she has. They don’t fit.”
“The Halfseekers. No, I agree. Look at her with Maughin. Come to that, our resident [Blacksmith] probably doesn’t have much more experience in love.”
Lasica chuckled. Then she sobered.
“But more than her. It’s striking. It’s so young here. But I guess that’s the point. People who’re old wouldn’t make an inn out here. If they were old, they’d stay in the city. They wouldn’t be…”
She looked at Erin. Rufelt nodded. If Erin was married, even to someone like her, would she run her inn like this? That was the feeling in the air. Youth. A bright, spontaneous energy. The kind of unpredictability that had captured Pallass for a moment. He looked at Lasica, and he didn’t have anything to say. So he just leaned on the counter. She sat there. And they watched.
After a moment, the introspection was broken as a Drake with light blue scales walked up to the bar. He spoke quietly.
“Something strong, please. Not so strong I’ll fall over, but something fortifying.”
Rufelt looked up. The request was familiar. So was the unhappy look in the Drake’s eye. Rufelt thought he recognized him too. But he silently mixed a drink that did exactly what the Drake wanted. The [Strategist] nodded, paid, and drained the mug in two gulps. He exhaled, shook his head, and paused there.
He didn’t want to turn. The [Bartender] wondered if he should step in. But—no. The Drake was working up his courage. He muttered to himself.
“I’ve done what I thought was right. But what’s right isn’t—sometimes you pay for what’s right. Because what’s right isn’t fair to your friends. You know?”
He looked up helplessly at Rufelt. The Gnoll nodded. Lasica smiled, but she let Rufelt reply.
“If it’s about right and fairness, it feels like a good way to live would to try to be both.”
“If only I could.”
The Drake muttered. He shook his head.
“I’m trying to protect them. But I’ve earned—thanks.”
He reached into his belt pouch, put a silver coin as a tip, and turned. Rufelt watched him go. He watched the Drake, but he didn’t watch what came next. Because he didn’t need to know. It was at his wife he looked. She nodded.
“Young. Remember that?”
Rufelt did. Not in the same way, but in a similar, parallel one. A hundred times. He winced as the slap echoed and looked back. Which one had done that? Again, it didn’t matter.
“Well, what should we do about it, Lasica? Or is it fine as it is?”
“I don’t know. But I feel sorry for them. A bit lonely.”
“Lonely?”
Rufelt walked out behind the bar. He looked at the Drake, and she glanced at him.
“Well, for them. Rufelt, I do think Erin’s inn is amazing. For her age—for what she’s made. But it’s missing something. I like to think our place is better.”
“Me too. But I don’t feel like rubbing it in her face.”
“Well, I’m not going to either. But sometimes we can show her what she’s missing. Can’t we?”
The inn was unaccountably quieting as the two talked at their position behind the bar.
“Of course. Are you thinking…?”
Erin Solstice glanced up from her game of chess, frowning. Rufelt nodded and then peeked at the door to Pallass.
“Yes. But where would we find our lovely Dullahan [Cellist]?”
Lasica smiled. The note that rose above the quiet conversations was played by a cello. But there was no player. Lasica raised her brows.
“We don’t need her.”
“No.”
The conversations stopped as the Drake took the Gnoll’s extended paw. Heads turned, back, looking for something that the people knew was there.
Forwards they came. A Gnoll and a Drake. A [Bartender] and a [Chef]. Lasica and Rufelt. Before them, people looked around and realized what was going on. The cello began to play, and the tables moved back. Chairs scooted, moving, The Drake and Gnoll saw a space clearing in the inn. They walked out onto it. And then they began to dance. It was as simple and as quick, as magical as that.
 
—–
 
Erin Solstice looked up. She felt the shift in the inn before the music began to play. But it was the music that made her realize what they’d done. It wasn’t melancholy, but nor was it jolly. It was simply…passionate. The kind of passion that invited the slow, intimate dance between the two. The kind of music that demanded nothing as complex as a waltz.
It was free-form, inviting, intoxicating in a way alcohol could never be. And it suited the two who danced with all to see.
She had seen it with Jelaqua and Maughin, holding hands, talking together, forgetting everyone else even when they were at the same table. It was the self-absorbed selfishness that young couples had. But what was so despised among youth hadn’t disappeared with age. It had only changed form. Now it was on display.
It invited. It was not a wall, but a path. Illumination, and it drew more and more people, like moths into the light. Couples first, and then people. Individuals becoming duos. Erin looked around as the people in her inn looked at each other.
See. A nervous invitation or a confident one. A surprise or something long coming. A Drake bowing to a young Dullahan woman. A Gnoll turning down her suitors and plucking a Garuda from where he sat. Because he had been watching her out of the corner of his eye. Old and young.
Lasica and Rufelt danced among it all. It wasn’t slow, the way they had danced in their bar. In fact, as the invisible cellist picked up, they moved faster, and the inn came alive. Erin heard laughter, but there was a silence between the two.
Two, dancing like one person. Erin looked at them, smiling. Longing. But content to watch. So did Lyonette until Pawn nervously approached. Then Lyonette looked at Mrsha, and the little Gnoll waved her on. Mrsha sat on Moore’s lap as he watched, truly, gently, envious.
“I would like to understand that before I die.”
Ksmvr spoke softly from where he sat with his team. It startled the others. But the Antinium was just watching the dancing. Yvlon looked up. She paused and nodded quietly.
“Me too. But someday. Perhaps. It’s hard with how we live.”
She felt at her arms, still encased in steel, though she’d taken off the rest of her armor. Neither one looked at Ceria, but the half-Elf still felt their attention. She cleared her throat.
“I—well, I’ve got time. Half-Elves don’t worry about that until we’re in our eighties. At least, if we’re born in a traditional village. Falene’s more likely to be looking about. And I’m aiming to succeed as an adventurer. Right?”
Ceria’s ears twitched a bit as she avoided the question. She self-consciously looked to her right. Pisces was sitting there, his drink mostly empty. The [Necromancer] watched Rufelt and Lasica. Selys had grabbed a Drake she knew; Drassi was dancing with Ishkr. And he shrugged, his face outwardly impassive.
“I am content with being alone. I, like many, have made my choice. If I truly thought love were essential to my happiness, I would be miserable.”
His team looked at him. Yvlon shook her head.
“You could have decided not to be a [Necromancer].”
Pisces smirked, but quietly. There was no bite to his reply, but there was certainty.
