They spoke for a while, and walked beside each other for longer than that. When Erick knew the final shape of Quilatalap’s desired city, Erick pulsed with a [Cityshape], sending power out to every corner of the land like a rolling storm of white light and subtle lightning. White stone structures pulled up from the ground, and the ground dipped down everywhere else, only to rise again in some areas to form streets while deepening in others to form waterways and lakes. Towers crested into the sky, and then unfurled with balconies and holes for windows, as blocky structures peaked into roofs, and then expelled rock from every place that would become windows. Some of that expelled rock formed more buildings. Most went back into the ground.

The first Shaping was crude, base work.

Next, Erick unleashed an aura of stone control, fine-tuning what was out there into something that was actually livable. Minor cracks in the working healed over. A building that was slightly tilted got tilted the other direction, to stand straight up. The lakes and rivers got sorted.

The final working was a cast of [Terraforming], over what would become the area’s largest lake.

Rain fell heavily from a black sky, into a deep trough in the ground, where water slipped into sand and into mud, and greenery began to spread. That spell was permanent so it would stay like that forever, and eventually overtake this land with greenery. This was what Quilatalap wanted. Since it was such a major spell with permanent power, Quilatalap would eventually be able to gain control of that magic and make it a part of the dungeon itself.

Quilatalap could have cast the dungeon core version of [Terraforming] from the dungeon control panels, but having Erick do this saved him a great deal of upkeep expenses. And Erick’s magic was the real deal; dungeons just had imperfect copies of that spell that weren’t actually Permanent. With Erick having created the city, too, that was a bunch of time and effort saved on Quilatalap’s part, as well.

When Erick was done, he cast his gaze through Ophiel, high above, checked his work, and then came back to himself, saying, “It all looks good, and you have a minor field of golden grains back where we first came from. They soaked up the rain even though it didn’t rain there. Seems to have stopped at short fences that I didn’t put up there, either, so I don’t think you’ll get overgrown anytime soon.”

Quilatalap looked back where they had come from. And then he looked at the not-gold staff floating beside Erick. He frowned a little, but more in unsure concern, than in anger. “I suppose… That’s a good thing.” He lost his frown. “Perhaps Atunir isn’t as mad at me as she usually is?”

Erick smiled at that. “Maybe!” And then Erick thought about that for more than a moment, and realized that that made him incredibly happy for a rather good reason. Erick went to Quilatalap and gave him a big hug, saying, “That’s great news, actually!”

Quilatalap chuckled as he hugged Erick back. And then he whispered, “So that building over there looks like it could use some warming up.”

Erick laughed.

Hours later, Erick exited the Storm Cellar and made a brief show of public approval of the dungeon, with Quilatalap’s Vanya dungeon master slime clone bowing to him, while Quilatalap himself took the shape of Soltic, and also bowed. Erick’s formal approval was good for optics, for whoever was watching out there with [Long Range Scry]s, or [Witness]es. The Regency was certainly looking.

After Erick was done with that, he spoke to Regent Augustive for a short while, and explained away his near full-day inside the dungeon as exploring all that it had to offer. Agustive had been very worried about that; he had been about to send in the guard. But Erick assured him that everything was good.

Later, in a quieter part of the world, near Everbless and while using Privacy magics to keep away all [Scry]ing eyes, Erick had a talk with Everbless.

It went about as well as most talks with undisciplined children usually went.

- - - -

Erick spent the next few days completely ignoring everything else in his immediate life, from Clarice to ‘Ashes’ to the Staff, for he needed to prepare for a Wizarding ritual of [True Sight]. Normally, such a preparation wouldn’t have taken him long at all, but he had a certain expectation for what he wanted the end result to be, and this one would probably be difficult. He wanted to be able to gaze across the universe, where there was no mana, and yet see through all mana-illusions.

Even if there weren’t any out there, Erick was preparing for a future filled with space ships, so it made sense to get over this hurdle now, before it became an actual problem later.

And he had never even played around with a 0% mana atmosphere.

So that is what Erick did. Inside his house in the Glittering Depths, Erick turned the mana density down to 0, freaked the fuck out in a very unintentional way as his body wanted to explode but not really explode at all, and then he went back up to 50% manasphere density.

He played around with that for a while.

And eventually, he felt… Not comfortable. He would never be comfortable in a 0% manasphere environment. Erick was a Wizard and a dragon; a highly magical creature, by his very nature. With an empty core he felt like he was missing every part of his body. His brain felt sluggish. His blood felt thick and weighty. His arms and legs felt near-useless and he got tired way too fast.

But he could deal with it.

He got around to seeing Clarice once, to make sure nothing odd was happening with her yet. She was still a hermit, and still coming to terms with everything that he and she had spoken about. She hadn’t done anything at all. Perhaps she had become even more withdrawn, for Erick had not gone inside her house and Clarice had not offered him an invite. This was not ideal.

But Clarice said that she was dealing with everything and it was taking her time, which was fine. Erick told her the same.

As long as Clarice wasn’t telling Rebecca her real name, then everything was fine.

It took Erick three more days of item creation for the Iron Bandits and understanding of mana crystals and otherwise, and a bit more planning here and there with his ‘Ultimate True Sight’ wizardry, for Erick to understand exactly what he wanted to do.

And then it was time.

- - - -

Erick stood in the mana chamber in his rooms in Glittering Depths. The world was dry of mana; dead as true void. The mana chamber was darker than black.

That darkness seemed dimmer than it should be. The mana chamber was cold.

Erick was cold.

His little [Meditation] amulet was working, glowing yellow deep under the layers of his shirt, where no light escaped. Erick was using [Meditation] to see into the manasphere, while purposefully not spilling anything into the chamber. The mana chamber remained empty of all mana. And because it was empty, when Erick looked out, he saw nothing at all. No figments in the manasphere. No fake things at all.

Just…

Black.

Pure, and yet also empty.

But that wasn’t true at all. Erick was inside a dungeon. He was inside the Dark.

Erick pressed his hand over the [Meditation] amulet under his shirt.

This Wizardry would not be something that enchanted him; that changed him at all. But it would be something that would truly change the [Meditation] amulet. If the staff could be changed, and be let out into the world at large, then why not a little amulet, too?

Erick stared out at the pure black of the chamber.

He spoke,

“A plight we sight in endless night

“A scare we stare at, dark beware

“A truth, uncouth, uncovered sleuth

“Light bright, we see truth; all that’s right

“Flare breaks the night; these eyes of glare

“Forsooth, I dare, the brightest Truth.

“Let’s see what’s right; a brightest Sight!”

There was no mana in the chamber. There was no mana in Erick’s core.

But the Dark was there.

Something slipped and twisted inside Erick as some connection rearranged, as Erick spoke, his voice separating from himself and doubling. Out came one single mana from elsewhere, flowing out of Erick’s mouth like a spark of hope.

Everything else happened fast.

The amulet was suddenly not under Erick’s shirt anymore. It floated in the middle of the manaless chamber, like a tiny yellow sun surrounded by silver, almost blackish metiron, its chain snaking around the sun in lazy, zero-gravity twists.

And then the yellow turned white, prismatic. The grasping hands of the amulet’s metal flowed onto the white orb, like molten metal, and then winked open.

Briefly, Erick saw a second eye appear out of the dark, but the second eye faded, and all that was left was the [Meditation] amulet, surrounded by eyelids. It looked kinda like Erick’s own eyes when he was a dragon; pure white and surrounded by black…

Even the metiron had been transformed into black metiron.

Erick held out his hand, and the new artifact lowered into Erick’s palm. It was no bigger than before, perhaps only four centimeters across, but the whole thing looked like a dark talisman of Melemizargo, and it radiated power.

Erick opened the mana chamber, and said, “Dungeon. Increase mana density to 50%”

Rapidly his house began to refill with mana and Erick breathed easier as breathing became literally easier. His connection to the Script began to refill Erick’s core reserves, and Erick relaxed.

The staff waited for Erick, just outside the chamber.

“The [Identify] I used on you didn’t do anything except return the same wordage as before,” Erick said to the staff.

Since it was a [Familiar], Erick had decided to start treating it like a [Familiar], which meant talking to it. The Staff of Divine Absolution didn’t seem to care about Erick’s non-commanding words, but it had taken Ophiel a long time to start to respond to small talk too, so Erick wasn’t worried about that.

Erick held up his new necklace, and wondered, “But what do you [Identify] as?”

Erick used his ring on the thing.

All-Seeing Eye, attuned greater artifact, 500/500

Beware of staring too deep into the Dark, for the Dark stares back.

Erick smiled at that, knowing that he had done it right, and also that he’d hopped up another 450 points on the Decoration board. He was probably at 4650 right now, and that news was probably getting around very fast.

He put the necklace on—

Erick stood on nothing in the middle of the Dark, while the horizon was a dim white line of fire and everything else was black.

And then the abyss below opened up, in the shape of a bright, bright white eye—

Erick said, “Oh. Hello Melemizargo.”

The universe chuckled good-naturedly, and then the eye closed.

Gradually, the house came back all around Erick. But if he looked down, he would see Melemizargo… Actually, if he looked in any direction at all he would see Melemizargo. But that was just a tuning problem.

Erick focused to a lighter touch, and the amulet responded—

Suddenly, Erick was firmly in his little cottage in the Glittering Depths. The floor was there. The walls and ceiling were there. Everything was as it should be to mortal eyes.

Erick nodded. “Good.”

And now it was time to get back. The hearing for Denutha Odaari’s grand treason was starting in several hours, and Erick needed to go back to Odaali to speak to Cyril and Yetta about all that, before it happened. He was involved in that case now.

Chances were rather great the Viridian Throne would offer to execute Odaari before they offered a trial for the crime of the Daydropper, and Erick needed to be sure that it went to a trial, not an execution. That’s what the city of Odaali, the king of Odaali, and the Champion of Atunir all wanted, after all.

Atunir just wanted the case over, one way or another.

Erick left his staff in his cottage as he took to the roads, and began running back to delver square. He said hello to a few people, and as he did, the All-Seeing Eye showed him everything about those people, easily cutting through all mana sense blockers and other obscuring devices…

Erick slowed down when he got into town…

There were hidden markers on streets here and there, showing the way to places that Erick did not know of before now. That was the way to the portal to the command center of the dungeon. Over there was a hidden stairwell to… some place.

Hmm.

There was a lot of hidden shit down here, eh?

Erick managed to make it to the tower that led to the first floor before someone managed to spot him and shout out a congratulations on reaching higher on the Decoration board. Erick smiled and thanked the guy, as he went up the tower.

In a minute, he was back on the first floor.

He got out of the dungeon. The sun shone brightly. The spider at the top of the dungeon keep, with its arms spread across and around the entire space, looked at Erick a little as he walked underneath, which was normal for that spider these days.

His various metirons were already ironcrystal.

Except for his newest one. That All-Seeing Eye hung around Erick’s neck, under his clothes, and remained a bright white eye surrounded by black scales. That was probably why Erick saw and mana sensed the inquisitors of Greendale standing all around the ironcrystal courtyard long before anyone else. They were waiting for him, according to their focused gazes and readied spells, but no one else could see them at all. Erick spotted [Invisibility] and [Intangible] and other, more esoteric spellwork that had some deep flavors of Fae or Mystical, or Air or Light. Not a single person in the courtyard saw any of them at all.

They had pulled out all the stops to greet Ashes today.

Erick would have liked to believe that he would have seen all of them on his own, but there was one man standing on the far side of the courtyard that wore flowing green robes, and that man was certainly one of the Viridian King’s personal assassins. That guy’s spellwork was world-class, for sure.

Erick stepped out of the castle.

He stood ready.

He waited for them to make the first move.
