“You know… I never really knew that was a thing that you could do. We barely talked about it when Kiri went through from the Freelands to Grand Benevolence, but the Glittering Depths apparently has people coming in through the golden fields all the time.”

“Dungeon hopping is rare. Doesn’t normally happen at all… Or at least in my dungeons it doesn’t. There’s not even an accepted name for the phenomenon, though the fairies would call it ‘stepping off the path’, I believe.” Quilatalap said, “And Kiri only transposed between dungeons 3 months ago. I’ve been pressed to figure out exactly what happened there, but I only really have a guess, because that sort of movement through the Dark is not normal at all.”

“I guess it has only been 3 months.” Erick asked, “What did you find out about dungeon hopping? How easy is it for people to move between dungeons?”

Quilatalap began, “People don’t move through the Dark because the Dark is death for all living things.

“But since the advent of the dungeons, with all these places now settled and realized in these depths...

“In a very large, relaxed dungeon, it is easier for people to transport between them, especially if there are many, many safe spots inside those dungeons, like with the Freelands and their open lands, and with the Glittering Depths’s golden fields.” Quilatalap said, “None of my dungeons have any safe spots except for the entrance and a few other locations, so by their nature, they’re rather secure. It was weird for me when Kiri popped into Grand Benevolence, but that was more due to the Dark acting on its own, and not due to any leaks in security on my end.” Quilatalap said, “I’m rather sure I can make those inner portals happen on purpose, though… At least for nearby locations, like dungeons on the other islands of Archipelago Nergal.” He gazed out across the empty world. “It might even happen without my input, because a lot of this land will be open, safe space. I doubt I could turn this place into a hub of inter-dungeon transport like the Gate District, for that would be only at the Dark’s pleasure… But I imagine that if the Storm Prophecy should come to pass that places like this one might get flooded with people from other dungeons… Lotta weird things could happen when that happens.” Quilatalap pointed to the side. “Like that.”

Both of them were already looking at the golden staff that suddenly appeared, floating to the side, as though it was there this whole time. Erick had left it at the cottage, but here it was…

Floating.

“Hmmm, yeah,” Erick muttered.

Ophiel fluffed up on Erick’s shoulder, exclaiming, “The staff is back!”

It floated there, just glittering.

And then a few green buds rose from the ground where it almost touched.

Quilatalap easily said, “And that brings up another question. I could try for a portal between here and the Glittering Depths? You could come and go from here to there as you want?”

“… I want to say yes, Quilatalap, because I miss you. But I don’t want Greendale up in here.”

Quilatalap grinned. “I’ll be fine, if you’re worried about that. But I understand. I won’t try for that.”

Erick felt a small melancholy—

And then Erick told the staff, “Please stop spreading wheat right now.”

The green buds had managed to turn into a small patch of golden wheat, growing to a meter and a half tall in moments, before Erick’s request had slowed, and then stopped the spread of grain. The staff just hovered there now, not doing anything at all.

Erick asked Quilatalap, “A portal between these Grand Dungeons would be weird for those other dungeon masters, too, right? I’m still not out as Erick over there… It’s actually been really nice to just be myself, though Kinder already believes that I’m going to cause some huge mess.”

“You probably will, so I can’t blame the guy for feeling that way.”

Erick rolled his eyes.

Quilatalap smiled. “And yes, it would cause Kinder and whoever else to notice this place.”

“Better not do it, then.” Erick added, “I’ll work on getting the other dungeons to… Do what? Weaken their walls against this place? What have you decided to call this place, anyway?”

“All you really have to do is tell them that it might happen, and they won’t have control over it, so they shouldn’t freak out when it happens. They might be able to cause it to happen, though, if they know how to work their dungeon core properly.” Quilatalap said, “And I’ve decided to call this place The Storm Cellar.”

“Sounds good. Are you going to put in an Endless Delve?”

“Those things are too random by far…” Quilatalap looked out across the world of his dungeon. “… But I could? … They’re good for making resources.”

“Are you going to do any sort of Second Script?”

“Nope. Don’t really like those things anyway. All magic is the same, and the Script already does a pretty decent job of it all. I’m going to let that in here as it already is.”

Erick nodded. And then he stepped forward. “So what sorts of buildings?”

Quilatalap walked with him, saying, “Standard city on the Surface. Grid-based… Also your staff is following us.”

Behind them, the staff floated across the ground, following behind Erick at a normal following distance. Ophiel clutched on Erick’s shoulder, watching the staff as it floated toward them.

The staff left a small trail of lush grass where it passed.

Erick glanced backward. And then he brushed the staff with his aura, raising it up into the air a bit. Instead of floating higher so as not to spread green, the staff hopped to his side and then stopped spreading green where it floated.

Ophiel twittered in very soft, unsure guitar sounds as he stared at the not-gold staff, only a half meter away.

The staff behaved.

Erick turned his attention back to Quilatalap, who walked at his other side. “I guess I have another [Familiar] for now.”

Ophiel perked up. “Another?!”

And then he fluffed up and fluttered into the air, over to the staff. With twenty eyes and one great big eye in the center, Ophiel stared at the staff from all angles. And then he sat on the gem on the top.

The staff glowed brighter, briefly, and then it didn’t care anymore. Ophiel fluffed up, spreading his wings, and the staff briefly bobbed, before it regained equilibrium and control.

And then Ophiel leaned to the side…

The staff leaned with Ophiel’s weight—

The staff rapidly spun, throwing Ophiel into the air, and Ophiel giggled and chirped at the toss before flying back around to land back on the top of the staff, which had righted itself. Ophiel landed once again and held on tight.

… And then Ophiel leaned to the side.

The staff spun, and this time Ophiel clung on for dear life, giggling wildly as though he was on a carnival ride, and then he spread his wings and angled upward, ensuring that wind cut downward like he was a ceiling fan on reverse.

The staff went sailing up into the sky, with Ophiel giggling all the while—

And then the staff vanished from under Ophiel to reappear directly at Erick’s side, leaving Ophiel up there, still spinning for a little bit, until he realized he had lost his fun ride. The staff nestled closer to Erick, seeming in unsure distress, so Erick put his hand on it. The staff calmed right away and stopped floating, falling fully under Erick’s power, as Ophiel came back to ground level, to land on Erick’s other shoulder, for Erick had sent a gentle nudge at Ophiel not to play around with the staff so much.

“I still don’t understand it fully, Ophiel,” Erick said, as Ophiel hopped across Erick’s back, to get closer to the staff. He wasn’t about to hop onto it again because Erick had told him not to, but he was certainly going to investigate, because he could. “Look all you want, but don’t touch it again, unless it wants to.”

Erick wasn’t sure what the staff wanted, though. When it was separated from him Erick couldn’t feel it at all, but now that his hand was wrapped around that not-gold surface, it felt, a little bit, like a natural extension of his aura. Like his aura was active inside the staff, even though Erick wasn’t concentrating any power in the staff at all right now. It was an odd sort of ‘extension’ that was almost like a [Familiar]. But more solid.

Quilatalap said, “You went into a dungeon dedicated to Field and Fertility and you came out with another kid.”

Erick almost wanted to laugh at that, but instead he gripped the staff, trying to feel it out. It felt more like an extension of himself than a [Familiar], now that he was holding it, but then Erick let go, and the staff floated there, feeling like nothing at all. To his mana sense it seemed like some highly magical thing, but not much more than that. It certainly didn’t have a soul. It had a few golden glows, though, like how Erick’s Crystal Star used to have.

Ophiel and Yggdrasil both had ephemeral souls in their manifested bodies these days.

This thing had nothing at all.

“… A very new [Familiar]?” Erick guessed. “I’m not even sure how I got it.”

Quilatalap said, “Maybe simply a sentient artifact attuned to Atunir. One a bit more willing to be near you than the Crystal Star… It manifested oddly, though. The [Witness] for the upgraded version is one thing, but this form and function is a whole different beast, blipping from Grand Dungeon to the Surface, and then down into another would-be Grand Dungeon a quarter of a world away. Did you do any Wizardry down there?”

“Nothing I can think of… I am unsure if I even used my own mana for the [Witness]… But I suppose I did, didn’t I? Not like I had a [Witness] metamond.” Erick said, “The mana cost was negligible, anyway.”

Quilatalap nodded and thought as they walked.

The staff floated beside Erick. Ophiel almost hopped on it again, but Erick shook his head, and Ophiel twittered and stayed on his shoulder.

Quilatalap said, “From what I have heard, and according to what you have told me, the Glittering Depths is an incredibly restrictive Second Script dungeon. You could still cast some internal magics with your core mana, though, and Clarice Icewind had to use Wizardry to make her [True Sight] function outside of a manasphere —Which is a good idea; you should follow her suggestion.”

Erick nodded.

Quilatalap continued, “But she had to use Wizardry to do that, and she probably had to use her own mana. You probably used a confluence of your own mana and dungeon mana to [Witness] that history… Did you use a lot of your own mana to do anything else inside the dungeon?”

Erick almost facepalmed. Instead, he sighed. “I did a manual [Return] when I thought I had fucked up and people had seen the real me. Or at least the dungeon masters had. After I had already done it I realized that they could probably already see me as a dragon, so it didn’t matter.”

Quilatalap raised his eyebrows a little. “10,000 mana would qualify as a lot.”

“It was more like 27,000 and there was a tearing sensation.”

“Then there’s your answer. You held in your hand the recreation of a primary artifact of a memory inside the Dark— or at least it was attuned to you and nearby?— and then you used Time Magic around that artifact. Combined with what the Staff was already primed to do, and the fact you’re a Paradox Wizard, then that’s the full answer.”

Erick looked at the staff. It floated serenely. “… That’s the real staff?”

“Is the recreation of a painting the original painting? No. But it’s close. Think of it more like an NPC turned real.” Quilatalap added, “Clarice probably helped to make the staff fully manifest, though, since she is a Fae Dragon by her own admission, and you were listening to her when the staff fully became what it currently is.”

Erick had some rapid, mixed feelings about that. “… I don’t think she did anything except talk about her experiences… She didn’t do anything?”

“We’re in the Dark, where magic and possibility are sacred, easy things to achieve, especially when dragons and Wizards and gods and deep history are involved.” Quilatalap added, “You’re practically a walking ritual, too, so you were probably 80% of the cause of the staff, but you went into a Fae dragon’s house and ate her food, and she was already heavily invested in her own historical resonance with that dungeon. Even with all your defenses against that sort of influence, Clarice was probably 10% of the cause of that staff, at least. Atunir could have organized the whole thing, too, but most of the time people have to ask for gods to interfere in their lives, and Atunir sticks to the God Pact formed after the Sundering, just like all the rest.”

“… Should I be angry at Clarice? I don’t feel like I should be.”

“I think you should be angry if Clarice chooses to give Fyuri her true name; not for this staff thing.”

“True Names were never a problem over at the Freelands.”

“You figuring out one of your past lives was named ‘Ashes’ isn’t really a problem for you, either, right?”

“Ah. So you’re going with that interpretation, eh?”

Quilatalap smirked. “Look, Erick. I find it incredibly attractive how powerful you are, and you know it, so there.”

“Haaaa…” Erick moved on, “Should I burst in and solve this demonic murders case? In any other place I would have solved it already.”

“If you want to do good… When was the last time you checked in with the guardhouses in the Crystal Forest, and offered your help?”

“Been about four months now. Crime isn’t much of a problem that necessitates my intervention in the Crystal Forest, but it’s still nice to be able to wipe away problems that easily.” Erick added, “I want to do the same for the Greensoil Republic, but they’re a neighboring nation. Still though, it feels like I should be solving that from a top-down approach instead of this bumbling ‘not involving myself’ that I seem to be headed toward.”

“Greensoil has made their stance rather clear on your involvement in their security affairs… Aren’t you going to be having that Odaari meeting in a few days, anyway? Talk to them about it then.” Quilatalap moved on, “But for now! Can you make a starter city out of this land? [Terraforming], too, please.”

“Of course. What sort of architecture and style?”

Quilatalap held up his hands and projected light into a small model, saying, “New Highlands style, grid streets like in Candlepoint, with some riverbeds and…”

