Selys was scrambling, tearing through her notes to figure out just what—but Lism was going on.
“Krshia would have us open the city to adventurers from the north. I say, look to our tails. The Bloodfields have always been a deterrent to trade coming north. But with that fabulous door, and our brave soldiers, couldn’t we seek a safer path through the hills around the Bloodfields? Cut a path to enable trade throughout the year? This is just one of the proposals, which I, Lism, would implement if I am elected to the Council. Fund the City Watch! And bring our soldiers back! They could keep our roads safe! Why stop where Krshia is content to coast? Vote for me and let’s get as much done as we can!”
This time, the cheer was drowned out by Krshia’s howl of fury. She advanced on Lism, pointing an angry paw.
“You cannot say that! You stole my idea!”
“It’s just an idea, Silverfang! If you can’t improve on it, what’s the point?”
Lism crowed as he looked around. He got nods of agreement. Some people clearly disagreed, but Lism’s banner was waving above his head. Build your city with your own claws. Selys clearly heard a Drake lady remarking to a friend behind her.
“Why not hire Drakes and Gnolls? My son could use a job.”
“But how will you pay for the wall? Without the Antinium’s help?”
Krshia snarled at Lism, losing her composure. The Drake rubbed his claws on his tunic.
“Well, the army has pledged some money to Liscor. But—happily, three of the Walled Cities have already pledged to cover five percent of the costs rather than force the Antinium to pay. Each.”
Selys’ jaw dropped. Krshia took a step back, her fur paling.
“That is a lie. You cannot have—”
“Reached out to the Walled Cities? Let’s just say they’re concerned about the Antinium too. And they’re willing to help pay for an expanded City Watch—we may be able to fund the Adventurer’s Guild’s upgrade solely based on private donations!”
“Private—”
Krshia’s eyes bulged. Lism reached for something behind him. A Drake carrying a sheaf of…of papers handed a small stack to him. Lism pressed it into Krshia’s paws with a filthy smile.
“It’s just been printed. But the reaction is already spreading across the continent. I’m sure I have a few [Messages] waiting. But until then—Drakes and Gnolls, lend me your ears! Do you want to have the Antinium expand their Hive and build everything? Or would you rather build your city yourselves, and see the gold flowing into your pockets?”
He walked past Krshia, shouting at the crowd further down the street. The procession followed him, and Selys saw, to her horror, that people were breaking off, talking to each other. Spreading the word. It was a twisted parody of yesterday. Selys rushed over to Krshia. They had to stop Lism! Think up a counter! But the Gnoll was staring at something in her paws. Her hands were shaking as Selys rushed up.
“Krshia, what—”
The Gnoll growled. Her eyes flashed as the papers crumpled in her grip. She thrust them at Selys.
“That dirty, rat-tailed—”
Selys stared at the papers. Slowly, she unfolded the crumpled paper, read the freshly-dried ink. It was in fact, a [Scribe]-written copy. A copy of a rather long introduction. The first thing Selys saw was the author’s name. Olesm Swifttail. With a sinking heart, she began to read.
 
To my remaining readers,
My name is Olesm Swifttail, [Strategist] for the City of Liscor. In my previous newsletter, I made a series of suggestions and recommendations about a possible system that could be implemented along with an analysis of the events surrounding the Goblin Lord’s recent siege of Liscor. I understand it was received with much disagreement by a good number of my audience, not least for the idea of fostering peace with the Goblins. I would like to address that issue in brief:
To those I have offended, I sincerely apologize. My arguments were not backed up with historical fact, which do cite instances where Goblins have coexisted with other species—albeit a relationship fraught with tension. I have since educated myself, and hope this further, more coherent argument will better represent my opinion—and the inherent dangers I was suggesting.
I would like to delve into the realities of trying to work in harmony with species classified as monsters, such as Ogres, Trolls, Goblins, various ape species, Giants, (with the understanding that the remaining half-Giant tribes are, of course, now fully recognized as a species with rights in all cases but those of the Demonfolk of Rhir), and so on.
But before that, I would like to bring up another issue troubling Liscor: that of an election. I consider it a fascinating case-study of politics and will be attaching my opinion over a troubling change in Liscor’s traditional system of governance that may, inadvertently, grant too much power to the Antinium Hive located beneath Liscor, known as the Free Antinium.
My attached summary and thoughts are below, and in this newsletter, I have tabulated the letter to clearly differentiate games of Chess, Go, my findings on the issue of interspecies politics and strategy, and the current situation in Liscor.
Please also note the final section, which contains a fascinating report by Liscor’s Adventurer’s Guild on the species known as Raskghar, an exceptionally savage, monstrous subrace that deviated from Gnolls and their biology, danger classification, and the situation that led to a large tribe abducting Gnolls from Liscor itself for a ritualistic sacrifice, which has many disturbing implications…
 
“Oh dead gods.”
Selys slowly raised her head from the paper. Zevara, bewildered, snatched at it.
“What is it? What does it say?”
“Olesm. He released another newsletter. And he not only talked about Goblins, but he’s talking about the Antinium in it. About the election. It probably went out to every city on the continent with a [Strategist] in it. And I bet they read his letter with that opening. He just told all of them what’s at stake!”
Elirr’s fur went pale. He read the cover letter over Zevara’s shoulder.
“Olesm? He’s siding with Lism?”
Selys opened her mouth. Then she covered it because she wanted to throw up. No wonder the Walled Cities had just gotten in touch with Lism! If Liscor’s [Strategist] pointed out that they could help fund Liscor’s expansion or let the Antinium get a number of concessions…
Lism’s voice was coming back this way. He was marching at the head of a crowd, and he wasn’t by himself this time. A Drake was marching on his left, another on his right. Lism raised his voice jubilantly.
“For your consideration, good folk of Liscor! Senior Guardsman Jeiss for a seat on Liscor’s Council! Alonna Swiftwing, our esteemed [Mage] and head of the Mage’s Guild for a seat on Liscor’s Council! Vote for them! Vote for me! Liscor, built by our own claws! Or paws!”
The Gnolls watched him march down the street. Zevara stared at Senior Guardsman Jeiss. He saluted her awkwardly. Beilmark, his partner, said not a word. Jeiss avoided her gaze. Selys watched as more Gnolls and Drakes turned to listen to Lism’s new message. And then she realized the worst part.
“Oh no. He’s making this an issue about the Antinium. Not about building more of the city. If he can offer what the Antinium can—then it’s about whether you trust Klbkch and his Hive or not.”
“And whether you want Antinium to build the city or…us.”
The group fell silent. Selys thought she would puke. And then, a Drake approached their group. He was the same one from yesterday. And like yesterday, he made a beeline for Zevara.
“Watch Captain. Are you supporting Miss Krshia here? Are you against Shopkeeper Lism? He says he’ll support tripling the City Watch’s budget if he can. And he says he’s all for you as Watch Captain. Are you against him?”
Every head slowly turned to Zevara. She cleared her throat once. Twice. Three times. Selys beseeched her silently, but Zevara wouldn’t meet her eyes. Eventually, she looked at the Drake.
“Well, if—if any Council member were to see fit to grant the City Watch an appropriate budget, I don’t know that I could categorically denounce Shopkeeper Lism’s proposals…”
“Zevara!”
“Sorry.”
The Watch Captain murmured. The Drakes looked at each other. One of them whistled.
“Well in that case…I mean, I’m supportive of the Antinium and all that, but I wasn’t too keen on having that many Gnolls on the Council. Maybe one? And I like more Drakes. Humans…”
“Exactly. Say what you will, but Lism’s right about Humans. And I mean, Klbkch is Klbkch, but historically, those Ants…”
They broke up, backing away from Krshia’s party. The same Drakes who’d cheered her yesterday. Selys desperately went after them.
“No, wait! That’s not fair! Let me talk to Zevara! Don’t spread that! Krshia—”
She turned to look at the Gnoll. Krshia’s shoulders were hunched. She was staring at Lism with her teeth bared. Selys slowly backed up.
“We can win this. Everyone just stay calm. We need to think up a rebuttal for Lism. Talk to Klbkch. Get Erin in on this—”
Elirr and Beilmark nodded. They grabbed Krshia before she could, say, pounce on Lism. Selys was trying to usher Krshia back from the smug Drake when she saw him, standing across from her on the other side of the crowd.
His head was ducked, and he was looking down. But his blue scales were telltale. And he had a sheaf of papers in one hand. Olesm Swifttail was flicking through them, nodding as he listened to Lism speak.
Oh, spin and spin. Sudden changes and betrayals and the fickle nature of the crowd. That was politics. Selys felt the world, which seemed so solid, turn to jelly around her. And then she saw what Olesm was holding. The papers. His notes.
Selys saw them, and the world went red. She didn’t know what possessed her to push through the crowd. And she didn’t catch herself until she was right in front of Olesm, throwing her detailed notes in his face and punching at him with a claw as he tried to block. But a dozen hands caught her, dragging her back, and Gnolls and Drakes yanked the people grabbing Selys off her.
And then both sides were shoving, jostling, shouting—and then someone threw a punch. And both sides erupted into a brawl and Selys and Olesm were caught in the middle of it. Zevara shouted for order and roared for her City Watch while Krshia and Lism looked on, shouting insults at each other. Selys threw punches and tried to push out of the sudden riot as Lism’s supporters clashed with Krshia’s.
But unfortunately, suddenly, it looked like it was an even fight.
 
——
 
Liscor heaved. It turned. It fought amongst itself. And all the momentum Krshia Silverfang had worked for was snatched up, converted, and turned on her in an instant. A classic reversal in chess. Or perhaps Go was a more fitting metaphor?
Whatever the case, it was messy. And dirty. And when a despairing and scratched-up Selys walked into the inn, in tears, while Krshia shouted at Lism on the streets and Zevara sat in her office and thought, the scales were even. Or perhaps slanted in Lism’s favor. He had more than enough scales already.
And there they lay. Right up until the [Innkeeper], a young woman named Erin Solstice, came out of the kitchen, wiping her hands. She listened to Selys. She heard about Olesm. She dropped the towel. Slowly, Erin picked it up off the floor. She looked at Selys, around at her inn, her patrons. She thought of Krshia. Erin Solstice looked out at Liscor and made a fist.
“Oh, it is on.”
