“Jeiss, if I thought there was another way, I’d take it. But you saw what we’re up against. Krshia offered me funding for the City Watch. The current Council won’t. They rejected my offer three times, citing ‘lack of funding’. If it meant getting the City Watch what we need, I’d back anyone in an election. Anyone except that crazy Human.”
A chuckle ran through the crowd. Jeiss smiled, but then it faded.
“And the Antinium?”
Zevara looked up.
“We let them expand their Hive with the city. We put more Soldiers on the walls, and let more into the city. If they wanted to stab us in the back, they could have done it any number of times over the last decade. That’s my perspective. You have a different one?”
She waited for Jeiss’ response. He bit his lip, shook his head reluctantly, and then sighed.
“If you’re doing this, your job’s in jeopardy too, Captain.”
Zevara nodded slowly.
“I know that. The next Council could replace me. Or this one might, if things go south and Krshia doesn’t get her vote. Either way, that’s my decision. The City Watch stays neutral. I’m just a private citizen. With a lot of influence. I won’t ask you to do anything to support Krshia or help me keep my job. Got it?”
There was a lot of nodding, which was encouraging. Zevara had seen City Watches turn against their Watch Captains, and that wasn’t a pretty sight. Jeiss looked around. He collected some invisible census, and then briskly shook his head.
“No worries on the job, Watch Captain. We’ve got your tail. You’re the boss, not Wing Commander Embria or the army.”
She exhaled softly, trying not to show her relief. It meant a lot.
“If that’s all, we’ve got a job to do. Anything else?”
She looked around. No one else wanted to speak, but Jeiss held up one claw.
“If—if there were a better option, Watch Captain, would you take it?”
Zevara paused. She looked quizzically back at Jeiss.
“Such as?”
“Just a hypothetical question, Watch Captain. I’m just saying. Will you keep an open mind?”
He met her eyes. Zevara nodded slowly.
“An open mind. If you’ve got any better ideas, I’ll listen.”
She waited. Everyone looked around, but no one spoke up. Jeiss shrugged, grinning tiredly.
“Just asking.”
 
——
 
“Turns out Lism can be shut up. You just need to get him mad enough to choke on his own spit.”
That night, Selys raised a glass and toasted Krshia and Zevara. The Gnoll was grinning, and her voice, after a small gulp of a specialty healing tonic for the throat, was back to normal.
“We got a message throughout the city. And Lism, that windbag, couldn’t stop me, even with two squads of the army marching.”
“And the Council is being hounded to act. They meet tomorrow morning by popular demand. If they don’t vote for an election, they’ll have to answer to a crowd. I suppose I should put some of the Watch on the scene just in case.”
Zevara drank from her cup, smiling faintly. Selys leaned back at the table, grinning hugely. She felt powerful. Or maybe motivated was the word. It felt like everything was coming together, and relaxing at Erin’s inn after a hard day was excellent. As was the lemonade drink. And on cue, Erin came over with a pitcher for a refill herself, and tonight’s dinner.
“Congratulations! Krshia! Selys! Uh, Zevara! This is amazing!”
She set down three large, steaming plates of spaghetti and meatballs, a classic. Selys immediately reached for a fork and slurped up some noodles. Krshia picked up a meatball with her paws, popped it into her mouth, and chewed with her eyes closed. Zevara eyed Erin.
“Uh, thank you, Miss Solstice. This is good…lemonade, was it? I’ve had something like this. Not nearly as sweet, though.”
“You know us Humans! We love sugar.”
Erin smiled at the table. She put the pitcher down.
“I also have another drink for you to try. On the house! I’m supporting this election. Although, I can’t vote. But I really want you to win, Krshia! And the other Gnolls too. Mrsha was really happy Elirr was running!”
She came back with a clear glass with a brown liquid at the bottom and a blue one balanced on top. Selys eyed it with great interest, as did Zevara. Krshia was eating meatballs.
“What’s that?”
“Blue fruit juice mixed with rum. Try it. I’m going to show it to my friend in Pallass, Rufelt, later. Thoughts?”
“Nice presentation.”
Zevara took the glass, swirled it until the liquids mixed, and took a sip. Her brows shot up.
“Not bad. But it’s so sweet.”
“Some people like sweet. Like me. Erin, can I have one?”
“Of course. Krshia?”
“I could use a drink. Especially after dealing with Lism.”
The Gnoll stretched out. Erin nodded, smiling, and went for the bar. Selys reached for her fork, sipping from both sweet drinks. Zevara requested an ale. Selys bit into her spaghetti and noticed a paw sneaking up to one of her meatballs on the side.
“Mrsha!”
The little Gnoll jumped, hit her head on the table, and raced away. Zevara jolted—Krshia just rolled her eyes. Her meatballs were safely in her stomach. Selys laughed and tempted Mrsha back with a meatball.
“What are you, a dog?”
“Gnoll cubs are sometimes indistinguishable from them. And often less well house-trained.”
Krshia muttered. Mrsha shot her a frown, stood up on both legs, and delicately bit off half of Selys’ meatball. She folded her arms, as if to say, ‘there! See?’ Krshia just blew air into Mrsha’s face teasingly.
“Don’t feed Mrsha more than that, Selys! She’s begged enough snacks already. I’m telling everyone to stop; she’s putting on weight! And for once, she doesn’t need it!”
Lyonette passed Selys’ table by, carrying a bowl filled with black flies to a table with some of the Painted Soldiers, still being rotated in from the Hive. It was night, but they were still eagerly coming in and watching the Players of Celum, who had rotated through their three acting teams throughout the day.
“You’re not fat, are you, Mrsha?”
Selys teased Mrsha. The Gnoll indignantly patted her stomach, glaring at Lyonette. She flashed her paws in a signal Selys didn’t understand, but Lyonette clearly did. The [Barmaid] frowned thunderously as she handed a Soldier a bowl.
“Say that again, young miss, and you can kiss your own dessert goodbye. In fact, I don’t think a rude young lady deserves any. Do you?”
Mrsha’s face fell. She raced around Selys, hugging the Drake. Selys flicked her tail at Mrsha.
“I’m not protecting you from Lyonette. If you were rude, you were rude.”
The little Gnoll looked at Selys, betrayed, and then slunk to another table to Selys’ left. She poked her head up and surprised a half-Elf sitting there. Ceria rubbed Mrsha’s head.
“Mrsha! What are you doing now? Hiding from mean Lyonette? Sorry. My [Ice Walls] can’t stop her. Go say sorry.”
She ushered Mrsha out from the table. The Gnoll plucked at the woman sitting next to Ceria. Yvlon looked down and read something.
“A mistake? I don’t think so. Own up, Mrsha. Honesty is important.”
Selys wished she’d been at the inn longer to pick up on Mrsha’s new sign language. Guiltily, she looked over at the Horn’s table. Mrsha slunk back to Lyonette, ears down, and Selys cleared her throat.
“How’s it looking from your end? Think this election thing’s a good idea?”
They turned. Ksmvr, Ceria, Yvlon, Pisces—and Olesm. Both Pisces and Olesm had returned from Pallass yesterday, but this was their first full day experiencing the new climate. Ceria shrugged as she bit into her own spaghetti.
“I’m for it. Then again, I’ve never lived anywhere for long as a citizen. Adventurer’s Guilds let teams do their own thing. And Wistram was…well, confusing. This is nice and straightforward. Hope you win.”
Yvlon nodded.
“No disagreements there. And it seems like you three have the popular opinion on your side. What do you think, Pisces, Ksmvr?”
The two looked up from their plates. Both seemed intent on winning the award for most spaghetti consumed. Ksmvr opened his sauce-covered mandibles.
“I am no longer a member of Liscor in any sense of the word since I was expelled from the Hive. Therefore all my thoughts about Liscor’s election are voided.”
“…Fair enough. Pisces?”
The [Necromancer] looked up with a smirk.
“Ah, naturally the one expert on Drake politics and culture is addressed last, as usual.”
Ceria sighed. Selys rolled her eyes.
“Big talk for a Human with more sauce than lips.”
Pisces’ hand went up and touched his spaghetti-sauce covered lips. He blushed, scrubbed at his face with one arm of his robe, and cleared his throat. Yvlon gave Selys a thumbs-up, which Pisces ignored. He sat back, steepling his fingers together.
“I, for one, quite enjoyed the spirited debate. I may have added in a few salient points of my own.”
“Hence you nearly getting into a fight three times?”
Ceria eyed Pisces over the rim of her cup. The [Necromancer] sniffed and adjusted his pristine white robes.
“Trifles. A good debater always has an exit strategy prepared in case simpletons unable to mount a coherent defense take objection. Isn’t that so, Olesm?”
He looked at his companion. The Drake [Strategist] didn’t immediately reply. Olesm looked up from his mostly untouched plate of spaghetti.
“I can’t believe all this happened when I was gone. Is this really happening? An election? And—you’re all going for it? Krshia? Selys? Zevara?”
He looked at them from his table. Selys frowned and Krshia and Zevara looked up at Olesm’s tone.
“Yeah. Why? Isn’t it a great idea?”
“I—I suppose so? I mean, I’m for elections. In theory. I guess. I’m not against it. But this deal with the Antinium—and expanding the walls? Can we secure them by next spring against the flood waters? And what about getting them enchanted? If they aren’t, we’re potentially giving someone a foothold into the city.”
He looked at Zevara. The Watch Captain frowned and put down a napkin.
“I think we can do it. There’s a Wistram [Mage] scheduled to check our walls soon for the annual inspection anyways. And if not this, then what? What are your objections, Olesm?”
“The Antinium’s deal, for one. Politically, if we allow Antinium from foreign Hives into the city—no, it’s the expanding Hive that bothers me. And allowing more Soldiers aboveground. Why didn’t anyone consult with me first? I am Liscor’s [Strategist]!”
The blue-scaled Drake looked upset. Guiltily, Selys sipped from her drink and shrugged. She didn’t really get his objection. Erin came back with more meatballs for Ceria and Krshia.
“Mrsha said sorry! So don’t let her beg more meatballs, anyone. What’s this about more Antinium being a bad idea?”
Olesm avoided Erin’s gaze. He mumbled as he forked up more spaghetti.
“Well, I meant the Hive in regards to the Free Queen, not the Painted Soldiers…er, I’m just saying, it’s a deal worth looking twice at.”
Pisces frowned, resting the point of his chin on his steepled fingers. Yvlon raised an eyebrow, but Ceria just sighed.
“You sound just like that Lism guy, Olesm.”
“So?”
He hunched his shoulders defensively. Selys remembered he and Ceria had been a thing briefly. Or had they? The half-Elf chewed, swallowed, and burped.
“Sorry. Well, that Drake’s clearly against non-Drakes. He’s anti-Human and frankly, I don’t see why anyone supports him. I’m only half-Human, and I was offended listening to him rant about Humans and filthy Antinium and conniving Gnolls.”
The rest of the table nodded. Krshia nodded, and Selys looked at her sympathetically. She called to Ceria.
“That’s Lism. Well-known Drake [Shopkeeper] on Market Street. Krshia has to deal with him all the time.”
“Oh? My condolences.”
Ceria raised her mug. Krshia nodded. Olesm protested weakly.
“Hey now—”
He was cut off by Erin, who leaned over the Horns’ table, dishing out more meatballs for Ksmvr—none for Pisces. The [Necromancer] obligingly stole them off Ksmvr’s plate instead.
“You’re talking about Lism? Let me tell you, that guy. Whatta jerk. He’s been mean ever since I came to Liscor. Someone should hit him with a wet fish or something. I really hope he gets into the election—and Krshia kicks his butt!”
She raised a tong over her head. Ceria laughed. Olesm looked upset.
“Aw, come on, Erin. I know he can be—but he’s my uncle.”
“Oh yeah. I forgot. Sorry, Olesm.”
Erin blinked at the Drake unapologetically. Then she headed to Selys’ table and offered her pot of meatballs. Krshia took six.
“But come on. Even if he is family, isn’t he a bad guy? He tried to scam me the first time I met him! And he’s rude. And grouchy.”
“And his tail sucks.”
Selys added with a nod. Zevara’s lips quirked.
“Is it really that bad?”
“Ugly tail. Ugly personality. His has a crook in it—”
“Selys!”
Olesm cut Selys off from sketching the objectionable tail in question. He looked around, his shoulders hunched, his tail lashing the floor.
“I won’t deny he has his faults. But that’s not all he is. You don’t know him.”
“I know what I hear. And I see an angry Drake who’s attacked Ksmvr twice when he’s walked past him for no good reason. I’ve seen racists before, Olesm. That’s what he looks like to me.”
Yvlon calmly ate from her plate with a knife and fork. Olesm’s tail stopped for a moment.
“I know he doesn’t like Antinium. Or Humans. But he helped raise me. He can be kind. Stop it. Please.”
The Drake looked around, and both tables went quiet for a moment. Krshia sighed.
“Lism is…Lism. Market Street would not be the same without him, this is true. And he has his points, which is why he is free to run against me. I just intend to win.”
The others looked at her and smiled. Ceria grabbed a mug.
“I’ll drink to that! Good luck, Krshia! Win this thing and get on the Council! Upgrade the Adventurer’s Guild too, please? That’s what we want.”
The mood around both tables regained its cheerfulness. Pisces raised a mug.
“To a flawless victory. May you overwhelm your opponents on all fronts.”
“More like drown them in votes. Lism’s the only opposition to Krshia, and she’s got tons of support. We’re slated to get four seats at the moment—we could aim for eight, maybe!”
Selys tipped her mug up and drank her lemonade down. Krshia grinned. Erin laughed.
“Yeah! Beat that Lism jerk! Teach him a lesson for insulting Numbtongue.”
Zevara raised her eyebrows as she lifted her ale.
“I remember that. I heard someone tried to drown him afterwards.”
Ceria sighed.
“Wish they’d succeeded.”
“Shut up!”
