Selys Shivertail, sitting in the shade of one of the stalls on a stool, watched how many people were moving past or in and out of Market Street. It occurred to her that Krshia could use one of the city’s plazas, but here was the thing: you could avoid a plaza. It was hard to avoid one of the most frequently used streets in the city. And Krshia was campaigning in this district. Assuming the election got passed. Assuming she won.
But they were good assumptions as far as Selys was concerned. She eyed a group of excited, young teenagers hurrying away and shot a glance to her left.
“Looks like we’re getting more and more people coming here to listen to Krshia by word of mouth alone. And a lot of people already heard her. Think they’ll put pressure on the Council?”
“If the eight different requests for a detail of [Guardswomen] to escort the Council across the city isn’t an indication, I don’t know what is.”
Watch Captain Zevara smiled crookedly as she watched the crowd. Normally, this was the kind of thing she would be worried about, but the energy of the crowd pleased her in a perverse way. Here she was, subverting the natural order of law in the city. It was an odd feeling.
As were her co-conspirators. Zevara glanced down at Selys. The [Receptionist] was checking off her notes for the day’s rally. And she did have notes. Zevara had thought all Selys was good for was the money, but she was a [Receptionist], after all. The Drake nodded to herself and then looked up.
“Oops. Looks like Krshia’s going to hand off the speaking stone to Raekea. Good thing too; we should really buy a tonic for her throat, not just a healing potion. Krshia! Hey, Krshia! Over here!”
Selys waved to Krshia. The Gnoll’s ears perked up as she descended from the stage. The crowd surged around her for a moment, but let up as the burly Gnoll woman, Raekea, began to speak. Krshia was smiling, waving as she tried to push through to Selys—Zevara eyed her as she finally got there, panting.
“Maybe I should assign a few of the City Watch to you to keep you clear of the crowds, Krshia. You and your four candidates.”
“No. It’s better this way, yes? I can talk to people.”
Krshia panted as she wiped sweat from her brow, despite it not being that warm in the morning at all. Selys offered her a flask of water, and Krshia drank greedily. She shook her head, sending a droplet of sweat onto Zevara’s cheek.
“Sorry. I have been speaking all morning. Raekea will go next, then Elirr and Beilmark. They are the most popular, so I think they will be well-received. I have four more candidates, one for each district. We may not take them all, but we can try, yes?”
Selys consulted her notes, frowning.
“We can do more than try. I think the Council will have to issue a vote. Six of them have said they’ll okay a vote. Maybe even by the end of the week? We have to keep the pressure up so they actually pass an election vote, or they’ll definitely renege on their promise.”
Krshia and Zevara nodded in agreement. They both turned to look at Raekea. Krshia bared her teeth in a grin.
“She’s speaking well. And we’ll let her and Elirr hold this spot, yes? Beilmark has her duty, but she can answer questions on the job. And in the meantime—”
She pointed down the street. Selys nodded.
“We’ve got a crowd ready. And a stable platform for you to stand on. Need a stamina potion? A break?”
“Neither.”
The [Shopkeeper]’s eyes lit up fiercely. Selys smiled. She whistled, and when the heads of those nearby turned, a shift in the crowd revealed a group of Gnolls and Drakes breaking off from the rest. Krshia clambered on top of a platform held up by some of the strongest in the group—just in time. A ratatatat of drums and a loud, magically enhanced voice heralded a new arrival. Lism and his supporters swept into Market Street with a squad of 4th Company marching at their head, trying to drown out Raekea’s speech.
But this time, Krshia was organized. Her supporters were out in force, Gnolls and Drakes. And they outnumbered Lism’s side nearly two-to-one. Her crowd pushed forwards, forcing Lism’s back, and suddenly Raekea was calmly moving back, hopping off the platform as she continued her speech, carrying the curious crowd away from Lism while Krshia’s supporters and his clashed. It was coordinated; Gnolls had to shove her a path and the tall [Smith] was large enough that people could see and follow her.
The Drake [Shopkeeper] hissed as he saw a good number of his audience leave. He shouted at Krshia from his platform.
“Don’t you have anything better to do than blockade a street, Silverfang? Or is obstructing business really in everyone’s best interests?”
“I am simply speaking about a matter which concerns Liscor’s future, Lism. Why are you arguing against my plans? Is that in the city’s best interests?”
Krshia shot back. Lism rolled his eyes as he shouted at the crowd, some of which were already booing him.
“Don’t listen to this mad-Gnoll, people! Remember, she wants to have the Antinium’s help! Her plan about the walls is just inviting their trap. Don’t fall for it. We don’t need to even have an election, remember! She’s brought all this up, like some agitator, no, [Saboteur]!”
His words created a rumble from his crowd, but it was drowned out by the loud shouts of denial from Krshia’s side. She smirked at Lism as he colored.
“Don’t do this. Don’t do that. If you have better ideas, Lism, loudly shouting that you are, you should say them, yes? How would you fund new construction? Pay the City Watch? Expand the Adventurer’s Guild? Will the army pay for all of it? And did they have the coin all this time, if so, why did they wait until now to offer it?”
Lism hesitated, then ignored the question.
“We don’t need Antinium support. We’ll bring back three more companies—”
“Three hundred [Soldiers]? I’m sure that will stop every single threat that has assailed Liscor over the last year, yes? Giant Face-Eater Moths. Raskghar? An entire army? Two?”
“If I’m elected—”
“You just said we don’t need an election! Tell me, Lism, is it really an election you don’t want? Or is it that you want to bring our soldiers back? Which is it, hmm?”
Krshia smoothly interrupted Lism. The Drake choked and tried to shout over her, but his speaking stone was inferior to hers, and she smoothly adjusted her volume to speak over his voice.
“I wouldn’t want to compromise our army’s ability to fight abroad, would you, Lism? I would rather our brave soldiers do the fighting without splitting their number. Wouldn’t bringing them back weaken our army? Four companies staying here—that is a fifth of our army’s strength, is it not? Would you weaken them so much? Where will we house them in the city? Oh. Wait. Perhaps we should build more walls?”
A roar of laughter drowned out Lism’s reply. And then a chant.
“Build more walls! Build more walls!”
Selys listened, smiling. She turned to Zevara.
“I like it. It’s catchy. I don’t know what bothers Erin about it.”
She looked back just in time to see Lism choking, waving for attention. The Drake’s voice was more than a little furious, and Selys heard the wobble in his tone.
“If—if you think—this is about the Antinium, people! Don’t forget that! You can’t trust them!”
“Oh? And I suppose the army is trustworthy? Where were they when the Raskghar attacked? The moths? What about the Goblin Lord? Where were they, Lism?”
And the [Shopkeeper] had no response. His eyes darted left and right as he struggled for an answer. Krshia was already moving onto her next point. She caught Selys’ eye as she turned to the crowd and winked. Selys winked back.
Organization and strategy. There was a lot to be said for having a [Receptionist] on your side, and one of those things was planning out what you were going to say. This wasn’t a market-stall shouting match, and Lism really didn’t have a plan. This time, Selys saw heads focusing on just Krshia, and even some of Lism’s supporters looked uneasy.
Because Krshia was right. They could either build Liscor out, expand the Watch, improve the Adventurer’s Guild…or do nothing. And who wanted to be on the side of nothing? There was always Lism’s plan, of course, but it wasn’t solid. Selys turned to Zevara in delight.
“We’re winning. I’m pretty sure of that.”
The Drake nodded, smiling. She stepped over to speak to Selys when a group of Drakes pushed through the outer edge of the crowd. They made a beeline for Zevara and Selys. One of them, a Drake in his thirties, waved a claw urgently.
“Watch Captain Zevara. What do you think about this election? Are you really for it?”
Zevara turned smoothly, and Selys settled back. It wasn’t the first time the Watch Captain had gotten this question. Zevara flashed a fake smile, which was her best attempt, and spoke to the lead Drake.
“Speaking solely as a personal citizen and not for the entire City Watch, I’m for Krshia’s proposal to expand our—er, the City Watch’s budgets. I approve of her spending plan and would welcome an election.”
“And this is really in the city’s best interests?”
The Drake demanded a touch incredulously. Zevara shrugged.
“I can tell you that the current Council has not approved any increase in the City Watch’s budget. Make of that what you will.”
The Drakes looked troubled. One of them, a woman, scratched her cheek scales.
“No increase? But that’s madness. If it’s that or doing this democracy thing—”
“It’s dangerous. I hear one minute you’re having a little vote, the next there are useless [Senators] and [Politicians] up to your earholes.”
“If it’s that or pull in more of the army—”
“Have them quartered here, full-time? Causing trouble? I’d rather have the Antinium myself. Did you see them smashing those Shield Spiders this morning?”
The group began arguing. Zevara and Selys exchanged a delighted glance. It was working. And Zevara hadn’t needed to check her script! The Watch Captain stepped back with Selys, poised to answer more questions. Selys rifled through her folder.
“You can bring up the potential of more trade if Liscor begins actually farming the dungeon as a commodity. And I can talk about the uses of monster parts. Why don’t you—”
Before she could finish, a Drake pushed through the crowd. He was wearing armor and the insignia of Liscor’s Watch on his uniform. He waved a hand at Zevara.
“Captain, a word? There’s a bit of trouble by the brewery.”
Instantly, Zevara’s gaze sharpened. She took a step and then turned to Selys.
“I’ve got to handle this. Mind covering for me?”
“Of course.”
Selys watched as the two left through the crowd. The Drakes and Gnolls protested as Lism and Krshia’s shouting match continued in the background, but the two members of the City Watch were on business now. So it was Selys’ turn. She shuffled her notes, and then called out in a bright voice.
“I can answer any questions in place of Watch Captain Zevara!”
The Drake in his thirties turned to blink at Selys. He hesitated, and then squinted at her face.
“Hold on. Aren’t you that [Receptionist] at the Adventurer’s Guild? General Shivertail’s…what do you know about all of this?”
The [Heiress] put on her best smile. She took a deep breath, and then remembered something.
Liscor didn’t have a brewery.
 
——
 
Selys was right. Liscor did not have a brewery. It had inns, taverns, both of which would make their own beverages with fermented barrels and hops in some cases. Or it imported alcohol. But a dedicated brewery was considered unnecessary; beer wasn’t that popular. Or great. Now, distilleries on the other hand…
Zevara knew this, of course. It was a classic code the City Watch used. She followed the [Guardsman] through the crowd and back towards the City Watch barracks at a quick trot.
“What’s the real issue, Guardsman Tells?”
“Not for me to say, Captain. Sorry. I was just told to bring you.”
Zevara frowned and her tail began to twitch faster.
“By who?”
For an answer, Tells pushed open the door to the barracks. Zevara walked inside and saw a crowd of twenty-one Drakes. Three Gnolls. They were mostly off-duty, but she knew each one. And she recognized the Drake waiting at their head. Zevara paused, and her mind raced as she slowly looked around.
“Senior Guardsman Jeiss. Guardswomen. Guardsmen. How can I help you?”
The crowd of Liscor’s finest—and only—law enforcement shifted. It was Jeiss, Beilmark’s partner and one of the most respected Senior Guardsman pairs, who answered.
“It’s this election thing, Watch Captain. We’ve been listening to the gossip, and it sounds like the Council will actually hold an election. Are you really for Krshia Silverfang?”
The group behind him shifted uneasily. Zevara folded her arms, but she wasn’t about to shout them down. This was different, and she knew that Jeiss calling her out was…well, she wasn’t going to shout. She chose her words carefully, working off of Selys’ script.
“I’m not for putting any one person in power if that’s what you’re asking, Jeiss. This is certainly not a coup or something, if you’re worried. For one thing, we aren’t the army, even if we are the City Watch. Krshia Silverfang wants a seat on the Council, and I’m giving her my aid. But it stops there. She’ll do what’s best for the city, and I don’t expect to control the Council. I’ll swear that on a truth spell, first off.”
The [Guards] in the room relaxed slightly on hearing that. Zevara made a note to do it, even if they didn’t ask at the end of this. You had to prove what you said, or they’d wonder. She went on.
“It’s my decision as an individual that we need funds. The City Council’s refused my proposals three times. I can’t expand our ranks or get better gear any other way. So, yes. I’m willing to push for elections, even if it means accepting the Antinium’s support.”
There was a murmur at that. Jeiss bit his tongue and looked at the others.
“Okay, Watch Captain. But…turning this into an election? It just feels like we’re going against the laws of the city, like Shopkeeper Lism’s been saying. And I respect Senior Guardsman Klbkch. But you know, the Antinium…”
He looked at Zevara and shrugged. She bit her tongue. The crowd was mostly Drake, but she knew how they felt. And she agreed in part, especially about the Antinium. She sighed, scratching at her neck.
