“I have two injured. Firestones, Azure Clouds, Pawn will tend to your wounds. The rest of you, proceed to The Wandering Inn. You will receive food there.”
The Soldiers obediently trooped ahead as two moved out of the ground. Pawn saw a bloody wrist on one of the four arms, and the second Soldier had a cut on one abdomen and cracks around his leg armor, perhaps from a bad fall. He reached out for them, even as he stared at Yellow Splatters, still with that awe.
He could speak. Fluently. Yellow Splatters had the natural intonation and speed of any natural speaker. He was better than Bird. And his voice was deep, commanding. Without hesitation. He was the same in many ways. But, oh, so different.
“Let me heal you.”
Pawn directed his attention back to the two injured Soldiers. Firestones and Azure Clouds obediently let Pawn press his hands against their wounds. The Antinium Soldier with burning coals etched onto his body in paint didn’t move as Pawn put his hands over his cut wrist.
“Be healed.”
The words were simple. But the prayer Pawn gave for that very thing to happen was from the core of his heart. And part of what was in that prayer was doubt. Uncertainty. But also hope. And faith that his hope would be—Pawn took his hands back. And the wrist, though stained with blood, was whole. Firestones looked down at his wrist, and the Soldier’s antennae waved with amazement.
“You too, Azure Clouds.”
The other Soldier let Pawn put his hands on his legs and stomach. And when Pawn removed the hands, the wounds were healed. Just like that. A healing potion could have done the same, but Pawn felt the healing being done. As if some of him had gone into the two. He felt tired, but only slightly. And they were healed. Yellow Splatters nodded.
“Join the others. We will follow you.”
The two Soldiers nodded. They walked past Pawn, but Yellow Splatters stopped them with a hand on each shoulder as they passed him. The giant among Soldiers, a head taller than any other Antinium, looked at the two.
“You have done well. Eat and rest. It is earned.”
That was all. But the two Painted Soldiers walked back to the inn with more pride than Pawn had seen in them…ever. The Worker looked at Yellow Splatters as the [Sergeant] held a hand to help Pawn up.
“You are different.”
 
——
 
The two walked up the hill of The Wandering Inn slowly, side by side. Their heights were different. Their bodies were similarly contrasting. But they were both Antinium. And they both knew each other. But Pawn felt like a stranger. Perhaps Yellow Splatters did too, because he kept glancing at Pawn.
It was one of the first times they had been alone. Since Yellow Splatters’ reveal in the streets of Liscor, that was. True, two days had passed. But Klbkch had kept Yellow Splatters moving, repeating his message of support for Krshia. And then the [Sergeant] had been surrounded by the Painted Soldiers. Pawn didn’t begrudge that. But now, walking with Yellow Splatters, he didn’t know what to say. He had a thousand questions. Ten thousand words. But how to begin?
“I am different. But the same. I can speak. And say the many things I would have said before my death.”
“What things?”
“Gratitude. Regret. Frustration—at not being able to say these things. Questions for you. Ideas. Things the Soldiers need. Questions. Thanks.”
The [Sergeant] looked at Pawn. The Worker shook his head.
“I didn’t do enough. I was—”
“Our salvation.”
“No.”
“Yes.”
“No, really—”
“Yes.”
Pawn looked up at Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] smiled. And they reached the inn, bearing a silence more profound than any Pawn had shared with Yellow Splatters until now. And then Pawn saw the door was wide open. And he heard a familiar voice.
“Pawn! Yellow Splatters! Come in! Lemonade for my guys!”
Erin swept over to them in an instant. The tables were filled with Painted Soldiers—forty-nine of them to be exact. Each one had a bowl and was eating as they watched a performance on stage. Erin herself came to Pawn. She beamed as she grabbed some lemonade off a tray.
“Here. It’s fresh. Want some soup? I’ve got a big pot of this really great soup Lyonette came up with. Here, sit, sit! It’s so good to see you, Yellow Splatters. I mean, we said hi.”
“Yes.”
The [Sergeant] sat at a table offered by Erin. Pawn remembered Erin hugging Yellow Splatters after she’d found he’d returned. Even now, she looked misty-eyed, but she was already waving for more soup.
“Here! It’s hot, fresh, and, uh, probably not gluten!”
The bowl steamed as it appeared in front of Pawn. It was a clear broth with obvious bits of pork and what might have been Yellats mixed in with some other greens. Pawn raised a spoon before he could help himself. Instantly, his mouth was flooded with flavor. It had been far, far too long since he’d come aboveground.
“It’s delicious, Erin.”
“Really? I’m glad. This is only like fifty of the Soldiers, though, right? Are you bringing more in? Lyonette’s making a huge batch!”
Erin pointed at the kitchen. Pawn hesitated. Both he and Yellow Splatters had been given the morning’s orders by Klbkch, but he’d said nothing about the Soldiers having food. Just that they would meet him here.
“I…believe only fifty are normally allowed aboveground except for formal operations. But these Soldiers can rotate with the others.”
“Gotcha. I’ll let Lyonette know. Oh! And we’ve got special spoons and bowls for them to eat with. I’ll get—”
Erin half-rose, glancing down at the table. Pawn looked down too and nearly dropped his spoon. He stared at Yellow Splatters.
“Your hands.”
Pawn hadn’t noticed it before, but even Yellow Splatter’s hands were different. Two of his four arms were a Soldier’s arms. Functional. Deadly. Capped by clumsy fingers more suited for making a deadly fist than any other task. They could dig and fight and manipulate some things, but crudely. But the other two arms, the higher of the four, had been changed.
The limbs were thick. Reinforced. Suited for combat. But the hands were hands. Five digits, like a Worker’s fingers, had replaced Yellow Splatter’s previous hands. And they were gripping the spoon Erin had given him, meant for her regular clientele and Workers. As Erin and Pawn watched, he brought it up and transferred some soup into his mouth.
Delicately, carefully. As if he had always known how to use a spoon up till this moment. But he had never had a chance. Yellow Splatters looked up, noticing the stares.
“Thank you, Erin Solstice. It is good soup.”
Erin’s jaw dropped.
“You can speak. I mean, I know you can. But…wow. You can speak.”
“I can. And I will never be silent again.”
Yellow Splatters looked at the two of them and nodded once more. He tapped his chest with one hand even as another grabbed his cup and a third lifted the spoon towards his mouth again.
“Before, I had no words. That was me. And then I had words but no voice. And now I have more words. And they come from the same silent Soldier. And from heaven. From the voices of the many who have never had the chance to speak.”
Pawn was struck silent. Erin just looked at him thoughtfully.
“I’m so glad. Listen—I want to talk to you two, but there’s a lot of guests. Just sit there and wave if you want anything. I’ve gotta actually do my job for a bit. Coming, Lyonette!”
She stood up and went to the kitchen where Lyonette had been waving at her urgently. Pawn looked back at Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] was silent as he ate his soup as greedily as any Soldier. Come to it—Pawn looked down and realized he was eating the delicious soup as well.
The Antinium’s meal was silent; they didn’t want to waste the food by talking, but it was interrupted near the end. A Drake and a Gnoll, regular guests, hesitantly came towards the table. The Drake nudged the Gnoll, and the Gnoll nudged back. They were both male, and at last, the Drake cleared his throat.
“Hell of a thing. The, uh, Shield Spider culling that was. We saw it from the walls. You’re…Yellow Splatters, right? The Soldier? The…war hero?”
Skepticism was written all over his voice. Yellow Splatters nodded. He put down his spoon and stood up. The Drake and Gnoll stepped back fast, and the nearby tables turned to look, but Yellow Splatter’s voice was calm and measured.
“I am Yellow Splatters. [Sergeant] of the Painted Antinium unit of the Free Antinium. Son of Liscor.”
“Oh? Wow. Uh, a pleasure. Sisl Taltail. And this is my friend, Wilr. We were just asking—are the Antinium really planning on funding an expansion to Liscor?”
The Drake was clearly nervous, and he didn’t hold out his claw to shake hands, which Pawn understood as being customary. But he didn’t run screaming either. Yellow Splatters nodded.
“Senior Guardsman Klbkch would not lie.”
“Of course not! I just—so the Antinium are willing to give gold to Liscor? Just like that?”
The Drake glanced around. Pawn saw some more non-Antinium customers lean in. Yellow Splatters nodded coolly.
“We are pledged to defend Liscor. That also means defending the interests of the city. We do not break our promises. Vote for Krshia Silverfang. And we will build your city. Workers to build and Soldiers to guard. It is our city too, after all.”
He looked around. Sisl opened his mouth for a second, and then nodded.
“Okay. Thank you.”
He backed off, staring at Yellow Splatters, but his Gnoll friend looked almost impressed. Yellow Splatters sat back down. Pawn stared at him as well.
“You speak with authority.”
“Yes. Should I not?”
The [Sergeant] looked blankly at Pawn. The Worker hesitated.
“But where does it come from?”
The Soldier pondered the question. Then he kept eating because the soup was getting cold. He raised his cup, sipped from it, and answered.
“Heaven, perhaps.”
 
——
 
Senior Guardsman Klbkch entered The Wandering Inn shortly after cleaning up some mud from his gear. He’d participated in the Shield Spider culling too, but the City Watch had vacated the field after the Painted Soldiers had proven so effective. Still, it was because of Relc’s tardiness that he and Relc reached the inn after the Painted Soldiers had been there for a good fifteen minutes. That irked Klbkch slightly. He would have preferred to study Yellow Splatters in person. Because the [Sergeant], the unique Soldier among Soldiers, was an enigma.
He had changed. Not that Klbkch had interacted much with the previous Yellow Splatters. But this new Soldier was different. Confident. Even outspoken. Had death changed him? Had a voice only unearthed what was there to begin with? Klbkch didn’t know. But today his mind was overfull with questions, speculations, and, perhaps, a bit of surprise.
Pawn and Yellow Splatters. One was predictable, at least in part. Klbkch had known about the Rite of Anastases being a success, even if he hadn’t been prepared for the personality of the [Sergeant]. But Pawn?
“A Skill unlike any other. The potential of that power is…or is it not? I must know what Xrn thinks.”
The Antinium sat himself down at a table at the back of the room, observing Yellow Splatters and Pawn. A yawn came from his left.
“What was that, Klb?”
“Nothing, Relc. And I am still irate at you. You are more slothful today than usual, which is an impressive event.”
“Thanks.”
“It is not a compliment.”
Relc sighed. He stretched out, and Klbkch leaned out of the way of an errant arm.
“Bite me. I’m tired, alright? I had to wake up super-early because of my kid—and she spars way too hard!”
“By that, do you mean she puts forth actual effort?”
“Bite me.”
“I will endeavor to do so if you continue irking me.”
“Yeah, yeah…hey! Close those mandibles!”
Relc sat up, groaning. He glanced at the stage and brightened.
“Ooh! New play! Awesome! Hey, mind if we get a closer seat?”
“I suppose it is not out of the question. I have to speak with my subordinates.”
Relc was already getting up, tail wagging, as the Players of Celum began a play Klbkch didn’t recognize. He nodded absently.
“Cool, cool. Wow, it’s busy in here. Look at all these Soldiers. And jerks drinking my blue fruit juice. Which is yellow. Is that a new drink? Hey! Hey, I’ll have—damn. What do you want, Klbkch?”
“I will have an ale. And a bowl of the soup. Please order it for me.”
Relc raised a hand as he sauntered forwards. Klbkch walked towards the table with Pawn and Yellow Splatters. He sat across from them.
“Report.”
The two looked up, mildly startled. Klbkch stared at them. They were…it was so strange, looking at them. Not because of their bodies, but because of what they represented. An incalculable amount of worth each, where generations upon generations of Soldiers and Workers had died, sacrificed in the hopes of becoming exactly what they were.
But now that Klbkch had them, he wasn’t certain what to do with them. He wasn’t certain he remembered…what it was like to have other thinking Individuals in his Hive. Could he trust them with the Antinium’s true purpose? Did his Queen? Klbkch didn’t know. But they were valuable.
And yet—Klbkch looked at them. And he felt little connection, little to empathize or even sympathize with, in them. They were so unlike the Antinium he had known.
He felt…old.
 
——
 
“I see.”
Pawn still felt uneasy talking to Klbkch. Now that he had met so many people, even other Antinium, he could sense Klbkch’s reserve like a wall in front of him. The Revalantor of the Hive listened impatiently as both gave their reports. Yellow Splatters’ was shorter than Pawn’s; Klbkch listened intently as Pawn described healing four Soldiers.
“That aligns with both tests I had you perform. It appears your ability recharges itself after rest. Much like Skills in that category.”
“Yes, Klbkch.”
Pawn ducked his head. Klbkch stared at him. Then his gaze shifted to Yellow Splatters.
“Your combat ability is also improved, despite your loss of ten levels from resurrection. It is to be expected as well. The Free Queen had modified your body for improved musculature and performance.”
“Yes. Will all Soldiers become like me?”
Yellow Splatters looked at his hands. Klbkch shook his head instantly.
“Changing the…specific formulas of the Soldiers’ creation is an intensive process. It is one thing to shape an Antinium as it is being formed. Another to make the process default, without the need for supervision. You are unique.”
“Then I will lead the Painted Soldiers. That is my duty.”
Again, Klbkch shook his head. The Revalantor’s voice was sharp, and Klbkch himself felt annoyed.
“Your duty is to survive. You are an investment in time and effort. Let other Soldiers die before you.”
