He waited for Yellow Splatters’ affirmative, but the Soldier didn’t immediately give it. He stared at Klbkch, and the Revalantor felt a prickle on his carapace. If it had been any other Soldier before then, Klbkch would have taken that as a sign of potential Aberration or Individuality. Yellow Splatters folded two of his arms.
“I am unlike any other Soldier. I am their leader. That was why I was brought back. I lead them. So does Purple Smile. We must lead because we do what they cannot. If we die leading from the front, that is inevitable.”
Pawn sucked in his breath. Klbkch just stared. It sounded like an echo of an argument he’d had once in the past. He hesitated. And something inside of him twisted. It was an unfamiliar, unpleasant feeling. Like when he had seen Erin hurt. But he felt it now?
“You have your orders.”
“But I am no Soldier. I am their [Sergeant]. I must show them courage.”
Klbkch sat back in his chair. Pawn was afraid, but Yellow Splatters didn’t look away. For a moment, the Revalantor just looked at Yellow Splatters and Pawn. And he felt the strange, pained, familiar tugging inside of him worsen. Like arrowheads, cutting into his heart.
At last, Klbkch roused himself. He put thorns into his words, this time. He stared at Yellow Splatters and opened his mandibles slowly.
“Courage? Courage is a value of heroes. Of champions, of other species. It is not an Antinium concept. We have had heroes. They are dead. And you cannot replace them, Yellow Splatters. You are not Galuc. He was Centenium. Taller than you. Stronger. You bear a flawed, incomplete copy of his body. You are weak. Weaker than I and far weaker than he. I know this. Because I am Centenium. You are a Soldier. So obey.”
He met Yellow Splatters’ gaze until the Soldier nodded. Klbkch turned to Pawn.
“And you. You can heal a smaller wound in moments. Six times in an hour. Any quality healing potion can do far better. This ability is unprecedented. Useful. But neither of you two have qualities invaluable to the Hive. Cultivating those abilities is your function.”
He felt a twinge of guilt at those words. Why? Klbkch forced it down and went on.
“Both of you are forbidden from discussing the nature of your classes or levels. Especially in Pawn’s case. Nor will you reveal any secrets of the Hive. Is that understood?”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch.”
“Yes.”
They said the words quietly. Meekly even. And Klbkch felt as if he were lecturing two rookie [Guards] in the City Watch. Only, he wouldn’t have used those words. There was need for empathy in the Watch. And Klbkch had a small attachment to some of the [Guards]. But Antinium weren’t the same. Soldiers and Workers were…
Disposable. But these two weren’t. Klbkch hesitated. He could see hurt in Pawn’s expression. And Yellow Splatters?
They waited. Klbkch opened and closed his mandibles a few times. And that roiling feeling in his stomach forced the next sentences out of his mandibles.
“Continue exceeding my expectations. A rotation of…fifty Soldiers may remain aboveground at all times under supervision as per our agreement with Liscor. They may stay at Erin’s inn during permissible work hours or continue patrolling the city.”
The two Workers couldn’t blink, but they did move slightly in shock. Klbkch stood up briskly. Yellow Splatters raised a hand.
“Revalantor Klbkch. May I also request a stipend for the Soldiers? As a reward—as motivation for further growth and advancement?”
Pawn held his breath. Klbkch never granted him a larger budget. The Revalantor hesitated. Then, almost grudgingly, he turned back and nodded.
“Four silver coins and six copper per Soldier or Worker. You may withdraw a lesser bag of holding for usage.”
Abruptly, he walked away. Pawn gaped with his mandibles open at his back. Yellow Splatters lowered his hand slowly. They looked at each other until Erin Solstice came back out of the kitchen.
“Hey! Sorry, I had to help make some food real quick. Was Klbkch just here? Was he nice? I heard him talking to you when I passed.”
“He is our Revalantor. His job is not to comfort us, Erin. He was very instructive.”
Pawn answered diplomatically, staring at Klbkch’s back. Erin pursed her lips, unconvinced. She leaned over and shouted at Klbkch.
“Klbkch! You’re a bad dad!”
Pawn froze up at his table. He saw Klbkch turn around in his chair. The Senior Guardsman eyed Pawn and then addressed Erin.
“I am not their father in any sense of the word.”
“Says you! Relc’s a better dad!”
Relc looked up as he slurped from a bowl. He laughed and slapped Klbkch on the shoulder.
“Hah! Hear that, Klb?”
“Do not hit me.”
Klbkch jabbed Relc with an elbow. He looked almost irritated at Erin, certainly at Relc. He was expressive with them. Not with Pawn or Yellow Splatters. The Worker wasn’t sure—no, he was sure how he felt about that. Erin put her hands on her hips in disgust.
“That guy. I’m gonna give him what for when I get to his table. But for now—sorry. I forgot to do this! Here, Yellow Splatters, lean in?”
“Lean wh—”
The [Sergeant] looked up. He moved back, and Erin surprised him and Pawn both by grabbing their shoulders. She hugged them both, a long, tight hug that warmed both Antinium from within. They stared at each other, and then at her. Pawn hesitantly reached a hand up. Yellow Splatters was still.
“I’m glad you’re back.”
That was all Erin said to Yellow Splatters. But her watery eyes said it all. She wiped at them.
“Thank you. I never got to say it, but thank you. When the Goblin Lord and—I saw your guys. And Pawn told me what you did. I’m so sorry—but thank you. I know it seems like they died for nothing. But you saved me. And I wish—”
She sniffed hard and wiped her eyes again. Pawn looked at Erin, aghast at her tears. He stood up.
“It was not in vain. They are in—”
A hand grabbed one of his. Yellow Splatters looked at Pawn, and the Worker froze. Erin didn’t notice. She wiped her eyes again and smiled brightly.
“It wasn’t in vain. I know that. Definitely. And I want to do something—oh! Hold on. Let me get something for you.”
She hurried back into the kitchen, calling for Lyonette again. Pawn looked at Yellow Splatters. He sat.
“Why did you stop me?”
“It is not for her.”
“What? Heaven? I know that. But she can know they are there.”
Yellow Splatters shook his head after a moment’s pause.
“But it is not hers.”
The Worker looked at him. Pawn opened his mandibles, but he couldn’t conceive of arguing. Instead, he sat closer to the table. And some of the questions bubbling away at him poured out.
“What is it like? Are there gods there? Is it in the clouds? How many—how many of us are there? Is it really…heaven?”
His heart beat anxiously in his chest. And he believed, he tried to believe, he truly did. But the proof sat in front of him. And when Yellow Splatters met his eyes, Pawn felt hope and something as pure as faith blossom in his chest.
“Yes. It is there.”
Pawn exhaled. Slowly. The feeling he had was—
“How? Was it always there? What does it—”
Yellow Splatters was shaking his head.
“Only those who believed could find it. And it was…”
The [Sergeant] broke off. He reached up, his mandibles opening and closing, towards the ceiling.
“It looked like…felt…like…as…”
The words trailed off. At last, the Soldier sat back and shook his head. He met Pawn’s gaze.
“If there were words that could describe it, it could be built here. But there are not. It was…satisfying.”
“Satisfying?”
The Worker’s antennae waved in puzzlement. Yellow Splatters nodded slowly, mulling it over.
“More than that word. Yes. Satisfying. Peaceful. Warm. But fragile. It must be guarded and grown. By the Painted Antinium. They must know it exists and fight for it. Fight to live so that death has worth.”
Each sentence struck Pawn like a blow. He wanted to fall to his knees. Instead, he gripped the table, overcome by wordless emotion. At last, he looked up, and his voice trembled.
“I am so sorry. I asked so much. I did not know the cost. If I could have, I would have died. But they all—all of them—”
It was what he’d wanted to say. Had to say. The words poured out.
“—should have stopped you. Or listened. Or done something better. The spells—I didn’t know. I had to do it for Erin. But I—I—”
He trembled like a leaf. Yellow Splatters looked at Pawn until the shaking words ran out and Pawn was just shaking. Then the [Sergeant] reached forwards with two hands. He rested them on Pawn’s shoulder, and two more found Pawn’s hands on the table. The Painted Soldier spoke.
“We forgive you.”
If Antinium could but weep, Pawn would have. But he had not learned how. So he only sat, overcome, until Erin came back with something in her hands.
“Hey guuuuuuuys. Guess what I just got from our Acid Fly traps?”
The Worker and Soldier looked up. They’d had breakfast, but lunch appeared in front of Pawn. And this time—the Worker inhaled suddenly as Erin placed a cup and bowl in front of him.
“Blue fruit juice. Acid Fly bowl, extra heaping. With an egg on top! Sunny side up!”
She spread her hands, beaming. Pawn stared down at the bowl in front of him and Yellow Splatters. Small, tiny black shapes, Acid Flies sans the acidic abdomens, were piled up in the bowl. A fried egg glistened on top of the black heap, just waiting for the yolky goodness to run down and flavor the Acid Flies.
“Acid Flies?”
“It’s breeding season! And you know what that means! Lyonette just got a bunch. Sorry, we had to make sure Mrsha knew not to play around with them, and Apista does not like them either. But yeah. This is the first bowl. Who’s my taker?”
Pawn stared at Yellow Splatters. Yellow Splatters stared at Pawn. They both answered at once.
“He is.”
Erin slapped her forehead.
“You two are too nice. Let me get another. And we’ll have some for all the Soldiers who come in today! Not huge portions; we’ve gotta build up a stock. But today?”
She looked at Yellow Splatters and put a hand on his shoulder, smiling.
“Free of charge. Until we run outta Acid Flies and eggs. A back-from-the-dead special.”
The [Sergeant] looked up at her. And for the first time since coming to the inn, Pawn saw him smile. And that was so familiar, that he felt a warm feeling in his stomach. Erin beamed. Behind her, Lyonette sighed. But she didn’t object.
“Well then. Blue fruit juice for all! Acid Flies on the house for anyone who asks! Not you, Relc. And I present to you a new play by the Players of Celum! Enjoy!”
Erin waved at the stage, and the [Actors], flushed with excitement, took a pre-play bow. Another bowl and cup appeared in front of Pawn. He stared at the little bugs. Yellow Splatters looked uncertain.
“I have never had these. I think.”
“You must. They are the best things to eat. Ever.”
Pawn reassured him. Yellow Splatters reached for his spoon, then hesitated again.
“The other Soldiers are waiting. They should have sustenance. There may not be enough.”
This was true. Pawn put a hand on Yellow Splatters’.
“Yes. But there will be food for all who come. And you lead them. You must enjoy yourself.”
The [Sergeant] paused, and then nodded. He reached for his cup with another hand, and Pawn took his. They touched glasses tentatively. And then both began to eat. On stage, the Players began their act. And Erin, pausing to argue with Klbkch, help serve food, came back to talk with them. And give another hug.
Pawn ate next to Yellow Splatters, deciding how long the Soldiers would get before they had to rotate out. He saw Lyonette overseeing the staff, radiant, and covered with a light sheen of sweat. A little white Gnoll crept up, sniffed his bowl once, and decided she wasn’t interested. And Pawn sat amid it all, in the inn where he had become him.
He had been happier before. Deliriously happy. Overjoyed. But this was deeper. Quieter. Perhaps even more filling. The word was…satisfying. And Pawn thought he knew what heaven might be like. Someday, he would find out. But right now?
He was just happy.
 
——
 
The stream of Painted Soldiers entering and leaving Erin Solstice’s inn was obviously a good source of revenue. And the efforts of the Antinium in clearing the Floodplains had naturally aided in keeping the population of Shield Spiders down. And yes, true, the new play was sure to be of note to anyone who valued such things. But for Liscor, the happenings of The Wandering Inn were, for once, relatively unimportant. Because something big was happening to Liscor.
Elections. Democracy. The streets were abuzz with the idea of both. And that was the narrative that gripped the hearts and minds of Liscor. Because the world revolved around this issue. The story, the narrative of destiny, depended on the outcome. It wasn’t about Antinium, or the inn. The main story was, obviously, Liscor’s story. How could it not be? And the Antinium and Yellow Splatters’ revival, for all they were significant, were just a part of the real narrative. Backdrop.
And the election for Liscor’s City Council was heating up. In the city, for the third day running, traffic around Market Street came to a nearly complete standstill. But the street was hardly inactive.
Krshia Silverfang stood on a platform created by a pair of [Carpenters] overnight. She didn’t cup her hands to shout this time; she used a small speaking amulet to amplify her voice. And she was not alone.
“If we want to build a better Liscor, it starts with a better Council, yes? Funding for the City Watch! A better Adventurer’s Guild! A larger city! Force the Council to hold an election! And we will get to work.”
The Gnoll woman waved at the people standing to her right and left. And the crowd of Drakes and Gnolls in equal numbers looked up and murmured at the other three figures on the platform.
Raekea, one of the finest smiths in the city, and the best [Armorer] in truth. Elirr, a beloved [Beast Trainer]. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, a veteran [Guardswoman] trusted by all. They waved at the crowd and got cheers of support. Krshia raised her voice.
“You all know these Gnolls! Each one is respected! Each one would help change the city! Isn’t it better to know who is on the Council, rather than let them elect themselves? Why should we not have a voice? If you agree, find the Council members! Ask them why they are not allowing a vote! And remember—we can have a better Liscor!”
She raised her paws to a huge cheer. Because Krshia’s message was a simple message, and her plan was easy to grasp. You could articulate it after hearing it once. And the Gnoll’s speech had legs.
