“Come and sit! Don’t mind the mess. We’ve just had a late night planning out this election nonsense. Can I get you some tea? A snack? I’ve got some scraps—let me put a kettle on!”
He fussed around Olesm, but the younger Drake was reluctant to sit. He was restless, and his brilliant scales and handsome face—Lism saw the family resemblance. Handsome, regal even, and intelligent. All the marks of the Swifttail clan. He beamed at Olesm.
“It’s been over two weeks! But I imagine you’re beating ladies away with your tail. How is work? Liscor’s [Strategist]. And you’re not even thirty years old! You’ve got more levels than years! Wall Lord Ilvriss himself picked you out. If that’s not a sign of greatness, I don’t know what is. Has he reached out to you since returning to his city? Let me get you some tea.”
“He hasn’t. And I’m not fighting anyone off with my tail, Uncle. Stop fussing, please.”
Embarrassed, Olesm finally sat down. He looked up at Lism and frowned.
“And don’t use that word, please!”
“Word? I was just frustrated.”
Lism spread his claws innocently. Olesm folded his arms.
“You used it in public to address Krshia. Uncle!”
“I didn’t say furbag.”
Olesm ground his teeth together audibly, and Lism sighed. The younger [Strategist] pushed his chair back.
“It’s still insensitive to the fact that we used to skin Gnolls during the old times. It’s as—as—it’s as bad as if I called you a Human-kissing Turnscale. No, far worse!”
“Alright, alright. It was my mistake. But that damn—Silverfang’s caused this mess in Liscor, and I’m trying to sort it out. Give me some credit for stress!”
Lism sighed. He couldn’t deny his nephew anything. He doted on Olesm, in fact, never mind that the boy sometimes hung around with that terrible Human girl and had moped for weeks after his fling with that half-Elven adventurer who’d nearly gotten him killed. But Lism’s heart swelled with fondness for Olesm. He was the family’s pride, after all. Never mind what anyone else had thought. Lism had known Olesm since he was a hatchling. And Olesm had never betrayed his hopes.
“I’m glad to see you, Olesm.”
“Me too, Uncle. Me too. I’m sorry I haven’t called on you. I’ve just been—busy.”
Olesm smiled, but he didn’t look happy to see Lism. He seemed tired. Tired, worried, distraught—Lism felt like he was looking at a mirror. The [Shopkeeper] cast about his modest home and cleared his throat.
“We-ell, why don’t you tell me what’s been happening to you? I could use a break from this business with Silverfang. Don’t worry, I’ll stop her from ruining this city.”
“Oh, Uncle.”
“Not to worry! I can do it!”
The Drake waved a claw. He sat back, opening his mouth and eying his nephew. Then he coughed and shook his head.
“No, no. Don’t worry. I’ll figure something out. I haven’t sold copper pennies for silver pieces for years without picking up some tricks. And I know you’re friends with that stinking—with that insane—with that Human girl, and Watch Captain Zevara is your superior. It’s fine.”
Olesm sighed, leaning forwards on his knees.
“Erin’s a wonderful person, Uncle. I told you already. If you hadn’t tried to swindle her—”
“Overcharge her. It’s not illegal!”
“She’s a really good person. The best chess player. In the world! I’ll swear she could beat the Titan himself. And Krshia’s a good person too.”
“She’s got you fooled, my boy. You can’t trust her. She’s as slippery as a greased eel and twice as treacherous as a Creler.”
“She’s trying to help the city, Uncle!”
The Drake paused.
“You think so too?”
For some reason, the thought of Olesm siding with Krshia stung more than any of the Gnoll’s damned barbed insults this morning. The blue-scaled Drake, a far cry from Lism’s purple-and-red scale colors, more like his mother than anyone else, shook his head.
“I’m not…all for her. But I know Krshia. I know her heart’s in the right place. So is Selys’ and Watch Captain Zevara’s…I just spoke with them, actually.”
“Did you now?”
Lism sat down heavily. For a second, his mind flashed to Krshia’s arguments, seeking a hole in them. But the problem was…Olesm looked up at his uncle. The single, oil-burning lamp flickered, wafting a bit of stink towards the two. Neither one moved.
“Uncle. I came here because I wanted to ask you about the elections. Krshia’s ideas. Her proposing them. You’re her biggest enemy. Tell me honestly. Please. Is this really just about you hating Krshia’s ideas? Or are you serious?”
Lism squirmed like a fish on a hook. He opened his mouth, looked over his shoulder, but he couldn’t escape his nephew’s gaze. Reluctantly, at last, he opened his mouth.
“I’m not saying she’s all wrong. She’s…right we need to expand Liscor. Rent’s up, and we’re all feeling the pinch. Just the other day, Mella, you know her, right? The old [Florist] on Salpik Avenue? She was turned out of her apartment without anywhere to go. After living in her spot for eighteen years. Only now she can’t pay the rent because it’s nearly tripled from two years back.”
Olesm rubbed at his face, shocked and mildly horrified.
“Mella? She used to babysit me. What happened to her?”
Lism was indignant.
“The neighborhood association got to her is what it did. You think we’d let her freeze to death? We put her up with Miss Shazzi. They get along like cats—or two Drakes—in a bag, but it’s manageable. You can imagine the stories, though.”
Olesm laughed quietly.
“I can. I should visit her. Or see about that [Landlord]. Evicting someone from a house at Miss Mella’s age? That could be a death sentence. And triple the price? I’ll check on it tomorrow.”
Lism nodded, proud as any father. Prouder than Olesm’s, certainly.
“That’s the [Strategist] of Liscor for you. Never too large to notice the honest folk.”
“But it just proves Krshia’s right, doesn’t it, Uncle?”
Olesm looked up, fixing Lism with another stare. The [Shopkeeper] hesitated.
“Well…okay, she has a point. And maybe the Adventurer’s Guild could use some coin. And I won’t say I’m against the City Watch expanding—Ancestors, of course, I’m for it! It’s just…”
The younger Drake folded his arms, waiting. Lism grabbed at his neck spines. At last the words exploded out of him.
“It’s just her! That Human-loving Gnoll thinks we can cozy up to any warm-blooded Human. She thinks we can rely on the Antinium for help—and she’ll toss out our entire system of government to do it! Just because she wants power. And she’s wrong. The Antinium aren’t our friends. Hah, we saw that during the First Antinium War, didn’t we? Even if a few can walk about without killing anything in sight—and those Humans! We had an army at our gates not a month back! Has everyone forgotten that?”
Olesm shook his head.
“No one has, Uncle. But I’ve heard you speaking. You talk about filthy fleshbag Humans. About Gnolls getting ‘out of their place’. About other species—Uncle, they’re not all evil. I’ve told you that. Not even all Goblins are bad.”
Lism was quiet. He leaned on his table, and then looked up.
“So? So what? Should I apologize? Change my views? They’re not all evil. But it’s not ‘all’ of them I’m worried about, Olesm. It’s the ones who rule. Tyrion Veltras. That [Lord] tried to take Liscor. He would have slaughtered—slaughtered the entire city and started a war. But for luck, he didn’t. Should I forget that? When? In a month? A year? A decade? What about what Humans have always done? We welcomed the Five Families when they first came. In return, they betrayed us, burned our Walled Cities, slaughtered us in the north and took half a continent away.”
His claws shook as he gripped the table, staring at Olesm. The [Strategist]’s face was bleak.
“I know. But that was millennia ago, Uncle.”
“Have they changed? Should we forget? I don’t like them. I don’t trust them. And I’ve always been honest about that. I don’t put on a fake smile and stab them in the backs. Why do I have to pretend to like them? Why do I have to like them at all? Why can’t I hate them for what they’ve done? What they do? Why do I have to say ‘oh, some of them are different?’”
Olesm bowed his head. He shook it a few times as Lism paced back and forth. The [Shopkeeper]’s voice shook.
“I can live with them. Isn’t that enough. Or will Krshia pass a bill forcing me to duck my tail and smile at every Gnoll and Human who passes my way? Why the Antinium? Why not—not let Drakes and Gnolls build the city? We used to have [Builders] once. Honest work for honest folk. And then the Antinium came with their damn workers and put hundreds out of a living.”
He paced up and down, airing old grievances, angry, despairing. And he felt guilty, because he knew Olesm didn’t agree. He didn’t want to see his nephew’s look, so Lism kept ranting. Right up until Olesm stood up.
“Uncle. Enough.”
And Lism was quiet. He turned to Olesm.
“I’m sorry, my boy. But I’m not going to stop fighting Krshia. And if I have to be the last one kicking and screaming, I’ll oppose her right up until she becomes a member of the Council. If I can just stop it…”
His tail thumped the floor helplessly.
“You know, lots of the Drakes in the city feel just like I do. More than half of the ones I spoke to were uneasy about an election, about messing with the system, the Antinium and Humans. It’s just that when that damn Gnoll sounds so convincing with her talk of free money, people lose their heads. We are Drakes, after all…”
Olesm looked at him, and then he half-smiled. Bitterly, tiredly.
“I disagree with a lot of what you said, Uncle. And if you keep saying it, I can’t—won’t help you. But you’re right about one thing. The Antinium. And if you’re willing to think about what’s good for the city…I’ll help you.”
Lism paused. He stared at Olesm. His nephew looked up at him. Lism didn’t hesitate. He spread his arms wide, beaming.
“For you? Olesm, my nephew? I’ll try. Tell me what you’re thinking.”
Olesm sighed, closed his eyes. And then he pulled out a quill, inkpot, and began to speak.
 
——
 
The next day, Selys hummed as she strolled down Market Street, getting ready for the big day. This was it. They’d push the Council to begin an immediate election, put out four more candidates for the Council, and then—win. She couldn’t wait. She was so excited, she was practically vibrating. She saw a crowd had already gathered next to a promenade. They were gathered around something. A council member? Were they having a debate? Selys slowed. And then she stared.
“Ancestors. What is that?”
Five minutes later, Krshia, Zevara, and the rest of the Gnoll candidates were standing in a group, looking up at the large poster made of parchment posted on a wall high up, for all to see. Zevara read it out loud, not even needing to squint to read the words.
“Jobs for Liscor. Build your city with your own claws/paws! What in the name of Dragons…?”
“Is this something you did, Krshia? Anyone else?”
Selys turned to the group. Beilmark, Elirr, Raekea, all of them shook their heads. Selys looked around, puzzled, and then she heard a familiar sound.
Ratatatat.
“Oh no. I thought we beat him yesterday!”
She groaned. Krshia uttered a few Gnoll curses and turned, calling for her crowd to form up. But to Selys’ surprise, this time Lism wasn’t heralded by a huge crowd. Instead, he was walking on his own two feet, followed by a gathering of onlookers—but not the vehement protesters that usually shouted insults at Krshia’s supporters. And the drummer was no [Soldier], but just a regular Gnoll [Drummer], banging a brisk beat on the drum.
“Vote for a better Liscor! Vote for walls! Vote for economy, independence! Vote for a Liscor you built yourself!”
Lism shouted, cupping his hands to amplify his voice even further with the aid of his amulet. Krshia, poised to ride the platform over the heads of the crowd, appeared with a large group of Gnolls. She stared down at Lism and looked around. It was almost comical without the huge crowds of yesterday. Krshia coughed, embarrassed, and called down to Lism.
“What are you doing, Lism? Causing more trouble? Is this your doing?”
She pointed at the huge flyer above the street. Lism smiled, shading his eyes to see.
“Ah. Like it, Krshia? Yes, it’s mine. Courtesy of a few [Scribes] I know! But I see they forgot to add my name to this particular one. It’s my campaign’s slogan. Like it?”
He gestured up at the flyer. The crowd looked at him, clearly confused. So did Krshia. She folded her arms.
“So you’re for an election suddenly? Are you flip-flopping on your word again?”
Lism gave her a huge smile.
“Only because I’ve had a change of heart! Yes! I am for an election! And we should build a new part of the city! By all means!”
He raised his hands. And the crowd behind him cheered. It was, after all, what Krshia had been saying all this time. Completely off-guard, Selys stared at Zevara, whose brows were completely raised. Krshia stared down at Lism. Then she realized where she was and awkwardly climbed off the podium.
“So you’re acknowledging mine is the good idea, yes?”
Lism studied one claw.
“It’s…a good idea. But I’d rather I take the Council seat. You see, I am running in your district, Krshia. And if I’m elected, I’ll ensure that we expand our city by one-third, fund the Adventurer’s Guild, and fund the City Watch! Build those walls! Build those walls!”
He raised his hands, and the crowd cheered behind him. Krshia stared. Then she spluttered.
“What? You can’t say that? That’s—that is my promise, no?”
Lism smiled beatifically.
“Well, it’s my promise too. I’ll ensure that Liscor gets exactly what it needs, but unlike honored Krshia here, people, I’ll do it right! Lism for the City Council!”
He raised his arms again, but Elirr thrust his way forwards. The older Gnoll shouted at Lism.
“Do it right? You just stole Krshia’s idea!”
The Gnolls around him roared the same thing. Lism shouted back.
“Not at all! I improved it! You see, I won’t rely on Antinium to build the wall! I’ll hire honest Drakes and Gnolls to do it!”
The words stunned Elirr into silence. Lism waved a claw around.
“Yes, Krshia has the right idea. And expanding Liscor is the best way to combat this ludicrous rent! But why let the Antinium do it? Think about how many jobs a project like that would create! Thousands! And the money would go into your pockets, not back to the Antinium for such a huge building contract! And I have more—”
“Wait, but that’s—”
