There are situations where certain threats are deemed too grave a danger to be allowed to roam free, yet at the same time too valuable to kill. In these circumstances, the Yellowstone Republic has a solution:

The Rubix Wells.

Titled Rubix Wells due to being most often built deep underground, and also composed of modular and constantly shifting cubes. The Rubix Wells are used to hold everything from common criminals at the shallowest levels to extreme threats to the Republic's security. Most of the shallow levels are composed of one large cube, surrounded by several dozen smaller cubes. Its architecture is composed of Orichalcum, rendering even most Legendary-Tier prisoners impotent in terms of Physicality, and escape through brute force impossible. The surrounding guard cubes also have complete awareness about the general detention cubes, forming a certain panopticon, which allows them to constantly monitor the situation of the prisoners.

At the very bottom, however, things are dramatically different due to the severity of dangers and the Tiers of the prisoners contained there. The guard cubes are constantly cycling and moving. Furthermore, we have reason to believe that the so-called Zenith Sector of a Rubix Well is also entrapped by a sphere of looping Chronomancy. This means that should a prisoner manage to break out of their cell, somehow escape from their cube, and ultimately breach the sector, they still will not be able to escape the prison—for the mana core supporting the entire prison will see them reverted in time once they break free of the Zenith Sector's threshold.

As such, we will need to come up with an alternate strategy to reach [Redacted.] We understand that Aviary will not accept defeat or half measures, but we believe that breaching this prison to be all but impossible through direct means or even subterfuge. No one that has been sent down to the Zenith Sector has returned of their own accord, and we suspect that is the most viable angle to strike a deal with one of the Ascendants or another elite of the Republic.

Trying to breach the prison itself is hopeless.

-Report on the Rubix Wells: Yellowstone Republic Maximum Security Containment Facilities

170 (I)

Rubix

"You know my favorite thing about this new Legendary skill," Shiv said, ignoring the knife the struggling warden was trying to put through his eye. "It just has so much control. Previously, if I was using Gravitic Wrestler, or maybe even the Heroic-Tier skill I got, if I squeezed a little too hard, crack. That'd be it. Frankly, not even crack. Your head would be bloody paste, whether I wanted it to be or not." The Deathless paused as he looked off to the side. "Okay, maybe that's a bit of an exaggeration. I had pretty good control with Gravitic Wrestler, but the Heroic-Tier skill with all that pressure around me? Forget about it."

The final wheeze came from the warden as their eyes rolled, their limbs went slack, and their legs kicked out a final time. Shiv let them slide down against the Orichalcum wall, but caught their head before they bashed against the ground.

Shiv wasn't sure what race the warden was. Considering their green skin, but generally human-like dimensions, he had to guess it was either an extremely evolved goblin or a human with a race-shift Blessing. There wasn't really such a thing as human-goblin crossbreeding. Not like there was human-elf crossbreeding or goblin-elf crossbreeding or, well, frankly, elf-anything crossbreeding. But looking at the ears, this Pathbearer definitely didn't have elf heritage.

One good thing about the Republic was that it didn't much care what race you were. It only cared that you served the Republic. And right now, this unfortunate bastard would be serving the Republic by taking a well-earned nap.

Nearby, six other Pathbearers lay splayed across the ground. Broken spell patterns flickered around them as leaking mana bled into the atmosphere. Shiv found himself in another valley, very similar to the one outside of the wolf-man’s cage. But things were a little bit different now. He wasn't quite the same person anymore. Not in terms of power, and not even in terms of mindset.

He spent a bit of time thinking before he acted. And right now, he was trying to apply a bit of method to his madness. Because if he didn't, the odds of him breaking out of this prison were pretty low.

Especially considering he had no way of knowing where to go.

The Deathless rubbed his right thigh where one of the wardens had punctured him earlier. Their blade flashed a bright white, and they managed to drive it through him before he was prepared. It was a good reminder that he wasn't invincible and that there were other Heroic-Tier Pathbearers present, aside from the Ascendant itself. But still, the gap between Heroic and Legendary was remarkable.

After the enemy Pathbearer stabbed him, Shiv gripped the blade and unleashed a slight amount of force. Pointed vectors of overflowing kinetic energy slammed against the edge of the blade, and the adamantine weapon snapped as if it were a wooden toothpick. It took him considerably less effort to choke out the offending warden thereafter.

Shiv's Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides also allowed him another wonderful option: He attacked the spell patterns running down the valley walls like waterfalls directly. He shredded all the surrounding magic, breaking whatever spells were active and rendering this place a spot of darkness along a long stretch of light.

Ahead and behind, more spell patterns rained down to the base of the valley, bathing the narrow pathway with light. Along the pathway were many other cells, but whatever Bonk had done to free everyone, the prisoners took advantage of it. The insides of the cells were empty, and chains and bonds lay shattered on the ground.

Shattered, Shiv realized, blinking. Broken felling Moon. Just who the hells were they keeping in these cells?

Shiv activated and then deactivated his Outside Context Problem Skill briefly, just to confuse the Ascendant again. He didn't know where Cripple was, but every time he triggered the skill, Cripple couldn't think about him. That bought Shiv extra time. When he finished, he started draining from the world, and then he knelt down to see if this group of wardens had anything useful for him to pilfer.

"Hopefully you have something, unlike the last group," Shiv muttered to himself. "Damned Ascendant always on my ass. At least one of you has to be my size. Tired of running around bare ass naked. Felling asshole just had to steal my clothes."

As Shiv ran his hands across the warden he'd just choked out, he noticed their armor was smoking. The magic infused within it was spewing free, ruptured by Shiv's power. The Magical Resistance imbued within it was smashed to pieces, and the magical fields extending from it were also lacerated to the foundations. That had been the first thing Shiv attacked: their armor.

The moment he put his hands on the enchanted metal, he pushed his shapeless tides in, and he shredded the Psychomantic connection extending between the guards and the surrounding walls. The waterfalls of spells were connected to the guards in some fashion. That's why Shiv ripped through them using his tides, and judging how the guard knew exactly where he was after he attacked the first group, he suspected that there were monitoring spells or some kind of telepathic link that kept all the guards connected to one another.

Shiv didn't stick around after he disabled the earlier group, especially after another twelve guards teleported in, all of them seeming Heroic-Tier. He activated his Outside Context Problem and simply fled. As much as he wanted to fight, he didn't know what his enemies were capable of. And it wasn't dying he risked here; it was being disabled and put back in the cage. A Legend though he might be, he knew better than to underestimate Heroes. After all, Sullain had died to an army of Heroes and less, and there was still Cripple to be wary of.

Shiv could briefly contend with the Ascendant’s might now, but that didn't mean he had the upper hand. Not even close.

Now, with this third group of wardens disabled, Shiv acted quickly. He found the tall goblin too thin of physique to offer any useful clothing, so he ripped their helmet off and projected his Psychomancy into their mind. Shiv wasn't an accomplished Psychomancer. Frankly, he wasn't a good Psychomancer at all. With everything that kept happening, he never had time to get more in-depth lessons with Uva, but digging through his own memories had given him some instruction when it came to delving through a mind.

It was still chaotic, and he was sifting through an overwhelming flood of details. Flashes from the goblin's life hit him. Sparring matches, the deaths of loved ones, foes bested, humiliating defeats, monsters they still had nightmares about. All that hit Shiv at the same time, and he struggled to process all of it. But, among the chaos, he got a glimpse of a few memories.

He recalled the guard teleporting from another place. Another cube? Shiv was confused. He wasn't sure why the guard was thinking about cubes. The tall goblin and their team had been dispatched by the Ascendant itself through a telepathic broadcast. They used the mana rushing down the valley walls to rapidly move from place to place. Shiv stared at the Orichalcum walls as he realized through the guard that there were mithril supports hidden within as well.

Psychomancy 26 > 28

Briefly, he considered ripping the walls open and cracking the supports. Maybe that would disable most of the spells active. But he didn't want to give away his position, and Orichalcum was durable enough that he wouldn't be able to damage the structure so easily. It'd be a prolonged effort, and if he stayed in one place for too long, he would be dealing with Cripple itself.

"Not yet," Shiv told himself. "Not until we’re out of ideas.”

He moved on to the other wardens and finally found someone who was around his size. Shiv stripped the humanoid automaton as fast as he could. Their armor wasn't anything to note. It had self-repair enchantments, was made of adamantine, could emit light, and had Magical Resistance. Magical Resistance that Shiv found laughable at this point. However, it also had a Psychomancy enchantment. A very specific kind of Psychomancy enchantment. It was called Chain of Thought, and as soon as Shiv put the helmet over his head, he began hearing chatter.

Whispers brushed against his mind, and the helmet crackled. He tried to make out what it was saying, but then he realized the enchantment was likely damaged or disrupted by his Legendary Skill. "Right," Shiv said to himself, "I did have to tear through the armor's Magical Resistance and mana fields to do this. Well, at least I'm not naked anymore."

As he stole the black and white armor from the automaton, he noted that they weren't wearing any supportive clothing underneath, so the cold jagged bits of metal still prodded Shiv. It was awkward, but not uncomfortable. His body was Orichalcum by this point, so chafing wasn't likely. "Still, what would I give for some underclothes?" Shiv muttered. He went through the items possessed by the remaining guards and stole a utility rig from one of them.

A leather vest filled with tools and potions now hung off his chest, and Shiv expected it to get broken the first moment he got into a hard fight. That made him endeavor not to get into hard fights. He was trying to escape, not turn this into a bloodbath. Before he left, he noticed one of the Pathbearers had interesting boots, non-prison issue boots.

Where everyone else had prismatic sabotons, this little elf was wearing pitch black leather shoes. Shiv looked down at his feet, and then he looked at the elf's shoes. Might be a snug fit, but Shiv shrugged. He had a feeling this would benefit him. He took the shoes off the elf and barely managed to force his feet inside. Once he did, a smile crept across his face as he took in the enchantments.

Equipment Obtained: [Nightwalkers]

Tier: Master

Condition: Stable

Composition: Shadeleather; Spatial Magic

Enchantments > Nightswim; Last Step of Midnight; Self-Mending

Immediately, he began to feel an affinity with the surrounding shadows. More than that, the shadows were lined with dimensional static. Being in the dark fed the shoes with power, and Shiv triggered the Nightswim enchantment for the first time. He splashed down into a puddle of blackness, and true to the enchantment's name, it did feel like he was in a pool.

He pointed his Shapeless Tides forward and glided across the ground. The moment he hit light, however, his Nightswim enchantment began to burn. Brightness affected the skill. Darkness recharged it. Then he activated the Last Step of Midnight enchantment and found himself standing back on the edge of darkness. In that patch of black, he made by shredding all those spell patterns. "Alright." Shiv chuckled. "I think I can make some use of you."

Just then, he felt a shudder of pressure in the air. The flickering spell patterns to his left and right broke. Shiv reacted intuitively. He cast himself back in time and went out of context. As he did, a burst of incandescence exploded into being over the six Pathbearers he'd just downed. Shiv jolted 600 meters away, and as his temporal shell settled, he found himself not far from his Orichalcum cell, but pointed in the opposite direction of his initial escape. His Nightswim enchantment was completely spent. It seemed that brightness damaged it even when he wasn't using the enchantment.

"I see," Shiv muttered. "Not quite as good as I thought, but it'll do in a pinch. Just won’t last long. Another layer to my Stealth kit. Shit, I miss my Magebreaker.”

