He pointed his Shapeless Tides forward and blurred across the world without making a hint of noise. A chill was seeping past his skin and settling into his flesh. Despite this, he found himself more resistant to vitality loss with every level he gained in Outside Context Problem. He kept going forward as long as he could, and only when the chill reached his bones did he surface. As soon as he did, he slammed himself against the valley walls. The overflow vectors of force he had been gathering were unleashed as slashing tides.

Spell patterns became like strings severed by a sweeping blade. The magic here was strong, but it had little hope of resisting a Legendary skill. One after another, the spell patterns snapped. Soon, the mana began to flicker, and Shiv started draining from the sheen layered over the world once more. He did so without fear now.

Even as billowing clouds of chaotic stormstuff slammed into him, he forced it aside with a slight snarl of effort. He stood before the rupture without fleeing, indifferent to the storm thanks to his Legendary ascension. And when he was restored enough, he went out of context once more.

He continued on like this for what felt like a near-hour.

As Shiv went forward, a building sense of unease grew stronger. Every other cell lining this place was vacant, and he hadn't seen any guards for a good long while. He had no idea how big this place was, but judging from all the cells he counted, it was colossal. He also knew that he wasn't going in a circle because he left a partially drunk flask behind him.

Shiv never saw that flask again.

"Just how many people are you bastards keeping down here?" Shiv muttered as he counted cell after cell brushing by below. He looked up and frowned. He had flown up along the valley walls earlier in the opposite direction from the magical waterfalls. It took him around 10 seconds to reach a ceiling capped by Orichalcum. And that was all it was, a ceiling. Maybe there was some other trick to it, but Shiv hadn't figured it out yet.

Right now, his mental map of the prison was a disc. The entire thing felt circular to him, and there was only forward and back in terms of direction. Up led nowhere. Left and right led nowhere. And the prison cells themselves? Shiv paused. He hadn't checked all the cells. Maybe there was a way out there? No, that didn't make any sense. If he were going to design a prison, why would he build an exit through one of the cells? It's most likely the only way out was through teleportation. That's how all the wardens got in. But Shiv couldn't quite leave through such means.

But then his frown deepened as he looked up at the ceiling once more. I can't leave through that way, but what if I try to make a direct escape? Make my own exit. He regarded the Orichalcum ceiling once more and launched himself upward. As he came to a halt before the ceiling, Shiv placed a temporal anchor there.

His Chronomancy field cracked, and he gave it a few seconds to recover. He looked down and around, but he didn't catch sight of any new wardens, or Cripple for that matter. Things were quiet here. A little too quiet for his liking. If there were other prisoners, were they gone? They couldn't have all escaped at once, right? He doubted that was a possibility. So the only other likelihood was that they were resolved by the Ascendant.

Cripple was barely gone for more than a few seconds before it returned to Shiv's cell. Shiv tried to imagine containing a prison of this size in just a few seconds and couldn't. He was missing something here, a larger picture, but he wasn't going to get it if he kept doing the same thing as before. He focused on cultivating as much strength as he could, and every few seconds, he would trigger Outside Context Problem and quickly dismiss the skill right after. When he was ready, he shot the Orichalcum wall a glare and began circulating his vectors, both overflow and innate, into his hands.

"Alright," Shiv growled, "let's see if I can crack you faster than my cage.”

He drove his digits against the Orichalcum and channeled his overwhelming strength against the mystical metal. He tore at the Orichalcum, ripping it with his vectors in a way he couldn't with gravity, with a control he hadn't had until just an hour ago. Shiv strained, every muscle in his body tightened, and with each heartbeat, he birthed new force against the red gold metal.

One second passed, two, then three. The Orichalcum grew brighter, its durability feeding off Shiv's will. But with the seventh ripple that left him, the Orichalcum gave a loud scream as a deep gash was opened in its structure. Shiv finally let out a shuddering breath as his heart leaped in triumph. He saw a rent opening before him, and he poured more strength in.

He pulled in two directions. His rippling vectors slashed into the Orichalcum, and the red-gold began to dent. Shiv whipped his head around for any sign of the Ascendant in the meantime. When Cripple didn't appear and punch a hole through Shiv, he continued on, tension warring with hope inside. With every subsequent tide of force, the gap he made in the metal grew larger and larger. What was a thin rent turned into a massive rupture, and soon Shiv pushed his way through.

As soon as he did, he went out of context again as he whipped his head behind. He expected to see Cripple there, just glaring at him, maybe even just a centimeter away, preparing to drive a fist through his chest. But there was no Cripple, there was no incandescent mana, there was nothing, just an open rupture lining the red-gold metal.

"That was way too loud," Shiv commented to himself. Cripple was there earlier. It must have heard him—unless it got distracted by something else. And that thought unnerved Shiv more than it pleased him. The way Cripple spoke to him made it clear that the Ascendant regarded him as an extremely dangerous threat. But there were other prisoners here. Zenith Category Prisoners. He knew he was referred to as Priority Zenith from some of the guards' memories. But what about the others? Considering how severe this place's security is, I would bet that they're Heroic-Tier threats at the least—

A piercing shriek crashed against Shiv's mind. He pushed back using his Shapeless Tides and barely managed to fling off the psionic attack. His vision was doubled, and his skull was still ringing. Shiv recovered after a moment but found his muscles shaking. The Deathless blinked and shook his head. Was not expecting that. Felt like a literal ocean of Psychomancy mana got dropped on my head. What the hells was that?

Once more, the shriek washed over him. This time, Shiv was ready to meet it. He unleashed his ripples outward and held the magic back before it could clamp down on his consciousness. But it remained a battle. He was pushing against layered tidal waves of translucent mana, and the scream just went on and on and on. Shiv tried to rip through the mana like he did with the Orichalcum but to his astonishment, he found the mana even denser, even stronger.

"Alright," Shiv spat through gritted teeth. "Maybe I've done a little bit of underestimating. Maybe my neighbors are Legendary too." And that made Shiv grit his teeth. A bunch of Legendary Pathbearers and monsters imprisoned in the same place. Now it made perfect sense why Cripple was missing all the time. The Ascendant was trying to keep this breakout controlled. Shiv let out a growl of pure strain as he pushed his arms forward. Against all odds, he began driving the Psychomancy back, and then his fingers dug into it.

He tore at both sides. His vectors exploded in opposite directions, and a gash formed in the Psychomancy. The scream was cut off, and what followed thereafter was a pained cry. The Psychomancy receded. It slammed backward more like a bubble rather than a destabilized spell. Shiv guessed that whoever was projecting all that Psychomancy had just collapsed their field back in on themselves. But still, all that force, all that strength. "Hey, I don't know if you can hear me," Shiv grunted through his labored breaths, "but I'll stay out of your way if you stay out of mine."

The unseen Legend didn't respond immediately, and Shiv licked his lips, anticipating another attack. But what he didn't expect was a faint whisper that trailed over his mind.

"Deal."

It was a deep, rumbling voice, like a bag of marbles being scattered down a stone staircase. The Deathless swallowed as he felt an uncanny rush of fear glide over him. The sudden fear came and passed with the psionic whisper, and Shiv decided to continue on.
