“Don’t pretend that’s just goodwill. You and I both know how much money we’re wearing. I’m serious about giving what I’m carrying to you. Mind you—I won’t turn it down. It’s far more than Ieka would have paid me. But I mean it. You need anything, you call for Salamani.”
The City Runner was about to protest. She wanted to say he didn’t need to do that. That it wasn’t all he was making it out to be.
But she knew that was—untrue. She and Fierre and Salamani had survived an Archmage’s traps and woken her up. Valeterisa’s mansion was like a proto-dungeon, even more dangerous because it was maintained.
It was just embarrassing and awkward for Ryoka to be the recipient of genuine gratitude or emotion.
“Well…thank you, Salamani. You helped us too. But I’ll remember that.”
“And me. This was the most fun I’ve ever had.”
Fierre smiled. Her smile faltered as Salamani and Ryoka gave her a look.
“Well, it was. I felt alive. I’m still shaking!”
The Mage Runner laughed and swept back his hair.
“Me too, honestly. Dead gods, but that was a rare experience for even a Courier. We woke the Archmage of Izril!”
“And I’m grateful. Really.”
Someone sniffed. The three jumped.
Valeterisa was wiping her eyes with a clean handkerchief. She blew her nose.
“Ancestors. I hate emotion. I…I really did let those people die, didn’t I? And I would have stayed like that, dividing my thoughts up again and again. I owe you three a lot. I shall repay it too. Somehow. And here I thought [Parallel Thinking] was a Skill without flaw. I wonder how Archmage Chandler dealt with it? I might have spent another ten years trying to perfect the spell. I’ve missed so much…”
Ryoka was stunned, half by what Valeterisa had said, half by the implications. Wait. [Parallel Thought] was a Skill? Archmage Chandler? The Necromancer?
“What spell?”
Fierre’s had focused on the last bit. So had Salamani. They looked at Valeterisa. She sighed.
“I should explain, shouldn’t I? It’s why I was secluded here. I thought that if I had time—a year or two at most—to work on it, I could finish my project. See what happened? That’s what you get for not setting deadlines.”
She waved her hand around as if to indicate ‘whoops’, and saw the three looks. Valeterisa blushed. She coughed,
“Ahem. What was your question? Ah, yes. I was working on a spell. No—a theorem. Um, it would have been a revolutionary rediscovery. Even the proper [Archmages] of a thousand years ago didn’t know the spell. Not Zelkyr—but he was a [Golem Artificer]. Different disciplines. The point is it’s the lynchpin—cornerstone?—stepping stone?—building block of higher magic. Creating magical dimensions is possible, but rudimentary without constant management or this spell.”
She even talked like she had ten different trains of thoughts at once. Ryoka sussed out the important bits.
“What theorem, Archmage?”
“Oh. It’s very simple. Automated spellcasting. I was working so long on it—but I couldn’t bridge the final gap. It took me four  years to assemble the right spell matrices—and the rest of the time was trying to bridge the final gap. It’s so frustrating. Plate!”
Valeterisa reached out. A familiar dropped a porcelain plate in her hand. She threw it down. It shattered on the floor and she kicked at it. After a moment, the plate rose and repaired itself.
“Isn’t that…automated spellcasting?”
Ryoka eyed the plate as the familiar bore it away. Valeterisa sighed.
“No. I know it looks the same to non-mages. And you can easily approximate automated spellcasting. That was a familiar equipped with a [Repair] spell bound into the mansion. But if I had the right spell—it would have auto-cast from my mana upon sensing the plate breaking, without the need for rules. It’s a lost magic, though. A fundamental building block no one else is willing to pursue. They’re all busy with…politics. Infighting. Eating cake.”
Salamani nodded as if that were obvious. Valeterisa peered at him.
“Wait. Are you from Wistram?”
“Yes, Archmage Valeterisa. I graduated about sixteen years back.”
“Oh! What schools?”
“Combat magic, physical spells, enchantment…those were my primaries, although I dabbled in some summoning and runecraft and I had an interest in astromancy.”
“Oh. One of the adventurer specializations. Are all the Archmages the same? Feor? Nailihuaile? Er…V—V—”
“Viltach?”
Valeterisa snapped her fingers.
“[Recall Memory]. Yes! I quite hate him so I keep erasing his name. What about Amerys? She came to the academy and we were going to make her Archmage. But if this King of Destruction is awake again…”
Salamani hesitated and glanced at Ryoka and Fierre. Particularly at Fierre, who was taking notes, having borrowed Valeterisa’s quill.
“I think that’s a matter for the academy, Archmage.”
“Oh. Politics.”
Valeterisa sighed. She looked at Ryoka and Fierre.
“And you two are strange. So strange. You—are you Human? And are you Human?”
She pointed at Fierre first who actually jumped three feet into the air and turned—well, she couldn’t turn paler. And then Valeterisa pointed at Ryoka.
“That’s—private, Archmage. Neither of us are quite usual. But who is?”
Ryoka smiled and saw Salamani tap one eye and wink. Valeterisa scratched at her head.
“Oh. That sounds like a rebuke. Am I being rude? I’m being rude, aren’t I. I just recall you two did so well in the first few layers of my defenses. I wish I’d saved the memory, but I wanted to conserve space. Er…I didn’t meant to be rude. I just wondered if the little one—[Recall Memory]—Fierre, was part-Gnoll or something. I’ve met them where I grew up.”
“That’s private.”
Fierre hid behind Ryoka. The taller girl blinked at Valeterisa.
“Where you grew up…?”
Valeterisa nodded, looking around. She picked up a carrot and ate as she replied.
“I’m hungry. This is horrible. Mhm. I grew up in Fissival. The City of Magic, you know? But I went to Wistram.”
“Really?”
Ryoka was startled. She dug in her pouch reflexively and offered the Archmage some rations. Valeterisa shrugged and then saw the flatbread and dried cheese. She brightened.
“Oh! That looks better! Familiars—do we have anything that’s not a vegetable? Exclude rotten foods. Would you all like to eat too? Or sit?”
“I…sure?”
Ryoka found herself sitting in a small dining room with Valeterisa, Salamani, and Fierre. They knew it was a dining room only Valeterisa normally used because the rich wood was worn and so was the chair where she sat. A decade of sitting in the exact same spot.
“Make food. Food. I’m sorry. They’re terrible at specific instructions. In the past, [Mages] had far more intelligent familiars. I thought about summoned beings, but they take too much mana and Shadow Familiars can make food. But usually only boiling pasta. And don’t ask them to put in sauce; they always put in everything.”
“Are they…alive?”
“Well, they can run out of magic and die. But they’re more like…limited sentience. Not like undead, which have a purpose even if you don’t give them orders. Shadow familiars are a complex darkness-based spell derived from Golems—you see, the spell differs when it comes to intentional learning, which Golems were actually made with. Have you met Cognita? She’s a version of that ideal taken to the extreme. If you ever opened her root magical matrices, which she’s never let me do, I think you’d find that there’s actually a potentiality for interpretation of orders, which is where the shadow familiars differ. They were created by Noelyeen, a [Mage] of Chandrar around eight thousand years ago to my understanding, although he might have based that on previous—”
The words washed over the three like the ocean. Ryoka, Fierre, and Salamani were each intelligent in their own way. Salamani had even graduated from Wistram. Fierre opened envelopes and traded secrets for a living and Ryoka liked to think she’d had a decent education and was sharp enough to grasp most theories.
Valeterisa was beyond any of that. And—she didn’t lay out things like a good [Teacher] might, with a coherent ending, beginning, and narrative flow. She just followed her own convoluted thoughts, breaking off, clarifying, making anecdotal evidence…
“—so pasta is the most they can do. Although I have had wonderful experiences asking them to ‘lightly char’ meat. They get it cooked right sixty percent of the time.”
“I see. Er, Archmage Valeterisa, what will you do now?”
Ryoka rubbed at one ear. The Archmage stopped nibbling at some extremely al dente pasta with Ryoka’s bread and cheese.
“Get back to work?”
She saw their expressions and clarified.
“Once I deal with all these messages and fix up my mansion and so forth. I have so many of them…and a number of commitments I should honor. Consult memo.”
The pieces of paper fluttered down from the collection around her head. Valeterisa read them, sending most back up but incinerating six notes.
“Yes. Recompense the dead, connect with Wistram…oh, and at the top of my list is checking my income. If I have enough money to spare, I should see what there is to buy. I have an account with the Merchant’s Guild. I hope they don’t think I’m dead. And that I have money.”
She looked nervous about that last part. Ryoka looked at Salamani.
“Er…you are an Archmage, Valeterisa?”
“Oh yes. But I’m bad with money. I spend it on what I need—so I sometimes have to take jobs. And sometimes I’m tricked! People lie to me! An Archmage!”
“Shocking.”
Fierre muttered. Salamani snorted and pretended to cough into his robes. Valeterisa nodded, sighing.
“Tracking down the last [Merchant] who tricked me was difficult. But I found him and made an example and they stopped after that. It was a very disgusting way to die too. I still lose my appetite unless I forget. I’ve blocked the memory but I think it had to do with worms.”
Ryoka stopped chewing on her crunchy pasta. Fierre stopped giggling. Valeterisa ate on, calmly.
“As to your question, Miss Ryoka Griffin—no, two things. Firstly, I will contact Ieka Imarris. She did well to contact me. I would expect nothing less of my niece.”
“Your—”
“Secondly, may I have some of your hair? All of it? I feel like something about you is…interesting.”
Valeterisa craned her neck back and forth to stare at Ryoka. She went on.
“I’d prefer flesh and blood or something else, but hair will do. I will pay you for it. Um…a hundred gold? If I have gold. Familiars, find out how much gold I have.”
A shadow floated away and Ryoka tried not to protectively cover her hair.
“Archmage, I’m not interested in selling my hair.”
“Really? Can I convince you otherwise? I feel like you might have some discovery in your blood.”
“Absolutely not.”
“I could insist. I am an Archmage. Your help would fuel magical discovery.”
Valeterisa looked at Ryoka with what might have been an attempt at sternness. Ryoka edged back in her seat.
“What have you discovered or made so far, Archmage Valeterisa?”
She looked hurt.
“All kinds of things! I do enchantments, mostly. Or scrolls—anything to make money. Why, the last thing I did was…was…[Recall Memory]. Aha! I helped design some Kaalblades, based on an old design for the House of El. Oh! I wonder if the profits will have come in already? Maviola hasn’t sent a [Message]…no, wait, she has. Sort through all fifty six, in order of date…”
Valeterisa sat back, looking excited. Salamani winced at ‘House of El’ and ‘profits’. Ryoka felt her head explode.
Maviola? No way—but Erin had said—just a coincidence. Just…
And like that, Ryoka Griffin remembered.
The Summer Solstice. Time was running out. But—if Erin was to be believed, she had found a member of the Five Great Families. With Magnolia, that was two.
One more and they could do it! But she had to continue coordinating with Laken. Pay him a visit on top of the letter. And—
Ryoka stood. The absent woman looked up as Ryoka took a breath.
“Archmage Valeterisa. I’m afraid I’m not willing to sell you any of my hair. Or blood. I’m uh, attached to the body parts I have left.”
She showed the Archmage her right hand. Valeterisa pursed her lips.
“I wouldn’t want a finger…well, I’d want one, but I wouldn’t ask for one unless you were willing to pay—but very well. I suppose I owe you a debt of gratitude. Erm. Yes. I am very grateful. Is there anything I can do for you three…Runners? Rest assured, I will recall this debt. Memo—debt of gratitude to Ryoka, Fierre, Salamani…”
She looked at them with the clear effort of trying to look grateful, but hoping that they didn’t actually demand something. Ryoka glanced at Salamani and Fierre.
Valeterisa gave Ryoka mixed signals. On one hand, she looked defenseless, gullible. On the other—she mentioned worms, she had made the most evil set of traps Ryoka had ever seen and she could be unsettling. Ryoka thought about it and felt at her full bag of holding.
“You know what, Archmage Valeterisa? You can ship the rest of the uh, magical scrolls and potions we left to Reizmelt for us. And then you can direct us to the exit. Maybe with a boat?”
The Archmage brightened. She nodded, clapped her hands for her familiars, and Ryoka breathed a sigh of relief. She looked at Fierre and Salamani and they smiled.
“Ow!”
Ryoka clapped a hand to the back of her head. A Shadow Familiar hovered away with a few strands of her hair. Valeterisa innocently turned her head.
 
—-
 
A while later, Archmage Valeterisa watched the three set sail in a little boat from the island. The rats tried to hitch a ride, as the island was now half-scorched; Ryoka kicked them into the water, reminded of all the invasive species on Earth.
Valeterisa had summoned the boat from the coastal village with a spell and she had replied to other [Messages]. Wistram was abuzz. The world—or parts of Izril knew.
The Archmage of Izril had returned.
The woman had remained, although Ryoka, Fierre, and Salamani had tried to get her to come with them. Quite hard, actually; they were all clearly worried she’d relapse into her slumber.
They needn’t have feared. But Valeterisa had insisted on staying and she was an Archmage.
She wished she could have made them stay. Well—she could have, but she was grateful.
And also—curious.
Not of Salamani. Valeterisa had read his magical abilities like a book and dismissed him. No, it was of Ryoka and Fierre and just who they were that interested Valeterisa.
