“Ryoka, let me introduce you. This is the Guildmistress of First Landing. A legend among Couriers—”
“Mihaela Godfrey.”
Ryoka Griffin whispered. The Mage Runner heard the note in her voice. Finally, he caught on and looked at Valceif’s mother.
Mihaela stood there, looking Ryoka up and down. She nodded, tersely. Her expression—
She was probably in her late fifties. But her hair was white or perhaps silver. She had more lines than Ryoka would have expected. More scars, too. She looked like the most in-shape woman her age that Ryoka had ever met, though. A marathon runner.
And her eyes never left Ryoka’s. Salamani looked at Mihaela.
“Guildmistress? Something wrong?”
“Not at all, Salamani. I came here to meet Ryoka Griffin specifically. Thanks for introducing us. Now. Get lost.”
Mihaela turned her head to glance at the Mage Runner. She looked at Ryoka.
“Step outside and we’ll have a chat, Ryoka.”
The young woman turned, feeling…she stumbled. Salamani blocked the way.
“Mihaela. What’s up?”
He smiled. But it wasn’t a smile. Mihaela looked at his arm. But Ryoka whispered.
“Let her go, Salamani. She has business with me. Valceif—I knew Valceif. He helped me out.”
“But he—”
Salamani’s eyes flickered and widened. Mihaela pushed his arm out of the way.
“Yes. He died. Let’s go for a run, Ryoka Griffin. Step outside.”
 
—-
 
In more important news, Tyrion Veltras was the most significant person in Izril at this moment. His actions, his very existence had changed northern Izril’s fate, perhaps all of Izril’s. What he did was watched. His actions had already spoken louder than anything.
And what he was doing was extraordinary. Surprising—shocking.
The Lord of House Veltras was training on the tilting grounds again this morning. He was going to go hawking later this day, or visit Lord Pellmia on a social errand—which was inevitably practical given that Tyrion did not enjoy such activities if it was just to sit and talk.
It was so surprising because of what he had done just a day before. Rescued Magnolia Reinhart, fought the Assassin’s Guild and placed himself against the elusive Circle of Thorns.
To anyone who knew Tyrion—it wasn’t that surprising, just exasperating. He regarded what he had done as just and necessary. Never mind that Ullim, Jericha, even his sons gave him looks mixed between awe and incredulity.
“Jericha. I’m minded to go riding. Just for an hour.”
“At once, Lord Veltras.”
The [Lord] nodded. He’d normally go for a long ride around his estates at those insane speeds only he could match. It was no exaggeration to say he was probably one of the fastest Humans in the world, certainly on Izril. Mounted, he could catch Magnolia’s famed carriage—and since it was destroyed, he was now peerless.
There were other famed Humans known for their speed, of course. Like Mihaela Godfrey. But she wasn’t known for pure speed…Tyrion was.
Tyrion was breaking in a new warhorse since his beloved steed had died. It was a mark of the man how he had disposed of his horse’s remains. Gelden, the horse, had been butchered and the meat given to the dogs. Because it was a waste of good horseflesh to do otherwise.
The bones Tyrion had kept and buried himself. All this was pure Tyrion. He had downplayed his battle with the [Assassins] to Hethon who had been agog at the story. In fact, he was training because he was so annoyed with the battle itself.
The ride would settle his nerves. But not too far. Tyrion turned as Jericha rode up towards him.
“How is Sammial doing?”
Ullim was looking after Sammial. The boy had a summer cold, fever and coughing. Jericha smiled slightly, reassuring Tyrion who had given no sign of worry.
“He’s resting. I believe he wants to hear more stories of his father, but Ullim is keeping him entertained.”
“Good. Have the [Healer] standing by if his coughing gets worse. His lungs were always weak.”
Sammial had been possessed by coughing fits when he was younger. Perhaps this was a resurgence. Tyrion rode with Jericha and a small escort, defying his peers of Izril to find anything different in his behavior. He had made his choice. There had never been another option.
 
—-
 
Reizmelt now. No one was looking at Reizmelt hard. But they would. Oh, it was about to become news. Just like the game of football. Bigger than the Bannermare and Baleros.
Because of her. Because her name was in the news. And—while few noticed, some remembered.
They gathered in the rally spot twenty miles outside of Reizmelt. Laughing, joking. A different group—only two were the same as last time.
“Alright, who called the Bloodfeast?”
One of them teleported into the spot. And there they were.
The Bloodfeast Raiders. One of them—the one on a carpet—raised a hand.
“This is a special occasion. We’re after prey.”
“Oh?”
The others stirred. The carpet-rider nodded.
“We thought this Runner was dead. The name is Ryoka Griffin. Two of our members are very interested in her. Take her alive. Reizmelt? That’s all your discretion.”
They grinned and laughed. The Bloodfeast Raiders were eleven this time. They were mostly…younger. But one of their members was older. It was the difference of a decade. As they prepared for their entry and place in the news, which they would love and which would galvanize the other raiders—the older member raised a hand.
“Hold up. I just received a [Message]. There’s heat in Reizmelt. A Gold-rank team. A Courier. And…fuck.”
The others stopped. They looked at him as the older member put a finger to his temple.
“Mihaela Godfrey.”
“The Guildmistress of First Landing? What is she doing here?”
The other raiders were confused. Some were excited—others wary. A Courier and a Gold-rank team? They had killed Gold-ranks before. But that last name—the senior member of the Raiders raised a hand.
“Abort. The Bloodfeast is cancelled.”
“What?”
The carpet-rider was furious. He pointed at the city in the distance.
“We could turn Reizmelt to ash! There are eleven of us! You think we’re afraid of a Courier or Gold-ranks? We—”
He fell silent as the oldest Bloodfeast Raider whirled and put a knife at his throat. The others fell silent, wary, listening.
“I said, the Bloodfeast is cancelled. Mihaela Godfrey isn’t someone you can outrun. Either you kill her or she’ll get one of us. You want to go there? Let me know. Because if you compromise the Raiders, we’ll kill you now rather than let you rat us out. Well?”
“No.”
The other Raider held still, his eyes flashing with fury. The senior member turned and looked around.
“The Bloodfeast is canceled. Get lost.”
The eleven broke up, annoyed, furious. But no one died today. No one made trouble as they left, covertly as they came. It had happened before. A Named Rank adventurer or team—Tyrion Veltras on the move. The Bloodfeast Raiders didn’t fuck with that kind of person.
Including Mihaela Godfrey.
 
—-
 
She stood outside the Runner’s Guild, listening. One of those people you might meet once. That your father might say he’d met. A living legend in our times, like Zel Shivertail had been.
The Courier who had outrun everything in the First Antinium War. When the Walled Cities had been under siege, as the Antinium overran Izril—only one Runner had kept delivering potions, secret battle plans, missives.
“Mihaela Godfrey. I’m sure of it. That’s the Unstoppable Messenger of Izril, right there. Dead gods. Mother has her autograph.”
Ylawes Byres peeked at the Guildmistress of First Landing with his team. The Silver Swords had heard the buzz; they’d been loitering in Reizmelt after finding that Ryoka Griffin had already been found by Erin. Killing monsters, enjoying the break—
Now they saw Ryoka and Mihaela and Salamani all standing together with onlookers watching covertly from afar, like the Gold-ranks. Ryoka’s face was…twisted. Mihaela’s could have been stone. Salamani looked worried, tense.
None of that escaped Ylawes. The [Knight] scratched at his clean-shaven chin. He’d been hoping to meet Mihaela. But this was another entry in the ‘Ryoka Griffin’ events, which seemed to tie into the ‘Erin Solstice’ madness.
“I thought she seldom ran deliveries anymore. Move it, Pointy Ears. I can’t see!”
Dawil growled as he stood on his tip-toes. Falene adjusted her spectacles.
“She’s mostly retired. But yes. That’s certainly her. Why does Ryoka Griffin know her?”
The Silver Swords exchanged a glance. Dawil sighed.
“You know, this is Erin Solstice all over again. Hey, you know if we’d stayed around Liscor we might have been able to commission Pelt, the master-smith to make us gear? Or—or bought potions from Saliss of Lights? Or we’d be getting those fat Wyvern bounties!”
“Erin wasn’t responsible for all of that, Dawil.”
“Yeah? And I’m a Minotaur in disguise. I’m just saying—first Erin, now this Ryoka. Stick with the crazy Humans, lad. That’s where the interesting stuff is.”
Ylawes shook his head. He didn’t know Ryoka well. She was standoffish. Friendly—but no Erin. Still—he glanced towards the crowd.
“Is that it? You can’t tell me?”
Mihaela’s voice was quiet. Her arms were folded; Ryoka flinched.
“I’m so sorry. I didn’t know. He—he was helping me. I was under a spell, but I can’t say more than that.”
“Mihaela—”
“Be quiet, Salamani. This doesn’t involve you.”
The Mage Runner fell silent. He was visibly uneasy. Mihaela…walked around Ryoka. She had that swiftness Ylawes recognized. A passive movement Skill. She coughed once, a deep, wet cough.
“I heard Valceif had met a City Runner. That was how he lost his charm. I waited for you to come north. And here you are. You sent a [Message] to me saying Valceif’s death was your fault.”
“Who?”
The Silver Swords looked at each other. Valceif? Ylawes recognized the name. Falene blinked.
“That’s—Valceif Godfrey. Courier. Mihaela’s…oh no.”
They looked forwards, realizing what this moment was. Ylawes felt the tension in the street intensify suddenly as everyone caught on. The onlookers backed up.
“It was my fault. I was under a spell and Valceif helped break it. But I can’t—”
“Really? You can’t tell me why Valceif lost the charm that would have kept him alive?”
Mihaela stepped forwards. She was taller than Ryoka. She looked down at the young woman. Ryoka hesitated again. But she didn’t step back. She just nodded. She couldn’t run from her responsibility. She had been prepared for this moment since she had asked to notify Valceif’s family of her responsibility.
“I’m sorry. But it’s not my secret to give away. It’s…the Runner’s code.”
Salamani made a sound. Mihaela’s eyes narrowed.
“Really. What integrity, for a Runner.”
There was nothing for Ryoka to say. She waited as Mihaela looked her up and down. The Guildmistress stared at Ryoka, and then straightened.
“Well then. I suppose if it’s the Runner’s code of integrity. There’s nothing to say. That’s that.”
Ryoka started. But Salamani—he just watched Mihaela, licking her lips. The Guildmistress stepped back.
“That was personal business. Now. Ryoka Griffin of Celum. The ‘Wind Runner of Reizmelt’. Today is your lucky day.”
Mihaela smiled. Ryoka said nothing. Mihaela—even after meeting her for five minutes—was not someone to whom a smile and ‘good news’ came naturally. The Guildmistress waited for a second and then went on.
“Your achievements have been logged. The Runner’s Guild has certified you at base Courier speed and you have performed a number of impressive deliveries. Thus—you are being considered for certification as a Courier. I’ve come to personally check your abilities.”
“Courier?”
The word ran around the street. Some of Reizmelt’s runners, the Silver Swords, they stirred. That was huge news. It was deserved too—especially in light of Ryoka’s gear, which no one knew about but Salamani.
But the Mage Runner looked even more nervous.
“You, Mihaela? Is that—that necessary?”
“Shut up, Salamani. One more word and I’ll make you a Street Runner.”
Mihaela looked at Salamani. Ryoka thought it was just an empty threat until she saw Salamani turn pale. The Guildmistress looked back at Ryoka.
“Congratulations, Ryoka Griffin.”
She waited. Ryoka made her dry mouth work.
“I—I don’t think I’m ready to be a Courier, Guildmistress Mihaela.”
“Really? Well, we’ll find out. It’s just a few tests of your running speed, other abilities. Oh—and combat competence. I won’t take up much of your time. Let’s start with combat.”
“Mihaela.”
The Guildmistress ignored Salamani. She gestured at Ryoka.
“I’m told you’re a good hand-to-hand fighter. Go ahead and show me how you’d defend yourself if I was a [Bandit].”
“Guildmistress—”
“Attack me. Or I’ll attack you.”
Mihaela waited. Ryoka Griffin looked around. She was tense. Part of her was telling her to kick Mihaela as hard as she could and run like hell. Fight—the air was heavy.
But no. No running, and no…Ryoka raised her hands.
“I can’t just attack you, Guildmistress. I—”
“You can defend yourself, then. Here I go.”
Mihaela raised a fist. Reflexively, Ryoka brought up her hands. She saw a blur, heard a shout.
“Mihaela, don’t—”
Something hit Ryoka in the jaw. It felt like a hammer. Ryoka stumbled, caught hers—
A blow to her sides. She doubled over, reflexively. Then a third punch landed before Ryoka could blink.
She was on the ground. Ryoka tasted blood in her mouth. Her head was ringing. She—Ryoka tasted blood. What was—was—?
“Silver and steel!”
Ylawes exclaimed. He’d seen all of it. The Guildmistress had punched Ryoka in the jaw before the young woman could even raise her hands. Then she’d hit Ryoka in the side and while Ryoka was folded up, Mihaela had hit her in the back of the head.
Ryoka was lying on the ground, blood coming from her mouth. Mihaela stood over her.
“Not good. Get up and we’ll try again.”
“Guildmistress! Enough!”
Salamani blocked her, arms outstretched. Ryoka might not even have heard Mihaela; she was trying to get up, clearly dizzy.
“Salamani. You’re starting to annoy me.”
Mihaela saw Ryoka pushing herself up. The City Runner looked around muzzily.
“Wh—dr—”
She was fumbling for a potion. Mihaela pointed at Ryoka’s belt, with a friendly…smile.
“Heal up. This is just a test.”
Ryoka spat, gagging on the blood, and drank from the potion. Some of the dizziness and confusion faded. She spat again.
“I—”
“All healed up? Let’s try again.”
This time Salamani tried to stop her. Ylawes saw it. But however fast the Mage Runner was—and he was quick—Mihaela was faster. She blurred down, ducking Salamani’s hand. Ryoka bl—
