“Mihaela! Please—wait!”
The woman picked up speed. But she began coughing again. It was some kind of attack. Ryoka saw Mihaela grasping at her chest.
Yellow Rivers? No—wasn’t there a cure? And besides—this wasn’t the symptoms of that. It looked like—an asthma attack. Or close. But Mihaela didn’t slow.
“Damn. Get lost!”
She ran on. This time Ryoka ran as hard as she could. But Mihaela was pulling away. And then—the older woman spoke. To lose Ryoka, she spoke a Skill. A truly powerful Skill.
 
—-
 
Mihaela was done. She didn’t know what she had expected, but Ryoka Griffin had splendidly betrayed it all. She hadn’t been what the Guildmistress wanted, in either direction.
She was done. The Courier coughed again. Her damned lungs. So—to leave, to outrun Ryoka, she used a Skill.
Her greatest Skill. The one she had gotten at Level 50. She had gotten another capstone Skill since—and possibly more powerful.
But this was the most significant of her life. She had never been more honored by a Skill before or since. Mihaela whispered it now.
“[The Courier’s Last Road].”
And she ran into another world. 
It was the same as the first time she had run here, lungs burning, dying. Mihaela Godfrey inhaled and felt her lungs clear. The grass and trees around her vanished. The land around Reizmelt—gone.
There was only the road. It stretched ahead in a world with almost no terrain. Just flat ground. No sun. But there was light—of a kind. Ambient, coming from everything and nothing.
The Courier’s Road. A road that many had run down, passed from the greatest Runners of each generation. The safest place. Here—Mihaela breathed. She ran on, covering ground in the other world at impossible speed. She felt light. She could run forever here.
It was only after a few moments that Mihaela realized she wasn’t alone. She looked back; the intrusion was noticeable in this place, impossible to miss. Someone had violated this sacred ground.
Ryoka Griffin. She had followed Mihaela into the Courier’s Road. The Guildmistress scowled. It was possible, especially to those around her when she opened the way through. But—Ryoka wouldn’t stay.
Because there was no air for her to breathe. Mihaela saw Ryoka clutching at her throat, realizing that this land was not meant for her. It was dark to those who did not run the Courier’s Road. No light. Nothing—Ryoka stared around, lost.
Mihaela slowed, watching. If Ryoka did not turn around—she died. Like the Antinium. Like so many enemies of Couriers. Many had died on this road; she had seen them.
Couriers, who had ended their lives running here. This was a glorious place. A terrible place. Mihaela saw Ryoka staggering. Falling to her knees as her lungs tried to inhale nothing.
“Leave.”
Mihaela spoke, one of the few times words had ever been spoken here. She saw Ryoka Griffin look up. She was crawling—forwards.
She was going to die. Mihaela watched. There would be no aid, no drawing back from her. Not here. She saw Ryoka collapsing—then—suddenly, raise her head.
She stood. Mihaela saw the young woman inhale, slowly. Closing her eyes. She could not see. But she was breathing.
“Impossible.”
The Courier stared. Then she felt it. Something blew on her face. The woman jerked in surprise, even fear.
Wind. But there was no wind here! The Courier’s Road was breezeless unless she willed it! It was—she felt the wind blowing against her. Weakly at first, then stronger.
Harsher. Ryoka ran, stumbling, unable to see the ground or anything else. But running towards Mihaela, breathing, following the wind. Mihaela turned. She felt the wind blowing, daring her onwards.
The woman looked back. Ryoka ran on, through the dark oblivion. Through the land that had claimed an army of Mihaela’s foes in decades past. No one had ever remained in the Courier’s Road for more than ten minutes. But she ran.
 
—-
 
There was nothing. Not light. Not sound. Ryoka ran on. She had heard Mihaela’s voice once, but that was all. She felt like she was dead.
Only the sensation of her feet striking the ground was real. This…this was like a dream. But she had to find Mihaela. Talk to her. It couldn’t end like this. Ryoka was terrified as she ran, but the flat world continued forever.
Until there was light. She stumbled, shielding her gaze. But then—she saw it.
A light in the skies. A barren world, like a drawing. Just a single road, stretching forwards into oblivion. In the distance—a few things. A tree, standing in not dirt but pale nothingness. A fallen shape. A…stick? They were impossibly far away, but stood out because there was nothing else there to see.
The Courier’s Road. And there stood Mihaela Godfrey. She looked at Ryoka as the wind blew, letting Ryoka breathe. The City Runner did not know where it came from. Only that the wind had answered her.
She slowed as she ran towards Mihaela. There was no telling what distance was, here. But the woman waited. She looked Ryoka up and down, from head to her bare feet. And at last—the woman’s look was no longer hostile.
It was—had been—disappointment. Disgust and hatred, but mainly disappointment. Now—Mihaela looked at Ryoka Griffin. And she nodded. She spoke, and gave sound to the world where Ryoka had ceased to hear even the beating of her own heart.
“Okay. Let’s talk.”
 
—-
 
“It’s called The Courier’s Last Road. It’s made of a Skill. Only one person has access to it. Me. In the past—other runners ran there. Together, perhaps. No one else is worthy of it today, it seems.”
Mihaela Godfrey spoke as she stood on a small bluff of rocks. Ryoka had no idea where they were. In some lovely grassland, far north of Reizmelt.
What had taken them only a short while in the Courier’s Road had allowed them to bypass countless miles in this world. It was a Skill worthy of Mihaela Godfrey. But—like the [Garden of Sanctuary]—it was not hers alone.
“Who made it?”
“I don’t know. But I’ve seen traces of others there. Bodies—possessions. Even memorials. They lie scattered across our world. Even in the sea. I could run to Terandria with this Skill. I’ve seen…things in Courier’s Road where the sea would be. So Runners crossed the world using this Skill.”
“Really? Then—why haven’t you?”
Ryoka heard Mihaela cough. The woman coughed almost consistently, every few minutes. She took a drink from her vial, grimacing. She didn’t look at Ryoka.
But they were talking. About the Courier’s Road, first.
“There’s danger. Anyone can enter the Courier’s Road. Anyone. As I pass by—you can step into the world. Most can’t breathe or see—but I’ve been attacked. And if I slow, especially to rest or sleep—I reenter this world. You want to try that at sea?”
“Oh.”
Ryoka sat on the rocks. Mihaela looked down at her.
“You called the wind. Only I can do that. How?”
“It’s my power. I was…given a gift. It’s not magic—at least, not the kind [Mages] use.”
“Huh.”
That was all Mihaela said. She looked down at Ryoka. The City Runner braced for something…but Mihaela just shook her head. She walked past Ryoka and said one word.
“If.”
“If?”
The Guildmistress looked across the grass, towards a real, paved road where Ryoka could see people travelling. On horses, wagons…she saw only one person not on the road. Running.
A City Runner. The two watched the distant figure jogging on his or her journey. Mihaela nodded.
“If. If it was a few months ago we had met, when Val’s death was fresh. You would have died.”
Ryoka was silent. The woman went on.
“If you had tried to run when I met you, or hadn’t looked so damn guilty—if you hadn’t remembered who he was, I would have made sure you couldn’t walk again. If you hadn’t sent that message and I’d listened to the rumors—or if I was more vengeful—”
“I deserve it. Anything—”
“Shut up. What does beating a City Runner to death do for me or Valceif? Why is it your fault alone? He could have bought a charm before he went on a run. He didn’t. That was his responsibility and he was careless. That’s how Runners die. I knew it. And I taught him that.”
Ryoka closed her mouth slowly. Now—she felt guilty. She’d been pursuing Mihaela to get her to unload all her grief over her son’s death. As if Ryoka had killed him.
She hadn’t even known where or how he died, really. Mihaela looked at Ryoka.
“You can use the wind. You’re also an idiot. Few people live without levels. There are some. That Drake in Zeres, one of their Admirals. Mostly though—people like you never become anything. The gap is too wide. You’re pathetic as well. But I can see why Valceif liked you.”
Ryoka hung her head. She didn’t know what to say.
“He really did help me. I can’t—”
“Shut up. I almost liked you until you opened your mouth.”
The young woman was silent. Mihaela looked past her, at the road back north.
“I could see liking you. If you had been just some snotty City Runner who made it to First Landing and Valceif was alive…yeah. But I will never like you. Still. There’s nothing here for me. I knew that.”
She shook her head. Ryoka bit her lip. Mihaela went on. She clenched her fists and then stared at her hands.
“Valceif was killed by some no-name [Bandits] with a [Sleep] spell. He’s dead. My son. All that time…he would have eclipsed me. He would have been a great Courier. He already was, at his age! What am I supposed to do with this fury? It’s not for you. It’s wasted on you.”
She turned to look at Ryoka and shook her head. Ryoka searched for proper words. Not reflexive, guilt-laden words that invited all the blame.
“He—was the first Courier I really met who took the time to talk to me. He gave me good advice, taught me what it was to be a Runner. Pay it forwards. That’s why he helped me out. Because of all the favors other Runners did him.”
Mihaela blinked. Then she smiled.
“That sounds like the kind of stupid thing my boy would have said. Runner’s Guild politics.”
She turned ahead, facing the breeze. Mihaela coughed. Took another sip.
“You’re his legacy. You and all the other idiots he ever helped out. I don’t like you, Ryoka Griffin. And I mean what I said. You’re no Courier. You could be—but you’re too weak. And we must be strong. Valceif should have stayed a City Runner a while longer.”
The young woman from Earth hung her head. Mihaela coughed again. Ryoka looked up at her.
“Mihaela. I’m sorry if everyone knows, but—”
“Yes, I’m sick. Shut up about it. I have a potion. That’s why I’m retired. Can’t run like I used to.”
Ryoka bit her lip.
“Is it—? If it’s something like uh, asthma—that’s where you cough a lot, you’re short on breath—if you were born with it, I could help. I know some tricks from my home.”
The Guildmistress glanced at Ryoka and shook her head wordlessly. She coughed into her hand.
“I wasn’t born with this. And you can’t help me. Not unless you can fix years of damage. I got this on my last run during the First Antinium Wars. One of them did this to me. Wrymvr the Deathless. He couldn’t stick in the Courier’s Road. But he got me.”
Ryoka felt a lurch in her stomach. She saw Mihaela cough again, her lungs rattling with poison—or the aftereffects that had damaged her body permanently. She tapped her chest.
“It’s in here. Even the Healer of Tenbault can’t remove the poison, just restore the flesh. It’s a lesson. I’m the greatest Courier of Izril. And I’ll die of this. We all die. Val…myself…Salamani nearly bit it at the Archmage’s damn mansion, did he?”
“I—yes.”
“We all die. That’s our fate. But the run is glorious.”
Mihaela looked ahead, and then shook her head. She looked back at Ryoka. Not angrily. She—Ryoka and Mihaela might have wished it could be that simple. Blame it all on one person.
If only life was that easy. If only Val could have been brought back or avenged. Ryoka saw Mihaela turn.
“I’m going home. Not a waste of time after all. You failed your Courier’s test. But—Ryoka Griffin is certified as a City Runner. And if those idiots at Celum and Invrisil keep barking about her record, I will break their legs.”
She walked forwards, hopped down off the rocks. Ryoka rose to her feet, wanting to say something. But all she did was stand there.
Mihaela Godfrey turned once. She looked up at Ryoka Griffin and nodded. The young woman called down to her.
“The Courier’s Road is beautiful. I’ve never envied a Skill before. But I wish I could run there.”
“Val’s buried there. He’ll be there forever. I couldn’t give him anything else.”
Mihaela turned away. She raised her hand.
“I just wanted to hit you a few times. Thanks for that. See you.”
She jogged away. Slowly, at first, and then running. Ryoka saw the world shift—and for a moment she saw that glorious, eternal road. Then Mihaela was gone.
Ryoka Griffin sat there. She wept for Valceif for a while. But she hadn’t known him long. She wished…Ryoka stood up. Then she went home to Reizmelt.
 
—-
 
“Ryoka! You’re alive! Thank goodness!”
Salamani and the others rushed towards Ryoka when she returned, jogging slowly. Ryoka felt sick, battered, weary—but better.
“Is that surprising? Mihaela wasn’t about to kill me.”
Salamani gave her an odd look.
“You think so? She’s famous for her short temper. No one makes her angry, even other Couriers. Even the Assassin’s Guild walks lightly around her.”
Ryoka thought of Mihaela’s stunt with the lightning bolt and then the Courier’s Road. She eyed Ylawes, who had a lump on his head and Falene’s black eye, nearly healed.
“I can see that. Thank you for trying to stop her.”
“We—didn’t do anything. But I’m sincerely glad you’re alright, Miss Griffin.”
Ylawes looked sheepish as he rubbed at his head. Bruised egos for the Gold-rank team. They looked strangely at Ryoka.
“You’re very calm for someone who just had the snot kicked out of her.”
Dawil pointed out. Ryoka smiled crookedly.
“I’ve had worse days. Today was actually—good in a way.”
Everyone exchanged a glance. The worst part was that Ryoka sounded so casual about it. Makki and Mousey came over to be petted and to lick Ryoka.
It was one of those days. Bittersweet, unexpected. Painful—but Mihaela had come and gone. In truth—Ryoka realized now that the Guildmistress had probably dealt with Valceif’s death long before Ryoka had come to Reizmelt. She had probably indeed only stopped by to kick Ryoka’s ass for a bit.
The City Runner could respect that. In a way…she could envy Mihaela’s retirement. Not the damaged lungs, but a retirement where she just went around scaring the hell out of people and beating up anyone she didn’t like before running off into another dimension. Yeah, yeah.
