She had lied. She was cleverer than most people thought. Valeterisa had hit some of her talking points for first introductions, like the [Merchant] whom she had caused to be infested with worms for double-crossing her. Valeterisa did not like Wistram’s politics and backstabbing, but she had survived there to become Archmage.
And she had lied about her memory of the traps. Ryoka Griffin and Fierre Nolastnamegiven were both odd. Neither had magical power in the ordinary sense, but Ryoka had used wind to great effect and Valeterisa was doubtful any Skill could do what she had done. She had a different kind of magic.
Fierre? Valeterisa was already investigating with one of her parallel thoughts what kind of species could have that much resilience, strength…and didn’t show up in mirrors. There was one match—two if you stretched a criteria. But that would be odd.
Oh—and one more thing. Neither Ryoka nor Fierre had any levels.
“So interesting.”
Valeterisa would have loved to keep them. But gratitude wasn’t unknown to her. She would remember Ryoka’s name, oh yes. She had added Ryoka to her priority memos. Everything about Ryoka, from her extraordinarily well-crafted bag of holding to her origin—Drathian?—to the query of why she ran around with bare feet was interesting.
But Valeterisa had much to do. So she contented herself with waiting. Because—after all—Ieka had sent Ryoka Griffin. The young woman was exactly Ieka’s type. Legged, tall, female…
Human women had never done much for Valeterisa. Due to her home, she had been more aroused by scales—and even then only physically. She had only two great loves, and that was Archmage Zelkyr and Archmage Chandler, the last two great [Archmages] worthy of the title the world had ever known. Valeterisa pursued their shades, and no lesser figure.
Besides. Ieka would help Valeterisa in so many ways. They were a good team, the two. The Archmage of Izril had helped her niece so much when Ieka was in Wistram, both before and after. The poor girl had always been getting into trouble with her interest in other women. Secrets held over Ieka’s head…Valeterisa helped her niece, and Ieka took care of messy politics.
Now Valeterisa was back, she would make up the lost time to Ieka. The Archmage of Izril cast a spell.
“Ieka? Hello. It’s me. Valeterisa. Have you forgotten me? It seems I was away for a while…don’t shout, Ieka…”
 
—-
 
When they were away from the Archmage’s Isle, Fierre hugged Ryoka so tightly that the young woman was left breathless. Fierre actually lifted her a bit off the ground.
“We did it. We did it!”
She jumped up and down with Ryoka in her arms. And the smile grew on Ryoka and Salamani’s faces.
They had done it. They were alive. And—
They had done it. A task worthy of a legend. Wake the Archmage of Izril.
“Just one left. And maybe…maybe Ieka can help. We did it.”
“And we’re rich! Ryoka, we have to get this all appraised! We have armor, weapons—I could be an adventurer! Gold-rank by virtue of enchanted items alone!”
“And you have a fabulous, famous Courier in your debt.”
Salamani added. He was grinning from ear to ear.
“This is the kind of thing that makes Couriers, Ryoka, Fierre. And believe me—I’ll be telling this story for free drinks everywhere I go. When I’m not paying for the entire room, that is.”
He reached out and clasped Ryoka’s arm.
“I mean it. I don’t want to dwell on the point, but—”
“I know. Let’s—just get back to civilization. You might actually be able to help me, Salamani. If you knew one of the Five Great Houses—er, Terland, Wellfar, or Veltras that is.”
The Courier’s gaze sharpened as they left the boat. The [Fisher] snorted after them, having heard the entire conversation. He folded his arms, glaring at the three.
“Oi! Not even a tip?”
Salamani bounced a gold coin off his chest. The three walked on, feeling dizzy, high on reality—a feeling Ryoka had only known a few times before. She loved it. She did love adventure. There was probably something wrong with her, but Ryoka was just the kind of person who’d jump off a cliff into the sea. Or parasail. Or…
Word was spreading. Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt had done it. Her name was out there. As the three walked through the night towards the village, debating how to get back, they were met with an interesting sight.
“—can keep up with you. It’s Ryoka who’ll fall behind. We could run to the nearest town and—oh.”
Fierre blinked. Salamani’s wand was in his hand faster than Ryoka could blink. But neither young woman tensed.
A black coach stood in front of the road. A familiar one. And the driver was certainly familiar.
“Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. My employer has decided to give you a free ride, gratis. Won’t you step inside for a personal, expedited trip back to Reizmelt or wherever you’d like?”
The Djinni, Karsaeu-Dequoa, or Karsy if you were Termin, gave Ryoka and Fierre a huge, pained smile. She was half-bowed, the front of the coach open.
“Fierre, Ryoka. Did you tell anyone you were coming here? That’s—not a normal person. I don’t even know if that’s a Human woman.”
Salamani drew back. Ryoka and Fierre exchanged a look.
“Her employer must have heard the news already. Karsaeu’s not dangerous, Salamani. I think. Fierre?”
“I…think we can take the coach. The Unmarked Coach has a reputation to uphold. Just watch what you say.”
“Got it. It beats walking or running. I am dead and the sun’ll be the death of us.”
“That’s true. I’m exhausted too.”
Salamani didn’t pick up on that last, but Fierre punched Ryoka lightly in the side as they piled into the wagon.
“Can I interest you in any refreshments? If I can do anything to make your ride more comfortable, please, let me know!”
The coach was changed. Salamani exclaimed at the three beds and comfortable table, plush seats…
“Dead gods! How have I never heard of this service?”
“It’s a secret, Salamani.”
“Wh—oh. Got it. You two are full of surprises, aren’t you?”
The three sat back. Mindful of Fierre’s words, Ryoka sat back as the Unmarked Coach trundled forwards. She eyed the magical food and knew it was made of Karsy—or her magic—but she couldn’t help herself.
The three scarfed the food down. After they had eaten—or tricked their bodies into thinking the magical food was nourishment, Karsaeu’s face appeared in the open door slot.
“Was your trip satisfactory, esteemed guests?”
She looked like she wanted to rip her tongue out and beat them to death with it. Ryoka eyed the Djinni’s strained smile, and took pity on her.
“If you have to ask us what we did, Karsaeu, we woke the Archmage of Izril up. Valeterisa’s alive and well. Er—alive. She didn’t complete her project. And that’s about all.”
Fierre opened her mouth, but closed it thoughtfully. Karsaeu eyed Ryoka. Then she nodded abruptly and relaxed.
“…Thank you. Go to sleep.”
The little panel slid shut. Ryoka sat back. She, Fierre, and Salamani looked at each other.
“I’m guessing it’s wrong to ask about the employer? Got it, got it…let’s talk later. I—”
Salamani caught himself in a huge yawn. Before she knew it, Ryoka was yawning too. She, Fierre, and Salamani lay back. Before they knew it—they were asleep. The Unmarked Coach travelled on. When Ryoka woke up—
They were at Reizmelt.
 
—-
 
“Dead gods, that was fast!”
Fierre exclaimed. The Unmarked Coach had beaten the sun. That was…close to Magnolia Reinhart’s carriage levels of fast! Speaking of which—Ryoka had only heard about that as Fierre got the news while eating breakfast.
Ryoka’s head was spinning. Magnolia Reinhart had been attacked? And saved by Tyrion Veltras?
And Teriarch. Only he could have teleported her out. There was no recording of the attack, but the details were spelled out.
“This continent’s going to change after today. If she wasn’t at war with the Assassin’s Guild now—I’d hide if I was one of them. Then again—maybe Reinhart’s in trouble. The gentry of Izril are like sharks. They smell blood or weakness and you’re dead.”
Fierre and Ryoka nodded. They looked around. Karsy was already closing the door to the carriage.
“See you. Thanks for not being annoying. I enjoyed the silence.”
She slammed the door and drove off. Ryoka waved after her, smiling. She liked Karsaeu.
And now they were back. That was magic for you. A neat end to an adventure…well, the Unmarked Coach had made the journey trivial.
“It’s vehicles like that which make me feel like I’m not worthy of being a Courier. Then again—there’s only one of them and always more deliveries for us.”
Salamani said what Ryoka was thinking. The Mage Runner rolled his shoulders, yawning.
“Now what?”
He looked at Fierre and Ryoka. The two hesitated.
There was so much that could be said. Ryoka could run around screaming, talk to Fierre about the moment when she’d gone insane and reassure her, get all her artifacts appraised, curl up into a ball and shake for a while at the near-death situations, get drunk, get a proper meal in her, capitalize on Ieka’s goodwill and Salamani’s to find the last great ruler of the land for the Solstice, arrange some other stuff for the party…
Fierre looked just as unprepared for the question. The older Courier took pity on them both.
“The first thing I do after I’ve done something great or nearly died is go home to my family. Girlfriend if I have one…since we broke up, that’s not an issue. Then I have something to eat, sleep if I need to, and then get to work. It’s finding an [Enchanter] to see what you’ve got, talking to Lady Ieka, and registering the run at the Runner’s Guild.”
“I know just the [Enchanter]. And I’m too far from…home. Maybe in Invrisil I can combine them. I can do the Runner’s Guild and Lady Ieka, though. Let them know I’m here.”
Ryoka took a few breaths. She looked at Fierre.
“Why don’t you go home, Fierre? I’m sure your family wants to know you’re back.”
“Me? But—well, okay.”
Fierre hesitated. But she flexed one arm and eyed the lightening skies.
“I have a lot to tell them. Ryoka. You are invited for dinner. Be there. Evening. We’re going to have to talk about a lot.”
The two grinned at each other. Fierre left, waving at Ryoka and running with considerable speed.
“If she’s not a Runner, she’s wasted.”
Salamani commented. He grinned and winked at Ryoka.
“Don’t worry. I know something’s up. Not sure what, but not many young women are like her. Or you, Ryoka.”
“I don’t need you to stick around, Salamani. Er—not that I want to get rid of you! It’s just—no need for your debt yet.”
Ryoka flushed. The Courier laughed.
“I appreciate you being honest. How about this? Let’s get to the Guild, make a report—and it’s going to take at least an hour with truth spells—and then you can tell me about the Five Families. I don’t have a big ‘in’ with them; I’ve done deliveries, but I can listen.”
“Sounds good.”
Ryoka smiled. They trotted towards the Runner’s Guild. Ryoka didn’t know what to say. Salamani was just making light chatter.
“The amount of gear we have is insane. Frankly, you’re at Courier-level if you keep the wands and scrolls, which I advise you to do. You can make any [Bandit] group sweat hard with that alone. As for the equipment—it’s a tossup what you keep and sell. We’re not adventurers and sometimes [Thieves] go after us. Do you have a place to store your gold?”
“Um. No. But I could put it at the Merchant’s Guild, right?”
The Courier nodded.
“With that kind of gold you don’t keep it. One Level 40 [Thief] and you’ll be sunk. Frankly, we need to be careful when we go to Invrisil. Actually—sleep with one eye open if we can’t store the gear before getting to Invrisil.”
“Do you—do you think we should give some of it back to the deceased? I mean…”
The Mage Runner sighed.
“Some gold, maybe. But charity? I don’t think giving back the items is a good…precedent. Tends to backfire.”
“Right. So…what? Am I just going to wear enchanted armor?”
Salamani saw her expression.
“You’re going to be the most well-armored Runner for a hundred miles. And yes. Unless it’s too heavy. We. Are. Rich. Mind you—I’m going to sell most of my gear because it interferes with spellcasting, especially heavy armor. But I’m buying a spell tome with, what, a Tier 6 spell? If I can…the next few months might just be me running around with my nose in a book!”
Ryoka laughed. The two pushed into Reizmelt’s Runner’s Guild and Ryoka inhaled. Here and there and back again. It felt strange.
The Runner’s Guild was, as always, slightly full, even at the crack of dawn. Ryoka saw the [Receptionist], Alime, at the desk and smiled.
“Alime!”
There was only one person in line in front of them so Ryoka slowed, embarrassed. Don’t get a big head. She was going to go to Invrisil—maybe with Fierre?—right after this. Maybe Ieka was still there, but Ryoka wanted to tell Erin. And Mrsha! And maybe Erin needed a suit of armor.
Scratch that—some of the artifacts needed to go to Erin. Not the sword. The thought of Erin with a sword was a terrible one.
Ryoka saw Alime glance up at her. The [Receptionist]’s eyes widened.
“Ryoka? There you are! What timing! Actually—”
She cut off. Ryoka saw the person in front of her, someone with short, silverfish hair, turn her head. It was an older woman. Tall, long-legged like most Runners. She turned her head and Salamani blinked.
“Whoa. Now there’s a meeting. Hey! Guildmistress, it’s me!”
“Salamani? Didn’t expect to see you here.”
The woman’s voice was lower than you might expect. Rugged. She coughed. But her eyes only flicked to Salamani once. She was looking at Ryoka.
The City Runner hesitated. Something about the look the older woman was giving her made her feel—uneasy. Salamani was oblivious.
“You’d not believe what just happened. But let me start from the beginning. The Archmage of Izril is awake! The delivery is done! And not thanks to me—I owe my life to her. Ryoka Griffin.”
“Really? The Archmage of Izril. Huh. About time someone did that. That’s a Courier’s errand, though. Ryoka Griffin. City Runner, right?”
“That’s right. I’m sorry. Have we met?”
Something about the woman was making Ryoka’s heart flutter in her chest. She felt…terribly unwell all of a sudden. Salamani blinked.
“Dead gods, you don’t know? Haven’t you been to First Landing?”
First Landing.
“Never.”
The young woman whispered. And now she was staring at the old woman. The Guildmistress of First Landing had violet eyes, but very dark and tinged with a shocking pattern of yellow. The two never looked away as Salamani grinned.
