Names and titles. It was something, to be known by other people. Be it a local hero or an internationally-recognized name. It was also…strange, to be that person.
Named Adventurers. [Kings]. Archmages…few others could understand the feeling. It meant something. The list of names was always changing. And today—a few more names flashed across the consciousness of countless minds. They might not remain, but for a moment—many people knew the names of individuals they had never met.
The first was Ryoka Griffin. In conjunction with an old name—the Archmage of Izril, Valeterisa.
The Wind Runner of Reizmelt had awoken her. That was a feat no one had accomplished in ten years. It put her on the list. And the thing about fame was that it was an ebb and flow. Ryoka had made smaller impacts before.
The Runner who had delivered to the High Passes. A Human who could conjure the wind. Her delivery for Lady Bethal…
This was the most notable achievement of hers yet. So—those who paid attention to Runners out of necessity or just interest marked her name and recalled her past instances of fame. They might remember her next time, or decide to hire her.
It was how a career, a legend was made. Piece by piece. And it was the smaller appendage on the big news: the Archmage of Izril had returned.
…That piece of information was not reported by Wistram News Network that morning. Nor was the ongoing war with Jecrass and Reim. Frankly—it was a sign.
A sign that nothing of ‘note’ had happened in the war beyond more battles that favored Reim; Raelt had retreated and ceded his borderlands to the King of Destruction. And also that the public didn’t want to watch that kind of war. Rather—two events were both featured this morning, one planned, one unplanned.
The first was a battle in Baleros. Lest the world forget—Chandrar was not the only continent with wars of note.
This was only a single battle. But it was notable in that way of things. Names and titles.
“The Bannermare of Baleros has—has engaged Tulm the Mithril. We are reporting live with aerial footage thanks to our Garuda [Reporter] on scene. Our new Balerosian wing—ahem—of Wistram News Network, rather. Kerik, what can you tell us about what we’re seeing?”
It was weird. Erin Solstice had grown up on Earth watching television and the news. She wasn’t a huge TV person, but it had been part of her life. Of course—television had faded in favor of computers, tablets, and the easy internet. But television was familiar.
And here she was in her inn, watching the news on the scrying orb over breakfast. People kept  complaining it was too small, but Erin wasn’t shelling out for a huge mirror like Rufelt’s—yet.
Not when she had Palt. The [Illusionist] had projected the scrying orb’s image onto a wall and everyone was watching as breakfast was eaten in silence. Mrsha silently ate from a bowl of berries and yogurt with a spoon, learning a new pastime.
…It wasn’t exactly kid-friendly. It was a battle. The two sides—one comprised of horse-people and some Lizardfolk and Humans, the other almost all Dullahan—were squaring off against each other. Erin saw the battle from above as whomever was flying and broadcasting the event tried to keep the ‘camera’ steady.
“Hello, Sir Relz! This is Kerik! It was an unexpected clash! This appeared to be a border conflict between Maelstrom’s Howling and the Iron Vanguard—but it grew into an actual conflict with the Bannermare’s arrival! Neither side has launched arrows or spells  yet, but you can see they’re maneuvering.”
“Trying to outflank each other. The Centaurs are more lightly-armed than the Dullahan forces, but they have mobility. One of those classic Balerosian ‘sword-wand-bow’ battles, right, Noass?”
“Exactly, Sir Relz. And we have two second-in-commands for both Great Companies. This—this could be a huge event. Tulm the Mithril vs the Bannermare. Both younger leaders who might well lead their company after the Seer of Steel or Fellstrider retires…”
The two Drakes were commentating the battle. Erin scowled at them and then frowned.
“The Bannermare of Baleros. Where have I heard that before?”
It was Palt who answered. The Centaur was trotting nervously, clearly invested in the battle on the continent Erin had only ever heard about. It looked…very plains-y, at least this area.
“She’s the daughter of Gwelin Fellstrider. One of the highest-leveled Centaurs in the world—certainly for her age! She’s known as the Bannermare of Baleros—or the Battle Hymnist. She’s—look!”
The Centaurs had been circling the Dullahans who were sitting in net formations, ready to be charged at. They were being led by a glowing figure in the center of the defensive lines.
Tulm the Mithril. Erin had seen the Games at Daquin. So she remembered his name. Now—both sides opened fire and clashed.
From above, Erin saw the battle unfolding like…a video game. She shuddered as she saw the Dullahans on the right flank explode as Centaur [Mages] unleashed a volley of spells and an entire wing of the army plunged forwards.
She had lived through a battle and the distant conflict felt too pretty from above. But there was blood on the ground.
Centaurs vs Dullahans. Erin had no context for the battle. Nor did most of the people in The Wandering Inn. Palt, a native, had to explain.
“It’s territory conflict. The Iron Vanguard is always encroaching on Centaur lands. Maelstrom’s Howling protects the plains, but the Iron Vanguard builds forts and keeps ‘claiming’ more territory year by year. Normally it’s just a standoff—but the Bannermare must want to push them back!”
“Who’s going to win, then?”
Erin looked around for Olesm or Belgrade, but neither one was here. Fortunately—she had no end of armchair [Strategists] willing to tell her exactly how the battle would go, including Sir Relz and Noass.
“It’s Centaurs vs Dullahans, Erin. Fast-moving cavalry—”
“Excuse me, Montressa.”
Palt glowered. The [Aegiscaster] blushed.
“Sorry—I meant, Centaurs, versus heavy infantry Dullahans. Normally, there’s a break through the Dullahan formation or the Centaurs have to retreat.”
“In a straight conflict, Centaurs always lose.”
Menolit put in. Palt glowered around, yet his attention was on the screen.
“Normally we’d expect the Bannermare to quickly charge in, but you can see she’s just circling with her vanguard.”
“Wary of Tulm the Mithril no doubt. The main force of Maelstrom’s Howling is being pushed back by a strong Dullahan line—Humans and Lizardfolk can’t hold with Centaurs against that kind of armor even if the spells are making a difference. But this is Tulm the Mithril—yep, here we go.”
A mist rose from the battlefield. And magic—died. Erin saw the Centaurs retreating. She didn’t think they were losing that badly. Until she heard from the projection a sound.
Marching footsteps.
The image cut to someone on the ground, staring at the fog-laden battlefield ahead. The Bannermare’s army was in full-retreat. Why? Then—something cut through the mists. Dullahan [Soldiers] marched below in ranks. And between them strode—
Giants. War Walkers. Sixteen of them.
“That’s…where were they hiding? They must have been camouflaged somehow. I’m instantly identifying Xol of Ingrilt, one of the highest-leveled War Walkers in the Iron Vanguard, and—fifteen others?”
The Bannermare and her forces fell back as the War Walkers advanced on the infantry. But Tulm refused to move too far ahead. The War Walkers turned, raising huge shields to protect themselves from arrow fire. They were watching one group of Centaurs.
Erin saw a female Centaur, holding a banner. She raced at the head of the line of Centaurs.
The Bannermare of Baleros. She was racing across the ground, so fast that even the best Dullahan [Archers] couldn’t strike her with arrows. Her elites were moving around Tulm’s army. Looking for a point in.
But of course—the [Strategist] knew that was what was going to happen. He’d arrayed pikes which constantly shifted, giving inviting gaps that would close if anyone charged in.
Stalemate. And all the time the Dullahans were attacking the magic-less Centaurs who couldn’t win a war against a foe armored from head-to-toe.
“I don’t think the Bannermare can delay any longer. Her vanguard is as strong as any heavy cavalry unit with her Skills! But the longer she circles, the more of her soldiers she loses. Is she going to retreat? This standoff is just losing her side soldiers. It might be a mark of her inexperience, frankly. She has a class equivalent to a [Banner Carrier]—not exactly a [Strategist], or even a [General]—”
“Hey. I think I nearly got that class once.”
Erin saw Lyonette turn to stare at her with Montressa. The [Innkeeper] watched.
“I can’t watch this. What do you think will happen, Erin? You know chess, right?”
Palt was so nervous. It was strange—but then, Erin supposed it was like Relc or Selys watching Liscor’s army fighting a battle. This was his people. He turned to her and she gave him a blank look.
“I’m not good at strategy, Palt. I don’t do…that. It’s messy. No taking turns. It’s just…action. Punch the other person in the face as fast as you can, y’know?”
“What would you do here?”
Erin shrugged.
“Not fight? Or I’d…not fight that. Dudes in armor. Seems tough. I’d have like, twice as many soldiers and a trap.”
“Maybe—”
A sound. Noass broke off from his conversation with Sir Relz about battle tactics and the Bannermare’s youth. He squinted.
“What is that sound? It’s coming from—Kerik, is there something in the air around you?”
The view shook as the Garuda turned his head.
“I don’t see anything. I—oh.”
The ‘oh’ was soft. And it came as the strange sound became obvious.
Crunch, crunch. It was the sound…of someone munching on something. Some dried chip-like substance. And Erin, the audience—saw someone sitting in the air next to the Garuda.
A Squirrel. She was sitting on a carpet that hung in midair. She had been invisible. Now, she stared into the camera.
“Mm. Hello. This is a trap.”
“Foliana, you don’t tell people it’s a trap. You’ve ruined the moment. Just—just go.”
Someone spoke up. Erin squinted. She saw Palt throw up his hands.
“Oh, dead gods! It’s him!”
Palt rushed forwards, blocking Erin’s view. Erin craned her neck.
“Who’s that? I can’t see anything. Move, Palt!”
Someone stood on top of Foliana’s head for a second. Then—the entire image swung as the Garuda whirled.
Five more carpets hung in the air, motionless over the battlefield. Tulm the Mithril looked up as Niers Astoragon and Foliana waved down at him. The Dullahan’s calm expression turned to fury and worry in a second.
The Titan’s chortle was audible, but only that as the Garuda [Reporter] fled from the arrows shooting upwards.
“It was worth waiting for four days up here to see that. Alright—drop ‘em! Then let’s go.”
The five carpets heaved objects out of bags of holding onto the Dullahans below. Erin saw flashes—explosions covering the tightly-knit Dullahan lines.
“But—but the magic can’t work with Tulm’s Skill…”
“Alchemical weapons. I—was this all a collaboration? Are we seeing two Great Companies teaming up on the Iron Vanguard? Dead gods! And here she goes—”
The Dullahan ranks were in chaos. As the five carpets flew out of the range of the Dullahan bows, their jobs done, the Bannermare charged. Straight into the opening Niers had created, at Tulm the Mithril.
Erin saw the battle turn into chaos. She didn’t see all of it—she had to pee.
When she left the outhouse, it was mostly over. Thanks to the Titan of Baleros whom Erin hadn’t seen, the Dullahans had been defeated. They were retreating as the Bannermare harried them—from the threat of Niers Astoragon and Foliana as much as the erasure of their battle lines.
Tulm the Mithril survived. And he even saved the majority of his army—apparently he’d used his warlord skill or something.
Palt was raving about it, more excited than anyone else. To Erin—it was just a battle. Over territory no less. And it had implications for Baleros—not Izril.
She had seen several battles like that from WNN, some from Chandrar—others border fights in Terandria, a war between nobility in Chandrar in some kingdom…it wasn’t her thing.
But the sudden broadcast of the battle with the Bannermare of Baleros was winding down. Erin heard flutes, a hopping beat as she washed her hands and reentered her inn. Her ears perked up.
“What is that?”
It was…the Bannermare. Her escort had more than just an aptitude for fighting. They were playing music as she led a parade, celebrating the battle. Erin saw the Centauress dancing, prancing to the beat as she mocked the retreating Tulm.
“She’s considered the most eligible bachelorette in Baleros, you know. I met her once.”
Palt sighed. Erin saw the image turn to Sir Relz and Noass. The monocled Drake was talking.
“We’ll have more details on casualties, fallout, and perhaps an interview with the Titan or the Bannermare for you after the break. Now—back to our scheduled event with…our [Reporter]. Miss Drassi?”
The Drake bared his teeth in something that could be called a smile. And the image cut back. Everyone in the inn sat up.
“It’s happening! Someone go into Liscor and tell the others!”
The inn grew excited. Erin glanced out a window. It was weird that everyone was so excited to see it on TV. But…well…she saw a Drake standing outside, on an area of flat ground a few hundred paces away. She was waving at a Gnoll holding a scrying orb.
In the inn, on-screen, Drassi smiled into the camera.
“Thanks, Sir Relz. This is Drassi from Liscor! Reporting in! We had a little break for the battle coverage—everyone was watching the scrying orb. But I’m pleased to announce the first inter-city football game is about to begin! Pallass vs Liscor! I’ll be commentating!”
And there it was. Erin stared at the soccer game. Two teams, vying to kick the ball through the goals set up in the Floodplains—terraformed for a flat playing field. Liscor’s team had Drakes, Gnolls, and two Humans.
Pallass’ team had Garuda, a single Dullahan in the goal, Drakes and Gnolls. They were all dressed in uniforms; each team had been practicing non-stop since the game had been announced.
There were packed stands filled with Liscor’s residents and Pallass’. They’d come yesterday to let the door recharge—even some [Senators]. Erin saw the Watch patrolling the area outside of the field as they watched to make sure no Rock Crabs or other monsters interfered.
“Weird. I didn’t even have anything to do with it this time.”
