Her feet left the ground for a second as Mihaela hit her in the ribs. Ylawes heard something crack. Ryoka fell down and doubled over, clutching at her chest.
“Healing potion. Let’s try again.”
Mihaela stood over her. Salamani whirled.
“Mihaela! Enough!”
It was enough for Ylawes too. He strode forwards. Dawil grabbed for him, cursing.
“Lad—this isn’t a good idea—”
“Guildmistress Godfrey. Isn’t this enough? Ryoka can’t defend herself.”
Ylawes saw Mihaela turn. She looked at him blankly, then Falene and Dawil. The half-Elf hissed with annoyance as she and Dawil joined their captain. But what else was there to do? To Ylawes, nothing.
He blocked Mihaela as Ryoka reached for a high-grade potion, still on the ground. Mihaela looked at Ylawes.
“Who are you? This is Runner’s Guild business, [Knight]. Out of my way.”
She looked around. Some of Reizmelt’s citizens were staring at the Wind Runner, who was part of their city, even if she was only new by a few months. But they were hesitating. They had all seen Mihaela move.
Ylawes felt his skin crawling. But he blocked Mihaela, with Salamani as Falene and Dawil took up his back.
“Guildmistress, I am Ylawes of House Byres. Captain of the Silver Swords. I don’t believe this is just or fair to Miss Griffin. I understand you have reason for anger against Miss Griffin. But please—”
“Get out of my way.”
Mihaela looked past him at Ryoka. The City Runner was looking up.
“That’s right. Get up, Ryoka. Show me your abilities.”
Mihaela smiled again. Kindly. Ylawes slowly reached for his shield.
“Guildmistress.”
She looked up at him.
“I’m warning you, boy. I know your mother. Get out of my way or I’ll remove you. You too, Salamani.”
“Oh no.”
That came from Dawil. He had already drawn his hammer. He was just looking at Mihaela. So was Ylawes.
If there was a Named-rank version of Couriers—that was Mihaela Godfrey. But the [Knight] gritted his teeth.
“No, Guildmistress. Enough. This is not honorable.”
Mihaela said nothing. She just narrowed her eyes.
“Mihaela. Ryoka saved my life. Enough.”
Salamani had drawn his wand. Falene took a few steps back. She pointed at Ryoka.
“[Forcewall: Bubble].”
A shimmering wall formed around Ryoka. Mihaela sighed. Dawil groaned.
“Oh no.”
“Dawil, would you stop saying t—”
Ylawes half-turned his head. Mihaela stepped forwards and hit him in the jaw. He stumbled as his head went blank. Without his Skills he would have dropped like a log. As it was—Mihaela slapped down Salamani as he shouted.
“[Stick—”
She stepped back. Ylawes stumbled upright, drawing his sword and shield. Falene aimed her staff at Mihaela. Dawil raised his hammer with a curse. Salamani was moving, aiming a wand and reaching for something at his belt.
Ryoka Griffin saw it all. She even saw the Pithfire Hounds charging at Mihaela from behind. Makki and Mousey, the two dogs, and Levi, Bram, Lamont, Tally, Keima, Ullica, as well as the Silver Swords, Salamani, and two idiots in the crowd who thought this was a good idea—all of them rushed Mihaela.
It was like slow motion. That surge of adrenaline where time took it easy. Ryoka saw Mihaela moving, stepping back.
She walked backwards, the only one moving at normal speed in this moment. So fast. But she didn’t attack. She reached for her belt and plucked something from her waist.
A wand. She looked at Ryoka, glancing down with her cold eyes. Violet torn by yellow. She could have been a Dragon if the two irises were mismatched.
She was just Human. Just…Mihaela raised the wand as Ylawes lunged, shield raised. Falene, Salamani, casting. She said something that lingered in Ryoka’s ears.
“[Transfer Momentum]. [Lightning Bolt].”
The wand flashed. Ryoka saw something. A flash of light. A—an arc of electricity.
Hanging in the air. For one second, two, Ryoka saw the bolt of lightning coalescing, trying to discharge the stored energy. But it hung in the air, virtually without any momentum, until it finally exhausted the charge and grounded itself on the street with a flash of light. But slowly. All of the blinding speed of the electricity had been stolen away.
A flash of light. Ryoka heard the thunder. She felt the [Forcewall] explode and something hammered her onto the ground.
Ylawes, Dawil, Falene, all went flying. So did Salamani and everyone around Mihaela. They landed on the ground, each struck by a single blow. Ryoka lay there, stunned.
The street was silent. Mihaela stood there, coughing, amid the fallen figures. She looked at Ryoka.
The Courier of the First Antinium Wars.
“Get up. Your test isn’t done.”
The young woman could have begged. Or curled up, tried to run. She looked up, then found the strength to push at the ground. Ryoka Griffin stood, then followed Mihaela as the woman pointed. She went to accept Mihaela’s wrath.
Her punishment.
 
—-
 
“Again, I’ve got to thank you. That charm you had—I want to repay you somehow. It was extremely expensive.”
“Like I said, forget about it. It’s one favor from a Runner to another.”
“Still. It’s not a small thing. A thousand gold coins—”
“Ryoka, we’re Runners. When one of us needs help, other Runners give what they can. If we need someone to help carry a delivery, we ask. Because we are alike, you and I. Today you needed help; tomorrow I might be the one in trouble, or someone else. I’m just paying back favors I received in the past.”
 
It felt like a long time ago. Ryoka remembered Valceif. Not strongly. He hadn’t been someone whom she’d known as long as Fals or Garia. But she did remember him.
“Get up again.”
Ryoka uncurled. She got up. Her arms shook. They did not want to carry her up. Mihaela waited.
“Healing potion.”
The City Runner stared at her, muzzily. The Guildmistress pointed.
“Heal yourself up. Now. Attack me.”
There was nothing to do but obey. The potion tasted like blood. Ryoka—swung. Fast, desperately.
Mihaela hit her just hard enough. Not hard enough to make Ryoka faint or to kill or break her bones like twigs. Just hard enough to—Ryoka clutched at her side, making a faint sound of pain.
“Let’s try again. Why don’t you show me your best kick? I’m told you can hit pretty well.”
The Guildmistress smiled down at Ryoka. There was no one to interfere; they were outside of Reizmelt. Mihaela had led Ryoka away so they couldn’t be interrupted.
She seemed…kindly. Right up until she hit Ryoka or you looked at her eyes. Ryoka was panting, sweating.
“Okay. Okay…”
She couldn’t run. This was—what she deserved. It actually felt like a relief. Finally—someone was hitting her.
Brunkr had died because Venitra and Ijvani had followed her. The Stone Spears tribe had been slaughtered because of the Goblin Lord that Az’kerash had ordered to attack them. Periss had followed Ryoka to her death. Ivolethe—
She couldn’t die. Ryoka stood up. This time she went back in time. A roundhouse kick towards Mihaela. Ryoka remembered Calruz—
On the ground. Mihaela was twisting her arm up.
“Show me. Wind magic, right? Show me or I’ll break your arm.”
“Stop—”
Ryoka tried to twist. Mihaela pulled the arm up and Ryoka screamed.
The wind blew. Mihaela went flying. She caught herself—
“[Transfer Momentum].”
The wind dropped her, suddenly sapped of fury. The Guildmistress blurred over to Ryoka.
“You could have done that from the start. Get up. This time attack me like you mean it or I will kill you.”
Ryoka got to her feet. She thrust a hand out.
“Wind—”
Mihaela blurred left. Ryoka felt the wind howling. It blew at Mihaela. Desperately, Ryoka let it blow sand, a storm of grit and rocks and leaves and dust—
The Guildmistress ran around the storm as the cloud of sand blasted towards her. She was too fast! Her final blow made Ryoka double over and then retch.
Was this how she died? No—she couldn’t! But Mihaela was too fast. If Ryoka tried—
It was just a beating so far. Ryoka got to her hands and knees, spitting to clear her mouth. She looked up.
“And that’s all?”
The woman folded her arms. Her grey hair blew in the weak wind. Ryoka whispered.
“Yes.”
“I see. Stand up.”
Ryoka did, fumbling for the healing potion. Mihaela let her drink it. She coughed into one hand, reflexively, one of those light coughs that you got instead of the full-throated one, and scowled.
“The combat test is over. Not exactly Courier-level. Now, the speed test. Show me your fastest sprint.”
The young woman looked blankly at Mihaela. The woman pointed.
“Go on. From here to those trees. Fast as you can. Imagine I’m about to shoot an arrow at your back.”
Ryoka flinched. But Mihaela produced no bow. She just waited, tapping her foot.
“Wh—run?”
“I said, sprint. Didn’t you hear me?”
Mihaela’s eyes flashed. The young woman hesitated. Then she set herself into a sprinter’s position, waited—
“Go already!”
Ryoka ran. As if she were on the track and field, doing a 400-meter dash. She felt slow. Aside from the fact that her body was healing every blow Mihaela had given her for the last twenty minutes—she had seen speed.
Skill. There was no way to match Mihaela. She had taken the speed of a damn bolt of lightning and she could outrun the wind itself! Ryoka strained for every step, feeling like she was in jello—
Mihaela zipped past her as Ryoka nearly reached the tree. The Guildmistress stood there.
“Slow. You can’t boost your speed?”
“W—with a potion or…”
Ryoka gasped for air. She might have shattered a state record with that run. But it was still upwards of forty seconds at least, even with the wind at her back. Mihaela might have taken less than ten. With her Skill? Less than a second?
Unfair. But Ryoka didn’t say it. Mihaela was the highest-leveled Runner that Ryoka had ever met.
“But no Skills. No…anything. You’re fast on your feet. You actually have good running form. Long legs—and that’s it. Half the City Runners in First Landing could leave you in the dust.”
Mihaela shook her head. She looked at Ryoka and then turned.
“You know Laiss? Small city, thirty miles south of here?”
“Y-yeah.”
“We’re running there. Do your best. This is a priority-delivery. An…antidote. Lives are on the line. Every minute you waste, someone dies. Got it? Show me your best.”
Ryoka gulped. She hesitated, then nodded.
“Okay.”
Mihaela folded her arms.
“Well? Go!”
The young woman turned and ran. She felt worthless, especially as she saw Mihaela appear next to her, watching her sidelong as Ryoka ran just a hair slower than her max sprint. Within the first four minutes, Ryoka needed a stamina potion to continue her top speed. With one she could match the best marathon runners; but even then. Mihaela just jogged next to Ryoka.
[Double Step]. [Enhanced Movement]. [No Air Resistance]? Ryoka was just guessing. She ran as hard as she could.
She knew what Mihaela was doing. The Guildmistress looked impatient after the first five minutes and she jogged slightly ahead of Ryoka as the wind blew at their backs. Ryoka didn’t think Mihaela even needed to curse at her or tell her how worthless she was—she hadn’t done it yet, but Ryoka felt that way just running next to her.
She had made a choice. She had made a lot of mistakes. Now—someone had come to collect. Simple as that. Ryoka faltered.
“They are dying. Run, you worthless idiot! Are you a City Runner or some cowardly puke of an adventurer? Run!”
Ryoka faltered and then picked up speed. She gasped for air. The wind blew harder, but Ryoka wasn’t able to make it gale. She had one last trick. The folded cloth in her bag of holding. But—she’d probably die. She could not control the wind perfectly at the best of times. And now—
“Stop, stop. I’ve seen enough. We’ll take forever to get there at this rate. And this is your best? With lives on the line, you need a potion or spell to eclipse that?”
Mihaela stopped. Ryoka slowed, and, panting, nodded.
“Yes.”
The Guildmistress pushed a hand through her short-cropped hair.
“Dead fucking gods. I shouldn’t expect anything less from someone without a class, but—I thought you had something. A bit of wind magic or whatever that is isn’t enough. Even the weakest Courier could destroy you without magical items.”
“I—uh—”
Ryoka froze as Mihaela looked at her. The Guildmistress folded her arms.
“You don’t have anti-[Appraisal] spells. Your idea of fighting is punching someone with your bare hands without Skills. You can command the wind which is something. Beyond that? You’d fail First Landing’s Courier-test even if it wasn’t me.”
“I know. I know. I’m slow.”
Ryoka lowered her head. She waited for Mihaela to hit her again. The Guildmistress unclenched one hand. A muscle stood out in her jaw.
“This is a waste of my time. I could have saved the effort.”
“I’m sorry.”
What else could she say? Ryoka knew Mihaela’s wrath wasn’t expended. Not even a fraction of it. She bowed her head. Mihaela looked down at her.
“Pathetic. Show me something. Why you? Show me what was worth Valceif wasting his charm on! Show me—”
She shook her head. Ryoka looked up. The Guildmistress looked past her. Ryoka felt her throat lock up.
“I can’t. I’m sorry. I can make the wind blow harder sometimes. But I’m not—a Courier. Valceif shouldn’t have helped me. I’m so s—”
“Would you stop apologizing?”
The City Runner hung her head. She waited once more. Mihaela looked down at her. She turned away.
“What a waste of my time. I shouldn’t have bothered.”
She turned and walked away. Ryoka’s head rose.
“Wait! If you—I won’t do anything. Just—just let me have it. Whatever you want. I deserve it.”
The Guildmistress of First Landing looked back at Ryoka, her eyebrows raised. Ryoka flinched. She expected another blow. But Mihaela just turned back and snorted. She began jogging without another word.
The City Runner tried to follow her. Mihaela ignored Ryoka’s voice. She jogged, contemptuously moving just past Ryoka’s top speed. Letting the Runner try to catch up. But—no. Mihaela was done. She took a breath, trying to calm the fury running through her.
The breath caught. Mihaela began coughing. She slowed, thumping at her chest. For a minute, she had to cough and nearly run in place.
“Guildmistress?”
Ryoka caught up. She saw Mihaela reaching for something. A vial. The woman uncorked it, took a sip. Looked back at Ryoka and scowled.
“We’re done here. You failed. I’m going home.”
She turned and began running again. Ryoka ran after her. No. If Mihaela had beaten her unconscious, that would be one thing. If Ryoka could explain in any way—as much as she could without talking about Teriarch—that was another.
Ryoka wanted Mihaela to vent whatever fury she had. This? This wasn’t anything.
