I straightened as he stumbled back, feigning hurt. I ignored it and shook my head.

“I have changed my mind, Devil. Let us make a deal.”

“Oh? Why the change of heart? Are you finally coming around to your old man?”

“No.”

I spoke in a blunt voice, and he cocked a brow.

“Then why?”

I explained.

“It’s because, somewhere out there, my companions are fighting for what they believe is right.”

Saffron Merryster and her family reunited in their mansion as smoke billowed up in the distance. The destruction of Nightsveil could be seen even from hundreds of miles away. The Merrysters quickly gathered their things, planning their next course of action as Salvos’ clone waited for her next command in the courtyard. Saffron paused before the clone, closing her eyes. She hugged the clone, thanking her friend from the bottom of her heart, and cursing herself for ever scorning Salvos.

“Or maybe they’re not fighting. Maybe they’re running.”

Daniel Song and Amanda fled Deathfall’s Dungeon as more Demons were summoned into the Mortal Plane. He found out the truth. He knew what was happening. And it terrified him. But it also bolstered him. It gave him a reason to fight— to finally return to Elutra.

“Maybe they’re recuperating.”

Edithe Dawnrise sat in an inn, just resting. Hadrian was passed out across from her, having drank his worries away for now. She was tired. Exhausted. The end of the company war should’ve given her some reprieve, but all she was given were a myriad of other problems to tackle. And she’d deal with them. Just not yet.

“Maybe they’re even doing something else. I don’t know.”

Haec stood in a white wasteland devoid of life. He stepped over the corpses of those he’d slain littered around like rocks, glancing back as a figure landed next to him. They exchanged no words, but a single nod from her told him what to do. He followed her as she flew off towards the crimson horizon. But deep down, he knew he was meant to be following someone else.

“Point is, they’re all doing something for themselves. All this time, I’ve been doing things for them. And yes, I do care about them and I will continue helping them. But now, I want to do something— my own thing.”

I walked up to the Devil, extending an arm.

“Teach me. Help me learn a Grand Skill. Make me stronger than Belzu so that when the next time we meet, he’ll be the one running for his life.”

I finished. He looked at my proffered hand, eyes twinkling as a grin spread across his face. And, of course, Sal smiled as he took it.

“Anything for my daughter.”

End of Volume 4

Author's Note:

There we have it. The longest volume to date. Almost 80 chapters. It was a lot of new and different things-- a lot less action than previous volumes and more character growth. However it turned out, I hope you guys enjoyed it. I'd love to hear your thoughts on it. You even received a shocking little cameo from Haec there towards the end :)
