Their pace had been slow at first, as they had needed to escort Biyu, the Crystal carver, back to her home, and help the Torrent Rider in his training. He was exemplary for being self-taught—his cultivation manual had been interesting as well.

Xiulan had always known the rooster to be contemplative, but she never imagined that he would have written an entire and quite easy to understand method for cultivating as an Initiate.

She was almost upset he hadn’t shared the treatise with her.

But all in all the slow pace had proved fruitful. Their travels and time together had strengthened the bonds in their nascent fellowship. Working tougher, cooking, and swapping stories around their campfire had fast become one of the most anticipated parts of the day.

But now, their timetable would accelerate. They had brought Biyu back home… and now was the time for their plan to go into effect.

To once more unite the movers and shakers of the Azure Hills. To create a force that would suffer none of the horrors that currently existed.

That was Xiulan’s dream. That was their dream.

And Xiulan was optimistic for the future, she really was. It would be hard, but she believed that they could overcome any obstacle. They reached the town at noon exactly, the sun directly overhead. They were into the Grass Sea now, where most of the sects of the Azure Hills operated.

“Oh! That place smells good.” The Torrent Rider said and pointed to a noodle shop. The boy had pulled up his chicken mask and was sniffing excitedly.

“Noodles? Noodles do sound good.” Tigu said, nodding.

Their destination set, they started to walk towards the building.

Only for a man wearing what looked like a serving uniform to suddenly throw open the window shutter, looking panicked. Then the man then immediately ducked and a body came sailing out the now open window.

Everybody froze as the cultivator hit the ground, and then he quickly sprang to his feet.

“You’re courting death, you bastard!” The man who had been launched out the window roared.

“Ah, you dare?! Kowtow a hundred times and piss on your father’s grave! Maybe then I’ll forgive you!” Another voice growled from inside the shop.

Xiulan’s hand met her face.

“Oh, Master was right about that.” Tigu mused.

“Right about what?” The Torrent Rider asked, frowning at the fight about to happen.

“When cultivators gather at a noodle shop, a fight is guaranteed to happen.” Tigu replied.

Tie Delun looked bemused by the observation for a moment, and then, as he really thought about it, he started looking increasingly concerned.

Xianghua’s face went blank as she contemplated the words. “I think noodle shops are cursed.” She said after a moment of more consideration.

A plan to unite the hills.

Xiulan watched as the two cultivators moved to the town square to get more room for their fight.

Their group had a lot of work ahead of them, didn’t they?
