I lowered my arm, "At ease. Anyways, get some golems ready to establish my cities again. We have a bit of construction to handle before we find out where the hell this enemy came from."

The director sent out a telepathic command, "You heard him, everyone. Get ready to move out."

My soldiers shifted from still waters to a wave of movement while I hovered myself back over towards Shalahora. Sitting beside him, we gazed at the humming glow where I had landed earlier. After a minute, I turned to the Sovereign,

"Why didn't you use that same mind attack as earlier? The primevals have robust minds, but they don't stand a chance against that. Neither did the cyclops."

Shalahora rested his face in his umbral hands, "They...They owned no mind to infest. I can implant centuries of memories, but they carried no weakness to trauma or pain. They were unfeeling like the inanimate brought to life, stones that breathed or water that sang."

I frowned, "Er, it was more like zombies than talking grass."

Shalahora scoffed, "True."

I leaned back, my arms propping me up as I stared up, "That was weird. I noticed that same feeling when I tried some psionic attacks against the, er, spirits of that ruler."

"Did you let any of them live?"

I frowned, "No. They're gone."

Shalahora sighed, "Perhaps that is wise as mercy is often an unnecessary source of future conflict. It allows a ripped plant to regrow. To truly destroy an enemy, their roots must be uprooted and pulled apart."

I shook my head, "They didn't have any memories to interrogate anyway, so I kind of just let anger take over."

"Anger is a tool, one worthy of wielding given their transgressions. At the minimum, they've done nothing for your favor."

I turned to Shalahora, "Speaking of earning favor, why did you help me out?"

Shalahora kept his gaze on the crater steady, letting a silence pass over us. He shrugged, "I was in no danger."

"Yeah, but you still helped me without any real reason...What gives?"

Shalahora tilted its head at me, "We are allies, aren't we? What more reasoning must there be? This is the line of thinking that frustrated me with that frog ruler. It was as if he aimed to dissect those around him like they were pieces in some game he played."

Shalahora's eyes narrowed, "A game assumes rigidity of rules. People are not so simple. When assuming control of others, one often finds that those people rebel for no other reason than spite. So I unleashed my spite, and that weakling could not carry the brunt of it."

Shalahora seethed, "But for some reason, people are allowed to manipulate with words but not actions. It's absurd."

I raised a brow, "Yeah, but words don't kill people."

"Without context, perhaps, but what if a commander orders a village to be annihilated down to the last woman and child? His words are weapons all the same, yet he is not judged as the results of his words aren't apparent at the moment of his speaking."

I pursed my lips, "Huh...Wouldn't the soldiers' actions be the wounding element, not the words of the general?"

"You argue semantics instead of my point, which is a concession in itself."

I leaned forward, "That assumes I'm evading the issue, but I'm not. Besides that, I'd probably judge that general quite a bit even in that moment."

"But not in the same vein as if he tore the villagers apart in front of you."

I nodded, "That's true...I'll think about it."

We watched the residual heat of the crater blur the air above my impact point. I turned to Shalahora and nudged him with a hand, "Well, thanks for the help anyways. I appreciate it."

Shalahora sighed, "And I appreciate your forthrightness. It's rare to meet anyone in a position of power who achieved their means with their own efforts, and it makes us kindred spirits, each of us disparate in purpose but united on principle."

Shalahora's sky blue eyes carried no hints of deception, so I couldn't tell his motives. No discomfort or sense of unease permeated him, a sense of authenticity present at all times with the guy. It was strange. I met many figures in my life, like Yawm or Obolis. They all hid behind some mascarade of magnificence like they were above it all. Shalahora didn't do that.

I was so used to people trying to manipulate me that meeting someone honest put me on guard. Even then, I couldn't tell if the shadow was an ancient evil or a naive optimist. Either way, I let the issue go while murmuring, "Well, thanks for helping despite the struggle. And yeah, it was as if those enemies were designed with your abilities in mind."

Shalahora gazed where we fought, "To think there is a means or method to kill the mind but leave the body and soul behind...It is unnerving."

My eyes widened as a realization snapped through me. I opened my pocket dimension before pulling out some liquid rainbow bone. While I spiraled it in a circle, I met Shalahora's eye,

"This...This is what they're using."

Shalahora tilted his head at the liquid, "What is it?"

"It psionically kills whatever eats it."

Shalahora wisped away from the stuff, his body trembling, "Gah, grotesque."

I spun the shining liquid in a circle, "It is, and based on the fight, the primevals aren't the only victims here."

I set my gaze where the black cyclops watched us fight,

"It's being used on the other rulers as well."
