

“Gotcha!” Staavo yelled triumphantly, launching another razor-sharp icicle to punch into the creature’s chest. Tarny followed this up with an Ice Bolt for good measure, the beast falling back to all fours and sending the icy spike deeper into its innards. Still, it did not cry out, and Jamus was quick to summon a new Arcane Bulwark before it as it furiously surged forward.

“Huh,” Staavo said. “Thought that would do it. Nailed it good, though. Nailed, get it? Maybe one more to seal the deal?”

“No, look,” Shu said urgently, pointing. “Its side. It’s already healed.”

“Oh, that’s just great,” Tarny moaned.

The beast faked a charge, then darted left before Jamus placed another Bulwark in its way.

“What is this thing?” Staavo asked in frustration.

“How long can you continue, Jamus?” Shu asked.

“Not indefinitely,” Jamus said, his voice clipped with concentration and the pain of a growing headache. His boosted Focus was taking a toll, and the beast was clearly Arcane-resistant. Acknowledging that fact, he shifted half the extra points to Clarity and uninvested the rest. That way, he might actually make it to the point where his mana ran out.

“Can you Levitate us away?” Tarny asked.

“Possibly, but—“ Jamus cut himself off, forced to summon a Bulwark in midair as the creature attempted a leap. Rather than crash into it, it bounded off, the barrier fuzzing as it soared over them. The instant it landed, it propelled itself forward only to stop short as he placed yet another wall of Arcane energy in its path. He took a deep breath, then shook his head as he continued. “As I was saying, possibly, but the effort to keep us aloft would drain my mana even more quickly than this. I do not think it will simply give up should we float away.”

“So, what then?” Tarny asked, switching to Winter. “We play this game all night?”

“Winter won’t be enough for that,” Jamus warned, though the illusory chill was welcome. Despite having done less running than the others, the heat had him drenched in sweat.

“Just ‘cause it heals doesn’t mean it heals forever,” Staavo said, arm raised. “Give me another opening, Jamus, and this time use the whip. We grind it down, or it grinds us down.”

“It won’t fall for that again,” Jamus said, watching as the beast tried pressing its way through the barrier rather than recoiling as it had after every previous collision. The Arcane magic hated this, but held. “It’s learning. Trying new techniques. Whatever this thing is, it’s no monster, not without the system giving it a name.”

“Oi, ugly bone shit,” Staavo said. “You’re not people, are you? If you’re people, would you kindly fuck off?”

“We surrender!” Tarny called, waving his hands. “Back off if you accept!”

The beast didn’t so much as look at either of them.

Jamus couldn’t quite say why, but he was beginning to think the thing was deaf. It had no ears that he could see, and though it was hard to tell with its armored body, it didn’t appear to be breathing. “We all know where this thing came from,” he said, raising his whip in preparation. “Barrier down in three. Two. One!”

Staavo and Tarny both loosed their spells as Jamus lashed out, but the creature merely hunkered down, anticipating the strikes. Ice shattered against bone, finding nothing to dig into, and the whip fuzzed with impotent static. It wasn’t even clear if the system had accepted the bone cat as a valid target.

And then, as the beast prepared to lunge and Jamus prepared to summon another barrier, there was a deafening thump accompanied by a loud, sickening crunch. The bone cat appeared to vanish, replaced by a tidal wave of dark blood, sand, and shards of bone that failed to reach the party before they were blasted backward.

“Apologies,” said a familiar woman’s voice. “Not a bad effort, but I’m afraid you weren’t making much progress.”

“La—“ Jamus began as he whirled, only for the name to freeze on his tongue. There stood not just Lavarro, bedecked in full Adamant regalia, but a dozen soldiers as well.

“Hello,” Lavarro said, smiling sweetly. “I’m Dominus Anya, and I have...questions.”
