Maia grumbled, “We knew every quest he gave us would be like this, Ram, well before we came out here. Spur is the only happening place in the middle on a vast, vast nowhere.”

“I can still whine about it if I want.”

Erick asked, “Is your necromancer related to the Halls of the Dead? How would you search the Crystal Forest for something like that, anyway?”

“Over and over and over, is how you search the Crystal Forest.” Ramizi refilled his beer. "Over and over and over..."

Eduard said, “We use [Familiar]s imbued with [Scent Tracker] and [Ultrasight] along a grid. When they catch a whiff of dead flesh or see something out of place, they alert us. Then we go out and do some searching spells, while Ramizi uses his mana sense.” Eduard looked toward the window; it was dark outside, an hour past sunset. “We don’t expect to find anything unless the necromancer messes up, though. Our [Familiar]s have been re-searching the same lands for days, but the Headmaster will let us know if plans change.”

Maia said, “We’re not sure of the species or the age, or anything about the necromancer we’re after, really, aside from their magical signature, and the knowledge that they reaped a village then cut a bloody swath through the jungle to the port city Eidolon. The city turned them back, but they still killed thousands of people. The Headmaster tracked the necromancer up here, so here we are, for now. ”

Erick asked, “How is the Headmaster able to search the world like that?”

Maia smirked, then said, “Tier 9 [Eyes of the Goddess]. The Headmaster might be Second to Rozeta, but it's still a massive spell; he has to use a ritual. [Eyes of the Goddess] can search the whole world, though, inside and out, narrowing down a search area for anything or anyone to 500 kilometers. He’s always sending people out on rough assignments like this.”

“Wait wait.” Erick asked, “Second to Rozeta? That sounds important.”

Maia laughed. “Huh?”

“You didn’t know that?” Ramizi asked.

“I don’t know a lot of things,” Erick said.

Eduard said, “If Rozeta ever dies or retires, the Headmaster will instantly ascend to God of the Script; he’s Rozeta’s Second. That’s what that means.”

Erick laughed. “Okay! Maybe I should meet the guy.”

Maia chuckled. “You really didn’t know that?”

“I’m learning!” Erick said, “There’s a curve.” Erick looked to the remains of his lemon meringue pie. “Maybe I’ll bring him a pie.”

Ramizi chuckled, saying, “He would love a lemon pie. That's not sarcasm, either. He has a weakness for sweets."

Erick smiled, then said, “So. About these spells—”

The Oceanside Trio emotionally snapped to attention; physically, though, Maia just sipped her beer, Eduard stuck his fork into his slice of pie, Ramizi grinned. They were playing it cool.

“— Zago said that inventing them at all would be a fool’s errand, because Particle Magic is turning out to be truly vast. But I still think I should invent some monster-only spells, to give a correct base for those who come later. What do you think about this?”

Eduard relaxed into silence. Maia did much the same.

Ramizi eventually said, “You have to do it. There is a void in the upper reaches of Particle Magic right now, and you have a responsibility to fill that void responsibly. Even if you’re just creating a few starting points. If the first spells available to future Particle Mages are [Withering] and some anti-monster fire spell, then that's a good start.”

Erick smiled. “I agree.”

Maia spoke with an exasperation in her voice that sounded personal, “Where would you even start?”

Erick answered, “Hot, cold, metal, and light. I think water, electricity, and air are already done. Namely [Withering], [Call Lightning], and [Stillness].”

“Is that really all the complexity you see, here?” Maia asked. “I’ve made three heat spells, thanks to the clues you gave me, but… people have made hundreds of particle spells. Other people have made heat spells now, too. Iron has a dozen variations each from minor, to small, to medium.”

Eduard said, “The initial gold, silver, and platinum spells, from minor to small to medium, have all been made, and locked behind Registrar Only. But people are still making them. They’re getting points, but the spells are all getting taken away and becoming Registrar Only. Then you’ve got iron; that’s a big one and people are allowed to keep those spells. This one guy back in Oceanside made [Molecular Iron] which is a minor-sized spell that strings iron out into a super-thin string that can slice through almost anything, but breaks down as soon as it touches an [Absorption Ward]. This other dude made another minor-sized iron and electricity spell, [Magnetize], that creates permanent lodestones. Not having to buy those things will be nice, but… I don’t think it’s possible for you to create the spells you want to create, and ‘lock out’ other variations that other Particle Mages might make.”

Ramizi said, “You’re thinking too close to the problem, Eduard.” Ramizi turned to Erick, “Create more spells like [Stillness]. Drop the temperature in an area to a specific range. Prevent strong light or dark effects. Make metal… Unresponsive to magic? I don’t know. I lost the wave on that one. Maybe just prevent damage all together? No idea how anyone could make a spell like that, though.”

Erick paused. He smiled. He said, “You know, Ramizi? That’s a really, really good idea. Thank you.”

- - - -

The next day, in the afternoon, after the rains upon the farm, Erick, Maia, Eduard, Ramizi, Zago, a bronzescale attendant to Zago, along with Poi and Teressa, stood on a 10 meter by 10 meter platform of stone, erected twelve kilometers north-east of Spur. A few chairs and tables and overhangs provided a few creature comforts, but the place was hastily constructed; it was not meant to last.

Zago had been a little miffed upon formally meeting the humans; she would likely always be miffed at them, but she was a consummate professional. She greeted them with a mien of a guildmaster to people who should have checked out her guild already, but hadn’t. After the talking got going, though, she seemed to warm up. The Oceanside Trio started warm and stayed warm, though.

Zago stood under a stone awning, shaded from the sun, and eventually said, “I think your idea of creating the anti-spells first has great merit, Mage Ramizi. Particle magic is already attuned to the denial of other Particle spells.”

“Thank you, guildmaster,” said Ramizi, under a separate awning.

Erick asked, “No one have any ideas on how to make an anti-damage spell, though?”

Zago shook her head, saying, “The conclusions my people are finding are not promising.”

Eduard said, “The Headmaster said he will look into it, but expects zero results; HP and [Absorption Ward]s already do this, and are already incredibly complicated magics within the Script.”

Zago said, “We have time to create this magic; it need not be made today, with some half-baked idea of what ‘damage’ actually is, or what have you. A badly conceived idea will just return an Error.”

“Not today, then. I agree.” Erick looked out into the Crystal Forest. “The anti-extreme temperature one should prove the easiest.”

Immediately, a dozen differently colored [Temperature Ward]s and [Weather Ward]s popped up around the gathered audience. Erick nodded. He walked to the side of the stone platform, and put up his own pair of [Ward]s, one to the left, one to the right, with himself in the middle, in the Venn Diagram center under both white [Ward]s; he would need to see which one of the [Ward]s actually worked with the spell he was about to create.

Erick breathed in the air of the Crystal Forest, feeling the ocean of mana above him. He chose to go with an imperfect rhyme, to drop the cost to 250 and make the spell available for everyone, like with [Stillness]. He spoke to the sky, his voice vibrating the air.

“A gentle breeze, a day of calm.

“Today we take extremes and twisted,

“an ocean soaks, creates a balm.

“Fire fails as ice turns liquid.

“Hate may form, but is [Restricted].”

The sky shifted. Erick fell to Poi’s waiting arms. A glowing rod of [Treat Wounds] touched Erick’s shoulder. He waited for something else to happen. But the shift in the sky righted itself. A great big nothing happened. And then…

Like raindrops, blue boxes struck Erick, one after the other.

Error!

Error!

Error!

Error!

A deluge of blue boxes crowded out Erick’s sight, but all he could see was red. Warmth flowed down his face, tasting of salt and iron. Poi jabbed him with [Treat Wounds], while yelling something Erick couldn’t hear; his ears were bleeding, too. People moved all around Erick; people moved Erick around. He couldn’t breathe; he couldn’t move. He was a man locked into his body, and his body was dying.

Error!

Error!

The world split. Erick was somewhere else. Blue boxes kept filling his blood-wet eyes. Someone was yelling. Another person yelled back. Erick felt underwater; nothing was close, nothing was real.

Error!

Error!

Error!

Error!

A pair of silver dragonkin appeared among the blue of boxes and the red of blood. One of them cast something. Then they cast the spell again. And again.

Erick gasped out blood, then gasped in air. He breathed. He could feel something besides pain.

Error!

The silver dragonkin cast the spell again. And again.

Erick laid back. Error boxes slowly closed. Pain ebbed away, like a receding tide. He breathed. He listened to people argue nearby, some loud, some quiet and deadly.

A new box appeared.

Processing!

Erick did not have enough strength to move his body, but he could breathe.

He could read.

Congratulations!

You have created a new Basic Spell. Your spell has been added to your skills for free!

The spell you have created will appear in the Script after a year and a day.

Your spell is the alpha version, and will shift with time and use.

The spell that appears in the Script might be different.

Here is your spell:

Zone of Peace 1, instant, 1 hour per level, super long range, 500 MP

<All magic cast inside Zone of Peace with the intent to harm, or entering a Zone of Peace with the intent to harm, is transformed into a Cleanse of commensurate size.> Zone of Peace has no effect on ongoing magic.

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+12 ability points.

And then came a personalized blue box.

It’s like this, Erick:

That was not a good spell.

And

Zone of Peace is now under Koyabez’s control. I’ve already removed it from your available spells. If you wish to regain this spell, then you must talk to him. For what it’s worth, he’s happy and will likely be amenable.

The problem has arisen because the manasphere loves you, and with that love, it veered off from particle magic and tried to control the Script. Don’t do this again. I won’t be allowed to allow you to survive a second time. Truthfully, I’m not sure I should have allowed you to survive this time.

The Relevant Entities are watching, and they are pissed.

I’ve stripped your Class down to 1 unlocked ability to appease the Relevant Entities. Even though you and I both know that you never did anything with your Class abilities, this is enough for Them for now. The Relevant Entities are starting to call you wizard, and I can’t blame them.

Because you are.

You would have been one of the greats. You would have been there to help us stop the Sundering, or helped us pick up the pieces after we all failed. If you had turned up in the Old Cosmology, at the right time, maybe the events that lead to the Sundering would never have happened.

But you came to us in the wrong time, and this is the world we live in.

Sorry it had to be this way.

This message will vanish as soon as you are lucid enough to understand what it says.

~Rozeta

Erick read the message a second time, and just like Rozeta said, the message vanished from his notifications. Erick brought up his Status, and his Class.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 39, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 659,855,559/10,233,415,500

Class: 1/6

Points: 16

HP

600/600

600

MP

900/900

6000 per day

Strength

20

+0

[20]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

30

+0

[30]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Particle Mage

<empty>

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

Just like Rozeta said, [Zone of Peace] was nowhere to be found in Erick’s Status.

Erick closed his eyes. Sleep was a great idea.

- - - -

Erick opened his eyes to a grey stone room. The sun shone in from the left, onto the floor. He was comfortable, but people were talking nearby. Erick sat up, groggy. He was on a plain bed in a grey room, with an open archway leading to a much larger room. Someone walked past the room, carrying linens and wearing the robes of an acolyte. Erick swung his legs off of the bed and sat up, grumbling.

Darenka, silverscale head priest of Spur’s Interfaith Church, appeared at the doorway.

Erick said, “Hello-oww.” He clutched his left side as a twinge of deep pain scattered through his chest.

“Bah! Still got a pain, eh?” Darenka walked over, hand glowing. As she touched his shoulder, Darenka’s magic spread through him like a warm balm. “You made a right mess of yourself and sparked a lot of hatred. The only gods on your side are Atunir, Koyabez, Rozeta, and Phagar. Powerful friends, for sure, but you’re already not Sininindi’s favorite person, and aligning with Koyabez puts you at odds with the Demon King, the Crown of Heaven, and Sumtir, the God of Righteous War.” She frowned. “I ain’t never seen someone so recklessly piss off so many gods; they’re bitching at me like never before.” She confided, “This old priest feels quite out of her league, presently.”

Erick’s face slowly fell into more of a frown the longer Darenka spoke. “I’m sorry.”

Darenka folded her arms, standing a few feet away, waiting for more.

Erick had a lot of thoughts, right now, but all of them were pointed in the same direction.

He said, “I feel guilty. I brought particle magic to your world, on a whim and now there’s daydroppers and…”

I dug too deep.

Just like the Old Wizards.

Darenka said, “A bit of guilt helps people keep their head on straight, but don’t you go taking on my world’s woes. This nastiness over in Odaali is not your fault; you are not my savior, you are not the savior of the Greensoil Republic.”

“I never said I—”

