Jax, still perched on the bed, pinched the bridge of his nose. "I should not have allowed the two of you to meet," he muttered. "I should have altered the schedule before Akkau gave it to you. If only I had known..."

"You know we can all hear you, right?" Damien asked him.

Jax gave him an affronted look. "You are supposed to pretend you do not."

Then he glanced toward the door and frowned slightly. "...It appears that Instructor Solsburn is approaching your dorm now. I don't know what you did, but please do not antagonize any more professors lest Akkau send me to fetch reconciliatory gifts. Again."

"Instructor who now?" Cale asked. He glanced through the still-open door and down the hallway to find an entire set of armor slowly looming up the stairs. "...should I be concerned?"

"In the short time I have known you, I do not believe a single thing has ever made you concerned," Jax answered dryly. "Resolve this quickly, please. Your donation has helped me greatly—in fact, I may very well advance to the next stage of my molt because of it—but the wards cannot hold out in perpetuity, regardless of my involvement."

"Your molt?" Leo asked. Jax didn't respond; instead, he snapped his fingers and vanished in a cloud of smoke.

"Can't wait to learn how to do that," Cale remarked. "Although I really don't think this room needed more smoke."

"I think that's just a side effect of infernal teleportation," Leo said. "What did he mean, molt?"

"I have a better question," Cale said. "Who's this Instructor Solsburn?"

Leo sighed, evidently accepting he would need to look this up in the library later. "He's our Sword and Sorcery professor," he said. "He likes to visit students personally before class to make sure they know what to expect, and also to have them choose a weapon for the class. He prepares the blades himself. That's probably all this is."

"That's some dedication," Cale said, impressed. "Do you think he's going to ask about the door?"

"It would be weirder if he didn't," Leo said.

Sure enough, Instructor Solsburn paused just outside their doorway, staring silently at the glowing door, the remnants of purple smoke still in their room, and the lingering crackle of demonic energy. He tilted his head.

"Explain," he said simply.

Cale blinked, looking at Leo. The minotaur shrugged. "He doesn't like talking much."

And that was how the five of them had ended up exploring the labyrinth together. The whole place had been eerily silent for about ten minutes of walking, after which Leo seemed to finally relax.

Then and only then did the monsters start flooding in.

And there were so many monsters.

The weirdest part, Cale thought as the drake on top of him continued attempting to gnaw his head off, was that most of these monsters weren't normally nearly this aggressive.

"Um," Damien said nervously. "The clown thing is coming back? And... no, nevermind, it's running away again."

Except the clown thing. Apparently.
