Erick stepped down a wide white staircase, deep into a canyon of clear crystal, following his daughter and the former Shade of Assassination, through lands that reminded him a lot of Brightwater, back in Ar’Kendrithyst. Back when he first went into that land, he had stepped down a similar staircase, and all around had been skyscrapers of crystal with sky bridges and little courtyards filled with plants and a whole bunch of different living areas, all filled with shadelings walking around in fugue-states. Those almost-people played out their lives as though they were real people, and not barely-sentient souls of the Old Cosmology stuck walking tracks that their lives used to walk, so very long ago.

Looking back on that moment, and knowing what he now knew, Erick could tell that the shadelings around here, in these skyscrapers and in these living spaces, were actual people. Humans and incani and harpies and goblins, and all the other races of Veird, were present in this place. And they all noticed Erick, Jane, and Goldie, walking down a staircase that did not connect to any of the nearby crystals. Erick walked through the lands of shadelings; separate, but seen.

It was better than walking through a land of ghosts. It was better than walking ‘invisibly’, knowing that if the residents did see you, that they would go dark-shit insane and try to kill you.

As it was, these people all bowed at Erick’s passing, some going all the way to their knees to press their foreheads against the skybridges they walked upon, and against the floors of courtyards that hung suspended between crystal spires. All conversation stopped. All sounds ceased, save for the wind blowing through the crystal city, through the second largest shadeling civilization here on Veird.

This all sort of reminded Erick of the actual largest shadeling civilization on Veird; Candlepoint. Except a lot more layered.

In four minutes, Jane led them from Melemizargo’s Throne, to step onto a large white-and-clear crystal courtyard; one of the largest around. To the left and the right were sky bridges that encircled the area under the Throne, providing what amounted to a ‘wall’, separating the shadeling side of Ascendant Mountain from the rest of Ascendant Mountain. Behind Erick lay an inhabited city. Further forward lay lands of real monsters, and cultivated danger. That’s where sentinel golems prowled and adventurers killed those sentinels, to gain keys to the greater dungeons, which also lay ahead, in that land of white crystal, deep shadows, and grand dungeons.

Jane headed right, along the border sky bridge, following a wide gap in the crystal city.

Erick followed. Almost no one walked this road for it was guarded by guardians who hovered above and to the sides, ready to kill anyone who came this way without keys, or without permission.

Jane soon came to the end of the road, to where a large open space held out from the crystal lands like a cliff-balcony, reaching beyond the city, to stick out over the canyon. She turned right. Erick glanced to the left, and saw the northern slope of Ascendant Mountain, about 3.5 kilometers down, looking like a carpet of green with a few brighter colors here and there. Between the northern slope and this southern rise, lay a dark canyon filled with monsters and dungeons… somewhere down there in the shadowy mist—

Jane pointed forward and spoke for the first time in the fifteen minutes they had walked here, “That’s where we’re staying.”

It was standard crystal housing, looking from the outside almost like a skyscraper, like the upscale hotels of Treehome. The whole thing was white and opaque and boxy, but there were also tan areas, shadows in corners, and glinting gold here and there. Some balconies on some of the windows offered great views of the north, and also of the east, where the sun would rise over a land of crystal, and mountains.

Jane walked up to the entrance, and then went into the crystal tower.

Erick easily followed, and so did Goldie.

“A whole hotel to ourselves?” Erick asked, as he looked around the lobby, and saw for himself what awaited him. Luxury. And a lot of it. “I suppose private pools for bathing quarters are nice. If a bit much.”

There were four servants in the hotel, each of them shadelings. Three of them were in the kitchens, located about 40 meters away and down in the bowels of the hotel, all kowtowing in Erick’s direction. The fourth was kowtowing beside what was obviously a concierge desk, right in front of Erick.

Erick said, “Rise, and tell me what you’re here for.”

The concierge rose. He was a human shadeling—

And Erick knew him.

Erick scrunched his eyebrows, saying, “Gary Dearth-of-flowers? Is that you?” He had to be. Gary was a person born as a woman, who wished for and got a [Reincarnation] from Erick several years ago, along with a new first name chosen by Erick; his primary name remained his choice, though. Gary had become a human through that transformation. “You’re a shadeling again? And working here? Rise, please.”

Sometimes people who went through [Reincarnation] to get away from their shadeling status decided to go back to being a shadeling. Or they died again, and their souls went to Melemizargo because they still believed in Melemizargo. Erick wasn’t sure which camp Gary belonged to… But he wished to know.

“Yes, my king; shadeling again,” Gary said, getting to his feet. “I actually worked in a smaller hotel to the south side, where adventurers might stay, but when it became apparent that you would be coming here there was a call for volunteers. I spoke up. And now I am here, gratefully serving you. Any mundane thing you wish for, I will bring to you.”

Erick cast his gaze over to the other three shadelings in the kitchens. He didn’t know them. He turned his attentions back to Gary. “Okay. Well. Nice to see you again. The rooms look lovely.”

Gary grinned at that, and then bowed professionally. “We aim to please.”

Erick decided to just ask, “Did you die, Gary? Do you want another [Reincarnation]?”

Gary’s small grin turned into a nice little smile. “I tried delving and failed miserably, but I am happy with my life now. Everything is as it should be, and Melemizargo is as good of a god as any.”

“Okay… Well. Then that’s fine.” Erick said, “Spread the word, if you could, if anyone wants [Reincarnation]s. I’ll probably be here in town for a while, with my daughter… Who appears to have already gone up to the rooms.”

Jane had gone ahead, with Goldie pausing to look at Erick for a moment, before she decided to stand at attention at the side of the room, like a professional guard.

Erick said to Gary, “I’ll probably be going back to Aniduun for a small gathering and politicking. No need for dinner tonight, but I will be wanting to talk to you later about the relations between the dungeon guild cities and Ascendant Mountain.”

Gary bowed. “Your will be manifest.”

Erick moved on, up the stairs, to their rooms, which appeared to be four whole floors of high-class hotel rooms. Jane had already picked her rooms, so Erick went into there. Goldie followed, and then melded into the shadows behind Erick, leaving him ‘alone’ with his daughter.

The rooms were nice.

And then Jane asked, “Why are you going along so easily with all of this? I thought you’d be yelling back there.”

“That’s an easy answer,” Erick said, “My personal comfort in this scenario is the least of my concerns. Your comfort in this scenario ranks much, much higher. And besides; I’ll be changing all of this to suit my needs, and if I didn’t do this, then someone else would, and I’d rather be here at the center of it all instead of on the outside looking in.”

Jane relaxed a little, and then she nodded. “... Okay.”

Erick asked, “How were you going to go about all this?”

“Pretty much exactly as Melemizargo outlined up there. Copies of myself, hunting in pairs or trios for the answers in the Dark.” Jane asked, “Are you going to make one? Because that’s what I had planned on doing right now.”

“… Are you mentally ready to wake up and not be yourself?”

“Yes,” Jane said, without hesitation. “I’m ready for that. Have been for a while now.”

Erick didn’t believe that right now, but he was ready to start believing, soon. “I assume this hotel would have been for multiples of you?”

“Yes. I’ve been to a lot of places here already, but in a preliminary sort of way.” Jane looked around. “Every room is the same, except for the view. There were going to be, like, 10 of us, making do and making progress, with Lapis directly helping and Fallopolis running around taking care of larger concerns. I was going to learn a few things before I got to copying myself, though, so that all of me didn’t have to keep learning the same thing every time.” Jane asked, “To that end: want to go see the Well? Or talk to Lapis? Both need to be done as soon as possible.”

Erick recalled what he knew of the Well.

The Well of Melemizargo, also known as the Heart of Darkness, or the Black Mirror, or any number of other names, was the geographical ‘center’ of the Dark. Or at least that was the popular theory of it all. The Dark Mirror is where some shadelings came from, though most were born from smaller gatherings of Darkness and Shadow near the Well, and not from the Well itself.

The Dark didn’t actually have a geographical center, though.

The Well could move, gathering shadows wherever Melemizargo desired it to be. The Well used to be at the Spire in Ar’Kendrithyst, and though it had been physically destroyed in that location tens of times over Ar’Kendrithyst’s long history, it was not an actual item. It was a place, and it was sort of like the Vile and Exalted moons of Hell and Celes; gathering locations of power.

It was not at all like Erick and his production of Benevolence. He was the headwaters of that ocean, just as Melemizargo was the ‘headwaters’ for the Dark… Though Erick wasn’t too sure on that fact, actually.

The Benevolent Sky inside Benevolence Itself, located near the Yggdrasil planted there, was where Erick’s own ‘Heart of Benevolence’ existed, if anyone wanted to call it that. Of that, he was rather sure.

And that was pretty much all Erick knew about the Well… That, and that people peered into the Dark there to find answers to… Everything. Back when the New Stats were first coming out, and people were taking more than one New Stat and thus falling to the Shadeling Curse, people could journey to the Well and learn of the Dark and become normal people again…

Was that all Erick knew? … Yeah. Mostly.

“Have you actually poked around at the Well at all?” Erick asked.

“No. That was for today. You and I are mostly on the same page now, dad.”

“Let’s go to the Well.” Erick said to the air, “We can walk and talk with Lapis while we go there.”

Lapis stepped out of the shadows of the lobby downstairs. Though a few floors and walls separated them the Shade of Enchantment bowed toward Erick, and waited, hands crossed over themselves, just above her belly button.

- - - -

They went back to the encircling wall/sky-bridge between the adventuring districts and the shadeling city, and took a left only a hundred meters past the overlook. Deep into the bowels of white, shadow, and clear crystal, Erick, Jane, and Lapis walked into a shadowy space that was filled with light from above, but also wreathed in deep gloom. The path led toward the Throne, but lower.

There weren’t many shadelings in this part of the city, for to the south lay infrastructure and amenities. The only voices in the air were those of Erick and Lapis, as they walked and talked, while the smell of baked bread and hydroponic-grown vegetables and greens filled the air. This was sort of like the farming center of the city, but not quite.

“And everything is so clean,” Erick said, “Even without [Cleanse]. Unless you have adventurers that come in and do that?”

Lapis said, “Ascendant Mountain is a shadeling city, but we do have around a 2% shadowless population.” The androgynous woman raised an eyebrow at Erick, her white eyes glowing brightly. “You truly have never been here? I had thought that rumor was false.”

“I’ve been about as busy as anyone, yourself included. Last I heard you were working with Farix and New Brightwater, making inroads with Anhelia’s kingdom.”

The sounds of their feet clicking on the stone echoed slightly in the canyon of crystal. A sudden wind carried the distant sounds of people through the air, talking and laughing and working on farms, or otherwise. Some loud thing roared far behind Erick, way, way back beyond the walkway that separated adventurers from shadelings; it was some sort of fight.

Erick gazed through Ophiel, to look down at that fight, while he also walked beside Lapis, with Jane right behind them. It was a normal sort of adventurer fight, happening between what looked like two mages, a tank, a healer, and a pair of white-crystal-and-gold-automatons which slashed and flickered through the light, aiming to maim and succeeding rather easily. There went legs and a hand, curses settling into limbs like shadows soaking into sponges.

A mage went catatonic and fell over, her body rapidly flashing with shadows, and then crystallizing over in a [Crystal Curse], or something like that, and then sinking into the stone underfoot. The warrior followed half a moment later. The healer and the other mage decided to run. They managed to make it several meters before a third crystal guardian appeared out of the walls and stabbed both of them through the stomach and the chest. It missed the heart.

Erick knew from experience that those people would be cursed, unable to regrow anything for at least a few days, but they would also live. The guardians would drop them off at Aniduun, where the city would take them in and Baxter, or someone else high up, would take away their Ascendant Mountain delving license for a while. The delvers would probably complain about guild overreach the entire time they waited out their anti-restoration curses, too.

Lapis continued the conversation without pause, for there had been no pause while Erick watched that team get dismantled. “New Brightwater is getting along with Anhelia’s kingdom as well as two shadowcats in the same neighborhood. But at least they’re not like light and shadow slimes.”

“A steady improvement, then.”

“Steady, slow improvements are generally the best.”

Lapis was ready to talk turkey, and so was Erick.

“It has been good to see you again, Lapis. You seem to be doing well. Secured in your presence and your future.”

“I am, though this whole Sundering search has me worried.”

