Erick would ask actual questions later, but for now, he continued with the not-questions. “Ancient magics that were responsible for great destruction, somehow gaining power over the Dark, could threaten Veird if we searched for those.”

Just another ripple.

“Destruction Wizards would be dangerous to find in the Dark.”

Just a ripple. Though perhaps it was a larger ripple than normal.

Erick decided to ask a Sundering question, or at least something closer to that sort of danger. “The possibility exists that the Dark Itself would want to purge the Old Cosmology, and cause a Sundering-like event.”

The Well rippled angrily. A low growl-like sound, almost too soft to be called a growl, echoed through the area.

“Perhaps the Sundering was caused by Xoat waking up and reconstituting all of the Old Cosmology back into himself, killing all the Old Cosmology in the process.”

The Well did nothing at all.

“The Sundering could have been caused by forces outside of the Old Cosmology, here in this New Cosmology or in other universes, of which the Fae often traveled freely.”

The air thrummed with distant power. Black water rippled deep.

Erick had held back his Intent from his words, perhaps because he was only preparing the air and the Well of Souls for the real questions, or perhaps because he had truly been trying to keep things simple, for now. But something called to him in those black waters. Erick had been teasing the Dark, and the Dark wanted something substantial.

Erick found himself stepping to the golden line on the marble ground.

He did not step far over that line, but he was close enough. And then Erick began to unfurl the power of his core, to let his intent seep into his voice, because what he truly wanted to know was not what caused the Sundering at all, even though that was what everyone else wanted, and why he was here, and why this was happening at all.

He wanted something more.

“What would be the single greatest thing to bring from the Old Cosmology into this new universe?”

The answer had come throughout the very firmament of the room itself, like a hammer wrapped in a towel, the blow blunted only a little. Jane shielded herself right before reality vibrated like a [Strike]. She got sent flying to the edge of the room where she righted herself like a superhero landing on concrete, her legs crunching marble underfoot.

Lapis splashed away in a shower of shadows that almost instantly regathered into a person, much further away from the Well of Souls. She sported wounds everywhere, and her dress was shredded.

Erick withstood the Well’s answer like a stone in a storm of knives, his clothes disintegrating off his chest, and half away from his legs, his All-Seeing Eye flailed about on his neck while his staff huddled behind him, alongside Ophiel.

The answer was simple.

A CREATION WIZARD COMPARABLE TO YOURSELF

Erick fixed his clothes—

Hmm. [Mend] didn’t work properly. Ah. The manasphere imprint of his clothes had been thoroughly trashed, and when [Mend]ed, all Erick had ended up with was even more shreds hanging off of his body. He spent a few moments using [Duplicate] on his remaining fabrics, and then manually [Fabricate]ing them into what he had been wearing, but simpler; just a nice shirt, and nice pants. The shoes could remain obliterated, he supposed.

As Erick did that, he considered the Well’s answer.

The first thing to consider was that there had been no voice, no actual words. Melemizargo might have been the one speaking that answer, but Erick didn’t think he had, because to attempt a trick like that was easy enough to disprove; Erick was going to speak to Rozeta and possibly Phagar later, and they would have words to give regarding this event. Also, Erick certainly wasn’t going to be doing any exploration of anything right now. This was the information-gathering stage.

Rozeta would probably tell him something like ‘the Dark and Melemizargo are technically different, but there is no practical way to tell that difference.’

That line of inquiry wasn’t too useful.

Melemizargo could be lying, or he could truly be allowing Erick to venture into the unstructured Dark, into Melemizargo’s ‘subconscious’, as it were.

As for The Dark’s answer…

“A Creation Wizard comparable to myself, eh?” Erick heard his voice echo in the air. And then he stepped forward. He was already past the golden line, but now he was two meters from the Well’s edge. He asked the pool directly, “Why does this world need a powerful Creation Wizard?”

TO FIGHT AGAINST ULTIMATE DESTRUCTION

“… Fair,” Erick said, his clothes barely rippled by the firmament’s answer this time.

For a moment, he thought more.

And then Erick turned around and walked away, looking first to Jane, and then to Lapis. Jane mumbled about being okay, though she had blood on her lips and she had needed to regrow her arm. Erick had known she was okay already, but it was good to see that she actually was okay. Lapis was doing fine, too, having changed her sleek black dress into something more matching Erick’s new casual attire; a black sundress.

Erick said, “I’ve seen enough for now. Thank you for the directions, Lapis. I will be coming back on my own, and I’m sure Jane will as well. Where is the dungeon that has all the dungeon master slimes ready to go?”

The cavern had four exits, each of them looking the same as the one Erick, Jane, and Lapis had come in through. Only one led back to reality as Erick knew it, though; all the rest led into a mirror-version of Mount Ascendant, where shadelings in fugue states lived their lives, like the fugue-shadelings around Brightwater had done, back when Brightwater was full of shadelings and that Dark civilization.

Lapis gestured back to that first archway, saying, “We’ll have to go this way to get there, but it’s on the other side of the Throne. We’ll take a Platform around.”

Erick glanced toward the other hallways, asking, “Will the shadelings in the dungeon actually attack right away, if we should go deeper into the dungeon?”

“Yes, and with extreme prejudice.” Lapis said, “They’re deep in the shadow fugue.”

Erick looked to Jane, “Do you want to ask anything?”

“I’ll do it later,” Jane said.

“… Fair enough.”

Erick started walking back the way they had come, away from the Well of Shadows, and back into the sunset light. Jane and Lapis followed. As Erick stepped out into that red light, and all the white and clear crystal spires glowed with the colors of sunset, Erick was reminded of Ar’Kendrithyst, a lot. This place had been called the Second Ar’Kendrithyst by many. It was a fitting title.

Lapis led the way, onto a floating Platform of crystal, saying, “There aren’t many Platforms in the city because they’re a security issue, but I’ve put up a few for your use. Other people are already using them without permission, of course, and then heavily requesting permission when they’re found out, so it seems we might end up with a Platform Network soon enough.”

Erick smiled as he stepped onto that Platform, saying, “Node networks are very useful for eternalizing magic, though Platform systems have a way of failing and dropping people off in midair.”

With everyone on it, the platform took off slowly, rising into the air along a line of light that directed them toward the south, and then east.

“That is the major danger,” Lapis said, resigned to people falling to their deaths for using a Platform network.

Erick could commiserate with that.

“Have you done much further experimenting with [Renew] since last we spoke?” Erick asked, hoping for a better topic.

Lapis chuckled. “It is hard to say exactly which miracle of yours is more impressive, Erick. Elemental Benevolence, the acceptance of certain Wizards in Veird’s society, Particle Magic, any of the other things you have done for us, or [Renew]. Everything about enchanting changed with that one Establishment, though most of the world has yet to truly catch up. I think I’ve done alright, though.” As they flew around the Throne, neither the top nor the bottom visible, Lapis said, “I’ve managed to make self-repairing artifacts and self-creating artifacts.”

Erick’s eyebrows went up. “Really.”

“Both were inordinately difficult, but the repairing ones were slightly easier. I’ve managed a Rod of Storm, based off of your [Call Lightning], that has two charges and breaks after the second use, but by imparting around 50,000 mana the whole rod comes back together, ready for proper use once again.” Lapis added, “Which is 1 use per day, mind you. The second is for emergencies only.”

To understand how large of a breakthrough that was, Erick only had to think back to his experiments with metiron in the Glittering Depths, and how you just couldn’t do that on Veird; you couldn’t make artifacts that made themselves… Without using souls, of course.

Erick asked, “No souls?”

“No souls at all!” Lapis happily proclaimed. “Not even a bit of actualization in that whole experiment. Pure runework and enchanting and all based around [Renew].”

“Congratulations!” Erick chuckled. “If you don’t mind, I’d like to pick your mind about all of that later, you cannot have made a self-creating one without souls. Now that would take Wizardry.”

“Of course. I’d love to discuss all of that later.” Lapis said, “Also… I might not be able to publish my research like a normal person, but perhaps you’d be able to bring that magic out into the world, too?”

She had a look of quiet need about her as she asked for global recognition. She was done with her ‘Repent Sinner’ Quest, but it had become a habit of hers to help others however she could, usually through magical knowledge. It was a good habit. Erick wished to foster that desire.

Erick nodded. “I’d have to know about whichever magic you wish to show the world before I could give my endorsement, but that doesn’t seem like too much of an ask.”

Lapis smiled a little, “I want to show the world both of them.

“The creating artifact was a natural outgrowth of the repairing artifact, but the creating one does have some slime-level souls to it, which you were correct to guess at, for there was simply no other way I could find to make a self-creating artifact happen. Those souls are discharged as slimes of an appropriate element once the item is fully created, though; they do not become slaves to the artifact.”

Erick’s eyebrows went up again. “Huh.” And then he asked, “How?”

With a look of triumph, Lapis said, “To start, the self-creating artifact has quite a bit more depth than the repairing artifact, making use of four different magical theorems, of which [Renew] and Benevolence became a fifth and sixth addition to that quartet, solving the whole creation problem in a rather straightforward sort of way.

“I believe that once you have any type of artifact of high enough quality, one should be able to adhere a self-repairing artifact to the third artifact, which could be of any type, and thus you will have made a magical artifact that repairs other magical artifacts. Though that is, of course, a much more difficult problem than the other two problems, of first making an artifact that repairs itself, and making an artifact that makes itself. The general line of difficulty of creation in making a universal repairing artifact is either an upward line or an exponent, and I do not know which.

“All of that is made rather superfluous by the fact that [Renew] exists at all, but not all worlds will have [Renew], and thus we must make a magic that makes itself viable wherever it might be.

“And so, to start with the self-creating artifact, which is actually the second step:

“We look upon the Rich-man’s theorem, to explore the cultural relation between gold-platinum-iron, and how each of them has a value based upon common cause. And then we look at Particle Theory, and how iron and oxygen— Ah!” Lapis paused, then she said, “The self-creating item I made was a Rod of [Prismatic Ward]. Not the Solid Ward function, but the anti-magic version. That one seems to be the easiest to self-create, though any sort of defensive [Ward] is similarly easy.” She continued, “Looking at how iron turns to iron oxide…”
