Erick grinned a little at that. “That just means you’re awake.”

Lapis chuckled, which ended in a grin, and then faded away as she said, “Everyone on Veird grows up with the story of the Sundering. You hear tales of Primal Lightning that destroyed all of that past in a matter of days. Most never look too deep into that far-ago horror; they remain secure in the knowledge that it won’t happen again, and that Veird survived once, so surely we can survive again. But some of us know that is simply not true, and that the conscious, healthy mind actively rebels against the idea that it could be ended at any point in time. There would be no way to live otherwise. If one was aware of all the ways they could die at any given moment, then nothing could get done. And so… The conscious mind hides the truth from itself.” Lapis said, “According to my studies, this is only part of why the Dark doesn’t know what happened, either.”

“Ahhh… Is this the real explanation why Melemizargo cannot search out the answer himself?”

“It’s my theory, though the Dark only ever speaks sparingly to us Clergy, so we don’t know; can’t know. You and Fallopolis have his ear most of the time, and you may try your luck with direct questions. I and the others speak at the Well when we wish to ask questions, or receive guidance.”

Erick stepped up stairs with Lapis. The stairs leveled out rather soon, and came to a direct path forward. The road led directly toward a shadowy space up ahead, save for a line of sunlight that angled down, into the canyon of shadows and crystal. That line of light illuminated the wall-like base of the Throne up ahead, where the Well lay hidden further beyond.

Erick asked, “Have you found anything specific in the Dark?”

“The arch-story of the Sundering is the same, though individual stories vary.

“White, iridescent lightning ripped through the Old Cosmology, creating Yawning Voids which drew in all mana, and since the Old Cosmology was all mana, it drew in everything. Civilizations died in instants. The only reason Veird survived at all was because the Primal Lightning took 3 days to fully kill the universe, and Veird was a life raft even then, surviving because Veird’s manaminer was already divinely-empowered, and because of the sacrifice of deity-level power in order to empower the proto-Script even further.

“Primal Lightning still hit Veird between 1 and 3 and ‘countless’ times, depending on who is telling the story, but the accepted number is 3. Two glancing blows, and one direct blast.

“When Veird finally fell into a True Void, and popped into this New Cosmology, everyone almost died to the Killing Sun, and to all the other parts of this New Cosmology that didn’t make sense. Gravity. Particles. The different nature of Light, and the fact that Shadow was more magical than real. And the complete lack of local mana. All of that contributed to the problem.

“And so they had to sacrifice more.

“They sacrificed the catatonic Goddess of Knowledge upon the Altar of Need, or the Altar of Preservation, depending on who is telling the story. If that Goddess had not been catatonic from the influx of new knowledge —which is the most widely accepted explanation for her catatonia— then perhaps her sacrifice wouldn’t have been necessary. But the sacrifice was rapidly deemed necessary, and so it happened.

“Then came the Great Translation, and Veird became a planet instead of a plane, along with countless smaller changes, like the imbuing of souls into physical bodies, etcetera etcetera.

“Beyond that story, which I have confirmed as true in hundreds of ways, I have been looking for sideways-glances at the Sundering.” Lapis finished with, “There have been many individual stories of individual falls to Veird, but other than minor individual changes to the accepted story, it’s been a bust.”

Erick listened as they walked, looking around at the city, and at the surroundings. The sun was starting to set in the west, painting the sky gold and red. Erick happened to glance upward, and through the crystal spires he saw the sunset sky. With the unevenness of it all, that strip of red and gold and the spreading cracks of sunset beyond the white spires... It all sort of looked like a great bolt of red lightning, aiming toward the Throne.

That was probably just his imagination adding lightning-symbolism where none existed.

“Melemizargo spoke of finding parts of the Old Cosmology and… Well I don’t want to say [Reincarnation]ing them here, but I will say exactly that, because we’re on a Path, or whatever.” Erick asked, “Any targets for delving that would build a stronger Veird? That’s what I’m most interested in. If we should hit upon Primal Lightning then I want to be absolutely ready for it.”

Lapis easily nodded, saying, “Veird can survive Primal Lightning; as proven by history itself. That is not a worry right now. But too much lightning would certainly prove disastrous. Individuals certainly couldn’t survive Primal Lightning, though.

“But before that, there are other matters to gird against; the Dark Itself, for instance.

“When your daughter was looking to be the one doing this, we did a lot of searching for Familiar Forms that could survive in the Dark for an extended period of time. Eventually, we settled on something that already exists here on Veird, because the Old Cosmology wasn’t giving up any hints in that direction. Dark Slimes don’t exist here, but Curse Slimes do exist, and they’re rather close in stability and capability. They’re everywhere in Ar’Kendrithyst, around the former Brightwater. They can survive the Dark for extended periods of time, too. Some curse slimes might even come out of the Well when we’re talking to it, too.”

Erick glanced back at Jane. “Curse slime? Is that… Enough?”

“Slimes are fine when amalgamated with other Forms.” Jane said, “All on their own they’re pretty bad, though.”

Erick nodded, then turned forward, asking, “What sort of locations were going to be initial targets?”

“The Traveler’s High Tower.” Lapis said, “It was the collection of Paradox Wizards that did not work under Phagar. They had a majority share of the transportation organization inside the Radiant Depths, which was one of the many Light-aligned parts of the Old Cosmology. They’re one of several locations known to the Dark that might prove useful, though getting there would be… difficult.

“Then there were the Dark Worlds. They lasted through the Primal Lightning storms the longest, aside from Veird, and they were the most intact inside the Dark when they finally did fall. They’re sort of like the Fairy Paths that would become Ar’Cosmos here on Veird. Those lands are highly random, and temporary, and the only way to visit them is to find a core that needs breaking, and then break it. What you see in the Dark in those moments are the Dark Worlds.

“And then there is the dungeon creation option, and making steady inroads into the Dark through that.” Lapis said, “To me, that is the most obviously safe way to do this, for a multitude of reasons.”

Erick thought on that. Then he asked, “What are the main problems you think we’ll face finding the causes of the Sundering?”

“The primary issue is that the Dark is just one perspective. A very large perspective, of course. He is the Dark, after all.” Lapis said, “Dungeons can be used to bring forth memories of the dark, and then gradually make those memories real, but every person inside the Dark is a shadowy reflection of a person, and not a real person. Them becoming real is an act of minor Wizardry. They’re all NPCs, to use the common dungeon vernacular.

“But in reality, they’re more… Dark imprints that have the possibility of becoming true people, of having their soul reawaken, if they’re given enough time and impetus to reawaken.” Lapis looked at Erick, as she said, “The Dark is Creation. He is only Paradox and Destruction in small ways. You are Paradox in a major way. With the Dark’s guidance, and your own power, you might be able to find something real in the memory of the past, like that bracelet around your wrist, and bring it out into this world.”

Erick’s staff of golden wheat reflections popped into the air, to float beside them.

Lapis nodded, then turned forward, and continued, “That sort of Wizardry would be the best for drawing forth a perspective from the Dark that does not actually exist in the Dark at all. Maybe, from this other perspective, we might find the answers we’re looking for.”

Erick thought on that, his eyes looking ahead, as ideas began to percolate in his mind.

They soon reached another wide staircase leading up toward the Throne itself, but this one led inside, instead of onto what Erick now understood as the ‘roof’. That path took them through an archway that reminded Erick of the one he had once seen in front of the Armory of Ar’Kendrithyst, where he had met Quilatalap for the first time, under his guise as the Caretaker.

It was an artistic sort of archway, composed of many people of all races and shapes, all done in black stone, all of them reaching upward, or helping each other to reach higher, toward a single white sphere above the archway that looked almost like one of Melemizargo’s eyes. The gateway was large enough for Erick to walk through in his dragon form, and the hallway beyond was even larger.

Beyond that black archway lay white walls of crystal, laced with shadow, and tree-trunk sized black pillars holding up a black, arched roof. Much deeper into that grand hall lay a massive open space, like a cavern, where a black pool rested in the middle, perfectly circular and placid. It was the Well of Melemizargo.

… And there was more to that space than Erick realized.

As Erick stepped onto the landing in front of the archway, he looked at the archway again, stressing his mana sense to the limit, and then going further with the All-Seeing Eye.

The interior space of that black archway of people… wavered.

“That’s a dungeon portal,” Erick said, looking up at the stone bodies pretending to be a simple archway. “That’s a dungeon in there.”

Lapis nodded. “Yes. It’s a hidden dungeon. Shadelings sometimes come out of the Well, but mostly they exist in the shadow city inside this grand dungeon. This portal is the entrance into that dungeon… It’s easier to see and understand than to explain.”

Erick was apprehensive about walking into a dungeon—

But Jane walked forward, Lapis followed.

Erick put aside his lack of trust, and spoke as he walked, “My first instinct is more along the lines of ‘what can Veird get out of this’, to prevent subsequent catastrophes, especially since it appears we will be dealing with Wizardry. How do you feel about focusing our efforts in that direction? And if we should happen to cross the Sundering, then—” Jane and Lapis had already crossed into the dungeon space, but now Erick followed, stepping through the archway… And nothing seemed to happen. He couldn’t even tell if his magic had been minimized, for it was all still working as it should. Even his staff still floated beside him. “... If we should happen to cross the path of the Sundering, then it will happen when we’re more prepared for that event.”

Lapis nodded as she continued to walk toward the Well, saying, “A more prudent use of resources could not be had.”

Jane stopped ten meters before the edge of the black pool, where a thin line of gold had been inlaid into the otherwise-white floor, like a ring encircling the whole pool.

Erick was glad that she had stopped, because his mana senses ended at that pool of black. There was nothing there as far as he could see, or sense. Using his All-Seeing Eye… Was not something Erick wanted to do in this location, right now, not knowing anything at all about what this Well of Darkness could actually do, or how it would respond to such an overt attempt to pierce its secrets. Despite how placid it was, and how silent it was, that black pool felt alive in a way few other things could ever hope to be called ‘alive’.

Jane seemed ready to open her mouth normally, and speak normally, but then she changed that idea, and spoke softly, “How does this work?”

Her quiet voice filled the entire cavern.

Lapis’s voice was much more normal. “Melemizargo is not actually here unless he wishes to be. This Well is for communication with the OverDark, which is not a real thing, but the idea is easier to get across when speaking in blasphemous, incorrect terms. Remain behind the gold line, and your words will barely reach the Dark. Step forward and brave oblivion by speaking your heart, praying for answers you can use.

“Using the Well properly requires speaking clearly in both word and action and magic.

“But at the same time, to speak to the Well of Darkness is to reach for True Magic.

“This is not for the weak. This is not for the unsure. If you harbor any of that within you, then to use this area is to invite oblivion to scour you clean from the world as it drags you down into its depths for proper answers.” Lapis said, “Those who have no Truth are the most vulnerable to the Well. Shadelings and Shades are least vulnerable, unless we actually touch the well, and then we are rather more vulnerable than most. An archwarrior, almost-Paladin of Melemizargo, and a secured Wizard dragon, should be reasonably safe, as long as you have clear ideas of what you want to know.

“Directly asking about the causes of the Sundering is not a good line of inquiry.”

Erick thought for a moment, then spoke with solidity, “I’m going to rattle off some inquiries that do not go against your warning, if that is safe to do in this location.”

His voice remained normal, for it did not spread out to fill the cavern, as Jane’s had. Thanks to Lapis’s words, and that small experiment of Erick’s, Erick understood that Jane’s query of ‘how does this work’ was way too open ended, while Erick’s own words had been more declarative than questioning. Jane noticed what Erick had noticed, and rapidly came to the same conclusion.

Lapis said, “Words stated instead of questions asked are a safe way to test your words before they become questions.”

Erick nodded.

He did not cross the gold line as he spoke, his words rippling the surface of the waters, “Evil gods responsible for great losses, and the possibility of those Evil gods somehow gaining a whole lot more power, even power over the Dark Itself, could happen if we searched for dead, Evil Gods in the Dark.”

The not-question had been a major one. But the Well did not react, save to ripple slightly. Could have just been the wind, though.

