“How long can we have?” Yuwen asked.

“Three days.” Ren said and looked at each of them. “Just long enough to have one grooming each.”

“I think you're spoiling us on purpose.” Dilseffa said, then her eyes widened because she had said it out loud.

“No, really?” Ren asked and grinned at her, and she couldn't help herself and laughed. “Of course I'm spoiling you.” He said and motioned to the stairs, and they all walked up to the top floor of the tower. “Like I told you before, I won't be known as someone who doesn't fulfill his obligations.”

“Is that what we are to you? An obligation?” Tiyaphi asked and equipped a see-through teddy and underwear when they entered the bedroom and smiled as she felt his desire spike.

Ren chuckled and equipped just a pair of underwear. “No, the obligation is for me to make you the best at what you do, now that you're mine.”

“By the way, that's a self-imposed obligation.” Artemis said and equipped a large t-shirt and a tiny pair of underwear. “You all know that he doesn't have to do anything for you.”

“We do, and so does everyone else.” Yuwen said and put on the tiniest bra and underwear Ren had put in her wardrobe. “I could feel Tatya's eyes as she stared at us during the rest stops.”

Dilseffa nodded slightly and equipped the same nightgown that she always wore. “I thought she was going to ask us why we were wearing our adornments; but, she never did.”

“She probably didn't want to know.” Ren said and climbed onto the bed. “Diseffa, you're on my right arm tonight.”

“Why on your right?” Dilseffa asked and climbed onto the bed and laid down beside him.

“It's my dominant arm.” Ren said and put his arm around her, then pulled her in close and lightly stroked her side. She closed her eyes and sighed happily as he pushed out comforting feelings.

“I'll take the other arm, since I had the legs last time.” Yuwen said and laid down on his other side to cuddle in.

“Are we rotating on a schedule or something?” Tiyaphi asked and laughed as she laid down between his legs. “What about Artemis?”

“We're only sleeping for an hour.” Artemis said and laid down close by without touching anyone. “I'll get my turn when you read your sacred books.”

“But, that takes hours.” Dilseffa said, then caught her breath when she realized that Ren and Artemis were alone together for hours at a time. She shivered at the thought and the pleasure they must have shared during all that time, and Ren hugged Dilseffa with the arm he had around her and kissed her cheek.

They drifted off to sleep at slightly different times and slept for just over an hour, then Tiyaphi took her turn and groomed Ren as much as she could before she changed. He groomed the only spots on her that he could, her breasts and special place, then they spent the day reading, training, eating, and then went back to bed. Yuwen groomed Ren the next time, and the day repeated with almost the same events, except that this time the training was cut short and they had a fun time as they played Tag.

The next day it was Dilseffa's turn to groom Ren. While the three Mistresses read their stat books, Ren went to the second floor and converted it into a mini-spa for them with a large Jacuzzi in the corner of the room and lounge chairs all around the outer walls. He went back upstairs just as they finished reading, and he brought them and Artemis down to the mini-spa.

“Wh-what is this place?” They asked at the same time, then laughed at each other.

“Adventurers call it a spa.” Ren said. “You can soak in the Jacuzzi with powerful Water and Wind jets to massage you, or you can recline on the lounge chairs and just relax.”

“A jack-what?” Tiyaphi asked and walked over to the large Jacuzzi. “It's filled with swirling water!”

“Yeah.” Ren said and equipped a pair of Speedos, and the three Pervarian women froze at the sight.

“Ren, you... you would wear...”

“I know they're a little tight.” Ren turned around and wiggled his butt at them. “Despite that, they are surprisingly comfortable.” He said, then was suddenly surrounded by three kneeling women and felt their hands touch him tenderly.

“Can you believe this?” Tiyaphi asked as her hand rubbed Ren's left butt cheek. “He actually goes out in public this exposed!”

“I knew he was a great fighter; but, for him to boast this much!” Yuwen said as she caressed his right butt cheek.

“The fabric is so strong and so thin.” Dilseffa said and she used both hands to stroke the cloth of the Speedo. Since she was in front, that also stroked Ren. “It barely covers...” She stopped talking when he became excited and popped out of the top of the Speedo.

Ren stared down at her and she looked up at his face, and she saw that his face was red and felt his embarrassment. Dilseffa smiled at him and let him feel how flattered she was that he reacted like that for her with so brief a touch, then she pulled the Speedo down the rest of the way to expose him completely.

Ren didn't say anything as she started to please him with her mouth, and he didn't have to. Dilseffa could feel his embarrassment change to gratitude and then to pleasure, as could Tiyaphi, Yuwen, and Artemis. Tiyaphi and Yuwen kept massaging his backside while Dilseffa worked him over, and Artemis floated up into the air so she wouldn't crowd the women on their knees around him.

Artemis floated in close and started to kiss Ren on the lips and hugged him. He kissed her back and his hands reached down to pet Tiyaphi and Yuwen on the tops of their heads. With all of their attention on him, it didn't take long for Ren to finish. When he did, he stopped kissing Artemis and looked down at Dilseffa, to see that she hadn't changed into her anthropomorphic form like she always did when trying to please him.

“Dilseffa.” Ren said, and she felt his wonder.

“Ren.” Dilseffa said as she stood up, and he felt her resolve.

“You held it off.” Ren said and reached up to rub her cheeks with his fingertips. “I'm so proud of you.”

“I... I know.” Dilseffa said and closed her eyes as his emotions flowed over her.

“We'll work harder at it, too.” Yuwen promised. “Won't we, Tiyaphi?”

“As much as we can.” Tiyaphi said with a crooked smile, and Ren felt what they meant.

“Um... wait. We're supposed to relax.” Ren said and tried to step back. They held him tightly and he couldn't move without potentially hurting them.

“We have you now.” Yuwen said and chuckled, and her hand squeezed his butt cheek.

“I could order you to let me go.” Ren said, futilely.

“You could also stand here like a man and let us practice.” Tiyaphi said.

Ren felt that their resolve was almost as strong as Dilseffa's. “All right.” He said. “At the first sign of changing...”

“We know the rules.” Yuwen said and moved from kneeling at his side to kneel in front. Dilseffa touched Ren's face briefly, then walked over to the Jacuzzi and climbed in. Artemis floated over there as well and they both sank into the water and relaxed.

Unfortunately, neither Yuwen's nor Tiyaphi's resolve was good enough to stop them from shifting after they had barely started to please him. Their own excitement over doing that to him was a bit too much for them to hold back.

“We'll get it right one of these days!” Yuwen exclaimed as she and Tiyaphi stood up. “We can go and relax now.”

I'm feeling a little used. Ren thought in amusement as the two women walked over to the Jacuzzi.

“Yeah, because they didn't even try to finish you off and just stopped.” Teepo said in the voice only Ren could hear and chittered in laughter.

Ren walked over to the Jacuzzi and Artemis floated up and out of the water to give him a hug, then while the others were distracted by the swirling and churning water massage in the tub, she took care of Ren's needs.

They all managed to relax that afternoon in the spa and enjoyed the rest of the day together, then Ren had to go on Adventurer's business. He deactivated and stored the Vasalor Statue and laid down in the middle of the bed. The three Pervarians and Artemis cuddled around him.

“See you in the morning.” Ren said and relaxed. “Logout.”
