Veronica's command hit everyone like a thunderbolt from the heavens. The impact knocked the weakest of the Avatars back, smashing them into the padding of their seats. Groans came from a few spots around the table, but no complaints followed. A glancing strike caught Shiv as well, but it glided off his Harbinger, sparing him from true harm as his Social and Magical Resistance skills made him a metaphysical bastion.

A crushing silence swept through the dining hall. Shiv went back to eating, ignoring the glares and the feverish looks of panic ripping through the others. Nonchalance became his rebellion—one that Veronica likely quietly appreciated and found childish all at the same time.

Then, out of nowhere, another subtler, quieter, more insidious attack struck Shiv—but promptly bounced off his Shapeless Tides as an incandescent tint lit his body. “Come on, Maiden,” Shiv mumbled between bites. “Been trying this all day; doesn’t work anymore.”

Practicing Atheist (Legendary) - You have wounded a god using the powers of their very own Domain. Your insolent act of unfaith will not go unnoticed—or unrewarded. Your Magical Resistance has gained a new layering. Though the heavens might spit their edicts, you bear an apostate’s armor forged from your own deeds.

Maiden the Genius didn't reply, and the iron maiden-shaped automaton she used for an avatar held to its own silence as well. Despite her aesthetic indifference, he could see the frustration lighting her core, but it only glowed in certain aspects of her empathy. It was like her mind and heart were fractured, with specific thoughts bleeding over into moments of emotion, while the rest of her had been surgically detached, extending out in prolapsed sections of pure logic and rationality, or what she assumed to be such.

Shiv suspected that she'd done this to herself to ensure that she was better at delving into the technical and scientific mysteries of the world, but one didn't simply sever oneself from their heart without side effects. Emotions existed for a reason. They weren't logical, but neither was existence or civilization—and so long as one lived and had to combat others, severing oneself from their own emotions paradoxically became an act of higher irrationality.

“Maiden. Daughter. Settle and sit. I beg of you.” These words came not as a command, but as a request, for Veronica still remembered her aesthetic place in the Republic, and the fact that one needed a measure of softness after the stick to compel an Ascendant to obedience.

A shrill, almost silent shriek escaped from Daughter. Cracks spread across the decanter of dark red wine Shiv poured his drinks from. Yet she faltered before she could fully shatter the glass.

Daughter plunged back into her Avatar in a splash of foul tar. When the disgusting substance receded, a girl barely able to reach over the edge of the table was left on her seat, shaking as nervous tears rolled down her cheeks and she looked between the gathered adults in naked fear.

Yep, that's Hannah, alright, Shiv seethed internally. She was half as old as the already small Waifs Shiv had been forced to fight in the Rubix Well, making her role here feel even more pointlessly vile. Fuck you, Veronica. I see what you're doing.

“I thank everyone for governing your impulses and letting order take hold,” Veronica began. “As you might know, you have been selected for a rare honor, a rare chance at redemption. I will not judge you now. You have all undergone your own trials. You have all been branded, but you have now been gifted a chance through faith in our Republic and the Ascendant of your devotion to make right what you have left wrong. As such, you are to be rewarded with luxury and service until the time you depart toward your fated task. The Ascendants that chose you have bestowed upon you your respective Quests. You understand the threat we face, and what is at stake. You understand that your deaths may all be but guaranteed. Hence I am giving you lenience. Hence I have held the worst of my judgment at bay. But do not confuse my intent now. You are not to treat each other as adversaries and bleed this expedition before it begins, for if you act in such a way, then you have transgressed twice over and served the purpose of the adversary, because of foolishness and stupidity alone.”

Veronica slowly let her gaze pass over the gathered people from left to right before finishing her speech. “And I trust that you are all still loyal, and do not hope to see this home of ours laid to ruin by the servants of the Shattered Moon and the beast they seek to unleash.”

Her words left the expendable Avatars cowed. Their Ascendants didn't speak openly, but most of them knew that factions were forming aside from them, split by a three-part fracture. The unseen Starhawk, represented by an empty chair to Veronica's right, stood as a faction unto himself, apart from all the others. Veronica and her grandmother were another, holding the critical mass of influence in the room, yet they were counterbalanced again by a sub-splinter connected to both them and the Starhawk: Shiv. The Deathless was not an outright enemy, for he was not aligned entirely with the Republic's God of Justice, and thus stood as another player in this great game.

Things were deliciously messy, as politics could only be, but through politics came a measure of balance and control. And so, with everyone suffering a measure of discomfort, there was a détente, a negative peace that continued, which allowed diplomacy and cooperation to spring forth on uneasy foundations.

“These words are unnecessary for us,” Harlock the Midnight declared, reaching out from Anthony to speak forth from every shadowed corner of the room. “It is the Deathless that concerns us, and it is the Deathless that should concern you, Veronica. His presence here is a blight upon the Republic. We accept his use as a weapon. We accept that our interests are aligned, but we do not accept him unshackled, unburdened, granted the same privileges as our Avatars and citizens. Especially after… after…”

The god's echoing voice trailed off as his Avatar’s gaze was fixed on the seat to Shiv's left. “Especially after what he inflicted upon Longinus…” Harlock finally finished.

But his words rang strangely hollow, for “Longinus” was currently tearing into her food like a starved woman, shoving handfuls of meat and vegetables in her mouth and splashing soup over herself that stained the chef's attire she wore, inherited from Georges. The arm-length, orange plumage growing on her head in stead of hair bounced as she leaned so far across the table she knocked Shiv's wine decanter over with her chest to grab the untouched bowl of soup sitting in front of X-Ten. She fell back in her seat and proceeded to shove her entire head in the bowl, loudly slurping up the contents before letting out a satisfied burp and licking her lips in open delight.

She had arrived not by Shiv's request or per Veronica's command, but simply of her own volition. By striding across dreams, she'd stepped out from the mind of one of her newly gained faithful, making her appearance in Yellowstone mere hours prior.

From what Shiv could gather, it seemed that the Dreamtaker was trying to make the followers of the Wanderer across the nation adapt to their god's mutations, to view them as not a degeneration brought upon the Ascendant by a foul attack, but more as a blessing in the form of an evolution.

Her tactic for convincing them lay mostly in actively encouraging and praising all her followers personally, for that was all she knew how to do. Though she'd evolved into a practically fully Integrated Divinity, the Dreamtaker still remembered much of her time as an Eldritch God and failed to truly distinguish herself from that former role. On top of that, bits of Georges leaked over from the part she'd absorbed, bits that bothered Shiv deep enough to fracture his person.

But however much the Dreamtaker's anomalous presence affected him, it troubled Veronica and the Ascendants ten times over, for their gazes were turned away from the Deathless, leaving only their Avatars to worry about the beast among them. They, the gods of the Republic, were too wary and uncertain of what had transpired in the Fairwoods to see another one of their rank devolve so horrifically.

But it wasn't pure scorn and strife that leaked from them. Some seemed outright hopeful and relieved, much like Shiv observed during his trial. Most had colored opinions of Longinus, and almost no one was outraged about his destruction, more so worried by the fact that a subsumption of an Ascendant was possible—and could happen to them.

Ignorant to all of this, the Dreamtaker patted her stomach in satisfaction. “Fucking love this!” she announced, already reaching for the next plate. “Compliments to the chef-cook!”

Her words echoed Shiv’s as she continued her sloppy eating, and upon beholding the shared looks of spiritual constipation between the other Ascendants and their mortal channelers, it was all Shiv could do to hold back his laughter.

***

“What a ridiculous scene,” Uva said, leaning against a counter back in Gate Piety. She was getting live updates streamed to her directly from Shiv's mind, as each of his vessels shared the same consciousness. “And what absurd excuses for gods make up this so-called Auroral Pantheon.”

“Yeah, you can say that again,” Shiv muttered, sprinkling chives on the orc meat tenderloin he was trying to make in replication of the elk he was savoring over in Flamecrown. “But I'll say this too: though Veronica is kind of a sack of shit, she is impressively good at keeping every one of them obedient and controlled. I think there's a lot to learn there.”

Nearby, a head of his mana hydra kept a goblin assassin with her head submerged in a bucket of leftover soup-slop. Shiv would have emotionally broken this one, but she proved strangely resilient in that area and just kept screaming and biting at him as she reiterated the pledging of her life to the Centaur of the Nestled East or whatever. As such, he decided she needed a bit of cooling down first and helped her to that. A full course of destruction would be delivered upon her when his Harbinger found an angle to strike at, and after her resuscitation, of course.

For now, Shiv had more pressing concerns.

“You should take care not to learn the wrong lessons,” Uva intoned telepathically, injecting him with the depths of her worry. Since the Delve, she wasn't so desperate to control and contain her emotions anymore. Now she decided to use them as tactical assets against him, against everything. She wasn't manipulating more, instead nudging through honesty. And he thought she was braver than before. The world wasn't purely an enemy anymore. It was a ground for transformation, and she would walk that path with previous burdens shed. “You know I have every confidence in you, but Veronica Chandler is more than an adversary you can face down with confidence and attrition. You're in her proximity now, exposed to her thoughts, her words. Do not misunderstand me when I say your philosophy and experience of society and culture are paltry compared to monsters like her.”

“No, you're right,” he replied aloud. “And I'm not embarrassed about that. But I think only by exposing myself to her and learning how she thinks from how she acts can I grow faster. If that makes sense. It's more than just physical or magical strain now—she's going to test us anyway. She's going to make me struggle, so why not just head straight to the source and keep the threat contained?”

“Yes, but again, don't face her alone. If you think she's proving convincing, or if she has you doubting or twisting my own mind in a certain way, remember what you pledged. Come to me, tell me first, and then I will give you a perspective beyond your own. I perhaps can give you thousands of perspectives beyond your own.” Uva hesitated. “It's hard to convey, but sometimes, superior argumentation is not the truth of things.”

Shiv nodded. “I think I understand that better than most.”

“Good.” Then Uva's expression became unreadable. “And I see the Dreamtaker is doing… well. It disturbs me that she just left without informing us.”

“I guess I was surprised for a bit, but not really.” Shiv scoffed. “She was an Eldritch God before, so consent isn't that big a thing anyway. We all know how Longinus was with asking people what they thought or what they wanted. Now she has twice that inheritance, and frankly I'm just glad she's doing whatever she wants on her own rather than forcing us into feeding her needs. Divinity seems to be expressing itself in pretty strange ways too. Dreamwalking. Can just pop out of someone as they're sleeping. I think Veronica wants to tap into that; she asked me what the Taker is capable of before this whole communion dinner started.”

Uva grinned wryly. “Yes, being able to slay your enemies while they're slumbering, or see through their thoughts and transport yourself and others is a treacherous Domain—one that holds a lot more esoteric worth than Longinus’ horizon-striding abilities. I can think of a great many uses for her. If she can be persuaded to obey.”

“I don't think that's going to be so difficult for Veronica, considering I can do it. But looking at the others in the room, I can see that they’re more than a little relieved.”

“Longinus was quite the monster to traumatize other monsters so,” Uva replied.

