“You're planning on going after the Undying Tarrasque? Actually, why am I surprised? Of course you'd do that. Can't say I blame you anyway. It seems like fires pop up around you whether you start them or not. Look, I can give you some ideas about how to subdue the Tarrasque, but that's it. And you know what? You might be the only Legendary-Tier who stands a chance just grinding the goddamn thing down through raw attrition. Even then, it's gonna take a few deaths to pull off.”

“I'll have help. I managed to enlist the Ascendancy.”

“…I'm not gonna dig how you pulled that off. But weren't they coming after you? Weren't you fleeing from them?”

“Harbinger.”

“Of course. Chorus is gonna love this. Alright, look, two things: first, you can't just chuck the Tarrasque at us. We don't have the room for it. We don't have the means to transport it away from your realm into someplace safe, and if we dump it into the Outside, well, we don't know what might happen. A Tarrasque is meant to grow fast and occupy the ceiling of a realm. It's literally a strife magnet. And when its internal legend outpaces the ambient threshold, it goes off like a mana bomb larger than your brain can imagine. Boom. Collapse. And before you ask, no, Chorus is not just flinging your Tarrasque into the Outside as a test. You do something wrong, and the System might slap you for it. There's a reason why Chorus is still around—because they don’t fuck around with shit they’re not absolutely sure about.”

“So, my Tarrasque recycle and return plan is dead. Got it.”

“Look, if you can kill the thing, just kill the thing. And like I said before, you might be the most well-positioned person in all of Integration underneath Mythic-Tier to kill a Tarrasque. Mainly because you share a bunch of the same skills and can keep coming back. But it’s going to be your Vitality Drain that does it. Looking at your skills and abilities, you shouldn't trade punches with this thing. Get close. Stay attached. Anchor yourself to it using your magic. Use your parry skill to counter its magical nullification and keep yourself pinned close to its body. Don't let it shake you off and just keep draining it. You almost got there last time. Between you and the Ascendants, you might just be able to suck it dry of vitality and collapse its existence.”

“I still want to keep the thing alive, though, to spite the System and all that. What if I perpetually drain it to the point of terminal weakness and throw it into space or something?”

“No. Absolutely terrible plan. Zero out of ten and may god have mercy on your soul. Shiv, you have to know how much weird shit you go through. Even if you stick a body on the Tarrasque and keep draining it over and over, you’re going to end up Delving again in… a month, let’s say? Or you get disabled some other way. And then that thing will just teleport straight back to Earth. And building a dimensional prison is untenable too. Look at the Jotun—they’re desperate to make the Tarrasque someone else’s problem. Gotta think about these things, kid—why are you making that expression? Holy shit, what are you planning?”

“Fairwoods.”

“Please, Shiv…”

“It’s a good idea.”

“No. Somehow even worse than the last one, actually. Evanescia loves giving Tarrasques new traits—and then she fucking forgets about them after a few loops, and guess who has to do cleanup again.”

“I’ll be there too. Hells, I can try to teach it how to cook.

“Shiv, just kill the poor hound. Please.”

“You guys should have done better to keep your monsters from getting stolen. Up to me to decide now. How did you manage to lose a Tarrasque to Sullain of all people anyway?”

“We didn’t lose it to Vicar Sullain—it got snatched by someone else and caged before it could fully develop on the world it was meant to destroy.”

“Huh? By whom?”

“Alright, so there’s this guy called the Realmrunner…”

—Recorded conversation between Myth John Produveral and Legend Tanner “Shiv” Lowe

VII-65

Houndhunt (I)

“How could you allow this? Veronica! It’s not right! I hate him! Make him go away! Make him go away!”

Daughter's tar-black presence filled the room with a foul stench, but her whining and her repugnant pungence went ignored by Shiv as he continued enjoying his twelve-course meal. The first thing he nursed himself on was the trout. It was smoke-deep, brown, rich in representation of the Rocky Mountains, one of the longest-standing mountain ranges on the continent, he'd been told. Wild chives and potatoes were splayed by the trout’s side, offering a respite from the sour-sick stench radiating off Daughter.

Nearby was a bowl of soup, clear and pristine, filled with hearty black lentils and sprinkled with thyme. There was also a clean plate, once filled with salted bitter roots now boiled inside Shiv's stomach. Of all the meals he'd eaten so far, it had disappointed him the most. The brittle root was cooked unevenly; someone in the kitchen was either rushing or simply careless to allow such an outcome. A true pity: the rest of the bitter root was so rich and even in delightful flavors.

Then there were thin-sliced loin chops, splashed and coated in juniper berries, further made glistening by cured egg yolks and crispy sage; the pale white of pheasant breasts mixed in with a sort of tart sauce Shiv was unfamiliar with. A palate cleanser was served after that in the form of icy granita made from wild mint and local honeys. Then there was the grilled bison tenderloin that teased Shiv with curled fingers of heat; an assortment of regional artisanal cheeses splayed nearby; pitch-black truffles filled with sage and dotted with pine needles. Finally, huckleberry cobbler, bright with glistening vanilla and coated with a dense layer of whorling caramel.

Despite a few disappointments here and there, the culinary artistry on display at Flamecrown put Shiv to shame. But though he was outmatched, he wasn't truly ashamed. This was a good learning experience, and it gave him insight into being a better cook. He knew he could match any of those dishes if he had enough time to focus and plan, to prepare himself and dedicate every single one of his skills in concert. His grand strategic thinking, lacking in combat, also translated to a deficiency in the art of cooking. He thought too much of singular dishes. His courses were too small. His experiences were narrow and focused on the small scale.

Georges had always been the one to decide the items on set lists, and so Shiv simply worked in concert. Now, with Georges gone and Shiv running his own kitchen, he needed to think broader, grander: how each dish supported the other, how the appetizer led into the denser, thicker meals, how the result was meant to be a final touch, not just blind sweetness and overwhelming taste. And then there was the Sky-Swallowing Carp's distinct lack of palate cleansers when one taste lingered so deep in someone's mouth. There needed to be a refresher in between; otherwise, the truth of one meal would be drowned out by the one that came before.

The Deathless smirked. I got a lot of work to do—a lot of things I need to update. But in the meantime, I think I'm really gonna enjoy this…

There were other issues he had to contend with, mainly how his Unique Pyromancy inflicted flavors derived from philosophy. That was a deeper stain he couldn't so casually wash away. If he could create extreme flavorings from specific minds kindled, then maybe he could find some people who were more neutral. Perhaps that would be the source of his philosophical refreshment: those who were indifferent or at least committedly barren of extreme ideals.

Such called for more experimentation.

“Veronica!” Daughter shrieked again, but in the depth of her divine outrage there was a reverberation, a slight, near-imperceptible sob. Shiv could see the contours of the girl worn by Daughter the Deadly, and he recognized her face. He held the anger at that fact deep inside, allowed it to churn and boil in his stomach along with the meal he was digesting.

The Councilwoman was playing a game of her own with this meeting.

***

Elsewhere in the capital, Shiv sat outside a café across from Captain Irons. Both of them were looking at a local bank on the other side of the street. The place was visited by the same people every day, wearing the same outfits, pretending to sort the same registers. But even if Shiv was ignorant of the operation taking place, he would have read the falsehoods from their body language. The people working here were not administrators or bankers. They dealt not in money, but in bloodshed and violence. Their bodies were hardened by war, possessed of Toughness and Physicality unlike anything a non-martial could achieve.

And it was in the depths of that bank that there was a dimensional gateway that led to one of the Inquisition's dimensional re-education camps.

There, Melissa Harrington and countless other dissidents were likely undergoing brainwashing and enforced patriotism.

***

Back in a dining hall of Flamecrown Castle, however, Shiv was staring at someone he and Irons had been looking for for a while—Melissa's lost sister. Hannah Harrington was coated in a dense veil of suffocating oil, trying to break free, to regain control of herself, but unable to. For how could a six-year-old child contend with the will of a divine monster?

But perhaps the truest monster of all here was Veronica Chandler for allowing such a thing to happen, and using Hannah as a bludgeon against Shiv on top of it. In any other circumstance, he would have faced Daughter willingly. There would have been blood and death between them, and he would have done it over and over again. For she was the one he viewed as the most unacceptable, the most undignified of all the Ascendants, and the sentiment was shared for the psychological and spiritual scar he'd left upon her.

A gleaming mark marred her face still. Alight with Vitae, a cut he'd left on her face during his escape from the Rubik's Well.

“Enough,” Jessica said from the head of the table, exactly opposite Shiv's seat. There was about ten meters of distance between her and Shiv, and along each side of the long table were the critical “volunteers” for the upcoming houndhunt. Indeed, most of the expendable Avatars gathered were people who had actually willingly given themselves to their Ascendants—true faithful who had simply transgressed in horrific ways or suffered a terminal ailment that the Republic either couldn't or refused to cure, and now sought to perform a final service for the nation they loved.

But even patriotism couldn't quell the disquiet burning inside of them. Shiv saw the unnerved looks in their eyes as much as in their cores. The expressions they offered him bordered on the edge of hateful, but their hearts were mostly consumed by fear and worry. For he'd been presented as a prisoner, a monster, a defiler of the Yellowstone Republic for what he had done to Longinus, and yet now he was allowed to eat at the end of the table they dined at, enjoying the same privileges as they. He appeared as an equal rather than a contained adversary, repurposed into a hound of their own. That disturbed them, made them wonder, but it didn't give them enough courage to question Jessica and, by extension, the will of the Songbringer.

Of the thirteen Ascendants, twelve were manifested over their respective Avatars. One of the two that sat closest to Shiv, towering over him on the right, was Cripple, mantled over the humanoid body of X-Ten, a fugitive automaton that had recently surrendered willingly after months on the run. Now simply exhausted and ashamed, it sought to reach its final end and perform an act of greatest sacrifice to make up for what it called its months of unredeemed, irredeemable cowardice. As to what transgression it had performed and why it had been a fugitive for so long, it refused to say. The humiliation and loathing burned deep, and Shiv's Harbinger granted him insight, telling him that if he pushed at all, the automaton's mind would fracture, and its heart and body would follow.

It was among the most brittle beings Shiv had ever encountered, far more than even one like Havel Van Stormhalt, and any manipulation would see it crumble to dust. But no manipulation was necessary for X-Ten—Cripple was already on Shiv's side, and practically everyone who mattered in the room knew that: Veronica, Shiv, Jessica, Anthony, and Kathereine.

Tension built as Shiv continued enjoying his meal, eating alone while everyone else struggled to muster an appetite. His fork and knife clicked against his plate, but he held to what decorum he still retained from Georges' tutelage despite his boiling anger. He lifted his head, noticing Daughter glaring at him with her arms crossed, malice held in check only by Veronica staring her down in turn.

“You guys should really try this,” Shiv said, informing Irons about finding Hannah with his other body in the same breath. He lifted a slab of elk before slowly placing it in his mouth and chewing. “Send my compliments to the chefs, Councilwoman Chandler. You know, I'm starting to see why people want to fight for the Republic now. Just a bit.”

The grand mahogany table rattled with violence as a metal fist embedded itself halfway into its surface. The vibration reached Shiv, but he ignored the idiot throwing his tantrum. The expendable Avatar of Enoch the Builder—a tall, thin automaton with a cube-shaped head—was about to rant or rage at the Deathless for his disrespect, but his intended performance was cut short as the Avatar sitting at the center of the seats to Shiv's left uttered a single word.

“No.”

