Shiv paused as he considered that statement. As much as he hated Longinus, and as much as the memories of what happened in the Boiling Toad ignited Shiv's blood and fueled his Harbinger with rage, there was a part of him that sympathized and regretted killing the man Longinus used to be. “The god was. The man was just another victim, ruined by a legend that wasn’t his own.”

“By the Songbringer—whom you must beware.”

“Other way around, I gotta watch out for Veronica,” Shiv corrected. “I think she has my number, but if Kathereine comes singing to me, she'll have to crack me open before I do her first. She might be a social god, but she's also decayed, and she knows it. She feels it the worst out of all the Ascendants. She knew the brilliance she once wielded, the insights she once had. Now it's all gone. That hurts her. And she hates that I know that.” Shiv grunted with dark amusement. “Veronica wasn't bullshitting when she equated herself to the Republic. She's not everything, but she is the scale, the pillar that holds all of that together. The pillar between the gods and me too. We gotta kill our most virtuous enemies first, Uva. If we get the chance, we gotta kill the foes we respect the most.”

The Seeker hummed in accord. “Adam's condition is changing for the better, albeit slowly. Hymn thinks we’ve reconstructed just under a percent of his mind, but that point of stability is granting the connected memories a means to compose themselves. I have to stay in place and reinforce his sanity.” Her fingers tightened around the edge of the countertop. “He’s so broken, Shiv. Even when we put him back together and he finishes his Delve, I fear… I don’t know what might come of a psyche so traumatized.”

“But I know,” Shiv said, resolute. “I know what will come out. It'll still be Adam, even if he's hurt, even if he's crippled in some way. It will still be Adam, and we're still going to be here for him. And he'll get better. He will. We won't stop until he does.”

Uva telepathically forced herself to believe, if only to give Shiv his comfort. The Deathless hated that, and both of them knew—their thoughts and emotions were interlaced. But neither gave voice to the lie they were composing, and as Shiv's Harbinger cracked, unable to fully abide by the grand self-delusion taking place, Uva's focus leaked out from him as she resumed her duty to see the reconstruction of Adam’s consciousness.

“Shiv,” Gone said, suddenly next to him where she wasn't before. “You left this one in the pot too long. I think she's out.”

“Ah, shit,” Shiv hissed as he ripped the assassin out of the pot and threw her on the ground. “Toad! Mouth to mouth!”

Immediately, one of his Fae toads exploded into action, tripping over the ground and then over the goblin’s unmoving body before scrambling back with a series of comical sound effects to plant their enlarged and exaggerated mouth upon the drowned goblin's face. Soon the toad began to suck, and their chest cavity collapsed with every inhale, followed by violent hacks after every exhale.

“Still don’t think it’s necessary,” Gone said.

“It’s the principle of the thing, Gone,” Shiv replied. “I can’t just kill someone for breaking into my kitchen; they gotta live to hate themselves. Death's a mercy, and with these fuckers constantly breaking in, I’m not feeling so felling kind right now.”

***

“Are we expected to be blind to what he has done, what has befallen Longinus?” Harlock asked, genuinely disquieted by the scenes playing out before them.

“You could’ve saved him, you know?” Shiv said, dabbing at his lip with a cloth far too dainty and delicate for his massive hand. “You just had to keep his worst impulses in check. But you didn’t. You looked away before because even if it bothered you, he was an Ascendant, and who are you to criticize your fellows? Well, I helped you.” He gestured to the Dreamtaker on his side, who was currently scooping ice cream into her mouth with a soup ladle. “The new Longinus is a bit strange, but I think we can actually trust him with the lives of children. A pretty impressive feat, no?”

The shadows at the edges of the room coiled in on themselves, and Shiv somehow read Harlock’s body language in the awkwardness of how the darkness bent. Harlock wasn’t getting ready to strike, but cringing.

Maiden didn’t cringe. She instead prepared to Curse Shiv again, but was stopped as Cripple, Dollus the Deceiver, Charity the Bountiful, and Hermit the Coldness all snapped at her to leave it be.

“I still hate you, Deathless thing! Hate! Hate! Hate!” Daughter howled from inside Hannah’s unwilling flesh. But then the godly core of volatile emotions inside the girl settled into something approximating dark relief and—was that a measure of unwilling gratitude? “But I don’t think I hate, hate, hate new Longinus that much. Her hair is pretty… And I like how she stays dressed around my Waifs now!”

At that statement, Shiv’s right eyelid twitched as he mustered his considerable will not to spike his Shapeless Tides in the direction of Veronica in an attempt to unlatch her skull from her body using his steak knife. “See,” the Deathless said, fighting to keep the hate in his voice buried. “Even the one that hates me the most here gets it.”

“I’m still gonna hurt you bad, meanie!” Daughter shrieked.

Veronica held up a hand without ever changing expression. Everyone fell quiet—and the Councilwoman gestured for an automaton attendant to come by and fill her glass with more wine. “We are not here today to address grievances. We are here—all of us—to familiarize and accept our comrades for their purpose in this undertaking. No one here is perfect or clean of sin, but I expect you to place lesser grudges aside until after the greatest threat is bested. I do not expect any of you to view one another as kin, but I do ask that you demonstrate the self-control necessary to see things done.”

Did you ever ask Longinus to control himself? Such was what Shiv wanted to spit in taunt, but he kept himself quiet and played along—if only to make use of the present circumstances. If things devolved into violence, well… Shiv could do a lot of things, but murdering a spiritually enslaved child in a fit of rage was a rough ask, even for him.

And he could see Hannah staring at him, her eyes bright and terrified—of him and the monster inside her—while a blank-faced Stormhalt sat nearby, his gaze distant and mind laden with a dormant Inland Embassy bestowed upon him by Shiv.

Seconds passed, and though Shiv and the Dreamtaker were the only ones eating at the start, Jessica, who'd left the table at some point, entered the fray with a second helping of elk straight from the kitchen and looked over everyone with her mouth open in amazement. “Holy shit, no one’s killed anyone else yet. Nice job, guys.”

The look Veronica gave her was almost withering. Jessica ignored her. Or at least pretended to.

“So, I got a question,” Shiv said. Everyone was looking at him again, and the air was dense with wariness. “How are we supposed to practice for this mission? Because I don’t think just smashing each other in sparring is going to be enough. Since all of us expendables are together, what’s the big idea?”

“Such is a question for the commander,” Veronica said, narrowing her eyes at Jessica.

“In… progress,” Jessica said casually, ripping mouthfuls of meat off a plate-sized steak she had skewered on Rusty, transformed into a kitchen knife. Somehow, her table manners appeared even worse than the Dreamtaker's; she ate more like a starved dog than the grandmother she was.

“In progress,” Anthony repeated flatly, his face deadpan.

“Yep,” Jessica insisted. “Intelligence is getting gathered about how we can navigate the north and where the dimensional prison might be and all that. We know when the trade might happen between the Court and Scorn, but we need more.”

“And what progress have your Inquisitors made?” Veronica asked.

Jessica barked a laugh—and proceeded to nearly choke on her steak, hitting her chest with a fist to make it go down. “The kind you might expect. A lot of intercepted messages and shit, but, uh, you know how dogshit our Diviners are compared to the Jotun Prophetesses.” The awkwardness that followed her insult filled the atmosphere with crushing outrage and disbelief. It would be one thing if Shiv mocked the Republic, but Jessica was a famous Legend of Yellowstone. But perhaps it was specifically because of that she could speak so openly. “So, we have to apply more direct means. And for that, we had to subcontract.”

The Councilwoman looked like she wanted to strangle Jessica as much as Shiv wanted to strangle her. “You neglected to mention this, Legend Hawgrave.”

“I did?” Jessica said, blinking. Shiv covered his mouth and tried not to snort because this wasn’t a shared scheme to piss Veronica off—Jessica actually just forgot. “Ah, fuck. Look, I’m not trying to snake you or anything. And Shiv, fuck you and eat shit.”

The Deathless frowned and gestured at himself. “What? What did I do?”

“You were supposed to remind me to tell her,” Jessica spat, actually spitting out pieces of food she hadn't swallowed yet. “Or tell her yourself.”

“My memorization's bad too!”

“Tell me what?” Veronica said, her eyes now locked on Shiv.

“Oh. Right. Uh. Valor? Are you around—” When Shiv looked to his right, Valor was indeed right there, and the Deathless nearly bit his tongue. “Ah. Hi.”

Everyone else in the room flinched. Anthony facepalmed to hide the fact that his tanned features turned a shade paler.

“Midnight! You shame us again!” Kathereine snapped through Veronica.

“Forgive me, Songbringer,” Harlock replied acerbically. “I will endeavor to do Harlem’s duty next time.”

Harlem’s Avatar, a young man in white, much like the one Shiv had seen in the Rubix Well, shot to his feet and seemed prepared to leap over the table and start a brawl in defense of his Ascendant, but Harlem proved more mature than his fellows as he refused to rise to the pointless provocation and silently instructed his Avatar to sit back down.

“I see,” Veronica said, rolling her eyes instead of suffering any kind of rage. “It would have been better if either of you deigned to inform me; that way, I could have seen the Republic’s resources turned to Legend Thann’s advantage.”

Valor glared at the Councilwoman with caustic emotions hissing inside his core. Whatever veiled feelings she held toward him were mirrored by abject disgust in him at what she allowed to happen under her rule. “There is no need; the Republic’s resources might have done the opposite regardless. Stealth is best exercised agile; without the clumsy shackles and machinery of empire groaning at your back.”

She caught his subtext and leaned back in her chair. Her eyes gleamed with judgment and consideration, but whatever she wished to say to Shiv or Jessica about Valor’s presence was discarded or delayed as she gestured for the lich to continue. “So, then, since you’ve decided to intrude and grace us with your august presence, Legend Thann, and with the Republic so unworthy of assisting you, might you be willing to declare your intentions and position in this matter?”

“My intentions and position are simple,” Valor replied. “I am here to help resolve the beast you allowed to escape. I will see the matter of the Tarrasque settled, even if the Republic does not wish it to be. In this World Quest, we are nominal allies; in truth, you are nothing to me at all.”
