

“I moved, My Lord.” Deliliah said. “Free housing, no taxes, and a job that pays twice as much as a normal job?” She smiled. “It didn't take me long to realize how great of a deal it was.”

Ren looked at her clothing, then let a smile appear on his face. “I like your real clothing.”

Deliliah laughed. “It's a little weird that you can tell just from a glance.”

Ren chuckled, stepped to the side, and motioned to the carriage. “Allow me to show you the operation of this carriage.”

“Thank you.” Deliliah said, and Ren showed her how the brake for the left and right sides worked, how the reins were stronger and more responsive, and that it could turn very quickly if she wasn't careful.

“I'm glad that I didn't tell you I already know how to drive a carriage.” Deliliah said. “This is a lot different than the one I trained on.”

“I just built it, so it's bound to be different from an old one.” Ren said. “It needed separate brakes on the sides because it's so large, and I figured it should have a higher speed and faster turn because it's about half the weight of a normal carriage.”

“How did you manage that, with a larger carriage?”

“It's got a metal frame with wood panels, rather than thick heavy wood throughout.” Ren said, turned and thanked the manager for staying late to get the team ready, then climbed into the carriage. “House Neram Keep, please.” He said to Deliliah, and Teepo flew along above it. They arrived there a couple of minutes later, and Ren climbed out. “We'll be leaving shortly.”

“I'll turn this monstrosity around.” Deliliah said and smiled.

Ren looked at the guard. “Please let them know the carriage is here.”

“I already did, sir.” Broxor said. “They're on their way out now.”

Ren nodded slightly and ran up to the building with the personal maids in it, and Teepo flew over as well and landed on Ren's shoulder. Ren knocked once and the door opened; then he let out a low whistle at the sight.

The 5 female dwarves looked almost completely different from when he'd been there before. Their hair was styled in matching hairdos and they had applied makeup to accentuate the same features on each of them. Even though Ren had been conservative with the cut of the dresses, they looked a lot more suggestive than he thought they would. They also seemed very pleased with his reaction.

“You all look very nice.” Ren said.

“You don't.” One of them said, and he laughed.

“I forgot to change.” Ren said, and equipped the suit that matched their dresses.

“Oh, my.” She said. “Someone catch me.” She smiled. “I might faint.”

Ren smiled at her, then looked at each of them. “I order you, for tonight only, to ignore my order for you to stay in this building.”

The 5 of them sighed.

“You know just what to say, don't you?” One of them said. “We were... well, a little worried that you would remove the order.”

“I've had a little bit of experience with a personal maid.” Ren said and smiled. “The last thing I want to do is cause you distress by removing an order you clearly need.”

They all nodded slightly.

“We're glad that you understand.” One of them said. “Shall we go?”

“In a moment.” Ren said. “You need your accents first.”

“Our what?”

Ren smiled and took out one of the brooches he'd enchanted with the gold plate, and held it out for them to look at.

“Isn't that...”

Ren nodded slightly. “When I first opened the door to the hidden room, several plates were thrown quite violently at me.”

The female dwarves laughed.

“We all had one to throw.” Another of them said. “We ate from those plates every day.”

“I thought so.” Ren said. “It was the first time we met, and seemed like a strong common thread between us.”

The female dwarves nodded, and Ren handed each of them a brooch. They pinned them to their dresses above their hearts, and Ren pinned his to his own chest and examined it with identify.

Brooch Of the Plate

This brooch has been enchanted with a symbol of the first meeting between Ren the First and his personal maids. It grants the wearer Aura: Contact Level 1 (Beginner 0% - Special), and can only merge auras with another Aura: Contact if they shared the same experience. Current distance: 15 feet

Ren thought about that time, and the Aura popped into existence. “Now I'm going to break my self-imposed rule about sharing my Aura with people I don't really know.”

“You can share your Aura?!?” One of them said.

“Yes, with someone I had a shared experience with, and create a way for them to do it.” Ren said, and pointed to the brooches.

“These?” Another said and looked at the brooch. “Ha. I didn't even look at it.” She said and looked at the other women. “It says just what he said.”

“How do we do it?” One of them asked.

“Close your eyes.” Ren said, and they did. “Now, remember that moment. Right when the door opened and you let those plates fly.”

The female dwarves did that, with varying degrees of success, but all of their Auras popped into existence, then merged with each other and Ren's.

“By the GODS!” They said together as their auras merged. “I can feel what you feel!” They said to each other, and Ren laughed. They all felt his amusement and gasped.

“Sorry.” Ren said, and reduced how much he was sharing.

“Wow, that was...”

“Amazing.”

“Scary.”

“Wonderful.”

“Now I really, really want to have sex with you.” The last one said, and Ren could feel her desire. When he looked at each of his personal maids, their desire for him was encouraged and brought to the forefront of their thoughts.

“It's... been a really long time for all of you, hasn't it?” Ren asked as his body reacted to feeling so much desire for him.

“A lot longer for some of us.” The one who was completely straight forward with her thoughts said. “If I thought for even a moment that it would work, I'd drop to my knees and beg.”

“Me, too.”

“So would I.”

“I wouldn't get on my knees.” One of them said. “Not to beg, anyways.”

Ren looked at the last one who hadn't spoken, and he felt her growing shame. “I am so sorry.” He said as he walked over to the youngest of the group, and took her into a hug. “You tried it with Throgg, and not only didn't it work...”

“He beat me until... until...”

“...you didn't want him anymore.” One of the others said. “Why didn't you say anything?”

“I couldn't!” She said, and started to cry. Ren took out a cloth for her to dry her eyes. “It's not like saying anything would help at all, anyways.” She said. “I signed the contract, and that was that.”

“And when I said I didn't have room for more women in my life, and then I got your contract...”

“I thought... I thought that...”

Ren felt her desperation, and her need to hide in case he did decide to make her not want him by using the same method.

“I would never, ever do that.” Ren said. “I love women.” He said. “Probably a lot more than I should.”

The female dwarves felt what he was letting out with his admission, and their hearts were weakened from how much love he had to give.

“I said I didn't have room in my life for more women, but that doesn't mean I won't have room later.”

Her eyes sparked from her tears, and he could feel a small spring of hope inside of her.

“I won't promise that anything will happen.” Ren said. “I'm not going to lie.” He smiled. “But, if it ever does happen, what I can promise is that you'll be first.”

“R-really?” She asked and that little spring of hope became a small stream.

“I'll defer to her when the time comes.” The one who had started the whole desire thing said.

“We all will.” The others said, and Ren felt their support and agreement. “Her need is greater than ours.”

“Well, I wouldn't say that.” The brutally honest one said. “She can just go first.”

Ren laughed, and let a large burst of amusement flow into the Aura.

“By the gods!” One of them said. “Can you do that again?”

Ren let even more amusement into the Aura, and they all smiled.

“That feels really good.” She said. “Can you keep it going all night?”

Ren nodded slightly, and she put a hand on his arm.

“Then we'll stick close, so we won't leave your Aura.”

“About that.” Ren said. “You won't have to worry once I pick up my cloak from the Keep.”

“Why?” One of them asked.

“You'll see.” Ren said. “Or feel, I guess would be more appropriate.” He smiled. “Would you like to see the next thing I made for you?”

They all nodded, because they could feel how excited he was about giving it to them. Ren took out one of the small tiaras, and they stopped breathing. He felt their shock and surprise, though.

“It's not that big, because I wanted it to accent your faces, not take away from them.” Ren said. “The necklaces do the same thing.”

“The WHAT?!?”

Ren took out the necklaces that matched the small tiaras and held them up together. “One for above your face, and one for below.” He said. “I wasn't sure if people would pay you enough attention, so I... enchanted them to make sure.” Activate. He thought, and the center diamonds on the necklace and tiara glowed. Because it was inside a diamond, it acted like a prism and threw off all different color lights.

“You sure know how to draw attention!” One of them said.

“May I put them on you?” Ren asked her.

“Of course.” She said and stepped forward. Ren put the tiara in her hair after asking for help to make sure he did it right, then hung the necklace around her neck. The diamonds with the Illumination runes lit up the surrounding diamonds as Ren had intended, and both pieces glowed from reflected light.

“You look so pretty!” The youngest one said. “Do me next!”

“We already agreed that he would.” One of them said and chuckled.

“That's not what I meant!” The youngest said and rolled her eyes, and they could all feel what each other felt and laughed. Ren gave each of them a tiara and a necklace, activated the enchantments, and stepped back.

“I think we're ready.” Ren said, opened the door to go outside, and smiled at them. “Please, come with me.”

“It would be our pleasure.” One of them said, and Ren's 5 dates stepped out of their living space, with the intention to cause as much of a spectacle as they could.
