The winged serpent, still rushing at a now prone Aaliyah, noticed what Tabitha was doing thanks to how her shadow moved, but it didn't care—at least not initially. He was sure she would die before her sword pierced too deeply into its flesh. Her attack would hurt, but it was a small price to pay for his victory.

The snake was already celebrating his victory in its child-sized brain when he felt it. The closer he neared his weak and defenseless prey, the more the venom covering his head vanished. It didn't disappear all at once; it fizzled and fought back, but eventually, as he was mere feet away from swallowing his prey whole, his head and neck were completely cleansed of poison for one infinitesimally short second.

He was moments away from swallowing Aalyiah whole when all his instincts screamed at him to move.

For the first time ever, the lesser dragon sensed death approaching. Quicker than lightning, the winged serpent's one good eye swiveled around in its socket to see Tabitha plummeting out of the sky towards its now exposed neck with her sword held high.

Aalyiah had successfully pushed back the snake's poison just enough to give her teacher one opportunity, and she wasn’t going to waste it.

The snake's brain went into fight-or-flight mode immediately as it tried to stop its charge and dodge at the last second. The winged serpent’s head twisted in the air, narrowly avoiding Aaliyah, who was still collapsed on the ground in front of it, trying to move out of the way, when it suddenly froze in place.

On the ground, barely clinging to conciseness, spectral hands equipped with ghostly bracelets had erupted from Aaliyah's back and plunged into the snake's body.

Aaliyah had his soul in the palm of her hands. It was reckless of her to do so; she wasn't in the right headspace to utilize her skill. One wrong move and she could rip out the snake’s soul and turn into a monster—

But that didn’t happen.

Aaliyah ignored the voice in her head urging her to take everything from the snake and kept Soul Devourer plunged into the snake without harming its soul. Her skill did absolutely nothing physical to the snake, but the weird sensation of having its soul grabbed was more than enough to make it pause momentarily.

And a moment of hesitation in battle was equal to a lifetime of mistakes.

Tabitha repositioned herself mid-jump and landed squarely on the winged serpent's back, which was frozen due to Aaliyah's skill. Tabitha's junior sister had accomplished the impossible—again; now it was her turn.

Like Aaliyah, Tabitha put everything she had into one final sword swing before the poison clinging to the snake's lower half once again covered the rest of its body. She put her Stamina and health— her hopes and dreams— her mana and willpower into a single slash.

“Dragon Slash!" Tabitha didn't know where the name came from; it just felt right to shout.

Her blade flashed downward, cut through everything before it, and the battle ended as quickly as it started.

Total time: Nine minutes and fifty-three seconds.

The winners: Tabitha and Aaliyah.
