Rubbing his eyes, Brother sighed once more before falling into quiet thought. He’d been sighing often of late, only speaking of happy events while keeping his troubles to himself, beside himself with worries for slaves and strangers, family and friends. Though he believed Baledagh unconscious and unaware, Brother hid his anxiety, visiting every day and painting a happy picture in hopes Baledagh would return. It didn’t make sense, why did Brother care so much? He should be ecstatic Baledagh was gone, he’d been nothing but a nuisance since awakening the first time. Time and time again, he'd gotten them into trouble with his headstrong ways, leaving a giant mess behind for Brother to clean up, and now, he’d been relieved of his burden named Baledagh, free to live life as the Undying Falling Rain.

Brother faded away and Baledagh waited for his return, but this time, there was no good news to be had. After laying in bed for a few minutes, as he always did, Brother covered his face and sighed. “Orders from Baatar arrived just before dinner. It’s been two weeks since the Defiled retreated and there’s been no sign of them since, so we’re leaving Sanshu in the morning. We’re going home. It’s gonna be a long journey, since we don’t have enough quins or horses, and I want to stop in at the Butcher Bay hideout. Jester Wang reckons there’ll be plenty of treasure still around, and it should be safe enough. Problem is, I'm out of time. I haven’t come up with any ideas on how to save Diyako and the others, which means come morning, I have to order the deaths of innocent civilians. Of children.”

With those ominous words, Brother fell silent, fighting to keep from crying. Wracked with shame and remorse, Baledagh considered his options. He’d long surmised that Brother hoped Baledagh would wake in time to inspect the civilians for Defiled, but he wanted nothing to do with this life, with this world. Aside from Brother, there was nothing left here for him, with only Brother’s daily visits to keep him from vanishing into the void. No matter how much he wanted to leave, every time Brother appeared, Baledagh couldn’t tear himself away, returning to listen to his every word.

He couldn’t do it. How could he abandon his brother, when Rain wouldn’t abandon him? Even knowing Baledagh was Defiled and needing his help, Brother didn’t rush or plead with him, giving him time to recover on his own. What sort of brother would Baledagh be if he left now, knowing he could help? No matter how necessary, ordering the deaths of children and innocents would destroy Brother, perhaps even unbalance him. Maybe not immediately, but he would hold it close for years, never speaking of his pain or suffering until it was too late. For all his modesty, Brother had his pride, always shouldering burdens on his own and seeking answers without help. He could have given the unbound commoners to someone, or asked Gerel to decide, could have taken a multitude of easier paths, but he didn’t. Brother wanted to save these strangers and was willing to pay any price so long as it didn’t impact his family. That’s simply who he was, a kindhearted, compassionate fool who dreamed of saving everyone.

Qing Qing would have to wait, but she'd understand.

The world shifted as Baledagh opened his eyes to stare up at the ceiling, smiling at the various carved depictions of heroism and glory. No wonder he always stopped and stared, so it was to carve this. The scene wasn’t to Brother’s taste, he’d rather look at animals or women, no, this was done for Baledagh. A small thing, but the sight warmed him more than words ever could. Perhaps he wanted Baledagh to gaze upon something inspiring upon waking, or maybe it was merely a passing fancy, this tiny, almost insignificant detail showed how much Rain cared.

Baledagh had been a terrible brother, he knew this now. Since awakening, he’d known feelings of jealousy and resentment, hoping to one day overthrow Brother and take his place as Falling Rain, but no more. Brother was Falling Rain, and Baledagh was Baledagh. Perhaps someday, they would walk side by side in the real world, but if not, then such was life.

“Sorry Brother,” he said, sitting up and shocking Rain from his stupor. “I’m awake now.”

“You’ve got nothing to be sorry about, little brother,” Rain replied with a smile on his face. “Welcome back.”

Chapter Meme
