Fisher and Lydia kneel before me, both radiating mature Royal Vibrations and Advanced Primordial auras with similar strength to the Warlords behind me.

They have Abby's protective arrays sealing their Purple Core's overwhelming gravity from destroying the Lower Realm, appearing similar to the generals above.

However, they look far more aged than Arie and Raven. They are far past what middle-aged humans normally look like, leaning toward the edge of their twilight years.

They have the same look of contentment and wisdom. When I scan the moon and artificial world we orbit around, I feel a scattered bloodline resonance throughout many positions of power.

There are quintillions of humans here, but the few thousand strongest are all descendants of the two Commanders kneeling before me.

It is an interesting sight to behold. Fisher was one of my first teachers, assigned to guide me through mana control back on the human world. Lydia was the same guide for Maria. Now, they speak to us with humble tones.

"You have returned. Our Emperor has succeeded."

"Welcome back, Empress. We watched your battle for all these years, it was the faith that kept me going."

Maria's fingers move, and she pulls both of them up with thin webs of mirrors.

"You have done well," she replies, while my consciousness follows all of the ether pathways streaming out from this enormous base.

It has even more surveillance and energy ports than the Galactic Core, just hidden behind complex arrays. While the public base we just left is larger and outfacing as the epicenter of the galaxy for trade, this base is the true core for intelligence and control. All signals flow through here before ending up at the Galactic Core.

"It looks like we have one more stop to go." I tether us together again and void step up toward the deepest hidden link between every zone.

Deep within the Ravine, behind layers of shielding arrays, there are dark caverns where not even the light of ether highways glows enough to shine through.

All of the pathways between the Cyan Zone and Green Zone bend around this consolidated space. There are no public transport routes leading to the Ravine, only special nodes within Fisher and Lydia's moon base, and one more at the very top of the Upper Realm where Abby's control center lies.

When we appear at its center, I witness a team of a few thousand people all kneeling before me.

At the front, Monk and Luna both kneel. Extremely strong Purple Cores fill their chests, and two extremely distinct Advanced Primordial Auras permeate out of them.

One is pure white, emanating out of the old bearded man that I once knew as the young man from the Dark Continent's Valor City Arena of the Human World. It feels serene and perfected, as it integrates with the near-flawless grade ether filling his soul energy core.

The other is made from controlled demonic chaos, flowing out of the old stature of Luna. Her eyes are closed as she bows her head to the ground. However, I can see through their true form.

Her ranked-up transformations have merged and evolved over the centuries. Instead of summoning the many demons and monsters she's defeated into the sky, they now all stack into her own.

I feel millions of pupils hidden behind her eyelids.

The team behind them is made up of three distinct types of people. The first are pure white ether forms that do not integrate with the mana-based system any longer. Many of them are elders of the temple that Monk originated from.

The second group is comprised of unrelated humans, all with very standard potentials, and there are a few faces I recognize from long ago. One is Lith, the old leader of Valor City. Another is the Old Association Director of the Bedrock Region. More and more familiar faces appear, and some still remain unknown, but they have all grown old and devoted the rest of their lives to work here.

The third group is small, but they are all from the new eras we left, sharing law fluctuations that link them back to the many generations of the commanders before me.

At the very back of the crowd, there is a bright white ascended elf kneeling and bowing their head too. Ren, the final admin, has gone through very unique Primordial Aura shifts. Usually, after one uses this legacy to sacrifice their physical forms, they can no longer progress. At least, that was what often happened to demons that tried it in the Purple Zone.

Yet, the last light elf has become many times stronger and radiates an aura filled with far more confidence and sense of belonging.

With a swift hand movement, the thousands of beings before me rise. Though, my gaze looks far past them, analyzing the billions of sorted and studied compartments filled with Originator Artifacts collected all throughout the Lower and Upper Realm.
