~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Courage ignited and hope rekindled, Yan banished the unsettling memory of the Demonic Aura and stood ready to face her foes. Cold terror and crushing despair lingered behind, twin fangs sunk deep into her soul, but she was Du Min Yan, granddaughter and Terminal Disciple of Du Min Gyu, and she would make him proud.

Channelling more Energy of the Heavens than she’d ever channelled before, she didn’t understand why she was able to do this now, and in truth, couldn’t bring herself to care with the Enemy charging headlong towards them. Despite her desperate need to focus, her mind couldn’t help but link this newfangled experience to something Rain once said regarding his struggles with Balance. He likened the Heavenly Energy to a raging torrent threatening to drown him within, unable to find breath until his struggles came to an end, at which point all that was left were peace and tranquility. She always found it odd that he would name his weapons so, but now she understood, for if she could find peace and tranquility in this entropic turmoil, then she will have advanced by leaps and bounds with regards to Chi.

Before, she likened the touch of Heavenly Energy to sitting down by a lit hearth during a cold winter’s night, a warm and gentle caress which kissed the skin and sank deep into one’s bones. Slow, subtle, and seductive, its enchanting touch gently pulled you into its embrace, and Yan was always happy to oblige. In contrast, this was more like walking into the searing heat of Mila’s forge-room or stepping out into a stormy gale, not entirely unwelcome, but so direct and abrupt like a passionate lover who’d been starved of affection too long. Yan struggled to control the torrent, to direct it where she wanted it to go, but she would’ve had an easier time trying to out-muscle Mila and Husolt combined. The Heavenly Energy went wherever it pleased, and for now, it seemed determined to settle within her Core, at which point it would revisit whatever options she presented it.

Amidst all this struggle and contention, Yan found it impossible to craft the delicate workings needed to Hone her Wind Blades along the edge of her Battle Fan, so she simply threw conservation aside and unleashed a flurry of attacks on her enemies from afar. Lancing out in invisible arcs, her Wind Blades crashed into the foremost Demons to little effect, their innate Domains blunting and dispersing the budding, half-formed Domains she bestowed upon her Wind workings. This was where her weaknesses showed, her lack of Natal Palace and Domain hindering her from advancing any further along the Martial Path, but despite all the advancements made in the past two years, she was no closer to Forming her Natal Palace than the day she first left the People to become Grandpa Du’s student.

Not so with her peers, as she soon saw firsthand. Li-Li’s Aura was already a Blessing from Heaven, Condensing her hope and determination to hold back the crashing waves of Terror and Despair, weapons powerful enough to bring low a Divinity. Granted, this ignoble defeat had been dealt by the hands, or rather turtle claws, of an even more powerful Divinity, but Yan knew that if it were not for Li-Li’s fortuitous development, they would have all died here without raising a hand in their own defence. Emotional Aura was in a class of its own, so much so that if properly utilized, it was akin to using regular Aura on a helpless commoner, and helpless was the key word. There was nothing Yan could have done to resist, nothing anyone could have done to shake free, even if it were Grandpa Du or Akanai standing here with them. There was only one person and two turtles that Yan knew of who could have counteracted the Demon’s Aura. The person in question, Rain, was fast asleep and unreachable, and the first, more self-reliant and powerful turtle wasn’t here. As for Ping Ping, she was a sweetheart with no head for battle, her Aura still sitting idle and unused as she paced back and forth in front of Rain.

Which meant Li-Li had single-handedly saved all of their lives, but that was not the full extent of her contributions.

As the beautiful warrior strode into battle wearing her resplendent Runic armour, it was easy to see Grandpa Du’s influence upon her Martial Path. Though her movements differed from his, Li-Li possessed the same cold, aloof manner Grandpa Du displayed a handful of long hours ago. Wielding their sabres with exquisite poise and indefatigable purpose, they both cut through their foes without blinking and killed with laughable ease. Their presence didn’t draw the eye, but their attacks were so well-aimed it appeared as if their enemies yearned to die upon those sabres. Most importantly of all, wherever they went, their efforts bolstered their allies and supported those in need, though Li-Li did so in a far less domineering way. What she lacked in raw power, she more than made up for in speed and precision, her killing strikes measured to near perfection as she fought with frightening efficiency. Perfectly timed Deflections were followed by impeccably executed Amplifications, allowing her to not only slip past her foes’ defences, but also parry powerful strikes which Yan would have no choice but to avoid. Li-Li fought with her life on the line, staking everything on her skill alone, for one mistake would lead to death or disaster, but the steely half-cat barely even blinked whereas Yan’s nerves frayed just watching.

And then Kyung arrived at her side, and she was like a tiger given wings.

Somehow, they were both able to accurately judge and assess the strength of their foes, and know exactly which one of them should handle them. Li-Li cut down the weaker chaff while Kyung dispatched the more capable Champions, and together, they formed a bulwark which no Demon or Defiled could pass, one which held firm in front of Rain and his wagon of pets, within which he was firmly ensconced so that anyone attacking his carriage, the more obvious target, would find only disappointment waiting within.

A surge of jealousy flared within Yan as she watched Kyung and Li-Li fight side by side, their movements so naturally coordinated it was as if they’d trained together from birth. Though most might think this the case, Kyung himself admitted he’d done no such thing, and in fact had never exchanged more than a dozen words with his half-sister in any one conversation, yet somehow, they were utterly in sync. It was a product of Grandpa’s training, and a feat Yan herself could not replicate, since Grandpa had nearly beggared himself paying a Divine Blacksmith to forge her a Spiritual Battle-Fan. This was a part of his legacy Yan would never share in, and it burned to see Li-Li encroaching upon what was rightfully hers.

Then there was mighty, tyrannical Mila, striding into battle like a force of nature and killing a Demon before the clash even began. Yan hadn’t missed seeing the short spear fly out from their ranks and pierce through an armoured Demon’s defences, Domain, Deflection, and a raised guard still not enough to block the hurtling spear, the impact somehow killing the hardy monster with a single strike. In contrast, no one even saw Yan’s Wind Blades at work, for they tapered out and were rendered ineffective before ever touching a Demon’s skin. Even now, while Mila’s Paragon bit deep into the Defiled lines and left naught but death in its wake, Yan was standing here twiddling her thumbs and throwing out Wind Blades that only killed one Defiled at a time. Throughout this entire battle, all she’d done was throw herself into the fray and come out with less soldiers than she started with, her effect on the overall battle close to nil. Her Wind Blades were impressive yes, but only with regards to their complexity, not overall efficiency. Fung and Seoyoon were easily able to match her efforts on the battlefield, while Song was handily outpacing her in kills, and no one could compare to Mila’s overwhelming contribution throughout the entire battle, not even Mother-in-Law Sarnai and Alsantset combined.

Oh what a deadly pair this mother and daughter made, two warriors cut from the same cloth. Forceful, yet not overbearing, aggressive, yet accommodating, they neither held their ground nor pushed forward into the Enemy, but rather ran roughshod over and around them. Back to back the two women fought, their sweeps and thrusts passing within centimetres of each other, yet neither one balked or hesitated while dealing these high-speed killing blows. This was a trust which went beyond words, a bond which could only be described as familial, allowing them to do things no two other warriors would even dream of. Contrary to expectations, it was not the despotic Speaker Sarnai dictating the flow of battle, but the kind, soft-spoken, stubborn Alsantset who set their pace. Watching over her like a fierce guardian deity, Sarnai followed her daughter into combat and helped her to win glory. When Alsantset struck high, her mother blocked low, when she thrust right, Sarnai guarded left. Before Yan’s eyes, she watched Sarnai feint and expose a weakness which her daughter exploited, only for Alsantset to block a Demon’s overpowering attack just so her mother could deal a decisive blow.

How nice it must be to have a mother’s love, something Yan would never know because she was unwanted. Grandpa Du took her in, but only because he’d lost Kai and Song both, making her the third choice at best. No, even lower than that, for Grandpa had Kyung and could have taken Da’in if his pride had allowed it. Yan was only picked because there were no other options available, and if there had been, then she would have been left behind once again, just like all those hopeful parents had ignored her to adopt other, better children instead. For good reason too, even if they didn’t know it because Yan was a black star, a harbinger of disaster. Just look at Grandpa Du, who lost his entire fortune and the love of his family for taking her in, or her husband who lay spiritless and comatose behind her. Would he even be here on the battlefield if Yan hadn’t obstinately run off to do battle? Probably, but only because Mila had come. Yan was merely the second wife, a bonus wife, a woman he kept because she’d adamantly pursued him, slipping into his yurt like a brazen harlot without scruples. He was too good a man to spurn her after the deed was done, and Mila too kind to refuse Yan a chance.

Mila. Li-Li. Alsantset. Lin-Lin. Even Luo-Luo offered more than Yan ever could. What use did she have? What accomplishments did she have to her name? Nothing she had was earned through her own efforts, not her rank, her Spiritual Weapons, her quin, or even the clothes on her back. From the day she was born, everything she possessed had been given to her by others, and she didn’t even have the good graces to repay what was owed, forsaking the People who raised and trained her to run off with the first stranger who offered. Now, she wore the most fashionable silks paired with the most expensive of jewels, while living in an opulent manor and eating the finest of foods, living a life of luxury all thanks to the men in her life.

There was a word for women like that, a hateful, ugly word so many in Central had already associated with her name. Du Min Yan, the whore who seduced Du Min Gyu and Falling Rain both.

Idiot. Even without all those trappings, you would still be a woman of worth. Was she not the Sanguine Whirlwind, Du Min Yan? Warrior of the Hwarang and Sentinel of the People, a rising Dragon and the envy of all. The Adujan of yesteryear was a brash, confident, and courageous Warrior, so why had she changed so much along with her name? There was no need to care what others might whisper, so long as she showed her true worth with her actions alone.

A memory came to her, one she’d long since cast aside, and as if seeing it through different eyes, the veil parted and understanding dawned. Gathering her Chi into her Spiritual Weapon, she drew her arm back and cast her six-pointed shield out into the crowd with all her might. Striking a Defiled Warrior from almost point blank range, the impact knocked the ugly bastard off his feet. The Runes on his breastplate protected him from the brunt of the force, but Yan was not done. Kindling Wind Chi around the shield’s bladed edges, she formed a singular Wind Blade which drove itself clean through her foe’s neck. Catching the shield without even needing to think, she moved back three steps and cast her shield out again, this time having a clearer image of what needed to be done. Rather than aiming directly at her target, she aimed for the space beside him, and as her shield hurtled through the empty air, a Wind Blade came into existence and took her target’s life. Forward, the shield continued, with Wind Blades forming on all six points, the weapon itself a whirlwind of death as it passed through the Defiled lines.

This was how she used the shield when she first bound the weapon, but she thought it silly to throw away her only Spiritual Weapon. The Battle-Fan was helpful for utilizing Wind Chi, but as an actual weapon, it was less than optimal. Granted, it still killed as well as any other blade, but it took a great deal of effort to adapt the Movements for use with the exotic weapon, and Yan had been so focused on learning how to harness her Blessing, her basic skills had suffered for her progress.

