Struck by another bout of Insight, Yan’s eyes widened with glee as she reached out to her shield and Guided it to curve around. The weapon responded so quickly she almost lost control, but she soon realized that the ease of Guidance was not due to her proficiency with the skill itself, which was admittedly mediocre, but rather because the shield was so perfectly crafted to not only cut through the air with startling ease, but to also harness its flight to accelerate as it went. Small wonder Divine Blacksmith Husolt had called it some of his best work, even going so far as to chastise Yan for not using the weapon to its fullest extent, for this was a killing weapon unlike any other. Even without use of her Wind Blades, she could send it hurtling through Defiled bodies with little more than a thought, moving about in long, circuitous loops and killing all within its path.

Right up until a Demon leapt in to smash it aside.

Yan saw it coming at the last moment, and inwardly winced at the thought of losing her weapon for the interim. Unlike Mila or Sarnai, Yan had no idea how to call her weapon back to hand, and while finding it would not be an issue, she would likely have to wait until after the battle was done to go running after it. Out of petulant spite, she Honed her weapon to the extreme and formed the densest Wind Blades she could manage, and even Amplified the impact in hopes of damaging the Demon even a bit, and the results were surprising. As the armoured fist struck the Spiritual Shield, Yan’s Honed Wind Blade bit deep and affixed itself to the Demon’s forearm instead of being batted away across the battlefield. Before she could even rejoice over her good luck, Li-Li swooped in and lopped the Demon’s arm off while Kyung finished it off. Dislodging the shield with a snap of her wrist, Li-Li flicked the shield up into the air with her sabre, allowing Yan to take control of it once more. Rather than push her luck, she directed it back over towards her and caught it with a grin, which Li-Li responded to with a soft smile of her own.

Buoyed by this success, Yan threw herself into the fray once again, unleashing a flurry of Wind Blades with her Battle-Fan and putting her Bladed-Shield to aerial work, albeit on a reduced scale compared to before. With the addition of Wind Chi, she realized she had almost complete control of the spinning shield and set to learning all its secrets, while simultaneously studying how she could utilize her Battle-Fan more effectively. There was a time when she lamented how unwieldy her exotic weapons had become, but now, she cherished their complexity. Funny how these weapons had been gifted to her by the two most important men in her life, Du Min Gyu and Falling Rain. One a doting father figure, the other an adoring husband, Yan would not be the woman she was without either one, and she loved them both with all her heart.

A warm gentle breeze caressed the back of her neck, and she felt the Energy of the Heavens respond to her innermost sentiments, more eager and compliant than ever before. There was a greater power at work here, some benediction of the Mother, for despite having used so much Chi, her Core was still almost full, her expenditure only marginally faster than her rate of replenishment. Whatever it was, it left her feeling loved and adored, but somehow, she also knew it would not last. How she knew, she could not say, but it left her with the same, bittersweet sensation she had felt when she first bid Rain farewell. It was silly to let herself be distracted in battle, but she risked a small glance towards him and knew nothing had changed. He was still lying there, asleep and unresponsive, but alive and well, or as well as could be expected. This had happened before, and like always, he would pull through in the end, and then she would tease him about getting old and falling asleep at the most inopportune times.

That’s all this was, Yan told herself, a temporary coma from which he would wake. She believed this to be true with all her heart, because to believe otherwise would be to give into despair, for she was not yet ready to lose him.

Yet lose him, you will.

A loss you can endure.

Casting these dark thoughts aside, Yan threw herself into battle and let the wind dry her tears, tears she refused to acknowledge because to do so would be her undoing.

Chapter Meme
