Deep within the Sea of Corruption, within the crevasse of even denser black liquid—still as corrosive as it was tens of thousands of years ago when the Wyverns' Citadel fell—Seraphel remains in his fully unsealed Celestial Form, glowing light blue and spanning over a hundred kilometers from wingtip to wingtip.

The fact that his High Noble Vibrations have been artificially sealed and forcefully pushed deep within his soul for millennia has caused a horribly painful delayed reaction in his breakthrough and control of this power.

If his prison of seals were unshackled above the sea, this Lord would have exploded into tiny fragments of divine threads, dispersing for tens of millions of kilometers across the Green Zone of the Upper Realm.

The thousands of times more pressure and the unfathomable suppression of energy and movement speed beneath the sea are the only things keeping the outer layers of his body together as days pass.

Even then, waves of vibrations are already leaking out from the sea and intensifying.

Blue tendrils of water-imbued divine thread creep upward through the black sea as Seraphel's physique adjusts to its new environment, and his dulled and fatigued mind—that has been regressing beneath Ellipsia—adapts to the shock of finally having its power restored.

In doing so, some of the excess pressure needs to escape in physical form. Even under the constraints of the corrupted sea, Seraphel is still at risk of shattering his body, mind, true core, and soul if he doesn't maintain total focus and acclimate to his restored power.

This release, to relieve the pressure, however, shoots upward out of the sea, creating what looks like upside-down blue lightning, blasting jagged waves of Celestial-grade energy in random directions.

Some even pierce upward through the green clouds, tinting the sky blue for millions of kilometers in every direction for a few seconds.

They fade away, leaving only a slight aura of water magic residue in the air, and the shockwave of High Noble Vibrations dissipates as well. Seraphel's mind finally calms beneath the sea, and the pressure starts to slowly build up again.

–

These High Noble frequency waves rippling through the Green Zone of the Upper Realm fade away just as suddenly as they appeared.

However, their presence prompts Ember to activate an ability, making his eyes sparkle with silver light. An invisible white glow made from ether, far denser than ordinary Low Quality commands shields this silver perception aura from being sensed as its sent toward Seraphel, deep in the Green Zone of the Upper Realm. Another pulse is sent toward the Mensa Citadel as well, just to be safe.

A gentle smile crosses his face as he nods, thinking, 'It must have been necessary... He knows as well as I do how dangerous exposing a wave like that could be. I thought you were defeated, like all the rest, once I saw your eyes after millennia beneath Ellipsia. But looking at you now, Seraphel, I believe Jay may have strengthened your will.'

He even lets out a chuckle, the silver glint still in his eyes, before shifting his gaze from the Sea of Corruption to the Berserker lying asleep next to him, then over to the Tower full of generals—specifically Raven, as she stands in the center of Floor 256 in her Greater Battle Form, holding two long black swords.

Every few seconds, the general activates her True Core's ability, slipping out of reality into her stealth dimension, where the decaying flesh caused by the dense attacking green threads is not as severe, and her ability to process the Low Quality ether in the air is enhanced.

It's as though she has a better grip on reality in this state, and a glint of scarlet red pulses in her eyes, resonating with the swords she rightfully won on Kelfar. Additionally, whenever she feels as though she isn't pushing herself hard enough, two events surface in the back of her mind.

The first is her battle in the Dark Continent against the Flame Emperor, when her spark to live was reignited. The second is the rush she felt while diving into the unknown, embracing the will to either win a battle or die trying—sacrificing her blades and part of her True Core to kill a King stronger than herself.

Every time she heals within her stealth dimension, the crimson glow alters, as it lacks a living will to keep it on a stringent path. Unknowingly, Raven is using the will of the Berserker King's Scarlet Clan's Aura, shaping its properties to create an aura of her own to match her will.

Ember whispers to Zashen as he sleeps, "Looks like your Ancestor's spirit will live on in more ways than one. You won't be the last survivor. The Scarlet Clan lives on."

Then, he turns to Arie on Floor 297, where his unique chambers are filled with pure demonic energy, Low Quality Ether, and divine threads. Thousands of light purple hands, each with dense white cores, spread through the room, pulling in energy that floods into the young man's True Core and Demon Core nearby.

He has a mana-based core too, like the others, but it is far weaker and not fully melded with ether properly.

This isn't exactly a disadvantage. In fact, it allows him to wield demonic energy with far greater focus and efficiency—like a demonic beast.

Yet, his techniques—or even the fact that he's using demonic energy—are not what catch Ember's attention.

It is the bow floating before him as he sits in a lotus position on the floor.

It vibrates subtly, aiding Arie's physique with an invisible aura that weaves between his cells, allowing them to be torn apart on a microscopic level—even destroyed completely—yet an echo of what they were remains in these vibrations.

So, the shared Divine Grade self-regeneration skill adapts to his new vibrations streaming through his body and uses these echo-like memories to perfectly rebuild his flesh, even after it's completely gone.

It allows him to focus more on shaping the demonic energy into his Demonic Core and processing the massive amounts of ether.

Ember thinks, 'So the Morvales really did keep one of those corpses around after you lost... I was wondering where your legacy went after all these years.'

Grinning, he remembers the battle he had with an old Overseer in the desert of the Dark Continent, against the weakened reincarnation of an immortal Lich King—once the ruler of a Dark Elf race.

His shimmering silver eyes track to Abby, calmly sitting in the center of Floor 401, where the pressure is similar to what it is naturally outside in the Upper Realm. Though, there is far more mana and ether nourishing her body and mind.

She is having the easiest time assimilating out of anyone here. With her 3rd Ranked Up Buff activated, and True Core ability pulsing outward to create a bright green outline of a sparkling physique around her body, she can pull in divine threads like she is breathing fresh air. They do not harm her at all. Not a single cell in her body is damaged—the threads and energy are absorbed directly into her Divine Core.

If it weren't for the Amplifier Class Soul Weapon, which is now giving her a mental battle far more difficult than any physical one, she might have already made it to the top of the Tower by now.

It is pulsing like crazy, flashing many intricate runes, and transmitting far more past memories of the Wyvern race directly into her mind—from the point of view of thousands of Noble Grade Creatures that all participated in many great wars, both on the planet she just left and now up here in the Green Zone of the Upper Realm.

Ember's eyes turn from the Generals' Tower back in the direction of Seraphel, whose physique slowly fills with more Noble Vibrations beneath the Sea of Corruption, and he thinks deeply to himself once again, 'This is another outcome I could not have predicted... The Immortal Healer and the Wyvern race crossing paths...'

Instead of a smile, his face turns to one of contemplation, as if he is reworking the possibilities of a massive game of chess.

Yet, instead of relief after figuring out the moves that must be taken, Ember's gaze is accidentally caught by a rainbow-colored angel on the 333rd floor of the Ascension Tower, making the probability of things going his way even more uncertain.

Maria's 3rd Ranked Up Buff is activated, and the Destroyer Class Soul Weapon in her grasp has grown to match the outline of her soul, spanning many kilometers in length.

Massive amounts of energy from each floor of the Tower are swirling around her, pouring into her Soul Energy Core, which still houses her True Core—tens of times larger than average.

This is a variable the Rising Emperor did not anticipate. The tower itself is only made to get the generals ready to step foot outside in this realm, if there are not enough threads within the chamber she can easily absorb more from the endless clouds in the Green Zone.

The 2.5 Million Low Quality Ether each, and mana drained from tens of 1st Class Worlds on the other hand; are necessary in order to fuel her Soul Energy Core further, but may not be enough to satisfy this anomaly.

Even though this should be the spectacle, Ember has already studied her Soul Energy Core back in the Lower Realm. He knew exactly where it was headed to reach this point and how far it was capable of going.

However, the glistening, refracting crystalline sword in her grasp—sending a light show of rainbows throughout every room she teleports upward in—is what Ember cannot take his eyes off.

'Source Resin of this quality and purity in the Upper Realm... And it has submitted its will to a Lord...? Now that is something new...' he thinks, as his perception technique begins to wear off, lessening the gleam of the silver glow in his eyes.

The refracting crystal-clear light even shimmers within Maria's Greater Form, as she has made this entity's soul her weapon, and now their fates are intertwined as well. Yet, Source Resin is a malleable and highly volatile energy—one so rare and unpredictable in its purest form that only an Overseer should be capable of controlling it.

Yet here she is, holding the will of a Noble Grade World in her grasp.

While the Ice Mage knows this is a unique weapon—one more powerful than anything else she could have possibly brought from the Lower Realm—not even Asic or Torvak, who have studied Soul Weapons all their lives, could properly comprehend what power she actually holds.

'I may have to be careful of this one... She has the potential to alter the system as well...' he ponders, while his eyes finally lose their silver luster and return to crimson, standing in the silent top floor of the High Orc Tower.
