“I guess,” Jake said, fully aware that it ultimately didn’t matter. Still... “Doesn’t mean I won’t aim to be the being with the highest Perception in the entire multiverse.”

“The All-Seeing one might give you competition there,” Artemis chuckled, referring to the Void God known as Oras, who also happened to be Arnold’s Patron.

“Actually, do Void Gods even have the same stats as others?” A thought struck Jake.

“I assume so, but I don’t know,” Artemis admitted. “I’ve never directly interacted with a Void God.”

“Really?” Jake asked with surprise. “Never? You’re a Godqueen. I find it hard to believe you’ve never bumped into one when making your way through the void, considering how many journeys you must have taken through it.”

“One doesn’t merely bump into a Void God,” Artemis chuckled, shaking her head. “Very few gods have ever interacted with one, and the vast majority of us would like to keep it that way.”

Jake kept looking at her with doubt as Artemis stared back at him, a look of realization in her eyes.

“You’re about to tell me you’ve met a Void God, right?”

Scratching the back of his head, Jake hesitated to answer.

“Wait... multiple?” Artemis looked genuinely gobsmacked.

“... just two,” Jake muttered, remembering the time he’d traveled to his Chosen reveal party with people from Earth and had been intercepted by Oras and one other Void God.

“How and why?” Artemis asked, not even giving Jake any grace despite being tired from the whole bow ritual thing.

“Well, Oras, because he blessed a friend, and I guess we’re both Perception fans,” Jake said. “As for the other one... it was just kind of there? Looked like a mess of shifting cubes or something, real weird that one. Didn’t even bring a gift like Oras did.”

Admittedly, Jake was fucking with Artemis by adding that last part.

“... what do you mean gift?”

“For my Chosen reveal party,” Jake said as if it were obvious before proceeding to take out the void lollipop he’d been using to keep his Perception all topped up after every level up.

[Vision of Oras (?)] – A small bead containing Records and energy created through unknown means by the Void God, Oras. This item has been bound to the Chosen of the Malefic Viper, Jake Thayne, and cannot be used by anyone else. Consuming this bead grants +125812 Perception. Directly consuming this item may cause adverse effects. Beware, staring into the small bead may grant you visions of the void.

Also, yes, the amount of stats it gave from Jake instantly consuming it had more than doubled since he’d gotten it. In retrospect, Jake didn’t think this was because the item had gotten stronger, but because the system estimated Jake could get a few more stats before consuming the orb would inevitably blow him up... or implode him... definitely kill him.

Artemis stared at the orb for several seconds before letting out a big sigh. “What can you even do with that thing?”

“Get Perception,” Jake said, sparing Artemis the knowledge that Jake used it as a lollipop. He would save that one for later.

“I want to ask more, but I won’t,” the goddess had seemingly surrendered. “If I were you, I would go get some rest. When you’re back in top form, testing out that new bow of yours seems pertinent.”

“Definitely up for that,” Jake concurred as he prepared to go have a lie-down, but not before smiling at Artemis. “Just for a little, though. We have a dinner date to attend, after all.”
