Nathalia nodded slightly, and Ren let her hand go. Barnar walked around the table and Ren followed him. They left the house and went through the gate.

*

“By the gods, mother!” Nathalia said after the two men left the house.

Narhilda blushed and then smiled. “I know.”

“But you still have...”

“3 more years. I told him that.”

“Then what was...”

“He said 3 years was nothing to wait, compared to meeting me.”

Nathalia stood up and walked over to where her mother sat, and gave her a big hug. “I want to tell you to stay alone forever, because of Dad.” She said and Narhilda half-laughed-half-cried, just like Nathalia did when she'd mixed up the dress her father had made. “But really, I'm just happy for you.” Nathalia said, then leaned back and looked at her mother in the eyes. “This is all thanks to Ren, you know.”

“I do.” Narhilda said. “If it wasn't for him...”

*

Ren finally had a chance to look at what the workers were actually doing. He saw they'd set up scaffolding to reach up to the top of the battlements. Ren examined the scaffolding closely and got the plans for it. Then he watched as they mixed up some mortar and used the icing bags to fill the exposed cracks. Another worker had a bucket of mortar and covered over the section of wall that was just filled. Ren looked down the length of the front wall, and saw that nearly all of it was done.

“Barnar, your crew has covered almost the whole 200 feet of wall here.” Ren said, amazed. “In just one day!”

Barnar chuckled. “It's because of your icing bag, my friend.” He said and waved to the workers. “Once we put someone on the other side to scrape off the excess, all that needed to be done was to cover it all.”

“That's great!” Ren said. “I'm glad it's working so well.”

“It would have been completely finished if we'd started out this morning using it.”

Ren chuckled himself. “You didn't believe it would work until Lady Neram came out here to show you herself.”

Barnar grinned and took Ren into a one arm hug. “Thanks for that.” He said. “I might not have met her, otherwise.”

“I'm sure she would have been out to see it when it was finished.” Ren said.

Barnar let him go and then pat his shoulder. “I'm glad I didn't have to wait!” He said. “She has so much talent!”

“Uh huh.” Ren said. “And being just as beautiful as her daughter wasn't a factor at all.”

“Ha ha!” Barnar said and clapped Ren on the same shoulder. “It didn't hurt!”

Ren laughed and gathered up all the dirty dishes left over from the stew Barnar had given the workers. When that was done, Ren asked Barnar to show him how to cut stones. He took Ren over to the carving section and showed him the basics of stonemasonry. It took nearly the whole hour for Ren to get the hang of using a chisel and hammer to shape a stone. It was frustrating, especially since he was so used to getting the hang of things right away. When Ren finally finished working on the practice stone Barnar had given him, he put the tools down and stepped back.

New Skill!

You have worked hard to understand how to properly shape a stone for use in any situation, and have unlocked a new skill: Stone Cutting

“Show info for skill: Stone Cutting.” Ren said.

Stone Cutting Level 1 (Beginner 0%)

This sub skill under Stonemasonry allows the alteration of stones into various shapes using simple tools.

Higher levels will allow quicker shaping, and make more difficult cuts much easier.

Ren smiled and turned to Barnar. “Thanks for showing me the proper way to do it.” He said. “I can see I've got a lot of work ahead of me with this skill.”

Barnar clapped him on the shoulder. “Would you have it any other way?”

“No.” Ren said and grinned. “If it was easy, everyone would do it.”

“Exactly!” Barnar said, let Ren's shoulder go, and turned to his crew. “Alright everyone! Use what you have and cover up your stations!”

The workers complied quickly, and slapped the last of their mortar onto the wall. The 6 large mortar icing bags were rinsed out and put on the mortar making table, then everything was covered in cloth. Ren watched them work, and stayed out of the way of their efficient movements.

“Barnar.” Ren said. “Do you want me to pay them now, or wait until the job is finished?”

“That's up to you.” He said.

“Now, I think.” Ren smiled. “At the rate they're going, it should be finished in about 5 days.”

“That's assuming we don't get any orders while we're here.” Barnar said.

“You didn't bring any extra work here today?” Ren asked and looked around.

“Of course I did.” Barnar said and laughed. “It doesn't count if you didn't see it, though.”

Ren laughed, too.

“Everyone, gather 'round.” Barnar said to the workers. Ren gave each of them 3 gold coins, and several tried to give it back.

“You've all worked hard today.” Ren said. “You deserve to be compensated for that.”

They reluctantly took the money and Ren smiled. “I'll see you all tomorrow; unless you have complications tonight, with either the ale or the women.”

Most of the workers laughed, a couple high-fived, and if Ren wasn't mistaken, one woman blushed a little. He turned to Barnar and nodded slightly.

“Get out of here, you mooches.” Barnar said and they all laughed again as they climbed into the nearly empty carts they'd brought most of their working materials in. Barnar shook Ren's hand. “See you tomorrow.”

“See you tomorrow.” Ren said, then watched Barnar climb into the last cart. They all drove away and Ren went inside the courtyard and shut the gate, locking it. He stopped in the stable to feed Princess some of the stew. She had a hard time with it, since the food was floating in liquid, so Ren held a plate over it and dumped out most of the water.

“There you go.” Ren said, and Princess had a much easier time trying to eat. I'm just sitting here, I might as well check my stats. Ren thought. “Show Status.”

Status

Name  Ren  Level  6

Gender  Male  Class  Artificer/Noble

Race  Elfling  Fame/Infamy  4750 (Well Known)

Dwarven Lands:

Influence  4570  Honor  1780

Titles

Blacksmith - Grants 5 Level Bonus to Blacksmith Skills

Tailor - Grants 5 Level Bonus to Tailoring Skills

Sally's Student - 20% stat gain at her shop

Issac's Novice - 20% stat gain at his shop

Lemming - 5% resistance to falls

Son of the Pelt - 20% stat gain using craft station

Honorary Dwarf - Grants Dwarf Race abilities

A Fool And His Money - Automatic 5% gratuity, plus perks

Ren, The First - Grants Command and Camaraderie Auras

Crazy Like A Fox - Intelligence +20, Wisdom +20

Health  668  Mana  864

Strength  113  Dexterity  73

Vitality  55  Agility  71

Endurance  75  Intelligence  96

Luck  24  Wisdom  96

Ren smiled and handed Princess a piece of bread to chew on while he rinsed her dish and gave her fresh water. “Goodnight, you two.”

Ruck knocked on the cabinet and Ren went inside to the kitchen. No one was around, so he took out the dirty dishes he had in inventory and washed them in the sink. He had an odd thought that he was missing something, and his eyes widened at the water tap he'd used without thinking about it. Ren knelt and opened the cabinet under the sink. Inside were 2 small pipes and one large one. He assumed the large one was for the drain, so the other two had to be for the tap. The pipes disappeared into the floor and Ren closed the cabinet.

I'll have to check that out when I start fixing the Keep below. Ren thought as he put the clean dishes back in the cupboards they were taken from. He left the kitchen, through the main room, and down the hallway to Narhilda's old bedroom. Ren opened the door and found Nathalia inside on the bed. He saw she was still wearing the fancy green dress, and laid on her side, propped up on an elbow. He shut the door and Teepo hopped out of the hood and onto the wall. Ren walked over to the bed and climbed onto it.

“I do have to log out.” Ren said as he laid down next to Nathalia, and propped himself up onto his elbow, copying her pose and faced her.

“I know.” She said and reached out a hand to cup his face. “I just like being here with you.”

Ren smiled, took her hand from his face and held it out slightly, then kissed the inside of her wrist. Nathalia shivered slightly from the feel of his lips on her soft skin.

“I like having you here, too.” Ren said and let her hand go. “I think waking up next to you is the best way to start my day.”

“Me, too.” Nathalia said and turned to lay on her back. Ren copied her again and put his head on the pillow next to hers.

“I'll be back as soon as I can.” Ren said, and Nathalia nodded.

“Logout.”

********

Ren started to take off the VR headset, and Stella lifted it off for him.

“Hey, little stud.” She said and smiled.

Ren snorted a laugh. “Hi, Stella.”

She put the VR headset on the dresser, next to the laptop, and Ren slid out of the bed.

“What's for supper?” He asked as he went to the bathroom.

“Surprisingly enough, stew.” Stella said. “It's just sliced bread and not freshly baked, though.”

“Ha ha!” Ren laughed as he used the bathroom then washed his hands. He came back out and climbed up into bed. Stella stood by to catch him, just in case he slipped.

“I'll go get it.” She said, once Ren got settled.

“Thanks.” Ren said and changed the television station, just to have something on while he ate. Stella came back in a minute later with the food tray and put it on the rollaway table. Ren took his time eating and finished it all.

“That was great, Stella.” Ren said. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome.” She said and took the tray away. She was back a minute later and put the laptop and VR headset back on the rollaway table. She sat down next to the bed and leaned in. “I went out during my break to pick up a few of those things that we discussed earlier.”

“You mean condoms?”

Stella nodded. “I got several sizes. Once you find one that fits, you'll be able to do what you want in the game, and not have to worry about any... mess... that might happen.”

Ren put a hand on her arm. “Stella, I don't know how to thank you for doing this for me.”

“You just did.” She said and handed Ren 5 foil packs. “You'll want to make another visit to the bathroom, I think.”

Ren slipped the condoms into his pyjama pocket and smiled. “I do need to use the bathroom again.” He said and slid out of bed. Ren went into the bathroom and closed the door until it was almost shut. Stella walked over to stand by the wall on the side of the opening. Ren took out the 5 condoms and looked at the sizes; Small, medium, medium wide, large, and large wide. Ren looked down at himself and sighed as he picked the large. He opened the package and tried to slip the condom on. Of course, once he touched himself there, it didn't take long for Little Ren to stand at attention. Ren unfurled the condom a little, and tried to get it over the end, but it felt too tight.

“Stella.”

“Yes, Ren?”

“Um... is it supposed to be this tight?”

“Kind of.” Stella said. “Are you trying the medium?”

“No, the large.”

“You... you started... with the large?” Stella said, surprised. I've seen his bulge a few times, but I never imagined... She thought, then shook her head. Lucy, what were you thinking! You had him and let him go!

Ren's face flushed a little red, and spoke a moment later. “Should I try the wide instead?”

“Y-yes.”

Ren struggled a little, but pulled the large one off. His hands were now covered in lubrication and he washed them in the sink. He opened the large wide package and tried slipping that on. It fit a little better, but he could only get it down an inch or so.

“Does it fit?” Stella asked.

“Kind of.” Ren said. “Only by about an inch.” He sighed again as he saw the tip of himself turn a dark red. “No, it's still too tight.” He said and pulled it off before it caused any damage.

Stella took in a deep breath and exhaled. “I'll have to make another trip.”

Ren cleaned himself up and then washed his hands again, then pulled up his pyjamas. “Stella, what do I do with the used ones?”

“Are you dressed?” She asked.

“Yeah.”

Stella opened the door and came in. Ren had put the two used ones on the edge of the sink. She made a bundle of toilet paper and scooped up the used condoms with it. She folded it over, slipped the bundle into her pocket and took the other 3 packages and put them in her other pocket. She put a hand on Ren's shoulder.

“Stella, I-” Ren tried to say, but Stella shook her head.

“Don't worry, Ren.” She said. “I'll pop in tomorrow at breakfast with better ones.”

“But... if I wasn't...”

“Ren.” Stella said in a stern voice. “There's nothing wrong with you.”

Ren looked at her with wide eyes.

“Everyone is different.” She said with a normal tone. “No one... no one... is the same. We all have different sized parts.”

“But...”

“I said to not worry about it.” Stella ruffled his hair and led him back to the bed. “What you need to worry about is keeping your hands off that cute little dwarf for the next 2 game days.”

Ren smiled as he climbed into bed and settled in. “I'll do my best.”

Stella chuckled. “Do better than that!”

Ren grinned. “She's pretty irresistable.”

Stella helped him put on the VR headset. “I'm sure she thinks the same about you, little stud.”

Ren laughed, and Stella sat down to finish out her shift.

“Flow Login Start.”
