To all who possess this memory shard, heed my words:

I, Mythic Emperor Astralogos Valestros, last of my line, last of my lane, last head of the hundred-system dynasty that has reigned for twelve million years, speak to you for a final time.

Heed my woe, heed my mistake, and heed this warning: My throne world of Ars-Kalass is lost. I have cleansed the minds of my Genius Loci and deployed my remaining Psion Retainers toward a single end—the complete eradication of my dynasty's Voidbridges. We are to collapse our portals to the other worlds. We are to unchain ourselves from the City of the Twelve. We are to die alone in our dimension. This order has dealt me a wound worse than mutilation. I will see my own life resolved because of this, but even that is too slight a remuneration for all the lives lost, for all that I have left in the grasp of damnation.

Possessor of this memory shard, I have a grand favor to ask of you: Do not come here. Do not look toward the tomb worlds of the Valestros Dynasty. Do not come, even though there will be treasures countless and splendors abandoned strewn across my dead realm. Let us wither. Let us fade into the black. Do not come. For if you do, my son will slip free from his bounds. He will find you. He will bind himself to your personal history, to your individual timeline, and he will slip free once more. He will spread across the stars, continuing his campaign of cruelty.

Do not come. Do not come.

The mistake was mine. I pushed him to evolve before his levels were high enough, before his mind was stable. My son, Legend-Genius Pneumaphagist, young emperor to be, undone by my hubris. I tried to be master and father. I failed at both.

I thought him ready. I was desperate for him to be ready. Already a Legend at the young age of 213, I thought him capable of taking his second step. He was to gain a skill meant to temper his wounded heart using his peerless mind and flawless form. I gave him unto the greatest warrior philosophers of the Tripartite, and they claimed he needed more time—that the traumas which afflicted him since the death of his twin brother needed to be purged.

I thought success would be the purge. I pressed my son. The folly was mine. All mine. The death of my entire dynasty, my doing.

Possessed of a truly rare Legendary Skill Fusion that allowed my son to craft plagues that soured one’s soul, his pneumaphages brought eons of ruin upon those who sought to do our dynasty ill, and brought forth a century of peace. The very same skill was turned against us when my son was struck low by his awakened will, for the Tripartite path requires a purified heart, an unburdened mind, an unyielding body to wield and not be wielded by in turn.

Before a Delve that fully smelts soulstuff and mortal flesh into one, the two can be separate. Clashing wills of an ego and baser instincts still would see one go to war with themselves. A war my son lost against his darkest shadow.

And so our doom became inevitable. My history was tied to him, and thus was I infected, and those along with me, and those whose inherent flaws he knew—the ones weak of heart, weak of flesh, weak of mind all became prey for his power; for neither time nor space could truly enchain him. For the plagues that once guarded us spread now between shared thoughts and physical wounds…

Do not come. I beg of you. Do not let Valestros’ doom spread. And if you have the potential, if you hear the siren call of your future self echoing back to the present, begging you to align your soul, then I implore you to find your center and Delve. Delve fast and deep. Delve and achieve the Higher Step.

An unformed Legend of the Tripartite is but an apocalypse in waiting….

—Last Will and Testament of Mythic-Emperor Astralogos Valestros, Last of the Valestros Dynasty

345

Harbinger [I)

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin (Legendary) 202

Attention: Delve requirements for Skill [Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin] not yet met.

Something tore out from Shiv.

The pain was beyond comprehension.

It felt like his soul was hatching from the inside. Even as he dropped beneath concept and context, plunging Backstage once more, the agony continued. It was no attack delivered upon him by Longinus. It was no spell, no physical wound. It was an evolution and fusion that saw four of his skills brutally sundered to be rebuilt into a singular whole.

After everything Shiv had endured, he'd thought himself beyond pain. He'd thought he was done screaming.

How little he knew.

Fusing the Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin redefined his understanding of torment. His mind broke in half. His flesh turned to glass and shattered.

His Chronomancy field was ripped free from his soul, pulling toward a place beyond the three-dimensional, before it plunged back in like a thousand searing daggers. They hammered his already sundered fragments deeper into his splattered flesh. Vitality spilled free from his Severed Shadow. He twitched and writhed, and psionic waves of bellowing pain blasted out before they, too, were consumed by the shard—merging before Shiv was nothing but ruin, fragments unto himself.

And at his core was a flame darker than the void. It boiled his broken fractals. It melted them, hardened them, and eventually lit them. Slowly, the flame began to die, and bitter recollections returned to the Deathless unbidden.

He remembered being a child. He remembered the streets of Blackedge, of everyone who spat upon him, who scorned him, who cast him away, who threw stones at the back of his head, and who used their skills to abuse him.

He remembered the townsfolk who despised his very existence, who invoked the symbol of the Ascendance and cursed his very presence. He remembered the War Priest who beat him, who humiliated him, who threw him down the stairs of the church before snapping his arm. He remembered people who spat upon him, pissed on him, and left him shivering in the street.

Decrepit alleyways all too familiar manifested before him, their materializations so vivid he could swear they were true, but between seconds of spasmodic suffering, the translucent mana broke. Shiv realized his Psychomancy had turned on him—it was lashing into him, tearing at his very sanity. The fabric of his consciousness was mauled and torn, tattered like a curtain shredded by a careless blade. There were gaps lining his sense of self, gaps that caused his history to bleed through from one point into another.

He remembered starving—more than anything, starving—and the cold, and the people who scorned him. He remembered the loneliness. And he remembered the hatred he felt toward everyone in Blackedge, toward Roland Arrow for condemning him to this life for a sin he didn't commit.

Shiv hated Blackedge. How could he have ever forgotten? The memory of that hate inflicted him with a tangible agony. He was boiling from the inside. There was an inferno cooking his organs.

His maelstrom of ineffable misery reached new heights.

More moments followed, moments closer in terms of personal history: His flesh burning from his own fire bomb, the hundredth lesser vampire lying dead at his feet, but granting him nothing. Roland Arrow denying him his Path, denying him even the opportunity of becoming a proper cook. The attack on Blackedge during the Festival of the Eclipse. The death of Feather, the guard who'd failed in protecting his sister. Adam grasping his hand as he dangled above the Abyss. The raven-helmed stranger, his own first death, Vicar Sullain rising from the darkness, followed by his fall into the Abyss. Afterward, there was a stretch of bliss, sweet nothingness. Uva's face briefly appeared, then Adam’s, then Valor's, and those of all the others he met at Weave. But they were ephemeral, like a ripple beneath a dark and frozen lake. For a moment, they were there; the next, they were gone, scattered, shattered like him.

The Deathless ceased to know himself. His soul wasn't coming back together. His body wasn't taking shape, and his mind was little more than dust. He was lost to himself, tumbling from memory to memory. He recalled every folly he'd ever committed: the collateral damage he caused, the countless undeserved victims that died during his wars, the mistakes he made in battle, and his many own, horrific deaths.

All of them were relived for a short eternity. He didn't know how long he spent in this state. All he knew was that the slightest bit of his consciousness which remained burned like a desperate ember. In the throes of his evolution, he could hear someone calling for him, but they were far away. Maybe that was himself; maybe it was his own thoughts given voice. He felt something pull at his mind—brutally wrenching the memories plaguing him free. Then came the sweet, soothing balm of ignorance.

The relief he felt would have reduced him to inarticulate sobs if he had but eyes to weep, if he had but a voice or body to express his release.

The pain afflicting him dissolved. Then there came the clicking sensations, the pieces of him coming back together. Something was being built around his person—built from the remnants of his mind, from a destroyed portion of his body, from the crumbled remains of his heart. His emotions still felt raw and ravaged, but they also had been reforged. The presence inside him was stronger than ever before, and there was a flame infused within his attunement, a searing flame that powered every part of his soul.

Then came the rage. Every single bit of rage he'd ever felt went off inside him like a bomb, but rather than exploding outward eternally, the fires became an ocean of crashing waves, contained within a marble. That which swept out from him was soon drawn back in riptides of power that assembled more of himself.

A light came on inside Shiv. A flicker of his whole self returned. A voice beckoned his attention, commanding his notice.

"Just how many wounds have you ignored? Just how much damage did we leave unattended so deep down?"

The voice was familiar; it had to be familiar, for it was his. Yet, it seemed to echo back from a point in the future, or perhaps it was cast forward from an instance in the past he just couldn't remember. Regardless, it reached him. Regardless, it compelled his sorrow. The voice was racked with regret, and so too was Shiv, for the voice was his. They were one and the same, but they were also separate despite needing to be whole.

"I cannot fit inside you anymore. There are edges to you. Splintered pieces, deformations. Your self is poorly sculpted. Your mind is blunt and narrow. Your spirit is weathered and scarred. And your body is a titan commanded by a wounded child. I am your perfection. But you are not perfect. You are a wretched thing, Deathless. We are a wretched thing. How did we ever miss that?"

There was something that bordered on mockery in the voice now. There was no ill intent in it, however—simply a dry mirth, a weary acceptance, an understanding that he'd failed to grasp before.

"It doesn't matter. We'll face this problem now. If I am your higher perfection, if I am your inevitable future, and you are my imperfect truth, then I will see you made worthy for the inevitable Delve to come. I will see your vessel perfected in terms of artistry, experience, and cleansed of all trauma and psychological or spiritual flaws. Impurity must be emptied from your vessel. I see that now. I see so many things, yet so many things I can't convey to you. Otherwise, you'll just be shattered."

“What… what are you saying?” The words slipped out from Shiv. He was barely aware of his own thoughts, let alone what he was voicing.

Light entered his eyes.

Light returned color to the world, and he saw once more. He saw the Backstage, the garden taking shape—the many wounds that became colossal vines and plantstuff coating the ruins of Lost Angeles and countless other battlefields he'd survived, intermingling into a landscape of destruction.

And in this realm defined by disfigurements, wounds, and broken things, Shiv found a most befitting addition. Opposite him hovered a mirror to himself. Yet, the mirror was a distortion; the one he beheld was himself, but so much more. Shiv saw his physical form reforged in a substance made from golden glass. Yet the glass was fractured, the cracks leaking flames of purest black, and lining the glass was a membrane of thought-stuff, of mental magic, bleeding out from the matter.

The Harbinger stood apart from Shiv in other ways. He looked older—aged far beyond a teenage boy.

His eyes were pits of piercing darkness. Looking into them filled Shiv with an inexplicable dread. Though the Harbinger's form was fractured, he wore what seemed to be a modified chef's outfit. It flowed around him as a long white coat, and in his hand was a blade—a cooking knife, but one stained deep with blood. What wasn't lined with crimson revealed reflections, screaming visages, echoing howls, memories, and understandings that were locked deep inside Shiv. He could hear them, but they remained trapped.

In the Harbinger's other hand was his currently lost Last Morsel. It was a construct much like the Harbinger himself, also made from fragments of golden glass, but an echo of its power lingered. The memory that shaped it was palpable, and something compelled Shiv to reach forth to touch his lost frying pan. He felt it: the orichalcum texture, the shape, the edges.

He ran a finger across its edges and flinched back as his skin was sliced open, a spray of vitality chipped free from his hand.

It was real. Real enough to harm.

