"No," the Harbinger declared. "It's not real. You're simply vulnerable. You are ashamed that Evanescia took your Legendary item from you. You are ashamed of that weakness. You don't think about it. You turn away from it, but it resides deep inside of you, and now…" The Harbinger held up his right hand, and the slightest movement caused his limb to crack. Bits broke away from him and then slid back into place. He was constantly shattering and reassembling—always in pain, just like Shiv was. "Now we are both brittle. The skills have been fused; the evolution has arrived, but you do not possess the levels needed for our completion. And even if you did, you don’t have what’s needed to come out of the process intact."

Bands of frustration tightened inside Shiv. He glared at his skill. “Sage… Did you evolve solely to shit-talk me?”

The Harbinger snorted. "Not nearly. Though it is a perk."

“Glad to see my perfect self is still a prick.”

"Always," the Harbinger answered with a voice as dry as desert wind. "But that is something we need to address as well. You are too used to being compelled through trauma."

“Is that why you’re all cracked? And why it hurt so godsdamned much to evolve you?” Shiv felt his own Severed Shadow and struggled not to shudder as he recalled what he'd endured. “Barely came out of that sane.”

"You didn't. I had to piece you back together. Even then, that didn't work the first time around. I had to break certain memories apart and hide them away deep inside your subconscious. I recommend that you don't sleep at any time in the near future; otherwise, you will likely relive this experience again."

“I’ll break apart again? Why?”

“Yeah, I wanna know that too,” a girl’s voice sounded, and Adam's not-sister drifted into view beside Shiv, her arms crossed in apprehension. Strangely, the Garden of Wounds and Broken Things had gone silent. It was like the dimension made from devastation was listening intently, trying to understand what Shiv had undergone. “It’s only been around a few minutes this time, by the way. In case you want to know. You were screaming your mind off for most of those two minutes, and your Chronomancy and Psychomancy fields stepped out from you and started putting both of you back together. It did all that pretty quickly too.”

And that had Shiv sifting through his own memories. He knew he was an orphan from Blackedge. He knew that he'd gone through a great many torments. He knew that—

The mere recollection of Georges' death greeted him like a stake being driven through his heart. “Agh! Shit!” Shiv's chest cracked open like it had been struck by a Legendary axe blow. Chunks of Vitae broke away from him—enough to see him extinguished at baseline. The only reason why he remained in existence was because of that which he'd stolen from Longinus. Without that harvested life force, there wouldn't be anything left of him from the harm suffered just now.

Before Shiv could unravel any further, the Harbinger reached out, and its hand and Last Morsel came asunder in a kaleidoscope of pieces. Where its outer layer unfurled in a storm of temporal fractals, Shiv saw the hand within reach forth. It was a thing of fire; it was a thing of Psychomancy. It was a thing made solid through reforged emotion, married with two different fields of magic and the concept of shattering a heart through physical and verbal violence.

The Harbinger reached into him like he was an open book and, with a casual pinch, clamped down on a vein flooded by an ocean of grief. "Please mind what you think about. We are flawed and fragile, as I have said, and the unification of our being is incomplete."

“What… what the fuck was that?” Shiv gasped. “Why does feeling bad crack me open? Unification of our vessel? Harbinger, I’m going to need you to start making some sense here—” His voice cut off in a bark of pain as a portion of his skull split open too.

The Harbinger winced. "It’s worse than I feared—the realization of our own stupidity also causes harm."

“Why?!” Shiv shouted.

"Our stupidity? That’s because you react too much and don’t think—"

“No, the—” He caught the flat look on the Harbinger’s face, and some more of Shiv’s Severed Shadow split open. He flinched, then paused. “Oh. I’m doing it again.”

"Yes."

“I… I can’t even act stupid? Otherwise, I’ll keep cracking?”

"Unless I manage our emotions," the Harbinger answered, "which I will likely have to do when I reintegrate. I am technically projected a half-second into the future. My shape is something cast forward from your past. I will have to settle back inside you to achieve some level of active equilibrium and serve as your pillar. Otherwise, you will remain vulnerable. To make it comprehensible to you, we exist as an unbalanced alloy. Our mind is ignorant, our heart is scarred, our body is powerful but graceless. And so the wounds of our alloyed form are shared. Emotional damage will tear your sanity and bleed your flesh. Physical damage will crack your mind and break your heart. And mental strain will exhaust your muscles and leave you consumed by depression. Such is the shape of us now."

Shiv stared. “So. This Legendary Evolution basically made me the single most vulnerable Pathbearer in all Integration?”

"Can you see why I was so hesitant about evolving?" the Harbinger whispered. "But I am more than that." He slipped his hand free from Shiv’s body and raised it in front of his face. His golden form shone, and the mana fields that comprised him were so dense with attuned magic that Shiv was rendered speechless at his own power. "Even an unbalanced masterpiece remains a masterpiece. The vulnerabilities that we now carry aren't just our burdens to bear, but also our weapons to wield."

Thus did Shiv's second Legendary Skill turn. Turning away from the Harbinger, he looked upon a skeletal ruin, a long-hollowed megastructure that stood near the borders of Lost Angeles. Shiv remembered smashing through that building during his scouting run.

"Send me forward across time," the Harbinger commanded. "The future is mine to stride. Do that first. Get used to moving me."

And so Shiv did. It felt strange directing his Chronomancy and Psychomancy without them being attached to his body, but ultimately, the Harbinger felt like a limb or a mirrored version of himself. It wasn't another body that he had to control down to the slightest twitch of a muscle. He didn't need to draw upon his Legion of Self. He simply thought and reacted, and the Harbinger obeyed.

But there were a few extreme differences between it and his current body. Shiv's Severed Shadow and his physical forms were potent but limited in terms of speed. How fast he could move and react was determined by his Shapeless Tides and his Inertial Overdrive, which he'd been stacking as much as he could throughout combat since gaining his Heroic Toughness and first Legendary Skill to keep his body from breaking and his surroundings safe. He was fast—could keep getting faster, so long as he didn't discharge his Inertial sheath. But even if he kept building up his speed, he was still slow compared to the likes of Longinus—and practically unmoving when measured against Gone.

The Harbinger suffered no such limitation. The skill could materialize anywhere Shiv perceived. Because of course it could; even the Strider of the Unbending Path had this ability. Being able to move in an accelerated field of time made the Harbinger look like it was teleporting, painting paths of Chronomantic gold in its wake. It snapped into place much like Shiv did when he was reverting himself back into the past. Instead, however, the Harbinger was doing the same thing for the future—and it didn't seem to be limited by a few seconds of time anymore.

The Harbinger materialized within the skeletal tower, and Shiv saw through its eyes like they were his own. He tried to cast himself across but couldn’t.

"I am your field," the Harbinger declared, "and I am apart from your form right now. You cannot leap to me. I can only be called back to you."

“Makes sense,” Shiv said. He also noted the faintest veins of translucence connecting him to the Harbinger. And that explains why I’m not a full vegetable right now. My Psychomancy and mind are still connected.

"I need to spend one of your traumatic memories."

The Harbinger’s sudden words made Shiv's mind go blank. “I think that's the first time anyone has ever said that to me. On top of that, why? What does that even mean, you need to spend one of my traumatic memories?”

"I need to enkindle it if I want to break the building."

“Huh? Just hit it—aw, fuck!” Shiv felt his torso tear open, and he doubled over as he clutched at the wound. He sensed scorn leaking over him from the Harbinger. “Are you thinking I’m an idiot again?”

"...Yes." The Harbinger demonstrated exactly why Shiv was an idiot by waving his fractured hand into and through one of the walls of the decayed edifice. "I am the unification of your Chronomancy, Psychomancy, Berserk, Silver Tongue, and Striking Skills. I am only tangible in relation to you and hold no mass of my own. But I can still strike at matter through a magic born of mind and emotion."

“Well, knock that shit off,” Shiv grumbled. “You’re tearing me up worse than felling Longinus.”

"It’s hard not to think of you as an idiot sometimes. My thoughts are born of yours, after all."

“Fuck,” Shiv whimpered. “Alright, looks like we’re doing that goofy positive self-affirmation shit.”

"The alternative is involuntary and potentially fatal self-harm rather than your usual voluntary and safe self-harm." The Harbinger sounded amused, and that made Shiv realize just how felling annoying he was someti—

Another gash opened upon him. Shiv yelped, and a genuine burst of anger ignited inside him. “I’m getting really tired of this shi—agh! Felling—AGH!”

"Stop being frustrated at me—and yourself."

“I’m… I’m fucking trying…” Shiv hissed.

Comedy 20 > 22

Skill Damaged: Comedy

Even Backstage, the System found a way to taunt Shiv. “Just give me a godsdamned memory!”

"You need to decide."

“A bit hard when you pulled a bunch of memories out of me! I don't care, just spend one from my childhood—they’re all the same miserable garbage anyway! The War Priest! Use that one!”

And with his tacit allowance, the Harbinger acted. The enkindled flames within the Harbinger were vented out from the cracks that disfigured his body. The pure-black fires consumed the inside of the long-wrecked tower in an instant and began to rise. A veil of translucent mana gripped it as well, but then there came a change—a flash, a glinting, a scintillation. The tower had gone from a structure made from broken stone and jetting rebar to a sculpture of glass.

Then, with an almost contemptuous jab, the Harbinger shattered the transmuted ruin. The fifty-story tower was obliterated, much in the same way Shiv had been during the initial skill fusion. But where his vitality allowed him to reform without suffering permanent harm, the same couldn't be said for the tower. It rained down in a shower of broken shards and blended with the garden of destruction thereafter.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things does not appreciate you defacing its horticultural arrangements.

Somehow, Shiv could taste an atmosphere of frustration oozing out from the surrounding landscape, like there was an unseen will judging him nearby. But the Garden was only a secondary concern, for there was a blank spot inside his mind now. A memory had been boiled away—smelted by his rage and unleashed upon the physical world. “Holy shit, so I can turn people to glass using my own hurt feelings?”

"You can do far more than that," the Harbinger replied. "But I do recommend we continue our tests somewhere else. It strikes me as unwise to frustrate the Garden."

Shiv almost reflexively argued with his skill, but he closed his mouth and wagged a finger at his skill. “Almost had you thinking I was stupid there for a second, huh?”

"Almost," the Harbinger confirmed. "But we are learning."

“Yeah, it just took me getting another skill damaged—wait, if you can use my mental issues to turn something into glass, can you punch someone in the soul?”

"No," the Harbinger answered. "That is simply a result of my flawed fusion."

“Oh.” Shiv’s disappointment came with another helping of pain—it suddenly felt like his entire chest was bruised. “Harbinger, I’m trying not to be an asshole, but my random thoughts hurting me really sucks.”

"Understandable, but that’s what happens when your Tripartite is imbalanced."

“Okay. What the hells is a Tripartite?”

For once, Shiv wasn’t mutilated for asking a question.

"I… I think it is something to do with our emotions, mind, and a martial skill merging as one on the foundation of our Chronomancy."

Shiv scowled. “You think?”

"I am your perfected self. I am not omniscient. I am not a god."

“Not even that.” Shiv scoffed. “Longinus isn’t doing so well with that omniscience stuff either, I think.” Back in Integration, Shiv peeked at Longinus smashing the ground over and over again, throwing what looked like the mother of all tantrums as he struggled to control his overflowing frustration. “You know, if I could attach you to Longinus—”

"You will not have to," the Harbinger cut him off. "Longinus, though a god, is severely mentally imbalanced. I think I can strike him directly if given the chance. The same with every other Ascendant. The same with anyone who has blatantly visible psychological flaws or mental imbalances."

“Seriously?” Shiv asked.

"I… think so. Absent proper instruction, I must go off my intuition as much as you."

