“When you use the Healing Magic in the Script, what you are doing is taking those perfect, God-made spells and casting them perfectly each time. Most people will Quest for these spells. But you and I? We have to have literally godly levels of control, focus, understanding, and skill, if we are to mutate one of our Goddess-given Healing Spells into another, in order to Remake the rest of Healing Magic. Luckily, this is not as truly impossible as it sounds, for we have already been granted a starting point by those very gods.” Xue said, “All of the healing spells contain the marks of divine hands upon them. What you must do is find that guidance in your starter healing spell, and mold it into the other healing spells. For me, this Remaking was a spiritual journey of finding those markings and applying them in other directions; in understanding the small pieces of power that Rozeta and the Relevant Entities of the Script have left for us to combat the Darkness.” He asked, “Do you now understand why I did not consider a simple color altering to be a problem?”

“Huh. I think so.” Erick said, “According to you, most of the work has already been done for us. I only need to find those markings in the mana and shift them into the other healing spells.”

“Correct.”

Erick asked, “Is that why you specialize in rune work enchanting?”

Erick had taken a small moment to look around the room before now, but at the mention of ‘divine markings’, a few scattered clues fell into place. Runework enchanting. Blood Magic. Core dust into the blood. A vast majority of books which were all written in Ancient Script.

… The various active [Ward]s in the room.

All of it was runework Blood Magic.

Erick added, “Because that is your Truth? That markings make the magic?”

Xue grinned, then said, “That is my Truth, because it is True. This world was founded on language and life; in the Ancient Script, and in the Wrought, and in the bodies of all who live here.”

Erick asked, “But you can’t simply write down a spell and have it work, can you? I’ve tried; in core dust and in metal rods and otherwise.”

“Blood and magic are the ways in which the world communes with itself.” Xue said, “Not to be rude, but you’ve only been here for a year, and it took me fifteen to get to my current capabilities, and I still have a long way to go. If you wish to truly pursue enchanting it will take you a long time in a calm neighborhood, and even then, some people are not great at enchanting in the normal ways. It was only last year that I became able to make a 50-charge rod of [Greater Treat Wounds], and even then, I cannot make more than one a year.”

“Now that’s an interesting problem.” Erick asked, “Why not more than one per year? And why do they cost a quarter million gold? I’ve bought a few, and that price seems astronomical.”

Xue nodded, saying, “This is a multilayered problem, but the basic problem is that it takes fantastic materials in order to hold and stabilize the magic that goes into a rod of [Greater Treat Wounds].

“Getting into the depths: You could buy a lesser rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] for a great deal less gold, maybe as little as 10,000, but such a rod would only have 4 or 5 charges, and it wouldn’t be able to be recharged, and you run the risk of it breaking after every use. These lesser enchanted objects are common, for many people don’t understand what is needed to make a true magical item.

“A real magical item is heavily linked to the Script, which upholds the world. Poor connections to that underlying Truth result in poor items. Good connections result in 50 charges in an item, and the ability to be recharged, at least a little. This is why only items that have 50 charges are able to be sold, and why items are only sold if they have 50 charges; it is an indication that they are quality items that won’t fail on you.

“Or rather, they’re basic quality. As in the most basic application of enchanting theory and implementation.

“As for why I can only make one a year?” Xue smiled, and said, “This is because I make high quality. I cannot make artifacts, but the rods I make are able to be used hundreds of times before they need a rest in a mana condensing formation. Each one should last thousands of uses, and retain their workings for twenty years. This is what it means to make a magical item that truly connects to the Script.”

Erick sat back and had a small, happy laugh. “How much does one of those cost?”

Xue shrugged as he smiled, saying, “They’re not for sale. But I can teach you some of this power. Although, if your Truth is not compatible with my own way of working, then you might need to make adjustments.”

“Probably.”

Erick thought back to what he heard from the Shades, primarily Lapis, and from Quilatalap, back during Shadow’s Feast. They had all spoken of artifact enchanting as the working of soul magic to imbue an item with a soul, and then having that soul cast the spells you tell them to cast, based upon the shape of the soul’s container.

Most people made magical items more like how Xue made them, though.

But Xue, and Elder Arilitilo, were special in their own way.

Erick said, “I’ve never had much luck with runes or Ancient Script, but I can certainly see the usefulness of never needing to gather cores.” He asked, “So when you condense mana into your blood, to make core dust blood, I imagine you simply pressurize the mana?”

“Ah, no.” Xue said, “I want to speak of this, but not until you can heal yourself. I have heard of how you yanked a full core out of your chest in front of a hundred staring orcols, and then smashed it under your foot, only to wait a minute before allowing your retainer to heal you. I do not wish to accidentally be the cause of another such incident.”

Erick chuckled. “Ah. That’s not exactly what happened. It wasn’t that bad. It was just tiny shards that were around the diaphragm. Easy enough to remove with some light tugging. Anyway.” He stood, “You are right. I need to learn those healing spells, and there is only one way to do that.”

Xue stood with him, saying, “The sooner you remake [Treat Wounds], the sooner I can teach you about core refinement, and the sooner Elder Arilitilo can teach you the nuances of esoteric Blood Magic, and normal combat.”

Ezekiel took his new knife in his hand, and he took down the [Seale— He paused. The privacy remained active.

He asked, “So. Warzi? What’s going on there?”

Xue paused as though considering a hundred different, smaller things. “This is a compound problem.” Then he said, “The boy’s condition is well documented and true, but solving such an issue is difficult. All simple and known ways to block mana sense also block normal sight. From my understanding, Devouring Nightmare has scoured the world looking for an answer to the boy’s problem, but they have not found an answer that they are willing to accept. For a time, the boy wore antirhine thread clothing, but even that failed as his condition progressed. It was an untenable solution, anyway, for many of the same reasons that Elixir’d people are not allowed into sensitive areas, but also for the fact that A Child’s Protection would fail when he wore those clothes.” He said, “But the privacy spell you displayed when you interviewed the alchemists and which you have surrounded us with right now, allows for perfect outward vision. If you wish assistance in translating this spell or a lesser spell of the same nature into an object in order to solve Young Master Warzi’s issue, then we can move such magic item creation to the forefront of my lesson plan.” Xue added, “After you learn proper Healing Magic, of course.”

“Thank you for the offer. I will think about it.” Ezekiel said, “But I need to get back to the Rat Room, and then I will be cutting myself some. Thank you for your assistance.”

Xue looked at Ezekiel, and something seemed to crush in the man. A weight became too much to bear.

Ezekiel had wondered if anything was going to happen. It looked like it was.

Xue said, “Taking into account what my new Intelligence is allowing me to grasp, I have a feeling that you will be able to grasp all of this lesson plan soon enough, and then I will have to actually teach you something, instead of simply watching as you cut up rats.”

Xue had almost said what he wanted to say, but then he deflected halfway through.

Erick knew it.

Xue knew that Erick knew it.

But instead of violence, Xue had gone in a different direction.

Erick had warned them of almost all of the problems of Intelligence before he had granted them the New Stat, but now, there was need of another warning of the far more insidious nature of Intelligence. Something that wasn’t a problem unless you made it a problem, and Xue had certainly done that.

Intelligence bred paranoia, and Xue was soaking in it.

The signs had been there when Erick first saw Xue, an hour ago, now.

Xue had been quiet for a teacher. Much less exuberant than Elder Ari had been yesterday. That quietness betrayed his thoughts in small ways. It betrayed his worry, and his pain, and his inner thoughts. Was Erick going to murder him and everyone else at the slightest provocation? What about all of the other problems around him, besides his archmage problems? What about all the things he saw out there? Erick had only guessed at the last part, but from the viewing mirror and its prominence in front of the couches, as well as from the various things he had heard and seen elsewhere, Xue likely spent a lot of time looking at people, and tracking them down.

Xue was paranoid.

And he was losing it.

He had brought out lead-core knives that could easily be controlled to be thrown, and the aura was invisible, so Erick had every bit of confidence that Xue had his aura on all of the knives except for the one he gave Erick.

Was that blood charm on Erick’s wrist capable of truly deflecting his most powerful spells? Maybe not. Not with Intelligence multiplying Xue’s magic capabilities into higher heights. Not with the spells currently emplaced in Xue’s office; his locus of power, filled with spells ready and waiting to activate. They were small spells, and separately they were nothing, but together, and at Xue’s command…

Could he overcome Erick Flatt?

Xue wasn’t sure. His earlier blood orb had been a test to see how he would react, to see if Erick noticed the power Xue commanded. Erick did notice. He noticed a lot. But he did not react, and now Xue was trying a different tactic. Violence was not going to work.

Xue was asking for help, but he didn’t know how.

“Xue.”

The man flinched on the inside; his heart skipped a beat. His blood swirled with power. He did not move, or speak. He waited.

Erick said, “All these new thoughts can drown you if you let them. Intelligence is not doing this to you. You are doing this to you. You are seeing shadows that aren’t there. My own experience with Intelligence has also led me to bouts of paranoia, but at that same time, Intelligence has allowed me to see beyond the paranoia. To see that you are experiencing what I have experienced. To see that you are asking for help, and that I am capable of giving you this help. What is your current Intelligence at?”

Xue gave a small, shaky breath. He said, “It’s at 50.”

“A high base number. Do you know how to make a cursed item, to lower Stats? You might be able to temporarily reduce that number.”

Xue blinked twice, as though realizing a path forward, then deciding to walk it. “I can.” He added, “But I can see you have not chosen this route.”

“You’re right. I have not chosen this path, but I have considered it a few times. I opted not to take this route, because I cannot allow myself to be weak in the face of the threats I face. It’s not paranoia if they truly are out to get you. But… Most of the time, no one is out to get you. I certainly am not out to get you. Even the spells you have imbued into this space, ready to go off at a moment's notice, are more for your own safety, and less to actually try to kill me.”

Xue stared, realizing he had been seen through. And yet he relaxed. It was the same thing Erick had seen most prominently once with a client, long ago back on Earth, when that woman received the bad news that the pain in her gut was the cancer she thought it was. She had gone from nervous wreck to relaxed as though she was sipping a mojito on a beach at sunset. It was an emotion of acceptance, and pain; the relieving of a tight tension.

Erick continued, “This New Stat opens the eyes to the world around you, but it also invents problems that do not need to exist. Not everything you see is a shadow waiting to pounce. Back on Earth, there was a saying: Never ascribe to malice that which can be adequately explained by ignorance. And here’s another: Always interpret the actions of the opposition in the most rational and honest way possible.” He added, “Sometimes, the shadows are shadows, and you must defend yourself, but most of the time, people are just people; without subterfuge or malice.”

“Ha.” Xue said, “Your world was peaceful.”

“Extremely, and yet, it was also dangerous in subtler ways.” Erick said, “Here, the worst case scenario is extreme and deadly violence to you and all you hold dear; there, the bad outcomes came about from offending a co-worker or a boss, and thus losing what you’ve worked for. Violence existed, and it was just as deadly, but the vast majority of situations did not have violence as their natural outcome.” He said, “But the daily situations? The normal circumstance of peaceful life? That is the same.”

“Peaceful?” Xue said, “This is not peaceful.”

“It can be.” Erick said, “Nothing happened today, and I have no designs to make anything happen to anyone here. But you are correct. What you almost did was not peaceful, and yet, I never pressed the issue of all the spells and danger around me, and you never pressed back.” Erick said, “I’m still learning which parts of my previous life are useful, and which parts need to be reevaluated or discarded. Most of what I was has been preserved, but a great deal more has been added on top.” Erick said, “For instance: murdering billions of monsters at once! Never imagined that I would need to do that.”

Xue nodded, silently.

“But paranoia isn’t useful. Don’t hop at shadows, or else you will make them real by your hopping.”

Xue breathed out, silent.

