There were no nightmares.

Ezekiel woke up an hour before the sun rose. He relieved Paul from his watch, sending the man back to bed to get a few more hours of sleep. Ezekiel became the only one on guard duty for a little while, and this was fine. Maybe in a few days, or after no one was worried about treachery, they’d all get to sleep at the same time. As it was, Ezekiel needed a lot less sleep than other people, so he took the lion’s share of the watch.

He went about getting ready for the rest of the day.

When Tiffany got up, Paul wasn’t far behind. After Julia checked in and Ezekiel could finally relax again, it was time to head to the Void Temple. He checked his Status, and saw that he could bring up the screen. Everything worked. He wasn’t in a dream.

- - - -

Once again inside the large stone amphitheater, Ezekiel sat beside Kaffi, as she unrolled yet another scroll. No books today. Just scrolls. Some of them were assorted, but the majority of them were bound in red leather with gold-leaf caps.

Kaffi left the red leather ones to the side, for now, and picked up a green leather scroll, saying, “We’ll do a few more assorted aura awakening techniques and then we’ll move on to the red scrolls, which are all based upon what you told me yesterday. I need to ensure that we haven’t missed something obvious, though.” She unfurled the green scroll, and started reading, “For this one, you must gather your aura spell into a shell around yourself, but keep it away from yourself. Imagine your aura spell as a thick-walled sphere that is not touching your body. But, since aura must connect to the body, trace where the connections remain the strongest. You must push away your spherical aura with all your might, for only in the smallest connections are you able to find out where your true aura originates.” She turned the scroll to him, and showed the pictures.

It seemed easy enough.

Ezekiel did as he was instructed, gathering his [Normalize Aura] into a shell against his skin, which he then pushed away, like a bubble expanding. Ten thousand tendrils of power connected him to the bubble. The large bubble. This was not going to work, was it?

Ezekiel pushed the spell hard, away from himself, minimizing—

Nope. He would need to use a smaller spell. His [Normalize Aura] was already threatening to go far beyond the walls of the amphitheater.

Kaffi noticed, her eyes wandering upward, then back to Ezekiel. “A smaller aura?”

Ezekiel turned off [Normalize Aura], and turned on [Lodestar], and did the same.

He became the center of one of those plasma ball toys that Julia absolutely needed when she was a kid, and then discarded a year later, except done in bright white instead of purple and blue. This spell seemed to work. His Domain flared wide, away from his skin, trailing tendrils from the bubble of radiance back to him, sitting in the center. He pushed.

The Domain swept across Kaffi, then out into the room, soaking into the air and the stone and turning both brilliant. And then a darkness crept into the center, near Ezekiel’s skin; the absence of the Domain. That absence became more pronounced as moments passed, and lingering light faded.

Soon, the only tendrils that connected him to his expanded aura came from the center of his chest directly over his heart, from the top of his head, and from his hands.

He could have pushed his aura further away, but he was beginning to feel a tension. A spring pulled tight. A muscle getting ready to snap. Ezekiel relaxed himself, and his aura, then turned his Domain off.

“Head, heart, hands,” Ezekiel said.

Kaffi quickly unrolled a second scroll and read a few lines before quickly discarding that one in favor of a different scroll. This one, she read more, then she smiled a little and lifted her head. “This is good. Now we know where your aura will originate from; your heart, your mind, and your hands. Most people don’t have a set starting point for their aura, but you do!” She set that scroll aside and picked up a red leather scroll. She unfurled it, and, finding her place, she read aloud, “With your mana sense active, concentrate on the beat of your heart, and the flow of your soul. Attempt to see where your soul moves while your extended spell aura is active. Flick your spell aura on and off as needed to begin to understand how to move your natural aura.” She said to him, “Try it with your light Domain.”

Ezekiel did so, flexing his [Lodestar] active and inactive, attempting to see how his control existed when the Script wasn’t assisting him. Mostly, all he saw was his Shroud directly below his skin moving like a thick fog, while his actual soul, existing in the same space as his Shroud, was as solid as ever.

After a while of this, Kaffi called it, saying, “Time.”

Ezekiel relaxed. He flicked his [Cleanse Aura] through the space, erasing the sweat from his body. He said, “That one seemed promising.”

“Hard to tell with your [Personal Ward] active. But yes; I agree.” Kaffi picked up one of two red scrolls she had sitting in front of her, saying, “I have higher hopes now for these two, than I do for the rest, but we will go through them as needed.”

Ezekiel was fine to keep going, but he had questions. “Before we do that: What is the link between the Shroud, the Soul, and the Aura?”

Kaffi paused, thinking. And then she said, “We call them the Outer Soul, the Inner Soul, and the Aura, around here. Functionally, both Outer and Inner souls are the same, and they exist in the same space, but one is the skin of the soul and the other is the meat. To damage the meat, one needs to get through the skin. Some theorize that the Outer Soul is false, and that all we really have is the Inner Soul. The Outer Soul might be like Health is to the body; a shielding force, and a resource, but as to what you could spend that resource on, I have no idea.” Kaffi said, “As for the link to the Aura, the Soul is the expression of our true self in the mana, and through our true self, we can influence the mana around us.

“The Script automates this functionality with every Aurified spell, but if we awaken our auras on our own, we are able to control some of what is out there, without needing to fully rely on the Script. Still can’t do much more than Basic Tier spellwork. But with a working Aura, you can do anything that you could do with a Greater Elemental Body. This was how they cast spells in the Old Cosmology.

“But mostly, Soul work is far, far outside of my expertise.” Kaffi said, “I fear telling you anything beyond the basics, for it is likely wrong, and you shouldn’t believe me about any of that. In particular, my theory that the Outer Soul is a resource is rather odd, and likely wrong. It’s likely more like Health that you cannot spend.

“I only truly know three things about the soul.

“One of them is that I am not able to control my soul; to move it to do anything.

“But I can control my aura, and my body, and my mind, and when my soul has been damaged, these three expressions of myself have suffered. Gaps in the aura. Sores on the skin. Blank spots in the memory.

“And I also know that there is no need to control the soul, or to work from that deep a resource, in order to control and expand the aura.” Kaffi waved a hand, saying, “I don’t do soulwork. You’d have to talk to necromancers to understand more of that.”

Ezekiel nodded, then said, “Thank you.”

Kaffi nodded in return, and unfurled a red leather scroll, saying, “Now for this one, you must…”

They spent two more hours on aura work. There were no breakthroughs.

When it was over, Kaffi invited Ezekiel to lunch again, but Lingxing was not available today. Ezekiel smiled at that, for if he had been invited to another meeting luncheon, he would have said no. But free food? Sure!

Lunch in the VIP space of the fifth floor cafeteria was great, though they were the only ones there in that room and it felt kinda empty. Sitting at his table, with Tiffany and Paul on the other side, Ezekiel had a lot of time to consider the problems he currently faced. None of them were truly pressing any more, which was nice. Even the Converter Angel seemed to be taking her sweet time on the moon, Celes, and the Shades seemed similarly silent.

Things seemed to be calming down, but circumstances could turn horrible at a moment’s notice. With that in mind, and thinking of the thousands of terrible things that he had already seen, what would Hangzi’s ‘true terror’ look like?

- - - -

Hangzi declared, “I have decided not to subject you to the horrors of the Devouring Nightmare. I’ve got too much work to do and not enough time to do it! Rejoice, Scion Phoenix.”

And then the Scion of Devouring Nightmare shut the door in Ezekiel’s face.

… Ezekiel knocked on the door again.

Hangzi whipped it open. “What!”

“You can do it right here, can’t you? Your aunt suggested that you could. I’m curious what form your terror actually takes.”

Was it some sound that triggered the amygdala? That would be rather terrifying, and there was no real way to defend against that. Or maybe it was a [Soul Burn] attack; soul attacks were supposed to make the recipient feel terrified.

Hangzi narrowed his eyes, then said, “Subjecting a warrior to the Nightmare is an easy variable to account for. You? No one knows what any given mage would do inside the Nightmare. Therefore, I will not be held responsible for the collateral damage that always comes about from subjecting a mage to our High Clan’s namesake. It is one of the first things my Clan teaches our disciples, and I will not flout that law.” He added, “Now let me work in peace. Don’t you have some wounds to inflict upon yourself? Learn some healing spells?”

Hangzi shut the door again.

Ezekiel stared at the door for a moment longer, then walked away.

- - - -

Ezekiel knocked on the door.

It opened inward.

Xue stood on the other side, saying, “Greetings, Scion Ezekiel.” He stepped aside, and into his room, saying, “Please come in.”

Ezekiel nodded, walking in, saying, “Thank you for the time and education, Loremaster Xue.”

The room was divided into unequal portions, with the larger section being empty. The smaller part held an office space, bookshelves, and other assorted living space objects, including a lounge, a large mirror, a table, and a tea set. While Paul and Tiffany took their places beside the door, Ezekiel watched Xue walk to the lounge area. Ezekiel followed him.

Xue sat down and gestured to the tea, asking, “Care for a cup while we discuss the lesson plan?”

Ezekiel sat, saying, “I would like some tea. Thank you for the hospitality.”

Xue deftly prepared the tea, and set it to heating in a [Ward], as he asked, “Have you had much experience with healing, yet?”

“I have not.” Ezekiel said, “I am finding it mentally difficult to purposely injure myself.”

Xue smirked. “Would you prefer someone else to injure you?”

“Probably not.”

The tea started bubbling, so Xue poured, and slid a cup to Ezekiel. Then he took his own cup and sipped.

Ezekiel sipped his tea, then set down the cup.

Xue asked, “Would you prefer to injure someone else?”

“Absolutely not.” Ezekiel said, “When I chose this path, I knew it would require injuries to heal, and I assumed I would be able to do it, but I did not think it would be this difficult to do. Difficult mentally, I mean.”

“You could injure me, if you wish.” Xue said, “It’s not an imposition to suffer minor wounds. I offer myself for this. The pain is not intolerable.”

Ezekiel frowned.

“Maybe not, then.” Xue said, “I never suffered from this problem you are facing, but I know that I will never affect as much as you have, or will. I humbly suggest you resign yourself to causing harm now, for there is no way to learn how to heal the injured without having injured subjects in the first place, and you will need this magic more than most going forward.”

Ezekiel was not comfortable with that fact of life. Xue was correct, of course. If Ezekiel had his own healing magics, Ezekiel could not only heal himself the next time he needed to, he could also heal others. He knew this, logically.

Logic and emotion rarely mixed well.

But at the same time, Ezekiel just needed to ‘get over it’, didn’t he?

Xue shrugged, adding, “Or we can move on to injuring and healing rats.”

“Let’s do that.”

“Then follow me.”

Xue stood, and Ezekiel followed.

- - - -

The Rat Room was located near the outside of the clan mountain, facing north. Sun shone through large windows, lighting up a room of solid stone that held comfortable carpets everywhere and walls that were honeycomb cubby holes. Little highways arced across the whole room, suspended in the air, linking space to space, but leaving plenty of room for attendants to see to the needs of the residents of this small paradise.

Happy rats, squeaking out of shredded-paper homes. Playful rats, tussling with each other, playing in the sunlight. Racing rats, chasing each other across the highways of their miniature city. They seemed full of joy, and that was good.

Ezekiel watched the rats from behind a one-way mirror, as initiates saw to the needs of the animals. Feeding them, playing with them, [Cleanse]ing up after them. Adding new shredded paper to a large pile for the rats to take what they needed, when the [Cleanse]s took out half of the rat homes, and the rats needed more building material. Ezekiel was surprised.

He was surprised in a happy way. They were taking care of the rats. Most of them were even neutered. This was a maintained resource, and seeing the rats run to the caretakers inside the space, looking for treats and to play, did more for Ezekiel’s estimation of Star Song than anything else he had seen in the last few days. This was especially true after hearing the warnings of the Rat Master.

