Ezekiel tore down the [Sealed Privacy Ward] around them and held his lead-core knife, as he said, “I’m reasonably sure that another private session would be useless tomorrow, as I’m going to need a few days to figure out the rest of these healing spells. So no lessons tomorrow, if you don’t mind. If I have questions, can I reach you here?”

Xue’s fear had faded while Ezekiel talked, and now it was small enough to fully hide behind a professional facade. Xue said, “If not here, then you may leave a message with the initiate outside. Elder Arilitilo told me that you already know where to find her, so I assume she could also answer whatever questions you have.”

Ezekiel held up the knife, saying, “Thank you for the knife.”

Xue nodded.

Ezekiel left the room.

When he passed an open area connected to the outside, he had an Odin hold the knife by its non-lead handle, and fly it up to the balcony outside the room. With a few seconds to recast some of the dense airs inside, he had Odin set the knife down.

Then he went to see a man about some rats.

As they walked, Ezekiel sent to Tiffany and Paul, ‘That could have gone either way, but I’m pretty sure that if he saw telepathic messages from you to me, then that could have gone very wrong. Thanks for not messaging me.’

Tiffany sent, ‘Paul said not to when I reported the spellwork in the room.’

‘Xue was on the edge.’ Paul said, ‘Anything would have set him off.’

‘Did you nudge him, Paul?’ Tiffany asked.

‘No.’ Paul sent, ‘Stopping a random Young Master in a bar is one thing. Stopping a Loremaster? Here? When he was already paranoid? I would have taken him down had he done anything, but I would not have nudged him. Defusing that situation was all Ezekiel.’

- - - -

Xue sat in his chair and sipped his tea. It was good tea.

He had considered serving the blacknight tea to Archmage Erick Flatt, which would have killed him rather quickly, as blacknight killed all humans rather quickly and thoroughly. But he was Archmage Erick Flatt, and Poi Fulisade, his MIND MAGE guard, would have seen through that and then Teressa Rednail, an absolute tank of a woman, would stomp his face in, especially with that Blood Charm on her finger. He wouldn’t have been able to do a thing to any of them.

Even if he had succeeded in the impossible, then his entire Clan would have turned on him.

These were the thoughts swirling through Xue’s mind. He had quite a few variations on the theme, but all of them ended the same way; with his death and destruction.

… He was being paranoid.

Archmage Erick Flatt had been correct about this aspect of Intelligence, but according to the small conversations he had taken with the Alchemists in the Potion House, and Riri, and Arilitilo, only he seemed to be experiencing this side effect. Only he had ignored Archmage Erick Flatt’s advice, and had pumped almost all of his extra points into Intelligence. 32 points! He only had 3 floating points left.

None of the others had said how many points they put into Intelligence, but he had a feeling that most did not go over 25. All of them were benefiting, though.

Riri was restructuring her entire operation. For a short while, she predicted that the income of Star Song would dip, but she projected anywhere from 125% to 250% increase in gross income.

Arilitilo was going over all of her teaching materials. She was planning on writing a book on Healing Magic and a secondary one on Blood Magic. She might even get points from Rozeta for such a publication.

The Alchemists were in constant conference, and though they had not solved Tadashi’s anti-Elixir, they were close. They had also torn apart a library-full of alchemy texts, and reorganized them by Particle Magic effects and True Magic effects. The depths of that unrealized dichotomy were already sending waves through many of the clans participating in the realization of Tadashi’s creation.

And here was Xue.

Paranoid out of his mind.

Paranoid enough to think that Archmage Erick Flatt wanted to kill him.

The depth of his paranoia was unknowable, for why would Archmage Erick Flatt ever want to kill him? Why? It made no sense. And yet… This was what Xue thought.

Xue was also smart enough to know that Archmage Erick Flatt had seen absolutely every way in which he had set up an attack, and yet Archmage Erick Flatt had still walked into firing range of them all. Archmage Erick Flatt did not care about Xue’s meager skills, or spells. He did not see Xue as a threat.

For Xue was not a threat—

No. That wasn’t correct.

That was the paranoia speaking.

Archmage Erick Flatt had seen through Xue, understanding the man’s paranoia in a way that Xue himself hadn’t really understood, because Xue himself had not wanted to understand his weakness in that way. Archmage Erick Flatt was not trying to weaken Xue before he murdered him, either.

Archmage Erick Flatt’s entire existence was public knowledge, if you knew which public to ask, and Archmage Erick Flatt had never killed to silence opposition, or to silence people below him. Archmage Erick Flatt would not try to silence Xue, just because the man was being paranoid.

Ah.

His thoughts were flowing in ever-deepening circles. Again.

… He set down his cold cup of tea, then got up and went to the working side of his office. He opened a specific drawer in his apothecary cabinet, and pulled out a small box with an old object he barely used anymore. A silver ring with a bloodstone diamond set into the band. It wouldn’t hold the curse forever, but it would hold the curse for several days, and he had lots of bloodstones.

He pricked a finger with the focused power of another finger. Blood flowed, in tiny drops. In seconds, the curse was complete. The jewel glinted with the denial of power. He slipped the ring onto his finger.

The effect was instantaneous. The cursed item latched onto his finger, soaking into his aura and his body; it could not be removed except through extreme force, or divine intervention—

Or through one of Erick’s rings.

—and the world went… dim.

It was as though he had taken a shot of distilled rice wine. Color seemed to return. Weights fell away. He breathed easier. He cast a [Cleanse], and the world seemed nicer. Negative 31 to Intelligence. He overshot the mark by several points…

But this was fine.

The shadows didn’t seem to move around him anymore, like they were alive. Like they were watching him.

Xue didn’t know how Erick had done it; living with a high Intelligence all this time. Xue had enemies, for sure. He had been an Enforcer years ago, and he still did some enforcing when it came to those who created new Particle spells that harmed the world and the people of Eralis. But he certainly did not have the whole world watching him. He certainly did not speak to Melemizargo on a semi-regular basis, or have talks with Rozeta and all the other gods and—

Oh holiest of divine shits.

Xue had actually planned on attacking that man!

Fuck! Why did he think that was a good idea?

Xue groaned into his hands, as he laid down on the solid floor, and gently beat his head on the ground. Stupid. Stupid. Stupid. And then he sat up, and calmed. He considered what were the real ways in which Erick would ever want to hurt him.

Right now, the whole world might not be watching Star Song, but all the major players were.

… And Erick had been rather vocal about his views, hadn’t he?

Star Song certainly did not qualify as tyrannical. They fully adhered to the Compact of Songli, struck all those years ago. Xue truly had nothing to fear from Erick, did he? Star Song had nothing to fear from the man, either. They killed criminals and agents of shadow all the damned time, but those were functions of a working government, and Erick had even helped to kill all those murderers and otherwise in Treehome, and all the Hunters of the Crystal Forest.

Hmm. There might be a problem with conscripting people for war…

Was that correct? Would that be something that Erick didn’t like?

… Maybe?

Nah. It was necessary to defend oneself from—

Ah. Shit.

Xue looked at his finger, and the ring thereupon.

He had made a mistake.

Terror Peaks was banging at the gates. Soon, there would be an attack. Those bandits who had taken Tadashi had been from Terror Peaks, or at least some of them had been. Erick might not be out to get him, but others were. Sometimes, the malice was real, and the danger was, too.

Xue made a decision.

Xue sliced off his finger, discarding the cursed ring with the discarded digit. The curse lingered for the barest bit, but then it began to fade. As his Intelligence returned to previous levels, and his finger regrew, the paranoia returned, but this time, Xue had a better target for his worries.

For as the archmage had said, ‘It wasn’t paranoia if they were out to get you.’

Some of those people were preparing right now, no doubt.
