Enchanting wasn’t cheap, but creating runic circuitry was more expensive by orders of magnitude, which is why Matt had never bothered learning about it in depth, preferring to tie even his non-combat items enchantments directly into his [AI] or use simple on and off switches. He never had issues with such upkeep, but he was distinctly alone. Other people still wanted the detailed control possible, which was where circuit boards came into play. Though without military level investment, they weren't dependable in serious combat unless they wanted to pay for higher Tier boards.

A desirable job, Matt’s employees were competent enchanters and deliberately fell into two broad categories: the ambitious and the settled.

The former used the position to get their foot in the more specialized door, and got hands-on experience using equipment they could never afford themselves. They didn’t stay long, and Matt’s goal was to teach them what they needed to take the next step in their careers as quickly as possible.

Taking a page from Luna’s book, he sent private emails to them at the end of every week highlighting things they could improve on. For those that made mistakes he caught, he gave detailed feedback on why he thought they might have made the mistake, as well as ways to improve.

The most ambitious and the most skilled took his feedback and rapidly mastered everything they could in their jobs. In turn, Matt happily gave them references when they were ready to move on. A number didn’t even leave the company, being hired on for more long term employment, but that was rare from the ambitious employees.

Most of the people who stayed on long term did so because they were in the second category of worker, the settled. Far from bad workers, they were the most technically proficient in their limited skill sets, being older and having worked in their positions for years.

The age also meant their situations were far more varied.

A few were slightly older professionals who were working between delving blocks or wanted a simple job while raising children. He didn’t push any of them without an indication they were looking to take on more work.

Instead, he aimed for the majority of the settled workers, the ones who had simply lost their ambition and settled into the rut of daily living. While they also got emails, that group got them at the start of the week, and they were tailored to making the person’s jobs easier, rather than pushing their skills to the next Tier.

Matt could sometimes hear the workers swearing he’d already reviewed all of the circuitry, given that they seemed to have near real time feedback on their submissions. But in truth, they severely underestimated his Tier. What seemed instantaneous for them was a few subjective seconds for his natural mental speed, when combined with his spiritual sense being strong enough to see every atom on the circuit board.

That, and he used the opportunity to push his mental training in splitting his mind. He had no intentions of going to Max’s level, but being able to operate multiple independent trains of thought would be critical after she returned. Having made the skill modifications, Matt was more than ready to finish that project, but he wasn’t in so much of a rush he’d risk doing it himself without supervision.

Instead, he spent most of his free time at work theorizing about the exact shape and form his growth item might best take, iterating on his designs until he was happy with the results. With near limitless possibilities, Matt went wild and dreamt large, but at Luna’s advice, not too deeply.

He also used his plethora of free time to catch up on a lot of things he’d pushed onto the back burner, such as his fine tune mana control as well as working on the skills he wanted to merge.

Liz and he intended to merge some of their skills, which let them help each other through the process, though neither of them truly ran into an issue. But doing it together was nice and enough reason for them. While Liz worked on modifying her blood spells into ichor, she also merged her upgraded [Blood Cunning] into [Legion’s Insight], keeping the former's name. Along with a stronger mental boost, she managed to improve the skills detail processing speed, better fitting her multiple minds.

After five years they moved on, changing their identities and appearances before anyone became reliant on them.

In their second round they even rented separate apartments, wanting to ensure they kept a healthy balance between themselves as individuals and as a couple, and weren’t only with each other out of habit. Any fear of that was dispelled when they kept breaking the spirit of their rules by sleeping with each other and then falling asleep, freeing themselves from the guilt with the knowledge that they were following the letter of their agreement.

After a torturous year they moved on early, going to visit Leon at his capital, where they met up with Aster and a Mara clone and spent five years helping Leon and generally spending time together. Then, because it would only be fair, they spent just as much time at Mara’s place with a Leon clone, before they went around visiting everyone they knew who hadn’t ventured into the breach for a few months.

With Aster returning to her own work with trying to make her Level 5 ‘Space Ice’, Matt and Liz continued their living among mortals as his willpower slowly recovered.

A destination already in mind, they changed identities to Tier 10’s and visited Rah who, as he’d said he would, spent time on low Tier worlds that had thriving Tier 0 skill scenes, acting as a lower Tier guide for the freshly awakened.

Given the open nature surrounding Tier 0 skills and their accessibility, there had been serious growth in the fields while they were gone. Including several small refinements to the skill creation methods that reduced the average time to create skills by a few months. Tim hadn’t wanted credit for his and his Talent’s assistance, happy to quietly collect Titan’s Torch’s bounties on helpful information when he could without attaching his name to the work.

Sadly, while no one had been able to figure out how to make [Physical Empowerment] scale with essence, there had been several other notable developments in the field.

The first developments had already been hinted at before they left, but Matt was happy to see that there were dozens of [Lesser Elemental Weapon] variants now available, covering most of the level one and two mana types. In a surprising twist, most of the newly developed Tier 0 skills were developed and shared by lower Tiers who put nominal fees on the final structures, choosing to spread the information as widely as possible.

[Fury of the Blade] impressed Matt the most, as someone had managed to create a modification that allowed the caster the ability to store the bursts of wind to be used at-will. Removing the skill’s greatest weakness propelled the Tier 0 skill into a brief moment where it was the premier weapon skill, but it didn’t remain there long.

[Hand Shield], what Matt considered the weakest of the original Tier 0 skills, had a resurgence of popularity after someone developed a modification that allowed for size adjustments.

To Matt’s absolute joy, the Tier 0 skills he originally published were no longer alone.

Dozens had been created, but two became mainstream.

Core to his own heart, [Double Step], like [Mage’s Retreat], was mainly used for retreating when things turned bad. An inventive modification that came out a few months later sparked a wave of innovation that saw the skill used in every role.

Originally created by a Tier 10 in Leon’s kingdom, [Double Step] made the caster’s next step cover more distance via a burst of mana, the skill quickly became most delver’s second or third created skill, given its difficulty. Before it could fade into obscurity, the skill then received a modification that, at the cost of weakening the effect, turned the skill into a short duration speed boost.

Others went further still, modding the skill into something else altogether, focusing the spell’s speed boost on their upper bodies, wanting to attack faster with melee weapons.

Ranged physical cultivators were further assisted when someone created an entirely new skill to apply elemental damage to ranged weapons in the Corporations, and it later spread. [Lesser Ranged Elemental Weapon] and its many variants, as it was known in the Empire, was often disparaged by melee fighters for its higher costs and lower damage. But no matter what anyone said, the ranged non-casters were ecstatic despite any of the skills shortcomings.

Tier 0 skills even saw some adoption in the civilian market, with things like [Lesser Cleanse] and [Temperature Pause] becoming mainstream.

Matt was still in awe that someone managed to turn a cold spell into a temperature regulation reserve skill, though it was far from perfect. It was, however, good enough for the average citizen to love it, which made it the single most in demand skill, beating out combat skills by a wide margin in popularity. Any temperature swings over ten degrees would see the spell start to draw more mana than its already high 80 mana reserve, but most wanted to cut the edge off and didn’t mind only being ten degrees cooler or warmer than their local environment.

[Lesser Cleanse] sold itself, though given the chemical and enchanted alternatives, it wasn’t as popular as Matt would have expected. However, enough people had no interest in advancing or just wanted access to the skill that he was confident he could direct someone to make the skill asleep.

What Matt enjoyed was just how open and sharing people were when it came to the Tier 0 skills. Not all, but enough that he was confident the new bracket of skills was both there to stay and beneficial for the Empire.

The Sects, however, made the largest splash in the skill creation method arena as they revealed their latest creation, the Hall of Aspirants. Its mission statement was as lofty as its name.

The highest Tier sects led the way by taking some of their most promising youths and demanding they advance, on a more time lax version of the Sects’ Path of Ascension, with only skills they themselves created. Their efforts in innovation became another paved step for the following generation.

Death wasn’t the main way to fall from the Hall, rather its taboo was absorbing a skill from a skill shard, where one lost further access to the Hall and its ever growing archives.

The results were as bloody as they were effective, but without some breakthrough, relying only on self created skills simply took too long to ever truly be comparable with the Path. Though, it was becoming a trend in most Great Powers where young cultivators even on the Paths took the time to create a skill in their early years.

While the Sects deliberately made every Tier 0 skills creation and addition to the Hall of Aspirants public in a show of power, they only shared the existence of higher Tier skills. They were, in fact, the only ones to publicize the creation of an entirely new Tier 8 skill, though they refused to provide definitive proof without the nod from Winter Hornet.

According to Imperial intelligence, there were rumors of a Tier 14 skill having been created, but the Sects officially denied any of their Aspirants had made such a development.

Matt believed Rah when he said it was possible, but unlikely.

True or not, the Hall of Aspirants firmly established the Sects as the premier organization for skills, with Tier 0 skills being adopted by local sects and transformed into new signature skills.

With such deep knowledge of their skills, it was only a matter of time until someone in the program truly managed to create a Tier 14 skill, and local sects became far more brash and happy to stir up border disputes in anticipation.

With access to his Domain restored after nearly a century of recovery and relaxation, Matt and Liz returned to Palustris officially just as the first wave of explorers started to return from the breach.

He personally noticed little of the hubbub that caused, instead diving into researching the technique that enabled him to craft the liquid mana gem. Even a century later, it was as perfect as it was the day he’d made it; further proving the uniqueness of his new method.

The first thing he confirmed was that he truly did need both parts of his Domain to create a stable liquid mana container. With either his Concept or Intent missing, the solidified mana he could create was no different than ordinary solidified mana, stable but unmoving and therefore without any of the unique properties he craved.

However, with both he could create containers that were fluid inside and still malleable, allowing for Matt’s proficiency for mana control to shine; giving him a new way to grow stronger outside of his Talent alone. That discovery led to a side breakthrough that distracted him for ten years, as he tried to figure out the difference between his fully solidified mana and that only semi-solidified.

Several things became clear with that testing, but none of them were particularly enlightening.

First, he checked whether or not he could re-solidify his liquid mana gems. He could and he was disappointed at first, as it ruined their special properties; though it did give Matt a way to lock gems and anything he carved into them in place, which had its own applications he soon grew to appreciate.

The second thing he learned was that not all ‘internal movement’ was the same.

