Recreating one of his earlier tests with a tube of mana, Matt found that his new trick paired perfectly with the mana throughput tubes. A solidified outer shell of mana worked just as well as a projected mana barrier. Given that only confirmed his earlier testing, it wasn’t too surprising. The now liquid internals, on the other hand, were vastly different from anything he or anyone else had dealt with and he struggled to quantify, let alone understand, what was going on.

What he learned revolutionized his mana control techniques, giving him an entirely new toolkit.

Possibly the largest discovery that had the most impact was that he learned he could continue to add mana to a liquid mana gem, contrary to his normal mana stone creations. There was still an upper limit roughly determined by size, but it was higher than what a gem of that size and mana concentration should have contained.

Interesting in and of itself, Matt got lost in the research, hoping to discover a way to have limitless storage, similar to what he’d seen out of the strange realm’s mana storage gems. He failed, but his failure wasn’t as absolute as he’d thought it would be.

From his testing, he understood that a large portion of his future efforts would be in improving the internal structure of his liquid mana stones. He was confident that if he could improve the internals, he’d be able to both add more mana into a smaller container, as well as possibly making them easier to create.

Simplifying the complicated multi-layer sphere he’d originally created with energies moving in specific patterns was his highest priority and his first goal. It wasn’t easy, but he managed after decades of work with Erwin, Aisha, and Theodore assisting as they worked on their own projects.

The simple looking, rotating sphere of energy inside the rounder than normal first generation liquid mana stone was far too complex for everyday usage. Through hundreds of thousands of iterations, they’d found something they believed was foundational enough to build off.

Rather than a moving wave of mana that created a bubble, Matt's new technique was moving a string of mana, so long it was nearly a continuous loop, around in a complicated pattern to make the malleable core. Once he got it going and solidified it with his Talent, the pattern was inherently stable, but until then its creation still took his full concentration; though he was growing better with practice.

New toy in hand, Matt started applying it to various other applications. However, progress slowed to a crawl with each new step taking decades as he fumbled his way through blindly.

Slow progress was far from no progress.

The first and most obvious place to apply his new liquid mana stone was his sword.

With its lattice structure he’d long since mastered filling it with a core of mana stone, but adapting his new technique to fit his weapon was both easier than he expected and much harder.

Easier because their fundamental design of a moving string of mana to make a barrier didn’t inherently care about the shape of the container, and they didn’t need to adapt that portion of the technique to fit his weapon’s shape. Harder because the tubular shape of his sword was incredibly difficult to adapt his swirling pattern to. Matters were made even worse thanks to the double whammy that was his new liquid mana stones not handling enchantments in the same way as normal, forcing him to change his baseline enchanting technique.

However, the results were worth every minute of effort.

Even before he combined [Mana Slash], [Mana Charge], and [Tribulation Strike] into [Titan’s Wrath], the improved liquid mana core allowed him to express almost five percent more power alone. Everything that came after was useful practice as he and Liz pushed to Tier 30, but it only reinforced his desire to upgrade his weapon.

Which he’d delayed on Luna’s advice waiting until Manny returned to make any decisions that couldn’t be retracted. He couldn’t wait until his sword was physically strong enough to handle the amount of mana he could now channel through it, as that was his greatest limiting factor preventing him from finally being able to cut loose.

Every time he held his sword, Matt envisioned the day he’d finally be able to combine the two, his sword finally able to handle anything he could dish out. Combined with his potential growth item, he couldn’t wait for Manny’s return and happily dived into his projects to pass the time.

He didn’t quite make it.

Between working on his sword, Matt also dabbled with a dozen other projects as he found them interesting and engaging.

He spent a full twenty years on aura enchanting, hoping to use it to boost the effectiveness of his general enchanting, but the field was too new and he had to put it aside. He did see promise to capitalize on in the future but he wasn’t so skilled an enchanter as to even attempt to pioneer the field.

Instead, he focused on learning what was already available and mastering it before moving on to assisting with the on going aperology, but he only dabbled. Almost a quarter of his teams were still working on the aura commissions, and while they’d made some progress and had some side successes, leading to a few totally new aura rift recipes, they’d only succeeded on two commissions so far. Not that Matt had any intention to pause the investment the teams required, as those teams had been instrumental in helping the guild bridge his absences and mana shortfall.

The Dancing Light’s Knightly Order had been ecstatic at Titan’s Torch’s success and they’d exploded in popularity post rift development. Now, even squires were able to guarantee synergistic Domains via the movement variant light aura, which allowed the Order to spread its recruitment net as wide as their reserves of Natural Treasures allowed. The windfall elevated them from a third rate Order to a first rare one in only two hundred years.

Their second commission was slightly less valuable being a commission for poison aura. While it was nice to have it solved and shared as part of the original agreement, with poison being a baseline aura, few people wanted a poison related Domain when compared to other level two mana types.

Days turned to weeks, which blended from years into decades as time seemed to slip by as they focused on improving themselves. He’d hoped to make it all the way to Manny’s return without an incident, but he wasn’t so lucky.

Almost five hundred years after they returned from the breach, a contingent of nobles had arrived above their home on an official, if unannounced, visit. Seeing Domninus Maniakes and Silvia Dobrescu both sent personal messages, he checked what they wanted before responding to the official notification.

The younger generation of nobles had noticed a concerning trend related to aura.

Given its relation to himself, Matt was keenly interested in what could have gone so wrong in a short few hundred years that his peerage felt the need to step in. He already had an issue with the current trend, but he doubted the nobles cared too much about the ever shrinking Concept diversity that was only growing worse as the supply of rarer aura potions, both the variation potions and baseline ones, were virtually non-existent for anyone but the incredibly wealthy.

Given the propensity for people who used a Domain long enough to form something similar even after breaking it, that was a concerning trend Matt had long theorized how to tackle.

So why were they here?

Continuing to investigate, he found it interesting that according to Domninus and Silvia both, the royals, one and all, were stonewalling their attempts to get them to intervene.

They even explained why Empire dukes would take an interest in the aura exclusively issue if they didn’t care about the diversity bottleneck.

While not yet critical, the nobles had noticed within their fiefs a trend of specialization in regard to aura exports. Fine at the beginning, with less than thirty total aura types discovered, only fifteen entities had invented more than a single type, with less than five having more than two, and Titan’s Torch being the only entity with more than five. However, when accounting for the more specific aura’s variations, such as fire aura with an inclination towards heat based Concepts, the number quadrupled and was growing.

That wide distribution became a problem as politics and interest quickly muddied the waters. The entities who poured money into researching and developing new reproducible aura types, or abusing Talent’s and the ability to copy rifts, wanted to recoup their losses.

The main way they tried to protect their interest was to copy the already existing playbook, which boiled down to exclusivity clauses in the contracts, locking entire planets to a single company's unique aura types. What should have become more common as time went on, instead became scarce, as the rarer and more interesting aura types were held in a legal and political stranglehold.

The local nobles and various groups in control of the aura farms, rather than supporting the dukes, were happy as prices crept higher. They had no desire to see their direct competitors able to produce the same rarer aura types they’d paid handsomely for, forcing unaffiliated groups to seek out rare mana types compelling them to agree to the exclusivity contracts.

The whole situation was being exacerbated by the development of aura runes, increasing the demand for aura. Many established aura farms seemed content to pull the ladder up behind them, not remembering who gave them that ladder in the first place, and Matt hadn’t been too happy about it for a while. Not because of the profits, but because they were creating an artificial bottleneck in the Empire’s Domains, which had possible long term repercussions.

He simply hadn’t felt capable of doing anything himself without Manny to do the hard work of politicking.

A tad bit older and slightly wiser, Matt did the obvious thing and asked his royal father-in-law why he was stonewalling the nobles directly. They’d been chatting about a reunion once Liz’s siblings who'd entered the breach returned from it, and he had no issue in segueing using the rapid fire portals to cover the distance to make messages almost real time at great expense.

The answer he got wasn’t what he thought he’d get, as it was instant and implying he’d long since received it, but only activated the delivery condition when he asked the question. From Leon's Royal account, he received a message with a few spots highlighted.

“As per the Emperor’s Decree, no Royalty is to interfere with inter-Empire conflict that does not threaten the core stability of the Empire.”

A moment later, about when Matt expected a reply given their previous messages, he got an actual response from his father in law. “Oh, thankfully they took my latest hint to go away. I didn’t expect them to go to you, but it seems like they caught on. Their parents are still around but they are the acting dukes. So are you two.”

Smiling, Matt made sure Liz was aware of who’d arrived and why; thankfully she hadn’t been cooking herself in her new cauldron, so he wasn’t interrupting her.  With her consent, they agreed to help the nobles.

They were, however, going to take Leon's advice and use the nobles to do what they already wanted to do. If Matt and Liz were going to help solve the problem, they were going to do it the correct way. He just wasn’t sure the nobles were going to like his definition of ‘correct’.
