Less concerning than the little man who might be the Titan of Baleros. Ulvama was searching for him with magic. Rufelt and Lasica were still hugging, remonstrating with each other, but Montressa, Palt, and Bezale were looking towards the entryway too. Crimshaw was cursing, looking about, and Wanderer was in the inn.
Plain’s Eye Gnolls were waiting for their comrade and hearing nothing but silence. The Brothers were listening, aiming, drawing a bead, and Lady Salkis was waiting impatiently in the checkpoint, wondering why no one was opening the damned door! 
Niers Astoragon was swearing ten kinds of fury as he crouched on a beam with Apista, seeing the [Shaman] hone in on him. One of the attacks was here! Damn, damn—
Then he felt a hole open up in his stomach.
 
—-
 
Wanderer turned, breaking off from his explanation. The Brothers hesitated, feeling something in the air. They stopped humming.
Rufelt and Lasica looked up, and the [Bartender]’s tearful, relieved smile faded.
“Oh no.”
 
—-
 
The door to The Wandering Inn was closed. It showed only stone in Pallass. Salkis, dancing from one foot to another, was hissing with impatience, afraid the checkpoint security would ask more questions. She turned as someone walked through the checkpoint. She ignored the [Guard] who told her to stop. Their voices fell silent moments later.
Salkis felt a prickle on her neck. She turned her head as a tall figure stopped behind her.
“Who is—”
She looked around and fell silent. A tall, tall woman with a hat so broad it cast a shadow looked down at her with glowing orange, ringed eyes.
“Are you waiting for the door to open?”
The Drake hesitated. The Bloodfeast Raider licked her lips, listened to her instincts, and held up her claws.
“Um—n-not really. Be my guest.”
Belavierr nodded.
“Thank you.”
She stood in front of the blank patch of wall and door and regarded it. It didn’t turn into a portal. Liska was with her brother, after all. Belavierr tilted her head. She looked at the door.
In The Wandering Inn the dial with the mana stones slowly began to rotate. 
Click. Click. Click.
It stopped on the yellow gemstone. Then the door opened. Belavierr looked at the ground beyond.
She ducked her head and stepped through without a word. Salkis stared at the [Witch]’s back—and then edged backwards, to the checkpoint. She saw all the Drake [Guards] slumped in their seats or on the floor, passed out.
“Oh shit.”
 
—-
 
They all felt it.
Niers Astoragon’s head turned. Ulvama froze, ignoring Rags and Calescent’s search for the small man, forgetting her spells. Wanderer and the Brothers forgot their standoff. Both turned. The Gnoll with white fur felt all of his hair rise. He backed up.
“Good evening.”
A woman had walked out of the portal room. She was tall. Her dress was dark blue, so dark it looked like black until you saw closer. Her eyes…had so many rings of growing depth. All this was normal, and perhaps if you saw her, you would not realize how strange she was until you realized how still she could stand. How uncanny those eyes were, how strangely she talked and moved, as if walking a different world, obeying different laws of time.
Except that was not the Belavierr of now. This [Witch] looked down and Wanderer backed up.
“Hello. I am looking for Rufelt and Lasica. Where are they?”
“I—I don’t know who they are.”
The Stitch Witch nodded.
“Ah. Then excuse me.”
She walked past Wanderer. Through the hallway, and turned. Her eyes regarded the figures in the walls. Then she walked past them.
Normen managed to pull the trigger. It was instinct. He aimed at her and pulled and the crossbow snapped. The string struck him across the face as it broke and he fell, crying out.
The common room heard the sound. Everyone looked at the door. Mrsha, inside the [Garden of Sanctuary], felt…something in her tummy. It was like a shadow. Not just fear, but some presence. A superstition.
A certainty. And it was growing.
The Stitch Witch walked into the common room of The Wandering Inn. Her eyes flashed. She was angry.
“Rufelt. Lasica. There you are.”
The two had spun. Now—they backed up. Rufelt was muttering.
“Oh no. Oh no, I told you she wouldn’t let us go. I told you—”
His wife made no reply. As the woman appeared, the Drake whispered one word.
“Belavierr.”
Someone jerked, recognizing her name. Everyone else just—looked on. They could tell what she was, even if they didn’t know her.
Ulvama was gripping Rags’ arm, a look of wild terror in her eyes. Rags had never seen the [Shaman] act this way. She saw the strange Human woman glance at her and Rags felt a jolt run through her entire being.
Her [Dangersense] didn’t need to tell her what her basic instincts did. Rags didn’t reach for her crossbow or shortsword. She didn’t have a weapon that would work. She just—watched.
Anger. Belavierr was in a state not even Ryoka Griffin would recognize. She still paused, looking around the inn, and murmured.
“What an odd inn. So many tangled threads.”
Then she turned to the [Chef] and [Bartender]. And…smiled.
It was a strange smile. A bad smile. It was like someone trying to smile while knowing what a smile was—without ever having done it, only having had it described to them. It was, Rufelt realized with a jolt, the kind of smile someone in his line of work gave to someone else.
Someone in the service industry giving a pair of unruly clients a smile to tell them everything was well, when it wasn’t. It was so disconcerting he lost his fear for a second. Then she spoke.
“I came to seal our pact, Rufelt and Lasica Owelt. I am prepared. I shall begin tonight, as the moons become full.”
She knew. But like a…saleswoman, trying to close a deal, she smiled. Pretending. That was almost as horrible as her presence.
“I—Belavierr.”
Lasica said it again. The eyes swung down to her. Lasica looked at the [Witch] and quailed, but then at Rufelt. She took his hand and he gripped it firmly. She met the [Witch]’s gaze.
“I um—I—we—decided not to take your offer. We had a change of heart.”
“Indeed? How surprising.”
The [Witch] advanced. The couple backed up a step. And now they all saw it.
Belavierr was furious. Enraged. Not because she had lost the deal of a millennium. Not because she had lost something precious, or she feared losing it. Simply because she had failed.
And she did not fail. She tilted her head as she loomed over them.
“It seems strange powers have conspired to change your mind. I do not brook such—interference. Come, let us talk this over. You are not thinking clearly, Lasica. Nor you, Rufelt.”
The Gnoll gulped.
“Strange—strange powers? I just found hope again, Belavierr. Hope, where I couldn’t see anything but darkness around you!”
He dared to raise his voice, even point at her. The Human woman looked at him. The paw shook.
“I did nothing to you but tell you the truth, Rufelt. I showed you a few objects. Talked to you.”
“You—you cast magic on us. Palt said so himself right, Palt?”
The Centaur jumped. He was staring at the [Witch], in confusion. Imani leaned against him, worried. He cleared his throat.
“That’s—that’s eminently true. I don’t know who you are, Miss Witch, but I’m Palt of Wistram! I can tell when someone’s enchanted someone else and Rufelt was certainly under malign influence. That’s illegal in Liscor, Pallass, and Invrisil!”
His voice trailed off as he tried to wag a finger at her and his hand refused to rise. The name ‘Wistram’ didn’t even make Belavierr blink. Someone whispered with chattering lips.
“Palt. Shut up.”
He looked around. The nervous voice was coming from the one person who recognized the name. Of all people it was—Bezale. The Minotaur was looking at Belavierr with a gaze of horror.
The [Witch]’s huge hat rose and she gave Palt a look of…annoyance.
“I cast no spells to influence Rufelt and Lasica, Centaur. Only one to prevent them from being swayed by magic at all. I do not force those I make pacts with to accept any bargain. Do not cast such allegations again.”
Palt’s legs shook and he nearly sat down. He nodded rapidly, but Lasica cried out, letting fury overcome the sense of dread around the [Witch].
“You mean we were trapped! We couldn’t make ourselves feel better! You—you tortured us for weeks! Showed us images of what might have been, told us how simple it was! You call that fair?”
Again, that head tilted. Left. Right. In the garden, Mrsha saw the scariest Human she had ever met stare at Lasica. She didn’t even seem like the same species as Erin and Lyonette. She looked more like Moore in a way. Shorter, but she loomed.
“I force no one to agree by spell, Lasica Owelt. I do not twist their minds or tongues to agree, for that is against my craft. Such promises secured by magic are worth nothing. Of course I persuade. I have shown you what may be. All those who make pacts do such things.”
“That’s fair?”
Rufelt was incredulous. Belavierr nodded once.
“You are free to choose. That is the basic law of all fair bargains.”
He laughed at her, voice shaking.
“I—I don’t care for your rules, Belavierr. There’s more to fairness than being unimpeded by magic or Skills! You twisted our minds. We’re free of that.”
A frown crossed her face.
“You would not have chosen this of your own accord. Someone interfered. Come. Let us speak further. Grant me a moment to change your minds.”
She bent down, reaching out. Rufelt made to shield Lasica and she dragged him back with a cry. They stumbled, and Belavierr reached out. Her fingers scythed gently through the air, clutching, grasping—
And ran into an invisible wall. Belavierr stopped. Rufelt gasped. Lasica blinked and they looked around.
They were in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Mrsha wiped at her brow with a trembling paw. She’d moved the door behind them! She smiled—then saw the [Witch] staring down at her.
“Is this where you changed your mind? I haven’t seen this garden in a long time. How. Strange. How…unpleasant.”
If possible, she seemed to grow angrier yet. Belavierr looked around.
“I feel fire. Someone familiar stood here. Rufelt. Lasica. Come out.”
She pressed her hands against the invisible barrier. Both Gnoll and Drake retreated. Belavierr spoke to them.
“The Garden is changing your mind. Come out. Let us talk. I am prepared. You could hold your daughter tonight.”
They shuddered. They quailed as something pressed against the garden’s barrier. Mrsha looked up and screamed.
Belavierr had changed. The garden had revealed something. No woman stood there, pressing in, demanding their presence. Mrsha screamed and the inn was ringing with sound, chaos. It had come again. Disaster! Doom! Belavierr made a sound and the Goblin leapt.
He did not know her. He did not know what was happening. But he had waited. Waited, for this day. For when he was needed. Numbtongue leapt through the doorway and planted the crystal sword in Belavierr’s chest. The blade pierced through her dress, through her ribs and came out the other side.
Belavierr staggered back, and her eyes opened wide. She stumbled, stepping backwards, as the glowing sword forged by a master of smiths ran her through. She stood in the inn as Numbtongue held the sword, twisting it slowly in her chest. The [Bard] stared the [Witch] in the eye. She stared at him, wide-eyed. Then—slowly—her face contorted into a look of malice.
“Oh no.”
Niers Astoragon breathed. He leapt from the ceiling as Rags drew her crossbow and loaded a flaming bolt. The Brothers charged out of the hallway as all three [Mages] lifted their wands. Wanderer burst into the room, as Numbtongue’s eyes widened. He drew the sword out, seeing it emerge, bloodless, and swung it in a second killing blow, towards her neck. Belavierr saw it all, and the abyssal rings in her eyes pulsated.
As if the entire room were one…layer. One level of reality. She spoke, as the sword curved towards her neck. As Mrsha, Lasica, and Rufelt saw the defenders of the inn charging at her, Niers, Apista, Ulvama, Palt, and more.
The brave Fortress Beavers as one rushed to flee upstairs exiting the garden, the only sensible beings. The sword sliced towards the [Witch]’s neck. Too late. The wrong weapon.
She spoke, and this is what Belavierr said in The Wandering Inn, the only words that mattered. The only words that fit.
“[Immortal Moment].”
The world beyond stopped. Numbtongue stopped, mid-cut. Niers, Ulvama…Mrsha saw the entire world turn dark. Freeze. And then there she was. Belavierr stood in the doorway, walking past the Goblin. With all the time in the world she stood at the open doorway. Then she smiled down at Mrsha.
Awkwardly.
“Hello, little girl. Won’t you let me in?”
