Where did Velan leave his legacy? I know it exists.
 
Every hair on Rags’ head rose. She whirled, looking around, and didn’t touch the key at her neck. She turned—made a decision. Rags shot out the door, ready for—
Nothing. She sprinted downstairs to find Calescent and Ulvama, rattled. It was only when she was gone that Niers sighed.
“Interesting.”
He sidled out from the windowsill—on the outside of the inn. The tiny mirror he’d placed allowed him an angle on the Goblin and he’d seen her react to the last question. The Titan rubbed at his chin. There were some questions you could only ask a Goblin of Izril about, and he’d never met one—the ones on Baleros had no clue.
“So, they know where it is. Or that it exists.”
The Fraerling man jogged towards the open window he’d kept and hurried inside. There were few birds thanks to that Antinium, but he didn’t like being outside either way. Razorbeak memories haunted him.
Only then did he dump the shards of ice out his coat, swearing mildly. Most of it had melted, but it had been a trick and a half keeping himself ‘neutral’. As he’d guessed, the Goblin Chieftain wasn’t high-enough level to make out individual cold patches mixed with heat—only the overall temperature, especially at a distance. Foliana’s expertise had helped a lot in that regard. She knew more than Fraerlings about tricking people’s eyes.
As for what he’d learned…Niers shook his head. Now there was something he could take back to the Forgotten Wing Company. As secrets went—it was right up there with news of Earth. He shook his head. Not much he could do about it now, but he was certainly going to act on it. If he had given Wil Kallinad a treasure hunt worthy of the lad and his friends—this was one worthy of the Titan and his friends.
“One down. One to go.”
It took some doing, but he’d already fashioned little climbing aids; just pieces of wood, like a [Climber]’s picks. With them, Niers could scale most places in the inn, and even without Apista, it wasn’t hard getting into the next location.
He had to go. If the Fraerling settlements were under attack, the Titan could not wait. They were able to defend themselves, but this was duty.
He only regretted this inn was so fascinating. The occupants—the Titan sighed. He couldn’t take any of them with him and he would have if he could. Especially the young man named Kevin.
Kevin, Joseph, Rose, Galina, Troy, Imani, and Leon. Three of the seven were gone. To that list Niers had also appended the names of Ryoka Griffin, Geneva Scala, Erin Solstice, and Rémi Canada. The Singer of Terandria was also on it, though her name wasn’t listed.
He had names, even rough locations, and not one member of his company or any power. Niers Astoragon sighed as he stared around the room. He looked at the map of the world again—his world—and his gaze travelled left to the second map of…another world.
“So much to ask and not a second more to waste. Damn. This is torture.”
The map of Earth sat in front of him, next to a diagram of what he could only assume were multiple worlds. If ‘Earth’ was there…what were the lines? Magical tunnels? But the sun was in the center, so…
The Earth-rooms were a goldmine. All he could do, though, was make copies of everything here. He couldn’t take a mage-picture, and he couldn’t steal anything or leave traces he’d been here, even if he could carry the images off.
Of course, he’d found the rooms. Mrsha was smart enough to keep some secrets, but a Fraerling got everywhere, and air-holes were obvious, especially if they were big enough for him to squeeze through.
The Titan grinned as he worked, a pained, ecstatic grin.
“If only I’d come months earlier! If only!”
It took him quite some time to note it all down, and he’d already been making copies. He looked back just once, longingly.
He would be back for all of it. Then he went back to the garden and began planning his journey. He checked his travel provisions, route, and new equipment and sighed.
“They’re destroying the villages. Tulm—none of the Great Companies would do this. They want me. Peclir. He knows they’re our secret advantage.”
Niers Astoragon clenched a trembling fist. Time to return. This took priority, as this inn had little that was changing at the moment. It could wait. He’d be back. Right after he killed every single person hunting his people in all Baleros.
He was just leaving to pen the final note to the Watch Captain and Chaldion when he came across something…interesting in the inn. Niers stopped as he crawled out of the tiny air-hole and frowned.
“What’s this, now?”
 
—-
 
They fed him and helped him get a bath and even gave him a soft bed. For a while, he felt better. However, Rufelt Owelt couldn’t sleep.
He tossed and turned and felt the bar calling to him. Lasica. He found himself rising, like a moth pursuing the flame even if it burned him.
He was walking down to the first floor when Palt found him. The Centaur was heading up the stairs and saw Rufelt.
“Mister Rufelt! What are you doing up? I thought you were lying down!”
The Gnoll smiled and indicated the door to the hallway with a paw.
“I’m—I’m going back. Can’t be away or Lasica might decide—I’m sorry. Thank you for your hospitality.”
Palt looked around, but Imani was tuckered out and most of the inn was heading to bed. He raised his hands, blocking Rufelt as the Gnoll tried to exit the common room.
“You’re frazzled. Sit, Mister Rufelt. Just take a seat. Let me get you something.”
The [Bartender] wanted to argue, but Palt had him sitting and handed him a glass of something that was most distinctly not a traditional beverage. He drank it anyways, just to make Palt stop fussing and shook his head.
“I appreciate it, but really—I have to go.”
The [Illusionist] gave Rufelt a second look.
“You—aren’t feeling mellowed out?”
“No. I have to—”
This time, the Centaur put a hand on his shoulder.
“Then something’s wrong. Because that was my best Calming Tonic and if you weren’t placid as a glass of frozen water—you’re not well, Rufelt. And I don’t mean just mentally. It’s magic or—something on you. Maybe a disease, maybe a spell, but I don’t see anything.”
Rufelt blinked. He looked at Palt and had a thought. Had she cast a spell on him? She’d said she wouldn’t use magic on them directly to change their moods. She’d twist their heads, torture them with pictures—but not coerce them with magic.
Doubt seeped into that assertion, and he’d already doubted her. Rufelt felt so…cloudy. It was lack of sleep. Palt fussed around him.
“Try a puff of this. It made Saliss blink.”
The Gnoll tried to refuse.
“I don’t smoke regularly. No thanks.”
“Just do it. This isn’t about smoking, it’s about…”
The little argument from the Gnoll and Centaur drew a sleepy head. Mrsha had been napping by the fire, having eaten a bellyful of potato and meat and no one had brought her up to bed yet; Ulvama was searching for something with Rags.
She came over to where Rufelt had just taken a puff and felt his head spin—then normalize. He looked down at Mrsha and she up at him. She saw his expression as he stared at the girl and averted his gaze. She would have scampered away, mindful of his grief, but then Mrsha hesitated.
One of her ears perked up. Rufelt thought he heard something…but Palt was muttering about other drugs and substances of various legal and illegal natures. Neither noticed Mrsha hurry upstairs.
“I have to go.”
“You’ll do no such thing. All my magic is bouncing off you! I’m not certain if you’re under an effect, but I can’t put one on you!”
That rankled the [Illusionist]’s pride. Rufelt shook his head.
“I just need to—to choose. I have to go.”
Palt put his hands on the [Bartender]’s shoulders. Rufelt growled, and it might have gotten physical, as desperate as he was to go back home—when Mrsha came back downstairs.
She waved her paws and the two adults looked at her. Rufelt saw her hand a note up and Palt took it.
“Mrsha, I’m kind of busy—actually, could you wake Bezale and Montressa? I need—hm?”
He frowned at the note. Then looked at Rufelt. The Gnoll could read it too.
 
Go into the [Garden of Sanctuary] for me! Pwease?
 
The Gnoll and Centaur both gave Mrsha a look, but she gave them her biggest, roundest eyes of pleading and Rufelt hesitated.
“I really have to—”
“No, Mrsha’s right. Just for a second or two.”
Palt was looking at Mrsha thoughtfully. Rufelt growled, but now Palt was whispering.
“You can’t cast the spell on…? Assuming you really can cast a T6 spell, now would be the time to—”
Mrsha shook her head and Palt sighed, but the two began ushering him to the Garden’s open door. It was night, of course, yet it looked serene.
“Just for a second. You stay in there five minutes, sir, and I won’t have Bezale put you in a chokehold.”
“I—fine! Five minutes! If you don’t let me go, I’ll shout for help!”
Rufelt snarled. He walked into the garden and turned around. He glared at the two—and then his face changed to one of bemusement.
“I feel…different.”
He murmured. Rufelt looked around. The Garden was quiet, serene. Beautiful; the most beautiful garden of different climates he’d ever seen. Of course he remembered that, but he hadn’t wanted to go inside.
Erin lay here. Yet—Rufelt began to feel better all of a sudden, dead young woman or not.
“Ah.”
Palt sighed, and gave Mrsha an admiring look. She looked smug herself. Rufelt felt at his head. Suddenly—it was as if the cloud was lifted from him.
“What’s going on? Was I ensorcelled?”
“Maybe not.”
Palt admitted, after taking a note from Mrsha. He raised his brows.
“That’s—fascinating. Mrsha has a theory I agree with. You might not have been under a spell or Skill, Rufelt. That is to say, you weren’t being affected, but nothing I could do would change your mood either. It was just you being at your worst—naturally.”
The [Bartender] blinked at Palt. He recalled being horrifically worn down, stressed beyond belief, but in this place…
“What changed?”
The Centaur gave him a wry smile.
“You came under the influence of a higher power, sir. Rather—the garden’s effect beat whatever was keeping me from helping. As Skills go, Erin inherited one of the most powerful. No malign magics can enter here—or if they can, they have to be stronger than whatever was on you. How do you feel?”
Rufelt felt…not at peace, but better. Calmer. He yawned.
“I’m…tired. I—I’m sorry. I’ve been so exhausted and I…”
He swayed on his feet. Suddenly, it was as if someone had taken his burdens away. At least, in part. Palt glanced at Mrsha.
“Why don’t you lie down? I’ll get a blanket and pillows.”
“Sleep? Here?”
The two were nodding. Rufelt looked at the grass under his feet and decided—why not? It had been a long time since he’d slept like this, but the ground called to him. He sat down.
“What’s going on?”
A weary voice made all three look up. Mrsha saw a Hobgoblin standing there.
If there was peace in this place, Numbtongue still mourned. He looked almost as bad as Rufelt, and that was saying something. Mrsha scampered up to him, signing, and Palt explained as Numbtongue blinked slowly.
“I’m sorry—I forgot you were here. Rufelt’s unwell. He needs to rest in the garden. It’s just for a little bit, Numbtongue. He’s really not well and Mrsha thought it would help. Why was that, Mrsha?”
She scribbled and held up a note for all three adults to read.
 
Because the Garden is a safe place.
 
Rufelt smiled. Numbtongue eyed him and grunted.
“Fine.”
He walked back up the hill, and the Gnoll relaxed. The garden’s power enveloped him and he let it soothe the turmoil inside. It wasn’t over, but at least he could relax, his burdens taken off him here. He closed his eyes—
And the Stitch Witch, irritated, wove more power into the spell.
Rufelt’s eyes opened wide. Mrsha and Palt, high-fiving, saw the Gnoll’s world crash down around him again. Rufelt put his head in his paws.
“No! No!”
It was back. His anxieties flooded around him. The calming power of the garden vanished and Rufelt cried out, so much that the other people in the Garden, from the beavers to the people, looked up.
“There’s no escape. I have to choose. Choose one way or another.”
Rufelt rocked. The Titan hissed, aiming a finger at the Gnoll, uncertain if it would help. If it wasn’t the source, nulling the spell just let it be recast and this was powerful. His sense of unease deepened. What could beat this garden’s power?
“Mister Rufelt! Get ahold of yourself! Mrsha, run and get Bezale and Montressa. Something is really wrong here.”
Palt grappled with Rufelt as the Gnoll tried to get up, to run home and put an end to this. The power of the [Garden of Sanctuary] wasn’t infinite; Numbtongue was proof enough, but the Centaur was rattled. He saw Mrsha run for the stairs, but didn’t know what they could do short of knocking Rufelt out or restraining him; he was the emotions-expert here and he was outclassed!
It was as Rufelt was fighting Palt, even here, as he was struggling, that the last person in the Garden walked down the hill, past Numbtongue. He laid a hand on Numbtongue’s arm.
“Let me.”
Rufelt stopped as he saw the last visitor. He couldn’t really punch Palt, not here. Not even with misery drowning him. He stopped though, not because the other visitor was strong enough to halt him, but because he was unexpected.
“Do I know you?”
The Antinium nodded at Rufelt.
“I am Pawn. We have met, Mister Rufelt. I heard you had lost a child due to the Demon’s magic. I am sorry for your loss; I could not express it until now.”
Palt, Mrsha, even Numbtongue and Niers stopped. Rufelt’s mouth worked, confronted by this unexpected gesture.
“I—I—thank you.”
The Centaur coughed, still with two arms on Rufelt’s shoulders.
“That’s a bit insensitive, Pawn. And I should know.”
The Antinium looked at the Centaur and dipped his head in acknowledgement, but not guilt.
“I am aware my words can be hurtful rather than helpful, Palt. Even so, I would rather let Rufelt know I care. I do care. Some in Liscor suffered as well, from the Demon’s spell. Antinium likewise.”
“You too?”
Rufelt whispered. Pawn nodded, as the Gnoll relived horror as he did each time he met someone…the [Priest]’s face was hard to read, but his mandibles drooped.
“Yes. The Demon’s magic affected all peoples, even though Antinium are not born in the same way as others. We found some dead. We mourned them. Antinium are born with great regularity, it is true. We still mourned.”
