“What white Gnoll? You mean you? Yes, I see you, silly—”
Mrsha put her paw up and Selys stopped. She pointed, urgently.
There’s a white Gnoll following me! 
She saw it everywhere. Him, rather. Mrsha had seen him yesterday, twice, but both times, it had been just a flash out the inn’s windows.
She looked out and saw a figure standing there. A…white Gnoll. Wearing a long cloak, even a hat. Looking at her.
Just for a second. Then Mrsha would turn her head, blink, and he’d be gone. She had thought it was her imagination. A trick of the light.
However, no one else had seen him. Not Bird. Not Selys, or Ekirra or Visma or…anyone.
“I do not see a white Gnoll, Mrsha. I would tell you if I could. But all I see is you. Now, here is a cookie for you. I am so nice.”
Ekirra didn’t see a Gnoll, or smell one. Visma had been looking the same way as Mrsha and not seen him.
He was just there, in the street! Mrsha pointed, but Selys saw no one. She even humored Mrsha by going out and checking.
“I think you’re seeing things, Mrsha. Or playing pranks. Hey…is this another prank? Like that restaurant? You know, you ruined their entire service and business? Drassi actually had to apologize and write a column about it in the newspaper so they didn’t lose business. We’re going to apologize today.”
Mrsha’s ears flattened, but she stamped her feet in annoyance. The problem with being the little Gnoll who poisoned people’s bowls of soup was that people didn’t take you seriously at times!
If it was a Raskghar, you’d pay attention!
Selys frowned. She took that more seriously and leaned on the table.
“Okay. Okay, if you want to put it that way…the next time you see the Gnoll, tell me.”
 
—-
 
Mrsha saw the Gnoll in the restaurant, standing by a table as she was apologizing to the staff and manager. She pointed, sounded the alarm. Selys got the staff to block the entrances.
No one found a white Gnoll. Exasperated, Selys told Mrsha off. The Gnoll threw up her paws.
I demand to talk to Watch Captain Zevara! I’m being followed!
Her request…did not impress the Senior Guard at the desk. The Drake eyed Mrsha and refused to let the Gnoll upstairs, even when Mrsha pointed out she knew Erin and Lyonette.
“If you really didn’t see a Gnoll, I’m disinclined to report it to the Watch Captain. I can take a statement.”
“I don’t think that’s necessary. Mrsha—we found no one. I think you’re just seeing Gnoll’s fur in the light or something.”
Selys was fed up with Mrsha’s sightings of the Gnoll. By now, Mrsha was convinced something was up. The Gnoll would be among other people, and Selys or others would be looking his way—but only Mrsha would see him!
Do you see the white Gnoll?
She began to doubt it herself. She…Mrsha wondered if it was her mind playing tricks on her. After all, it was just glimpses of the Gnoll. Maybe it was her own reflection. If no one saw him, not even Bird—was Mrsha going crazy? Had eating five cookies messed with her mind, like Lyonette told her they would?
It was as Mrsha was giving up that she had an idea to ask the one group who would take her 100% seriously. More than the Thronebearers or Selys or even Ulvama. As seriously as Captain Z, who didn’t play games. After all, they had been with her from the start. So she marched off to talk to her oft-ignored protectors, as much unseen as the phantom Gnoll.
 
—-
 
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings always kept at least three Brothers in the trapped hallway on a kind of permanent sentry duty. They were fed, and traded off in shifts if one needed to stretch or use the restrooms. Sometimes they changed Brothers, but one of the ones almost always there was Crimshaw.
There were actually no less than six on duty at the inn at any time. You see—three always followed Mrsha about.
Six Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings was a lot to be tied up on permanent guard duty. They employed one door-guard for their sanctuary. Six?
They were discussing the issue. One of the younger Brothers leaned against the wall.
“It’s costing us money, Crimshaw. The other branches are asking what’s up. We already took numbers during the battle…all I’m asking is how long? Months? Years? The Gentlemen aren’t even taking pay for their job.”
Crimshaw was the older Brother, with a dagger, a little cap instead of a fancy hat, and more retiring than the rest. He shook his head.
“Normen. You have to consider the situation from a matter of honor. We had the job of guarding the [Innkeeper]. The Gentlemen did—but we took up the issue as a whole. They got careless. They slipped up the one time it mattered and she died. That’s a debt.”
“We fought for her.”
One of the others murmured, and Crimshaw adjusted his hat.
“So we did. A separate matter.”
“Seems a lot of Brothers have died for one woman. Not that I’m saying it’s wrong, Crimshaw, but this is all an affair of honor. Honor’s honor, on my hat, and it’s what we do. But there’s also coin flowing out our socks.”
Normen murmured. He was younger, and this duty clearly chafed at him. It was Crimshaw who fixed him with a patient…serious look. His hat was on, but the other five men looked up.
“Are you upset we died in the street with nary a mention, Normen? That the Gentlemen are far afield, risking their necks for no pay? The Gentlemen are our best—but no mistake. They play fancy at our ideals. They’re all flash, and they can back it up, but they are flash. They move like they’ll live forever.”
The other Brothers nodded. Wilovan and Ratici were Faces, legends. They saw Crimshaw shake his head, though.
“Don’t forget, Normen. They’re our best—but someday, a call will go out for two more Gentlemen. They’re by way of being good representatives of a long line of fellows, but some day they’ll end up lying in a gutter. You’re upset at how we died fighting [Assassins]? Their statues are in that garden. That’s immortality, and a finer end than any of us can hope for. There’s no peaceful death for men like us.”
He raised his voice, and all the Brothers looked up. Crimshaw looked around. He was old, old as they went in their line of work, and barely in his forties. He tugged at his cap.
“I will never be a Gentleman Caller. Now, lads. I know what it’s like to be hot-blooded and impatient. I know we’re bleeding coin. But here’s the question, as it were. The question is not whether we’re honorable men. The question is: do we like to pretend to be honorable men?”
The Brothers looked at Crimshaw. Then they grinned and settled back in their chairs. Normen took a seat. For the [Innkeeper] who called on everything they pretended to be…
They waited. Waited for trouble. They would not forsake their promises again. One of them began to set out another game of cards; another pair had gotten into chess. That was when the hidden door opened.
The Brothers had heard the sound. They’d also heard the pitter-patter of paws, so they weren’t surprised to see Mrsha. Crimshaw adjusted his hat.
“Now look who’s here. Did you want something, little Mrsha? You know you can’t leave without a respectful guardian, and we don’t count.”
The little Gnoll gazed up solemnly at them. The Brothers regarded her with a kind of wary affection; she was one of the few children they interacted with regularly and they were, by now, used to her escapades. Crimshaw saw Mrsha tentatively pad forwards.
Ishkr gave them food, but no one really talked to the Brothers. They were less sociable than the Gentlemen Callers and they were, when you got down to it, criminals. The one person who had done that was the same young woman who talked to Antinium and Goblins.
Crimshaw accepted the note and opened it. He had to read for quite a while; it was hard for him to make out the cursive and reading wasn’t a strength the Brothers looked for. But when he read her note, he looked up.
“A white Gnoll?”
He turned. The three Brothers who had gone with Mrsha glanced at each other.
“Never saw a wink of a fellow myself, Crimshaw. I was leaning against the wall of that restaurant, too. Would’ve seen someone going in or out. I thought it was a funny little prank.”
Mrsha folded her arms and shook her head emphatically. Crimshaw glanced at her.
He took her seriously, and squatted down.
“If there’s a fellow only you can see, Miss Mrsha, I’d call it proper important. ‘Specially white fur. That means something, don’t it?”
She nodded solemnly. Crimshaw eyed her. He drew a dagger from his belt. It was a wickedly sharp blade and she smelled faint blood on it. He offered it to her.
“Now, little Mrsha, I know you’re the sort who plays pranks. Not that you’ve done as much to us—but I want you to swear. On this. You’re not tickling our hats on this, are you? You saw a fellow with white fur watching you?”
She placed her paw delicately on the dagger and nodded. Crimshaw looked up and sighed. The other Brothers glanced at each other.
“Then, Miss Mrsha. I believe you. Now, what shall we do about it?”
 
—-
 
That was how Mrsha ended up going back to the park. This time—alone. Well, Crimshaw had taken her. All six Brothers stood around.
Six Brothers with her, and four more in the inn. Crimshaw didn’t play games, as Mrsha had known. He’d called for backup.
The sight of six men with hats would have alarmed any [Guard] who saw them. But Mrsha didn’t see them. All six had vanished into hiding places. She couldn’t even smell them, they were that good.
The plan was simple. If there was a Gnoll or apparition stalking Mrsha, bait him out. Mrsha would play with the other kids, alone, and wait to spot him. The Brothers would be waiting and watching too.
It was a simple plan, and Mrsha felt safe with the Brothers. She was still apprehensive as she pretended to play around, though. She kept staring about, looking for a glimpse of that white Gnoll as before.
It had been nearly every fifteen minutes near the end. The Gnoll had always just been…standing there. Looking at her. Smiling. Waving. Pointing at his fur and hers.
As if to say—‘look, we’re the same’. Mrsha had been curious. And—nervous. She remembered all too well what strange furry people did. It reminded her of the Raskghar.
White Gnolls. Were there more than her? That Gnoll that the King of Destruction had saved had gained white fur too. Mrsha had never…really thought about it. She supposed it had to be rare. After all—the Tribes didn’t like Gnolls with white fur.
She made a sand castle and peeked around it. The street was full of people, Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans now, dropping kids off to play in this safe area, going to work…she looked around.
White Gnoll. White Gnoll…all she saw was her reflection on a metal slide. No white Gnoll appeared.
Mrsha began to feel uncertain. Was it just her imagination? No—she determinedly ran around the playground, looking for a glimpse of her pursuer. There! No? There!
No white Gnoll appeared. Mrsha waited. First fifteen minutes—then she leapt on the high-up swings, fell, let the magic enchantment save her from falling, played tag, then soccer—
Thirty minutes passed. Then an hour. Then an hour and a half. At that point, Mrsha was tired and upset.
It had been in her mind! She went to the edge of the playground and Crimshaw stepped out of an alleyway like a shadow himself. Mrsha looked up at him, ready to cry. She had to apologize. There was no white Gnoll and the only people who had believed her were going to think she was a stinking liar.
She hung her head as the other five Brothers emerged. Crimshaw smiled and ignored a suspicious parent’s look.
“All done, Miss Mrsha? Let’s get you back to the inn, then.”
All six walked around Mrsha. She tried to write, realizing they couldn’t sign. Mrsha sniffed as she handed up a note to Crimshaw.
I didn’t see anyone. I’m sorry. I thought there was someone! Did you see anyone?
Crimshaw read the note and glanced around.
“I saw no one and nothing. You fellows? I reckon you would’ve raised some commotion if you had done.”
“Not I.”
“No unusual fellow. A few [Thieves]—nothing else.”
All five confirmed. They had seen nothing and no one. Mrsha hung her head. The Brothers walked around her, strolling back to the inn. Crimshaw smiled as he tucked the note into his pocket.
“So there you have it. We saw nothin’ and no one, Miss Mrsha. A damned fool I was for suggesting this outing.”
Mrsha hung her head lower. The Brother slowed, seeing her sniff and bent low. He looked down at Mrsha.
“Don’t slow. You were right. Hurry up. Casual now.”
Mrsha’s head rose. Crimshaw’s eyes were kind—and serious. He met her gaze.
“A damned fool. Back to the inn. Quick-like. Not too fast, though.”
What? He still believed her? Mrsha stumbled forwards. What did he mean? Crimshaw spoke out of the corner of his mouth. And now all six of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were…strolling, Mrsha realized.
Strolling, too casually. Grinning, heads on casual swivels. She realized they were tense.
“We saw nothing. All six of us.”
Crimshaw muttered. He put his hands in his pockets.
“That doesn’t mean nothing was there. There’s a way of telling you fell under a Skill, Miss Mrsha. Ways of knowing you were duped. All six of us were. Which means I’m a damned fool. You’re not being followed by a regular fellow. His level…it’s at least Level 40. Of all the times for the Gentlemen to be out. Either that, or he’s a specialist.”
The Brother muttered to Mrsha. Now their pace was quickening, but casually.
“Back to the inn. We’re calling in the rest.”
Mrsha tensed up. She was right! Her eyes were huge as the Brothers escorted her down the street. Now—she was more afraid by not seeing the specter than seeing him.
The white Gnoll. What did he want with her? Mrsha slowed as they turned down another street, close to the inn. And as if her thoughts had summoned him…Crimshaw swore under his breath. All six Brothers and the little girl came to a stop.
The white Gnoll stood in the middle of the street. People were glancing at him, Gnolls murmuring, pointing. He was visible to all. Mrsha froze.
The Gnoll grinned at her. His fur was pure white. No—there was a trace of brown on one paw as he raised it. Like…dye, wiped off.
The Brothers stood completely still. The Gnoll had on a travelling cloak, and hat, although he had very little clothing on, like many Plains Gnolls or even city Gnolls given their thick fur. He had a staff in one hand. And he was…smiling.
“A fool.”
Crimshaw spoke quietly. Mrsha saw him shift. She looked up. Crimshaw bent down as the other Brothers spread out across the street. The Gnoll was watching them.
“Here. Now, I reckon you know another way to the inn. Take it. Run. Normen. Blow the alarm.”
