The young man produced, of all things, a whistle. He blew it, and the piercing shriek was an echo of Liscor’s watch-whistle! He was…calling the [Guard]? Crimshaw smiled at Mrsha as her eyes went huge. He put something on her head.
A souvenir. His…cap. The Brother straightened.
“Run.”
Wanderer watched as six Brothers turned. The little Gnoll stood there—then ran. Five hats fell to the ground. The Humans were humming as they walked. They drew blades and weapons as the people scattered.
It was a familiar nursery rhyme.
 
“The night’s been long and the bodies are wet,
But don’t you fret; be quick and ain’t not a guard who’ll be upset
The good folk are rising, and we’re off to our beds,
The smart thieves away with the loot and the slow ones are dead.”
 
The Gnoll grinned. He looked past them as the Gnoll girl ran. He lifted a paw.
“I’m not here to fight you. What are a Human gang doing, following a child around?”
None of them answered. They walked forwards, murder in their eyes. Wanderer shook his head. So complicated. So long as they remained—he raised his staff and they tensed.
“We’re all running out of time. Don’t let her out of your sight.”
Crimshaw leapt at him, blades swinging. He saw the staff whirl, and Wanderer blocked each strike. One, two—then the Gnoll leapt backwards and ran around a corner. Swearing, Crimshaw followed. He skidded around the corner—
Wanderer was gone. The Brother slashed through the alleyway, looking up, around for hidden platforms, invisible Gnolls or someone leaping upward. Nothing.
Gone. He whirled, swearing, realizing how the Gnoll had played on the Brother’s unfamiliarity with bodyguard duty. Inviting them to fight rather than do what they should have done!
“Get back to the girl!”
The Brothers whirled as one. They ran backwards, each one cursing their stupidity twice! It was a feint! An accomplice! They were too late. Too—
Mrsha peeked back at them, wide-eyed. She was following a group of [Guards], who’d come running. A coincidence. The [Guards] shouted for the Brothers to drop their weapons, and the Humans complied after a second.
Wanderer sighed and leaned back around the corner, bare feet from Mrsha. Damn. Almost.
 
—-
 
Mrsha returned to the inn with Crimshaw and Normen. The other four Brothers were in for questioning, but those two had gotten away. It was amazing, really. They’d been cuffed and escorted to the Watch House for questioning—or their doubles had. The two had strolled away, gotten Mrsha, and rushed her to the inn. Crimshaw’s Skill.
Well, Crimshaw’s Skill was the fake of him that would vanish as soon as he was inside. Normen’s was a bit meaner. The protesting Human had been dragged by the [Guard].
“It’s not me! Stop, stop! I don’t know this lot! I was—”
[You Have the Wrong Man]. Literally.
“Lock it down! Level 40’s on our tail! White Gnoll!”
Crimshaw snarled as they burst through the portal door. Four Brothers in the hallway shot to their feet, and they had already been ready. Liska looked at Mrsha.
“What’s happening? Why is everyone coming in today—”
“Where’s your brother? Get clear of the door! No one goes in—no one goes out! Move!”
Crimshaw hustled Liska down the hallway with Mrsha. Frightened, but relieved they were safe, Mrsha ran with him. Straight for the Garden.
She found a second scene playing out as she opened the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Rufelt was standing in the inn’s common room, engaging in an argument with…
Lasica. The Drake [Chef] had found him thanks to Palt’s note. She was shouting at him. She looked awful. Rufelt had been bad—but a night’s sleep had done him better. Lasica looked terrible. Not in the same way, but just as worn.
“How could you just run off? What do you mean, you refuse? You were agreeing with me last night!”
“Lasica—Lasica, listen—it’s a Skill. She’s keeping us like this. Can’t you see?”
Rufelt was remonstrating with Lasica. The [Chef] shouted back.
“She’s giving us a choice! Can’t you understand that?”
Everyone was watching. Ishkr turned as Crimshaw seized his arm; Palt, Imani, Kevin, and the others guests were watching, unable to jump into the personal fight. No one really knew what was going on.
But it was becoming clear. Lasica was almost weeping.
“We could bring our child back, Rufelt. If you’d only agree! What’s wrong with you? Don’t you care at all? What would you give up for him? For her? For—us?”
It was the same bitter words. The same impossible choice, made worse by taut emotions, razorblades of feeling thrown at each other. Rufelt felt it begin to cut deep.
Yet he clung to it. The [Benediction of Hope]. It had been given to him. It was a gift. A blessing. He clung to it and closed his eyes. Keep it in you and make it last. For he would get no second chance.
It was time.
“Lasica. I will not take the [Witch]’s deal.”
The words came out. Palt started. He looked at Rufelt. Lasica recoiled.
“You don’t care. You don’t care at all, do you?”
She looked at Rufelt as if he was a monster. The Gnoll clenched his paws.
“How can you say that to me? Of course I care. But Lasica—it’s not worth it.”
“It’s just time, Rufelt. Fifteen years. Wouldn’t you give that up for a chance? I’ll pay the rest. I’ll do anything. Why…?”
Why wouldn’t you? Rufelt reached for her.
“I would. I would, Lasica. But—I don’t trust her.”
He forestalled her reply.
“I know. She swore by everything. Her craft, her own daughter—it’s still not fair. Fifteen years and your levels? It’s too much.”
“Wouldn’t you give it up for your child, Rufelt? They can come back.”
Everyone was looking at them. Even Crimshaw. Even Mrsha. What were they saying? Bring someone back? Not even [Necromancers] claimed to be able to do that. And what if she were telling the truth?
That was what was so hard. It was easier to call Belavierr a liar. But Rufelt believed her when she said she could do it. Part of him did. And if everything was on a level…life. Levels. For the ones you loved, wouldn’t you give it all away?
A parent’s nightmare. A terrible hope to offer. He had never had an answer for Lasica that could have taken the if away. Even now, he didn’t.
Rufelt was shaking. It was so easy for someone like Palt to say ‘these things happened’. The child had not been born? How dare you. It mattered to him and her and that was all that mattered.
And yet. His paws closed over her claws. She was glaring at him. Crying. As broken as he was by the choice. She knew what was being asked and she wanted to pay it. To turn back time.
That was not what Belavierr offered.
“Even if she was telling the truth, Lasica. Let’s say she could bring back our child. That we paid it all. If it were that alone, fifteen years, your levels—I might do it. But…”
“But? But what?”
His wife searched Rufelt’s face. There was no Pawn here. They did not stand in the Garden. Nor did Rufelt want those things. They could help. But this? It had to be them or not at all. No crutches. His grip tightened on hers.
“Lasica. But what about our second child?”
She looked at him.
“…What?”
The Gnoll [Bartender]’s head rose. He looked at her and drew something from his bag of holding.
“What do you see in the picture?”
He showed her the image of them. The child. Lasica looked at it.
“Our family.”
“Yes. But only one child? Lasica—we never were going to have one. It was always two, remember. A Drake and a Gnoll. Are we going to give it all away? Fifteen years. That’s not enough time. I want more than fifteen years. More than fifty years. More than a hundred. What kind of a life would we give them, if we took the deal?”
She looked at him, shaking her head.
“So you’ll just let them die?”
Rufelt flinched. It was the same argument Belavierr had given Lasica. He refused to look away.
“If I could—Lasica. I thought about paying all the cost myself. Thirty years and my levels. I’d pay the full price. But I can’t leave you alone. I’m sorry. It’s selfish, but I can’t let you sacrifice everything you have left. Not like this. Not to her.”
“I’d pay it myself. If you agree—I’ll give her all of it. All I can.”
Lasica whispered. Rufelt drew her closer.
“No. No! What would I do without you? Lasica! I can’t bear to lose you as much as our child. Don’t you understand? That’s why it’s impossible! I can’t give up one for the other.”
She looked at him. Rufelt was crying. He tried to speak.
“I want you and children. Both. Don’t leave me. I’ve been terrified of that—that’s why I keep saying no. I can’t lose you.”
This was what he should have said all along. What he had been trying to say. What they needed to say. Only, she had been getting in the way. The words sprang from Lasica’s mouth, as something was broken. Perhaps not magic. Perhaps just dark thoughts.
“Don’t you blame me?”
“For what?”
“For losing…I tried to fight it. The magic. I tried, Rufelt.”
He threw his arms around her.
“You thought that? Never. How could I…? Not for a moment. It wasn’t your fault.”
A sob came out of her throat. Lasica held Rufelt. It felt like months since that had happened. Suddenly—Rufelt was holding his wife again. Not a stranger.
“I’m sorry.”
“It’s not your fault. Don’t go.”
“I was never going to go. I just—”
Their audience was forgotten. The two stood there, telling each other the truth. Like a dam bursting. Animosity gone. It was grieving all over again. But this time—Rufelt closed his eyes and sniffed. This time it was grieving together.
The Stitch Witch had failed to tear them apart. She had failed, because of a single moment. The moment when they finally looked at each other. It had been so close, but she had failed, despite her countless years of expertise and cunning.
She had failed. 
Belavierr didn’t like failing.
 
—-
 
The portal door was abandoned as Liska and Ishkr were told of the threat. Amid Rufelt and Lasica’s reunion and triumph, the inn was alerted to the danger.
There was a Gnoll out there with white fur. He was coming for Mrsha. Wanderer watched the inn from afar and cursed. He turned his head.
He was out of time. They were watching the wrong person.
The true hunters had arrived.
 
—-
 
There were eighteen of them. Not eight. Not four. Not a small number. Nor were they weak. The Plain’s Eye played no games themselves.
“We’re in place. Tell the [Shaman].”
Their leader checked the inn from the vantage spot. The rest of the eighteen were approaching from multiple angles. He crouched in the grass, nigh-invisible next to the Gnoll with the furthest range. A longbow, enchanted.
One of the [Shamanic Warriors] traced a marking on his fur and it glowed. It would transmit the magic they shared back to their tribe.
Just a single message that didn’t work the way regular magic did. Undetectable to the Walled Cities.
A [Witch] heard it, but she was busy.
“The inn.”
Their [Hunt Leader] murmured. They knew where their quarry was. It had taken some travel, to reach here via the roads instead of the door. But then—they were Plains Gnolls and didn’t trust Pallass to let them in or out.
Especially not with what they had come to do. They would not pass a truth stone test asking them if they intended violence. They had come here for one purpose.
They were Doomslayers.
“Eyes on the Doombringer?”
The other Gnolls saw nothing—yet. The Gnoll with the enchanted bow could hit the inn from this range, even a thousand paces away. They had the right Skills. And they were cautious. They replied, using a different magic than speaking stones. Each one was a warrior imbued with the magic of Gnolls. Tribal magic.
“Not from my angle.”
Another Gnoll spoke, voice a growl.
“There’s something in the tower. An…Antinium. I think it’s seen me.”
A pause. The Gnolls tensed. The one with the bow looked at the [Hunt Leader] and he lifted a furry finger.
“Danger?”
“It’s waving. It thinks I’m a [Hunter]. Moving off.”
The Gnolls untensed. The [Hunt Leader] stared, his enhanced eyes spotting the figure in the tower.
“It’s watching you. Keep hunting. Kill something.”
“I see Doom.”
The others froze. One of the Gnolls had seen Mrsha in the common room padding towards a glowing hole in the wall. She hissed at the others. The [Hunt Leader]’s voice was steady.
“Do you have a shot?”
“Yes. No. The windows look reinforced. I don’t think [Piercing Shot] can go in.”
The Plain’s Eye Gnolls exhaled in frustration. The [Hunt Leader] spoke.
“Then from up close. Okrha, go in. If you see her—act. We will cover your exit.”
One of the Gnolls made for the inn’s doors. They had just arrived; they would not wait an hour or second longer. The Plain’s Eye Gnoll went through the front door and the others waited.
“Okrha? Okrha?”
The [Hunt Leader] waited. The Gnoll didn’t respond. Maybe the inn cut off their magic? He looked at his companion. Both growled; either something unexpected had happened or…this might not be easy after all. They prepared for a full attack.
 
—-
 
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were ready. The hallway was a killing ground and every window was secure. Four were ready—the other two patrolling the house. They were sending for reinforcements. But—
The door opened. They stirred. The actual, physical door to the inn opened. There was a sound from the entranceway.
All four Brothers waited in silence. They heard a muffled sound. A…crack. They tensed.
A Gnoll walked forwards. Not Okhra.
Wanderer. The Brothers stared as the Gnoll adjusted his hat. They knew without a doubt they had just heard someone die.
Crossbows rose. They waited. Somehow that Gnoll had been inside the inn without them telling. He might pass by the hallway unnoticed. They waited, ready for battle. Inside, Crimshaw was raising the alarm with the others, the [Mages] and other guests. Mrsha was in the garden.
Had he managed to teleport inside? Where was he? Was—
Wanderer walked into the hallway. The Brothers froze.
The Gnoll had white fur. He leaned on his staff. His eyes were sharp. He looked down the long hallway, at the holes in the opening, perhaps even smelling and hearing the Brother crouched with the jar of acid overhead, the ones in the walls. He stopped, just before the first arrow crenellations, aware of the crossbows aimed at him.
Nevertheless, he spoke.
“I’m out of time. She’s in danger. They’re here.”
 
—-
 
This was how it was. Inside the inn, Ulvama was looking around, eyes narrowed. Rags was watching the door. There was a Gnoll after Mrsha?
