It was then that Rufelt looked at someone else who could understand. Even if not entirely…he whispered, shoulders shaking.
“How can you stand there and deal with it? How can you look so calm? You don’t even look like you care.”
He hurled the words at Pawn, but the Antinium just stood there. He looked at Rufelt, at Palt, and Mrsha, and took his time before replying. He looked up to the hill where mists gathered and Rufelt realized how wrong he was to accuse Pawn of being calm, of not caring. Especially here.
At last, the [Priest] met Rufelt’s eyes.
“Because I must. To be Antinium is to know your kind dying each day. Less now, than before. But they die. I mourn them all, Rufelt. But I must continue even if I bleed. To make things better for the living—and the dead. I know terrible pain, and I may know worse still, though I cannot believe it. I continue because I believe it will end someday.”
“How?”
There was something Pawn had that Rufelt didn’t. The Gnoll wanted to know how the Antinium was so certain. Pawn’s four arms moved, two spreading out, two clasping together.
“Faith. Faith that better times lie ahead. Sometimes—it is all I have. It is still hard. I still despair. But I come here and see—”
He looked at Numbtongue, at Rufelt. Pawn hesitated, and then reached out. He touched two people, the Gnoll and the Goblin.
“[Benediction]. To you, Rufelt and you, Numbtongue. Have faith. She will return. Better days lie ahead.”
In the darkness, there was a spark. Palt’s eyes widened, as did Niers’. Numbtongue and Rufelt jerked. Both pulled away, Numbtongue knocking Pawn’s hand down, and Rufelt recoiling, but it was done.
Both of them felt…something. Something warm, like a fire. It did not flow into them like a potion or magic spell. It did not change them.
For a second, they were simply there. Sitting in a good place, having eaten their fill, amongst friends. Like they sat in an inn and realized the world was good. Rufelt could close his eyes and remember every time in his life he had felt thusly—and it was so easy to forget.
He remembered hope. And memory was so often cruel and showed only regret and pain. He felt…contentment.
Slowly, the Gnoll yawned. He looked around and Numbtongue’s red eyes turned to Pawn’s. The [Priest] raised his hands.
“I am sorry if I overstepped.”
“Hrm.”
That was all the Goblin said. He went back to the hill, to sit in the night. Rufelt looked at Pawn.
Where the Garden had failed, where Palt and food and everything else—at last, he felt his worries ease. They didn’t shrink, or vanish temporarily. They were simply overcome by the emotion welling in his heart.
Hope. He looked ahead, to the future, and at himself.
“Thank you, Pawn. I—I think I need to sleep. I’m going to be okay, now, I think.”
“Good.”
The Antinium smiled. Palt looked at Rufelt, but the Gnoll didn’t run to leave the inn. He just…yawned. And then he slowly went back to the guest room and lay down.
Rufelt slept, and dreamed without nightmares for once. Mrsha looked up at Pawn, and the [Priest] nodded to her. She stuck out a paw, tentatively, a question in her eyes, and he touched her.
“[Benediction of Hope].”
Mrsha sighed, and then smiled and went to sleep. Pawn left the inn, as the Titan and Palt stared at his back.
Somewhere, the [Witch] stirred. She felt something overcome her power. Completely. So thoroughly she stopped everything she was doing and she crossed her brows.
In confusion and…annoyance.
“What was that?”
It had been a long time since Belavierr had ever uttered those words.
 
—-
 
The next day, Pallass was in an uproar. Saliss’ actions and the siege of Oteslia by Zeres had thrown the issue of Magnolia Reinhart into the limelight once more. It was drama, it was tension as half the city seemed to support Saliss, the other half being against Magnolia. A remarkable split perhaps helped by the [Innkeeper] who had represented humanity and their own short encounters with the Lady of House Reinhart.
Drama and deliberation occupied the day, with Sir Relz and Noass discussing the issue and the social circles having their own talks on the issue.
As if they could do anything. As if they mattered. To one Drake, the day was as boring as the last; the news unimportant, trivial Drake politics.
Lady Salkis Blackwing, of one of the most venerable families in Pallass, was bored. The delicate, demure onyx-scaled Drake lay in her comfortable rooms, given privacy and luxury for her delicate health and temperament.
She swore, an epitet involving removing genitals and stuffing them in improbable locations, the kind of oath even a [Sailor] would look askance at. She fiddled with the device in front of her, drew a wickedly sharp, enchanted dagger, and stabbed her bedding—narrowly missing it.
Lady Salkis had a secret. While many took her to be the aristocratic daughter of a Walled Family in Pallass, sheltered by her father, always escorted by bodyguards, she was, in fact, a good deal more durable than anyone knew. A good deal more…violent.
She stared down at the strange device, the rectangle of unknown material with the glossy screen. It was a strange artifact, neither magical nor strictly mundane. She had no idea how it worked. It was not hers; she’d taken it from a Human shortly before ‘killing’ her right outside of Celum. Now, looking back, the Bloodfeast Raider wished she’d been more curious about the City Runner.
After all, Ryoka Griffin had gone on to become a Courier, having survived a mortal wound. She was difficult to touch, but the Bloodfeast Raiders did not like leaving someone like her alive. Still, their organization and mobilization wasn’t like an army’s—it was looser, secretive as they were.
The most feared group of criminals in all of Izril struck at random, north and south. They were small, and each one was a match for a Gold-rank. No one knew who they were; not a single one had ever been captured alive and no one could remember who they were.
Even Salkis herself didn’t know more than a dozen Raiders, but she knew their kind. She was one of them, and she chafed at pretending to be a good daughter. She studied the iPhone that Ryoka Griffin had handed over and growled.
“What’s wrong with you? Work, damn it!”
She tapped the screen, but it was no good. Salkis had had the item in her possession for a long time. However, she hadn’t been able to do much with it. For one main reason.
The Drake had figured out the different buttons. Power, volume…she had investigated each port and seen how the casing could be taken off. What had stumped her, though, was the workings itself. She stared down at the glowing, by now, familiar writing on the screen.
“iPhone is disabled. Try again in 5 minutes. What. Does. That. Mean?”
The word was unfamiliar. She tapped at the screen, then went and wrote down yet another series of four digits. She had tried nearly a hundred codes, and she remembered to turn the device off. She glowered at it.
The numbers in the upper right and that strange…jar…kept going down. It was running out of something. Power. Not magic. She’d covertly tried to get it filled up, like an item with magic, but her mana stones didn’t work.
She had tried everything. Everything available to her in secret. Salkis was no [Mage]; she was exceptionally good with the twin daggers she carried, but she had no magic of her own so her options were limited. Especially because she was smart enough not to show the device to anyone.
She had managed to keep it charged by figuring out the [Repair] trick—after hurling it at a wall in fury. Yet Salkis still didn’t understand why it wasn’t magical if it could light up. She didn’t know what the material was made of, and how a City Runner could have come into possession of this.
Salkis flopped onto her bed, exasperated. And bored.
Bored, bored, bored. She knew her father and mother were discussing the ‘Human issue’, and Salkis could participate as the demure daughter of House Blackwing, even talk to their obnoxious uncle, General Edellein—she could go for a visit, buy something with her allowance—she wanted none of that.
Life was boring unless it was filled with blood, risking your life! Yet she could only creep away from her family on rare occasions, trick them. And only when the Bloodfeast was called. It hadn’t been called for a while; she might not have been close enough to the other attacks. So, Salkis was bored.
Oh, there were…ways…for a young woman like herself to find entertainment. That was how the Bloodfeast Raiders had first found her. Salkis had found a lot of Pallass’ underground entertainments. Ironically, she’d been more free back then; once she’d been inducted, her escapades had to be curtailed.
Being in the Raiders is more like being cooped up in a Walled City than I could have imagined. If I’d have known, I’d have…have…Ancestors damn it.
Salkis growled, too wary to even voice her thoughts aloud. There was no refusing the Bloodfeast Raiders and surviving, or leaving their group and keeping your throat intact. She enjoyed the Bloodfeasts, but they were too far and few between for her liking.
There was so little she could do. Salkis flopped around in her bed and thought of all the amazing things she wished her family would let her do.
Skateboard, for instance. Skateboards were Pallass’ rage. The cause of a lot of injuries. A lot of fun. Salkis had as much chance of getting to ride one as the Flying Gnoll of Pallass did of actually…flying. It was her father’s fault. He was beyond stifling.
So much so that when Salkis did emerge to break her fast, her two bodyguards were already waiting. The black-scaled Drake put on a huge smile, ate, made light conversation, and turned to them with a bright smile.
“Now, what shall I do today, I wonder?”
The two Drakes gave each other a look. They were fairly burly, hired for looks as much as level. Looks over level, honestly. They could chase off any would-be [Kidnappers] or [Thugs] or hold them off long enough for the Watch to arrive, but Salkis sneered at their ‘experience’. She could have killed both before they drew their blades.
She smiled and wished there was another Bloodfeast. Or she would cause one here—
“Lady Salkis, perhaps a visit to the spa?”
Of course the orange-scaled Drake said that. They loved that idea, and so did the Drake serving the table. Salkis rolled her eyes, but internally.
“I’d like to go on a little trip…to the spa, how wonderful! Maybe a nice, day-long rest would help my fatigue.”
The two [Bodyguards] perked up. They liked the spa and certain areas because they could relax; the spa had enough security for them to slack off. Salkis smiled at their relieved looks and wanted to show them exactly how much better she was than they were at fighting.
But no. She accepted the offer, knowing they would make it because it benefited her too. The trick was…complacency. Her family thought she had delicate health, so Salkis could be ‘indisposed’ and have one of her [Attendants] take her place while she was sick. Of course, the stupid girl thought Salkis just went on little jaunts.
The same for a spa. She could be there all day, and had trained her bodyguards to expect that as she socialized with her friends and they covered for her. A lot of her peers had this unofficial agreement, so Salkis could slip away.
She had a plan, today. It had been the last straw, that damned iPhone failing for the hundredth time. She usually kept clear of [Mages] since they could identify her in Pallass and the risk of being caught was too great.
But happily, there was another Drake city nearby, wasn’t there? Salkis couldn’t believe she hadn’t thought about it, but until recently they’d been so strict on the checkpoint lists. Now, they were letting in day-visitors and all she had to do was slip in and out.
She tucked the iPhone into her bag of holding as she rose to go with her [Bodyguards]. Maybe she could find a [Mage] in Liscor to take a look at it. Even if they found something interesting—she could handle things.
 
—-
 
Hope was something amazing. When it filled you, it was so completely powerful it blew away the darkness.
The fact that Pawn could touch people and give hope was a power beyond…well, power. And she had thought he was a poo-smelly face.
Well, he was a poo-smelly face with amazing powers. Mrsha the Priest decided it would be a good addition to her roster of classes. She had a number of classes on her list she was going to get when she became an adult.
[Druid], [Wizard], [Adventurer]…[Priest], definitely! Priestess? She didn’t know the rules. What did she have to do, pray like Pawn? Mrsha could do that.
Cookies, cookies, cookies.
She prayed in front of the kitchen for a good five minutes and resolved to do five more tomorrow. In short, Mrsha was buoyed up by hope for a good while; she’d even slept and saw pure visions of great things.
…Until it wore off. Oh, Mrsha remembered, but the [Benediction of Hope] was still temporary. It…might have worked better on Rufelt and Numbtongue, frankly. Maybe Pawn had been stingy, because the Gnoll certainly seemed more alive. He ate, thanking Imani and Palt, not rushing back to Pallass.
Good for him. Mrsha had bigger fish to punch. For instance, she was uncertain, but after three hours, she was convinced. She had breakfast with Ulvama, who asked her if she’d seen any ‘strange mice’ about. Mrsha lied and said no.
She did her math problems with Montressa, and passed them. Then she got to play! She went to the playground in Liscor.
Visma was there, and Ekirra. Mrsha had already apologized a lot after the Thronebearers visited, and she gave him a cookie. He made her eat a bit first, but then he accepted it.
Ser Dalimont himself came to pay her a visit, to inquire if she was well. Mrsha opined she was, and that she really didn’t want to visit the Terandrian embassy. He stroked his mustache.
“We intend to find Lyonette, Miss Mrsha. The situation has become rather—unstable, however. We are hoping to leave at first light. If there is anything we can do?”
Mrsha genteelly offered him a shake of the head. She didn’t hate the Thronebearers, but she doubted they’d have much luck. Lyonette told Mrsha about home and she never made much of their martial prowess. If Oteslia could be won on the dance floor or by bowing—they’d have a chance.
She went back to playing, and then got to visit the Adventurer’s Guild where Selys still put in some work. And the entire while, the certainty grew on her. After three hours, she was convinced. Unsettled. Even…jumpy. She pointed and handed Selys a note.
“Do you see the white Gnoll?”
Selys read. She looked up, but saw only Gnolls passing outside the windows of the guild as she finished her shift. She looked at Mrsha.
