“Is that you, Rufelt? You look—terrible!”
The Gnoll blinked at them. He realized he’d been standing amid the traffic, ignoring the insults and occasional shoves from passersby. He jerked.
“Oh. Imani. Palt. I’m just…what are you doing?”
The [Bartender] saw both exchange glances. They came over and stood by the railings, talking. Imani peered at Rufelt.
“We’re on a little shopping date. Ingredients, but mostly interesting things. I haven’t seen you or Lasica since…”
She trailed off and Rufelt felt a pang in his chest. It still happened—people meeting him and remembering. Or not knowing and asking—
Where was his white armband? He’d forgotten it. So many people had stopped wearing it after the first week, the first month. As if—it was already time to move on. Rufelt hated that. He just shook his head.
“Condolences. Are you…”
Palt hesitated because ‘are you feeling better’, or ‘are you well’, or any question of that nature was clearly evident from look alone. Rufelt mutely shook his head.
“I’ll be better soon.”
Time. 
What do you see in the picture? He tried to smile and they gave him uncertain grins in return; he couldn’t have known what a rictus was on his face.
He looked at them. On a date, they’d said? Imani was asking about Lasica and he mumbled something.
“You’re seeing each other, then.”
Imani smiled and Palt ducked his head.
“It just sort of—happened.”
“No, it didn’t. It took a while and it was completely uncoincidental. Palt helped me so much in dealing with my nightmares about Crelers and he can cook. Then, he had to deal with his love for Erin, and now we’re finally here.”
Imani poked Palt in the side and he shuffled his hooves.
“I like my version better. It sounds more romantic. Like the mov—like a classic romance from your home, you know?”
“More romantic than a genuine connection? Palt! Accidentally falling in love with someone you run into is…such a Centaur idea!”
Said Centaur harrumphed.
“It’s a classic in my culture too. Two Centaurs nearly gallop into one another, or collide, they get to talking after the first quarrel…”
“Sounds like a recipe for broken legs, especially if it’s Centaurs.”
“You’re not romantic at all.”
The two smiled at each other, before recalling Rufelt, so into each other’s presence that it was the kind of thing a little Gnoll might pretend to dry-heave at. Yet it struck Rufelt differently. He looked at the two and the words slipped out as part of him…came awake.
“A Human and a Centaur. I imagine it draws a few comments, even in Invrisil. Do they bother you in Liscor?”
He asked because—well, they were familiar. They were younger, but not actually that different in age from the Drake and Gnoll when they’d met. And while it was a different pairing of species, he did understand this. Imani’s smile slipped and Palt frowned, puffing on his blue cigarette.
“You get a few idiots wherever you go. I’m used to the stares. You’d be surprised; Invrisil is the worst with it. I suppose Drakes think Humans can do whatever they want. It’s why we prefer Pallass. But then—I suppose you’d know, wouldn’t you, Mister Rufelt?”
The Gnoll did know. Gnolls and Drakes marrying was the most common interspecies marriage in all of Izril, even more than Humans and Drakes or Humans and Gnolls, given the proximity of the two species in the south.
Even now, though, he remembered family, friends…and comments. He looked at Imani and Palt, who were clearly familiar with whatever was said by now. And content to ignore it.
It was like looking at an old reflection of him and Lasica. Not alike in so many ways, but the core of it…Rufelt’s knees trembled. He felt weak. He looked at the past and the words spilled out of his mouth in the present.
“Don’t invest everything in it. Don’t—be careful when you care for each other. Children, marriage—it’s a double-edged sword.”
Don’t fall in love. He nearly said that, but he was ashamed when it came to the tip of his tongue.
Imani’s eyes widened. Palt trotted his hooves back in astonishment. For a moment, the two just looked at Rufelt, and he stared away.
“I’m sorry. I have to—”
He turned, to go back to the bar. To—
“No. Don’t go. You’re clearly not well, Rufelt.”
The [Chef] caught his arm. He’d forgotten she had the same class as Lasica. Wretchedly, Rufelt turned back.
“I’m fine. I’ll be fine. I’m sorry, I’m just—”
“We understand. We heard about the spell and, well…you look thin. When did you last eat? Sleep?”
Palt was nodding. The two clustered around Rufelt and the Centaur eyed him. Rufelt was shaking his head, but Imani had a firm grip on one arm.
“Is Lasica in the same shape, Rufelt? Where is she?”
“Better. She’s—a bit better. I don’t know where she is. She goes out.”
Another look between Imani and Palt. The Centaur chewed on his cigarette rather than smoking it. Imani opened and closed her mouth. It was Palt who spoke.
“I heard about the Demon’s ritual and I know you’ve lost a lot, Rufelt. I…”
He hesitated, eying Imani, but then went on, taking the rollup out of his mouth. The [Illusionist] fixed the Gnoll [Bartender] with a serious gaze.
“Mister Rufelt. I know you’ve suffered a great loss. I don’t mean to be…insensitive. I am going to be, though. You need to pull yourself together. It’s a traumatic experience, miscarriage. But you need to move forwards or you’re going to fall to pieces. You and Lasica.”
Rufelt jerked. He whirled on Palt, and Imani gasped.
“Palt!”
The Centaur raised his hands at the angry Gnoll.
“I’m sorry. Centaurs have it terribly bad too. It’s—a huge complication in our species. But it happens more often than you’d think. It’s one of the reasons our species are less numerous than Humans. Usually only early on. It’s because of the difficulty of creating, well, two species in one. It’s terrible, and I have friends and family who went through it. They go to [Healers]—[Thought Healers], though. You…can’t stay like this. You’ll waste away. I’ve seen that too.”
He shuffled his hooves, looking quite uncomfortable. Even ashamed.
“I’m sorry. I know this is not the right thing to say, but I’ve seen this kind of thing tear relationships apart. You look—awful.”
Rufelt’s paws were clenched. He snarled back at the Centaur.
“You think we haven’t tried? Lasica doesn’t want to go. She just wants to—”
Take the deal. Imani was patting his shoulder. She looked at his dirty fur, glared at Palt.
“Aren’t you supposed to be a diplomat?”
Palt shook his head.
“Ullsinoi are tricksters. Wistram is…Wistram. I’m sorry, I was too direct. It’s just…”
He looked at the Gnoll again, and then snapped his fingers. Rufelt stared at Palt, almost ready to take a swing at the Centaur, despite the height and weight difference. Then Palt held something up.
It was… a mirror. A magical mirror, a little spell, but it reflected what Palt saw, nonetheless. Rufelt looked into it.
What you do you see in the picture? 
He saw a stranger. A Gnoll so filthy and wild-eyed and…worn that he wouldn’t have let him in his bar, even when he was just starting out. He looked at the image of himself, and wondered if he was dying.
“Is that me?”
Imani and Palt looked at him. Slowly, Imani took his shoulder.
“Rufelt, why don’t you come with us? You need to eat. Come to the inn, and we’ll get you something hot. And—then you should lie down.”
Rufelt shook his head.
“I need to go back to the bar. Lasica will be there.”
“I’ll go and leave her a note or tell her. You—you should get out of that bar. Come with us.”
Palt frowned at Rufelt, and snapped his fingers twice. Imani glanced at him. Rufelt hesitated. He rubbed at his face. He felt…tired. So tired.
“I can’t do that. I need—”
The Centaur frowned deeper. Imani tugged at Rufelt’s arm.
“Come on. Just a bite to eat. We can’t let you go without food. Just a bit?”
Palt muttered under his breath. Rufelt felt a tingle this time and glanced at Palt. The Centaur raised his hands, smiling.
“Come on, Rufelt. One meal. What’s your favorite dish?”
“I…like fried potatoes with meat. Lasica makes a hot dish in an iron pan.”
Rufelt remembered her making it for special occasions. Suddenly, his eyes tingled and he felt weak. He barely protested as Imani tugged at him, cajoling, encouraging. Palt helped usher Rufelt towards the inn.
“Just one bite, and we’ll let you go. Maybe a nap, too. I’ll tell Lasica.”
The [Bartender] protested, but he was too weak. Too tired and—he did feel his weakness, then. The image of himself had shaken the Gnoll. Palt let Imani do most of the talking. He gave it two more tries and Rufelt began to perk up both times and they got him moving before he could protest.
The Centaur watched Rufelt, eying him. He didn’t tell Imani, as she was talking to Rufelt, but he bit his blue cigarette and chewed it hard.
[Joyous Spirits] was a Tier 4 mood spell. Even if Rufelt was rock-bottom, it should have done more than that, and Palt had cast it three times! It felt like he was moving a rock, and he was panting as he burned mana. What was wrong with the Gnoll?
Rufelt stumbled on, letting Imani talk him into food.
“We have a room for you, okay? An open one. Just sit down and…”
He found himself nodding. Time…time might help. No dark bar. Just a day? He wanted to rest. To sleep without dreaming of what might be and what was.
It was time. But…one more day couldn’t hurt. He left Pallass, and somewhere else in the city, a certain figure paused.
The Stitch Witch turned her head and felt one of the threads change. It was still close in one kind of proximity, but the weave had suddenly jumped from here to somewhere far distant, geographically speaking.
“Strange.”
She tilted her head left. Then right. She felt someone trying to interfere, but their magic could not interfere.
Belavierr was making many deals, but they were among the most valuable. She had cast no spell on Rufelt and Lasica; they were one of her clients, one group she had found in Pallass to do business with. If she had persuaded, it was with word and deed and offering them truth; she was honest in that regard.
But she would brook no interference, magical or otherwise. That too was part of the deal. She tilted her head unnaturally far, and then turned it back. A little [Mage] wouldn’t do much. She went back to sewing.
Business was good. Just a few more deals…and she could go back to her beloved daughter. The Witch smiled.
Everyone should have a child.
 
—-
 
The inn was busier that night. Imani and Palt dragged in a smelly, mostly dead-looking Gnoll and fussed about him. Everyone seemed to know who he was, and Rags supposed it was another thing she’d missed.
She ate potatoes and meat quietly, savoring the Calescent spice that Imani had added in a mild blend. The Goblin [Spice Chef] grunted happily. He was among his kind here, and poked Rags.
“Chieftain. If Ulvama not stay, maybe I stay? Good place.”
She swatted at his hand.
“Shut up, Calescent. We have work to do.”
He sighed, but nodded. Rags knew her own sojourn at the inn had to end soon. She had seen Erin. She had talked to Erin and known what must be done. There was nothing here. Not in this quiet grave. So she would go and right what she could.
At least she hadn’t been attacked. Rags retired to her room, reflecting that the lack of a Relc and [Guards] trying to kill her was a plus—and she’d certainly justified the visit. All these new technologies, goods bought from shopping, and so on were worth it. Not to mention finding Ulvama and Numbtongue, even if Rags was dubious about taking Ulvama. Yet the [Shaman] had made a good case, so Rags decided she’d bring Ulvama.
She was trying to figure out if they should buy any last items—although they could always visit another city with those illusion rings—when she noticed something. It was lying on her bed.
A little…slip of paper. The Goblin’s eyes narrowed. She locked her doors, and no one came in or out, not even the Gnoll, Ishkr. Yet here was a discrepancy. She walked over to the piece of paper, checked it magically, and opened it. She read the thin writing, very small…and her crimson eyes opened wide.
 
Do you know why Goblin Kings go mad? Do you remember why Velan forsook his oaths?
 
The Goblin Chieftain whirled, going for her bag of holding. Rags nearly drew out her crossbow—then reconsidered. You couldn’t shoot a target that small. She hesitated.
“Who are you? Why do you ask?”
No response. Rags’ gaze swept her room. Her infrared vision checked all the corners and she paused for an infinitesimal moment. Ah.
She didn’t go for a weapon. Killing was a last resort, after all, and the question deserved questions of their own, especially if this was who she thought it was. The Goblin drew out something she’d had Calescent buy in Liscor.
A little bug-catching net.
She wandered around the room, pretending to check the corners—then spun and dove for the side of the dresser. The little person thought he was clever, but he’d made a mistake.
Rags saw heat. Abundance of it, and the absence. The cold patch was obvious as the sun! She swung the little net down, over the ice cube just large enough for a tiny man to lie prone behind it.
“Got you!”
Rags looked down at the ice cube…and saw no man. Just the slightly-melting ice cube and a second piece of paper. She recoiled slightly.
Tricked! He’d—tricked her into believing he’d made a mistake from the time she’d spotted him during the Village of the Dead’s raid! She stared around again, checking every corner of the room. Now she had no signs. So she picked the piece of paper up and read the second message.
 
Answer my question. Do you know? 
Don’t try to run.
 
Rags’ head slowly rose. She looked around the room. Not one sign of the Fraerling—that was what they were called. And he was tiny. Nevertheless…she didn’t try to run. Nor did she go for a weapon. She stood there, looking up, down, left, and right.
Nothing. The Goblin hesitated. She scowled, and barked a response.
“No.”
That was all he was getting. She backed up towards the door, slowly, alert for anything. She’d fireball the entire room if she was attacked and risk the damage to herself.
A flicker of movement caught her eye. The Goblin whirled, finger pointing and burning with fire—
A third piece of paper fluttered down from a corner of the room. She stared up at the patch where it had been, but saw nothing.
Invisible? Some kind of tripwire, a delayed mechanism? Rags hesitated. She picked up the piece of paper, growling. She did not like this feeling of being outsmarted, but she wanted to know what the third question was.
 
