“Well, if you insist Grandpa. Goodnight then.” The incorrigible girl even had the gall to leer as she led her husband away, joined by little Mila who at least had the decency to blush as the three of them said their good nights and retreated to the bathhouse together.

So scandalized by their behaviour, Min Gyu didn’t think to ask until the three of them were safely away. “Did anyone here block my Wind Blade?” Everyone in the courtyard merely looked around, and it was clear no one present was responsible, which meant...

Min Gyu was not the only one to turn towards the boy’s room with a smile upon his face. Somehow, Rain not only heard them through a Sound Barrier, but also blocked a Wind Blade meant to draw blood without lifting a finger. A show of Domain in the morning, and now, not even twelve hours later, he was already capable of utilizing Elemental Chi. The boy was well on the road to recovery, and Min Gyu could hardly wait to see what the future had in store.

Patting Kyung on the shoulder, Min Gyu accepted his help getting to his feet and they shuffled off together. “I’ve said it before, but if there is anything you desire, just speak and I will do what I can to help you achieve it.” Smiling at Kyung, he added, “I offer this not out of guilt, but in hopes of igniting your ambition, dear boy. You cannot keep living for an old man. You must find your own purpose in life if you are to progress, whether it be fame, fortune, family, or what have you.”

Seeing Kyung’s hesitance, Min Gyu patiently waited for him to speak for fear of compelling him, and soon enough, his efforts were rewarded. “There is a matter,” Kyung began, “But I worry it will cost too much, in time, effort, and consequence.”

“Let me worry about the costs. You only need speak your desire, and I will beg, borrow, or steal to make it happen.” Patting himself on the chest, he added, “Don’t look down on your grandfather here. Whatever it is, I can bear the cost. What? You need me to prove it before you will speak? I only need to snap my fingers and my stolen wealth will be returned to me, with interest owed to boot.” The only reason he hadn’t was because of lingering affection for his deceased siblings, but these days, Min Gyu’s living relatives were sorely testing his patience as they tried to mend broken bridges and trade on his name once more. “I could also start giving lectures again, endorse a blacksmith sabre maker, or even request the army begin paying my wages once more. I cannot recall how much pay a Lieutenant General draws, but seeing how I am now worthy of the rank, I don’t see why I should keep refusing my pay. As for consequences? Ha! What consequences? I, your grandfather, am Du Min Gyu, and even the Justicars will not stop me from doing as I please. Set your mind at ease boy, and speak your heart’s desire. Let these shoulders bear the cost for you, while they are still able.”

Lowering his head in thought, Kyung sheepishly said, “My request involves my siblings.”

“Yan and Song?” All this back and forth, and Kyung wanted to get his sisters a gift?

“No, not them. My... other siblings. Or half-siblings, at least.”

Ah. No wonder Kyung was so hesitant to speak. This involved no small number of half-cat slaves, slaves who now sold for a premium because Li Song and Kyung had both demonstrated superlative Martial skill. “You wish to reunite with them?”

“That would be... nice.” Raising his head with a mournful expression, Kyung switched to Sending and added, “But what I truly desire is for an end to my birth mother’s misery. Only then can I ensure that no more of my siblings are forced into slavery.”

Ah. No wonder he was so hesitant to ask. Kyung wanted Min Gyu to rescue an enslaved Ancestral Beast. No small request, but... “By hook or by crook, I will see this done.” Patting Kyung’s hand with a smile, Min Gyu nodded and said, “Nothing is too much for my grandson.”

First on the agenda for tomorrow was to find out who owned the wildcat Ancestral Beast, and whether or not they could be bullied into selling her for cheap. Unlikely, as any power owning one Ancestral Beast slave likely owned more, but if nothing else, Min Gyu could always go to Rain after he recovered and convince him to put pressure on the owner, if not outright strong arm them into selling. Who knows, with luck, this might all be solved within the week.

Now if only he believed that was true...

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As I lay in bed with Yan and Mila beside me, I realize I am truly, madly, deeply in love with them both.

It’s not fair to make them share my affections, but that just means I need to work harder to ensure they know they’re loved. I’ve been doing a shitty job of it so far, because I don’t think I’ve ever even taken either one out on a date. I never courted them, we just... ended up together, and while I am beyond grateful to have them in my life and cannot imagine what I would do without either one of them, I need to make sure they never come to regret their decision so long as I still draw breath.

Only up until then though, because if they come to regret marrying me after I die, then there’s nothing I can really do about it, so... yea.

Now that my body is asleep, it’s a lot easier to focus and think. Or maybe ‘think’ is the wrong word, because whatever contemplative efforts I’m doing can be done in the absence of a brain. That sounds bad, but what I mean is I am capable of independent thought without access to my physical brain or body, because that’s exactly what happened after I severed my connection to both. For almost three months, I was running solely off my soul’s capabilities, and even though I’ve since reconnected those severed ties, I’ve forgotten how to utilize the other two aspects.

It makes sense that the soul can be an independent, functioning entity though, especially considering my past struggles with split personalities. One personality took control of the mind and body while the other, the soul. That’s what the ‘throne’ within our Natal Palace is supposed to denote, control of one’s mind and body, which is why everyone else usually has their soul seated atop it. In Gen’s case, considering how much of his personality still bleeds through, I don’t think he’s ceded his throne to Zhen Shi, but rather has gone through a whole series of mental gymnastics to justify his decisions. He doesn’t want to be in control anymore, yet craves it all the same, so he pretends he isn’t in control while doing everything he’s told, because strange as it might sound, this is his way of taking control.

Confusing, but brains are complicated things, and souls probably even more so.

So currently, my working theory is that I completely abandoned my ‘throne’, so to speak, when I stepped out of my Natal Palace and into Zhen Shi’s trap. That’s why I almost died, because a body bereft of a soul cannot survive. No idea why, but it is what it is, so I can only continue to extrapolate from there. Then, I somehow returned to my body and established enough of a connection to keep it from dying, but also severed any and all unnecessary connections in order to seek out oblivion. That didn’t work out, but I might well have stumbled across something big.

I think all the big hoodoo I worked up during the battle against Bai Qi’s forces was only possible because I existed solely as a soul.

I mean, even though it was temporary and has since disappeared, I possessed a limited form of omniscience for a few minutes back then. I knew things I shouldn’t have known, could see things from hundreds of kilometres away, summoned a storm unlike any the Empire had ever before seen and did things even now I cannot wholly explain, all using the Energy of the Heavens. Were I still constrained by my physical being, I doubt my frail human mind could have parsed through all the information necessary to do all that, which I suppose explains why I have no idea how I did any of it, only the memory of having done it. Perhaps the human soul is uniquely equipped to handle Heavenly Energy in a way the mind and body cannot, but I’m not entirely sure why that is. I have my suspicions, namely that the soul is a vessel of emotion and experiences, things the Energy of the Heavens crave for some reason or the other, but beyond that, I have no earthly idea regarding the how, what, or why of it all.

However there’s still more to figure out, so much more it blows my mind. As always, the answers have only led me to uncover new questions, as I’ve realized emotion is only one part of the equation. Cuddling my pets and basking in the love of family is good for the soul, but then why was I so entranced by the sounds of the babbling river or the feel of the cool dirt pressed against my cheek? Why were my eyes drawn to the treetops to watch the wind whistling through the leaves, or the sunlight casting shadows across the grassy fields? The symmetry of Ping Ping’s jagged shell, the beauty of Pong Pong’s patterned markings, the way Sarankho’s snow-white fur shimmers when the light hits it just right, or how Roc spreads his wings to catch as much air as possible, I kept fixating on all these images and so many more, but I cannot understand why. There’s something about it all, something that draws me to it, but whenever I try to figure out why, it’s like walking into a room and forgetting why you’re there in the first place.

More clues to add to the massive pile of puzzle pieces I can’t fit together, mostly because I have no idea what the puzzle is supposed to depict. The mystery of the Heavens, or something like that, I suppose. Who knows? Clearly not me.

And you know what? That’s not the worst thing in the world. I don’t need all the answers, because I’m doing fine without them. Sure, things are a little weird right now, not being wholly in control of my actions and watching my life unfold like playing a game, but I think I know why I’m doing what I’m doing. Cuddling with family and floofs, taking in the sights and sounds, enjoying the delectable foods laid out before me, including the Spiritual Dumplings Tali somehow successfully whipped up. That’s my talented niece, and to be fair, Tate is only further behind because he’s too fixated on the horizon to see what’s in front of his face. No point telling him, because I can’t explain it and he won’t understand, but he’ll figure it out eventually. I believe in him.

Because at the end of the day, everything comes down to Balance, and Tate understands that well enough.

Not me though. For months, I severed away my emotions and sent them out into the world, right up until I realized I’d emptied out all the positive emotions and only had negative ones left to give. I Devoured what I could, but now I’m stuffed with gloom and doom, so now my body and mind are instinctively working to make new, happy emotions to fill the void within and Balance it all out. That’s one thing the Martial Path fails to emphasize enough. Balance isn’t just about taking things away, you can add something to the mix to even it out, though admittedly, that’s more difficult to get right. This being said, there’s no real math to it, not when it comes to mental health. You just gotta get up every day and work at it, because regardless of the emotion, too much left unrestrained will always come back to bite you in the ass.

Especially depression. That’s a heavy burden to bear, one I have yet to figure out how to carry well. It’s not as bad as it sounds, but it’s certainly not easy, at least not for someone like me, and so I lay in bed while the soothing sounds of my sleeping wives fill me with joy and appreciation. I’m glad we didn’t let ourselves get carried away, because I’m not really in control yet, so it would be weird to do anything more sexual. Luckily, my instincts are less pervy than my actual self, and my body is wholly content with just cuddling, though from the looks of things, both Yan and Mila are ready for more. More to look forward to when I fully recover, though I should also take them out on dates and woo them. Lin-Lin too, and maybe even Li-Li if she’s open to the idea of courtship, which isn’t as far-fetched as I once thought. No solid reasoning behind that, just a feeling, but still. As for Luo-Luo, she deserves to get to know me, the real me, before making a decision, so I need to have a heart to heart with her and help her make an informed decision, though I find myself hoping she stays. Yes, it’s not fair to the women in my life to have to share me among so many others, but I believe I am capable of making sure they never feel unloved or neglected, because I just have so much love to give.

Pong Pong notices before I do, but only because he’s always on the alert. Poking his head out from Mama Bun’s fur, he radiates an emotion I know all too well. Concern, but not personal, not entirely. No, this is concern on a more abstract scale, and while emotions aren’t all cut and dry, especially when coming from a turtle, I can still figure it out from contextual clues. Pong Pong wants to know if the sixty odd Experts converging around the District have ill-intent, and sadly, I believe they are. “Danger,” I pulse, followed by, “Reassurance.” Essentially, ‘I got this’, and I think I really do.

