At the moment, the little lecher was sitting with his sister and her children, holding Tate in his lap while Charok told the young ones a bedtime story, but Rain looked most engrossed of all. It was a simple tale of heroes and beasts, but his eyes grew wide with wonder as the narrative unfolded, albeit in a delayed fashion, and Min Gyu thought he even saw signs of changing expression. Why Rain was behaving in such an... not innocent or naive, but... impressionable manner was a mystery they all pondered, and not even the Medical Saint had an answer to share. Their best guess was that either there was something wrong with his head which needed Healing, or this impassioned Rain was merely another facet of the Rain they saw last time in Sinuji. When threatened upon the battlefield, he became a hunter, a warrior, a killer of Demons because that was necessary for survival. In the same vein, perhaps this Rain, this foolish, loving, overly saccharine man-child, was needed now in order for him to recover, but why that might be was anyone’s guess.

A brisk breeze sent a chill coursing through Min Gyu’s old bones, so he drained his teacup just in time to spot Kyung coming out of the kitchen with a piping hot mug he prepared for himself. Perhaps it was because he’d been studying Rain all day, but Min Gyu noticed a look in his grandson’s emerald eyes that was similar to Rain’s, so full of zest and appreciation for a mere drink. The unexpected discovery made for a bittersweet moment, for it was heartwarming to see Kyung slowly coming out of his shell, and disheartening to know he’d been denied such simple pleasures for so much of his life. Though not the sort to indulge in liqueur, his tea no doubt contained enough honey to rot a dozen teeth overnight, which was enough to have the poor boy almost grinning from ear to ear. Well, not quite grinning, as his expression was stony and impassive as always, but his cat ears were flicking to and fro while his tail curled up behind him, sure signs of joy as any when coming from him.

All of which was shattered in an instant when he noticed Min Gyu’s attention, and Kyung’s joy and anticipation were swept away by a torrent of momentary panic.

Old habits die hard, and Min Gyu blamed himself for mistreating the boy so. Putting on a smile, he patted the divan in invitation and asked, “Care to keep an old man company?”

“Happily, Grandfather.” Kyung’s fear and concern disappeared so quickly one might almost believe it was imagined, but Min Gyu would not so easily forgive himself, especially as he watched Kyung exchange his mug for the empty teacup and pot instead. “I will return promptly after I refill your tea.”

“No need, no need, if I drink anymore, I’ll be up all night going from bed to bathroom and back again.”

“Then another blanket. The night is cold Grandfather.”

“I’ll be fine without. No need to worry about me, I am comfortable and without need. You’ve been standing all day though, so you most certainly deserve to sit and relax.” It was difficult to avoid making demands of Kyung, but allowing him the option to refuse was the least Min Gyu could do. The half-cat hesitated a moment longer before finally deigning to sit, but even then, he sat upright with his sabre laid out over his knees, ready to bolt to his feet at a moment’s notice. “No need to be so guarded,” Min Gyu said, slipping his arm around his grandson’s shoulder. “We are safe here, amongst family.” To his surprise, Kyung stiffened, then relaxed and leaned into the embrace until his flicking ears brushed against Min Gyu’s cheek. There they sat in comfortable silence as Kyung enjoyed his tea, making quiet sounds of appreciation after every sip and growing more relaxed with each passing second.

“I’d almost forgotten how quiet it can be outside of the Citadel,” Min Gyu began, stifling a sigh as he looked up at the starry night’s sky. “We should come out here more often, away from the bustling streets and political dealings of the Citadel.” Kishi certainly approved of life outside the Citadel, as the quin did so love to run and play, though she would grow lonely if separated from her parents for too long.

“If that is what Grandfather desires.” Shoulders tensing up ever so slightly, Kyung paused before adding, “If so, then perhaps you could consider taking on more students, especially if we are to travel without sister Yan. Already, we are stretched thin guarding you both as is, and now that the tales of your grand showing in the last battle have spread far and wide, there are countless Warriors clamouring for your guidance once again.”

“Bah, what grand showing? I was but a side dish, wholly unworthy of admiration.” Three months had passed since that fateful battle, and still the taverns were filled with gossip of his accomplishments, but it was a sore subject for Min Gyu because he heard little to no talk regarding the true heroes of that battle. Everyone spoke loudly of Shuai Jiao, Nian Zu, the fallen Tiger General, and more, but were it not for Akanai and Situ Jia Yang keeping the monstrous Bai Qi in check long enough for the reinforcements to arrive, the traitor general might well have dealt the Imperial Army a disastrous defeat, one which would have doomed all of Central, if not the Empire as a whole. More to the point, Jia Yang, a Warrior now famed for his defensive prowess, took severe injuries fending Bai Qi off, their exchanges rupturing several of his inner organs which almost killed him. To this day, he had yet to receive a clean bill of health and was still technically in recovery, though from the looks of things, he would be fit for duty soon enough. The unfortunate Mitsue Juichi also suffered similar internal injuries from his clash with Bai Qi, and unbeknownst to most, almost died despite receiving immediate treatment from Central’s most revered Healer, Taiyi Zhushen himself. This was the true reason for Juichi’s extended absence from the public eye, though having seen the poor man’s reaction, Min Gyu agreed with the rumours stating that Hideo’s betrayal had broken poor Juichi’s old heart.

In contrast, Akanai’s injuries were laughably light, to the point where she did not even require a Healer’s attention. While her detractors claimed she had every opportunity to have seen one in secret, Min Gyu knew she would not lie about such a thing. Nor would she boast about it either, but others did so in her place, from proud Bekhai Khishigs and admiring Imperial soldiers who’d seen her phenomenal skills firsthand. Min Gyu even tried to laud her accomplishments himself, but that only made people praise his humility or whisper how he was obligated to do so due to his relation with Rain. A disgrace is what it was, because Akanai was far more worthy of praise than Min Gyu himself, but few cared to extol her virtues in Central lest they be laughed at for admiring a half-beast woman.

As if heritage or gender changed anything about a Warrior’s strength. Might makes right? Pei. A lie, and not even for the right reasons.

Sitting upright to face him, Kyung didn’t quite look Min Gyu in the eye as he said, “A select few might be more deserving, but Grandfather is still a Warrior worthy of respect.”

“Bah. Am I?” Replaying the exchanges between Bai Qi and Akanai in his mind’s eye, Min Gyu shook his head in quiet awe at her skill. “It pains me to admit it, but I now see my skills are sorely lacking. I am admired because of how quickly and easily I dispatch my foes within the chaos of battle, but whether it be Demon or Defiled, the hard truth of the matter is that I only excel against those weaker than myself, because I have seen and studied those weaknesses a thousand times over while teaching students and Disciples. Against a Warrior of equal or greater skill, I would be hard pressed to eke out an advantage, or even stall for time like Jia Yang was able to, though at great cost. Were I to pit myself against Bai Qi, he would strike me down in the first exchange, because there is nothing I can do against his flawless execution combined with his overwhelming speed and power. I knew this as soon as I saw him in action, which is why I let others risk their lives against him in my place and instead stuck to facing foes I knew I could defeat.”

“In the Three Hunting Strategies, The Exploitation of Opportunity states to strike where the enemy is weak and guard against them where you are strong. Grandfather is strong against the masses, and more suited to bolstering the line, whereas Akanai is an unparalleled duellist and Jia Yang’s only notable attribute is his superlative defence.” Raising his head ever so slightly, Kyung finally met Min Gyu’s gaze and added, “Each Warrior must follow their own Path. How many others would be found wanting if they were to match themselves against Grandfather’s strengths?”

Caught off-guard by the vehemence in Kyung’s voice, Min Gyu was struck speechless for long seconds before bursting into laughter, but only because Akanai Sent, “Your grandson is a remarkable student burdened by an intelligent but senile teacher. You would be best served by dying earlier so as not to ruin him in your dotage.”

As if she had any right to call him old, but Min Gyu couldn’t help but smile. It was easy to see why the woman had been chased out of Central, for she had a sharp tongue and dark humour, but damn if she hadn’t grown on him in their time together. “True,” he Sent back, puffing up with pride for his grandson, only to deflate as he considered the truth. “But I fear he has excelled in spite of my influence, rather than because of it.” Ignoring whatever Akanai’s reply might have been, Min Gyu threw up a Sound Barrier, but only to save what little face he still had left. Cupping Kyung’s cheeks with a smile, he gazed upon this fine Warrior and wondered what could have been.

But alas, there was no cure for regret.

“I am sorry,” he said, and again, Kyung stiffened in fear or panic, and Min Gyu hated himself for being the cause of it. “You were my finest student and Disciple, but I never saw you as anything more than a slave. I wronged you, denied you of a life to call your own, treated you harshly and without consideration. You only ever knew me at my worst, a crippled, drug-addled fool drunk on memories of past strength and glory, yet still you saw the best in me and went above and beyond your obligations.” Two tears spilled from his eyes, but he would allow no more, because Kyung had seen enough of his weakness. “I know you have no choice but to remain at my side, and could not leave even if you wanted, but I want you to know I truly regret how I have treated you. Though your Oaths still bind you, you are no slave, not anymore. You have nothing to fear from me, nothing at all, because you are Du Min Kyung, my finest Disciple and esteemed grandson who I love and cherish more than life itself.”

Releasing his hold of Kyung’s cheeks, Min Gyu gathered his Chi, summoned a Wind Blade, and said, “With the Heavens as my witness...” Bringing the blade down upon his left forearm, he waited for the spurt of blood before continuing his Oath, but strangely enough, it never came. Glancing at his hand and sleeve, and tried to make sense of what happened to his Wind Blade, only to start when he saw a shadow fall over him. “Oh,” he said, shaking his head as he saw Rain standing there with that same blank expression, cuddling a sleeping Mama Bun and Guai Guai close to his chest. “Hello, boy. Is something the matter?”

“Wrong.” There was a hint of disapproval in Rain’s eyes, which was the only clue Min Gyu had to go on, and it made little sense enough on its own. Then, the boy looked to Kyung and added, “Not Wrong. But Wrong.”

Exchanging a glance with Kyung, Min Gyu saw his confusion mirrored in the half-cat’s expression, so he turned back to Rain and said, “...I see.”

“...No. Wrong.”

“Sorry Grandpa.” Slipping her arm around Rain’s waist, Yan tried to gently turn Rain away, but he wouldn’t budge. “Didn’t mean to interrupt,” Yan continued, grunting as she put some muscle into it, but Rain’s reforged body refused to budge. “I’ll just get him out of the way, and you two can continue your little heart to heart.”

“Wrong,” Rain uttered, but again, no one had any idea what he was talking about, and it was clear he knew it too. This was how Min Gyu knew the boy would eventually recover, these minor signs of intelligence trapped behind an invisible barrier. Frustration mounted behind his amber eyes, but then a wave of clarity washed over them. “Hug.” Pulling Yan along as he stepped in close, Rain leaned over and touched his head to Min Gyu’s in an armless hug. Chuckling beneath her breath, Yan threw her free arm around around Min Gyu and quietly urged Kyung to join them, at which point Rain said, “Right.”

And oddly enough, Min Gyu understood. Rain was trying to say that an Oath was the wrong way to show love and affection. A hug was better, because they were freely given, which might no longer be true if compelled by an Oath, so he clung to his grandchildren a little tighter and prayed that his feelings would show through. They stayed hugging for a little longer, if only so he could dry his tears, until he finally released his hold. “Bah, enough of this. Go bathe yourself boy, you reek of bear, quin, wildcat, and worse.” Amusement flashed in Rain’s eyes as he stepped away, but then his head drooped and his eyes unfocused. Frowning as he reached out to steady the boy, Min Gyu checked his health ever so briefly and said, “It’s been a long day, so perhaps it’s time he retired to bed.”

