Responding to my focused Intent, my body slips out from Yan and Mila’s embrace without waking either of them, a delicate working of Concealment which I have no idea how to replicate. Mama Bun is not fooled however, and her head pops up in question, but I pet her head and pretend to head off to the bathroom like any other night. I’m not in control, or rather not entirely, in that my body does not respond to commands, but rather carries out my Intent in the best way it deems possible. Throwing on a robe as I slip out the door, I move through the Sound Barrier and stroll past two guards unseen, again utilizing Concealment and Domain in some complex, ineffable fashion. It isn’t until I’m well outside the District that I realize I probably should’ve asked for help, but I’ve already Cloud-Stepped too far away, and going back would put too many non-combatants in danger.

Besides, I don’t think my body would turn around even if I told it to. It responds to Intent, from which desire is only a stones-throw away, and tonight, I desire nothing more than to take my recently reforged Core and refined body for a spin.

My enemies have yet to notice my arrival, and I intend to take full advantage of the element of surprise. I will stealthily approaching them one by one and dispatch as many as I can without alerting the others. They’ll eventually notice they’re being hunted, but hopefully not before I thin out the herd, at which point I should hit and run to keep them on their toes. Spotting them through the darkness, I see that my foes carry Wraith blades, no doubt coated with their insidious, nerve-targeting poisons, which means it’s game over if I get cut. I supposed I should’ve stopped to pick up a weapon or something, but then again, Wraith blades will cut through anything that isn’t a Spiritual Weapon, and mine are all dust in the wind. I wonder if there’s any way to...

Huh.

What’s that? Sharp and unpleasant, like a jolt to the back of my brain.

Oh... Pain. It’s pain.

Glancing down, I find a black blade embedded in my belly, held by an oddly handsome Wraith, one who almost looks as surprised as I feel. Reviewing my memories of what just happened, I realize I might have overestimated my capabilities and bitten off more than I could chew. I arrived unseen and undetected, only the Wraiths weren’t heading to the manor, but actually using something to track my physical body. That’s how they found me here in this empty field, and as I was lost in my thoughts, I failed to notice this unmarred Wraith approaching, which led to my current predicament.

All this took an eternity to process, but in the real world, not even a tenth of a second had passed. Regardless of how quickly I came to terms with the situation, however, two facts remain unchanged.

This bastard just stabbed me, and I might be dying now.

...

Well... Fuck.

Chapter Meme
