Viv sat on the battlement of the Academy’s outer wall, watching Helock burn. Black plumes as thick as hills rose from the Cereal Gate to the south and the wharves by the sea. A northern wind carried them lazily over the ocean where they would fade in the blue of the late summer sky.

She had been on Nyil for a year and a half.

A sip brought the fresh aroma of an infusion, a summer special. Up here, the air was pure and the stones cool. She could hear animated conversations behind her, some more angry than usual but nothing out of the ordinary for stressed young adults. It was as if the calamity outside did not extend past the inner city walls. Even the government district could probably turn and close their eyes and all would be normal except for a faint smell of ash and burnt meat. Here in the Academy, breakfast was free and drinks cost two coppers. Out there, thirteen hundred people had died in a single night, according to Ereska’s intel.

Viv took another sip.

There were no UN mandates here, no dominant military alliance, but that was not the main problem. Even the lack of exposure from journalists or the internet didn’t really matter. At the heart, the issue was that people didn’t give a shit. Out of all the nations of Param, not a single one cared for the other or believed in universal values and the common good of mankind — or indeed sentient races. The most empathetic answers were ‘yeesh sucks to be them’. The worst called for more slaughter of innocents which didn’t really surprise her. This general apathy reminded Viv of that winter expedition six months before, shortly before Prince Lancer invaded. They had found hundreds of people starving to death and most of the soldiers on her side hadn’t cared. They were strangers. Burdens, at best. Paramese people were not desensitized, they had never been sensitive to start with. It was cultural.

Viv’s mind wandered. Why were the inhabitants of Nyil human? That begged many questions both theological and possibly… whatever the study of parallel universes was called.

“Viviane?”

A voice woke up from her funk. Classes were canceled for now and students were forbidden from leaving without a good reason, a limitation Viv had been unwilling to test. No one should be looking for her right now, interrupting her hypocritical brooding with earthly matters. Anything to forget she’d decided to stop caring and let people die because she wanted to look after herself first.

“Viviane!”

“Rakan? What are… you look awful.”

The Hallurian was filthy. He wore rough travel clothes with tattered hems, obviously old. Soot covered him from hair to toe, except for his bloodshot eyes and trails of tears and snot.

“What’s going on?”

“It’s my sister.”

Rakan’s sister. Cogs ground in the witch’s mind. Rakan's sister, whom he deeply loved. Freed him from certain brainwashing against all odds. Carried his meek ass across the desert. Hunter. Was out killing monsters, and was supposed to return…

“Ah,’ Viv eloquently replied.

“She’s not there. I can’t find her! HER INN IS GONE!”

“Alright, calm down, breathe first. You can’t help if you’re panicking. You went out to find your sister?”

“Yes, right before the ban. Yesterday evening. She was supposed to come through the Wheat Gate with her associates. I can’t find them. I can’t find anyone. We have to go, check again. Make sure.”

“Right. I think that would be finding a needle in a haystack. Right. Okay. Sidjin and I escorted a group of survivors to the shoreline. Maybe someone saw something.”

“Other Hallurians might know. She is famous. Distributes meat every time she returns; maybe someone will know something? Maybe she’s there!”

Viv assessed the chance of getting Rakan to stay and deemed it to be zero, banning any use of violence. Maybe the Academy would stop him. Maybe. But then let them take responsibility for their actions.

“Alright, I know we can technically leave if we have a valid reason and this feels like a good one. You go clean up and refresh while I gear up.”

“We can’t wait! She could be— “

“SILENCE!”

Viv’s outburst surprised Rakan who stopped in his tracks, more shocked than angry.

“You can’t save anyone in that state and they might not let us out. It will help to show we are prepared, alright? Focus. I need you at your best.”

“Yes, sorry. I need to be an adult, act rationally. Sorry.”

“I get your pain, Rakan. Now go. Meet you at the gate.”

Viv tossed the rest of her tea over the parapet — and a shame that was — and ran back to her dorm. A few of the students shook their heads or commented in low voices as they watched her race by, but she paid them no heed. Her reputation was well-set. Another bout of ‘initiative’ would not make a difference.

Ereska heard the door and came to her side.

“This is unwise,” she commented.

“Rakan’s sister went missing.”

The Helockian young lady sighed.

“Yet inevitable. I cannot come with you, I’m afraid. The families have voted in an extraordinary council yesterday. No Helockian combat-capable mage is allowed beyond the walls unless they are part of the active military, and I fear I qualify.”

“And your self-exile does not suffice to justify an exemption.”

“I am not even exiled, Viviane, legally or otherwise. So no, I will not be enjoying a special treatment.”

“That’s fine, Ereska. You already helped me before.”

“It is my fellow countrymen I should be helping, but I digress. I still have something to contribute.”

The young noble left to fetch something while Viv finished strapping on her street clothes. She could have used armor right now but it might be sending the wrong message, and Solfis had kept those anyway. It felt strange not to wear a helmet in such a situation. Had to protect her noggin since it was just too easy to get brained. In any case, Ereska returned when she was done with a potion in a tiny vial. The liquid had a breathtaking azure color like a deep sea dream, beautiful beyond words. Painters back on earth would have killed for one of those.

“Wow.”

“Yes, Sarinatali does good work and she likes pretty things. Take it.”

[Powerful potion.]

“Essence of solace. A single drop through a victim’s lips will keep death at bay for a little while, enough time to get them to a healer. You still have flesh mending potions, right?”

“Two of them, yes.”

“Use them if someone is hurt, but if the damage is too extensive, it might kill them. Fuse the wrong things together.”

“I hope she is fine.”

“So do I, and hunters are hardier than most so there is a good chance she has survived no matter what. Take it anyway. And return the rest to me because it costs twelve golds per vial.”

“What?”

“Only the best ingredients can manage that effect, only the solace can give poisoned mages a chance at survival. Return it when you are done.”

“Thank you, I will take good care of it.”

“See that you do. Off you go now, before our talented friend decides to leave by himself.”

Viv left, stopping only long enough to get water and food under the disapproving glare of a cook. A letter was left at Sidjin’s temporary lodgings since the man was absent at the moment and Viv thought he might want to join. Rakan was already there when she reached the administration building, bypassing a pair of heavily armored warmages. The second one tossed a coin to the first.

“Told you,” she said.

Viv grit her teeth. She found a tired Darla’s behind the counter. The woman whispered in a stone that let out a strong aura of colorless magic. Viv would eat her left shoe if it wasn’t something in the variation of ‘Boss? She’s here.’

“Yes?” the tired administrator — Viv was sure there was more to it — said.

Viv elbowed Rakan. He always said he had to grow more assertive. The young man took a resolute step forward, almost stumbled, and placed a freshly cleaned hand on the desk’s polished dark wood.

“My sister is missing. I’m going after her.”

Darla blinked, slowly. She glared at Viv who merely shrugged. The divine spark of luck had a tendency to get things moving but it certainly hadn’t turned the city into the flaming cesspit it was right now. Humans hadn’t needed any help for that.

The woman sighed and sat back heavily in her chair.

“Tarana, I remember her. She was here with you on the first day. She’s missing, you say?”

“Yes. Since yesterday.”

“And you want to go out and find her? What if I close the gate?”

“I’ll jump down from the wall.”

Darla massaged her temples. Viv realized that under the composed appearance, she probably had a medical school level of sleep deprivation. It had been a very long week and it was far from over.

Her gaze landed on Viv again and stayed there, trying to bore a hole through her skull.

“Why is it always you?” she finally asked.

“We’ve been over this already, I get shit done.”

“Do you even have a plan, or are you just going to roam the streets waiting to be overwhelmed?”

“His sister was supposed to stay at an inn by the Wheat Gate but the entire area is devastated. We intend to go to one of the shire enclaves to talk to a group of refugees who might know where she is. Hallurians.”

“And how do you know there are Wheat Gate refugees there?”

“We led them there ourselves,” A voice said from behind.

Viv smiled when her boyfriend stopped by her side, giving her hand a brief squeeze. He looked refreshed and already wore some battle robes. His backpack bulged with supplies.

“Then what?” Darla said, though Viv could see the woman opposed them more out of stubborn reptilian brain reaction than actual reason. It was time to change gear.

“Look, we will just go out and try to find her. No heroics, no battle, we’ll ask questions and be back by nightfall.”

“You will?” Darla asks with some doubt.

“This is a search and rescue mission. We are not here to cleave a bloody path through the city or help one side against another. If you are concerned, I could use a chaperone. Someone who knows the place.”

“Someone like me?” the other woman replied with a smirk.

“You look like you’re falling apart but yeah, sure.”

For an instant, there was a sort of annoyed defiance Viv had seen before in exhausted soldiers. It only lasted for an instant before Darla took control of her emotions.

“No, if you wish to get yourselves killed, we will not stop you, but you do not have the Academy’s approval and we will remove your protection for the duration of your trip. If you are attacked or captured, that is your business.”

“They will be fine,” Sidjin said, and Darla finally lost her spite in the handsome smile of the fallen prince.

“Just… go. I’ll let the guards know not to stop you.”

The trio left without another word. They crossed the boundary into the noble district and walked at a brisk pace.

“There are no buggies and no one will rent us a horse, so we should go on foot,” Sidjin said.

It took them far longer to approach the gates, which were manned by a veritable detachment. Viv had never really seen Helock’s more conventional forces but they were quite impressive and the warmages walking among them even more so. Archers and soldiers in heavy armor waited in clear lines. A bored and surprised captain stopped them.

“The families have voted. No citizens may… you are not citizens.”

“Indeed not,” Viv said.

“Don’t suppose you have some form of identification?”

They did, in fact. Viv and Rakan presented their student cards while Sidjin had a license he had gotten to practice magic legally within the city. The captain shrugged and checked his instructions again, but eventually decided that it was not his circus and to just let them through.

“I’ll notify the Academy,” he warned.

“They know we’re here, captain,” Rakan said in a hollow voice.

“Right. We close the gates at nightfall. If you’re not back by then, seek shelter.”

“Will do.”

“Wait. Stop.”

The captain looked closely at the trio, especially at Rakan.

“You, the war mage, you know what you are doing. The witch as well, perhaps. You boy, you do not, so listen closely. You think you’re strong and you probably are. Can turn people inside out with a flick of your finger, no doubt, but the people out there are mad. Animals. They won’t care. You don’t want to get swarmed and if you fuck up, it can happen.”

“We will cover each other,” Sidjin said. “I know a thing or two about not getting swarmed.

“Maybe you do. Off you go, then.”

There were more guards on the other side. At least two hundred who let them through without issue. Already, the stench of death and fire left a cloying taste on Viv’s tongue.

They set out.

Someone had cleared the streets of corpses, or at least the most accessible ones. Trails of dried blood led to central spots where they disappeared, the bodies most likely picked up on a cart. It didn’t help with the smell. Sometimes, Viv could see birds pick at discarded body parts. The three mages moved quickly and in silence. Fortunately, Viv knew the way fairly well.

“Thanks for coming with us,” she told Sidjin. “You were ready in a heartbeat. I appreciate it.”

The fallen prince smiled ruefully.

“Glastia has a rich folklore centered around its many princes, darling. Most of the time, they do the saving. If I were the crown prince, you could claim half the city and my hand in marriage at this stage. By comparison, this is nothing.”

“Are you dropping hints or?”

“No no, we talked about marriage in your culture. I know you intend to take your time.”

