“Right,” Viv said, suddenly blushing. It had just never occurred to her and… he was right. Although the two matched really well, they had only been together for a few months. And she was not ready to settle. At all.

“I am serious, Viviane the Outlander and Lost Heiress to a strange land. You may be a controversial figure to others but I do not care. For me, you have done more than can be expected from close family. I am with you no matter what. And yes!” he finished, anticipating the interruption, “before you try to soften my words with that biting humor of yours, even if you lose yourself and commit dark deeds. I do not worry too much, however. So far, we have killed no children.”

Viv coughed to mask her embarrassment, an embarrassment that doubled when Rakan joined in a tired voice.

“It’s loyalty. I read about it a lot.”

“You read about it?” Viv asked, surprised.

The young man nodded.

“It’s the most valuable commodity in Halluria, even more valuable than water. You can’t count on your warlord or your clan. Sometimes, you can’t even count on your family. A Hallurian can either play the game of death to ascend the hierarchy, or they can find a few people they can trust. Loyal people. Build a life with them…”

He shook his head, dispersing the haze of painful memories

“I’ll find her no matter what. Sorry. I was trying to say that you are loyal, Viviane. It’s one of the highest compliments I can make.”

“You two are going to make me blush in the middle of a rioting city. Maybe I’m just… helping those who can help me.”

“That’s not why you created the regrowth spell,” Sidjin countered.

“She’s just being shy,” Rakan said.

“Trying to present herself as the big bad witch from the west. The prince killer,” Sidjin added.

“Terrible and feared across the land.”

“Alright, alright! Enough of this!”

Suddenly, something nudged Viv’s attention to the sky. Perhaps a movement, perhaps danger sense warned her of an incoming threat. She looked up and saw a monster diving towards them.

Time slowed. A bolt of black appeared above Viv’s shoulder while black mana surged from her feet up to cover her in armor… until Sidjin’s hand grabbed her shoulder, shaking her.

“What?”

“Those are troops, not monsters.”

Viv blinked, stupefied.

“What?”

“Griffin riders. Helock’s shock troops.”

“What?”

“Just look, woman.”

The witch thought her lover mad but the creature landing before them wore a harness and metal plates, clear as day under the light. It was an avian creature with powerful back legs, two wings, and a sharp beak made for gouging. Viv judged it was larger than most warhorses.

[Tamed Griffin, extremely dangerous. A monster raised from birth to bind with their tamer, who rides them into battle. The bond is powerful and can only be formed once. Gray mana shield. Expert aerial fighter. Vicious fighter.]

A man sat on its back, legs tucked in not to interfere with the wings. He wore armor and wielded a long spear with a bulbous head covered with enchantments.

[Griffin tamer, dangerous. A special path that only those with taming and arcane blade potential can walk. It takes a long time to train a single combatant. Minor caster. Decent close quarter fighter.]

[Sling spear, a powerful weapon designed for jousting and flinging projectiles powered by a gray and blue core. It can be extended. A special trigger lets the wielder throw a powerful, short range explosive spell. Must be recharged frequently.]

As usual, the inspection skill fed the information directly into her consciousness rather than appearing like a book she would have to read. She also got the diffuse impression that the pair together presented a much more dangerous challenge than the sum of their parts, like a knight and their horse.

The weapon looked really expensive and high maintenance. The armor looked impressive as well, both light and hardy. While she watched, the griffin croaked strangely while its rider lifted a bird-like visor to inspect them. He spoke a few words in northerner that Viv did not recognize. Sidjin replied smoothly. The rider remained silent for a while, considering his words, perhaps, so Viv looked up.

Forms fleeted between the floating rocks above Helock, though none approached the massive form of the Chalice. Sometimes, the light reflected on metal plates or the edge of a blade. Most of them flew in groups.

“You are not of Helock, so you can move,” the man finally said in broken imperial, his attention centered on Viv.

“Yes.”

“You are the one with dragon,” he also said accusingly.

“Hmmm. Yes?”

“Can you tell it stop racing us. We are working. Busy.”

“Wow, I’m actually relieved. I thought she would be trying to eat you.”

“Tried but saw me and stopped. Says she does not eat human INTO MY HEAD.”

“Yes, she speaks like that.”

“Says because not know how to cook. You be careful.”

“Yeah yeah.”

The rider gave her a last glance then rode out. Viv thought he looked kinda cool after she was done brushing the dust from her face.

“Normally they stay in their mountain base south of here,” Sidjin said. “They must have been deployed to keep an eye on what was going on. Prevent the riots from spilling.”

“This guy looked pissed off,” Viv said.

“They are the elite of the elite, the best tamers on Param. And now they are being used to wipe the Town Council’s ass so…”

“I suppose,” Viv grumbled.

“We should get going,” Rakan reminded everyone.

They were almost to the Five Fishes Inn when they finally ran into real trouble. A barricade had been set a distance away from where they knew Solfis’ domain started. Dark-skinned northerners controlled that one and they didn’t look friendly. The trio took a side street but heard the sound of pursuit.

“Stay and confront?” Viv asked.

In answer, a transparent circle popped around the three mages. Sidjin was raising a complex shield.

“Yes,” the war mage said. “Mages don’t handle running very well.”

“And what do we have here?” a thug said in broken Enorian.

Men and a couple of women in rough clothes emerged from side alleys, wiry bodies visible through stained clothes. There was a certain beastiality in the way they moved, the way they looked, hunched forward in anticipation.

Viv really didn’t have time for them.

“No idea how you guys can be stupid enough to — “

The man kept talking, but no sound could be heard. His companions stopped where they stood, suddenly aware something had gone wrong. A few took a step back, more lucid than the rest.

Viv loved sound magic.

“Hush now, shhhh. We are busy, so I’ll make it simple. You fuckers disgust me but I promised I wouldn’t be the blade of vengeance so I’ll give you ten seconds to fuck off before I cut every single one of you to bloody ribbons. Ten.”

“Wait!” Sidjin said.

Viv frowned but let the mage take a step forward. The riot leader was frothing at the mouth though his followers seemed lost on how to proceed. Truly, Pratchett had gotten it right, Viv thought. The IQ of a crowd was that of its dumbest member divided by the number of participants.

“What my friend here is trying to say is that we are busy, you disgust us, you are also facing three war mages and though you feel strong right now, you’re merely street scum with clubs, not the dragonslayer reborn. So you have nine seconds or we will cut you to bloody ribbons. Nine. Eight.”

The thug leader charged with what might have been a blood-curdling scream. Viv would never know. What surprised her was how stupid the man was. She had always seen ringleaders as cold-minded opportunists. Apparently, riots brought the worst out of people.

Before Viv could use her intimidation, Sidjin casually lifted a hand and the attacker rose in the air by a good meter, limbs flailing. Viv could see that her lover had latched a kinetic spell to his target in four different places, a display of his amazing control.

“Seven.”

Sidjin smacked his victim against the nearby wall, breaking him out of the silence spell. A painful yelp escaped the man’s throat, quickly silenced when Sidjin flung him into a workshop’s barred gate.

“Six.”

A third toss silenced the man forever.

“Five.”

The rioters left.

“Hmm, it worked. I gave the display two chances out of three,” the prince casually said.

They departed once again, finding the edge of the safe zone a little while later. It was still early morning by then. The guards let her through without asking questions and a street urchin quickly led them through several checkpoints without prompt. They found themselves in the inn a moment later. It still smelled like stew. A young boy manned the cauldron, continuing the tradition after the untimely demise of the previous innkeeper. It was Lim the Fell-handed, Solfis’ second who came to see them. The grim northerner still looked like a mid-level manager to Viv despite her body count.

“Hello,” she said in Enorian. “Why are you here?”

“We are looking for his sister,” Viv replied. “The Hallurians who came here yesterday might know where she is.”

“I will come with you and ask.”

“Is that fine?” Viv asked with some suspicion.

“Your creature, he is busy. Bounty hunters come for him to capture. He is meeting them in the underground.”

“Wait, really? Does he need help?”

“He said you would say that,” Lim replied with a cruel smile. “He said to tell you: ‘I have better fun than with the spiders.’ He said you would understand.”

“Damn. I could have gone without the reminder.”

Viv didn’t know who could have sent people after Solfis but she was sorry for the poor bastards who would face him in the dark in a cramped environment. With water. You might as well send knife-wielding teens in air ducts to fight the fucking xenomorph.

“He also said that he found things for Elunath in the assassins’ base.”

“Ah.”

Lim pursed her lips in disapproval.

“I still think he fucks you in all holes, Elunath. Bad deal. You should sleep with him and put poison in wine. Give antidote only if he cures you.”

“I’ll take that under advisement,” Viv said, “But honestly, I’d rather just plain attack him than bed this asshole.”

“I’d prefer that as well,” Sidjin said in a dry voice.

“Nobles,” Lim scoffed, “never want to get hands dirty. You will learn.”

“Right. The sister?”

“I find her for you. I am very good at finding. Finding to save, this time, for a change. Let’s go!”

Lim walked out without waiting to see if they would follow. Outside, people moved about. Everything felt cramped with personal effects and crates of supplies stacked everywhere. Children were playing in large groups under the stress-filled eyes of huddling women. The mood remained somehow optimistic.

Everyone either gave Lim a large berth or a respectful nod and if people were curious about Viv and her companions, it was the sort of curiosity tinged with self-preservation. The northerner weaved smoothly between stacks of barrels and clumps of people until they found a warehouse by the shore. The contents had been piled to the ceiling in neat rows to give the Hallurians some space. A pair of representatives immediately stood up to welcome them. At first, only Lim spoke but Rakan soon joined them. He sounded frantic.

The discussion lasted a good three minutes in northerner during which Viv stayed quiet. When they were done, Lim left immediately with the others trailing her again.

“They say she was one of the few who fought, that she tried to lure people away,” Rakan told her as they moved.

“Rioters?”

“Yes. By shooting them with her bow.”

Viv thought that would be a big problem if they eventually caught her.

“But she didn’t return. She was supposed to but she didn’t,” Rakan continued.

Viv realized he was on the verge of tears. She placed a hand on his shoulder and forced his panicked gaze to settle on her own. Her soul flared, instilling resolve in him through leadership.

“There could be several explanations for that, alright? No matter what, we will find her. Yes?”

“Yes. Sure. We will. If she, if she…”

“Rakan. First, we find, then we think. Focus.”

“Right.”

They walked.

Lim led them out of the enclave at a solid pace, then through back alleys and hidden paths with a familiarity that spoke of years of experience dodging the main thoroughfares. Once, they came across two sentries they could not avoid and Rakan left them as whining piles on the ground before the group could consider a detour. They found the Wheat Gate district and the destroyed inn before noon. From then on, Lim guided them through the empty streets, doing something weird with her hand where she would move her fingers a certain way while inspecting her surroundings.

“The refugees told her where they’d seen her last,” Rakan explained.

They let Lim work in peace. The woman guided them around, slowly at first, then with increasing speed through the poor district at the periphery of the city. There were spots of old blood around, black and flaky now. Eventually, the trail led into a one-way street.

Rakan sore softly.

There was a lot of blood around, especially at the end, but it was not what had gotten his attention. The young mage raced forward and picked up the broken short bow. His hands shook.

“It’s hers. They must have cornered her here.”

“The bodies were picked up,” Lim said. “If there were survivors they must have been carried to the nearest temple.”

“Let’s go” Viv said.

