The northerner knew the city well. She guided them to a small, secluded place of worship. Viv knew from the garden that it would be dedicated to Enttiku, the goddess of death. They were let in without problem when they said they were looking for someone. The entire place had been turned into a makeshift hospital. Overworked nurses ran around, carrying fresh bandages and water. Lim asked for someone fitting the description but no one had the time to help them, so they split up. Viv and Sidjin discreetly charged some enchantments, mostly lighting and water-purifying arrays. Viv knew something was wrong when she looked up to find Rakan petrified over a small, improvised bed. She raced to his side.

The person in it could only be described as ‘butchered’. She was a massive sore of broken bones, inflamed tissues and bruises. her face was mush. Viv could only tell her gender because of the black hair, matted and caked with dry blood. Painful wheezes emerged from the broken wreck of her face. The young mage pointed at her arm where a tattoo could be seen between a purple blotch and the white shard of a jutting bone.

“Tarana… Why?”

He babbled in Hallurian, so Viv hugged him and hailed a harried priestess. The black-clad woman first frowned with frustration, but she moved closer all the same.

“Thank you for charging spells around here. What did you want to… oh. Her. We stabilized her with a prayer, hoping someone would come. I can… temporarily heal her to let her say goodbye, but…”

Rakan wailed so Viv hugged him tighter.

“What are the chances that she could be saved by a really, really good healer?”

“I’m sorry, we’re at capacity…”

“Not what I’m asking. Could she be saved by a great healer?”

The priestess blinked, then frowned.

“Well, yes, if you can get him here within two hours, that is.”

“I’ll need a stretcher, please. I can pay.”

“I’m sorry, she’ll die if she’s moved.”

“I have some essence of solace,” Viv said.

The priestess opened her mouth to reply, then reconsidered. She kneeled and placed a hand on Tarana’s body.

“It could work. You will have a few hours, no more. The body cannot be sustained indefinitely. I’ll get you the stretcher right away.”

“Viv,” Rakan said, “Viv, don’t give me hope if…”

“We will get her to the medical faculty of Helock. They owe me healings. That was our deal.”

“If they are already crowded…”

“I have acquired some goodwill so it’s time to use it. If she can be saved, we’ll save her, alright?”

The young man nodded, then wiped his eyes.

“If anyone tries to stop us, ANYONE, I’ll —”

“Alright killer, cool down. You’ll need that energy on the trip back.”

They were off within a minute. After Viv fed the insensate Tarana a drop of potion, two hardy volunteers delicately moved her to the stretcher and the group left. Lim led the way back.

This time, they took the most direct way. Rakan cleared the path through the expedient means of tossing fireballs at everything and anyone on the path, which had the virtue of sending a clear message. No one stayed to test them. They crossed the city to the noble district, then through it and the Academy to the Faculty of Medicine. A massive queue extended to the fields but Viv waved her student card and they were let in first. She stopped at the entrance.

“We need Tod,” she told the receptionist.

“Archmage Tod is busy, everyone —”

Viv resorted to the very rude method of muting the woman, who appeared quite shocked by the treatment.

“Archmage Tod and I have an arrangement, the one to regrow limbs. The bargain was that I could pick people to be healed for free, so I’m merely asking him to honor his side of the bargain. Now, you can get me to him or I’ll flare black mana in the ward until he comes to investigate. Your choice.”

“There was no need for — “

“She’s dying. You’ve had a long day but she’s dying. So, uh, you’re getting on my nerves right now.”

“Fine! Fine.”

Tod found them, had a look at Tarana and directed her to a surgery room, ignoring Viv entirely. Rakan went to follow them. Lim and the volunteers left soon after, the first to take the secret passage back to her lair and the second to their homes. It turned out they were stranded herders who had wanted an escort back. This left Viv sitting on a stone bench in the outer garden next to her lover.

“I think we got lucky this time,” Viv said.

“Part of it was luck, but part of it was creating the opportunities you needed to seize the chance.”

“I know, I know, just, things don’t always end up so nicely. I’m relieved.”

They waited in companionable silence for a while. It was still early in the afternoon. They had some time. Moreover, Viv felt bone-tired.

“Will you ask him to join you? After that, I mean,” Sidjin asked.

“Rakan?”

“Yes. He knows you will try to recruit him. He will volunteer, in fact, I’m sure of it.”

“I’ll have him if he wants to join. The new Harrak is much keener on voluntary service than the old one.”

“Will you ask me, then?”

Viv looked at Sidjin, the fallen prince attractive with his mussed hair and the soot on his cheeks. It gave him a roguish, adventurer appearance.

“Don’t think I can pay you enough.”

“I accept payment in… services.”

The prince nimbley dodged her hook, catching her fist.

“Crass. I hate you,” Viv accused, though she was smiling.

He chuckled, but his answer got cut short by Arthur landing excitedly a few steps away.

Mother.

Mother.

Mother.

There are humans.

And they FLY!

Humans!

With weird bird.

I have idea.

“Does it include killing a rider and stealing their griffin so I can ride it myself?”

There was a long, embarrassed mental silence.

… No?

“It won’t work, they bind for life.”

“Squeeeeeee.”

“I promise I’ll keep working on my colorless magic until I can levitate. It can’t be much more complicated to fly. Maybe with an enchanted harness.”

You promise.

I teach you how to fly.

We eat squid together.

Become big and scaly.

“Not sure for the scales but for the rest, yes. One day we will fly together.”
