“Interesting. It looks like Potentiality is equivalent to the infusions from my Realmsingers of Ultom. I’d say there’s around five thousand Potentiality stored in the token,” Zac said before putting the [Court Cycle Token] against the rune on the ground.

After a small drain, the rune faded while the four surrounding tiles flickered and disappeared. Behind it was a narrow chute leading into the darkness. It was wide enough for Zac to jump inside but not wide enough to maneuver his weapons.

“Let me go ahead and look for danger,” Esmeralda eagerly said.

“Be careful.”

Seeing the greedy glint, Zac knew her offer was as much to look for treasure as threats. Still, Zac waved her to go ahead. Esmeralda disappeared into the hole while Zac tried another transfer between tokens. Unfortunately, it proved his hunch. Using the [Court Cycle Token] drained all nine types of charges, while the Potentiality could only replenish one.

While disappointing, it opened up interesting possibilities down the road. Zac wasn’t sure when Janos would show up, but he and Ogras would soon reach the Hollow Court. If things worked the same there, did the [Court Cycle Token] represent an infinite money glitch? If he could have Ogras repeatedly infuse the token before converting the infusion to merit points, he’d eventually be able to buy the Primo’s treasure outright.

Esmeralda soon returned, interrupting the beautiful dream. “There’s a small chamber down there, and there’s even a—why are you looking at me like that?”

“Just making sure I’m not dealing with another impostor,” Zac replied, a smile tugging at his lips.

“You—what! Kid, did a heron steal your eyes? Or are you asking for a beating? How can you mistake that ugly thing for these heaven-blessed features?” Esmeralda sputtered. “I’ll have you know, the number of suitors back home is large enough to fill an ocean. No, two oceans!”

“You’re right, of course,” Zac laughed. “Quick, lead the way.”

The toad huffed with annoyance, but she still led him down the chute. It was only thirty meters deep, which was well within the range of the scripture tower’s arrays. The room measured ten by ten meters, with a somewhat generous ceiling height of four meters, and the floor was covered by a thick layer of dust.

The chamber would have felt spacious before the integration. It felt cramped after having witnessed the grand buildings of the Limitless Empire. Like Esmeralda said, it wasn’t the place one would store a supreme scripture. That was why the pedestal waiting in the corner was such a surprise. Floating above it and in remarkable condition was a single tome.

Zac walked a few steps closer to get a proper look. Embossed on the cover were three words written with Spatial Ink that retained its spirituality—[Collapsing Sky Scripture]. Zac smiled as he took in the dense spirituality. It might not be one of the Mercurial Court’s supreme scriptures, but it was definitely not something that would be left on the Scripture Tower’s first floor.
