Erick went back to the Ophiel overlooking the storm. The first dust devil had risen an hour ago, with subsequent mini-tornadoes rising soon after. By now, most of the sky was clear of spiders. Maybe it would stay that way? Had Erick pulled down the whole horde? He looked at his most recent notifications, and picked one of the tumbling blue boxes at random. It was much easier to count kills now that his listings weren’t in alphabet base 26.

You have slain Ballooning Spider 1,574,971!

95% participation!

+12,789,555 exp

Not all of them were worth that much experience; most were worth considerably less. But they were all called the same thing, and since they were all called the same thing, and since Ballooning Spider attacks were well documented, at 1-point-5 million kills, Erick knew he had gone through roughly 75% of the attack. Maybe more, maybe less. Horde sizes varied, but not by much. The kills were slowing down, of course, but Erick suspected the attack on Kal’Duresh would not even last into the night.

Erick renewed a few choice pockets of [Shimmer] on the ground. Dried spider bodies turned to broken flames as dust devils carried bright sparks and burning corpses into the air. That done, he went back to reading.

Weather was pretty interesting stuff! A lot of people had done a lot of magical experimentation on the subject before, but most of what his book talked about was conjecture, observational studies, and magical theory. Not many people, and certainly not the people who wrote this book, could just up and control the weather, proving their theories as true or false.

Maybe he should write some of these people letters, letting them know if they were on the right track, or not.

Ah! He almost forgot about the rads! Some of them had burned up, for sure, but the battlefield was absolutely littered with dried corpses, for kilometers in every direction.

Ophiels began summoning Jewels, while Erick did the same. Soon, the battlefield was littered with knife wielding crystals, chopped up corpses —some still burning—, and piles and piles of rads.

- - - -

Erick showed up at Al’s Sewerhouse just before sunset. The golden building was closed for the night, but the lights were on upstairs. A quick telepathic connection brought Al outside. He looked pretty great. He wore black, as usual, and a smile. Erick hadn’t dressed up much, himself, but he was ready for wherever the night took him. First, he wanted dinner, though.

Erick greeted Al, “Hey, Al! I’m hungry. Let’s eat. my treat. I’ve just killed Ballooning Spider number two million.” Erick smiled. “Definitely did not get that many rads out of them, though. But it’s a lot, so far.”

Al returned Erick’s smile, seeming to relax as his shoulders shook with a small laugh. “I could always eat. Have you ever been to The Regian’te?”

“Nope. Sounds fancy, though.” Erick pulled at his shirt. “Not sure if I’m dressed well enough.”

Al smirked. “This is Spur. We get all types, here. I’m sure they won’t care.”

“Then lead the way!”

Al led the way. They spoke of news and people they had recently met. Al spoke of rookies messing up the sewers, while Erick said he had still never been down there, ever. Erick spoke of magic, and auras, and Al opened up like a burst damn. He loved aura magic, and math, and it showed in his speech and his happy face.

They made it to the Regian’te. It was the top floor of a ten story building, situated near the Mage District. It was fancy. Expensive fabrics on the tables. Drinks in cut crystal glasses. Menus with only three items on them. Mood lighting, and mostly private booths. Erick must have been the least properly dressed person in sight, but no one cared about how he dressed, or that he did not have a reservation.

While Poi and Kiri shared a seat at the table behind them, Al and Erick sat down at one of the nicest tables, with a full view of Spur in the east. There were no skyscrapers in this city, but stone buildings got pretty tall. Erick commented on the buildings. Al said something about how that’s the highest they can build with stone; it breaks on its own if you don’t build right. Whatever the case, the city was a pretty sight, for sure. Lights shone along building edges, and inside apartment buildings and business spaces, giving brilliance to the deepening night.

“I’m not used to being the second person recognized when I walk in a building,” Al joked, as the waiter filled their glasses with water. He said, “We haven’t done this in a while.”

“Projects have gotten away from me, so that’s my excuse.” Erick asked, “What’s yours?”

“Hangups, mostly.” Al said, “So, I was saying about Auras, natural versus magical.”

Erick smiled. Al had already gone over all the basics on the walk over here, explaining what Aurify did, and what Erick already knew based on his own experimentation. Al had almost become an Auramancer in his younger years, but while he kept that thread of interest alive, he had eventually opted into Stone Mage. As for his particular variant of Stone Mage? He communicated that to Erick with silent [Telepathy], for secrecy’s sake.

Al’s Class was Stone Mage. Just Stone Mage. Nothing special. Erick punched him in the arm for that, but Al just laughed.

Al said, “Natural auras came first, of course. It is suspected, but Rozeta has never confirmed, that we get Health and Mana from a shift of the naturally occurring aura that any being with a soul possesses.”

“I could see that.”

Al nodded. He almost spoke, but instead paused, as the waiter came by for their decisions. This wasn’t the kind of place that had many options on their menu, because what you ordered was one of three options, and they paired everything else with what they were serving, and that included drinks. When that was taken care of, and Al had ordered the steak, and Erick had too, Al continued, “The best magical auras, meaning those with the most damage and control it is possible for an individual to achieve, all involve taking your natural aura and pairing it with the best spells that represent you, as an individual. But you can also go the other way, and start with a spell you really like, and thus mold your self and your aura to better fit your magic. That second way takes years, though. You’ve probably already figured this out, but you already have better control over your [Exalted Storm Aura] these days, than you did in the beginning, right?”

Erick thought about that. “I don’t really know about that. I have gotten better with landing the spell exactly where I want it to land, but not by much.”

Al smiled. “It’s entirely possible that you made a spell that already suits you perfectly. In such a case, improvements of the spell are rare, and you wouldn’t experience much of a personal change.” He added, “Take, for example: A Water Mage using a [Fireball Aura] would probably run into issues with singed hair and burned skin, where the disconnect between their normal magic and fire magic would cause their natural aura to fray. But a true Fire Mage would have no issues with a [Fireball Aura].”

Erick thought about that. He would have thought everyone would have had trouble with a [Fireball Aura]. He had never tried to make one though. Maybe he should try?

If he ever decided to make a [Vivid Gloom Aura], he would probably end up with a lot more problems than damaged skin and singed hair. But that would be true for everyone when it came to creating an aura out of [Vivid Gloom], right? Or maybe… was this the reason that Poison Archmage was perfectly fine inside her own orange cloud?

Al smirked. “I can see you don’t believe me.”

“I’m just saying, this requires some testing.”

Al laughed.

Erick smiled, to see the man laugh. This was a good idea. He should have done this a while ago. To be fair, there were a lot of problems out there, right now, but he was solving them as he could. At that thought, Erick said, “Ah. Yeah. I need to check on this thing. Shouldn’t take long.”

Al nodded.

A brief check on the Ophiel north of Kal’Duresh revealed that the storm was still going, and that spiders were still dying, and burning up once they touched the fire-covered ground. Erick quickly renewed a few necessary spells, and then came back to himself. He had only been gone for five seconds.

Al said, “You know, that’s a rather impressive storm you made.”

“I’m learning all about weather patterns now so that I can cast the spell more effectively.” Erick felt a stab of pain, as he said, “I miss Krakina. I would have loved to ask her some questions. She’d know a lot about the weather around here.” He added, “Not too sure I should talk to Ikawa, though. That didn’t go so well, last time.”

Al looked away. He said, “We lost a lot that day.”

At that segue, Erick asked, “How is Savral? What’s going on with him?”

After a minute, Al turned to face Erick. “It’s not going as good as it could, but it will get better. He is missing memories, but I’ve talked to others who did the same thing as I… Some people are doing rather well. Others, not so much. The group I’m in— We think we’ve found a pattern to the problems. Those who lead violent lives of killing monsters are doing worse than those who stayed in the city and tried to live calm lives.” Al said, “The woman said to treat people like they had Dragon Essence poisoning, but we did that. We just didn’t think she meant that people had to completely change who they were. Some of the adventurers who... got better, they went out into the Crystal Forest to try and ‘find themselves’.” Al looked away. “Those ones have done the worst, and Savral is a part of that group.” He turned back. “I couldn’t stop him from testing himself against a mimic. He did fine, of course, but then he forgot about a stupid spice he liked to use all the time.”

Al bunched his fist, then relaxed it, slowly. Moments passed.

“I’m sorry, Al.”

“Thank you for saying such, but it is not your fault.” Al said, “This was my choice.”

The drinks arrived, along with salads and bread. Erick ordered something harder than the wine that was part of their meal. Al smiled again at some funny little joke Erick made, and it was good.

When the first course was done, Erick asked, “So how do you lock down someone from using Spatial Magic? When I have to fight, I want to be able to keep the enemy from avoiding the fight.” He added, “I was thinking imbuing [Dispel] and [Teleport] into an aura attack, or something. Something that would stick around on the target for a while, or at least until the spell ran out. Maybe something with [Conjure Bind]? But I have yet to make that spell, either.”

Al shook his head. “[Conjure Bind] is decent. You might have to go that route. Aura attacks are only useful when someone doesn’t know what you’ve done. I can show you some of how that works later, but all you have to do to clear your aura is use [Cleanse]. If you truly want to deny someone their Spatial magic, you have to use parasites.” He added, “Monsters rarely have Spatial magic though— Oh. I see.” He said, “But shadelings don’t have Spatial magic, either, I think?”

“Shades do.”

Al sat a bit straighter. “Ah.” He thought for a minute. He said, “It could work. [Conjure Bind] would be useless against a Shade, for sure.” He said, “And you’ve reminded me: What you want to know is actually called Curse Magic. Almost all of that is locked behind the Witch Class.”

“… Oh?” Erick connected some dots in his mind, then said, “[Cleanse] is a gift from the gods. Curses are an aura affliction. So that’s how divine magic works to clear out curses? It purges the aura?” An anomaly reared its head. Erick looked to the ring on his finger. “Then why do my rings work, too?”

“The mysteries of magic are many.” Al smiled. “But if I had to guess, it would be because the aura is produced by the soul and magnified in different ways by the presence of the body and the mind. But we get access to the Script through our souls. And so, strengthening the soul and body with boosting rings that will not break, has a bolstering effect on the natural [Cleanse] that normally flows through the [Script] to keep it functional and whole.” Al said, “That’s pure conjecture on my part, though. You probably won’t hear that from anyone else, and I’m likely wrong. But that’s what I’m thinking is happening.”

Erick thought for a moment. “The Army has said that these rings don’t instantly clear out curses; it takes a short while, and it destroyed the rings, too.” He asked, “A loop of interaction that gradually erodes the magic inherent in a curse?”

“That’s another way to put it; sure.”

Erick asked, “How does the divine clean out curses?”

Al spoke strongly, “With divine might! Plowing through the curse! Brushing it aside with the power of a god!” Al relaxed, smirking. “I have no idea.”

“Is the Curse of the Shadeling the same?”

“Ah.” Al thought. He said, “Probably not.” He added, “I don’t know much about curses except how to notice when one has invaded my aura. I can show you some aura control, later, if you wish. That should enable you to do the same, but there’s no way to know for sure. I haven’t had to fight off a curse in decades and I don’t have any Curse Magic of my own.” He said, “Aura control is pretty esoteric. It’s not that useful except for shaping aura spells.” He paused. “But that would be pretty useful for you, wouldn’t it?”

Erick smiled. “Probably.”

Al jolted. He said, “Oh! I almost forgot. Curse Magic is highly illegal. You could probably get around those laws, though.” He waved a dismissive hand, saying, “Silverite probably won’t care if you learn some curses.”

Erick said, “She might even know someone I could talk to.”

Al nodded.

Their food arrived. It was delicious. They spoke of their last months, like they were friends getting together on the weekends as they always did, and not like two people who had barely spoken to each other in a long while. When the meal was over, after three courses and dessert, Erick insisted on paying the bill. Al only relented when Erick said he was already paying for Kiri and Poi’s meals. The bill came out to 4500 gold. Erick was surprised at that, but it was a good dinner, with a good view, and even better company. In order to actually pay, though, he had an Ophiel blip in a 900 count pile of rads into a side room; Erick’s many, many Jewels had been working overtime to gather what they could from spider corpses.

After dinner, Poi briefly informed Erick that the spider horde was gone. He could stop the storm, now.

