So Erick stopped the storm, and then he reorganized his collection protocols. Ophiels and Jewels continued to work long into the night, but since there was no need to deal damage anymore and all the tiny spiders were burned away in the fires, Ophiel started using a different spell to help the many, many Jewels work faster.

Cleansing Flame, instant, medium range, 15 MP

A smokeless flame gradually consumes and transforms a large amount of organic material to naught but air.

Deals no damage.

Piles of spider corpses caught on white fire, transforming into thick air that twisted away on the northern winds, leaving glittering rads strewn across the desert, like a strange reflection of the night sky above. Jewels picked those rads from the ground like they were plucking stars, gathering their harvest against their quartz-like bodies.

Erick, meanwhile, got an introduction to aura control in the third story classroom of his house.

An hour of discussion and attempts passed easily, at first, but quickly got rather rough.

Al finally got too disgusted to continue. “But you use your aura all the time! How can you not see what I’m telling you?!”

Erick laughed. “Just like old times.”

Al frowned. “It’s barely midnight. I want a drink. You’re buying, rich man.”

“Sounds good to me.” Erick smiled.

In minutes, Al and Erick, along with Teressa, Kiri, and Poi, were back on the town. It wasn’t long till they were drinking at a nice, open air amphitheater-slash-bar on the third story of a building just beyond the Gardens, near the Human District. The place had a beautiful view of the northern sky, past the wall, and live entertainment. [Weather Ward]s stretched between stone pillars, keeping the wind out, but not the chill. There was no roof. Some people happily huddled together, while other, less amorous visitors, enjoyed private fires scattered here and there. Erick and Al had a fire. He also had a clear view of the night sky. Stars twinkled above like motes of light in the endless dark.

The band tonight was called Veruna and the Rumblers. Their lead woman was an incani of some beauty, with violet skin and violet horns. Her dress was a simple cotton thing that twisted in the breeze as she sang of the dearly departed and forever loved, of emotions and ceremony, while her band played along in a style that Erick would have called art rock, or maybe classical but with a stronger sound. Whatever it was, it was good.

Erick smiled, listening to the music, drinking his beer. He clapped between songs, like the rest of those present.

After two songs, he whispered to Al, “She’s pretty good. This was a good idea.”

Al smiled wide. He nodded.

Some time later, something shifted in the crowd. Erick was not the first to notice the problem, at all, but he caught on quick enough when people started pointing to the north. The twinkling stars seemed to twinkle a bit more than they should. Some of the stars even vanished completely for long moments.

Veruna stopped singing. The band stopped playing. Some people turned to look at Erick.

Erick turned to his guards. Poi was already walking toward him.

‘Sir,’ Poi sent, ‘Ballooning Spiders will descend on Spur in thirty minutes. It seems that the spiders have accounted for your [Weather Control]. Something more drastic must be done.’

‘Okay. I’m on it.’ And then he spoke loud enough for people to overhear, “I’ll take care of it.” He sent to Poi, ‘I won’t leave myself, much, but I will be slightly vulnerable.’

‘Understood.’

Ophiel, on Erick’s shoulder, was happy listening to the band. He would have rather floated above the singers and joined in the song, but Erick readily put a lid on that, controlling the tiny feathered [Familiar] to sit on his shoulder and behave. But now, with the music over, and danger approaching, playtime was over. It was time for work. Through his [Familiar]’s eyes, Erick saw Teressa loom behind him, facing backward, protecting his rear, while Poi stood to his right, ever vigilant. Kiri stayed near the bar; a set of eyes to watch from a different angle.

Erick began summoning enough Ophiel to bring him back up to his cap, while remaining mostly high mana. One by one, they blipped away to first summon their Saturn-like configurations, before blipping again, into the sky.

When the first Ophiel arrived in the skies north of Spur, spider threads caught on his shield, and spiders, meters wide, landed atop Ophiel’s dense air. They stabbed into the unknown, solid space, with long, oozing fangs, but Ophiel released his [Domain of the Withering Slime], and the assault ended as fast as it began. Spiders died, dried, and fell away, revealing the horde as far as Ophiel’s many eyes could see.

Erick changed the weather, casting wind into a twisting vortex, aiming for dust devils like before.

But something failed. The storm did not twist how Erick wanted—

Ah. A source of heat on the ground. Right. This was ‘Winter’, and it was pretty darn cold out there this far past sunset. Erick had his Ophiels blip around the battlefield, layering the ground every hundred meters with bright [Shimmer]s, casting heat into the night, while he layered [Call Lightning]s into the space above the spiders. In ten minutes, the field was primed.

Erick gave the weather another push, while he gave each Ophiel the appropriate spells, and set them to task.

He came back to himself, sitting in a spellbound, silent audience, while the skies north of Spur began to churn with flickering clouds. Rain began to fall on long lasting balls of fire that populated the desert, while lightning flickered in towering clouds. The stationary fireballs provided little light, so it was hard to see—

Here and there, someone turned on the lights in the sky. Massive lightwards shone onto falling, hungry spiders, and onto the clouds that chased them. The clouds were dark with rain, but the spiders were bright white, and their horde larger than the clouds. It had to be nineteen, twenty kilometers from east to west? Much more than that from north to south.

Ophiel’s own Domains were not large enough to cut into the whole swarm, but they did cast large swaths of spiders to the ground. But these spiders controlled the wind, and they were a hive mind species. The dying informed the living of what was to come, and the horde parted the sky like only a thousand mages working in concert could, dodging the thick air swirling around each flying Ophiel.

Erick felt his first spike of worry of the night, as spiders whipped around kilometer wide killzones, still headed for Spur, and sirens began to blare.

BrrrRRRRRRRRRRR!

The siren came and went in mere moments. Silverite spoke to the city:

“Attention Spur. Ballooning Spiders are falling. Our Archmages are fighting, but smaller spiders may get through. They are just as deadly as the adults. Take cover, or prepare to fight. I repeat: The smaller spiders are just as deadly as the adults.”

Erick felt his second spike of worry of the night.

A personal message came directly to Erick’s mind, ‘We could use a Domain across the city, and some imaging for the spiders somewhere. Your house is fine, or at the Guardhouse.’

‘On it.’

Erick worked fast. He finagled with the storm, connecting heat and cold and tumbling currents into a stream of air that churned from east to west, like a wave crashing in the sky. At a nudge, the sideways wind shifted, one end up, the other down. The spiders fought back, turning the air back to calm, but they were spitting into the wind; they could not fight the whole sky. Clouds turned violent, turning into tumblers, catching threads and pulling in spiders like a spindle transformed wool into yarn. Erick, and his entire audience, watched, as a churning air touched down on one side of the battlefield, pulling sky to the ground, and the fires of the desert into the swarm.

The whole thing caught fire at once, as thin, flammable spider threads proved to be excellent fuel, disrupting the whole storm system. The conflagration was short lived, drowned out by falling rains, but the heat those massive moments supplied to the system lasted much longer. Fires twisted and clouds spun. Dried spiders caught fire. People gasped to watch the death happening right outside their city.

Erick took one of the Ophiel and sent him blipping to the battlefield floor to pick up something—

A spider leg! Ophiel grabbed the meter-long, partially charred limb, then blipped directly to the courtyard of the Guardhouse. People were already there. Someone reacted to Ophiel’s appearance with a [Force Beam] that briefly swiped against the feathered [Familiar], but the caster cut the spell before much happened. Ophiel glared at the offender, but Erick brought his attention back to task. Soon, a ball of cascading light glowed high above the Guardhouse, while a map of Spur appeared in the courtyard, with blue dots marked for every single Ballooning Spider. Erick had not made a DNA scan, but he did use the spider limb to set his 20 kilometer radius map to better target exactly what he wanted to target. It was only that size, because the Guard needed to see what was happening inside the city, not what was happening outside.

Erick had his third scare of the night, when blue dots appeared on the map; they were already here.

Erick immediately had the Ophiel by the guardhouse blip to the center of the city; it was the only one free at the moment, all the rest were busy killing the swarm. As that Ophiel appeared in the center of Spur, Erick channeled his own Domain through him, casting his own magic so that he could hit the entire city with his aura, at once.

He came back to himself, still sitting in the silent music bar. Thick air lifted from all around him, as notifications poured through the sides of his visions, and a kilometer wide tornado ripped across the land far ahead. Spiders tried to fight the storm. They cast diverting winds into the tornado, trying to change their fate, but Erick had set the system up too well. They caught on the threads of their fellow spiders and tumbled down into waiting [Domains of the Withering Slime].

Ten minutes passed. The blue dots on Erick’s map were already vanishing, as the Guard sent people out to deal with the problems. It wouldn’t be long till the city was empty of all Ballooning Spiders.

The ones to the north who chose to attack en masse, instead of on their own, never had a chance. None of them got through Erick’s storm.

Veruna, the singer, spoke up from her spot on the stage, tentatively asking Erick, “Are we good?”

Every eye in the music bar was already on him.

Erick said, “I think so. Looks like the Guard is clearing out those that made it to the city. I’ll let you know if we’re not.”

Veruna smirked, then she smiled, then she laughed. “Good!” She said, “Because this is the most adamantine backdrop I could ever ask for. [Strike] it, boys!”

Her bandmates happily obliged. The tornado continue to churn death in the background, while Veruna belted out a song of glorious battle and hard fought life. It was a good song.

Erick’s mind was occasionally in eleven places at once, to make sure that Spur remained safe from the spiders, but the battle was won as soon as the two kilometer wide tornado began to churn and tear down the swarm. Erick mainly kept the weather running with fires and control, as he sat next to Al, listening to the band, the occasional crack of sky-filling lightning, and the far away rumble of a tornado.

The patrons at the bar loved it. They cheered louder, they drank more. Some people tried to buy Erick a drink, but he shook his head.

Before long, Silverite sat down next to him. She smiled, saying, “This is fun.”

Erick laughed. He had another beer, but he kept himself sober.
