“Oh?” Tala perked up. She knew it wasn’t perfect, nor perfectly suited for Reforging, but she was having trouble narrowing down why or how.

“The body is dead.”

Tala arched her eyebrow. “I mean… yes? Blood is flowing through it, and all the systems are functional, but there’s no life in there.”

The elf shook her head. “There’s no soul or spirit in residence. It’s like this limb that was cut off.” She gestured to where her still missing arm should have been. “Had you not destroyed it, it could have been reattached, but until it was, it would have been dead, cleanly cut from me by your void-blade.”

Tala frowned. “I’ve been wanting to ask you about that.”

Eskau Meallain shook her head. “No, not yet… maybe in a bit. Right now, though, don’t get distracted. We are talking about dead things. This body is dead. There is no spirit behind this. It is a puppet, if an incredibly intricate one.”

Tala bit her lip and slowly nodded. “So, I need to reconstruct my spirit within the body as well, only then could I move my soul over?”

“Yes.” The elf responded as if it were obvious, and honestly, it really should have been. “Well, the spirit part. We can discuss souls later.”

Tala grunted at the last, following the advice to set the matter of her soul aside for a moment. “Well, then I guess I have yet one more thing to delve into… I suppose that doing so will allow me to include my soulbonds, weaving their spirits and magics in as well.”

“That seems like a required step, yes. If this is all it was,”—Eskau Meallain gestured at the iron body—“then I suspect your kind would Reforge with relative ease.”

Tala was about to protest that what she was doing was actually incredibly difficult on every level, but then she considered for a long moment. Most Paragons had centuries more experience than she did, and if she was capable of building up the needed knowledge and skill this quickly, it would be arrogant to think that others couldn’t do the same if given the right motivations. Reforging would absolutely be the right motivation for most, or at least more than had actually Reforged. “Huh… that’s probably quite true.”

Either way, it was time to start that process.

Alat?

-Yes?-

How do we create a spirit?
