Elise stared at the painting until Charlotte’s stomach started growling, and they all remembered why they had originally come in the first place.

“Are you hungry?” asked Erun brightly. “I have plenty of– Oh! We were eating. Oh dear me, I’m so sorry! It completely slipped my mind. Come, come, we might still have a lukewarm meal yet!”

Elise allowed herself to be dragged along by Charlotte, sparing one final glance at the mysterious queen before the door to the art room shut behind her, and they rushed back down to the dining hall. Elise was silent the whole time, thinking about what she had seen, and what she could almost-but-not-quite remember. There was something there. Something she was forgetting.

“After you died. Before you were born.”

Maggie’s words echoed in her head. The timeline didn’t match for anything to have happened to her involving this Ber’Isel person, though. Ber’Isel had lived 10,000 years before she arrived here, but if Jessie’s memories were accurate, she and Elise had come from the same time period on Earth. So unless Jessie got reincarnated 10,000 years later, it didn’t line up.

Am I forgetting two things then? she wondered.

Regardless of what she was or wasn’t forgetting, one thing had become clear on this house tour: she needed to talk to Erun more. It couldn’t be a coincidence that she was here. The scroll had sent her to where she could grow the most, and in that place, she found a painting of someone she knew, but couldn’t remember. It had to be related. And Erun was the only person who would have answers. As reluctant as she was to interact too closely with him, it didn’t seem she had much of a choice.

Charlotte’s food was quite cold by the time they returned, so Erun offered to cook up some more, which Charlotte gladly accepted while also still eating the cold food. Elise declined, saying she had just eaten. She actually did feel a bit peckish, but didn’t fully trust the man.

That proved to be a mistake, as he summoned a fresh steak from somewhere and started grilling it up right in front of them. She had no idea where he had gotten it, or even what it was, but it was visibly not Abyssal, and it smelled heavenly as he cooked it over a conjured flame.

“What is that?” she asked, drawing nearer so she could smell it better.

“Khalzam beef!” he said proudly. “Best beef in the world, and the cattle farmer… Well, I can’t remember, but I’m sure they were quite competent. Just look at that marbling!”

“Yeah, I see,” said Elise, mouth watering. “So this beef is from before… all this?”

“Yes, before the war,” he said, nodding. “I made sure to stock up when I heard… something. There was something that made me stock up. Ah, I’m sure it will come to me.”

The steaks cooked quickly, and fortunately, Erun seemed to have forgotten that Elise said she didn’t want any, and handed her a plate anyway. Unsurprisingly, he did not cook a steak for himself, instead choosing to sit and rest with his chin on his hand while Elise and Charlotte devoured their food. It was easily the best steak Elise had ever eaten, to the point that it had her wondering if she should even be allowed to eat it.

This is 10,000 year old steak from a cow breed that might not exist anymore, she thought as she stared at the bite she had just cut. Whenever Erun runs out, no one else will ever be able to eat this ever again…

Then, her stomach rumbled and she ate it anyway. Charlotte finished before her, then went to literally lick her plate clean. Elise gave her a reproachful look, but then when she finished, she did the same. It wasn’t like she had to keep up appearances around Charlotte, and Erun would probably forget. Better not to let any of the ancient steak go to waste.

“I take it that means you enjoyed it, then,” said Erun as she set down her plate.

“A bit,” said Elise, sitting up straight and using a single finger to wipe a drop of steak juice off her cheek.

“That’s good,” said Erun as she licked her finger. “I wish I could eat. But ever since the ritual…”

“What was the ritual?” asked Charlotte.

“The one that turned me into a lich.”

Elise tensed up. The term was only vaguely familiar to her from her Earth memories, but liches were a very known quantity in the rest of this world. They were generally considered the pinnacle of necromancy, 9th tier mages who had forcibly bound their soul to their body to remain in the world long past when they should have died. Doing so forever barred them from achieving divinity, but no necromancer who wanted divinity would do such a thing. The ones who became liches were the ones who wanted to stay. The ones who wanted to be a scourge on the living world.

“So you’re a necromancer, then,” said Elise.

“Ah, no. Not a necromancer. An ethomancer.”

“An ethomancer?”

“I work with souls. Not death. I suppose theoretically, I could work with death, but dead things are so icky.”

He shuddered.

“What’s a Neck-o-mancer?” asked Charlotte.

“A mage who controls dead bodies,” said Elise.

“A bit more complex than that, but yes, in essence,” said Erun. “There is some overlap with ethomancy, but they are two separate branches of aethercraft altogether.”

“I thought that all liches were necromancers,” said Elise.

“Where did you get that absurd notion?” said Erun, somehow looking offended despite his mask. “Liches are universally ethomancers. Any necromancer who can become a lich is also an accomplished ethomancer, but an ethomancer hardly needs any necromancy knowledge to become a lich.”

“I– I see.”

Elise still didn’t feel comfortable with the man openly admitting to being a lich, but maybe liches weren’t evil back then? Or maybe he wasn’t a lich, but something else that wasn’t translating properly? Whatever the case, he didn’t seem like an evil necromancer hell-bent on ruling over a nation of the dead or whatever it was that modern liches did.

“What’s a lich?” asked Charlotte.

Elise opened her mouth to respond out of habit, but stopped herself before saying anything.

“A lich is one who has forcibly bound their soul to their body to stave off death,” said Erun. “It allows for prolonged life, of a sort, though it’s not without its drawbacks. I will never ascend, no matter how hard I strive, but it was a worthwhile sacrifice. If I hadn’t done it… If I hadn’t… Why did I…?”

He went silent, and Elise felt his soul aether growing more volatile than it had the entire time. Even Charlotte seemed to be getting unsettled by it.

“It doesn’t matter,” said Elise quickly. “I’m sure it worked out.”

“Hmm?” said Erun, his aether instantly calming down. “Ah, yes, you’re probably right. Probably…”

His aether was not fully calm, and there was still a bit of an edge to it, but it was down at a level that no longer made Elise nervous.

“So–” started Elise.

“What brings you two down here anyway?” asked Erun. “Have I already asked that?”

“No.”

“Ah, good. Because I was curious. It’s not a very pleasant sight anymore, is it? And you don’t look like locals. You don’t feel like locals. There’s something very strange about your souls…”

“We came to learn and–”

“LIAR!!”

Elise shrank back as Erun’s aether flared violently. His voice turned from soft and polite to loud and violent. She had barely seen him move, but he was now standing, and there were cracks spreading across the table from where he had slammed his hands. Elise grabbed Charlotte’s arm and located the final teleportation scroll in Astrid’s star in case they needed to flee, but fortunately, Erun calmed down quickly.

“Oh, dear me,” he said, slowly sitting back down. “I don’t know what came over me. I’m terribly sorry.”

“It– it’s alright,” said Elise, not letting go of Charlotte’s arm.

“What were we–? Ah yes, the reason you came down here. What did you say again?”

Elise glanced over at Charlotte, who was tenser than Elise had ever seen her. She pulled the teleportation scroll from Astrid’s Star, linking her elbow with Charlotte’s and preparing to tear it. Erun didn’t comment on it or try to stop them.

“We came to learn,” Elise said slowly, only continuing when it was clear Erun would not have another outburst. “We’re trying to learn the old ways of soul manipulation and magic.”

Erun’s aether grew agitated for a moment before calming back down.

“What an admirable goal,” he said. “I can’t help much on the magic front—never had much talent for it, I’m afraid—but I am quite the accomplished ethomancer, if I do say so myself. After all, Queen Ber’Isel herself chose me… But for what…?”

As his aether grew more unruly, Elise realized that it was most likely not going to calm down fully any time soon. They had clearly triggered something, and he wasn’t getting better. He needed time to calm down without the conversation to keep reminding him of things.

“It’s alright,” she said, holding up her hands. “I’m sure you’ll remember later. But I just remembered that Charlotte and I had somewhere else to be…”

“No, it was– No, not that,” said Erun, not paying them any attention. “What. Was. It?”

With every word, he hit his masked face on the table.

“Erun, it’s alright,” said Elise, backing away. “It’s fine. It’s not imp–”

“Oh, I remember.” His voice became eerily calm.

“Erun–”

“THAT TRAITOR!!”

He smashed his fist straight through the table. Elise tensed, ready to tear the scroll, but he didn’t seem to be paying any attention to them.

“My queen,” he whimpered, his voice suddenly soft. “Why did you do it? I could have done it. I was WILLING. You didn’t need to… If only it wasn’t for thAT TRAITOR!”

“Charlotte, run,” said Elise.

“But–”

“Now. I’ll meet you back there.”

Elise knew that it was in her best interest to also flee, but for some reason, she felt she shouldn’t. She felt like she needed to stay. Something about his words resonated with her. It could just have been the raw emotions in his turbulent aether, but there was something more too. Something deeper, like with the painting.

“Elise–”

“Go!” she shouted.

Reluctantly, the arachne turned to scuttle away while Elise stayed rooted in place, watching as Erun’s mumbling somehow grew less coherent. One second he was screaming, the next he was sobbing, and he never got more than a few words into a sentence before switching to another.

And there was something very wrong with his aether. She had noticed that it was off before, but now that it was flooding out in torrents, it felt almost sickly. Contaminated.

What did he do to himself with that ritual?

“–the people. The heroes! Why did–? HOW COULD SHE?! And the ritual… It didn’t have to be like this. If only it wasn’t for…”

He trailed off, going silent as the flow of aether subsided a bit. Then, he slowly looked up at Elise.

“YOU!” he screamed. “WHAT ARE YOU–?!”

Elise was on the verge of tearing the scroll when Erun suddenly stopped again.

“No, no, no, no, no, NO!” he said, holding his head. “It’s happening again. Why does it keep HAPPENING?! I need–!”

He did not finish his sentence to explain what he needed, instead turning to sprint to the door. Elise hesitated, then followed him. His path was erratic and lurching as he half-sprinted, half-stumbled his way back upstairs. Soon, he arrived at his bedroom again, jumping directly into the stone sarcophagus. The moment his body was fully inside, the hurricane of aether surrounding him dissipated. Elise waited at the edge of the room, wondering if he was going to get back out, but instead, she just heard him speaking softly.

“My queen,” he said. “Look at us. Where did it all go wrong?”

After that, Elise still waited, unsure what to do until Erun spoke again, this time his voice back to normal.

“Changeling, are you still there?”

“…Yes.”

“I’m so sorry you had to see that. I’m– I’m alright now. But I can’t leave the sarcophagus. Why don’t you come a bit closer.”

Elise hesitated.

“I know you might not trust my words right now, but this sarcophagus is a stabilizer. It helps keep me—well, as sane as one like me can be. I won’t have another outburst as long as I’m in here.”

Elise waited a moment longer, then tentatively approached, stopping just beside and peering in. Rather than laying out like she would have expected, Erun was curled up on his side in the fetal position, hugging his knees tightly.

“There’s a hole in my soul,” he said without looking up. “The ritual– It was supposed to anchor me, but there was… interference. It didn’t take the first time. A piece was ripped out. If I was still alive, my soul might have been able to recover, but instead, I’m stuck like this. I can only think clearly when I’m in here, but if I stay in here for long, I go mad, but if I leave, I go madder.

“My memory is a mess. I’ve forgotten so many things, and most of it, I can never get back. The parts that I can recover are attached to the damaged part of my soul, which I can’t access while I’m in here. If I want to remember them, I have to get out, but when I do remember them…”

He went silent, and Elise wasn’t sure how to respond. He saved her the trouble of thinking of some way to comfort him by speaking again a few seconds later.

“I hope that this doesn’t make you hate me too much,” he said. “It’s been so long since I’ve had company. I’ve been so lonely. I haven’t been able to keep track of time, but it must have been decades… Tell me, is Ur still wreaking havoc, or has he finally ascended?”

“Ur?”

“You– you don’t know who he is?”

“I don’t,” said Elise. “But I’ve heard the name. Who is he?”

“He is our enemy. He’s– Ah, I can’t remember. But all of this–” he waved his arm vaguely around. “All of it is his doing. I remember that much, at least. But you should know that if you came here to learn… Why are you really here?”

“To learn. I just… don’t know what this place is.”

“How can you not…?” He looked up at her. “How long has it been? Do you at least know that much?”

Elise didn’t really want to answer. Not after how he had taken some of the other things he said. But, at the same time, he seemed stable enough while he was in the stone sarcophagus, and after hearing him speak, she felt he deserved to know.

“It’s been more than 10,000 years,” she said.

“10,000 years,” he whispered.

“I don’t know exactly how long, but it’s somewhere around there.”

Erun was silent for almost a full minute.

“Please leave,” he finally said. “I need some time to think.”

“Alright.”

“But come back,” he said. “Tomorrow. I can help you. I can teach you.”

“I will.”

“You promise?”

“I– I do. I will come back.”

“Thank you. I don’t want to be alone anymore…”

“Then… I’ll get going now.”

“Yes. Thank you for keeping me company. I will see you tomorrow.”

“See you tomorrow.”

Walter leaned against the wall of the cave, pretending to be asleep while keeping his ears open. It had been nearly an hour, and she still hadn’t moved, but he knew she would. She was good at covering up her scent, but she couldn’t hide from his nose completely. He knew she didn’t need to sleep like they did, and used that to sneak out when they were asleep. And tonight, he was going to catch her.

A few minutes later, he dozed off.

Then, he woke with a start at the sound of dirt shifting. He was half-delirious for a moment, but when he fully came awake, he realized it had happened. She was gone. But she wasn’t far. He could still hear her faint footsteps outside the cave, walking away from them.

Aha! he thought. I’ve got her!

Using {Muffled Steps} and {Hide Presence}, he slipped out of the cave, following behind at a distance. He had spent many years stalking prey, so this was nothing new to him, but doing it in his humanoid form still felt unfamiliar. It was much better for stealth, though, as his full size was ill-suited for stealth.

Anna moved carefully for the first mile or so, but after that, she straightened up, walking without a care, and even humming to herself as she did. Walter had yet to master the art of humming. According to Anna, it was a technique used by humans to put themselves, and sometimes others, at ease. Walter thought that sounded excellent. If he mastered humming, he could sneakily put the rabbit at ease while getting in close for the kill. Or maybe he could trick her into humming to put herself at ease while he snuck up. Unfortunately, singing, an essential step to learning humming, was not coming easily to him, despite Anna’s best efforts to teach him.

He intentionally ignored the sound of her humming, making sure to stay alert as he followed her across a dozen hills to a thick grove of trees. He lost sight of her when she entered, but he continued to follow the sound of her humming until she stopped moving. He froze as well, hidden behind a tree and out of sight. She didn’t seem to have noticed him, fortunately, but she also wasn’t going any further.

For a while, Walter didn’t hear anything more from her. No humming, no footsteps, and not even any shifting. Whatever was going on, she was standing perfectly still. He crept closer, and soon he could see her. She was sitting in a clearing next to a low hill. There was something in the hill, hidden behind a wall of vines and bushes, but she was facing that something, and meditating.

Walter watched for a few minutes, but when she continued to not move, he slowly sat down to get more comfortable. That was a mistake, because a few minutes after that, he dozed off again, only waking up to the sound of Anna’s voice.

“Yes!” she shouted. “Yes, yes, yes!”

Walter flinched, and got to his feet, peering around the tree trunk he was hiding behind. Anna was now making strange body movements. “Dancing,” if he remembered correctly.

“I did it!” she shouted. “Finally! I can’t believe I did it! Walter!”

Walter flinched, hiding back behind the tree.

“I know you’re there,” she called. “I knew you followed me, but it’s okay. Come here! Look! Look what I did!”

Walter stepped out from behind the tree sheepishly, and Anna grabbed him by the arm and pulled him over to the vine-covered hill. The vines and bushes parted before them, and what he saw inside was a door. A stone door that was now flung wide open, with a tunnel sloping down into pitch black darkness.

“What is it?” he asked.

“I don’t know!” said Anna excitedly. “But I’ve been trying to open this door for years! And I finally did it! And it’s all thanks to you!”

She pulled a very confused Walter into a tight embrace.

“Me?” he asked, his cheek squished against her smooth wooden shoulder.

“You!” she said loudly right in his ear. “My little good luck charm!”

She rubbed her cheek against his, and Walter pushed her away, though not quite as hard as he could have.

“So!” she said, standing back up, and putting her hands on her hips. “Now that we’ve opened the super secret ancient door, we can’t just leave without seeing what’s inside, right?”

Walter raised an eyebrow. He had never heard of this rule before, but it seemed legitimate. She knew more about these kinds of things than he did, and he was also very curious to see what was down the tunnel.

“Yeah,” he said.

“Just a quick little adventure, though. We don’t want to be gone for too long, or the others might get worried.”

Walter nodded.

“Great!” she said. “Then let’s go!”