“Fine. So you improvised. I assume you cast multiple raise dead spells at range?”
“[Raise Skeleton], in point of fact. They are the most cost-effective, or so I’ve found.”
“Oh good.”
Pisces pointed at an area of ground ahead of them.
“There is a considerable group of dead bodies below us. That might indicate a secret room is indeed down there.”
“It might mean it’s already been looted.”
“Perhaps. Or that it was found but never successfully entered. Either way, I have summoned several skeletons that will assist with the digging.”
Ceria stared at the ground. She didn’t see the normal tremors of dirt or hands clawing their way out of the soil that preceded a zombie bursting out to try and eat her face off.
“Something taking them a while? Or did you just tell them to take it easy?”
Pisces scowled at the needling, and Ceria immediately regretted the words. It had been a powerful spell; she could see him sweating a bit in the cold.
“They must find their way up from a considerable distance. A shame you couldn’t remember where the Lich was, Springwalker.”
“You can’t animate a Lich, Pisces.”
“Maybe not from scratch. But if I had the bones of one—”
“You could animate it? Really?”
“Perhaps. I should like to study the spell animating it at least.”
The half-Elf eyed her once friend as he mumbled to himself. He thought he could create a Lich? Or learn the spell to make one?
That was…concerning. A Lich wasn’t the highest-level undead; not by far. But it was powerful. Powerful enough that if Pisces could animate one by himself, he was stronger than Ceria had given him credit for.
“What level are you by now? In your [Necromancer] class, I mean.”
The mage stopped muttering to himself. He turned to stare flatly at Ceria.
“What do you care? Didn’t you tell me last time we parted ways that you never wanted to hear from me again?”
“That was then. Somehow we’ve ended up working together again.”
“Yes. I suppose I should thank Erin Solstice for that.”
“Maybe you should. Or will you curse her for it?”
“I had no objections to working with you, Springwalker. But you were the one who told me you didn’t want to travel with me.”
“Yeah. I did.”
Ceria dearly wished she used a staff like Sostrom used to carry around. True, it was cumbersome, but it would have been so nice to lean on. She contented herself with sitting on a rock.
“I haven’t exactly changed my opinion of necromancy since then. You do know that the undead killed my team, and Yvlon’s? I saw a lot of friends die thanks to them.”
Pisces just shook his head.
“The undead are mindless. Or rather, most are. The ones under my command are not the same as those roving creatures.”
“Some would say there’s not a lot of difference. If you lose control or get killed, they’re still mindless.”
“Only if I don’t realize my goals.”
“Still going on about that? I’d have thought you gave up by now. You certainly don’t seem to have made much progress.”
To her surprise, Pisces grinned rather than grow defensive at her jibe. That made her cautious. But he glanced over at the ground and she heard the sounds of dirt scattering. The first of the skeletons was digging itself out of the ground.
“Oh good. The diggers are here. Get them to work, will you?”
Both Yvlon and Ksmvr watched from their posts as five more skeletons dug themselves out to join the one Pisces had summoned. Two grabbed shovels; the others just got to digging in the earth with their bare hands.
Yvlon turned away as the skeletons with glowing eyes started working. Ksmvr just watched with interest. Ceria took a seat on a rock next to Pisces as they chatted in the cold.
“It seems odd that Ksmvr wouldn’t be a better digger.”
“He was not built for it, Springwalker. He may share the same body, but he clearly lacks the experience.”
“All things to their intended purpose, eh? Surprised to hear you of all people say that.”
“I am not suggesting it is effective. I am simply stating what is. Do not misconstrue my words.”
“…Sorry.”
They sat in silence for a while, watching as the skeletons got to work. They moved with commendable speed in the cold, and despite being weaker than Ksmvr and Yvlon, they were tireless. Ceria already wondered why they hadn’t used them earlier, until she remembered exactly why.
“They look like they’ll get a good way down before the day’s over. Maybe this will work.”
“One can only hope.”
Pisces grunted as he stared at his creations. His stomach growled audibly in the wind. As if in answer, Ceria’s did likewise.
“Isn’t it funny? A few years ago we’d be in the banquet hall, stuffing our faces over a book of spells.”
“True.”
“…Do you miss it?”
“Of course.”
His voice was soft. Pisces stared at his undead, remembering just like she was.
“But it is the past. I gave it up for my passions. There is no use looking back.”
“To you, maybe. I wonder what would have happened if—you were a better mage once, when you didn’t practice Necromancy.”
The words were still bitter and from a dark place inside Ceria. But she couldn’t help them coming out. This time Pisces didn’t snap at her. He just shrugged tiredly.
“Some thought so. But I was a generalist then; a jack of no masteries. Necromancy was ever my passion. I might have had the dregs of popular support, but only that. Who would applaud a mage without a master or a calling?”
“I respected you. So did Mons and a lot of other people.”
“Ah.”
There wasn’t anything he could say to that. Pisces stared at the flying dirt and two skeletons trying to lift a large stone out of a hole they’d dug.
“Mons. Yes. What happened to her? I didn’t hear of another mage joining you when you left Wistram. Did she…?”
“She kept studying in Wistram. Who knows? By now she might be a better [Mage] than you or I.”
“Hah. Perhaps. She certainly knows more spells by now at least.”
They both laughed at that. Then they grew silent. Ceria could sense what was coming, but her tongue kept leading her onwards.
“You know, even if you had become a [Necromancer], it might have all been okay if you hadn’t…”
“I told you, it was to a purpose.”
“But you didn’t even ask permission.”
“I didn’t need it. Cognita said as much. The rules they made—”
“It’s the principle of the thing, Pisces. You spat in their faces and said—”
The other mage cut her off. His face was tight and drawn, and Ceria knew he was reliving the same moment, just like her.
“I…erred. But I did what I thought was best. It is the past, now. Continuing the same argument would be pointless. You fail to understand my position as you have in the past.”
“I guess so. But you have to admit, it didn’t end like you’d hoped.”
“No. It didn’t. I realize that now.”
It was the first time she’d ever heard him admit he’d been wrong. Ceria looked at Pisces in surprise.
“You do?”
Shrug.
“Recent events have given me cause to…regret the ending. That is all.”
“Yeah. Yeah. Neither of us are exactly earning Wistram rates, are we?”
“No. But I was astounded to receive a message from you. I didn’t even know you were still on the same continent. What made you decide to come here?”
“I came to Izril to earn money. To become a better adventurer, since I couldn’t stay in Wistram.”
“Why not Baleros or Chandrar?”
“Too far and too violent. For both, really. I didn’t want to join a Company; I wanted to make my own choices.”
“Hmm.”
Ceria looked sideways at Pisces.
“What about you? Why did you decide to become an adventurer? Didn’t you swear to me you’d pursue your own path?”
“I…need to be a higher level. That’s all.”
“Really? But you won’t level up that much from just casting mage spells.”
“True. But…well, perhaps I’m also looking for something else.”
“What?”
“One last chance.”
“For what?”
He hesitated. Pisces stared at the ground, as the cold wind blew his robes around him.
“To—”
Below them in the ditch they’d hollowed out, one of the skeletons raised its shovel and brought it down on a section of ground. The earth around it collapsed, and the undead disappeared.
The earth rumbled as dirt and stone shifted. Instantly, Ceria and Pisces stepped back, feeling the ground under their feet shift slightly.
“Collapse! Get clear!”
Ceria shouted to Yvlon and Ksmvr as the tremors grew. She stumbled back, looking for safe ground, grabbing Pisces as he tripped after her.
Collapses were a big danger in older dungeons and in places like this. It was all too possible to be swallowed by the earth. Ceria saw Yvlon and Ksmvr running to a large section of stone, hoping to find a safe place on the solid rock. She tried to run after them.
And then, as soon as the horrible rumbling had started, it stopped. Ceria turned shakily and found Pisces getting to his feet. He brushed dirt off of his robes and then turned to stare as well.
“Tree rot. Look at that.”
A huge gaping sinkhole had opened up where the skeletons had been. Ceria could spot two climbing up, but not the other four.
“Trap spell! Get down!”
Pisces shouted it and Ceria immediately dove back into the soil. She saw Yvlon and Ksmvr who’d been running over to them do the same. She turned to look and saw what had alarmed Pisces.
Giant ribbons of flame that writhed and twisted around like snakes were burning around the fallen dirt and stone. The flames weren’t red and orange; these were blue, and already they were melting stone and turning the dirt into smoke that began to billow up from the hole.
“Pisces. Is it aimed at—?”
“No. Let me see.”
The other mage raised his face out of the dirt and focused. Two of his skeletons approached the pit.
“I’ve lost three of my skeletons. Two were incinerated; the other crushed. Last one’s trapped under some dirt. The other two aren’t being targeted—looks like we set off an area trap.”
“Thank flowers for that.”
Ceria sighed and let some of the tension ease out of her body. She’d hoped for something to happen, but she hadn’t expected that.
“We just dug straight into that secret corridor, didn’t we? And by the looks of it, it leads to a [Mage]’s quarters.”
“Looks like it.”
For a second the two mages stared down at the dancing flames. Ceria was already trying to analyze the spell; the amount of mana she could sense in the flames and the way they were instantly burning through the huge amount of stone and dirt in the way told her that it was a seriously powerful spell they’d tripped down there. What Tier? Tier 5? 6?
“Ceria! Pisces! Are you two alright?”
Yvlon’s voice echoed and Ceria realized she and Ksmvr probably couldn’t see what she did. She scrambled to her feet and waved her hand at the two prone forms that were slowly crawling towards them.
“It’s fine! The skeletons broke through the roof of a new area! The falling stones must have set off some of the magical protections. Stay clear, everyone!”
Yvlon and Ksmvr got to their feet. They made their way over to Pisces and Ceria as the two tried to dust themselves off.
“We just heard the rumbling when the earth began to collapse. Good thing we weren’t standing closer.”
“Indeed. That would have most likely resulted in our painful immolation.”
Both humans and the half-Elf fell silent as they stared at Ksmvr. He stared back.
“Unless Pisces or Ceria know powerful anti-flame spells?”
“No.”
“Nope.”
“You’re probably right, Ksmvr. Thank you for sharing that.”
All four adventurers turned their attention back to the pit. Yvlon whistled.
“Those flames are still going? That must be some trap spell. Who were they expecting to kill? Named Adventurers?”
“Ah. It—”
“It’s probably—”
Ceria and Pisces broke off. Both of them had spoken at once. They shared a look and then Ceria explained.
“We hit the binding matrix of the spell. That’s why it’s still going. All the mana is being depleted and it’s not going to recharge after it’s over.”
“Oh. I see.”
Ksmvr looked down into the pit.
“May I ask what the nature of this spell is? It appears to be mainly aimed at close-range magic. Is there any unusual component to it?”
That was what Ceria had been trying to figure out. She rubbed at her chin.
“I’m not sure. That’s some kind of pyromancy trap for sure. But blue flames? It looks like a variation of that [Flame Snake] spell we read about, remember?”
Pisces nodded absently.
“An upgraded version. Clearly evident from the blue flames and extreme heat.”
“Clearly. Probably be practically impossible to block if it suddenly came at us.”
“Indeed. The walls were probably reinforced to avoid sudden escape. Would a trap wall have blocked any retreat?”
“Maybe…”
Yvlon looked at the two mages.
“What’s the verdict?”
Ceria nodded.
“Good. That’s a powerful spell. And it was fresh. No one’s triggered it before or we’d see the scorch marks. There’s a good chance no one’s explored this place before. And best yet—”
“What they’re guarding could be just as valuable.”
Pisces smiled, and so did Yvlon. Ksmvr just moved his jaws slightly.
“This is good, correct? Should we descend once the flames have ceased?”
“Definitely. Get ready everyone! We’re going in!”
Suddenly energized, Ceria began calling more mana into her skeletal hand as she reviewed spells. Yvlon put on a helmet and began swinging her sword lightly. Ksmvr armed himself with the shortsword and knife for close-quarters combat. Pisces recalled his two skeletons.
The mood of the group had completely changed in a few seconds. The pressure of imminent death—but more importantly, the thought that they might have found something truly important—had given them the same burning hope they’d had at the beginning. Ceria could barely contain her eagerness as they waited for the spell to end.
“Don’t go in for at least thirty minutes after the fires have stopped. The heat down there is intense.”
Indeed, the smoking stones were radiating an intense heat that completely ignored the cold air. Ceria was already starting to warm up even far as she was from the sinkhole. Pisces stared down at the entrance to the tunnel, barely able to conceal his excitement.
“I could cast [Frozen Wind] to expedite the cooling process.”
“Save your mana. We don’t know what’s down there. In fact—let’s get started on the trap dummy. I was going to use the mud ball method, but why not one of your skeletons.”
“Right. Let’s.”
Even Yvlon didn’t object as Ceria and Pisces got to work on one of the skeletons. Only Ksmvr was confused. He stared at the two mages as they started handing the skeleton items and muttering about enchantments.
“Excuse me. What is happening?”
