Ceria paused as she handed the skeleton a hefty rock to hold. Pisces was busy with a torch he was trying to light.
“Oh. You’ve never seen adventurers entering a trapped dungeon, have you, Ksmvr?”
“No. What is the purpose of equipping the skeleton thusly?”
This time it was Yvlon who explained. She gestured at the skeleton as Ceria cast an enchantment over it. A ball of light hovered around the skeleton’s head, radiating light that added to the flame of the torch in its other hand.
“When we go into dungeons, we’re always wary of traps. They claim more lives than monsters most of the time. If we had a [Rogue] or [Scout] we could rely on their trap-sensing Skills but we don’t have one. And even then, it’s extremely risky for anyone who goes in first. Most of the adventurers who take point—don’t survive.”
Ceria nodded grimly. She’d buried more friends than she cared to remember who’d gone in and received the business end of a trap or monster’s claw. Yvlon had the same expression as she continued.
“So. We find ways to trigger traps beforehand. One common way is to shoot an arrow at an obvious tripwire or pressure plate, but a lot of traps are magical. So adventurers will roll something down a suspicious corridor—we use mud balls if we can’t use anything else. But a lot of traps have more sophisticated sensors.”
“Hence using the undead. They might not trip detection for living beings, but by giving them a heat source and the weight of a normal adventurer, this one will probably trigger most traps. And the magical enchantment also activates a lot of sensors.”
Pisces explained as he made the skeleton walk towards the edge of the unearthed corridor. Ceria nodded.
“Hopefully we’re not dealing with an experienced trap maker. If this is a mage’s personal quarters—well, they’re pretty bad at differentiating the activation mechanism for spells. We might get all the traps this way.”
“Excuse me. I am confused once again. I thought this was a dungeon. What was this about a personal mage’s quarters?”
“It’s…hard to explain, Ksmvr. We say ‘dungeon’, but that doesn’t mean this place was originally built underground. I think Albez was actually a city that sunk into the ground over thousands of years.”
“Oh. I see.”
The Antinium considered this.
“So we are, in fact, likely breaking into a deceased individual’s personal quarters?”
Ceria, Pisces, and Yvlon looked at each other.
“Pretty much.”
“Hopefully.”
“Or a treasury owned by a guild or rich person. Those are always nice.”
“Then why all the traps? The spell we just witnessed seemed excessive?”
Ceria shrugged.
“Paranoia. It’s usually because people have something important they don’t want stolen. And a powerful mage around Level 50? They’d have a lot of enemies, a lot of artifacts and valuables over the years. Their homes tend to turn into miniature gauntlets by the time they die.”
Yvlon nodded.
“In some cases, the protections are justified. Consider what powerful items a mage might own? On the other hand, artificial dungeons—ones that people make for the exclusive purpose of guarding something really rare—are the worst. This is more like a few private wards on a home. But dungeons designed to kill a huge number of invaders? Those are real deathtraps.”
“Indeed? How so?”
Ksmvr barely had to get the others started. Even Pisces had stories of the horrors adventurers had found in ruins.
“I heard in one dungeon the creators placed an invisible poison mist trap at the entrance. So while the adventurers were clearing the dungeon they were slowly dying. Hundreds of teams would go in without problems, but none ever came out.”
“What about the acid showers? Did you hear about that? It triggered five hundred meters in and flooded each corridor. If it didn’t have such a long reset time it would have wiped every team that went in there.”
“I heard of one mage who just teleported the people in the trap into a pit in the middle of bedrock. They had no way out and they’d just starve to death.”
“I heard of that one too! The [Miners] who eventually located the trap—didn’t they find some adventurers still alive in there? They’d eaten all their friends and were living off their boots.”
“That’s just a myth. No one would have the air to survive down there.”
“I heard they had a charm.”
“True, but even so—”
Bemused, Ksmvr glanced around at the others.
“You seem unusually upbeat for such a dire circumstance we might be facing ourselves.”
“That’s part of what being an adventurer is, Ksmvr. We risk everything, so we might as well chuckle a bit in case the worst does come true.”
Ceria laughed. Even Yvlon grinned at the Antinium.
“We’re building morale before we enter. Don’t worry—we’re all nervous. But it’s better to tell jokes than to wait in silence.”
Ksmvr considered this, and then nodded.
“I shall learn from this experience. Thank you for explaining it to me.”
That was weird, but it just made the others laugh harder. Because it was weird and they were about to enter a place where they might die. Soon, Ceria judged the hole to be cool enough to enter, and after sending the skeleton in first, the others slid down the melted rock and entered the abandoned tunnel.
 
—-
 
“Okay, that was a nasty arrow trap. Pisces, you’re walking in front from now on.”
Ceria eyed the deadly poison-tipped bolt that had neatly passed through the skeleton’s ribs and shattered on the far wall. She didn’t even want to touch the arrow in case all of it was toxic.
Pisces shook his head. He pointed and the skeleton obediently trotted forwards again.
“I will stay behind the two warriors, thank you. They have armor. I do not.”
“You have that ring. It probably would have saved your life.”
Ceria watched as the skeleton advanced fifteen more paces into the darkness and rounded a bend. The tunnel they’d found was long and winding and this was the second trap they’d run into. The first one had been an easily-triggered trap that had unleashed the dreaded spray of acid when Ksmvr had fired an arrow at it. The second the skeleton had triggered and Ceria was only concerned there might be more.
Several hours had passed since the Horns of Hammerad had entered the tunnel. Despite that, they’d gone less than eighty paces. This was due to the excruciating care all four were taking to check for traps every inch of the way.
All of them had long sticks they used to poke at the wall, ceiling, and floor, and Pisces regularly sent his other two skeletons ahead to stomp or bang on walls in hopes of triggering something. Even when they thought it was safe, the Horns of Hammerad went in line, one at a time, letting Ksmvr or Yvlon go forwards a good ways before the others cautiously caught up.
“The tunnel can’t be that much longer. The map shows it leading to a good-sized space ahead, right?”
Ceria didn’t even have to look at the map in her pack. She nodded.
“That’s right. Hopefully we get there by tonight. Otherwise…we could set up camp there.”
Again, it was Yvlon who had the calm acceptance of this fact; she’d probably expected that to begin with, and Ksmvr who deferred instantly to her leadership. But Pisces scowled.
“Camp here? But this corridor is wide open! We should endeavor to get to the end before nightfall—I don’t want a monster cornering us in here.”
“Better that than rushing, Pisces.”
The scowl Ceria gave Pisces was returned with equal value. She hated how he balked at every decision she made. She knew he was eager—she remembered the same feeling and even the same conversation. But she’d seen what happened when they rushed.
Pisces clicked his teeth together as Ceria replied.
“We don’t risk anything. Even if it means two days—even if we had to leave this place and come back with supplies rather than risk going in without moving safely, I’d do it. As it is, we’re still way too close to the trap radius if we hit something large. We’re risking a lot as it is, Pisces. I won’t just walk us into death.”
He clicked his teeth together a few more times, clearly upset. But then Pisces sighed.
“Very well. I defer to your experience.”
That surprised Ceria; she’d been sure he would have fought her more on this.
“Really? Good.”
“Yes, well—”
Pisces paused and clicked his teeth again. This time Yvlon scowled at him.
“Would you stop doing that? It’s distracting?”
“Me? I’m not doing that. I thought Ksmvr—”
They all looked at the Antinium. He whirled. His mandibles opened as the clicking suddenly grew louder and they all realized it wasn’t coming from them.
“Attack!”
Something hurtled out of the darkness and knocked the trap-finding skeleton to the ground. Ceria caught a glimpse of whirling scythe-like legs, biting mandibles and pinchers, as she pointed.
“[Ice Spike]!”
She fired the spell at the same time Pisces threw a ball of fire. The spells did not comedically connect and miss—first Ceria’s ice spike blasted into the creature, hurling it backwards, and then Pisces’ flaming ball of magic struck the skeleton. The splatter of flames didn’t touch the creature, but it did illuminate it.
Ceria saw long, almost spider-like legs coated in armor, and a squat, elongated form. But this was no shield-spider. It had too many legs, and barbs on those legs. And it was…dripping. The red and purple carapace and exposed internal organs shifted as the creature opened a maw with rows of circular teeth. It crunched the piece of skeleton it had bit off as more emerged from the darkness.
“Aw hell! Crelers!”
Ceria screamed the words as she pointed at more Crelers. The small creatures scuttled around the corridor, leaping for the adventurers, trying to claw, bite, dig their way through their enemies.
“Cover me!”
Yvlon rushed forwards, sword slicing down at the lead Creler. Her blade battered the creature down, but even her sharp steel could only cut through the exposed organs of the creature. The rest—hard chitin and other bone-like substances—was too strong and the creature tried to scuttle up Yvlon’s leg.
“Perish.”
Ksmvr used his three arms as the other two Crelers came towards him. He grabbed one, ignoring the sharp edges that tore into his hand and began slicing with the other two weapons in his possession. Like Yvlon he couldn’t immediately cut the creature in two, but he had the leverage to slowly pierce the creature’s body with his blades as he sawed at it.
The other Creler tried to jump onto Ksmvr’s back, but Ceria blasted it off with a precise spell. She covered the other two, launching rapid [Ice Spikes] that despite throwing the Crelers back, failed to inflict crucial damage.
“Springwalker! Behind!”
Ceria dove out of the way. Pisces raised his hand, and a gust of icy air froze the Creler that had leapt at him. It fell to the ground, stunned, and a skeleton rushed over. It began to stomp.
All three skeletons were fighting, Ceria saw. They’d grabbed stones and were trying to crush the Crelers to death. But they were almost all blades and sharp edges. You had to have a mace—Calruz had killed most of them himself with his axe!
“Freeze them, Ceria!”
She heard Pisces yell, but then a Creler was jumping at her face. Ceria jerked backwards, and the razor-mouth stopped a foot in front of her face as she seized it with her skeletal hand. Instantly, the Creler tried to bite through her bone and Ceria reacted.
“Die, damn you!”
It wasn’t so much as spell as concentrated ice magic. Instantly, the air around her hand froze and Ceria felt the extreme cold as her skeletal hand froze the Creler in her grasp. It screeched and writhed, but she refused to let go. The monstrosity’s legs and claws waved about, threatening to score her flesh even as she held it far away as possible. But after five seconds it stiffened up and died, frozen to death in her grasp.
Shaking, Ceria let go. But she didn’t have time to wait. She spun and began blasting the Crelers trying to swarm Yvlon’s armor. The other woman took the impacts as [Ice Spikes] deflected off her armor—she hurled a Creler to the ground and stepped on it to an accompanying shriek.
Ceria ran forwards and blasted a Creler with an [Ice Spike] dead on. This time the force of the impact broke the creature; it collapsed, several legs breaking off its body as yellow slime exited the wounds. Ceria shuddered and spun, searching for another target.
In another second it was over. Pisces threw fire onto the last Creler being held down by his skeletons and Ksmvr finished smashing the second one with his enchanted iron blade. The Crelers twitched and made bubbling sounds where they lay, but they were too far dead to move.
Ceria stumbled backwards, gasping as sweat poured down her face and the exertion of using so much magic caught up with her. She grabbed onto Yvlon and the other woman stumbled.
“Yvlon. Did they get you?”
The golden-haired Captain was also gasping for air, but she shook her head.
“They didn’t get into my head. Think some cut into my breastplate, but didn’t get my skin.”
“Sorry about the [Ice Spikes]. Did I hurt you or pierce your armor?”
“A few dents. I’m okay. Thanks.”
Ceria nodded. She could have pierced Yvlon’s armor and killed her if the [Ice Spike] spells had been at closer range or hit a weak joint. But better that then let a Creler at Yvlon’s exposed head. It would have chewed its way into her armor through the stump of her neck in second.
“Well, that explains why we haven’t run into more monsters or undead recently. Crelers.”
“Dead gods.”
The two women looked over at Ksmvr and Pisces. Pisces was unharmed, if pale and shaken, but Ksmvr had been wounded. They went over to look.
“It is nothing. My hand is lacerated in several places, but Pisces has bound the injuries. It will heal.”
“Are you sure?”
Ceria peered at the already green-stained bandage Pisces had wound around Ksmvr’s hand. The Antinium nodded.
“I am fine.”
“Crelers have toxins in their bites and claws—”
“It will not affect me. Thank you for the concern.”
“Dead gods, Ksmvr! I’ve never seen anyone hold a Creler down to kill it! Are you insane?”
“I just fought as the Antinium do against them. I am relieved they were only small.”
“Yeah. Yeah. Pisces, you alright?”
“I—I hate those things.”
Pisces shuddered as he stared at a twitching Creler. Ceria nodded. So did Yvlon. And Ksmvr.
“Dead gods. Crelers. Just imagine if there had been a few more—”
“Those skeletons saved us. The Crelers went for us, but they held them away. Got chewed up. Look at that one—”
“Shh. Shh. Are there any more around?”
At once everyone fell silent. Ceria listened to her racing heartbeat, but Ksmvr shook his head.
