“Melka, I haven’t read anything more interesting than a menu for months,” Rain said. “I’m going through entertainment withdrawal, here. Still, sixty is too much. Forty, or I walk.”

“Now, now,” Mlem said. “I could do, perhaps, fifty-five?”

“Forty,” Rain said. His voice was suddenly cold.

Mlem couldn’t even get a peek through the slit of his visor to gauge his expression. It was simply too dark inside. Where did this haggling monster come from? I can’t figure this guy out at all. “Fifty, and that is the absolute lowest I will go,” he said.

“Nope,” said Rain, shaking his armored head. “Come on, Melka, I need to stop by the Guild. We’ve spent enough time here.” He started walking away.

Damn it. Mlem looked at the books, then at the back of the receding adventurer. Forty Tel, versus some books that he likely wouldn’t be able to sell to anyone else. Everyone already knew the children’s stories, and the others were specialty interests at best. He wasn’t likely to find a scholar in Fel Sadanis who’d be interested in them. With forty Tel, he could buy a veritable mountain of food. Rule 17, a loss is justified if it can be turned to gain.

Mlem sighed. Damn it, he got me. I might be able to get forty-five, but at this point, that’s just quibbling. “Fine!” he shouted. Rain stopped and looked over his shoulder. Mlem ran a hand over his bald head. “Forty Tel.”

“Deal,” Rain said.

Melka was lost in thought as she followed Rain through the crowded streets. The armored man was attracting quite a bit of attention as he plowed through the mass of people, but very few seemed willing to try and stop him, or speak to him at all for that matter. The dark, outlandish armor and the hooded black cloak gave him a menacing appearance. Despite all of the positive actions he’d taken for the city, she still heard whispers of unease driven by his appearance alone.

Who the hells is he? Where did he come from? Idly, she touched one of the daggers hanging at her belt. He just charged them, like that. He didn’t even ask me to pay him back. Why did he do that? Does he really have so much mana that he can just casually throw it around? Does he not care about money? But then, why did he bother to haggle with the merchant? And how could he not know what books cost, or mana for that matter? It doesn’t make any sense. I want to just ask, but I can’t just start prying. The Sentinels told me to find out as much as I can, but…

She shook her head, feeling uncomfortable. He pulled me out of that bar, sobered me up, gods know how, then just…took me back? I can’t believe I told him all that stuff. He’s been nothing but kind to me, and here I am spying on him. Is he… interested in me? I can’t tell. He’s just been…nice. Damn it, what am I supposed to do here? She sighed. That’s it, I’m going to tell them to assign someone else. I can’t do this…

Wait… She felt a chill as she stared at the hulking black-cloaked form in front of her. Maybe this was his plan all along. He charged the daggers so I’d feel like I owed him. He’s trying to, I don’t know, win me over or something. Make me betray the Watch so he can…what? She watched as Rain gently lifted a small child who had run out of the crowd and was clinging on to his leg. He passed the little girl to a man, clearly the girl’s father from the fearful expression on his face. Melka shook her head. The man had nothing to worry about. No, that doesn’t make any sense at all. He’s working with us, even though Phoss and Lamida are treating him like shit. He’s barely even complained. I don’t get it. He could have asked for money or weapons or something, but no, he just agreed without batting an eye. Where’s all the greed and self-interest? Is he really helping the city just because he wants to?

She shook her head again. He’s got to be the worst adventurer I’ve ever heard of.

Contrary to her training, she’d come to learn that not all adventurers were violent psychopaths. They were careless and self-interested, true, but not malicious as a rule. Some were worse, like Lavarro, and others were better. Rain, however, appeared to be on a completely different level. If he was sincere, then he was just more proof that everything she’d been taught was wrong, or at least a shameless exaggeration.

Watch standard policy was to treat all awakened not in the Watch as potential threats. Records of abuses of power and casual disregard for the unawakened had been hammered into her since she could remember, held up as proof of the danger. When she was younger, she’d just accepted it, seeing the Watch as the only force fighting back against the chaos. For the past few years, though, she’d been questioning this policy. She’d never seen anything even approaching the horrors that the older sentinels talked about. She wasn’t alone in her beliefs, either. A few others from her cadre agreed with her, including sentinel Talasa.

Melka sighed. When Talasa had been selected for advancement, she had hoped that there would be some changes. That had just been wishful thinking. Even though Talasa was technically a sentinel now, she had no real influence. She’d been fast-tracked for advancement because her class was needed, not because she had the respect of the sentinels in charge.

I should just quit and join the Guild, just as a ‘fuck you’. She shook her head sadly. As if. I wish that was an option, but it’s not. Damn it.

“Hey, no brooding,” Rain said, startling her. He was still walking in front of her, not looking back.

“How do you know I’m brooding if you aren’t looking at me?” she asked.

“I can tell. It’s like there’s a dark cloud following me. You haven’t said anything since the market.”

Melka shook her head. “Maybe I don’t have anything to say.”

Rain stopped suddenly and she almost crashed into him. He was staring at a building to their left, completely frozen.

“What is it?” she said, looking at the building. “A butcher shop?”

“Damn it, it’s gone again,” Rain muttered, shaking his head. He looked at her. “Oh, um…no, not the butcher shop. Something else.”

Melka just raised an eyebrow. “What?”

He sighed, then turned to her and raised his visor. He seemed to struggle with something, then shook his head and looked around before speaking in a low voice. “I have a skill called Detection. It lets me sense monsters within a certain radius when I use it. That’s what all the little hiccups in Winter are, by the way. I just felt one in the city. The last time I sensed it was before the dome went up. I’m not sure it’s the same one, but it’s definitely not a slime. Come on, it’s this way.”

“Wait,” Melka said, trying to process what he had just said. He can sense monsters? What? And he just told me that like it was nothing? “You’re sure?”

He nodded, then lowered his visor again. “Yeah, come on. It’s going to get out of range. Wait…damn it. It just vanished. Did someone kill it? No, wait, there it is again. Can it hide somehow?” He broke out into a jog, then glanced back at her and stopped. “You coming or not?”

She shook her head, then nodded, hurrying to catch up and falling in beside him as he started jogging again. His armor was amazingly silent as he ran, other than the clatter of his metal boots on the cobblestones. She glanced over at him occasionally as they ran, thinking.

The fact that there was a monster in the city wasn’t that alarming. It was probably just sentinel Galo. She didn’t know the man personally, but she’d seen him train. Tamers could summon and dismiss their dominated monsters at will, which made sense given what Rain had said. He was also heading in the direction of the northern stronghold, so that checked out too. She shook her head. “Stop,” she said, coming to a halt. Rain ran on for a few more paces, then slowed to look back at her. She couldn’t see his expression, but it was clear that he wanted her to explain why she’d stopped.

“It’s a Watch sentinel called Galo,” she said. “He’s a tamer. That street leads to the northern stronghold. If you just run in there, he’ll know about your skill. Trust me, you don’t want that. He’s an asshole, like Phoss. No, worse than Phoss.”

Rain stopped completely, then walked back to her, raising his visor. “You’re sure it’s him?” he said, raising an eyebrow. “How do you know?”

She shook her head. “I’m not sure, but it’s pretty likely. He’s usually stationed there.”

“Okay, let’s go anyway,” Rain said. “And don’t worry about it. The sentinels already know I have it, or at least, they should have guessed by now. Plus, I just told you about it, and you’re supposed to tell them everything you learn about me anyway. It’s okay, you don’t have to pretend like you’re not spying on me.”

She opened her mouth, but he raised a hand to stop her before she even figured out what she was going to say.

“It’s not like it would be hard for someone to guess. It’s only tier 1; anyone could just spend a hundred experience and read what it does. If you’d asked me about it a week ago, I’d probably have imploded or something, but paranoia about people knowing what I can do isn’t going to help me much at this point. I’m not going to go into details on how it works specifically, but it is telling me that there’s a monster where there shouldn’t be. I can’t not go check it out. Plus, if Galo is a Tamer like you say, that’s awesome and I want to see. Shame he’s an asshole. I’ll take your word for it. I have to say, you are probably the coolest member of the Watch that I’ve met. No offense, but most of you are a bit…yeah.”

Melka blinked. “Coolest?”

“Don’t worry, it’s a good thing,” Rain said.

She raised an eyebrow, rolling her hand for him to continue.

He sighed deeply. “I am so tired of having to explain what ‘cool’ means.”

Lavarro sighed and pushed herself away from the wall, scowling in disgust.

As she moved away the illusion of flowing water wavered, then recovered its integrity. The Illuminator who’d set the enchantments in this room hadn’t been very good. A properly laid enchantment would have parted and flowed around her when she disrupted it, but this one had just fizzled out, fading to motes of unbound Light mana. That was to be expected. This was a servant’s room, situated three floors below the Guildmaster’s office—hardly worth the expense of a more elaborate working.

She closed her eyes and sighed, standing motionless in the center of the room to collect her thoughts. She’d been listening through the walls, sending strands of delicate force magic through the stone to amplify and return any minuscule vibrations to her. Now that she’d dropped the spell, the silence was deafening.

Burrik's office was warded, naturally. For a lesser mage, that would have been the end of it, but not for her. She was well beyond such things. The entire building spoke to her, and teasing the voices of the two men she was interested in out from the throng of other sounds was simply a matter of focus. To her, it was as natural as breathing, taking barely any effort at all. It wasn’t strain that had caused the expression currently twisting her face, it was what the two had been saying.

They would do nothing.

Halgrave had at first demanded retaliation, but Burrik had shut him down, hard. When pressed, Halgrave had backed off, like he always did. He would rant and he would rave, but he would obey the Guildmaster’s command. Burrik had convinced him that the risk of tipping the war in the Empire’s favor was simply too great. They were cowards, both of them, afraid of what would happen if they used the power that they had worked so hard to earn. For all his talk of freedom, Halgrave was just another slave. An obedient dog, all bark and no bite, not when it really mattered. It was part of why she’d left him.

She touched the silver plate hanging from her neck lightly, the constant reminder of her failure to break through. She shook her head and grasped it in her fist, pulling sharply to break the metal chain that held it around her neck. The plate and the chain fell to the floor with a soft chime of metal. She walked from the room, fists clenched and eyes hard as stone.

She had abandoned Halgrave.

She would have to abandon the Guild.

She would not abandon her daughter.
