Rain laughed, trying to hide his spike of alarm at the accuracy of her guess. She doesn’t know how right she is. Have they guessed I’m a Dynamo yet? Does it even matter if they know? I’ll just ignore that thought for right now. It’s probably fine, but it might be a good idea to keep being paranoid. Oh crap, she’s looking at me funny. I’ve taken too long. Crap, what were we talking about? Oh, stats. Quick, ask something else…uh. He cleared his throat. “Right. Next question, how does potential work?”

Melka tilted her head. “Potential?”

Whew. Now she just looks confused. I can work with confused. He shrugged. “You might call it something else. I kind of thought up the term on my own. Um, how do I explain this?” He gestured with a piece of bread. “It’s like, how much of your power you can use.”

Melka shook her head. “Too vague. I have no idea what you’re talking about.”

Rain frowned. “Okay, so for an example, pretend I’m really indecisive and have 30 free stat points saved up. I dump them all in, say, Strength. What happens?”

“You get stronger,” Melka said, “obviously.”

“Right, but why? And how quickly? And why don’t you get instant abs?”

Melka laughed. “Instant abs?”

Rain smiled. “Infomercial. You wouldn’t believe the crap that they try to sell you where I’m from.” He paused. Shit. “Don’t ask where I’m from.”

“Okay…” Melka said. “I’m still not seeing what your question is.”

Rain set down his bread to rub at his temples. I’m really bad at this. I should just stop hiding, but it’s hard. Crap, she’s giving me the look again. He lowered his hands and shrugged. “Sorry, just thinking of how to explain. You get muscles by working out. Exercising, training, picking things up and putting them down. You know, the normal way that works for everyone, awakened or not. Stats are different. They make you stronger, but you still need to train to use them fully according to a friend of mine. Hence, potential.”

Melka smiled and shook her head. “Oh, you’re talking about synchronization. You’re pretty bad at explaining things.”

Rain smiled, back in familiar territory. “So I’ve been told. Synchronization you said? What’s that?”

“It’s how in sync your body is with your soul.”

“Oh,” Rain said. Humm. So the soul is where the stats live, and the body needs to train to use them. I think I like that view of it a lot better. Okay, synchronization it is.

“You do believe in the soul, right?” Melka said, looking at him.

“Yeah, I suppose I do,” Rain said with a shrug. “Don’t ask me to define what it is, but it works well enough as a concept to explain this stuff, so whatever.”

“I agree with that,” Melka said. “The Watch teaches us to be pragmatic. Leave the philosophy to the theologians. Not many of those around here, thank the gods.”

Rain smiled. “Funny. Not religious, then?”

“Nope,” she said. “I’ve got no issue with believers, but it’s not for me. The gods exist, sure, but I’m not expecting them to solve my problems for me any time soon. You won’t find many in the Watch that do, especially in Fel Sadanis.”

“Yeah, I was wondering about that,” Rain said, “but I wonder about a lot of things. We’re getting off topic. Synchronization? How’s it work, and how can I improve it?”

“I’m no expert,” said Melka. “Just train. You’re a mage, so use magic. You’ll get better in time.”

Rain sighed. “That’s not the issue. My magic is fine, it’s my body that is pathetic. I’ve been trying, but my synchronization hasn’t gotten any better.”

“You can actually see your synchronization? Through your interface?”

Rain froze. Oops. Ah, fuck it. He nodded. “Yeah.”

“Humm,” Melka said. “How long have you been training without it getting better?”

“Since I’ve been checking it? Two days.”

Melka laughed, setting down her fork. “I’ve been training for years, and I’m still nowhere close to the limit. I can’t see it, but I can feel it, and I’ve got a long way to go. What, did you think you could change your body overnight?”

“Hey,” Rain said. “This stuff is weird, okay? I know it won’t be easy, but I expected…I don’t know, something.”

“Well, don’t look at me, I’m not a scholar. Just train more. Lift heavier rocks.”

Rain snorted. “Thanks, Mel.”

“Any time,” she said with a small smile. “Now come on, bread man, let’s go before Phoss or Lamida shows up.”

“Oddments! Staples! Whether you need something rare or something common, come, come, I have what you are looking for! Low prices! Wide selection!”

“Dad, there’s nobody coming. Stop being loud.”

“Hush, Ava,” Mlem said in a much quieter voice, “Haven’t you been paying attention? I told you we’re going to use this technique today. We’re looking for people who don’t know what they’re looking for. Go on, you give it a go. Try to be adorable. It shouldn’t be hard for you.”

“Dad!” Ava protested. “I don’t want to. It’s troublesome.”

“Stop saying troublesome. Use a different word once in a while, not the newest one you learned over and over again.”

“Using different words is troublesome.”

Mlem sighed and looked at his daughter as she puffed out her cheeks. His heart melted, but he forced himself to adopt a stern tone. “Don’t be difficult, Ava. Our stock right now isn’t what people are going to look for on their own. This stuff isn’t going to sell itself and we need to get rid of it all so we can afford to buy more food. I’m sorry, but that’s just the way it is. I know you remember Rule 2.”

“You’ve got to put in the work,” Ava said.

He nodded. “Good girl.” He gestured to the crowd of people milling about the stalls. “Well?” He looked back at her and raised an eyebrow. “Let’s have it.”

“Fine,” Ava said with a huff, then hopped up onto his chair. She took a deep breath and hollered. “Junk! We’ve got junk! Come buy our junk!”

“Ava!” Mlem said, shocked. He looked out at the faces of the crowd looking back at them, then laughed and jostled his daughter, making her whirl her arms to maintain balance on the chair. “You’re not wrong. Come on, though. You can do better. List out what we have. Go on.”

Ava rolled her eyes. “Pots! Blankets! Knives and swords! Thread! Healing scrolls!”

“Good, good,” said Mlem. “Much better. Don’t stop. Once you get to the end of the list, start over. Keep going even if someone comes. You bring in the fish, and I’ll land them.”

Ava nodded. “Boots! Socks! Rope! Horseshoes, but not horses! Books! Um… Oh! Tel for copper! Copper for Tel! Mana charging!”

“Books?” a familiar voice said. “Did you say books?” Mlem swiveled his head, then grinned widely as he saw a huge black-cloaked form making its way through the crowd toward their stall.

“Ah, it’s you,” he said, twirling his mustache, “I was wondering when you would show up. Yes, I have a few books.”

“Rag Man!” Ava said, laughing and jumping off the chair to run up to Rain.

“Rag Man?” said a new voice. There was a Watch officer following the armored adventurer, looking at Ava curiously. She looked at Rain. “Rain, I thought you were the Night Cleaner.” Mlem smiled. They clearly knew each other from the dejected slump of the man’s shoulders. I have to find out where he got that armor. Simply marvelous articulation.

“Ah!” Ava said, then ran to hide behind Mlem’s robes.

Mlem chuckled. “Pay her no mind, my lady. She isn’t used to the Watch.” He looked between Rain and the officer. “Come on, Ava, don’t be afraid. I’m sure she doesn’t bite.” I hope. He looked at the officer speculatively. She was young, with straight brown hair and an attractive face bearing an actual human expression. That was a good sign. Most Watch members looked down their noses at you with suspicion in their eyes, walking stiffly because of the sticks they carried up their—

“Mlem, this is Melka,” Rain said, interrupting his thoughts. “She’s an officer of the Watch,” Rain said, motioning to her. “Mel, this is Mlemlek Ko-Latti, wandering merchant extraordinaire.”

Ah, magnificent. He remembered, and even pronounced it right. “Charmed,” he said, bowing deeply to the Watch officer. He didn’t miss the opportunity to twirl his mustache again as he rose. Salina had always loved it when he did that.

“Your daughter?” the officer asked. Mlem nodded and she continued. “She said mana charging. How much?”

Mlem smiled, his face a mask for the annoyance he felt. “Reasonable rates, reasonable rates,” he said to buy time. Well, she knows I’m awakened, now. I told Ava not to mention mana charging in Fel Sadanis, but…oh well. The salt’s already in the stew; there’s no taking it out. “May I see the item in question? Oh, your pardon, Rain. Ava, could you see if you can find some books for our adventurer friend?”

“That’s all right,” Rain said. “I’m curious about mana charging too. I’ll wait until you’re done with Mel.”

“Ah, very good,” Mlem said, turning back to Melka.

She offered him a dagger that she had drawn from a sheath at her hip. “I haven’t seen an islander in Fel Sadanis in many years,” she said. “What brings you this far north?”

“Commerce, of course!” Mlem said, taking the dagger. He held it up to inspect. It was fairly well made and bore a basic sharpness enchantment. It was nearly depleted, however. It would take him around a thousand mana to restore it to full.

“Well?” Melka said.

“This is a marvelous piece,” Mlem said, holding up the dagger to glint against the light. “The charge is low, however. It will cost…say…thirty Tel to refill.”

Melka’s eyes narrowed. “You are overcharging me.”

“I would never dare,” said Mlem, feigning offense. “Ava, rule 73 please.”

“Don’t lie to the Watch,” Ava said. “There’s no point.”

“Right you are,” Mlem said. You could have left off the second half of that, Ava. “Apologies, my lady, but mana is dear. If not for Rain and that marvelous spell of his, I would not do it for any price.”

“What’s the normal rate?” Rain asked. “If not for the dome, what would you charge?”

“It varies,” Mlem said. “Out here, mages are rare enough to keep demand high. Ten Tel per thousand mana spent would be reasonable.”

“Wow, that much?” Rain said. Mlem nodded.

“Fuck,” Rain said. He had a curious expression on his face. “Hey, can I see that for a second?”

Mlem looked at Melka for confirmation. She nodded, so he handed the dagger to Rain. Damn it, he’s going to undercut me, isn’t he? It figures that a mana fountain like him would have Mana Manipulation. Of course, he let none of this show on his face.

“There you go,” Rain said, handing the dagger back to Melka. “All charged.”

“Wait, really?” Melka said, staring at the dagger. Mlem blinked.

Rain laughed. “Really. Want me to do the other one?”

“Well, yeah,” she said, handing it to him. He passed it back to her after a moment. This time, Mlem was paying close attention and didn’t miss the subtle flicker of light from within Rain’s helmet. He really is charging them. And fast, too.

“Sorry, Mlem,” Rain said with a shrug. “I’m not trying to put you out of business, but sixty Tel is just way too much.”

“Dad, the Rag Man just kicked your ass,” Ava said, nodding sagely, then ruined it by breaking out into laughter.

Mlem’s shoulders slumped, but he quickly recovered as he realized what his daughter had said. “Ava, language!” he scolded her, sharply. I should really watch what I say around her. He shook his head and looked back at Rain. Humm. He must be even closer to the pure mage side of things than I thought, casually spending thousands of mana like that. He doesn’t even look fazed. He decided to ignore the still giggling Ava, addressing Rain instead. “I would get mad at you for that, but I can’t, because you’re the only reason I have any mana at all. All the same, I think I’m inclined to overcharge you for the books now.”

Rain laughed. “I suppose I deserve that. What books do you have? I’ve been meaning to get something to read, and I’ve yet to find a library. Well, I did find one, kinda, but…it’s not mine and…sorry, you don’t care about that. What do you have available?”

Mlem smiled. What an odd adventurer he is. “Let me see here,” he said, turning around to dig through his cart. He found the bag containing the healing scrolls and carefully pulled out the one beneath it, containing books as well as some blank folios and writing supplies. The books were actually among the most valuable things he had for sale, but he tried to moderate his excitement at someone being interested in them. It was not good to appear too eager.

“I have four,” he said, setting them out for the adventurer to see. He recited the titles from memory, not bothering to read them. “Legends of the Green Wood, a collection of children’s stories; Maxwell’s untitled treatise on the tax code and economic policy of old Osar, gods know I’ve had that one for a while; Zeelada for the Layman, not bad as such things go, but hardly enough to become fluent; and The Glorious Rise of Adamant, propaganda, mostly, but there’s some truth in there. Anything you’re interested in?”

“They all cost the same?” Rain said. “How much are we talking?”

A curious phrase. Mlem rubbed his mustache as he considered. “Five Tel for the children’s stories, twenty for the book on Zeelada, and fifteen for the one on the Empire. By rights, I should charge fifty for the one on tax code, just by word count alone. I pity the scribe who had to make copies of that. Still, I’m getting tired of carrying it around, so I’d let it go for, say, twenty-five.” I’m never going to get rid of that damn thing.

“That’s…really expensive,” Rain said. “Mel, how much should books cost?”

“It’s not that bad, actually,” Melka said. “Converting to copper…yeah. He’s quoting you an honest price, as far as I can tell.”

“Of course,” Mlem said, nodding to her. “To be clear, I was joking when I said I would overcharge you. I would do no such thing.”

“Whatever you say,” Rain said, turning one of the books over in his hands. “Ava’s face says different.”

He sighed as the Watch officer laughed. Damn it, Ava.

“I’ll give you 40 Tel for all four,” Rain said, bringing Mlem’s attention back to him.

“Sixty,” he said automatically.

“Really, Rain?” Melka asked. “You’re going to spend that much on books?”

