Having to wait a few days before they could access the royal archives, the group, strongly encouraged by Niala, decided to stay at the Wardenfel's estate. Officially, it was to keep planning for their offer to the Crown.

Unofficially, Niala had just wanted David to have more time to spend with his sister, because she knew he desperately wanted to, even though he still acted standoffish.

She wasn't sure when he'd stop blaming himself. Whenever it was, it couldn't come soon enough.

For now, as she observed him from the gazebo where she and Agatha were sitting, looking at his happy face as he played with his little sister and a pony-sized Leviathan, she simply decided she'd do her best to give him moments like this.

Agatha looked on the scene as well, eventually turning her attention to her new daughter-in-law. “So, Niala dear, I know it hasn't been that long, but has marriage changed anything?”

Niala's ears twitched as she turned to look at the woman. “Not... really.”

The noble woman quirked an eyebrow before softly smiling. “Dear, that sounds like a yes with an extra step. I assure you, I am more than capable of holding a secret, but I understand, and I don't wish to pry.”

Niala shook her head. “No, that's not...”

Her ears folded down as she fidgeted with her fingers, her cheeks flushing. “It's just, it's like being unmarried was a sort of... wall? Not a wall, but something that slowed us down?”

Agatha stared for a second, eventually understanding what the young catkin was getting at. She couldn't help but blush. “Oh! Oh dear! I really didn't mean to pry into that part of your life! Why, I know my David is a grown man and has his urges, but even if I will always think of him as my baby boy, his mother simply has no business hearing about his nightly activities!”

Niala blinked, her blush turning crimson. “What? N-No! I meant, I mean, yes, that, but not that! I meant – talking about the future! About starting a family!” She desperately tried to explain.

The noble woman paused before hiding her widening smile behind a hand. “Oh! Oh my! It appears I have let my baser self grab hold of my senses! But, oh, Niala dear, that is wonderful to hear!”

Agatha resettled herself in her chair, angling herself closer to Niala. “Could I bother you for some details? I hope I'm not over-reaching! But, it's simply that... we're talking about grandchildren here, you understand?” She explained.

Niala nodded slowly. “I- yes. I don't mind talking about it. It's not a huge secret, we're just not... well, we both want it, we just don't know when, exactly. Right now, everything feels like it's changing so fast.”

She sighed. “I'd rather wait for when life settles down, though, not too long either. It's difficult.” She said, her shoulder slumping.

Agatha smiled. “I'm certain you and David will make the best of it, no matter what. Have you given thought to how big of a family?”

Niala's blush returned. “We're not sure. At least two, probably three... four, if I can do it. David said he'd take care of any number of kids I wanted.” She groaned. “He's no help at all, just like with my cooking.”

Agatha softly laughed. “Oh, that is just like my David. Wanting to be so helpful and understanding that he's anything but.”

Niala smiled. “Right?! It's like asking a dog if he prefers playing with a ball or a stick! It'll just look at you and be the happiest little pup in the world whether you choose one or the other!”

Agatha dipped her head. “As decisive as a dog, and as loving and loyal as one, isn't he, my David?”

Niala's smile grew. “Oh, yes, entirely.” She agreed, turning her head to look at David wistfully. “You know, sometimes I still have trouble accepting that this isn't all a dream. I've met so many people who complained about their marriage, and how their spouse is a handful, and they have to compromise to make things work.”

She looked at Agatha. “But, with David, there's none of that. Maybe it's just that it's too new? Maybe that's how I'll feel myself, ten years from now. I just can't imagine it.”

The noble woman leaned back in her chair. “Ah, to be young and in love! My dear, married life is often as you described, and yes, I think you haven't been together long enough to start noticing the cracks, as small as they might be. However, I will tell you this: no matter how perfect the house, with time, cracks will form. The secret is to find them and patch them up.”

She angled her head. “And, I might be slightly biased, but I think you and David will have a very solid, long-lasting home, and fixing any damage to it will come to you both easily and naturally.”

Niala smiled at the woman. “Thank you, Agatha.”

The older woman waved a hand. “Oh, these words of mine are not given freely. I fully expect to have them repaid in the form of grandchildren, my dear.” She said with a smirk.

“Oh! Ah, well... that's the plan!”

Agatha leaned in. “Have you begun thinking of names?”

“N-no! It's way too early!”

“But, surely, you have a few in mind?” The noble woman pressed on.

Niala's ears flopped down. “I... well, I've always liked Duncan, for a boy, and Elisa for a girl... but I need to ask David! He'll...” She let her head hang. “He'll probably say those are amazing names and we should use those.” She said, sighing.

A squeal and a bout of laughter coming from the man in question caught the women's attention. They found David helping Annabelle out of a bush and picking twigs and leaves out of her hair as the little girl glared at him with a blush on her face.

They looked in silence for a while, Niala eventually speaking up. “You know, the whole childbirth thing, it's scary, but it's a... simple kind of scary? You don't have to think too much, just let it happen and endure. But after that? When you have to take care of that new life? How to do the best for them? That part is terrifying.”

Agatha's eyebrows fell. “Oh, my dear. I wish I could help you, but I don't believe I'm a role model for raising kids. I find myself lucky that my two boys grew up so well, and that I have a chance to do it right with Annabelle.”

She clasped her hands on her lap. “But, I can say this: the fact that you're scared about failing means that you will be a good mother. A bad one would either not care or think she has everything figured out.” She smiled. “You will do fine, my dear, and I know you'll always have David to help you.”

Niala returned the smile, turning her head to look at her husband. It was easy to imagine him playing with his own daughter, instead of his younger sister.

She let her gaze fall upon the girl. “Regarding Annabelle, has she been well since the... procedure? There's no way to tell if it was going to have any lasting effect.”

Agatha looked at her daughter in turn. “Physically, she is completely fine. We have our family doctors examine her every week and keep track of all of her vitals. She is the picture of health.”

Niala glanced at the noble woman. “...and mentally?”

Agatha didn't answer right away. “She is fine. As bright and alert as I remember her being...”

“Is something wrong?”

“Not wrong, but a little unsettling? She's just about six years old, but she acts quite a few years older, and she'll say things, comment on things, that are beyond what she should know. When we ask her about it, she remembers saying it, but not why she did, nor can she tell where it came from.”

Niala's ears flattened as she turned her head to look at Agatha with concern on her face. “Has it impacted her in any way?”

Agatha shook her head. “No, if anything, it's just made her excel in her studies. Her tutors are saying she should be given more advanced courses. Perhaps, the one issue we have to work on is that she has been making up words and arguing that they are not made up.”

She saw the deepening concern on Niala's face and tried to dispel it with a smile. “Make nothing of it, dear. You've given us a miracle, bringing back the daughter we had thought lost to us. These are barely worth being called issues. Our Annabelle is a bright, healthy young girl, and that's what matters.”

Niala nodded, looking back at the young girl in question. Even if Agatha wasn't worried, there was so much they didn't know about what they had achieved.

There was absolutely no telling what it might have done to the girl.

David was getting absolutely trounced by his little sister. She'd come up with a game she'd called “Tree-stone”, where you had to throw a pebble at a tree just right, so that it didn't bounce back too far.

They'd traced lines on the ground in front of the tree, the closer lines being worth more points, and Leviathan was calling out where the pebbles were falling.

Annabelle, with her small arms, had just enough force to throw the pebbles and reach the tree, meaning they barely had any bounce, most landing in the highest-pointed zones.

David? If his pebbles didn't embed into the tree trunk, they either disintegrated or bounced back just about far enough for him to catch from his throwing position.

All of that much to the giggling enjoyment of his sister.

Well, the rules never specified the size of the pebble to use, so he picked up a fist-sized rock this time. The weight and size were much more comfortable in his hand, and this time, when he threw it, he managed to land the rock inside the second point zone.

His sister pouted and looked at him. “Big brother! That wasn't a pebble! That's Kadir!”

He mocked shock. “Cheating?! That's not cheating! A pebble is just a rock! I threw a rock! How is that... wait.” He stopped and frowned at his sister. “What did you say?”

“I said you're a dirty Kadirn!”

His face froze as he knelt in front of his sister and gently put a hand on her shoulder. “Where did you learn that word?”

“What word?”

“Kadir, Kadirn, that's not Amberfallian. It's Lumiran. Where did you learn that?” He asked.

The little girl suddenly looked embarrassed. “I don't know, I'm sorry. Mom said to stop using make-up words, but it's hard. I don't know why I keep doing that. I'm sorry.” She explained, eyes moistening as she spoke.

David blinked, realizing he was scaring his sister. He offered her a reassuring smile, letting go of her shoulder and offering her a ride in his arms. The young girl looked at him for a second, uncertain, before nodding once and letting herself get picked up.

He spoke with a soft voice. “It's fine, Annabelle, I'm not mad, I was just surprised. They're not made-up words either. It's a different language, but one you shouldn't know, so it's surprising, that's all. It's not your fault.”

“...ok. I'm sorry.”

“Shush. I'm the one who's sorry, little bell.” He tried to comfort his sister, using her nickname. “You're not in any trouble. Let's go talk to mom, ok? She should know it's not made-up words, so she stops scolding you. That's ok?”

Annabelle leaned her head against him. “Yeah, that's ok. I'd like that.”

Nodding, he made his way back to the gazebo, his head scrambling for an explanation for why his little sister was coming up with random Lumiran words.

It just... There wasn't any explanation that made sense. It was impossible.