“Damn. Just when I’d thought this was all wasted. Do we have to cozy back up to that company, or what?”
“It is just a Courier. Not the Last Light.”
Cameral was making notes—for their next job. Umina and Marian exchanged a look.
“He was just a City Runner the last time we saw him. That’s some serious gear, Cameral. Did you see his scull-thing? It’s a new kind of variation on a traditional craft. There’s something here.”
The [Strategists] were fairly disguised; enough so that no one immediately pointed to them as the Titan’s students. They all had anti-[Appraisal] artifacts, even Umina. Of course, if you were wise, you’d spot them.
That was why Peclir Im was not on the streets. He had returned for a second meeting with Fezimet, the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade. The Quexal was glaring at the celebrations.
“Something of an important moment. Should you be down there, Commander Fezimet?”
The Naga-leader irritably waved his tail as his feathered wings opened and closed.
“It’s just a Courier. Rest assured, Peclir, it will not affect anything. In fact, I intend to expunge this company from my city. I’ll remove them within the month. Within the week! You can’t have two companies in a city, even if they’re more like a Human collective.”
“Hm. That’s very well.”
Peclir had halted his exodus with the forces because of all the attention coming their way. But also…he sat there, looking out the glass windows.
The students weren’t much of a variable. The Last Light was interesting, but she was gone and a lot of interests coincided with her. But that new Courier…
“Is something wrong, Peclir? Er…can I offer you anything?”
Fezimet was a bit distracted, unaccustomed to having someone who might be a superior in the room. Peclir just stared down.
“Not immediately, Commander Fezimet. I am just thinking. Would you entertain a request? Not from the Jungle Tails company; a personal one. Simply a hunch.”
“I…will certainly do my best.”
“Thank you.”
Peclir turned. It was just a hunch. But he happened to know his enemy—which was to say, the Forgotten Wing company—and their strengths and weaknesses. He didn’t know everything, which annoyed him; they were careful with even trusted help.
Even so. That was an amazingly sturdy vehicle that Human had. Peclir had seen it go down Hemglass’ street at incredible speed, wood on stone. Steel would have been scratched or bent from the impacts. Of course, craftsmanship was craftsmanship. But putting together that class of boat, which Peclir had never seen before in…what, two months?
And where had he disappeared? Peclir decided that, like the Titan, he had to give someone a bit of homework.
 
——
 
Luan was hugging his friends, and they were surrounding him, laughing, crying…
It was very good that the Fraerlings were hidden. Not in the scull; half the Lizardfolk in the city would try to take it for a joyride, and there were [Thieves] probably salivating at the chance. No, Luan had put it away in his bag of holding and given them an exit point.
…And by exit point, four Fraerlings were holding onto barnacles under the docks. Every now and then a big swell from one of the boats would cover them, but Resk had created a miniature bubble that anchored them.
Fraerling magic, which was very hard for even good [Mages] to just spot. Noa sighed.
“This is the part they don’t tell you about.”
“Are you kidding? This is the part the Tallguard tells everyone about so you don’t get little idiots wanting to run out and fight cats.”
The other Tallguard, Kessice, shot back. Cotm was peering upwards from their vantage point with Resk. The [Mage] was muttering.
“…And there’s probably the leader of that Lizardfolk company. See that? Quexal.”
“I’ve only spotted them in books. Amazing. What’s the level?”
“Only 37.”
“That’s so low. Isn’t it?”
“Tallfolk city like this? It’s not the best. Besides, he’s got a decent [Commander] class. [Gorgeleap Commander], to be precise—he can probably hit one of the moons with his jumping Skills.”
“Huh. Any other high-level people present?”
Cotm was making notes like a good Tallguard. Still looking miserable; he clearly hadn’t expected the sheer speed of Luan’s scull, but he had volunteered for the mission. Resk turned his head.
“…[Blackpowder Engineer]. What in—hm. That’s one of Luan’s allies. We need to slap an anti-appraisal spell on that. That must be the one he was talking about.”
“Amazing. You can see all of it?”
The [Mage] looked offended.
“Of course I can! I prepared for this mission, you know. Even before the refugees arrived, I knew I might be going with Luan so I memorized proper [Appraisal] spells. Oh, look. There are some [Strategists]. Four of ‘em. High-level, too.”
He pointed out another group. Cotm frowned.
“Isn’t it a bad idea for them to show their levels? Someone could [Appraise] us, surely…?”
“Well, if we wore a basic warding enchantment, sure. Do you think we’re wearing the shiny pebbles they’re wearing?”
Cotm’s enchanted quill had paused as he stared at the group that Resk had pointed out. He frowned. Then began to try to pull out objects from his cleaned bag of holding while holding on.
“Darn…Noa, can you anchor me?”
“Oh come on, Cotm. Don’t pull out everything. What, do you want a desk?”
“I could create a desk. A magical surface…”
“Shut up. Just hold me.”
Noa, sighing, steadied his grappling hook as Cotm pulled out a number of pages and even a bound book and began leafing through them. Kessice blew out her cheeks, but she gave Noa a look.
“He’s my partner. You get the Sentry Leader, so I guess you have it worse. Cotm’s our [Encyclopedia Scout]. Analysis.”
“Ah. I’m, uh, not specialized. What’s your focus?”
“Sniping.”
Kessice patted the crossbow at her side. Noa nodded. Classic partner duo. Someone tells you where to shoot the bird and you do it. Although…given some monsters, the answer was often ‘the eyes’, or ‘the belly’, and it wasn’t hard. But you had exceptions.
“Hmm…there’s no way…damn. There is a way. Ugh. Stop swinging me, Noa! I’m going to puke again!”
Cotm glared up as the other Fraerling resisted the urge to kick him. He looked up, then around.
“We’re a four-Fraerling team. I’m beginning to think we should have called in a squad of sixteen.”
“Really? Well, I can’t say we would have added to the burden—but we’d take away from Paeth. Given the situation…I wish we had another dedicated [Alchemist] or our own [Engineers] or [Mages].”
Resk agreed. The civilian-Fraerling looked around.
“I haven’t been in that much danger yet. Although I’m counting on you all to shoot any cats in the city.”
Noa and Kessice nodded grimly. The city would be the biggest challenge, ironically. There were evil fish at sea, but Luan’s boat was Fraerling-magictech. In the city?
“We’ll set up traps, show you proper barrier spells, and if there are bugs, we’ll incinerate the bastards in their lair. We’ll need to secure any room he puts us in; there’s no guarantee the Tallfolk don’t have cracks as huge as we are they don’t know about.”
“Watch for doors. Noa, how’s your close-quarters fighting?”
“G-good? I’ve fought rats close-quarters, aside from the fighting at Paeth. Our armor’s rated for magical creatures.”
“Well, we’ll try to poison them or burn them. Resk, do you know [Acid Wave]?”
“You want waves? I can do waves. You want rain? Orbs? Geysers? Just don’t let them get near me with their feely-bits and pinchers. Unless it’s as dinner.”
Cotm ignored the other Fraerlings planning. He looked up, sighed, looked down at something, and reached up as he packed away his gear. He took the grappling hook’s line back from Noa and turned to face the others.
“We’re authorized to make a lot of choices. Alchimagus Resk, you’re the civilian-lead, and I’m technically the Tallguard in authority.”
“You are? I thought Kess—”
Cotm glared at Noa.
“I’m empowered to make decisions for Paeth. We all are. This isn’t a game, so bear it in mind. Paeth is in danger. Oierdressql fell and we might be next.”
The others fell silent. Cotm glanced up at Luan, who had glanced their way a few times; he’d have to pick them up later under some pretense.
“When you get to this United Nations company, it’s up to you whether we make contact with more Humans, Alchimagus Resk. Get the supplies, and…well, I’m not sure what we need. We can contact Paeth and get in touch with the Sentry Leader and Architects. Be careful. Luan’s trustworthy, but Tallfolk can still lie.”
Noa frowned.
“…You’re saying it like you won’t be there.”
Cotm looked at Kessice. He checked his grappling hook, then pulled a second enchanted hook and rope from his belt. He looked at the others, who all stared at him.
“I’m Tallguard Cotm, making an independent decision for Paeth and Feiland. Don’t make contact with me and if you don’t see or hear from me—expect the worst.”
“Cotm—”
Kessice began to argue, but the [Scout] had made up his mind. Only…Noa’s brow wrinkled. For what?
 
——
 
It was a mystery. One that would be answered soon enough.
Idis shrank a bit because while Calectus and Ressk weren’t precisely glaring at her as she walked along in that decayed substitute body, they weren’t happy.
“It is the Mind’s business, Idis. You were right to obey.”
Guardian Ressk said, as they exited the Third Mind’s chamber. Idis heard the but in his words. She ducked her head.
“I’m sorry, Guardian Ressk.”
He looked at her, a bit uncertain. Which was new; the Selphid had been very calm before. Now, he was clearly agitated, and he glanced back.
“I will take you at your…words. The [Doctor] is well?”
“Physically, yes. Perfect condition.”
“Good.”
Geneva Scala was beginning to float upwards. The Third Mind waited for her. A day had passed since their meeting with the Second Mind. A lot could happen.
The Third Mind wanted to know exactly what.
 
——
 
“I am in the center of the Mind.”
Geneva Scala looked at herself, standing in the void. Then she was herself. Like before, she made contact and the Mind engulfed her.
Yeque, the representative personality, the Selphid [General], appeared, looking displeased.
“You have spoken with the Second Mind. It is not your fault. Nevertheless, the Second Mind is divergent in notable ways. Sympathetic where it must be practical.”
Geneva Scala turned. She felt…clearer. Rather than the Third Mind simply guiding her from topic to topic, it seemed to be waiting for a response. She thought/spoke her reply.
“The Second Mind is ethical. As a [Doctor], I find more common ground with it.”
Yeque frowned and more Selphids appeared, with more Genevas.
“The Second Mind is not superior to this gathering. It is not able to conduct research into the Wasting optimally. What did it tell you/inform you/offer?”
Geneva folded her arms.
“Why don’t you simply take what you want to know?”
Yeque hesitated. He grimaced and Geneva was sitting with him at a table. It was the United Nations’ table, where she used to talk with Daly, Paige, and the others. She had a cup of tea in her hand and he leaned forwards.
“We are not hostile, Geneva Scala. You understand our great urgency. You are a [Doctor], sworn to help others in need.”
Geneva felt a pang in her chest. She closed her eyes, and replied, slowly.
“I am. But a [Doctor]…no, a doctor is still a person. I can’t be everywhere and do everything. I also did not agree to give up my rights just because I want to help people. My Hippocratic Oath does not mean I place myself in danger or allow situations like this to occur.”
The Selphid frowned. He looked around the room and shook his head.
“We would like to cooperate.”
Geneva Scala stood. She did feel clearer. She focused—she had to focus, just like the Second Mind had taught her.
“You have not cooperated thus far. You have had me do whatever you needed. I am in the center of the Mind, but I have no agency.”
Yeque narrowed his eyes. Suddenly, he was gone and Geneva felt hundreds, thousands of other minds all pressing at her, one being of many parts.
“The Second Mind has done something. What? We must know.”
Geneva was in the void again, but, unlike last time, she thought there was a nuance to the displeased force of the Third Mind. She…heard. No, she sensed? She thought-heard whispers. A kind of undercurrent to the main words.
“Implications of treachery? The Minds are united in purpose.”
“Conflict with the Second Mind is not desired. Redefine as disagreement—”
“The Second Mind may be attempting to co-opt the [Doctor].”
The Third Mind wasn’t sure. And Geneva heard the many opinions within it, from separate Selphids. Yet as the Second Mind had told her—the Mind ruled by majority.
“Tell us what the Second Mind did/said/promised. We ask.”
Geneva Scala folded her arms.
“I refuse. What will you do then?”
The Third Mind paused for less than a fraction of a heartbeat in real-time. But Geneva sensed many, many individual voices…minds…doing something that was like a vote. Only, with all their perspectives and feelings in play.
Some of the Selphids regretted it. Some were adamant. Many…many were afraid, angry, curious. What emerged was a will forged of the majority of opinions, and it was this. She felt a vast, implacable will.
“We will know.”
Geneva Scala tried to fight it—but even with the Second Mind’s lessons, it was like…
It was like you stood on a beach and you were trying to hold your ground. But the storm had picked up and the waves were taller than you were. Twice as tall. Now…without moving, without anything else, stand your ground and don’t let it knock you off your feet.
The Third Mind could produce waves far stronger, and it was made up of thousands of minds, all with wills arguably as strong as any Human’s. Some stronger, some weaker.
Geneva didn’t even have a chance. Her resistance was swept away and then…
 
——
 
Geneva Scala stood in the center of the Mind. ‘Geneva’. Her eyes were blank. The Third Mind was everything, and she was…walking. Forwards, in the void of her own mind, to something.
A representation. To her, it was what most Humans from her world would probably compartmentalize in any visible or understandable way.
It was a door. To Geneva, it looked like a door from her home, a painted white piece of wood with a little bit of flecked paint near the edges, where it had scraped off a bit. It stuck sometimes when you tried to close it.
A door to the mind. A door of memory, for private things.
