Cameral and Kissilt were distracted, still talking about their consulting job. But Umina had an instinct as sure as the time she’d figured out how to cheaply win the games of Daquin. The Professor had always told her to follow such instincts. She looked at Marian.
“If only we had Venaz’s money. Or Wil’s contacts.”
“We’re not helpless. We’re just not super-elite.”
Umina, who had seen Venaz spend more money than she’d ever had in her entire life in a single shopping trip, nodded. She squared her shoulders.
“I’m going over. It’ll be…Paige. Or Luan. I’ll just march over and tell them what’s what. I’m Umina, from the Forgotten Wing company. You choose someone and we bluff. We’ll figure it out. Pretend we already know and they’ll hopefully confirm it for us.”
“Hm. Are you sure?”
“It’s that or we never get there. We’ll…”
Umina hesitated. She scratched at the back of her neck frills and looked around. But they were just loitering in one of the alleys; it was so packed around the docks. Marian nodded, swishing her tail distractedly.
“If you wanted to wait for the Professor…”
“They’re too close-mouthed, Marian. Kissilt’s project was a distraction.”
“Hey! I resent that, Umina. You’re invested in the group, and we are earning real money. If you don’t want to be a part, we’ll buy you out. But don’t look down at the kind of money we’ve already made and the reputation we’re gathering!”
Umina turned to argue with Kissilt. The Drake glared—and then Cameral raised a finger. Kissilt was last to catch on, and all four students fell silent. They looked around.
“—Could have sworn—”
“I don’t see anything.”
Kissilt was twisting a ring on his finger. Umina bit her tongue. She went for the dagger at her side as they backed up in case of…what? A [Fireball]? A…
“You’re not bad.”
The voice was normal-sized, but it came from—the [Strategists] recoiled. Marian aimed her bow up with Cameral and Kissilt’s wand side-arms. At…what?
Nothing. Just bare brick. Umina squinted. There was nothing there.
“Invisible? Camouflaged?”
“No—”
“I’m neither. But you are all students of the Forgotten Wing company, aren’t you? In the name of the Titan of Baleros, I invoke your aid. I hope you’re honorable. But we’ll see.”
The students looked around. Umina squinted up and Marian frowned. With her keener eyes due to her archery Skills, she saw something.
“It’s a little…pebble. Wait. A speaking st—”
Something moved. Umina jerked, but it tracked her, and she flinched, raising her dagger as—
A Fraerling landed on her head. Umina went cross-eyed. Kissilt and Cameral froze. The Drake nearly shouted.
“Profess—”
But it wasn’t the Titan. The Fraerling man was clearly younger, and he had different hair, a more stocky build…yet he was a Fraerling.
Cotm stood up on Umina’s snout, glanced at the cross-eyed Lizardgirl, and around at the students. His heart was pounding, but he kept his voice level.
“I am Cotm, Tallguard of Feiland. I am requesting aid from the Forgotten Wing company!”
And that was when the gears really began to turn. But…Cotm? He began to explain as the [Strategists] took him to a safe place. Why them? Why not the Forgotten Wing company?
Because they were in the right place, at hopefully the right time. But you didn’t put all your eggs in one basket—or aphid eggs as the case might be. Cotm wished Noa’s group the best of luck. He was taking a risk. Not alone, though.
 
——
 
Perorn Fleethoof ran. She ran through the academy, up a flight of stairs tailored for Centaurs, and burst into the room. She was panting; she was not a filly anymore.
Foliana was already there, somehow. She sat there, calmly eating a berry the size of her paws. A little bit had been broken off and placed on the table in front of her.
Someone kicked it. Instantly, he was scolded, but he folded his arms.
“What, no plates? I thought this ‘Great Company’ was used to Fraerlings. We’re not savages. Are you?”
“Mm. Someone’s getting some plates. You all came at once.”
The tiny little man put his hands on his hips.
“So rather than wait for it, you expect all of us to devour a single piece of berry.”
Foliana eyed the piece of berry. She picked it up, popped it into her mouth, and began to chew.
“…Mm. Tasty.”
“Dead gods.”
Perorn stopped. She stared at the visitors. Counted. One, two…
Sentry Leader Ekrn stared up at Foliana, trying not to look away, but Three-Color Stalker was hunched over, staring almost at eye-level with him. And her eyes were huge. Some of the other Fraerlings had backed up, surrounding the female Fraerling who was just behind Ekrn.
“Mm.”
That was all the Squirrel Beastkin woman said. She looked at the other Fraerlings.
“Who are you?”
“Sentry Leader Ekrn of the Tallguard of Feiland. Here to demand answers from the Forgotten Wing Company on behalf of Feiland!”
He barked back. Foliana blinked, slowly. Then focused on the second figure.
“And I am Guidance of Paeth on the Coast. Also here to represent my colony, and other cities which have come under attack by Tallfolk who know where we are.”
Guidance glanced at Ekrn. They had come together, and the Tallguard escort was meant for her as much as Ekrn, but they represented two powers, Tallguard and city.
That would have been enough for Perorn to gasp. But not enough to represent the others.
More Fraerlings stared and muttered. They pointed at Ekrn and the Guidance. Ekrn heard them—he wanted to look at them, but his eyes were still engaged in a staring match with Foliana, who was glancing at them.
“The Guidance herself? Sentry Leader…no one higher-ranked?”
“And who are you?”
At last, Ekrn looked around. The Guidance did too, and they saw other Fraerlings. Nearly four dozen Fraerlings stood there, despite Ekrn’s team only being six strong. Some had come alone. Others in groups, the largest fourteen strong.
“We also represent Fraerling…settlements. Under attack! We have seen Tallfolk scouts looking for something! We are not part of Forgotten Wing’s aegis, but we identify them as your enemies. Someone knows where we are.”
A Fraerling strode forwards, silver-haired, and barked up at Foliana. Other representatives shouted too.
“A village is gone! It was a complete slaughter! It will be repaid!”
“No one knows where we are but the Titan of Baleros and this company! We must be defended! We have given the Titan his precious signim—and is this how he repays us?”
Fraerlings from multiple regions. All in danger. Ekrn’s neck prickled. He looked at the Guidance, and then at Foliana. Slowly, the Squirrel Beastkin sat up and looked at Perorn. She murmured.
“Here comes the trap. Mm.”
Her eyes glittered.
“Almost done waiting. Waiting for it to snap.”
