The offender was soon punished, by Lorenzo the falsely accused, Kirana, and Paige, with cleaning the toilets and scrubbing dishes—not on the same day—for three weeks. Kendra burst into tears and Kirana stopped Paige before she could shout.
“I will let her cry. You go.”
“Thanks, Kirana. Uh—could you ask Sc—Hudson if he was lying about his new job?”
Kirana nodded. Paige felt guilty passing off the work, but there it was. Kirana wasn’t necessarily nicer than Paige, but she was better at not blowing up.
…She was nicer. And Paige had less patience with tears, but she forgot—Kendra was thirteen. She’d appeared, lost, by herself, and had been stealing with a gang of friendly Lizardfolk kids when Ken found her.
Not everyone hit the ground running. In fact, almost everyone went splat at one point. It was why the United Nations company was working. Why it was going well. They could prop each other up.
It was going well. They had a bank of coins. The Bushrangers were able to afford gear, Paige was developing better crossbows, they had allies in Gravetender’s Fist, a small but growing company led by Quallet Marshhand. They were levelling in their respective classes, they found more people from Earth now and then, and Geneva’s clinic and her trainees could still help people, even if she was gone.
…But she was gone. And so was Luan. And some days it felt like now they’d lost their way and everyone was searching for Geneva. The attention had dried up, which was good; Geneva wasn’t being besieged by requests from powerful groups to meet with her.
“We don’t matter. And that’s a problem and a good thing right there. It ain’t perfect, but I’ll tell you what—doing something that puts us at risk isn’t the solution either.”
For a second, Paige thought someone was reading her mind. Then she looked over and saw Blake arguing with Myron and Nicola and Andel. Paige slowed.
“What’s not a good solution?”
“Here comes the hammer. Hi, Paige.”
Nicola muttered a bit too loudly and guiltily looked away. Blake waved Paige over.
“Nothing.”
“It sounds like something.”
“It’s not happening, but people are talking about it.”
Blake clarified after a second. He scratched at his hair and looked at the other three. None of them wanted to explain, but Paige had a feeling she knew what was under discussion.
“Who’s agitating for us to pull up now? And where are we going this time? Wistram? Or to find the Singer of Terandria? High-five Joseph? Or is it Rémi?”
Nicola shuffled her feet. Andel coughed.
“It’s just talk, Paige.”
“Right, and it just takes one person going to the Mage’s Guild…listen, guys. I know it’s not perfect, but I do not want to have to ask Daly to post someone to watch the guild.”
“So you’re going to keep us from going there? That’s tyranny!”
Myron flushed, getting angry. Paige snapped.
“I’m not keeping you from doing anything, Myron. That’s not tyranny, that’s us not making stupid moves that can’t be taken back without everyone voting on it.”
“You mean, us voting and the leaders getting to say what’s happening.”
“Oi, Myron. Watch it.”
Blake reached out to slap Myron’s shoulder. Paige bit her tongue.
“This doesn’t come from nothing, does it? What was it this time?”
“Cockroaches. Someone left a bunch of food out and the window was open and then…”
Paige shuddered. Talenqual was a port-city, but it was still firmly set in the tropics, or maybe sub-tropics, of Baleros. And the problem with a world of magic was that you got magical bugs. Invisible mosquitoes, teleporting cockroaches…
Okay, she hadn’t seen either one, but you heard stories! And the regular ones were big, disgusting, and a lot of people had never seen a proper giant bug before.
It was clearly time for a rousing speech. And since Kirana was busy, Paige did her best. She looked at the four of them and pitched her voice so some of the other people dozing or sitting waiting for a turn at one of the gaming laptops could hear. Gaming, incidentally, had infected almost all of the United Nations company. When there was a limited amount of electronics but nigh-infinite power if you could afford or cast the [Repair] spell, you quickly did everything you could do with said devices.
“Look, guys. I get it. It’s not perfect. It’s not great. I know we have to work, but listen—there’s no guarantee it’ll be better at any of those places. There’s danger out there. Remember the phone message?”
She got a few nods, a decisive one from Blake and one from Nicola, but Andel frowned.
“How would we know it’s not good if we don’t look?”
“I didn’t say we won’t look! We’re investigating. We will find a good base. Maybe it’s Talenqual but we cast anti-bug spells everywhere. Maybe it’s Izril, Terandria, Chandrar—”
Blake interrupted.
“Not Chandrar. Too fecking hot. Did you see the documentary by that Rémi Canada guy? Positively baking.”
Paige rolled her eyes.
“Maybe Wistram. Maybe Terandria. Just—give it time. We’re making life better. We’re levelling up!”
Andel muttered.
“Some of us have cool classes. Some of us are [Fishers].”
Paige exploded.
“Then get another job! Practice sword fighting or magic! We’ve got a spell tome!”
Blake patted her on the shoulder as everyone went quiet. She struggled to reel her tongue in.
“Sorry. Listen. It’s hard. We’re looking for Geneva, and if we don’t find her…”
Her voice trailed off.
“…We’ll make a change. But we’ve come a long way, believe me. So let’s not do anything rash, huh? Give it time, bring it up, and I promise you, we’ll send scouts the next time Ken returns from his trips if we don’t get any progress there.”
That was altogether likely, and the reminder of their past sobered the others. They gave her that wary look, even Blake.
I was there. It sounded…stupid. Like a badge of pride or something, but she had been on a battlefield with the others. Sometimes Paige wanted to throw them there—not to kill them or traumatize them, but just so they got it.
It can get far, far worse. The dangers in this world exceeded belief.
“Yeah. Sorry, Paige.”
Andel muttered after a while. She awkwardly nodded. Set off to…find Scorpo? Work on another mechanical invention?
The United Nations company hadn’t invented football. They hadn’t become the Singers of Baleros. They were not [Reporters], and while they had one member who’d shaken things up, The Last Light of Baleros, only Luan had come close in fame.
Oh, everyone had ideas. But it was amazing how little expertise there was. So a lot of it went to Paige.
‘Hey Paige, why don’t you invent something from home? What about…a bicycle? Or how about a pump? Or…or electricity? That’d make a lot of money, right?’
Oh, sure. Why hadn’t she thought of that? Hold on, Paige would just get her expert [Smith] friend who could machine gears and pay for all that steelwork. Electricity? No problem! You could make a basic battery, and a lightbulb wasn’t that hard. It was only blown glass and a custom filament she had no idea how to make. To be fair, it wasn’t a bad idea, and the pump for wells and such wasn’t bad either!
She had actually invented a basic pump. Only to have Lizardfolk laugh at it and show her an enchanted well pump that auto-pumped water.
Ken had thought he could sell the pump to poorer villages, but he’d warned her they would copy the design. That was the issue. Anything you could make, someone could probably steal. And—Paige had nearly flipped when she saw a bicycle being advertised in the Mage’s Guild.
Solar Cycles, Esthelm, Izril.
She was in an inventions-race with other people from Earth who stole the ideas that would make money, damn them!
…But they were in the same spot. And to be fair…Paige hesitated, then went to the basement of the United Nations’ headquarters. She opened a reinforced iron door, and carefully used a [Light] spell to illuminate everything. No fire was allowed anywhere near this place. Everything was sealed up, and she had emergency extinguishers—buckets of water—and never put enough of the stuff together unless she was finishing it. Then they went straight into bags of holding.
The [Blackpowder Engineer] sighed as she looked at the morning’s work.
“[Daily Resource: Blackpowder].”
She carefully pointed a finger, and a small shower of the stuff fell into a glass container. She stared at the creation—the alchemical creation, technically. That was the term Daly used to explain it in the rare cases his team employed it.
Gunpowder. Or at least, the precursor to it all. Yes. Paige’s hands moved as she went for the outer shell of another, well…bomb. Explosive. They had long since stopped trembling. Especially since she’d gained [Lesser Explosive Resistance]. She didn’t know if it would save her up-close, but here it was.
The United Nations company might be smaller than some groups of Earthers who’d come to this world, especially given their numbers. But they had not fallen behind. They had brought something big here. But using it?
Paige did not want to use it. She still remembered Geneva and Daly’s rift. But she’d continued and now she had a thought.
Ken couldn’t get allies to find Geneva. He kept trying, and they kept trying to figure out where she was. They had no knowledge of her, or allies beyond Quallet. But if they found out, if Geneva signalled them…
Paige slowly poured pieces of stone into the outer casing. If they found where Geneva was…
Everything wasn’t going well. They needed Geneva back. They were lost without her.
 
——
 
Summer took a long time. Technically, the summer break was over, but since the Professor was gone, classes were on a kind of hiatus.
No one said the Titan was missing, but if you had to be told outright…and the regular teachers had cut their curriculums too. Perorn, for instance, had cancelled all her classes, so the students on break were advised to extend their stays. Refunds were issued—and that was the least of the Forgotten Wing company’s problems, frankly.
But something that no one said outright was this: when you took your summer break, or the winter one, to visit family and go home, you were expected to come back better.
A student who lazed around and didn’t try anything for months? They had missed the point. When you had free time, it was your chance.
Thus, you could look at Wil’s group as an example of what students should do. Go out, gain valuable levels and experience in the field. Dying was optional.
In the same way—Perorn glanced at her notes. What had they called it?
“Kismet Securities? Dead gods and trench hoof. That’s not egotistical at all. I should have expected nothing less, I suppose.”
“Plaudits that they have any success at all. Do you have any records of their work?”
One of the top [Strategists] in the company that Perorn actually respected, a Selphid [Battle Master]—a unique specialization that combined other focuses—leaned over. They were named Hetoque, and in charge of planning individual offensives.
“Here. Look—this is a sampler they’re offering. A redesign on a city they consulted with.”
The four students, Kissilt, Cameral, Umina, and Marian, had re-worked the city—Izrilian, Human, apparently—to change the standard design of, well, ‘put a wall down around your ever-increasing radius’. Some cities did have proper planning, but many were simple geometric shapes.
A giant square. A circle, or semi-circle that made use of a natural backdrop like cliffs. All fine…but when they designed things like walls or gates, they just left it as a sheer, vertical drop to deter most monsters and bandits.
Which was fine—if you didn’t think you’d ever run into a high-level monster or person.
“This city was struck by the Bloodfeast Raiders. No relation to the Bloodtear Pirates.”
“I’ve heard of them. Ah—so they redesigned for…”
Perorn smiled faintly.
“High-level attacks. See? They’ve at least paid attention in class. Economical too; nothing foolish like demanding twice the cost in stone to justify bastion-level defences.”
The city was called ‘Celum’. Kissilt and his team had done well. Rather than trying to turn the city into a fort and demanding a huge cost in construction and high-level [Builders], they’d simply made an attack as nasty as possible for a group of high-level individuals like the Bloodfeast Raiders.
In other words, you looked at it like this: you could not stop the enemy from coming over the walls. They could jump, fly, or sneak past. Then they’d blast the city with [Fireballs]. Same with monsters.
So—you made it untenable for them to do so without reckoning with the defenders first. The recommendations were simple but telling: build a covered wall, with no exposed battlements. Interior crenellations would face in both directions. If someone gained entry into the city, they’d be watching for arrows in their backs the entire time. In theory, someone could just blast the walls down, but if they could do that, you had more problems.
Let’s say the raiders knew this, though. They’d naturally enter the walls through a breach they’d cause and slaughter the low-level [Guards]. That’s what they’d try, and probably be laughing, charging through the cramped corridors, blocking arrows and low-level spells.
…Right up until the loaded spike trap hit them with enough force to kill even a Gold-rank [Warrior]. Or maim at least, if you didn’t see it coming. It was just a bent piece of wood.
Lizardfolk tactics. Perorn’s right foreleg twitched at the memory. It was a nightmare, entering their territory when they set those things up in swampy water, or in a forest. You could take hundreds in casualties just trying to march forwards if you didn’t prepare.
So, an interior death-trap that even adventurers would sweat at. Carefully-designed fallback points. Perorn reached the end of the free sampler.
“Not bad work.”
“I think so. I see Cameral’s work most in this. He does like his defensive lines.”
Hetoque smiled faintly. She was wearing a Human female’s body today. Perorn smiled too, but then lost it.
That was one of the few things you could smile about right now. They turned back to listening to the briefing from one of their peers—but it wasn’t something they needed to hear, really.
The trick was getting her to understand. A giant Squirrel-woman was perched on her chair, eating a block of brie coated with jam. In theory, it was probably tasty. In practice? Perorn wondered which depraved animal ate it like that.
“…escalating pushes from our northern territories. You see, Commander Foliana? Commander Foliana?”
