Ressk nodded. Calectus followed Geneva as the alarm was called off. The Selphids on guard-duty watched Geneva as she walked towards her quarters. Idis held her ‘tongue’ until they were a ways away from the Third Mind. Then she began to chatter.
“Are you okay, Geneva? What happened? Did you make a lot of progress? Are you bored? You’re a bit hungry. Want to eat…”
She trailed off as Geneva Scala stopped, one hand on the wall of smooth stone. The [Doctor] spoke.
“I’m physically fine, Idis. I…experienced someone else’s life. I don’t know if I can say it was unpleasant. It wasn’t at the time. Now? I was someone else and that is horrifying. I learned so much. But I am still your people’s prisoner. I want to leave, Idis.”
The Selphid went quiet as Geneva straightened. Her hand tensed on the wall.
“I want to leave. They can make me forget that, but only when I’m in the Mind. Do you think this is right?”
“I…I’m just a single Selphid, Geneva. I have orders.”
Idis didn’t know what to say. Nor was this the first time Geneva had said it. The [Doctor] almost laughed; Idis felt the muscles move, but it never came out.
“I wanted to trust you, Idis. You know, this is just like what Okasha did.”
“No. It’s not. It’s for our people. They’re not taking your body. It’s…”
Idis bristled. Okasha had committed the gravest crime of a Selphid. Geneva began to walk.
“Really? Explain to me how it’s different.”
Idis struggled to explain it. Aware all the while that she was enabling Geneva to move. That Geneva was de facto a prisoner and Calectus had told Idis the [Doctor] was by no means allowed to leave, though she had free rein of the facility. And why not, with Idis in her? Geneva Scala replied and Idis realized she now dreaded the moments Geneva left the Third Mind—after their daily meetings, which lasted from an hour to four at most.
She had thought they were becoming friends. Now, the [Doctor] was angry. And Idis…was starting to run out of reasons she shouldn’t be.
 
——
 
There was a saying that people who spoke English had. ‘When it rained, it poured’. That was the kind of phrase that confused the heck out of non-native speakers sometimes. Like ‘blue’. Just…blue. As a word. Why did it have to be a color and emotion?
Ah, but the phrase was not a unique sentiment to English. There was an equivalent expression in Kenjiro Murata’s language.
“雨が降れば土砂降り.”
“Hm?”
The young man instantly bowed his head deeply.
“I am sorry, Second of Armor, I was merely remarking upon the weather.”
He regretted the slip. Especially because the Second of Armor was an important Dullahan, and they did not appreciate slips in manners.
Yet it seemed like luck was on Ken’s side, because the Dullahan did not take offense. Or perhaps it was Ken’s class and Skills.
[Diplomat]. [Excuse My Failings (Twiceover)].
A very curious Skill, but his latest one. It didn’t mean Ken could flip over the table between the two and walk away without consequence. However, it did smooth over minor slips.
And this was a moment that required such a Skill, because the Second of Armor, who represented the Torum Legion, had made time to meet with Ken.
He glanced out the window now, as both knelt in a style very familiar to Ken. The Second of Armor glanced out the window at the light drizzle.
“Ah. You will forgive my lack of understanding. I understood you were of the…United Nations company. That there were Drath’s people among them is a lapse in logic. I must greet you again, Kenjiro Murata. I am glad also; you must be familiar with such formalities.”
So saying, he indicated the square table and light foods placed there. Ken eyed the dishes. Oh yes, they were familiar. But the next moment caught him off-guard.
“…您好. It is my honor to greet you far from home. I hope I have said that correctly?”
Ken hesitated, but kept his face smooth before smiling.
“Very well, Second of Armor.”
He was rewarded with a small smile from the Dullahan.
“Ah, this is good. We even have dishes of shared interest.”
Rice, in what Ken thought had distinct traces from Japan, especially in the way it was laid out with appetizers and chopsticks placed…he was so off-guard he nearly dropped his, although he waited for the Second of Armor to begin.
And yet…the two words would have confused a speaker who wasn’t familiar with either language. But for anyone with a passing understanding of at least one…they would have been struck.
Because Ken had spoken a phrase from his native homeland, the Japanese equivalent of ‘when it rains, it pours’. Whereas, the Second of Armor had mistaken his words and offered a very, very simple greeting in another language.
Nin hao, from Chinese. Yet Ken would swear this was more suited for a Japanese meal; they were even sitting in seiza, which was a very Japanese way of sitting, legs under your knees.
Something called to him. Some greater revelation about Drath, this world, and its interaction with Earth. But Ken had to focus.
“You have very graciously accepted my request, Second of Armor.”
“I hope you will now call me Zentel.”
Another good sign. The Second of Armor smiled faintly, and the invitation to use his real name was exceptionally good. Of course, if Ken had been a Dullahan it would have been amazingly forward, but the rules were not the same between Dullahans and non-Dullahans.
Actually, from a strategic perspective, Ken would never ask a Dullahan to negotiate with other Dullahans unless they were exceptionally high-ranking and had armor of some high-grade metal. They were more forgiving with him.
“Thank you, Lord Zentel.”
“I am not a [Lord], though I suppose my rank is equivalent.”
Ken hid a smile.
“Forgive me, Lord Zentel. I did mean your equivalent.”
Another smile. Zentel knew he was being flattered and appreciated it. Ken smiled back as well. This was what he was good at. Getting along with people, and he had refined that ability since he had first come to this world.
“You are very gifted in the ways of negotiation, Diplomat Kenjiro. Or Ken, if I may call you that? Ah, good. I am also very sympathetic to your company’s plight. You see, the Torum Legion has also suffered the Yellow Rivers plague. A few cases, spread by air. Not by…any actions among our soldiers.”
“It is a very virulent disease, Second of Armor.”
The Dullahan, whose skin was a beautiful brown where it seemed to meld with a rare, expensive wooden armor, relaxed slightly. Suggestions of impropriety among the Dullahan soldiers would have been a touchy spot.
“Yes. So we are doubly grateful that the Last Light clarified this disease spread via air. Indeed, her name was why I heard of your request; I fear it would have been lost in the many people seeking to speak to our company.”
Ken ducked his head, listening, but with a bad feeling in his stomach. It was true. Even now, her name opened doors.
Geneva Scala. The Last Light of Baleros. The United Nations company’s claim to fame…
“Missing. Which implicates a company you will not name. That the Torum Legion may…clash with?”
“Violence is not the first answer I would hope to reach, Second of Armor.”
The Dullahan put down the cup he’d been sipping from and sighed. He adjusted his head, on the little stand with a cushion where it sat. Sometimes Ken wanted to do that. Just pull off a body part and relax.
“Wisdom, Diplomat Ken. Yet it may be an inevitability. I fear you know what I will say. If Doctor Scala would agree to train our soldiers, if we were given certain assurances…but I have heard she is adamant. Nor can I blame her, given her involvement in that—disgraceful battlefield. But you see, I would not lightly clash with The Bodies of Fellden.”
Ken winced. The Second of Armor knew. It wasn’t hard to figure out, granted. But…
“If a Selphid company were to have…taken the Last Light of Baleros, Second of Armor…”
“It would be a disgrace. If true.”
The Dullahan returned quickly. He sipped from his cup again, looking uncomfortable.
“Yet The Bodies of Fellden are the supreme Selphid-company. The only Selphid-company. I do not mean to imply the Torum Legion would fail to face them in the field. Yet we must be practical. If you had concrete proof, and other companies…”
Ken spread his hands out helplessly.
“Proof is difficult to obtain, Second of Armor. As for companies, there must be a first one. Would you not consider it for the name of Geneva Scala?”
The Second of Armor hesitated, and Ken knew the answer before he spoke. So there it was. He ate and drank and made polite conversation about his ‘homeland’—revealing he was not from there specifically, which would not equate a lie, and the Second of Armor asked about the United Nations company, expressed sympathies for the loss of their City Runner whom he had no information of, and promised Ken he would help if they had…something.
Something to offer. Some proof. A location of where Geneva was. Lacking it?
Her name opened doors. It had opened a lot of doors because Geneva was extraordinary. Ken walked outside, shoulders drooping. But now Geneva was gone, and so was Luan.
It was a rainy day. It had been for a while.
 
——
 
The United Nations company was doing well.
No, really, it was.
…Geneva Scala was gone. Luan was gone. Some people thought he was dead. Paige was sure he was not. So was Daly, and the Bushrangers kept taking assignments close to the places where he might have been, but it was a lot of jungle and, frankly, if he hadn’t made it back to civilization after…
No. He wasn’t dead.
Paige was the [Engineer] of the United Nations company. One of the leaders, for whatever that meant. No—it meant people expected her to have a handle on things. Now that Luan and Geneva were gone, the soul really was her, Daly, Siri, Kirana, Ken, Aiko…
The original group. The ones who’d seen battle. If you thought you were hot shit, and you hadn’t seen a monster, you could, at your peril, ask someone to tell you what it was like seeing companies fight. Or volunteer to join the Bushrangers for a mission. Or even just a training run.
That tended to kick most people out of it.
“Hey. Does anyone know if Scorpo’s got a job?”
Paige winced at the name. She was running down the ledger and saw Filip grimace. He was a [Scribe] and had been helping her do bookkeeping.
“…You mean Hudson?”
“Yes! But he writes Scorpo here. And he says he’s putting in coppers…but I think we’ve got our missing funds.”
The Polish [Scribe] glowered.
“Bastard.”
He was normally fairly mild-mannered, but he and Paige had just spent nearly an hour going over the entries to figure out why they were short on money. They’d found a few missing entries, and it wasn’t a lot of missing money, but every coin counted now that their two biggest earners were missing.
“I’ll have a word with him.”
“You could…ask Dawson to kick his ass?”
Filip suggested mildly. He didn’t like Scorpo. Paige didn’t like Scorpo. And to be fair…maybe even Hudson didn’t like Hudson because he’d tried to rename himself Scorpo. Start a new life, be the person he always wanted to be.
“He’s fourteen, Filip. Besides, if I had to kick his ass, I could do it. Or Kirana could. I’ll be nice. It’s tough. He’s not used to having to have a job.”
“Everyone helps. Maybe he can cook?”
“If he says cooking’s for girls or not fun…yeah. We’ll work on it. Let’s see about Sc—Hudson, and if he’s the culprit, we can close the books on this one.”
Filip nodded and stretched. Paige rubbed at her back, but really, she wasn’t that stiff. They had actual padded chairs, not the basic wood ones—some of which Daly had made and were about as comfortable as a rock.
The United Nations company now occupied four houses, two side-by-side, and two more across the street, also joined. Paige was in the ‘oldest’ one, which was headquarters. They had one area devoted just for leisure, and the other two were to sleep in—though there were beds in every house. Woe to anyone who wanted to sleep in the rec-house, though.
Rent was low, and they had put money into a number of projects, including comfy chairs. You might be surprised, but it had been voted on fast. At first, Paige had thought everyone would vote for ‘magical items’, but when you got people used to living in this world, acting as adults, even if they were as young as fourteen or thirteen, you began to develop certain…tastes.
Like—a couch. Take your magic wand and shove it somewhere else. Give me a couch so I can nap after working all day. Of course, magic went hand-in-hand with that, but sensible magic.
“Paige. Paige. Help! The cooling charms aren’t working! Some idiot had to try and put them together and I think it broke the enchantments.”
One of the younger members of the company ran up as Paige was heading downstairs. She closed her eyes.
“Who? Kendra, get me my crossbow.”
The girl grinned uncertainly because Paige did have one of her custom-made crossbows in her room.
“I think it was Lorenzo.”
“Lorenzo! If you broke the charms, I’m taking it out of your pay!”
Paige shouted, and some of the voices from below went ‘oooh’ and started calling similar insults, since it was getting warmer in this house. She heard an angry reply from the Italian man.
“It wasn’t me!”
Paige came down the steps as Kendra slid down the banister—the thirteen year-old girl from the United Kingdom stopped as Lorenzo stormed over. He began arguing with Paige in accented English—he was still learning—that he could not be the culprit.
Lorenzo, one of the Italians that Daly had found. Paige, an Australian from the original group who’d joined Gravetender’s Fist. And here came Kirana, who had been found after they’d escaped that deathtrap, the [House Manager] from India.
Not that they were their countries, but it was something to remember. They had different backgrounds, and it puzzled the Lizardfolk who just saw Humans. There was some kind of irony about that…but Paige was too busy interrogating Lorenzo.
Kirana, who was smelling of papadums, emerged with an exasperated look. She heard out the first beats of the argument as the two sweated, turned, and frowned.
“Kendra did it.”
“I did not!”
The girl squeaked and hid behind Paige. Which turned out to be a mistake because Paige whirled around.
“Kendra!”
The girl protested, without knowing one of Kirana’s Skills she’d obtained recently was [Spot the Culprit]. The perfect identity-Skill for squabbles over lost electronics, people neglecting chores, and so on.
