The leader of the Forgotten Wing company, one of the world’s most famous [Rogues] and assassins, Three-Colored Stalker, opened her eyes and stopped chewing. She transferred the food to one bulging cheek.
“I wasn’t asleep.”
Perorn sighed. She waved a hand, and the exasperated Naga, one of the six [Strategists] present besides herself, meant to replace Niers’ ability to lead the company, if temporarily, let her trot forwards.
“Foliana. We’re trying to explain the situation.”
She got the uncanny gaze of the [Rogue] full-force—three colors, pink, yellow, and green, each one occupying a part of her eye. She sat in the war council, which was set with a long, simple table of wood.
That was the only simple thing about Niers’ war council. He had maps, both physical and magical, ready to project almost every region of Baleros.
At any given time, the complete layout of their forces could be observed, a huge section of territory or allied interests across the lower-middle of Baleros. There was a list of treaties and ongoing contracts with cabinets ready for inspection on the exact wording.
Dossiers on the commanders in charge of each grouping, the breakdown of soldiers and supplies. Multiple encrypted scrying devices. Pride of place of it all, of course, was their smaller command deck on the table where the Fraerling himself could orchestrate the room.
It was empty, and the room was uncannily vacant compared to normal. Ordinarily, if they were planning a huge offensive, it would be filled with officers and experts in their fields. [Generals] and [Strategists].
But now it was only Foliana and the seven [Strategists]. The rest were all out of the citadel.
Putting out fires.
“I am not a [Strategist]. Mm. I’m bored.”
Foliana took another bite of her strange snack. Perorn folded her arms and glared. She could do that; few people would take her to task, but Perorn knew Foliana.
“You need to pay attention. Niers is gone.”
“Not dead. He’ll be back.”
Two huge eyes blinked at her. Perorn looked around and the other [Strategists] gave her a look saying clearly that she had to hammer this into Foliana’s stubborn head. She had never quite understood why Niers wanted to be second-in-command. Then again, he liked being the real power behind the throne, so to speak. But it did make it hard to reason with her.
“Yes, but in his absence, we are under attack. By whomever hired Peclir Im…and from outside forces.”
“It’s probably not even organized. Simple logic on behalf of whomever is after us.”
That came from one of the two Dullahans present. Perorn nodded at him.
“Exactly. The other Great Companies know he’s missing. Everyone knows he’s missing, so everyone’s piling on. What’s that saying about that?”
Foliana pursed her lips.
“…When you see someone being mugged, join in and kick them while they’re on the ground?”
Perorn hesitated.
“Not the expression I’d use, but it’s damned applicable here. The Iron Vanguard is threatening our fortresses on their border. Maelstrom’s Howling is watching them since they know they need us, but they’re edging up on our most valuable areas. Damned greedy Centaur vultures.”
The other [Strategists] and Foliana all looked pointedly at Perorn, the lone Centaur in the room. She glared, pawing the ground.
“What? It’s true. Not a shred of foresight in most of their heads. Listen. Foliana, we have small companies trying to bite at us, thinking we’re distracted. We’ve pulled every group we can to hotspots, keeping things under control.”
Hence the vacancies here. They even had students acting as officers. Foliana pointed to the magical map, glowing with danger zones. She turned to Foliana.
“You see what they’re doing, don’t you?”
Please see. It wasn’t hard. If you couldn’t figure it out after all that, you’d fail out of her entry-class on the spot.
“Bleeding us. Taking forces away from the capital. Here.”
Foliana answered grudgingly after a minute of waiting. Perorn exhaled. She saw the giant Squirrel reach for a glass of wine.
“You could just say it. Mm. I’ve been here forty minutes. Numbers. Places. Just say that part. Niers does.”
“Niers isn’t here. I am asking you for judgement, Foliana. It’s clear as day they want to divide up our strengths. You are the only other head of the company. If someone strikes us here…I have a list. Which investments do we drop? We can evacuate forts, keep an army in reserve. If you’re not comfortable, I have it ranked by my priority.”
Foliana saw the other [Strategists] tense as she was presented with the list. And, again, she barely looked at it.
“Mm. That’s all our territory. We took that fort. I was there. I stabbed someone in the foot for it. That village mines gold.”
“I know, Foliana. But we can’t keep them all. We’re leaving ourselves exposed.”
Two huge eyes blinked.
“Just like they want.”
“Yes, so…”
“Keep them all.”
That was the last thing the Centaur wanted to hear. She trotted forwards. The problem was…
This campaign had to be Peclir’s initiative. He understood Niers and Foliana, that damned traitor. And Foliana was possessive.
“I know it’s our territory. We can win it back. But if we don’t want to be vulnerable here…”
“They’ll take our forces anyways. Mm. It’s a plan. Plans usually work if they’re good. Don’t bother.”
Perorn blinked. That clear line came from Foliana—she still refused to look at the map, but she gave Perorn a piercing glance.
“We will lose forces. Something…mm. Something will happen. We will be exposed. Then they strike.”
“…That seems to be their plan, yes. Which means we have to safeguard you. Perhaps even consider abandoning this city if it comes to it. Though they might—”
“—Strike us on the road. Mm. Yes. They have good plans if they’re smart. If they’re not, they’re not. If they are? Doesn’t matter.”
The Centauress tilted her head slightly. She trotted back as the other [Strategists] looked worried. Foliana sounded defeatist, but that wasn’t what Perorn was getting.
“You seem like you have a plan, Foliana. Which would be…?”
“Keep everything. Lose nothing. Unless you have to. Don’t bother me.”
Three-Color Stalker sat there, nibbling at her food. Just like she’d been doing since Niers left. She’d participated in the news, disappeared to check her news sources, but carried on as Perorn tried to hold everything together.
The Centauress had resented that. Fleethoof, the famous [Strategist], was aware of her limits and she needed Niers, just as much as he needed her and his other officers.
But Foliana…she just sat there. When the last of the brie disappeared and she was licking her paws, she looked up.
“I am not a [Strategist].”
“You lead this company…”
Foliana shrugged.
“But I’m not a [Strategist]. Don’t tell me strategy things. Just do it. Keep everything you can. Let them take forces. Something else will come up. Plans are smart. Opponents are smart.”
“And when they corner us?”
Perorn snapped. And, at last, she saw Foliana’s eyes gleam. The Squirrel Beastkin raised her head slowly.
“When they reveal themselves? They always do. Then I know their faces. Then I know who they are. They die, or we die. All I have to do is wait. Don’t bother me. I’m going to eat more brie.”
She hopped off her chair and vanished halfway towards the door. Perorn saw Hetoque edge back, but the door never opened. Maybe Foliana was here? Maybe she’d left.
The room was silent for a moment. Perorn looked around.
“…You heard her.”
It was then she was reminded of the difference. No—even reassured, despite Foliana’s completely unhelpful demands. She wasn’t Niers. A [Strategist], like Perorn, like Niers, thought of gain and loss. Of where to apply strength, to retreat, how to conserve their forces.
Foliana was not a [Strategist]. She was a [Rogue]. She was the Stalker of Baleros. She…waited.
For a target. But she was waiting for the trap’s jaws to close. Perorn felt it too. Not all the coins had yet to drop.
Dead gods. If only the students could find Niers. That was the one element Peclir had failed to account for. He was alive. Or he had been, during the Village of the Dead raid. If he could return? Perorn went back to keeping things from falling apart. Buying time.
 
——
 
Geneva was a prisoner. Not an ill-treated one—at least, in terms of hospitality. She had access to the entire Gathering Citadel. She could ask for any food she wanted—not that she did—and it would doubtless be provided.
Her rooms weren’t magically bugged, at least to Idis’ knowledge. And she thought she was trusted.
The young Selphid’s career was on the rise. It should have made Idis happy. But more and more, she felt…terrible for Geneva. Yet here was the thing.
Geneva Scala was prisoner of the Minds.
Prisoner in her mind. And the problem with any escape attempt or sympathizers? With any plans, plots, or schemes?
The Minds knew. They knew…everything. The summons came for Geneva shortly after she rested in the comfortable room they had made for her.
Idis was back in her temporary body. Geneva had asked to be left to sleep for a few hours. She’d use the speaking stone if she wanted to move, but Idis had left her body while she slept. It seemed…better. Geneva hadn’t demanded it, but Idis had noticed the change in her body. Not exactly endorphins, as Geneva called them, but she’d been glad Idis had offered to do it.
She was too connected. She could tell when Geneva was upset. Feelings were chemical. A Selphid living in someone’s living body experienced feelings, albeit in a different way.
“You are becoming too close. There is a term for it. Unification. You are aware of how prisoners can be manipulated by captors?”
“By Skills and mentally? Of course. I took lessons, Guardian—I mean, venerable—um—”
Idis ducked and the staff nearly clipped her head. Ressk, the [Guardian], lowered his staff. They were training. Another honor; she was allowed to learn from him.
He was no [Honor Guard], like Calectus, but Ressk had abilities on par with the best of the Selphids here. He smiled thinly.
“Don’t stand on honorifics. I am telling you, Idis—your doubts and reservations come from your connection with Geneva Scala.”
“I—I’m sorry. It’s just—”
He held up a hand.
“The Minds hear. If it is a concern, they will inform you. I am simply giving context to why you feel this way. Trust the Minds.”
Idis tried. She tried to do her job, which was kill people, just like she’d told Geneva before she understood what the [Doctor] believed. She had a practice sword and slashed, coming in low and fast.
[Arc Slash]! A basic technique, but fast, which would bisect Ressk if she had a steel blade. He blocked the stroke—Idis wasn’t sure if that would work in a real battle. If he had an enchanted quarterstaff? She moved backwards as it twirled. He wasn’t faster than her, which was a bit embarrassing for someone of his level. But then, his class wasn’t all pure physical combat. She would hold back a bit, even though he’d said to go all o—
Idis tripped on a stone and nearly went sprawling as she leapt backwards. She cursed, and Ressk tagged her twice.
“Damn!”
The Selphid’s sword blurred in a flurry, pressing the [Guardian] backwards. Ressk kept his distance as Idis glared at the floor.
“Who left a rock in the training room?”
She looked around, but the other sparring courts were occupied and no one answered. Idis sighed. Then she blurred at Ressk. It wasn’t her Rampaging—just a Skill-enhanced leap.
She felt…slow for some reason. And he was quick enough to dodge, although he gave her a nod as she whirled.
“You are quite gifted, Idis. You may become an [Honor Guard]—or another great class. Fulfill your duties. Help Geneva Scala as best you can. You are a credit thus far.”
Idis blushed orange. She made up for it with a flick of her wrist.
“Thanks—”
A line of sharp air swept at Ressk. His eyes went wide and he blocked it. Perfect! Idis lunged left, diving at his side for the perfect killing blow—Selphids still got hurt if you stabbed up through their side and swept your bl—
She tripped, went sprawling, and Ressk pinned her with the butt of his quarterstaff. Idis blinked up at him. She heard polite clapping from some of the other Selphids, laughter, and groaned before getting up.
“Well done. You have more to learn, but we will see if you will benefit from lessons. Later. If Geneva Scala needs for more minders. For now, focus on that, Idis. I believe one of the Minds wishes to speak to her.”
Idis sat up, accepting the hand, and felt a tremor of unease in her stomach.
“I’ll go wake Geneva. Thank you for the lesson, Guardian Ressk.”
He nodded in his Drake body and Idis hurried to Geneva’s room. But before she left, she turned to give that rock a damn good kick. She looked at the training space and frowned.
It was smooth stone, no rock to be seen. She glanced at Ressk and saw him wink at her. The Selphid hurried away, wondering.
…What kind of a Skill was [Invisible Appearing Rock]?
 
——
 
Geneva Scala waited for Idis to arrive. A Mind had summoned her. So she was going.
She wasn’t sanguine. Sanguine implied happy. Geneva wasn’t as distraught as she could be, either.
She was a captive with no perceivable way out. She was being violated—and that was the language she would use, no matter how much Idis protested. This was an invasion, but she understood the reasoning. Her abilities were being employed as a [Doctor] and there was at least that.
“Sorry, Geneva. I was tripping on rocks and sparring with Ressk—give me one second. Okay! Off to the Minds. You’re rested, right? Want me to get you there?”
“I will walk, Idis.”
So she did. Idis guided her down the hallway, but Geneva knew the route. She walked down; the Third Mind was closer to the bottom of this underground fortress, but Idis stopped her as they came to one of the stairwells.
“No, it’s up, Geneva.”
“Up? But we’re going…”
“I, uh—it’s not the Third Mind who wants you. Excuse me? Which way to the Second Mind?”
Idis spoke in Geneva’s voice, and a Selphid passing them with a basket of contaminated bananas pointed.
“Up two floors.”
“Thank you!”
Up they went. Geneva was surprised. The Second Mind? She had met them all, briefly, but never spoken to one besides the Mind, the one she had associated with this all. The Third Mind.
What did another of them want with her? To do the same thing? Would they now take turns?
Everything became different as Geneva Scala realized something was off from her routine.
