Geneva felt dizzy—or would have if she had a physical body here. Was she looking at a logical step in every species’ evolution? If you replaced the body with this kind of muscle, was it simply an upgrade? Why did bodies change like this? Was it now reliant on magic as a kind of nutrition?
She turned back to Yeque.
“And you can see—sense these muscles in valuable bodies.”
“Yes. They degrade slower, have greater ability—hence why we value them so highly. Only a few people have them.”
“How?”
Four Selphids appeared. Each one wearing a different body. One flexed her arm and winked at Geneva; she was a copy of the Human lying on the surgical table.
“High-level warriors.”
A fussy young man pursed his lips, although it didn’t change the fact that someone had slashed open his throat with a dagger. The Selphid had made up for that with a fancy scarf.
“Nobility pass along galas in bloodlines, sometimes. It is not a guarantee, but even children have innate formations if their parents were strong.”
The next Selphid waved a hand. She was a Naga, a Lamia with bright red scales. She smiled.
“[Mages] have it slightly differently. They can use magic to form it, and they develop magical pools.”
The last Selphid was most unique, at least to Geneva. Because he looked distinctly…
The Drathian bowed formally, and spoke quietly. No—was it the Selphid copying the man?
“You can also develop galas by consuming a specific diet. Training—in their way. But Drath allows us to take their bodies very seldomly.”
Fascinating. All this took place so quickly—yet Geneva knew she couldn’t dwell on it forever. Even so, this brief lesson confirmed a number of things for her. She muttered, almost to herself.
“I wonder if you could transplant that kind of muscle. We can do it on Earth—but the ethics…”
Instantly, she could see it. Someone taking muscle, tendons, even tissue, and creating a super-soldier. She regretted thinking it, because it meant the Mind saw it too. The Selphids looked at her image.
“Intriguing. But beyond our capabilities. Geneva Scala, focus on your studies.”
Geneva turned back to the body, but she did not miss the ‘for now’ that lingered in the air. And she would have argued ethics, morality, or tried to remove the idea if it were possible.
But that wasn’t how this worked. Geneva turned back to the Dullahan.
So each Dullahan had a type of galas, but it was not like the kind that developed in high-level fighters. This clearly enabled their ability to remove their heads and limbs and control them from afar.
“Is it possible for me to see how the muscles work when active?”
She expected the answer to be ‘no’, but, to her surprise, the Dullahan’s body suddenly came alive. Geneva backed up as blood began to move through veins, tissues stretched and contracted, muscle and bone shifted—
It was unearthly. Horrifying, fascinating—the kind of lesson any scientist or doctor on Earth would pay dearly to see, because this was how a body moved. Not a computer simulation, but the real thing. Imagine how much orthopedics could be moved forwards if she could only…!
She saw the Dullahan’s left arm vanish. And then appear a few feet left. Geneva saw the magical muscle moving, flexing, in perfect synchronicity. And—she gasped.
“So it is a portal. No—a magical connection!”
She could see blood pumping smoothly through the veins, despite the physical separation. Enabled by the Dullahan’s unique biology. This…this was a lesson she could spend weeks on.
And yet it begged the question. Geneva’s mind snapped to the obvious instantly.
“…How would you know what a Dullahan’s body looks like? This is a living body. Not a corpse.”
She looked up at the sixty-some Selphids present. She saw the Mind take a lightning-fast vote, but she already knew the answer. And because she knew—from her experience with Okasha, Idis—one of the Selphids, the one that looked like the Dullahan that Geneva was inspecting, stepped forwards.
“We were lovers. He let me in. Though it was wrong. I was condemned. I…joined the Mind rather than face exile or death.”
The Selphid met Geneva’s eyes. The [Doctor] looked down at the Dullahan. So that was how she could learn like this.
But more flowed through the simple words. A deeper meaning. Geneva was in the Mind. The Mind was also in her. And they gave away more than they expected. After all—a foreign presence to the Mind was all but unheard of, and only in ancient memory.
A realization struck Geneva.
The Minds allowed criminals, Selphids condemned to death or who had committed transgressions like this, to join them in order to understand their perspective, gain their understanding. They were careful not to create scenarios where dangerous personalities reigned supreme because that would alter the Mind itself.
Not all Minds were alike. This one had been created with the express intent of researching the Wasting disease, unlike a Mind devoted to strategy for Selphids as a whole, or magic. Hence Geneva’s interaction with this Mind in this way. It was willing to do whatever was necessary to save its people, and had led the decision to take her.
A flash of insight. The other Selphids saw Geneva learning this, but couldn’t stop her. They tried to pull back, but Geneva was staring at the Dullahan lying there. The Selphid who had been his partner was named Bethi. They had been lovers; or else the deception was in her very mind. She had loved him, and their forbidden relationship had been discovered by a [Detect Life] spell cast on a hunt.
He had been executed. She had mourned him.
Geneva was falling. Not physically, or even in this artificial reality. She was becoming too connected with Bethi’s memories. This Dullahan had been named Revorthe. Geneva suddenly knew that he would scratch at his neck when he was lying.
No—she suddenly saw him doing it. She remembered how he did it. What his voice sounded like.
“She is too close. Pull her back.”
Yeque was speaking, but the Mind was struggling with itself. Geneva…Bethi?…was just thinking. She could see the body.
This is what it felt like to move it.
She saw the Dullahan man looking at her. She heard the tenor of his voice, surprisingly light. She could hear him.
This was what it felt like to love him. Touch, how it felt in your heart when they fought. This was—
For a moment, Geneva was Bethi, a Selphid. Her mind spun and fell and was two people. One person. Geneva felt the artificial zone beginning to shatter. She saw herself, hovering in the void.
“I am Geneva. I am the Mind. I am—”
 
——
 
Her name was Idis. Her classes were [Blademaster] and a bit of [Barbarian]. Her job occupation was generally killing people.
Nothing fancy. No pretense; she knew she was a [Warrior]. She had participated in long campaigns, one nearly eight years long where she fought Centaurs in a huge battle for territory—that was where she had gained her [Barbarian] class.
Right now, she was wearing the body of a Human. Not a good one; certainly not a Centaur’s body, which generally required two Selphids to operate. Just your basic degraded corpse, fit to move, not fun to eat with, or do anything else. At least the vocal cords still worked.
“…Do you have any [Archmages]?”
“Fish.”
The Selphid opposite her muttered. Idis hesitated.
“I think it’s ‘go fish’.”
“I’d rather go fishing. Are you sure the Humans played this game?”
“I think it’s meant for children. They played it a few times. Although…I think they were drinking.”
The second Selphid rolled his eyes. He was wearing a much fancier Minotaur’s body, very fresh and preserved, and he sat back and cast his hand of cards down.
“In that case, Idis, I will wait until we are off-duty to drink and play this game.”
Idis was disappointed.
“Come on, Wettle.”
Weteleq, who was nicknamed Wettle, folded his arms and refused to pick up the cards. Idis was about to suggest they play a more traditional card game when someone spoke.
“To attention. Something is happening with the [Doctor]. To the Third Mind.”
Idis and Wettle shot to their feet, knocking over the card table so fast they sent the cards flying. Six more Selphids all leapt to their feet. Idis whirled and saw the speaker.
“Calectus? What’s—”
But the [Honor Guard], who wore the body of a huge Dullahan wearing steel armor, was already pounding down the hallway. Idis was after him in a flash, and ran through the inner compound of the Minds’ fortress, one of the few places where Selphids were in full power, albeit hidden.
A Gathering Citadel.
But not a traditional palace. That would be notable, and Selphids did not want other species learning of their bases. So unlike Lizardfolk temples or traditional palaces or forts, this one looked like a basic hill. In fact, people had camped on top of it before; it was just one hill in the middle of Baleros’ least inhabitable jungle areas. A secret base for their species.
Not unguarded, though. Idis’ guard unit was one of several that flooded the corridor, heading towards a specific room. Idis saw Selphids taking up positions in the checkpoint designed to hold off attackers—but Calectus motioned her specifically to follow him into the Minds’ chamber.
“Inside.”
“Me?”
“It’s the [Doctor].”
Idis had been with Geneva second-longest of all the Selphids, so she didn’t argue but stepped into the room that held a Mind. Even now—she looked into the room and gasped.
“What’s happening?”
To Selphids, it was strange. To outsiders? Idis had heard some thought of it as horrific. And part of her couldn’t blame whoever saw it for being a bit overwhelmed.
A Mind was this: an orb, or vaguely rotund mass, of Selphids. Selphids without bodies, joined together. Moving, because they were individually alive, and if the body died, so did their part of the Mind—all suspended in the air over a small basin. Water and food could all be placed below and would drift upwards and be consumed.
The Mind floated in the air—the Third Mind, the one devoted to the Wasting. One of six in this Gathering Citadel. Each one had a room like this.
Right now, the Third Mind was clearly agitated. Each Selphid was moving at speed, and Idis saw Calectus hesitate.
“[Guardian] Ressk. Orders?”
A Drake Selphid turned; he did not wear armor like Idis and Calectus, but robes. Nevertheless, he was in charge, and Calectus was the [Honor Guard] pledged to defend the Minds and their interests. The Selphid flicked out his long tongue.
“Hold, Calectus. You—Idis.”
“Yes? Guardian?”
Idis snapped to attention. One of the highest-ranking Selphids who was not a Mind looked at her, and she felt a wave of apprehension. But all he did was point.
“Go to Geneva Scala. She is breaking her connection with the Third Mind. Something is wrong. She will be unable to move.”
Idis saw there were four stone platforms that let someone approach the Third Mind floating in the center. In front of the platform closest to her was Geneva.
She was…hovering in the air. Eyes closed. Grimacing. Idis hesitated.
“Do I go over and…will I do something wrong if I enter her?”
Ressk paused as Calectus gave her a quiet glare, though he acted much like the Dullahan body he inhabited. Some Selphids took on the characteristics of their host bodies.
“Third Mind. Will Idis harm the [Doctor] by approaching and inhabiting her?”
He spoke to the floating Mind. Idis heard the reply—but not with her atrophied ears, one of which had fully rotted off. She heard the reply in her mind.
“She is too deep. Bring Selphid Idis forwards. We are breaking the connection. Do so now.”
Ressk nodded and pointed a finger. Idis was already hurrying forwards. Geneva floated to her, and Idis caught her in her arms. She began to leave this body as the Third Mind’s agitation began to calm.
Geneva Scala began to stir. Her eyes opened, and her breathing caught. She tried to move her legs and couldn’t, but Idis bridged the gap in her nervous system. She felt Geneva’s slow, almost sleep-like rhythm change as her body ‘woke up’. The Third Mind released her, and Geneva sat up, with Idis simply playing helper.
Here was the final fact that most species had no knowledge of. The secret of the Minds. Not only did they have the amalgamation of Selphids who joined them—a huge honor and sacrifice. Not only did they lead the Selphid people, but the Mind was a rarity in its abilities that only a few species could copy.
Unfortunately, one of them being Crelers. The Mind could think at you and you would hear it. Also—as the Third Mind floated in the air? Idis was aware, and amazed, as always. Because…
It was not floating due to magic. Nor had Geneva been floating with it due to magic. Or even a Skill—at least, not a Skill alone. Geneva Scala had a word for it.
“Telekinesis.”
Idis whispered, in awe. She had been privileged enough to see the Third Mind four times in her life, a huge honor for someone not an [Honor Guard] or [Guardian], or the caretaking staff. She had never seen the Mind use its powers, even for something as mundane as lifting Geneva.
Now she saw water floating upwards, gently falling so the component parts of the Mind could consume it and some fruit. A literal banana peeled itself in midair.
There was a pause. Idis saw the banana mush itself, but something exited the banana.
…A bug. A crawling beetle. It went flying across the room and the banana was divided up. Idis heard the thought.
“Infested banana. Please perform quality checks.”
Ressk, hugely embarrassed, bowed his head and apologized. Idis heard the thought too. She whispered in Geneva’s ear as the [Doctor] slowly rose to her feet.
“Telepathy. Or is it that psi…pshi…?”
“Psionics, Idis. That’s the umbrella term. Telekinesis and telepathy are component parts.”
Geneva Scala spoke, her mouth dry. Idis pumped a bit of saliva out of her glands and checked her condition. Fine. Muscles a bit stiff…Idis began to activate them. Geneva Scala stood, as Calectus and Ressk approached.
“…will perform more inspections, with greatest apologies, Third Mind. What shall we do with Doctor Scala?”
“Let her perform research/rest as she desires. Mental backlash from joining has been mitigated. We will begin again tomorrow. We will communicate with other Minds and continue to pursue her projects.”
“As the Minds will it.”
Ressk offered a hand to Geneva. She stared at it, and Calectus. Slowly, Geneva walked past the two, though Idis needed to help her. She’d forgotten to breathe as well. She forgot these things for a while, lost in the Mind.
“I…will go to my rooms. Then conduct my own studies.”
