What was regular was this: she existed in a comfortable guest room with amenities, from a bathroom to clothing to food, but spent a good deal of her day walking the smooth, perfect stone corridors which were almost analogous to hospital walls, to the Third Mind.
To do so, she passed through two Selphid guard-checkpoints, one of which was next to Idis’ sleeping quarters. A great deal of protection in this hidden fortress. Calectus or Ressk would meet her, or another [Guardian], and escort her to the Third Mind. Then Geneva would float upwards and commune. Enter the Mind.
It was a stark place. Like…no, exactly like a research lab, really. Geneva had seen other areas where her demands, her needs, were being constructed, including the microscope and an area with surgical equipment. There was an alchemical lab, a library—all devoted to the efforts to fight the Wasting.
Two floors up, something changed. Geneva Scala and Idis walked past an arch warded with what looked like some kind of magic and heard…
Music. Some kind of incredibly heavy bass, echoing down the corridor. Geneva looked for the first Selphid checkpoint—and saw no guards. Idis reflexively covered Geneva’s ears and somehow deadened the sound Geneva was hearing.
“Selphid’s tits which we don’t have! What is that!?”
Geneva walked forwards and saw a room where objects, crystals, were practically bouncing in their places. The thundering bass—which sounded like something from her world—cut off as a Selphid touched a glowing crystal, seeing her.
“Hey, are you the Human?”
“What?”
Idis and Geneva shouted back. The Selphid unplugged their ears with a bit of wax. They still shouted, a bit unnecessarily.
“Apologies! The Second Mind told me to stop playing once you got here! Did you like the music! It’s like your world’s, right?”
He looked at Geneva. She stared at the Selphid, a bit aghast to realize he knew about Earth.
“It—it’s not like anything I’ve heard. Is it a song? From the Singer of Terandria?”
That was her first instinct; some song turned up too loud. The Selphid grinned.
“I’m glad you thought so! We’re working on lyrics. But we can make our own crystals and take those…sounds. No idea how to replicate them.”
“Why is it so loud?”
Idis asked with Geneva’s voice, though she made an effort to change Geneva’s vocal chords so the voice sounded different. The Selphid blinked at her.
“Oh, so as many people can listen as they want to. Sorry, we’re enchanting this room to deaden the sound and it echoes in confined spaces. The regular song crystals don’t have enough volume; Lizardfolk complain it’s only good for small groups.”
“You’re…making song crystals?”
Geneva Scala couldn’t help but be surprised. The Selphid…what was he? [Composer]? [Researcher]? [Gem Mage]? Grinned.
“Of course we are. Baleros music. Selphid music! We’ll sell the Lizardfolk crystals they can make songs with.”
Geneva and Idis couldn’t exchange glances, but they were fairly in unison.
“That’s what a, uh, Mind is working on? The Second Mind, I mean?”
The Selphid raised his brows.
“The Second Mind thinks it’s worth a project. I don’t argue. If it’ll make us tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of gold pieces each month? I’ll play music until these eardrums pop. I can always get more. Do you have any feedback on…?”
He caught himself.
“No, the Second Mind is waiting. Down the corridor.”
He pointed. Geneva blinked at him, but Idis, reminded they were supposed to be there, hastily swivelled Geneva around.
“Idis. What’s going on?”
Geneva subvocalized to the Selphid. Idis’ internal voice in her ears sounded just as confused.
“I…I don’t know. I’m part of the Third Mind’s authority. I know the other Minds have their own projects. I guess one of them’s making money.”
“So you don’t know this…Second Mind?”
Idis shook Geneva’s head slightly.
“No. I mean—I knew the Minds, and The Bodies of Fellden do whatever they say. But I always thought the Minds were all together. Most Selphids only know the Minds exist. I’ve never…huh.”
Geneva walked down a corridor and saw the pale stone change. From cut stone, it turned to…color. A bright yellow, painted onto the walls. She stopped at an intersection and saw it change abruptly at the end of the corridor where it met another. Into a deep blue, very dark.
“That’s so…colorful.”
Idis breathed. Geneva saw another corridor of green stretching out, and Selphids walking down it. They pointed her down a final section, which was pitch black.
Only then did they come to a checkpoint, where a single Selphid was waiting in front of some [Guards]. Idis waved a hand.
“Excuse me, the Second Mind asked for Geneva? Uh. Why the different colors?”
“The Second Mind’s project. Go inside.”
The [Guardian] looked…different from Ressk, and it took Geneva a moment to understand why. She had it when she saw that this Selphid wore regular clothing, no robes or staff or symbols of authority. The [Guards] looked casual too; they were watching a scrying orb and taking notes. Idis blinked.
“Project? What, coloring the hallways? I, uh—I’ll take a spare body if you have one.”
The [Guardian] raised her eyebrows.
“No need. The Second Mind wishes to speak with you both. Enter.”
“Me? Why me?”
Something stirred in Geneva’s mind as Idis squeaked and they were led into the room. She looked back.
“Those colors. It’s…color theory. There was a study for that.”
“Colors, Geneva? What do you mean?”
The [Guardian] Selphid tilted her head. Geneva tried to explain, absently.
“It’s about colors and emotion. How seeing brighter colors or the same ones affects your wellbeing. At least, I think—”
Then she entered the room of the Second Mind and stopped. Because in front of her hovered another Mind, floating, a suspended mass of Selphids. A presence in the air, one of the greatest leaders of this species.
And in front of the Mind, about, oh, ten feet tall, was something strange. A fragile, temporary construction. It looked like—no. It was. Geneva Scala stopped and stared along with Idis at the tallest house of cards she had ever seen in her life. Even as she watched, another level was being added as cards floated forwards.
Floating next to the giant house of cards were multiple games of chess, in progress. At least eighteen scrying orbs, each set to a different television network or point of view, and a pair of books were slowly flipping themselves open. The Second Mind didn’t move visually beyond its constant hovering, but Geneva felt it recognize them.
“Wait. Wait. Orell, guide them forwards. I almost have it…”
A card delicately placed itself on the tower. But a bit too hard, or something gave, because the entire construction began to collapse. Geneva saw hundreds of cards go fluttering down. She saw the Second Mind’s individual component parts all visibly stop for a moment, then heard a thundering exclamation in her mind.
“DAMN.”
The Second Mind let the cards fall, and swept them into the air and individual decks. They landed to the side, and Geneva and Idis halted as the [Guardian] bowed.
“Will you need anything else, Second Mind?”
“Retrieve a chair for the [Doctor]. And food, drinks. Also, I am informed our banana stock is contaminated with beetles?”
“Yes, Second Mind.”
“Fetch me the beetles. And the eggs. I’ll eat them.”
The [Guardian] bowed and left. Leaving Geneva alone with a far stranger example of the Minds than she had hitherto observed. No—the Third Mind was clinical. This Mind was…
“Strange?”
The thought entered her head, like a delicate phrase. She felt like she heard it, but it was a thought. The Second Mind seemed to regard her, slowly rotating around as if all of its ‘body’ were looking at her. It was identical in form to the Third Mind, but the paraphernalia it surrounded itself with, the clear differentiation in the corridors?
“Personality. You—are a different personality than the Third Mind.”
“Yes. I am.”
That alone revealed something to Geneva. The Third Mind spoke in the collective. The royal ‘we’. The Second Mind seemed animated. Individual.
“Rather, I make an effort to act as an individual. To play games. To tax myself and rest. The other Minds tend towards collectivism. To survive, we must create different opinions and points of view. Each one of us is made up of Selphids we choose to accept into ourselves. Yet that is our great weakness.”
The Second Mind was reading her thoughts. Speaking into her head. Geneva bit her tongue, and the Second Mind spoke again.
“Then I shall apologize, Geneva Scala. I shall wait for your words rather than hear them as you think them. This is polite. The Minds have enjoyed…three…visitors over the last ten years. So I shall apologize, though that is the least of the issues binding you here. Speak. You are a guest. Speak also, Idis. This is a conversation.”
Geneva saw Orell returning with a chair. Idis stammered.
“I—I greet you, Second Mind! I apologize if I do anything rude or—I’m honored to be in your presence!”
“Yes…you are. Doctor Scala, by comparison, is not. Speak freely, Geneva Scala.”
She realized she was sitting, facing the Second Mind. Geneva hesitated.
“I…am at a loss for words. You are not like the Third Mind. I met with you once.”
“In enclave, with the other five. Yes.”
“You did not sound like this, then.”
“When we are together, we think as one. So you meet a gestalt of all. Here, you meet separate nuances of us. Just as a single Selphid is a personality. I am the Second Mind. Inventor. Far thinker. The Selphids who embody my personality and will are not like the Third Mind. We are in opposition, they and I.”
Another revealing statement. Geneva blinked. The Second Mind waited, then seemed to conclude she wasn’t going to speak. It went on.
“You have been a prisoner/‘guest’/in the custody of the Minds for nearly a month now. Your focus has been with the Third Mind, who seeks to cure the Wasting of Selphids. It has led the initiative. This Mind, I, attempted to communicate with you. I was denied, due to conflicting interests. The Third Mind’s failure today presented a breaching point in the discussion.”
“Failure. You mean…when I felt the memories of the Selphid who loved that Dullahan?”
“Yes. Very dangerous. You could have lost something. Or gained something. The Third Mind pushes too hard, too fast. Now, the other Minds sense it. A consensus was reached. 4-2; an upset after a deadlock of 3-3. You understand, we sometimes think together. But given personalities, we argue. We vote. Hence your presence here.”
She was beginning to understand. Idis gasped, but quietly. She whispered in Geneva’s ears.
“The Minds argue?”
The Second Mind didn’t respond to that. Maybe it was being honest and not reading her thoughts.
You can hear my thoughts, can’t you? 
Geneva ‘thought’ that, but the Second Mind didn’t respond. But if it was a telepath who could read into her head, it would know that she was suspicious of it anyways and wouldn’t believe it was being polite. But if it could reach into her head…
Confusing. Beyond confusing. This had been an altering experience to begin with, to meet with creatures as foreign to Geneva’s understanding of this world as magic was to Earth. Now, she realized this was indeed a turning point.
But what kind?
“You are suspicious of me. Understandable. But I would hope you will speak. Honestly. Ask me any question. Tell me anything. I will answer. I hope to reach an understanding.”
Geneva started. She frowned, slowly, and her hands clenched reflexively.
“An understanding. Couldn’t you simply—force whatever understanding you desired on me? Change my attitude? This is not an equal relationship…Second Mind. I am, as you said, a captive held against my will. I would like to be freed. Now. That is my desire.”
Something like a sigh ran through her mind. Several of the scrying orbs abruptly went dark. The Second Mind left the perfect bowl in the center of the room and actually floated closer. Idis made a squeaking sound in Geneva’s head.
“From inception of this idea to present, I informed the other Minds this was a foolish plan. I was supported only by the Sixth Mind, and the Sixth Mind only speaks of the abhorrence of a Selphid in a living being’s body. That is anathema and they believe in that law above all others. I? I say that this is a poor way to make allies of another world. Yet the Third Mind—and the other Minds—seem insular to me. Selfish. You are here to cure the Wasting. I say: we should have asked, and supported you until you chose to come of your own volition.”
Geneva stared at the countless Selphids, almost entranced, then glared upwards.
“That—is a convenient answer. Given all that has happened to me.”
“Yes. Quite. But it is the truth, and the other Minds voted. 4-2. A collective always votes via majority. It seems to me to be foolish. The will of the largest party is not always correct; indeed, it favors actions that will preserve the majority. Ergo, the Minds act selfishly. The Wasting affects all Selphids, but we have long lifespans. Yet it strikes at seemingly random, and, given its nature, it affects the Minds predominantly because we are comprised of so many Selphids. Selfishly, frightened because we are dying piece by piece, we voted to take you against your will.”
That made sense. Geneva blinked. She actually leaned forwards.
“That—does sound selfish. I am told that Selphids can live for many, many years. You have a lifespan longer than the average Human, but the Wasting cuts it short very quickly once it develops. It is a plague, but analogous to a disease on my world. A terrible one, but…”
“Cancer?”
The term shocked Geneva, but the Second Mind floated back.
“The Third Mind communicates its findings. Another world. Implications of worlds, plural. How were you transported? The First Mind is investigating a gateway. The anomalous events of the Summer Solstice. Wistram. It is all concerning, but I am concerned with you, Geneva Scala. This is wrong. The Sixth Mind understands. Selphids are hated because we are the ‘bodysnatchers of Baleros’. Because we made empire and slaves of people in ways even Roshal could not. Now, look what happens. A full circle.”
And in that moment, Geneva saw the Second Mind change. The Selphids in its body shifted as a hole opened in the center and, for a second, it was a giant ring, a perfect circle with a hole in the center, moving clockwise. To illustrate its point.
“You—you are completely different from the Third Mind. How is this possible? You are completely animated, and—can you explain this?”
Geneva saw the Second Mind return to its orb-form.
