“Hm. Good point. But we nearly died getting here a few times. How fast are Couriers these days? At least this one’s not a teleporter…”
Luan’s grin grew wider. It was all distant, falling away. It had been so long. He had entered a warzone. Fought undead. He missed his wife and son and he had thought he was dead. He had met the little folk of Baleros and seen real magic. He had met something on the Summer Solstice.
And through all of it. After all this time, at last—no, he’d ‘competed’ with Lizardfolk at that village, once. But not really competed. Not with anything on the line.
Oredien had no idea why he was getting nervous. The half-Elf bounced on his feet as the Dullahan stomped over.
“Very well, I shall give you a count. On zero. From ten. Beginning…ten, nine, eight…”
The crowd was hushed. Bets were placed, and Wistram got the feed but weren’t sure if they really wanted to run it. A bored [Mage] was eying the two and concluding that it would be a good show on the City Runner’s corner, but nothing close to the half-Elf Courier. Although…he was Human…but there was no way. Although that was an odd vehicle.
“…seven, six, five, four…”
Why? Why was Luan smiling, though his records indicated he was far below the Wave Runner’s speed? Why was the half-Elf concentrated, even nervous? He felt pressured. And the answer was too complicated to explain. But it was simply this.
“Three! Two! One—”
Luan tensed. Oredien crouched, but he was a Courier. No sprinter. He had doubtless survived life-or-death scenarios, but there was a difference between the two. If it was survival, he might beat Luan, or fight his way to a destination or…many things.
But here was Luan. [Athlete]. Olympian from another world. The finest competitor you’d be able to meet in either one.
“Zero!”
Oredien took off. He leapt into the water before the voices could cheer, with the speed only a Courier could obtain. His feet touched the running water’s surface—and the water rippled, and he pushed off.
The Wave Runner ran on the water’s surface, his boots leaving a trail of splashing impacts. The water running down towards the sea was like a second ground to him, one only he could run on.
But everything else was the same. The river was going downhill, and so Oredien leapt downwards, like someone running down the hill, boosted by Skills and his long-legged sprint.
[Pure Acceleration]! [Half-Giant’s Stride]! [Elk’s Run]!
Three Skills used all at once. Overkill for a race? As poorly as it might reflect on him—Oredien was doing it on purpose. Luan would give up after the first mile’s gap. The half-Elf hit the surf as the inlet met the sea in minutes. He charged into the first huge wave, cursed, and vaulted it.
“Damn tide—”
But it benefitted him in the long run, because the scull would struggle in those kinds of waves, Oredien was sure. He turned, racing southwards along the coast. But first—Oredien surged further away from the beach. It was bad footing right where the surf happened. He was panting, more from the adrenaline than being tired.
He could make the journey in three hours normally. He’d probably hit two if he burned every Skill in him. Oredien was ready for the Maelstrom’s Howling to maybe ambush him; though, he was promised an escort once he got close to the city. The Iron Vanguard even had a fleet nearby. So he’d run far enough away from the coast to avoid any ‘accidental’ arrows, and then…
The half-Elf was glancing over his shoulder, just in case, to see if Luan was even visible. He knew the Human wasn’t. He was no Courier. Oredien had heard he was fast, a very capable Human on the rise, but there was no way he’d—
“Duck!”
The half-Elf saw the biggest arrow he’d ever seen in his life streaking at his face. For a second he thought the Centaurs had pulled out a ballista—then he recognized the bright red paint. He threw himself sideways and nearly went into the water.
“What the—”
Luan hit the water. He swerved right. Oredien saw him dip his oars in the water. The Human had shouted at him to warn the Wave Runner. Now he grinned.
“See you.”
“What?”
The half-Elf saw Luan heave—and then accelerate. It was like watching an arrow leave a bowstring. The scull blurred and actually left the water for nearly four seconds.
“Damn!”
Luan exclaimed. The scull wobbled as it landed, but no sooner had it begun to slow than he dipped his oars into the water and heaved again. All of this took place in moments. Oredien saw it all. It looked like Luan was skipping across the water, barely even touching it. He saw the City Runner accelerating, the man’s raised brows, his arms blurring back to reset his oars with perfect form.
It was only then, as the half-Elf began to sink—he’d thrown out a hand to catch himself and it was sinking into the ocean’s surface—that he realized he’d stopped running. He began to charge.
After Luan. He could swear the man was laughing. Not at him, but with just the sheer joy of how fast he was moving. He had that look—of someone who had reached…this level for the first time. Oredien remembered it. Then the laughter stopped, and Luan began to row faster. But Oredien could swear he heard some other voices. Figments of his imagination. It sounded like—
 
——
 
“Waaaaaa—”
Thump.
“Gyaaaah—”
Thump.
“We’re going to f—”
Thump.
“Mai tongs! I bith—”
Thump.
Every time they left the surface, every time Luan pulled, the scull shot slightly out of the water. The sheer speed of it and momentum might have actually started to damage a lesser craft. Luan certainly would have feared wind shear slowing them down, let alone the water.
But the only effect the wind had was on him. It dragged at his arms and body, but the scull cut through the water and air alike with barely any resistance. The Fraerlings were holding on, and it was Noa screaming in his earpiece.
One of the two Tallguard accompanying Noa shouted at Luan.
“We’re going too fast!”
He was patently terrified of the sight of an ocean of water zooming past them, and they’d capsized before in the trial runs. But the other Tallguard was screaming.
“Faster! Faster! Beat that half-Elf!”
To Luan’s great amusement, the [Alchemist]-[Magus], Resk, was poking his head out of his place, though he’d tied a piece of string to keep himself from flying away. The older Fraerling with a beard, [Mage]’s robes, was screaming back at his bodyguards.
“Too fast? Shut your mouth! There’s no such thing!”
Noa was holding her tongue, but the Fraerlings were cheering like mad as, behind them, the Wave Runner gave chase.
The mad Fraerlings of Paeth on the Coast had given Luan the greatest scull to ever exist. It had flaws—like its penchant to launch itself out of the water, which could result in a complete wipeout if Luan hit something wrong, but he’d learned to steady himself. [Anchor Balance] helped a lot; it was hard for him to tilt the already secure scull.
But more than that, they’d added a bunch of experimental features. Including a mirror on either side like a car’s side mirrors that let Luan see ahead. He was facing backwards so he had a perfect view of the half-Elf chasing after them.
“He’s picking up speed, Luan! He’s using another Skill!”
“Got it. My turn. I’m doing it again! Hold on!”
“No, no, no! Not again! That’s how we nearly died last time! Don’t—”
The male Tallguard, Cotm, shouted. But he and the other three were already clinging to the bars. Luan put his oars into the water and shouted.
“[Two Hundred Pound Stroke]—”
Luan didn’t know exactly how much power he put into each pull of the oars regularly. But his Skill definitely had a quantifiable number. He never finished the Skill—he left his thoughts and voice behind him.
 
——
 
The Wistram broadcast was on a definite delay. It even had a marker in the corner, because they had to catch the audience up from the beginning. Drassi charged into the studio in her pajamas. She led with this simple question:
“Do you believe a Human can fly?”
Daly was having breakfast and scratching at a recent tick bite. He reached for a glass of juice and Paige spat out her entire mouthful of cereal all over him. The old Cerealbreath blaster.
“Fuck, Paige! What’s—”
 
——
 
Luan screamed. Noa screamed. Everyone screamed, and got to scream for a long time. They were in the air. And just like last time—the scull was angling, headed straight for the water and they were going to go into it, then flip out as the enchantments—
“[Featherfall]! [Featherfall]!”
Resk cast the spell and the scull levelled out just in time. Luan saw the front go under in the mirror, but heaved, and they shot forwards again in another hop.
“I want to go home!”
Cotm was shouting. But Luan was rowing again, and Oredien? The Wave Runner’s mad dash hadn’t gotten him any closer. In fact, he was staring at Luan. The man could see his clear confusion.
What is…?
Now this was, uh, scull-racing! Luan laughed as he pulled ahead, again. The scrying spell following him was trying to clock their speeds.
The Wave Runner was fast. He could beat any ship going without specific enchantments. He had a land speed on water that any [Rider] would envy. It was indeed hard for most vessels to match land-speed.
Sea, land, air, in terms of priority. Except—if you’d ever seen someone cross Igawiz’s Jet. If you’d ever seen The Pride of the Wellfar at top speed.
“He’s falling behind! This City Runner—I’m told his name is Luan—Luan the Rower—is breaking his speed record by multiple factors! What is that thing? A canoe for one?”
Drassi was commentating the race with Sir Relz. The Drake was trying to peer at the object.
“It’s no known object I’ve seen. Some hybrid canoe and er…”
“You don’t know? Then I get to commentate! Out, out! [Commentators] only get to talk if they know anything! I’m Drassi, [Reporter], and I say that Human is going fast!”
Luan was zooming along, heading out to sea to avoid the chop. The first jump of when he used his Skill had been a mistake, dramatic or not. He’d slowed down to compensate, and was picking up speed.
It didn’t get boring though, even though the race was longer than ten minutes—or even one hour. For one thing—just look at him.
 
——
 
“That’s a Human. I mean—no. That’s an Earther! One of us! It has to be! Richard! Richard!”
Emily was shouting for him in Rhir. She was hardly the only person to take one look at him and jump to the conclusion. It wasn’t just her, though.
 
——
 
There was just something about the way he moved. Magus Grimalkin ignored Troydel’s excited voice. He leaned forwards.
“Hm. Magnify. Magnify.”
The view enhanced until you could see Luan. Dark-skinned, set in his seat. And then you observed his form.
Legs, body, core, all moving as one. When he pulled, the technique saw him ‘crouch’ forwards. The seat actually moved with him on some kind of rollers. He timed when the blades of his oars hit the water, pulled with one huge effort that combined his legs and arms’ strength, and then lifted the blades out of the water, tilting them sideways to reduce air drag. Then they were ready to pull again.
“Look at that. Look at that! What economy of form! What a refined movement!”
Grimalkin was striding up and down his ranks of students, which included more Gnolls than Drakes, pointing. Each time Luan moved, Grimalkin would indicate another group of muscles flexing. Shining, under the sun.
“This is conditioning! Look at his fat-to-muscle ratio. And he is not failing in his form! It has been thirty minutes and his speed hasn’t dropped! Gonads! This Human has gonads! We will be adapting this exercise if I have to create a lake!”
“What about a rowing machine?”
Troydel saw Grimalkin’s head snap around.
“You. Explain.”
But even as he listened, he looked at Luan. There was more than mere appreciation there. Respect. The Human was rowing at an incredible pace. But—he wasn’t slowing.
 
——
 
Luan could honestly row on a conventional scull. But he couldn’t here because this scull, enchanted as it was, actually meant that his maximum pace would send them out of control. Same with the oars—he had to balance his form to avoid them hitting waves. In a more controlled environment…
But he had gone so long! Luan had trained in multiple areas, before specializing in the single scull—and he was in excellent shape—but the men’s single sculls was a time attack. Seven minutes? That was seven minutes of your utmost energy.
Forty minutes and he felt like he was still in the top 90% of his energy. This was [Greater Endurance]. This was the effect of surviving for countless days at sea.
And yet—lest you forget—Luan glanced up.
The Wave Runner was still keeping pace. Every time he tried to speed up, Luan kept ahead of him. It was a psychological attack as much as a desire not to have Oredien pass him. If the half-Elf slowed, Luan would happily leave him behind, but they were close.
Running was, inherently, a bit easier than sculling to Luan’s mind. You could get ultramarathoners. He didn’t hear about people sculling for forty eight hours.
But with his Skills he had Oredien in a break-neck race. He just had to keep going, and to look at the half-Elf, he’d burned through a lot of his stamina to begin with too. Ironically, they’d both acted a bit like rookies for a longer race; pushed themselves too fast, too soon. But that was okay—Luan had a cheering team.
“Mouth!”
Noa saw Luan open his mouth. She tossed the snack up at him and saw him chew, furiously.
“Got any stamina potions? Water?”
He panted. Another Fraerling heaved at the stamina potion.
“Hold on, it’s h—whoops. Uh oh.”
They were moving so fast that the heave of Luan’s oars caught the potion and, freed from his belt, it zipped away from them, appearing to be stationary in the air. The Tallguard shaded her eyes.
“Uh…well, I think the half-Elf’s got the potion. As in, it just smacked him in the face. Hear him swearing?”
Luan didn’t, but he saw it. Noa helped them grab another one. And they continued. However—
 
——
 
“He is alive.”
Xol of Ingrilt sounded vaguely pleased. The Dullahan [Admiral] pursed her lips. Her head was monitoring the situation while her body paced back and forth.
“You sound pleased.”
“I am. I did not ask for him to die.”
“He is interfering with the Iron Vanguard’s victory. It is patently obvious that the Wave Runner is struggling. We cannot trust this merely to chance. Move the fleet to intercept.”
By chance or fate, theirs was the fleet in the area. Xol slowly rotated his head as the gigantic War Walker aboard the warship saw their heading change. He eyed the projection of the [Admiral]’s map.
