An exasperated Lizardman [Server] was navigating one of the packed restaurants, fighting off hungry Lizardfolk who all insisted they’d ordered it. Fortunately, he remembered the client and spotted a waving hand.
“Here you are, sir! Don’t let them—who took one of the crab legs? Sorry.”
He went back for more food as a huge cheer went up from the river.
“Someone’s got it! A Purewater Pearl!”
The Wave Runner, Oredien, looked up and grinned as a commotion broke out on shore. Everyone ran to look. Who was it? Who had gotten the pearl first?
The Maelstrom’s Howling company, that’s who. They were fighting their way up the streets, Centaurs stamping their hooves, forcing the crowd back. They had the pearl and they wanted it delivered now.
But…and here the first note of alarm entered Ysai’s small moment.
Would the Iron Vanguard stand for that? Because here a detachment came, Dullahans marching in their ranks. The Centaurs slowed and they aimed their bows warily at the ground. Lizardfolk saw the second group coming and now they were pushing to get out of the way.
“Hold your fire! This is neutral ground! You have no legs to stand on, Iron Vanguard. Don’t make this escalate.”
The Centaur leading their group warned the Iron Vanguard’s representative. The Dullahan who replied had some kind of pale steel armor, a different alloy than normal.
“This will not come to blows. But we will inhibit your progress.”
“Good luck with that. Courier Oredien—to the [Jeweler] in Hemglass, please. Courtesy of the Maelstrom’s Howling company.”
With some fanfare, the Centaur offered the Wave Runner the bag, in case this appeared on the news. Hemglass was further south, one of the big cities just north of Talenqual.
The half-Elven Courier…didn’t move. He looked at the Centaur, who shook the bag impatiently, and sighed.
“I’m sorry, sir. I’m afraid I’ve been booked for another delivery.”
The Centaur’s face went slack for a moment. Then he turned pale. The Dullahan’s representative smiled slightly.
“You—how much are they paying you?”
“I can’t name numbers, sir. I’m afraid it was pre-agreed.”
Upset! Lizardfolk ran around in the streets, shouting. It was all a trick! The Iron Vanguard had pre-hired the Wave Runner before he came to the city, and the idiots in the Maelstrom’s Howling Company hadn’t gotten a backup!
Now that was the kind of underhanded play people were here to see. Tulm the Mithril, back at it again. The Centaur galloped towards the [Mages].
“Get me any Courier in the region! A—a City Runner?”
But a City Runner, beating a Courier? Couriers did runs in mere hours that took City Runners days. The Maelstrom’s Howling’s leader was panicking, but there was a chance. If the Iron Vanguard didn’t find another Purewater Pearl soon, if…
A cheer from the river. The Centaur turned and the Dullahans began to smile with, what was for them, exuberant victory. The Dullahans had just found their own magic pearl.
“We’ll offer you half again what the Iron Vanguard is paying.”
The Centaur swung around to the Wave Runner. The Courier hesitated, but he had to shake his head.
“I’m afraid it’s pre-arranged, sir. I’m sorry—”
“You won’t hear the last of this! The Maelstrom’s Howling will remember this!”
“And so will the Iron Vanguard. You can’t threaten a Courier.”
The Dullahan and Centaur were arguing as the Centaurs galloped around, calling for an emergency teleportation spell—but it was a magic pearl—debating having one of their own try to run down one of the trade routes.
But even Centaurs weren’t close to Courier-levels, and the Wave Runner had the straightest shot down the coast. The second pearl was being transported up the hill and now the Centaurs were blocking the Dullahans, jostling with them and shouting.
Low-level drama. In the grand scheme of things. Not even scrying orb-worthy, because it seemed like a predestined loss. But it was more interesting, especially to the person who’d ordered oysters. He’d finished his plate, left a tip—but he had to wave the [Server] down so one of the Lizardfolk didn’t steal it.
“Here you are.”
“Thank you! You ate that fast. Was it not that good or too good?”
The restaurant’s guest grinned, and flashed the Lizardman a smile which was returned toothily.
“I’m in a hurry. It was great, yeah? Loved the crabs.”
“Thank you! Ooh, thanks for the tip! Come again!”
The Lizardman waved, and the person pushed through the crowds. He muttered under his breath as he went.
“…I wish I’d had any of the crab.”
A little figure half-poked her head out of the hiding place on his clothing before a hand yanked her out of sight. She retorted via the speaking stone they’d placed in his ear.
“It was great crab! I told you we were hungry! We never get great crab at Paeth. You thought we’d eat one leg? I told you we ate lots, but no, you had to get one order.”
“Noa, I swear, you’d drive the Gnomes insane. Stop poking your head out!”
A muffled argument in the Human man’s ear. He grinned, but he was pushing his way through the crowd. The crestfallen Centaur was watching Oredien accept the pearl with literal fanfare from some Dullahan [Trumpeters], and waving. Casually. And why not? He had the drop on everyone and there was no one to match…
“Excuse me!”
The crowd broke up. The Centaur turned and Oredien slowed. What was it? Perhaps it was the species of the Human man who trotted forwards. Perhaps his height, or the fact that he was clearly in excellent, just amazing shape. Perhaps it was a sense of drama, an instinct about what was coming next.
Perhaps it was the speaking spell on his voice, cast by a miniature [Mage].
“Who’s this?”
The Iron Vanguard’s representative was impatient, but the Centaur turned to the newcomer with pure desperation.
“I’m a City Runner. I specialize in sea-deliveries. I heard the Maelstrom’s Howling company needed a runner?”
A disbelieving laugh from the crowd and the Centaur. He almost reared back and looked down at the Human, skeptically.
“We do need a fast Runner. A Courier. There’s the Wave Runner. We need someone to beat him to Hemglass.”
The Human smiled. Confidently, which caught the eye of the Centaur, who’d been trained to tell confidence and false bravado apart.
“I’m headed towards Talenqual, actually. That’s a perfect delivery for me.”
The Centaur snorted and the Wave Runner chuckled, but he eyed the other Runner up and down, a bit speculatively.
“I’m sorry if I didn’t clarify—I want you to arrive before that Courier and deliver it. Since I don’t think a…what, a City Runner can do that? No offense…”
He trailed off, because the man hadn’t stopped smiling. He glanced at Oredien.
“Well, why don’t we see who gets there first? I’m not a Courier. But I’ll tell you what. I’ll take the delivery, and if I fail, I’ll pay you for the Purewater Pearl and take no payment for the attempt. Deal?”
“Oooh. Did you hear that? That City Runner thinks he can beat the Wave Runner!”
Shouts from the crowd, and a reignited sense of interest. It wasn’t every day you got to see a race.
The Centaur from the Maelstrom’s Howling’s company raised his brows. He checked the Human. They had the same skin tone, but something about his accent and the way he was glancing at Oredien made the Centaur doubt he was a native Balerosian. He did look fit, though…and the Wave Runner was eying him.
“You’re a City Runner?”
“That’s right, sir.”
“Well, that’s not a bad deal for us given that the pearl’s useless if we lose. I’m warning you, though—it’s not cheap.”
The man shrugged.
“It works for me. I could use one. Sell it—I’m willing to take the risk. Besides, what have you got to lose?”
He grinned, and the Centaurs stomped their hooves approvingly. They did like a show of bravado. The Dullahans, on the other hand, didn’t like this new variable. Although…he was only a City Runner. They were subtly looking at the Wave Runner to run off, but the half-Elf stepped forwards.
“Excuse me. May I ask your name? I am Oredien, Courier. They call me the Wave Runner. I think I know you. I thought you were dead.”
The Human turned and took the half-Elf’s hand. He grinned.
“I’m Luan. Luan Khumalo. City Runner, affiliated with the United Nations company.”
Oredien’s eyes lit up. At the same time, one of the Dullahans recoiled and eyed Luan with sudden recognition.
“Ah. I knew I had heard of you! Luan the [Rower], that’s your nickname, isn’t it? I heard someone claimed a bounty on you. But they were arrested for murder.”
“Were they? They nearly got me. Those Lizard-bastards.”
“Hey! That’s fairly accurate, but hey! It’s not all of us!”
Luan grinned and waved at someone in the crowd. The light caught a hint of gold. Writing—a tattoo on his arm. Oredien eyed it, but looked at Luan.
“Listen. I appreciate you’re fast, but I do have a reputation to maintain. I’ll be running as fast as I can.”
“That’s fine.”
The half-Elf’s brows rose. Luan wasn’t being insulting—not quite. You could read it that way, but it sounded less like bravado. More like someone who was just…confident.
The Centaur was exchanging a [Message] with his superior. He trotted over, eying Luan. The crowd was already on board with this idea. They were already chanting.
“Race, race!” 
“It’s a race!” 
“Someone get Wistram! I want to be on the news!”
“If you’re confident, I won’t stop you. I’m interested to see what makes you think you can beat me. Share a drink afterwards, no hard feelings?”
Luan’s teeth flashed as he grinned.
“Absolutely, my friend.”
The Dullahan’s leader glared about, adjusting his head haughtily.
“This is ridiculous.”
“Don’t be upset. I intend to fulfill my contract; but it’s poor sport for a Courier to turn down a race. Think of it as publicity. See?”
The Runner’s Guild was open and a [Receptionist]—no, the Guildmaster himself—had come out to record the race. But the Centaur was still doubtful.
“Are you sure about this? We don’t want to embarrass ourselves any more than you do, I imagine. I’m reluctant to just give this to a random City Runner.”
Luan tilted his head. He thought for a second, on how to reassure the Centaur, and, at last, grinned.
“I’m new, but trust me. I’ll put on a show. Besides—I’ve got a score to settle with the Iron Vanguard myself.”
“Really. This bounty?”
The Centaur tilted his head. Luan glanced over at the Dullahans.
“That. But that started at the Games of Daquin. I was there.”
The crowd was agog. Then—they looked at Luan, and someone pointed.
“That was the Human who was with Umina, Venaz, and Marian! I thought he looked familiar!”
“No way! It’s the same Human? But they all look alike!”
“I want an autograph!”
Luan backed up as the crowd surged forwards, but the Centaurs and Dullahan soldiers blocked them. Now, Oredien was looking at Luan. That convinced the Centaur.
“Here you are, then. To the [Jeweler]. Sitq the Setter. Anyone should be able to direct you there. I’d find a map, but…”
Oredien glanced at Luan. He walked over and held out his pouch. Luan was debating putting his into a bag of holding or tying it to his belt.
“Well, it looks like it is a race. I’ll take it seriously. Do you want to start anywhere?”
Luan glanced up.
“You could start running. I need to get to the water.”
The Wave Runner glanced knowingly at Luan.
“Ah, right. You use a boat.”
“Scull.”
The half-Elf blinked at the unfamiliar term.
“I’ll start there.”
“You’re very sporting. Thank you.”
The two began walking towards the riverbank, which was muddied from all the work, littered with oyster shells. They walked a bit downriver with an army of people following them.
Dullahans, Centaurs. Lizardfolk. And now the Mage’s Guild was sending a [Mage] to record this moment. Luan reached for something and—to Oredien’s surprise—produced a vehicle which he placed on the shore, just before the water.
“That’s a beautiful little craft. What did you call it? A scull?”
Luan nodded. He began to get in, on a very, very thin seat in a practically arrow-like vehicle. Oredien didn’t look away, even as the Dullahan representative hurried over to remind him how important it was that he won.
What a strange collection of objects the Human man had. His dress hadn’t been regular cloth, but a kind of skin-tight suit. And he had two oars. Even a kind of bar that kept them in place.
“Not a kayak.”
Oredien was familiar with smaller crafts, but this was completely different. It was aerodynamic, practically vertical, and you sat higher up on it, despite it being virtually just on top of the water.
A strange craft, and yet the City Runner seemed at home in it, like a [Rider] with a horse. It was also clear the vehicle was very well-made. It was wood, but someone had painted it a very bright red, and the half-Elf couldn’t help but notice—it was definitely enchanted.
“This might be a serious challenge after all. Give me a second?”
He began to stretch out his legs. Luan adjusted himself, breathing in and out, smiling.
It was that damned smile. That was when the Iron Vanguard’s representative sent an urgent [Message], when the Wave Runner decided not to take it even the slightest bit easy, and the Maelstrom’s Howling’s Centaur began to hope.
Luan smiled like what he was. An athlete. And this?
It had been a long time. He pulled the oars back, his bare arms shining under the bright sun. He saw a scrying orb heading his way, and wondered if this had gone too far, but he couldn’t help it. He wore something close to his uniform from home; no sleeves, close to the skin, and he wished he had some glasses to block the glare.
But aside from that? The scull was light on the ground as it dipped into the water. So light that he felt like it might lose its connection with the ground. He didn’t even feel the weight of the oars.
“…That’s an enchanted craft he has there.”
A Centaur [Mage] whispered to her superior. Luan winked at the Lizardgirl with the gold coin. She waved a claw.
“Can I get an autograph?”
“If I win, I’ll come back and you can get one.”
The half-Elf laughed at that, but he and Luan traded another look. Luan was breathing calmly, but his heartbeat was picking up. The Fraerlings were arguing in his ear, but distantly.
“So we get a Purewater Pearl either way. That’s great for the allotment and, frankly, we can use the purification powers for all the refugees.”
“Think he can win? Noa, don’t gamble away everything.”
“You’re going to bet against our craftspeople?”
