“Naturally. The Third Mind told you what we are.”
“An amalgamation of Selphids. A…hive mind of sorts. Leaders of the Selphid people.”
“Ah. Aaaah. What a revealing lie. We cannot lie, because we think. But we reveal ourselves.”
The Second Mind sounded displeased. It floated backwards, and with what looked like growing agitation, began moving chess pieces. It kept thinking at her.
“We are not leaders of the Selphids. To clarify: this Gathering Citadel is one of the ruling bodies. The Minds certainly occupy a leadership role. But we have not been stewards of Selphids in every era. Or even universally today. Selphids, individuals, have historically commanded us and we act as advisors/guides/aides. I consider that possibly superior to this. The Third Mind believes Minds are superior to ordinary Selphids. Revealing.”
Geneva nodded. She felt engaged—and perhaps that was because she wasn’t in the Second Mind. Even so—she was aware this was just a conversation that sounded friendly.
“Nevertheless, here I am. It sounds as though the Minds have an inefficient system? Or that they are…different to your personality. Again, why are you different?”
The Second Mind floated back.
“Because I choose to accept Selphids into myself that have a certain perspective. I am represented by Selphids of every kind. From [Warrior] to [Mage] to [Potter]; only a few Minds are specialized, such as the Fourth Mind. Yet I did not screen by class. I deliberately incepted into my being two thirds Selphids with a particular quality. Will you guess?”
Geneva frowned.
“I hate guessing games.”
“Ah.”
“I love guessing games. Can I try, Geneva?”
Idis whispered. Geneva pursed her lips, but let her give it a shot.
“Second Mind, I’m speaking. Idis. Uh—is it that you took in really creative minds? Authority figures? Something like that? Like—a Gold-rank team leader rather than just a regular adventurer?”
“What is creativity? How would I judge that, Selphid to Selphid? As to authority—no. The answer is simple. I chose travellers. Selphids that left the shores of Baleros. They are in me. The ones who lived all their lives abroad, from Chandrar, Rhir, Izril, Terandria. Who understand how we are seen abroad. Who think differently.”
“I see. How—”
Intelligent? Geneva almost said it, but she wasn’t sure.
“Surely the other Minds do the same.”
The Second Mind sounded unhappy.
“They do. Yet consider the flaw, Geneva Scala, who is a [Doctor], and understand more than we. The other Minds only see you as a resource because they will not acknowledge the individual can surpass the collective. We are many minds. If one voice shouts—”
“…It’s drowned out.”
The flaw of the Minds appeared in Geneva’s mind suddenly and with perfect clarity. The Second Mind sounded sardonically pleased.
“Flaw. We are not superior beings to Selphids. We are superior in our own ways, just as they are in their own. An amalgamation of thoughts has vulnerability. Chief of all—to complacency. Uniformity. Decay.”
Food for thought. Literally. In another situation, Geneva would be in the thick of comparing this alien biology and culture to her own. But—she shifted in the comfortable chair.
“You have answered my questions, Second Mind. Thank you for your clarity. But again. I am a prisoner and I will state this plainly: I am an unwilling one. I regard this as a violation of my natural rights. I do not wish to be here, but I am being compelled to help you—Selphids as a whole. I wish to be freed. Will you free me?”
“Geneva…”
Idis whispered. Guiltily. The Second Mind took its time responding. When it did, it was plain.
“I cannot do more than argue with the other Minds. It took a 4-2 majority to summon you here. It will take the same to impel your leaving in a…safe manner. To tell you anything is for the Third Mind to hear it. If I were to hint.”
Idis gasped. Geneva blinked. The Second Mind went on, blasé.
“Which I did not, and the Third Mind cannot use this conversation against me. Yet I maintain: this situation is unpleasant. For me on multiple grounds. Ethical. For our relationship with your world. And purely in how it motivates you and for actual assistance. And how it will seem to other species if they discover this. In short—I am against this course. But you are under the broad authority of the Third Mind.”
“Second Mind. I—I understand what you’re saying. I know I might get in trouble—but I do. I agree!”
Idis burst out. The Second Mind regarded her, and the Selphid shivered in Geneva.
“Your guilt is moral, Idis. You have it now. Where was it when you received orders from Calectus to take Geneva Scala?”
“Second Mind? But he was an [Honor Guard] and—”
The Selphid quailed. The Second Mind went on.
“Why do you see Calectus’ words as absolute? Because he is an [Honor Guard]? That is a class. Because his orders came from the Minds? That is absolutist thinking. You observe we are divided. Ergo, we are not perfect. Therefore, we will not always give you orders without flaws. So yes. Be guilty.”
“Enough.”
Geneva interrupted the Second Mind. It floated away from her a pace. The Selphid was shaking so hard Geneva’s own hand was shaking. Something more than mere words came through the telepathic communication between the Second Mind and her. The pure disapproval was almost painful, and Geneva was not the recipient.
“You wish to defend Idis?”
“You are moralizing. I don’t approve of hurting anyone. I am your prisoner. Idis is complicit. You…are hypocritical.”
The Second Mind floated there. It did not laugh. But it sounded amused.
“Your ethical nature revealed itself in the Third Mind’s thoughts about you. You know, it was willing to offer you Selphids who would volunteer for cures for this Wasting disease. I believe the Third Mind hoped you could engineer a cure similar to the Yellow Rivers treatment.”
“That’s not how it works.”
“No. But it convinced itself that was possible. Now, you are in the Third Mind. You know your situation is untenable. Once you have completed your research, your fate becomes dangerous to Selphids and the Minds in particular.”
Geneva looked up at the Second Mind and felt a wave of…gratitude. Idis was dead silent. The [Doctor] nodded.
“I know.”
“The Third Mind does need your cooperation. It will try to be kind. It will try to persuade you, because if you resist, it will become more difficult. But once it is over? I believe we will vote.”
A vast presence, for all it spoke more conversationally, floated so close Geneva could touch an individual Selphid. It was not uncaring. But it was foreign and Geneva…
“So what can I do? There’s no way for me to escape. I am…”
She hesitated, and the words came back.
“I am in the center of the Mind. In the presence of the Minds. There’s no way out. You could help me, perhaps. But you are unable to, by your admission. So I am trapped.”
The Second Mind hovered there. For a heartbeat, then another—then something moved.
Selphids. They reached out to her, the physical bodies, like a kind of grasping hand. But it stopped as Geneva recoiled.
“Geneva Scala. You make one assumption wrongly. Like Idis. You think we are invincible in our role, in thought. Thought? I have studied our own nature. Thought is as weak as flesh, only with different faults. I can aid you. All I need is to teach you. Do you wish to learn? The consequences will infuriate the Third Mind. But it will stymie the Third Mind. There are ways to fight, even among Minds.”
Geneva stared at the appendage. Idis was breathless.
“Second Mind. Are you…? Why are you going this far?”
“Idis. Sometimes you must stand up for what you believe in. You and Geneva have a choice.”
“Will it change me? Will I give something up?”
Geneva Scala stared at the Second Mind.
“You will be allowed to choose this. I promise you. It is knowledge. How you use it is up to you.”
The [Doctor] sat there. Idis was silent. But she made a sound as Geneva Scala slowly rose.
“Geneva…”
“I have few options left. But I do have a choice. And since I have a choice—and if you are being honest, Second Mind. I will hear you out. No more.”
So saying, she reached out. Her hand jerked—Idis? Her? But then she touched the Selphids. She was drawn into the Second Mind and heard its voice.
“Very well.”
 
——
 
Some days it seemed like everything was life-or-death moments. Decisions of great and overly complicated consequences where the wrong move—or any move—would hurt someone. Situations where there were no good answers, only bad outcomes.
This was…not that kind of day in the river-city of Ysai. It was certainly frantic, excited, but it had the kind of vibe of fun, rather than ‘we are all going to die if we get near the inciting incident’.
So Lizardfolk were all over the event, cheering on the swearing people actually hard at work. A grumpy Naga kept smacking Lizardfolk into the water where they cheerfully swam about.
“Stay back! If you get in the way of the work I’ll pull off your tails, got it?”
“I’ve got a big one! I’ll sell it for five silv—ulp!”
A Lizardgirl had pulled a giant, dripping wet…thing out of the river where she’d been diving, just upstream of the hard-working people cracking them open and searching them frantically. She fled as the Naga chased after her.
“Give that back you damned thief! This is city property! If you don’t I’ll—”
But before he could swat her, two groups made a beeline for the Lizardgirl, because they’d seen how huge the giant…shell was.
“Five silver. Toss it over!”
A Centaur galloped forwards, splashing into the muck and holding out some silver. Instantly, on the other side of the river, nearly a dozen Dullahans, led by one in gleaming armor, shouted.
“Fifteen silver! Toss it here and you will be paid!”
“A gold coin!”
“Two gold coins!”
“I’ll give you a gold coin and the Bannermare’s signature!”
The Dullahan glared, and came back with a shout as the exasperated Naga [Overseer] stopped.
“Two gold coins and the signature of no less than Tulm the Mithril!”
The Lizardgirl with the giant, dripping object wavered between the two. She made up her mind and ran at the Centaurs.
“I want her signature!”
That was a commentary more on the popularity of the two famous seconds to each Great Company among your young Lizardfolk than the fiscal economics of each signature in the developing market of celebrity-signage.
However, the little incident resulted in a gold coin and a promise for the signature changing claws, and the Centaur trotted back to the group on his side, as more Centaurs trotted about, calling encouragement or even trying to help.
But the crews on the banks of the Ysai were experts. And it seemed the Centaur had made a good purchase, because the object the Lizardgirl turned over turned out to be…
An oyster. It was brackish enough on the banks of the Ysai river for them to survive, and because the city kept the rivers clean and even cultivated the famous oyster beds, this was where you came to get some fine oysters.
Or, if you were more mercantile, their other product.
Pearls.
In this case, not just ‘pearls’, but magic pearls. Because if you were going to have a pearl, it might as well do something.
In this case, the [Pearl Hunters], [Shell Openers], and so on, including even hired [Treasure Seekers], [Divers], and more, were in a frantic race to find a pearl from the many oysters here. Oh, they’d found a number of quite fine ones already, but they were after a Ysai speciality—a Purewater Pearl.
It was a kind of pearl that developed among the oysters here, that purified water. A very valuable object that allowed for saltwater purification, and was thus highly sought after—although it wasn’t that powerful. You got a gallon of freshwater a day if you let it sit in the right amount of saltwater.
Very useful for someone by themselves. But given the cost and the fact that you’d need countless numbers of them for a city…
It had more applications for [Mages] and [Alchemists] than just as it was. But [Jewelers] and such, along with your collectors of fine and rare items like this, sought the Purewater Pearl for that reason, so it was lucrative enough.
“But why are two Great Companies both trying to get the pearl?”
The audience was confused, but one of the chatty Lizardfolk was happy to clue them in.
“It’s a race! Have you heard of the [Jeweler], Sitq the Setter?”
“That’s a silly name.”
“Well, he’s a Lizardfolk! Can you believe that? People say he never wanted to be one of the Naga.”
“No. Really?”
The Lizardfolk in the crowd were, by turns, fascinated and aghast. The know-it-all smugly nodded and went on.
“But he’s really good. Like Level 40 at least! Maybe Level 50? He’s oooold. But he said he was working on a new masterpiece! He calls it the Band of Eight. Or the 8-Band. Or the Octoring!”
Several people groaned, but most of the Lizardfolk were laughing at the name. Yet, humorous as it was…
“It might be relic-class. At least a top-tier artifact. I’m serious! You know how he did it? He took eight pearls, each with a different magical property, and did something magic to them. Apparently they all came within days of each other because they had to be fresh. But guess what happened to the last one? He broke it! Now he needs a Purewater Pearl, so he said that whoever gets one to him first gets to make the first bid on the relic.”
Hence both Maelstrom’s Howling and the Iron Vanguard arriving at Ysai. They were engaging in a competition to both get the Purewater Pearl…and deliver it to the [Jeweler] first. It was about a new artifact. Also, it was about pride, and so the audience was seeing who would get the pearl first.
Because whoever got it first? They would be giving it to the figure casually lounging by the Runner’s Guild, signing autographs and laughing, ready to go.
“That’s the Wave Runner! A Courier’s shown up to do the delivery!”
People pointed at one of the Couriers who could run both water and land.
Funny thing, Runner names. It was always ‘running’ based, so you got the Wind Runner, the Wave Runner, the [Mage]-Runner…
Well, it was easy to remember. And to be fair, the half-Elven Runner had magic boots. Water Walking boots. He had shown up, and since no other Courier was in the region, he’d be delivering the pearl for whomever got to him first.
It was a fun day, and the normally quiet village of Ysai, along the coast and inset to the sea, was having a blast. The food vendors were having a field day, and there was a discount on, you guessed it, oysters.
“Oysters n’ Crab! Who wanted the oysters and the crab thing? Not you, I know you didn’t pay for—hands off!”
