She glared at the wall, boring a hole through it with her stare. After a few seconds, she snapped herself out of it,

“Sorry…I just really, really, really hate that guy.”

I raised an eyebrow, “You know him?”

She shook her head, “No, but I know a few people that knew him. Mainly scientists. From what I pieced together, Yawm is one of those people that doesn’t mind sacrificing a few people. He runs the whole thing, but he, I don’t know, closes his eyes to what he doesn’t want to see. He doesn’t look at the bad parts of what he’s doing.”

I blinked a few times, pausing my ascent, “You mean he thinks he’s a good guy?”

She grimaced, “Yeah. Who was it…That’s right, Hitler thought he was a good guy too, right? Everyone thinks they’re the good guy. Doesn't meant they are. Yawm’s one of those kinds of people. He has good intentions, but they don’t work out. From what I’ve seen, he does more harm than good. Even then…”

Her hand crushed a bit of stone, “He doesn’t think about the people he’s stepped on to get where he is…people like me.”

The seething hatred there was deep as dark water. I sighed, “That sucks..."

Althea's words stuck out in my mind. They pierced like daggers for some reason, and the reason why was at the tip of my tongue. As the feeling grew, I realized why. It was because I kind of did the same thing to her when we met.

When training with her, I didn't pull any punches. I let her have it. Even after all that, I stepped on her to get where I am. This whole time I believed Yawm was the bad guy. If I analyzed the both of us for a minute, there wasn't much different about the two of us.

Maybe in the scale of our actions but not at their cores. I killed that one guy, choking him to death with telekineses. Why? Just to make sure I lived. I might have lived anyways. I killed all the freedom fighters. Why? To make sure I didn't die or kill the planet.

Maybe I could have saved a few of them. I didn't even consider the possibility in the moment though. I did the same thing with Michael and Kelsey. I stomped on them like they were dirt beneath my feet. They weren't people. They were inconveniences.

The more I thought about it, the worse I felt. After crawling up for a moment, I said,

"Hey."

She looked at me, her anger at Yawm melting, “Hmm?”

My eyes turned to the ground beneath us in shame, “I uh…About how I treated you when we met…I was in a dark place. It was uh…I don’t know. I was wrong and…”

I grit my teeth before sighting. I looked up, meeting her eye, “I’m sure it hasn’t been easy for you fighting all this time. I didn’t make it any easier for you. I treated you like dirt, and I’m sorry about it. You deserved better.”

A bit of emotion leaked into my voice as I continued, “I don’t know…I just had a passing thought just now. How I treated you…It was a lot like how my father treated me. I didn’t, no, I don’t want to be like him. I want to be better, a better person than him, a better man. I haven’t really been that kind of person up till now. I want to change that…Maybe this is a good way to start.”

The thoughts tumbled into my head as I spoke them. It wasn’t the kind of announcement you think about before you make it. It was raw and rough and not too pretty to hear either. The thing that made the little speech different from a normal one was that it was genuine. I wasn’t putting up some front or guard. I just opened up for the first time in forever. Hell, I didn’t really mean too.

I glanced away after saying that, crawling up the cliff. Althea didn’t reply as we meandered up the sheer face of rock. Once we reached the top, Hod was asleep, leaning against a rock. He snored loud as a bull while I set down the sparkling artifacts beside him. The whole time, an awkward tension formed between Althea and me. Who knows, maybe it was all in my head. I was too embarrassed to think straight.

I sat down and opened the spacial ring Kessiah gave me. After pulling out the last three packs of rations, I opened my helmet, pouring them onto my face. The milky liquid seeped into my skin like a potent poison, except with nutrients instead of some venomous cocktail. Seconds later, Althea walked over, standing in front of me again. She looked back and forth, awkward as I was.

She tapped her thighs before biting her lip. She said, “I’m sorry too.”

I leaned back, my nose scrunching up, “Wait a second…About what?”

She opened her palms to me,

“This whole time, I thought you were going to kill Yawm by yourself. I was hoping I wouldn’t have to do anything. It wasn’t until that lunch you made me that I understood something...You do remember that lunch you made me right? It was amazing. I realized then that you weren’t just some battle brained lunatic. You just did stuff well, whatever it was.”

She let her arms slap against her sides, “I wasn’t like that. I just wanted this to all be over with. I forgot that you were a person too. You’re not super human…Uh, you are, but uh…You can’t do everything. Sorry for putting everything on you. It wasn’t fair.”

She waved her hands, “And I accept your apology. I tried killing you too. It’s not like you're alone there. If anything, you're the reason I'm out of the lab and I get to cook, sleep in a soft bed, anything fun really...so thank you.”

She flustered around the last part, her silver cheeks turning violet. I sighed in relief, amazed at her apology. I leaned against my knees,

“Thank you. It’s good to know I didn’t fuck everything up.”

She smiled, “Well, not everything, just most things.”

I rolled my eyes, “Excuse me for not apologizing well.” I glanced up at the red sky, “I mean that was nerve wracking as hell.” I dragged my hands across my face,

“I much prefer fighting giant monsters. At least they're familiar…familiar and much less terrifying. Bleck, emotions and feelings.”

Althea laughed before I laughed too. It was the kind of laugh you let out after an awkward moment. It was a welcome release in tension. Once we let out a bit too much laughter, I composed myself,

“Anyways, I'm glad we're on the same page."

She nodded, holding the crystals against her side. I glanced around, another tense moment passing. Interrupting that tension, I pointed at the crystals,

"Ahem, these crystals might be perfect for killing Yawm. From what I know, these are arcane. Arcane magic does percentage based true damage. No matter what you do, it rips people apart. Even with Yawm at such a high level, it should work pretty well.”

Althea blinked before looking at the crystals, “What? Oh, yeah. They should do great. Arcane magic huh…crazy.”

I shrugged, “Eh, should be pretty good...You ready to take the core?”

Like she was coming back to her old self, she frowned, “What? Why do you want to leave already?”

I raised an eyebrow, crossing my arms while still holding the crystals, “Because you don’t want to eat rats mashed up with green vines. Me? I could make it. You? Eh, maybe not.”

She grumbled, “Well…true.”

I turned towards the runes, walking towards the core, “Come on. Let’s go.” With a bit of telekinesis, I lifted Hod over towards me. He stayed asleep, hanging like a ragdoll before I set him on my shoulder. With the artifacts under my arms, Althea and I dashed through the crevices and into the tunnels below. After a running for a while, we reached the vast cavern that harbored the Eltari.

By now, our coming didn’t spark the same level of interest as before. This time was different. The entire village ran out of their houses as several people shouted about our coming. Packs and bags made of straw sat beside throngs of Eltari. It looked like they were all ready to leave. Maybe three days of battling gave them the heads up.

We reached the inside of the village, passing the Eltari. Several of them reached out towards me, mouthing the word Harbinger. Others spoke of a third cataclysm. We didn’t pay them much mind. We ran and leapt into the shack the elders called home. As we walked in, Jass stood at our entering,

“After all the rumbling above us, I already know why you are both here.” She walked up to us and whacked Hod in the head with her cane. He awoke, throwing his feathered arms in every direction,

“Hod not easily slain. Hod a phoenix. Hod may rise again. Rise of Hod, the second coming!”

I tossed Hod off my shoulder before he stumbled up. Jass’s eyes narrowed,

“Did you watch him slay the worm by himself?”

Hod gave her a salute, “Hod watch very closely. Hod know he slayed the beast alone. Hod can say with certainty!”

Jass raised her eyebrows, “Really now? I suppose I’ll take the words of a half-asleep man over the words of no man at all.”

She poked the cane at me, “You…Are you certain we will be carried back with you?”

I gave her a thumbs up, “Maybe 60% sure.”

She sighed, “Then we’re ready to leave. We’ve had three days of ruckus to make sure of that.” She smiled, “I hope this dying planet of yours isn’t as terrifying as our own.”

I tilted my hand back and forth, “No guarantees. It’s been a while since I’ve been there.”

Jass turned to the other elders, “Do we all agree?”

They nodded in silence, their deformities weighing down their misshapen heads. We walked out of the hut before seeing the pillar the hut attached itself too. The coursing energy drained into the pillar above. I jumped up, using telekinesis and gravity for a bit of help. Once I reached the top of the pillar, I walked on a circular balcony.

All around me, the village stretched out in every direction. Beside me, the rippling force of the core coursed like a fountain of power. I turned towards the village. Many of them starred up to me, some like a guardian angel and others like I was a devil. It was time for an impromptu speech,

Wielding my Words of Strength skill, I shouted while spreading my arms, “Eltari, I am the Harbinger who has come to give you a chance for change. Some of you see me as a coming storm. Others see me as a coming savior. Neither are correct. I offer you all a chance at redemption.”

I turned myself, staring at their eerie, white eyes, “You are strong, resilient people. No matter who should judge you, that shall stand any test and any trial. Past the gate I open, you will find a world on the brink of oblivion. Here you all shall be given the chance to save this world.”

I clamped a hand into a fist, “Redeem yourselves. Walk out from the shadow of your fore fathers and come into a new dawn. I will give you this chance. Follow me as we pass through to the next world.”

I roared my last words with the full might of my skill. This might have been the first speech any of the people had heard. It worked like that at least. Many of them raised their three fingered hands. They shouted for freedom from all this planet’s bullshit. I couldn’t blame them.

I turned towards the core. I reached my hand into the stream of energy. The icy cold needles of before shot into my arm, but my armor caught up to the release of energy. I gripped my hand on the dungeon core.

It was time to go into the unknown.
