Erick came out of Nothanganathor’s chest, held in Melemizargo’s grip. He was a mote of Darkness and himself, all at the same time, and yet he was neither of those things.

Below him lay Nothanganathor’s still-living body. The serpent was ashen white and red all over, gasping for breath and finding none. He had expected death. He had gotten something far worse. He was too surprised to know the full extent of what Melemizargo had just done. He was in too much pain. He understood nothing.

And then he knew what had happened.

Unbelieving, pain pushed to the side, Nothanganathor whispered, “You took my Darkness?”

Erick tried to tell Melemizargo not to do it, for he was planting the seeds of his own destruction. It was not too late. He could put the Dark back into Nothanganathor and then simply kill the man. But not this. Not this desecration of the Dark. Anything but this.

The Darkness roared with Erick, telling Melemizargo what Erick could not.

No one heard either of them.

Melemizargo laughed in evil delight as he held Nothanganathor’s Dark Mark aloft, announcing, “I Curse you, Nothanganathor. Your scales soften. Your history changes. You are a creature of simple water and nevermore of the True Ocean. Your claws do not exist and all you are is a fish flailing around those much bigger creatures than you. Your only safety is in Obscurity, and that shall be your Curse. Your only blessing is the blessing of Nothing. Become one with nothing, Nothanganathor! I Curse you! I Curse you! I Curse you!”

Elves in the stadium all around, stood up, and sang in unison, “Cursed to smallness! Cursed to Obscurity! For what you did to Ikaramaliana, you are Cursed forevermore! We Curse you! We Curse you! We Curse you!”

Melemizargo broke Nothanganathor’s Dark Mark and Erick was cast adrift on the shards of that Mark as Nothanganathor twisted under Obscurity, the Darkness forever denied to him.

- - - -

Erick did not see Nothanganathor regain power in Margleknot, rebuilding himself and turning his empire over to Morbion Blackthorn, for his empire to become the Wraithborne Tower. He did not see Nothanganathor regaining strength and fighting corruption. He did not need to. He knew what had happened anyway.

Nothanganathor had tried to reclaim his Darkness many times, and in many different ways.

The next time he saw Nothanganathor it was from the perspective of an old woman in a tower overseeing a great city.

He only saw a flash of a white maw, rimmed in Red outside of the wizard’s windows, but it was enough to know the white maw belonged to Nothanganathor. It was enough to recognize Malevolence. The white serpent had tried to steal a Mark of the Dark.

It must not have worked because Erick witnessed, from 6 more perspectives, as Nothanganathor ate him 6 more times. Erick had briefly been a Wizard in a swamp, overseeing mushrooms. A Wizard in a tower, 3 more times, each of the towers looking mostly the same but in vastly different cities and lands. A Wizard in the ocean. A Wizard on a ship in the mana ocean, in the middle of nowhere.

And then Nothanganathor came for the Darkness once more. This time he came with True Power.

Nothanganathor stole the Dark Mark out of a Light Wizard with the Sign of Power that he had stolen from Margleknot’s avatar.
