A Priest of Infinity, from some culture that Erick did not know and wearing an infinity symbol on his brow, presided over the union, speaking of how Nothanganathor and Ara had fought each other and warred over the world for too long, until a true evil showed itself and both of them put aside their hatred and became one force. The world was saved now, and power would join power to ensure the world remained saved. It was a clunky sermon according to what Erick was seeing, but the two people at the center wanted the union to be expressed in this way, for this was not a simple wedding. It was the healing of an ancient hurt.

Bride and groom kissed.

The vision closed to a focus, and all that was left was Nothanganathor and Ara, in an embrace.

Nothanganathor teased his new wife about how she shouldn’t have invited the fae, but he was glad nothing had happened. Ara teased right back about how Nothanganathor must have invited them, because she certainly didn’t.

The newlyweds both glanced toward Erick, both of them surprised, and questioning.

Erick was already gone.

- - - -

In the between-space, Erick saw Darkness.

It roared at him from every angle, with every voice he had ever known. It did not mean to yell, but it had no other way of communication, and so it yelled.

Erick accepted what he saw, and what he heard.

- - - -

Nothanganathor smiled as he woke with Ara in his arms.

Ara was up a second later.

She was even less real in this vision, with only an impression of red around her hair area, green around her eye areas, and pale cream everywhere else, but Nothanganathor pretended she was a real person.

He held a one-sided conversation.

“Let’s stay in bed. The kids are full-grown. We don’t have to care about them anymore.”

“I’m sure they can kill those spirit beasts on their own.”

“Well yes, that is my draconic nature taking over. I was left to fend for myself and I turned out just fine.”

“Pardon you,” Nothanganathor said with a grin, “I didn’t find out my mother was the Darkness until I had already conquered your wor—” Ara said something depreciative. “Oh I’m just teasing!” Nothanganathor laughed. “We conquered it together.”

“Ugh! Okaaaay. We can go check up on them, I suppose.”

“Why yes. I am a magnanimous ruler. I am glad you agree.”

The vision moved on.

Their three kids had been out hunting.

They were now three piles of fractal mush among a swamp of the same.

Everything was corrupted, and it was just the start.

Their world died to corruption and then Margleknot arrived in force, faeries descending from the sky and turning corruption into ash and dust. In the aftermath of the ending of their world, they discovered that their former enemy had left traps in case he perished, and those traps had sprung.

Nothanganathor held Ara in a space ship while Agatha and Aragathara and the few other survivors banded together.

Nothanganathor said, “We move on, to Margleknot.”

The decision was made before most agreed upon it, but it happened as Nothanganathor wanted, anyway.

Nothanganathor did not get to bury his children, or his family, or anyone else. The corruption spread to many other worlds before it was contained. 460 worlds died before Margleknot ended the threat. Some of those worlds only held 50 people. Some held billions.

All perished the same when corruption appeared.

And thus, Nothanganathor sought to understand what had been done to his and Ara’s world so that it could never be done again.

- - - -

Nothanganathor built an empire around a sun of his own creation in Margleknot. It had not been easy, but Elemental Evil had a way of being very easy to use to get what you wanted, and in small doses it was fine. Nothanganathor knew who he was, and he was Evil, but with a conscience.

Be kind.

Be forgiving.

But retaliate against true pain with annihilation.

It was a good strategy for a king. For an Emperor.

After a long time of empire building, corruption eradicating, and learning, Nothanganathor needed a vacation.

He wanted to go home to the Painted Cosmology for a time. He began making plans, for he would need a True Wizard to travel across the boundary of the Painted Cosmology, and he was not one of those. Escaping the Painted Cosmology had been easy; they let people leave all the time. They hated people who wanted to leave, so they wanted them gone. They loved people coming back, though.

Margleknot and the Painted Cosmology were not on the best of terms with each other, and they never had been. But Margleknot wanted to be on good terms with the Painted Cosmology.

And so, with plans half-formed, Nothanganathor asked around, and Margleknot easily provided, with one caveat, which was more like a request.

- - - -

Nothanganathor walked onto the ground of his new, temporary home with an entourage of people, most of whom were not known to him. It was a tour-ship of people from Margleknot, settling down onto one of the more populated worlds of the Painted Cosmology. Most of the people here wanted to become immigrants to this land. They wore plain clothes and had brightness in their eyes as they took in the Eternal Plains of the Radiant Depths. This land was one of the nicer ones. It was like ten million worlds all laying beside each other under a bright sky. That sort of physics just didn’t happen in the uber-universe.

Nothanganathor did not look like Nothanganathor.

He wore plain clothes just like Ara, who was a wash of color next to Nothanganathor, and nothing more. They walked with a kid who was not their child, onto the spaceport. The kid had golden eyes, and he knew nothing of anything except for what Nothanganathor and Ara told him, along with a general idea that he was their nephew they were looking after and that his parents were gone.

As the kid took in the sights of the space port, which was really just a bunch of stone and runes in those stones, he exclaimed, “It’s all so big and plain!”

Nothanganathor laughed. A few other people in the moving crowd also laughed at the kid’s words. Nothanganathor said, “You cannot see it, Lan, but this whole place is stringed with magic. They use it a lot more here than in Margleknot, and most of it is invisible.”

“I want to see everything, uncle!”

“We’ll see how far we can get, Lan.”

And so began one of Margleknot’s mundane lives in the Painted Cosmology, overseen by Evil Emperor Nothanganathor and Supreme Witch Ara.

A quarter century passed, perfectly wonderfully.

Lan was walking ahead of his uncle and aunt, leading the way to a playhouse where he was starring in the show. He was excited to finally show them, and for them to finally come, because he had gotten the lead part and that was a big deal. Nothing he ever did seemed to amaze his uncle and aunt, but Lan thought that was just because Uncle and Auntie were from Margleknot, and they had seen everything. They hadn’t seen Lan be the star in the play, though! Lan smiled brightly as he turned, looking at his adoptive parents—

Shadow descended from the clear blue sky with a spear the size of a world tree and stabbed it through Lan, right there in the middle of the street. Nearby houses buckled and broke. People died everywhere.

Lan almost didn’t die, because he was not really Lan at all. Lan’s body unfurled into a tree that he never knew he could be, but it was not enough. He died.

The town exploded in that death.

Nothanganathor and Ara hid behind Nothanganathor’s magics. When the destruction faded, and they were fine, the absolute horror of the moment did not register for several heartbeats.

Shadow floated above the rubble of broken, blackened roots, and broken city, happily announcing, “Damned tree should stay out!”

She flew away.

Nothanganathor and Ara had no idea what had happened.

They had seen it, though.

They had survived.

They still wouldn’t understand any of what had happened until they got back to Margleknot.

Margleknot knew what had happened, apologizing to both of them for putting them in danger like that. He had not thought that would happen. Usually Shadow didn’t kill anyone else but him, but it had been a few thousand years since he had tried visiting the Painted Cosmology, and she must have been wearing a violent sort of persona that day. Margleknot asked for forgiveness, and Nothanganathor was shaken, but he was happy to grant that requested forgiveness.

Nothanganathor wanted another vacation to the Painted Cosmology many years later.

Again, Margleknot provided the way forward, but with the same caveat.

Nothanganathor and Ara got a repeat of the same event, with another version of Margleknot that took the shape of a young woman, and who was Ara’s ‘cousin’. This time no others were involved in that young woman’s death. Nothanganathor had tried to stay distant, but there was still an emotional pain that didn’t quite heal.

The same event would repeat every vacation he tried to take to the Painted Cosmology. The only consolation for the emotional damage suffered was that Margleknot didn’t seem to mind the deaths.

Margleknot had expected those deaths. He kept going into the Painted Cosmology anyway.

Nothanganathor expected the deaths, too, but he loved those vacations. It was like a reward for all his hard work to live a simple life for a little while. And yet...

And yet, Nothanganathor grew to hate Shadow and her ilk, but it was like hating the sky. He didn’t attach too much emotion to all of that hate.

Not yet.

- - - -

Nothanganathor and Ara stood as the sole survivors on a world burned down to the stone.

In this life, Margleknot had tried his hand at being an archmage and he had gained that power, thanks to his uncle Nothanganathor.

And then the Shades had come.

Nothanganathor had killed a Shade that had killed Margleknot’s avatar and all the rest of their little city in the rocks of the mana ocean, and that had been the wrong move. He should not have killed a Shade. He had been too angry to think right. He had been too angry… And now, he had killed a Shade.

There would be reprisal, and running would be a bad idea.

Nothanganathor waited for the Darkness to descend. For Mother to appear.

He did not wait long.

Ikaramaliana was not his visitor, this day. Not his mother. No.

Melemizargo descended. Melemizargo, the Second.

Melemizargo, the black bastard that Nothanganathor hadn’t seen in an age.

Melemizargo saw Nothanganathor.

Memories registered.

Melemizargo jerked, and then he attacked.

He ripped Nothanganathor to pieces, laughing all the while, but he left Nothanganathor alive to hear his laughter, and his booming words,

“Welcome back, brother! Enjoy your stay! I know I will!”

- - - -

Nothanganathor left the Painted Cosmology but he came back, time and time again.

Sometimes a local god killed Margleknot’s avatar along with a thousand other people. Sometimes Shadow came herself. Sometimes Melemizargo himself did the deed and he took his time in that killing, being sure to inflict as much pain upon Nothanganathor as possible.

Once, Margleknot’s avatar lasted 30 years. Most of the time Margleknot died within a year.

Nothanganathor was too furious to ever consider not ‘vacationing’ in the Painted Cosmology.

This was beyond personal. This was familial.

This was spiteful.

- - - -

“I want to remove their threat,” Nothanganathor told his wife, Ara, inside a space that no one could overhear. “I need them both gone. All of them; Mother, too. For all time. All their Shades. Everything to do with them. It’s not just protecting Margleknot. It is so much more than that. It is the right thing to do.”

Ara opened her mouth and for the first time this vision, she had a voice. Her voice rang of Truth, “Righteousness has no power in this, Nhatuan. You want it for yourself and that is the entire Truth, my greedy dragon.”

Nothanganathor softly asked, “… So what if I do?”

Ara smiled. Her next words were lost to Obscurity, but she did look directly at Erick, her brushstroke eyes shining green.

Nothanganathor cast a magic and projected it outside of himself, saying, “Fae aren’t allowed to watch every part of my life.”

Nothing happened.

Nothanganathor looked at Erick.

Ara said something.

“Ah,” Nothanganathor said, “Yes. I suppose I should blind the Darkness.”

Nothanganathor cast another spell—

Darkness spilled away from Nothanganathor. Far, far away, and Erick floated with it.

Erick watched from far outside of Nothanganathor’s body as Ara and Nothanganathor had a distant, contained conversation. Space was fuzzy, and so were the walls, but Erick knew enough to understand what was happening here.

Nothanganathor and Ara were brewing up the plan for using Goddeath Poison. The actual brewing would come later.

The Darkness raged alongside Erick, knowing what he was looking at, but both of them could do nothing. The past was the past, and both of them were merely observers right now. To what end? Erick could not tell.

He would find out, eventually.

- - - -

Erick knew how the Goddeath plan ended.

The Goddess of Magic died and then held a tournament 50 years after her death to decide the next God of Magic. Melemizargo and Nothanganathor fought in that Tournament of Gods, both of them easily surpassing all other applicants.

The view flowed through tens of viewpoints of that tournament, but Erick did not care to see it all too clearly. He focused on the day before the last battle.

Erick wasn’t sure what he was looking for as he sought the end of that fight, and the causes of all the Sundering to come— Ah.

That was it.

He was looking for causes of the Sundering.

He was making judgments.

- - - -

Erick lay on the ground, his white serpentine body squirming underneath Melemizargo’s claws. He was 99% dead.

He was 100% furious.

Melemizargo had taken Ara and Sundered her last night, before the final tournament round. Nothanganathor had not fought his best because of that. The rage had clouded his eyes. The rage still clouded his eyes.

Nothanganathor and Erick yelled, “Finish me, you tormentor tyrant! If you don’t I will hunt you down for all eternity and bring down everything you are, as you have done to my Ara!”

It was a taunt, for if Nothanganathor could not be God, then he would rather die than live his life.

In that moment, Melemizargo changed his mind about killing Nothanganathor.

Melemizargo declared, “Oblivion is too kind for you.”

Melemizargo breathed in Ascension, the very universe itself dipping its tendrils into him, wrapping him with power, Mantling him in might, with the history of every other God of Magic to come before him. Ikaramaliana’s ghost vanished into her son.

Melemizargo pushed a claw into Nothanganathor, and twisted, saying, “Mine.”

