However, Arian has no military, and each tribe has their own defenses largely consistent of powerful independent fighters.

Frost Clan

Description: The nation ruling over the world of Jotunheim with a level of technology at the bottom rung of the universe. They are led by a single Clan Leader whose emotions are always erased the moment they take control, along with a council of Chiefs. However, the Clan Leader has absolute control over the nation due to their inability to be affected by emotions.

The military of the Frost Clan is separated into three ranks:

Vanguard – The forces of the Clan that are sent to attack other worlds.

Frost Sentinels – The forces of the Clan that stay on Jotunheim to defend their own world.

Frost Keepers – The names of officers serving below Clan Chiefs within the Frost Clan.

The Clan Chiefs each have their own forces and take commands directly from the Clan Leader.

Rex Dynasty of the Dead

Description: The most technologically advanced nation in the universe. They created the Gates connecting each world, created the Universal Feed keeping the worlds connected through the internet, and manage each and every Gate’s creation and management except for Gates created by the Eternal Dynasty.

The Rex Dynasty of the Dead is ruled in an absolute monarchy by the Pharaoh, Raja Singh Amunet, and the nation and its leader both worship Death itself along with the Spirits of Death. Death is seen as a reward in the Dynasty and not a punishment. Only those who have done enough for the nation are allowed to die. Meanwhile those who do die yet have not done enough are raised as undead and forced to work until they have done enough if they killed themselves, or they will be resurrected if they were killed by other means such as murder. However, various other factors may influence it as well, such as how much benefit the being in particular may grant the nation.

The necromancers of the Rex Dynasty of the Dead are the only ones to be publicly known to never have summoned a Death Spirit and be killed by the Death Spirit summoned. Every Death Spirit summoned by the necromancers of the nation left without killing their summoner, regardless of if they carried out the wishes of the summoner or not.

The Rex Dynasty of the Dead’s military:

Pharaonic Royal Guard – The personal bodyguards of the Pharaoh. They are at the top of the military and have the right to command any other member of the entire military to do anything.

Death Legion – The ground forces of the military. They handle the ground warfare on other planets.

Death Sentinels – The defensive forces of the military tasked with defending the Rex Dynasty’s territory. They are often split up into enforcers to keep the peace on the worlds and military sectors to defend against attackers and have the lowest ranks amongst the military varying depending on what worlds they are stationed on.

Death Fleet – The space and naval forces of the military tasked with marine and space warfare. They are often the highest ranking members of the military and are tasked with defending their worlds and attacking other worlds from space. They also station themselves around the capital to defend the artificial mechanical planet known as Rex from others.

Nobility – The nobility have a large amount of control over the military, with the noble rankings ranging from baron to duke, with barons having control over low-ranking officers and dukes having command over up to mid-ranking officers. However, no nobles have control over high-ranking officers. Meanwhile the planetary governor of every planet is at the very minimum a viscount of the Dynasty.

Shengshi Dynasty

Description: A harsh nation on both natives and non-natives alike with a level of technology on the lower end of the universe. It is ruled by the emperor with a council of state officials who got the highest scores on various tests to earn their positions.

The nation has no measures in place to help out the poor or the struggling, and purposefully uses them to benefit the higher ranking members of their society. Whether they got to where they are through birth or skill. And the nation does not trust outsiders in the slightest, only allowing them in unimportant cities while banning them from more important cities to the nation.

The military is led by a single general who has the same ranking in regards to military decisions as the princes of the nation. Meanwhile the emperor has the authority to direct where a war will go, however he has no control over what exact actions the military will take in any particular war.

The governing of the nation is split between the state officials, the emperor, and the consorts, with each having their own responsibilities. Meanwhile the consorts are all titled off of different flowers.

The nation currently has six consorts, including the Rose Consort, the Daisy Consort, the Lily Consort, the Orchid Consort, the Chrysanthemum Consort, and the Azalea Consort. Meanwhile there are two princes and no princesses within the nation.

Grand Silvanian Empire

Description: The second largest empire in the world in terms of pure number of owned planets and citizens, with the Dread Empire being the largest. It largely specializes in healers and protection and has a strange focus on medieval aesthetics. One beginning with its emperor. And it is ruled absolutely by the Emperor of the Grand Silvanian Empire, with the other nobles each having some sway with him as he does truly listen to his noble court.

The nation makes up the majority of the healer market around the universe, providing healers through the Healer’s Order to every world with ties to the nation. Meanwhile they fund themselves largely through the Spires and the magical iron and magical steel within, which are leagues below the powerful magical silver but still incredibly powerful for a naturally found metal, and worth an extremely large sum. One large enough to fund the running of thousands of worlds.

The Grand Silvanian Empire is in a constant cold war against all of the Horsemen of the Apocalypse except for Aria, who of which the emperor considers like a niece to him.

Military:

The Grand Silvanian Empire’s military is split up into Knightly Orders, each of whom belongs to a different noble. With the Royal Order of Knights being directly under the Emperor’s command and far above the others in power. However, all Knightly Orders are required to listen to the emperor as well.

Royal Order of Knights: They serve the royal family and include ten Class S ability holders along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every single other Order within the nation.

Violet Order of Knights: They serve the Archduke’s family and include three Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every single other Order within the nation except the Royal Order.

Aqua Order of Knights: They serve the Aqua Duke’s family and include a single Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every Order that serves a noble beneath the rank of duke or duchess.

Emerald Order of Knights: They serve the Emerald Duchess’s family and include a single Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every Order that serves a noble beneath the rank of duke or duchess.

Amber Order of Knights: They serve the Amber Duchess’s family and include a single Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every Order that serves a noble beneath the rank of duke or duchess.

Gray Order of Knights: They serve the Gray Duchess’s family and include a single Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every Order that serves a noble beneath the rank of duke or duchess.

Governance:

The nation’s everyday operations are controlled by the Council of Nobles, which only allows nobles from the rank Marquis and above to join. But all decisions can be overruled by the emperor should he desire.

Dread Empire

Description: The Dread Empire is in a constant state of starvation. It is ruled absolutely by the Horseman of the Apocalypse, Famine, who has zero cares for his own people outside of their use as a source of famine to level him up. However, he tries to stop killing as much as possible for no other reason than to have more people to starve. So the nation still has the lowest death count out of most nations in the universe despite it being the worst place to live.

Additionally, the Dread Empire is the largest nation in the universe in both number of worlds owned and population. With tens of thousands of worlds under its control and quadrillions of people.

Meanwhile every last citizen including the nobles are required to sign a body contract blocking them from killing themselves or allowing others to kill themselves in any way whether directly or indirectly. They are also forced to obey incredibly cruel laws meant to put them in a constant state of starvation and fear.

The military is directly under the control of Famine’s Nine Generals and his Grand General, who of which has a perfect cloning ability reliant on illusion magic, unlike the Crimson Empire’s Class S perfect ability user that uses life and death magic.

There are no officers in the military as the Dread Empire’s method of fighting often tends to be simply throwing their soldiers in numbers at their enemies without a care for their lives. Then reviving them afterwards by paying a massive price to their levels with void mages, their nation having been banned from the Void Temples long ago.

Every single world at the end of the day is governed by one of the Grand General’s clones. With a substitute governor assigned from the upper class nobility.

Universe

Revival is possible if a strong enough void mage or a Void Spirit is present. They are capable of pulling a soul from the void and placing it back in the body at a significant cost levels from the one revived. However, conditions have to be fulfilled for the revival to work. Such as the being who is getting revived needing to be at least level 10 if it is a void mage doing the resurrection. However, a Void Spirit can revive most people with only a few restrictions.

Every world has a World Core where the users of the System are allowed to reset or lower their levels. However, these changes are permanent and cannot be revoked. Furthermore, people are not capable of forcing others to reset their levels as the System will detect attempts to do so.

Invasions of new worlds are considered an honor for those who participate, and entire forces are created just to prepare for invasions, filled with people who have either stopped themselves from leveling or have had their levels purposefully reset to 1 at a World Core.

Coordinates of new worlds are found by spatial magic users, and the worlds are classified by a division of seers from the Arcadian Society into five different Tiers. Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, and Epsilon, with Alpha being the highest Tier.

These Tiers are decided based on planet size, population, quantity and quality of Ability Holders, and resources.

Level of the user plays an important role in society outside of Vortel. Meanwhile most adults are already at least level ten, with the higher level average adults being around level 20.

Raising the level of someone’s class has various effects on the user in question. Some of them include but aren’t limited to raising their physical strength, their mental capacity, their magical power, their mana capacity, and their lifespan.

Every user in the System tends to live for around 100 years on average, with every 100 levels doubling the user’s total lifespan.

Worlds across the universe vary in their levels of technology and magical understanding, with Vortel’s level of technology being just a small amount above the average level of technology in the universe, and their understanding of magic a little above that.

System

Description: The System is an instinctive defense mechanism on every single planet in the universe, and it activates when invaders arrive to attack the planet.

Class: A Class is automatically assigned to every user based on their natural ability and talents. Leveling up their Class will give them skills that will benefit them in further accomplishing what their Class requires along with possible physical or magical enhancements to their own body.

Ability: An Ability is whatever special ability the user was born with.

Level: A user’s level is increased by doing the action that their Class centers around.

Planets are tiered based on various factors including but not limited to the size of the planet’s population, the number of Ability Holders they have, and the power of the Ability Holders on the planet. And they are rated between Tiers Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, and Epsilon, with Alpha being the highest.

Abilities are divided into five Classes or Categories, the term varying depending on the culture classifying them.

Category 1/Class D

Category 2/Class C

Category 3/Class B

Category 4/Class A

Category 5/Class S

Aria Crimson

Description: The main protagonist of the story and a true immortal. She was a soldier fighting on the side of Albaria and was on the frontlines when the gates open and the System Initializes. And she is the only surviving member of the Crimson Noble Household – a family made up of Category 5/Class S Special Ability Users, each with their own unique ability. However, all of the money of the household was taken away by those who killed her family off, and she is the only one left because it is impossible to kill her. So as the only way the Emperor could think of to get rid of her, he sent her to the frontlines where she is expected to fight for eternity for the Empire. But he lost his political and military power, and was eventually killed by Aria with his soul core devoured so that he could never revive again.

Aria then left Vortel and arrived on Eternus, the Capital world of the Eternal Dynasty where she began living life as she pleased. Going from one world to the next with her friend Shirogane.

