The day had been tiring; they had stayed at the castle after the announcement, at Angeline's behest, to “mingle”. Niala's sister had assured them she'd be doing most of the actual work. They just had to stick around, be seen, and answer questions as new heads of state would: with vague maybes.

The nobles had been relentless nonetheless, prying at any perceived or imagined crack in their facade, or nearly offering their second-born to curry favours with the owners of the new mine.

They had rebuffed them all, but the assault had left them drained.

Now, they lay in bed, Niala draped over him, as she liked to do, and as he usually enjoyed her doing. Tonight, however, his stare was arrayed against the ceiling.

She let her fingers run up and down his chest as she stared up at his face from the nook of his shoulder. “David? You're tense, and you've been staring at the ceiling instead of looking at me. What's wrong? And don't try to say nothing; I can feel it through the link.”

He turned his eyes down to meet her stare, giving her a tired smile. “Sorry, didn't mean to brood. I was just thinking... It's real. We've created a new nation, at least on paper, with us at its leaders.”

Her hand kept tracing figure eights on his skin. “...We did, and it went well. We got everything we wanted, and more, thanks to Angeline. What's wrong?”

He sighed. “I'm just... I don't think it was a mistake, really, but it feels as if we left behind something now, and we're not getting it back.”

She repositioned her head, sneaking in a few face rubs at the same time. Her David really was the best warm pillow. She placed her hand palm down over his heart, enjoying the slight thump as it beat. “Like what, love?”

Ba-whump, David's heart went. The corner of her mouth curled upward.

He reached up and put his hand over hers. “Like, you wanted a quiet, comfy alchemy shop, right? Short work days, lazy evenings, just helping the neighbourhood, a nice, happy place to raise a family.”

He spoke of a dream. He omitted what he thought reality was, now, even though it was the loudest part of what he said.

He looked back down at her, losing himself in her bright amethyst eyes, his entire self mellowing out, as they drained his anxiety away.

She smiled. “Thank you for caring about my dream, but it's fine. We talked about this with Angeline a lot, you know? We might have to attend a few meetings every year as figureheads, but it's a paper nation. We won't really have to do anything.”

He exhaled sharply. “Just have to remind everybody else that we're actually powerless.”

She kissed his pectoral and slid herself up onto him, her legs squeezing him from both sides as she rested her head into the nook of his neck and placed her arms around his shoulders. “We will, and if they still come ask for trouble, I know you'll be there to defend me, because you're super powerful and strong and invincible.” She said, closing her eyes and basking in the warmth of his body.

“You have a lot of faith in me...”

She nuzzled his neck. “As much as you have faith in me.”

“I have a lot of faith in you.”

“Hmm-hmm, exactly...” She said sleepily.

He kept staring at the ceiling for a bit, listening to Niala's breath slow down and grow deeper. Her weight pressed down on him, like a heavy blanket of love, easing his mind and blurring the future, until nothing but a calm, quiet mist remained.

Under the soft symphony of her breathing, he joined her in sleep.

They remained in Amberose for another day, giving them and Angeline time to finalize the “birth” of the Reign Ascendant, and left the next morning aboard the Alchemical Star.

Captain Arnelle inquired, rather enthusiastically, if David could, perhaps, repeat his feat in feeding mana into her ship. Just for the opportunity to properly test the high-speed systems, of course.

It didn't really cost him anything, and he was keen to get back home as soon as possible, so he readily accepted.

While he was down in the engine room, pumping mana into the heart, the Captain had suggested to Cornelius that, perhaps, the people of the capital could use a bit of a show?

Cornelius had clapped his hands like a little kid and had agreed/commanded Arnelle to do so.

Over the capital city, where hundreds of airships, big and small, navigated the sky, one in particular descended about as low to the ground as airships were allowed to.

The people of the capital were more than used to seeing grandiose, decorated vessels above their heads, but they had to admit that this one still managed to stand out.

Its hull, made of red and gold metal, gave the appearance of a shell, murmuring of something sturdy. Its refined lines spoke of something fast.

A few hands went up and pointed as the vessel made of metal began retracting its sails and fins. Those who knew a bit about airships began to wonder how it was even staying afloat under all that weight and without any mana intake.

More hands and eyes went up as its shell morphed, and its exterior became a smooth, unbroken surface.

A few shouts pointed at the engine nacelles, as these reconfigured as well.

And then the turbines were pushed forward. Their voice, a low grumble at first, turned into a hungry, roaring whine.

The red-and-gold metal dart in the sky began to move, as plumes of fiery mana hazily revealed themselves from its engines' exhausts before turning a solid blue.

Riding on beams of light, the Alchemical Star cut through the capital's sky, pulling air after it, knocking hats off and billowing drapes and dresses.

Before the citizens could look up again, it was gone from the sky above, turning into nothing but a rapidly disappearing star in the distance.

They arrived back in Riverwall by the end of the day, landing in the newly established airport, which was, for now, only a few cleared out patches of land to the south-west of town.

Niala invited her sister and dad to come eat dinner with them, back home, and both readily accepted. The chef on the Star was good, but he wasn't Niala-good.

They were intercepted on their way home, however, by a slightly distressed-looking Isaac, who approached them half-jogging, beelining for Angeline.

“Woman! I need you!” He exclaimed.

Everyone's eyes went wide, except for the blonde woman, who hid her smile behind a hand. “Oh my, lord Isaac, how bold of you...”

Isaac frowned. “...Bold? Listen, woman, the porter's and carpenter's guilds have been lodging complaints after complaints about the saint's forbidden soup. It's gotten to the point that they are refusing all overtime, and are enforcing guild-mandated beaks, six times a day.” He threw his hands in the air.

He gestured at her with an open-palm hand. “If this goes on, we will lose the lead time we have in the schedule, and we'll be merely on time with the construction efforts!”

She mocked shock. “Oh no, the soup!? And on time instead of in advance of the schedule?!”

“Yes! It's a looming catastrophe! I need you to come with me and help talk some sense into their thick soup-addled brains! Who even cares if it's a red bean or black bean soup!?” He exclaimed.

She couldn't help but smile as she shook her head. “My dear Isaac, the soup is just an excuse... but can this really not wait? I was invited to dinner by my sister.” She said, motioning to the rest of her entourage with her eyes.

“I pitting know it's an excuse, woman! I- !” Isaac stopped, stared at her, let his eyes drift in the direction she was showing him, and seemed to startle when he noticed Niala and everybody else. “Ha... my apologies, everyone. I... might have been somewhat over-eager.” He said with a slight bow of the head.

He turned his attention back to Angeline. “I... surely, we have time to at least meet the guild representatives before dinner?” He asked, almost pleading.

Angeline rolled her eyes as she turned toward her sister. “Niala, sister dear, it appears I will be slightly late to your offered dinner. Please, do allow me some time to extinguish this little soup-fuelled fire?”

Niala slowly nodded. “Ah, huh, sure, Angie. We'll have dinner by... seventh bell?”

Angeline smiled. “Perfect! I'll have everything wrapped up by then, and please add an extra cover next to my spot!” She asked, turning back toward Isaac. “Well, my lord, it appears I have found some time for you. Please, lead on.” She informed the man with a commanding tone, but a twinkle in her eye.

All of it flew over Isaac's head as he nodded, turned around and left. Angeline stepped after him, waiving a few fingers at the rest of her family as she did.

David, Niala and Cornelius looked at each other.

Rinka snorted. “They look like they get along. When's the marriage?”

Three pairs of eyes snapped toward her so fast, the air cracked.

Once the rest of them reached the Allwarden's home, everyone greeted everyone, and David and Niala got to work on the dinner while everyone else talked about their trip to the capital.

Cornelius was quick to point out that his daughter, and her husband, were now officially the leaders of a new nation. Sybil had jumped to her feet and greeted the new suzerains with renewed fervour before kicking at Sammie for him to do the same, which he did, but with less gusto.

Some time later, Angeline and her pet Isaac arrived, taking up their places around the table and joining the discussion.

Angeline slyly let drop that the First Scion of the Reign Ascendant was looking for new and capable warriors to form the core of their house guards, and the crown had handed them ten requisition forms to hire from any of the kingdom's active military forces.

Sammie face-palmed while Sybil's eyes widened like stars.

By the end of the evening, the Reign Ascendant had the first two members of their house guards.

They informed Mayor Caleb the next day that the proposition had been accepted by the crown, and he could now begin negotiations with them on the tariffs he wanted to impose on incoming trade. Just a few percent, of course; enough to help the town's coffers without getting into anyone's way.

David and Niala happily pointed at Angeline when the dogkin asked when they could sit down and begin discussing the details. The blonde had smiled warmly, in a way that made Caleb's hair rise.

They left the two of them to have fun and went to meet with Isaac.

The main reason they had accepted to take part in this scheme was to afford Niala diplomatic immunity, should her weaving power ever be revealed at large. The second, maybe just as important reason, was to deal with the large population of reign descendants currently inhabiting the Living Vault's maintenance corridors.

While they could now do something about them, they didn't know what or how exactly.

David had figured that his brother might have an idea.

Isaac gripped his chin and leaned back in his chair before looking up at his brother and sister-in-law. “We build them a town.”

David quirked a brow. “I'm not sure we have the money to fund that.”

Isaac shook his head. “You don't have the money yet, but the mana crystal mine will change that quickly.”

Niala wiggled her ears. “We're not exactly in control of the mine. The deal with the crown was that we'd agree to pretty much everything they'd ask of us, except for a few things.”

Isaac frowned, opening a drawer and retrieving a somewhat thick folder and opening it flat on his desk. He started flipping through the documents inside.

David's brow furrowed when he recognized the file: it was one of the copies of their new nation's charter and official documents that they had commissioned in the capital before leaving. He looked up at his brother. “Where did you get that?”

Isaac answered without looking up. “Angeline gave it to me yesterday. She cleared up the soup issue within a few minutes. We spent the rest of the time going over this ridiculous ploy of yours... ah, here.” He said, retrieving one of the many annexes.

He scanned the document and nodded before handing it to Niala. “This is the document which lists what you can and cannot do regarding the crystal mine. Your sister negotiated for you to be able to impose an exploitation fee on the land. You wouldn't be taxing the mine's output directly, but you can charge a portion of its value to any enterprise seeking to mine it out of the ground.”

Niala's ears twitched as she read the document and looked up at Isaac. “That's just a tax with a different name.”

Her brother-in-law shrugged. “That's half of what politics is: doing the same thing under different names. Whatever the case may be, you can charge up to six percent. Given the value of those crystals, you'll have more money than you'll know what to do with when the mines begin operating.”

David dipped his head. “Ok, so we'll have money. Where do we build this town? And why a town?”

Isaac hummed and got up, walking over to the large map of the region laid over the central table in his office. David and Niala got up after him, as he pointed at the position of the Living Vault on it. “The mining area is three days on foot through the woods. A road, and probably a rail line, is going to be built between Riverwall and there.” He looked up at them. “You understand the principle of a mining town?”

Niala nodded as she kept staring at the map, her tail swaying behind her. “A settlement that exists to house and serve the miners.”

Isaac dipped his head. “Correct. One of those will spring up around the Living Vault. This can be phase one of... whatever you end up calling that town.”

David tilted his head. “Phase one?”

“Correct. Eventually, the crystals will run out. For most mining towns, this means losing the reason for their existence. However, in this case, we have something to take its place.”

Niala looked up. “...The Living Vault.”

The young noble smiled. “Exactly. Once it's been mined out, and the fels have been exterminated, you will still be left with a man-made wonder. With a secure rail-car line to ferry tourists to and from, the Living Vault can become enough of an attraction for the town to transition to tourism.”

He returned his eyes to the map and put his finger over a patch of ground north of the vault. “I've had a few preliminary surveys done on the surrounding lands, and there are traces of other minerals in the rocky terrain around here. If these pan out, more mining towns may spring up there, and the Vault town would become a central node.”

Isaac looked back up at David and Niala. “But even if they don't, I think the vault could support a town of a few thousand inhabitants. We really only need to teach these people how to read and write Amberfallian and their numbers. Then, we build them a town, and we move them topside. The rest is just...” He waved a hand with a frown. “Details.”

David looked at Niala, who smiled and walked around the table, reaching for Isaac. Before the man could react, she wrapped her arms around him in a hug and rubbed her cheek against him a few times. “Thanks, Isaac! You're the best! This is wonderful!”

The man dared not move, uncertain how to deal with the creature wrapped around him. He threw a pleading look at his brother, only for the dastardly knave to offer him a shrugging smile.

He dragged his attention back to the catkin who was doing her best to impregnate the smell of her cheek into his coat.

Maybe, if he stayed very still, she would lose interest and go away...?