She looked up, startled. “Well, I don’t want it!”

As Haley picked it up, he heard her say, “It fits, you know.”

Her voice was hushed. “He was so gentle as he put it on. Left hand, ring finger. It fit beautifully. I remember noticing that. And it was warm from being in his pocket.” She raised her eyes to his. “Why does my brain cling to the strangest details? I think I’ll remember them forever.”

The inspector swallowed. “I’m afraid I don’t know.”

“Please take it away, Mr. Haley. I don’t want it.”

“I will. I have to go now, but I’ll send in your aunt. You won’t be alone.”

“Thank you.”

After a meager breakfast, Eleanor went to sleep. Lady Serrs-Comtess came to fetch her at half past four. She found her niece sitting up in bed, her arms wrapped around her knees, staring out the open window.

“Eleanor?”

Eleanor turned and noted the cane in the baroness’s hand. “Aunt Helena, are you all right?”

The tightness in Helena’s chest eased. This girl was the Eleanor she knew—responsive and empathetic. The meekness was still more pronounced than normal, but she was so much more herself than she had been that morning, it made Lady Serrs-Comtess glad.

“As good as I can be. Don’t mind this old thing. Mrs. Park is serving tea. I thought you might be interested in joining us. Your father is still going through his papers with a policeman, but if we don’t hurry, Edward might claim all the cake.”

“That rat.”

Eleanor was hunting for a suitable tea-gown, so she missed the tiny twitch at the edge of her aunt’s lips.

They went down together.

Before Lady Helena had gone to fetch her niece, she’d spent ten minutes warning her own offspring to behave in a voice so cold Edward was surprised that he couldn’t find frost on his eyebrows.

When Edward saw Eleanor come into the room, he understood why his mother had been so adamant. Eleanor tried to be kind and polite. Eleanor tried to join in the conversation, and she tried to smile while Edward regaled her with a slightly exaggerated account of his miserable part in the affair—but it was all Eleanor trying. And what she was trying to do, above all else, was not appear as pensive and tormented as she felt.

The duke came to join them toward the end of the meal.

He grabbed up a sandwich and wolfed it down without any grace or ceremony. Lady Helena knew how long her brother had been without food, so she made no comment as she poured him his usual tea.

He took it and gulped down half before he spoke without looking up from the table.

“That’s it then. We’ve gone through everything. If that—if Penn took anything, I have no idea what it could be. I won’t miss whatever it was, so I wish him the best of it! Maybe it’ll be enough to buy us a reprieve.”

“Do you think he’ll be back?” the baron asked.

“Edward.” When Helena whispered his name, it came out as a slice of ice.

The baron shivered as he remembered his warning.

The duke still didn’t look up. “I don’t know.”

They all glanced toward Eleanor. Even the duke raised his eyes enough to watch his daughter. Normally she would have noticed such attention, but this time she was oblivious. They weren’t even sure she could see the dregs of tea she was staring at.

Suddenly she rose from her chair. “I’d like to go for my walk. I missed it this morning.”

The duke blinked, then turned to his sister for guidance. Helena’s eyebrows rose.

As if talking to the room at large, the baroness said, “The weather is ideal, and the routine could be good for her.”

“Eleanor, are you sure—” Edward started to say.

“I’ll be fine.” Eleanor smiled at him. It was the least convincing thing he’d ever seen.

The baron slowly rose from his chair. “Would you like me to come along?”

“I thought you were expected at your club, Eddie. Besides, I always walk alone. Father?”

The duke scowled. “Do as you please.”

With that permission, she was gone from the room.

Edward looked from the duke to his mother. “What was that about?”

“I don’t know,” Helena said. “Erravold?”

“Let her be,” he barked. In a quieter voice, he added, “The walk might do her good.”
