“Are they known variants?” John asked. He didn’t wear his helmet this morning. He looked middle aged, his brown beard mostly covered by plate armor. The gold badge glinted, embedded in his shoulder piece.

“No. Some resemble Engur and Herasar but they do not share the fur or pale skin. I'm sure a lot of the higher ups have theories but nobody has shared anything definitive with me. They are as tall as humans but move faster and apply simple tactics.”

“Abilities? And what’s the rank of those who faced them, and those who died.”

“No magic or abilities mentioned. Gold ranks took a few down, one silver team succeeded too. The deaths were silver and iron ranks but there were injuries among gold ranks too, so don’t underestimate them. Iron teams especially should focus on support, and on ranged attacks.”

John nodded.

Veron glanced at Reka.

“Chaos beasts that retreat when outnumbered?” Jina asked, one of the silver adventurers, clad in light armor and wearing a hood, a bow strapped to her back.

“Rare, but not unheard of, especially in more dangerous areas,” Tenea said.

A few of them murmured amongst each other.

“How will we proceed?” John asked.

“We will meet any resistance before the walls, then we will enter the city, and clear out its streets and houses piece by piece. The Serena division is to clear the market district, advancing through the east and meeting up with the other divisions by the harbor.”

“What about the city gates?” Reka asked.

Tenea smiled. “If they’re shut, the alchemists of the Ancire will have that covered, apparently. We’ll see how that looks.”

John gave her a slight nod.

“We are less than two hours away from Perrion. The scouting teams have already left and we will join them in half an hour. Pack up and get ready.”

The walls of Perrion looked strange. That was all that Veron could tell. Maybe it was the quiet. The lack of movement, lack of smoke. Even the Terrom lake beyond looked still, the part that was visible at least. He felt the weight of his shield and mace, turning the weapon in his hand. They had moved in formation, now standing with their unit between two others of the Serena division, facing the drab city walls of Perrion.

Tenea Velkir stood before them, blue eyes glancing back at them before she faced the city once more, head protected with a steel helmet. The airship floated above, the hum of its magic the only sound in the vicinity. Left and right of them, the expedition forces stood, many hundreds of adventurers, weapons and spells at the ready, some holding banners with crests and sigils of cities or families that Veron didn’t know. Scouts returned from the city walls and riders moved in front of the formation.

“No resistance in front of the walls,” John said. He didn’t sound relieved exactly.

Tenea looked up when someone jumped from the airship, landing front and center of their entire formation.

Silea Fiore Mera stood from her crouch, a red plume adorning her helmet. Her silver and black armor glinted with bits of gold as she took in the expedition force. She reached her hand out to the side and a glaive appeared, black metal inscribed with golden runes, taller than she.

“Adventurers. Today, we retake Perrion! Chaos beasts lurk in the dark. Let's go and hunt them down!”

She turned around and raised her glaive, explosions ringing from the airship as spheres of steel rushed down towards the city gates. They impacted with bright light and a deafening crash, the field quieting as dust spread and splinters of wood and steel slowly fell onto the dry earth before Perrion.

Veron breathed in, glancing left and right. He focused forward and towards the figure of Silea Mera. He had fought monsters, but now he stood beside silver and gold ranks, and he was part of an expedition. It felt both exciting and terrifying. He slowed his breathing.

Focus on what you can do. Support the higher ranks, and don’t take unnecessary risks.

Movement on the walls got Veron’s attention. He squinted and saw rope ladders thrown over the sides.

From the scouts? They got onto the walls?

Tenea Velkir unsheathed the large sword on her back, setting it down onto her shoulder. “We move to the gates.”

Veron followed as he saw the entire expedition start to advance. Not like a well-structured military formation but in loose groups of adventurers, some shouting, some brandishing their weapons. Lady Mera walked ahead, glaive in hand as she approached the splintered and broken city gates alone. The airship advanced above. Some adventurers had rushed forward, climbing the ladders now as the airship crested the city walls, more people descending from it on ropes.

Nothing attacked them as they joined the throng of people making for the city gates. Veron now saw the first of the dead, a rotten smell joining the constant pressure and weight of residual magic in the air.

There were dozens on the square beyond, corpses drained of life with faces frozen in pain and screams. Someone bumped into his back and he realized he had stopped walking.

Veron forced himself to move, seeing the adventurers setting up small blockades as the units spread out and got into position, some climbing up buildings, others kicking in doors. Magic emanated from Devotion casters as the curse was pushed back. Lady Mera stood atop a central building, looking out onto the city.

Hallond Pierce called for the Serena division, sending his units into the many alleys and streets of Perrion. He walked between them and shouted. “Clear every house, check every gutter, every hiding spot, rid this city of corruption and chaos.”

His voice carried, his eyes vigilant as he watched the streets and adventurers alike. Veron felt himself grip his shield and mace.

The others were next to Veron. Reka, Silvie, Hayden, their team following the higher ranked groups and people of their unit as they advanced through a side street, stepping past and over the many corpses covering the ground.

Tenea pointed at three teams and then to a house on the left, then three more and to the right. Veron followed John’s gold and Estlan’s silver teams, their groups spreading out in a loose formation in front of the entrance, John and Gerrard at the front, glancing back and checking if everyone was ready.

A moment later, John kicked in the door and went inside, lantern illuminating the common room of an inn as fifteen men and women followed him. The silver wolves went in last, the lowest ranked and support of the other groups.

It was quiet inside, corpses slumped on wooden chairs, dim light coming in through the murky windows of the old inn. Ten lanterns illuminated the space. The air was stuffy, and it reeked of death and iron.

Slowly, they spread out and advanced, checking every corner.

“Behind the counter. Something moved,” Gerrard said, raising his crossbow. Veron got one of his blades ready.

They were quiet and waited. Then something rushed out. Magic flared up and fire exploded, Veron trying to aim at the dark figure rushing between them, he saw something impacting John’s shield twice before it glowed and he struck back. One of the silvers threw a spear, skewering the creature and pinning it to the wall of the inn.

It wasn’t dead, squirming on the wall and trying to grasp at the spear.

It looked almost human, patches of clothes covered parts of its sickly skin. Long oily hair draped from its head. Splatters of blood covered its one remaining arm and what little clothes it wore. Long claws extended from its one hand and yellow eyes took them in with frantic motions of its head. There was no fear in them, but consideration. Its mouth opened, a slithering tongue moving over human teeth before it ripped itself from the wall with the spear still in its side. A bolt slammed into its head and chains caught its moving form, pinning it down again.

Veron aimed one of his blades when he saw John rush forward with insane speed, wisps of white golden magic dissipating from him before his sword burst into golden flame, cutting down and through the neck of the creature with a single strike. Wood splintered and cracked for a few meters beyond the strike.

The room quieted as John stepped back, all eyes on the dead creature. And then its body moved again, pulling on the chains and ripping itself free.

Another swipe from John took its remaining arm before Silvan walked forward, a glinting flame above his hand. The only Elemental Path here besides Veron.

The others stepped aside as he reached out his hand, flames erupting and burning what remained of the creature. The heat felt like they were standing in a forge. Quickly, its skin blackened and its movements stopped. All the flames clinging to the wood vanished a moment later.

John looked at his shield, three clean lines showing where the claws had cut through steel.

“We clear the rest. Stay vigilant,” he said.

Veron looked at the burnt up corpse. The smell had spread through the room and the heat of the flames lingered.

“That’s not a chaos beast,” one of the others said, Allison, if Veron remembered right, moving the body with her foot. “That was a human.”

“Was,” Gerrard said. “Let’s keep moving.”
