“And here I thought I was going to have to console you. I’m happy you’re not letting this failure bother you but we still have one more to check.”

“Let’s hope it’s better than this one.” I say in a dry tone.

I keep flipping the puck of metal in my hands. I can see the mana unevenly spread throughout the chunk of steal. Using Inject Mana I pump some of my mana inside the puck. The insides light up like a spineless Christmas tree. The melted carapace is a better conductor for my magic than the chunk of steel. I’ll have to test other materials but maybe I can use it as an enchanting ingredient?

While we wait for the second crucible to finish, I make sure the smelter is staying hot enough to properly melt the steel.

We aren’t sure how long we should leave the crucible on the forge, so we wait for an hour before we remove it.

The crucible is much hotter this time so master has the honor of cracking the lid.

“The glass is still molten.” I lean over and see the glass still in its liquid form.

We leave the crucible to the side and wait for the glass to cool.

So, we wait…

And wait…...

And wait……….

“Master, is it supposed to take this long?” I swing my legs as I sit on one of the benches.

“It shouldn’t.” he looks down into the crucible again. “The glass is cooling slightly but a part of it is still molten.”

“You think mana quenching it would help?”

“You can try. Rapidly cooling the metal will also be a good indicator if it bonded well enough.”

“All right, step aside old man. Let me show you how it’s done.” Master moves away from the crucible while rolling his eyes at me.

I strengthen the barrier around my hands and pick up the crucible. I can tell the insides of the crucible are still really hot despite us letting it sit for almost forty minutes. The trick with mana quenching is to use my mana to disperse the heat trapped within an object.

It’s more difficult this time because I have to go through the crucible first. Luckily, the crucible is not only good at absorbing heat but also expelling it. It only takes me half a minute to defuse most of the heat from the crucible. What’s weird is I can see more fire mana filling the cleared space I made in the crucible. If I keep emptying the heat from the crucible that must mean the insides are cooling too.

After another minute I have to reassess the situation.

“Having trouble?” Master looks confused when he sees me struggling. He’s watched me mana quench hundreds of items, most of which only require a few seconds for me to do it properly.

“I think I almost have it.” I grumble between my teeth. The heat is finally subsiding after I wasted nearly 200 mana on cooling it.

I set the crucible down and grab a hammer to break the glass. One good swing shatters the protective barrier. I still have my hands guarded so I reach in and pull the puck out.

Both master’s and my eyes go wide when we see the silvery puck in my hands. Unlike the other one, which has lines running through it, the metal looks uniformly of one color. The steel is a lighter shade of silver than usual. I’d say it looks like a mix of aluminum and steel.

Surprisingly I still feel a faint heat radiating from the puck. Is it generating that heat? “Master, feel this.” I reduce the barrier covering my hands so I can better feel the metal with master.

“It’s radiating its own heat.” Master confirms my suspicions.

“What do you think would happen if I put it back in the fire?” Master and I share a smile.

Using some tongs, I place the puck back on the forge. I wait for the metal to turn red before I pull it out. I place the puck on a ledge next to the forge. We both stare at the glowing metal.

Unlike a usual chunk of steel, this puck stays hot for nearly four times as long after it’s removed from the forge. This could be useful, let’s see how malleable it is.

I heat the puck back up before I take it over to the anvil. I smile after the first hammer strike. The metal moves just like steel. I know what I can use this for.

“Master, is there any more chunks of steel left over?” Master looks up from my work and ponders my question.

“I think there’s a little left. What are you making?” His eyes drift back to me hammering the metal.

“I’m going to make the best pan my mother’s ever seen.” I boldly claim.

“Ahh, you need a handle.” Del quickly realizes what I want the regular steel for.

I could stretch the metal enough to make a handle and a small pan out of the material but the metal absorbs heat too much. I’ll use the ‘Heating Steel’, that’s a good name for it, as the base and sides of the pan and use a regular piece of steel for the handle. I can use it to cook tonight and offer it as a peace offering to mother.

The metal is easy to work with because it retains the forge heat for so long. I can shape it much easier than any metal I’ve worked with before.

I look up to see master approaching with a small chunk of steel in hand. He passes by me and places the steel in the forge, we don’t even need to communicate.

The puck of ‘Heating Steel’ is quickly flattened to my designed thickness and I move on to curling the sides up. Making something like this requires you to have a sense of symmetry. A giant press can make a pan in a second but doing it by hand is an artform.

Luckily, I’ve made plenty of pans over the last few years. I manage to get the bulk of the pan finished before it cools too much. I place the base of the pan off to the side and step next to master. The steel for the handle is just about ready for me to work with.

Using some tongs, I shift the hot metal over to the anvil and start flattening it out. The regular steel doesn’t hold its heat as well, so I have to reheat it a few times to get it into an even flat rectangle.

After I heat it again, I use the side of the anvil to curve the metal. After some precise swings I successfully curve and weld the steel into a workable handle.

I now have the base and the handle ready, so I heat them both up together for the last time. When they’re both glowing, I remove them and fit my handle up against the pan base. Using one of the precision hammers to weld the two pieces together.

I double check the seam for any imperfections before I mana quench the handle. Injecting my mana into the steel, I can search for any imperfections in my welding. The handle has a few micro fractures but nothing serious for a pan. My mana moves from the handle and jumbles up at the welding point. Connecting two different metals into a matching mana flow has only happened twice over the hundreds of items I forged. I’m not surprised this one isn’t perfect.

It’s harder but I can still direct my mana into the base of the pan. The base is still retaining some heat after welding the pieces together and once my mana enters it the metal actually heats up a little more. If the effect was stronger, I might have been able to cook by just injecting mana into the pan. The melted carapace works as a magic insulator that multiplies heat retention.

A crazy idea pops into my head.

I almost drop my hammer in my excitement. Moving my finished pan and tools, I take off to the shed I store my workable minerals in. My collection of rocks is divided into two parts. The smaller samples I keep at home, much to mother’s displeasure. But the larger samples I get from Kervin are kept here in case I want to try forging with them.

My most recent purchase is what grabs my attention. The two chunks of fire iron are sitting on a metal plate. Eyeballing the two samples I grab the biggest one. Before I close the shed, I grab the bucket that has the remains of crushed gem snail shells inside. With these two things I might be able to make a magic sword!

With my arms full, I make my way back to master.

“What do you have there” He inspects the materials in my arms.

“Hear me out, master. The fresh spider carapace fused with the steel and made it better retain heat. What would happen if we mixed the carapace with some fire iron?” I feel like a mad scientist right now.

“That…. could work? Are you willing to bet most of your fire iron to try it out though?” He levels a serious look at me.

His look makes me nervous but the image of a magic katana keeps appearing in my head and cutting any ideas of playing it safe to shreds.

“I’ll take that chance! Let’s get it going in a crucible.”

“And the gem snail dust, what are you using that for?” I can understand his wariness. It takes a ridiculous amount of time to harvest enough snail shells to properly fuse it with a metal.

“I need something that can take the heat of the fire iron while working as a sturdy core.”

“You know infusing gem snail dust into steel may make it more durable but it also softens it slightly. You want something like that?”

I can’t help but widely smile at Del’s uncertain face. “That’s exactly what I want.”

“Alright. But let’s try your fire iron first. If it doesn’t work out at least we won’t waste the gem snail dust.” I try not to let his skepticism bring me down.

I move over to the rock crusher and make sure there’s no dust that will accidentally mix with the ore. I use some water to clean it out before I place my fire iron chunk inside. As I crush the rocks, I can feel a small amount of heat wafting up from the pummeled ore.

I carefully move the shattered ore into a clean bucket and walk back to Del. I hope this is enough for what I need.

I carefully pour all the bits of fire iron into the crucible and wipe any remaining dust out of the bucket with my hands. “How much carapace should I put in the crucible?” I ask Master Del.

“I’ve worked with fire iron twice before. Like most magic metals it doesn’t usually contain many impurities. That said I’ve never tried combining it into an alloy before. I’d say use the same amount as last time but add a few more leaves, the carbon in the ore might be a little higher than our bloomery steel.” Master seems to ponder over every piece of advice.

“Let me seal this one.” He picks up the crucible. “I need you to grab a large pile of ‘Blaksmith’s’ logs. Fire iron takes a lot of heat to melt properly.”

I move over to the wood shed where we keep the good logs and start moving them over to the forge. I throw a few small ones on the fire to get it going. It takes a few trips to gather enough wood but I finish in time to watch master bring the sealed crucible over. He carefully moves it into the raging inferno that I have going.

I move to check our smelter again, if I ruin this batch of steel master would never let me live it down.

When I rejoin master, I need to increase my Mana Skin barrier. The heat radiating out of the forge is incredible. We usually use one or two ‘Blacksmith’s’ logs to create a hot zone in the forge in case we need to rapidly heat up part of the metal. This time the forge is filled with the special logs, pushing the flames to well over 2000°c. This world continues to amaze me, wood from a tree is able to reach such incredible temperatures.

“Would you look at that.” Del looks mystified at the fire.

I have to scooch closer to master before I can see what’s leaving the man gobsmacked. The flames of the forge are being repelled from the crucible, the air surrounding it is warping from the heat radiating out of the sealed container.

I check the crucible with Sense Mana and see a whirling nebula of fire mana inside.

We leave the crucible in the forge for an hour and a half, watching the waves of heat radiating off of it, before we move it off to the side. I check the mana inside the crucible after it has sat for about 30 minutes, only to find the mana has only settled by ten percent.

I tell Del the state of the mana and watch as he rubs his chin. “If that’s the case we’ll have to wait until tomorrow before we open it. If it looks good tomorrow, we can forge some gem snail steel first thing in the morning and that should leave you enough time to make your sword.” I’m practically shaking with excitement.

Master looks up at the sky then over to the smelter. “Let’s pour the smelter and make our way towards the village. We still need to attend the village meeting.”

“Sounds good,” I say. We split up to gather the materials.

Master moves to grab two pairs of thick gloves that cover our whole arms while I grab the molds we use for the billets. The steel is around 1500°c coming out of the smelter and no matter how strong my Mana Skin skill is or master’s skills are, our flesh would melt if we splashed any of the molten steel on us.

The gloves were actually the first things I ordered from Kervin. They’re hide from a semi-magical beat that boasts a decent fire resistance, then the gloves were treated with an alchemical solution. With that in mind, the gloves will only withstand molten steel for seven seconds. That’s enough time for us to retreat and remove the gloves before parts of us start to melt.

I line up the molds in a single file line directly under the tapping valve. It took us a while to get the molds right but now the molten steel fills the first mold and overflows to the next and will continue that cycle until the last one is filled. A quarter of an inch of steel will cover all the molds that we’ll have to cut through after they cool partially.

“Ready?!” Master shouts at me even though we’re feet apart.

“Ready!” I shout back. Clear responses are critical when dealing with molten metal.

“Pouring!” Master shouts and releases the valve.

The tapping hole is tiny but the force of the liquid metal still pushes it out at a decent speed. The red ooze travels into the molds and slowly fills them up.

Molten steel is hotter than lava. It’s such a beautiful moment when you watch it pour. Gods, I love my job.
