Chapter 349

Matt wished he could say that he was full of confidence when they exited the Arbitration Convention building, but instead he was just wrung out.

People were ultimately people whether they were high Tier or low Tier and the unawakened proved that to Matt better than any research paper ever could. A few of the leaders seemed like genuinely good people looking out for their countries and its peoples but far too many of them only seemed interested in the benefits the integration to the Empire would bring them personally.

After the shock and disbelief they had shown upon reading the briefing, the majority of Soerilia’s leaders quickly shifted their focus.

Unsurprisingly a few of the leaders seemed to think they could just ignore Matt and Liz’s arrival and spoke of things like closing their borders. Matt tried to impress upon them that such actions wouldn’t be tolerated and they should use the time allotted to get their people used to the Empire as much as possible during the time they had.

Those were put on various watch lists to be monitored by the planetary AI Matt was going to set up between meetings.

Because of course there were more meetings.

The two councilors looked at him like he was crazy when one of his statements implied that the intro meeting would be their only meeting. They quickly informed him that they would need a day, preferably two or three, for everyone to meet amongst interest groups and political affiliations so the Soerilia leaders could decide on their course of actions.

Matt wanted to ask what possible course of action they could be planning besides what was laid out in their introductory docket and the larger, more thorough information packet they were all given, but he realized what that would sound like and so held his tongue.

While he wanted to get back to Lilly so he could start preparing for his guild, he also wanted this transition from Republic veil world to productive Empire world to go as smoothly as possible.

To that end, Matt and Liz agreed to give the various world leaders the three days that Councilor Samuel requested.

They instead went and toured more of the planet.

Their first visit was the Cradle of Empires purely off its name.

The region was a massive desert surrounded by arid plains surrounded further by large mountains that were nearly impassable for mortals outside of a few months when snow didn’t clog the valleys.

The only reason life was able to flourish in the region was the massive river that ran right through the center of the region creating a strip of green across the desert.

The traditional peoples of the region were nomadic and in the winter months they roved through the deserts and plains gathering food from horseback and in the hot summers they moved to the river and settled down waiting out the worst of the heat by the largest source of water.

The reason the place was called the Cradle of Empires was the fact three empires were created out of the region as inevitably a leader united the nomads and led a majority of them out to conquer the surrounding regions.

Amusingly enough the word Matt’s AI translated as ’cradle’ had implications of a place for the elderly to die because those same three empires ended up trying to conquer their homelands a few generations later and were defeated in detail allowing their neighbors to gang up on them and tear them into pieces.

In the current political landscape the region was only considered a mid level country but they had a thriving tourist industry that Matt and Liz wanted to take advantage of.

They were even able to do so for a whole day and a half before they got a call from Councilor Jolene who seemed excited and Councilor Samuel who seemed worried for his life still.

With a thought, they returned to the Arbitration Convention and moved to see what Councilor Samuel was worried about.

He nearly quivered as the two of them walked into his office. “My Lords I…” He swallowed several times before he could continue. “I wanted to inform you that some of the world leaders are intending to do things you might consider against your orders.”

Samuel winced like he expected to get personally blamed but when no reprimand came he heisantly spoke further. “Some of the delegates are intending to set up an organization dedicated to preserving the local cultures. They don’t mean treason. I swear. They just want to protect what is, what was. Please don’t punish them too harshly.”

Matt just blinked at Samuel in confusion, then returned to Tier 26 speeds to talk to Liz, “Seriously, what’s up with these guys? We’re not monsters.”

Both Lizzes shrugged in unison. “I have no idea, but I’m grateful he's at least trying to do his best to protect his people. If we were assholes and found out he was hiding this from us, it would be his head.”

Matt rubbed his temples, but composed himself before returning to a speed that Samuel could perceive. “We’re not upset, Councillor. The degree to which you all wish to preserve your current culture is entirely up to you, so long as it doesn’t violate Empire rules, such as which language is primarily taught in schools. There aren’t many lords that actively support cultural anthropological efforts like you’re describing, but very few forbid it, and we certainly aren’t about to stop you in any way. The echoes of your culture are entirely likely to have their own unique impact when integrated into media or tourism which is a net positive all things told. Who’s trying to spearhead the operation?”

Samuel looked genuinely shocked to which Liz explained further. “Councilor Samuel, you need to take our perspective into consideration. So long as the baseline culture– meaning language, governmental controls, and beliefs– are in line with Empire standard, The Empire as an entity doesn't care about local variations like a society for historical preservation. In a hundred years it will be relegated to something people pay lip service to, in five hundred it will just be a thing people celebrate during local holidays, and in a thousand it will be curiosity. But even in that case, there are plenty of historians who have dedicated eternity to visiting planets and learning their unique histories and keeping them alive in some way shape or form.”

Councilor Samuel went pale at the words, but Liz continued.

“If your people can preserve more of their current culture than that, they are welcome to do so, but that is the problem with mortal populations. They grow old and die. Rapidly. If culture is not controlled and prevented from drift you will have the issue that you currently possess now but across millions of worlds: people who can’t understand their neighbors or can't tolerate some superficial local custom that offends their own local customs. If it makes you feel better, your culture wouldn’t survive more than a century or two on its own before something else supplanted it. By integrating now, your culture is, arguably, lasting far longer than it ever would have on its own.”

Samuel looked depressed at the realization but he nodded to which Matt started speaking. “Tell the leaders who wish to do something like that they should check the packet. There is a section dedicated to the topic on page seven thousand and fifty two and it details the historical best practices and what pitfalls to avoid. They are welcome to take what they want from that or ignore it. While we are handling the integration, we are willing to dedicate…” Matt looked to Liz to get a feel for what was a proper amount, “a billion credits a decade to the effort.”

That brought up a side topic about how they were supposed to handle the integration of credits and the conversion of the local currencies, which Matt and Liz bowed out of. They had a team of administrations hired from a Tier 35 corporation, which would fill the role of administrator assistance once the integration was fully revealed. They had contracted the best of the best, and this was why. They would handle things like switching local economies to the credit system and offering suggestions to the planet in which ways they could best create wealth post integration.

After that meeting they went to Councilor Jolene who was meeting with the three most powerful world leaders. Democratic Republic of Noricum, the Communists of the Greater South Plains, and the Joined Provinces of Turistia.

Matt expected pushback from the strongest local powers, especially considering two of them were at war just days ago, but the atmosphere seemed positive which gave him a glimmer of hope that they would have a good idea or two.

Councilor Jolene stood as he entered and bowed, which was belatedly copied by the others.

The leader of the The Joined Provinces of Turistia, Westley Bakerfield, spoke first. “We have been talking about how best to go about easing our peoples into the idea of magic. Consulting the documents you provided we would like to use the Roland Method as it is already in place for Soerilia so it's as easy as simply activating the plan.”

Matt frowned at the suggestion, which made the leaders flinch.

Liz leaned back slightly signaling that this was his own decision and she wouldn’t interfere.

He appreciated that but things would have been a lot easier if she was willing to just make the decision which would allow him and his personal biases to keep out of the touchy subject.

The Roland Method was one of many, many ways that the Republic used to re-integrate Veil worlds, intended to be the closest thing to a ‘natural’ re-integration that could be feasibly managed. It worked by carefully pulling back regular delves from remote rifts in unpopulated regions, allowing them to break and fill a portion of the world with monsters. Then over time, more and more of the rifts would be unmanaged, allowing for the citizens of the world to naturally fight against and kill the monsters, Awakening and growing in strength until they were able to keep their entire planet in check solely through native efforts.

Its proponents argued for its efficiency as well as the way it could most effectively ease a Veil world into cultivation with minimal outside influence. Matt didn’t disagree, as even his personal favorite - Biplanet Unveiling - still involved unnatural meddling from the outside and a decent bit of shoving around existing cultures to try and make them adapt.

Veil worlds would sometimes technologically advance far enough that they became capable of traveling off-world and establishing a colony on another world in their solar system. Having portions of their population living on two separate planetary bodies, one Tiered and the other not, almost always resulted in the subsequent discovery of essence, and prepared them for the reveal that their main world was itself simply a colony of a much larger multiversal Great Power. Of course, the Republic still would need to intervene before Essence could warp native power structures… but it was about as harmless as it came, and definitely one of the most interesting situations. It just took too long to be practical with the expected Empire timelines of intergeneration.

Matt just found it so interesting. Sometimes there would even be some new and interesting bit of tech that came out of those worlds. There were a fair number of people who were obsessed with ‘mundane tech,’ but even in instances where it wasn’t just a less-efficient way of using mana, it was almost always over-specialized for low-Tier materials and couldn’t scale very well. Mundane tech hit the limit of physics too quickly whereas essence tech had no such limits but that didn’t make the research any less intriguing.

It wasn’t just his personal history of rift breaks on Lilly that led him to dislike the Roland method, but he could also definitely recognize that it was a bias.

Waving to the leaders Matt moved to take a seat. “I’m not angry at your idea but I dislike the Roland Method because of its relation to an incident where I grew up. The world I grew up on is the Empire equivalent of a backward tiny town with only a few dozen million people living there.”

That seemed to shock all four of the Soerilia natives, but he continued without letting himself linger in the memories. “Our local noble was deposed because they allowed a series of rift breaks which devastated several cities as the monster rushed out and killed a majority of people. My parents were part of those lost so my view on deliberate rift breaks is… distasteful to say the least. I would rather just disperse the rifts while slaughtering the monsters but I also recognize that even if it is a method with more losses than others it has been used to great effect a number of times.”

When it seemed like Councilor Jolene was going to backtrack her earlier offer of using the method Matt spoke first. “I won’t say you can’t use it ,but I want you to know what you are getting into. You will lose people. If you are going to use this method, I am going to insist that you have a well laid out plan and only take volunteers.”

Letting his eyes harden for dramatic effect Matt caught the eye of each leader before looking to the next. “When I say volunteers, I mean volunteers. No playing with definitions or using your soldiers because they volunteered to be part of your armed forces.”

Seeing he had made a decision, Liz leaned forward and added her own ideas. “This could even be a useful method to introduce some of the new technologies. The mountains are young and will take a substantial effort to cut through. If you look at the technologies we will be making available, you will see an improved drilling method. It—”

