Matt leaned back and just listened, which the others seemed happy to let him do. Instead Matt let his spiritual perception spread to the unclaimed land and searched through the larger half of the continent.

There was a surprising number of natural treasures scattered through the area and while some were obviously placed there when the world was first settled, even more were obviously native to the region.

Nothing was new but there were lots of useful variations he saw. Whoever found the SunSet Marigold would find themselves quite the lucky individual. That natural treasure was rare enough in the Empire that it caused a dust up in any region it was found in as higher Tiers tried to buy it for their descendants.

He did find two rifts that he considered too dangerous to remain and with a thought he drained them of mana until the rifts dissipated and with another thought he killed the monsters that had escaped the rift over the years.

Matt was tempted to do more but he knew that was his past talking. Instead he decided to just let this planet choose its own fate.

They had done so for thousands of years while they were a veil world . Even if they were being integrated into the Empire, their competency hadn’t vanished.

If the three largest countries wanted to use what was left to them by their ancestors that was their choice.

Matt contributed a few ideas for how best to handle the ideas but he let Liz and the leaders make most of the decisions.

He thought that was the end of his meetings but almost all of the country leaders wanted to meet with them before the actual meeting and it seemed like all of the actual decisions were made before the formal gathering.

Thankfully most of the world leaders seemed to fall in line over the discussions and Matt was confident that Soerilia would hit the development milestones they had all agreed on even if he heard whispers about slowing things down. If everything went well in twenty five years the world would go through its official unveiling but most citizens would be aware of magic long before that and he had hopefully made it clear that malingering wouldn’t be tolerated.

Matt and Liz returned to Lilly where they met up with Cato and Isabella who had been coordinating with the various people who had arrived to see them while they had been on Lilly.

Seeing how much extra time they had spent on Soerilia, they contemplated changing their plans, but ended up choosing to keep to their schedule.

With the war over, they needed to visit Ventillyria to complete the promise they had given so long ago.

Thankfully Allie needed to get a new way point for Lilly and offered to jump them to Ventillyria while she toured the planet and waited for a waypoint to naturally form.

It was hard, harder than Matt could have ever imagined, but seeing the survivors who were still alive thank him for killing Maven healed a part of Matt he hadn’t known was still bleeding so many years later.

Personally Matt was just happy that so many of Ventillyria’s people had grown up to be strong enough to protect themselves and their homes. Those who remained were scarred, but they were at least alive.

There were even a few that Matt, Liz, or Aster personally remembered from their time in the camps or shortly after.

It took almost a full month to talk to everyone who wanted to talk to them but it was time well spent and when Allie took Aster and Liz to the Capital, Matt was in a much better mood.

Aster was still busy publicizing her end of war ice cream before her planets arrived and Liz wanted to meet in person with her bloodline research team now that she was free from the obligations of the war.

They might have served their purpose of helping his wife create her ichor mana and bloodline, but their jobs weren’t done by a long shot. Liz wanted their assistance in understanding her new bloodline before eventually turning them into a sort of bloodline version of his guild, wanting to discover and create better things for those with bloodlines in the Empire.

It felt slightly weird to be separated from his family, but they all had their own things to do.

He was in such a good mood that he didn’t even mind when he arrived on the island that was going to turn into his guild's first headquarters and how much it would need to be expanded..

As a rule, rifts could only form naturally if they were more than five miles from the coastline either inland or out in the oceans and this island was just a hair too small for what Matt needed at just over ten miles shore to shore. The Coastal Exclusion Principle might not apply for man made rifts but that didn’t mean they could ignore it or all of their tests could end up being flawed because of their non normal baseline.

There was currently one rift on the island but it was delved down thanks to the efforts of one of the local guilds so there weren’t even any monsters running around the tropical island.

Fifty thousand acres just wasn’t enough for Matt and his guild. Rifts didn’t like to be too close to each other and while you could force them to spawn near each other with formations such actions were not conducive to proper scientific testing which needed to limit variables instead of adding new ones.

To that end Matt was going to double the diameter of the island from a ten mile diameter to a twenty mile diameter which would quadruple the island's size and the available land to create rifts on.

But seeing the almost picturesque island and with his emotions still in flux from both Soerilia and Ventillyria, he found he didn’t want to just dump dirt onto the edge of the island to expand it. The local corals were gorgeous and it would be a shame to destroy them.

There was tons of beautiful life all around the island that he wanted to save if possible.

So instead of just casting [Create Earth] to dump dirt on the edge of the island, Matt activated [Earth Manipulation] and with the bare minimum amount of power, lifted the top layer of seabed up, just enough to get all the local sea life, along with some careful [Water Manipulation] to ensure the fish moved along too and weren’t slammed into the moving ground. This part he actually had to take some real time for, as he didn’t want to kill the sealife from whiplash which would rather defeat the point.

With his power and Tier he could have expanded the island in a few seconds but he would have also sterilized the island of all life larger than bacteria.

As he moved the seabed outward he did his best to put it back down where it fit but resigned himself to the fact that he’d be ruining some sealifes day either way. He was trying his best but any change would hurt something.

Then he used [Create Earth] to backfill the cleared area with bedrock and soil, using [Earth Manipulation] to ensure it was all in the right proportions and places until it breached sea level, using [Water Manipulation] to prevent any excess or excessive waves. He still took his time, because being too cautious was never a bad thing, but he would certainly not allow for any slip-ups.

A few minutes later he had a compact foundation for the newly created land on the island that if not for the lack of plants was indistinguishable from the rest of the island.

Seeing the bald spot on his new island Matt frowned. He wasn’t done with his expansions but he really didn’t like the look of the unfinished area.

After giving the island a few minutes to settle, Matt started scanning his expansion and looking for problems to solve. He had never done this before but he had looked up the typical methods on the EmpireNet and followed them. He could almost hear Luna yelling at him for his work but it was more affectionate yelling than anything as he had done a damn good job if he said so himself. Even with a careful scan there wasn’t anything for him to fix so he moved onto his next expansion.

It took him almost half an hour before it was done to his satisfaction, but when he was finished he had an island surrounded by an empty five miles of dirt which made him wonder if he should have expanded the island from the very center so it was a ring of wilderness along the outer perimeter instead of a dot. The more he thought about it the more he regretted his choice as a lot of that older wilderness would end up being cut down because they would need the center of the island clear for their testing and the guild hall.

The resource he had looked up about the expansion of the island had been about building PlayPens which wanted the extra ground to be near the edge of the islands so housing could be built where rifts couldn’t spawn, not island research groups who needed that valuable inner land to experiment on.

Matt wrestled with the decision but ended up moving the trees and their corresponding wildlife from the center of the island to the new land along the edge in small clusters so the flora and fauna would spread and eventually cover the island once more.

Sighing now that he had gone this far Matt dug through his spatial rings just to find that he didn’t have any fertilizer. The ground created with [Create Earth] was comprised of whatever elements he wanted which meant there were some nutrients, mainly nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium but if Matt wanted to have an island that didn’t look like an beginner landscaper had expanded it he would need more fertilizers to encourage rapid growth.

Now that the center of his island was clear Matt flexed his considerable magical might into compressing some of the topsoil into something closer to bedrock which would make a good stable foundation for the guild building that would be built here.

After checking his AI he winced as he saw that the construction company he had arranged to visit Lilly had been waiting on him to give them the ok to come to the island.

Watching them work gave Matt a new appreciation of construction Talents.

Just five people came in and in just five hours created the six story compound along with the outlying buildings to the specifications the blueprint he and Erwin had finally settled on along with fitting the building with the basic necessities like food faculties, temperature control, furniture, and things like windows and doors. Everything was made out of Tier 25 materials and would be effectively indestructible to the forces they should be dealing with while working mainly on low Tier items.

Matt had originally wanted to go with a specially designed building so that spies wouldn’t have plans for the structure but Erwin had rightly pointed out that such methods were useless to any dedicated spy as any Tier 44 or below could enter the Empire without the Emperor's notice but still be strong enough to scan the guild building without being noticed.

It was better to just use a standard layout that everyone knew and worry about security in ways other than the buildings layout. There was still plenty of room to show off and customize the building, even within the hundreds of fairly standard variations, after all and Matt went for one with size as the main theme instead of any of the other variations.

Thankfully he didn’t need to deal with that headache himself. A branch of Harper’s spies came through the moment the construction crew was done and did things. Matt didn’t understand the purpose of one of the women making a small hole in the kitchen wall just to mold the wall back into a flat plane when she didn’t add any device or magical effect, but Harper trusted them so Matt let them work.

Compared to the construction crew who finished their work in just hours, it took the spies a full week to finish their business, whereupon a smaller but incredibly attractive man who had introduced himself as Tholly proclaimed their work done.

He would be one of the onsite counterintelligence operators and the only one Matt would know of. He would be working as one of the island chefs, and surprisingly, he was a very good cook.

Matt wasn’t sure if he had a cooking Talent and trained as a spy or had a spy Talent and trained as a cook, but the man was good and highly trusted by Harper as a handler for the spies Matt wouldn’t be told about.

He still wasn’t entirely comfortable with the idea of there being agents he didn’t know of but Harper had beaten the fact that if he didn’t know his enemies couldn’t learn from him. Or it could have been Lyre. When the intelligent mask pretended to be her owner it was impossible for Matt to tell the difference so long as pronouns weren’t used.

Harper may have discarded their gender identity but Lyre was very much a woman despite being a mask and Matt had been forced to listen to her explain the difference during a dinner where he made the mistake of asking the mask about her choice of pronoun.

Part of him wondered if Harper would be acting as a spy in his guild but he eventually wrote that idea off as them being too busy to deal with such a low level job. Even if they could have been Tholly and Matt would have never been able to tell the difference.

Once the spies were done with their inspection of the building they didn’t leave. That would have been too easy. Instead they went through his order of equipment with a fine tooth comb.

Equipment that they had delivered. Tholly explained that they had already gone over the equipment and searched for bugs but one could never be too careful so they were doing it again before anything was installed and would be doing so periodically going forward.

It seemed a bit wasteful to Matt, but considering this would only be his acting headquarters for at least a few years, and hopefully a prominent research outpost for millennia afterwards, Matt still wanted to participate somehow. Even if that just meant he was watching a bunch of spies tear apart equipment and compare it to blueprints by sight, touch, and oddly enough taste.

