Drelex raised a webbed hand, "Ah yes, may I use your grimoire? It shall help with creating my own schema-based runes and for showing Entilla."

I floated the book over to him, and he perused some of my runic works. A wry smile came over Drelex's face,

"There's no wonder you let me see this. Without your specific abilities, no one can even use these incantations."

I shrugged, "They're a big part of how I made it this far. Oh yeah, can you actually use the pages? I've always wondered if anyone else could besides me."

Drelex raised a finger, "I definitely can, and thank you. It's been difficult to develop my own grimoire given the mana constraints here."

I leaned back, "You don't have a grimoire? How in the hell do you work with runes?"

Drelex gazed at me in confusion before he tapped his forehead, "What are you even...Oh. I understand. I do own a grimoire, but it's not here on Leviathan-7. Schema stripped us of what we held in our dimensional storages, and he gave us little time to prepare for this journey. In fact, few own a grimoire except for you."

He pointed at me, "While you may think I'm odd, I'm actually the norm, and you're the exception. In this instance, at least."

I eyed my grimoire, "Ah, then you'd better bring that back."

Drelex bowed, "I most certainly shall."

I turned back to my work, planting lines of runes onto the power battery. Drelex paced off, giving me some time to handle most of the work involved. By the time he returned with the blue lizard ruler, I had finalized a terminal for the psionic battery. It would be the place for Drelex's language cipher and Entilla's wiring adjustments.

Entilla cheered up, the blue lizard standing taller and with a brighter look on his face. He inspected my workflow before nodding, "You weren't lying, Drelex...He has gotten his feet wet with this kind of endeavor before. Color me surprised."

Though still sarcastic, Entilla's lightened tone gave him an affable air rather than his scornful banter. a Drelex swung a webbed hand, "Can you handle the installation of the wires here?"

Entilla sighed, "I...I suppose, but it looks like the energy within would blow the fuses and burn out every device here. We need many transfusers in place."

I turned and raised a brow, "Transfusers?"

Entilla waved a hand, "They control the flow of power so that no machine ends up with more power than it needs. It prevents short-circuiting."

I frowned, "You just call for however much energy you need at once."

Entilla spread his arms, "What about machines that need power all the time? Do you need a worker for them to monitor energy intake? We don't have a labor force of that size here."

I stood and put my hands on my hips, "Well, usually I just use golem cores for that."

Entilla rubbed his temples, his broad skull giving space for his long jaw, "How exactly does a golem core handle energy transfusion? Aren't they simple war machines?"

Drelex waved his hands, "This is obviously an issue with communication and terms. Daniel's likely referring to AI automation."

Entilla nodded, "Ah, that makes perfect sense then. He should just say so."

I spread my hands, "But it's not artificial intelligence. It's perfectly natural."

The two rulers stared at me before Shalahora murmured, "Are you certain of that?"

I shook my head, "At this point, no. Anyways, I can handle the energy, er, transfusion on my own. Besides that, you guys are making this way more complicated than it has to be."

Entilla raised a palm, "Excuse me, I was just curious how you managed the problems. This, hm, system you've devised is unlike anything I've ever used before. It's very...Raw."

I tapped my side, "I think it's that I don't have as many problems to manage as you guys do."

Entilla raised a scaled brow, "We'll see."

At this point, I was done having to justify myself every two seconds to every ruler here. While frustrating, I kept myself calm while continuing the job. Shifting the conversation, Drelex used quintessent mana to carve into the metal sheets of my grimoire as he said,

"Well, does anyone have thoughts about Schema's purpose here?"

Entilla shrugged, "Personally, I think Schema intended on making a statement to the universe here: fight with me or die alone. I heard it loud and clear, and I intend to support him after this is over."

Drelex's whiskers pulled down, "I shall be doing the same if only to reduce the chance of these kinds of tragedies occurring once more."

I shook my head, "I wouldn't if I were you guys."

Drelex's eyes narrowed, "Wait a moment, you're the one that was pulled into the initial stages of the war with Elysium, aren't you?"

I sighed, "Yeah...It wasn't easy to get out."

Entilla scoffed, "Schema does have a way of wringing out his sentients, doesn't he?"

Drelex's eyes went distant, "First, he wrings until sweat pours. Then he keeps squeezing until oil oozes from his victim's pores. Then the hair is ripped out. Skin tears. Blood pours. And lastly, the bones break."

Entilla leaned back from Drelex, "Yeesh, it looks like I'm not the only one needing a sunbath."

Drelex gave a hollow smile, the bones on the edges of his mouth made for it, "Perhaps some time in a pool would help me. I know Schema is no kind master, but he does face an unyielding enemy. Just as well, the eldritch aren't the only beasts he's gone against."

I shook my head, "Poor excuses. Most of what we're talking about doesn't even require killing us. Schema's working around limited parameters, and that's why he pulls stunts like this. Our deaths are the result of his inability to change, and worse still, these are only the sacrifices we know about."

Remembering Hod's people being eldritchified, I contemned, "Schema isn't testing anyone here. He's killing as many as he can, and unfortunately, he's been more than just successful."

Iona stepped up to us, and she crossed her arms, "I wouldn't go that far. Valgus had a massive part in this, and he's the reason we're so inept overall."

I connected blue cores to the mass of fabric while I mused, "Really now? Does anyone have any idea why Valgus is so hellbent on killing every survivor he meets?"

Drelex's eyes widened as he etched into a blank page, "That's one of the largest mysteries present. He's been targeting the Schema-led faction almost exclusively, and he's picked off the survivor's scouts one by one when they left this place."

I pulled my hair back in my helmet using a strand of armor, "Huh...He's on a mission. Knowing who he follows, it's Baldowah."

Iona raised her brow, "But Baldowah works with Schema. That doesn't make sense."

I deadpanned, "It makes perfect sense. I just told you the answer: Schema wants everyone dead. Assuming that, everything fits in place quite well, I think."

The rulers in watching our conversation blinked a few times, a sort of realization clicking on in their minds. Drelex closed his eyes while shutting my grimoire. He handed it over while murmuring, "It's finished. I'm going to the terrarium. I need to spend some time in the algae pits."

Entilla's wry sarcasm fizzled, "Yeah. You should do that."

An awkward silence passed over us before Iona reached out a hand to testify in Schema's defense. No words left her lips at first. Lowering her arm, she stammered,

"No one's fought for Schema's defense against Elysium. Even 1% of Schema-owned space could easily destroy Elysium if they united against them. But no one did, and it's forced drastic measures."

I sighed, "I was the prime example of why you shouldn't follow Schema. He took advantage of me, which put my home planet in an awful situation. We're still dealing with the culling, and after having faced Yawm, I had to get rid of our unknown statuses on Giess." I spread my arms, "And wouldn't you know it, I ended up wrapped up in a galactic rebellion right after. Now I'm trapped here in a death game all before I can establish rule over my homeworld."

Obolis stepped up, interested in the conversation, "Ah, would any of you mind me joining in this conversation?"

I raised my brow, "That depends on your goals."

Obolis smiled at me, "Then I'll keep my conversation contained. I'll merely listen."

Entilla flashed his sharp teeth as he spoke, "Culling? You're struggling with that stage of development still? That doesn't make any sense."

Obolis leaned over, "It's true. His planet has yet to finish its culling."

Entilla blinked over a transparent covering on his eyes, "Well, you never mentioned just how young you really were. I thought Schema mentioned something twenty-five years in the system. The culling doesn't even last a decade."

Obolis smiled, and I glared at him. The Emperor leaned over to Entilla, "That is his actual age, not his time in the system."

Entilla tapped his side, "Ah...You're an avatar for an Old One, then. A freak."

I raised my brow, and Entilla raised his hands, "I mean it in a good way."

Finishing my work, I deadpanned, "Good to know."

Obolis stared at his claws, sliding into the conversation, "You must understand his perspective, Daniel. This stems from a difference in expectations. Most rulers assume your age is a number since birth, but they also assume it isn't your true age. Your circumstances mirror the byproduct of reincarnation, rebirth, etc. You simply exceed conventional scaling patterns."

I blinked, "Reincarnation? Rebirth? Does it happen often or something?"

Obolis kept looking at his hands, "Certainly not, but it's more common than your current predicament. You also mentioned facing many hardships brought on by Schema's quests. That, too, is unusual. I existed at the beginning of the albony's Schemafication. That took place centuries ago. In those times, many bonuses helped propel us to prominence...Along with a healthy and due amount of force, of course."

Obolis lowered his hands, "We were never confronted with an enemy of Yawm's caliber, and neither were we expected to visit other planets before establishing our own."

I moved my hands back and forth, "It's not that simple. I didn't have to, per se. Well, I definitely had to versus Yawm, but that was because of a quarantine. And then going to Giess was to get rid of me and my friends' unknown statuses."

Entilla clicked his tongue, "Oof, Schema still hadn't rid you of your Unknown status after finishing an S- tier bounty? Wow. Your life sucks."

I sneered, "Do we have to keep talking about this?"

Obolis spread his hands, "Absolutely not-"

Iona interjected, "I'd like to know. It sounds like you've been put in a poor position by Schema. Did you ever think of why Schema would do that?"

Peeved by the constant interruptions, I dropped my work, gawking at her in disgust,

"No. I didn't."

She shrugged, "I think that's the issue. He put you in poor positions because he believed in your ability to get out of them. He saw potential in you, and obviously, he's awarded you in equal measure."

Almost forgotten from his silence, the gray insect ruler stepped up. Its head writhed as it hissed, "Schema saw potential in me. My life far worse now. I listen to metal man's words. His life made hard from Schema as well. Even I understand, and I am not smart...Iona...Are you stupid?"

I bust out laughing before I put a hand over the gray insect's shoulders, "What's your name?"

"Jaieex."

I gave him a thumbs-up, "You're cool, Jaieex. You're welcome to come by my place if you get tired of being here."

He spread his wings, "Why not?"

Iona narrowed her eyes, "Jaieex, huh? I'll make sure to remember you the next time I talk to Schema."

I tilted my head at the matrix of fabric, "You bring petty to a whole other level. It's impressive how small you can be."

I snapped my fingers, a bolt of mana surging through the power battery. As it came to life, I zipped wires of my fabric out, collecting and placing them into bundled coils. After setting several bundles down, I pointed at Entilla,

"You mentioned wiring expertise. Will these supplies work?"

Glad to change the conversation, Entilla shook his head, "I'll need insulation for the wires, the AI automation systems you mentioned, and interfaces for all of the places you'll need."

I shrugged, "You won't need insulation. This amount of power won't leech out of the wires. I'll be putting someone over this device and managing the power here, and they'll be handling any interface needs psionically."

A few rulers heard that, and they stepped up. A different fire imp stepped up, his glowing cinders for hair releasing sparks as he spoke,

"If you need someone to manage it, I can?"

Entilla frowned, "I can as well. I promise to be impartial."

Iona raised her hands, "I know we aren't on the best of terms, but-"

I shouted over them, "Shush." I grimaced, "You think this will be handled by someone I don't know? What do you take me for? An idiot?"

Jaieex raised one of his insect arms, "I don't."

I smiled at him, "I know."

Iona sneered, "You don't even know anyone else. How are you going to assign someone else to this?"

Shalahora whispered, "I wish to not manage this power system. To do so would bore me to death."

I put my extra-dimensional fabric into my dimensional storage, "Don't worry. I have someone else in mind."

I molded myself into a director golem's shape and pulled my mind out of my body. Reconstructing from the ether, I hovered over the body, and I inspected it. Finding no flaws, I landed on the floor before channeling mana into my grimoire. Using my pocket dimension to contain the energies involved, I created the primordial golem core for this golem body.

The sizzling core leaked out of my starry shield, and I slotted it into the golem's body. The director came online, everything connecting in a violent snap. The primordial golem popped a fist against his chest plate, standing tall and upright. He telepathically synced and announced,

