Shalahora spoke quietly yet with great force,

"I only showed him pain."

I winced, "It looked as though you robbed him of reason. How in the hell could he experience pain like that without any wounds, not even psionic ones?"

Shalahora's voice grew distant, "It was not his pain."

My eyes widened as Shalahora seethed,

"It was my own."

Chapter Begin

I held myself in place, wanting to step back but choosing not to. In the corner, Malos lost his mind to the anguish Shalahora exposed him to. Curiosity burned in my chest, but I gave myself a moment to consider before I frowned,

"It seems like you wielded it like a weapon. Whose pain it is doesn't change what was done or how effective the attack was either. It also doesn't explain what the assault was."

Shalahora's words coursed out, "Is it not obvious? I shared my experiences with him, the ones I normally hide but unusually expose."

I tapped my foot while considering how a psionic attack customarily operated. Torix and I battled it out with our willpowers, and by coordinating our assaults, we sent out slicing cuts at specific weaknesses. Shalahora's attack mirrored my psionic drowning, but it operated on a far more insidious level. While I sent in random thoughts into a person's head, Shalahora flooded their mind with a specific experience.

Depending on the person, they might shatter, and Malos's ego death was an example of that. Shalahora condensed and tilted his head at me, "Listen. I understand you're curious about the tools I wield. That isn't a surprise, as curiosity is inevitable in developed species. I am not lying when I say my 'attack' was simple. I shared my experiences with him."

Crossing my arms, my mind raced with possibilities, "Sharing experiences, huh? I guess it's possible. Still, that doesn't explain the Old One's energy when you attacked." An epiphany sparked in my mind as I widened my eyes, "Unless...Was the Old One the source of your terrible memory?"

Shalahora's eyes widened, "Do you know of Mesmera as well?"

I winced, "I do know."

Shalahora stared at the map of Leviathan-7, "It is a presence that lingers and spreads through memories and knowledge, and that Old One is a part of my suffering. It is not the cause, however."

The idea of an entity existing through knowledge and memories alone reminded me of an autobiography that constantly changed. Wanting nothing to do with Mesmera, I frowned, "You speak in riddles."

Shalahora cackled before expanding, "Yes, I suppose that's true. You were curious of my past before, yet you chose the wise way of restraint...You are someone who understands the danger of knowledge and ambition, and that tempers the path you've chosen to take."

Shalahora sifted around, "That's why you've refused to view my memories - you worry that understanding my past will lead you towards madness. Or that perhaps madness has ingrained itself into me. In turn, it may ingrain itself into you."

Shalahora condensed and raised an arm, "Worry not. The trauma I lived is simple yet profound. The memories bear down like mountains on my mind, but the story itself is no such burden. To Malos, I exposed the fullness of those experiences, and they ruptured his weak psyche. He is a cup overly full, one left shattered by what it tried to contain."

I gazed down at Malos, "No, that's not right. His mind didn't drown. He simply couldn't handle it."

Shalahora spoke with a cynical edge, "He will return to himself, though changed in persona. I doubt it will be for the better. In that regard, it's incredible how effective a tool one's experiences may be at times, whether directly or indirectly."

His tone turned hopeful, "And there exists no deeper directness than turning one's pain into their sword and one's grit into their shield."

My mind raced as Shalahora spoke. In particular, a new Old One set me on edge. Eonoth melted my body the last time we spoke, and Etorhma pitted me against Yawm. In general, those esoteric, godlike creatures interacted with this universe without any care of how they affected people, ideas, or anything really.

And the torments the Old Ones wrought dwarfed my ability to comprehend them.

Despite all of that, knowing Shalahora's history was necessary since it let me trust him moving forward. Otherwise, I'd carry so many doubts that a long-term relationship wouldn't be feasible. I winced while biting my tongue,

"Hm...Alright. I can listen to the story but don't share the memories. Also, if you can, don't tell me about the Old One either."

Shalahora's sky blue eyes widened, "You know of it now, so it is too late to undo what has been done. It was only a matter of time before it found you, however. It finds all that it wishes to see."

As I remembered the name Mesmera, strange energy rippled out from around me. It touched on this dimension, so I condensed my own wake around me. The power bounced off my denser, dimensional space, and a slight laugh echoed into my ears. I closed my eyes, "Well...Dammit."

Shalahora tilted his head, "You believe that ignorance of them will mitigate their impact on you? Are you truly that naive?"

While I understood his viewpoint, I disagreed. I shook my head,

"I don't believe that. I know it's true. The Old Ones are heavily limited in our universe for some reason. Why, exactly? I have no clue, but I know talking to them won't help me find out. They only talk about what they can directly offer, and it's always tempting."

Shalahora peered away, "That...That is true."

I raised a hand, "But I've seen what happens to anyone or anything that engages with those monstrosities. Those that listen are turned inside out, but even worse, they are never allowed to die from it. They have shamble on, half alive and half dead. They turn immortality into a curse, and I'm not buying into their lies."

As I spoke, memories of Yawm and how he was twisted into an abomination flashed before my mind. Even more musings about Lehesion and his toxic codependence on Elysium sprung up in my head too. Even Eonoth's roaring and my melting body snapped into my head, and I recalled Etorhma shoving knowledge of the cipher into my psyche. A cold shiver raced up my spine, and I spit,

"Anything they touch turns into shambling monstrosities."

Shalahora's eyes slanted, "Ah...You must think this of me as well."

I clasped my hand into a fist but said nothing. Shalahora nodded,

"You would be right on all accounts...And though I lived for centuries, my time with Mesmera is what's defined me the most. It was a crossroad where I chose one path in place of another. I still don't know if my choice was correct, but it was made. Now I walk that path."

"And the trauma?"

Shalahora's voice stuttered, "I...I watched my entire species die before I made my choice. It was no peaceful walk into the night. It was a slow, lonely march."

I narrowed my eyes, "But you mentioned there being more of you? How can that be if everyone died?"

Shalahora scoffed, "There are more, and yet, there are not. To that question, there exists no simple answer, I'm afraid, and I will betray your requests if I answer your questions."

I raised my palms, "You know what, I'm good then. I get it. Watching your race die is pretty horrific anyway, regardless of how it happens. I'm guessing if an Old One was involved, it was a particularly creative and horrific demise, so you have my sympathy. Well, what little I can give."

Shalahora shook his head, "The fall of my kind was an inevitable and natural demise, but that made it no less haunting. You see, nature, like the Old Ones, is oftentimes cruel and unyielding. I've faced both their wraths first hand, and they have brought me to my knees...Now that cycle may have continued once more but to these rulers."

I peered back around, Obolis explaining my cipher's contract to the other rulers in excruciating detail. The faction supporting Malos died down their protests but not because they agreed with me. They refused to speak out of fear, and that wasn't what I wanted. I lifted a hand to Shalahora,

"I'm still a little confused, but that's enough. I also don't want to pry. If I got this right, your race died before you made a choice with an Old One. You shared that experience with Malos, and he was too weak to handle it. Do I have it right?"

Shalahora gazed at the frog rulers whose mind was left shattered,

"To share is to give away a portion of. I have given nothing, only allowed him to scan over what I've faced. It was a common tactic of my species. Many would head into arduous situations to use the memories as weapons in their arsenals. I stand at the peak of that methodology. Though in my case, it was not by choice."

I peered off, wondering how that might work with my own mind magic. The worst of my experiences culminated with the psionic deaths my time magic demanded. Having someone else experience those sensations could crush them, but I had no idea how to share memories. If I did, it didn't have the same sting as the actual event, while Shalahora's did.

Either way, Obolis stepped up after speaking with the other rulers. Carrying the tablet I gave him, The Emperor had already signed the document, as had most of the other rulers. Obolis lifted the tablet up, "These are those that I could convince, though many chose not to sign the document."

I frowned, "Was it a majority?"

Obolis tilted his head to the other diplomats, "Somewhat, though most of the rulers lay below. If you show them anything well made, the remaining ruler's defiance shall cave."

I rolled my shoulders, "Then I'll build this place up while having people sign below."

The cipheric runes over my skin shimmered with glowing mana streams, the energy radiating out with quintessence. I paced up to a portion of the room between two other areas. I shooed everyone away,

"Stand back, everybody."

The rulers looked at me before stepping back. I took nearby chairs and tables, floating them away. After a few seconds, my body stood still. Obolis's eyes widened before he gasped, "Daniel...Are you dead?"

A new body regenerated outside of my dead one, metal and shining blood pouring from nothing. I scoffed, "What did you say? I can't hear anything when I'm out of myself like that."

Obolis murmured, "Did you just die?"

I waved my hands, "Of course not. My body did."

Even with his experience with me, Obolis peered off at that one. He blinked a few times before shaking his head, "I...Well...If you're healthy then, it's fine."

I gave him a thumbs-up before my next body died. A dozen Daniel statues littered the room before I pulled them along with gravity wells. I dragged a large pile of my corpses where I intended on working, and I stood on them. Thermal energy coursed through my palms, breaking the stack of me into a thick, molten metal.

Collecting into a large pool of sheening liquid, I coursed it towards an emptied portion of the room. The other rulers backed further away as I funneled the liquid dimensional fabric into a giant, hollowed block. From my dimensional storage, I pulled out a hundred blue cores. The flowing cerulean mass coursed into slots of my giant metal cube.

Simultaneously, I charged telepathic runes by standing in place and funneling mana into my grimoire. My surroundings melted even while I contained the energies. I gave myself a chastising thump on my forehead before sighing. I got used to my surroundings being tough, and that was a bad habit to get into.

Not wanting to destroy the entire base, I put my grimoire into my pocket dimension. Beside me, the cube of fabric and cores amassed a behemothic reserve of energy, turning the metal into a colossal, psionic battery. Testing a new theory, I applied time magic into my pocket dimension's space.

In a small patch within, a temporal flow started, and it was enough to fill in the grimoire's energy needs. Having contained the devastation of my charging, I remained motionless for an hour. The rulers lost interest after a few minutes, many wondering what I needed but leaving me to my devices. A few studied the giant power cell I crafted while others developed their own ideas. Once charged, the eye slit of my helmet snapped open.

I pulled my grimoire from my dimensional space and slotted the glowing sigils onto the power battery. Coated in the markings, the giant cube enlivened, energy radiating out from the hundred blue cores. They rippled into the cipheric markings on the matrix of metal. Drelex walked up to me, and the giant catfish gestured to the metal hunk,

"Impressive. If you'd like, we can contact Entilla for his wiring expertise. He should be able to help you connect that power source to this building's infrastructure."

I shook my head, "We can't. There's too much energy."

Drelex waved his hands, "You misunderstand our wiring infrastructure. Graphene is an incredible conductor, and it can transfer a near limitless amount of energy."

I frowned, "I'm no professional, but I think it's different with mana. No matter the process you take, mana is will and intelligence converted into physical energy. The fact of the matter is, this energy is alive, and we need something alive to tame it."

I shrugged, "Otherwise, this will be utterly unusable outside of anyone with a solid psionic ability. And speaking of which, I'll need to prevent anyone from manipulating this energy source for their own gain, too."

The catfish's whiskers writhed, "Interestingly enough, I may be able to help with embedding a language cipher to help with communication efforts between this, erm, psionic entity you're creating. If you'd like, that is."

My eyes widened, "That would be great, actually."

Drelex waved a hand, "And just as well, I do think Entilla may help restructure the wiring to suit this, ahem, machine's needs."

I tapped my side, "Hm, the last thing I want to do is all that detailed work. I definitely want his help then."

