“Yeah, but I didn't realize that was what I was feeling at the time. And it didn't get better until I got my Path and until everything kept going to hell. Because somewhere in hell, I found a lot of people I care about, a lot of people who care about me, and a lot of things to fight for. But that's not important. This isn't about me; this isn't about any of us, despite how I feel. I've also come to another understanding. It doesn't matter what we want; it matters what the System wants. You're exactly right, and that's why we're cucks, even if we're happy cucks or sad cucks. You think I'm beating the System? Well, let me tell you this: the only times I beat the System were when I escaped from the Fairwoods and when I talked the Stranger down. Those were fights that were supposed to happen, but I solved them. Even then, I am questioning myself about how much I actually won, because even after I escaped without violence or strife, I gained levels. The System clearly regarded my persuasion as an act of violence without actual violence.”

He paused, granting Hymn a moment to digest these words. “So we haven't escaped, so we didn't actually win, not even close. Let me tell you this: You think that this is over? You think that everything is done, that you were never going to have your revenge? Well, let me tell you, your revenge was not aimed high enough. Your Stranger, the god that hurt you, was already bound to be swallowed by the System, and the System wanted it to happen. The System loved it. The System probably gave your mother levels for all the horrible shit she did to you.”

With that, Hymn turned, rolling until his back was facing the floor instead. He stared straight up at Shiv and his eyes gleamed like twin burning gems, one violet, the other translucent. “She did gain levels. She used that to taunt me. Her or her corpse. It's rather hard to tell. My memories of that time are vague. My father, he puppeted her for a while, or she puppeted him.”

“You know, my dogshit childhood might have nothing on your dogshit childhood,” Shiv mumbled.

“I didn’t know things were that bad,” Roland whispered. For once, his expression matched Jessica's. Both of them wanted to flee from the room, but found themselves strangely enchanted by the horror unfolding.

“Hades, do you need another hug?” Ikki asked, squatting down next to him.

“Yes, but later, when I'm not covered in my own misery and filth and alcohol.” Hymn sniffled. “So, what now? Are you trying to talk me into turning my hatred on the System?”

“I'm saying that your dream isn't dead,” Shiv corrected. “Your true dream. Your greater dream. You want to be free? I think you can still be free. Even if the System keeps throwing me skills, I don't actually know how to use them that well. You're still the master of the Outside. The Outside remains the only way someone can escape mana, the only way to get out of the System's grasp.” Shiv gave Hymn’s shoulder a squeeze. “Now, the best thing you can do for yourself is to stop wallowing in your emotions, because they're going to change soon. Think about what you can do, how you might be able to get away. You can start that by helping Uva with her Delve, or frankly, anything. Hells, I can use your help too. I barely understand why I'm a progenitor and how I gained that Unique skill. And if you manage to get an understanding, maybe we can all help each other get out of this mess.”

“Or use each other,” Hymn said.

“No, Hymn. Help. I'm here to ask for your help, and I'm here to give you help, because if I didn't care, I would just try to force you, but I'm not interested in forcing you. I don't want to break you. I don't want to do what the system does. I don't want to be the Stranger. I don't want to be just another piece of shit. You understand? Yeah, you're weird. Yeah, I didn't fully understand you. Yeah, this is really, really sad, but that's what it means to deal with people. That's what it means to be a person, sometimes, I guess. You can't seek virtue if you don't realize your own weaknesses or whatever bullshit. Look, I meant every word, and I do feel bad for you. I didn't understand you before, but now I think I'm getting to know you. I feel bad more than I am suspicious. I have no idea how you ended up giving yourself to the Dragon Brokers, but after the life you lived, yeah, I don't think I would be that put together either. And right now, right here, despite all the System's favor, despite all the skills that it keeps chucking at me, despite me managing to talk the Stranger down and ruining your life, I can't do anything to help the people I care about. But you can.”

Shiv just shrugged. “So, if it's still envy that's getting you caught up or unfairness, I'm gonna ask you, who's the cuck now? Who's the cuck? The guy who can hurt feelings real good? The guy who is just a big brute? The guy who keeps forgetting how his own skills work? The guy who doesn't know how to use Animancy? The guy who is desperately fighting for downtime so he can actually figure out how to cast the most basic spell? Who do you want to be in that situation? You or me?”

And just like with the Stranger, Shiv stopped talking. Instead of striking and widening the cracks within Hymn's psychology and letting the man succumb to his own thoughts, Shiv built him up. He waited for Hymn to take that final leap away from this pit of shame and defeat, back to a place where he would have purpose, where everything might make sense and give him a reason to continue.

Hymn twisted his body and stared up at Uva, whose Eldritch gaze had died down to thin threads. A long and weary sigh slipped out from the Headmaster, like steam hissing free from an automaton. “How long has she been Delving?”

“An hour,” Shiv answered. “Psychomancy.”

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 347 > 351

“Ah, good. Much more manageable than an actual Eldritch skill. The System really doesn't like it when you Delve too far into Eldritch skills; it tries to convert them away entirely. The encounters you have to face are strange and unreasonable at times. That and you run the risk of actually dying.”

“Sounds wonderful. Can you help her?”

Hymn sniffled. And suddenly, he shot up, sobering in an instant, as all the alcohol he'd consumed was banished from his body, scent and all. A gush of black steam radiated out from him, and Shiv realized he'd evaporated a Fingerling in his place, condemning it to suffer a hangover on his behalf.

Furthermore, he'd teleported a series of articles and covered himself up. Another curtain materialized around his body, and he fastened it into a cloak. “I can absolutely help her, but I'm going to need someone to help me stabilize myself when diving. This isn't entirely an Eldritch skill, though she likely has contaminated it with a significant amount of Outsider legend. Considering that, my Animancy is fused to an Eldritch skill—and has a bit of a mind of its own. So, Legend Valor, if you could please hold this cuck in place, I would be most indifferent.”

Valor grunted awkwardly. “That is well. I will be going with you. There is a specific Psychomancy Evolution I need her to achieve.”

Hymn shook his head. “I know the one. Was watching through the wards with my divination. It's not going to work. Not the way you want it to, anyhow. She doesn't have any history of mending minds, so she's going to have to do something more esoteric. She's going to have to veer closer toward the Outside rather than rooting herself in a stable Psychomancy skill. The condition of that boy is bad enough that you might need to take more extreme measures, more novel measures, to see him fully restored.”

“I'm not risking the life of my son on some Eldritch skill,” Roland ground out. “What it might do to your mind—and you’re not even sure—”

“Oh, you’re not?” Hymn shrugged. “Well, that's wonderful. I'm sure that you'll find an easy solution to this very, very unique torture that a God of Strife inflicted. I'm sure the Challenger is a complete idiot and hasn't foreseen our attempts to counter his designs. The most obvious solution will definitely resolve things.”

“Enough, Legend Hymn,” Valor said, interrupting before things could get heated between the two. “Your point is taken. What is your suggestion?”

“My suggestion is that we descend into her soul first and see what she's doing right now. Once we get a grasp of her experiences, then we proceed. Then we see if she has the potential to do anything at all. But if you have asked my diagnosis, she just might—though not in the way you might suspect. The girl has a Feat for draining away trauma and madness, converting it to fuel for her mana. More than that, she can steal consciousnesses, hide them inside of her. She has a little city growing in her head—one that resembles Weave, and if I am to make a bet, then I suspect the environment of her Delve will be exactly just that. And if her Delve is anything like mine, then she's likely building up to a city-wide rebellion, for she was in counterintelligence, and so what could be more challenging and blasphemous than leading an uprising in her own city, controlling the creatures she despises to bring down those she deems her friends, her kindred, her beloved, and her goddess?”

“Shit, the System would do that, wouldn't it?” Shiv asked. “I mean, it forced me to kill her over and over again to defend Adam.”

“It did what?” Ikki squeaked.

“Oh, most certainly.” Hymn laughed dryly. “Why, the System's so vicious and diabolical that if you slap a wig of long hair and open a maggot-filled slit between its legs, you can call it my mother. But setting insults aside, what the girl needs is a skill that transcends purely the mental. A skill that folds her mind over her surrounding reality, or pulls things into her mind so that she can be akin to a god. There, we might be able to have her perform more esoteric means of reconstruction for our dear god-to-be.”

“There's a skill that can do such a thing?” Valor asked.

“Oh, Legend Valor, there are skills you cannot even imagine. For the Outside is all about defying and deviating from the system's rules, and as it is said, ‘as above, so below,’ and thus she must seek a way to make that which is As Within, So Without. For the mind is as much a location as the material.”
