“WELL WELL WELL. LET ME HEAR IT NOW. WHERE ARE YOUR JAPES, TRAVELER? WHERE ARE YOUR WITTY BARBS?”

The voice was a scream of agony and a mocking whisper at the same time.

“I know what you are. I know what you do. I also know what you could be. Farren was a friend and he fell, and for what?”

She turned one of the bodies at her feet, a young warborn, tattoos dull and unresponsive. A smirk had frozen his face into a death rictus.

“Just another bunch of losers barking at the moons. Look around you. Is this what you want to be forever? The last refuge of the petty?”

“EVERY HORRIFIED GLARE. EVERY PAINFUL OUTRAGE. EVERY SANCTIMONIOUS BASTARD WHO LOOKS IN HORROR AT THE MAN HE THOUGHT WEAK. I SAVOR THESE MOMENTS. YOUR FRIEND THOUGHT A FEW WORDS COULD REPAIR CENTURIES OR CARNAGE. AT THIS POINT, I AM DOING YOU A FAVOR BY PURGING THE FOOLS.”

Viv stepped forward but she did not cast, not yet.

“You’re just trying to get me angry, Fefe. I can’t be angry right now. I just look around at this entire fucking waste and all I feel are pity and regret.”

The dark god finished assimilating the host and the puppet grew in size, the armor darkening. Shadow spikes covered the cracked armor until it was slick and oily. Ominous cracks made the soldiers recoil. The voice was more unified now, and deeper, more mocking. It switched language to old Harrakan.

“People like you, who have the means of their end, cannot understand the pain of utter powerlessness, Viviane the Traveler. There are sins that can never be repaid unless they are by my hand.”

“I would have no problem with that. This world needs a little more justice… but you’re not acting for justice, at least not yet. You’re acting for petty vengeance for slights real and imagined.”

“All slights are a matter of perception.”

“Semantics? Really? Fefe—”

“DO NOT CALL ME THAT.”

“Fine, Efestar then, who used to fight for mankind, where has that left you? All that vengeance and that pettiness and your mind is stuck in a cave on a throne without a court.”

“I am a KING! Enough. I think I will have to… teach you some manners.”

The armored colossus disappeared.

Behind her.

Viv barely had the time to shadowstep out of the way. Even then, an armored fist clipped her shoulder painfully through the pauldron.

“Aegis.”

Fists smashed against her hive. Very, very powerful. She lashed out with a net but he stepped aside. Viv noticed he had quarrels stuck in his back.

The avatar of Efestar looked out towards the nearest group of witchpact. Viv couldn’t allow that.

“Excalibur.”

The blade of hungering darkness hissed through the air and Efestar grabbed it.

Viv knew that was impossible. The blade had no consistency. It was not physical. Efestar, apparently, didn’t care. With his other hand, he waved and the same green barrier raised around her to form a small, contained arena. Viv was trapped.

“Enough distractions. I believe I promised a little punishment.”

“Smells weird in here,” Viv said.

The flesh of the avatar’s fingers boiled where they held the still hissing Excalibur spell. Efestar considered his crumbling digits with detachment.

“Hmmm.”

“As I said, not a great host.”

The avatar backhanded her faster than she could perceive. The blow stopped against a hastily raised shield, her instincts having screamed to her. He was so damn strong she was pushed back through the spell. Her pseudo-wings dug in reality to anchor her for the next blow and, this time, she didn’t bend.

“Shatterstar.”

The shield exploded. It forced the avatar back a few steps and that was enough for Viv to change that side of the arena into a hell of whipping tendrils, in vain. Efestar was gone. She filled the arena with lashing tendrils but the aspect of the guardian effect weakened and slowed her offense. Even at her best, she wasn’t sure she could have touched Efestar. He was dancing away from the chaotic trajectory with disturbing grace, considering the weakening host. More cracks of tearing flesh joined their echoes to the song of battle. He was an assassin. Viv was trapped in a cage with an assassin god.

That was… suboptimal.

But she always had solutions.

“Deadlands domain.”

Black mana flooded the enclosed space. Viv randomly teleported around, shattering her shield and reforming it as fast as she could. Her reserves dropped precipitously and she drew some power from her dagger focus, just in case. Efestar was picking her defenses apart with a methodical approach she didn’t like. The abyssal gaze behind the glistening black visor felt… bored. Or detached.

“Harrakan domain.”

Efestar stopped as the world inside of the arena turned gray. The host had stopped growing. He was now an armored form half again as tall as Viv but that was not what worried Viv. Efestar’s form was lean and well-proportioned, a far cry from Octas’ misshapen abomination they’d defeated in the spider village. The proportions had changed as well. While the warlord had been a stout man, this entity was lean and long-armed. He stood on the balls of his feet with a relaxed posture as if this was a mere warm up. A part of Viv wondered if by punishment, he meant a scar or if he would flay her alive. She wasn’t eager to find out.

“Rather optimistic of you to use black mana on me.”

He wanted to talk? That was fine.

“And yet,” Viv said, pointing at his chest plate.

Blotches of darker gray were spreading across its surface and there, the metal lost its shine. Some of the deleterious effect touched his pauldrons as well. Efestar watched the effect with the first sign of excitement he’d displayed for the whole fight.

“Impressive. You are a decent duelist, for a caster.”

“Thanks, I try.”

“However…”

A dagger of viridian darkness materialized in the avatar’s hand.

All of Viv’s instincts screamed ‘oh shit oh fuck’ at the same time. She overloaded her shield for all it could contain then infused it with the meaning of change, because annihilation would not do.

A shock. A clang. The blade of the dagger smashed clean through it anyway, but the blade stopped a couple of centimeters above Viv’s nose and through her roundshield. She could see the edge with disturbing clarity. It looked nasty. Efestar’s hand was stuck against her spell.

A cold chuckle made her grit her teeth.

The wave of terror emanating from the avatar was starting to crack Viv’s resolve, eroding it as well as her chances of winning. It was taking a lot of effort to look as detached as Efestar was. Bastard was winning hard. She had to keep the pressure up.

“Shatterstar.”

The host was pushed again.

“You are only delaying the inevitable.”

“Epicenter.”

This time, the host felt it. The pure wave of change and destruction crashed against the failing avatar, cracking the shell further. Wisps of power abused the straining remains of the warlord. Efestar perceived it. He snapped his fingers and the arena barrier fell down.

Viv pushed the power up as it was freed, away from her soldiers. An instant later, Efestar snapped again and the barrier returned as if it had never been gone. Most of Viv’s effort to turn the place to poison had been undone. There had not been enough time to turn the land completely.

But that was fine.

She’d already won.

“Well, outlander? Any more tricks?”

“Not a trick, a reminder that contrary to you, I’m not alone.”

Serrated claws shred through the back of Efestar’s knees. The avatar stumbled and twisted, lashing out with a blade but Solfis was already gone. The golem took Viv’s side while runes shone on his bony frame, indicating he was working at maximum capacity. A ping resonated against the barrier. The One Hundred formed a ring and pushed their enchanted spear into the barrier under the imprecations of Ban, straining it. Viv could see from the expression on Ban’s face that he wouldn’t accept an order to retreat. Efestar smiled, uncaring. His focus was on the golem.

“Irlefen’s contraption. We meet again.”

//How many times must I kill you, I wonder?

“And how’s your master doing?”

//There is nothing you could possibly say that would make me angrier than I already am.

Efestar made to move but his right arm crumbled to dust. The dark gaze watched the stump with mild frustration. Viv wasn’t sure if he didn’t care or if it was part of his persona. Perhaps it was both. Gods were strange beings.

“Looks like time is up. I’m serious, Fefe, you could really do better.”

“Gods do not change, outlander. I know of nothing else.”

“We both know that’s a lie. You lot are still growing.”

“All I know, all I want to know, is vindication.”

“Look,” Viv said, expanding her arms, “I am no stranger to vengeance myself, but you are doing petty tit-for-tat when you could have justice. There are too many sins committed in this world and too many of the perpetrators get away with it because of their status or their personal might. I have fought against that as well but I didn’t do it by killing off children. You are limiting yourself.”

“What do you know? You are just a mortal.”

“So were you, before, and you slew a god.”

The avatar smirked. The pressure lessened. The barrier fell, though a gesture was enough to hold the One Hundred back. Viv realized that more troops had joined the heavies and so had Sidjin and Rakan. The pair was working on some nasty tracking spell while keeping an eye on the foe. Not that it would matter. Efestar’s host was falling apart into dust quickly, the flesh left behind hard and black like obsidian. His gaze went over the assembled soldiers though, once again, Viv could not read him.

“You stood for justice once, Efestar.”

“Then you must know that I cannot let go,” the god replied with a cold voice.

“You do not have to let go to get better. Your actions hurt you and us mortals more than it hurts those who wronged you. Direct your fury at those who deserve it instead of blindly lashing out. You know there are many wrongs you could rectify if you bothered to try.”

“You know nothing,” the crumbling avatar said.

“I’m turning my vision into a reality with those who share my ideals. You’re leading beastlings and the dead. Reconsider.”

“You’re quite like him, you know? Your friends die around you but your beliefs never waver. You will still fail. I will teach you…” the fallen god said at the last of the host fell to ashes.

His voice still carried in the wind.

“You are so young still…”

The dust held in the air for a few more seconds, until the unforgiving light of the sun returned and dispersed the last of the darkness.

Viv breathed out in relief. Not dying yet.

Focus +1 to 45

Acuity +1 to 45

Those were some amazing gains. At her level, every point made a difference in how well she could cast.

Due to successfully leading an army in battle and facing off against the avatar of a god in single combat, your leadership has massively increased.

Leadership: Intermediate 4 to 6

Viv almost expected draconic intimidation to progress again but unfortunately, it was already so high it would take a few more extraordinary deeds to make them progress even more. That was fine.

Soul Master: intermediate 4

That was probably for withstanding the pressure on her soul. Something told her the stat would be useful soon.

Thanks to the implementation of a new spell and having stopped the strike of an avatar of the assassin god with two different shields, your shield mastery has massively improved.

Shield mastery: intermediate 1 to 4

That was nice and would prove useful the next time she would do something suicidal. Very nice.

Ok, all good. Viv breathed out in relief.

That had been far too close for comfort. Suddenly, she remembered that they were supposed to be fighting a battle and that it had all gotten rather quiet. She looked around, seeing that the warborn were all dead to the last while the militia milled around in packs, uncertain on what to do. A thin line of Children of the Scale kept them at bay from the rest of the army which had centered around Viv and her duel. They were ready to help her, she realized. They were going to shoot a god’s avatar to protect her. That warmed her heart a little.

“Right. First things first.”

“If I may,” Rakan said from the side, leaving poor Sidjin to dispel their dangerous work.

“Yes?”

“I believe I can get the survivors to surrender and follow us. Those are not warriors but laborers, as your soldiers have probably noticed. They are little danger to you. With the warlord dead, I believe I can get them to stand down.”

Viv glared. The amount of fools trying to redeem worse fools was now three and they had one dead and one dark god manifestation incident. Problem was, she had no justification to refuse.

“You do it from here.”

“Of course. And… sorry about Farren.”

“Finish what we started.”

“Right.”

Viv kept a look on Rakan while he made a small speech threatening the laborers, reminding them they were less than nothing and that the warriors had failed to protect them. One of the hardiest of them stood up from the group and turned back to his peers.

“Are you really going to surrender? We are Hallurians! We—”

The man’s next words were interrupted by a steel tip down his throat. He fell heavily, spinal cord severed.

A few of the laborers dropped their improvised weapons, then surrender spread like a wildfire. Those who attacked their companions were swiftly picked off by crack shots.

“They kind of stole my kill with the mages,” Viv grumbled to Solfis.

//Oh no, the Sisters of the Eye, an elite outfit of sharpshooters, eliminated priority targets by shooting them in the eyes.

//Such an unexpected development.

//Who could have foreseen such an event?

