“I told you to turn on the sarcasm module only when we team up on other people.”

//Apologies.

//It appears my hypocrisy module is deficient.

Viv sighed. She knew Solfis and he was trying to distract her. Lorn was already walking back from his spot at the edge of the army where he had fought during the battle, moving through the no man’s land between the Children and the surrendering Hallurians.

“We have wounded? Anything we should help with?” Viv asked Ban.

“Yes ma’am. We are tallying the wounded and the dead. Neriad’s followers are already healing those who need the most attention. I shall take care of the prisoners if… well…”

Lorn found Farren’s body and hugged him.

“I’ll be right back. Find Zero Five and have him get the valuables from those tents. Might have some maps as well.”

“Very well, ma’am. Should we share our food and water with the prisoners?”

“We have no choice in the matter. Neriad demands it of us.”

The god’s favor came with a slew of obligations that were, essentially, a sort of Geneva convention that didn’t cover the use of any weapons. An enemy that surrendered should be treated well within reason so Viv literally couldn’t deny them her help.

“I hope Jaratalassi doesn’t get mad, your majesty. That’s a lot of folks hanging around his backline.”

“We’ll transfer them tonight via gate. Depending on what Rakan promised them, we may get some new Harrakans.”

“Those savages?”

“They’re mushroom farmers, Ban. Not warborn.”

“Hmph!”

Viv walked towards Lorn who was still wordlessly hugging the remains of the voice under the vigilant attention of several squad of heavies working very hard at pretending to not notice the tears dripping down his ruddy cheeks. Viv stopped by his side and kneeled. Farren’s chest was a mess but the spell had left his face intact and it was caught in an expression of pained focus. She waited a while for the old temple guard captain to recover. It took several minutes during which Viv waited in silence. Koro stopped at some point to offer support, the Amazon warrior not masking her grief.

“I told him not to do it, Neriad as my witness,” Lorn eventually said.

Even his beard was getting wet. Viv felt a pang of guilt and annoyance, at herself and the rules she’d decided to live by. In hindsight, letting people do dangerous stuff because they were responsible adults was kind of shit if it killed them.

That was the thing about hindsight though, kind of hard to have it beforehand.

Maybe, if she’d just told Farren he couldn’t try, that would have been it. Oh, they would have fought over it and there would have been consequences, but he would have lived.

Maybe he would have fought her, though. That would have been just like him to stare down a figure of authority telling him what he couldn’t do.

Maybe it was just not her call.

She really didn’t know. Was there even a good answer? If there was, she didn’t have it.

“So they decided to surrender…” Lorn said, apparently to keep himself occupied.

“Yes. We’ll take care of the wounded then move. This is hostile territory. We can’t afford to get caught.”

“I suppose you are right. I will carry him. And Viv?”

“Yes?”

“Can you tell me why you were having a discussion with a dark god?”

Viv felt annoyance fill her chest. Her first instinct was to tell Lorn that after he’d faced an avatar in single combat, he could whine about it, but that would be petty. Lorn was reeling from the loss of the one he was supposed to protect. He was like a wounded beast attacking the first target in sight. Viv could be better. She had to be better.

“Efestar tried to tempt me several times. I have returned the favor.”

“You know that if you attract his attention, he’ll send his agents after us, right? Lose more people because you had to have the last word?”

Viv breathed in then leaned forward until her unsettling gaze could dig into Lorn’s. He sustained it.

“Lorn, when, not if, the dark gods send their agents after us then we will do what we always do. We will track them down and we will kill them. I have done that many times. You know this, do you not?”

He blinked and suddenly, his attention returned to Farren. The hold on the young man’s body grew more taut for an instant. Then, Lorn took a deep breath.

“Yes, I… I will bring him back. We will bring him back home. His ashes, at least. Forgive me, I must walk around the field to make sure the dead do not rise again.”

Viv nodded, then she returned to her tank. Rollo was waiting for her.

“Your Majesty. I saw you fight the avatar of a god to a standstill. That was the deed of heroes.”

“Yes. Sadly, the dark god himself was not receptive to my arguments. I asked him to rejoin the light.”

The handsome knight laughed at that, though it remained subdued.

“Hah. Your legend grows, Viv the traveler. I will make sure your duel is immortalized in ballads. It would not do to let such an impressive deed go unnoticed!”

Viv wasn’t sure what to think. It was good that she would be seen fighting a dark god but the talk might be received poorly, depending on who believed it. The tally of the dead soon came to distract her. Six of her soldiers had died, two heavies and four crossbows. All of them had been hit in the head and were dead before they could be revived, the heavies killed through their visors. It had been a one-sided battle but there were no wars without fatalities, it seemed. Viv would bring their bodies home at least.

It took two hours for the prisoners to be fed and ready to march, their wounded carried in makeshift sleds. Zero Five brought back an assortment of curious clay tablets, the only signs of writing. They were encrypted so even Rakan had no idea what this was all about. Little of the rest could be used. Even the weapons were strange and unfamiliar. With no distraction left, Viv ordered a brisk march home, hoping to be back before sunset.

On the way home, the tales of her duel were passed through the ranks, those who were close enough slowly tricking their tales down the lines via the most gossipy of the markswomen. Viv let it happen. Her soldiers were really pleased with having someone who could fight off an incarnate god and hold a conversation at the same time. As they approached the mountains separating Halluria from Baran, a messenger on horse rushed to see her.

“General Jaratalassi requests that you hurry back with all haste!”

“Ah, but… he gave me another task,” thought Viv, who had not had the time to set up her portal yet.

“You must return now. The enemy will be here by nightfall.”

“Everyone, double the pace. Let’s head back.”

By the time the sun set at their back, Viv could see them coming. Lights, in the distance. A lot of torches and lanterns like a fire snake crawling over the desert.

There were quite a lot of them.
