She’d bought the ice and everything from Krshia, and she kept rushing back to her inn in hopes of making it work—but something was wrong, and the resultant mess was nothing like ice cream. Maybe she had missed an ingredient? Her Skill wasn’t telling her what she was doing wrong. Erin stuck a finger in the bowl and tasted it.
“Hm. Sugary.”
Erin licked her finger and decided it would go well with cereal. If she had any cereal. Well, there was that porridge-stuff, but she didn’t like how much chewing she had to do.
“Maybe I’ll feed it to Pisces.”
Glumly, Erin poured her fifth failed experiment into a glass jar. Glass jars were the way to go. Since she didn’t have tupperware and most airtight containers were jars with lids on them, glass jars with corked or glass lids were her best way of keeping things fresh.
“Too bad I don’t have any preservation runes.”
Erin grumbled to herself as she heaved the jar of milk onto a counter. She’d asked Pisces how much it would cost to get fancy runes done. He’d put the price at anywhere from twenty to sixty gold coins and added that she’d need to replace her cabinets if she wanted to make sure the runes stayed intact.
“Too rich for my blood. But refrigerators cost a lot too, right? But you only buy one, and that’s that. So I could save up if I ever got any customers. Big crowd one day, radio silence the next. And today as well. That’s life, isn’t it?”
Erin’s head snapped up as she heard the door opening.
“Speak of the devil.”
She raised her voice.
“Have a seat! I’ll be with you in a moment!”
Erin looked around and cursed. She didn’t have any food ready. It was only lunchtime—she hadn’t expected anyone to actually come by except Pisces, and he could wait forever. But he would have already made a snide remark by now.
No helping it. She hurried out of the kitchen and spotted a short creature standing in the inn. It had familiar green skin, pointy ears, and red eyes. Erin started to smile and then stopped.
“Wait a second. Who the hell are you?”
 
——
 
The four Goblins watched from the cover of a patch of long grass as the door shut. They watched and saw the other Goblins surrounding the inn. One had already entered, and the other Goblins were waiting to enter behind him.
The hiding Goblins weren’t waiting to enter. Rather, they were watching with dull dread in their stomachs. They would have liked to do something. Shouted, perhaps. But that wasn’t in their natures, and they were afraid.
They had been nine, but now they were four. And they feared making sound and alerting the other Goblins around the inn to their presence. They were forbidden to be here. They had been nine, and now they were four. And they feared becoming zero.
The littlest Goblin lay there, barely able to move. The other three were holding her down. They watched helplessly. The one Erin called Rags gripped a dagger in her hands, but she felt the bruises and cracked bones from the beating she’d taken just last night. She could only watch. They were four. The tribe had made a decision, and they hadn’t listened. The Chieftain was dead. The four Goblins were all bloody and filthy, and there were four of them.
The Goblins surrounding the inn were forty.
 
——
 
“Uh, hi there.”
Erin stared at the large Goblin as it glanced around her inn. She was sure she’d never seen this particular Goblin before in her life. He was larger than the rest, taller, brawnier. Not like the big one, but a head taller than any of the other small ones. Some kind of in-between?
And he was carrying a short sword at his waist, not a dagger or a club.
The Goblin looked up at Erin. He was still shorter than her by a good head, but he didn’t seem intimidated by her height. On the contrary, he seemed like he wanted to be the one doing the intimidating.
“Look, can I help you? Do you want food or something?”
Normally, Erin would have offered him a plate of something at once. But this particular Goblin wasn’t like Rags or her timid friends. There was an aggression about him she recognized. It reminded her of guys from her world. Something about the look, the way he stood there—too tense. Staring at her. It made her back crawl, and she realized her knife was in the kitchen.
The Goblin glanced at Erin and said something. He sauntered up to her. She stared down at him.
“Excuse me? What do you—”
He poked her. In the stomach. Actually, it was closer to her pelvis since he was shorter and uncomfortably close to another area.
“Stop that.”
He grinned and reached out to poke her again. Erin slapped his hand down.
“Stop that. Tell me what you want or get out.”
The big Goblin’s eyes narrowed. His hand went to his short sword. Erin made a fist and showed it to him.
“Try that and I’ll kick your face in. Got it?”
He glared up at her. Then, surprisingly, he grinned. He turned his head and called something in that scratchy language over his shoulder.
Erin looked up as the door opened. A Goblin walked into the room, and then another. And then another. And another and another and…
Suddenly, there were a lot of Goblins in her inn. A lot. And suddenly, purely by coincidence, Erin had just broken out into a cold sweat.
“Well. You have…friends. Do you all want food?”
More Goblins filed into her inn. It was an unending stream of them. They surrounded the bigger Goblin, exactly like a gang of…gangsters. Or, in Erin’s mind, much like a gang of children following the bully.
Erin took one step back as the leader of the Goblin mob grinned at her. He stroked the sword at his waist. Erin thought of the knife in her kitchen but abandoned the idea instantly. Every Goblin in the inn had a weapon, and most were holding them casually in their hands.
She had a bad feeling—no, she knew she was in trouble.
The big Goblin looked around the inn and snorted. Then he spat.
A glob of greenish spit landed right on one of Erin’s clean tables. Next to a chess board. The Goblin looked at it and then walked over and picked up the pieces.
She could run. In fact, Erin was pretty sure she could outrun them. If she got to the door and slammed it shut, then she’d be able to take off. They’d never catch her with their stubby little legs.
Erin slowly edged around a table, as if she were nervous. The Goblin tribe watched her, but they clearly weren’t expecting her to attack. They knew they outnumbered her. She didn’t need to get that close to the door, but if she were just a few feet away, she could—
Tapping. Erin looked over and saw the big Goblin leader smacking one of her chess pieces hard against the stone chess board. He grinned: a bully with a new breakable toy that didn’t belong to him.
Smack, smack. He was watching Erin out of the corner of his eye as he bashed a carved figurine of a Drake knight on the board.
Erin saw bits of the fragile chess piece breaking off. Her mouth opened.
“Oi. Put that down.”
The Goblin sneered. It deliberately tossed the knight on the ground. The other Goblins watched as their leader deliberately stomped on the chess piece. It snapped in two.
Erin stared down at the small, stone figurine lying in pieces. She looked up at the grinning Goblin.
 
——
 
The four Goblins heard the faint sound of something cracking as they waited outside the inn. Then they heard silence.
The next thing they saw was the big Goblin smashing through a window. They ran for cover as Erin strode out the door with a chair in her hands.
The big Goblin snarled at Erin and struck at her as she approached. She stepped back and then belted him over the head with the chair. She lost her grip on it, but that didn’t even slow her down. As the Goblin swung at her, she delivered a punch to his face and then jumped back. Erin didn’t know how, but when he tried to rush her, she instinctively stepped sideways and knocked him flat with a kick to his back.
It was like magic. Or—a Skill. Bar fighting. That was it. Erin had never really punched someone in her life, but when she made a fist and drove it into the big Goblin’s face, it floored him.
He was trying to rip the short sword out of its scabbard. Erin kicked the blade out of his hands as he got it free and then kicked him in the face. As he shouted in pain, she picked up the chair and drove it into his midsection.
“Not so tough now, are you? Huh?”
Erin raised the chair to hit the Goblin again. She prepared to swing it down—
And something poked her in the side. Erin turned around. She saw a knife sticking out of her skin. It was buried halfway in, and the green clawed hand holding it was shaking.
“…Ow.”
A Goblin was behind her. She let go as Erin turned and backed up. Let go—but her crimson eyes were both focused on Erin and very distant. Blood ran down her claw, and Erin felt at the sharp thing in her flesh. She tried to tug at it and felt something moving in her stomach. The female Goblin reached for a second weapon—a rock—and Erin lashed out.
She punched the Goblin into the ground, but then another Goblin was next to her.
Stab.
This time, the blade was long and thin and went in further, into Erin’s thigh. It was a dull sensation. She felt her skin tearing as he raked her side with it. Erin shouted and hit him with her chair hard enough that she felt something in him break. But then another Goblin was next to her. He slashed her in the leg.
She didn’t feel it. And that was the scariest thing. As another Goblin stuck a knife in Erin’s back, she felt it go in, but she didn’t feel the pain. And the Goblins were suddenly surrounding her. They poured out of the inn as Erin tried to keep them away. And they all had knives.
Stab. Stabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstab—
Erin swung her chair and knocked three Goblins senseless. She kicked out and sent another one flying, then punched one so hard he fell over unconscious. She didn’t know how, but she was suddenly a fighting machine. But the Goblins kept coming, and their knives went in, and she didn’t feel a thing.
Two more Goblins went down to Erin’s punches before she toppled over. It wasn’t that she’d tripped. She just fell down and saw the blood pooling. Erin wanted to reach out and touch it, but her arms wouldn’t move.
The big Goblin was standing over her. When had he gotten to his feet? He had the short sword in his hand, and he was raising it. He snarled around his broken nose. Then his head fell off.
Klbkch beheaded the large Goblin with one sweep of his swords. He stepped forward to shield Erin as his swords scythed out and cut two more Goblins apart. He addressed the other Antinium by his side, the Worker holding the pieces of paper in his hands. The trembling Worker stared down at Erin as pieces of paper fluttered to the ground.
“I must save Erin. Cover me.”
The Worker nodded and dropped its pieces of paper. 
Erin looked up and tried to wave at Klbkch as the ant-man knelt swiftly beside her.
“Stay awake, Erin. I have a potion. Stay alive for a few seconds longer.”
“Another p-potion?”
Erin laughed weakly. She wanted to say ‘you shouldn’t have,’ but her mouth stopped working. Klbkch’s hands were a blur as they dove into the pouch at his waist. He uncorked the bottle and splashed half of it over Erin’s legs. The other half he made her drink. He had to hold her mouth open because she couldn’t open it.
She felt the noxious liquid go down, and something happened in her body. But Erin wasn’t paying attention. She felt like a spectator, a ghost who wasn’t really attached to the thing Klbkch was cradling in his arms. She saw the Worker fighting as the Goblins recovered from their shock. She saw him dying.
The Worker had no weapons. He only had bits of paper. But he charged into the mass of Goblins, striking them with his four hands, biting, hitting them. Like how a child fought.
The Goblins fell back at first from the ferocity of the assault. But as soon as the Worker found himself in the midst of them, they closed in.
One second the Worker was grabbing at Goblin, the next, they covered him. Countless Goblins piled onto the Worker, stabbing, hitting any part of his body they could reach. The Worker fell to the ground, but seized one Goblin by the leg. His mandibles opened, and he bit.
The Goblin screamed and stabbed him in the eye. The other Goblins stabbed and clubbed him and then left the broken, crushed shell of the Worker on the ground. They swarmed away from him except for one Goblin, which still screamed in agony as it tugged at its leg. It came away with a sickly snap as the leg and flesh ripped from the Worker’s jaws to reveal yellow bone.
Erin blew out a bubble of blood and then coughed. Something warm was flowing up from her cold legs. She could feel them again and—pain. But she could feel them.
As the Goblins spread out around the Human and Antinium, Klbkch stood up from Erin’s side. He drew both swords and daggers and faced the forty-odd Goblins. He looked down at her and then the slot on his belt.
Two empty slots for two potions. Klbkch stared around and saw no place to put his back against. He could find a wall—but Erin was lying at his feet. Forty Goblins.
He could have run, but the Senior Guardsman didn’t. He looked across from him at the dead Worker. Curled up, staring blankly at the sky.
A Worker who spoke. A Worker who had desires. A success—
Dead.
Dead. Klbkch felt his mandibles click together. He looked down at Erin. He should have left her. He should have taken the Worker back.
He should run or put his back to a wall or—the Antinium lifted the blades and looked around. His voice was a whisper.
“They call me the Slayer. Come.”
The Goblins didn’t wait. They charged, howling with blood and fury. Klbkch waited for them and attacked with all four arms at once. He drew two knives from his waist with his lower hands.
His swords cut arcs in the air as they lopped off limbs and heads while his lower arms stabbed out with his knives. The first few Goblins who approached him died before they could take a step.
But—so many. Klbkch stepped back as the Goblins kept coming. He spun left and shredded two Goblins with his swords as his lower two arms stabbed a Goblin in the neck with his daggers. One sprinted under his guard and raked his legs with a dagger, but only managed to cut into his exoskeleton. Klbkch beheaded him, but more Goblins jumped on his back. He shook himself like a dog and cut them off of him.
He could have moved, but there was something right behind him. His swords slashed out in perfect arcs—until he twisted. Threw himself into a burning vial a Goblin threw. It splashed over him, and his carapace ignited. Not a drop touched the young woman with hazel eyes. The Antinium began burning as the Goblins backed up. One raised a bow—
