The twang and thud were one sound. Klbkch adjusted his leg. He glanced down at the arrow sticking out of it. Erin Solstice’s face stared blankly up at him, as if she were dreaming.
His hand flickered. The Goblin holding the bow staggered, and a knife protruded from the Goblin’s chest. She fell, gasping, as Klbkch turned. The Goblins charged him like they had the crab.
 
——
 
Erin watched through lidded eyes. The potion was coursing through her, but the drowsiness was making her sleepy. She couldn’t stay awake. It was like her mind was shutting down every few moments.
She kept blinking. Her eyes would close, and then her head would snap back up. Each time she opened her eyes, more Goblins lay in pieces around her. Blood stained the ground and her clothes. And Klbkch. But his blood was green. And there was a lot of it.
Erin opened her eyes and saw Klbkch stagger as a Goblin stabbed him in the back with the short sword. The Antinium turned and beheaded the Goblin, but two more struck him glancing blows from his other side. Even as he turned, more lunged forward. He swept his blades to keep them away, but he couldn’t guard every angle.
Why didn’t he run? He was surrounded. If he had his back to the wall, he could fend them off.
Oh. Right. He was defending her. And that meant he couldn’t watch his back.
Erin’s head lowered. The darkness closed in. Then she opened her eyes and saw Klbkch lying on the ground. No—not lying. Fallen. He was on his knees. He still had his blades, but he couldn’t stand up. Green blood dripped from the wounds on his body. So many.
But he’d taken vengeance for his injuries. Erin looked around and saw dead bodies everywhere. Pieces of Goblins. Heads. Limbs. Blood coated everything, including her.
Nine Goblins spread out around Klbkch in a wary circle. They didn’t dare approach the Antinium, even on his knees. Erin wondered what they were doing. Oh. They were waiting for him to die.
“Miss Solstice.”
It was a rasping whisper. Erin looked at Klbkch. The Antinium didn’t move, but spoke to the ground as he used one sword to keep himself upright.
“You must flee. I will buy you a moment.”
She stared at him.
“No.”
“Can you not move?”
“I can feel my legs. Sort of.”
“Then go. Once you are in sight of the city, you will be safe.”
“No.”
He clicked his mandibles together.
“I cannot slay the rest. Nine Goblins are too many—I am a failure. Forty Goblins. Forty Goblins—”
He made a fluttering sound. Erin thought it sounded like an insect’s chirping. She realized it was—laughter. Klbkch whispered.
“If they could see me. Run.”
“No.”
Erin said it automatically. Her brain still wasn’t working.
“No. There aren’t nine. There are thirteen.”
Klbkch looked up. He saw the four Goblins as they swarmed up the hill from behind the others. The other Goblins hesitated, afraid to turn away from Klbkch, and in that moment, the small band of Goblins struck them from behind.
The four Goblins worked together. Two grabbed one Goblin and held him down, and Rags stabbed him in the face while the fourth kept the other eight at bay. He was armed with a large stick and covered his friends from the enemy Goblins. They would have rushed him, but Klbkch was on their other side and shifted whenever they moved.
Rags and the other three Goblins moved from the dead Goblin to flank the other Goblins. They feinted as Klbkch guarded Erin, and the other Goblins turned their attention to them. In an instant, Klbkch threw one of his swords and speared a Goblin through the chest.
As the seven remaining enemy Goblins turned their attention to Klbkch, Rags and the three Goblins rushed forwards and repeatedly stabbed another Goblin in the back. They fled backwards even as the other Goblins sliced at them.
Tactics. They fought their kin, and Erin saw the little one, face mashed and bruised, screeching what sounded like orders. Crimson eyes and red blood blurred together.
Were the Goblins crying? She couldn’t tell. Which ones were weeping? All of them?
The seven Goblins backed up. This wasn’t supposed to be happening. They had come to kill a lone Human, however dangerous she might be, not fight deadly insect-monsters and their own kind.
They edged away from the wounded Antinium. It was clear that he couldn’t move, and wounded as they were, they still outnumbered Rags and her friends. Rags and her comrades retreated until they had the inn at their backs. But it was still two-to-one.
The Goblin that had picked up the short sword pointed at Rags and screeched a command. The seven Goblins turned away. And one of them collapsed with a knife in the back of his head.
Erin blinked down at her hand. She’d picked it up and thrown it without thinking. And it had hit its target. The Goblins turned in shock and looked at Erin.
She stood up and hit the closest Goblin with an uppercut that snapped his head backwards. Her legs felt like jelly. But they were whole. She kicked, and another Goblin flew and smashed into a wall.
Two more would have rushed her, but this time, Klbkch threw. He missed with his daggers, but his sword hit one of the Goblins vertically and lodged in his head. He fell down, and Erin hit the other Goblin and knocked him down.
She turned for the other three, but they were already dead. Two Goblins held the last one down as he screamed while Rags stabbed him repeatedly in the chest. He convulsed and died.
Erin breathed out shakily. She lowered her fists. She didn’t even notice the two Goblins she’d hit getting to their feet and running. Rags and her Goblins raced after them, screaming their high-pitched war cry.
Slowly, Erin looked around. The Goblins were dead. Their blood covered everything. Her breathing was ragged; she felt like there wasn’t enough air in the world. The world grew dark, and she staggered. She would have sat down and passed out, but then something moved.
Klbkch. He collapsed in a pool of green ichor that mixed with the red around him. Suddenly, Erin’s body was full of electricity and panic. She ran over to him. He was trying to get up, but his exoskeleton was full of holes. He was leaking.
“Oh god. Oh god no.”
Klbkch clicked at her. He spoke, still in that too-calm tone of his. But his head was jerking, trying to look at her, and it kept falling back. Spasming, as if he were—falling asleep.
“Erin Solstice. You are safe? Good. My Queen will send—her Soldiers will come. You will be safe.”
He tried to reach for her. Erin grabbed his hand and then released it. She helplessly held her hands over the oozing gaps in his body, but his blood ran over her fingers. Klbkch touched at her hair and let his hand fall away.
“Fascinating. So this—First Queen laugh—in pieces. Today of all days.”
His voice was breaking up. Thoughts blending with words. Erin grasped at the green blood oozing from his body.
“I can’t—how do I stop the bleeding?”
He didn’t answer her. Klbkch only sighed. He stared up at the sky. His silver blades lay next to him, coated with blood. His voice faded away. Amused, disappointed in himself, and so bitterly tired. He looked only once at the dead Worker, and then his mandibles twitched. 
He turned his head north, as if staring a thousand miles at something he had left behind. At last, his voice broke, and he called out as the young woman held his hand. She didn’t know who he was speaking to.
“I was weary. Forgive me.”
Klbkch looked as if he wanted to say something else. But then his head lowered. He fell silent and still. Erin couldn’t tell if he was breathing. She put her hand next to his mandibles, but she could feel nothing. No breath of air. Nothing.
She stared down at Klbkch. He was bleeding. She had to stop it. She had to heal him. But he’d used her potion.
She needed help. She needed Relc or Pisces.
“Someone!”
Erin looked around and shouted. But there were only the dead Goblins.
“Help. Help me.”
Erin whispered. She looked at Klbkch. He wasn’t moving. He’d curled up into a ball. He was still bleeding.
She had to get help. She had to.
Erin shook. She didn’t know what to do. But she had to—she had to—
Erin slapped herself. She hit herself so hard in the face that the world turned black for a moment. But she’d stopped shaking. She grabbed Klbkch and hauled him up.
Fireman’s carry. She’d learned how to do that in class. It didn’t work the same way with Klbkch because he was bulkier in places. Still, she got him onto her shoulders. He was light. Was it the lost blood?
Run. Erin was already running. She dashed down the hill with Klbkch on her back. Blood ran down her shoulders and soaked her clothing. Blood. She couldn’t feel anything from the burden she carried on her back. No heartbeat, no breathing. Only blood.
Erin ran and ran. Her heart was bursting out of her lungs, and each breath was fire. She felt the muscles tearing in her legs. But she ran on. And she felt the blood as it slowly dripped down her body and onto the grass.
 
——
 
Below Liscor, the Queen of the Antinium stirred. She looked up through dirt and bedrock. She knew. Already, her Soldiers marched towards the surface at her command. They emerged from hiding places, tunnels, and the Watch and the citizens screamed of The Black Tide.
The doom of Rhir. But they were too late.
Too late, and she had been resting. She felt it. The Free Queen reached up, feelers trying to hold—her voice breaking with disbelief. Pain.
“Klbkchhezeim?”
