They were called Workers.
It was more than a name. It was their purpose, their role in life. In the Hive. Worker. 
That job included many things. They were hammers to build new tunnels and structures for the Drakes and Gnolls in the city. A butcher to separate meat from bone, or a sweeper to remove dust from the street.
Any task, no matter how menial, was their job. Not for pay or for gratitude from Liscor’s people. For the Hive. For the Queen.
That was their purpose. That was…everything. Aside from Aberrations, who were insane, Workers fought monsters if they had to, worked, and died.
But when Klbkch brought back the twelve Workers, they were not the same as the ones who had left. They marched into the Hive, and he left them without a word. Klbkch was different.
Yet the Workers who went to sit in the mess hall were changed. The Workers ate in silence—hundreds. But every single one stared at the new Workers, because instead of eating the brown, brackish paste that had little bones in it that crunched—these Workers sat together.
Together, at the long tables made of dirt. Every Worker sat shoulder-to-shoulder, packed in, their identical shells and bodies—save for where one had scars, a missing arm, a chunk taken out of their carapace—in a row as they ate.
Yet those twelve Workers who had gone above were sitting together somehow. Leaning over a table, practically ignoring their food. They were…moving something around.
A possession? Workers had no possessions. They had tools they sometimes carried because it was more expedient not to put them down, but they had nothing.
Yet these Workers sat there, and the other Workers, in the dead silence of the barracks filled only with the scraping and clacking of mandibles as they ate, nevertheless heard something.
It was the twelve, pouring over a little piece of paper and pieces of smaller paper. Thinking, perfectly replicating a game they had seen. Playing a game.
Chess.
They were thinking so loud that the other Workers could practically hear them. Workers didn’t think. They just—worked. But these Workers were concentrating.
How do I move this piece? Rook goes straight. Bishop goes diagonal. Play, fun. Play.
Fun.
Fun? The other Workers who were eating their food had a fifteen minute interval to consume their required nutrition. Then they would go to the barracks and sit in a dirt cubbyhole and sleep. But while the Workers lined up to put the cheap, wooden bowls in a receptacle for them to be filled up again, they slowed.
A line formed around the table where the twelve Workers, oblivious to all, played. Slowly, taking each step as if weighed down by boulders, Workers coincidentally just happened to peek at the board and the concentrating Workers, who had paired off, six by six, to play.
Only when one of the Workers looked up and started did they notice nearly a hundred Workers staring at them. All the Workers instantly rushed over to put their bowls away.
Time to sleep!
The twelve Workers got up instantly and hurriedly pushed their food bowls into the receptacle. Most weren’t even touched; they’d eaten food in the inn.
Flies! The other Workers who marched with them listened to these loud…thoughts. Flies? They imagined the crunch, and the twelve Workers had played a game of chess. With an [Innkeeper] who gave them ‘blue fruit juice.’
What did all this mean? The Workers filed into the barracks and began to sit for their nine hours of rest. That was all the rest they got before they spent an entire day working…but the twelve Workers hesitated as they sat together.
Slowly, one of them shuffled a bit of paper in the dead silence of the other Workers settling into their dirt cubbyholes. They were packed next to each other, thin walls of dirt separating them into alcoves that were barely more than rounded divorts where a Worker could ‘sit’ and sleep. Their rounded back shells prevented them from lying down like other species.
Shuffle, shuffle. The Worker was shuffling the papers around. Then it slowly put the chessboard down and lined up the pieces. 
Black and white. Erin had colored in the black pieces, and the Worker arranged them neatly. The game had rules. All the other Workers, who were definitely asleep because what else would they be doing, didn’t at all listen to the faint sound in the huge barracks.
Or listen to the rules, which made such sense. Workers liked things like rules, and this was a game made of rules. Each pawn moved forwards but attacked left or right. Or it could take another pawn if it moved diagonally behind them which was called en passant. 
There were many rules like that. You protected the king, and you played like…
The Worker pushed a pawn forwards on the white side, then after careful thought, moved another pawn forwards to oppose it. It stared at the board and moved a white pawn forwards in the center four squares, flanking the first.
Now, at this juncture, the black side could take the white pawn diagonal from it. But what if you put another black pawn so that you had four pawns, two black, two white, facing each other?
Was this good playing? Why didn’t you take the white pawn instead of making an opening? Not that the other Workers were paying attention. Or that all of them were united in thought.
After all, if you were really thinking about it, when you moved that pawn up, why didn’t you use the bishop? Could you win a game on pawns alone with their low movement range? Hey, couldn’t you move a knight diagonally outwards and protect your pieces with pawns and never risk your king?
Aha, but then there were ways to checkmate someone without ever touching the pawns. The [Innkeeper] had shown the twelve Workers all kinds of ways to play, and this game had so many pieces and moves that the combinations of outcomes were virtually endless. Especially with an unpredictable opponent on the other side.
…Not that this was fascinating. In fact, wasn’t this—Aberration?
All the Workers froze at this. Aberrations were not to be suffered alive. But the twelve Workers weren’t killing them or screaming. The Queen had said nothing—and Klbkch had not killed them. He killed Aberrations.
So was this Aberration or not? And why was that Worker just lining up pawn pieces in the middle of the board? Move the queen! Move the—
 
——
 
It was a long night in which no Worker moved, save for the one who shuffled bits of paper around. The next day, Workers were sluggish owing to something in the food, no doubt. 
But at breakfast, while the twelve sat and put out the chessboards, something odd happened. A Worker sat across from one of the chess boards being set up and moved a white piece.
This was not one of the twelve. All the Workers froze—until the one who had been playing last night moved a black pawn up, facing the white pawn. 
A second white pawn joined the first, in the center of the board. Every Worker in the room stared as the second black pawn joined it. The Worker, who had a butcher’s knife because that was his job in the city, stared at the board.
He took the first black pawn with his own. And then? The two began to play.
There weren’t enough chess boards for the twelve workers; they only had five boards and piece sets from the [Innkeeper]. So sticks and stones were carefully found and placed, and then there were twenty-four Workers. You could, after all, just remember which piece was which.
Twelve Workers played the twelve who had journeyed to the inn. All twelve newcomers lost the first game completely.
They stood up and began to walk off, feeling a vague sense of frustration—but accomplishment. Death might come tomorrow, but they had played a game of chess.
And lost. The Workers were walking to put their dishes away when one of the original twelve Workers beckoned them back. The twelve new Workers saw, to their befuddlement, the original twelve slowly trading seats, rotating one over. Then they sat back down, reset the board, and waited.
The new twelve came back to the table, slowly, and sat down. They played again. Lost again. Then the Workers shuffled places and began to play.
In silence, the other Workers in the mess hall stared at the games. Twenty-four Workers played together. On the fifth game, the Worker with the butcher’s knife glanced up as one of the watching Antinium carefully moved forwards. He stood up to let the new Worker sit—but the trembling newcomer grabbed his butcher’s knife instead.
The trembling Worker stared at the knife as all the other Antinium in the mess hall froze. It raised the knife, stabbed itself in the arm, and green blood ran. Then it opened its mandibles.
“noOOOooo. NOOOooooooO—”
It screamed one word and then began to shriek. The Worker with the butcher’s job backed away.
The individual-who-was-no-longer-a-Worker raised the knife and began to stab others. He stabbed and stabbed as Workers fled and the chess boards were abandoned, and then turned. He shrieked, and the other Workers fled, trying to shield the remaining twenty-three Workers who’d played chess.
Aberration. Aberration! The call went through the Hive, and even the Queen heard it. She called for Klbkch.
Before the Prognugator arrived, six more Workers were killed and their parts used to decorate the tables. He walked into the mess hall and a screaming Worker covered in green blood ran at him.
“wE! WE! a gAMe!”
It screamed at him, waving the knife. Lunging at him. Klbkch the Prognugator reached down to the twin swords hanging at his belt. He drew them and swung one blade once. Then he bent, carefully thrust the second blade down, and pulled it sideways.
He wiped the silver blades clean and stood. Klbkch stared blankly at the odd, bloody bits of paper on the table and looked around at the Workers huddled at the far end of the room.
“Clean up the bodies. Get back to work.”
Then he turned and walked away. The Workers stood there, looking at the dead Aberration. Their fellow Workers, dead.
All the same. All the same as it ever was. They picked up the bodies for processing, and a Worker picked up the knife to replace the dead butcher. But as they cleaned up and got back to work, the chess boards stayed. Another Worker joined the twenty-three.
By lunch, they had become forty-eight. By dinner? 192.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had taught the Workers how to play games of speed chess. Lightning rules, she called it, where you had a limited amount of time per move.
It was ideal for short moments, like between digging in the tunnels or at a mess hall. Workers picked up stones and sticks and played. Nevermind that you had a ‘board’ of four sticks and a bunch of identical stones.
After all, if you remembered which stones were pawns, rooks, and which were white and black, why did you need a board with shapes? There was nothing else to do. They remembered.
That night, the games of chess continued. Not all Workers took part. It was decided that only a quarter should play this new game in case of further Aberrations occurring.
Decided by who? Not Klbkch. Not the Queen. Neither one had paid attention to the boards. They surely knew because they were the Queen and Klbkch…the Workers just decided it.
The Chosen Workers were the original twelve. But now there were 1532—four had died this day due to a monster attack—in the Hive. Not all were in the same mess hall, but they counted.
Counted who won and lost. Of course, only a few won all the time, and the Chosen Workers were the best players by far. Initially.
However, it seemed clear that the [Innkeeper] had been better than all of them. And this game…this game was fascinating. But perhaps there were strategies, means that the Workers could not fathom?
That night, the Workers sitting in the barracks across the Hive played games. They played and played—and one would get up and slowly, carefully, move to another barracks. Then either return or go to a new barracks. The Workers counted and counted and played.
Therefore, the next day, when the Designated Worker stood, he was tired. He was not one of the Chosen Workers, the twelve, but he was definitively, by numbers, the best for the job.
He was afraid when he went to Klbkch’s office. The Prognugator was almost never disturbed; he was getting ready for his work as a Senior Guardsman. Yet the Designated Worker had to go.
He was the best player—his win/loss ratio was 54.6%, and thus he had been chosen to make the request. There was simply no other alternative.
Klbkch was not on duty at this time of day. He had retreated to his personal quarters within the labyrinthine tunnels, a hollowed-out room of stone and dirt near to the surface. He looked up at the knock on his door. When he saw it was a Worker, he immediately drew his sword.
“State your business immediately or be cut down. Why has the Queen not alerted me?”
The Worker froze. One of those two perfect blades was poised to stab, but he bowed his head towards Klbkch.
“This one would request time off, Prognugator.”
Klbkch hesitated. He did not lower his sword. That was not the voice of the screaming Aberration of yesterday.
“…Why?”
His arm tensed, but the Worker’s reply stopped Klbkch again.
“This one wishes to visit the Innkeeper Solstice.”
Now, Klbkch stood up. Hesitated, then strode towards the Designated Worker and held his blade low, towards the other Antinium’s abdomen. Yet he stopped himself from running the other Worker through. Something was in his voice. A kind of…surprise, wariness beyond belief.
And perhaps something like anticipation. Hope.
“For what purpose do you wish to visit Erin Solstice?”
“This one would play a game of chess.”
“Chess?”
Neither Antinium blinked. They were incapable of doing so, but Klbkch’s antennae twitched.
“Explain yourself.”
The Designated Worker spoke as precisely as it could.
“This one would learn more of chess for the sake of imparting knowledge onto other Workers. The Workers perceive a limitation in growth after a collective 15,360 games played.”
Klbkch paused as he digested this information. He looked the Worker up and down, and the blade, slowly, slowly withdrew from the Worker’s abdomen.
“I see. Your request will be considered. Return to your duties. Now.”
The Designated Worker bowed his head and left. Klbkch sheathed his sword, stared at the door, and then banged his head with one of his hands. Then he strode off to make an urgent report to his Queen.
Within the hour, he had left the city with the Designated Worker in tow.
 
——
 
After two days of experimentation, Erin had to face the facts.
“…I still can’t figure out how to make ice cream.”
All she could make was weird, sugary butter. She stared down at the pan of churned cream and ice cubes and wondered whether it was still edible. 
