"Nah. I've been trying to get all the fire I've been using to calm down. Can't move forward until I do."

Whatever that meant. "Good, here, why don't you absorb this instead? One of the chipmunks I just killed dropped it, and it's definitely B grade."

Now Zach opened his eyes and blinked at the mana crystal Thomas gave him. "My man!" He happily traded Thomas for the lower grade crystal, then settled back into his meditation pose. "That was good luck."

"Yeah..." Or a Gift. "I wonder if they drop better loot when you go off the path," he said instead to cover himself.

Zach nodded absently, but it was clear his mind was mostly focused inward on settling his mana—whatever that meant. Thomas hadn't had to do that to level up, but Zach seemed to have a different relationship with his fire mana.

Thomas kept watch. Though he saw more chipmunks scuttling around in the distance, none seemed to be creeping closer. Maybe they were far enough away not to attract attention. He flipped open his notebook and started jotting more notes. When he was done, he looked back at Zach and was surprised to see that he had absorbed the mana crystal. There was now a faint red haze hovering around him. It looked like a movie special effect.

Suddenly, a ring of pure fire burst out from Zach in all directions. Thomas yelped and tried to dodge it, but the fire was at waist height, and he couldn't duck or jump high enough. The fire ring slammed into him... and kept going. The flames had been utterly cool and within Zach's control.

Zach blinked his eyes open. "Sorry about that, I broke into level 2, and that was excess mana." Then he grinned. "That was so wicked!" Standing, he punched the air, his fist darting in and out, quick as a snake. "I'm so strong now!" Then he paused, doing a double take at Thomas. "Shit, bro, your arm! You got burned?"

Thomas glanced down at his arm. The blisters were gone, but the skin was still as red as if he had been out in the sun all afternoon. "That wasn't you. I just got too close to a chipmunk."

"Yeah, bro, but you got me that better grade crystal. I won't forget that." He bounced on his toes. "Come on, I got all this mana and I'm way overfilled with fire—I gotta get rid of this stuff." He grinned, clearly looking forward to the carnage to come. "Let's kill more of those 'munks!"

Thomas was more than willing to agree.

Zach had no official skills that dealt with fire and could only generate his own flames in a controlled environment, such as when he was juggling, but that didn't matter now. When the chipmunks fired at him, he was able to redirect the flames right back at them, and it turned out chipmunks weren't fireproof at all.

"Nice firebending," Thomas said with a grin.

"I remember that show," Zach replied, completely serious. "This is more like... waterbending. Using your enemy's strength against them, you know?"

No, Thomas did not know, but he trusted that Zach knew what he was talking about.

"I definitely need more air to balance myself out," Zach muttered, but he didn't seem upset about it.

With Zach's new level came an upgrade to his control over fire. The chipmunks really didn't stand a chance, and he was easily able to redirect the flames back at them, even when caught by surprise. He could even split his return stream and take out two chipmunks at once. They slaughtered their way through the forest with occasional C-grade mana crystal drops. That confirmed to Thomas that his gift only worked when he made the kill.

Suddenly, Zach stopped. "Oh man," he said, turning to Thomas. "Here I am on a rampage and taking all the kills. Sorry about that, bro. You want to take point for a while?"

"Oh no, no, no." Thomas rapidly shook his head. "You're doing fine. Besides—" he stopped. "Uh, never mind."

Most people would let that drop, but Zach seemed genuinely interested. "What is it?"

Thomas winced. "I kind of... hate the whole killing part of this dungeon thing. I'll do it to protect myself, and I really like the loot, but... yeah." He shrugged, feeling like a coward. "It's just not enjoyable for me."

Zach didn't laugh. He stared at him for a moment, his head slightly tilted. "What mana did you use to get to level 2?"

The question took him off guard, which was why he didn't automatically think up a lie to cover himself. "Uh, healing mana. See?" He held up his arm, which now showed only a very light sunburn.

"Dude! That is such a great idea. Why didn't I think of that? You must have spent a ton to get all those healing crystals, though. But... no wonder you don't want to kill. You are the team healer."

"Well, I wasn't much of a hunter before all this started," Thomas muttered.

"What reflects inward reflects outward, and it in turn reflects inward," Zach intoned wisely, or at least Thomas assumed it was wise. He had no idea what it meant.

He was stopped from asking by a screech in the distance. They looked at each other.

"What was that?" Thomas asked.

"I think," Zach said, "that was the boss. We must be close to the exit."

That had not sounded anything like a chipmunk.
