Eight days after that, the last Deathsoul Shroom of the Forest was fried by four bunnies, each hopping around the Adult Shroom, each releasing torrents of power, like so much electric death. Sizzi had taken out the bulk of those targets, herself. Her bunnies and metal ooze could do so, so much more than Kiri’s Sunny, or even Erick’s Ophiel.

The party that night was even larger than the previous one. Though Erick was honored with many words and many gifts, Sizzi and Kiri both received their fair share of the accolades. Sizzi was even more popular than Erick, for she was actually approachable in the conventional sense, down there at her own table of honor, closer to the actual ground. People could see Erick, though, up there at his high table of honor, sitting with the Elders, but they could not approach him like they could approach Sizzi.

To everyone’s surprise, the Culling of the Forest went off without a hitch. No one died. Everyone lived.

… Monsters died, by the hundreds of thousands.

Monsters didn’t count.

The Culling of the Forest went off without a hitch; Erick had to repeat that to himself a few times. No one expected that. Everyone expected some other interruption like a Cultist attack, or something worse.

Erick still had no idea where that lead missile from the Cultist attack came from. He had squirreled that payload away in a tree out in the Forest, and he checked on it occasionally, just to see if he could find any clues as to who had tried to kill Syllea, but nothing came of that, either.

In fact, the entire world seemed to pause while the Culling took place.

The Converter Angel had remained on the moon of Celes, full time. She hadn’t moved much except back and forth on that white pearl of a celestial sphere, with almost all of those movements being on the other side of that moon. The one time she had appeared on the visible side, Caizoa had called Erick up and told him to look.

He couldn’t see her. Not even with Ophiel’s eyesights. Maybe he should have been carrying a telescope with him? The Converter Angel moved on even as Erick moved to find a telescope. Caizoa ended that call, disappointed in him. Some part of him felt that her call had been nothing more than a ploy, or a taunt, or something similar.

So Erick ignored the caustic young woman’s comments, and focused on what the Converter Angel had done since being up there on the moon, and the fact was, that the Converter Angel hadn’t made any new attacks against the incani of Veird, at all. She hadn’t done much of any visible thing, up there.

So what was all that about?

- - - -

Erick woke with the dawn.

Something had woken him up. Some intrinsic thing…

What had woken him? He checked himself out, and, finding nothing wrong, expanded his mana sense throughout the whole hotel room.

Jane was asleep in her bed in her room, tangled in the sheets. Kiri, Teressa, and Poi were all in their own rooms. Sizzi had crashed out in her own bed; exhausted. That young woman had truly done more than anyone when it came to Culling the Forest. Erick had been impressed with her fortitude, but she had been extremely busy, and he had not gotten much time to talk to her beside normal pleasantries. No one had. For her, it had been ‘wake at dawn, cast for 14 hours, then crash’. She was truly determined to make her mark, and Erick didn’t quite understand why, or for what reason, though he did have his suspicions.

But for now, the young woman had crashed out for a different reason than ‘overwork’. With how much all of them drank last night, none of them would be waking up for several more hours. Poi might be awake in a little while, but everyone else had partied hard. Erick didn’t want to be awake at this hour, either, and it wasn’t a full bladder that had woken him, though there was enough pressure down there that he could probably just get up and take care of that while he could.

But...

Something had woken him...

He checked himself and his Status.

His Shroud was healed. Mostly. He was rested, for sure. His Mana Regen was still a bit broken, but it was at 90% of where it should be; and that would have to be enough. Maybe he had woken over the anticipation of the spells he had unlocked and bought in the last few days? He hadn’t had much experience with any of them outside of initial usage since he was still healing and he truly could not afford to set his healing back any longer with any experimentation, but his new spells would prove useful, soon enough.

Witness X, variable cast time, variable range, 25 mana

See the past.

Future Sight X, variable cast time, variable range, 25 mana

See the future.

True Sight X, instant, medium range, 25 mana per second

See through all falsehoods.

But that anticipation had not woken him.

Why… ?

He gasped. He realized. He mentally checked the day, and knew what was coming, and what had happened. The Converter Angel wasn’t the only thing looming on the horizon.

An event a year in the making was scheduled to come to fruition, soon. Right now?

Today? Yes. Today.

Any second now.

As though summoned by his thoughts and fears, a blue box appeared, unbidden. A thrill of excitement and apprehension coiled up and down Erick’s spine, for the blue box was blank.

And then words began to populate that blue field, as though typed by a godly hand, directly to him.

Particle Magic is now a part of the Script.

Details to follow for concerned parties...
