“I have been neither polite, nor gentle; this is true. Apologies for that.” Sirocco said, “But I was almost assassinated a few days ago, monsters keep pouring out of Ar’Kendrithyst, the Brightwater has turned half of the Dead City into a warzone, and my secretary— But more like my predecessor. Anhelia. You know her. Every single Mage Guildmaster before me has relied on her for so much, and I am no different. She has all the real power in the Mage Guild of Spur— But Anhelia has gone off the abyssal shelf! Banded together a dozen wrought, she did, and now she assaults the Dead City every day, attempting to carve out a bit more of it into livable wrought territory. Silverite is fighting with her, you know. Not physically, though it did almost come to blows right in the middle of the Guildhall.”

“No. I did not know.” Erick said, “Silverite told me to stay away.”

Sirocco sighed. “Probably for the best.” She said, “Apologies. It’s been… It’s been a week. I am blowing some incidents out of proportion. I was almost assassinated. That definitely almost happened. But… On the bright side —ha!— the Brightwater isn’t much of a warzone.” She sipped her wine.

Tense moments passed.

Erick ate his steak.

Everyone ate, or drank. Sirocco ordered a second bottle of wine.

No one said a word.

Suddenly, Erick could not stand the silence. He spoke, “So! Sizzi—”

Sizzi tried not to choke on a slice of whiteroot. Kiri patted her on the back.

Erick continued, “How was your day of summoning?”

“It went well, Erick.” Sizzi said, “They eventually offered me 1.6 million gold to give them your method, but I turned them down, of course.”

Erick sighed, and smiled, and considered secrets, then asked, “What is the major difference in our summons versus all the rest? It’s just the mana they are summoned with, isn’t it?”

“That is it, entirely. Your method produces summons that come summoned with full mana.” Sizzi said, “Standard summons do not have that, and they cannot regenerate their own mana. You have to feed them mana to get them to do anything at all. At their most crude level of use, they are spell platforms from which to prepare contingency magics and for attacking from a separate angle. Before you came along, the best summoning magic I knew of could hold that mana for a rather long time; indefinitely, even.” She added, “Some Summoners could even artificially inflate their mana pool by creating summons that did nothing but hold their mana for them, which they could then retrieve themselves at a later date. Though that is also a rare art, indeed.”

“Oh?” Erick said, “I never considered giving away mana and then taking it back. But that’s an interesting idea.” He added, “I’m still working on that [Melee Reflection] you once showed me. I think Jane is working on that, too.”

Jane gave a small, polite smile, as she said, “Still working on it; yes. Spell reflection was easy once I was shown the way.”

Sizzi asked Jane, “What’s your methodology for [Melee Reflection]?”

“Ah.” Jane said, “[Rebound], [Strike], [Personal Ward]. The usual.”

Kiri spoke up, “I’ve tried that one but never got much further than Jane.”

Sizzi said, “If you two would like, I could work with you on that...”

The conversation turned to magic and melee.

It was a better discussion than the one about Angels and obligations.

- - - -

After dinner, Erick met Sirocco on the balcony of his hotel room, while Sizzi moved into one of the empty rooms on the second floor. Sunset painted the sky orange and gold. He handed her a glass of wine; a refill for her own.

Sirocco took the glass, saying, “Thanks for inviting Sizzi to stay with you. I feel much better about leaving her.” She added, “I feel much better about her being out of Spur, too.”

“I’ll look after her.” He asked, “Did the assassins go after her, too?”

“No, and thank the Demon King for that! If she had been… I wouldn’t have been able to...” Sirocco looked away. “I blew up at you at dinner, and you did not deserve that. The Angel is not your fault, nor should anyone truly expect you to make it your responsibility; not when you’re already doing so much. It is up to us to put that thing into the Void, as it has always been.”

Erick sipped his wine.

Sirocco drank hers.

Erick asked, “Are you truly a part of Spur, Sirocco? Or are you just an arm of the Wasteland?”

“I know where I live, but I also know where I came from.” Sirocco said, “Don’t stop cleaning out the Forest. That is a noble goal almost as bright as culling Ar’Kendrithyst. I honestly feel bad about bringing up all this Quiet War shit around you, but you needed to know. You are still a valued citizen of Spur.”

Erick smirked, and tried a joke, “So I once heard that the Headmaster has said that we should just blow up both Hell and Celes and be done with the Quiet War, once and for all.”

Sirocco’s eyes went wide as she turned to Erick.

“… That was something of a poor joke, I see.” Erick said, “Sorry.”

Sirocco said, “If you want to blow up Celes, go ahead. I already have a plot of land waiting for me on Hell.”

Erick’s eyes went wide, this time.

And then Sirocco chuckled. “My joke was better, yes?”

“Can you actually buy land up there?”

“Oh, no. I see there are some missing cultural—” She waved a hand. “You have to enter into contracts with an Ancient House if you wish to live on the surface, and even then you’re bound to start your next life in the mires and the tunnels unless you have the power or prestige or ancestry to make it up there on top.” She added, “I have what it takes to make it up there on the top.”

“And that… Appeals to you? To live after death, but struggling the whole time?”

“Of course it does? Is this a weird concept to you?”

“… What happens to humans if they end up on Celes?”

“Ah. Well. About the same, actually. More regimented, though. The Angels of the Celestial Choir are soldiers, through and through. Perhaps, back before the Sundering, there might have been other factions to have been a part of the Celestial Heavens, but the only faction to survive the Sundering and the subsequent turmoil was one of war.”

Erick glanced out to the west, to the horizon. Hell was already in the sky, followed by the Silver Star, looming on the horizon. Without Meditation active, the moon was a simple pinkish sphere. But turning on his ability to see into the manasphere, Hell became a land of lush trees and oceans of mainly red, but also every other color under the sun.

He asked, “Why do the Angels and Demons fight? Surely there have been attempts at diplomacy over the many centuries since the Sundering. What’s going on there, exactly? Is it anything aside from hate? Any actual reason for war? Hate cannot sustain a war on this scale, can it? Or… if they’re immortal and warlike, then… that is rather sad.”

Sirocco gazed out west, alongside Erick. “Immortal, biased, and hateful Relevant Entities of the Script fuel the war through incentivizing Participation amounts. For others, the Quiet War is just a small part of the Forever war. For others, it’s a matter of honor and reprisal. There are thousands of smaller, more personal reasons, from every single combatant. Celes is a land of war preparedness, and that’s a major fault. If there are deeper reasons for the hostilities, I don’t really need to know them, for the only thing that matters to me is that they tried to kill me. They have been trying to kill me for a long time, Erick. It is like that for most incani.”

Eventually, Sirocco needed to go back to Spur, so she did.

- - - -

‘Hello, Erick,’ Caizoa sent. ‘Late hour for a call, is it not?’

‘What’s going on with the Angel, Caizoa? I just heard my Guildmaster of Spur was nearly assassinated a while ago.’

‘Yeah. Her and about a hundred other highly placed incani the world over. Not many succeeded, for the Black Star saw them moving all at once across Veird and I started alerting people right away.’ Caizoa sent, ‘Half the time the Angel isn’t on Veird, though. She has a [Gate] to Celes, for sure.’

Erick sighed, as he felt some ephemeral weight descend on his shoulders. ‘Ah. That’s a complication.’

‘She was being circumspect about it at the beginning, but something changed recently. We’re not sure what. She disappeared from the surface every so often and reappeared in the Underworld a few times, making her an impossible target, but then the Black Star spotted her on Celes two days ago. She’s been on the dark side of that moon since then.’

‘Impossible to attack?’

‘You got a way to blow up Celes? Let me know and I will help you make that happen.’ Caizoa asked, ‘Did Zago give you that letter? Don’t accept it. Or do, and make the complication of you a bit easier to deal with.’

Erick filed away every single one of the implications of Caizoa’s words, then changed the subject, ‘If she’s up there, could she not bring more true Angels to Veird, then? All it takes is a [Gate] to Celes, right?’

‘It takes more than that. A ritual, at the very least. Something powerful enough to overcome Koyabez’s Domain of Veird, and a [Gate] is not that power. All this means is that we can’t get her how we thought.’ Caizoa said, ‘So don’t worry about her. We’d rather you stayed away from her, anyway. I’d hate to have to kill you after you’ve done so much good for this world.’

Her words were insincere. She would be fine with killing him.

Erick sent, ‘Good night, Caizoa.’

He got in his last words, and ended the call.

- - - -

‘Archmage Flatt. To what do I owe this late honor?’ spoke Viscount Andro Helix, of Frontier.

‘I’m going to be blunt. Can you stop the Converter Angel?’

‘Nope, and I have no reason to. The incani deserve everything they have reaped. They destroyed Odaali, Erick, or is your memory truly that selective?’

‘Did you authorize the attack on Sirocco Zago, the Mage Guildmaster of Spur?’

‘Not the latest one. I can tell you that she has tried to have me killed, too, just so you know. Her actions almost got you killed by Bulgan, as well.’ He asked, ‘Would you like to come here and put me under truthstone? Or have your Mind Mage Scan me? I'm very willing to take this step if it means getting you away from incani who wish to kill you.’

‘All too willing, it seems, but I will have that Scan the next time I’m in Spur; I will call your bluff.’

A laugh. ‘I await your arrival with open arms. But until then: have you heard? The Wasteland is looking to annex Candlepoint. We will help you fight them off, if you wish. We can even do so diplomatically; without swords. You have but to ask.’

‘Send a trade envoy to Candlepoint. Help them with honest commerce.’

‘We can do that, too.’ Andro Helix said, ‘But I feel I have gotten a raw deal out of our talk today, Archmage. It is considerably expensive for us to travel that distance, so I confess that I don’t see the good in setting up such a trade. Could you sweeten the deal? We could use an embassy in your city.’

‘Mephistopheles will be in touch.’

Erick ended the call, touching his head, fighting off a headache. He looked to Poi, asking, “Is it right or good to ignore the fact that they’ve both tried to kill each other before? It seems self-serving and disingenuous, but it also seems like the best way to proceed.”

Poi shrugged. “I can’t answer that, except to say that how you choose to proceed is how it will probably go. You’re a power now, Erick. People fall in line with what you want, or they’ll stay out of your way.”

“I’m still not comfortable with that. Benevolent tyranny is still tyranny.”

“I think you are making problems out of thick air.” Poi said, “Soon, the Moon Reachers will be gone. Deathsoul Shrooms are headed the same direction. You recently saved a decent sized group of orcols from imprisonment and rescued shadelings and the world from the Shades. You invented a spell of rain that already spreads through Atunir’s temples to feed people from many different nations the world over; both in the Wasteland, and in the Republic, and Nelboor and Nergal. And this is just the start. Anyone would love to have you as their overlord, sir.”

Erick felt a stab of some awful emotion knife through his heart. He recoiled, saying, “Ugh! Terrible word.”

Poi shrugged.

“And I couldn’t have done any of it alone! You’ve kept me a lot safer than otherwise. No one lives alone, or works alone, and I am no different. I would have been killed a dozen times over if not for you, according to what I saw in Guardmaster Merit’s office that one time— And that reminds me! That assassin from the Green Circle. I should have held that over Andro’s head.”

Poi said, “That kill order was surely issued by the Viridian King. I doubt Viscount Helix had much to do with that, but I do not know. That is just my professional opinion.”

Erick sighed. And then he frowned. “Overlord! Really! I’m not no overlord.”

Poi shrugged. “Would you prefer ‘Mage Emperor’?

“Ugh!”

“Archmage Tyrant King?”

“…”

“Lord of Candlepoint and Roadbuilder to the Stars?”

“… You’re enjoying this, aren’t you?”

Poi could not help but smirk, as he offered, “Worldmaker? Demon Slayer? Angel Killer, soon enough.”

Erick sighed.

- - - -

Four days and many slaughters later, the last Moon Reacher breathed its last breath in the Forest of Glaquin. Coincidentally, the final Reacher was killed by a team led by Kordon, with Jane and a few others in his party.

The celebration that night was monumental, enveloping all of Treehome.

