In other parts of the Forest, tiny not-slimes made of gold and amethyst eyes found their own targets. They too, discharged their [Grand Lightning], ending themselves in the process. They had just enough mana to get to their targets, and to kill their targets. Some of the more distant targets required multiple [Teleport]s to get there, and those bunnies had to wait to recharge, but that didn’t take too long.

Sizzi was a Scion of Focus with a pair of Erick’s Willpower and Focus rings on her fingers, after all.

And besides that! Those bunnies and gold-amethyst slimes came back at the rate of one every minute, for their creator was a Summoner and one of her Class Abilities let her summons come back on their own, depending on how many remained. Bunnies multiplied like… Well. Bunnies.

Slimes multiplied like cells dividing.

In addition to that Class Ability, another Class Ability Sizzi had was to double the number of summons by halving their mana and damage.

So.

This meant that, all around the Forest, 38 targets at a time (Sizzi kept one bunny and slime with her, of course), lightning loosed, and Moon Reachers died, for of course they died. [Grand Lightning], like [Grand Fireball], like many other ‘Grand’ type spells, was actually multiple [Lightning]s at the same time.

- - - -

Sizzi said, “Nine [Lightning]s, in my case, based around [Force Beam] with Mana Altering for Lightning and Chaining, with the duration shunted into more power for a minimally increased cost.” She popped out a blue box. “It’s the limit of my current ability, Warchief.”

Grand Lightning, instant, medium range, 2200 mana

Unleash a wild tempest of chaining lightning that deals 900 + 2x WIL for 5 seconds to all targets within range.

Erick looked at the blue box, then back to Sizzi. The spell was expensive! But it worked.

Sizzi must have noticed his look. She glanced to him, but spoke to Koropo, “It’s expensive, but thanks to the rings Archmage Flatt gifted Spur for the defense of the city, even with each summon halved in power, each Rokkel or Ghrala has enough mana to get to one target, and then to take out that target.”

Koropo eyed the rings on Sizzi’s fingers, and there was a desire there, but he did not ask Erick for rings, and Erick did not offer.

Erick shifted the conversation, “Summoners are pretty good.”

Sizzi grinned. “This would not be possible without you, Archmage.”

“Or you, either,” Erick said, for Sizzi had helped him to make Ophiel in the first place.

Koropo sighed, then smiled wide, showing off his lower fangs, as he said, “Ah! This is wonderful. We really need to train some good Summoners.” He looked to Erick. “We’re offering a million gold for whatever method allowed this new breed to flourish. I want rings, too. Name your price.”

Erick suddenly balked. “What? No.” And then he seemed to see a glimpse of a terrible future, and every good thing he saw before him took on a darker hue. Last he heard, Sizzi had accidentally given away his method for making Ophiel to her uncle, who ran off to the Magisterium of the Wasteland and tried to give it to them, but as far as Erick knew, nothing came of that, thank the gods! Well, he wasn’t going to take a second chance and let this method go to Treehome, either. And besides that— He rapidly asked, “You don’t consider this a war crime waiting to happen? That’s what I was worried for, at first. But if it’s just me, Kiri, and Sizzi, then that’s fine! But no more!” He doubled down. “No more. Not from me.” He looked to Sizzi. “No.” He added, “No rings either. Sorry. Uh. No.”

The incani woman nodded.

“I will ask after the rings some other time, and yes, you are right about these summons being warcrimes waiting to happen.” Koropo said, “But all archmages are all warcrimes waiting to happen. It changes nothing that you have summons like you have. But Miss Zago here? And Miss Flamecrash? These are new magics that would save countless lives. We would obviously need to implement some failsafes, like perhaps having practitioners get their mind blanked by a Mind Mage after a successful creation… But that is just a detail of security. There are many achievements to your name, Erick, but personally, this summoning achievement is the one where I see the most opportunity for good.”

“Still. No.” Erick said, “I am glad no one has been able to replicate this success.”

Koropo sighed, small. The Warchief suddenly waved off, saying, “Onto the job! We’re glad to have you here, Sizzi Zago. My people will keep you in the loop and active.”

Sizzi curtsied. “Though I will not be spilling Archmage Flatt’s secrets, I will be paid for my efforts on the Reachers and the Shrooms, Warchief.”

Koropo laughed. “Aye! Wouldn’t have it any other way. Our people come through and clean up the messes, but if anything should happen to not be there during that clean up, then that’s fine. Don’t get too greedy, though. This Culling is expensive. Other than any choice of treasures you might find, we’re offering 10% of whatever you kill in rads and 10% of your portion of the day’s kills in treasure, to be divided at the end of every day. It’s the same offer we’ve given everyone. The only limit to how much you make is how fast and how many Moon Reachers you can eliminate.”

Sizzi said, “Very well. I accept this standard offer.”

“Good.” Koropo said, “You’ll go far, Miss Zago.”

“I intend to.”

Koropo chuckled as he walked away to deal with a clerk who had been waiting for him.

Erick turned to Sizzi. “That’s some nice Summoner Class you have. I didn’t expect doubled summons and automatic resummoning. What else is there?”

Sizzi smiled; a genuine expression. “A lot I wished I could have taken, but I settled for Doubled Mana and Regen and a few other basic Abilities. I couldn’t have done this without you, Erick. Thank you.”

“I couldn’t have done it without you, either. And Koropo’s right, you know.” Erick said, “You’ll go far. I hope you make good choices, but then again, I hope that for everyone.”

Sizzi turned serious. She bowed. “Thank you for this opportunity.”

Erick would have spoken more with her, but Koropo wasn’t the only one with a clerk waiting to speak with them. Sizzi also had some people waiting to get her into the system. He asked her, “We’ll do dinner, perhaps? You and your mother and all of us from Spur?”

“I would be delighted, and I’m sure my mother would be as well.”

“And now for work.” He turned to the clerk assigned to him, asking, “What’s up?”

“Just some adjustments to map 14, 17, and 19, Archmage.”

“Around the Fallen Hills?”

“Correct. We need…”

- - - -

The day came and went.

New numbers were tallied.

There would be five more days of this, or somewhere around there, and then…

Every single Moon Reacher in the Forest of Glaquin would be dead and gone.

Sirocco spoke over her glass of wine, “But there are still more Moon Reachers in the world, and even on Glaquin. They don’t like the mountains for all the Stone Elementals roaming that land, but they do still exist in the Wyrmridge, the Greyhorn, and everywhere else.”

Erick cut into his steak, saying, “There was talk about that today. Treehome wants to assist with Imaging and culling all throughout the mountains around the Crystal Forest.”

Dinner was served in a private room to the west of the hotel under Arbor O’kabil, and it had been served fast. Kiri, Sizzi, and Jane all sat next to each other. Poi and Teressa sat on the other side of the table.

Erick and Sirocco sat on opposite ends.

After a few small words between everyone, and a few small pleasantries, here they were. In a certain sort of way it was nice to see Sirocco again, but so far Erick was still tense, and could not put out of his mind that the Wasteland wanted to expand around Candlepoint, like some amoeba swallowing a morsel. Sirocco didn’t seem to want to approach that topic yet, and neither did anyone else at their table, but that tension held in the air, for sure.

Sirocco asked, “If they approach the Wasteland for assistance or permission, then we will agree to assist. Moon Reachers are extraordinarily rare in the Greyhorns, but they do show from time to time. The only problem with getting rid of all of them in all the mountains would be the Greensoil Republic. Last I heard, that Converter Angel is in the Mondariskas, to the west of the Republic.”

“… I have half a mind to just get that over with.” Erick asked, “Is Caizoa ready?”

“She’s getting there.” Sirocco said, “And the Angel isn’t always over in those mountains, anyway. She moves around a lot. A lot faster than we thought possible. We think she has a [Gate].”

“You can just buy the Spell for 10 points, if you can get that far. And that’s concerning, simply due to the tactics required to take down such a target.” Erick said, “But what concerns me more is that you are speaking as though you are a member of the Kingdoms, and not a pillar of Spur.”

Silence, save for the scratching, and then sudden stopping, of cutlery on plates.

“In the face of such danger all incani must band together, for we die if we do not.” Sirocco said, “Even a pillar of Spur is a target.” She continued, “Did you know that I was scheduled to die, just seven days ago? It is true. An assassination attempt was scheduled to go off in the middle of the Triumph of Light, but then you happened with the Cleansing of the Shades, and Caizoa came out of there with the Black Star and upset the Angel’s plans in the Wasteland, and all those monsters came out of there, and we had to adjust every single one of our security protocols— It was this adjustment of protocols that saved my life.”

Erick had dropped his fork. He didn’t even know he had dropped it until Sirocco had paused her terrifying words.

Sirocco said, “Silverite authorized a few special scanning magics which we installed in a few discreet locations. These scanners caught the intruding Angel-touched mere minutes before they attacked. I was saved. Eleven people were killed in the crossfire.”

“… I am sorry, Sirocco.”

“For what?” Sirocco asked, flippantly. “Don’t mistake me, Erick. I’m not mad at you. You have a full schedule. You are dealing with matters that affect the world over and it’s not like this was my first time as a target of assassination; No. Frontier has tried to murder me too many times since I became the Guildmaster of Spur. I’m not mad at you. I’m mad at the Angels. I’m mad at the humans of this world. I have had to deal with this Quiet War my whole life. It is exhausting.” She asked, “Aren’t you mad at the Republic, too? They’ve withheld that Quest reward for killing the Daydroppers for months upon months! They refuse to execute that woman in their custody, and thus they screw you out of those points that are rightfully yours.”

Erick leveled a glare across the table. “I will not fault them for not executing a woman who I believe was forced into working on the Daydropper.”

“That is all well and good, but they refuse to execute her because it would give you more power; not for any moral reasoning. They refuse to even hold a trial!”

Erick balked. “No. That cannot be right.”

“It’s true.” Sirocco said, “The Angels of this world have a stranglehold upon their progeny. The Angels are all the same. They whisper secrets into the ears of the humans. They coordinate across the globe. In the beginning, they might not have executed that Daydropper woman due to her forced inclusion in the creation of the Daydropper, but the reason the Republic doesn’t do it now, is, in part, due to the fact that such an action would give you power. And you’re already positioned to go against their greatest current threat in this world: the Republic’s Converter Angel.” She asked, “Here’s a hypothetical, and please tell me true: You have two invites. One to see the Kingdoms, the other to see the Republic. Both are lavish, respectable invitations. Do you visit either? Do you go, but in secret?”

Erick said, “I would visit both.”

Sirocco pulled out a sealed letter from her robes and flipped it across the table, to land in front of Erick. It was laden with wax in several colors, with several seals, some done up with ribbons. She said, “Here is an invitation to visit the Wasteland, signed by King Rashi, Queen Tiz, and Magister Aerie Iordex. There are also lesser signatures from a few barons and baronesses. Baroness Pirazel Xelxex is on there.” She sat down, saying, “We would not dream of interrupting what you are doing here, with the Culling of the Forest, but we do offer you this opportunity. Please visit whenever. And please do not visit the Republic until the Angel is gone. For your own safety. I know you say you would visit both, but I cannot believe that you would actually do such a thing. Those humans will either kill you or control you the second you show yourself over there.”

Erick stared at the letter. He said, “I feel like you have blindsided me over and over again today, Sirocco.”

