Althea and I smiled at the old bag of bones. His dedication to his students was unquestionable. That's why he took me on as a disciple so long ago. Interrupting my thoughts, Kessiah jumped onto one of the couches beside Caprika. Kessiah put her arm around the albony,

"You've got some soft ass fur."

Caprika's posture straightened in her seat, "I wash and condition it every day. Many albony use our abundance of hair as an excuse to bathe less regularly. Not I."

I pulled my helmet off my face, leaning back into my seat, "Really now?"

She nodded, "Quite. I take pride in representing the Empire and what it signifies."

Althea pulled out some juice from the cooler below us,

"So you're a, er, patriot I guess?"

Caprika hit the top her chest, "Always."

The car wheeled into motion. I crossed my arms, "But the Empire's got problems, surely?"

Caprika shrugged, "Of course they do. Every state or galactic power does, even Schema. What makes the Empire unique is the sense of order it brings to a world or solar system."

Kessiah offered her a drink, "Want some?"

Caprika lifted a hand, "Sure." She popped the top off before a strand of her hair caught the cap. She continued,

"Most states are chaotic. They call themselves guilds, but they are no different in action from the Empire. We don't cower behind some different power system and propaganda as they do, however. We display what we are for all to see."

I cupped my chin, "So, the power is more centralized?"

She nodded, "There's also a class system. There is mobility allowed between of the five tiers, though you can't rise to a tier above your born station."

I frowned, "Let me guess, the albony are at the top?"

She shook a finger, "Not always. We are born in the upper echelon." She slopped her shoulders, her proud posture deflating,

"Though it doesn't mean we may always remain there."

Kessiah took a swig of her drink, "Oof, that sucks."

Althea redirected the conversation, "You can move up though, right?"

Caprika leaned back into the cushion, "Of course. In fact, any class may move up the tiering system. If they reach the upper echelon of their class, their children may be given the status of the tier above them. This increase in status comes with enhanced responsibilities, so it's the child's choice."

I tilted my head back, "Ahhh, that does make it better. It still would take five generations for the lowest of the low to move up to royalty though, right?"

Caprika nodded, "This is true. Such rises are usually fantasy, however. It's quite rare for a family to maintain excellence for five generations in a row."

I remembered my own dad. She was right about that. Caprika continued,

"It promotes a stable, orderly society. Crime on imperial planets is extremely low. Giess has an extremely high rate of crime near cities since it lacks any central, governing structure."

Kessiah nodded, pointing her glass bottle at Caprika, "I actually read about that. The capital is run by a few criminal masterminds or some shit. It's because the espens were ruled over by the Gialgathens for the longest time."

Kessiah finished her beverage, tossing it into a garbage bin, "Since Schema came along, the espens gained a lot of freedom. No one's taken over yet, so it's total chaos. Young, ambitious espens are fighting the old order."

That was perfect for us. We could clear up one of the criminal masterminds in order to get rid of our bounties. If we played our cards right, we could create a lasting bond with Giess and the Empire at the same time.

Caprika nodded at Kessiah, "You're informed."

Kessiah locked her hands behind her head, leaning back, "Nope. I was just bored."

Althea and I laughed before looked at Caprika, "Yeah, I get the order thing. I do. The thing is though, that kind of system stops new talent from rising to the top. Incompetent people can control decisions at that point. On my homeworld, the Roman Empire fell because of that...I think."

Caprika waved away my concern, "Our political system places the most power in the most competent hands of each of the five tiers. We don't have to worry about that?"

I raised an eyebrow, "What if someone in the lower tiers is better at ruling than someone from the upper tiers? It sounds like their talent gets wasted."

Caprika shrugged, "Then so be it. For order."

Althea leaned her elbows against her knees, "What tier would Daniel fit into?"

Caprika grabbed the bottom of her mask. She crossed her legs, "Hmmm, likely within the bottom of the highest tier. He'd be right at home with other albony, and his overwhelming combat prowess would win him favor with the king."

Althea pointed at me, "His family would've been the lowest status tier though."

Caprika shook her head, "That's preposterous. I don't believe it."

I shrugged, "My father lived on welfare and drank like there was no tomorrow. That's where I come from. I'd never be allowed past the bottom tier. I would be a part of that wasted talent I mentioned earlier."

Caprika looked down, scratching the side of her head, "I...I suppose there are imperfections. It's not something I may fix, however."

I raised a fist, "Not until I win this tournament that is."

Caprika leaned on her balled up fist of claws, "I suppose I may be granted that kind of power if we can accomplish the tournament and more. It's wishful thinking for now. We'll need far more than combat prowess for me to be awarded my own city-state."

Kessiah leaned up, clapping her hands, "Alright guys, enough political bullshit. Who wants to watch the tournament right now?" She leaned back in her seat, "I'm guessing everyone."

Kessiah interacted with the hologram projector in the center of the room. After a few clicks, a three dimensional, high-resolution image popped into the center of the room. It showed two combatants fighting with ferocity. I leaned towards the model, stunned by the quality. I shook my head,

"I can't even tell it's not real."

Caprika leaned onto the armrest of her couch, "Once you've watched it enough, you'll see it. It is a rather recently made model, so quality is quite good."

We ended up chatting about the fights and having a few drinks after that. Kessiah talked about how she'd learned a thing or two since Caprika's last fight. After a few verbal jousts, they ended up theorycrafting like two fangirls. It was refreshing to see Kessiah get passionate about something.

After a few hours of unwinding, I looked out of a window behind me. Towering mountains surrounded us with hills off in the distance. Along the distant hills, a metal landscape encroached, pillars of iron rising into the sky. Silvers battled native Giessian creatures to a standstill there. The battle injected me with a growing sense of dread.

Giess's fate was up to chance. On Earth, we had to fight the eldritch or else we would all die. The espens didn't have that problem, so they just let their wildlife take care of it. Whether the silvers, eldritch, or natural wildlife would win or not, the natives left it up to chance.

To me, it was a risk I wouldn't be willing to take. Instead, I'd train up a group of soldiers before fighting the silvers back. As I dwelled on those thoughts, my senses sent out an alarm.

My mythical skill, Hunter of Many, let me analyze my surroundings in detail. While sparse, the scent of espen blood filled into the car. My added perception allowed me to detect it. I stood up,

"Caprika, tell the driver to stop the car."

Kessiah bust out laughing, "Driver? You think people drive cars? Self-driving  happened, like, a thousand years ago."

I waved her off, "Who cares. Point is to stop the car."

Caprika didn't question me as she pressed her invisible status screen. The cars engines flared and stopped us. I jumped down the stairs, the doors sliding open just in time. Althea followed me, her eyes sharpening,

"What is it? Should I make a rifle?"

I landed on crags of rock, "Not just yet."

She and I looked around, searching for some signs of a crash or paths. I looked towards the car, our bus looking like a pile of rocks. It blended in with the scenery making it difficult to see. I turned my gaze behind us, spotting a winding path that weaved between the mountains.

I found no signs of a crash, but the smell of blood lingered. Wind crashed against my face, bringing a bit into the odor. The blood wasn't fresh either. It was the same kind of smell as Springfield after Yawm got a hold of it. In other words, the stench of corpses.

I ran towards the stench, the hair along the back of my neck rising.  I passed a few large boulders, weaving up the side of the mountain. As I closed in, metal grazed metal, and the chewing of meat entered my ears. It wasn't looking too good.

I reached the top of a rocky pit surrounded by large boulders. Althea materialized beside me. She grabbed her nose,

"By Schema that smells like corpses. Bleck."

I rolled my shoulders, preparing for the worst, "Be ready."

I jumped down, the scent singing my nose at this point. I turned towards the back of the pit, finding a monstrosity. I let out a quick breath, wincing while I looked away. I bit my lip, shaking my head,

"Mercy on your poor soul."
