erhaps wanted at all, but they were going to come anyway because booze didn't grow on trees, it appeared in pubs after payment.She hummed as she managed to find a small moment between Fairplay people to install a new feature to the Hog's Head bar. It was on a wall that was a little in shadow, but Delta wanted it to be noticed by the right people, not just by anyone.A medium sized painting of men and women along a table, each holding a glass of wine or mug of ale with that old man she had seen in the middle with his arms stretched out, the sun was high and the day was young. The lighting gave it an almost sacred feeling to those that gazed upon it after three or four drinks.It was called 'The First Drink.'---Delta winced as Wyin worked over a group of Fairplay people an hour later, her hangover making her usual cruel mood into a vicious snarl of a vibe. The men in white were flung about, then crushed under a root-like heel.She did have to admit that Fairplay was making progress. They had begun to shift and only used force when it was deemed doable. It was a little disheartening to see that they disliked Dungeons so much that they would refuse to just experience the place, but Delta knew that not all Dungeons were like her.Not even close.Between the drunken rambles of the Heroes of Ale and an 'inside source' they whispered about, hints about her second floor were beginning to leak.There was a slight flaw in her second floor that Fairplay could just continue throwing numbers at her floors until a 'workable' solution could be found. They made their work twice as hard, but she had noticed more and more of the Fairplay teams were beginning to bend in regards to the rules.Some of them didn't even try to murder the Pygmies this time. It took a little effort on Delta's part to ensure the Pygmies didn't murder them all one by one like a horror film when they trampled over their monuments to her.But Fairplay wasn't the only one entering her Dungeon. More and more 'outsiders' were appearing, and they weren't novices like Kemy or Estal's groups.She rubbed her head as Wyin was taken down simultaneously in two different 'mirror' Dungeons. Not by Fairplay but adventurer groups that had turned up with some real experience under their belts.These were professionals who were also not against just enjoying the Dungeon. Some of them even tipped Fera before fighting Fran, who won some and lost some.The feeling of two Wyins going down at the same time was like a shooting migraine that morphed into an infected tooth that pulsed down her neck. It only lasted a few minutes, but it was enough to understand maybe why other Dungeons didn't opt for the mirror copies as Delta had done.She really didn't want to know what ten bosses going down at the same time felt like.Delta was just about to head back to the 4th floor to continue work when there came a peculiar feeling in her stomach. It started as a gurgle like she was hungry but then shifted to a growing pressure. It quickly made her double over as it felt like she was growing a new organ in her chest.It was uncomfortable like suddenly having a tail or a third eye, complete with forming nerves.She shivered in pain as her skin prickled to the dozenth degree, each second overlapping with another way of that stretching feeling. It was like growing a new floor, but worse.Then it stopped, and Delta could slowly unclench her muscles as she stared at her hands.Then came Prim with an urgent screen.Warning: Mana in Abyss has reached formation. Attempting to reconnect back to Dungeon as a new entrance. Distance is causing fractures. There is no secondary core function at location to act as a relay. Dungeon will undergo immense damage."What the heck is my Mana doing in the Abyss?" she demanded, and the screen stared at her."Most rejected items or destroyed Dungeon items flow into the abyss to be purified and returned free of Dungeon mana. Your mana did not purify. It went to war against the process and emerged the victor.""The abyss, that's the demon world, right?" Delta asked, ignoring the implication that her mana was now breaking things without Delta even telling it to."Correct. The new entrance is trying to breach unfathomed spaces between this world and the abyss. Unless a suitable core and/or relay core function is installed, you will suffer damage. You must construct more relay pylons."Prim seemed confident in this answer, and Delta swallowed once."Okay, let's do it," Delta encouraged. A door to hell wasn't a bad thing, right?Like a vacation spot!"Error. Cannot construct. Distance is too great. You will be able to do so when the new entrance is formed."Delta blinked once slowly, then spoke even slower."But then I'll be torn apart," she said, almost cautiously."Correct. You need the entrance to control the mana, but having the entrance will most likely tear you apart.""So… I can't build it if I want to, and I can't stop it either. Can I turn my mana off?" she asked, feeling a surge of panic rising in her."No."Delta had a horrible image of her ballooning up like a sausage and then promptly exploding all over Durence.Fairplay would be happy, at least."However."Prim's screen interrupted Delta's inner panic for a moment."A secondary temporary core is arriving at the location shortly."Delta tilted her head for a moment."I have a secondary core in hell?" she questioned, not sure if she was even surprised by this point."Not quite."---"It burns, it quacks. It hisses, it quacks. It reigns in hell, it quacks," Beta said, almost devoid of emotion as she trekked through the dark world where geysers of fire occasionally erupted from the ground. On her head, a black duck quacked along.Beta's eyes looked haunted, and she stopped near a rock as a near-dead tiny plant grew on it, its brown limbs brittle. It danced in an ash-filled wind, like it was tempting her.Beta stared at it, then screamed, setting the whole thing on fire as she raged."IT HIDES IN A TREE, IT WILL QUACK!" she screamed in monstrous anger.The black duck on her head merely nodded.She turned back to the screen nearby her; it was covered in little puppy and kitten paw prints. She glared as it glowed bright with pale red light. Around the edges, vines and thorns had turned to stone and were flaking away slowly.Beta's Magical Menagerie! V.2Important quest: Rescue your beloved teacher from the consequences of her own actions.Rewards: Orange Mushroom Cap hat for all transformations."Still don't trust you all. I really don't," she whispered, hands clenched and changing into black claws.The screen flickered."I've accepted that, and I will never bother you if you wish after this. Please, just help Delta. -Sister.""Also I don't know who Delta is. Is she gonna help me escape here? Is she smart and stuff?" Beta grunted as she trudged through the sand and ash."Indeed!""So, I can trust her to take care of something delicate like the world tree?" Beta pressed the screen."…Yes!""You hesitated!""Quack."Beta twitched but looked up at her 'escort.'"What do you mean, you heard she was 'bombastic' from your prince? You guys are literally monster dragons that are also ducks; how can anything be bombastic to you all?!" Beta demanded, throwing her hands up.Her screen blinked."Just don't mention the mushrooms when you meet her. - Sis""Why would I…mention…that…" Beta trailed off as in the distance, the ash storm shifted to reveal a massive black pulsing mushroom cap that was crackling with dark orange lightning, trying to grow up to somewhere beyond this world.In the few seconds that Beta watched it, it let out a thunderous boom like a voice."WHAT TIME DOES A DUCK WAKE UP AT?!" the mushroom bellowed.Beta stared."AT THE QUACK OF DAWN!" it finished. Beta turned around in one smooth motion."I'm going back to the hell pond for ten more years," she said bluntly and started walking."Wait! She needs you!" the screen tried to stop her."I don't need that!" Beta jabbed a thumb over her shoulder."I'll improve your reward!""No.""Triple reward!""No." Beta's footsteps crunched the sand underfoot."I'll introduce you to someone who can hurt the tree! He lives close to Delta!" the screen said, and Beta froze."No one can hurt the tree, it's too powerful. Even I can't… not sure I can," Beta said quietly."This one can. Quiss Firesmasher has dedicated his existence to it. He has the means."Beta turned around to stare at the epic mushroom towering on the horizon."Fine." Beta sounded calm, but her eyes were shifting into a dozen different forms a minute. Beta didn't hope. She didn't dare let that stupid feeling bloom in her heart ever again.But she didn't reject the idea."WHERE DO TOUGH DUCKS COME FROM? HARD-BOILED EGGS!"Beta gritted her teeth. She truly was in hell.
