“Liam Grane has forfeited!” announced the adjudicator. “Eleanor Gray is the victor!”

The roots fell away, and the enormous pressure vanished as if it had never existed in the first place. Liam did not get up yet. He knew he did not have the strength in his legs. All he could do was breath a shaky sigh of relief.

It’s over.

It’s over, thought Elise with an internal sigh of relief.

She had to admit, she underestimated Liam Grane a bit. She had done enough research to know that he wouldn’t be a total pushover, and she had felt that his mana pool was much greater than hers, but she didn’t expect him to be so experienced at combat. She had wasted too much mana in the beginning of the fight on her pointless shield and her first failed attack. By the end, she was running on fumes. As it turned out, regrowing roots when they were constantly being burned away used quite a bit of mana. A few more seconds, and she would have been forced to pummel the grounded noble with her fists.

Still, it all turned out alright in the end, even if she did have to undo {Subtle Royalty} to speed up the surrender process. She had been using {Suggest} to invoke panic and fear, but she was worried about taking it too far and causing a heart attack, and didn’t want to increase the power too much. Instead, she kept the power of {Suggest} the same while instead increasing the power of the object of the fear.

Undoing {Subtle Royalty} hadn’t technically increased the effect of {Suggest}, but what it had done is tied herself more closely to the effects. Instead of just fearing that he would lose, Liam Grane began to fear her instead. And with the full force of her aether fueling her presence, she had become more than he dared handle. Even now, as she walked back to the opposite side of the field, she could sense that all the defiance had been thoroughly beaten out of him. Not once had he even considered a cowardly retaliatory attack aimed at her back.

Her mind was taken off the duel when Cassie ran out to meet her, congratulating her on her victory, as well as showering her with what was probably excessive praise. Elise didn’t mind too much, though she did get annoyed when some of Liam’s “friends” came over to talk to her as well. Still, it wasn’t all that bad, and she could tell from Liam’s state that all her worries before the duel were pointless.

The nobles were annoyingly talkative, many trying to recruit her to their houses, but Elise managed to politely turn down all of them and extricate herself from the situation after a quarter hour to begin her journey home. She planned to continue her soul meditation and learn how to use her aether, but before that, something else had caught her attention. Near the end of the duel, something very unexpected had happened.

She completed a hidden Skill Quest.
