Her eager imagination immediately supplied a flurry of ideas, ranging from the crazy to the mundane. A Fractured Archon upon the battlements with Undead Slayer. She could see the devastation those synchronized eye-beams would cause, creating cauterized slashes across the Lich’s armies. A Soul Archon champion using undead slayer and Deadshot to assassinate the most dangerous monsters from range, all without breaking that impressive veil of invisibility she had just experienced firsthand. Perhaps she could make another Divine Archon anchored near the Well of Divinity for the extra potency, and a Gate linking to the battlefield. The archon would be able to step through and fight but still be close enough to the Well to benefit, just like Tol’brekk once had when they’d fought the Headhunter. Or like Haverron assaulting her domain at Aalion. No, that’s a dumb idea, she decided, discarding it as far too risky. I’d just be inviting his entire army to assault the Well of Divinity. Expanding her domain out over the Blind Lich’s forces through the Spirit Realm and anchoring a spirit boss to ambush them from the safety of the other side of the veil might be far more effective, though. Although the Blind Lich had demonstrated some mastery of the Spirit Realm himself through his runework.

Too many ideas! What do I do?

Ali glanced over at the shrine guardians. Spending her Authority on upgrading them would be a waste – they were level one hundred, chosen specifically to provide the final challenge for those seeking class evolution. Once, she had considered them an important part of her defenses, but now, with monsters over a hundred and fifty levels higher, they were sadly worthless to the cause.

Ali evaluated, sorted, and shuffled her ideas with extraordinary speed, filling in new and even crazier approaches as her skills and experience revealed new combinations she might try. And all in a matter of moments, as her extraordinary spell haste boosted the speed of her cognitive abilities.

But then, right in front of her, a dark line sliced through the air with a ripping noise like the sound of sharp claws tearing silk. It expanded sideways like the lids of a vertical eye, opening a shimmering hole that led elsewhere. Before she could even move, Tol’brekk and her Divine Archon leapt between her and the dark portal.

It shimmered ominously, and a dark figure emerged.

Devastation Knight – Undead Dragonkin – level 260 (Ice).

The towering undead knight was larger than any she had seen, save Haverron. It was clad in burnished and enchanted mithril plate that gleamed in the light of her wisps and glowing mushrooms, and an immense pressure and glacial coldness rolled off it in waves that froze the grass and moss instantly and then crushed them.

“The Master requires your life.”

The Devastation Knight’s hoary voice clung to the icy air like the winter’s bite, promising death. Ali had believed that, with the exception of the Three Kings Calen had scouted, Haverron was the Blind Lich’s most deadly Death Knight, but here, standing before her and crushing her plants with the mere weight of his presence was a being on a whole different level.

A third-tier Devastation Knight, and it was staring at her.

The aura of despair rippled about the monstrous Knight, battering her mental defenses as Ali first reeled at the unexpected directness of this attack, before she gritted her teeth and balled her fists. No. She’d give this Knight a real fight.

With a contemptuously indifferent gesture of a gauntleted hand, a spray of ice lances lashed out to one side, impaling the shrine guardians that rushed toward him.

Your Bone Champion has died.Your Bloodwielder of Aman Rak has died. Your Spirit Walker has died.

A third tier-Death Knight, and it wasn’t even named. Haverron was not even close to the pinnacle of the Blind Lich’s power if he could pull out something like this.

“Defensive formation,” Ali said, as she kicked herself into action. She was not defenseless, regardless of how powerful the foe seemed to be. “Kill that Devastation Knight.”

“Begone, spawn of evil!” the Divine Archon answered, drawing her shining sword.

“I think I will introduce this oaf to my axe,” Tol’brekk announced, grinning from tusk to tusk as he used his newest Speak skill to emulate the weight of the Archon’s voice. He had studied hard in the library to earn that one, claiming it would benefit his poetry.

The Divine Archon swung her sword, a ringing blow that was blocked squarely by the Devastation Knight, and Tol’brekk roared as he came down on the Knight’s back, axes blazing. Ali flung up several domain-enhanced barriers and wielded her mana to deconstruct the portal, but immediately found it to be resistant. In response, she glared past the Devastation Knight, rapidly cataloguing the threads and strands of the formation so she could dismantle it instead.

But as the tier three monsters squared off, the portal behind the Devastation Knight shimmered again, stretching wider like a balloon, and it belched forth three more Death Knights. They emerged to the swishing sounds of glowing rune-blades leaving sheathes, and they tore into the last remaining shrine guardian – the only one to survive the initial salvo.

Your Mage of Piercing Frost has died.

A chilling shudder shot through Ali’s heart that had nothing to do with ice magic. Her chest tightened, and she broke into a cold sweat as her senses pierced through the hazy, dark portal, revealing countless ranks of undead pressing forward to enter. Aah, shit, this is bad! Immediately, she dropped several thick barriers down, containing the breach, but she knew with stone-cold certainty they wouldn’t hold. She knew exactly what lay on the other side.

The heart of the Blind Lich’s army.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
