“Hrr. I have no idea. Another drink?”
“Ah, here.”
A pause as both refilled their cups and drank again. Krshia sighed.
“Ten years. And this time, we have a gift worthy of our tribe! I have not told my sister yet what it was except in vaguest detail lest it be overheard in our correspondence. But it will be unsurpassed, I think.”
Elirr grinned, sharing her delight.
“And there are Gnolls in power in a Drake city. That is not little, even compared to our gift!”
The female Gnoll nodded. She grinned, showing all her teeth, but then she paused, contemplatively. It was such a huge change. She was on the Council. Who could have imagined that a year ago?
“It was a struggle, yes. Perhaps too large a gamble, but Elirr—I hope to take as much as we give. And we have much to discuss. Gnolls must move as one to deliberate over Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin. I hope to gather aid from our mightiest and wisest. I only have a few fears. Such as—”
“Mrsha.”
The old Gnoll looked into his cup. Krshia nodded somberly.
“She must come to the Gnollm—the meeting of tribes.”
“I fear for her safety.”
Elirr offered that cautiously. Krshia hesitated.
“We will look after her. The Silverfang tribe all will. But she must come, you agree, yes?”
He sighed.
“Yes. Magic and white fur. The other tribes must see and witness. But I have heard that the Magus Grimalkin, he is training another Gnoll capable of magic. That is strange, yes?”
Krshia paused.
“Strange indeed. Our grudge of four decades against Wistram is passing odd. How could they not have known? Perhaps—”
She broke off, waved a paw.
“We shall see. Honored Elirr, I am nervous and excited for the future. Our people have enough enemies, let alone infighting. The Raskghar are my second fear.”
“Honored Krshia, they are my nightmare. But while some remain—let us speak of happier things on the end of Rerrk.”
“True. My apologies.”
Another drink. Krshia smiled, looking at Elirr. Her chest beat with excitement, but the moment was far off yet. Still. She dreamed of it. Seeing her sister again. Seeing her tribe. This time…she raised her cup.
“To the future. Let the tribes gather.”
The two Gnolls drank a third time. After a moment, Krshia looked over.
“Hrr. Elirr, your cats are trying to drink the alcohol.”
She pointed at the cats, who’d knocked a bottle into a water dish.
Elirr just sighed.
“I’m convinced they’re trying to kill themselves. One day, I’ll let them.”
 
——
 
Cats were intelligent. Dogs were fairly smart. But raised by a [Beast Trainer], let alone a [Beast Master], animals could be scarily intelligent. That was how two Antinium walking down the street saw a pillar of cats unlock Elirr’s door and then charge out into the street. The irate Gnoll raced after them.
“Get back here! You’re not getting dinner if you run off! Come back!”
He raced after the cats, grabbing the slow ones and bringing them back. The intelligent felines grumbled, and a few, wary of Elirr’s threat, crept back inside. But most, like cats will, ignored the Gnoll and happily escaped for a few hours of freedom.
“Why do I raise them? Why do Drakes love you pestilential creatures so?”
The Gnoll trotted past the Antinium, talking to a happy cat, too busy to notice them. The two Antinium watched him enter the shop.
If Elirr had been watchful, he might have noticed that the two Antinium were…different. They were both much like Soldiers. They had four arms, the same general build—but their bodies looked even more reinforced than the average Soldier. And they had fingers on their four hands, not the stubs most Soldiers used for combat and little else.
The two Antinium stared at the Gnoll’s shop. One of them turned and opened his mandibles. He spoke, another huge clue.
“What were those things, Prognugator Tersk?”
“I believe they were known as ‘cats’, Prognugator Dekass. They are listed as safe consumables and also kept as animals of reconnaissance and scouting roles in Drake society.”
“Ah. Infiltrators. Very clever.”
The two Antinium nodded to each other. They stared around the city and then kept walking. One of the Antinium was a bit taller than the other, as befit his higher status. His name was Tersk. The other was known as Dekass. They were Prognugators. They did not wear their customary steel armor. They were being subtle.
“Prognugator Tersk.”
“Yes, Dekass?”
“I do not comprehend why we have been sent to establish relations before the Grand Queen’s envoys to the Free Antinium.”
Tersk turned his head as the two wandered down the street.
“We are acting as both a personal greeting from the Armored Queen and a…preparatory measure of sorts, Dekass. A warning. My desire to visit the city of Liscor is also personal, as I have informed you.”
Dekass analyzed the statement and nodded.
“Even so. I understand that the Armored Queen desires closer ties with these ‘Free Antinium’, Tersk. But I do not comprehend your personal ‘connection’ with the Antinium Worker known as Pawn.”
Tersk paused.
“There is much here that may benefit the Hives, Dekass. I have seen it. And you will observe the same too. Soon. Now, I must inquire for directions. Maintain the disguise.”
A Drake was passing down the street with a Gnoll. Both of them were fairly young, and they halted as Tersk raised a hand. The Prognugator spoke slowly to the Drake.
“Hello. Sir. We are normal Workers. Looking for our Hive. Will you direct us to the nearest Antinium location? That, and/or the whereabouts of Revalantor Klbkch of the Free Antinium?”
The Drake and Gnoll stared at the two towering Antinium. They looked at each other. After a second, the Drake pointed.
“Hive’s that way.”
“Thank you, sir. We will humbly go about our duties.”
Tersk and Dekass strode past the duo. The Drake opened and closed his mouth. The Gnoll growled.
“This city, man. I tell you. It gets weirder every day…”
The two Antinium didn’t hear. Dekass turned to Tersk as they went in the direction of the Free Antinium’s Hive.
“Communications were successful, Tersk. The citizens are completely ignorant to our presence. This city is weak. The Armored Antinium could take it with a single legion thanks to the access tunnel.”
Tersk nodded. The access tunnel was done. And the two Antinium were the first visitors to the city. More would come.
“Liscor is indeed vulnerable. But I am convinced the city is useful to the Antinium in its own way. The Free Antinium may be a more substantially allied Hive than the others. Especially the Twisted Antinium.”
Dekass paused.
“If the Armored Queen desired an alliance, Prognugator Tersk, she would have informed us.”
“I am merely speculating as to her plans.”
“Speculation is a form of extrapolation not needed by Prognugators!”
The other Antinium grew agitated. Tersk looked coolly at him.
“I am the first of the Armored Prognugators, Dekass. Speculation is within my domain of allowed thoughts. Focus yourself. We are all working to a greater purpose. We are all Antinium. It is our destiny to conquer Izril. Even if there is dissent. Combined, the six Hives may finally complete our objectives the Grand Queen has laid out for us. Or the Armored Queen’s personal directives.”
Dekass’ antennae waved furiously as he walked with military precision after Tersk.
“I have doubt that these Free Antinium have much to show the rest of Antinium, Tersk.”
“You are wrong, Dekass.”
The other Antinium considered the statement. Grudgingly, he opened his mandibles.
“I will concede one point. The inn we passed was somewhat enticing. At least that was impressive architecture. Very porous.”
Tersk nodded.
“Mm, I agree with you on this detail, Dekass. It had a very Antinium-like structure. Which reinforces my point: there is worth above after all. Now, follow me. First we will inform the Free Queen of the tunnel’s completion. Then, we shall find Pawn. And perhaps find some soup. Soup is very tasty.”
“What is…soup?”
 
——
 
The arrival of two strange Antinium to the city went unnoticed by everyone except the Antinium. The Watch was distracted with the Bloodfields and the Crelers, and anyone who might have picked up on the subtle hints was playing baseball. Or distracted.
Someone else might have noticed, if he had been paying attention. But Az’kerash, the Necromancer, was speaking to himself. And his servant, Ijvani, was far from Liscor. She stood in a cave, listening to her master speak.
“Strategically, the battle was completely lopsided. Were it not for the arrogance of the Adult Creler, the adventurers would have perished. It sent the Crelers into the magical doorway rather than encircle them. And yet, the odds of it falling were remote. And they did it.”
“Yes, Master.”
The skeleton’s inner voice was patient. She adored her master’s words. But he had gone over the battle over four times now. To the undead, who never forgot, it was odd. But she still luxuriated in her master’s attention, his words. And his satisfaction. Az’kerash spoke, all of his thoughts focused on one thing for once.
“I was never an adventurer. But I have fought Adults. I have walked Rhir and seen terrible things brought to life by the blight, by the Demon King and his Deathless. Opponents that I will face at the end, one way or another. Even now, they wait, and the world forgets the peril of assailing the Demon King.”
“Was this Creler nest particularly dangerous, Master?”
“Not to an army. The Adult might have bested you, Ijvani. But not Venitra or Kerash had they used their abilities correctly. But to Silver-rank adventurers? It was…”
The Necromancer caught himself.
“It was an…amusing distraction.”
“I did not collect the [Necromancer] known as Pisces, Master. I am still able to do so, if you wish.”
Anxiously, the black skeleton wondered if her master didn’t think she was capable. But she was reassured by Az’kerash’s casual flick of hand.
“Let the young [Necromancer] be, Ijvani. His victory is unexpected. But insignificant in the larger scale of things.”
“Yes, Master. What…what are those things?”
The Necromancer absently split his thoughts.
“There is much I must do. Create more of my Chosen, perfect my creations. And yet—at least that Dragon knows I exist. And the City Runner. Time works for and against me.”
He sighed. His elation faded, cold logic returning as he reassessed his situation. Got back to work, so to speak. He thought about the state of the world, split part of himself to analyze his analysis.
“The state of the world is relatively stable. For now. The King of Destruction is a welcome distraction. Perhaps I should encourage his victory, at least for now. And sow dissent the world over. The Antinium Hives continue to grow in strength while the north is fragmented after their failure at Liscor. But that is hardly war, which suits my ends. Perhaps—”
He broke off. Ijvani actually felt her master’s thoughts halt and reverse. Perril Chandler paused. He stared at an invisible memory.
“They never left. Not once. They summoned a Frostmarrow Behemoth. Poorly, of course. Spontaneous magical combination. I have seen that…they never left. She told him to run.”
He kept coming back to it. It was…strange. Ijvani felt her master’s elation, then him suppressing it, growing calm. And then—memory.
His. Perril Chandler stood on a battlefield. Alone. No one stood with him. No one living. They had all fled. Ijvani saw them, saw the bright [Knights] in retreat, their banners broken. Saw faces she half-recognized from her master’s thoughts. Saw a face like Bea’s looking back.
But she did not stand with him. Perril Chandler stood alone on Calanfer’s borders, as four armies advanced. But the [Necromancer] never stepped back.
The broken dead of Calanfer stirred. Four kingdoms halted their approach as the dead rose. Alone, the Necromancer of Terandria stood. And that day, he earned the title of Archmage of Wistram. That day, they called him the Undying Shield of Calanfer. When he stood. Alone—
But he had not been alone. The memory, which was glorious and overshadowed by bitter regret changed. Ijvani saw a memory of a young man, standing with his team. Holding hands with a half-Elf. And she felt something rise in her master. Something…soft.
The skeleton looked down at her own empty ribcage. Oh, wait—not empty. The Healing Slime shivered as she poked at it. Around Ijvani, the Defenders of the Cave hid. For death walked among them. The [Blackfire Fireball] still burned in Ijvani’s mouth, ready to detonate as the teleportation sigil gleamed around her.
Her master’s voice was slow. Thoughtful.
“The Horns of Hammerad. Perhaps. Perhaps I have been without allies for too long. And there are a few, even now…Fetohep? He and I have never spoken, despite my admiration. Why did I never venture…?”
He paused.
“Loyalty to hearth and home. Ah.”
His laughter was tired. But it was laughter. And Ijvani sensed her master’s thoughts splitting again. In a new direction.
“Allies. A few. The Stitch Witch, for one. Does she remain on Izril? Perhaps. Perhaps—”
Once more.
“They never ran. And she—she came back for him. ‘There are worse monsters than me’.”
Softly, Az’kerash sighed. And Ijvani hesitated. She was loath to interrupt him. But it was time. She yearned to see him. She spoke.
“Master. Should I return home?”
Az’kerash paused.
“Yes. Return, Ijvani. Erase the sigil as you leave.”
“Yes, Master.”
Happily. Ijvani took the burning, compressed fireball out of her mouth. She inspected the black flames, ready to detonate, let it hover in the air. At last she could use the spell.
The Defenders of the Cave froze as a wall of bone rose, trapping them in the cave. Shield Spiders and Fortress Beavers scuttled towards the entrance, away from the fireball. But the wall of bone was absolute. They scratched at the wall. But the flickering fireball began to pulse. Expand. The skeleton stepped into the teleportation sigil.
And stopped. Something was pounding at her chest. Like a heartbeat. She looked down.
“Stop that.”
The Healing Slime was trying to stop her. It felt the power waiting to be unleashed in the fireball. It threw itself against Ijvani’s ribcage, making a tiny sound. And both she and the Necromancer heard it.
“Ijvani? What are you doing?”
Guiltily, the skeleton tried to hide the slime.
“Nothing, Master. It is just a slime I found. It reminds me of Oom.”
“Show it to me.”
The skeleton pulled the healing slime out. It writhed, trying to get away as Az’kerash stared at it.
“Odd. That’s no slime I am familiar with. The magic in it looks—is that a potion of speed? No—”
