“We’ve met before, yes? Tell me, Miss Griffin. Are you planning on forcing your way into the mansion? Because that would be most inconvenient for the staff. Yes?”
Bekia, the Gnoll [Maid] was about, oh, seven feet tall. And her arms were thick with muscle. Most importantly though—she was built for that height. Gnolls weren’t Humans, where seven feet tall was an aberration.
They, male or female, were perfectly capable of living long lives at such heights. And fighting with all the height and weight and reach that entailed. Bekia looked like she could take apart a heavyweight boxing division, male or female. She grinned down at Ryoka. The six-foot-tall runner girl stepped back.
“We have met. I was at Lady Magnolia’s mansion. You remember me?”
“I’ve seen you. Hrr. I hear you cause trouble from Theofore. Will I have trouble, Miss Ryoka?”
“Um. No. I just want to talk.”
Ryoka raised her hands carefully. The Gnoll [Maid] inspected her. She frowned.
“Are you sure? What if I poked you?”
She raised one huge paw and poked Ryoka with a furry finger. Ryoka edged back.
“What? No! I’m just talking. I won’t cause trouble. I’ll leave if—who’s Theofore?”
Bekia paused. She looked disappointed.
“Pity. I thought you’d try to beat Nerrissa.”
“Is that why I had to answer the door?”
The Human woman looked outraged. Bekia shrugged. She turned to Nerrissa and shook her head.
“Inform Lady Reinhart that Ryoka Griffin wishes to see the children. Come in, Miss Ryoka. Would you like some tea?”
She opened the door, and Ryoka stared at her. Bekia grinned with all her teeth.
“You could always throw a punch too. That would be most welcome.”
 
——
 
“She’s where? And she just walked up? She—did she punch anyone? Scream? Prevaricate in any way? No? That is odd. I wonder if she’s come down with something.”
Lady Magnolia Reinhart spoke into the little speaking stone as she sat with Ressa. They had broken off deliberations about the upcoming visit to Oteslia at the sudden news that Ryoka Griffin had found the place where Magnolia’s guests were staying. Ressa listened intently as Magnolia drummed her fingers. She pointed at Ressa.
“Send Reynold over at once.”
Ressa nodded and vanished. Magnolia spoke a few more words—Ressa reappeared.
“He’ll be there in less than thirty minutes. Should Bekia detain Ryoka Griffin?”
“Not forcibly. Not, Nerrissa. Have her sent to me. No—by all means, let her talk with the children. Tell me what she says. Thank you!”
Magnolia cheerfully ended the call and turned to Ressa. The [Head Maid] raised her eyebrows.
“Ryoka Griffin found the children from Earth. What does she want?”
“I imagine we’ll find out, Ressa. Now, back to our visit. What’s an appropriate gift for—who’s next on our list? Ah, Helessia Gemscale. And Navine Gemscale. Both Ladies of the Wall of Salazsar. So not gemstones, then.”
Ressa tsked as Magnolia went back to her list.
“Magnolia. Are you sure this is the time to be travelling around Izril? The Guild of Assassins has been too quiet. And the Circle of Thorns—doesn’t it bother you?”
The [Lady] looked up with a sigh.
“Ressa, it does bother me, but forging an alliance is essential. Izril cannot descend into war. Not with the Necromancer and the Antinium. This [Trade War] is forcing the hand of the local nobility. I’ll do a circuit before I leave. Mend as many bridges once they’re inclined to listen. But we must have peace with the Drakes. It won’t be more than a week, at most.”
“And a dangerous trip, even if we use the carriage.”
“I rather think we won’t. By sea, Ressa. Let’s not alarm the Drakes. Although I’d like to bring the carriage…we must go over our planned entrance. And all these gifts.”
Magnolia sighed. Planning out a thoughtful gift for each Drake she planned on meeting was taxing even her ability to host. Over a hundred gifts were already neatly packed away and it was a king’s ransom of goodwill she hoped to buy. But that was the good and bad thing; you could buy goodwill among Drakes with a good present. They were refreshingly straightforward in that way. Like Dragons.
“Speaking of which…I wonder if Teriarch knows about him. Or her? Both of them? Neither?”
Ressa looked confused. Magnolia’s relationship with Teriarch was something even the [Head Maid] and Magnolia’s oldest friend didn’t know the full details of. She herself had met Teriarch…fourteen times.
“How wouldn’t he?”
“He sleeps. And I think he’s stopped caring about the Walled Cities—no. Surely he knows. Perhaps he doesn’t. Either way, I’d better prepare—no, wait. I’m not supposed to know. And I imagine the Drakes will not take it well if I suggest that I know. For now. Or ever, perhaps. They would be rather…I wonder how many know themselves?”
The [Lady] mused out loud. Ressa shrugged.
“Maybe telling them is worth something politically. Why not try it and see what happens?”
“Ressa, you would be a terrible [Politician]. Either I start a war or…no! Absolutely not.”
“Fine. But what name am I crossing off the list?”
“Oh—that one. No, wait. I’ll still meet him. So…just make a little note?”
Ressa pointedly made a note on the paper, all without taking her eyes off Magnolia. The [Lady] ignored the look.
“Now, let’s discuss what to bring again. I may have to bother the old man—either old man—for a better bag of holding. I simply must bring enough magical mirrors to communicate with. Or those terribly gauche talking marble busts. But bringing so many artifacts together in a limited space without having them all explode or react to one another is…”
“Expensive.”
Magnolia threw her own quill at Ressa. The [Head Maid] caught it deftly. The [Lady] scowled.
“Difficult! Ressa, we are sparing no expense. This is our one chance to end this ridiculous conflict between Humans and Drakes. They wouldn’t even let one of our ships into Zeres’ harbor most times, let alone brook the idea of peace! It has to go well. These Drake [Ladies] are the one sensible option we have, and if I have to give them half of the artifacts Regis has plundered from them over the years—”
She broke off and Ressa saw Magnolia’s eyelids flicker. The [Head Maid] bit off the retort she was making about how many cargo ships that would take and looked at Magnolia, worried. The [Lady] paled.
“Wait. Something’s…”
Her head snapped around, staring at some unseen sight. Ressa reached for her dagger reflexively.
“What is it? The Stitch Witch? I thought you said she was moving away from—”
“No. Ryoka. The children are in danger. Warn Bekia!”
Ressa shot to her feet.
“Reynold is already on the way.”
She shot out of the room. Magnolia looked around.
“Ryoka Griffin. What has she done?”
 
——
 
Ryoka found herself having tea with Bekia. The Gnoll [Maid] was rather informal, not like the other servants in the household. That was because she was actually a former [Chieftain]. Of a Gnoll tribe.
“You’re kidding me. The [Chieftain]? Like—Urksh of the Stone Spears tribe?”
“Oh yes. I was for a while. But I got in trouble, yes? Got kicked out—came here. Being a [Maid] is rather fun. Relaxing. But I miss fighting. We had sparring matches in my tribe.”
Bekia grinned as she sipped from her tea cup. Ryoka eyed her brawny arms.
“So…Magnolia put you here, to watch over the people from Earth? Rose and everyone? And they are here?”
“Oh yes. Hrr. Nerrissa should be getting them since Magnolia has given you permission to speak. And yes, we rotate in staff to look over them. It is a chore.”
“I bet. Er—I mean, I heard from Erin that they were here, but I never met them myself. They were gone when I came. I heard they were…troublesome?”
The Gnoll [Maid] only grinned in response. It had an edge.
“Tell me, Miss Ryoka. Do you think you have worked hard to become a City Runner? They speak of you, even here. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt. And I saw Miss Erin Solstice when she came. I understand she runs an inn. Did she work hard?”
“Yes. I know Erin did. And I worked hard too. Not as hard as I could have. I—made lots of mistakes. Magnolia was very patient with me. In her way.”
Ryoka had mixed feelings about Magnolia Reinhart, but she had to admit, she wouldn’t have been as tolerant of her. Bekia nodded reasonably.
“Yes. Lady Reinhart, she is good at being patient, yes? But she demands people try. They must work, if not their hardest, at least some, no? But these children…I am afraid they have exhausted her patience. Hence why they are here.”
Ryoka considered her words. She glanced past Bekia—she thought she could hear some voices from further in the mansion. And she found herself arguing against what old Ryoka would have said. Old Ryoka was probably all on Magnolia’s side.
“Yeah, but sometimes people need help, Bekia. Sometimes they need guidance. Or…just a helping hand. Not everyone can make it alone. I know Magnolia is good, but she’s far from perfect.”
Bekia laughed.
“True! Hrm, you have good points, Miss Griffin. But this group—they are rather good at needing lots of help, yes? Lady Reinhart offered them many opportunities. But they are rather content to be—well, you shall see for yourself.”
Her ears twitched, and Ryoka heard the voices getting louder. She stood up uncertainly as the parlor doors opened and someone stumbled through. She saw a young man, a spray of messy hair. Ryoka stepped towards him.
“Joseph—?”
And then she caught the whiff coming from him. Ryoka recoiled, and Bekia sneezed. It was distinctly alcohol. The young man was inebriated. No—drunk. And it was barely midday! He looked at her. Then Ryoka saw a group of young men and women pour into the room.
“Nerrissa! Who is—”
A young woman with a slightly worn shirt, jacket, and pants, all too bright and colorful to be made in this world, was complaining to the [Maid] as she was shepherded into the room much like an actual sheep. She turned—and stared at Ryoka.
“Oh my god. Are you her?”
“Uh—”
“Who’s this? Rose?”
One of the others stared blankly at Ryoka. Another looked at her feet. The drunk guy stared straight at Bekia’s chest. The Gnoll sighed. Ryoka looked on the people from Earth.
What a wretched hive of scum and…well, the Antinium Hive was actually quite neat. These…kids weren’t. Most of them were well-dressed, aside from the drunk Joseph and another sloppily-dressed guy. The girls were clean, at least. But they looked…indolent.
Yeah. That word described it. A bit too lazy. As if they weren’t running about each day, or working. Too…bored, relaxed. They sat down in the parlor, sprawled over the couch, stared at Ryoka as Bekia rose and stepped back.
“You’re her, aren’t you? The Runner! The one that Erin told us about!”
Rose gasped. Some of the other Earthworlders stared at Ryoka. Joseph jerked up.
“What? We’ve got someone else joining us?”
“No. I’m just visiting. I found out you were here. And I—my name’s Ryoka Griffin. Nice to meet you.”
Rose stared as Ryoka held out her right hand. The City Runner didn’t know why—until she remembered her two missing fingers. She hesitated, but Rose gingerly shook her hand.
“How’d you find us? I mean—you’re an actual Runner? A Street Runner?”
“No. City Runner.”
“The Wind Runner of Reizmelt.”
Bekia spoke helpfully. Nerrissa blinked. Rose and the others just looked blank. Joseph looked excited.
“Wait. Is that a title? Are you famous? Or is that your class? I’m Joseph. [Warrior]. [Mage].”
“Oh. Pleased. What level?”
“Uh—Level 4? And 6?”
Ryoka stared at Joseph. She looked around. Rose was trying to introduce the others.
“This is Galina, Troy—hey, where’s Imani?”
“Coming. She was in her room. Oh my god. Do you have a computer? An iPhone?”
“I do, but—”
“Show us!”
It was—Ryoka found the others fighting for her iPhone, despite Rose’s attempts to keep order. Joseph, ignoring the fight over the technology, was trying to explain.
“We’re all sharing devices, but only one of us has a laptop. Mac. So we synched everything up—except for the Androids because…Macs. We don’t have any new songs, and we take turns playing all the games on Troy’s laptop—”
“Oh my god! She’s got podcasts! And music! And Pokémon!”
Ryoka turned beet red as the theme song began playing from her iPhone. She nearly grabbed it back, but she turned to Joseph instead. She caught sight of Rose, staring at her.
“How are you all doing?”
“Good. I mean—we’re Magnolia’s guests. Do you earn a living for yourself? Do you know what happened to Erin? I thought she’d come with us, but she never came back.”
“She’s fine. I think. She has her own inn.”
“Her own inn? She’s an [Innkeeper], right. But why is she doing that?”
“Well, she has to earn a living.”
It was like they were from different planets. Or worlds. Rose blinked.
“But Magnolia offered her a chance to stay. She could come here. Are you staying?”
“No. Actually—stop that, please.”
Ryoka grabbed at her iPhone. They were going through her pictures. Disappointed, the other kids—they were only a few years younger, but it felt like more—stared at her. Ryoka took a deep breath and met Bekia’s stare.
“What do you do all day? Are you adventurers? That’s what Erin said you were doing.”
The Earthworlders…paused. They didn’t quite meet Ryoka’s eyes. Rose hesitated. She looked at Joseph.
“Some of us tried. But it’s too dangerous.”
Joseph rubbed at his arm.
“It’s really—hard. Turns out killing monsters isn’t our thing. We fought these Goblins—got cut up. It’s—not for us.”
“Oh. So what do you do?”
Ryoka thought she knew the answer. Joseph looked around and waved a hand vaguely.
“We just go sightseeing. Around. I’m learning a bit of magic, but—it’s hard, you know? We’re all low-level because it takes years to get to Level 20! And—we’re from Earth. What can we do? I don’t know how to use a sword or a bow. I’m practicing.”
Ryoka looked at Rose. She paused.
“I’m studying to be a [Mage]. I’m Level 11. I think I really have a knack!”
“You’re Level 11? Do you have any other classes?”
“No. What’s your class?”
“I don’t have one.”
The others stared. Even Bekia and Nerrissa.
“Why not? Have you seen what Skills can do? Show them your [Power Strike], Joseph!”
“Not inside.”
Bekia barked. The Gnoll restored order as Ryoka had to take a step back. Thankfully, Bekia drew her back, forcing the others to sit and have some tea. Rose clearly wanted to talk to her, as did the others, but Ryoka needed one second.
“They have a stipend. And we clean up for them. From time to time.”
The Gnoll murmured to Ryoka. The City Runner stared at her.
