Ijvani felt something biting her leg. She looked down, casually kicked. A Fortress Beaver went spinning across the floor. Az’kerash paused. He frowned.
“Leave the creatures, Ijvani. Fortress Beavers are a part of this world as much as spiders. Leave them.”
“Master, the fireball—”
“No. Alter the spell sigil to erase itself.”
“But Master—”
The skeleton’s mental voice became something like a whine. The Necromancer sighed.
“Enough, Ijvani. You may bring the slime. I will inspect it.”
The skeleton brightened.
“Thank you, Master!”
She erased the fireball and lowered the bone wall. The Defenders of the Cave fled as the noble Healing Slime, trapped, distracted the death-thing. Woe! Woe, for Mrsha the Great and Terrible was not here to do battle with the foul thing! Darkness had triumphed, as the skeleton adjusted the spell sigil that would teleport her back to her foul lair.
Ijvani was nearly done altering the spell as Az’kerash patiently adjusted the teleportation rune on his end. He paused as Ijvani turned her head left and right, ensuring the matrix was perfectly altered.
“What is that strange…?”
“Master? I’m done. Is something wrong?”
The Necromancer paused. He thought he’d sensed something through his connection with Ijvani. But the skeleton wasn’t him, so there was a limit to how far he could extend her natural abilities. He waved a hand.
“No, it’s probably nothing. Teleport back, Ijvani.”
The skeleton smiled as she stepped into the teleportation sigil. At last!
“I’m going home. I’m going—”
 
——
 
Some days, she wondered if she had fewer bad days than before. She couldn’t remember. But perhaps, the point wasn’t how many bad days she had, but how she handled them.
Ryoka Griffin tried to smile. And it was easier. It wasn’t forced. She could smile. It wasn’t perfect. It wasn’t like—well, Erin. Or Mrsha. Ryoka was not a happy person.
But she was getting better. That was the point. She couldn’t be perfect, ever. But she was better than before.
Better than last time. She’d be better still next month, hopefully. It was a learning process, and more than that—
She was learning to laugh with people. Ryoka and Fierre sat together in the Huntress’ Haven, eating lunch and laughing. It didn’t matter what they were talking about. Well, it did, but it was just so strange.
Ryoka was relaxing. She had no purpose. She was just…’hanging’. Which was awkward the instant you thought of it like that. But really, it meant she wasn’t running. She wasn’t forcing herself to be social.
It was easy to be her. And wasn’t it wonderful and depressing how rare that feeling was? But as Fierre giggled over a terrible joke Ryoka had made, the young woman found herself smiling.
Just for a moment. Then of course, something happened. In this case, something was Mad Madain. He kicked his way out of his room, growling as he clutched at his head.
“What the fuck is making that racket?”
It was midday, but the man had just woken up. He stared red-eyed at the two young women. Ryoka looked up.
“Sorry, did we wake you, Madain?”
“Too fucking right!”
The man’s glare was designed to start a fight. Part of Ryoka instantly bristled, but she had changed. She nodded towards the door.
“We can leave if you want.”
Ryoka offered casually. If she had to, she’d be angry. But she would leave. And probably…probably not dwell on this moment for the rest of the day. It was a referendum on Madain’s reaction, not her.
And surprisingly, the mad [Innkeeper] paused. He glared, but then he shook his head like a dog.
“Gah. I’m going out. You two stay and chatter like women. Can’t lose my last two bags of coin, can I? Now that bastard [Fistfighter]’s gone.”
Ryoka and Fierre blinked. The Vampire girl looked up at the ceiling quickly.
“Alber’s gone?”
Madain was drinking some stale water straight from the pitcher. He grunted as he swallowed.
“Alber, right. He’s off to another city. Left last night.”
“Oh. He didn’t say anything to me. How about you, Fierre?”
The broker shook her head. Ryoka felt a pang of guilt. She had liked Alber. And she was afraid he hadn’t liked her that much. Another missed opportunity.
But—don’t dwell on it. Or if you do, not now. Ryoka smiled as she looked back at Fierre and Madain disappeared into his kitchen.
“Alright, contrary to what Madain says, I’m pretty sure neither of us want to be here when he has breakfast. I’ve seen him eat.”
Fierre laughed and shuddered as she rose. The two got up and headed for the door. Ryoka was smiling, but the news about Alber reminded her of something.
“So—Fierre. I might go to that address you gave me. If you’ll tell me which city it is. Or just give me the address again. Come on.”
She held out a hand. Fierre had told her the address before, but celebration drinking had wiped most of it from Ryoka’s head. And now she was being very reluctant to hand the information over to Ryoka again. The Vampire girl paused. She looked at Ryoka as they stood in the shade outside Madain’s inn. She pulled her hood over her head.
“I—look, Ryoka. I know this matters to you. But that group you had me find is backed by…her.”
“I know.”
“I just don’t want you to get hurt. I mean, the…Stitch Witch is one thing. But this is another very dangerous lady.”
Ryoka sighed. Reflexively, she scratched at her missing fingers.
“I know. But Fierre—”
“No, listen.”
The Vampire girl gripped Ryoka and swung her around easily. She was so much stronger than her appearance suggested. She stared up at Ryoka, her red eyes intent.
“Look, Ryoka, I know you’re advancing fast as a City Runner. You’ve got credibility, speed, your wind, and some fame for your runs. You’ll be getting the real contracts soon. Private ones, or even the kind of requests that Couriers might get. High-level City Runners can compete with some Couriers. It’s all in the future. I just don’t want you to toss it all away by making an enemy of…her.”
Fierre hesitated. Ryoka understood nervousness, but Fierre was reluctant to even say the name out loud.
“The Flower Lady. She—she’s ‘nice’ now. But do you know how she gained control of her family? Do you know what she can do? What her family has done in the past? Bamer has stories—”
Ryoka put a hand on Fierre’s shoulder. Tried to budge her. It was like trying to move a rock. She sighed and tried words instead.
“I’m sure. Please, Fierre. I’m not going to make her my enemy. I’m just going to…negotiate. Make a trade. And she knows me. If she was going to kill me—well, she’s had a lot of patience with me so far.”
The Vampire girl hesitated. She looked Ryoka up and down.
“Can’t I talk you out of it?”
“I did pay you all that money to find them. Trust me. It’s fine. I’m not going to start anything. Runner’s honor.”
“Hah!”
But Fierre did let go of Ryoka. She fished in her belt pouch and pulled out the bit of parchment where she’d written the address. She handed it to Ryoka and the City Runner unfolded it.
“Aha. I knew I remembered the street. But not the city. Hold on—”
Ryoka stared at the address. Then she frowned. She looked at Fierre, and went for the small map in her belt pouch. Ryoka unfolded it, stared at the city listed on the piece of parchment. Stared at the map. She cursed.
“Oh, you’ve got to be kidding me. They were right there? All this time?”
She jabbed a dot on the map barely thirty miles south of Reizmelt. Fierre grinned weakly.
“In fairness, it was really hard to find them. I only got one tip when I asked about…odd people. But then someone connected me with all the details. That’s them. About eight of them. They’re listed as Bronze-rank adventurers, some of them. Half are enrolled in the local Mage’s Guild…you’re sure they’re the ones?”
“Pretty sure. I’ve never met them. But the names match up. I’m going to visit them.”
“And you’ll be—”
Ryoka hugged Fierre with one arm. She grinned at the Vampire girl reassuringly.
“Stop worrying! I’m just going to make a little trade. I’ll be back before night. Everything will be fine, Fierre!”
She turned and jogged into the sunlight before the Vampire girl could stop her. Ryoka took off at a jog. It would be fine. She was a changed person. Nothing was going to happen.
“…Probably.”
 
——
 
It was a spring day when the young woman ran down one of the large paved roads, heading south. Not on the actual stone road; she ran to the side of it, to avoid the traffic as well. Wagons, people on horseback and foot—all were travelling on the last day of spring.
The City Runner ran barefoot, and the wind blew at her back. Some people, sensing the breeze, or seeing her distinctive features among the fairer-skinned population of Izril, as well as the bare feet, called out.
“Wind Runner!”
She waved at some of them. A few months ago she’d been new to the area. Now, people knew her. Little children followed her about with improvised sails, laughing. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt ran, blowing a gentle breeze with her.
She had made mistakes. But she had also had her triumphs. The Pithfire Hounds, returning with a wagon full of dead Stelbore corpses, waved at her, and she caught the whiff of charred flesh and hair. Not exactly good, but the dog that sat up and looked at her made her smile. She paused a moment; ran on.
It was a short run, at least in how City Runners measured such things. It still took her a good while, but there were harder roads. Longer paths. You could run for a month straight and you might not even get to First Landing. And she was a bit faster. A bit wiser.
A bit older. The young woman ran to another city, well, barely more than a glorified town. But the city of Laiss was still populated by countless souls she’d never met before. Some of them looked up as she blew into town, through the gates, flashing her Runner’s Seal at the guards.
The young woman ran through an open square. As she did, she passed by a [Fistfighter] plying his trade. Alber glanced up and he met Ryoka’s eyes for a second. She waved—he kept standing in his little boxing arena.
Ryoka found her destination wasn’t far from the square. In fact, it was a pretty little home in one of the nicer districts in the city. Of course it was. Magnolia Reinhart might not flash her wealth, but she wasn’t going to buy an apartment. This was—well, a mansion much like the one in Celum. Far from her true estates, with the moving animals on the walls, the massive garden and so on. But it was better than any townhouse.
And it was occupied. Ryoka paused at the gates. How many mansions did Magnolia have across Izril? Were they all staffed? She spotted a little root cellar to the right, past the smooth walkway that led up to the doors. Delicate stonework gave the mansion a commanding overlook of everything around it. Narrow windows, though, closer to crenellations. Ryoka wondered what style and point in history this mansion had been made in.
She wiped her feet on the street, getting some mud off it before she walked down the pristine stone walkway. She hoped there was a rug. Maybe just wipe her feet on the grass over there?
The double doors opened, catching the young woman trying to wipe her feet on the soft grass. She froze as a [Maid] appeared in the doorway. Definitely a [Maid] dressed in the Victorian-era dress. The woman eyed Ryoka.
“Can I help you, Miss?”
“Sorry. City Runner. May I speak to Miss Rose? Or Mister Joseph?”
Ryoka flashed her Runner’s Seal. It didn’t work as well on the [Maid]. She studied Ryoka up and down.
“May I ask if this is a delivery, Miss Runner?”
“Um—no. I’m actually just a friend. Well—I don’t know the—”
Ryoka hesitated. This felt awfully familiar. She tried again, smiling.
“Sorry. I’d just like to talk to Rose. Or Joseph? Imani? Galina? Troy?”
The [Maid]’s face grew more hostile with each name. Ryoka knew there were three others, but Erin had never remembered their names. She hesitated.
“I’m—are they inside? May I speak with them?”
“I’m afraid I do not know who you’re referring to, Miss Runner. This is the estate of Lady Magnolia Reinhart. She is not inside at present. Perhaps you have the wrong address?”
The [Maid] looked at Ryoka. The City Runner sighed. She’d thought it would come to that. Now, what was old Ryoka’s move? Challenge the [Maid] to a fistfight, probably. So…don’t do that at any cost.
“I’m sorry. I’m aware this is Magnolia Reinhart’s estate.”
“Ah, then perhaps—”
“I know they’re living here. And Magnolia Reinhart knows me.”
The [Maid] paused, one hand on the door. She looked back at Ryoka suspiciously. The City Runner tried to smile.
“I’m Ryoka Griffin. I…I’m like the others. Lady Magnolia knows me. Can I just have a word? Please?”
The woman’s eyes flickered at Ryoka’s name. She looked at Ryoka, then she stepped back.
“One moment, Miss Runner. I shall inquire within.”
She closed the door. Ryoka stood outside, shifting from foot to foot. She sensed people on the street idly passing by and watching, probably wondering what delivery Magnolia Reinhart was getting. One of them called out to her cheerfully.
“Hoi, Miss Runner! You’re arriving at a busy time, eh? You’re that Wind Runner, aren’t you? Can you conjure us a breeze?”
He was loitering around with a few of his buddies, male and female. Ryoka grinned and waved at them. A little breeze blew their way. The man laughed.
“You’re alright, then! Hey, you lot—fifteen minutes before break’s up!”
He turned back to his companions. Ryoka refocused on the door, smiling. Yeah, smile. She saw the door open—the [Maid] reappeared.
“I’m afraid Lady Reinhart’s orders are quite clear, Miss Griffin. There are to be no visitors. Kindly remove yourself from the grounds at once.”
Ryoka sighed.
“Look, I know Magnolia doesn’t think highly of me. Are those her orders directly or just in general? Can I send her a message? I promise, I just want to talk. Make a trade—”
“I’m afraid my orders are quite clear, Miss Ryoka. Please leave before I am forced to summon the Watch.”
The City Runner bit her lip.
“Look. Does Magnolia Reinhart know I’m here? If not, can you let her know? I’ll leave! Just let her know I’d like to talk. And—”
A shadow appeared behind the [Maid]. The Human woman glanced back and moved out of the way.
“And what were you intending to do, Miss Ryoka Griffin?”
Ryoka looked up. A towering Gnoll appeared in the doorway. She was definitely she. And she had on a maid’s outfit, complete with a headband. But…it had to be said that she really carried the black and white dress well, but it just didn’t suit…her. Ryoka recognized the Gnoll.
“Uh—”
