The King of Destruction paused. Orthenon heard the female voice and turned his head. Gazi the Omniscient grinned, two of her four eyes on Flos, the other two inspecting the far-off band. She looked at Orthenon, and he gave her a grudging nod.
“Hrmf. I suppose you’re right, Gazi.”
Flos looked displeased, but he acquiesced. He stood on his balcony, resting his scarred arms on the stonework as he stared at the approaching group. Some were moving faster towards Reim than the others now. The [King] blinked as he stared. Then he looked at Gazi.
“Gazi—do you see—”
The half-Gazer only smiled. Flos made a sound.
“What is it?”
Orthenon glanced at Gazi, keenly aware of how good her four lesser eyes were, never mind her injured main eye. The [Scout] grinned.
“Armored troops. Look.”
She pointed out a fast-moving group, all on foot, surging ahead of the rest. Orthenon saw Flos’ eyes widen. He breathed.
“The Rustängmarder.”
“What? Are you sure?”
Even the [Steward] looked astonished. Gazi nodded. Flos was staring at the fast-moving group of about a hundred or so.
“At least a company of them. How did they abandon their contract…?”
“They must have split from the main army.”
Orthenon smiled despite himself. One of the finest infantry groups in the world was marching straight towards the capital. The [Steward] could even hear their chanting from afar. He wondered if they’d brought their death drums. With even a hundred, they could…
Flos’ exclamation made the [Steward] look up. The King of Destruction had seen another sight, another group moving nearly as fast as the armored [Soldiers]. He pointed.
“Look! Orthenon! Look! They’ve made the journey!”
Orthenon saw. And this time, he realized that the group travelling weren’t as far away as he thought. Flos spread his arms wide. They were overtaking the Rustängmarder with ease.
“My old friends! How did they pass as refugees?”
“Maybe no one dared to stop them.”
Gazi murmured. The three watched as the second group strode towards Reim. Faster than even the marching infantry. There were actually more of them than the company of soldiers. And they were laughing, shouting as they pointed at the citadel. Some of them were close to the gates, now. They saw Flos and a roar came from them.
Half-Giants. Some as tall as sixteen feet high! [Nomads], [Travellers]. And—warrior classes too. One of them raised her hand and bellowed a greeting up at Flos. He laughed and shouted back.
“My friends!”
“King of Reim!”
The bellow came from the famous band, one of the last groups of half-Giants in the world, who could travel even the Great Desert, Zeikhal. Flos laughed and spread his arms, welcoming them.
“With the Nomads of the Sky and a company of the Rustängmarder, we could hold an entire stretch of our borders. Assuming the Nomads are willing to fight entirely. We will have to speak with the Tallest Strider—”
The [Steward] was revising his estimates of their war strength. Flos flapped a hand at him.
“Oh, hush, Orthenon. Let me savor the moment. There are children with them! They’ve grown, see?”
“Thanks to you, my Lord. It seems time has only helped that.”
“Open the larders, Orthenon!”
“We will have to.”
The [Steward] sighed. He massaged his forehead. But Flos’ mood put a smile on even Orthenon’s face. The King of Destruction sighed. He paused as the Nomads of the Sky began to enter the city. He waved, but then turned to his two vassals.
“You see, Orthenon. My proclamation of peace is bearing more fruit. At cost. But it grows Reim.”
“Yes, Your Majesty. But so many numbers will strain Hellios, Germina, and Reim’s ability to produce to the limit. Even the [Edict of Bloom] might struggle to grow enough. Even with the rains.”
Flos nodded.
“And yet, now I have an army large enough to challenge even Nerrhavia. Not every nation, but a proper army, Orthenon. What I lack now are more of my vassals. And arms, artifacts for my officers! They will come. There are dungeons to be plundered, stashes of artifacts—my vassals are more difficult. Many are still far removed from Reim, and they cannot march to me without being attacked. Some may need to be convinced to rejoin me. Or simply rehired. That is the task before us.”
“Raiding dungeons?”
The half-Gazer raised one brow. Flos laughed.
“It makes you feel twenty years younger, eh, Gazi? Why not? Mars can walk in front! But I shall need armor and artifacts, even if Nawalishifra can produce a Naq-Alrama blade for me. That is not all, either.”
He paused. And then he looked at Orthenon.
“Last night, I received a…message of inquiry from a potential ally. Reim is not completely alone, and with Khelt to watch our flank, we are increasingly well-set.”
“From where?”
The [Steward]’s brows snapped together. Flos waved a hand, and Gazi’s eyes all spun, checking for secret spells or listeners. Even so, the [King] lowered his voice.
“Later. But as I say, Reim is increasingly well-placed. All that remains is to strengthen our hand. And…Amerys.”
He paused. Orthenon saw a flash of discontent pass over the King of Destruction’s face. The [Steward] thought now was a good time to bring up another point.
“There is another factor I would like to bring up, my King. Hence my return to the capital. Takhatres reports that the Empire of Sands has pulled back multiple armies and [Mage] battalions. His tribe has begun taking casualties.”
Flos grimaced. He looked back at the approaching lines of refugees.
“Tell him to buy me the summer if he can do so without losing his tribe. The summer, Orthenon. And I will have a position to fight the Empire of Sands from. How far has it grown?”
“By summer’s end, it may be half as large as Nerrhavia’s Fallen. And its armies are gaining in level rapidly, my King.”
“A race?”
Gazi looked at Orthenon. The [Steward] folded his arms.
“That is not how I would describe it, Gazi. Reim must consolidate its power. The only thing protecting us is distance—”
“And Takhatres. Let him hold the Empire of Sands at bay as long as he can, Orthenon. I must prepare Reim. Or it will shatter in the first true conflict.”
There was no denying that. Orthenon bowed. Flos nodded and turned away. He grew pensive, and he stared north. And east. As if he could see…his voice was low.
“Amerys. I have sent letters to Wistram, Orthenon, but I have no strength abroad. Yet I must see her. If it is her choice to remain, I would hear it from her. The last of my Seven is needed. All of you are. But if it is her choice—”
“She would not abandon you, Your Majesty.”
Gazi murmured. Flos nodded.
“Not the Amerys I knew. So then—what? Wistram feigns ignorance, but I have no patience for lies and petty politics. They have Amerys. So—Orthenon.”
He turned his head. The [Steward] smiled coldly.
“Your Majesty’s will?”
The King of Destruction paused. And then he spoke calmly.
“Publically—yes, publically—[Message] the Iron Vanguard. The Seer of Steel, or the Mithril—ask them how much the Iron Vanguard would ask to take Wistram.”
Gazi’s brows rose. Orthenon considered the state of the treasury. He opened his mouth, and Gazi interrupted.
“I have a better idea, my lord. One that need not beggar Reim?”
Flos’ cold look vanished. He looked at Gazi and raised one eyebrow.
“Oh? Then I’ll hear it, Gazi.”
“Later, my Lord. Out of public?”
“Of course. Hold on asking the Iron Vanguard, Orthenon. They’re the only ones with a navy, aren’t they? A pity.”
The King of Destruction looked at Gazi, and she smiled her enigmatic smile. Orthenon sighed. He looked at Gazi, then at the King of Destruction.
“One question, Your Majesty? You will have your armies, your vassals, and perhaps even magic and artifacts. But you have sworn peace. You have no cause to declare war, even on the nations that brought down Tiqr.”
Flos paused. He sighed, drumming his fingers on the railing. He shook his head as he looked out at his people.
“I do not need to declare war, Orthenon. I think, perhaps I fear, that I will have more than enough reason soon enough. After all, this is Chandrar. Now, come. I must greet my people.”
He smiled ruefully. His hair blew in the dry breeze as he turned.
“This should prove to be a most interesting summer.”
 
——
 
“Amerys.”
Three of them greeted her. The shackled, bound prisoner didn’t respond at first. Only when one of them called her name again did she raise her head.
“Ah. Feor. Naili. Viltach. Back again?”
She grinned. The three Archmages of Wistram paused. Feor, the half-Elf of two hundred years, Naili, the Star Lamia, and Viltach, the Archmage of nobility in Terandria. He, at least, was Human, like Amerys.
But Viltach had none of her intensity in his gaze. They stopped before the magical barrier. Feor spoke slowly.
“Amerys, we are told you have refused to eat for the last week. You must eat.”
“I’m too weak. Feed me.”
“You bit off the last [Mage]’s fingers. Poor Teligrain didn’t deserve that.”
Naili leaned on her staff, looking at Amerys with interest. And wariness. The former Archmage grinned.
“Oops.”
Vilatch’s voice was harsh, impatient. He stared at Amerys, as if she was beneath him. Ignoring the magical wards drawn around her, the antimagic field in her cell, the physical chains and bindings wrapping her.
“You won’t get out of here by resisting. If you starve yourself, we’ll simply be forced to feed you. Be reasonable. If you accept—”
Amerys spat. It was a good shot—the glob of spit hit the force field in front of his face, and Viltach recoiled. She laughed as the Archmage reddened. Naili hid her own smile as Viltach cursed at her.
“Never. I will swear no oath. Release me or kill me. If you had the courage, you’d have done one or the other long ago, Viltach.”
“You do not get to make demands, Amerys. You are our captive.”
“Political prisoner.”
Feor corrected Viltach with a frown. The Human glared. And again, Amerys laughed. She was, Naili reflected, good at it. The mocking laughter bothered the three Archmages. It was contemptuous of their position, their power. Everything about them. Amerys caught herself and shook her head.
“Tell me, Feor. Viltach. Naili. Does Cognita not still rule Wistram? Because you talk as if you do.”
The Archmages paused. Naili smiled at Amerys.
“Not yet. But we’ve got more Earthers on our side. Did I tell you about the shock orb I made? It’s nearly as good as a Level 30 [Lightning Mage] on its own, Amerys. We are advancing in power. And you—”
“Nailihuaile.”
The Lamia fell silent as Feor shot her a warning glance. Amerys just laughed again.
“You think you’ll beat Cognita with tricks from another world?”
She shook her head as far as the chain would allow her. She looked at Feor, the ancient Archmage of nearly two hundred years.
“You are a fool. Put your ‘Earthers’ against true magic, Feor. Against the kind of magic that tears at time and created the Golems of Wistram! Place another world against my King. He will devour and destroy it. And I will join him. You cannot keep me here forever.”
“You will not escape so long as we do not come to an accord, Amerys.”
“Really.”
“Yes.”
Amerys rolled her eyes. She looked past Feor.
“Naili. I will ally Reim with the Revivalists and give you Wistram if you set me free.”
Viltach and Feor both wavered. Naili hesitated.
“When you say—”
“Archmage Naili!”
Feor looked at her. Naili closed her mouth. Amerys looked past her.
“Viltach, then. Or one of the other ‘Archmages’. You cannot keep everything balanced, Feor. I will get out.”
The half-Elf hesitated. He motioned, and the Archmages drew back, conferring. At last, Feor stepped back.
“Tricks will not get you anywhere, Amerys. Consider our offer.”
“Go back and hide in your rooms from Cognita, Feor.”
The half-Elf turned away stiffly. Amerys watched him go. She kept smiling, a moment longer. They were coming more often again. They must be getting worried. She paused. And then Amerys sighed.
“I’m bored.”
 
——
 
Fragments. Across the world, history was in motion, being decided. Some events were momentous, or reaching a precipice. But in some places, time flowed onwards. Steadily. The world wasn’t one big buildup to the next event. And the future, however interesting, still came one day at a time.
In Liscor, two Gnolls poured themselves a drink in Elirr’s pet shop after retiring early from a game of baseball. They were tired of watching Grimalkin hit the ball out of sight, anyways. One of them was the owner.
The [Beast Trainer] had a stiff Gnollish drink in one paw. Cats meowed and wandered around the shop. But Elirr ignored them as he raised the cup.
So did Krshia. The [Royal Shopkeeper] smiled.
“The month of Rerrk ends. To the warm days, Elirr.”
“Thank you, Krshia.”
They clinked cups gently and drank. The Gnollish drink was smooth, not like the fiery stuff Drakes liked to imbibe at every opportunity. But it was also very strong. Krshia growled with pleasure as she felt it warm her up.
Drinking a cup to mark the end of the month of Rerrk was a Gnollish tradition, and as such, one the Plains Gnolls practiced by themselves so they didn’t have to explain or justify it to everyone. Even Erin. Both Gnolls liked Erin, but knowing her, she’d introduce pizza to it somehow.
There were other things to do too, of course. Although the drink and conversation was important. Elirr and Krshia were the best match, hence them standing in Elirr’s pet shop. Across the city, Gnolls would be doing the same. Krshia spared a thought for little Mrsha—but she didn’t need to observe it yet. She sighed as she took another sip.
“An eventful spring.”
“More so than I can remember. Raskghar, Moths—I think I shall lose all my hair. Or turn grey entirely.”
Elirr grumbled. He was already refilling his drink. Krshia couldn’t disagree, either.
“It feels long. But then, the Winter Sprites came late and left early, yes?”
He nodded.
“A shorter winter. So if the spring was four and a half months…maybe two months till the summer solstice?”
Krshia thought about that. Four months per season. And if Rerrk was about now…she shrugged.
“Close enough. The time of the meeting of tribes is upon us at last. It feels like forever since the last one, yes?”
“Ten years. I can remember where I was. There were fewer cats. Shoo!”
The Gnoll grinned and shooed a cat trying to sniff at his cup. The affronted animal turned and flipped its tail at Elirr, exposing its butthole. The Gnoll rolled his eyes and turned away.
“I don’t know how they all learn to do that. Or that it’s so disgusting. Yes, the meeting of tribes awaits. Although…do you know what Erin called it? The Gnollmoot. That…what’s a moot?”
