“You’re babying them. That’s why they’re like—”
She waved a hand at them. One, Troy, went up to grab his laptop to synch Ryoka’s iPhone. Nerrissa followed him, exasperated. Bekia shrugged.
“Lady Reinhart did let them try to live alone. They were rather poor at it, no? Hold on—”
As Troy left, someone else entered the parlor. The eighth member of the group. Ryoka saw dark skin, downcast eyes. Imani paused when she saw Ryoka. Bekia turned to her.
“Imani, are you well? You look much rested, yes?”
The Gnoll’s voice was much gentler than it was with the others. She led Imani forwards, offering her a cup of tea. The young woman went to Ryoka instead.
“Are you…?”
Her eyes were too wide. She looked sleep-deprived too. Ryoka looked at her and remembered something else Erin had said. Something from a phone call. A chat room.
“My name is Ryoka Griffin. Who are you?”
“I’m Imani. I’m—you’re from Earth?”
Imani looked Ryoka up and down desperately. Ryoka smiled.
“That’s right. I’m just like you. I work as a City Runner.”
“You go outside?”
Imani’s eyes widened in horror. Ryoka nodded. The young woman stared at Bekia.
“But—”
“Imani ran into monsters when she first came here.”
The Gnoll murmured quietly. Ryoka looked past Imani at the impatient others. Rose was keeping them back. She was looking at Imani. Ryoka turned to the girl.
“What sort of monsters?”
“Tunnel Crawlers. They—we appeared right next to them. Lots of us. We ran. And we got a call—but no one helped us.”
Imani’s voice trembled. Ryoka’s stomach clenched.
“Tunnel Crawlers? Oh. Crelers. How’d you…?”
“We got onto the rocks. The big ones. They couldn’t climb the rocks. And the little ones—we kept throwing them off. Or trying to. I was…I was the only one that made it.”
The young woman’s voice broke. Bekia took her shoulder reassuringly. Ryoka didn’t know what to say.
“I’m so sorry. I’ve only ever seen Crelers once. And I ran and reported that nest—I’m sorry.”
She hesitated, then touched Imani’s shoulder. The young woman flinched. But then she looked up at Ryoka.
“Are you here to stay too?”
Ryoka looked past her. Joseph, Rose, Troy, Galina, who was arguing with the others about spilling tea on the expensive couches—Ryoka bit her tongue. Joseph waved at her.
“Yeah, are you going to stay, Ryoka? We could use more company!”
You’re all pathetic.
That was what Ryoka wanted to say. But she didn’t. She really, really wanted to shout it at them. Maybe drop kick Joseph or all of them except Imani. But she didn’t. For one big reason: it wasn’t really their fault.
Okay, it was. But on the other hand—no. Ryoka looked at the expensive mansion, the staff who’d keep the Earthworlders alive, if not always happy. Food on the table, roof over your head—and a stipend. All for nothing.
This is what happened when Magnolia Reinhart didn’t like you. She treated you like, well, like a child. And it was unfortunate that it seemed like it worked.
Ryoka had met people like the Earthworlders. Spoiled, rich children with too much power and wealth. They wanted for nothing except everything. She’d been one of them, in her way. It wasn’t everyone. Some people took wealth, even if they’d grown up in it, and still worked. But Ryoka thought those were the exceptions, rather than the rule. Money changed you. And there was a surfeit of money here that no one had earned.
Perhaps just as Magnolia had intended. Ryoka took a deep breath. She addressed Rose and the others.
“I’m not here to stay. I have a job. I am a City Runner, and I can’t stay.”
“But—why? At least let’s have some drinks. Do you live nearby?”
“I—not at all. I run around a lot.”
“You’re working?”
“Yes.”
“Why—”
“What did you come here for, then?”
Rose elbowed Joseph and looked at Ryoka. The City Runner nodded to herself. Time to make her pitch. She pointed at Troy’s laptop.
“I want to make a deal. I need your tablets, smartphones, computers—MP3 players, even—anything you’ve got. Every electronic. I’ll return it to you, I promise. But I need to borrow it. For two weeks. Tops.”
The Earthworlders stared at Ryoka. Then someone laughed incredulously. Troy grabbed his laptop.
“Are you kidding? No!”
They reflexively held onto their possessions. Ryoka understood, she really did. It was the last working thing from their world. So she dug at her money pouch.
“Here’s what I’ll pay you to borrow them.”
She put down stacks of gold coins onto the table, her entire fortune, almost. She saved twenty gold coins to sweeten the deal and to survive off of. She’d borrow from Fierre if need be, but Ryoka was making a gamble. She doubted Magnolia’s stipend was that high.
And she was right. The Earthworlder’s eyes went round at the sight of all the gold. Troy nearly reached for it.
“How did you earn all that?”
“I’m the Wind Runner. Look—I’ll borrow everything for two weeks. You can manage for two weeks, right? And I’ll bring it back.”
Two weeks was a good amount of time to reach the High Passes. Ryoka saw Bekia looking narrowly at her. Nerrissa grabbed Bekia’s arm and towed her back. The City Runner looked around.
“Well?”
Rose was blinking and shaking her head. She seemed taken aback by all of it. She looked around, then at Ryoka.
“This is all so sudden. Can’t you explain things? Come on, sit down. Tell us everything. Why are you—”
“Ryoka Griffin! Step away from them now!”
Bekia’s voice roared. Ryoka jerked backwards. The Gnoll charged forwards. She was suddenly growling, her hair standing up. She made one huge fist.
“Back away from them slowly. Hands behind your head!”
“What? What’s going—”
“Do it!”
The Gnoll had a battleaxe in one paw. She had her own bag of holding. Ryoka saw it cut the air—she froze, hands up.
“What’s going on? Bekia!”
Imani screamed as Nerrissa covered Ryoka with a crossbow. More staff flooded into the room, [Servants], [Maids]—Ryoka froze as Bekia advanced. The Gnoll was snarling.
“What did I do?”
The Gnoll stared at her.
“What did you do? You don’t smell like guilt. But Magnolia Reinhart, she sent an immediate warning. What did you do? Tell me now or—”
Something exploded. Ryoka saw a blast of fire, saw the splinter of wood. One of the servants coming in through the right door jerked. She saw a splinter of wood enter through the woman’s neck. She collapsed. Bekia whirled. She stared at the fallen maid. At Ryoka. Then someone tackled Ryoka.
“Down! We’re under attack!”
“Get them to the safe room!”
The Earthworlders were shouting in panic. The servants shot out of the room. Ryoka heard a shout. Screams. A roar.
“To the front! It’s not Ryoka! To arms!”
Whoever was on top of Ryoka let go. The City Runner rolled, getting to her feet. One ear was ringing. She stumbled past Rose and the others. And she saw—
The front of the mansion was gone. The gardens and walkway were on fire. Ryoka saw Bekia standing with the battleaxe gleaming in the sunlight. She was staring at a man. A silhouette, rather. Garbed entirely in black.
An [Assassin]. He stood behind ranks of black-clad figures, all wearing dark colors. Some wore dark armor, others bound cloth. A few had masks. One or two were even bareheaded.
Assassins. Ryoka’s breath caught. Where had they come from? Then the leader spoke.
“Strange. The Gnoll’s a high-value target. Miss Runner, you ran out of time.”
He nodded cheerfully at her. Ryoka recognized the voice. It was one of the loiterers who’d called out to her. He nodded at his companions.
“Ignore the City Runner. She’s not on our list. And the extras. Be professional about this or I will kill you.”
He pointed. Ryoka whirled. Rose and the other Earthworlders were stumbling out of the broken mansion, wide-eyed. Bekia turned her head.
“Get inside! Now!”
“Is this a joke? Oh my god, it’s like the other time at the mansion! They’re coming after us!”
Galina screamed. The [Assassin] looked at Bekia.
“We’re not here for the civilians. We’re here for you. Reinhart’s staff. You may surrender. The Guild of Assassins has marked Magnolia Reinhart’s—”
Thunk.
The [Assassin] blurred, dodging left. One of the black shapes folded up behind him. The leader tsked as Nerrissa lowered the crossbow.
“Fine. Go.”
The [Assassins] charged silently. Ryoka saw half of them throw something and dove.
“Down!”
The wind blew fiercely. It knocked the Earthworlders off their feet. Ryoka hit the ground, but most of the [Assassins] weren’t aiming at her. Ryoka got a kick as the group flailed, but she was on her feet.
She saw a full-scale battle behind her. The staff were fighting with the [Assassins], pulling back into the mansion. The leader beheaded a [Maid] and a [Butler] with his sword as Magnolia’s staff drew their own weapons. He leaned back as Bekia swung her axe. She halted mid-swing, brought the axe down.
“You filthy rats!”
The axe glowed. The magic in it exploded outwards. The lead [Assassin] cursed and vanished. The ones behind him weren’t so lucky. A scythe of gold cut through three. One spun away, grabbing at his arm. But he never made a sound.
“Fall back! Behind me!”
Bekia roared. The [Maid] swung her axe as if she wasn’t wearing a maid’s uniform. So quick—Ryoka saw her bisect a jumping [Assassin].
“Oh my god.”
Someone threw up behind her. Ryoka turned. The Earthworlders were staring at the violence.
“Get to cover!”
Ryoka snapped. She grabbed Rose and pushed them. Imani was already inside. Ryoka saw more staff flood down the steps. She stared. These servants were armed.
A pair of [Maids] threw open a window and aimed crossbows down at the [Assassins]. They fired, then retreated behind the narrow opening. Their bolts missed both their targets, but they exploded as they hit the ground. One of the [Assassins] vanished in a cloud of acid.
“Hold the entrance!”
Bekia roared. Ryoka saw a pair of [Servants] armed with dueling swords take up flanking positions inside. They swung as an [Assassin] leapt through the doorway. The man blurred, turned to smoke for a second, landed, and engaged both. More [Servants] fell back.
Then—a shriek. Metal screaming. The [Assassins] paused. Ryoka looked around wildly. Something was—
A Steel Golem burst out of the cellar door, exploding the wood and iron like fireworks. It exploded onto the mansion grounds. The lead [Assassin] stared as the towering Golem swung the huge sword it carried and cut two [Assassins] apart.
“Holy god!”
Someone shouted behind Ryoka. She stared. Then the pieces fit. More [Servants] appeared. They were changing into armor. And more carried weapons. The windows of the mansion opened.
Crossbows. And magical ammunition. The first quarrel struck an [Assassin] and exploded. The other [Assassins] dove out of the way as the staff loosed a deadly volley.
“A trap. And I had to pick this assignment. The other strikes had better be succeeding.”
The leader’s voice was resigned. He leaned out of the way as the Steel Golem swung at him. It stopped the blade, tried to strike him on the backswing. The [Assassin] raised his sword.
“[Still Blade].”
He blocked the Golem’s swing with a sound like thunder. The man turned to the other shadows.
“I’ll bring down the Steel Golem. Hold off the Gnoll [Maid] until I do.”
Shadows blurred forwards. They leapt at the Gnoll [Maid]. She whirled the blade, howling. Ryoka grabbed Rose. The young woman was shouting as she stared at the Steel Golem.
“That was in the basement the entire time!?”
“Run! Follow me!”
Ryoka shouted. She dragged at Rose and the others. They broke out of their paralysis, looked at Ryoka. She pointed left, around the fighting.
“But—”
“Run!”
The City Runner screamed it in their ears. The Earthworlders ran.
“Get back here!”
Bekia howled. She swung the enchanted battleaxe like it weighed nothing at all. But the darting [Assassins] were forcing her back, battling the staff at the entrance. They weren’t prepared for this mansion’s army of armed servants. But this was a trap. The Earthworlders—and yet, the [Assassins] ignored the Earthworlders and Ryoka as they ran for the gates.
But if they weren’t after them, then who? Ryoka saw reinforcements charging into the fight. More shadows. A townswoman drew a veil over her face. She must not have heard the leader because she saw Ryoka sprinting out of the mansion’s gates with Rose and the others and she drew a throwing dagger.
“Wind!”
Ryoka pointed. Wind blew the woman off her feet. The dagger went wide. Ryoka saw the woman backflip backwards. Rose screamed.
“Oh my god. Joseph!”
“I don’t have a sword!”
Ryoka ignored the young man. The [Assassin] caught herself. The second blast of wind buffeted her, but she crouched low. She drew a second throwing dagger, aiming at Ryoka—
Alber hit her. The [Fistfighter]’s blow rocked the [Assassin] alongside the jaw and she stumbled. But she didn’t fall. She slashed at him and the [Fistfighter] ducked back.
Ryoka lunged forwards. She took aim; there was no time to kick. The female [Assassin] raised her dagger, got a jab to the face. Then two heavy hits. One-two—Ryoka hit her, ducked back. She had her hands up, guarding her face. She swung in, fast, as the dagger slashed wildly. Three, four—five—
The masked woman folded up. Ryoka stood over her, panting wildly as the Earthworlders and Alber both stared at her. The Earthworlders’ eyes were wide; Alber just blinked. He looked at Ryoka.
“Ryoka.”
“Hey, Alber.”
She panted. The [Fistfighter] looked at the unconscious [Assassin].
“Nice punches. I guess you do know something. What’s happening?”
Magnolia Reinhart’s estates were under siege. [Assassins] fought with [Maids] and [Servants] as the city folk stared in horror. There were so many [Assassins]! The staff were retreating inside the building. Ryoka saw Bekia dueling the leader—the Steel Golem had been beheaded! They were going to—
Something blurred past Ryoka, shooting down the streets. Alber grabbed her as a ghostly horse raced past.
“What is that?”
Really fast pink death. The carriage hit the first group of [Assassins] and Ryoka saw one bounce off the front before landing on the ground. Another tried to dodge; the impact sent her flying. She was actually alive when she landed—right until one of the carriage’s wheels ran over her head.
“Reynold!”
The [Combat Butler] took the carriage around in a tight loop. He’d drawn his sword and was defending himself from [Assassins] trying to leap on the pink carriage as it ran over another fleeing shape. Ryoka nearly turned back—but what could she do?
Protect the kids.
“Let’s get out of here! Follow me!”
