She understood now her failure. Erin sobbed in the center of her ruined home. It stood in that spring day. As its owner cried for what she’d thought was a thing.
And perhaps the inn was just a thing. Something creaked. Wood, disturbed by the fighting, shifted. It was probably just the fight.
Nevertheless. It was hers. It was part of her, and she of it. It defined her.
Long had it stood. Amid tears. During grief. Through triumph and victory, basked by glory and haunted by cowardice and treachery. The Wandering Inn had withstood it all.
Now, it was enough.
As Ijvani left, her hands holding the ivory remains, Toren’s skull flickered with a tiny spark. His soul screamed.
Erin wept.
And the inn broke. It showered down around Erin Solstice, falling to pieces. The upper floors slowly collapsed, roof, beams, copper nails, all breaking at last. Raining down around the young woman. Until naught was left but rubble.
That, at least, was seen by the city. By the audience sitting in the sun of the baseball game. They turned. And the city over, people ran. They rushed for the hill. Guests, enemies.
Friends.
The Wandering Inn was gone. A pile of broken pieces lay on the hill. It was gone. The first of the people raced onto the hill, crying out, digging at the heavy wood. Searching.
Sometimes, the world hurt. Sometimes—the skeleton screamed, unheard, crying out for death. And a hand smacked his skull.
“Stop that. Noisy thing.”
Ijvani stared at Toren. And he stared up at her, into golden, burning flames. A beautiful gaze. Like his. And Toren’s scream stopped. Ijvani sighed and walked back into the cave. Going home.
The end was never the death of it all. It was always the beginning of something new. So the digging people found her kneeling there. Protected by a beam that had caught the weight of the inn. Erin Solstice wept as they carried her out.
Spring ended, and summer began on a quiet day.
[Magical Innkeeper Level 40!]
[Skill – Inn: Garden of Sanctuary obtained!]
[Skill – Like Fire, Memory obtained!]
