“And if he wishes to stay—take his name. And all of my estates shall break for three days of feasting after the spring harvest in his honor. It is a time of plenty, after all.”
“Yes, Lord Operland.”
Lord Hayvon listened to the door close. Fifth best, yes. And all that entailed. His armies stretched beyond sight when he called them. His wealth was beyond mortal measure. He was one of the blades of the Blighted King. The fifth-most powerful [Lord] in the world.
“Flying is so easy. But wheat is terribly difficult to grow. Far easier to gather a hundred thousand men than feed them.”
It was a time of plenty. The fields of Operland were rich and bountiful. The [Lord] looked down on them. No plague of Vorepillars had struck them, no airborne attacks. No Demon raids—Rhir bloomed for once. And yet…he spoke softly.
“Let the harvests grow golden,
And the fields burst with plenty,
Let the [Farmers] sharpen their scythes
And the bellies of old and young grow fat.
Let the world rejoice and lie replete for a moment,
And peace hang in the air,
But never let the war forges grow dark,
Or lay down the arms you bear.
For this age is but passing,
And peace remains a fleeting breeze,
Stoking the embers of strife,
War ever beckons, and soon
Smoke shall blot out the sun.
And arrows fall in place of rain, while
Demons stalk out of Rhir’s blight. So be watchful;
Dark will come that night.”
He paused.
“It needs work.”
Lord Hayvon turned away as a [Servant] found the old [Farmer]. The [Lord] turned, and his gaze went north again. He stared towards the blight, the land of Demons. And then he turned. The children from another world awaited. And there was much left to do. But surely—he felt it in his breast.
Hope. Lord Hayvon murmured as he walked away.
“Someday soon, Rhir will know true peace.”
 
——
 
Daly had heard it said that some part of Baleros was always at war. And sometimes it seemed that way. Mercenary companies fought each other over every part of the rich continent. And the jungles were alive with monsters. Baleros had still more unsettled land than any other continent by far. It was the largest, the most unclaimed, the wildest still of all the continents.
And he hated it. He hated the way people died to monsters, how they killed each other so—casually. He hated it, and loved the magic, the sights he could never dream of. He loved the fact that there was a world where mysteries still remained.
He would have been happy, if he was the only one here. But he wasn’t. Daly sat in the conference room of the United Nations company. He was representing a concept from Earth. A dream that had never been fully realized there. And here—well, there was some irony in it. Because the united nations of Earth, all that they had gathered, was small. Weak.
Young men and women sat in the chairs around the room. Ken, Luan, Paige, Aiko, Siri, Kirana, and lastly, most importantly, Geneva. The [Doctor] sat with drink in hand. A stiff one. Daly could have used it himself.
“You’re sure it’s real, Geneva?”
Paige was speaking, looking shaken. Geneva took a long drink and regarded the paper again. She held it up and Ken saw the beautiful wax seal glittering in the light. Magic. Magic wax. Who’d have thought.
“It’s real. I could get it tested, but I’m pretty sure it’s real.”
“Luan?”
The [Expert Rower] shifted in his seat.
“I told you all, I talked to the Minotaur, yeah? It’s real. Trust me—they can pay however much they want. The Minotaur had more gold than I’ve ever seen in my life, and he was a student.”
The company sitting around the table nodded. Daly was still in a bit of shock about how much gold Luan had brought back. Enough to solve the daily expenses of the United Nations company…forever. Pretty much. Already, they’d upgraded their headquarters, bought all the amenities Paige and Kirana wanted so much. Some of the people working hard jobs could quit and look for better ones. And Geneva’s clinic was fully stocked.
The only thing Luan’s gold couldn’t buy was magical gear for the Bushrangers. The crossbow-wielding team was set up with leather armor, good steel—but no magic. Even so, the money he’d brought in was amazing.
And more was on offer. Aiko looked at Geneva. The young woman from Japan hesitated and raised her hand.
“So, this letter. Will you please explain it again, Geneva? I did not understand parts of it.”
The [Doctor] paused, and someone else spoke for her. Okasha. The Selphid moved Geneva’s lips, speaking in a different inflection. More friendly, deeper. Daly was used to it.
“It’s an invitation to have Geneva demonstrate her techniques to the students in the academy at Elvallian, Aiko. The academy run by the Titan of Baleros. One of the most powerful people in the entire continent. He’s offering her gold to do it. Lots of gold.”
“Not that much gold.”
“Says the City Runner who brought back a heaping bagful.”
Luan grinned as Siri looked at him. Ken smiled too, but he was looking at the letter as Geneva passed it to him.
It had come through official channels, not from Venaz personally. The note was signed by someone called Peclir Im, and there was even a travel expenses fund that Geneva could call upon at the Merchant’s Guild if she accepted. It was…big.
“This is it. Isn’t it? This is what we’ve been waiting for. Geneva can show her medical techniques to the world. I mean—this is huge. Right? Why are we nervous?”
Paige came out and said it. Everyone nodded, but they were disturbed. Siri murmured.
“It’s the Forgotten Wing Company. One of the four Great Companies. It’s—well, it’s big, Paige. When they go to war, it’s like five nation’s worth of armies fighting at once.”
“But they’re not fighting.”
“But they’re huge. And they can be dangerous. Remember the Roving Arrow company? The Razorshard Armor company? They can do what they want.”
Daly spoke up quietly. Luan nodded as the others grew sober.
“I told you what I saw at Daquin. That was a—a game, and people died. At least six, I heard. They brought in warships.”
“Tulm the Mithril.”
Ken murmured. The Japanese [Negotiator] looked around. Luan’s return had hardly been quiet. People had seen him playing at Daquin. Even now, Dullahans kept stopping Luan, wanting to buy him a drink to hear all about the Titan’s game and his role in it. And Tulm the Mithril. The [Rower] nodded.
“When Daly says they’re dangerous, I agree. But it is a big opportunity. And as I said, I saw the Titan of Baleros.”
“He’s tiny! A Lilliputian, right?”
“I have no idea what that is, Paige. But yeah, a small man. Only—”
Luan gestured with his hand. Daly shook his head.
“No wonder the buggers at the bar laughed their asses off when I asked how tall he was. Bastards.”
Siri grinned. The Swedish [Ranger] paused, then looked around.
“All we have to do is say yes or no. That’s simple. The harder part is—the Mage’s Guild.”
Daly nodded. All eyes turned to him.
“Daly, will you tell us what you saw again?”
The Australian man took a seat. He shrugged at Ken.
“Like I said, Ken. Nothing much. I saw an American flag in the Mage’s Guild. Just…over the counter. Someone had made one. I think I played it well when I asked the [Receptionist] about it. But I also think she took down my name and details.”
Silence. Dead silence around the table. Kirana was nervously clasping her hands together. The [Housekeeper] turned to Paige. The [Engineer] turned to Geneva. The [Doctor] was frowning.
“Are you sure it wasn’t a coincidence? Maybe there are other flags—”
“With fifty stars and stripes? Believe me, I counted, Geneva. You can see for yourself. But—be careful. That [Receptionist] wanted me to talk with the Guildmaster. She’s on the lookout for people from Earth.”
“But what does that mean? Does that mean Wistram knows about us? Are there people at Wistram? Wherever that is?”
Kenjiro paused.
“I hear Wistram is…different. I hear many good things about Wistram. And bad things. The war with Tiqr, for instance.”
“What about it?”
A hand. Paige cut off Ken’s reply.
“Ask Ken later. Look, the flag tells us one thing. There are more people from Earth. They’re at Wistram. We know they’re at Wistram. The question is: are they there against their will? Do we trust the academy? Do we trust…anyone?”
Aiko passed it to Paige, who inspected it, speaking quietly.
“What do we do if Geneva goes? Tell this Titan about Earth? It’s one thing to get attention on Geneva’s medicine. Another to give anyone what we know.”
She glanced at Daly for a moment, and he paused, his face blank. Luan sighed.
“We have to do something. We can’t be alone.”
“We’re too weak. If another company attacks Talenqual and beats the Featherfolk Brigade—we can’t even kill most Silver-rank monsters, let alone Gold. The Bushrangers, I mean.”
Siri agreed. Daly grimaced. His hand went to the pocket crossbow unconsciously as his trigger finger twitched. But even the bigger one wouldn’t go through a giant serpent’s hide. But…
“That’s not exactly true, Siri.”
Daly’s head snapped up. The young man stared warningly at Paige. But she was glowering back. He shook his head warningly as Geneva, Luan, the others turned to her questioningly. Siri paused.
“What do you mean, Paige?”
“It’s time I told you something.”
The young woman met Daly’s eyes. He felt his heart skip. He opened his mouth, but Paige was already talking. And it was a relief. So Daly waited.
Paige rose. The [Engineer]’s gaze went from person to person. At Ken, who understood other people, who kept them together. Luan, their champion athlete. At Daly, who led the armed branch of the company. And finally at Geneva.
Geneva, who some still called the Last Light of Baleros. Paige’s eyes were filled with guilt. She spoke slowly, looking at the [Doctor].
“Everyone, I—changed my class. I leveled up thanks to some work I’ve been doing. So I gained—I think they call it a class consolidation.”
“What?”
The table erupted in gasps. Daly blinked. He hadn’t heard of this!
“Isn’t that a sign you’re gaining power? What level are you, Paige?”
“It’s amazing! Why didn’t you say anything earlier? We have to have a party!”
Aiko clapped her hands together. Paige tried to smile. It failed.
“Don’t…celebrate. Just yet. I gained my new class…because I’ve been experimenting hard. With weapons. From our world. I…Daly?”
Daly felt all eyes turn to him. Luan was giving him a narrow-eyed stare. Ken just seemed confused. But Geneva—the [Doctor]’s gaze pierced him. She knew. He tried to meet her eyes, but couldn’t.
“I asked Paige to work on some weapons for the company. For the Bushrangers. To fight monsters. Or people.”
Luan frowned.
“Weapons? You don’t mean the crossbows, do you?”
“What weapons?”
Geneva’s voice was low. Intense. She turned to Daly, then Paige. The [Engineer] murmured.
“This is my new class.”
She lifted a hand, placed it on a table. Spoke a Skill. Daly saw black powder fall onto the table, from her palm. Just a bit. Just enough to make a small mound. But he recoiled fast.
The others just sat there for a moment. Then the tang of the powder filled the air. Some, like Ken and Aiko, still didn’t get it. But Luan shot back in his chair. Geneva rose out of her chair. Paige poked at the powder. Then she looked up.
“[Blackpowder Engineer]. I can make gunpowder. A tiny bit. Every single day. With a Skill. And I can make more out of the ingredients. I figured out the recipe. Daly and I have been working and we’ve created grenades. Bombs.”
Dead silence. Kirana froze. Siri rose, staring at Daly. But it was Geneva—the [Doctor] whispered.
“You made gunpowder?”
The young man nodded. He met Geneva’s eyes. The [Doctor]’s expression went beyond betrayal. She met his eyes and he wondered if she could see his soul. But even so, Daly spoke.
“I did. I asked Paige, so it’s on me. But—I’ve seen what the world has to offer. If I had a tank at our disposal, I’d still sleep uneasy. We need gunpowder. To fight.”
Siri spoke softly.
“You’re bringing guns into this world?”
“Not. Yet. Just bombs.”
Luan’s voice cracked.
“Just—”
The table erupted into shouts. Geneva was boring a hole into Daly’s face with her eyes. Ken was studying everyone’s reactions and Aiko simply seemed horrified. Kirana was backing away as Siri exploded to her feet, shouting furiously. Luan got up, voice mingling with Siri’s—
“Quiet!”
Daly bellowed. The room fell silent. He looked around. Then at Geneva. The [Doctor] was still watching him. Just staring. And Daly wondered if he’d taken away her smile again. But even so.
“Listen up. We can’t go back in time. We’ve got an offer from the Titan. Wistram’s got people from earth. And we have gunpowder. The cat’s out of the bag. Now, let’s talk about what happens next.”
 
——
 
Flos Reimarch liked balconies like he liked thrones. He could take them or leave them, but he had to admit, they did give a view. But he wasn’t much for pontificating.
“Look! Another group of my people! There, Orthenon!”
“I see them, Your Majesty.”
The [Steward] stood next to his King. Flos of Reim was doing what he loved: watching his people. In this case, his people returning.
From far and wide they were coming. Across Chandrar’s arid land. People. Citizens who claimed allegiance to the King of Destruction. Flos’ proclamation of peace had sparked a migration.
It had been hard-won. Tiqr had fallen. But the King of Destruction had kept to his vow, when every nation had been prepared for him to break his word. And because he had, his people had come.
Neither Flos nor Orthenon were using any sight-enhancing artifacts, so the distant group was hard even for Orthenon to count.
“It seems like a group of ten thousand, Your Majesty. I shall send riders to appraise their condition. And they must be settled, at least temporarily. Perhaps in Hellios or Germina?”
His words were, as always, crisp, precise. And pointed. Flos ignored the look as well.
“In time, Orthenon. But they must come here first. They are my people. They have travelled here for me. Should I not greet them?”
The [Steward] sighed, but he didn’t argue with that point. Flos was smiling, with pure, genuine happiness.
“Orthenon, my horse. I’ll ride out to greet them.”
“Your Majesty, it would be more dignified to wait for their arrival.”
“Nonsense—”
“It would honor them, my Lord. Think of your position as it affects them. Do the service of greeting them as they would will it.”
