Not the usual thirty-second thermal response. Shorter. The dawn light reached the canopy and the stone's surface warmed and the crystal lattice set itself vibrating, but the vibration stopped after twelve seconds. Not faded -- stopped, as if something had interrupted it. As if the stone's thermal response, which had run for thirty seconds every dawn for four thousand years, had been compressed by something in the substrate that was taking up vibrational space.

The precursor tremor. It was here now, not just in the gap. In the ground beneath the settlement, beneath the threshold stone, a low persistent vibration that had not been there yesterday and was there now and would be there tomorrow and would be stronger tomorrow because the pulse was closer.

She sat with her palms on the stone and felt both vibrations simultaneously: the stone's own frequency, which was the sound of limestone at dawn, and the corruption's precursor, which was the sound of something approaching through the earth. Two signals in the same medium. The stone was trying to sing its morning song and the ground was humming a different note and neither could quite drown the other out.

She wrote in her journal:

*Day 17. One remains.*

*Dawn vibration: 12 seconds (normal: 30). The precursor is occupying vibrational space in the substrate. The stone cannot sing its full morning because something else is in the way.*

She read what she had written. She added:

*This is what compression feels like from the stone's side.*

---

The cloud cover arrived mid-morning.

Not the hard-edged weather she had seen on Day 5, the high wind from the plateau that had taken two days to reach the basin floor. This was different: a uniform grey ceiling moving in from the south, low and heavy, the kind of cloud that settled into a basin and stayed. The light changed -- flattened, lost its dimension, made the ruins look more ancient, as if the grey light removed the present tense and left only the past.

And the stone's thermal response changed with it.

She had been sitting at the northern face, studying the healed fault line, when she felt it -- a shift in the bond's quality. Not the [Dormant] signature, which was its usual patient self. Something in the stone's surface temperature. The cloud cover had eliminated the direct sun that drove the noon singing and the dawn vibration, and without that thermal driver, the stone's frequencies were different.

She pressed her palm to the stone and felt it not singing. Not the silence of absence -- the silence of a different mode. The stone's crystal lattice, deprived of direct thermal input, had settled into a state she had not observed before: a low, steady baseline frequency that was neither the dawn vibration nor the noon singing but something underneath both. The stone's resting tone. The sound it made when nothing was making it make sound.

She sat with it for an hour. The resting tone did not change. It did not fluctuate with the breeze or respond to the temperature shifts of the cloud cover. It was constant in a way the other frequencies were not -- a fundamental, the note that everything else was built on, the thing the stone was when it was not being made to be anything else.

This was the first time the stone had shown her something that required cloud cover to see. A discovery that existed only in the absence of the conditions that produced every other discovery.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Varethen -- Threshold Stone
  Type: Acoustic / Environmental
  Resting Tone: Cloud-cover baseline frequency. The stone's
  fundamental -- present at all times, audible only when
  thermal frequencies are absent. Not silence. The sound
  beneath all other sounds.
-------------------------------------------------------------

  You had to stop looking for it to find it.

  Discovery 17/? toward depth advance.

  +48 XP (Discovery: Acoustic)
  Surveying: +2 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Seventeen.

She read the notification and did not calculate. She sat with the stone's resting tone in her palms and the cloud cover pressing down above the canopy and the precursor tremor running through the substrate beneath her and she held all three layers of vibration simultaneously -- parsing the signal, separating the stone's own voice from the corruption's approaching voice.

---

Theron noticed the dawn ritual.

She had not expected him to comment. He had been present for every dawn sitting, at a distance -- she had heard his lean-to creak, heard the quiet sounds of a man who woke when she woke and chose not to accompany her. He had given her the mornings the way Hadley had given her the gap: as her own, not requiring company.

But at midday, while the cloud cover pressed down and the precursor tremor ran through the ground like a sentence she could not quite read, Theron sat beside her at the threshold stone.

"The healer used to do this," he said.

She looked at him.

"Sit at the stone before dawn." He was not looking at her -- he was looking at the handprint, at the healer's palm impression worn into the stone's southern face. "My grandmother said the healer sat there every morning. Before the fire. Before anything else. Just -- sat." He paused. "My grandmother thought she was praying."

"Was she?"

Theron considered this. "My grandmother was a Rimfolk woman who understood prayer as something you did to the land. If the healer was sitting at a stone every morning before light, my grandmother would have called it prayer regardless of what the healer called it."

Wren looked at the handprint. At the stone around it, warm and patient and humming its resting tone beneath the cloud cover. At the healed fault line on the northern face, the place where the stone had cracked and sealed itself four thousand years ago.

"I don't know what I'm doing," she said. "When I sit here. I'm not praying. I'm not surveying. I'm not working. I'm just -- "

"Being here," Theron said.

"Yes."

He was quiet for a moment. Then: "The healer used to do this." Said differently this time. Not historical context. Recognition. A pattern he had seen before and was seeing again and was deciding what to do with the seeing.

He stood. He looked at the settlement -- at the walls, the channels, the structures that had outlived the people who built them by three centuries. He looked at the sky.

"Tomorrow is Day 18," he said.

"Yes."

"I've lived through many pulses." He said it the way he said true things -- without drama, as weight placed on a scale. "This one is different. The gap is larger than it was last cycle. The precursor is earlier." He looked at the ground, as if he could feel what she felt through the bond. He could not. But he had decades in this forest and knew what the ground felt like before a pulse. "I will be at the ruins when it comes."

She looked at him.

"Not at camp," he said. "Here. At the settlement." He paused. "I have not been here for a pulse before. I have always been upslope, or at camp, or elsewhere. But this time I think I should be here."

She did not ask why. She did not need to. His father had been born here. The drainage channel still worked. The walls still stood plumb. Tomorrow the pulse would come through this ground and the corruption's precursor would become the corruption itself and the settlement that had held for three centuries would either hold for one more night or it would not.

Theron was going to be here when it happened. Not because Wren needed him. Because Varethen did.

"Thank you," she said.

He nodded, once, and went north.

---

She went into the gap one more time in the afternoon.

The precursor tremor was stronger. She felt it the moment she crossed the dead perimeter -- the vibration in the substrate had organized into something she could almost track directionally, approaching from the south-southeast, through the rock, through the soil, through the dead tree that stood at the gap's apex conducting the signal into the air above the settlement. The ghost-elms on the living side were bracing harder now. Their bark-shimmer had pulled in tighter, the grey-green pressed close to the wood, the trees holding their resonance against themselves like fists around something precious.

She walked to the dead tree and placed her hand against it.

The vibration shook her teeth.

Not painfully. But the dead tree's stripped wood conducted the precursor at a frequency that set her jaw humming, a physical experience she had not expected from a sub-audible phenomenon. The corruption's advance signal was stronger here than anywhere else, and the tree, which had no living resonance to filter or resist it, was transmitting everything.

She held her hand there. She held the bond -- the [Dormant] signature compressing at her sternum, the warmth contracting, the effort of maintaining presence in a space that was increasingly occupied by something else. She felt the compression and the precursor simultaneously and understood, for the first time, that they were the same thing: the corruption's energy, arriving through the substrate, pressing on the bond the way it pressed on the air, filling the space with a signal that left less room for everything else.

The shimmer at the gap's edges was different. Dimmer. The bond-potential she had seen on previous visits -- the thin grey-green that showed the gap was not entirely dead, that resonance persisted even in suppressed space -- was fainter now. The precursor was not just traveling through the gap. It was deepening it. The corruption's advance wave was expanding the suppression field in preparation for the main event, the way a river swells before a flood.

She pulled her hand from the tree. Held the compression for a moment longer. Felt the bond strain and hold and strain and hold, the [Dormant] quality at her sternum dimming but not extinguishing, the geological patience she had felt since Day 6 refusing to yield its space entirely even as the space contracted.

She stepped back across the ward boundary and the compression eased and the warmth returned and she stood on the living side and breathed.

One day.

---

She did not sleep well.

The precursor tremor ran through the ground beneath her bedroll -- faint, at the edge of perception, the kind of vibration you stopped noticing after a while and then noticed again each time you surfaced from near-sleep. She lay in the dark and felt it and felt the bond network running through her and thought about the morning.

She had seventeen discoveries. She had thought she would know, by now, whether seventeen was enough. She did not know. The system had not told her how many Known depth required at an anchor. It had told her Familiar took nine, where standard bonds took four to six. If the same ratio held -- roughly double -- then Known at an anchor would take somewhere between sixteen and twenty-four. She was inside that range. But she did not know where inside it she was.

She thought about Maret's story. About Fell at the fen, at Familiar depth, present when the pulse came. About what it meant to be at Familiar depth at a bonded location during the pulse. About the distinction between Familiar and Known, between a bond that was open and a bond that was understood.

She thought about the healer. Standing at the threshold stone every morning, palm to limestone, in the minute before dawn. Doing it for decades. Not because of a deadline. Because it was what she did.

Wren lay in the dark and felt the precursor tremor and the bond and the sound of the Thornwild's pre-pulse silence -- the gaps between the insect voices wider now, the bass hum of the ghost-elms lower and tighter, the whole forest holding itself in the way the stone held its resting tone: present, fundamental, waiting.

She did not try to sleep. She let the not-sleeping be what it was. Information.

---

Zero.

She was at the threshold stone before the sky showed light.

The dawn vibration did not come.

She sat with her palms on the limestone in the dark, in the minute before dawn, and the minute passed and the sky lightened and the stone did not vibrate. The thermal gradient was there -- she could feel the surface warming as the pre-dawn light reached the canopy, the slight differential between surface and interior that had been enough, every other morning, to set the crystal lattice singing.

The precursor had taken the stone's voice.

Not destroyed it. Occupied its frequency. The corruption's advance signal, running through the substrate at the same vibrational range as the stone's thermal response, was louder now -- not louder in the audible sense but louder in the physical sense, more present, more organized, occupying the vibrational space the stone needed in order to sing. The stone was still there. Its crystal lattice was still capable of the dawn response. But the response could not be heard through the precursor's noise.

She held her palms to the stone and felt both: the stone's attempted vibration, a ghost of its usual frequency, the thermal expansion pushing against the crystal structure but producing no audible result. And beneath it, through it, around it, the precursor -- not the stone's signal, not the stone's frequency, not the stone's four-thousand-year-old habit of greeting the morning. Something else. Something arriving.

She did not write in her journal. She sat with the stone and held it and felt it trying to speak and failing and trying again and failing and she held that, too.

The sky lightened. The cloud cover from yesterday had not lifted -- if anything it was lower, the grey ceiling pressing down on the basin, the light flat and dimensionless. Day 18. The pulse day.

*Day 18,* she wrote, when she could write. *Dawn vibration: absent. Precursor occupying thermal frequency range. The stone cannot sing.*

She looked at the margin column.

*Zero.*

---

The morning was grey and still.

She worked.

Not urgently -- she had stopped working urgently somewhere around Day 15, when the arithmetic had stopped mattering and the stone had started showing her things she had not known to look for. She worked the way she had always worked: wide-aperture attention, slow movement, the quality of presence that was not grasping but witnessing.

The threshold stone's western face had a feature she had not examined: a shallow depression, roughly oval, at the stone's midpoint, approximately the size of a cupped hand. She had seen it and catalogued it as natural erosion -- the kind of wear that water makes on limestone over centuries, the slow dissolution of mineral by rainfall. But this morning, in the flat grey light of Day 18, she looked at it differently.

