“ISAAC! Stop this foolishness!”

Isaac was halfway to the launch, enchanted halberd in hand and surrounded by the nearest Azure Guards he could find, when Angeline's shout stopped him mid-step.

He spun around, meeting Angeline's irate glare as she marched toward him like a mother who'd caught her son red-handed.

He snarled. “This is no time for your games, woman! The Armoured Justice is under attack!”

She took the last step separating them and planted her hands on her hips. “It is! And look around you! Tell me what you see!” She commanded, throwing a hand out to the side.

He held her stare for a moment before observing the battlefield. He saw men and women darting to battle stations, arming themselves, finding whatever they could to attack the beast threatening to swallow the airship whole.

Beyond the railings, he saw the other vessels moving about, two gaining altitude, and one turning toward the 'Armoured Justice' to render direct assistance. He saw the armament of all three vessels taking pot shots at the flesh mass and its tendrils.

He saw... chaos.

He returned his sight to the woman in front of him, her eyes softening as she saw he understood.

She placed a hand on his shoulder. “Isaac, your best weapon is your head. Use it. Take command. They'll listen to you.”

You don't need to prove yourself to them was left unsaid.

He glanced at the guards who had been ready to follow him out in a tiny floating plan of wood to board a possibly doomed airship.

They were just as ready to do so at his command. He blew a breath through his nose and addressed the troops, handing his halberd to one of them. “Get all the launches ready, make sure you have rope ladders and grappling hooks on board. Wait for my command.”

They saluted and left. He turned to face Angeline. “You're right. I will apologize later.” He said, running past her and toward the command deck.

She turned and watched him go.

“Idiot, just stop trying to be your brother.”

The projectors on the Alchemical Star flashed messages off to the other airships. The Respite, Tempestuous and Errant Valour sent back acknowledgement and began manoeuvring toward the Armoured Valour, rolling out harpoon guns as they did.

The Alchemical Star spun, bringing to bear the two rotary strum cannons that hadn't been able to shoot at the blob earlier. As the tendrils came into view, they opened fire in tandem, concentrating their fire toward a single appendage at a time.

The crew cheered as one of the grasping limbs sheared off, shot in half by the buzzsawing energy bolts.

Orders went out to all gunnery crews: focus on getting your battery back online. Hand-held cannons: mass up, load up, take aim, and volley fire at whichever limb is being targeted by the active turrets.

The next tentacle lasted a few seconds less.

The other airships reached their assigned station, surrounding the beleaguered vessel from above. The listing ship's deck was cleared, and six massive harpoon guns fired, their barbed projectiles piercing deep into the wood.

Normally used to perform boarding actions or to stop other vessels from running away, they were now lifelines. The Armoured Justice crew swarmed over their impact sites and lashed ropes and braces over them.

Then the three airships above pulled altitude in a gigantic tug of war. And began winning, the blob's tendrils growing taut and straining to keep their hold.

But they doggedly held on, and more shot out of the blob's mass.

Isaac listened to the reports and furrowed his brow.

They needed something more. That thing was holding onto the airship as if it were a starving squid pulling in a fish it had finally managed to catch.

His brow lifted. Wasn't that exactly what it was? His brother had said it was probably controlled by instinct, maybe even nothing but hunger for mana.

The airship, with its mana-heart pumping mana frantically, with its store of mana stones, and all the people aboard...

He looked at Captain Arnelle. “Captain, move us away, just beyond the area covered by the blob below us, and have your stores of mana stones brought up on deck, along with all able-bodied men with good throwing arms.”

She lifted a brow for a moment before grinning. “Ah. I see. Not a bad idea, lord Isaac.” She turned her head toward her crew. “Helmsman, longitudinal thrusters! Push us bearing 135 for 500!”

“Aye-aye, captain! Translating bearing 135 for 500!” The helmsman confirmed, manipulating a few levers and dials. The Alchemical star began sliding away, still keeping her working guns toward the enemy.

Isaac hoped it would be enough. Beyond just throwing his brother at the problem now, he was running out of ideas.

A lookout shouted and pointed through a pane of glass.

Everybody looked up.

Isaac stared out and snorted when he saw what, or rather who, was being pointed at.

Looks like his brother had saved Isaac the trouble of throwing him at the problem.

A FEW MINUTES EARLIER

David stood next to Niala, forcing himself calm for her sake as she concentrated on the ball of wind in her hands.

She was trying to weave him a flying mount, and failing.

He would normally tell her she had all the time in the world, but...

Her swift curse as the coiled winds exploded outward brought his attention to her. She looked up at him with flattened ears. “I'm sorry, David. If I try to go fast, the impurities in my mana just make the weave fray. I need time to clean them up.”

He glanced out at the battle in the distance, playing out without his involvement. He hated feeling powerless like this.

Closing his eyes, he forced that sentiment out his nose with a long exhalation. He reopened them, met her pleading gaze, and smiled. “It's ok, kitten. You're doing your best. We'll just have to figure something else.”

She scrunched her face as she tried to think of something while he gripped the railing and let his gaze flow over the controlled chaos unfurling in the widening distance.

The two rotary strum cannons unleashed another extended burst. An officer yelled an order, and a volley of shoulder-mounted strum cannons fanned toward the offending tentacle.

A voice like creaking glass startled both of them out of their contemplation. “It is rare to see you both shying away from a fight.”

Niala looked at the appearing incarnate. “Anaakendi! It's not that we don't want to help! It's just that... we're not at full strength. I can't weave, and David has, huh...” She leaned forward and whispered. “Mana problems.”

The old woman lifted a crystalline brow as she looked the young man up and down. “Really? Mana problems? So young?”

David looked at both women in turn. “...Seriously?”

Niala flashed a smile at him before looking defeated once more. “David could probably cut those tendrils with a fully-powered Heartsong, but we can't get him there safely. We could use a launch, but those aren't all that fast, and if he gets close to that blob, it's going to do everything it can to gobble him up.”

She looked at Anaakendi. “So he needs to be able to move fast! But... I can't weave! Or, not quickly!”

The incarnate woman narrowed her eyes. “And your communing with the winds has not the strength to move him alone...” She ascertained, Niala nodding in confirmation.

Anaakendi looked over the railing as one of the blob's tendril reached up and speared into the Armoured Justice's hull, finding purchase within and flexing as it tried to pull the hard-shelled food down to its main body.

She sighed and turned toward the catkin, stepping up to her and offering her hand palm up.

Niala looked at the hand, and then up at her, ears lop-sided and a question in her eyes.

The incarnate tsked. “Use my power. I have never told you, but I believe you have an ability similar to a magivore. If you-”

“I know.” Niala cut her off.

Anaakendi blinked. “...Ah, well, that simplifies things. Grab my hand, then, and use what you need. Strengthen your voice, enough for the wind to carry this brute within its embrace.”

David furrowed his brow. “Hey-”

Niala slapped her hand on Anaakendi's, grasping it tight, and unleashed her mana's hunger. She gasped as something filled her lungs. With her other hand, she reached out toward the winds.

Where before she was speaking to it, now she could shout. Air currents pooled around her stretched fingers like an eager swarm of silvered fish.

She turned her sight and hand toward her husband.

David did a double-take when he saw her eyes.

They looked like amethyst tornadoes.

He started taking a step back. “Huh, kitten? Maybe go easyyYYYYYY-”

The word died in his throat as he was picked up like a rag and launched on a sideways pillar of solid wind.

David didn't have time to register the surprised and confused shouts of man overboard. He was already out of earshot by the time they were uttered, flying in a straight line toward the nearest flesh tendril.

He barely had the time to extend his hand and pulse his mana, gripping Heartsong with both hands as it appeared in an indigo flash and extended to its full five metre length.

He zipped past the first tendril, blade held to his side and cleaving through the tense flesh as if it were gossamer.

The limb snapped like a rubber band. The top part flew up but hung on, flopping back down against the airship's side.

David was already being banked around and aimed at another tentacle.

Another pass, another rubbery limb cut in half.

He distantly heard cheers. He couldn't tell where they were coming from.

All he could manage was to hold on, keep the blade steady, and look grim.

More out of suppressed panic than actual determination, but the outward effect fooled anyone who managed a look.

Niala wove her husband around like an angry flying one-sided scissor.

To onlookers, he was a grim-faced flying guardian encased in blue fire, wielding a divine energy blade that left a trail of indigo light.

And then the winds began jerking him left and right, dodging a sudden forest of grasping flesh vines.

It was all he could do to not black out.

A bead of sweat rolled down Niala's brow as she put her entire focus on her wind-granted vision and swerving David through the hundreds of small tentacles trying to grab him.

To her side, Anaakendi grunted and shivered even as the tempestuous storm filling her form grew dimmer by the second. “Girl, you are draining too much. I will not last more than a minute, if even.”

Niala gritted her teeth. “I'm sorry, but if I slow down, it'll catch David.”

“Then, urgh, hurry.”

Niala glanced at the incarnate for a fraction of a second, seeing the pained expression on her face. She steeled her gaze and refocused on David.

Sorry, trumpet. We have to go faster.

And David went faster.

Just as Niala pushed David even faster, the Alchemical Star completed its repositioning.

Three dozen crewmen lined up on the other side of the deck, with bins of mana stones between them. Orders went out, and they began flinging the stones overboard. A small, haphazard, glinting waterfall caught the dawning sun's light as they fell down to the forest floor below.

The blob reacted almost immediately, sending tendrils to try and catch them out of the sky, or greedily snatching them up from the ground.

As the number of mana candies grew, it pulled away its attention from the recalcitrant mana-filled thing up above.

It stopped generating new grasping appendages toward it, maintaining the ones in place like an afterthought, ignoring the ones which were being cut.

And then, as its main body was torn between trying to ooze toward the field of mana sprouting to its side and its limbs holding the airship, it made a decision.

It went for the easy meal, and let go.

Its limb went slack and fell away. The blob, no longer held back, bounded toward the mana-stone field, positioning itself under the unabating rain.

Projectors flashed. Commands were received and executed.

All at once, the five airships diverted all power to their contra-lift plates and shot upward, to an altitude that was hopefully out of reach of the blob.

The flow of mana stones stopped. All guns went silent, and, as the sun crested the horizon, a deafening roar of triumph rang out from the ascending flotilla.