~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sweat dripping down his bare chest, Gen carried the sixteen-point buck by himself, the creature draped over his shoulders as he moved steadily through the village. Nodding at the women in passing, he smiled as they fawned over him, every eye upon him and the massive prize he carried. Who else in the village could do such a feat, not only killing the beast, but carrying it unaided? None of their husbands or brothers, that was sure.

A shame it was going to the worthless bandit Baledagh and his whore Qing-Qing. He tried to suppress the anger, but it gushed out, his rage mounting as he fumed over the injustice, the voice in his mind telling him to kill her. She should have belonged to him, pure and untainted, the woman he'd had his eye on for years. He'd been patient and kind, bringing her gifts and paying her compliments, but the loathsome, manipulative bitch strung him along with half-glances and fluttering lashes, playing hard to get. Why Pa insisted on feeding this adulterous pair of leeches was a mystery, a waste of effort and resources. It was one injured man, no matter how powerful, if they attacked while he slept, he'd die like any other. How easy it would be to slit Baledagh's throat and bathe in his blood, before having his way with Qing-Qing and rejoicing in her pained cries.

Shaking his head, he dismissed the thought. He'd been so angry lately, a month ago he'd never have entertained anything like this. He was a good man, not some lecherous bandit. Besides, it wasn't worth the risk, Baledagh had been here long enough for the neighbouring villages to learn of his existence, and who knew what friends he had. Pa always said, a secret isn't a secret once shared, word would spread, it was inevitable. Pa was doing the right thing, let the bandit heal and take the whore away from here. She'd regret her decision eventually.

Arriving at the shabby shack, he dropped the carcass to the dirt with a thud. Qing-Qing sat in the doorway, holding a shirt as she gazed upon Baledagh at practice, some meaningless movement, probably all his injured body could handle. Although a hat and veil covered his face, Gen had seen the horrific scars beneath which turned his stomach. The look on Qing-Qing's face filled him with regret, cursing himself for not dragging her into the woods and raping her. He'd wanted to be gentle and loving, but now he saw the stupid bitch was falling in love with her rapist, her body enthralled by her lust despite his horrific appearance. He should break her jaw and teach her what a healthy man was like, not that half-chewed corpse of a bandit.

Neither of them paid him any attention, so he cleared his throat. He brought the food, the least he deserved was a thank you. Qing-Qing turned in annoyance and frowned, as if just noticing his presence, playing at her games. Rebuking him with a harsh whisper, she motioned for him to leave. “Quiet, he's practicing. Thank you for the food, but we'll need more rice tomorrow. Go now, don't disturb him.”

Her dismissal enraged him and in a white flash of anger he strode forward, and grabbed her by the shirt. “Know your place whore! I am the Chief's son, not your little serving boy to be dismissed.” Shaking her vigourously, he continued to yell, unable to control himself. “When he abandons you, I'll have you strung up and beaten like the dog you are. I only hope to be there when he throws you away and see the despair take you. Abandoning your principles for some bandit, when I treated you so well, better than you fucking deserve, you -”

A powerful grip clamped onto his neck and a second on his wrist, wrenching him away from Qing-Qing with a twist. Thrown to the ground, he rolled nimbly to his feet only to catch a fist to the jaw, the taste of salt and iron heavy in his mouth, Baledagh's lithe body standing before him. The world tumbled around him as a second punch caught him in the side of the head, the world going silent at the blow, only a muffled ringing in his ears. It was only the first of several, slow, methodical punches, aimed all over his body. After every hit there came a long pause, and he thought the beating over as he cowered on the ground, only to be picked up and struck again, and again, his world only agony until he mercifully blacked out.

Waking with a start, he shrieked, flinching back at an incoming attack. A warm, soft hand stroked his face as Ma's voice soothed him. “Hush my boy, you're safe now.” Hugging him close, she stroked his hair and whispered kind words as he cried, shaking like a beaten child.

A rough hand patted his shoulder gently, and Gen looked up to see Pa. Contrite and filled with hope, Gen tried to apologize and beg Pa to help him, but his tongue felt three times as large, his mouth swollen and pained. “Hush boy, you sleep now, mouth injuries will do that.” Pa chided him gently. “Idiot son of mine, is the girl worth all this pain and heartache? I tried to tell you, I tried, leave her be. We're but sheep, and the world full of wolves in sheep's clothing, hidden all around us. Such is our lot in life, weakness our burden to carry. You avoid Baledagh from now on, you hear? If you see him, bow and thank him, same goes for the girl. She's the only reason you're still alive, her mercy and the Mother's.”

For the first time, Gen saw defeat in Pa's face, his shoulders slumped and gaze turned away, rambling more insensible things. This was a man who stood tall in the face of monstrous beasts, held his head high when dealing with bandits, negotiated with bow and spear in hand as scum sought to exploit and step over them. The proud, reliable man was gone, replaced by some mouse, frail and weak. Pa couldn't even look him in the eyes, the shame burning away at him, a coward too afraid to seek justice for his own flesh and blood. Pa wanted him to thank Baledagh? A Motherless, half-dead bandit cretin shows up and Pa can't bow and scrape fast enough, catering to his every need, and for what?

Swallowing the bitter betrayal, he curled back up in his bed and ignored them until he was left alone, his anger and hatred choking away at him. Imagining all sorts of torture and retribution visited upon that bitch and bastard pair, he cursed  his worthless existence. Weak, too weak. If only he had strength, real strength. The entire village was probably laughing at him as well, they'd pay too, a worthless bunch. He'd always disdained the bandits, but now he understood. The strong thrive, the weak survive, and he was through merely surviving. He would give anything for strength, step on anyone, do anything. Closing his eyes, he fell into a deep sleep, nodding happily as the whispers lulled him to sleep, promising power and vengeance. A beautiful dream.

Yes, I want it. Power. Give it to me.

Yes, any price will be worth it.

Anything.

Everything.

Chapter Meme
