“Yes, but—”
Welca lowered her hand as Sir Kerrig let go of her hand. He stared at her.
“Do you understand everything I’ve said?”
“I do. But Sir Kerrig—”
“Not now. It’s time to go.”
“Huh?”
She looked up. Sir Kerrig was looking around. He pointed.
“There’s a horse. See it?”
Welca looked and saw a horse tied to a wagon. It was a stallion and clearly unhappy at being forced to pull the wagon. It was pacing irritably, pulling at its tether. Sir Kerrig nodded.
“This tribe doesn’t use horses. They must not be able to work with the wolves. Take it. Use the gemstone if you have to, but get to a village, a town, anything. You’ll be able to reach Lady Bethal from there.”
“Me? What about you?”
Sir Kerrig smiled slightly as Welca looked at him.
“I’m staying. Their leader is unlikely to kill me. The Redfang faction seems to have a sense of honor as well. But Lady Bethal must know.”
“But Sir Kerrig—”
“No arguments. That Hobgoblin—Pyrite—seems willing to listen to me. If I can influence him, or talk to their Chieftain…I have to stay, Welca. If there’s a chance we can avoid this tribe running amok—it’s unlikely our order would manage to subdue them alone. They would escape again and again, and worse, begin to retaliate. Tell Lady Bethal that, and everything you’ve seen.”
“Sir Kerrig—”
Welca grabbed his shoulder. He looked at her, and she stared at him. Then she grabbed his arm.
“I will return.”
“I have no doubt.”
He grasped her arm and then turned. The Goblins sitting around their wagon looked up as Sir Kerrig and Welca jumped out. The Redfang Hob with the spear raised it and then seemed to sense what was happening. He whistled shrilly, and more Goblins and Hobs poured out of the darkness.
Five Hobgoblins, eight regular Redfang Warriors. Redfang Warriors, which meant the odds were worse than when they’d been attacked in the swamp. Sir Kerrig looked around.
“I am Sir Kerrig Louis. [Knight] in service to Lady Bethal Walchaís.”
The Hob with the spear laughed. Sir Kerrig eyed him. The Hob was strong, fit, young. Sir Kerrig nodded to him as Welca edged backwards, looking for a way out of the circle.
“Welca, don’t move until I fall.”
“Understood.”
The [Knight] felt the cold air on his skin. The Hob had leather armor. Not metal. Good. Sir Kerrig raised his fists, taking a boxer’s lowered stance. The Redfang Hob blinked and then grinned. He tossed away his spear and put up his fists, copying the [Knight]. The other four Hobs and eight Goblins watched silently. Sir Kerrig waited until the Hob swung and then blocked the blow with one hand. As the Hob gaped, his other fist came up and lashed out.
The trick to being a prisoner was to teach the enemy just how strong you were in a fight beforehand so they’d lower their guard. Welca had yet to learn that.
 
—-
 
Victory. Rags rode through the forest, flushed with battle fury. She hadn’t done more than cast a spell, but her tactics had crushed the Humans. It had been flawless, easy, even. Almost disappointing.
Almost. The Humans had fought with their backs to the wall. They’d killed Goblins, Redfang Warriors—exacting a bitter price for victory. Rags glanced at the three Goblins running to keep up with her Carn Wolf. Each one was wounded. Two Hobs and a Goblin. Of the Goblins who’d attacked Welca, only three had survived. All of them had gone in with the first wave, taken the brunt of the Humans’ arrows and spells. Those that remained were warriors. They’d paid the price of treachery in battle.
It was a fair thing. Rags put them out of her mind and raced into the clearing where the noncombatants had been kept. She was set to celebrate, to meet the Frostfeeder tribe and rejoice, when she saw the commotion ahead. Several Redfang Warriors were surrounding a shape, a Human sitting by the wagon. A lone Human. Rags’ blood ran cold.
Sir Kerrig was sitting against one of the wagon wheels, surrounded by Redfang Warriors. He was cross-legged, smiling slightly. His face and upper body were swollen, and dark bruises stood out on his skin. Around him lay five Hobs and the eight Goblins. All unconscious, some of them groaning.
“What happened?”
Rags said the words stupidly as she jumped down and looked at the Goblins. They were all alive. None of them were holding weapons. Sir Kerrig gestured to them and winced.
“They fought me one-on-one. Each of the Hobs, one after another. Barehanded. I did not expect that.”
“You did? Where is other?”
Rags shouted at Sir Kerrig. He just smiled at her and winced.
“I apologize. But we are similar.”
He smiled at the young Goblin Chieftain as she screamed at him and then ducked when she jumped at him with her sword. Rags didn’t mean to kill him, but it still took three Redfang Goblins to hold her back before Pyrite arrived. The Hob took one look at the situation and then at Sir Kerrig.
“Good idea?”
Sir Kerrig shrugged.
“I have my duty, Sir Pyrite.”
The Hob nodded. He looked at Sir Kerrig and motioned. Sir Kerrig stood up. Pyrite grunted.
“I have, too.”
Pyrite swung first, and Sir Kerrig dodged back. He was lunging when Pyrite stepped out of the way and kicked Sir Kerrig in the chest. The blow cracked Sir Kerrig against the cart, and when he looked up, Pyrite’s fist was the last thing he saw for the next six hours.
 
—-
 
That night, Pyrite and the Goblins passed the road where the bloodshed had taken place. Sir Kerrig looked around, his head still ringing, and shuddered at the carnage. The Human bodies had been stripped of armor and weaponry, but they had been piled together and burned. Goblins were as aware of the undead threat as much as any other race.
“Were there any survivors?”
“Some. Humans run away, drop weapons. Chieftain say no follow.”
Redscar grunted at him. The Redfang leader was the only Goblin willing to talk to Sir Kerrig. Pyrite was busy, and Rags was still incensed. But Redscar and the Redfang Warriors had had something of the opposite reaction; they’d accorded Sir Kerrig a lot of respect for taking out five Hobs in a row. Enough so that Redscar himself was riding his Carn Wolf alongside Sir Kerrig on a pony. There was no doubt that he was going to be under heavy guard from now on.
But it was worth it if Welca could get away. Sir Kerrig sighed. She was a junior [Knight], but no member of the Knights of the Petal was ever admitted without reaching at least Level 20, which was the prerequisite for the [Knight] class anyways. So long as she had the horse, she could probably outrun any danger. As for brigands…
“Hey. Big fight. Goblins win. Good thing, eh?”
Redscar grinned at Sir Kerrig, gesturing at the burned bodies and bloody, churned ground. Sir Kerrig opened his mouth to reply and caught himself. Redscar was much like a [Soldier], a seasoned warrior who had no qualms about a bloodbath, so long as his side wasn’t the one dying. Mutely, the [Knight] nodded.
“A Goblin victory, indeed, Sir Redscar.”
The Goblin preened. They were happy to be called ‘Sir’, Kerrig had noticed. The [Knight] glanced around and asked a question to change the subject.
“The rest of your tribe is marching to the campsite, but I would have expected your Chieftain to make a speech at least. Have you no songs to sing in victory?”
“None. Too noisy. Brings trouble.”
Redscar grinned. Sir Kerrig looked dismayed.
“If this were a Human army, there would be feasting. Toasts. Do Goblins lack celebration—rituals of any kind?”
“No. Chieftain does Chieftain thing. Sometimes feast. This Chieftain and old Chieftain don’t. But good thing anyways.”
“What thing?”
Redscar didn’t elaborate. Slowly, he and Sir Kerrig rode past the battlefield, towards the ranks of Goblin warriors. Some were injured, but the vast majority were simply tired. Tired and unharmed. They stared up at Rags as she turned her Carn Wolf to face them.
The Goblin warriors waited in silence. Their red eyes shone as they stared up at their Chieftain. Rags raised her sword and fire burned from her hands. It lit up the darkness, and the Goblins stared at her. Their Chieftain.
Sir Kerrig didn’t see a signal. No Goblin spoke, not one made a move. But as one, the Goblins raised their hands. Those that held weapons thrust them into the air. They held them there, silently, a war cry without sound, a speech without words. And yet every line in their bodies screamed the message to the watching Human.
Triumph. Slowly, the Goblins lowered their weapons, and then they laughed, clapped each other on the back, and Rags pointed. The Goblin warriors marched down the road, the rest of the Flooded Waters tribe following. They held their heads high, full of pride.
Sir Kerrig found his eyes stinging, though he couldn’t say why. Wonder at something he couldn’t comprehend? Empathy? Relief? Disappointment? Regret?
Envy?
Whatever it was, the emotion followed him as he gently urged his pony forwards. The [Knight] rode after the Goblins, a watcher, an observer, a stranger among a strange…people. Watching, listening, judging. And hoping he could change them. So that monsters could be more like people. So the people who looked like monsters could live with real people.
 
—-
 
The tribe marched, the tribe camped. The Goblins divvied up the loot, used a mixture of healing potions and some herbs to create a balm for the itchy bug bites, ate, and slept. Afterwards, when the patrols were keeping watch and the rest of the Goblins were sleeping happily, two Goblins met near a crossroads. A signpost pointed north, southwest, and east. One of the Goblins, the bigger one by far, stared at the sign.
“Lots of places.”
“Human places. We go that way.”
Rags pointed south dismissively. She eyed the Human writing. Names. Useless names. She shook her head as Pyrite inspected the words, always curious. The Hob had taken no injuries from the battle, but he still itched a bit from his bug bites in the swamp, especially on his back.
He leaned against a large wooden post planted in the earth next to the crossroads sign. Its surface was rough; it might make a good back scratcher. It was hard for Pyrite to reach his back, and it was more fun to scratch his back like bears did. You could learn a lot of tricks from animals, he’d discovered. Rags watched him with interest for three seconds and then got bored.
“Human ran away.”
“Welca Caveis. Human [Knight].”
Rags shrugged.
“Other Human stay. Why?”
Pyrite grunted and shrugged. Rags kicked him. She didn’t have time for his fake ignorance. Pyrite chewed at his lip and then responded.
“Wants to learn. See Goblins. Thinks Goblins are like people.”
“Like people? Like Humans?”
“Mm.”
Rags made a disgusted noise and spat.
“Goblins are like Goblins. Watch Human. Don’t let run.”
“Other Humans more dangerous.”
The Chieftain nodded reluctantly.
“Other Humans follow. But Goblins move faster. Liscor is not Human place. We go. They don’t follow.”
“Yes, Chieftain.”
That was it. The two Goblins stood in silence for a second, and then Rags grunted.
“Get balm for back. Back scratching look stupid.”
She walked off. Pyrite stopped scratching himself like a bear and considered she might be right. Then again, it was sort of fun. He continued scratching his back as Rags went to her bedroll and lay down.
A battle, an escape, magic in stones…it was another Goblin day. An ordinary day? She’d killed Humans. Lots of them. They’d been killing Goblins, but—
“Hey Rags! I didn’t see you there! When did you come in?”
A voice echoed. Rags turned her head towards her campfire and saw another fire. Warmer, welcoming. She heard a voice. She smelled pasta, slightly overcooked, and heard a young woman’s voice. Rags saw her face, staring, eyes open, a hundred times. On the dead. She shuddered.
“Humans kill Goblins. Goblins kill Humans. Humans kill Humans. Goblins kill Goblins.”
She could feel him in the distance. He was close and far. He knew her. He was near the mountain, she was sure. The Goblin Lord. There were Humans hunting Goblins. Bethal and the Human [Lord] and…
She felt uneasy. Bad. As if she was being hunted now. Ever since they’d marched out of the swamp, she’d felt bad. Something was coming.
The Goblin Lord. The Humans. Tremborag. Rags curled up into a ball in the blankets. Just for a moment, she imagined she was safe and back in an inn, scowling, but secretly pleased, playing chess, drinking sweet blue juice…
“H—h—”
“Hello.”
“Hello, Erin.”
“Hi.”
“Hello. I am Rags.”
“My name is Rags.”
“I wanted to say—want to say—say…”
“…”
 
[Chieftain Level 20!]
[Skill – Tribe: Scavenger Armor Obtained!]
 
“Thank you.”
