“That’s impossible. Goblins always—”
Welca yelped as Sir Kerrig kicked her in the ankle. 
“Really?”
Pyrite nodded.
“Was Chieftain. Goldstone Tribe. Never fought Humans.”
“You were a Chieftain?”
“Mm.”
The two [Knights] exchanged a glance. Once again, Pyrite waited without elaborating. It was Welca who asked a question next. She couldn’t help herself.
“Goldstone? Why was your tribe called that?”
Predictably, Pyrite shrugged.
“Gathered gold stones. For fun.”
“What? That’s it?”
Welca’s skepticism put a frown on Pyrite’s face for the first time in the conversation. He grunted, stood up. The [Knights] watched him warily. Pyrite paused, farted. Welca recoiled.
“Sorry.”
Pyrite fanned apologetically at his backside and walked off. Sir Kerrig coughed. It was a…floral scent in the air, horribly corrupted by other smells. He looked at Welca.
“Did that question offend him?”
“I have no idea! Sir Kerrig, why are we talking to a Hobgoblin?”
“I don’t know. But isn’t it fascinating that he’s able to respond? His command of our language was rough, but he answered every question!”
“It’s not fascinating, it’s disturbing. Goblins speaking our language? What next? And what was that question about peace, Sir Kerrig? What about Velan the Kind?”
“If there’s a chance, Welca, I’d rather see less death, especially if this tribe takes the offensive. Maybe if we—”
“Hold on. It’s coming back. He—I mean.”
Welca pointed. Pyrite had walked off. Now he was returning with a large hemp sack. It was quite old and very dirty, but it had no holes. Pyrite sat back down next to the two [Knights]. He rummaged in the dirty sack as Welca edged back as much as she could. Sir Kerrig waited curiously. Neither Human was prepared for the glittering, shimmering nuggets that shone in Pyrite’s hand.
“Gold!”
The raised voices attracted some attention from the main Goblin tribe. A few Goblins looked over, grunted, and looked away. Pyrite held up a handful of shining gold nuggets. Sir Kerrig gaped until he realized something.
“That’s not gold. That’s—pyrite.”
Pyrite grunted and smiled. He was holding nuggets of pyrite, the crystalized, hard fool’s gold glinting and rubbing together. Flakes of it fell to the ground as he placed it on the ground. Then he reached into his bag and pulled out another handful. Pyrite pieces, larger hunks, and there, gleaming among the fake gold—
“Is that a nugget?”
Welca’s breath caught in her chest. Pyrite glanced dismissively at the duller gleam among the pyrite. It was a gold nugget as thick as two of the Hob’s fat fingers put together and nearly as long. Welca stared at it. Pyrite picked it up.
“Hm. Nugget?”
“That means a piece of gold. That is gold, isn’t it?”
“Nugget. Mm. Yes. Is gold.”
Pyrite shrugged.
“Worthless.”
He inspected the gold nugget carelessly and tossed it into the mud. The pyrite gleamed as Pyrite held it up.
“This is better. Lighter. Shiny.”
“What?”
That seemed to be Welca’s phrase of the day. She stared at the pyrite and then pointed at the gold nugget.
“How is that worthless? You could sell this and buy something! Armor! Weapons! Enchanted goods!”
“Humans can. Goblins can’t.”
Pyrite shrugged, which was his action of the day. He turned his head, and Sir Kerrig jumped as he saw several Goblin children had crept up on them, attracted by the glitter. They fled when the [Knight] looked at him, but a few of the braver ones edged behind Pyrite. One pointed towards the gold nugget. Another grabbed for it.
The darting hand was quick, but Pyrite was faster. He held up the thieving Goblin child and spoke a word in their crude language. The Goblin child shrieked as Pyrite tossed him—no, her—over his shoulder. The child landed lightly and then got up and gabbled at Pyrite. She pointed at the gold nugget, clearly desiring it. Pyrite replied without turning his head. The child stomped her feet and then ran off into the swamp.
“What was that about?”
Welca looked blankly at the child. Sir Kerrig looked away. A Goblin child. You saw them in tribes. Not usually among warriors. But when a Goblin tribe had to be eradicated, there were always the children at the end. It was easy if you had [Mages]. They could just cast a spell. Otherwise you had to chase them down, and it was with a sword that you had to—
No one talked about that part of duty. After the first time, it was…easier. Welca had yet to participate in that exercise, Kerrig was sure. He saw Pyrite staring at him and turned his head. Before he could muster the courage to say anything, before he could push away memory, the Goblin child was back. She had a bowl filled with something black and squirming. Welca took one look and nearly leapt backwards.
“What is—”
“Tadpoles.”
Pyrite inspected the full bowl approvingly. The tadpoles had been washed with water, although they were still slimy and wet. They wriggled about in the air, many already still and lifeless. The Hob grunted, and the child held it up. She spoke a word, and he nodded.
The Hob held the gold nugget out to the Goblin child, and in front of Welca’s disbelieving eyes, exchanged the gold for the handful of wriggling tadpoles. Pyrite grunted as the child ran off, cackling and holding the nugget aloft to show to her friends. The Hobgoblin began popping the tadpoles into his mouth, one by one. Welca turned green and gray with horror.
“You can’t eat those!”
“Hmm.”
Pyrite thought about that as he swallowed.
“Can.”
Oblivious to her horror and Sir Kerrig’s lurching stomach, he scooped several of the black things up and popped them into his mouth. When he chewed, both Humans had to look away. A short recess ensued until Pyrite finished his bowl. When he had put it down, Sir Kerrig pointed at the pyrite lying on the ground.
“You said it’s useless? So your tribe collected the stones for…fun?”
Pyrite nodded and then seemed to reconsider. He shook his head instead.
“Not always worthless. Sometimes useful.”
“How?”
“Human bait.”
The Hob grunted as both Humans stared at him incredulously. He held up a big piece of pyrite which shone in the light filtering down from above.
“When Humans come to attack tribe, used this. Toss at adventurers. Or army. Big stone, or many small ones. Shiny red stones, blue stones…makes stop. Causes big fight.”
Sir Kerrig tried to imagine the Hob heaving pieces of gold at an attacking army. Welca made a disbelieving sound.
“That works?”
“Mm. Sometimes.”
“You mean, you threw gold and pyrite at Humans to get them to fight over that? And—shiny red stones? Do you mean rubies?”
“Rubies?”
Pyrite looked blank. Sir Kerrig tried to explain. Pyrite nodded.
“Shiny red stone. Is ruby. What is shiny blue stone called?”
“Sapphires. At least—some kinds of sapphires are blue.”
“Sapphires.”
Pyrite savored the word thoughtfully. He frowned and fished around in his sack. This time, he produced a cobalt-blue sapphire gem, the size of an egg.
“Here.”
Welca’s eyes went round as Pyrite offered her the polished sapphire. She nearly reached out to take it, stared at Pyrite, and yanked her hands back. She glared at him, but her eyes kept flicking to the sapphire he held. The Hob waggled it in front of her.
“Take.”
Slowly, Welca held her hands out. Pyrite dropped the stone into her palms, and Welca nearly dropped it. She held it up.
“Dead gods. It’s polished! And cut!”
“Mm. Lots of work.”
“You did that?”
Sir Kerrig stared at Pyrite. The Hob nodded. He flicked his fingers at the stone.
“Many stones. Learn to make shiny so Humans fight harder. You want?”
He addressed Welca. She jumped.
“Want? You don’t want it back?”
“No. Keep.”
The young woman stared at him, at a loss for words. Sir Kerrig knew that Welca was a third daughter. Her family had to have gems, but one this big? Perhaps, but the odds of one being passed to a younger daughter was—his fingers twitched, and Pyrite noticed.
“Want?”
He fished in his bag and came out with a piece of polished turquoise. He offered it to Sir Kerrig.
“Are you sure?”
The [Knight]’s fingers trembled as he stroked the lovely gem. Pyrite didn’t care so much about shape as much as shine, so the gemstone was somewhat lopsided, but you’d only see quality of this kind in a shop for [Mages] seeking stones for magic or a high-class [Jewelers]’s. It was certainly nothing Sir Kerrig would ever own himself. But Pyrite just nodded, as if it meant nothing for him to give away.
“Many. Can find in mountains. Not hard.”
The two Humans stared at him. The Hob smiled. He looked slightly proud that his gemstones were the subject of so much attention. Sir Kerrig remembered what he’d said. Human bait.
“Question.”
It was Pyrite who asked a question. Both Humans stiffened, and Sir Kerrig carefully laid down the piece of turquoise.
“Yes? I—we would be happy to answer any questions you have, Sir Pyrite.”
He glanced at Welca. She opened her mouth, nearly fumbled the sapphire, and closed it. Pyrite nodded.
“Good. Question. Magic. How does it work?”
Sir Kerrig paused.
“What do you mean, how does it work? Are you asking about how it functions? How magic spells are created? Or cast?”
“Mm. No.”
Pyrite shook his head. He pointed across the tribe of sitting Goblins, at Rags. She was sitting on a log, shooting flames upwards and scowling as Noears talked with her.
“Magic. How?”
“How what?”
Welca’s eyebrows crossed as she started to get annoyed. Pyrite looked at her and scratched his head.
“How everything?”
 
—-
 
So the [Knights] explained magic to the Hobgoblin. They sat and talked about it. None of them could cast magic. Welca had very little aptitude, so she had decided to be a [Knight] instead of a [Mage]. Sir Kerrig hadn’t been tested, so he’d never learned. And Pyrite had too many questions. And try as they might, Welca and Sir Kerrig didn’t have enough answers.
“Magic is a fundamental force in this world. It is a part of everything, to some degree.”
“Why?”
Sir Kerrig paused. He knew enough about magic from spending time with [Mage Knights] in Lady Bethal’s service. Of course, he knew more practical lessons like how to survive a [Fireball], but he still understood magical theory. Except that some questions were just…
“It just is. Magic is a constant in the universe. Mages can draw on it to cast spells.”
“How?”
“They harness it!”
Welca looked annoyed. She raised a hand, and a slight breeze blew towards Pyrite. He furrowed his brows and stared at her hands.
“See? There! Magic! Most species have the talent!”
“How, though? How can harness?”
“They exert their willpower and magic obeys.”
“Why?”
“Because—it just does!”
“Where does magic go when used?”
“It takes the shape of what spell was cast.”
“Where new magic come from?”
“From…people? Plants? The ground?”
“Why?”
“It just does! People produce mana. Plants produce mana. Just a tiny bit, but enough in most cases! Mana’s everywhere. Some places it’s stronger, other places it’s not.”
“Mm. What does it want?”
“What?”
“What does magic want?”
Pyrite looked from face to face. Welca and Sir Kerrig traded glances. Welca was the first to speak in a strained voice.
“Magic doesn’t want anything.”
“Mm. It does.”
“No, it doesn’t.”
Pyrite shrugged. It seemed to be his response whenever anyone said something he found silly. Welca inhaled, choked on a flying bug, and started coughing. Pyrite sighed. He looked around wistfully. The swamp was filled with insects, and Sir Kerrig had already given up on counting his bites. Pyrite didn’t seem to mind the bites on his skin. He rumbled a complaint as Welca spat out the bug.
“Magic makes no sense. Goblin magic makes some sense.”
“Goblin magic?”
“Mm. Like this.”
Pyrite turned and bellowed a word. A hundred Goblin heads looked towards him and several of the Redfang Goblins on watch jumped to their feet. Pyrite shouted a few more Goblin words as Welca and Kerrig winced at his volume. The Goblins stared at him. Pyrite shouted a word at them. The Goblins all nodded and turned back to what they were doing.
“What was—”
Welca gasped as Pyrite turned and held out his hand. A ball of flame erupted from his palm, bright and hot, chasing away the bugs around him. Pyrite held the flame, tossed it up, and then flicked it. It soared past Welca and Sir Kerrig as they ducked, and it splashed onto the ground. There it burned for a few seconds before going out on the wet ground. Calmly, Pyrite brushed at his palms as Welca stared at him.
“What was that?”
“Goblin magic.”
“Shamanism. Tribal magic.”
Sir Kerrig’s voice was only slightly shaken. He looked at Pyrite.
“How did you do that?”
The Hobgoblin shrugged. He pointed backwards at all the Goblins he’d shouted at.
“Fire. Told them to think of fire.”
“And why does that work?”
“Because Goblins believe.”
“What? That makes no sense! How does that make fire?”
“Because they believe. Why does magic spell make fire?”
“Because—wait, hold on. That’s not fair!”
Pyrite smiled. Sir Kerrig stared at the smile and found it human. Despite himself, he smiled back.
 
—-
 
Somehow, Welca found herself talking with Pyrite. Somehow, Sir Kerrig found himself chatting to the Hob about combat tactics and what it was like being a Goblin. Somehow, they had a normal conversation in the swamp, as bugs buzzed around them, and the tribe’s lunch ended and they began to pack up.
It was surreal. But somehow, it felt like they were just talking to a stranger. A green, heavy stranger with a sack full of precious gemstones and crimson eyes. Named Pyrite.
“Why don’t you use magic if you know how? Why don’t you have the [Shaman] class?”
“Want to be [Mage].”
“Why?”
Pyrite shrugged.
“Shamans concentrate hard. [Mages] use spells like…”
He gestured, flicking his hands.
“Easy. Want that. Too hard to dodge and use shaman magic. Small tribe magic not any good anyways. Also, no other Goblins want to be [Shaman].”
“Why not?”
Pyrite paused.
“Humans kill Goblin [Mages] first. Big target.”
And then there was that. Every so often, every few minutes, the conversation would grind to a halt for a moment. The divide between Goblins and Humans would appear in the most innocuous of places. It hung over the three of them, Sir Kerrig most of all.
You killed us. You kill us. We will kill you, and you might kill us. But we’re all sitting around like people. We call you monsters. And you—speak. You gave us gifts.
