Pyrite waved again. He didn’t feel like shouting. The [Knight] stared at him, and Pyrite pointed. Towards the moving tribe. The [Knight] nodded and sat back.
Talk? What a thought. Talk to Humans? Pyrite didn’t know what to make of it. Fortunately, he didn’t have to worry; there wouldn’t be time for talk right now. The tribe was moving and that meant he had a job to do.
 
—-
 
The issue of the traitorous Goblins had only taken around ten minutes to settle, from Pyrite finding them, to Rags passing her judgment. Not much time was wasted, and already the tribe was moving on. They needed a good spot to camp for midday—squatting in ankle deep water wasn’t appealing at all. However, the mud and difficulty of lugging the wagons meant the beasts of burden had to rest. Rags had Hobs take over as the bemused horses, donkeys, and other animals got to plod along next to grumbling Hobs pushing and pulling the wagons.
Pyrite strode back into the convoy as Rags watched. Each of her officers had a duty at times like these. Redscar was usually the scout, occasionally with Quietstab and his Goblins on foot. But usually Rags would keep a few of her better leaders in reserve in case of an attack. Poisonbite, for instance, usually marched with her warriors. But the rest of her Hobs and officers were spread around the marching tribe. To deal with problems.
What kind of problems? Just…problems. Most Hobs could handle things like a Goblin picking up a stick that turned out to be a biting snake. But sometimes Hobs got into trouble, like one that somehow shoved a stick up their nose and couldn’t get it out. Stupid problems, sometimes fairly dangerous problems. It was that which Pyrite sorted out, pulling out sticks, breaking up fights, making sure wagons didn’t get stuck or run over other Goblins, and so on. It wasn’t Rags’ duty to deal with squabbling; she got to ride along in peace until a major problem occurred.
So Rags occupied herself as she rode. She rode up to a band of Goblins sitting on a wagon, a mark of privilege. Noears grinned at Rags as all the hair on her Carn Wolf tried to stand on end. Her wolf grumbled, but Rags patted his head and offered him some meat. She rode closer and saw Noears was holding some crackling electricity in his hand.
“Chieftain.”
“What teaching?”
She pointed at the lightning. Noears grinned and pointed around. Rags saw he was surrounded by fourteen adults and eight children, some of whom were clinging to the sides of the wagon since there wasn’t enough space.
Noears was teaching them magic. Rags wanted to know what kind. Noears pointed, and the lightning in his hands jumped onto his finger and shot across the swamp. There was a crack and a thwoom of sound—all the Goblins around Rags jumped, and several Carn Wolves howled. Rags glared at Noears, her ears ringing. He just laughed and held up his claws.
“[Lightning Bolt].”
All the Goblins around Noears stared at the Goblin [Mage]. He produced another handful of electricity, and they ducked. Rags felt her Carn Wolf shift and patted his head. She raised her hands and tried to duplicate Noears’ feat.
Goblins didn’t believe in small spells. The theory was that if you were going to learn magic, you might as well learn something useful. Who needed [Electric Jolt] when you could learn to throw lightning? Noears certainly believed in that theory; he described the spell as the Goblins listened intently.
“Lightning go like this. Build up. In air. In hands. And then—shoot!”
He gestured. The simple explanation made more sense with his gestures, although the concept was abstract. He was telling the Goblins to build up a charge in the air, similar to how it felt right before a really big storm. Then to concentrate it in their hands and reach a critical mass of energy before unleashing it. All the Goblins concentrated, trying to reproduce Noears’ theory with varying degrees of success.
Rags watched the lesson, mildly upset. None of the Goblins here had any formal training. None of them had ever unleashed their magic like Pisces had done for her and Erin. Noears’ explanation of the spell was rudimentary, crude. It was how he’d taught himself. Rags thought of Pisces’ detailed explanations of how a spell should work. If she’d learned more—
But she hadn’t. And Noears was a better [Mage] than she. All Rags knew was how to cast [Firefly] and now [Fire Arrow], a spell Noears had taught her. The Goblins sitting on the wagon were all gifted, prodigies who’d awakened magic within themselves. They’d learn the spell—or not—and their chances of survival would depend on how much they could discover about magic from Noears or by themselves.
There was a bitter sense of fairness to it, in a way. Not even the Chieftain got special treatment. Rags concentrated, trying to form the image that Noears had described. Electricity crackled around her fingers but failed to coalesce.
Lightning. It made less sense to her than fire. Fire was easy. All Rags had to do was feed it her mana and let it burn. Noears wasn’t good at fire, though. He understood making this energy come to him. How? Rags furrowed her brow, sweating as her Carn Wolf whined under his breath. Lightning, lightning…this was the problem. Noears was a lightning expert, and she was fire.
Still, Rags persisted. She built up a charge with the other Goblins, trying to collect energy and not let it slip away. This was magic. It was tough, like wrapping your mind around a problem you only half understood, could only think of in abstract terms. Once you got it, you understood. But until then…
“Chieftain? Break?”
Rags opened her eyes. She was sweating and covered in many bug bites. She saw Pyrite walking next to her and realized the tribe had stopped. The swampland had opened up into a slightly drier area, and the Goblins were setting up for lunch and a break. Rags looked at Noears’ students and saw most of the Goblins were lying around, listless, having used up their mana. She wasn’t that badly off, but she was fairly tired herself. She nodded and leapt off her Carn Wolf.
“Lunch.”
Pyrite nodded.
“I go talk. You?”
He looked at her. Rags scowled. Noears was making a bit of lightning jump from his hands to a young Goblin child’s, laughing as the small Goblin shrieked with glee. She stomped over to the fires.
“I practice.”
She wished she had a spellbook. Or Pisces. Magic was so difficult when there was no one to explain it! And Rags wasn’t good at intuitive magic, self-taught like the way Noears and the other Goblin [Mages] cast spells. She liked books. She liked reading.
Of course, she liked being a Chieftain more. Her ears perked up as Redscar rode towards her. Rags walked towards him as the Goblin leapt out of his saddle. She didn’t notice Pyrite wandering over to the Humans. They weren’t particularly interesting. What could Pyrite possibly have to talk with them about?
 
—-
 
“Thank you for talking with me. And thank you for assisting us earlier.”
“No need.”
“Excuse me?”
“Bad goblins. Disobeyed orders. Punished. No need thank.”
“I see. Well, you have my thanks regardless.”
“Mm.”
They sat in front of each other, eating fish. Pyrite’s was cooked with bones and eyes intact—Sir Kerrig’s had been deboned first. They were wrapped in thick, broad leaves to keep the temperature, and by his side, Sir Kerrig saw Welca peeling off the skin of her fish with a look of disgust. She was used to travelling, camping in miserable conditions, and so forth, but always on pre-prepared rations. Welca was a typical [Knight] in that she went on quests, expeditions against monsters. She didn’t live off the land.
The fish was tasty, if slightly bland. The seasoning was light, and hunger was the best spice for this meal. Sir Kerrig sat cross-legged as Pyrite casually swatted at a fly and crunched on the bones of his fish. The Hob ate his fish, the leaves that had held it, and then pulled out a bundle. He opened it and produced several rich, fragrant soaps. Welca stopped eating and stared. Her mouth dropped open as Pyrite began eating the soap.
“What in the name of…?”
“Welca.”
Sir Kerrig nudged her. He stared, fascinated, as Pyrite began consuming the soaps, biting off pieces and grunting in satisfaction. The [Knight] cleared his throat, and Pyrite looked up.
“Sir…Pyrite?”
“Mm.”
Pyrite’s ears twitched slightly. He seemed to enjoy being called by his name. Sir Kerrig stared at him. He was so quiet, so patient. He’d spoken very little when he’d come over with the fish, save to speak his name and warn them the fish were hot. Still, that alone had seemed so…normal.
“My name is Pyrite.”
“Fish are hot.”
The second sentence was crude, but each word was pronounced correctly, and the Hob didn’t stumble. He seemed to be at ease sitting with the Humans, although he kept glancing from Welca to Kerrig. There was nothing for it but to talk. So Kerrig did. He took a deep breath and spoke.
“What does your tribe want of us, Sir Pyrite?”
The Hob paused in chewing a piece of soap. He swallowed, burped unapologetically, and then shrugged.
“Don’t know. Chieftain decides.”
Welca and Sir Kerrig exchanged a quick glance.
“Do you want a ransom? It may be that Lady Bethal would consider it. But she has no idea we’re alive—”
“Mm. Not really. Chieftain doesn’t want. She decides.”
“So we’re prisoners then? For…?”
Sir Kerrig’s voice trailed off. Pyrite stared at him, shrugged.
“Chieftain decides.”
That was a dead end. Sir Kerrig nodded.
“I understand. Then may I ask another question?”
“Yes.”
The Human paused. Pyrite looked up, face blank. Not a hint of laughter was on his face, not the smallest glimmer of a smile. And yet, it was there, right in his eyes. Sir Kerrig felt himself flailing, off-guard. Welca was just staring. Was this a Goblin? Was this a Hob? Unintentionally, Sir Kerrig asked the important question, rather than a trivial one.
“What does your tribe want? What do Goblins want?”
“To live.”
The answer came back so quickly that it was a shock. Sir Kerrig waited, but Pyrite said nothing more. He chewed and swallowed.
“To live? Surely there must be something else.”
Pyrite flicked his eyes up towards the trees above. He scratched at an insect bite, shook his head.
“No. To live. Tribe wants. Goblins want. To live. Nothing else.”
“But what is your tribe doing next?”
Pyrite frowned, and Sir Kerrig wondered if he’d asked the wrong question. But Pyrite just shrugged. He pointed.
“Go that way.”
Both Humans turned and looked. They saw swamp, they saw trees. Dismayed, Sir Kerrig looked back at Pyrite.
“Sir Pyrite. We are your prisoners.”
“Mhm.”
Another pause.
“You’ve treated us well, with hospitality, despite the lives we took. I must confess, I did not expect your tribe to be so—civilized.”
“Humans don’t.”
A deadpan reply. Welca glanced at Sir Kerrig’s slack expression and glowered at Pyrite.
“You Goblins have been raiding Human settlements for weeks now! Why?”
Pyrite raised an eyebrow.
“Not our tribe.”
“What?”
He turned and pointed another direction into the swamp.
“Great Chieftain of the Mountain City tribe raided. Not our tribe.”
“Are you serious?”
Pyrite looked blank.
“Am.”
“You’re lying.”
Welca glared at him. Pyrite blinked at her. The young [Knight] clenched her fist.
“Everyone knows Goblin tribes raid and steal constantly! This tribe attacked caravans!”
Pyrite nodded.
“Mhm.”
The [Knights] stared at him. Pyrite waited. After a while he popped more soap into his mouth.
“So?”
“So? You were lying!”
Welca burst out, enraged. Pyrite considered this.
“Not lying.”
“You said—”
The young woman made a strangled noise as Sir Kerrig gripped her arm. Pyrite shook his head.
“Didn’t lie.”
Before either Human could respond he continued.
“You said ‘raided settlements’. This tribe attacked caravans. Didn’t raid settlements. Attack settlement. One. Only took from caravans. Didn’t kill. Not like Mountain City tribe.”
“That’s splitting hairs! You can’t talk your way out of—”
Welca broke off as she realized what she was implying. She turned pale. Goblins? Arguing over the definition of language? Sir Kerrig eyed Pyrite.
“That was why we were summoned. You attacked a small town and killed a number of residents. You hung their bodies from the roofs.”
“Mhm.”
Pyrite didn’t seem to object to Welca’s fiery glare. He picked up another soap, sniffed it. Sir Kerrig waited.
“Why?”
The Hob paused.
“Killed Goblin tribe.”
“Who?”
“Human town. Killed Goblins. Killed adults, killed children.”
The two Humans looked at the Hob. He didn’t meet their glances. Slowly, his claw sank into the soap and he tore a piece off. Chewed it. Swallowed.
“So you killed them?”
“Mhm.”
“For vengeance?”
Welca’s hot tone made the Hob look up.
“They killed Goblins. We killed Humans. Same number.”
“How do you know?”
The Hob’s eyes flashed crimson.
“We counted.”
Silence. The swamp was humid, but the sweat on Sir Kerrig’s skin was only due in part to the climate. Pyrite’s expression changed back to normal, and he sat, once again a quiet, affable Hob content to eat soap. Welca tried to find a response.
“It wasn’t your tribe, though, was it?”
“No.”
“Did you know them?”
“No.”
“Why did you do it, then?”
Pyrite stopped eating soap and met Welca’s eyes.
“They killed Goblins. Why did you come to kill us?”
Because Goblins killed Humans. It was a simple logic. Silence. Sir Kerrig felt sweat rolling down the back of his neck. Pyrite seemed content just to sit there. His ears flicked as he glanced at Welca. She stared at him. The Hob slapped a fly that landed on his arm.
“It was because Goblins were raiding that the town did that.”
Welca seemed to feel the need to excuse the slaughter somehow. Pyrite nodded.
“Goblins raid. Because Humans kill.”
“We only kill because Goblins are a threat! You kidnap and rape and steal and murder!”
“I don’t kidnap. Or rape.”
Pyrite’s voice was calm. He squished the soap into a ball and took a bite out of it.
“Sometimes steal. Sometimes kill. Can’t live otherwise. Humans kill Goblins. Goblins kill Humans.”
It was like talking in a circle. Welca’s angry intake of breath was cut off as Sir Kerrig leaned forwards.
“Can there be peace between Humans and Goblins?”
“Maybe?”
The Hob shrugged again. He was out of soap. So he began to eat the wax paper. It didn’t seem like he was hungry—he was just mechanically eating, as if not eating were boring. He spoke as he shredded up the wax paper and munched on it.
“Some Goblins raid Humans. Some Humans kill Goblins. Not all. This tribe only kill Humans when fight. Some tribes never kill.”
