Pyrite had more questions about magic, questions so simple and yet so complex that neither Welca nor Kerrig could guess at answering them. Why are spells cast from the hand? How can spells be written down? What is a mana potion made of? Why does it work? And perhaps his biggest question—why is there more magic in some places than others?
“How do you know that’s the case? You can’t prove it! How do you know?”
Welca was impatient. Pyrite kept returning to this point, again and again. The Hob stared at her and spoke.
“Magic more here.”
He tapped his chest.
“Than here.”
He waved at the air. Welca frowned.
“That’s…sort of true. But that’s because you’re a person! Things don’t have much mana.”
“Why some things have more mana than others?”
“Like what?”
“Like enchanted things. Like swords and shields. And shiny stones.”
“What? Gemstones don’t have more mana in them! Do they?”
Pyrite nodded. He reached into his sack and this time pulled out a yellow stone. Not gold, but a topaz. It was polished, and the depths were darker. Pyrite showed them the gem.
“Has more magic than this. Why?”
He tapped the pyrite on the ground. Bemused, Welca looked at Sir Kerrig.
“I don’t know. Maybe a [Mage] would know.”
The Hob grunted in dissatisfaction.
“Noears not know. Why magic in stone? Why magic in stone want to be something else?”
“Want to be?”
“Mm. Like this.”
Pyrite held the topaz up to the light. Slowly, he regarded the sparkling depths of the topaz. Then he popped it into his mouth. Welca heard a sharp crack and then the loudest crunching sounds she’d ever heard in her life. She yelped and nearly told him to spit out the gemstone before he hurt himself. But Pyrite chewed deliberately and then held up his hand. He placed it gently on the ground and said one word.
“Sink.”
His eyes flashed yellow. Sir Kerrig leapt to his feet—just in time. The wet ground, already soft, began to turn to liquid. Welca shouted in alarm as she and Pyrite sank into the earth. She thrashed as the ground began to engulf her lower torso. Pyrite held still, his hand and body sinking into the mud. Then, suddenly, he breathed out, and Welca felt herself stop sinking into the ground. She yelped as she struggled to get up and found her legs had sunken into the earth.
“What was—how did—”
Pyrite looked up at her, and then at Sir Kerrig, standing to one side. Thoughtfully, he spat out a mouthful of yellow gemstone fragments—and a bit of blood. He wiped at his cut mouth and looked at the [Knights].
“Why did that happen?”
Neither of them could speak.
 
—-
 
Rags was just watching the tribe pack up when she felt someone casting magic. She turned her head and saw a flash of magic. From Pyrite. She gaped as he put his hand to the earth and turned it into mud. Whatever magic he’d cast lasted a fraction of a moment—he and the female [Knight] sank into the earth and stopped there. Rags stared and then ran over.
“What?”
The female [Knight] was shouting that word. Rags ran up and kicked Pyrite in the back. He was extracting himself from the ground. He turned.
“Chieftain?”
“What that?”
He rubbed at his back and shrugged.
“Magic shiny rock. Has magic. Can use.”
“How?”
“Chew.”
Rags stared at Pyrite. He mimed chewing and then reached into his mouth with a frown. He extracted a bloody fragment of topaz and grimaced.
“Sharp. Not fun.”
“You can use magic in stones? He cast a spell—or did something! But he’s no [Mage]!”
Welca was pointing at Pyrite, horrified and awestruck. Pyrite just shrugged. Rags looked at him.
“How learn?”
He pondered the question.
“Learn long time ago, Chieftain. Try to eat stones. No good. Can do things with stones if chew. Hard. Not worth doing. So stopped.”
He shrugged, pragmatic as always. Rags stared at him and then pointed to his sack.
“Got more?”
“Mm. Want one? Got many colors. Which one?”
Rags hesitated.
“Give red one.”
“Want big?”
“No.”
Rags waited patiently as Pyrite fished about in his sack. He produced three: a shining red ruby half as large as her fist, a tiny, luminescent pink-and-cherry gemstone, and a lively currant red gemstone that had yet to be cut out of the rock surrounding it.
“Are those—”
Welca inhaled sharply. Sir Kerrig leaned forwards.
“That’s a ruby, but the gem there—is that a pelica gemstone?”
Rags looked blankly at the tiny, shining pink gemstone he was pointing at. She looked at the three gems and pointed at the biggest one.
“Give ruby.”
Pyrite obligingly handed it over. Rags weighed it in her hands, impressed at the color and polish. It did have magic in it! Just like Pyrite had said—you had to hold it to feel it, but there was magic inside! Could she take it out without breaking the stone? Could she put magic in?
The Hob seemed to sense the gemstone was important. He looked at Rags.
“Good talk. Chieftain. Magic is hard.”
She looked at him. That was what they’d talked about? She raised an eyebrow as she glanced at the [Knights]. Both were watching her speculatively.
“Talk about magic?”
“Mm. And peace. And Goblins and Humans.”
Rags laughed. Peace? She scornfully glanced at the [Knights]. The older male one looked away. Peace? They’d killed her Goblins, her tribe! And she’d killed theirs. She was all for avoiding fighting with Humans, but that was by being strong and smart. Peace with Humans? Rags thought of Relc. She thought of Human adventurers, of the village and the dead Goblins lying where they had been slaughtered.
“Peace? No peace.”
She turned away, trying to put the ruby in one of her belt pouches. It made everything sag, so Rags decided to store it away with her things. She hadn’t known Pyrite had so many useless stones. They were pretty, but only children collected them. It was just another of his weird habits. Then again, these stones might actually be useful. Rags considered her new prize and nodded to Pyrite.
“Get Redscar and other warriors. Marching. But best warriors come here first.”
He nodded and stomped off. Rags glanced at the [Knights]. The older one bowed.
“Chieftain Rags? My name is Sir Kerrig Louis. Might I have a word?”
She stared at him. He was older, not as fierce as the young one beside him. She was holding a blue sapphire in her hands, cradling it. The older [Knight] looked like there was pain in his eyes when he stared at her. Pain. Perhaps regret. He hadn’t given the Goblins any trouble, and he’d been polite and talkative. She met his eyes.
“No.”
Rags turned and strode away.
 
—-
 
Redscar, Quietstab, a group of Hobs, and three smaller Goblins met Rags with Pyrite. She strode up to them and spoke without preamble.
“Divide up new weapons and armor. Pyrite gets first pick.”
All the milling Goblins brightened at once. They whooped with glee, and their companions, supervising the moving tribe, shouted insults back and shook their fists. Immediately, one of the wagons was unloaded, and a set of pink armor, two shields, a two-handed battleaxe, and a sword were dumped into the mud. The Goblins greedily peered at the enchanted arms looted from the Rose Knights, nudging each other and pointing. But they deferred to Pyrite, who looked at the enchanted weapons.
“Me, Chieftain?”
Rags nodded. It was an easy decision. She’d really only wavered over selecting a few of the items for herself—she fancied the enchanted sword that Welca had been using. But Rags was a realist, and she knew her best warriors could use the magic equipment better than she could. She gave preference to Pyrite because he’d broken the axe she’d given him—and helped beat Welca during the battle. The gemstone he’d offered her also helped, and he was her second-in-command.
After him, she let Redscar choose, as her best warrior, and then Quietstab to placate his faction. The Goblins after him she chose in rough order of how good they were and how much she liked them. Impatiently, all the Goblins waited as Pyrite pondered the armor and weapons.
Pyrite was conflicted. Most of the objects on the ground didn’t fit him, having been made for Humans, not fat Hobs. He could use a shield, but the sword and battleaxe struck him as important, especially since he’d lost the good axe Rags had given him. Behind him, he could hear the two [Knights] arguing.
“That’s my sword!”
Welca was outraged as she stared at her equipment lying in the mud. She nearly got up, but Sir Kerrig tugged her down with a sigh.
“And that’s my battleaxe. Our equipment is forfeit, Welca. You knew that.”
“But they can’t just divide it up like—like that!”
“Why not? [Bandits] do the same thing. Adventurers, too.”
“But my sword—”
The young woman looked almost tearful. Kerrig felt a pain as he saw Pyrite lift the battleaxe out of the mud. It was a fine weapon, enchanted with a flamestrike enchantment, and gifted personally to him by Lady Bethal from her armory. Welca’s sword had been the same. Armor and a weapon made a [Knight] as much as their levels. Without it, they were nothing more than elevated [Warriors]. He looked away as Pyrite lifted his weapon.
Heavy.
Pyrite considered the battleaxe. It was definitely a lot bigger than most axes used for war. The head was massive, and it had been made for a world that saw people battling monsters as much as people. You didn’t need an axe this big unless you were fighting something a lot bigger than a Human. It was made under the assumption that you had the strength for it. Like a decently high-level [Knight]. Or a Hob.
“Good weapon.”
Redscar squatted by the pile of weapons, eying the battleaxe approvingly. Pyrite just shrugged. He wasn’t a fan of the two-handed weapons. They were heavier, and Pyrite had learned that a quicker blow meant you didn’t give your opponent a chance to stab back. On the other hand, it was enchanted, and he’d lost his good steel axe fighting Welca. He grunted as he tested the battleaxe.
Definitely too unwieldy for one arm. Still, the weapon was balanced well. It wasn’t too heavy, although it was quite long. Pyrite could swing it quite quickly, and the axe head was simple, without any kind of strange decorations.
Weapon making was an art, and, unfortunately, the use of magic could create try pieces that were more form than function. Strangely curved blades, useless decorations—you could make a blade like that work by enchanting it to be lighter weight or cut keenly, but form was still very important. And this axe—Pyrite executed a quick cut that made Redscar nod approvingly—was a good one.
“Want?”
“Good. Yes.”
“Good!”
With that, Redscar picked up the sword off the ground, to Welca’s dismay. He executed several quick slashes, and Pyrite felt the cold air swirling around the tip of the blade. He rubbed at his side—Welca had stabbed him with that sword and it hurt.
Quietstab was clearly dismayed not to have one of the two weapons, but he recovered enough to pick out one of the two shields. The other Goblins descended on the armor, jostling each other for a good pick, but held back when Redscar barked an order. He pointed at the twin sets of bright pink-red metal and looked at Pyrite.
“Want?”
It was a surprising question, given that the form was to give one piece of enchanted equipment to the best Goblin warriors. But Redscar clearly thought Pyrite could use the armor more than his warriors. Pyrite considered the offer as he eyed the armor, but shook his head.
“Pink armor. Too bright. Also—”
He indicated his wide stomach. Redscar laughed. The leader of the Redfang warriors gestured, and the Hobs and Goblins fought over the armor, each stealing a piece—vambraces, gauntlets, helmet—for themselves. One poor Hob was left with nothing but the boots and stomped off, muttering curses, as the other Goblins laughed at him.
 
—-
 
Soon, the wagon with the [Knights] was rolling faster, catching up to the tribe ahead. Rags rode forwards, pondering the ruby gemstone as Pyrite and the other Goblins tried out their new equipment. For all the deaths the Rose Knights had caused, the addition of such powerful artifacts was worth it—from a military perspective. Rags smiled to herself, pleased that she now had weapons that might actually damage the Knights of the Petal if they ever returned. True, she only had two, but two was better than none.
Her body itched all over from bug bites, despite her usage of the mosquito whisk. The Goblins in her tribe were tired, but they’d marched for two hours past lunch, and the swamp was already giving way to solid ground. Tonight, Rags would see about creating some kind of balm for itchy skin. But she thought her tribe would be in good enough spirits knowing they wouldn’t have to camp in the swamp. In fact, they were passing through a fairly nice lowland with a few bushes with unripe berries. Perhaps they could—
“Chieftain!”
Rags snapped to attention as a voice called her name. She swung around and saw a Redfang warrior racing towards her on a Carn Wolf’s back. He was slung low across the wolf, and it was bounding towards them. Rags hadn’t heard a horn call, so she knew there wasn’t a battle. But her heart beat faster as Redscar raced to meet the scout and her.
“What?”
The scout’s Carn Wolf stopped itself just before it could run into Rags’ mount. The Goblin on its back opened her mouth now that she’d stopped—it was all too easy to accidentally sever a tongue when riding the Carn Wolves.
“Human army. Moving up ahead.”
Her words made Rags freeze. A Human army? Redscar swore and waved a hand—the Redscar warriors lost their good cheer and began preparing for combat. Rags jabbed a claw at the scout.
“They see?”
“No, Chieftain! Humans are on road. Big road.”
“Big road?”
Dismayed, Rags looked at Redscar as Pyrite jogged up. Had they cut through the swamp just to reach more Human lands? She ground her teeth.
“How many?”
The scout muttered as she tried to do math on her hands. She conferred with Redscar. The Redfang Warrior looked relieved.
“Eight hundred, Chieftain.”
Rags perked up. Eight hundred? She outnumbered that force many times over. Unless these were elites like Lady Bethal’s warriors—which the scout seemed to doubt—they weren’t a huge threat. A big one, yes. But the important question was whether they could be avoided.
“What are doing?”
The Redfang scout’s face turned grim. She pointed in the direction of the army.
“Hunting. Goblin tribe.”
 
—-
 
Normally, adventurers hunted Goblin Tribes. Normally. But when a tribe got too large, or when they were deemed a credible threat—or nuisance—a Human city might turn out its garrison or combine its standing army with another city or town to destroy a Goblin tribe.
