They had another delicious feast back at the castle before Elise retreated to the room they had prepared her for the night. The next day, Hallbjorn had to get back to work, as he had wasted two days in the middle of what was a very busy time for the city, but he assigned her a couple attendants and guards to make sure she had everything she needed. She spent this free day once again out in the city, though she moved at a more leisurely pace, and spent a bit more time in the recreational areas that Hallbjorn had mostly glossed over.

A local theater had popped up, and there she watched a play about the tale of the fall of Dokkalfheimr, which was a surprisingly well-written tragedy focusing on King Asbjorn the Unwise’s daughter, and her ill-fated romance with the captain of the Dokkalfheimr knights. Elise had no idea if the tale carried any truth to it, but the backdrop of the foolish king sending his greatest warriors on a hopeless mission to slay a dragon made for some very emotional scenes between the two leads. Elise wasn’t ashamed to admit that she may have shed a tear or two.

She ate at a different restaurant, this one run by one of the lizard-like Saurin, and then used {Don’t Look At Me, Peasants!} to sneak into the academy and get a look at what the school was like. She had almost forgotten how adorable dwarven children were during her time away, but after her trip to the school, she doubted she would ever forget again. Due to their stature, even the somewhat older dwarven children maintained a rather round, almost infantile appearance that made her want to poke their cheeks. The teachers seemed to think so as well, and were all smiles as they taught and played with the children, making Elise feel momentarily jealous of them.

After her trip to the academy, she wandered the streets a bit longer before taking to the skies and flying out of the city to get a look at the forest. The first place she stopped was the warg’s den to see if it had somehow returned, but there was no sign of it. The snow was gone, and the little cave where the warg had once lived was now occupied by a pack of smaller direwolves.

The cabin was just as she and the Grays had left it, still broken and home to a number of small critters who had moved into the nooks and crannies left by the absence of the humanoids.

She flew around for a bit longer, before settling into a spot on the tallest hill in the region, where she relaxed, read a book, and watched the sunset before returning to the dwarven castle. While her sleep that night was restful, when she awoke in the morning, she found it difficult to drag herself out of bed. She had already told Hallbjorn of her plans to visit the drow, but after having spent enough time aboveground to know that there was nothing wrong with the dwarves, she knew that if there was anything serious going on, it was underground, and she didn’t want her peaceful vacation to end so soon.

Still, after a quarter hour of turning over and trying to fall back asleep, she rolled out of bed with a sigh and prepared herself. She ate breakfast with the dwarves, double checked her equipment, and even ended up donning the earrings she had just gotten before saying her goodbyes and heading toward the spot where Emilia had died so she could find the hidden entrance to the drow cave.
