

The Red Sparks were going to discredit Erick by making him look insane through the reality altering of this world.

It had probably done the same during that Atomic War, and during… Everything major in this entire world. Every major event that could have led toward something better happening, was instead twisted into something worse.

But how? How could the Red Leviathan do that? It wasn’t doing Mind Magic, because if it could then it would be reading thoughts and acting that way. The most Mind Magic it could do was to daze people at important moments—

Oh.

Erick realized why Particle Magic allowed Melemizargo to wake from his insanity.

He realized something he had already known, but the depth of that knowledge had been hidden from him until now.

The God Pact allowed the gods to stabilize the collective reality of this world.

But Particle Magic and a Particle understanding of this New Cosmology was where quantum effects and gravity fields and the Many Worlds of this new reality took place. Those were the ‘mana’ of this New Cosmology, while the mana of the Old Cosmology was based on different elemental realities overlapping the main Dark.

Two different sets of fields, the Old made of mana, this New made of particles, which were both discrete things and simple wavelengths of reality.

Melemizargo had spoken of Other Realities as real only when observed, so here, now, was the natural result of the Red Leviathan observing those other realities and drawing targets into them.

Because the Red Leviathan was playing a much, much larger game against Erick than a simple prognostication war. This wasn’t a ‘war’ for the Red Leviathan. Veird was the Red Leviathan’s fishery, and you don’t go to war with the fish you raised. You simply eat what you want, and if anything gives you trouble, you remove it as easy as plucking a fish from a lake.

Sininindi said, “Oozy Stormcaller has been your friend for a decade. Storm’s Edge and my clergy have been allies of yours for as long as you have been here on Veird. And then you send Quilatalap here, at my request, and do everything you can to hide his murders and experiments, and you still want me to forgive him. But he hasn’t changed at all, Erick. You wanted him to change, and he appeared to change for a while, but he did not. He came here and he made copies of people in the dungeons and sent the copies out to get more people to come in, all the while he soul spliced and abomination’d every person who had the misfortune to fall within his sight. And now he releases ancient Shades into the world. The Archlich is dragging you down into the Dark, and if you cannot see that then I fear that Melemizargo’s insanity is finally affecting you…” Her voice trailed away. And now her anger came back, her eyes flickering with Red. “I could have forgiven you your foibles, but I cannot believe you would ask why Everbless is not talking to you. You attacked him. You might had been defending yourself from his own attacks, but he is a child, Erick. You don’t burn children to teach them lessons. The scars still haven’t healed, even 6 months on.”

Erick’s heart sank.

And then he glanced to Everbless, and saw where his bark was darker in places. Maybe those were burn marks? Erick wasn’t sure.

Sininindi said, “Tiza is taking it the hardest of us all. She used to be a great friend to you, Erick. Now, all she has is fury for what you have done and the path you are walking.”

It was a good thing this was so unnerving, because otherwise Erick would have laughed at that.

He almost laughed at it anyway.

This was all so ridiculous.

He had obviously been moved into a side dimension, or something. Or maybe the whole world had been moved around him? Erick wasn’t sure which was more crazy, or how to solve either of them. The first had at least one solution, though; become a True Wizard. True Wizards weren’t affected by the magics of others unless they allowed those effects to happen.

So.

Erick needed to get on that.

His previous plan to eventually fight the Red Leviathan was still workable… If he could get himself out of this situation. He could probably do that, right? Just a matter of shoving himself back to his home dimension; his home wavelength… Would that work? Sure; seemed plausible. Seemed like 90% of the solution, anyway. The mana could fill the final 10%.

As for avoiding this situation in the future...

All you had to do was move far enough and fast enough away from the focus of the Red Sparks and they couldn’t see you, or touch you that easily. Staying in one spot was what the Red Sparks wanted all its victims to do. So all Erick had to do was move far enough and fast enough and secretly enough, and he could… do something.

But first.

Erick played along with the narrative the Red Sparks was feeding him, “Perhaps I am going slightly insane. How would you like me to make it up to you? Ask for a Wizardry and I will do it, Sininindi.”

Sininindi said, “I would prefer to simply have the Erick whom I once called friend.”

“That’s going to take some time, for I have handfuls of Shades to cull and Empathy back into the fold and a thousand other things to do, as well as figure out what Quilatalap is up to.” Erick asked, “Ask for a Wizardry, Sininindi. Tell me how I can help you.”

Sininindi stared, her Red Lightning eyes—

And then she blinked.

Red Sparks spilled from Sininindi and washed away, cloying to everything, except Erick. The Shield ate those Sparks.

With clear eyes, Sininindi stared at Erick, “Fix it.”

… Was she really asking what Erick thought she was asking?

“You’re asking me to… Paradox it all away, and fix the whole mess?”

Sininindi twitched, and then she was two goddesses overlapping in the same space.

One of them was tainted red. She was yelling but her voice was silent. Hateful nothings spilled out from her as she tried to advance on Erick, but she stayed exactly where she was. Gold Lightning held her back, holding her in place.

The other Sininindi was made of lightning and gold. She was the true goddess of Storm and Sea, and she proved that as she intoned, “Time and again, sometimes Wizards are called upon to adjust that which cannot be adjusted through any other means. To win wars without fighting. To create possibilities where there are none. I am calling upon you now to do this most difficult of Wizardry, because something is wrong with this space. Something is wrong with this time. I did not recognize this until now, until I have met you in person, and you brought forth a question that has knocked some proper sense into this fraction of my self.

“I am not whole, and neither is anything else. It has all been eaten away at the edges. That consumption started when you stepped down onto this land, and it will continue until you are gone, for it is coming for you.

“Everbless, our son, isn’t here, and I mistook his absence for some logical thing I could have easily discarded, but that is impossible now. I have no idea why I would ever think that you would harm our son like that, and now, in seeing Everbless’s absence, I see more. Phagar isn’t here, Erick; the arbiter of the God Pact is missing, and that should not happen. The Pantheon has vanished without me noticing. All my people are gone. Everyone...

“All the world is gone, Erick, and the Primal Lightning is closing in.

“This timeline is doomed, and this version of me dies with it.” She raised her arms to the sky and gold lighting poured out of her, reaching high and thundering across the world. Clouds closed in, blocking out the sun, obscuring everything in shadow. The Red version of Sininindi burst away into Static that passed toward the horizon. And then the real storm started. Gold clashed with Red, and Sininindi became the Storm and the Sea, as she said, “Get back to the real world, Erick. Save yourself, and then save everyone else.”

Red Lightning danced across the horizon in every direction, closing in like the corrupting fingers of a distant malevolence. Gold Lightning failed in the light of Red.

Erick did not panic.

The first thing Erick tried was a [Gate], cast softly and surely. It failed. Yggdrasil’s bodies were elsewhere, and yet nowhere; they were inside of Erick, faint, and Elsewhere. Ophiel was only on Erick’s shoulder, and nowhere else. The Script was absent, somehow, and a prayer to Rozeta and Koyabez and Phagar and even Melemizargo returned absolutely nothing, though Erick wasn’t going to wait around to see if that changed.

Erick cast his senses wide and high, as he saw the world with his All-Seeing Eye.

It was a Primal Storm. Primal Lightning. This then, is what traumatized all the gods.

It was easy to see why.

The very world ended beyond the Red Lightning that ravaged the horizon. Gold Lightning tried to fight back, but it was failing. The Red was closing in. The ocean spilled out from fingers of Red thousands of kilometers long, seawater turning to frost in the vacuum of space. Mountains caved and exploded outward as Red passed by. Mana fled beyond the Primal Lightning, swirling into the void. The Storm died in fractions of a second, becoming a wind that was not a normal wind; it was the absolute vacuum of space carrying everything away.

Gold twisted with its final throes.

Erick called out to Elsewhere,

“In realms of peril and despair,

“Where Red Lightning rends void from air,

“I call upon the Storm’s good grace,

“To guide me to a safer place.

“This Path has failed, we lost today.

“Return me now to my old way.”

Benevolence poured out of Erick and filled the world with White, briefly pushing back the Red—

Like a known positive charge meeting a known negative charge, Erick’s Benevolence found the Path that he had been on, and which the Red had taken him from without him knowing. An inner path opened, like the lifting of an eyelid crusted by too much sleep, and Erick Saw his world. He saw Jane and Poi and House Benevolence and Solomon and all the rest.

Erick twisted—

- - - -

White mana puffed away from Erick’s body like the breaking of a spell.

Erick stood upon the spit of land that jutted out from Everbless’s cove and a thousand things happened all at once, but nothing really happened at all. The Script reconnected. Erick felt Yggdrasil. Ophiel spoke up, as though he had been in a daze and he hadn’t realized it. Erick felt Poi reaching for him and there was acknowledgment that something disastrous had almost happened, but then Erick had averted that disaster. No words were actually exchanged, for there was no time.

Sininindi stepped down in front of him.

This time she looked angry, which was much more normal. The sky was normal, and though there was a lot of lightning up there it was all white and gold lightning. Very little Red, and the Red was already retreating. Everbless sat in the cove, as normal, with unburned bark and no red fruits.

Sininindi began, “What the FUCK, Erick. You’re keeping my Shield?”

Erick couldn’t help himself. He smiled. He chuckled, nerves falling away like so much rain off of scales. Sininindi did not like that, her anger flaring, but then Erick truthfully, deeply said, “It’s lovely to see you again, Sininindi.”

Sininindi was briefly angry, a flicker of Red passing through her gaze, but then her eyes were almost completely Gold again. The Red Leviathan had a claw upon her in this God Pact world, but no more than that. Which was good! And then Sininindi’s countenance turned from angry coworker to concerned god, and that’s how Erick knew she was ‘okay’.

Nothing was ‘okay’. Everything was in danger. The Red had Erick in its cross hairs, and he had no idea when the next incident would be, for that is surely what had almost happened. A massive incident.

But Sininindi’s tone held concern, and that was enough for now. “What happened, Erick?”

“I saw something that I cannot tell you about— I’m sorry to be rude, but I have ten thousand things to do. I need to know—” Erick asked, “Who rules Storm’s Edge right now? Has Quilatalap killed anyone that you know of here in Storm’s Edge? How about the whereabouts of Vanya and Soltic?”

As he asked those questions he flicked open tiny [Gate] after tiny [Gate] to check on everything from the state of the House to every location of Yggdrasil to what was happening at Ascendant Mountain. Those initial inquiries all returned normal sights and visions.

Sininindi took a fraction of a moment to narrow her eyes at Erick’s heavy break of decorum with all those tiny [Gate]s, then she rattled off, “The Regency and Augustive Glorious Tidewalker. Quilatalap has been a perfect guest and dungeoneer, and we welcome him to finish the job. Not sure where you went after you got the shield and missed our ceremony time or why you took him away, and so I was concerned about that, but we would have him back to finish the job. Vanya and Soltic are still in there.” She collected herself, stared hard, and said, “And you took my Shield.”

“Okay. That’s fine. Please tell me how you recollect the meeting between me, Tiza, Asmus, and Oozy, inside the dungeon?”

“… Why are you asking after Stormcaller? And you were never at the meeting!” Sininindi huffed, then said, “Tiza sent a request to be allowed in the dungeon to find you, but Quilatalap never answered, and his guardians didn’t let them in, so they didn’t go in. What is going on, Erick.”

That was incredibly concerning. Erick had no clue at all where the ‘break’ in this reality happened where he had been taken from here and ended up at that Ending. Where had he stepped off the Benevolent Path that he had been on? No idea! Maybe it had happened—

It had happened either before Erick stepped into the Breaking Ritual, or just after. Probably just after, when they left the Shadow Dungeon in that unexpected way, just suddenly appearing outside of the Shadow Dungeon entrance instead of actually walking through all the checks that Quilatalap had put up between that Shady place and the rest of the Grand Dungeon. Yup. That had to have been it. Quilatalap had been acting funky, too, talking about how Erick should have made the Benevolence markers a sign to automatically kill someone, and… And Quilatalap had played that off.

Oh.

Okay.

So there’s a bit more existential horror to unpack later.

How had events happened out here? Erick would never know, would he? But he was in his proper world, right?

… Right?

Yes, he was. Yes, he was. Erick had already checked on everyone, and he had even poked a head into the dungeon of Storm’s Edge. Quilatalap wasn’t there, but he was at Ascendant Mountain for some reason.

How the fuck did that happen? Where did the previous reality begin and end?

Oh! Where was Wiloza?

