There was Archmage Wiloza Tidewalker, on the walls around the dungeon space, wearing the Benevolence Ring Erick had given her. She was working, and she must not have seen Oozy yet or else she would have sent a message to the House… Or maybe she had seen him, and the Red Sparks had taken that memory.

So the Red Sparks could get around [Benevolence Detection], eh? Well.

Shit.

But then again, Melemizargo had said that Erick’s and Benevolence’s immunity to the Red Sparks was still building, so maybe… It wasn’t okay right now, but it would be okay in the future. Well sure. Sounded fine.

Wizard wars were just gonna be Like That, eh?

Erick breathed. He moved on as best he could. Everyone was alive, and there had been some missing time, and he had done some Wizardry to get back to this proper reality… But he had also had a talk with Melemizargo about the Red Sparks in that Other, abandoned timeline?

Okay.

Just.

Shove those thoughts out of the way for now. It was unimportant—

It was vastly fucking important, but not right now.

Where was Oozy, anyway—

“Ah ha! Found him.” Erick glanced through a [Gate] he had opened above the Blue Temple, just on the other side of Everbless’s cove. Oozy was talking to Everbless’s avatar on the docks where boat tours left to take supplicants to see Everbless from closer.

And his Benevolence marker was gone; his neck was free of white lightning.

So only the Oozy in Other Realities was the… Whatever he was? Okay? Sure.

Oozy was spilling out Red Sparks and some of them were lodging on Everbless, though, but that seemed to be happening to everyone near Oozy, which was in accordance with what Melemizargo had explained. Oozy was some sort of Champion of the Red Leviathan in that other timeline, but here he was just a guy with some Red on him.

Erick closed the [Gate]; he had seen enough. He wanted to tell Sininindi everything, but he was in a prognostication war, and saying too much caused a rollback. So he looked to Sininindi, and tried, “You helped me out a lot in the Breaking of a doomed world, Sininindi. I’m going to be sure to help you, too.”

Sininindi waited for more. “… Is that it? Cryptic Wizard shit?”

“Yes. Apologies.” Erick felt a crash of emotion force its way through his body and out of his face as tears. He couldn’t tell her anything; the Red would not let him. If he pressed, it would rollback this space, and Erick wasn’t prepared to go to war with an enemy with this much power, that he had just met less than a day ago and almost died to. Maybe he could have tried, but every part of him —Benevolence especially— was telling him that beginning hostilities was a bad idea. And so Erick chuckled and sighed. “Apologies, Sininindi. I’m keeping the Shield for now. I will give it back when I can.”

“… I suppose I have been without it for centuries already. I only request it be returned to me before you near the end of your Sundering Search, or before you truly start heading that way, just to be safe.”

“Heard and understood— Oh. Uh. Quilatalap?”

“… Quilatalap has my favor, now. He can return whenever, or not at all if he wishes to be a hermit again. Good day, Erick.”

“Good day, Sininindi.”

Erick felt a rush of small joy for Quilatalap, and then he opened up a [Gate] and left.

- - - -

Erick stood upon the Throne of Melemizargo, white stone stretching out flat until it dropped off and clear crystal towers rose in every distance except the north; the north was clear, with a fantastic view.

Melemizargo was there.

“It appears you encountered something that throws off my understanding of the Enemy. I was there and we did have that conversation, but things got fuzzy after that. I was not aware you were gone until you came back, which may or may not have implications for what happened to you when you [Onward]ed. Congratulations on making it back.”

“Thank you; it was little more than piercing through between this God Pact reality and any other God Pact-declared Element, but different, of course, since the Red Leviathan uses some sort of particle/field-based New Cosmology ‘mana’ which exists outside of the God Pact reality. It is probably not called mana, but I’m going to call it that for now. I am obviously playing off how utterly terrifying it all was as nonchalance, of course.

“Also! I met Primal Lightning. The Red Sparks are Primal Lightning. Yet another terrifying thing! These terrifying things are distressingly more common than they should be, Melemizargo. At least I can more easily visualize how it traumatized everyone, though I am sure my imagination simply falls short, because of course it falls short.

“Anyway.

“It is farming Veird for gods and entire worlds filled with people in those side realities, too. Every single day there are countless apocalypses, just not here. So… I’m not sure if your efforts to stop the sprouting of gods in this reality were the best possible action. Or maybe you did the right thing! The more I learn the more I know I know nothing.”

Melemizargo was a very still Dragon God of Magic.

And then he let out a sigh that filled the world.

Erick added, “Yup. Very terrifying. Also Oozy is the Champion of the Red Sparks in the side-realities, but specifically not in this reality? I’m not sure about that.”

“... I will need to think about all of this.” Melemizargo frowned a little at nothing in particular, and said, “Perhaps it is picking up simple divinity in those side-cullings? Or just… outright taking full sparks? Damnable… trash…” Melemizargo fell silent as his furious white gaze turned infinitely outward.

Erick said, “I’m off again. Probably gonna turn into a bit of a hermit now since the Dark seems safer from the Red than not. Or at least certain Darks. Quilatalap’s was ridden with Red.”

“... I did not see this either. Perhaps… No no…”

The Dragon God of the Dark fell silent again, thinking.

Erick asked, “So how about Verrod? Champion Fallopolis?”

“Oh yes,” Melemizargo said, not looking at Erick. “They’re around here somewhere. Do whatever you want but please be quiet now…” He looked at the horizon, mumbling. “No… Hm. Maybe… Hmm...”

Erick left him to his thoughts.

Down in the shadeling city, Fallopolis was coordinating a worldwide hunt for the new, old Shades. The new Champion of Melemizargo had been at it for hours now with Verrod, Goldie, Lapis, Queen, Treant, and Hollowsaur. The only modern-day Shade missing was Farix, and he had a good reason for being absent. The Professor was at New Brightwater, coordinating from there, working hard to get the Shades out of Ar’Kendrithyst before they could do any damage to Queen Anhelia’s domain.

The world was doing fine, as far as Shades went, and aside from Erick needing to [True Resurrection] a few people here and there across the world and placate a few bruised egos, these new Shades were a long-standing problem to deal with later. Erick did [Blessing of Empathy] all of them, though.

Crying, wailing Shades were easier to manage than homicidal Shades. Truly an improvement, in Erick’s mind.

But he had other things to do, so he left all that to Fallopolis.

- - - -

Erick stepped down into the Dark of the slime dungeon and saw the air was empty of Red Sparks.

It was a relief but also not, for how could anything be a relief right now?

Erick focused on the good.

It was rather comforting to not have any Sparks down here. Erick had no idea why Quilatalap’s dungeon had been filled with Sparks, or why the Red Leviathan clones had been there, or any of all of that, but he’d be getting answers soon enough if Melemizargo happened to gather any answers. Maybe not good answers. But he would have them.

First thing to do, though, was to talk to Solomon, and see about enacting his own plan to ruin the plans of the Red Leviathan forever.

Solomon was practicing aura control with Guile upon a stone platform. Poi and the girls and Evan were at the house, going over various items on the list. Quilatalap was there, which Erick was glad to see; he could stay here for a while, then, and be free of the Sparks. Quilatalap probably wanted to go back to the dungeon at Storm’s Edge, but Erick would try to talk him into staying out of that mess down there until Erick could solve that mess.

But for now, Erick stepped down onto the white stone platform with Solomon.

Solomon looked his way.

And Erick began, “I want to make a clear effort to get you the Lifeblood Heart and to ensure it comes to Veird properly. I have a plan for what you should do afterward, too, in order to get your Jane back. I will help every step of the way.”

Solomon went from tense to utter relief, and he said, “I’m all ears.”
