From the still-open portal where Maradoc had thrown Maranor, a figure emerged. She was an ancient woman wearing a formal suit, green eyes and short hair hauntingly familiar. The human part of the avatar did a double take.

“That’s… me past a hundred… if I aged.”

Facing her own mortality felt deeply uncomfortable. The figure stretched with a limber grace that didn’t match her appearance.

“Aaaaaand I’m back! From my own funeral! What did I miss?”

Khaton had blessedly been struck by disbelief as well or he would have kept attacking. As it was, all gods present just watched great grandma Viv morph back: her hair turned brown, her face, masculine. The dry body exploded into virile energy, showing pectorals covered in hair. In an instant, they were facing Emeric, the God of Luck. A naked god of luck.

He grabbed his junk.

“It’s good to have you back, old friend.”

“Let’s just punch him in the face. Once,” the human part of the avatar begged.

“Little shit had it coming,” the divine part agreed.

Emeric looked up to the incarnation of the Khaton the Defiler, returned to Nyil as an aberrant deity, the half-eaten corpse of Gomogog lying at its, well, feet.

“Oh. Damn.”

He then turned his head to a stalking Viv.

“Oh. SHIT! [Divine dodge].”

The God of Luck dove under a right hook and right into the following left uppercut, which caught him in the kidney. The finisher cross smashed pleasantly against his nose.

“Ow ow ow hey! Priorities!”

Emeric smirked. The avatar felt herself grabbed. She was flying. Khaton’s shock passed but too late. She was already on his chest.

She stabbed. The line she’d picked was pure luck, yet the chest of the dead god seemingly exploded in a cascade of discarded meat. He howled. A prison of sharp bones closed around her but then Neriad was standing, slicing them as they approached with a speed even her divine stats struggled to follow. Efestar blinked forward to deflect bone arrows thrown at her retreating form. A new spell’s idea snuck into her mind. The divine part rejected it.

“You think you can teach me death, boy?”

The spell form evolved as her mind followed its structure, growing in size with every passing moment.

“Oh, that is… clever,” she admitted.

The spell was a version of her Reign of Terror that used death mana to attack several life lines at once. She started casting.

“Buy me time!” she asked.

And they did. Neriad and Emeric were an impossibly deadly duo that struck at all the attacks the screaming Khaton threw at them, Neriad martial perfection and Emeric roguish grace. Every time she thought Emeric was cornered, he would find a new angle or avoid danger at the last instant. Efestar moved in and out of the battle, still weak but still capable of disrupting Khaton’s assault. Sardanal healed them from afar while Maradoc alternated between controlling spells and devastating hexes that peeled off meat as surely as if the avatar cast herself. They were a well-oiled, perfectly coordinated team skilled enough to survive yet aggressive enough to endanger Khaton so he couldn’t focus on her.

“Wow they’re good,” the human part of her had to admit.

And she understood her role. The finisher, Maranor, was missing. It was the avatar’s task to fill in for her.

[Castigate]

A vortex of divine mana ravaged Khaton, peeling off several layers of flesh. Something bright shone on the exposed ribcage. Eyes surrounded a black gem of massive proportion.

“Just as I said. The head is a decoy. This is the true self!”

Khaton roared. Limbs formed a forest of lashing tendrils around the exposed core. The head fully collapsed in a desperate bid to gather enough flesh to protect it but before it could even try, a shadow materialized past the barrier. Efestar slashed once, twice, cutting the core out of the flesh. It was only held by a sliver of ligaments by the time he had to teleport out. The avatar charged the forest of limbs that gathered to stop her, but she was ready.

“Yoink!”

The old spell slithered between the defenses with divine deftness. It made contact. Death magic invaded Khaton’s core. The beast froze in horror. In a last surge of effort, the light gods cut a path for the avatar who smashed the last of the tentacles aside with her shield. Khaton gathered one last ditch, a massive eye opening to freeze her in place with a hypnotic burst that challenged even the will of Enttiku herself. The emotions of the dead one poured through the connection: grief, rage, and the endless torture of eons spent between life and death. The divine part of the avatar shielded the human one, who managed to keep the yoink going. She just had enough conscience left to cast one last colorless spell.

LIGHT?

THIS IS… JUST LIGHT…

“Nah,” she replied. “It’s guidance.”

WHAT?

Solfis’ death laser caught the eye in a burst of gore, searing it. Khaton screamed while the avatar closed in. Her bone blade severed the last of the meat, then she struck down before Khaton’s monstrous power could push the yoink spell away. The core cracked.

It exploded. The avatar protected herself as she and the others were pushed out of the ravaged battlefield and back under the light of the sun. In front of her, all the light gods regrouped to form a circle around the erupting, dying form of Khaton. Their combined magic purified the corruption as it escaped the dead god’s control. The radiance they emitted was blinding and for a while, the darkness of the in-between faded, and Viv could see the shining skyline of Larrean in the distance. It was utterly beautiful and… a little tempting. But her work wasn’t done. The avatar stood up to find the mewling remnants of Gomogog. He was stuck to his avatar, perhaps one of Khaton’s spells to prevent him from escaping. She looked into a dozen, then a hundred green eyes forming on his mangled body.

Not gonna work this time, the human side thought.

“I will not make the same mistake twice, Gomogog. I wish I could say I was sorry but… you’re an unrepentant asshole. Farewell.”

A second god died. When the avatar looked up, the light gods were around her. They appeared relieved, but also worried.

“Viviane,” Neriad gently said, “perhaps it is time to let go. If there is enough time, maybe Sardanal could—”

“Oh cut it. The girl will be fine, after a couple centuries.”

She turned to Emeric.

“We might even come for you.”

“Alright,” the rake replied. “So maybe I deserve it. But that’s not going to be for a while. I suppose we’re going to need to shut this rift in reality with the help of our faithful clergy.”

“You don’t have a clergy,” Neriad reproached.

He was still a slacker.

“And I will change that now that I have reflected on my past actions. Really, I will! But we have accomplished much and you are all tired. How about we head back first, have a celebratory party? Enttiku, old girl. Come on. Just this once?”

A wave of annoyance coursed through both halves of the avatar, but in the end, Viv knew the God of Luck had changed and this was just the way he presented. And Enttiku could stand to be more involved with the others.

“I consent,” the avatar replied. “But you, girl, are past your bedtime. No divine alcohol for you.”

And Viv was summarily expelled.

***

Viv woke up under a tree, again. The wind was blowing and the distant smell of snow filled her lungs. In the distance, smoke rose from the ruins of Mornyr and its surroundings, a blighted ruin all that remained of the city and its immediate surroundings.

Dragons still filled the sky.

Mother, don’t leave me.

I’m not readyyyyy.

Avarice was crying, her throat letting out deep grunts that would be comical if the raw pain of her emotions didn’t touch Viv so much. She was feeling tired, exhausted even, more than she’d ever felt. Even lifting a finger was too much, and her chest rose and fell with her breath at the cost of a great effort.

“Oooooow. I’m fine,” she slowly articulated.

Nooo it’s not fine.

No wait, yes it is fine.

I am here for you mother.

You have won a great victory.

Oleander is defeated, and Khaton has been destroyed.

Gomogog too apparently.

You… you can leave without regrets.

The dragoness sobbed.

I will be strong for you, mother.

And your grandchildren!

“I’m not going to die, ok?” Viv replied, feeling a modicum of strength return. It was as Enttiku had said. She was feeling so weak now, but she’d live.

Yes mother, you’re going to make it.

Just rest for now.

“No but like seriously I’m not going to die within the next week unless you sit on me while I’m trying to sleep.”

Wait, really?

“Yes, really.”

… Oh.

Well that is… fantastic news!

I wasn’t worried or anything.

Good, good, excellent!

We have so much left to do!

I need to introduce you to Mother.

The bigger one, I mean.

And we need to kill the Nemeti!

And usher the planet into an age of fiscally and environmentally-responsible development fueled by a healthy debt leverage.

And explore across the seas for new land to colonize!

“Yes, yes, yes, the world keeps living, evolving. The Maranorians are defeated. Emeric is back on the throne.”

You should replace him, mother.

“Maybe in a century or two. Right now I just want to go home, savor the victory. We just crushed the Maranorian Empire and wiped out the last two of the Dark Gods still ‘active’. Now only Octas is left and she’ll be licking her wounds for a long time. It’s time to build. To help humanity progress. We’ve certainly bought them the breathing room they needed. And I know there’s still much we could do but… I’m really tired.”

//WE ARE READY TO DEPART, YOUR MAJESTY.

//TO NEW HARRAK.

//YOUR LAND.

//IF THAT IS YOUR WISH.

“Do you need help?” Abe asked with a kind smile.

“I do.”

Avarice delicately hugged Viv between her scaly arms. She was very warm. Together, they flew back towards Solfis where the One Hundred and the crew waited near an open port. Someone had prepared warm kava.

Are you sure you don’t want to fly by Luten to fire Solfis on them?

They’re still kark and hadal-hating assholes.

We could crater them. Who will stop us?

“It’s as I said, daughter. The world keeps on turning but I think, this time, I’ll let someone else take the spotlight. And do fewer craterings.”

The two plus Abe landed successfully. The docking port closed, then Solfis accelerated, turning west towards Harrak.

“I get the feeling we’re forgetting something,” Viv told Avarice.

It might come back to you after you sleep.

“Oh that sounds like a great piece of advice.”

***

In the air, Mother could hardly believe her eyes.

They’re… just leaving?

Very rude.

A dragon with the name of a storm — very cliched — had the audacity to fly closer.

Perhaps you would follow?

They have this excellent fish sauce.

It would be a shame not to try it!

Mother hummed.

***

Back on the ground half a league away, the combined cavalry of the Paramese alliance and a city’s worth of refugees — around thirty thousand people in total — watched Solfis fly away at top speed. Order Master Ered leaned towards Rollo.

“So, my fellow order master, who shall open the portals back home?”

“They’ll come back. At some point. Tea?”

“I do not believe this is the sort of person I want to lead mankind towards a brighter future.”

“They just killed a dark god. Perhaps a measure of understanding? Not to mention… you really don’t have a choice.”

THE END.
