Viv’s mana kept dropping, and she got the distinct impression that she might not have enough. Khaton’s head reformed despite her best efforts. Its helmet was a cruel and misshapen thing, crude of construction even before considering the bones and twisted flesh that made it. Eyes formed, those of a corpse: rotten and unseeing. His thoughts crashed against hers. They were incoherent, barely more than a torrent of envy, hatred, hunger, despair, and terror. The heady mix of negative emotions forced another gasp. He was pulling at her, drinking the fragment of her mana he managed to steal from her. He was both a starving toddler and a murderous psychopath and the mix disgusted her at a fundamental level. Never since the flesh garden had she been so revolted by a gaze. She resisted it anyway. Her mana reserves dipped below the halfway point despite her massive regeneration and [A Light that Never Dims] picking up. One third.

“Solfis can you let Arthur know any time now would be good?”

YOU.

Khaton was talking to her. Her focus wavered.

//I will let Avarice know.

I EAT YOU.

“Shit.”

But it happened. Fire pierced through the veil of the in between. A column of power descended upon the form of Khaton like the wrath of the sun, undoing Viv’s spell on the spot just as she was forcing the last dregs of mana out of her exhausted core. She stopped, breathing hard as if it would help.

It was done. The chorus had begun. Khaton was silenced inside a coffin of pure energy, and the meat of his being started peeling away. Viv took a few steps back. She bumped into someone.

It should have been impossible since only a person with a near-divine soul could stand here without being instantly turned into a pile of gore. Viv’s surprise was compounded by the fact the person standing behind her, wearing the sober white dress of a city servant, was herself. Her human self. Down to the auburn hair and green eyes. Only her newest scar was missing.

Second Viv gave her a smile and spoke in a voice that made the original go ‘really? I sound like that?’.

“I’ve always been underestimated,” Second Viv said in perfect Old Imperial.

Viv’s danger sense screamed. Something cracked in her chest. She lashed out with

spells and interposed her shield at the same moment, sensing something ping against it with godly violence. Her body was propelled backward by the force of the blow just as her spells peeled off her own face, revealing another, more lively mass of muscles

“Gomogog…”

Viv landed on her back, not too painfully thanks to her stats. She pushed herself off the ground to see the avatar of the God of Hunger fought the draconic chorus, deflecting the pressure for the briefest of moments. She tried to rise, but the pain in her core was now debilitating. Her gaze looked down to see that it had been revealed by Gomogog’s surprise attack and that a cloud of black mana was leaving its damaged form via the fissure. Those were the very last of her reserves.

Viv had a cracked core and no more mana.

“Oh that’s very b—”

***

Light.

Viv was in the in-between. She could feel it in her soul, and yet she was also sitting on a soft chair made of piled beast skins and harsh fabric. It wasn’t in Larrean, where the gods lived. It felt like the same sort of place, yet unique and somehow more real. The scent of woodsmoke was prevalent, alongside that of dry herbs and that wet smell of rotting leaves that she associated with fall. A light wind pushed the glass beads near the open window, which chimed and painted the dirt wall with pearls of colorful light. Someone placed an earthen mug in front of her.

She blinked. Facing her, a woman was currently busy pouring a floral infusion into a cup. She was short, not very good-looking with a squarish jaw, a prominent chin, and an ugly scar crossing her forehead. Gray hair sprouted from her temples to corner crows feet and ruddy skin. Her clothes were homey and comfortable, well lived-in. Viv recognized the sort of favorite garbs someone selected for light work. Her dark brown eyes sparkled with amusement.

“You are…” Viv whispered.

A child popped his head through the window, giving Viv the sort of insolent gaze someone who hadn’t learned about social pressure dared. It reminded her of Earth.

“Leto, do not bother my guest. I need a moment,” the woman said, not unkindly.

“Yes ma’am, sorry…” the boy replied, disappearing in the distance.

A few seconds later, Viv heard shushed laughs and excited whispers. The woman smiled. Viv took a sip of warm liquid. The tea was light and not particularly flavorful. It still warmed her chest.

“I keep the souls of children here. Give them the chance to play a bit until they’re ready to move on. Sometimes, I welcome adults too,” the woman explained.

“So, errr, am I dead?” Viv asked. “Because I can still feel a link to my body.”

“You are not dead,” Enttiku replied.

The Goddess of Death chuckled.

“So have you stopped time completely? Because I’m fairly certain my brain is supposed to shut down if it receives no mana. And with my core cracked…”

“Your core is indeed cracked, and yet you are still receiving mana. More than enough to sustain you. Can you guess how?”

Enttiku gave the aura of a patient teacher. Viv’s boosted mind quickly went through the possible options.

“Worship,” she concluded.

“Correct. You are already being worshipped, though your attributes are still undefined. I feel… Order and Change from you both. And Progress.”

“Isn’t Order the domain of Maranor?”

“Can two gods not share common themes? Both Sardanal and Gomogog are about Renewal. Both Neriad and Maranor cover War. Your Order is not the same as hers. It is intimately linked with Change, a conceptual opposite.”

“Order without Change is a prison. Change without Order is Chaos.”

Enttiku nodded.

“That is indeed one of your beliefs. And Progress, well, I do not need to explain things. I sense other concepts in you too.”

“None of them are going to manifest unless we stop Khaton.”

Enttiku nodded as if Viv had suggested going on a mushroom hunt.

“Indeed. And that is why I have called you here. You were always a good candidate because you were not pursuing immortality for its own sake. So many people accrue power because they are afraid of death. So afraid of it that they forget to live with the time afforded to them.”

“Well I had an unfair advantage since I don’t age.”

“Even before that, and although you fought to survive, there were acts that you would not stoop to in order to survive.”

Viv nodded.

“I don’t see death as a failure, more… an inevitability. Even if I were to become a goddess, I’d still be aware that even I would have an end. It’s ok. I think I’m at peace with stopping at some point. Go beyond and see what’s there. And if there is nothing, then, at least I get to rest.”

Enttiku nodded.

“Rest is what I try to grant, too. Now, tell me. Do you know why I never incarnated?”

Viv wasn’t sure where Enttiku was going with this. But whatever. She had time.

“I… actually wasn’t sure if or when you had ever done so, to be honest.”

“That is because of who, or rather what I am.”

Enttiku took another sip. In here, Viv was missing the sense of urgency that had needled her in the real world. It wasn’t because she was somehow prevented from feeling, but rather because fate shouted that listening to Enttiku was Important.

“When the first daughter stayed with her dying father rather than follow the tribe, when she held his hand until his last breath, I was born. I was there when humans stopped running to bury their dead. I was there when grieving fingers tied one last wreath, this one woven from dark flowers. I was the first one. The others, those about building and taking and growing, they came after. I was always about letting go.

“I am old, Viviane. You can count the years of my existence, but you cannot comprehend them.

“When the new pantheon fought the old one for domination, I stood aside. I took in those who fell in the bloodshed that followed. For a while, I thought we might all perish. Not the gods. Our people too. Gorok asked me to intervene but I refused. The war was about choosing a path. I was never the path. I was always its end. I was always there for those who reached it, everyone, in the end. I was there to help them all. But I didn’t help Khaton when he fell, because he refused me. Just like I didn’t help Oleander because Maranor denied me. She was never good at admitting defeat. Not insisting was my mistake. I was… concerned. I didn’t want to choose for other people. It has never been my role. Just like Neriad refuses to do it for his mortals, I refused to do it even for the gods.

“That was a mistake. My mistake. Perhaps the most dire error I ever committed.

“I never incarnated because there has never been a vessel powerful enough to contain me.

“Viviane. I am DEATH.”

“I should have slain Khaton rather than allow him to turn into a blight that might yet consume the world. I will now rectify that error. It is time for me, after millennia, to fight, but I cannot do so directly or the entire continent may die. I need an avatar. You. Accepting me will not kill you, but the strain will delay your ascension and leave you weak for decades.”

“Even if it killed me, I would have accepted. You know that.”

Enttiku smiled. Viv’s soul sense picked the colossal soul hiding behind that simple expression.

“And I still asked. Do you consent to hosting me, Viviane Saint-Lys, the Outlander?”

“I do.”

“Then the pact is sealed. Now… wake up.”

***

She’s coming to!

Viv woke up to Avarice’s muzzle and the placid face of Abenezigel. She was under a tree some distance away from Mornyr. Above her, Solfis kept a quiet vigil.

Oh, her core just… repaired itself?

“I think we need to step back, dear one,” Abe told Avarice.

Viv didn’t stand up so much as righted herself relative to the ground through sheer power of will. Black mana exploded from her presence in a silent burst. Memories, knowledge, power flooded her. A soul touched her own, gently despite its size. She felt it catch hers in a warm embrace.

Two wills became one, both moving in the same direction. She knew so much. She was so strong. She was, also, so very old. Kindness and anger so intense they almost blinded her filled her heart.

Consciousness merger complete.

All stats temporarily increased by 25 - 36

New Title: First of the Death Walkers.

You are the first avatar of Enttiku. May she never lose her kindness.

Temporary skill obtained: Aspect of the Goddess of Death (master)

Death mana spells unlocked.

The Avatar of Death flew up on wings of darkness. A shadow, much larger than it should be, blotted the land. In the distance, half of Mornyr had been swallowed in the partial void of the in-between, its buildings dust and fragments. Mighty forms battled a bloated creature through the veil. Or rather, the divine figures tore through cancerous flesh while the helmeted beast ate another mass of flesh alive, that one screeching in ways that would have made human Viv look away. Khaton was eating Gomogog.

“The fool never learned,” a part thought.

“That feels suboptimal,” the other replied.

Death armor covered the avatar while the more divine part called for an old dagger made of bones. In her left hand, the avatar lifted the Shield of Thirteen. Tendrils of darkness emerged from her back. The avatar charged past the shining form of Neriad, oppressive and distracting, then past poor Efestar who had no weak point to attack. She moved around Maradoc’s spells that slowed and maintained the incarnate in place. The supporting magic of Sardanal touched her, then was gone. The avatar moved forward. A twisted arm rose to squash her relatively smaller form. The avatar struck up with her dagger while void blades tore through the arms.

The incarnate pulled back, then stared at his limb with the bubbling grey orbs of his eyes. One of the aberrant fingers failed to regrow. Entire strips of unholy flesh peeled off from its arms, the others struggling, and failing to regenerate. The avatar could see the lines of life. She had severed several. Everything could die.

YOU.

She struck again before he could react. One of the stumps he rested on fractured, revealing other layers of tissue. She dodged under another strike, blocked spells with her shield, and then she was attacking again.

YOU ARE TOO LATE, ANCIENT ONE.

The incarnate dropped what was left of Gomogog. Its focus was now solely on the light gods.

YOU SHOULD HAVE HELPED US.

“He’s conscious?” Neriad screamed. “Fuck!”

The God of Righteous War blocked another attack with his shield, allowing the avatar to cut at the wrist. A hand fell, but pointed bones surged from the wound, striking Efestar who barely blocked.

ALL OF YOU, SO PATHETIC.

HUNGRY.

EAT YOU.

Efestar was grabbed, but Maradoc put the shoulder in stasis and a combined effort from Neriad and the avatar cut another piece, which fell.

I AM BEYOND DEATH.

Despite his claim, the avatar felt confident. Mortal battle experience and divine wisdom showed that the incarnate was slowing down but those were not mortal wounds.

LIKE FLEAS YOU BITE.

WHERE IS YOUR FURY?

WHERE ARE YOUR KING AND QUEEN?

Khaton laughed, the sound vicious and grating. He was right, the human part thought. They needed an opening. Strike the chest, which the dead god was protecting. Ignore the head. He had shown he didn’t need it. She just needed a distraction. Turning her head, the avatar looked at Neriad, but he was struck with surprise.

