Shiv heard the parting of flesh from within the armored cocoon. Stormhalt gurgled. Shiv pointed his blade behind the man's head and channeled his beam portal. A stream of Pyromancy crashed against the coiling trunk of lightning. Shiv felt himself get ejected across just as the electricity gripping him in place collapsed. One of the strands slipped between his ribs and ground upon his bones. The sensation was disquieting. Shiv felt a series of tremors pass through his body, but then he was gone, materializing right behind Stormhalt again.

Shiv battered the City Lord with his mana hydras, stunning the man briefly just as his Adam-bestowed skills changed once more.

Skill Replaced: Commander’s Foresight > Veilpiercer

And in that moment, he executed the rest of his plan. Shiv reached out for his Dimensionality and frowned as a Veilpiercer formed within his hands. His senses were going haywire; he was getting strange feelings from all around. It was like the world was pressing its weight on him, like space itself was a fabric he could pull on.

Once more, Dimensionality made itself known to Shiv, but he realized that the same problems holding his Biomancy back applied to this lore of magic as well. It didn't matter that he had a Master-Tier Dimensionality skill; he didn't know how to use it.

"Shit," he muttered. He activated Commander's Foresight again, and this time a deeper spike of pain immediately drilled through his head. Yeah, that's gonna get pretty distracting fast, Shiv thought to himself. He'd probably not waited enough for it to recover. He surveyed the scene again, but did a double-take as he realized there was a dimensional pathway opening to his left. A Veilpiercer was bursting out from the rift, and there was only one other person in the room who could do that.

Oh, there you are.

With Adam's general location known, the next part would be to meet up with him and have the Gate Lord deliver the shot. But until he arrived, Shiv needed to hold Stormhalt at bay for a little while longer.

Oh, I'm gonna enjoy doing that.

The Deathless launched himself forward. His tides roared with kinetic energy. He slammed into Stormhalt like a falling meteor greeting an unbreaking fortress. The room rumbled from the impact, but Shiv kept his blows controlled. The air didn’t catch fire; it didn’t ionize into plasma. Shiv channeled every bit of his strength directly into Stormhalt's body. And though the black lightning parried his blows and kept the man within from harm, Stormhalt was still launched back, and Shiv went with him.

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 501 > 502

The Deathless ignored the many veins of electricity tearing through his torso, mangling his organs, coiling around him. In about one second, he would be reverted across time. For now, he wanted Stormhalt out of position. And so he hooked a hand underneath Stormhalt's left armpit and spiked both of them down. They burst through another section of the bridge, and they fell like an arrow descending into a canyon of chaos. The panels lining the wall and floor beneath them were burning, the spell patterns flowing along their surface shredded and spewing magic into the air.

The searing heat staining the divine mana was upon Shiv once more, but through bloodied teeth, he gave a rasping laugh. "You know, it didn't take Roland more than a second to kill me. And here you are, with the power of a god, and still pathetic."

Shiv felt Stormhalt flinch. More than that, a portion of his chest glistened. His brittleness glowed so bright that it shone through the electric cocoon that shrouded him. He tore at Shiv from within, but before the Deathless could be wrenched apart, he launched himself back a full three seconds.

He materialized right next to the Gate Lord and the Penitent. Can Hu was still sparking. Most of its lower body was little more than a skeletal framework; wires swayed and spat sparks from the many holes left in its torso. Adam didn't look so good either. There was blood seeping out from his hydrokinetic body, but he was there.

They were alive, and they were going to bring this fight to an end.
