Having a skill that effectively allowed Jake to double-dip in boosting skills with his Perception was insanely good, and not even something he had imagined was a possibility. The skill also remained quite mysterious, talking about Jake being able to “perceive things beyond current limitations,” whatever the hell that meant. He looked forward to finding out, but for now, it was a complete mystery.

Unsurprisingly, the skill didn’t come entirely without downsides. From the instinctive knowledge he did get, Jake had some idea of how the skill worked. What it did was effectively “pull” on some parts of his soul, weakening his soul and even physical body to compensate for boosting his Perception. Doing something like that as freeform magic would be a great way to fuck up his own soul worse than using Primeval Origin Energy on Palate of the Malefic Viper, so he was definitely happy the system was in charge of something like that.

Even so, it strained his body and soul, limiting how long and how often he could keep the skill active. As the description of Sight of the Boundless Horizon said, overusing it could lead to soul damage, so in that vein, it really wasn’t that much different from Primal Gaze.

One very important note was that this skill increased the effectiveness of Perception and didn’t actually increase his Perception. When Jake saw that, he instantly thought that it could synergize well with a lot of skills, seeing as they also had the passive effect of increasing the effectiveness of Perception while using them. Something that would definitely seem to be the case, and from the description, Jake had likely even underestimated this part. At least one section of the skill indicated that:

“May have additional effects when used alongside certain Perception-based skills.”

Jake once more wasn’t exactly sure what this meant, but one thing was sure: he had a lot of testing to get done. Something like Event Horizon should definitely work with it, right? Primal Gaze was also a strong candidate.

Smiling, Jake decided that rather than sit around and contemplate, wouldn’t it be an idea to go out and stretch his legs a little? He had just reached B-grade and would take a little while to realize what he was now capable of, and, fortunately for him, he’d already planned a little space trip, as Arnold was due for a visit. Miranda would definitely prefer for Jake to test himself in the emptiness of space rather than unleash everything right in the middle of Haven. As for after his moon visit, it was Order of the Malefic Viper time. Could Jake also just go to the Order now if he wanted to test things out? Sure, but Jake kind of wanted to visit the moon and see what the hell Arnold had been up to.

Getting up from the bed, Jake cracked his neck as he walked out to his porch. He gave the eels a final wave goodbye before he turned his gaze towards the moon far above. Lifting his foot, Jake activated One Step and instantly felt the difference. Even without using his new super Perception boosting skill, his sensitivity to concepts had reached an entirely new level, and he easily warped through space, traveling more than ten times what he normally could with a single step.

His smile grew even wider as his wings appeared and he ascended, his flight speed easily more than twice as fast as before, and by his initial estimates… if he was to fight Yrelstromoz here and now, the encounter wouldn’t even last more than a minute, and that was only because she had a way not to get instantly killed by his opening attack.
