“Every single [Healer] in the world told me I would be dead as a boy. Except for a certain Goblin Chieftain who saved my life. I came to these islands long ago—in secret. I’ve been here every year since. Not when it comes to the House of Minos, of course. This was planned long ago.”
“Huh.”
Greydath looked at Saimh and then at Izikere. She had found a new place to sit where she clearly intended to turn into a second tree. She didn’t turn her head, but one eye winked at him. And this was closer to Reiss’ dream than the island had ever seemed before.
The Goblins set sail as the Minotaur armada reported that the laughing Goblins who had made a skeleton crew on the ships—complete with fake Goblins made of reeds and vines and grass—had merrily teleported away once Khedal’s warship closed and began to board.
Disastrous. Greydath decided he’d join one of the ships bound for Terandria, and the Isle of Goblins celebrated merrily at the House of Minos’ expense. A Goblin’s trick.
 
——
 
Just as planned, really. Inreza offered a short report to the other nations and reported Khedal’s vow to hunt the Goblins down. Then she also announced that Minotaurs would join the races seeking to explore the new lands, the first expansion of their nation since their inception.
While the rest of her nation tried to calculate the Goblins’ trajectory and see whether there was a point in assailing the island after this, she pulled out a worn book from her personal quarters.
Goblin [Mercenaries]. Leading Goblins and being led by Goblins, by Niers Astoragon.
It was one of the last copies in the world, and she wondered if the Fraerling had kept any. Perhaps, in Fraerling cities where only his kind could read them. It was one of the few books with anything like interviews with actual Goblins. As she had told Khedal, few species got to observe them in anything more than an adversarial role.
However—the journals of Minotaur Kings before her also provided insights. Some were like Khedal. Some saw nothing, and some had fought Crelers and been too busy for Goblins. Except to note moments where the Island of Goblins and House of Minos had slain an Elder Creler and their warriors had withdrawn without spilling each other’s blood.
Khedal, in some ways, was like a rock. His journey to the Isle of Goblins might not change him immediately, but perhaps, like a drop of water falling on a boulder over a decade…well. Under Inreza, the House of Minos had taken fewer casualties in their war against the Goblins—that had allowed them to battle the King of Destruction’s ambitions abroad.
Presently, after reading, Inreza heard a sharp pinging sound, like someone tapping a crystal with a hammer, and felt a buzzing at her side. She closed the book and put the high-quality speaking stone on the armrest of her throne.
“—You never did gain the Titan’s confidence to ask him about meeting Velan the Kind, did you?”
“I—no, my King.”
The voice that spoke through the stone was slightly sheepish. The King of Minotaurs nodded.
“He is a cautious man. Perhaps when you return. How many letters did you receive, Venaz?”
“Over two thousand. Do you know what caused it? Calruz swears he has no knowledge. They kept referencing a ‘rat’.”
Venaz, the [Strategist] from the House of Minos, was reporting in. Inreza sighed as she plucked a letter she had received from her bag of holding.
“I believe the Minotaur has two rats as pets. Is that correct?”
“Yes…I think he mentioned…are you saying…?”
“One of the rats is intelligent enough to write a letter. Treat them like Sariant Lambs. How was his testimony of yesterday?”
Venaz was apparently trying to choke himself to death of his own volition. The Minotaur King waited for him to finish.
“Rats…?”
“Pets can be intelligent, Venaz. Sariant Lambs can read books. The Hundredfriend Courier’s companions are all around that intelligent. Are they a people in all but name, dignity, and the way they are treated? I have often wondered that.”
“I…will consider that carefully, my King.”
She was currently giving Venaz a migraine, so Inreza relented. He had enough to do.
“Tell me about Calruz, then. If you wish. But I trust your judgment as Mneiol, Venaz.”
“I would still be grateful for your wisdom. I will not take up your time.”
The Minotaur King listened, leaning on one side of her throne, as Venaz reported in. She was not unsympathetic to the rat. It was just that Haldagaz—what a funny name—was not in possession of all the facts.
Nor was even Calruz or Khedal. A [Thrower] had to have guile. Or else what made them different from a ballista? Sometimes you hit a target no one was expecting.
Venaz, [Strategist], was in Liscor judging Calruz of Hammerad’s actions. As was well and proper. He would do that to the utmost of his ability. Yet…Inreza closed one eye as Venaz came to the end of his report.
“…I have heard that the Goblins have made an exodus from the isle, my King.”
“Yes, a problem. We shall deal with it as best we can. However, Venaz, concern yourself only with your studies and your duties abroad.”
“Of course, my King. I…have not as of yet begun any judgements on my second target. I only gained access to the inn two days ago, and I believe I am still somewhat unwelcome.”
“How long is your break?”
“I should return to the academy soon, but I can extend it as long as needed. The Professor will understand. Today, I will return to the inn and try to meet with…ah, him. Numbtongue seems the most well-versed and spoken.”
Inreza’s eyes opened fully, and she sat up.
“Good.”
That was all. A member of the Mneiol could judge another Minotaur’s actions. But who was Venaz there to investigate?
Perhaps—a Goblin in an inn inclined to talk. And if he was—Inreza glanced down at her books and her own journal. No, it would take more than a single Goblin’s testimony, but you saw honor where you found it. You didn’t have to seek it out if it were as visible as a hundred Antinium standing amidst the waves.
Antinium and Goblins. The rest of the world could say what they wanted, and no species was one people. But if one weren’t a monster…the Minotaur King waited until she had more facts. More facts, and evidence, and the opportunity to change this world.
If only she or Venaz could have read that [Innkeeper]’s Skills and seen [Natural Allies: Goblins]. Then Inreza would have had more questions to ask. If she had one fear…well.
She still had great reservations about Venaz’s ability to be tactful.
