A pair of Minotaurs and a half-Elf walk into a bar. A third Minotaur is already waiting for them. The half-Elf orders a bowl of bugs, and the other two Minotaurs look at the third one.
He has no arm. He smiles and stands up. Then—the Minotaur asks the other two.
“Is today when I finally face justice? Is today the day I die?”
And nobody laughs at all, because it isn’t a joke.
 
——
 
It’s a military bar, not the generic bar where a horse is allowed to order a glass of water. In fact, ‘bar’ is stretching the term; [Camp Bartender] is a specialized class that has the ability to deploy essentially a tent with benches for the purposes of dispensing alcohol on a moment’s notice.
In some military minds, the act of creating a place where [Soldiers] could unwind with a mind-altering beverage might be a poor idea. However, to another type of perspective, it made sense.
Placed in a secure area that would not suffer attacks, the army’s bar was a valuable inducement to morale. Officers and regular soldiers could mingle under a certain veil of anonymity or take the temperature of a regiment. More importantly—the bar was a place for [Soldiers] to spend their valuable pay and send it right back into the army’s coffers.
There were cold, sharp minds in the military who styled themselves upon leading crack-troops into decisive combat and breaking their opponents with a combination of will, arms, and tactics. They had nothing on the financiers of said armies, who operated in the cold, hard vacuum of economics.
That was all to say that the ‘bar’ served alcohol, and if you asked what kind, you didn’t get any. It also meant that it was Liscor’s army’s bar, and so, to get here, both Minotaurs had taken the portal door to this location. With said half-Elf.
Finally, because it was Liscor’s army’s bar, it sold bugs as snacks. Crunchy beetles endemic to this region that you took a shot of Firebreath Whiskey with. It was already tradition for non-Antinium squads to haze new members with the practice.
The two Minotaurs were Venaz of Hammerad, [Strategist] of the Forgotten Wing company as a student, and Bezale of Maweil, a [Spellscribe] of Wistram’s Scriptel faction.
Ceria was Captain of the Horns of Hammerad. Of the three, Venaz had never met Calruz. Yet, of the three—his impression was perhaps the most important, and it was already defined by a few events.
Firstly, testimony from people around Liscor. He had interviewed Elirr, Mrsha, and other people who had been present during the Raskghar raids, including Erin Solstice. Following that, Venaz had personally spoken with Ceria Springwalker for several hours, as her testimony was most relevant.
Secondly, he informed his judgment based on testimony from a certain Silver-rank team of Minotaurs, three of whom had survived the Village of the Dead raid and offered their commentary. Venaz had further added notes from Watch Captain Zevara and spent some time confirming the magical nature of the dungeon with Bezale and every mage-adventurer in Liscor willing to speak to him.
Finally, he thought of the ‘Beriad’ of the Antinium. 6th Battalion. Another event had occurred during the Minotaur’s walk through the camp.
That was Bezale and Venaz both being greeted as ‘Captain Calruz’ by confused Antinium who wished to congratulate him on regrowing his arm. These were not members of 6th Battalion, incidentally.
Calruz of Hammerad watched Bezale stop when she saw him. Ceria was already ordering a small bowl of beetles. She was alive. Zevara had written him to inform him of this, but he hadn’t seen Ceria until now.
Yet he looked at Venaz and knew.
There was nothing to distinguish the other Minotaur from Bezale physically, at least, that he carried the authority Calruz had been waiting for. Yet, aside from knowing Venaz individually, Calruz saw the other Minotaur fix him with a studious gaze before striding along the room.
Minotaur feet were interesting, incidentally, because not all Minotaurs had five-toed feet. Some had hooves, others had regular feet similar to a Human or Gnoll. Bezale had humanoid feet. Calruz had humanoid feet.
Venaz had hooves. They clicked gently on the stone floor of the camp bar. Aside from that, he made no sound as he waited.
Bezale was right behind him, Ceria trailing at the rear. The other [Soldiers] in the camp bar turned.
They had heard Calruz’s question. Why did he smile? The Antinium had certainly noticed—they were leaving the bar in a rush.
“Calruz of Hammerad?”
“I am Calruz of Hammerad. Formerly of the Beriad of Minos. Prisoner-soldier in service to Liscor’s civilian army under authority of Commander Olesm as remanded to him by Watch Captain Zevara.”
The Minotaur stood straight and put one arm behind his back. Venaz eyed him.
“…Formerly of the Beriad? Your status was not revoked, last I inquired.”
His tone was—severe. Enough so that Wil, Merrik, and Peki, who had followed him covertly, were surprised. Venaz was often authoritative, but right now, he was cold in a way he seldom came off to his friends.
The one-armed Minotaur stiffened. He seemed to have two scars for every one Venaz carried—and Venaz did have scars. An adventurer who had fought in Liscor’s dungeon. He was, as Peki pointed out, in very good shape. If anything, Wil thought he had begun to develop the inhuman or in…Minotaur…body that came to those of a certain level.
Skin as tough as steel. Yet his voice was the interesting part. He had no battlefield roar—if anything, his was a quiet tone, and it hesitated now.
“I…assumed my position would have been in question at least. It would certainly be revoked following review—”
“But you are a member of the Beriad to your knowledge, Calruz of Hammerad? Answer.”
Venaz cut him off, and Calruz stiffened slightly. He clasped one arm across his chest.
“I am. Calruz of the Beriad. Forgive me, V—cousin of Minos.”
There was a logic to this. Venaz nodded, and only then did he copy Calruz’s gesture with his left arm.
“I am Venaz of Hammerad. Beriad of Minos, and [Strategist] in training under the tutelage of Lord Niers Astoragon of the Forgotten Wing Company. I believe you know Bezale of Maweil, also a member of the Beriad, [Mage] of Wistram’s Scriptel faction.”
“I do.”
Calruz nodded to her, and Bezale nodded back, looking…uneasily at Venaz. Not once did the [Strategist]’s face move. He was watching Calruz.
“I am also a member of the Mneiol by virtue of my rank as [Strategist]. I have the authority to render judgment in or outside the House of Minos. Per your request, Calruz of Minos, I have come to evaluate your actions as Captain of the Horns of Hammerad, then as leader of the Raskghar in Liscor’s dungeon. So. Tell me the events as you recall them.”
With that, he sat down and placed a truth crystal on the table, put one gold coin on the table as someone came to take his order, and waved Bezale and Ceria over.
“I will have water or a non-alcoholic beverage. Calruz of Hammerad?”
The other Minotaur paused a moment.
“…Water.”
He glanced at Bezale and Ceria. The half-Elf had a cup of wine and paused in the middle of taking a huge gulp—she’d dipped a giant stag beetle in a shot of whiskey and was about to down that.
“Do I need to not drink?”
“As you choose, Captain Ceria. Magus Bezale?”
“Wine. Whatever you have.”
It was quite strange. The three watching [Strategists] realized Venaz wasn’t about to render instantaneous judgment. And he confirmed that the moment he turned around.
“I am not about to cut his head off. This will take time. Hours, days…he has to tell his record of events. You three might as well come in, but don’t interrupt unduly.”
Embarrassed, the other students slunk into the bar. Calruz blinked at them as Venaz introduced them.
“My companions. I apologize if their presence is distracting, Calruz.”
“No. I…am I to be judged as if I was home, Venaz of the Mneiol? I did not expect that. Surely the facts are clear.”
At that, Venaz folded his arms.
“What other judgment would suffice? You have been granted exceptions to your execution under Drake law by the Watch Captain of Liscor. Did you think your arbiter would come with any preconceived notions to pass judgment in an hour?”
Calruz flushed.
“I—must have been long from home, Strategist Venaz. I will confess, my mind is made up. I also do not expect mercy, nor have I ever been judged by the Mneiol for crimes. My impression was—different.”
He glanced sideways at Bezale, and she turned beet red as she recalled their interaction. Venaz looked at her and nodded.
“I will take your position into account. So you know—the Mneiol judge much like you were judged when you were named Beriad. Your Right to Dissent is not an option; the rest is much the same.”
Bezale and Calruz started.
“Like that?”
“Similar enough. So—I will require your testimony. If you have prior engagements or duties to your commander, inform me, and we will make allowances. Otherwise…”
Otherwise he would render judgment as soon as he believed he knew all there was to learn, and as soon as that was done, he would execute whatever he had decided.
The half-Elf knew it—that was why she was here. She watched Venaz out of the corner of her eye as she flipped a shot up, and Peki crunched a beetle down and then spat it into Merrik’s face.
Yet Venaz seemed more relaxed than Calruz. In fact, he was mulling over the short list of snacks.
“A…plate of Belgrade Ambush-Fries for the table. How many does that serve? Make that two. What differentiates this from regular fries?”
The server gave him a crooked grin.
“Lots of ketchup and relish plus some beans scattered around for good measure. What an enemy squad normally looks like when they run into Belgrade’s division. Blood and scales everywhere. See?”
“What’s the beans, then?”
Wil was very curious to meet an Antinium commander—much less see a Drake army in action, even one as unorthodox as Liscor’s army. No, especially one like Liscor’s army, and learn all he could and report back to the academy.
The Drake server replied happily.
“That’s all the crap from their pants. Two?”
“We can remove ourselves. I have a tent, Strategist Venaz—”
“Be at ease, Calruz. Is it Captain Calruz or Adventurer Calruz? How is this campaign against Hectval going?”
The question threw Calruz a moment.
“It—is mostly static and skirmishes, as Hectval’s alliance has withdrawn around their cities.”
“Indeed. I would dearly love to meet some of Liscor’s army. Even see them train if there’s time? This is personal—I intend to report my experience back to my professor, Niers Astoragon. Assuming the Antinium allow it, viewing their command would be highly informative.”
“I could arrange that. But…”
Calruz was almost as surprised as the other non-Minotaurs by Venaz’s commentary. The [Strategist] noticed and was about to speak when there was the marching of boots. Ceria had already heard it and turned casually in her chair, but she relaxed when she saw dozens of Antinium storming into the bar in a hurry.
Everyone else freaked out. But mildly—Peki was on her feet, and Wil grabbed his sword before sitting down. Venaz turned, and Calruz cursed.
He recognized their company. Of course he did, but even without their rank insignia, it would have been obvious from the crude horns over their antennae and the giant two-handed weapons each one carried which company they were.
6th Battalion, the Beriad. The group he trained and led. Calruz even recognized their leader Gladheart, a [Lieutenant of the Fray] who he had personally appointed.
“What is the meaning of this? Disperse to your company! Strategist Venaz…”
The Beriad didn’t move. They stood in formation, and then a Worker spoke.
“We are 6th Battalion of Liscor’s Army. Strategist Venaz. You have come to kill Captain Calruz.”
The Strategist hadn’t moved. He was watching the Beriad. With much the same expression of surprise and confusion he had worn at the Meeting of Tribes. But the flicker in his eyes wasn’t hatred or fear. He was…watching them.
Watching them with an interest he had given few people. Even, his friends thought, something like regret. He stood slowly and faced the Antinium Beriad.
“I am not. My presence here is to judge Calruz of Hammerad under the laws of the House of Minos. Any conclusion before my verdict is reached is premature and unacceptable.”
Bezale turned even redder. The Worker hesitated, and the Beriad stared at each other. They hadn’t expected this! A group near the center huddled for a second, and the Worker replied.
“We…are Antinium who serve under Captain Calruz’s command. He must not die for being dishonorable. Therefore, we would like to offer testimony as warriors who have served under his command. We believe this is in accordance with Minotaur law and custom.”
Calruz choked on his cup of water. He had told them about the House of Minos’ customs—as one did for young soldiers with no upbringing nor past nor future till now. Yet he hadn’t expected them to do this!
And yet, they knew the songs only Minotaurs knew. They had heard him tell them of what it was to be a son of Minos, and he had named them with a title reserved for the best of the House of Minos.
Calruz’s head sank. He interrupted Venaz.
“Strategist—I am ashamed. 6th Battalion, return to your posts. This is—not for you to decide.”
The Worker stared at him.
“But we are your sworn warrior-companions. This qualifies us to do so.”
“It would. Non-Minotaur warriors are no exception to the rule. I have a hundred more to interview. Hundreds, if you taught members of the army and fought alongside them for the last few months.”
Venaz murmured. Yet Calruz turned red and stood. He had been expecting Venaz for a long time. His arrival was a relief. This…
This felt like stalling. If he didn’t know better, he would have assumed Ceria or Zevara had arranged this, but the half-Elf was looking hugely entertained.
“It is not necessary, Strategist Venaz. 6th Battalion, return to your posts. This is an order as your captain.”
He regretted doing that to them, because they cared for orders so much. However, again to his astonishment, the Beriad didn’t move. The Worker in front hesitated, then Gladheart raised his hand and began ticking points off on his fingers.
