He opined they should also create an underground bunker, and so the rest of the family wondered if that were possible. The House of Minos had [Engineers] who built ballistae, and an uncle on break said it was possible with proper supports. But building them out of wood was wasteful.
That might have been that, but then the question was raised—could you build an underground bunker with sufficient safety supports out of sand?
The next day, a group of off-duty [Engineers] and [Builders] had brought out measuring tools, gear from work, and begun stress-testing how high you could build a sand fort. How much water went into the dense enough sand?
By the end of the week, half of the city was heading down to work on the evolving project, which had long since been moved past a sand-skirmish into an attempt to build a walkway made completely out of sand. Just for fun.
Six years later, tourists to Hammerad found an entire city built out of sand still being worked on by Minotaurs in their spare time. You could head to the upper level and see homes actually being inhabited, or head down below to where an entire warzone of sand-traps and fortifications was battled through by younger Minotaurs.
That was a Minotaur’s project. And that was what they did for fun.
 
——
 
Each son and daughter of Minos was born into paradise. However, maintaining that came at a cost.
It was their choice whether or not they wanted to fish or build siege weapons for a living. Acting as a soldier was optional. But you did serve in some way.
Purpose. That is what they taught the young. Purpose was tied to honor and duty. The unfeeling hammer had a purpose, but no sense of duty, no pride in the task. In the same way, Minotaurs were more than pieces in a greater machine. If they were not fulfilled in the most menial of tasks, like cleaning the streets, something was wrong. Whether that was the Minotaur for the job or the nature of how the job was laid out was the question.
It was why the House of Minos had curios like the giant puzzle box that Relc Grasstongue was so eagerly showing Selys.
“It’s a real Honolac cube. From Etrerra-Valar itself.”
“Relc…”
“You can tell it’s real because of the ash mark here. And it’s entirely made of wood. Hand-carved, over two thousand pieces. I’d have to save up for a year to buy one. And Klb got me it. Klb.”
“I get it. It’s a super-puzzle.”
Relc looked insulted.
“Super…? It’s not about the difficulty alone, Selys, it’s a work of art! You can disassemble it and put it back together perfectly once you master it. This is like—one of your stupid paintings.”
They marched through her mansion as Selys, exasperated by the hour-long lecture by Relc, who’d been following her around, snapped back.
“Don’t make fun of my paintings!”
“Why n—oh, sorry. I meant, uh, Hawk’s painting. Did he give you it as a present?”
Relc had caught sight of another painting of a Drake standing by himself with a helmet tucked under one arm. He looked slightly uncomfortable, which was how you knew it was an actual painting of Zel Shivertail. He stopped and nodded up at that painting.
Hawk’s portrait of the Courier mid-stride was less prominently placed. Selys called over her shoulder.
“I thought you said there are only less than fifty of those in existence. Which makes sense.”
“Why?”
“Because only fifty people would want one.”
Relc made a sound like a cat whose tail had been stepped on. He stomped after Selys, but she was changing for a day out with Erin. A wall of her bodyguards muscled over, and even Relc stepped back.
Slap, slap. If you were a [Thief], the ominous sound of a beaver’s tail hitting the marble floor was the sound you’d hear right before they started breaking your bones. First your feet, then everything else.
Relc hadn’t seen Selys’ new home of late, and so he backed up and saw a giant…dam. She actually had a pond’s worth of water in the antechambers. He whistled.
“This is some place, Selys. What’s with the multiple doors?”
You entered into her actual home after passing through an area on the outside with a bowl and a bunch of letters and gifts piled up. Then you passed through what was essentially a living room or reception where the beavers made their home.
“Layers of security. My front door is actually unlockable with a basic key. That means Street Runners can get in or out.”
Relc hesitated. Far be it from him, a lowly [Guard], to talk about security, but…
“Isn’t that dangerous, security-wise?”
Selys poked her head out and emerged in a unique piece of clothing. Relc took one look at it and began sniggering.
“Shut up. It’s the latest fashion in Invrisil.”
She was wearing a modified track-suit in red with white stripes down the leggings. Relc kept snorting. Selys ignored him as she tossed some sticks from a bucket into the beavers’ den, and they splashed in after them.
“I have the beavers for security, Relc. And a bunch of enchantments. I’ve fried about eight [Thieves] so far—all alive, although some got messed up by the beavers.”
Relc stopped laughing.
“What, really? Is it that bad? Having lots of money doesn’t sound that great. I’ve only been robbed once, and I think the guy got the wrong room.”
Selys just shrugged.
“You get used to it. Amazingly fast, actually. Alright, you lot. Don’t eat any Street Runners.”
She patted the beavers on the heads as they made odd chirping sounds and then looked around, exasperated.
“Where are Calruz’s…? Rhata, Haldagaz!”
Relc had almost forgotten the other two pets Selys was taking care of. A loud squeak made him jump, and Selys’ inner door opened slightly.
Now, a rat couldn’t pull a door open, but it could push it like a dog or cat. However, that was quite a feat for such a small animal. And yet the grey rat that plodded into the room did just that.
What was more impressive was the fact that it was dragging a dumbbell behind it. Five pounds. Relc stared as Rhata nosed forwards, and Selys sighed.
“I guess Haldagaz is alive, somewhere. They’ve got food—stay. Stay.”
“Shouldn’t you put them in cages, in case the beavers eat them?”
The Fortress Beavers and Selys gave Relc a skeptical look. The Drake shook her head.
“I tried, Relc. She kept on breaking my cages.”
“Well, just buy—”
“She ate the wood ones. Then I bought iron, and she bent the bars. I actually commissioned a steel cage large enough for her, and it took her two days to bust down the cage door. Then I got an enchanted one, and the lock vanished! I don’t even know how she did that. I’m afraid she ate it or something. Calruz’s rats are insane. She’s as strong as…well, she’s strong for a rat.”
Indeed, Rhata seemed to be dragging the dumbbell around for fun. Relc scratched his head.
“What about the other one? Halda…?”
“Haldagaz. He’s just smart. Smart enough that he can feed himself. I mostly catch him in my libraries like he can read books. I actually think he stares at the pictures.”
Selys chuckled. Relc just gave Rhata a mystified look.
“That’s so cool. I should get some rats if that’s what they can do. Hey, Selys, do you think I should get a pet?”
“No.”
“What about…a cat? No, wait, a monkey-thing from Baleros. Erin told me about them, and I looked them up. I could teach it how to use a spear…”
“Relc, this is why the answer is ‘no’. Now come on, I have to meet Erin. Why did no one ever make more than fifty Honolac Cubes?”
Relc shrugged as he headed for the door. Selys locked her home, although there was a tiny entrance for a rat to get in and out.
“Honolac—that’s the puzzle-maker—made tons for cheap. He had a [Merchant] who worked with him, and once they got popular, I heard the [Merchant] ordered a hundred, but when he heard how long they took to make, he suggested hiring some [Carpenters] and such in other cities to do it quick. You know, expedite the process?”
“That sounds like how I’d do it. What went wrong?”
“The Minotaur quit. He said it no longer interested him. Making a bunch of money wasn’t as fun. That’s Minotaurs for you.”
The door closed, and the beavers and Rhata were left to mill about. If you looked closely after Selys and Relc were gone, you might see Rhata jiggling on the floor happily. If you looked closer…it became clear the rat was doing press-ups.
Such were Selys’ pets. However, the last one, the one that hadn’t been seen, only made his entrance after Selys had left.
Squeak, squeak. 🐁
 
*🐁 If you haven’t read Haldagaz and Rhata’s mini-chapters, go to Interlude – Hectval Pt. 2 and find them!
 
Haldagaz the Rat appeared moments after Selys had left. He looked left and then right, listening hard, but Selys didn’t come back, and he was sure that he would hear the loud, green one, Relc, long before they opened the door.
Even so—he was cutting it close. Laboriously, the white rat scurried forwards, past Rhata, who stopped doing pushups to watch him.
Like Rhata, he had something attached to a bit of string looped around his body so he could pull it behind him. Unlike Rhata, it was not one of Calruz’s training weights.
It was a tiny scroll of parchment he had worked on for the last two weeks. Hiding the piece of paper from Selys wasn’t hard; she was rich enough that she had stationary everywhere. Quills, ink, the same. The difficulty was manipulating anything with rat appendages.
And keeping Rhata from eating it. The only way Haldagaz had managed to get anything legible close to the books he read was to get one of the smaller beavers to lie down while he pinned down the piece of parchment or paper and then delicately manipulated the quill from on top the beaver’s head.
Needless to say, Selys had put down the dozens of failed attempts to Rhata eating all the parchment—which was how Haldagaz got rid of the evidence.
Yes, the rat could write. And read. It had taken him a long time to figure out how the words on the pages went together, and since Drake script was different from Human—although they shared the same letters—he had taken longer.
However, he was among the most intelligent animals in Liscor thanks to Calruz’s Skill—[Pet: Best Quality, Refined]. In fact, given Haldagaz’s ability to plan, and the natures of Elirr’s cats, who were famously able to open doors and outsmart most other animals, it was amazing some animals didn’t have levels.
Yet like Ogres and Trolls, even monkey species, intelligent rats, and the Sariant Lambs couldn’t level. Haldagaz had wondered why and concluded it was because he was too small, thus proving he hadn’t learned about Fraerlings yet. He might amend his conclusion to the fact that it was only one rat who had gained this advanced intelligence, and thus his people, the Children of the Grain Sack and other sacks around the world, were unworthy.
He was only partially right. But then—only a few species would have been able to tell him the truth. And most had no voices a rat or person could understand.
At any rate, Haldagaz was in a hurry, and he scampered across the room, panting as he headed into the antechambers. He was aiming for the bowl, and he tugged the piece of parchment up laboriously, let it slide into the bowl, and then went back for the second note.
Would he make it? He was worried he’d cut it too close, but Selys had mentioned Venaz was meeting Calruz today. Therefore, he was out of time.
Someone was at the door. Haldagaz froze as he placed the second slip of parchment above the bowl. He didn’t have the rest ready! He looked around frantically and then—miracle of miracles, he heard a squeak!
Rhata, his dear sister, had followed Haldagaz. She might not have understood all the things that the white rat did, but she knew her brother was doing it for the Horned One of many pats and gains. So she had grabbed what he needed—
Selys’ money pouch. It had a bunch of spare coins. However, she had dragged the entire thing after her. It had to weigh a lot! Haldagaz only needed one coin. He scampered down and grabbed the coin, then placed it in the bowl. Almost done…Haldagaz saw the door opening and froze. Wait!
A Fortress Beaver sidled over to the door and leaned against it as someone cursed and the door opened. Haldagaz saw the big rodent nod at its smaller cousin and squeaked in thanks. Then he fled to watch his plan unfold.
“Argh! Damn—whoa. Easy—I’m a Street Runner. Nice beaver. Nice…”
The Fortress Beaver admitted the nervous Gnoll after a second. The Street Runner backed away as she called out, watching the beaver return to its den.
“Miss Selys? We got your request for a pickup! Miss Selys?”
The Runner’s Guild had offered Selys a service for its richer clients, along with the Mage’s Guild and Merchant’s Guild. Essentially home-deliveries where she could, for a nominal fee each month, get her letters and [Messages] picked up and delivered without the hassle of having to wait in line.
The Street Runner headed for the bowl, grumbling a bit when it became clear Selys was not home. However, she brightened up instantly.
“Oh? Oh!”
There were three things in the bowl. One was a letter. The second was a note, and the third was a gold coin. The letter was sealed, but the note read as follows:
 
Hello. Please take this to the Mage’s Guild and send to the following. Here is your tip. Please send to…
 
The address was interesting, and the Street Runner thought the handwriting looked odd for Selys. But the gold coin was too distracting.
This was why you had rich clients. The Gnoll would run this to the Mage’s Guild, pronto. She took the letter and headed out. A quiet squeak of victory followed her out.
Yes, he’d done all he could. Haldagaz felt guilty for stealing Selys’ coins, but Calruz might be executed today. He was doing the only thing he could for the only being that had ever been kind to him and his sister.
In that way, the little white rat was quite intelligent. Quite loyal.
For a rat. His sister was trying to do pullups on a ledge next to him. They had been two rats condemned to a simple existence and a quick death when they were found. Now, two rats were trying to save the life of a Minotaur condemned by his own honor.
 
——
 
Antinium. Rats. A half-Elf, a Watch Captain, all speaking to the virtues of a single prisoner. All for one Minotaur. There was some irony in it, this month of all months.
For the island was fast approaching the House of Minos, and their old enemy had come once again. And not one voice in all of the nation of Minotaurs spoke up for them. Not one voice—and no one to defend Goblins even with words. Not for a long, long time.
