Until recently. Until the [Innkeeper] of Liscor, who made strange plans. She thought, reasonably, she would have to bully and convince and bribe. Never once did she think there might be at least a few ears in unexpected places who would listen to what she had to say without reservations.
Here was the thing. Haldagaz’s plan worked. The Street Runner took the note to the Mage’s Guild, who translated the message across the world; their client was paying. Anyone could refuse to pick up a [Message] or request private messages from specified contacts only, but Selys was a notable figure in Liscor, and this was, unusually, still an individual of fame who accepted [Messages] from all.
The white rat had carefully timed and written his letter. But he had made one mistake. He was an exceptionally intelligent rat—but he was still a rat. So in his research into Calruz’s case and his attempts to find a way to help spare the Minotaur’s life, he had gone to the same logical conclusion a child might. He hadn’t known it would be Venaz, specifically.
So if you were going to plead a Minotaur’s case, who might you go to? The answer was…
The boss.
The [Message] reached the House of Minos, but not its intended recipient. Instead, it was vetted, because the King of Minotaurs was busy.
“An odd letter, but one I believe the King would appreciate. Yet I am sharing it with you, Prince Khedal.”
“If it is private, it is none of my business.”
The palace of Etrerra-Valar was exceptionally open, and the sea breeze would often blow far indoors. Unless there was a storm, those working here appreciated the contact with the outside world. They were, generally, administrators, the Mneiol, who had the authority to pass judgment, and occasionally Minotaurs in armor who represented the military arm of the House of Minos.
However, a fixture of the palace was the figure in armor who strode about with a pair of axes at his side. Prince Khedal was fifty-five years old, and grey had begun to enter his fur, already dark brown. He was third in line to the throne of the House of Minos.
Succession dictated that the Minotaur King’s family would be nominated in event of their death. After all, Minotaurs chose their families, so it followed that the most worthy would go thereafter.
In this case, the Minotaur King’s son preceded Khedal, a younger brother. A far younger Minotaur as yet unproven, who had not become Beriad.
Many believed that Khedal was the more obvious pick, and in the case of the Minotaur King’s death, the younger prince might cede the rights to Khedal anyways. However, that was not something to be desired.
The current Minotaur King was exceptionally popular. And she had the unwavering support of Khedal, renowned as one of the most high-level and honorable warriors in the House of Minos. He often led warships on patrol around their territory.
As another example of Khedal’s level, he had, five years ago, celebrated his 50-of-50 party and been toasted across the House of Minos and even received laudits from abroad. Technically, he had already fulfilled half the requirements before turning 50 years old, but the party was to celebrate someone who reached Level 50…while they were fifty years old.
It was an accomplishment few could boast of, and similar to 30-of-30, a mark of significant accomplishment. Anyways, Khedal stood with horns capped with mithril inscribed with the symbols of Minos, in perfect posture, ever armored and ready for battle.
Especially now. He spoke to the Minotaur who’d reviewed the letter.
“Is it personal?”
“Not to my understanding. I do not believe our King knows of the issue.”
Khedal thought about this and came to a quick decision.
“Our King is busy. I will review the letter, then, if reading the contents would not be shameful. Thank you.”
He took the letter and began to read. Khedal seldom smiled except when in the company of his family, the Minotaur King, or the young prince. His frown deepened, and he raised his head swiftly.
“This is important enough to warrant at least a mention. The honor of a Minotaur lies at stake. I shall convey it to the throne at once.”
And then he began striding down the palace, moving so fast he nearly ran into the team of Minotaurs removing a statue. Khedal side-stepped them with a brief apology, but the workers were used to it.
He was like the swing of his axes; when he moved, he moved. Khedal’s progress was impeded only slightly by the dozens of Minotaurs pulling statues, artwork, and other fine works out of the palace.
The King of Minotaurs was removing all the artwork in the palace. All of it. Heroic statues, paintings—all of which would go on auction. That was why the Merchant Saimh had braved the sea at this time, to collect the art.
It would be worth a fortune if sold to the right people. It was no whim either; the King of Minotaurs had simply decided it was a good time.
The palace would be bare after that. For a year or two. Then, like the plazas that now had statues of Venaz, Ozem—it would fill up.
Each new generation would create the art that adorned the palace itself and the squares, and were seen throughout the House of Minos. It was a practice the last few Minotaur Kings had adopted.
If the great art of older masters overshadows that of the present, would that not stifle the accomplishments of the current generation? It was a theory they had been testing out.
Of course, not everyone was happy about this, and as Khedal approached the throne room, he saw a pair of figures discussing it. He slowed slightly and listened as they spoke, watching the beautiful art going down to where it would be sold.
“I don’t understand why it must all go, Mother. Or at least, be sold. Some of it is beautiful beyond compare. These are our treasures. Why should they go to other peoples and other lands?”
It was a younger Minotaur, who was taller of the two. The other might have been taller, but she was stooped over, leaning hard against the railing. Neither one had armor on, and their clothing was plain enough that a visitor might take both as ordinary citizens.
Except that in the case of the female Minotaur, they’d look twice, because she had clearly fought in some battles. In an age of healing potions, it was still plain to see that the King of Minotaurs had scars that would never heal.
Part of her ribcage was missing. A divot, a long-since healed scar that was visible in her light robes, and a network of long scars below it. War wounds so dire she often sat rather than stood.
Khedal slowed as she replied.
“Do you have one piece of art you care for more than another? That one, perhaps?”
She pointed with some amusement to a painting that was familiar to Khedal and most Minotaurs. Her son didn’t answer, but he stared at the familiar protagonist captured in battle.
That would be the same Minotaur standing next to him, if far younger. The King of Minotaurs, Inreza. As Khedal knew full well, it was also Lareqol’s father who had painted it.
“…I just don’t see the point.”
The younger prince said at last. Inreza glanced at Khedal as he approached, the letter in hand.
“What do you think, Prince Khedal? Lareqol is speaking of how we divest ourselves of art.”
Khedal replied instantly.
“I am partial to many of the scenes of glory we are selling, my King. I would keep them all if it were my decision.”
Lareqol turned. Khedal didn’t often say things like that. Inreza listened.
“And would you say we should call the sale off?”
Khedal shook his head.
“Not at all. My desires do not lie superior to the good of our people. And it is our people who benefit from seeing their works displayed proudly to the world. This practice encourages artists and our crafters to aspire, Prince Lareqol.”
He spoke affectionately to the younger [Prince], who he personally tutored. Lareqol looked at the two old legends of Minos.
To say he was in their shadow would be something of an understatement. He worked hard, had a gift for combat and a sound mind—but he was also not awarded the privileges of rank. Most Minotaurs considered his an unenviable life, trying to live up to his mentors.
Of recent note, about four years ago, Lareqol had competed with other Minotaurs to be the student sent to the Forgotten Wing Company to learn from the Titan of Baleros.
He lost to a certain Minotaur named Venaz. Khedal continued, as if he were lecturing the young.
“There is another reason why we allow other peoples to take our art, Lareqol. Consider our King’s feats of glory. They are known throughout the House of Minos. In time, they might sit in a palace where other species witness a story time and time again. It is not a shame to sell our works of art. If anything—it proves that it is valuable.”
“How so?”
Lareqol hesitated, and Khedal smiled.
“We create works that other species covet. Worth is not something one can judge alone, but bestowed by others. We value the past, honor our works of great art. But the past cannot overshadow the deeds of those today. If this were not so, we would cease this tradition. The House of Minos must act in a way most beneficial for all, while minding the needs of each individual. The artists who created these works have already made more or have passed.”
He spoke with pride for the talent that had gone into each piece, confident that their worth would remain wherever they went, and a mind towards the needs of the nation he had dedicated his life for. In that way, when dignitaries came to the House of Minos, it was often Prince Khedal they mistook for the King of Minotaurs, an archetype of honor, duty, and war.
The King of Minotaurs listened to Khedal’s speech and saw Lareqol nodding. She coughed and spoke with a slight whisper behind her voice, a straining of her lungs. Inreza nodded to a vase passing below them.
“…We also sell our art because they make quite a lot of money, Lareqol. And we have limited storage space in our islands.”
Khedal faltered as the prince turned to his mother.
“Do we not do it for the reasons…?”
He glanced at Khedal, and Inreza shrugged.
“They are all excellent reasons Khedal speaks. But ask yourself—why do we actually maintain this tradition? Have we found reasons to explain the tradition when more…pragmatic ones suffice?”
“I see the honor in the actions, my King.”
Khedal protested uneasily. Inreza smiled.
“And I can see your point, Khedal. If there is honor to be found, good. But not everything need be honorable. I try not to look for honor everywhere.”
And that was the difference between the two. Rather than object, Khedal just bowed instantly.
“Your wisdom is always something I strive for, my King.”
“You needn’t do that. Just listen, and if I make sense, adopt what fits.”
Inreza looked amused and resigned, but then Khedal proffered the letter.
“I apologize for interrupting, my King, Prince Lareqol. But I have this letter, and I deemed it worthy of your immediate concern. It is an affair of honor for one of the Beriad.”
Inreza raised her brows as she took the letter. She read, and her eyes focused slightly.
“I see.”
The letter, written in small words and as neatly as possible—if slightly nibbled on one corner—read as follows:
 
To the King of Minotaurs,
I am writing to you regarding the judgment of Calruz of Hammerad. He is to be sentenced to death under Minotaur law if found guilty, and as of writing, he is now under trial by (Venaz of Hammerad). 
It is my belief a sentence of death is wrong. I have observed Calruz of Hammerad as a close companion and see no monster. He is an [Honorbound Prisoner]. The facts any arbiter may hear are incomplete. Calruz was a prisoner of Liscor’s Dungeon, and I hope you will consider his sentence personally.
I am not at liberty to give my name, but I hope you will think of his honor; he has done many things, such as charging Crelers and fighting monsters, to redeem his actions. He is my friend, and I would not see him hurt any more. 
Sincerely, H. Please pardon the damage to the page. I have rat troubles.
 
Inreza turned the letter about and stared at it.
“I assume the original was nibbled upon. Whomever this is has not sent [Message] spells before. Where did it come from?”
“Liscor. I can trace the sender…”
Inreza’s eyes flicked over the letter once more. She peered at the odd handwriting.
“Neat. Precise. But an odd penmanship. See how each letter wobbles? I wonder why. They did not know it would be Venaz when they wrote that letter.”
“Venaz is in Liscor?”
Lareqol spoke with faint envy and interest. Inreza nodded.
“His journeys take him far abroad. This letter is odd, again.”
“Why?”
“It was written in the common script, not Drake. It has no forms of their address. I wonder who wrote it?”
Khedal had observed none of this, only the comments about honor.
“Should I send a reply? Or ask Venaz about the facts of the case?”
The King of Minotaurs regarded the letter. She lifted it up, thought for a few seconds, and then calmly tore it up and let the pieces blow away on the breeze.
“No. I have read the letter. I will not alter Venaz’s judgment. He is qualified to be Mneiol. Someone cares for Calruz of Hammerad. That is plain. If he is innocent, he will be found to be such.”
Khedal opened his mouth, watching the pieces of the note flutter away on the breeze. The King of Minotaurs turned back to Lareqol.
“You two disagree?”
Both hesitated. Khedal spoke up slowly.
“If there are facts that Venaz doesn’t know, my King…”
“If I, personally, were to tell him to investigate the dungeon, it would affect his judgment because his King ordered him to do so. If there is an effect in the dungeon, he will look into it. This Calruz’s class will certainly be part of Venaz’s understanding. Do you have faith in his ability to rule fairly?”
Khedal folded his arms.
“He is young, rash, and he has embarrassed the House of Minos more than once publicly. But he is sound of mind. In such matters, I would expect him to behave with the dignity of the Mneiol. This is all true. But—”
He did not like the implication a judgment could be rendered wrongly, especially with such stakes. Inreza nodded as if reading his mind.
“The letter makes it clear that the sender believes the wrong judgment will be made. They would like me to act. Because that is clear, I will not. Khedal, I entrust you with monitoring Venaz’s decision. Say to him nothing, but tell me what is decided, for he will report back to the House of Minos in either case. Also, if you have a record of what this Calruz of Hammerad has done…I will read it tonight.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Relieved, Khedal bowed. And like that, a certain Minotaur’s name was now known to the King of Minotaurs.
Small things. The King of Minotaurs watched the pieces of paper she’d torn up fly into the air and then murmured.
