Pointed ears. Half-Elves, Goblins. So what? That was one feature. But there was something in the face. The eyes? A timelessness captured. The Minotaur shook his head.
He was seeing something else. It was a statue of a Goblin. It had to be. Or else why was it here? Why…
His lips moved, and he spat blood into the stream. Hoarsely, the Minotaur repeated that boast the Fraerling had once told to him.
“…I have looked upon the faces of Elves.”
The Goblin [Sculptor] said nothing as the Minotaur looked at the half-Elf standing there. His red eyes, his bloody armor…he stared at her in silence. Slowly, her lips moved.
“Yes.”
He didn’t know who it was. Khedal stumbled forwards, but the words on the statue were foreign to him…and the Goblin blocked the statue with her body. Protectively. He heard sounds from behind him and turned. One last time, he looked at the statue and thought it seemed familiar.
Oh, so many things were different, nuances of the body, hair, but the blood threw true. The Elf looked a bit like…that Named Adventurer.
Elia Arcsinger.
He left a trail of blood behind him. The Evercut Arrow dug into his shoulder, and the poison wormed at his mind. Imagining this. 
He crashed through a hedge-maze and stopped before a row of Goblins. They knelt or sat or raged at the sky. He realized they were made of stone, some as old as…
“Goblin Kings.”
That made sense. Khedal ran past the last one, Velan the Kind. Then looked back once. Each Goblin had been carved with something unreal, something—an object or something more than their face and features.
One held an island in her claw. Sóve. The one who had made this island. The second-to-last Goblin King was one that Khedal knew. His great-great-grandfather had died in battle against Curulac of a Hundred Days.
He held a little Goblin child wrapped in cloth in his hands. A greatsword leaned against the chair he sat in. That wasn’t the monster who had ravaged Terandria ere he died.
And Velan…Khedal saw the Goblin King kneeling next to bowls of herbs and stone potions. In his claws, he held a ring with two keys.
Then Khedal blinked, and he was running into the sand as Goblins shot arrows at the ship surging towards him. Minotaurs leapt into the water, grabbing him, shouting his name, and Khedal was rambling. They felt at his bandaged shoulder and called for an antidote—
Blink.
The Goblin kept poking him. Khedal raised his bloody axe, or tried to, but the old Goblin just pushed it down. He finally found the Evercut Arrow and yanked the head out.
“Mm? Mm.”
He slapped something on the shoulder and bound it with a bit of cloth. A poultice? Khedal rasped.
“I won’t be a prisoner.”
The Goblin tilted his head. He glanced at the hole that Khedal had put in his hut when the Minotaur had run straight through it and collapsed. He spoke, and Khedal blinked uncomprehendingly at the chattering voice. Then the Goblin concentrated and tried again.
“We…not you death. Not you.”
He tapped Khedal on the forehead. The Prince rasped at him.
“What? What…?”
The Goblin grinned and shook his head.
“Kings mad. Kings…long ago. Not you. See?”
Khedal didn’t. The delirious Minotaur saw the Goblin pull something out. It was very important—he kept snapping his fingers as the Minotaur tried not to close his eyes. Khedal had to get to shore. But the Goblin showed him a tiny, carved figure.
“…the faces of Elves…”
The Minotaur whispered. He looked at the old Goblin, and the [Herbalist] shook his head.
“No. Stupid.”
He poked Khedal in the snout, and the Minotaur growled.
“Then what?”
“Friends.”
The Minotaur—blinked—
And he was lying on the deck of the ship. The [Battle Healer] leaning over him jerked back.
“Prince Khedal? Stay still.”
“I’m—”
“Safe. The Goblin’s poison is mostly neutralized. Lie still. We are headed back to harbor.”
“The King is asking about the Prince. What is your response?”
The [Healer] turned.
“He will live.”
Khedal’s mind was still reeling from the disjointed memories. Slowly, he felt at his shoulder and found no grassy bandage, but a professional one. The Evercut Wound needed to heal regularly, but the [Healer] had applied it.
“Of course. I—was hallucinating. Under fire from Goblins.”
“Only you would survive that, Prince. It is good you did not fall to Greydath of Blades.”
“Is it confirmed it was him?”
“Confirmed. The King is debating announcing it to the other world powers. Hold on—[Fill the Sails]! We are still in danger.”
Khedal lay still until something poked him in the side. He grimaced and fished out what he thought was a piece of shrapnel out of his side. But it wasn’t.
“Ah, Prince. Did you buy that from the harbor? It’s well made.”
The relieved Minotaurs were speaking to each other. One noticed what Khedal was holding and assumed he’d pulled it out of a bag of holding.
“Perhaps a [Good Luck Charm]? If I were you, I’d wear the same boots and helmet in any battle.”
Even the [Battlefield Healer] joined in. Khedal just stared at the tiny figurine. To the others, it looked like a half-Elf from afar. He stared back at the island.
“I don’t know what it means.”
His hand tightened over the figurine, and he almost made to throw it overboard. Then he lay back down.
 
——
 
After every battle, the House of Minos sat down and looked at how it had gone, where they had taken casualties or failed to make ground, and adjusted their tactics. It exposed peculiarities of their commanders as well.
Unfortunately, sometimes the conclusion you drew was ‘don’t fight a Kraken’. Similarly, the Goblin Lords were just—difficult.
The tidal wave that Izikere the Guardian had summoned hadn’t been as large as some, and it had been directed at the harbor. Minotaurs had built up their seawalls enough so that while most of the streets were flooded, the biggest results were a few cracked walls and a lot of debris.
There was only one real casualty of the wave—and that was all the art and statues that had been readied in a warehouse by the docks for sale. Most had been damaged by the water or smashed by the impacts. Artisans were attempting to repair them, and [Mages] were casting restoration spells, but the Merchant Saimh had little to buy.
He had accepted the Minotaur King’s personal apology with assurances he understood. It was their legacy that had broken there. He would collect what there was to buy and leave, though the journey would doubtless cost him a small fortune with how many ships he’d brought.
The memories of their people were ruined. But few Minotaurs had died.
It could have been worse. And, as Izikere pointed out as the Goblins did their retrospective, it would have been worse if Prince Khedal had died.
She punctuated her points by hitting him on the head. Or rather, trying to. Or rather, three trees in the grove they were sitting in kept leaning down and trying to whack him with their branches.
He refused to let them touch his skin. Greydath slapped a branch off a tree, and the thunderous crack as wood sprayed everywhere made the other trees withdraw. Izikere glowered harder, and the tree branch began to regrow.
That was her talent. She sat cross-legged, once again almost immobile. She spoke—but she had no need to fidget or move more than her mouth. A bunch of sparrows, some magical, were balanced on her head and shoulders, but they flew off when Greydath glared.
It was the most animated Izikere had ever been, and the other Goblins regarded her with a kind of awe. As if the mountain you’d been walking past all your life asked how you were doing and if that were really the shirt you wanted to wear for your date today.
Greydath, by contrast, was more annoyed than he had been on Izril. And if the Goblins of the island treated Izikere with reverence—he, they avoided.
The Goblin Lord of Blades was eating from a huge bowl of eel. Giant, oversized eels—big cuts of them marinated in the Goblins’ hand-made sauce. Oysters, sweetberries for the sugar, a local bean…
They had more than most tribes could dream of. Greydath spoke irritably.
“This place hasn’t changed in what, sixty years?”
“I don’t count time. You were here when the last Minotaur King was alive. This one is dangerous, isn’t she? When she was younger, her axes would strike the island every year.”
He grunted in disdain.
“She caught me off-guard.”
As mentioned, the Goblins spoke with the flowing nuance and grammar unknown to most Goblins. Their language was complete.
No, not even complete—it was finished. The crude way Goblins expressed things vocally was always made up for by their rich body language. When Greydath spoke to Izikere, they were combining both body language and verbal.
She did not move, but the patterns of moss changed on her body and even grew to copy the way he spoke. For instance, when Greydath commented about the island not changing, he had stuck one leg out and tapped a big toe against the ground.
Derisively. As one would use punctuation to emphasize a point. Similarly, when talking about Izikere, the moss on the [Shaman]’s hands moved like pattering rain.
At any rate, Greydath was still annoyed by the interrupted battle. He had done a quick tour of the island and seen something different than Khedal.
“The island is nearly overfull. You must be fishing nonstop to feed them.”
“They will leave, soon.”
Greydath picked up a cup of tea and gulped it down.
“The Minotaurs didn’t get all the ships? They sank at least eight.”
“We have enough to send them forth. This time—they will all go together.”
The male Goblin stopped, a pair of chopsticks expertly holding a piece of eel. He glanced up. That was big news.
The Goblin ships that reinforced tribes on other continents were one thing. It was a perilous journey, but they used stealth. Izikere intended to do the opposite this time.
She intended to send thousands.
“Are you going to the ‘new lands’ too?”
The other Goblin Lord laughed at this, and Greydath chuckled at his own joke.
“No. I may split them by continent. Each a tribe. Isn’t that why you came here? I felt the Goblin Lord of Izril rise and die in moments.”
…And like that, he wasn’t hungry anymore. Greydath tossed the bowl over his shoulder, and the cup followed.
Savage. Barbaric. You put plates and dishes away. But what did the Goblins of this island think of their cousins across the world? Greydath sneered.
“The last one called himself Reiss before he died.”
“Drake name.”
Izikere looked curious. Greydath nodded.
“He was a servant of a dead Human [Necromancer]. But he still became a Goblin Lord. He had a dream, to build a city of Goblins where they could live in peace.”
“Did he not know of the island?”
The blademaster sneered around at the island, and Izikere’s eyes glowed a bit brighter.
“If he did, I did not tell him. His dream sounded better. You could take a nation, secure it, and demand to be like the cloth-people. You would just have to risk your life.”
It was a challenge, an old argument, and the fundamental difference between the two. Izikere was the Guardian. She stayed here, like the last three Goblin Lords before her.
Greydath travelled continents abroad, alone. Seeking the next Goblin King.
Izikere took her time replying. She didn’t seem to need to drink nor eat, but the talking had clearly made her want to wet her mouth, so she inhaled a mist that drifted down before speaking.
“What then?”
“Hm?”
“We take a nation and do what? Scream out our voices to the world and say, ‘we are a people, we are kind, ignore the Goblin Kings’? Do you know what Demons do?”
The [Shaman] turned her head as if she could see across the world towards Rhir. Greydath, who had met Demons, spat.
“I know. Their [Diplomats] die in beds, in shadows. Everyone who listens dies. So? Is this easier?”
The Minotaur barrage had damaged the island. Nevermind the [Shamans] and [Druids] who could repair it. Nevermind that fewer Goblins had died than anyone could reasonably ask. They were still dead, and this conflict was yearly.
Greydath leaned forwards.
“You could throw yourself behind the next Goblin King. But it would take the island, everyone. Risk it all for…”
They had this argument almost every time he returned. Sixty years felt like six. Greydath stopped talking, because there was no point.
He saw the fear in her eyes. Izikere replied with a gaze that looked through him, not at him.
“It will change nothing. The battle is already lost. Or won—”
She held up a claw to forestall his snarl.
“—I will not destroy this island. You sneer at the villages.”
“You could build a city, here.”
He jabbed the plain soil. Izikere was no [Druid]. And even if she were, [Druids] could build wondrous cities. They could have at least put this floating island on some great animal, like a turtle. Or a sea-elephant. Or five sea-elephants on top of a turtle.
The [Shaman] laughed in his face. He had such stupid ideas.
“Cities alarm them. We are contained. We are the Minotaurs’ problem. You, Greydath, wish to destroy the greatest achievement of Goblins? No.”
His eyes narrowed. Greydath had no more cups or plates to break, so he dug a claw into the ground and picked up a handful of dirt.
“This is worth nothing. Since this island was made—not once has a Goblin King emerged from the Goblins here. Not because your Goblins are less ‘Goblin’. Silly words. If anything, yours know more of the truth and who we should be than any others. And yet, do you know why they will never even become Goblin Lords?”
She was getting annoyed, and the ground was sinking slightly around them, turning into a bog. Izikere didn’t reply, and Greydath went on with a laugh.
“Because your Goblins are as foreign to the rest of the world as Antinium are to Drowned Folk. They cannot lead our people.”
“So you keep searching for a single shining soul among children who can barely talk or remember the truth. My warriors found the tribes that come to greatness. The [Witch] of the Molten Stone tribe of Izril came from these shores. Kraken Eaters were descendants of my people!”
“Tremborag was not. Nor were the Redfangs.”
Izikere gave Greydath a long, cold stare. She didn’t even know their names. Greydath grunted as he tossed the dirt down and dusted his hands.
“I fought for Velan. You hid here even when he came—twice. Once to learn, then to make war.”
“I sent warriors. The Goblin Kings are trapped in the past. If they did not remember, perhaps Goblins would not be hunted.”
Izikere the Guardian’s tone was bitter. Yet Greydath picked up the greatsword she had grown for him out of the oldest tree in the forest and slashed at the ground. He drew a line between them fifty feet long in the soil.
