“Ah.”
Prince Khedal and Prince Lareqol turned and saw the Minotaur King gazing off into the distance. Khedal bowed.
“My King?”
“I believe I am currently littering the skies. That is my error.”
 
——
 
Thus, in the Palace of Minos, you could see the King of Minotaurs, even speak to her. And sometimes, rarely, see Prince Khedal charging after a piece of paper to protect the honor of the House of Minos.
But he couldn’t get all of the scraps, and many more floated into the fickle air, far, far over the islands. A few passed by some of the ‘pets’ of Maweil and were sent into the sea as jets of water blew upwards.
After all, Maweil had one giant pet which was currently singing and blowing water out its blowhole as a pod of its kin swam around the island. Minotaurs waved and gathered the treats for the blue whale named Beorro. More tossed fish to dolphins and other friendly sea-creatures.
Aside from the Astelain and regular pets, many Minotaurs befriended sea life since they took up no space on the islands. More than one Minotaur was known to swim with a dolphin they knew specifically.
The rest of the pieces flew onwards, fluttering, dancing on the sea wind. Trying not to land in the water. It was a doomed pursuit; they might fly for minutes, even hours, above the waves, given their light forms and the fickle nature of the wind.
But they could not fly forever. One by one, they succumbed to the water, a rat’s hard work of weeks sinking into nothingness. The last pieces gamely fluttered on.
Only one remained after nearly an hour of being blown by the strong winds off the House of Minos. It was dipping into the water when a creature snatched it up with a beak and flew up.
It was…a raven. Not a seagull, but a raven. And it soared higher, its prize clutched in its mouth. The raven joined a chorus of wings. It flew upwards, and seagulls honked next to giant albatrosses coming down for landing next to a giant bird, larger than the raven by a hundred, possibly a thousand times.
A Roc on migration. Other birds, including ordinary blue jays and Creona Flashbirds, soared around it. Some of these birds even preyed on one another, but right now, they behaved.
After all, they had made this long sea migration this far to return to this island. It was odd, perhaps, for some birds like ravens to go this far, but they had a route they’d memorized that only worked at this time of year. Only with this island.
Of course, it would be suicide for them to roost in the House of Minos; Minotaurs were not adverse to removing threats like plagues of birds. And the need for food meant that a Roc would almost never regularly migrate anywhere it didn’t have food. Like whales it could hunt.
Yet here…they had a guaranteed food source, and they knew it. After all. They might not be pets, but as they began to land, a green arm came up, and the raven holding the piece of paper spat out the interesting tidbit it had found. Then it accepted a piece of mackerel from the Goblin’s claws as a pair of red eyes focused on the piece of wet paper.
A mouth full of shark’s teeth grinned, and the Goblin caught the scrap of parchment. He was one of hundreds of Goblins feeding the birds as they landed around them.
Even the Roc headed for a basket filled with fish. It made a keraw sound as a dozen Goblin children swung out of the forest and landed on its back, giggling. They clung to the giant bird, and if you could see this island from afar, say, from the balcony of the Minotaur King’s palace, still miles upon miles distant, you might see something that few species could believe.
Goblins had pets. Or rather, animal friends who they knew. Some found a Goblin, picking out one they knew in the crowd, and received seeds or other food. They landed among the sprawling canopy of trees, roosted like a hundred colors of feather, pecking at bushes fat with glowing berries, or getting caught in net-like vines, both cultivated for their terrain.
The trees were hardly as large as half-Elven forests, but they were still the size of redwoods, some felled for their wood, but most overgrown, hiding the inhabitants of the island within. The birds filled the skies for a few days, circling in vast swarms, each one calling a different signal as they stopped on their migrations that converged on this spot.
Many might never return, but those that did visited the island each year. The Goblins met new birds. Some eyed injuries and delicately applied salves with a brush.
One Goblin child got her ears pulled for trying to attach a dagger to a seagull’s foot. She screamed, and the seagull screamed too until the scolding older Goblins produced some tiny steel-tipped claws, which they inserted onto the seagull’s talons. Daggers were too heavy.
Aside from dangerously arming the wildlife, the Goblins gathered on the edge of the island were watching the archipelago in the distance come closer. They were waiting. The ships were ready. The warriors were gathering.
This coming month would see their floating island come closer to the House of Minos, close enough for nothing but ship-based combat, but they would be ‘in range’ of each other for a good month before swinging away.
It was a period of strife that both species knew and were ready for. Indeed, for all they continued business as normal, the main harbor of the House of Minos was locking down. Minotaurs were checking siege weapons along the walls, and their fleet was preparing for the first day of conflict.
This time—it would not be a slow escalation. The Minotaurs and Goblins fought, one to keep the other from gaining too much power.
To keep the Goblins of this island from spreading across the world. It was a war of attrition. However—the Minotaurs did not enjoy the conflict.
It was costly. But they could count how many ships were loitering in the Goblin island’s bays. So they were preparing for a decisive strike to scuttle as many as possible. Their duty was to deny the Goblins a seafaring force.
It was a conflict many nations didn’t remember or care much about. Like Drathians and Seamwalkers, or even the Blighted King and Demons to some extent—this was a Minotaurian affair. Containment of a worldwide threat, often thankless and unnoticed.
But then, the rest of the world thought of the Island of Goblins as a bunch of savages, if at all. Just like they thought the House of Minos contained almost exclusively sweaty Minotaurs preparing for war, they had no idea what it looked like.
The truth might surprise you. For instance, if anyone thought ‘why didn’t the Minotaurs, with their superior island, siege weapons, and warriors just eradicate the Goblins once and for all?’, they would quickly earn Khedal’s stinging rebuke. If the Minotaurs could do that…wouldn’t they?
If the Minotaurs could do that.
The Goblin who’d found the piece of paper studied the few words he could read. They were mangled from the weather and raven spit. He said one word out loud, sounding it out.
“Cal-ruz.”
The other Goblins glanced at him. He shrugged as he showed them the scrap of paper. It was a mystery. So the Goblin petted the raven on the head and took the piece of paper to a Goblin wearing a [Shaman]’s outfit.
Feathers, mostly. She was surrounded by birds and negotiating for some of the Roc’s handsome plumage. She blinked at the piece of paper the Goblin had found. Then she took it.
“Paper. Letter. Message. Show me what you said. Show me who wrote you. What is in your head?”
She shook out the piece of paper and then had to use both arms to unfold it. She handed the same letter the Minotaur King had torn up to the curious Goblin.
It was fully intact, and the Goblin puzzled over it. But the [Shaman] wasn’t done. She bent down and sprinkled some sand in the air.
It did not turn into a silhouette of the person she was expecting. She looked around, confused…then saw a tiny rat on the ground with a quill. The sand-image of Haldagaz made both Goblins’ eyes bug out.
Then they started laughing. More Goblins looked up as birds took wing, and they gathered around and pointed and laughed so much one threw up.
The rat-letter in its entirety was so popular that the male Goblin had to take it down across the coast. He ran until a Goblin sleeping in the trees noticed him and swung down. She took the letter, heard the story, and ran to her village to see the rat-writer for herself.
By the end of the day, half the Goblins on the island had heard about the rat-letter. It was so funny one of them went to the warriors gathering and preparing for battle.
“Huh, huh?”
She kept poking the Goblin four times her size. He was twelve feet tall and barely grunted as she explained how funny it was. The giant Goblin was all muscle. He was, to be precise…Fomirelin. What other species called Great Goblins.
He also had apparently traded his sense of humor for more muscles, because not even the image of the tiny rat with the quill made him smile. He just sat there…staring into the distance.
The House of Minos would come, tomorrow or the day after at the latest. This particular Hob had been waiting a while.
You could tell because he was covered with a light shower of dirt where he sat cross-legged. Moss was growing on his back and shoulders. If he moved, he would destroy an ecosystem.
He and a second, female Fomirelin sat there as the Goblin holding the piece of paper grumbled and walked off. They were among the oldest of the Goblins there. The other warriors laughed or ignored the rat-letter as they chose. They stretched and talked and waited.
And oh, one more thing.
They were all Hobs.
Not ‘mostly hobs’ or ‘there were fifty hobs and a hundred regular Goblins’. They were, all of them, Hobgoblins. Over six hundred had mustered at this point, and more would be coming once the Minotaurs appeared.
This place was a beach, an inlet protecting their small harbor to the west where warships weighed at anchor, some built from the tall trees creating the vast forests of this island. Others were spoils of war. Most? Salvaged wrecks that had a distinctly Minotaurian design.
It had taken years to gather this many. The Goblins hadn’t tried to hide them or sail them away; the risk was too high the Minotaurs would just assail them at sea and find them magically.
No, they had put them here, where the Minotaurs often attacked. At the strongest point of the Isle of Goblins.
This shallow cove wasn’t very strategically sound, mind you. A narrow, rocky cliff offered some protection from above, but it had all the defensive qualities of a beach exposed on multiple angles. It wasn’t even a big cliff. The isle of Goblins floated on the water, such that there weren’t any giant rock faces like Avel’s natural beaches, nor a long stretch of land until the Goblins’ inhabited terrain.
Any enemy could land on the beach and get to the island proper with a five minute jog. And yet—it was the people here that would force the Minotaurs to attack the Goblins directly or stay far, far away.
Not just because of the two mossy Fomirelin boulders. Oh, no. There were more Great Goblins, although they were still far fewer than their Hob cousins, much less ‘regular’ Goblins.
The reason was because of the small cliff facing the sea. A tree grew there, nothing special, bearing no particularly grand fruit. It wasn’t that old, but it faced the House of Minos.
Oh—and it smiled. The bark was oddly warped in places. If you looked closely, you might see the outline of something. Someone…sitting there.
Then, if you were really close, you might see a pair of deep crimson eyes open. And the face in the tree would move.
Then you’d realize it wasn’t just a tree. It was another Goblin, who had sat for so long in one place that a tree had grown up around her.
She didn’t move. Not during storms. Not during war or battle. The Goblin Lord sat there as the delighted younger Goblin showed her the letter. And you could tell she was amused because she smiled. But then her eyes fixed on the letter, and she whispered one word.
“Show.”
The hilarity of the rat’s letter faded from the younger Goblin’s gaze as she faced the leader of this island. The other warriors were looking up, and she put her claws behind her back nervously. The younger Goblin, her hair tied back with delicate loops of fishbone, brought forwards the letter nervously.
She wore simple clothing, but not primitive. It was akin to cloth, but made from some soft reeds on the island that were combed and spun like cotton. The warriors were different—many had gone bare-chested, male and female, so they could be marked with magical paint.
Metal was in short supply, but they had more than enough for weapons. Some still preferred stone or wood for their arrowheads, but one look at a hardwood point etched with tiny glowing lines of magic would set off a Gold-rank adventurer’s [Dangersense].
The young Goblin timidly held out the letter to the Goblin Lord, and it was ready. That smile never wavered. Then the Goblin Lord did something unexpected.
She nodded, and the bark cracked and the tree shivered. The two Fomirelin bodyguards stirred, and the warriors went silent. The Goblin Lord spoke again.
“Go.”
The Goblin with the letter fled, all hilarity forgotten. A [Shaman] chased after her, scolding, but then froze and approached the cliff. A spire of sand from the beaches grew, lifting the Goblin [Shaman] up. He listened to the Goblin Lord speaking quietly, and then when he was let down, he did smile. He waved up at the still figure, who went back to watching the sea.
That evening, the Isle of Goblins was busy. Alight, in fact, with Goblins hard at work. They sent some of their kind into the forests to grab bark and make more papyrus. They didn’t bother with paper or writing as much, and so quills were produced from the birds who offered spare feathers.
The difference between the Isle of Goblins and Minos was notable in many ways. They had some similarities—their isolation, statues, great leaders, and preparations for war.
However, the Goblins had more of a sense of humor.
 
——
 
Venaz listened to Calruz begin his testimony from meeting the Horns of Hammerad, the originals, and they had just gotten to him getting to the dungeon after meeting Ryoka Griffin. It was a long story, and they had spent some time catching up on home.
It was important, because Calruz seemed more relaxed, understanding the process. Venaz had arranged to meet him the next day.
The strangeness began that evening, when he returned to Liscor. He was checking in the Mage’s Guild for anything for him, probably more love-instructions from the Professor. Yet the Minotaur’s vague sense of dread was overturned by a [Mage] catching sight of him and pointing.
“You! It’s that bastard! Get him!”
