It always surprised foreigners who were admitted past the strict harbor checks how the House of Minos operated. For the crew of Poking for Treasure, the funnily-named lead ship of the small flotilla owned by the [Merchant] Saimh, the House of Minos was an interesting journey on their trade route.
They had come with ships carrying goods the Minotaurs wanted, everything their island could use more of, from alchemical ingredients to shipments of metal, but they intended to make the lion’s share of their profits here.
The newcomers to the House of Minos were walking a bit wary, because they had been given a huge list of rules. And failure to comply meant you were exiled to your ship or faced Minotaur justice. And it could be swift.
However, a lot of the rules were basic. Don’t offer insults, don’t pick fights, don’t steal…the basics. Some, on the other hand, were a bit harder for [Sailors] or newcomers.
Like littering. You didn’t do that, here. Not just, ‘don’t toss potion bottles into the sea’, but, ‘don’t spit’. Don’t spit, don’t litter on the floors, and essentially leave any area you had been as clean as when you had arrived.
It was one of those rules that wasn’t hard to practice…unless you made a habit of not really caring about your litter. Then you might be upset when someone took you to task.
And that was any Minotaur on the street who saw you. However, by and large, the laws weren’t difficult to follow. A visitor could certainly trade, chat with Minotaurs who were willing to talk politics, news, or any number of things because they expected it in the ports, and learn about Minotaur culture and sample their unique dishes and sights.
Each island had a limit of people able to travel, and some areas were off-limits, but the limited visitors to the House of Minos meant this was rarely an issue. So a Drake, come to see the world under Merchant Saimh’s tutelage, was quite taken aback to learn that the House of Minos was not the war-prepared, battle-minded people he had expected.
They looked…well, like ordinary citizens. And apparently they worked for six hours?
“Six hours minimum. Some will work more. I told you, this is a paradise.”
Saimh absent-mindedly reprimanded his apprentice. He was…interesting. For one thing, he was a Drake, but had grown up in Baleros. One of those rare non-natives. He also was quite renowned as a safe-trader, someone who stuck to sea lanes where piracy wasn’t common.
That wasn’t the odd part about him. The odd part was that he’d never taken an apprentice until Ocello, the young [Trader], and he was also an expert in Minotaur trading.
Few [Merchants] were counted as friends of the House of Minos, so Saimh had less-rigorous checks, and getting paperwork to stay here was easier. Ocello hesitated as the two Drakes strode into the city.
The House of Minos favored sandstone, but like many paradise-states, took the time to add color and artwork to their cities. Interestingly…they had a number of statues that Ocello recognized.
Not Minotaurian heroes, because he didn’t know many of their legends. He’d bought a book about Minotaur culture, but had fallen asleep and never opened it again on the way here. However, the statues were familiar.
“Isn’t that General Ozem?”
“It is. It must be new—oh, and there’s Venaz of Hammerad. I saw him last time—he must have a prominent fan in the [Sculptor] community. Although, it’s quite an interesting piece.”
Each square had some piece of art, and one statue of the late general gave way to one of Venaz, sitting in a classic pose, chin resting on one fist, in repose across from a chess board. A quite noble statue for someone so young, as Ocello understood it.
But perhaps there was some humor in it too, because Venaz had only three pieces left, and the tiny Fraerling had most of his. There were even a few chess tables where a group of Minotaurs were playing chess.
“Are they not working?”
They looked like they were in their late thirties at most, but Saimh gave them one look and shrugged.
“They might not have gotten to work yet. It’s only early morning. Or they’re taking an early lunch break. Minotaurs don’t work like the Walled Cities, Ocello. They don’t have to.”
“Why not?”
It seemed to the younger Drake that of course any nation needed to have that much time allotted to their working hours! Could a [Farmer] make do on six hours? For answer, Saimh smiled.
“Well—because it may be culture or inclination as a people, but Minotaurs do throw themselves into what they do with a passion. Take a look.”
One of the first stops on their trip around the harbor was a group of Minotaurs rendering down poorer fish into paste, or some kind of chum or bait, perhaps. They were deboning the fish, then brutally mashing the paste up with long wooden hammers. Ocello was surprised at the simple tools, but the Minotaurs were fast.
A Skill might have done it, but one Minotaur could just slit a fish open, tear out the bones and put them aside, and toss the fish to another to cut the head off. He kept moving while he talked—about a romance book of all things.
“I am telling you, give it another shot. This time, Sandquen really did write something quite well done.”
“Ridiculous. I am done with the unofficial romance-adventure novellas.”
“No, it was actually published in the latest edition of Tales of Adventure and Woe. It wasn’t even romance. Have you heard of the ‘Horns of Hammerad’?”
“Vaguely.”
“This was a retelling of their first adventures in the Ruins of Albez. I found it gripping. The entire conceit was that they had that Antinium—Ksmvr of Chandrar?”
The other Minotaur cutting off heads and tossing them into a pile gave the first a stern look.
“You’re beginning to make me interested, Kaned. If this is another ploy to get us interested in your romance novellas…”
“Perish the thought. So, the Antinium was recently exiled from the Hive, but to read the book—they have a map that he—no, I’m giving it away. But I will lend you the book when we break.”
“Hm. Do that.”
They were efficient, casual, and quite patently enjoying themselves. Now, Ocello could have found a similar group of Drakes doing this in Zeres, mixing up chum for [Fishers] or preparing fish for immediate use.
However—there were some major differences with the grumpy Drakes, who’d be swearing at anyone who blocked their light and swatting at flies.
For one thing? There were no flies. The Minotaurs had an enchanted stone that was glowing a protective rune around them, preventing the annoying bugs from ruining their work. Second, they had some canopy roofs for shade, although most were enjoying the sun.
Third, they weren’t being crowded at their spot; it was designated, and their performance wasn’t being rushed because they had to earn enough coppers to justify their job—this was a job they’d chosen and enjoyed. They had homes, food, and someone was playing on a stringed instrument in the distance, so if they didn’t keep talking, they could listen to that or talk to other Minotaurs or visitors.
“Music while you work. They stole that from Noelictus. Although, it might just be a performer. A number of Minotaurs practice music.”
“They do?”
The idea of a Minotaur delicately blowing into a horn was beyond Ocello. He envisioned drums or warhorns—and Saimh gave him a stern look. The older Drake had a huge scar that ran down his chest.
Not a war-wound from battle, Ocello had learned. An old infection that had nearly killed him as a child. He scratched at it absent-mindedly.
“You still only think of their army, Ocello. The House of Minos is proportionally high in how many fight, but that’s only because their population is carefully matched with the size of their islands. Most Minotaurs have never swung a blade, nor need to. Look—they have pets. See? There’s one of their Astelain.”
The Drake looked back just in time to recoil with a shout. That was because a giant thing had just come ambling down the street! It was…
What was it? A mutated beaver? It was bigger than a beaver. In fact—it was rodent-like, but it had such giant fur that Ocello had thought it was a dog.
“Wh—what’s that?”
“I think it’s got another name in Baleros. A…capybara?”
The oversized rodent was indeed as large as a Fortress Beaver, but it just plopped down next to the Minotaurs, accepted some seaweed, and began to chew it down next to the [Fish Gutters].
“Those are Minotaur pets?”
Ocello couldn’t take his eyes off them. In fact, they were so chill and relaxed and he realized there were a lot of them, more than cats, dogs, or birds, that he suddenly wanted to pet one and see what it was like.
“Go ahead. You can talk to anyone. They’ll tell you if they’re busy.”
Ocello did, and a few minutes later, he decided that the Astelain were quite nice. They were so relaxed—probably because most threats that usually preyed on rodents wouldn’t even have a shot at bothering them.
“Those aren’t our only pets. But you’ll have to wait till midday if they decide to come in. Merchant Saimh. Going to tour the islands? I hear you’re retiring this year. It will be a shame.”
One of the [Gutters] recognized the older Drake, and Saimh smiled sadly.
“My time has come. But I am glad I will be missed…I have obligations, and I’ve decided to give up my trading life.”
“Understandable. Family or what have you come first. But I encourage you to tour the islands and show your apprentice at least the major ones.”
“We may go to Hammerad today, Maweil tomorrow—unless the sales have begun?”
“Excellent choices. Hammerad is always popular thanks to their beaches. No, the sales will take a day to set up. The King is busy with the Isle. She and Khedal both. Which reminds me—we’ll put in ten hours, everyone. No work to be done when the fighting begins.”
Ah, now there was the thing Ocello had been waiting for. The other Minotaurs grunted and nodded.
“Fair enough. Ten hours. How will you spend the three days off? We can’t be near the sea…”
“I think I shall climb Honn’s Mountain once more. Or dredge some new land along Caeitl. I nearly have eighteen feet done.”
“Respectable, respectable. I myself have obligations with my daughter. She wishes to practice with the rapier after the Arbiter Queen.”
“Don’t get cut. Is she planning on joining the Beriad or…?”
“Time will tell.”
 
——
 
Two interesting comments came out of that conversation. Dredging didn’t become clear to Ocello until later, but it was plain that Minotaurs did spend a lot of time in family units.
“So they do have traditional families?”
“Mostly.”
Saimh and Ocello were heading to Hammerad, the nearest island to the east of the capital. It was a short boat ride or walk over a land-bridge. Few horses were available given the islands and the Minotaurs’ own physiques; you learned to walk. Although Ocello saw at least two Minotaurs riding bicycles customized for their frames.
“How do they have enough money for that? Do Minotaurs have a currency? I thought they had a paradise?”
“They’re still paid. This isn’t Khelt. As for families, Minotaurs have parents. Just not necessarily the ones they were born to. Excuse me—is that a bi-cycle?”
The [Merchant] called out to a Minotaur, who stopped, panting, and removed a helmet with two holes for horns cut into the wood.
“Indeed! And a word to you—this odd helmet may amuse, but I began wearing it after I nearly cracked my head open. Laughter will be met with your entry into the sea.”
She pointed down the coastal road to the beach, and Ocello wondered if she could throw him that far. The Minotauress was clearly tired of ridicule, but Saimh assured her that was the last thing on his mind.
“I was hoping you could tell me what it’s like to ride one of those things. And my apprentice has never been to the House of Minos. He was wondering about growing up.”
The Minotauress gave Ocello an odd look.
“Like any other species, I should imagine. I had smothering parents. The House of Minos does not change that. As for this…I did spend every coin I worked on for the last four years to buy it ahead of everyone else. I regret nothing. I can do a circuit of the entire archipelago in a day if I push myself. I am…a [Cycler].”
She said that with the kind of obsessiveness that told Ocello this would be a thing and she would tell everyone about her class. In time. However, he raised one finger politely.
“Did I hear you had parents different from the ones who gave birth to you?”
She gave him a blank look.
“Indeed. Both were of similar temperaments and had been a couple for years. They asked for a daughter, and it was I.”
“But your original parents…?”
“I met them. Why? Ah, did I like them better? I didn’t care for my blood-mother’s attitude towards work. I forget you outsiders do it differently.”
She scratched her chin, and Ocello was confused. Just as clearly, the Minotauress was amused by the notion of parents who bore their children having to raise them.
“It is not for everyone. Many Minotaurs do raise their own children, but it is perfectly fine to decide you are unready to. I am not ready.”
“But wouldn’t people just have children and give them away…?”
The Minotauress and Saimh gave Ocello such an affronted look he backed away.
“Do you think it’s enjoyable? Moreover, each island cares for children. Too many put a strain on our homes. It is a responsibility. Would we just have children and…do you not have contraceptives?”
She got back on her bicycle and pedaled off. Saimh gave Ocello an amused look as the Drake shouted apologies.
“As you can see, Minotaurs do have the time to talk. As for personal lives—they spend a lot of time on that. Hobbies, passions—the House of Minos encourages that sort of thing.”
“Yes, but everyone has time off.”
“Mm. We’re nearing Hammerad. You may wish to take that back in a few moments. You see—Hammerad for the last six years has developed something of a sub-city on their beaches. As I understand it…”
 
——
 
It began with a son asking his mother for help building a sandcastle. The mother, understanding of a younger Minotaur’s frustration with the limited amount of ability he had with a simple spade, fetched a shovel. They spent six hours building an actual fort on the beach from which he intended to throw mud balls at his companions the next day.
More Minotaurs of Hammerad, at their leisure on the beach, were taken by this idea. A father and daughter decided that if a sand-war were in the works, they should get a head start, so they built another fort, then the daughter asked her father, who had served in the army, if this was really the best way to avoid mud balls.
