It looked like…a cloud of arrows frozen in time. It blew gently overhead, then the arrows unfroze and rained down. Minotaurs took cover as the Goblins’ reply blew a ballista apart.
Merchant Saimh watched with his own spyglass. What rattled Ocello to his core was the fighting. He had already seen the magical protections of the Goblins with disbelieving eyes, but any Walled Cities could do better.
But he’d realized he was in denial because the Goblins had no enchantments. They were doing that with the magic they possessed.
When the Minotaurs took the beach, he realized—there was no way the Minotaurs were taking it easy on the Goblins.
“They’re not winning.”
Eight-foot tall Minotaurs were charging down the ramps with axes and shields mostly, but also swords, spears, each one one of the finest of Minos. Yet it seemed like for every Goblin that fell—so did a Minotaur.
The Hobs. They were everywhere. More Hobs than Ocello had ever seen in his life, even in the Goblin Lord of Izril’s army. They were strong and fought in small squads, but the Minotaurs had the edge there.
Not against the Great Goblins. Giant Goblins lunged into the battle and then backed off to heal their wounds. One swung an axe and crushed a Minotaur against the lead warship. Another took a ballista bolt straight-on and was still alive when the Prince of Minotaurs buried his axes in the Goblin’s chest.
“This is why Minotaurs don’t always have armies to spare on the rest of the world.”
Saimh spoke quietly. Ocello shook his head.
“Why don’t they leave it alone?”
“They were entrusted with the responsibility. Also—it’s probably why the Minotaurs are so renowned. They keep their armies in conflict. For the rest, you’d have to ask someone like the Minotaur King or their [Generals]. This war has already gotten twice as bloody as previous years. See? They’re pulling back.”
The Prince was withdrawing to his ship, and Minotaurs were heaving it back to sea. Their charge onto the beachhead had failed. Or maybe it had done exactly what they wanted.
The rest of the fleet had headed for the harbor with the unmanned Goblin warships. They had abandoned targeting the island or Goblin Lord and were unleashing their weapons at point-blank range.
Trying to shred the Goblin ships. The Goblins were trying to push them back.
A foolhardy effort, or so Ocello thought. Right until he saw the first giant Fomirelin emerge from the water and—
 
——
 
“Great Goblins in the water!”
Khedal was falling back. He’d left twenty Minotaurs on the beach and cracked a rib when one of the Great Goblins slammed him into the ground. He looked up and saw the warships at the harbor mouth were under attack.
The giant Goblins were in the surf. One was trying to smash the enchanted hulls of a Minotaur’s ship. Another had a shield raised. A tiny figure leapt from its back, pasted the hull with something that began to glow—
The alchemical blaze ignited, ignoring the water as Minotaurs shouted and tried to put out the blaze or patch the hull from within.
That was the first wave. The second came from the sky.
“Goblin fliers!”
Khedal’s warship was under attack too. The Prince looked straight up and saw a giant albatross flying overhead. Then—an arrow flashed down. He lowered his head, and it cracked off his helmet.
“Archers in the air!”
A small Goblin was riding on one of the birds, loosing shots from overhead. The Minotaurs began to fire upwards, but their siege weapons were ill-suited to tagging the nimble Goblins.
“Nets! Ballistae 1-4, nets and scattershot munitions! Lightning in the skies!”
The Goblins peeled off as the weapons switched. Khedal kept one eye on the skies, but he knew it wasn’t over.
Snipers in the forests. He slashed an arrow out of the sky as a Goblin took a shot at him. A Minotaur ignited the trees, and a Goblin leapt out of the canopy, howling.
“Three ships down…First to Shore is sinking. Prince Khedal, the Goblins are constructing a land-bridge!”
“Do not let them near the ships.”
Khedal spun and saw land rising from the sea. A cluster of [Shamans] were creating a bridge for the warriors to storm onto the ships. It was rising higher than the decks; they’d be able to leap onto the ramps and kill the exposed deck gunners.
However, they had to charge across the bare space, and the ships switched targets again to create a killing field. The Goblins milled about, hunkering behind shields. A suicide charge?
No, these ones didn’t do that. Why risk it?
Khedal had his answer in minutes as his warship maneuvered towards the Goblin ships. The Goblins in the surf were skirmishing with his deck, but he was waiting for an opening. The two Fomirelin bodyguards protected the Goblin Lord—but Khedal just needed twenty seconds if he could get to that cliff unaided.
However—-a single Goblin with a giant tower shield was waiting at the largest land bridge. The [Shamans] were clustering around him, now. What were they doing? A single Goblin wasn’t…
Then Khedal’s head turned as if a magnet had seized it.
 
——
 
The [Shamans] were applying their magic. So were other [War Leaders]. The lone Hobgoblin was grinning as his fellows chanted.
They chanted one word.
“Doom. Doom. Doom!”
The first [Shaman] raised a hand that crackled with violet light. She drew a sigil on his back, and the [Hex of Damnation] activated. Then a second [Shaman] touched him.
“[Curse: Bad Luck].”
“[Mark Target].”
Another Goblin marked his ally as the recipient of fire. The lone Goblin waited until he got a nod. Then—he charged.
[Taunting Warcry]. [Fire Magnet]. [One Stands Before All].
He charged as every warship fired uncontrollably at him, a void of luck and destiny. The other Goblins charged down the land-bridge as a single target took the deaths meant for them.
The Hobgoblin was wearing the thickest armor the island had, enchanted by the Goblin Lord herself. It might as well have been paper in front of so many attacks. He kept his shield up and struck it with his sword, laughing.
He had asked for this role. But he wouldn’t die. He would not—
 
——
 
The land bridge the Goblin was on was a smoking crater. Even the sea couldn’t rush in. Had that Goblin lived or died? Khedal didn’t know. He had no eyes for that spot.
The warships were under attack. Goblins leapt onto the decks. The diversion had worked.
“Kingfall, withdraw. [Captain], take us in to relieve Terandria’s Shores!”
Prince Khedal leapt across the decks and threw his axe into the side of the first Goblin he saw. The Minotaurs were locked in combat, and half the gunner crews had to leave their stations to defend themselves.
“How many warships burning?”
“Six—”
They were aiming for fourteen. Khedal snarled.
“We are engaged. Tell the mainland to fire on our position!”
“They have not enough friendly fire denial Skills—”
“Volley!”
More shells began exploding around the Minotaurs within two minutes of Khedal’s order. The Goblins stopped their advance and pulled back as the Minotaurs came under friendly fire. Khedal felt a sting across one shoulder.
Advanced piercing Skill or magic—it had gone right through his armor. He grunted.
“Evercut arrow. Status?”
“Five enemy ships down. Three friendly. The Goblin Lord is blocking our incoming fire.”
“Take us around and prepare to volley on the Lord’s position. Unleash the Lordslayer munitions on my mark.”
Khedal saw most of the Goblins trying to protect their ships. His feint had worked. His first, costly assault on the Goblin Lord meant the Goblins, confident he wouldn’t try that again, had moved to protect what they perceived as his true target.
Which was the ships. But the Goblin Lord had less than a third of her original defenders. The Goblins reacted too slowly as the Minotaur warships turned. They began to race back—but walls of stone and intercepting fire turned the ground between them and their Goblin Lord into death.
What about the ships, though? Prince Khedal was waiting. Then he heard it.
The thwoom of sound was the loudest sound yet, even louder than the enchanted artillery firing. It was the sound of water exploding in a geyser that rained down along with the beginning of the storm.
The sound of the deck of one of the Goblin ships exploding into shrapnel and two pieces of the ship sinking to the seafloor below. Khedal grinned through the blood on his face. He looked left, and a second axe the size of one of the Great Goblins hit the deck of a second ship.
The Minotaur King had entered the battle. She was hurling axes from her throne room.
[Axe of the Gigant]. The Goblin Lord caught one in midair and failed to stop another. Even her protective dome didn’t have enough force to stop the full might of the Minotaur King.
Eight warships…Khedal spun.
“The King has given us our opening—target the Goblin Lord! Fire!”
This time, the munitions that each ballista loosed were the most expensive, costly weapons the House of Minos could produce. Mithril-tipped arrows, enchanted steel bolts—
Not as explosive, but incredibly hard to break in midair. Meant to penetrate the cage of vines that the Goblin Lord created. And it worked. Suddenly, the Goblins on the beach were falling. Walls of stone began rising around the cliff, trying to form an actual dome.
“Not this time. Horn of Valar—charge.”
Seven warships surged towards the beach, following Khedal’s charge. The Minotaurs would outnumber the Goblins four-to-one.
Khedal was after the Goblin Lord. He saw that figure remain still, shielding her forces, as the two bodyguards watched him. He raised his axe with a roar. Then Khedal felt the prickling on the back of his neck turn to a cold chill.
“Prince—a Goblin ship from behind.”
The Minotaur spun, and there it was. A single warship, maneuvering away from the battle. His eyes locked on the Goblin ship which had been spotted at sea months ago. But it was fleeing the barrage locked on it. Its job was done.
 
——
 
Kingfall had escaped the Goblins’ attack by land bridge and was coming in for the Goblin Lord attack. The Minotaurs on the deck were aware of their surroundings—but not one expected the greatsword to come hurtling across the sea and explode their main mast.
“What hit us? To arms!”
The [Captain] whirled around and had just one second to see the Goblin warship. Then—a figure with red, glowing eyes hauled himself on board.
A Goblin, the oldest Goblin she had ever seen. With a grey beard. He looked lean, but there was only muscle and sinew beneath skin. And when she gazed at him, the [Captain] drew a sword without hesitation.
“Blademast—”
 
——
 
“Kingfall is sinking.”
Khedal whirled. He barely saw a figure leap from the decks. His eyes were locked on the ship. And the line in the center that was dividing the vessel in half. Both sides were collapsing into the sea.
“That Goblin isn’t on record. All ships, continue advancing!”
“No. Take us in.”
Khedal pointed, and the Captain whirled the ship. The Goblin was climbing another ship, and Khedal saw a crew fire a ballista at point blank range. His name, his soul was screaming a name at him the moment he saw the greatsword. But it was confirmed when he saw the Goblin swing his sword and deflect the bolt like an arrow. Then he lunged and cut the ballista in half.
Minotaurs charging down the deck at him fell one by one as his sword moved. The vanguard on Khedal’s ship murmured one name.
“Greydath.”
The Goblin Lord of Blades. He should have been dead. But Khedal didn’t ask any more questions. He just pointed an axe at the Goblin Lord.
“Greydath of Blades. FACE ME.”
The Goblin Lord turned his head, and his grin was mocking. He turned, drove his greatsword point-first in the warship, and twisted.
The entire ship cracked. The Goblin Lord sprinted across the dying vessel as Minotaurs began to evacuate. Heading for the third.
Then he looked up and blinked. He raised his sword—dodged ten feet left and then swung his greatsword up. Even so, he staggered slightly as he deflected the gigantic axe that curved after him.
The Goblin Lord raised his head and stared into the distance at the tiny palace on the horizon. As if he could see the Minotaur King—
The deck exploded behind him as an armored figure landed like thunder. The Goblin Lord of Blades turned, and Prince Khedal raised his axes.
The Minotaur took one look at Greydath’s rusted, notched greatsword and spat.
“Battle gives me no time to give you a proper weapon, Goblin Lord. Face—”
The Goblin Lord sighed and walked away from Khedal, ignoring the Minotaur. He put the greatsword at his side as if it were a regular longsword and watched the palace in the distance.
“Stronger King.”
“Goblin.”
Khedal snarled. Greydath tapped his hilt, and Khedal’s armor exploded in a diagonal line. The Minotaur stumbled backwards and stared down at the sliced bone from his shoulder to his stomach.
Cut? His blood rushed onto the deck. He hadn’t even seen the slash.
[Delayed Cut]. And a lightning-speed draw that the Minotaur hadn’t even noticed. It might not be a death wound, but it probably was. Overconfident, despite his level. Greydath was watching the palace, still.
A [Thrower] of that caliber was far more dangerous than…
The pattering of blood on the decks was a slight sound amidst the thunderous volley of fighting and screaming. Even so—Greydath realized it had stopped. Slowly, he turned his head.
And Prince Khedal swung one axe where the Goblin Lord’s head had been. He whirled his blades as Greydath dodged back, eyes open with surprise. Not quite shock—but—
There was no way that wound could have healed that fast. And no way…he looked at Khedal’s armor.
His undamaged armor save for the wound in his shoulder. Khedal spat.
“[Your Dishonorable Blow, I Deny It].”
Greydath rolled his eyes. He slid sideways, leaping across the deck. He had no time for this.
An archer was trying to track Greydath. She rotated across her body, but he had leapt across a warship’s deck so fast she gave up targeting him and grabbed a wounded companion to drag to safety.
There was no way to even catch a foe who could move faster than she could aim. The Goblin Lord was moving in a world of his own.
—And so was Prince Khedal.
Greydath halted as a blur caught up with him. He leaned back from an axe swinging across his face, parried a second blow, and hesitated.
The Minotaur Prince was as fast as he was. He left an afterimage where he had been standing, and suddenly—Greydath jerked back as the second swing from above and below nearly caught him.
That speed! Greydath launched himself from the ship and leapt across the railing. He actually hopped from one ship to another, a twenty-eight foot jump—and saw the Minotaur right behind him.
