This time, Khedal actually scored a cut on Greydath’s arm. The Goblin Lord twisted away, but he wasn’t prepared for Khedal’s swiftness. It was as if the gap in speed had suddenly—vanished.
Then the Goblin Lord turned. The Minotaur spoke into the void of time between them.
“[You Cannot Escape My Steps].”
He lunged, and Greydath struck his armor with a kick, then brought his sword down. He moved to cut the ship in half, with the Minotaur on it. The greatsword swung down—
A wave of silver came up. Khedal’s axes cut the air, one, then another, as he activated a Skill that chopped half of the sail apart. Greydath parried the Skill and landed on the deck. The Minotaur advanced.
“[I Match Your Strength for Strength].”
Relentlessly, he advanced, using the two axes to threaten both of Greydath’s sides. He wanted to get in close, where the greatsword was useless. Greydath spun.
“Evacuate the deck!”
The [Captain] of the ship shouted, and six Minotaurs fell as Greydath’s horizontal sword slashed them across the waists, cut through the railing, a ballista—
And stopped as Khedal blocked it, saving the ship. The impact rocked the ship, but the Goblin Lord’s eyes were locked on Khedal.
“[Until Death or Dishonor, I Challenge You].”
The Prince hissed. Greydath looked in his eyes and, finally, read his class.
[The Glorious Challenger].
 
——
 
A third warship was being destroyed by the Minotaur Prince’s conflict with Greydath of Blades. However, Khedal was keeping up with Greydath’s insane speed.
Greydath of Blades was bleeding. Yet his arrival should have been a great portent for the Goblins, an ally in this battle.
So why was the female Goblin Lord frowning? Perhaps because this had not been predicted. And with the Prince’s life in danger—
The House of Minos was unleashing everything.
Another giant axe struck down as a tree exploded out of the waters, taking the impact. It still spun towards the island, and one of the two Fomirelin raised a shield and stumbled backwards as he absorbed the rest of the throw.
“Spells! Spells!”
A warning shout—the Goblin Lord looked up and saw the first of Valmira’s Comets coming down.
No…Valmira’s Comet Storm. They were using spells. And if anything, despite the warships sinking and embattled, the House of Minos was throwing more ammunition into the fight. She clicked her tongue. Escalation.
“Wave.”
 
——
 
“Tidal wave! Tidal wave—evacuate the—”
Merchant Saimh grabbed Ocello as a wall of water began to rise up. The Drake saw it rolling slowly, slowly, towards the harbor—then realized how big it had to be. Minotaurs began throwing up magic shields around their ballistae. The rest?
They took cover as the King of Minotaurs turned her head slightly.
“Lareqol?”
Her son was watching her throw each axe, slowly, gauging her target. It might be a minute or two between throws. He started.
“Yes?”
“Evacuate the throne room.”
Then she slowly stood and reached up for something hanging above her throne. She had been throwing axes she had used while she rose to her title. Now—she pulled down the relic passed between Minotaur Kings.
The Axe of Minos.
 
——
 
Khedal was bleeding. But he was also grinning. He whirled ever-faster, the twin axes he carried seeking Greydath’s skin. The Goblin Lord had no armor, and the shallow wounds he took bled, but Khedal had gone for a healing potion twice.
Yet one blow was all Khedal wanted. The two were fighting across the ruins of the warship, the Goblin Lord forgotten. This was a duel of honor, and Greydath couldn’t escape without dishonoring himself.
And he refused to do so. The Goblin Lord whirled from blade dance to art, yet Khedal charged into a cut trying to open a void, aware he was behind in Skill. One cut—and he was willing to sacrifice his body for that cut.
He was forcing Greydath into the end of that deadly dance when the axe roared in Khedal’s ears. He looked up.
“My King? No—”
Greydath whirled as the Axe of Minos howled through the air, and the storm broke. The Goblin Lord stared at the single relic, not a giant axe, shooting towards him like an arrow.
The challenge ended. Greydath spun, and his body twisted as he threw himself up. Far over the spinning axe. It twisted up with him. Greydath’s eyes narrowed. His greatsword flashed, and he parried the b—
He stared at the hilt of his greatsword as the Axe of Minos severed the blade in half. Greydath grabbed the axe as the head tried to spin into his neck. His arms bulged. His veins stood out, and his muscles contorted.
It lodged an inch into his neck, and the Goblin Lord held it there, quivering—then tore it out. He threw it down, and the axe zoomed into the air. Back towards the thrower. The Goblin Lord looked up as Khedal approached him uncertainly.
“…Nevertheless. Take it.”
Khedal tossed one axe down, and Greydath sneered. He lifted the hilt of the greatsword—
And both he and Khedal turned as the Goblin Lord on her cliff stood up.
The bark cracked. The tree groaned. Her bodyguards looked up and cried out, and the centuries the Goblin Lord had sat were over.
She landed on the warship as lightly as a feather. Khedal spun. Greydath moved, and the Minotaur Prince cursed—without the duel, he was no longer as f—
Greydath kicked him. The Minotaur Prince landed two minutes later. The Goblin Lord was watching him fall towards the island, and Greydath raised his hilt to throw when the [Shaman], the great female Goblin Lord, tapped him on the shoulder.
“Greydath.”
“Izikere.”
He looked the other Goblin Lord in the eyes and saw the mask of bark and nature, the greatest [Shaman] of Goblins, smiling at him. A descendant of Sóve, the Goblin King who had raised this very island.
Izikere pressed a finger to Greydath’s chest, and he jerked back, forgetting Khed—
 
——
 
The Minotaur warships were retreating in the face of Greydath of Blades. Not all the warships were burning. Two-thirds…but they had lost Prince Khedal. The ranged fire was still continuing as evening fell, but the giant tree encasing the Goblin Lord finally split open as the angry Greydath of Blades cut his way out.
The Minotaur King watched as her generals reported in.
“Is Khedal alive?”
No one knew. Nor did they quite understand why the Goblin Lord, Izikere, had attacked Greydath.
Inreza stared at the Isle of Goblins. Khedal’s survival was remote, but not impossible for his level. After all…
She too had once walked the Isle of Goblins. She wondered what he would see.
 
——
 
Khedal landed, obviously. But he only woke up an hour later.
Consider the impact a single kick had to transmit to launch a Minotaur wearing full plate armor into the air. Then consider how hard Khedal hit the ground.
He buried himself in the soil. That was probably why no Goblin found him at first. When he tore his way out of the earth, he had to dislodge a shattered tree that had fallen on him after he struck it.
“…defeat.”
That was all he said. Khedal had healed his wounds as he woke up. Only when he looked around did he realize.
He was in enemy territory. He was on the Island of Goblins…and while he could hear explosions in the distance, it was clear that the navy wasn’t on the attack.
Khedal understood he might be dead. If so—he swore to make it a death to remember. He had one axe, he was sure the healing potions had only partially healed his cracked ribs, and his right arm clicked every time he raised it.
Left arm, then, and find a shield for his right. Khedal looked around. His armor was in tatters, but it would do.
Now, when behind enemy lines, there were a few methods for a fighter to survive. Hiding, disguising oneself, covertly signal for extraction or make your way back to—
Khedal started running. He charged through the brush, eyes scanning for opponents. He found one within four minutes. The Minotaur burst out of the brush onto a dirt trail, long worn out of the jungle, where a little Goblin was gathering fruits from a bush.
The Minotaur raised his axe and saw the little Goblin jerk up. She stared at him—her clothes were bright green, and she had a necklace of beads. The Minotaur realized it was a child.
The child dropped her basket and ran, shrieking, into the distance. Khedal lowered his axe.
“A village?”
He had never seen one of the Goblin villages from shore. Seconds later, he heard shouts and horns in the distance. The Minotaur knew the village was alarmed, and well they should be.
He was headed straight for it. The Prince burst into the open as he followed the child, looking for their warriors. He saw Goblins in turn bursting out of houses, whirling, shouting the alarm to their warriors that a Minotaur was here.
One raised a hoe in front of a garden, and the Minotaur saw a Goblin glance up, sitting while a squirrel ate an acorn on top of its head. He saw a Goblin in a tree house swing down and another train a bow on him.
He…hesitated.
Not because of the children running into homes. Nor the [Shaman] or older Goblins trying to block him. The young warriors calling out challenges. Not because of how familiar it surely should be.
No, he saw Goblins. It was the architecture that confused him. He looked up and saw, for a second, before the first poisoned arrow shot down, a house among the trees. Built into the trees, but not a tree house.
A tree house, a cabin in the air was so primitive. So ungraceful compared to the flowing architecture. The bridge across the air.
The gardens…Khedal deflected a blow from a Goblin youth and nearly took their head off until the Goblin who’d been feeding the squirrel pulled the young one back. He made a gesture and then punched Khedal from a dozen paces away. A…[Martial Artist]? A [Monk]?
A poisoned dart from the side. Goblins screeching at each other. Khedal’s one axe swung as he seized a shield from an attacker, backing away.
A garden? His mind whirled as the poison bit him, and he backed up. He was confused, so he fled backwards. The leader of the village shot a third arrow into his back. Khedal looked over his shoulder once.
He was a traveller of many lands. He had sailed across the world for fifty years. Why…
Why did that village look like the ones he’d seen in Terandria? The Claiven Earth?
Like a half-Elf’s…
 
——
 
Greydath was nursing his wounds when Izikere spoke. She stood, warding the isle against the Minotaurs’ wrath.
“The fleet is coming back. For the ships.”
“Let them. You. Sit.”
The Goblin Lord of Blades glowered, but the rest of the Goblins were so terrified by Izikere standing that they ran to their posts.
“I could sink half of them before they retreat.”
“Sit. You have done enough. Is that Minotaur dead?”
A Goblin raced towards her and reported no, he had just been seen in one of the villages. He was poisoned—but alive.
“Leave him. Let them [Scry] him. Watch where he goes. No fighting.”
Greydath growled.
“I could kill him t—”
The [Shaman] kicked at him, and the [Blademaster] leaned back. Izikere wore an expression of rare discontent. Centuries she had sat on the cliff. She pointed a staff she had grown out of the ground at him.
“You have done enough. Sit. The King of Minotaurs will not be idle if her Prince dies. Did you think I was in danger?”
Greydath just glowered back. They spoke in the Goblin tongue, but not in the crude hodge-podge, the barely-literate sentences he used with Rags and the others. This was the flowing language as it should be.
“I return to this island and fight for you, and you greet me like this, Goblin Lord Izikere.”
“Greydath. What happened to Izril?”
He shrugged, and the Goblin Shaman turned her head dangerously. Greydath spoke, making his words short like the Goblins he had lived among for decades.
“Goblin Lord appears. Goblin Lord dies. Many Goblins die. Sad. Death. Always death. Here…”
He gazed around the Island of Goblins with almost as much distaste as he’d had for Tremborag’s mountain. The gift of a Goblin Lord. A memory, perhaps their potential on display.
He hated it here. And yet it drew him back each and every time. Like a memory of something beautiful, but so sad it cut you apart every time you saw it. A dream. Izikere was going to spare that arrogant Minotaur’s life?
It was her island and domain. Greydath wondered what Khedal would see.
 
——
 
The arrows were poisoned. He’d forgotten…the Goblins here were more dangerous than Drowned Folk on their ships.
Too strong. No—that wasn’t it. He could have taken a score of them down. The foreign architecture had disturbed him. He didn’t need to slaughter them in their village.
Why half-Elves? Design? The Minotaur ran down forest trails, aware he was being watched. His head was dizzy—he was feverish.
He would take a long time to die. Perhaps that was why they didn’t close with him. Yet the more Khedal ran across the island—the stranger it got.
Perhaps it was the venom in his blood, but nothing made sense. The forest trails were primitive, but no more than any overgrown part of Minos where Minotaurs might hike. There were bugs and wild plants in profusion, yet the Goblins lived in cleared areas.
Was that a town he skirted, Goblins watching him from homes, bows drawn? So many bows. Living amongst nature like—
No. Just pointed ears. He ran past a fishing village and saw the nets neatly waiting for low tide. Fish in a bowl for colorful birds to eat. They flew off around him as he charged past.
A thousand kinds of bird, fluttering down the beach. A Goblin staring at him unafraid, holding a fishing spear. Unlike the savages he’d met who—
Fomirelin. Coming out of the waves like a charging bull, roaring. Khedal cut him three times and landed as he was thrown, getting to his feet. The sounds of fighting would be his guide to his people.
He couldn’t let himself die. His King needed him. Prince Lareqol…
His skin was burning with whatever the Goblins had hit him with. Khedal felt like he was breathing blood, but he was just thirsty.
The Minotaur burst across a stream and drank greedily. He splashed water over his face and then realized…it was a garden. Abandoned?
No, not like the other villages or roads. A single Goblin sat there with a tiny knife in hand. She was watching him.
Grey hair. He lifted his axe, but she didn’t move. She sat protectively in front of something she was working on. Then he realized it was a carving knife, and she sat among flowers which bloomed a light blue, in neat beds, and he’d just rampaged through another one.
The Minotaur was sick, dizzy, and he knew he had a fever. Or how else did he look at that statue and hallucinate further? His lips moved, and he grinned.
The Titan of Baleros had once boasted to him like that. Could he now say it? There was no mistaking the differences.
