“The past? Have we won? Lost? If that is so—why do they scream war every time they rise?”
“Trapped by madness.”
She turned and wouldn’t look at him. Tremborag was right. Right—and wrong.
Every Goblin Lord who rose with Velan the Kind had been young. Ones he knew, or ones who had come to their position as contemporaries.
The old ones, though—and there were a few—did not go to Velan. They were like Izikere. Only Greydath of Blades had served the Goblin King. And the next might be the last, if he even lasted that long.
He would be hunted, now that the Minotaurs knew he was still alive. A Goblin Lord who had fought with Velan was entirely more alarming to any nation than Izikere was.
Because their fight might start destroying parts of the island, the two Goblins went for a walk. They stood on a cliff over a village, and Greydath watched the necessity of this island.
Young Goblins grew up at any task they wanted. Much like the House of Minos. Yet…the difference was that you could be too good at something.
One Goblin child was making cups out of clay. She knew how to spin the wheel and make a cup as fine as anything you could buy in a Walled City already, and played with colors and shapes.
She was too good with her hands. A [Shaman] had watched her at work for two years. He took the last cup she made from the kiln and then offered the Goblin child a spear. The [Potter]’s face fell, and she protested, but weakly. And stopped when she saw the Goblin Lords looking down at her.
Greydath spoke bitterly as Izikere avoided his glance. The newest recruit slowly joined the most talented Goblins to become warriors.
“She will never become a Goblin Lord. She might, following her passion. Clay would make her a Goblin King. Not blood. Not your choice.”
“She will become a fine warrior. This island is safe, Greydath. Safe—it is a place of Goblins and will not fall. I have met the last two Goblin Kings. I am not as old as you, but when he became a King—Curulac vanished. All that was left was rage. That is what happens to them.”
And for once, Greydath hesitated. He put out his claw, and Izikere stirred.
“No.”
No? Few things surprised Izikere, but she turned her head, blinking, as the Goblins in the village pointed up at the Goblin Lords. Some waved. Greydath stared past them and whispered.
“Not Curulac. Nor Velan. They were filled with fury. Consumed at times, yes. But Goblin Kings are only partly insane. Whatever happens to them—they have lucid moments. I was with both until their ends. That is why each one leaves something.”
“Curulac destroyed Terandrian Kingdoms at random. All that he ruined is rebuilt—”
“No. He fought for a reason. He went to Terandria and broke the enemies he sought to kill. Servants of our foes, he called them. Do you know the ones they call Agelum and Lucifen?”
Izikere tilted her head back and forth.
“…I thought they were dead.”
“More are, now. Just like Velan, they all left something. Sóve, this island. Velan, his challenge to the Goblins of Izril.”
The other Goblin Lord was looking at Greydath with sadness, now. She spoke.
“And Curulac left you.”
Greydath of Blades’ hand tightened on his greatsword, and every Goblin decided it was a really good time to go inside their homes.
“Not me. My mother. And he was not the Goblin I knew when he became King.”
And still, he wanted them to rise. The two Goblins stood there, arguing, sharing secrets, but in truth—Greydath looked tired. He had seen another Goblin Lord fall as soon as he rose. Greydath turned away from Izikere.
“—I came to tell you that the Redfangs of the High Passes are gone. Their Chieftain was Level 38, I think. Two classes. Garen Redfang. He is dead. Another tribe has begun setting up there, but the Goblins of the north have lost many tribes. South, too.”
“I will send many Goblins to their shores, then. It will be the most dangerous, with all the nations fighting for land.”
“Good. I will go to Terandria. Something…calls me. Not the other tribes. A strange Goblin. Do you watch the news?”
“News?”
Izikere gave Greydath the blankest look in creation, and he laughed. The Goblins of this isle hadn’t even heard of television, yet. That did make him smile.
 
——
 
“The Goblins will be launching their armada. We have witnessed them preparing the ships at night, covertly. Even with Greydath of Blades, it seems they have no confidence they can protect their flotilla.”
It was a huge migration of Goblins, the very thing the House of Minos wanted to avoid. Prince Khedal was preparing to lead the fleet against the Goblins, though it would be a running battle against two Goblin Lords.
The Minotaur King, Inreza, had asked if Khedal were able to keep fighting. He had assured her he was capable. Of course, he probably would have said that if he were breathing out a hole in his chest, but she hadn’t forbidden him.
He felt…slightly off after surviving the Isle of Goblins. Most put it down to the poison and harrowing journey—or his defeat, all of which could damage the prideful prince.
Inreza thought the real reason might be different. She approved Khedal’s warplans with the [Admirals] and then spoke to him alone.
“You have been unhappy with me, Khedal. For interrupting your duel with the Goblin Lord.”
He hesitated. Khedal, who spoke his mind about any dishonor he saw, no matter the situation, was loath to contradict her. Once, when rumors had spread that Inreza might be best served by appointing Khedal her replacement and retiring due to her wounds, he had offered to abdicate his claims to the throne on the spot.
His jaw worked as he put his hands behind his back.
“I—understand you acted as a leader of the battle, my King. But I had the chance to slay one or both of the Goblin Lords, or wound them enough to be finished. My life—”
“Khedal. I can kill Izikere.”
The Prince’s eyes widened, and he swung around to the Minotaur King. She leaned on the balcony, staring at the Goblins’ isle in the distance. No one was loosing weapons tonight; they were saving up for tomorrow.
A fortune in ammunition. Dead soldiers…warships destroyed. Each island would be working to replace the losses. Inreza turned to Khedal.
“It is no guarantee. But it is possible. Do you know why I do not? If you killed Greydath or Izikere—the Goblins would have charged. They would ram their island into ours and fight until fury left them. I would count the deaths in the hundreds of thousands at least.”
Khedal turned to the island. His first words, which he’d snatched back, were, ‘then it would be done’.
Two nations, two powers too equal for one to triumph over the other. At least, without that kind of cost. It was the Minotaur King’s duty to decide whether it was worth it.
“You saw something on the island, Khedal. More than you reported.”
“I was delirious and sick. I cannot substantiate any claims…even material.”
Khedal stalled for time. He still had the figurine he had found in his armor. Inreza raised her brows.
“Tell me. I will listen. You know, I won my way onto that island thirty-eight years ago.”
Khedal spun.
“You did?”
The Minotaur King rested her arms on the balcony, back to the island, and nodded. She stared at him, and he felt like the child he had once been standing before the throne the first time he came here.
“What did you see?”
For a long time, Khedal hesitated. He paced back and forth and looked at that island in the distance. When he did speak, it was slowly, watching her face, but she gave him nothing.
“I saw—a level of civilization to frighten the complacent. Goblins advance much like Trolls or Ogres given time. I saw statues…a mystery. Our enemy may have laid a trap for me, mind-games. I was left alive for a reason, so the rest of what I saw, I doubt.”
Was that the right answer? He saw Inreza sigh faintly. Khedal’s heart sank because he never understood what he said that was wrong. But he thought there was something. Inreza turned and nodded.
“If that is what you saw, I believe you. I have been thinking, Khedal, about the new lands.”
“As every leader must. Are we to try to colonize it?”
The question made Khedal uneasy. The House of Minos had sworn not to expand past these islands. It was an old pact, but they had honored it. When first they had come to these islands, the House of Minos had been less than a third of the size it now was. They had dredged and built these islands, bucket of sand by bucket, until they were as large as they were.
Inreza knew their history even better than Khedal. She craned her neck up at the stars.
“We were exiled here to contain the Goblins, Khedal. Yet I have heard it said that the Goblins contain us. This war keeps our forces strong, but it also keeps us from growing with our yearly enemy. You know, few Goblin Lords ever come from that island.”
“But the tribes they found—”
“—Later contain great Chieftains and Goblin Lords. Save for the one that guards the island or those that visit, few emerge here. An interesting phenomenon, don’t you think?”
It was. Khedal frowned as he tried to piece that into his knowledge of Goblins. He knew how to fight them, but not much else. And in fact—no one did.
“There is no theory of Goblins, Khedal. Nothing but observations, rudimentary analyses of their race by the kind of writer like Krsysl Wordsmith. [Naturalists], [Historians], document them, but there are no writings on them, no interviews, no first-hand accounts by anyone save adventurers who come with magic and sword. There was one book published in recent memory, though.”
“Really? I had no idea. By whom?”
The Minotaur King’s smile was bitter.
“Niers Astoragon. Every single book was burned when Velan the Kind became a Goblin King. I have read it.”
She waited for his response, and Khedal uncertainly gazed at Inreza.
“Did you learn much about our enemy?”
This time, he missed her second sigh. Inreza shook her head as she dismissed him; he would need rest for the battle tomorrow.
“No. Not much about our enemy.”
 
——
 
The next day, the Minotaur King sat in her throne room with the throwing axes and the Axe of Minos. She waited for Greydath to show himself; her Skills were limited, and her [Strategists] had agreed keeping the deadly Goblin Lord from battle was the most important.
She watched the naval chase as the Goblins made their exodus from the island. Nine warships set sail. They had apparently managed to patch a few, and they were racing ahead of the Minotaur fleet.
Enough to colonize every continent with a tribe or two. Khedal led the chase, and his ships kept up a constant barrage.
However, Izikere made their task difficult. She shielded her people’s ships while they were in her range, then produced massive waves to slow the Minotaurs. She even spawned a huge clump of tangling seaweed that stalled their rudders.
Greydath threw a sword through the mast of one of the ships, but he didn’t join the Goblins at sea. Perhaps because he knew they were doomed.
They almost made it. But Inreza saw—the Goblins’ knowledge of the sea was turned against them. Rather than catching the current that could take them into the sea and scatter, they found nothing with the oceans changed by the new lands of Izril. And the Minotaurs, who had deployed oars, would catch up.
Inreza listened to the terse reports and watched. She had one eye on the battle, another out at the island in the distance.
The House of Minos had shifted its aim away from the island to the Goblin fleet. Inreza thought about throwing an axe, but Khedal had things in hand.
And she could well kill her people if her aim were just a hair off. She was a [Thrower]. That was not her current class, but she had been a [Thrower], and a Minotaur King was not like a [King], so she was one of the most dangerous leaders, in personal combat at least, in the world.
There was some nuance to hurling a giant block of metal at someone. A direct nuance, but even a [Thrower] had guile. A basic feint was to aim at one target and hit the other.
Just like Khedal had done. Minotaurs were not stupid. If anything, the assumption that they were straightforward had cost many armies in battle when the House of Minos flanked or ambushed them.
An entire world of strategy lay simply in aiming at a target—or letting your opponent think you were aiming at one thing and not the other. Inreza glanced out the balcony and saw a few ships sailing out to sea.
Merchant Saimh had left, skirting the battleground and trusting to the House of Minos’ protection. His fleet of ships were now out of range of the coastal batteries, and presumably, loaded with the salvaged artwork from the palace.
“Presumably.”
The Minotaur King murmured. Someone rapped hard on her door.
“Prince Lareqol. My King—m—it is urgent. I know there’s a battle, but—”
Her son called out. Inreza called out.
“Enter. What is it?”
He strode into the room. He’d failed to best Venaz, but the fact that he had been vying with the [Strategist] for his post had meant he had been second-best among all the applicants. Lareqol was sharp, and he had just been walking the harbor.
“My King—I just met a Drake called Ocello. He was at the docks, shouting for help. He and his entire crew were at the warehouse with our art.”
“The ruined art? What of it? Saimh is at sea. Has he forgotten his apprentice?”
Prince Lareqol’s expression was urgent, and he nearly tripped over his words, so he didn’t see Inreza’s calm expression.
“No! They never picked up the art.”
He strode to the balcony, and the Minotaur King glanced at the flotilla of nice, big, cargo ships…circling around to the isle of Goblins.
My oh my. Who could have predicted that?
 
——
 
The Drake was a curiosity to Greydath. He had assumed Izikere had a plan, but hadn’t known her ships would be replaced by these. The Drake sat on the ground as the rest of his crew shouted curses at him.
Well, some. A few just sat there as the rest were loaded on a rowboat to be sent to the House of Minos. The Drake stared at a Goblin offering him a beautiful cup.
“Is this a welcoming present? I hope I get a house.”
“Big house. Nice house. Lots of flowers and food.”
One of the village leaders assured him happily. The Goblins were inspecting their new ships, but most were loading in a hurry. The Minotaur fleet was at sea, but they wanted to be gone before the Minotaurs began firing.
The Drake would never leave this island. He had a death warrant on his head, but he seemed at home with the decision. He scratched at the large scar on his chest as Greydath squatted down.
“You are Greydath of Blades, aren’t you?”
“Yes. And you…why did you give your ships up?”
For answer, the [Merchant] pointed at the scar he’d received as a child from an infection.
