Someone dunked Alden’s head under the water. His mind cleared enough for him to have a coherent thought through his shock: These people are all insane.

He sputtered to the surface and found himself eye-to-eye with Jel-nor. She was the one who’d dunked him. And herself. They were both still covered in gore.

<<You must wash it all off before you return to help him,>> she said in a tight voice. <<It would be difficult to explain why you were present for a duel. If you find any solid pieces, collect them and bring them to us.>>

As an example, she plucked a tiny diamond-shaped piece of Stuart out of Alden’s hair and showed it to him. Then she retreated from the water, and he watched her run off to join the others.

Joe was leaning over Stuart now. The guy had finally fallen unconscious.

Alden sank back down under the water. He gave himself permission to feel self-pity for a few seconds.

I want to go home. I really, really want to go back home.

But he couldn’t. So he scrubbed the worst of the blood off, collected the pieces as he’d been told, and went back to pick up his charge.

Who was injured worse than he had been when Alden arrived.

This was not the way he’d seen his afternoon going.

Several minutes later, Alden was teleported directly to the emergency department of a House of Healing. He arrived in a large, fancy teleportation alcove. He was carrying Stuart, and a plastic baggy full of Stuart’s foot was shoved into the boy’s pocket so that it was being preserved as well.

Which seems virtually pointless considering it was eaten, blown apart, and scattered across the forest.

But hey, bright side—they wouldn’t have bothered to go to this much trouble if the parts couldn’t be put back together again, right?

Alden’s coat had been retrieved before he departed but not his pants or his shoes. He’d lost his last sock.

These things happened.

The second he arrived in the emergency department, chaos surrounded him. Masked Artonans in dark-colored scrubs appeared with handheld equipment and a gurney. The one in charge ordered him to put the patient on the gurney, and then seconds later, apparently after getting some notice about what his skill did, ordered him to pick Stuart up again.

<<That’s an extraordinary talent,>> the woman said, her eyes rocketing around in two different directions behind her glasses. <<We might want you to hold him for a while so we can prepare for him without worrying about tissue degradation. Do you need a stimulant or an accessory to do that?>>

So he’d be getting doped. That was fine. He’d forgotten to take his medical team pills anyway. Because he’d been dropped in the water.

“I don’t know what an accessory is. My skill is fine, but my muscles are getting tired. I don’t think I can carry him well for more than a couple of minutes.”

It took her approximately a nanosecond to jab a tiny hypodermic into the side of his neck.

It hit quick. The lights were all suddenly too bright, and Alden felt like he could fight a gorilla.

<<Do you need something for your nerves?>>

“Nope,” Alden said, pacing back and forth. “All good on that front. I think my panic buttons got pressed too hard, too many times today, and now they’re stuck in the off position.”

She looked confused, but then she scanned him with some kind of metal loop she wore around her neck and shrugged.

They gave him his own empty room to pace in. It looked similar to the rooms in the House of Healing in Chicago, but there was a lot more equipment lining the walls.

Alden took it all in. He wondered how things were going back in the jungle.

“I think Joe is about to give all of your friends a tattoo and make them pay up somehow in exchange for keeping quiet about this,” Alden told Stuart’s petrified body. “It must be crazy important for you people to get into wizard school, huh?”

Alden understood how they were going to explain away the destroyed foot now that he’d seen the contents of the baggie. Whatever spell Jel-nor had cast tore all the pieces into tiny, distinctly clean-cut diamond and triangle shapes. So the foot no longer looked roughly digested by the mishnin; it looked like it had been tidily chipped up by a combat spell.

Alden guessed maiming someone in a duel must not have the same consequences that summoning that thing did.

Joe had come up with the idea awfully swiftly, hadn’t he?

Maybe he does this all the time. Maybe it’s his go-to, hide the evidence spell.

About ten minutes later, someone came back for him. He didn’t feel even a little tired. They led him to the doors of an operating theater that was absolutely glowing with runes. He placed Stuart on another gurney, and the Artonan boy was whisked inside. Before the doors closed again, Alden saw an odd mix of people in scrubs and wizards’ clothes. One of them was holding a pair of giant yellow candles.

<<Let’s see,>> the woman who’d led him to the operating room said, scrolling through a tablet. <<We should dip into my office. I think before we send you back to your assigned post, I should reverse the effects of the drug you were given. My colleague might have been a little generous with the dosage, given who the injured party was. Come this way.>>

She collected supplies from a cabinet embedded in a wall and took Alden to a surprisingly normal looking office. It was cramped and full of books, papers, and miscellaneous junk.

Alden took a seat in an uncomfortable swivel chair.

Several minutes, and a shocking twelve needle sticks later, he felt absolutely horrible. Like someone had stretched all of his muscles a little too far and sucked out all of his energy with a vaccuum.

<<That should cover it. You need to supplement B12 by the way. Keep an eye on that. And you can pick a gift or two from the bowl if you want.>> The doctor spun one of her rings to deactivate whatever hand-sanitizing feature it had on it and gestured to a glass dish full of things wrapped in brightly colored paper.

Alden stared at it.

<<Do human teenagers not get gifts when they go to healers? I’m a pediatrician, so I offered more out of habit than anything else.>>

Alden’s temporarily exhausted emotions suddenly made themselves known again. His eyes stung.

“My mom was a nurse in a House of Healing,” he blurted out. “We used to wrap the gifts for the gift bowl together.”

<<Then you should take a few of them, shouldn’t you?>> the woman said gently. <<My secretary wraps them. She always puts the best ones in the red paper.>>
