What do I do?
I’m no hero. I’m not even qualified to be a police officer, doctor, an emergency worker, or any job that requires sight.
And I’ve never been trained. I have no idea what to do.
So panic grips me as I stumble across the snowy ground, knees still shaking from the avalanche. Part of me doesn’t even really believe what’s happened. After all, the small area of land I can sense hasn’t changed much. But Durene tells me that everything around her cottage is just—gone.
‘I’ll have to see it to believe it.’ Ironic, but in my case I have to feel it, or at least hear it to believe. I walk to the edge of the place where the earth just fades away in my mind, and feel forwards.
Nothing. Well, it’s not as if there would be a wall of ice in front of me. But suddenly I notice the frozen pathway is gone. Instead, there’s only crunching snow underfoot. And as I walk forwards cautiously, feeling my way ahead, I start to stumble as I run into huge chunks of solid snow, torn up. And—dirt? I hit something hard and feel at it.
A tree trunk. Sideways. It’s lying on the ground.
“Oh no.”
It’s true. I trace my way to the base of the trunk—actually, it’s the top of the tree. I feel branches, and leaves. The avalanche pulled this tree up and tossed it like a twig. And if it could do this to a tree, what chance does a house stand?
The village. My mind goes back to it. What do I do? What can I do? I have to help; that’s the right choice. But what’s the best way? I don’t—
“Laken!”
A voice shouts my name and I hear thumping footsteps. Durene rushes after me, fright clear in her voice.
“It’s not safe!”
Rough hands drag me back. Durene is terrified, but she cares more about my safety in this moment than anything else. I let her pull me back into the radius of the cottage. There at least I can tell what’s around me. But instead of being reassured by my mastery of this small domain, I now feel like I’m holding a candle in a—a dark world. I don’t understand darkness that well, but I fear the place where my [Emperor]’s senses fade away and I have to rely solely on remaining senses.
The village. My heart is still pounding out of my chest. The world is too silent. I can hear thunder in my veins, but there is only silence in the air. Compared to the fury of a few seconds ago, this—
I hear shrieking. My head turns, but it’s only Frostwing. She’s scared out of her mind, and I can’t blame her. But her anxiety doesn’t matter—the village—
I can’t think. I’m hyperventilating, gasping for air. Durene trembles as she stops.
“Laken. What do we…? It’s all gone.”
We’re both in shock. I know that. But my mind keeps snapping back to the village. Riverfarm. They were hit. I have to do something.
And like that, the paralysis gripping me ends. It’s not that I’m not still petrified. But I start moving even so. I have to act. It’s either act or keep still, and there is no time.
“Durene, we have to go to the village. The faeries didn’t protect Riverfarm. Who knows what’s happened to them?”
“What? Laken—”
Durene pauses. It’s not even complete thoughts she’s having. She’s not thinking, just reacting. But finally—and it feels like forever although it’s only been a minute or less—my brain begins working again.
Village. Help them. We have to go and check. Can’t stay here.
I feel cold. As if my skin and everything beneath it has frozen over. A chill made of fear is making me shake, but that same terror is electric. I don’t stop and think; I only know that I have to move.
“We have to go! Durene!”
I snap at her. Durene jerks, and then she hesitates.
“It’s too dangerous for you! I’ll go. I’ll help. You stay here and—”
“No.”
“Laken—”
“You are a [Paladin].”
I feel like an idiot saying it, but I grab Durene’s protective hand and try to turn my head towards her face. My gentle giant is shivering with fear, but her being here reassures me enough to keep my voice steady.
“Durene. You are a Paladin. A protector of the weak and innocent. And you are also my guardian, my champion. You have to go. And I have to go. We have to help everyone we can.”
She hesitates, and then I feel a bit of strength return to her hand. She breathes in.
“Okay. Let’s go. I’ll clear a way. The road is—is gone. Follow me.”
She turns, and I hesitate. The village. What will we do there?
Think—it was an avalanche. Buried people, disaster area. Red Cross. Doctors Without Borders. What do they…?
“No—wait.”
Durene halts in bewilderment. I turn and point towards the cottage.
“A basket. We need all the food we can put in there, towels—clean fabric—um—”
I can’t think of anything else. Bandages, food, what else? The avalanche—
“A shovel.”
I run back towards the cottage, and Durene rushes into her tool shed for a shovel. I push open the door and hear Frostwing screaming at me. She’s tumbled out of her nest, but fortunately she’s okay. I scoop her up and put her and the nest on the floor. I talk to her as I scramble around the cottage, using the clear image of the cottage in my head to pick up everything we might need.
“It’s okay. It’s okay—shush! We’ll be back, okay?”
To my surprise, the eaglet shuts up. I don’t have time to dwell on that though—six more seconds and I’m kicking the door open. Durene grabs the food and cloth spilling out of my arms and stuffs it into a huge basket she uses to collect produce.
“Okay. Let’s go!”
I lead us both away from the cottage. It’s so easy to move around Durene’s cottage. I’ve seldom ever run—being blind means I’m used to running into things, and I know that I can seriously injure myself running into something sharp at high speed. But in this place I’m sure-footed, and I force my unaccustomed legs to move faster. Durene is right behind me, carrying the basket.
Two steps outside of the circle and I falter. The world disappears around me, my sense of it returning to nothing. It wouldn’t have bothered me, before. But it’s like going deaf or losing my sense of smell. Or going blind, I suppose. The new sense I had is gone, and I suddenly realize how inconvenient it is not to have it.
I stumble, and a hand catches me.
“This way. Follow me.”
I take hold of the bottom of Durene’s shirt and begin to follow her. That’s easy—I’ve done that countless times before. But this time, the landscape is totally different.
“So much snow…”
I can feel Durene’s shirt straining as she grunts and pushes ahead. The snow around my ankles rises and shifts, and as I follow in her steps I realize that the snow rapidly becomes waist-deep in places.
No time to stop and think. I try to follow directly in Durene’s footsteps. But even then, the snow is already filling in her steps, and I can’t tell what’s in front of me.
The snow is so deep! Durene wades through it, but I can’t. The second time I trip, something grabs my legs and back, pulling me off my feet. I jerk in surprise, but Durene lifts me into her arms, cradling me with ease.
“I’ll—carry you, Laken. It’s faster that way.”
My mouth opens to object. I’m not a child. But then I close my mouth instead. She’s right. Even if I had sight, this is probably faster.
“I’ll hold the basket. Give it to me.”
I hold the basket on my stomach as Durene carries me in her arms. It is not comfortable, especially since Durene’s running means I bounce around like a rag doll. But she moves far faster than I can, so I hang on to her with all my strength as I feel cold air blowing past my face.
Powdery flecks of ice keep hitting me. Durene is churning through the snow as if it’s not there. I can hear her breathing hard, but she doesn’t stop running.
Riverfarm is about ten minutes away from Durene’s cottage at walking speed. We get there in four minutes. My first instinct when Durene puts me down is to find the wounded. But my weak imagination isn’t enough to predict the reality of what awaits us.
For a few seconds after Durene puts me on the uneven earth, she can’t even speak. When she eventually finds her tongue, it’s still almost too much for her. She describes the scene for me, breathless. Horrified.
Riverfarm is gone. The avalanche poured through the tiny community in one horrific rush. The pounding snow covered entire houses and knocked the walls in on others. There’s so much packed snow that we’re standing several feet above where the ground is supposed to be.
“I can see the roof of Mister Prost’s house from here. It—oh, Laken! It’s all gone!”
“What about the people, Durene? Are they alive?”
I grab Durene’s arm, trying to keep her focused. My voice is urgent, and she starts as if coming out of a trance.
“A few. I can see some, but—”
Some of them are just standing around, motionless. Others wander aimlessly, and I can hear them calling. A few are trying to dig at the ground, but the snow isn’t loose. It’s been packed, and everything is buried. How would they even know where their families and friends are?
And no one’s really that coherent in the first place. Durene is experiencing it and so am I, to a lesser extent.
Shock. But I know—I have to fight through it. I can’t see, but I wasn’t caught up in that maelstrom of death. My head is the clearest right now.
“We have to start digging people out. Durene, where’s the nearest house?”
Again, Durene starts as if I’m waking her from a dream.
“Nearest? Over there—Mister Ballus and Miss Ven’s—”
“Let’s go to it.”
I push at her, and Durene moves forwards. I follow her until she stops.
“What does it look like? Do you see any of the family around here?”
“No—I—I don’t know. They could be over there. That looks like—it’s all buried, Laken. All of it.”
“How much is buried? The front? The back? Could we dig the door out—maybe they’re still inside?”
“I don’t know. It’s buried.”
I clench my teeth in frustration. I can’t see, and Durene isn’t being helpful. I want to shout at her, but in the next instant I feel her moving.
“I’ll dig! Stand back, Laken!”
I take the basket and move back. At once I feel snow flying through the air and hear Durene grunting. Suddenly she’s all motion, and I hear her shouting, the first loud sound in the shocked silence of the village.
“Mister Ballus! Miss Ven! Cinney! Rober! Are you there!?”
The noise does something to the villagers not buried by the snow. After a few seconds I hear movement, and then someone runs over.
“Durene!? And – Mister Laken? You two are alive?”
“We are.”
I don’t recognize the name, but I feel someone rush over to me. A hand seizes mine, rough and callused.
“It’s me, Prost.”
“Mister Prost? Are you okay? Where’s your family?”
“I don’t see them. I don’t—”
Prost is trembling even worse than Durene was. He can barely hold on to me, but that he does, clutching at me like he’s holding on for dear life. I try to calm him down.
“Mister Prost. Listen to me. We have to start digging people out. Durene’s got a shovel. Can you help her? Find other people…?”
We need to get a group of people assembled. Even with Durene’s strength, every house in the village is drowned in snow. Prost nods, and then realizes I can’t see the motion even though I feel him doing it.
“I can do that. But—Durene! My house is over there!”
“Mister Prost?”
I feel the man let go, and then hear Durene’s voice. The sound of the shovel scraping the snow stops.
“My family—they were all inside when the avalanche hit! Help me dig them out!”
“But Mister Ballus and his family are—”
Oh no. I hear the two’s voices raised, and then it sounds like Prost tries to grab the shovel out of Durene’s hand. When that doesn’t work, he tries to drag her with him with the same amount of success.
“Please, you have to help. They’re trapped! I need—”
“Durene!”
This voice isn’t from a man. It’s female and cracks in desperation. I hear more running and then another villager is fighting with Prost for Durene’s attention.
“Durene!”
“Help me! My husband—”
“Help us!”
I can see nothing, but I don’t have to see to know that Prost shoves the other woman away. I hear her cry out, and then Durene’s voice.
“Stop fighting! Please! I’ll try to get everyone out. But if you could help me—”
“My family! Save them first!”
No, no, no! But I know even as the voices raise what’s going to happen. The villagers were still shocked when Durene and I arrived. But now that we’ve started moving, the confusion gripping the villagers has faded a bit.
But that only means they’re now desperate, and Durene is the only person that can help them. More people rush to her, an uninjured beacon of hope. But instead of working together, they begin fighting over her!
“Everyone! Please listen! We need to work together!”
I call out, shouting at them, but I can’t see a thing, and Durene is now trapped by the desperate men and women. They’re arguing, not listening to anything. And instantly, a scuffle begins. I even hear what sounds like a blow. Are they hitting each other? But it’s every villager for themselves.
“Listen to me!”
I shout desperately and even try to run towards the fight, but all that gets me is a hard shove as someone knocks me down. I fall onto the ice and hear a scream.
“Laken!”
Someone else shrieks, and then I hear the voice moving away. Durene runs towards me. She—threw a villager out of the way. They scatter as she anxiously helps me up.
“Are you okay?”
“I am—but this is insanity, Durene!”
I’m already on my feet. But the sounds of chaos haven’t faded. If anything, they’ve gotten worse. Now the people are fighting over Durene’s shovel. She’s helpless as she looks at the scene and I try to make sense of it all.
“No one’s listening! What should I do, Laken?”
I don’t know. This is a nightmare—two nightmares at the same time! We need order, but no one’s listening. And I have no idea where the buried villagers are, or even how many are still alive. I yell at Durene.
“Just—just start digging! Try to get this house out first. We have to—”
What can I do? Nothing. I could dig, but I have no idea where everything is. And Durene’s the only person with any kind of tool! She moves into action, running back towards the building and I cup my hands to my mouth and shout.
But it does no good. No one will listen to me. Eventually, the fighting villagers stop and return to trying to dig their loved ones out. One helps Durene, and others try to get their friends to work together, but there’s no cohesion. And again, there’s only one shovel and the ice is like stone in places. And no one knows where any of the victims are!
