We’re running out of time. People are suffocating down there. I try to think. What can I do? What can any of us do?
What if—I could see? I can’t, but what about my Skill? Yes, that’s right! I saw Durene’s cottage, and even the buried plants in the garden. What if—
I take a few deep breaths. No one is looking at me and Durene is still shouting as she digs. I don’t know what to do exactly, so I point to what the center of the village is. I try to put conviction into my words as I speak.
“I claim this village.”
Nothing happens. Of course not. Would it really be that simple? But then what do I do?
“I claim this village—in the name of [Emperor] Laken!”
“…This village is a Protectorate of the Unseen Empire!”
Nothing. I feel like the biggest fool in the world, and all around me people are screaming, calling for help. Dying.
I have to do something. And this is it. Why can’t I claim this village? I could do it with Durene’s cottage. Think. Why?
Because she let me. Because she gave me the authority to do it. Instantly, I realize what I have to do.
“Durene? Durene?”
She’s by my side in an instant.
“What is it, Laken?”
“Where’s the village head?”
I know this village has its own mayor, or leader or something. It’s not a very important position—the villagers choose someone every year, but only to negotiate with other villagers, towns, and traders. But it is a leader.
“What? Mister Till? I don’t know. I don’t see him…”
“I need to find him. Or his family. Do you see anyone who knows where he might be?”
“N—I do! I see his wife!”
“Take me to her. Hurry!”
Durene abandons her efforts and leads me across the uneven ground. I keep stumbling, and at one point I hear a shout and feel the packed snow shifting underneath me.
“God.”
Is this what it’s like after an earthquake? I hear stories of natural disasters, but this—
I don’t know what it looks like. But to my mind, the world is in chaos. Nothing is the same as when I came here a few days ago. It’s like I’ve walked into another world again. A horrible world of death and fear.
“Miss Feya! Miss Feya!”
Someone’s in front of me. I hear sobbing, and then someone’s in front of me.
“Durene? Oh Durene—help me! My poor boy is down there somewhere!”
“I—I’ll try to find him!”
I hear the sounds of Durene digging with her hands. I reach out, and there’s a woman in front of me. My hand recoils as I touch her frozen skin and find sticky blood.
“Miss…Feya?”
“Who is—oh! You’re…”
“I’m Laken.”
There’s no time for niceties. I guide the trembling woman a bit away from Durene and then get straight to the point.
“Miss Feya, do you know where your husband is? He’s the village head, isn’t he?”
“My husband…?”
She’s in shock too. I want to shake her, but I just wait for her, prodding gently.
“I need to find him. Do you know where he is?”
Even if he can’t transfer ownership of the village to me, he might be able to rally the disorganized villagers. But I can already sense something’s wrong.
“He—he—”
Choked words. I reach out and feel her shaking. Miss Feya sobs and I know what’s happened.
“I’m so sorry.”
But there’s no time even for that. I hesitate. Would she be next in charge? I have to try.
“Feya. Miss Feya. I need you to give Riverfarm to me.”
An intake of breath.
“Give? What are you talking about? There’s nothing left!”
“I can’t explain everything, but—I have a Skill. It can help find people, even under the snow, I think. But I need to own this village to use it.”
“A Skill?”
I sound like a complete and absolute loon in my ears. But to Miss Feya, saying that might have been the best thing I could do. She understands Skills, even if she doesn’t know what I’m talking about. But she’s still hesitating, uncertain.
“You need the village?”
“Yes.”
“Can you really save them?”
There’s hope in her voice as well as doubt. But the world’s collapsed around her, and this poor woman is reaching out for any shred of hope. I don’t want to lie to her, so I tell her the truth.
“I can try.”
One second goes by as she thinks. Two. But she has nothing to lose, and everything to gain.
“It’s yours. If you can do something, please, do it!”
I nod and step back from her. I still feel self-conscious, but this time I don’t waver. I raise my head and speak with all the confidence I can muster.
“I claim this village. I claim Riverfarm.”
Nothing. Again. I curse and hear Feya moan. What’s wrong?
Last time—it took a while before I realized that I could sense Durene’s cottage. Maybe there’s a waiting time? If so, I’m screwed. But maybe it didn’t work because Miss Feya isn’t the next village head. She wasn’t elected, and—does the village head have the ability to speak for an entire village anyways?
Damn it, there’s just so much I don’t know! I feel helpless, and angry as well. I have to do something! But nothing I’ve tried has worked and I can hear Durene. She’s  barely excavated more than a few feet of snow, and it’s been over ten minutes since we got here. If anyone’s still alive—
No time. No way. The burning helplessness in my chest intensifies. And I hear the same whispering in my heart that I think everyone’s heard before.
Just give up. You can’t do anything.
It’s the same voice that used to talk to me on the worst nights. It’s the voice that told me a blind kid couldn’t ever do anything. It tries to drag me down.
I am an [Emperor]. But I’m not one, really. I just went through the motions. I’m an actor and I put on a good play, but in the end the genuine article is different from me.
Emperor Norton never questioned himself. Charlemagne, Peter the Great, Leopold—did any of these people ever act like I did? How would I know?
What would an [Emperor] do?
The little voice in my head mocks me as I listen to people cry out. More than anything, I want to help them. But how? I don’t own this village. There’s a wall in my way, a wall I can’t touch or feel or sense. I can’t break it down. And there’s a wall in the ground, a tomb of snow.
My doubts taunt me. But more than anything I want to act. The Emperor does not wait. He doesn’t hesitate. He does what an Emperor does because he is an Emperor. If Norton ever asked questions, he would never have become an Emperor.
And I—
I can’t let something silly like rules stop me. I don’t own this village? That’s not something a real [Emperor] would accept.
My heart is pounding. I don’t ask questions. I stop hesitating.
People are dying. I want to help them. Have to. Durene is doing her best, but for all her strength, she’s just one person. The villagers are disunited. There’s no one to lead them. No one but me.
So I draw the biting air into my chest and scream.
“My name is Laken Godart! I claim this village!”
My voice cuts through the other noises, bringing quietus with it. I can tell everyone’s stopped to stare at me in astonishment. But I don’t falter. I don’t wait, either. I keep shouting, so that everyone can hear me.
“Riverfarm is under my protection! All those who live within it are part of my empire!”
What’s this? No one understands. Who’s this blind young man, shouting nonsense? They’re just words. Anyone can speak nonsense. Anyone can claim anything they want.
But who has the courage to shout it to the world? I do. So I shout and tell everyone that I am an Emperor, because it is true. I will make it true.
“I am Laken, Emperor of the Unseen! If anyone would challenge me, fight my champion, my [Paladin]. Durene!”
For a few seconds I think the villagers are too shocked to even respond. Then I hear a shout.
“Are you insane?”
Prost’s voice is angry. I can hear him moving towards me, but my attention isn’t on that. It’s on the snow under my feet. And the faint sense I have—
Below me is ice. Below that is timber. And then stone. A wall. And pressed up against that wall is a child. He barely moves, but he does move. He’s trapped against the wall and the snow is so constricting that he can only breathe and move a tiny bit. I see his chest rising and falling in my head.
“What nonsense are you shouting!?”
A hand grabs me. I hear an angry voice, and then more voices.
“You claim our village? By what right?”
“What are you doing?”
“We need help! Stop shouting and—Durene! Come here!”
The villagers have come to me. Of course they would. Here’s this crazy guy shouting at them as they’re in the middle of their grief and desperation. They want to unload their anger onto me. But I’m too busy to care.
“I am an [Emperor].”
They hear me, but who would believe that? They shout at me, and then I hear Durene’s voice.
“Let him go!”
A massive hand moves, and separates Prost from me with ease. He stumbles back, and I hear shouts.
“Durene! Come here!”
“My children are down there! Come with me!”
“You bastard—give me that shovel!”
Screaming. Fighting. Cries for help. I hear it all and see the boy breathing far below. Is this sight? It’s never been so clear to me. I breathe in and out and the world comes into focus.
This is mine. I claim it. It’s not sharp in my head; it’s not my village entirely. But I will have it.
The villagers are fighting. No one will get any work done. I’m angry at them. I know they’re afraid. So am I! But if they can’t work together everyone loses. Durene is shielding me with her body and shouting at them, but she’s no leader. Not yet.
But I am. I am an [Emperor]. I shout.
“Silence!”
And there is. Complete silence. My voice is thunder, and I feel that same sensation in my bones as I did once before, when I shouted at the group of children tormenting Durene, so long ago.
“I am an Emperor.”
My voice is the one sound in the empty world around me. I can feel people staring at me, but they are mute. I keep talking, my voice growing louder.
“Your families, your friends, are all trapped under the snow. I can find them. You will help me. Find something to dig with. We’ll start here. Give Durene her shovel back.”
No one moves. They’re in shock. I don’t have time for it. My hand raises. My voice grows deeper, and it echoes.
“You and you, find something to dig with. You! The shovel! The rest of you, start digging right here. Move!”
They move. They can’t help it. But they want to move as well; I’ve given them purpose. I’ve given them hope. I look down with my head and sense the small body beneath me. Growing colder. Growing weaker.
So many. So still. I sense tiny bodies and large ones, motionless beneath the snow. Some still move. Others lie at odd angles, in pieces.
There’s no time to grieve. I point and shout.
“Start digging there! And there!”
It’s like a game. An awful game where each second counts and the prize isn’t measured in points, but real lives. But there are ways to be more efficient.
“There are two shovels here. Dig them up!”
They’re nearest to the surface. If we have those, the villagers won’t have to use the branches and broken bits of wood. Durene is already clearing snow with her spade. I’ll have to stop her from hitting the boy when she gets close.
“Over there! She’s right beneath the snow! Dig with your hands and pull her out!”
I run, and people follow me. I shout, and they listen. There’s no little voice in my head. There’s only a screaming idiot, moving too fast to doubt himself. Every step I take in the snow is sure; my blood is electric. I dash over to the spot and people begin to dig.
“Follow me. Find something to dig with!”
Onwards. I let the villagers dig out their friends and run on.
I’m going to save everyone I can. This—
This is my village now. And I will protect it. I am an [Emperor].
I run and run, and forget that I’m blind. I forget everyone else. I reach down, and pull life out of the ground.
 
—-
 
He only knew it hurt. He had tried screaming, but there was blackness all around him. Cold. It was so cold, and he knew he was buried. His head was full of pain and he knew he was bleeding. It was cold—
But also hot. The air in the small pocket where he was trapped was getting warmer, and every time he took a breath, his head spun.
He was dying.
He wanted to struggle, but he couldn’t even move. He cried and screamed, but no one had heard him. And now he was going to die.
That’s what he knew. He knew it even as he shouted for salvation. And then he heard the scraping.
Someone was digging! Towards him? He shouted desperately, barely daring to hope. But the sounds—they were coming from below him! They were going the wrong way! He screamed again, telling them to come back.
No! Had they missed him? The young man shouted desperately, and then realized the sound was getting louder, not softer! It was coming towards his head!
And then he realized something was off. Snow was breaking around his legs. He could move them! He wriggled with mad desperation, not caring if he hurt himself. He had to get out!
“Don’t worry. I’ve got you.”
A voice pulled him out of the madness. The young man froze, and then realized what was happening.
“You’re upside down. Don’t move and we’ll dig you out.”
The world turned over. Suddenly, the pounding in his head made sense. He waited, unable to bear the waiting but waiting nonetheless, and then felt a warm hand on his leg.
“You’re safe. Hold on just for a second longer.”
He didn’t know the voice. He knew everyone in the village, but he didn’t know the voice. But the hand was warm, and the voice was full of so much confidence—
He cried like a child as the warm hands dug the snow away and then came for him. He was still sobbing as more hands righted him and he was pulled out of the snow and back into the world of color and light.
For a little while he couldn’t see. Tears made his vision blurry and he could only gulp in air, the sweetest, purest thing he’d ever felt in his life. He didn’t want to grow up anymore. He didn’t want to become a famous adventurer or leave this small village. He didn’t want to marry his childhood crush.
He just wanted to be alive. And he was. The young man wept and clutched at the cold ground, and then remembered his name.
Gamel.
When he could finally think again, Gamel looked around and saw what had become of his home. Ice and snow had buried Riverfarm, the only place he had ever known. His house, his father’s home that he had lived in and hated for being so small, was gone.
And so was the rest of the world. Gamel looked, but he couldn’t see anything familiar. Where was the forest? Where was the river? Where were the road and the other houses?
He saw nothing familiar, save for a few rooftops and broken wood. But then he saw the people.
