“All right, then. I warned you!” Indigo said and slammed her fist down onto the ice block. It shattered into thousands of pieces and started to fly in every direction, then they stopped moving barely an inch away from where the block used to be. The ice flew up and then over to Ren so he could absorb it.

“It's growing back!” Shanna said and pointed as the ice block started to reform.

“Stop it, Luparia!” Indigo said and grabbed her friend by the neck and picked her up. Ice started to form on her hand, and she sent a bolt of Lightning out and broke it apart. “Stop it!” She shook her friend. “You can have more than one friend! Do you understand? More than one! We both can! We can have more than ONE FRIEND!”

The ice that was starting to reform stopped, then faded away. Luparia took a breath and opened her eyes.

“You will always be my very good friend, just like I hope that I can always be yours.” Indigo said. “We can, and do, have more than one regular friend.”

“Indigo.” Luparia said coldly. “I'm sorry.”

“So am I.” Indigo said angrily.

“You didn't work on your anger.” Luparia said and ice fog came from her mouth.

“I did! I made it into a tool and I can control my Lightning much easier with it!” Indigo spat at her.

“That's very good.” Luparia said frostily and ice formed on her lips. “I missed you very much.”

“I missed you, too!” Indigo almost yelled, then a moment later, they hugged.

“I believe Shanna is next.” Ren said and held a hand out to her. “I'm sorry you got shuffled down a couple of spots.”

“Well, at least you came back.” Shanna said and stepped onto his hand. “What do I have to look forward to?”

“I have no idea.” Ren said and smiled at her surprised expression. “We'll find out together.”

Shanna nodded and Ren cast another portal, Teepo dissolved into the ring again, then Ren and Artemis stepped through the portal. They were gone for another half an hour and came back, and Shanna was covered from head to toe in dirt.

“Shanna, what's going on?” Rainie asked her friend.

“You were right, Rainie! It was so much fun!” Shanna said and hugged her friend, but the dirt didn't shift or make a mess on her friend.

“I mean about the dirt.”

“Oh! Its my armor.” Shanna said and turned around. “Isn't it great?”

“But...”

“It's just like yours! Except it's solid Earth and not solid Water.”

“Will armor made of dirt be of any value?” Seldanna the succubus asked.

“It's quicksand!” Shanna said happily. “Can you imagine it! It's quicksand armor!”

“That's amazing!” Rainie said.

Ren took Breeze the Wind pixie next. They disappeared for half an hour and came back with Breeze surrounded by solid Wind around her for armor.

“Miss LeChoufall, you are last in the pixie lineup, but not least.” Ren said and held a hand out to her.

“Do you think you can hold me?” Isle the Dark (Gravity) pixie asked, and Ren chuckled.

“Let's find out.” Ren said and she stepped onto his hand as she activated her abilities. She caught her breath when he didn't even struggle to hold her up, then he held her close to his chest. Ren left with her and after another half an hour, they were back. Ren walked over to the shelf and sat Isle onto her bed.

“Isle, what's wrong?” Rainie asked.

“I kind of blew her mind.” Ren chuckled. “I didn't really think that was possible; but, she was beyond surprised when I showed her what she could really do with her abilities.”

“Is she going to be okay?” Shanna asked.

“Sure. She's just trying to figure out how I made her completely weightless before coming through the portal.”

“You made her weightless.” Suniva said, surprised. “How?”

“I cheated of course.” Ren said. “I'll show her how I did it, if she can't figure it out by the time I come back.”

“You're going again?” Seldanna asked. “You have more work to do?”

“Yes, and if you would do me the honor, will you please accompany me?”

“You want me to go with you into your Sanctuary?” Seldanna asked.

“I've taken almost everyone else. It's only fair that you have a turn.” Ren said.

“My King, it is I who would be honored.” Seldanna said and took his arm as if he was escorting her somewhere very important. Ren cast another portal and led Seldanna and Artemis back through it.
