Ren chuckled and put her on the floor. “ Allow me to ease your fears.” He said and nodded to Artemis. They both equipped armor bodysuits and activated the Store Spell rune that held the Permanent Enlarge or Reduce Anything spell. They both shrank to half their normal heights, then did it again. Ren was only one foot and a couple inches tall, and Artemis was one foot and six inches tall. Rainie stared at them in shock, and they laughed.

“We needed to do something to make this place not seem so cramped.” Artemis said and pat Rainie on the shoulder. “Once you're here for a while, you need to figure out ways to not be bored.”

“We started playing Tag, and we nearly wrecked the place the first time.” Ren said and grinned. “Teepo suggested shrinking to pixie size, and now this is how we always play.”

“Always?” Rainie looked at them. “You like being this size?”

“It's great!” Ren said. “Plus, it gives everyone an almost equal footing.”

“What do you mean, almost?” Teepo said and landed beside them on the floor. “I catch you practically every time.”

“Only because you won't let me use portals.” Ren said.

“How would that be an equal footing?” Teepo chittered in laughter.

“You're serious?” Rainie looked at them. “You all play games like this?”

“Sure.” Ren said and took out a bundle of cloth. “Here. Put this on.”

Rainie took the armor bodysuit that looked similar to the ones Ren and Artemis wore.

“Of course, it took us a few tries to get the hang of being so small, but now we're well-practised.” He smiled. “Artemis was it the last time, so we start with her.”

Artemis smiled and Rainie looked at Artemis' hand on her shoulder.

“You tricked me!” Rainie gasped.

Artemis gave her head a pat and flew up into the air.

“Get back here!” Rainie almost yelled and equipped the armor bodysuit, then used her Permanent Air Walk ability to run up into the air after her.

“We were right here in front of her and she completely ignored us.” Ren said to his best friend.

“Don't worry about that.” Teepo chittered in laughter. “She just caught Artemis.”

“What?” Ren looked up and saw Artemis flying towards him. “Oh, crap!” He and Teepo jumped away from each other and Artemis slammed into the floor at full speed. She left a huge crater in the thick wood floor and the stone block underneath.

“Go! Go! GO!” Teepo chittered in delight as he flew away and Ren sprouted his leather wings and took off in the other direction.

Artemis stood up and brushed off the dust. “You won't be so lucky this time!” She exclaimed and took off after Ren.

*

“We're coming up on half an hour.” Suniva said.

“Suniva, why aren't you all cuddled up in a ball?” The Ice pixie asked.

“Ren's here.” Suniva said. “It doesn't matter where he is while he's here, as long as he's here.”

“That doesn't make sense.” The Dark (Gravity) pixie said.

“If you knew Ren, it would make perfect sense.” Seldanna said. She and the other succubi had equipped their bikini tops and were lounging on the bed while they waited. “Just the thought that if you try hard enough, you can reach him, is a balm to the heart.”

“That's it exactly.” Suniva said. “When he goes on Adventurer's business, nothing we can do could ever bring him back here before he comes back on his own; but, if he's already here, there's always a chance you can get him to return or go to him instead.”

“Being his has it's own perils, however.” Seldanna said. “Like this upcoming fight.”

“I overheard some Adventurers talking about it.” The Lightning pixie said. “When is it?”

“It's in two days.” Seldanna said. “We will stand by him and face this threat together.”

“W-w-we?” Shanna the Earth pixie asked.

Suniva laughed. “She means the succubi.”

“Oh.” Shanna said. “That's a relief.”

Seldanna didn't stand up, but her presence in the room increased tenfold. “Would you not give up your life for him?” She asked in a deadly voice, and Shanna shivered.

“That... that's not...”

“Seldanna, please calm down.” Ellaria said and touched her arm, then gasped as she received her direct emotions. “I meant no disrespect.”

Seldanna sighed. “Yes, you're right. I can't expect pixies to be brave.”

“What did you say?” The Dark (Gravity) pixie asked and held a hand out to Seldanna, who now felt twice as heavy. “Succubi are the ones who are cowards by nature! You always run from a fight!”

Seldanna held her wings in close to her body and stood up, and the Dark pixie was surprised and lost her concentration. “Yes, pixie. Succubi normally would run from a fight, but only because we want to avoid fighting directly, not because we are cowards.” She said and unfurled her wings. “Ren gave us resolve! Courage and unity! Weapons and abilities far beyond what we normally have!”

Everyone looked at her and she glowed slightly.

“Because of him we are more than what we were, and as he keeps helping us, we will become even stronger than this!” Seldanna said, and her presence in the room doubled.

“Ugh.” The pixies felt like the room was growing smaller, too small for them to fit in it, and they started to kneel.

“Seldanna, please stop.” Suniva said, unaffected by Seldanna's ability. “They understand.”

“I hope so.” Seldanna said, and her presence vanished. The pixies caught their breath and stood up straight. “Ren is a good man and he takes care of his people.” She said. “He won't ask you to fight unless he knows you can handle it.” She smiled. “We have gone through a lot together, and I am more grateful to him than I thought I could ever be.”

“Also no contracts to bind us.” Ellaria said. “That alone made me fall for him.”

Katori chuckled. “His emotions being so pure had nothing to do with it, did it?”

“Not a bit.” Ellaria said, and the other succubi burst out laughing. “What? That wasn't a blatant lie.”

Seldanna pointed to the shelf and the pixies were giggling. “You made them laugh.”

“Oh, damn.” Ellaria said, and they all laughed harder.

Right then a portal opened at the side of the room, then Ren, Artemis, and Rainie stepped out. Ren summoned Teepo and Rainie caught sight of Suniva flying near the shelf the pixie beds were on.

“Suniva!” Rainie exclaimed and jumped into the air as she shrunk two sizes and became her normal 1 foot height. She ran through the air and stopped beside her friend to give her a hug. “It's been so long!”

“For you.” Suniva chuckled and gave her a quick hug back. “Shanna's right there.”

“Shanna!” Rainie exclaimed and ran over to the shelf and hugged her other friend.

“You look great for being a year older.” Shanna said and Rainie giggled.

“You can't imagine what it was like.” Rainie said and let her go. “If we didn't have Teepo keeping track of the time, we wouldn't even know what time of day it was, let alone how long to stay in there!”

“That sounds scary.” The Wind pixie said.

“I knew what day it was, but I can't keep track of everything like Teepo.” Ren said and pat the beetle on his shoulder.

“Are you all done, My King?” Seldanna asked.

“I'm tempted to say yes, since I have all the things I wanted made for the county ready.” Ren said. “Unfortunately, I have something else I need to do.”

Seldanna nodded. “I assume you came back to gather resources.”

Ren smiled. “You're very astute. We just came from the warehouse.” He said and looked at the pixies. “Like I said before, I know Rainie and Shanna. I think it's time the rest of you introduced yourselves.”

The pixies walked to the edge of the shelf and stood at attention, and the closest pixie put her hand over her heart.

“I am Luparia Winterborne.” The Ice Pixie said. She had sharp features and a cold demeanor.

The next pixie put her hand over her heart. “I am Breeze Cloudytwist.” The Wind pixie said.

“I am Indigo Sparkshard.” The Lightning pixie said, and electrical sparks flickered between her fingers.

The last pixie moved slowly and put her hand over her heart. “I am Isle LeChoufall.”

Ren looked at them all, and he felt their emotions. “Ice, Wind, Lightning, and Dark.” He said and nodded to them. “With Shanna, Rainie and Suniva, Earth, Water and Fire respectively, it's almost a full set.”

“That was our intention.” Luparia said, coldly. “We assumed it would amuse you and put us into your good graces.”

“Luparia!” Indigo said. “Too much information!”

Ren chuckled. “Actually, if Shanna isn't too upset by it, I'd like to take you this time, Miss Winterborne.”

“What?” Luparia and Shanna said at the same time.

“You assumed correctly, but not for the right reason.” Ren said and smiled. “I enjoy meeting new people. Especially brutally honest people.”

The pixies looked at each other, because they knew he was telling the truth, and looked back at Ren.

“Will you accompany me?” Ren asked and held his hand out.

Luparia glanced at Shanna, who shrugged. “Very well.” She said and walked through the air to stand on his hand.

“I'll be back for the others in due course.” Ren said, cast a Portal spell, and Teepo dissolved into the ring. Artemis took Ren's other hand and they stepped through the portal.

“Rainie.” Shanna said. “Can you tell us what you did in there?”

“What didn't I do!” Rainie giggled, and saw their reactions. “No! Not... not that.”

Suniva laughed. “There's no guarantee he'll do the same things with you.” She said, and the other pixies looked at her. “We're tied to different elements, remember?”

“We are.” Rainie said and a thin film of water formed around her. “He knows so much.” She said and the water extended to form a sword and a shield in her hands. A second later, they were solid and stronger than steel, as was the layer of water around her.

“You learned that in a year?” Suniva asked, and Rainie nodded. “Dammit. It took me three.”

Rainie giggled. “Ren told me you might be upset.” She said and took something out of her inventory. “He said to give you this.”

Suniva took the scroll and opened it. She read the contents, then read them again. The other pixies stared at her as she hugged the piece of parchment to her chest and a tear came to her eye. She took a deep breath, the parchment burst into flame and disintegrated, and she exhaled.

“What did it say?” Shanna and Rainie asked together.

“N-nothing... that concerns my friends.” Suniva said and smiled. “Rainie? Did they let you play tag?”

“It was great!” Rainie giggled. “Ren and his friends are so much fun!”

Yes, they are. Suniva thought as Rainie started the first of many stories about the games they played.

Half an hour later, a portal opened up in the same spot across the room, then Ren and Artemis stepped out. Ren summoned Teepo and then carried a bundle of Ice over to the shelf.

“L-Luparia? LUPARIA!” Indigo yelled.

Ren walked up into the air and laid the solid block of ice onto the bed behind where Luparia had stood. Indigo pet the ice block and tears formed in her eyes, then she turned to look at Ren as tiny Lightning bolts sparked out of her shoulders.

“What. Did. You. Do. To. Her.” Indigo ground out through her clenched teeth. Ren kissed his fingertip and touched Indigo's face with it. She gasped and put a hand over the spot he had touched and her Lightning disappeared.

“Luparia said to give you that, and that she wanted you to go next.”

“Wh-what?” Indigo stared at him for a moment, then looked back at the block of ice. “She... she said that?”

“She said, and I quote, 'Help her hold her temper'.” Ren said. “Then she made these odd noises like ice scraping and formed this thing around herself.”

“When?”

“Two months ago.” Ren said.

“Two months!” Indigo glared at him. “Why didn't you bring her back right away?!?”

“She told me not to.” Ren said honestly, and Indigo didn't know what to say. “If you need more convincing, I recorded it.”

“Wh-what?” Indigo said.

Ren took out a tiny box and cast Full Illusion and chose the message Luparia had wanted Indigo to have. Everyone watched the cold plea from the Ice pixie to her good friend, and Ren put the box away.

“I had hoped she might have... well... melted before now.” Ren said. “She's still alive. Suniva, Rainie, Artemis, Teepo, and the succubi can attest to that.”

“I... I don't... want to leave...”

“Maybe she'll be out by the time you get back.” Artemis suggested. “You saw her. She was pretty adamant that you had to be next.”

“How could you tell?” Suniva asked. “She seemed the same cold as always.”

Ren smiled and pet the ice block. “There are many degrees of cold, and she could express more in a glance than most people can in a whole conversation.”

“Th-that's true.” Indigo said and touched Ren's hand on the ice block. “If she said I should go, I will.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and turned his hand over.

“I won't forgive you for putting her through this.” Indigo said. “Or me.”

Ren held her gently to his chest after giving her a pendant. “I won't ever ask you for something I don't deserve.” He cast another Portal spell, and Teepo dissolved into the ring as Artemis followed Ren back inside the Sanctuary.

“What just happened?” Shanna asked.

“You got passed over again.” Suniva smiled, and Rainie giggled.

“That's not what I meant!”

“They know.” Seldanna said and touched the ice block. “Ow.” She said and her fingertip was partially frozen.

“Allow me.” Suniva said and generated some Fire, then used her Fire Manipulation ability to form a ball of Fire around Seldanna's fingertip. After a few moments, Suniva absorbed the Fire and Seldanna's red finger was no longer partially frozen.

“Thank you.” Seldanna said and flexed her fingers. “I wonder why Indigo could touch it without injury?”

“She didn't actually touch it.” Rainie said and held her solid water covered hand up. “She has a Lightning field over her whole body just like this.” She was tempted to keep telling them stories about what she and Ren did for a whole year, but it didn't seem as fun with Luparia stuck in a block of Ice.

Half an hour later, a portal appeared and Ren, Artemis and Indigo stepped out. Ren summoned Teepo and Indigo walked over to the shelf. She looked really angry, then shrunk down to a pixie's normal size and made a fist.

“That's enough!” Indigo said and Lightning formed a ball around her fist. “I figured it out, so stop hiding!”

The ice block didn't react, and she didn't feel any difference in Luparia's emotions.

