[Phantom Cut]. The perfect move for someone who wouldn’t fight in the front ranks and still threaten foes. Tyrion was trying to twist left—when the Dullahan aborted his attack. He pivoted—
He actually managed to block the throwing dagger with the shaft of his halberd. But the force of it still sent him stumbling back.
“Who—”
“[Assassin]! Assas—”
They were blunted, Duln realized. Someone was actually crazy enough to blunt the daggers—but then he realized that didn’t matter.
One hit still cracked ribs or knocked [Soldiers] flat. And Ressa was throwing a dozen with each second. She threw into the clusters of soldiers as General Duln saw a group of [Maids] and a [Butler] with glowing legs throw themselves into the fighting.
Rescuing Tyrion.
“Reinhart is fighting with Veltras! On them!”
“Reynold!”
Magnolia Reinhart shouted. She had ordered her people to save Tyrion. The [Lord] whirled as a man ran past him.
The former [Lieutenant] looked like he was on the battlefield again—and his foes were right in front of him. A [Sword Lieutenant] blocked his furious slash.
“[Perfect Guard]. [Perfect Counterattack].”
[Lieutenant of Perfection], Comois, 4th Army. Edellein’s champion. He almost hit the [Butler]—but Reynold’s glowing, magical legs actually halted his charge and carried him back.
So fast—Duln was stunned as he checked his own mundane cloth armor he had switched out his usual armor for.
“How—those are artificial legs.”
Tyrion looked as surprised by Reynold’s legs as the save. The [Butler] hesitated, and his eyes flickered as the swearing [Lieutenant] advanced.
He heard something—but he had no time to process it as Tyrion and Magnolia’s servants backed out of the fighting.
<Quest: Exception allowed.>
What was—? Then he heard a terrible din from the left, and he saw Pallass’ forces run straight into the Painted Antinium and [Crusaders].
 
——
 
The blood was splattering. An Antinium looked down as a blade cut off their mandibles. Then a dozen slashes made the [Crusader] fall over.
“No killing!”
The Pallassian [Soldiers] halted—but the wounds were deep. And they were going after the Antinium.
This was the perfect moment. The perfect moment to lop off a limb or—one Drake screamed as his blow trying to sever a downed Antinium’s legs turned into a desperate counterstroke.
Pink Stripes. The [Soldier]’s blade slashed off two fingers on the Drake’s axe-hand, and the Drake stumbled back.
“My fingers! My—”
“Get Pink Stripes to safety! Now!”
A voice bellowed, and Antinium seized the Worker who’d lost parts of his mandibles and Pink Stripes, who was bleeding from the gut. They ran him off the field.
Yellow Splatters was shouting as Antinium went down, fighting the Drakes.
“They are bleeding—Pawn! We cannot let this happen!”
He was agonized, watching his people bleed. But Pawn—Pawn was staring at Tyrion.
“Miracles are not working. Tell them to leave if they wish. But there is Manus. And Pallass…”
He looked at the Drakes and Gnolls, and he saw something else. Yellow Splatters just saw his people bleeding, but The Crimson Soldier put a hand on Yellow Splatters’ shoulder. He pointed.
Look.
Pawn whispered.
“That’s how they really feel about us. So remind them—of the consequences.”
He had not been surprised by the attack on Antinium from the two Walled Cities. It still hurt. But the Pallassian attack into the Painted Antinium’s lines?
They had no armor, the Drakes and Gnolls. They couldn’t kill. And—a screaming Gnoll had a chunk torn out of one of his legs as a fallen Worker bit and hung on. Nor did the Antinium seem to fear their wounds.
“[Cure Mundane Wounds].”
Zimrah spoke, and Pawn himself touched Pink Stripes. The [Priest] had a weaker version of Zimrah’s Skill—but it was good enough.
“[Mass Heal Minor Wounds].”
The wounded Soldiers and Workers’ blood stopped dripping onto the grass. Their limbs would not return—but so what?
“We will put gel on this.”
Yellow Splatters assured the [Crusader] who’d lost his mandibles. The Soldier clacked the remaining parts angrily. He wanted to go back and hit the Drakes—but he was out. And Pawn just looked at Yellow Splatters.
“We will level. And limbs will regrow. Trust me. Theirs won’t.”
He looked at the Pallassian soldiers. Many were officers. A Drake was clutching at an axe embedded in the bone. And—
There were so few healing potions.
 
——
 
The [Healers]. The [Healers] were trying to heal the wounds, but the first wounded were screaming.
“Healing potion! Use a healing potion!”
“I—I can’t! Hold this here!”
One was making up a bandage, but one of the Gnolls didn’t seem to know what to do to stem the bleeding. Drassi herself ran over.
“What’s going on? Why aren’t they being healed?”
“With what potions? We can’t afford that—and supplies are limited. This damn tournament—there’s no more healing potions!”
A furious Pallassian Gnoll—Healer Demerra, owner of the crystal healing beds, who’d healed Chaldion himself—was holding a crystal over a slowly-closing wound.
“We need a potion! He’ll die without—he’s belly-cut!”
A Drake was staring at something red half-falling out of a cut in his stomach. Drassi paled—and a healing potion was produced. But the other [Healers] were trying to close wounds, and some had no idea how to do it.
Many of the wounded people were just lying on the grass. There was so much fighting—who was going to run in and risk being cut?
Perhaps a crazy Runner. Someone came out of that melee, holding a young Gnoll clutching at his leg and howling in pain.
“Vok! You fool!”
Someone rushed over. The young Gnoll’s leg was a mess of blood—he’d been fighting when an angry Antinium had bit him. One of the younger [Healers] stared at the leg—but this wasn’t critical enough for a potion.
“Help him! I have to get—”
The Runner was jogging back into the fray when Ryoka Griffin raced over.
“Fals?”
He was the one who’d grabbed Vok. Garia Strongheart—Fals—and, Ryoka realized, Mihaela herself were running into the battlefield and yanking people to safety.
Not just them. Local Runners were doing the same. Following the Guildmistress’ example. They weren’t fighters, but the unknown force wasn’t after them. An exception had been made.
“My leg! My leg—will I walk?”
The mandibles had torn a chunk out of Vok’s leg, right around his calf. He was staring at the torn fur and blood, and Ryoka—didn’t know what to do.
“Tourniquet. Can you stop the bleeding?”
“I—I’m a [Potions Healer]! But—”
Ryoka was fumbling with her own healing potion to give to Vok. But someone snapped as Drassi’s broadcast showed the blood—which was making many viewers queasy and forcing several nations to turn off the images to spare the children and sensitive.
“Don’t waste a potion on that! Give me a look at it—sterilize those goddamn needles! Apply pressure to slow the bleeding!”
What the? Ryoka Griffin twisted, and Healer Demerra lowered her own scrying orb. A furious—Dullahan—was shouting at the [Healers] from the orb.
“Wh-what do we do, Miss?”
“Show me—it’s an artery cut. Use a potion on it. Listen to me, you need to apply three drops. Don’t pour—look, this is how you sew something up. I’ll cut my arm and—”
A Dullahan was snapping orders at the [Healers], giving the ones with no surgical expertise a crash-course in dressing wounds. But that word had made Ryoka stop. Then—she heard more screams, and Fals grabbed her.
“You coming? That [Doctor] told us to grab the wounded! Come on!”
Ryoka looked at him, then ran after him to drag one of the Antinium out. And now—some of the combatants were realizing the Antinium were healing better than the [Healers]. But Zimrah was already getting tired.
And the blood was flowing now, flowing and…
 
——
 
The King of Destruction was among those watching. Curiously, Flos Reimarch had not seemed as—enthused—by this display or as desperate to get to the fighting.
Almost as if he had sensed how it was going to turn out from the start. Contests were one thing. Soccer? Wonderful games or vying to one-up another were excellent diversions.
This was just violence. He sat as the [Duelists] quit commentating. The King of Destruction spoke to Noass briefly.
“Pallass will quit the field. Perhaps not Manus. There are less of them, and they’re guarding themselves well. The Antinium may not—but we will soon see most of the adventurers leave. The Named-ranks are fighting well. Is that the Favor of the North I see?”
Colth, Caleis the Favor of the North, Rasen, and Teithde were fighting a group of four. Four Named-ranks were currently wiping out anyone who got in their way.
Colth had two long daggers and was fighting calmly—not even looking pressed as Rasen and Teithde used a sword and shield combo. Caleis had a flamberge, and the handkerchief-man was cutting a Pallassian [Soldier].
‘Gently’. He only laid open the Drake’s chest and clothing with a shallow cut.
“How do you mean, er—er—King of Destruction?”
Noass was confused, but Flos didn’t bother to elaborate. He just pointed as General Duln, bleeding from a close-encounter with Ressa, grabbed something from his side.
He blew three short horn calls, and the Drakes and Gnolls looked up. They had already been backing away from the Antinium—but now, almost all the Pallassians began flowing off the field, some throwing down their blades.
“It’s not worth it. Tyrion Veltras might wish to quit too. His limbs, at the very least, or eyes, are in danger.”
Flos observed quietly. But the stubborn [Lord] was still there. The King of Destruction was eying the remaining fighters.
“Now—it will be grudges and hatred enough to risk losing your arms. The best will take longer to fall.”
 
——
 
The King of Destruction was right. He didn’t need to be there to understand what was happening.
It was Chaldion who had ordered the retreat. Mirn was sitting next to him, scarcely believing he was next to the famous Grand Strategist, but Chaldion had demanded to speak with him. For a long time, Mirn had not existed to the Cyclops, despite being Saliss’ friend.
Now, the [Grand Strategist] was snapping at a protesting Edellein, who wanted to go back in.
“You fool. Call them out. A limb isn’t worth a level. This was a mistake. Officers out. Keep the [Soldiers] and [Sergeants]. Liscorian tactics.”
He was seeing clearly how costly this festival was. Pallass was quitting the field in droves—but the truth was, they weren’t being contested that hard.
The fighting had been so bloody that everyone had actually slowed. Most common citizens saw someone losing a hand and decided they weren’t willing to do this. But the ones still fighting had no care for that.
Or—they were just too angry to retreat.
“Tell [Lieutenant] Comois to retreat!”
The [Lieutenant of Perfection] was ignoring orders. And 4th Army’s best swordsman had already taken out Dasha and Merrik. Watch Captain Zevara fell over, trailing smoke.
“Zevara!”
She stared down at the tip of a bloody sword as the Drake cut past the remaining [Guards].
“Watch Captain. Yield.”
Comois waited for her to nod before striding on. Merrik was cursing as he pulled Dasha up. She was bloody and dead-white behind her beard.
“Bastard. [Perfect Stab], perfect—”
His head was ringing. He’d lowered his guard to protect her when he saw the [Lieutenant] stab Dasha three times amidst the shoulders. Then gotten a kick and a slash that had cut deep into his shoulders, despite his [Granite’s Armor] Skill.
That Drake was amongst the best here. But the furious advance of Pallass’ [Swordsman] halted as an enraged woman walked towards him.
Pekona, one-armed, lifted her curved wakizashi. She lowered her center of gravity as Comois spat.
“Drathians, now? En garde.”
“[Dance of Wisps].”
Despite her one arm, Pekona had something that Merrik yet lacked. The [Stoneshorn War Leader] glanced sideways and saw Pekona vanish.
Comois ducked the first slice as she appeared, but unlike regular [Fighters]—his sword was coming up for a counter, which missed as she slid down, practically face-first to the ground, and scythed upwards. They separated, and Merrik shouted.
“[Healer]!”
 
——
 
Only someone as furious—or as furious and confident as Comois—was still in the fight. Or—someone with a grudge or without fear of losing limbs.
The Goblins hadn’t entered the fray for the first eleven minutes. They had held on their hill, and ironically, no one had wanted a piece of them.
Who wanted to fight monsters? What would they gain? Rags was staring down into the fighting. She only spoke once.
“Tyrion is there.”
“Now?”
Snapjaw was gnashing her teeth, looking eagerly at Rags. But the Chieftain just shook her head.
“Manus. Wait, wait, wait.”
They waited. They knew a battle when they saw it, and Rags was biding her time. She did not like the Archmage of Memory or the Named-ranks.
Only one Goblin ignored Rags. He had gazed down into the fighting, and he could wait no longer.
“Redscar!”
Snapjaw whispered as the Goblin drew his blades. Thunderfur was howling in the distance, but as the [Chieftain of the Maw] reached for Redscar, Rags lifted a claw.
“Redscar?”
He had two swords in hand. Just like always. They were not enchanted—but the leader of the Redfangs looked back at Rags. If she told him to stay—
She didn’t. Redscar grinned at Rags and nodded to her. She returned his look with grave worry—but he just inhaled the air.
It felt as though something was calling to him. This moment—this place was perfect.
“Garen would have loved it here. I’m going, Chieftain. Redfangs. Guard her.”
He lifted his sword overhead—and then Snapjaw heard a screech. Icecube was roaring so loudly that Jeckel, in Elirr’s shop, began to scream too. But it was accompanied by dozens of wolf-howls.
The Liscorians, the watchers, looked at that Goblin as he raised one blade overhead. And then…Numbtongue saw it.
The [Bard]’s lips moved as Reiss’ ghost looked up—and Pyrite and Shorthilt turned. For they saw another ghost in Redscar’s shadow.
“It should have been like that. All along.”
Reiss whispered in the [Soulbard]’s ear, and Numbtongue nodded. A Chieftain on the hill—and her champion, a warrior of blades. It had not happened the right way the first time.
Now—Redscar began walking down the hill, but each step carried him down. Faster. Faster. As if he couldn’t wait, and his grin was all sharp teeth.
He leapt down as Thunderfur howled, and the first person he met was a famous name. He had been hiding his true power—but the Gnoll who had rode in just in the wake of the Swordsman of Six had been lucky enough to be in the region.
