Zevara was on her feet. She exhaled—and the woman leapt, twisting her torso over the flames. Zeladona landed, and the Watch Captain raised her blade. She jabbed with it, intending to twist and cut it up.
To her surprise, the [Blademistress] seemed—slow. She still moved like quicksilver and slowly unsheathed the katana, deflecting Zevara’s jab along the emerging blade. Zevara tried to cut across Zeladona’s—Erin’s—neck. But the woman just raised the hilt of her sword, catching Zevara’s longsword across the katana.
“—No.”
That was all Zevara heard. A faint hint of disappointment in that voice and those eyes. The two were locked at the blades, but Zeladona’s katana, aimed down, just flicked up.
Fast—but again, she shouldn’t have been visible.
It still cut Zevara, a blade slashing up across one armpit and the bottom of her jaw. She stumbled, fell over—and Jeiss shouted.
“Watch Captain! [Sword Art: The Salamander’s Tail]!”
A swing—Zevara was still sinking to her knees. She would have warned Jeiss—
He was standing in front of his family, who had run after him. Zeladona saw the deadly cut coming. She looked—bored.
She planted a longsword in the grass, and Jeiss’ swing glanced off the blade as she parried his slash with a simple twist of the handle at the perfect moment. Then she drew the sword up and, holding it like a classical longsword specialist, cut down. Jeiss saw the move and went to parry and riposte across her chest.
Zeladona’s sigh was quiet. She drew the longsword across his face, cutting in a ‘z’ before he expected it. And again—
She was moving at his speed. Swinging as fast as Jeiss or Zevara could.
There was still no contest.
“Not you. You should have never wed.”
People ran as she turned from the two downed Drakes. Then, Zevara, clutching at her bloody wounds as Jeiss cried out, saw Zeladona turning to them all.
“You.”
She pointed—and Dame Pertheine lifted her blade.
 
——
 
Two minutes.
Dame Talia had seen Pertheine training with the other heads of the Order of Seasons. She had seen the Spring’s Warden go all-out against Knight-Commander Calirn. Even a secret duel with Voost where the two settled who was the better duelist.
The Spring’s Warden sang with her blade like the greatest [Knight] of her order, a brief song that made even Zeladona smile.
The wind itself called to the Spring’s Warden, whirling down, a cyclone upon the grasses, and she stepped in a dance with the [Blademistress] that carried her across the Floodplains. Each strike, Talia was certain, could have wounded her mortally.
At the end of it, the wind came down in a gale fit to blow down the walls of Liscor, a hurricane of winds upon the [Blademistress].
Zeladona cut the air in half, and the Spring’s Warden knelt as a hundred of Pertheine’s cuts struck air and a single reply slipped past the Dame’s ribs and gently kissed her beating heart.
The [Knight] looked up with blood on her mouth, and the [Blademistress] addressed her.
“You sang too much together. In armor, in pride. Not enough alone.”
Then she swung her sword again, and Talia knew that, in time, the Order of Seasons would replay and replay that match to see exactly what had been done, to see how to step to avoid a blow just so, and see the perfect curve.
But she could not see it right now, through the tears. Spring’s champion lay there, bleeding onto the grass.
 
——
 
—Arc of the Moon].”
A blade through steel. Zeladona looked down at the woman with one good leg, swinging a sword wildly.
She didn’t reply to Yvlon—but her shortsword kept going and swept the top of Yvlon’s metal arm off. She caught the hand—handed it to Yvlon, and walked on.
Shortsword, now. She kept picking up blades. Each one she knew the use of. But she was—inspecting the people here.
She cut through Pallass’ [Soldiers] without a word for any of them. As if searching. She paused twice, once to stare at Chaldion with a look of disappointment as the old [Strategist] stared at her.
“[Path to Victory].”
He was blind. Zeladona moved on. Three [Generals] of Pallass stood against her, and she laughed.
It was as if each encounter took longer for the people involved than…than how fast it was for those watching. She had cut through hundreds already. Then Chaldion realized what it was.
She was walking in between [Immortal Moments]. Was she—using Erin’s Skills?
She had to be. Bevussa dove down, and Onieva leapt over a collapsing General Edellein. This time, Zeladona halted.
“Ah. You—”
What they said to each other, then, Chaldion couldn’t hear. But Zeladona smiled. Onieva tried to dodge as Zeladona leaned over and slashed. Bevussa fell out of the sky, trailing feathers.
Was she murdering them all? Chaldion bent over Edellein—and saw the blade had gone deep in his side. But he wasn’t dead. He looked up—and he saw Zeladona looking about. Searching for something only she could see.
 
——
 
She found it in the Minotaur. He stood with one arm holding an axe. The [Blademistress] let him strike at her, leaning out of the way of each blow.
“You’re afraid for Erin. Holding back.”
Calruz’s arm was shaking. Zeladona looked so amused by the notion of it, though—Calruz barked.
“There’s no artistry in my form. No craft in my strikes.”
Not one-armed. Not with the crushing weight of a battleaxe. He meant that almost as a complaint or—challenge.
For answer, the Stitch-woman tossed aside the rapier she’d picked up. She picked up a battleaxe like his—an exact replica, dripping with frost, from the grass. It looked—heavy—and she swung it up, and the body she wore actually stumbled.
“Minotaur. It is not in the subtlety of every strike. It is knowing and perfection such as that [Lieutenant of Perfection] could not understand with a class alone. Come.”
She walked at him. Shouldering the heavy axe. He hesitated—and saw the death in her gaze. So he heaved his axe up and charged.
They swung their axes at the exact same time. She was as fast as he was, matching his strength for strength.
But somehow—Calruz was the one who went reeling backwards, and he stared at the shattered axe blade as she stood over him.
“Like that.”
Then she brought the axe down.
 
——
 
The Swordsman of Six did not impress her in the same way. She looked at the floating blades and sneered at the five artifacts and the Relic-class greatsword.
“You are a swordsman indeed, no master.”
“I—am an adventurer.”
He roared and drew his greatsword up, dubbed the Fang of Manus. Zeladona drew her shortsword back in an exaggerated motion, behind her back—and the two blades collided. Zeter was braced for the impact. But all he felt was a ringing in his blade—then his greatsword wavered.
She left the steel shortsword halfway through it. As she walked on, he grabbed the long dagger. He swiveled—and she did too, Zevara’s longsword in her hand.
The Swordsman of Six kept rotating and then fell over in the grass. Zeladona lowered the blade and then looked up.
“Why are you crying, girl?”
“I’m unworthy again.”
Pekona lifted her wakizashi, and Zeladona looked at her.
“[Blademasters] are equally unworthy. In life—I would have cut your arm off. I mastered art, not kindness. Show me.”
There was no confidence in the song that came from the [Blade Dancer]. She had seen Toren dance, and he had done it for the sheer joy of it, with talent, and humbled her. She expected Zeladona to end it with a single blow, take another arm, but the [Blademistress] parried each strike roughly, using force to turn Pekona’s slashes.
“Stop—face me in a dance!”
The Drathian woman shouted in outrage as Zeladona fought her like a [Knight], turning blows with brute strength and simple deflection. For answer, the woman raised her sword up and rained down blows on Pekona, breaking her guard, taking away the artifice of it.
“The destination is the same.”
She raised her sword high overhead, angled down around her back, and Pekona saw it. When Zeladona brought it down, the simple Terandrian form looked beautiful again. She buried the blade in Pekona’s shoulder and left it there.
“Try this blade. Try them all. You’ve only ever sung with the melody of home.”
 
——
 
She knew all their capabilities, all their strength. But three times she drew her sword and fought.
The first—was against Ksmvr. He looked at her, shaking, and she laughed.
“Your silver blooms!”
She cut him down with the key-schools of Samal, the paradise. Then she turned.
“And you are the heart of it. What happened to you, great one?”
Klbkch stopped. He spoke haltingly.
“I died. [Recaptured Sublimity]. Shall we?”
Zeladona bared her teeth.
“Show me something even I have never seen before!”
Her leap left a physical arc in the air, a deadly cut that remained for minutes thereafter. At first, she moved so fast she was a glittering blur—and their battle could not be seen. But to them, it looked as though Klbkch had created a world of silver falsity and lured her in—but she fell like a comet, breaking apart his illusions, seeing through the heart of even glittering artifice. He had never met someone like her, and he felt regret in every line of his exchange.
“My body—”
“You fight like you’ve lost it.”
The two locked blades, and Klbkch stared at Zeladona. Her teeth bared—
He leapt, and she thrust a blade up. She stabbed towards the very rising moon, and Klbkch realized something.
I should have—
—adapted after losing it.
He landed, and his swords rang. Rang and rang as he had never heard them, like the chimes of an insect’s shell, so loudly that he feared they might break. Zeladona saluted his blades. He raised his swords, but his Skill burnt out.
A bug with blades now, he lowered his weapons and stepped back. But he remembered it—in the very depths of his soul and began to realize how dull his heart had been without polishing it. Zeladona looked wistful—but in that moment, someone who was merely observing made a sound.
 
——
 
“Oh. Oh!”
Even Valeterisa had been watching, though she had no taste for mere swordsmanship. But the magic Zeladona used with her mastery of the blade was beyond even the Archmage of Izril. Yet it was seeing her and Klbkch fight that crystallized something in Valeterisa’s head.
The Wind Runner’s hints with her magic that had no Skill or level behind it. Seeing Eldavin as he had first come to Wistram—
And now, Valeterisa clapped her hands together as it all made sense.
“Of course! It should also be elegant! It should have always made sense. Numbers that fit, not memorization. But magic must be beautiful. Form matters as much as function. Like the clocks! Without both—”
Her great work looked so ugly, now. But if it must look beautiful—she saw a path open up in her head. And she began to chase it. If intention were the blocks upon which she built to her goal—the route there was like a bridge under silver moonlight, illuminated by art.
Art…as Zeladona would agree, was in everything you could do. She was, like a [Potter] at the kiln or a [Carver] laying hands upon a chisel, someone who refined and worked and endlessly pursued a higher ideal. Klbkch had been a wonderful surprise—if only she had met him when he was in his prime.
Surely, then, after that, the [Blademistress] would beam with delight when she saw the half-Elf waiting for her. Eldavin stood there, and his blade traced the same schools she breathed in every motion.
All she did was frown.
“You—”
 
——
 
Eldavin’s blade slammed into Liscor’s walls. He tried a sword art—but he didn’t have the Skill, and the [Blademistress] who leapt over the walls, changing her trajectory through the air with a wave of her sword, landed.
She completed her thought after forty-five seconds of matching him. And her face was puzzled. Then—hostile.
“You know the song and the words. But you don’t practice. You sing loudly, but you have not earned it. You don’t deserve this.”
“I—”
They met once more, and he tried to roar like a Dragon upon the battlefield. Spread a wing like flame and cut the world with fire.
A dance of swords that descended from the heavens and left nothing in its wake. Like Dragonfire spun into sheer artistry and talent, footwork, blade, and body all moving in a single melody.
He couldn’t. His mind knew the steps—but Zeladona was that thing that Eldavin’s memory had copied. And she—
She burned in that dance of Dragons and left scars on Liscor’s wall, and she demonstrated how it should be. A simple broadsword in her hands turned white with heat, but refused to melt, and a [Smith] screamed, for here was the worthiest wielder of his craft that he had ever found!
His grandfathers would have forged a sword for her.
But not Eldavin. His sword suddenly felt clumsy in his hands as Zeladona finished the dance.
“You did not master this—whomever you are. You are a Skill incarnate. All borrowed power, no form of your own. But even masters elevate Skills. You have earned nothing.”
He tried to deny it with a sweeping step of his blades, tried to copy a tapestry of falling strikes like stars.
Zeladona nailed Eldavin’s shoulder into Liscor’s wall with such force that the sword snapped. The woman turned away.
“Raise that blade in my presence and I will take your head off.”
 
——
 
On and on. Jewel and Pisces fenced her, and she held a rapier, laughing with delight and mocking their failings.
She cut them down.
Possibly, she didn’t know any other way. Possibly—that was Zeladona’s teaching method. Maybe she just wanted to. She believed only in blood. She might have been…a bit of a bastard in life.
Thrice, she fought with light in her eyes, wild and excited, seeing something new, testing their limits—once that excitement turned to frustration and contempt.
But three more times she bowed.
Once, to the thing no one saw, thin air—and bowed deeply.
“Master, will you not fight with me? Even if you will not dance this day away? To you—I could give you what is so richly deserved. Perhaps. Will you not dare it and try?”
She was excited, then, and the [Blademistress] looked almost as if she might weep when—apparently—the answer was no. As if a challenge had been denied her.
Perhaps she was a marionette, dancing to someone else’s tune—but if so, one that didn’t mind the strings so long as she was allowed to dance once more.
The second time, a look of great confusion passed over her face. She halted—and a Goblin holding two swords, one red and famous, looked at her.
“A monster sings? Hah! I thought your ilk long dead.”
So said Zeladona. For when she had lived—his kind had only been legends, hunted. She looked down mockingly at him, and the Goblin lifted his head.
