Rafaema glanced at Ferris and hesitated. She had doubted him yesterday, but she was inclined to listen to him this time. Aldonss just shrugged calmly.
“Pallass won’t come for us until the end. The strategy is sound, Ferris.”
They were obviously going to team-up. Chaldion was a bastard, but he knew the score. Ferris just shook his head. Lulv was turning his head to snarl something at the [Infiltrator] when someone ran over to them on all fours.
It was a little white Gnoll. She came to a halt as the isolated group of Manus’ soldiers, near one of Liscor’s walls, turned. Some raised their weapons—not because of Mrsha—but because of the ominous Gireulashia trotting after her friend.
“Blades down. This place isn’t safe, little girl.”
Lulv smiled at Mrsha. She looked at him. Rafaema was focused on Mrsha—this was the girl from the scrying orb! The girl from the Meeting of Tribes. Ferris just hid behind Rafaema.
Mrsha du Marquin had been throwing things at Tyrion. But she really had no words to express her anger. She knew Manus. She knew what they’d done to Olesm’s forces and the Antinium.
For once, the little Gnoll girl played no games. She got into no trouble by trying to death-spice with Calescent’s mix. She just handed a card over to Lulv, who unfolded it and read it—then stared at Mrsha as she backed up. The little Gnoll trotted down the hill, up another, and sat down on her butt with the spectators and stared at the Manus soldiers.
This is what Mrsha wrote:
 
I am going to curse you with all the bad luck in the world.
 
The Doombearer was staring down Lulv as he hesitated. Aldonss just sighed.
“Shame we don’t have a [Sniper] or an agent in the crowd.”
Rafaema looked at him. The Wall Lord clarified after a moment.
“Joke. I doubt she can do anything.”
His confidence lasted about eight seconds. Then—every head turned to the inn. It was obviously through there that a lot of guests were coming, via the portal door. Rafaema had been tagging a few interesting ones like that [Pirate], but everyone turned as someone came through that made even the scrying orbs focus on her.
“Is that—a Troll?”
Aldonss’ head swung around, and he instantly focused on the figure.
“Half-Troll. Riverfarm. She—is going to be tough to take down with unenchanted blades.”
Durene and a group of Humans from Riverfarm paused on the hill, looked around—then stared at Symphony and Manus. Rafaema’s scales tingled.
A lot of people were coming here she hadn’t expected. Maybe Ferris was right. Maybe—
“Does anyone have anything to bribe that kid with? Some gold? Ferris, what do you bribe children with? Candy? Buy her a bag of sweets—”
Then she felt a prickle, and her confidence in having Zeter on her side waned. For someone walked out to join the other adventurers.
Colth, the Ultimate Supporter, and the Favor of the North, Caleis, both stepped down the hill. As did the famous duo, Rasen and Teithde. Named-ranks.
Four Named-ranks. They lined up, and Lulv swore under his breath.
“You’re going to see if that sword training paid off today, Rafaema.”
His confidence was still there—because some of the people he would have been truly leery of facing in battle couldn’t participate.
No Xrn. No Valeterisa. No Grimalkin, even. Even a hundred angry Antinium weren’t that dangerous to someone of his level.
Indeed, you could say even Erin Solstice herself expected this tournament to be bigger than it turned out to be. One day.
One day meant that Earl Altestiel was screaming at the scrying orb in much the same way as Niers Astoragon. Foliana, Tulm the Mithril, Xol, the Thousand Lances of Kaaz, even Fetohep of Khelt had asked if she could delay her <Quest>.
Raelt was certainly unhappy—even though they’d given him a commentator role. It was, after all, up to chance. Lulv had his counters like Relc, who was waving at the other [Spearmaster], so the battle could go down to odd individuals.
Like…Ysara or her brother, Ylawes, or even Infinitypear and Rasktooth, who were waving weapons around happily. If a lower-level warrior got lucky, they could take out a strong fighter, right?
Believe in the fairness of tournaments. The dark horse betting was through the roof. Believe—until the air began to split. Until Xrn herself flew above the [Crusaders]—and Valeterisa looked up.
“Oh. He’s here. Wonderful, I had questions about teleportation.”
Then—Ryoka Griffin froze as she jogged towards the inn. She turned her head, and a chill ran down her back. She stumbled, eyes wide, and Erin Solstice sat up in her bed as Drassi and Ishkr helped her into her wheelchair.
“Who is—”
The Archmage of Memory appeared in the sky with an explosion of color. Like a bursting constellation of stars. He stood on a platform of light as Rafaema stared at Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl hesitated—and then decided she’d done her job.
Eldavin descended, glancing at Ryoka Griffin, Magnolia Reinhart, and then around as his company, two men and one woman, somewhat unsteadily touched ground.
“Ah, good. We don’t appear to be late. Courtesy of Wistram.”
His voice boomed, and everyone focused on the three people Eldavin had brought. Personal friends, really. Betokening…the fact that the Archmage of Memory could do what he wanted.
Ser Greysten, Archmage Viltach, holding a blade and trying not to puke, and the Spring’s Warden, Dame Pertheine, looked around, wide-eyed.
Naturally, Eldavin would return them whence they’d come, though he had admitted it would be slower and require multiple ‘hops’. He would have loved to pull the King of Duels and someone like the Herald of the Forests, but just getting here had required half the Council of Wistram to link up.
And he could have taken Cortese, or one of the Thousand Lances, instead of the two Order of Seasons champions and Viltach. But Eldavin and the Order of Seasons were allies from the war.
Plus…the Archmage of Memory had a crystal sword he was calmly practicing sword forms with. Sword forms that made a certain Unicorn eating from a bucket of popcorn look up sharply.
Eldavin intended to win this himself.
 
——
 
The Archmage of Memory’s appearance pushed a lot of contestants out—and some in. Lyonette had been debating entering despite the risk to her limbs. She backed out.
So did Noass and Sir Relz. In fact, most people were concerned for the injuries they might obtain.
“No killing means you can still be bleeding out when they haul you off the field. And a lost hand—no one has Potions of Regeneration anymore. Well—maybe the Archmage of Memory. Ysara, you must be mad.”
Qwera was arguing with Ysara. Not even Vetn, an acclaimed expert [Thief]—even if he refused to fight—had even given the fight a thought.
But then—he was checking on Tesy. The Drake was lying in the [Garden of Sanctuary], looking half-dead from his travails. The Gnoll had forbidden him from leaving.
“Tesy? You good?”
“I’m dead. Go away, Vetn.”
That was all the Drake said. He was limp like a rag, and his white scales looked sickly. Vetn prodded him with the cold plate and the hamburger. Then he stood up.
“Tesy won’t eat.”
Qwera was rubbing a paw in her gold fur, which could use a touch-up. She shook her head.
“Let him. He knows how serious what he did was. That little idiot…he can’t stay there forever. But as long as he’s in danger of being knifed—”
The two were leaving the [Garden of Sanctuary], but when she heard this, Ysara Byres folded her arms.
“I agreed with not killing him, but there has to be some consequences for what he did, Qwera.”
“There will be. I’ll hit him.”
The Golden Gnoll saw Ysara’s offended expression. She snapped in exasperation.
“Dead gods, Ysara. He nearly died! His life is in danger—possibly for as long as he lives. Drop it.”
The [Lady] hesitated, but someone else coughed. Vetn jumped—and Erin Solstice rolled out of her rooms in a wheelchair. Ishkr was pushing her and swiveled the chair around to face the wall as the door opened again, revealing the common room of the inn.
“I’ll figure out something too. No one kills Tesy. He’s gotta pay—but drop it. Alright. Alright, let’s see what this stupid day has to bring.”
“Erin! Erin, someone’s—he shouldn’t be—it’s Eldavin!”
Someone rushed towards Erin the moment she wheeled through the common room. Ryoka was dead white, and Erin saw a look of true fear in Ryoka’s eyes.
“I thought you cut off his head.”
“Don’t—don’t joke. I didn’t tell you what’s wrong with—”
Then Ryoka noticed the others and shut her mouth so fast Vetn felt his ears try to detach from his head and follow the Wind Runner. Ryoka grabbed Erin’s wheelchair.
“We need to talk. Excuse me—”
She wheeled Erin left as Ishkr nodded to Erin.
“I’ll deal with the inn. But you have a hundred people who want to see you, Miss Erin. And I can’t hold them back forever.”
“Five minutes, Ishkr.”
The two vanished to the side, and Vetn headed into the common room.
“Going to cheer on Ysara as she loses an arm and turns into her younger sister?”
Ysara ignored Qwera’s pointed comment as the woman stalked towards the door. Vetn just stared blankly outside then went to sit down at the inn’s bar.
“I hate blood. This is all stupid.”
He had, legitimately, no desire to watch people cutting each other up. Qwera raised her brows, but she knew Vetn was genuine. Even during the Meeting of Tribes, he had shed not a drop of blood. She walked off, and Vetn looked at Ishkr.
“Can I get a glass of Rxlvn?”
“No—but I’ll sell you one-tenth and an ale.”
“Fine.”
The [Head Waiter] went for the keg on tap marked with a huge ant’s head on the side and warnings on the black barrel. He pulled the stopper—held a mug under it, and hesitated.
“…Hm. That’s strange. Did Rufelt sell more than I thought?”
He investigated the keg, and Vetn called out.
“Just give me a Firebreath, then.”
Obligingly, Ishkr did just that—and found two empty bottles. He stared under the bar, and then his head rose.
“Excuse me. Did anyone see—Joseph here a few minutes ago?”
The inn’s staff looked at each other, and no one had seen a thing. Ishkr cursed under his breath.
“Hold on, I’ll just order replacements and bother Rufelt. They’re catering the show in their bar, anyways. Can I get you…beer?”
That was one of the things definitely untouched by the mysterious pilferer. Vetn accepted it sourly and heard a few people arguing behind him.
“Peki. You don’t use a sword. Gluing a razor blade to your fist is against the spirit of the tournament.”
“But I can participate. I’ve fought masters of weapons before. There was a [Peerless Spearmaster] in Pomle. I’m doing it.”
“No, you’re not. And neither is Wil!”
Merrik was trying to block the two students from leaving the inn. Wil looked unhappy.
“It’s the chance of a lifetime, Merrik…”
“And with respect, since you can’t use the Diamond Shortsword, you will get cut up, Wil. I’ll dare it, and I bet Dawil and Elgrinna will, but you’re not good enough. The Professor tells us to face facts—that’s a fact.”
Wil hung his head. He stared out the window.
“Ser Greysten is out there. I feel like a fool. Listen—I won’t go and participate, but at least let me ask how Talia is doing! This is unbelievable. If the Archmage of Memory can teleport across continents…”
“Fine. And take notes! Peki, I need you to promise on your feathers not to go out.”
The [Martial Artist] was in great danger. Not just because she wanted to go hand-to-hand against so many sword-experts, but because she was too good. Merrik suspected that a lot of blood might run, but every [Healer] was present.
—But the only way to stop someone of Peki’s level was to literally lop off an arm. The Garuda glowered as she peered over the Dwarf’s shoulder. Venaz was already outside with a mundane greatsword being forged by Pelt.
“If I swear on my feathers, you’ll let me go?”
“Absolutely.”
The Garuda brightened up. Merrik clarified.
“—if you break your promise, we will pluck every feather off your body. Wingfeathers included. Swear to the grandfathers. I know that’ll take months to grow back.”
That made the [Martial Artist] hesitate. She wavered as someone slid into a seat next to Vetn at the empty bar.
“Hey there.”
The Gnoll turned his head and saw a young woman resting a crystal hand on the bar’s counter. She looked—well, not innocuous. She had a low-cut dress, and she looked like some kind of socialite.
But he recognized the face paint and the padding that gave her a distinctly different look than her real face, and he suspected she had contacts on. The wig was definitely fake.
She smelled of perfume too, something cloying, to hide her scent. Pretty good. He gave her breasts an obligatory, polite stare. She’d definitely done a lot to draw the eyes that way. Lady Ieka Imarris was still staring.
As for the crystal hand…Vetn raised his brows. He stared at the other [Thief] as she smiled at him.
“I saw your work in the city yesterday. I haven’t seen hands that fast in a while. You…seem talented.”
Her voice was suggestive. Low, husky, and intriguing. Vetn took a sip from his cup as Ishkr slid another at the young woman.
“You look pretty good with your hands too.”
“Hands and feet. But yes, mostly my hands. You should see what I can do in private.”
She winked—and he caught her non-crystal hand as it snuck towards his belt pouch. She was fast! But Vetn just raised his brows.
“Sounds exciting.”
“I wish I could have pulled that off. You are good. I bet I know your name.”
Ruefully, she pulled her hand back, and Vetn sighed. He was pretty sure all this should have had him unable to stand up without embarrassing himself. The coy tone, the looks—
The other [Thief] might have noticed she wasn’t getting the response she looked for, so she leaned over.
“What say we have a more intimate discussion—elsewhere? I’m sorry for being so forwards, but this is a good moment. I need someone with your talents. You remind me of my father, you know.”
Vetn nearly spat his drink across the bar. He coughed and laughed.
“That’s how you start? Seriously?”
He saw the young woman’s face turn red. She caught herself, trying to play it off.
“I just meant—nevermind. Listen. I have something I’ve been working on, but I might need a hand. And you’re the best [Thief] in the city right now. And—you’re in a bind. Your friend, the [Painter]?”
Vetn instantly felt his hair rise, and he began to stand, but the young woman called out.
“Don’t play it off. Everyone knows. He’s a dead Drake walking. You want to help him? Paying off his debts might be a good way.”
The Thief of Clouds had thought the same thing, but he jerked around in his seat, scowling.
