—Yet it stopped. Someone caught the sword, and the force of it ground boots deep into mud. It drove one foot down into the soil, nearly a foot deep, and Zeter—
Zeter had only seen someone do that twice before. The Swordsman of Six halted. Colth couldn’t do that, wounded as he was. Zeter slashed with his sword, and for the second time—someone parried the blade.
Who…?
Then Wailant saw his savior who had interceded to save his friend’s life. His…new friend’s life.
The [Farmer] had a wide-brimmed, black hat on his head, and his clothing was black as his family stood on their feet. But Zeter was watching him as warily as Colth.
Himilt held a plain longsword as he covered Numbtongue dragging Wailant up. Then there were six of them, backing away.
“Leave us, Swordsman of Six.”
“I’ll remember this, Zeter. And Teithde’s arm! I am no Deniusth. We will settle this.”
Colth called out, and Zeter hesitated. He was certainly seeing the murder in Colth’s eyes—but he was counting the six fighters. And—
He looked at Himilt, and though he could not know—
The Vampire stood there, like a scarecrow under moonlight. The sun was setting, and the grey skies were turning darker. Darker…his red eyes shone in this field of blood.
He made Zeter hesitate—then Wailant felt Himilt’s other hand on his shoulder.
“Come. This is madness.”
“My friend—my friends—I’m not gonna forget this.”
That was all the [Pirate] said as Numbtongue and Himilt dragged him off the field. What insanity. Zeter was running now, to save Pallass. Wailant had seen those poor Antinium getting minced.
But what the Slayer was doing—
This was war. This was why he’d quit the sea. It was never a cup of blood for a cup. It became—
Oceans.
 
——
 
The Slayer was refusing to let Pallass’ [Soldiers] leave. He had cornered them, preventing them from reaching the [Generals] and other officers trying to rejoin the tournament. And he was cutting off—limbs.
There was no pity or hesitation as he swung his blades. Nor could anyone who had exited the tournament already rejoin it.
If this tournament were honorless—the Slayer was earning the abhorrence of countless nations. And the understanding of some. One thing to see him ignore his people suffering.
Understandable to see what he did in vengeance. The King of Destruction understood. But Pallass was watching their soldiers being maimed.
And it was too much for some. A cry broke through the sky, and Merrik looked up.
“Peki! No!”
He bellowed as a figure descended, someone who had not entered this senseless bloodbath before. He shouted at the falling Garuda until he realized—
Her feathers were spring green, not a mix of purple and green. 
Bevussa Slenderscale, the Captain of the Wings of Pallass, dove at Klbkch. The Slayer lifted his blades as she dropped with a shortsword into battle.
He whirled his swords up, and they flashed like mirrors. When Merrik could see next—he stared.
Because Bevussa wasn’t limbless. She darted left, shaking blood off her feathered arm. Then she shouted at the [Soldiers].
“Run! I’ll cover you!”
Again, she dropped as the Slayer turned on the Pallassians. And—it looked like she tumbled as she came down. A sweeping blade meeting two silver flashes.
She was good with the blade. So good she merely lost blood and feathers rather than limbs. Had he known that about her?
Merrik didn’t know. Only that Pallass was cheering Bevussa, and as if reminded she was not his true enemy, Klbkch just turned and sprinted after the last [Soldiers]. His blades swept low for their legs, and he deflected another lunge from Bevussa.
“Enough.”
Someone parried the blade. Parried it so hard Klbkch nearly swung into Zeter. The Swordsman of Six ducked a cut—and someone stabbed him too.
Klbkch’s blades whirled. He slashed at the Swordsman of Six, who tried to shout this was his rematch—but a blade nearly hit Klbkch. The Antinium leaned out of the way. Bevussa halted, staring at the last figure.
Who would fight for Pallass? Zeter was taking attacks from one side as he swore at the newcomer.
“We’re on the same side—”
A slash cut off his neck-spines at the tips. Then a clawed hand pointed at Bevussa, and the Garuda leapt back. She turned—and the two swordswomen held their ground as Klbkch tilted his head. Bevussa—vaguely—knew the stranger, but just like no one had known how good she was with a blade—
She had no idea Chaldion’s grandniece was this talented.
 
——
 
“What is he doing?”
“She. It’s she.”
Mirn’s voice was the only thing that Chaldion heard. He was on his feet. In horror. Mortal, mortal horror.
Losing members of his army? Classes changed. Losses happened. It hurt—but it wasn’t personal. Losing Zeter would be a disaster, or Lulv.
This, though—he just looked across the field as Pallass went silent. Someone was covering the last of the soldiers, sword pointed up, holding it at the ready like the master she was. Zeter was confused—because of course, he felt like he was facing a Named-rank.
Because in a sense—in a very real sense—he was. Though she was no warrior with that class—
Onieva was an [Alchemist] of that level. And she stood with blade in hand.
Chaldion’s heir. But Saliss would never have done this. Chaldion still didn’t understand. Because he still thought it was Saliss.
But Mirn knew, and he was trying not to weep with fear, with exultation.
Onieva and Bevussa were fighting side-by-side, and Pallass was watching a swordmaster in their ranks. The feckless, layabout cousin of the famous Saliss of Lights and grandniece of Chaldion—
Could never, would never hide behind anonymity again. Onieva lifted her sword, and Pallass cheered her as she smiled, light flashing off pink and blue scales.
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras was amazed he had survived this long. He was counting them, now, and realized how many of them…
Sung.
That was how he had heard it described, once, by one of his aunts who had been gifted with the blade. Everyone could say the words with the right music—especially in a choir.
But some sang louder, more beautifully than others. It didn’t matter—a loud enough voice would drown out the most elegant yet soft voice, especially one weakened by age, sickness, or injury.
But who was that half-Elf? Eldavin?
Eldavin, peerless above all. Some made sense. Tyrion had faced the Spring’s Warden, and he knew her acclaim with a blade would have matched him if he had his levels. Zeter, likewise. The Maestro was a Gold-bell duelist.
But—that Drake with pink and blue scales had arguably more talent, more practice and acumen from battle than the Gold-rank Garuda. It—showed.
Spearmaster Lulv was limping now. But he stood as a Drake gently carried his daughter away. The Gecko turned his head—and Lulv tensed, but Relc brought his daughter to a [Healer]. And Lulv—
Lulv hesitated and felt at the two holes, one in his arm, one in his leg. Both so deep he knew a potion was needed or he would lose both limbs. He looked at the battlefield—and had to drag himself away.
Klbkch the Slayer. The Goblin with the two blades that had tried to attack him—Redscar?
He was stepping away as Ser Greysten checked his open wounds and had to withdraw or bleed out. The Summer’s Champion was red with blood, and he sang well. As well as any warrior.
A one-armed [Sword Dancer]…the [Necromancer], Pisces, and the Maestro.
The Maestro had been safeguarding his Symphony. He had personally forced many of Symphony to leave when he saw how bloody this was. He was still—dueling. Dueling Pisces.
Gently, though. His and Pisces’ rapiers clashed as they seemed to stride down the field. The two fought without tricks or teaming up on each other.
Beautifully. The Maestro didn’t try to kill Pisces—and when he placed his blade at the [Necromancer]’s throat—he didn’t force the young man to quit or wound him to do so.
“Keep practicing, young man.”
That was all Maestro Linvios said. Pisces looked at him, covered in sweat, and the Maestro put up his blade.
It was almost as if the rage against him had been eclipsed by the deeds performed by other people on the field. He had killed no one. Maimed no one.
He was still trying to conduct himself with dignity that was not always returned to him. He didn’t belong in this festival of blades, dedicated to Zeladona and sullied by red. 
Tyrion Veltras saw it all. Then someone spoke, and he felt the crackle in her words.
“Look at this. Look at this. You—you are emblematic of what haunts us. War without end. You did not have to attack, again and again. Here you stand in Liscor. Do you have no shame?”
Tyrion looked about, and there stood someone else who sang oddly. With such practice and strength—but oddly, as if she had never seen battle. Old and young. Dangerous and not.
Rafaema of Manus held her longsword low, aimed up, two hands clasped on the sword, a traditional en garde pose. Tyrion lifted his sword, holding it wide of his shield covering his chest. He spoke through the burning in his lungs.
“…Who are you?”
Her eyes went wide with fury. She slashed—and he pivoted left and cut her hard across the shoulder. She cried out, and somewhere, her people cried out with the wound—but it was shallow.
Hard. An ironflesh Skill? She was—fast. She came at him like lightning, and they tangled—but she tired faster.
A loud, sharp song like flashes of lightning. She blew chunks out of the grass with thunder, and then he found a Goblin at his back. Tyrion stabbed Snapjaw in the stomach, and Rafaema looked up. She opened her mouth to roast Redscar, a monster—and Pisces ran his rapier through her leg. He looked up as Zeter and Onieva crashed into the battle, and then there was Klbkch, Bevussa, Pekona, a woman with a rapier, shaking and standing to the side—
An ending of things.
 
——
 
Taletevirion watched Eldavin do what the Dragonlord of Flame was so regretfully good at. Why he hid so long—and why his simulacrum should not have been allowed to live.
He destroyed. 
Five of Symphony’s best including the Maestro had stayed to fight. Eldavin ran into them, and three fell, missing a hand, a foot, an arm up to the elbow—
“Bastard.”
That was all he said. The Floodplains were turning into another Bloodfields. He could sense the grass drinking it all in. If this happened a hundred times, a thousand—
Even without death, this was too much. And Eldavin was too good. He was after the First Flute now, and the Maestro struck at him, so furiously even Eldavin had to back up, sword deflecting strikes of that long estoc the Drake used.
But he was too good. Even a Gold-rank duelist—fell back, cut across the wrist. But not deeply enough to sever bones. The [Healers] would have to labor to save that arm if a potion wasn’t used. There were so many wounded—and Zimrah was passing out, the power of the few [Priests] all but gone.
And he had no morality.
Eldavin, that was. Taletevirion knew that the half-Elf probably considered himself moral—but it was a man’s mortality with no wisdom of age behind it. Look how he treated [Assassins] instead of his other foes, slashing off limbs as if they were lesser by virtue of their class.
And that Swordsman of Six had none. He was still trying to lop off limbs—this time the [Lord]’s.
Tyrion Veltras had finally run up against his match. He knew what to do, tried to pivot, parry, and overwhelm Zeter’s defenses, strike one solid blow against the six Zeter could—
But he was unable to. In Taletevirion’s eyes, the [Lord] held a blade of a spruce sapling’s branches instead of steel. He touched Zeter’s spinning wall of Skills, and though the [Lord] was the better—
The Skills were walls of stone that Tyrion could not reach over. Zeter’s sheer strength tossed the [Lord] back, and he raised his claws in triumph, holding down his foes all by himself.
Even Klbkch couldn’t touch him easily. But the Antinium sang even more beautifully than Tyrion. Like a wounded voice regaining itself. When Zeter faced the Slayer, his Skills cleaved the earth and sent showers of dirt fountaining up.
He was sinking into silver mists. Lashing about as the insect danced like a waterbug in a pond of illusions. Almost—the Swordsman of Six took a blow that cut him down one arm, but his Skills protected him. Handicapped and shielded by them, like a babe in heavy swaddling cloth. If the Slayer had the same levels, this would be over already.
If you had ever studied the sword or seen a master train long enough, you would have understood more than anyone else who the most graceful on the field was. Ressa’s own sword fell behind even Tyrion’s, but she was a fighter, throwing daggers and bladed chains, distracting Zeter.
If only Magnolia could have reveled in it like the Goblin, Redscar, who came at Zeter without fear and forced the Swordsman of Six to take him seriously. But she only saw her dear friend fighting as blood ran down her arms.
She had never wanted to see this again—and here the [Lady] stood, almost in the same place as when she had led an army across the Floodplains to face the Antinium.
A girl of sixteen, at the head of the Five Families, waving a sword and believing this was glorious. Magnolia tasted the bile of it. She saw the fallen Antinium and other species—and she had seen it too many times.
“What purpose is there to this?”
She looked about—and saw the one great master of blades who had not entered the battle. Even a Dragon’s pride had brought Eldavin into the fray. But one immortal of them all remembered there was more to majesty than the tip of a sword.
Taletevirion had long stopped drinking, but he was still hidden, and the Wind Runner was trying to close wounds with the [Healers], drag people away. So he was surprised when someone spoke to him.
“Taletevirion. Will you speak to me a moment?”
He jumped—and a [Lady] in pink stood there.
“Magnolia.”
Her [Maid], Ressa, was still trying to save Tyrion. A dedicated servant. All the others, from the Silver-bell [Maid] to Reynold, were out. Only the best remained.
Only…Taletevirion thought that the young [Necromancer], Pisces, shouldn’t be amongst the finalists. Ksmvr and Pekona fought with him, and as a team, and they all had talent, but without his magic, he was weakest of the three. The Maestro, ironically, had covered for Pisces by dueling him so long.
“It has been a long time since we talked.”
“If you want small talk—get lost. I’m not in the mood.”
The Unicorn, master of battles from the Vale Forest, looked bleakly at this bloody sight. He had fought his own kin and others—but this was a disgrace. Though he understood how it had come to this.
Magnolia’s fingers were clasped together tightly, but she spoke, her voice kept airy.
