Redscar exhaled as sweat chilled across his body. But what he said to that eternal refrain was this:
“You people always try. Again and again—fight me, great warrior.”
A great sneer came over Zeladona’s face. She was offended—until the Goblin lifted his blades. Then she looked at him as he came off the ground.
Like a great bird from a people she had never dreamed of, stepping carefully, spreading two wings of red feathers.
She had seen better. She had seen faster. Zeladona struck him with steel once, with impatience, and the heron flinched not at all. He struck back, and with such pride—
He sang a song he had taught himself, an echo of the Chieftain he had served. It ran in his bones and his blood. It sounded—
Beautiful.
Zeladona was no longer mocking, then, as Redscar knelt. Not because he had been bested—but because he could no longer move. And he cursed his body for betraying him.
A look of concern crossed over the [Blademistress]’ face. She touched her heart—as if the body she possessed were in pain—and then at her eyes, as if searching for scales fallen from them.
“No. He sings. And a purer song than…”
Her eyes swung over Zeter, over Eldavin, and the warriors she had left in her path. Zeladona stood over Redscar, in confusion, and a sudden understanding swept over her face.
—Then she bowed her head.
“Had I been alive to realize this truth—I had never faced a Goblin in my years. No wonder your kind refused to die. Stand, one last time, warrior. And show me how you would die.”
In that moment—perhaps—she did Erin Solstice a greater favor than all this carnage and misery. Her words forced the Goblin to his feet by willpower alone, and she saluted him.
A great bird spread his wings upon the Floodplains, a fledgling yet growing. But he—he might fly one day.
Zeladona walked on, letting him collapse in her wake. And she looked for them, strange beasts and exotic creatures. Real beings amid a world of fakery and Skills. Had they but lived—the [Champion of War], Salui, and the [Sword Legend] trapped in a Revenant’s body would have wept with joy to meet someone like her. Just as she had wept to see Sprigaena. But on Zeladona searched, for seeds and creatures she knew. She found few.
 
——
 
Not a [Paragon]. Not a Watch Captain or all but one [General]. Not in the [Spearmasters] three—for they were either complacent, finished with ambition, or already searching. Zeladona was looking for something, and when she touched it in them, she kissed them with steel and gave them her blessing.
Ressa stood next to Lord Tyrion Veltras and the people of the north. First went Colth, and she smiled like him—two demons lashing each other with blades until he fell again.
“Sinister warrior, you had a fine teacher. Keep practicing. Come now, girl of shadows.”
Ressa went next, with Reynold, and she felt a hint of remorse. For Zeladona looked so regretful as she knocked Ressa’s hand down and caught the dagger.
“You could have walked this road. And you didn’t. What a waste.”
“Sometimes—you want to help someone more than yourself.”
The tip of the sword was running up through Ressa’s chin, tickling the bottom of her tongue. Zeladona withdrew the dagger and flicked it aside.
“Then I have nothing to say. Because I was always alone. And the sword was all I ever wanted. Come, child of Trolls. Show me courage. You last of all, lord of the woods.”
She and Durene locked blades for a moment, and all the strength of the hills couldn’t move Zeladona’s arm as she let Durene have one blow against a raised greatsword—then answered in kind. When she turned, Lord Tyrion Veltras looked the second ghost he had met in the eyes and nodded.
He lifted his sword, and his shield too. Confused—no, earnestly. And Zeladona bent down and picked up a shield.
“Oh, stranger. Oh, man trapped in a boy’s body. Oh, child—have you never seen art with sword and shield?”
“I’ve seen it with a lance—but never sword and shield. Show me. Please.”
So she struck her shield with the sword’s hilt, and then she raised the shield overhead as he brought down a sword with all his might. Ylawes Byres, Ysara, and Tyrion Veltras rained down blows against a wall of steel higher than the Walled Cities, thicker than Facestealer’s bones—and as light as a feather.
Ere she cut them down, she showed them it didn’t matter. Shield—sword—spear—knives or greatsword. There was art of it, buried at the bottom of each. But she did cut them down. As the [Lord] of House Veltras raised his shield, she pressed a blade through it, through his arm, and watched him finally lay down.
Just as promised. Only at the end, as the woman looked around and saw no more foes to behold, did she seem to wake up from a dream.
“Ah. Is that it? Is that it? So short—so sweet!”
She held a hand up.
“I would give anything for…but I owe her my death. Alas, I see it now. And I am done.”
She blinked a few times. Passed a hand over her head and staggered, then looked down ruefully.
“So this is what a body of flesh is like? I was so afraid it might come apart at the seams—even more than cloth!”
The woman was standing on Tyrion’s back. She glanced down.
“Stranger, you have longer than I. Damn you. I give you nothing but—”
She spat on his head.
“—envy. Cherish your years. Would I another decade even in age! I envy half-Elves! I wish I had sat at the feet of her, the origin of this all, and worshiped her and begged her to learn!”
She almost cried, staring at the image of an Elf only she could see. Now—Zeladona’s presence was wavering, and she was coming more to herself. But even she could sense she was—
“What happened then? Names…places…who called me here? Erin…I should repay her. Has she any enemies? You—tell me whom this girl hates, and I will kill them.”
She looked around, pointed at Drassi, and the [Reporter] and [Camera Gnoll] stared at her, frozen. Frustrated now and looking almost panicked, Zeladona whirled around.
“Beautiful land. For a meal—what year is this? Who are you? Who are you?”
She stared at Selys, then Tyrion, as if she had never thought to ask. Zeladona was growing—erratic. But as her head cleaved left and right and Drassi realized she might be in more danger right now—Zeladona froze.
She turned to the last person and appeared. She kicked the ground, and it was like teleportation—that was how fast she moved. What could she do in this time? Chaldion was calling out.
“You need to kill—to kill—”
He was trying to stride over to her, but one look at his face and a dozen hands, paws, and claws held him back. Everyone in earshot stopped the Drake. Chaldion fought with them.
It didn’t matter. Zeladona was reaching out to someone, entreating.
“Show it to me. Please? I shan’t hurt you.”
She was, of course, talking to Ryoka Griffin. It was always Ryoka Griffin—but Zeladona barely looked at the Courier. She was staring at…
The Windsword. The famous Kaalblade that Ryoka Griffin had been gifted by Lord Deilan El. When Zeladona saw it spring to life, she cut it in half—saw the light fade, and tears sprang to her eyes.
Ryoka could not make it work for her in that short time, but the [Blademistress] bowed then. She bowed over the blade and gazed at it so wonderingly.
“Another hundred years. There is no school for this! No—there is, there surely is! Wars fought I daren’t dream of! Mysteries left…if only. Damn you!”
She rose and shouted at the sky.
“Damn you! But enough. If only I had—”
She uttered the eternal refrain of ghosts and then raised her hand. A great calm passed over her, and the air hushed. Zeladona cut nothing more. She just stood there, weary, and nodded.
“Yes. Yes. Here you are, Miss. Catch her, ere I go.”
Zeladona stepped closer to Ryoka Griffin, and the Wind Runner lifted two shaking hands. But the [Blademistress of Ancients] seemed to be counting something, nodding along.
“Yes, each one. Yes and yes…may I not say…? Damn you twice upon Dragons’ scales, then. And thank you, if aught can be said to one such as…yes.”
She didn’t seem there anymore. But as she faded—Zeladona said one last thing. She wrinkled Erin Solstice’s nose, looking at something with a huge frown.
“Who? Oh. I care it not. I know how it would be—but these things happen. I would cut down those who dishonored my festival and trials—but I am not living, am I? No, I would not always cut down one. It varies. Such things do. Let him go, then. Punishment? I care it not. I…”
Then, though she would doubtless have liked more words, more time, and more deeds, Zeladona Ischen sighed.
Just a sigh. The longest sigh in the world. It was more than breath. It was…everything. Leaving the young woman who collapsed without a word into Ryoka’s arms.
Erin Solstice stared out of her own eyes again—and then it really was over.
Zeladona’s Trial of a Thousand Blades, the <Heroic Quest> of Liscor, came to a close. It had left surprisingly few dead. Far too many wounded.
But however the blood.
However the grief.
Despite the carnage and senselessness and the travails of it all—
From that day, her name echoed. And when you looked at her, caught by magic, her image reflected across an [Innkeeper]’s face, for a second, you could see her raise that sword.
No one was worthy of Zeladona’s great Skill. But it echoed.
 
——
 
In the Minotaur’s mind, as he was led back to the army’s camp, one-armed, without salvation, redemption, or punishment. Yet—he was ashamed that he reveled in the glory of it.
Ashamed that a pair of mice made his heart warm, that he still clung to the cheers and the words burning in his mind.
 
[Skill – He Left Pride in His Wake learned.]
 
——
 
It came to the [Blade Dancer] as she lay, clutching her blades, and word came from her very [Emperor] to safeguard the katana that Zeladona had touched, to send it back to be enshrined as a relic. Once again—no, for the first time after she had knelt before a Drake in an undead body, she dreamed.
 
[Skill – She Danced in Moonlight’s Grace learned.]
 
——
 
In the grasp of Spring. Though she was unworthy of it—though fell deeds had been done and the consequences might not be mended, as the Archmage of Memory bore her back to her Order, she lay there and heard a voice that brought a tear to her own eyes.
And she was resolved to repay the Goblin of her suspicion, make amends. She had called him, ‘knight’, but still held him at arm’s length. Until now, for she had heard and seen much that shook her. The Warden of Spring had a winter’s chill upon her, though, but Spring worked hardest in the cold.
 
[Skill – When She Drew Her Blade: Time Fled Her learned.]
 
——
 
And last—last of all, the last thing that came from Zeladona herself, not some impartial arbiter, not from their own struggles and realizations, but from her, to the worthy—and she might have selected any or all, but she did judge fairly, so only chose four—
The last voice came to the Hobgoblin who lay slumbering against his Carn Wolf. And he alone had thought this entire affair was great and glorious and how it should be. The Hobgoblin bared his teeth, and his red paint—and scars—were so intermingled he could not tell the difference sometimes.
He alone thought this had been an excellent day.
 
[Skill – He Walked and Shadows Split learned.]
 
——
 
And then? Well…the [Innkeeper] lay in her bed, and this time, she couldn’t move at all. She lay there—and the world changed and talked, and there was much to do.
But what could trump this? What else could come besides—please—a break? A breath of fresh air and all the rest in the world?
Perhaps only—
Christmas.
