

Ren looked at the new skill. He wasn't sure what he could use it for, but a new skill is a new skill. He wondered how he could level it up, though. If there's one thing he wasn't, it's a social butterfly.

“Ha!” Ren laughed out loud.

Lord Eric looked at him. “Is something funny, Ren?”

“Hm? Oh... no, sir.” Ren replied sheepishly. He didn't mean to laugh like that. “I just realized something. Not too long ago I was neck deep in an underground river and lost in the dark... and now I'm eating a meal in a mansion.”

Eric looked at him with surprise on his face. “Ren... that was almost 2 months ago.”

“W-w-what?” Ren said.

“You haven't moved from that bed for 2 months.” Eric repeated. “Why else do you think Anabelle was so shocked and upset?” He nodded to the side of the room where the servants stood. Ren looked over to her and she nodded. Wow. Two months.

“I really did miss a lot, didn't I?” He had completely forgot about the time difference.

“Hey, pardner. Don' worry about it. Ev'ryone's gonna be so flippin' happy you're okay.”

Ren nodded and sat in silence for a while. The others talked about things that he'd missed and he listened to what they said. He had lost so many opportunities!

Lord Eric declared the dinner finished and they all stood to leave.

“By the way, the party in your honor will be held this weekend. It will give you a chance to settle back into your life again.” Eric said. “We've had no luck with finding your clothes, Ren. I'm sorry. I'll reimburse their value.”

Ren shook his head. “That's okay. Do you mind if I borrow these until I get a new set?” He held up the shirt he was wearing.

“You can just keep them.” Eric said, then passed Ren a small bag. “Here's the standard fee for blacksmiths. 15 gold. I know it's not much when compared to your reward, but you were hired for a job, remember? You completed it well beyond my wildest expectations.”

Ren didn't even bother trying to say that he'd been given enough gold already. He just took the sack and added it to his inventory. “Thank you, sir.” Ren bowed slightly. “With your permission, I'll be leaving now. Thank you very much for taking care of me.”

Eric waved off Ren's thanks. “It was the least I could do. Be well, Ren.”

“Thank you, sir. I'll be sure to do my best.”

Eric nodded. Clint and Ren left the dining room together.

When they got to the main doors, Clint turned to Ren. “It shore was nice ta see ya again, Ren.” He said and gave him a one armed hug. Ren opened his mouth to explain what had happened, about why he'd been gone for so long, but Clint shook his head.

“Ah know you're gonna try ta explain, but it ain' necessary. We'd all worried ya wouldn' be back atall... but here ya are. Tha's all tha' matters.”

Clint winked at Ren and left with a wave. Ren waved back. Was Clint there the whole time or was he just visiting occasionally and just happened to be there today? Ren didn't know... but he had a feeling that this wouldn't be the last time he'd be seeing ol' Clint.

Ren left the mansion and walked down the street. People waved at him, and he waved back. He wasn't sure why he was happy about that. It wasn't like he was used to being popular or anything, but it was nice that people didn't just ignore him anymore. Perhaps... they might even stop calling him 'boy'! A big grin spread across his face as he walked over to the Artesian District. He definitely needed a new set of clothes and he knew just the place to get them. He had plenty of time left before he had to log out for the day. He was so lost in his thoughts that he didn't notice that a new house had been built in the Housing District.

********
Inside that house:

A woman with an ample chest worked diligently at her desk. Her glasses perched atop her head so she could safely bend over without them falling off. She'd already worked for several hours that way, until...

“There! All finished!” She said happily and lifted up what she had been working on.

She held in her hands a set of high quality travelling clothes. They were very crudely sewn together, however... it ruined their value and erased their bonuses. She held it to her face and took a deep breath.

“It still smells like him!” She said and laughed. “Now where did I put that stuffing?”

********
