Struggling away from Ma's grasp, Bulat tried his best to ignore the uproarious laughing that was taking place outside his house. “Ma, Old Bulat likes the women and this here is a shit hole, ain't nothing you need to take besides your clothes, you don't need no help.” Turning to Rain, he pleaded with his eyes as he said, “Don't you need to take the others away now? You promised them a meal.”

“Oh, it's early yet, Baby Bulat.” Pran sidled up next to him, acting overly familiar and batting his eyes like a woman. “Besides, don't you need to introduce me to your Ma?”

Furiously roaring, Bulat chased all the soldiers out, clipping along on his crutches as they gleefully scattered before him until he was soon huffing with exertion. Patting him on the back, Rain strode away gathering the rest of the soldiers and leaving for his next destination, while Ma came out of the house, helping him stand as he gasped for breath, clucking her tongue at him. “I told you, your old Ma don't care who you love, just that you find someone and start a family, maybe grab one of them cute bunny-kin children, there are so many of them running around. Life is lonely without family.”

Closing his eyes, Bulat wholeheartedly wished he had died on the fields, thereby avoiding this humiliation. Sighing deeply, he hobbled back into the hut he grew up in to once again try to convince his Ma to leave the city.

“Now who was that handsome man at the end there? I think you two make a lovely pair, although you must be wary, these half-beasts are rarely in control of their instincts, rutting about like dogs in heat, you keep an eye out for his restless leg now, you hear?”

Groaning loudly, he thumped his head against the wooden walls, praying it would collapse and simply end his suffering.

This was so much more difficult than battle.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tentatively knocking on the door, Rustram calmed his nerves while he waited for someone to answer, knowing that he would be ignored the first few times. Orders from his father meant to keep him humble, as if the loss of a hand were not enough. When he had first been ordered to join the army, Rustram had almost fled into the night, but having grown up as a merchant's son, he knew nothing of survival on his own. The second son, unable to inherit, a useless mouth to feed, sent away to fight for honor. Survive, and he would be a boon, a guard upon the caravan routes and a veteran to display at parties, die and nothing of value would be lost. An easy risk for his father to take, but his investment had borne no fruit.

Thrice more he knocked before it was answered, the muffled yells of his father urging the servants on, as if they had not heard him knocking. Games of power, the old man played them as if he were nobility, instead of a rich upstart who knew how to best make coin. The doors opened and he stepped in without ceremony, making his way directly to his father's office.

His father sat hunched over the hardwood desk, a luxury that could have bought a second, smaller, traditional house instead, but appearances were everything, even if it were offset by the cheap paintings and poor carpet that he had been forced to buy after running out of funds. A maddeningly contradictory man, never able to admit his wrongs, hair graying before his time, only 50 years of age, a man who had never learned to properly cultivate. He looked up with a snort, disdain clear on his face. “So, my second son, the Lieutenant, the Hero, returns to me a cripple. What a waste of time and money you were, six years of service and without a single promotion besides the one I bought for you. Now you come home in tears, a worthless cripple, begging for a place in my house.”

Rustram grit his teeth and held his tongue, allowing his father to hang himself with his own words. It would be easier this way and not telling his father that he had been 'contracted' to work with mercenaries, a story that would invite too many questions which Rustram could not answer. His father was many things, but a fool was not one of them.

Stroking his beard while glaring, his father tried to look intimidating whilst kicking out his son. “Well know this, I have no room here for worthless layabouts, no free handouts for cripples.” Perfect, Rustram could just leave without another word and never return, fighting for the Lieutenant General. It would not be so bad, he was going to learn to heal his own injuries, be a meat shield for better warriors. Who was he kidding, it was going to be terrible so he needed to convince more soldiers to join him in his misery. “You still remember your arithmetic? I've a small storefront that needs managing and you will suffice until I can find someone competent, only need one hand for an abacus. I'll brook no insolence or laziness, you will wake early and be at the store at its opening, ready for business with a smile. We'll get you a wooden hand, something painted to look like flesh, can't be scaring off the customers. Your old room is ready, and ...”

Disbelieving his ears, Rustram blinked in confusion while his father continued on his tirade, stern warnings intermixed with the details of how he would be cared for, and he felt an ache in his chest and tears welling in his eyes while he listened to his father. Unable to continue, he surreptitiously wiped his eyes with his sleeve before quickly interrupting with the prepared story, one casually crafted by Akanai in their brief discussion about his family. “I am contracted to the Lieutenant General Akanai, working as part of her trading team for some time. I will be well compensated but worked hard, and I am unable to say when I will return to visit.”

Swallowing hard, he sweated as he watched his father process his words, astonishment turning calculation, understanding turning to … joy? “You are working for the Lieutenant General Akanai? Excellent! A connection to the Herald of the Storms, your time in the army has truly shown profits.”

The Herald of the Storms? The name had a familiar ring to it, and his eyes widened as he remembered the stories, how the Herald had fought eight duels on behalf of the Magistrate, winning them easily and without effort. His eyes widened further as he remembered the other stories, his mind making the connections immediately.

“Father, do you remember the name of the boy, the one who fought the Warrant Officer?” The words gushed out of him in a panic, unable to control his excitement.

“Hmm? Of course, I marked that named as one to remember, a rising dragon to keep an eye on. His name was Rain of the Bekhai. Why do you ask?”

Running around the desk, he gave his father a hug, surprising both of them with the action. “Thank you for everything Father, but I need to go and tell everyone.” Turning to leave, he quickly returned for another hug, exuberant at the news. He wasn't enslaved and working for a naive child, he was oath sworn and under the tutelage of a Rising Dragon! Rain had been impressive in a fight, but that had been against that worthless cook and a Defiled savage. None of them had known just how strong, how talented he really was, the boy - no, the little hero had never mentioned any of his exploits.

Now, he had the means to convince the other soldiers to join, and his reasons were now far less selfish. While he was forbidden from speaking about the healing or the oaths, he could spread the word about who Rain and Akanai really were, and most importantly, who Rain's Teacher was.

The Medical Saint of Shen Huo, Taduk the generous and benevolent healer!

With such a grouping of heroes, it would be simple to insinuate that the Medical Saint might have mercy on them and offer healing, that tiny sliver of hope enough to motivate even the most despondent of them. The details of the story began to work its way through his head while he ran, eager to discuss with Bulat how to best spread the story before their departure.

The voice of his father followed him out the front door. “Get your old man a contract with the Bekhai and you can have ten - no fifteen percent of the profits!”
