Ren felt her amusement in return, and he took her hand, leaned in, and gave her a kiss on the cheek. He held it for about 10 seconds, and Ereka gasped at the Honor gain.

“See you later, Ereka.” Ren said, let her hand go, and started to run back to House Neram Keep.

“Hey! Aren't you going to work?” Ereka asked before he got too far away.

“I need to talk to Tee-one first.” Ren said, waved to her, and poured on the speed.

*

Look at him go! Ereka thought as she watched Ren get farther away. She smiled and went into the Main House.

“Good morning!” The receptionist said.

“It is.” Ereka responded. “It really is.”

“There's several people waiting to be interviewed for the assistant position.” The receptionist said. “Let me know when you want the first one sent in.”

“Now is fine.” Ereka said, and went to her office in the best mood she'd ever been in.

*

Ren went to the workshop and gave Tee-one a bunch of springy trees to make a few more Ballistas and ammunition.

“What about working on the Keep?” Tee-one asked.

“You can keep doing that.” Ren said. “Just when you come back up here to make one of the parts for the Ballista, use all three forges and make three parts instead.” He said. “Actually, on second thought, let's do it now.”

Tee-one nodded, and set up the proper molds on the floor for the main piece. Ren poured out the first one while Tee-one made a mold in front of the next forge. Ren absorbed the heat from the molten metal, took out the piece, and poured the next smelter. He absorbed the heat from the molten metal, and Tee-one had the third mold ready and poured that. Ren absorbed the heat from that and they poured each one again. They now had 6 main pieces to make the bodies of 6 Ballistas. They changed the molds on the floor for the second piece and made 6 of those. Next were the braces needed for the bow parts. With Ren there to absorb the heat, it only took about 20 minutes for all the metal parts to be done.

“I'll leave the rest to you.” Ren said. “Don't forget to make the bolts to fill the cartridges, too.” He pat Tee-one's shoulder, and left the forge room. He stopped at one of the workbenches and made a small wooden box, a foot square and 6 inches deep. He lined it with black cloth, laid the tiara in it, and stored the box. He left the workshop and ran down the road, through the city, and to the mine. After a suspiciously quick medical inspection, he was cleared for work and did his 8 hours. He stayed for the 2 extra hours doing repairs, and ran back to House Neram. He stopped in at the restaurant to see Nathalia, and the woman at the door told him he needed to change before coming in. Ren looked down at himself and laughed.

“Sorry about that.” Ren said, equipped his armor bodysuit to clean up, then equipped his House Neram red suit. He was still concentrating on his House Neram pendant, so his Aura covered the whole restaurant.

“That... was amazing.” The woman said as she stared at him. Ren smiled at her, and looked over her head to the kitchen. “Am I allowed in the kitchen, or do you want to get Miss Neram for me?”

“I... I'll go get her.” The woman said, and walked towards the kitchen. She got to the door and looked back at him. With his red suit and blonde fluffy hair and beard, she was having a hard time keeping her eyes off of him.

Do you think it's my Aura? Ren thought at Teepo.

“No, I think she just finds you very attractive.” Teepo said. “Now that you're not covered from head to toe in dirt, that is.” He said, and chittered in laughter. Ren smiled, and Nathalia came out of the kitchen. She walked over to him quickly, and they went outside together.

“What did you do to the hostess?” Nathalia asked.

“Honestly, nothing.” Ren said. “I was dirty and she wouldn't let me in, so I changed clothes.”

“Is that all?”

Ren nodded slightly, and Nathalia could feel what he felt.

“She wants to know if you're looking for a personal maid.” Nathalia said.

“A... a what?”

“A personal maid.” Nathalia said. “They take care of everything for a man.” She said. “It's a very polite way of saying she wants to be a bed partner.”

She felt Ren's surprise, and she smiled.

“Does it have to be me that tells her no, or can you decline her offer for me?”

“I can tell her.” Nathalia said and smirked. “I'll even do it nicely.”

Ren took her into a hug, and she was stiff and unresponsive. He let her go, and looked at her.

“What is it?”

“We can't do that in public, remember?” Nathalia said.

“It was just a hug.” Ren said. “I'm sure House members have hugged each other before.” He smiled. “If I'd kissed you passionately instead, I'm sure that would be against the rules.”

Nathalia felt that he wanted to do just that, despite the law, and she blushed a little. She really wanted that, too.

“I came here to tell you that I'm going to Aurora now, rather than tonight.” Ren said. “I've got 2 hours left before nightfall, so it should be quick. I'll be back before you know it.”

Nathalia chuckled. “You could have just called.” She said and held up the ring.

“I could have.” Ren said. “But, I haven't seen you in about 10 hours.”

Nathalia felt how much he wanted to see her, and smiled. He smiled back and looked around. No one was there, and Teepo gave the all clear. Ren leaned in, quickly kissed her, and let her feel everything he felt about this situation. He leaned back and grinned at her gasp and deep red blush.

“See you later.” Ren said.

Nathalia only nodded slightly, and he ran over to House Neram Keep to get Princess.

*

That man! Nathalia thought, and tried to calm down. It's only supposed to be behind closed doors for a reason! She did Ren's breathing exercises, and managed to get her blush and emotions back under control. She shook her head and chuckled, then went back into the restaurant to work.
