"I'm not that kind of person," Shiv said with every bit of emphasis he could muster. "I'm not the one that hurt you. I'm better than him—and I can tell from your face it’s him—while I am infinitely worse and greater in every other regard. And that’s what lets me keep my morals. Look at me, understand that, and we'll pretend this conversation never happened."

Shape of Monstrosity 147 > 149

Javelina looked at him as her hidden terror climbed. She did a good job masking her dread, but it was there, and Shiv drank it in, drop by drop. After a moment too long for his comfort, she finally offered a nod.

"Remember, don't tell anyone," Shiv said. "You don't want to dig into this. If there's anything for you to know, I'll let you know beforehand. And if there's any threat coming, I will try to warn you. Aside from that, you keep this quiet, and you keep living as normal. It doesn't concern you until it does."

Once he finished, she finally let out a bitter sigh filled with resignation. "When it does, it won't be about me anymore. It won't be up to me. It won't be up to my kids. And we're all going to suffer, because you people can never have enough."

With that, she turned around, and she walked out the door without ever looking back.

Vice 8 remained behind. The massive boar glared at Shiv, and the Deathless guessed it was a full head taller than him at baseline. However, he liked his odds against the creature. It was primarily an Aeromancer, and Shiv was nothing if not extremely magically resistant.

"You don't got somewhere else to be?" Shiv asked bluntly.

Vice 8 snorted. A slight oink followed at the end. "Yeah. But before I go and do what I need to do, I'm just going to tell you that you're a piece of shit, and I'm going to look forward to the day that all you questionable Inquisition folks greet the worms." He spat on the table. It landed as a messy globule right before Shiv. And then he turned to leave, stomping out of the room and making the very walls shake.

"Well, that conversation sure could have gone a lot worse," Adam muttered.

Shiv exhaled. "It also could have gone a little bit better."

Both he and the Gate Lord were stressed beyond measure. But it seemed that, at least so far, the crises and troubles of the day were winding to an end. That being said, the Deathless didn't wish to announce this feeling to the others.

He wasn't superstitious, but after what he'd experienced earlier with Adam, he wasn't going to chance things again. The System was a vindictive prick, and Shiv's asshole had suffered enough for one day.
