It took nearly all the remaining daylight to drive the endless hordes of undead back past the Ciradyl trees beyond the battlements. When Ali had informed Lyeneru and Vivian that the Avatar of Annihilation had respawned deep within the core of the Well of Corruption dungeon, the Guildmaster had switched to sustainable patrols and defense rotations for the guild, giving up on any further progress in the dungeon for now. An unfortunate setback, but recovering lost ground should be easier the second time around.

It had taken a few more strategically placed bosses before the battle finally stabilized enough for Lyeneru to take a break. Archers and holy mages upon the battlements, and she had moved her Carnage Berserker from the second level of the underground ruins to the middle of the grove of Ciradyl trees that supported a burgeoning city of Wood Elf refugees.

Dumping her berserker in the center of the battlefield to face a continuous horde of undead and upgrading her domain enhancement to champion and equipping her with upgraded axes had made her day. The incongruous sound of raucous, booming laughter and savage poetry – delivered at devastating volume – echoed across the battlefield as the ordinarily furious berserker unleashed the blender of her Blood Vortex, turning swathes of lesser undead into finely chopped flying bits.

Convinced, finally, that nobody else was likely to die in her absence, Ali found her friends and returned to the guild hall for a little rest time. When Mato pushed open the hastily repaired doors, she staggered, hit by a wall of sound and conflicting emotions.

“I got ten Death Knights on my quest credit!” exclaimed a slender Elven Pathfinder seated cross-legged on the floor amongst several passed-out friends.

“What are you going to buy when you turn it in?”

“Why… why did she have to die?” someone sobbed, consoled by teary-eyed friends over on the couch.

“… and then I hit it with my sword so hard…”

“I can’t believe we’re cooped up in here again. I wanted to finish the dungeon!”

Fresh grief collided with excitement and utter exhaustion, creating an overwhelming turmoil of emotional energy.

“Are you ok, Ali?” Malika asked.

“Yes…” she said. “I’m just tired. And this is a lot.”

Malika reached out and touched her shoulder, fingers pulsing with a little touch of her healing magic.

You have gained Clarity.

“Thanks,” she said, as some of her tightly coiled muscles unclenched.

“It is a bit overwhelming,” Malika agreed, looking for somewhere a little quieter.

After her discussion with Lyeneru, all Ali’s anger had dissipated, leaving only a powerful sense of guilt and melancholy that twisted and flowed through her, seeking something concrete to connect with. Rationally, she knew everyone had tried their best, including herself, but that wasn’t good enough for the grieving townsfolk and the people they had lost – and despite her understanding of the situation, her heart would not let it go.

If only… There should have been something I could do…

The thoughts twisted and churned, live snakes in a firepit, never resting, endless variations on the same theme.

Finally, she asked, “Can we go somewhere quieter?”

“Sure, what do you have in mind?” Malika asked.

Ali considered the question for a moment. Many places within her dungeon could serve, but she didn’t just want to sit alone. “Let’s go visit Cael and Gage,” she suggested, the idea popping out of her mouth the instant it appeared in her mind.

It took nothing more than a short trip through the Grand Library Arcana to step into the appropriate runic circle, and Ali whisked herself into the spirit realm echo of the library. Ryn looked up instantly from where she sat surrounded by a cloud of spinning, swooping books and waved, but she immediately returned to her research. The golden floating boards of several in-progress games of Kings and Emperors flickered within the atrium, lending uncharacteristic light and color to the otherwise dull gray of the spirit realm. All about her, adventurers rushed this way and that, clearly busy with some task or another.

“I didn’t realize this place had gotten so popular,” Ali remarked, her desire for peace and quiet crumbling even as she found herself happy for Cael and Gage. As she gazed out across the glittering game-boards, one of them flickered and popped. A brief scream echoed through the chamber as the loser fell through the suddenly insubstantial cloud of glittering golden sparks, only to be caught several meters below by a formation of space-affinity magic. The unfortunate player floated there for a moment before the formation pulsed, and she was deposited among her friends in the crowd of spectators to the sounds of good-natured teasing and gales of laughter.

“Me neither,” Malika said, her eyes surveying the bustle of activity. “Ryn’s quests must be popular among the lower-level adventurers.”

It was quite evidently true by the number of people playing or watching, and the excitement and energy that flowed through the crowd. There was even a small makeshift kiosk where an enterprising gnome had set up an impromptu betting business.

“Gage! Ali is here. She came to visit!” Cael’s disembodied voice echoed excitedly throughout the library. Many heads turned to see, but they quickly returned to their entertainment.

“She did?” Gage answered in surprise. “Oh, she did! Hi, Ali! How are you?”

“I’m ok,” she answered, ignoring the tormented part of her deep down that knew it to be a lie. “I was hoping for a quiet chat, but…” The library here was busier even than hers in the real world. Many of the occupants seemed to be lower-level or regular non-combat townsfolk, apparently entirely unconcerned by the fact that they were within a high-level dungeon, and judging by their mood, Ali wondered how many of them were even aware of the undead siege outside.

Ali and her friends spent far more time browsing the higher-level job postings, and so she was much more familiar with Ryn’s efforts to encourage people to visit Azryet’s domain – and a few people had taken his requests. However, Cael and Gage’s puzzles and games seemed far more popular – a safer way to earn experience in a dungeon.

“Do you like it?” Cael asked. “We’ve been busy making lots of new puzzles, and then Ryn posts them on the guild board for people to find.”

“It does seem popular,” Ali said. Clearly, she hadn’t come to visit in too long. Unfortunately, she had just been so busy lately, and she had been neglecting everything outside of her quest for Lira’s elixir. However, she really did approve of the space-magic safety net that had turned the previously deadly game into a carnival atmosphere. “Sorry, I haven’t come to visit in a while.”

“It’s not a problem,” Gage said, shyly. “We’re just glad you’re here.”

Wow, they’ve sure changed.

“Come on in,” Cael added, punctuating his words with a free-standing ripple in reality that manifested before Ali and Malika. Through it, she could see a softly rippling image of the Infinite Maze’s core room, and the golden glowing cylinder that housed the twins’ body.

Surprised and flattered, Ali stepped through the portal, followed shortly by Malika, and found herself once again in the twins’ central chamber. The bustle and noise cut out the instant the portal shut.

That’s so much better, Ali sighed, just spending a whole moment enjoying the blessed silence.

“So, how are you really, Ali?” Gage asked with quiet curiosity in his voice.

Suddenly, it all came out in a rush. She hadn’t intended to share her guilt, her frustration, and her anger, but she spilled it all. Perhaps it was the unexpected source of concern that did it, but the dungeon, the attack on Myrin’s Keep, and how so many people had died all came tumbling out in a torrent. Again. As if his words had breached a dam, more and more spilled forth. Her horror at gaining the cursed title spilled from her lips, and her fear that she had drawn Nevyn Eld’s armies to Myrin’s Keep. Was she responsible for the deaths? Was she strong enough to save Lira or protect her friends?

By the time she was done, her vision was blurred with tears. She wiped her face with the tissue Malika offered her as the core chamber fell once more into silence.

“I think mom would have been proud of you,” Gage said suddenly. Ali might have dismissed such a thought from the paranoid and unbalanced twin, but his voice was filled with a quiet sincerity that she had not heard from him before.

“I agree,” Cael said. “Sister, you are awesome!”

“I didn’t expect you guys to be my cheerleaders,” Ali said, regaining a little control over her voice.

“You don’t have control over everything, Ali,” Cael said, the more extroverted twin speaking with uncharacteristic weight. “Take it from us, we know. You are doing everything you can, and that’s more than enough. Any time you need relief from that curse, you can always visit – I’ve already blocked several of those eyes from teleporting in.”

“When did you guys become so wise?” Ali asked, rather shocked at the dramatic change in their personalities.

“We talk to lots of people every day now, thanks to you,” Gage answered.

“And our memories are slowly coming back. From before,” Cael said.

“We’re starting to remember who we once were,” Gage finished his brother’s thought. “Who we wanted to be.”

The sun rose inside her heart, light and warmth parting the rain clouds of despair and guilt. “Thank you,” she said. And before the silence could reach the threshold of awkwardness, she added, “Why don’t we talk about something a little more fun?”

“Fun?”

“Like what?”

“I brought some presents for you,” Ali said, manifesting her Grimoire in the glowing chamber and turning to her new extensive suite of arcane elementals. “This one is called a Calhedron,” she said, summoning several of the elementals, getting exclamations of excitement from Gage. “And I can teach you a whole bunch of domain magic spells so you can create decent bosses.”

A sudden hammering at her door snapped her delicate focus.

Donella frowned, her mind frantically grasping at the fraying threads of the rapidly unraveling, intricate formation. It had taken more than two hours to create, destroyed with just a moment of inconsiderate interruption, right at the cusp of completion.

Carla had better have an impressive explanation for this, she thought, abandoning her futile attempts at saving the ruined work. She had told her assistant she was not to be disturbed – for precisely this reason. And now, more than two hundred gold worth of reagents was wasted, transformed into an amorphous lump of slowly smoking slag. She swept it off her desk and into the trash, straightening the papers and tools on her desk before she glared at the door.

“What?” she said, not quite a yell, but she had most certainly unloaded a lot of her pent-up frustration into the exclamation.

The door slammed open, revealing a red-faced Jax Hawkhurst, literally dragging her assistant Carla along with him as she struggled to stop the man physically. A gnome. Trying to stop a human by hanging onto his leg. The indignity of it!

Still, last she’d heard, Jax was incarcerated in the garrison’s prison awaiting trial for the murder of William Turner. And yet, here he was, barging into her office without a guard or shackle in sight. She opened her mouth to say something, but at the last minute she changed tack. There was something fishy about all this.

“It’s ok, Carla,” she said, forcing a calm tone. “I’ll handle this.”

The look of relief on Carla’s face as she was dismissed from this impending altercation glanced off the wards of suspicion and guarded caution she raised. Donella ignored Carla, scurrying out of the room and shutting the door, transfixing Jax with a calculated glare, designed to hide the racing thoughts running in the background. What is his game?

“To what do I owe the pleasure of your visit, Councilor Hawkhurst?” she asked, biting off the title sharply. She despised the man and everything he stood for – and being forced to deal with him politely simply because of his position on the council had always grated. It had come as something of a relief when she’d heard the news.

“Your people refused access to long-range teleportation. What kind of service are you providing here? You’re required by law to provide services equally, discrimination is illegal, and I’m of a mind to sue,” Jax declared in a rush, his voice rising in faux anger toward the end, but Donella could see the clenched jaw muscles and the tension in his neck that betrayed the hints of inner anxiety: this was a man on shaky ground.

“Of course. You are wanted for the murder of William Turner,” she said. It had come as a shock to everyone when the news broke, of course, but in her opinion, it couldn’t have happened to a better person. Still, calling it out directly would put him on the spot.

His anger only deepened, his flush making his face turn purple with rage. “I’ve been framed. I need access to my lawyers. I don’t know what trick Markus pulled, but when I get to the bottom of it, he’s going to pay!”

“I doubt it,” Donella said, her fury cold and crystal. Jax seemed to be pulling exactly the sort of stunt she had suspected. Somehow, he had slipped his guard, probably during the battle, and he had immediately attempted to flee from justice. “Markus has been appointed by the Crown. He has the trust of the king.” Besides, Markus de Voss was merely a bystander in this drama, and Jax’s ire was misplaced. Donella did not have any evidence, but she knew precisely who had instigated the dramatic public admission of guilt. And if she was right, the ‘trickery’ had merely lowered Jax’s inhibitions – any admission had come from within. Which neatly explained the magnitude of his evident fear.

Mieriel Dawnbloom.

Donella had vehemently opposed Vivian when she had brought Mieriel to town. Mind mages were an altogether nasty business, and she had no desire to be anywhere near one, even with her huge bonuses to wisdom and magical resistance. The fight between them had been epic, but Vivian had always had a legendary streak of stubbornness, and Donella had been unable to prevail. In the end, William Turner had sided with Vivian, bought in somehow by their ridiculous sob story, and that had been that.

