She hadn’t let it go at that, by no means. While Mieriel had been low enough level to be easy to resist, she had studied the woman, and by now, Donella had a pretty solid grasp on her abilities. She could not compel a fake confession; of that she was certain. Which meant the outwardly furious Jax Hawkhurst standing before her must be guilty of murder.

Now that Mieriel was far higher level, not even Donella could figure out where she was if she wanted to hide. And so, she had no proof that the Sun Elf mind mage had been present at the Princess’s Petticoats Lounge, where the Councilor had been played. However, the zone notification of a mind mage advancing to the second tier a day later had been a dead giveaway. More than enough proof for her. Regardless, she couldn’t allow Jax to escape.

“Let me remind you, I’m a councilor; you have no jurisdiction to restrain me,” Jax said, the muscles of his jaw working overtime. “Your teleportation network falls under the royal decree of essential services. You cannot deny me access.”

“Indeed,” Donella said, and then poked the wounded beast. “I have no jurisdiction to prevent a guilty councilor from fleeing the crown’s justice.”

“I was framed,” he snapped. “Are you deaf? You are guilty of denying me access to proper representation.”

“While I have no jurisdiction here,” she said, smiling sweetly at him, “it is fortunate that the crown does. They have invoked the wartime provisions. I’m required to obtain approval for all long-range teleportation requests from the crown directly. Would you like to wait in the lobby while I make the request on your behalf? Or would you like to plead your case directly?”

“That’s nonsense, and you know it!” he screamed, spittle spraying from his mouth as anger overrode what little sense of propriety he had remaining. “That’s for the southern regions that are currently under siege!”

“I can accept teleportation into Myrin’s Keep for your legal representation,” Donella offered, readying her shield magic, just in case. Technically, Jax was correct; she was bending the law just a little, but she was certain the wartime provision would extend to Myrin’s Keep in the next day or two. Likely, just as soon as word got out that the Blind Lich’s armies had arrived in force and laid siege. Jax had obviously been planning to skip town during this window of uncertainty, and it gave her visceral pleasure to foil his plans.

“This is not acceptable!” Jax yelled.

Right, because it’s about escaping, not representation. Donella waved a hand, creating a glowing illusory view of the south road and the surroundings, filled with the teaming undead masses and the ceaseless bombardment of arrows and magic from the defending garrison and adventurers. “You could always try walking,” she suggested. “That option is not restricted.”

Her lightning shield snapped into place the instant he lunged across her desk, and there was a loud crack as she reined in the power of the retaliatory strike. She had no desire to kill him, accidentally letting him avoid judgment. Jax’s limp body hit the desk heavily, crushing the ruined remnants of her project, and slid off to land on the floor.

“Carla?” she called, flying over the unconscious councilor’s body, lying burnt and smoking on her carpet. “Could you call a couple of guards to take him away?”

“O… of course,” Carla stammered as her wide eyes took in the scene. “Should I contact the Garrison?”

“I think that would be appropriate,” Donella said. Jax spending some more time in the town’s jail, contemplating the failure of control that had driven him to try and physically strangle a platinum-ranked lightning mage, seemed like a perfect ending to this fiasco. At least she was no longer upset about her failed project and the wasted time and resources it had cost her.

Still, I will need to have a frank discussion with Gerald Brand. We can’t have suspects slipping out of custody whenever they want. Exactly how did he get out?

The air was laden with the cloying stench of undeath, inextricably entwined with corruption and the twisted alacrity of Nathaniel Sunstrider’s potent arcane magic. Acrid brimstone smoke swirled lazily upward from the corpse of the freshly slain Avatar of Annihilation, making Ali’s eyes water.

The second kill of the Avatar of Annihilation had been so much easier than the first, and had required three fewer switches. She had observed Lyeneru’s third-tier class in action at the battlements of Myrin’s Keep, but that had been a blind altercation between two immense forces. Seeing her in action in a real raid setting had been more than eye-opening. She was far faster, vastly more powerful, and even her presence felt far more dominant.

But it was not just her.

The raid numbered nearly fifty adventurers, and most of them had gained at least ten levels for the first kill. She saw similar increases for all her minions. But even to Ali’s eyes, it was the growth in their teamwork that had played by far the largest role in turning a terrifying encounter into something almost mundane and pedestrian. Ali had felt a little trepidation taking on the dangerous encounter without despawning her minions back in town, but the moment battle was engaged, she’d shed all concerns of messing it up.

“Easy, peasy,” Mato said, summing up her thoughts in his unique way.

As the smoke began to clear, Ali drifted downward, her eyes studying the immense work of runic magic that had borne the Avatar of Annihilation, still swirling with domain mana. It was only after she had fully understood it that she summoned her domain and tore through the now-vulnerable layer of the Well of Corruption’s domain, dismantling everything in her path. She stopped only when her mana crashed up against the inner ring barrier, barring them from reaching Nathaniel’s innermost sanctum.

All the remaining undead and elemental corpses strewn across the battlefield evaporated into slowly rising motes of mana as her skill deconstructed everything in its path.

Variant: Theuronic Crystal added to Imprint: Elemental.Variant: Reaper of Ruin added to Imprint: Elemental.Variant: Crystal of Arcane Dominance added to Imprint: Arcane Construct.

So that thing was called a Crystal of Arcane Dominance? Ali glanced over the new imprint inscribed in her Grimoire with a kind of scholarly curiosity – she wasn’t particularly interested in mind-control for practical purposes, but understanding how it worked was most certainly something she needed to study.

A sudden surge of knowledge poured into her mind as her deconstruction fed her new and interesting Domain Magic. Her notifications chimed again as the wave of deconstruction evaporated the Avatar of Annihilation itself.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Alternate Form.Domain Magic analyzed: Affinity Amplification.Domain Magic analyzed: Triggered Mana Echoes (Alternate Form).Domain Magic analyzed: Triggered Summon Construct (Crystal of Arcane Dominance).

Calen landed silently beside her with his notebook already out and ready.

Ali grinned at him and immediately opened the skill descriptions for the new skills. It had been quite some time since she had earned so many unfamiliar ones. Alternate Form was the very same ability Kir’vella had used to swap between her witch doctor and bat forms, but the rest of the abilities she had never encountered before.

One by one, she shared them with the whole group.

Affinity AmplificationRequirements: Champion domain enhancement. Magic affinity attack.Source: Avatar of Annihilation.Attacks with your magic apply a stacking magic Amplification debuff that increases all damage of that affinity. Skill – Domain Magic

Calen nodded and began to write, not questioning an ability which they understood quite well after so many tries.

Ali, however, had a somewhat different perspective.

Wow, this is amazing! She had expected something tied to death or arcane affinities, or a skill that would require her to learn specific debuffs like her Curse Aura, but this was immediately useful with nearly every single one of her minions. Used to support a boss that struck rapidly or with area damage, it could be devastating. Her first thought was one of her ice or holy mages with Spell Cascade and Affinity Vulnerability, but the domain magic spell did not specify spells, which meant she could use it on her Sylvan Storm archers, or on a void rogue, and suddenly the options seemed endless.

With many options dancing in her mind, she opened the next skill and shared the details.

Triggered Mana EchoesRequirements: Raid domain enhancement or greater.Source: Avatar of Annihilation.Triggers: Spawn, Death, or any other Domain Magic.Whenever the chosen trigger event occurs, you summon Mana Echo minions. Recharge: 30 seconds.Mana Echoes are imperfect copies of a minion that are supported by the domain mana itself. They use mana in place of health and stamina. They inherit the first [Raid] or the first two [Champion] Domain Magic skills of the boss that summons them. The number and power of the Mana Echoes are proportional to the amount of time elapsed between triggers. Skill – Domain Magic

This one spawned a flurry of discussion between Calen, Seth, and Lyeneru, but Ali tuned them out for a moment.

So, these were the weird minions? She studied the domain magic carefully. The Mana Echo minions had been conspicuously not present in the additions she had made to her Grimoire, so it was super helpful that she had the skill sheet from using the Arcane Dominance crystals to compare with the baseline Theuronic Crystal. The summoned minions had only eight of the base skills, but they had inherited Alternate Form and Affinity Amplification, making them stand on par with a regular boss. Of course, their stamina and health had been replaced, making them die when they ran out of mana.

This skill would require a little more strategy to use effectively, but she already had several great options in mind. Certainly, a Champion boss that summoned other bosses – even with the limits of an eroded skill list – might be quite powerful.

She moved on to the next one.

Triggered Summon ConstructRequirements: Raid domain enhancement or greater.Source: Avatar of Annihilation.Triggers: Spawn, Death, or any other Domain Magic.Whenever the chosen trigger event occurs, you summon the chosen construct. Recharge: 30 seconds.Skill – Domain Magic

Uh… this seems crazy, Ali thought as she studied the final domain magic. And the more she thought about it, the crazier it got. It used a similar sort of trigger as the Mana Echo, but that was where the resemblance ended. Clearly, Nathaniel had chosen to trigger the construct summons on the spawn of the Mana Echoes – something that she might not have immediately considered, just from studying the description. There were already three constructs in her Grimoire, the pylon and the dominance crystal, but it was her own Arcanite Disruptor that drove the incredible versatility of this domain magic skill home. Proof that she could research constructs, make or commission them, and then add them to her Grimoire and therefore her boss repertoire stared up at her from the pages of her own Grimoire. Her first thought was to fashion arcane bombs, but the definition of a construct was almost too broad, and likely she would need some time to truly understand the full extent of what this skill might do for her dungeon.

“They’re ready for you, Ali,” Malika said, scooping up several piles of essences and assorted magical reagents left behind in the wake of her deconstruction.

“Ok.” Ali glanced up to find at least half the raid looking at her apprehensively. She didn’t blame them, though; one glance at the pulsing energy held back by the enormous purple dome barrier told her everything she needed to know about what would happen once it came down. Having torn down two of them already, she feared what she would unleash when she opened it.

The healers braced visibly as she approached the barrier.

The formation sprang easily to her fingers, and the golden darts lanced outward, piercing the thick arcane barrier, creating ripples that emanated outward from the point of impact. Purple smoke rose, and the barrier dissolved, rapidly eroded by the accelerating wave of destruction she had unleashed upon it.

Corrupted dark mana, penned up behind the barrier, burst outward in a great billowing wave, crashing down upon the raid group.

You have been afflicted with Soul Well Corruption.The twisted presence of the Corrupted Soul Well tears at the essence of your being.You are afflicted with nausea and disorientation.+21 Soul damage per second to stamina.+53 Soul damage per second to mana.+68 Death damage per second. Undead are healed instead of damaged. Corruption – Aura

“Ugh, nasty!” Mato grumbled, and Ali instantly knew he was underselling it by a lot.

Even under the protection of the potent Mental Fortitude elixir, her mind reeled. The world warped and shifted, bending in strange, incomprehensible ways, and for one horrific moment, she believed herself to be back in that nightmare. Then it slowly stabilized, and she found herself staring out across a blasted landscape.

Ali swallowed uncomfortably. The soft pulse of holy magic registered in her peripheral senses as the healers distributed magic to counter the oppressive aura.

The ground still pulsed with that dark, twisted energy, reaching all the way to the final barrier that encased Nathaniel, the dungeon artifact, and the well itself. Everywhere, like glowing tombstones, the ground was pierced by jagged blocky pylons of purple arcane magic. Walls of fractured barrier magic thrust up out of the ground, haphazard and shattered. It looked like the ruins of a once-beautiful city crafted from purple glittering crystal, right after the hand of a Titan had smashed down upon it from the heavens. Or the broken teeth of a vast purple subterranean monster.

The wraith of Nathaniel Sunstrider stopped drifting and fixed Ali with dead, staring orbs. Then he raised a single, ethereal, bony hand to rest upon the floating dungeon artifact, and his undead body filled with a rush of mana.

A giant circle of runes ignited among the shattered rubble and across the blighted ground. Purple and black smoke billowed upward as if frantically fleeing what would come. From the center of the glowing ring of power, shrouded by smoke and tendrils of necromancy, a dark figure arose.

A dark purple glow ignited within the cloud, a blaze of malevolence emanating from a crystal embedded in the figure’s chest and tainted by swirling, restless currents of death. It pulsed. And after a pause, it pulsed again, like a steady, corrupted heartbeat of mana that bore down on them with the weight of mountains.

