“Good, good.” Though he wanted to share in his son’s joy, a burst of muffled laughter caught his ear and he turned to glare at the offenders. There they stood not fifteen meters away, a crowd of snobbish young nobles and their boot-licking lackeys, laughing at Rain’s declaration of progress. The park was open to all whether they be civilian or soldier, and many were here along with their families to see the animals or pray at the Divine turtle, not to mention an inordinate number of shabbily-dressed Protectorate lurking about. Were it not for their mental well being, Baatar would have long since fenced off the park to keep these undesirable young fops away from his son, as this wasn’t the first time these fools followed Rain and Sarnai about to make mocking gestures and cutting remarks in hopes of garnering a reaction. Baatar had told Rain he was free to order his Death Corps guards to beat them bloody every time they dared showed their damnable smirking faces, but Rain was far too forgiving of slander and verbal slights, even sometimes laughing along if they were particularly clever.

Not Baatar though. This was his son, a Hero of the Empire who took injury in battle, but before he could march over and demand their names, the dandies and fops sensed his hostility and scurried away, no doubt only to return once again tomorrow. If not them specifically, another group would take their place, these worthless scions of noble houses taking great delight in Rain’s adversity. Who were they to laugh at his son? What accomplishments had they to boast of? Some were a decade Rain’s senior and still had yet to Condense an Aura or Form a Natal Palace, so what right did they have to mock a man who did both before the age of nineteen?

“Ignore them, Dad,” Rain said, interrupting Baatar’s brooding anger. “When dogs bark, you don’t drop to all fours and bark back.”

Laughing for them to hear, he said, “An apt analogy, son. Barking dogs indeed.” Though not spoken loudly, the retreating young nobles heard Rain’s mockery and most turned around to glare, but Baatar’s presence kept them from coming back. Were it not beneath him to teach them a lesson, he would’ve chased them down and set them to hard labour, but this didn’t stop him from memorizing their faces and ordering his guards to find out who they were. If the upper beam is not straight, the lower beam will be crooked, so if he couldn’t deal with these young fops, then he could deal with their parents and grandparents.

“Pei.” Glaring at their retreating backs, Sarnai chimed in. “Dogs they may be, but dogs in need of a lesson. Just have them beaten and thrown into the pond, your father will bear the consequences, assuming there even are any. You are too kind son, too tolerant of those insufferable twits, which is why even a mere server –”

Trailing off mid sentence, Sarnai coughed and fell silent. “What happened?” Baatar asked, knowing they had planned to dine at a restaurant earlier today. It was to be Rain’s first real excursion outside the manor aside from his short trips to the pond, one he’d been looking forward to for days now.

“Nothing happened,” Rain replied, but his strained tone and Sarnai’s smouldering glare said otherwise. “We were late to the restaurant because I wanted to walk there and they gave away our tables. No big deal.”

This was an act which touched Rain’s bottom line, and Baatar could see the server would live to regret his actions. Putting the bears down, he stroked the boy’s hair and Sent, “Just don’t burn the place down. Even if you kill the server, no one will dare touch you.”

“So bloodthirsty.” Rolling his eyes, Rain regained his good cheer and grinned. “Don’t worry, I’ve put things in motion. Truth be told, I kind of wanted to go full-noble at the restaurant and scream, ‘Do you know who my father is?’, or something close, but even crippled and broken, I can’t let myself sink so low.”

Since they made no effort to conceal their conversation, many of the other park-goers heard his comment and laughed, because in truth, Rain was still better than those worthless scions who mocked him. Had the Enemy not conspired to break him, Rain would not only be the Number One Young Talent in the Empire, he would soon also be a contender for the Number One Expert under thirty. Even after his Core shattered, Rain took yet another step along the Martial Path and developed his Domain, and though the circumstances had been unique and he was unable to duplicate his success since, he’d already done it once so he could easily do it again after he learned to overcome his shortcomings. Baatar had sent multiple messages to Broken Blade Pichai asking the Southerner to come share his experiences with Rain, but thus far, there’d been no word from the reclusive Peak Expert. While he could put in a request for a leave of absence and go invite Pichai in person, there was too much which needed to be done, and Rain had never once mentioned wanting to speak with the Southerner, but the moment he raised the request, Baatar would move Heaven and Earth to fulfill it.

Oh how he wished he could go back in time and keep himself from leading Rain down this path, or if that wasn’t possible, at least change how he’d gone about Mentoring the boy. It was difficult to guide a brilliant mind like Rain’s, because too much guidance might hinder his talents while too little could see him veer off the proper path, but since he progressed so quickly without guidance, then Baatar saw no reason to interfere. Learning so many new skills could impact the boy’s foundation and spread his focus too thin, but the boy was already at the forefront of his peers and had many years to shore up his weaknesses before turning twenty-five.

Unfortunately, Baatar had grown complacent in Rain’s progress and didn’t pay the boy enough mind. Oftentimes, Heavenly Insight and mundane inspiration were indistinguishable from one another, much like the boy’s idea to use his second 'personality' or Keystones to anchor his Natal Palace, but what Baatar failed to account for was that Rain wasn’t merely a genius, he was an unconventional genius. When presented with a bottleneck, instead of working hard to break through, he instead devoted his efforts to devising ways around them. Where most who found it difficult to Amplify would continue practising until they mastered the skill, Rain developed a way to relegate Amplification to an unconscious process via his Keystones, alongside other skills he found troublesome to manage. While it might seem like Insightful brilliance, Baatar saw through the flaws with a single glance and spent long hours convincing the boy of his concerns.

Although the Keystones allowed Rain to use Amplification on demand, he was no longer performing the skill, but reproducing a single instance of success. It was the difference between drawing a portrait and tracing one, because no matter how many times you did it, tracing another artist’s work would never make you a proper artist. If Rain never consciously practised a skill, then how was he to learn all the distinct characteristics and subtle nuances involved? This applied not only to Amplification, but also to Reinforcement, Lightening, and other skills, for this fundamental knowledge and familiarity would be crucial during later steps along the Martial Path. Though useful, Keystones were like Sarnai’s wheeled chair: rely too much on it while you are healthy, and your strength would waste away.

Though Rain had ventured down a dead-end fork on the Martial Path, it was a small matter which could easily be fixed had his Core not been shattered. Where others might stumble and falter for months, years, and even decades, before reaching a milestone, Rain had run headlong down the Martial Path and made great strides with every passing week. Despite minimal direction, he Condensed his Aura in the heat of battle and he even Formed his Natal Palace without knowing what a Natal Palace was, a feat never before even heard of. Though Rain attributed his quick progress to almost becoming Defiled, if the Father could simply bestow so much strength upon His mortal agents, then the Empire would have long since fallen to the Enemy’s might.

Just knowing how far Rain had gone on his own filled Baatar with pride because his son was a brilliant genius, but it also shamed him to know his Disciple had achieved such heights without his help, meaning he wasn’t only a failure of a father to Rain, but also a failure of a Mentor.

“Don’t worry Dad,” Rain said, startling Baatar out of his thoughts. Reaching over to squeeze his hand, Rain smiled and whispered, “I won’t be like this forever. Just you watch.”

Brimming with pride, Baatar vowed to do better by his son and Disciple, though he wasn’t certain Rain even needed a Mentor. “I believe you, son,” he said, squeezing back ever so gently. “This is merely a minor issue for a man like yourself.” Clearing his throat and holding back tears, he quickly changed the subject to a lighter subject. “The new year is almost upon us, and you will finally be a man grown, though some would argue you have been one since the day we found you.” Chuckling at Rain’s awkward, almost shame-faced cringe, Baatar continued, “Since the timing is right, what say we set a date for your marriage to Mila and Yan? Immediately after the two weeks of new years celebrations is always a popular time, and it’s also when I married your mother...”

Sensing something was wrong, Baatar trailed off as Rain looked away and Sarnai fixed him with a murderous glare. After a long silence, Rain coughed and said, “Err... I was thinking... we should probably hold off until after I recover. Because... well... yea.”

“Dog-brained fool,” Sarnai Sent, her tone ablaze with fury. “How is he to consummate his marriages as he is? My son’s skin is thick, but even he has his limits.”

All too late Baatar understood what Sarnai meant, and he immediately went red with shame. How terrible of him to suggest... The poor boy, he couldn’t even...

...

No wonder Mila and Yan had ridden out for the front lines in bloodthirsty pursuit of Gen, or at least whatever strange being inhabited him. Not only did this creature cripple their beloved betrothed, he also interfered with their sweet marital bliss...

Despite all the unknowns regarding Gen or the Defiled Expert inhabiting his flesh, Baatar was certain the creature’s fate would be sealed if he stumbled across Mila or Yan, for like Rain once said, hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.

Chapter Meme
