It was quite the feast for less than fifty people, but it was a nice break as the days turned to a month of waiting.

Once the enchanting was done after the first week, Matt gave in and started following a team around after ensuring they didn’t mind.

Matt watched as they selected specimens of the local non-rift monsters they wanted to transport home, putting them in small simulated environments that would, while not perfect, hopefully make do for a few dozen years until they made it home.

That was made easier when Magnus was happy to let the pigs roam on a quickly made island. Matt was pretty sure he was angling to spread the lineage in his own herd, but no one called him out on it, not that Matt thought it really mattered.

From there, they started cutting down trees.

They mainly aimed at the younger trees, less saturated in energy, but they did take down a few of the older ones, leaving the actual oldest trees which were believed to have the best chance at turning into Natural Treasures. Whether true or not, Matt wasn’t going to insist on breaking such a taboo for a simple bit of wood.

Not that Matt truly could say he understood why the wood was valuable at all. According to the teams he tagged along with, such ‘true’ old woods sold well enough to be brought back to settled space for those who cared about where their item material had grown. Part of what the crew were delivering was a guarantee that the wood was genuinely harvested in another world that wasn’t a farm or rift-created, but had been pulled off its own proper world.

Matt was happy to do his part and stand close enough so some of the recordings of the work picked him up. He liked the crew and suspected that him being in the recording might increase the price of those pieces, and he was willing to help.

Just when Matt thought they were finally done and going to start delving, the crew requested [Portal]s to the outer planets where they repeated their harvesting cycles.

Matt, Liz, and three of the harvesting crew, being the only ones who could, flew into the central Tier 27 star and harvested the few rare materials that formed inside celestial bodies. Only then did the harvesting group quickly sneak a delve in.

Matt was mildly embarrassed when he realized why everything the crew did looked so foreign to him. It was what normal delving teams did when they entered a higher-Tier rift. Especially after Tier 25, when the rift slot wait times became measured in decades per delve.

Most teams made sure to extract every ounce of value from the Tiered materials inside, using them to help fund their lives outside the rifts.

It was something they had stopped bothering with after Luna took over their training. She cared more about efficiency of delving so there was more time to practice in a day, and they had zero reason to change their stance in the meantime.

He wasn’t happy he had become so detached from something so common.

His bored musings were, thankfully, interrupted.

Three months into their waiting time, their head start officially vanished.

Matt was messing with a mana crystal, trying to replicate the strange realm’s storage crystal, when he felt a ship pop into real space.

It was a lone Tier 30 Clans ship arriving with full shields powered, ready for a fight.

Matt could almost read the ups and downs of the ship's crew's emotions as the ship's weapons started charging but suddenly stopped, and then a moment later they ripped their way back into chaotic space.

The crew onboard the Unsparing were ready and they chased the other ship into chaotic space. Not to fight, but to make sure the other ship didn’t start trying to broadcast their location immediately.

With their reputation, that would lead to unnecessary fights, and they wanted to delay that as much as possible.

Thankfully, the other ship didn’t broadcast anything before they were out of sensor range.

Returning to real space, they settled back in, only for an Empire vessel to arrive two days later.

The ship was large by exploration ship standards, only slightly smaller than the Unsparing, and registered to someone important enough in Lila’s guild’s database that Matt was sent a system-wide alert upon the other ship's arrival. Not that he needed it once he saw the ship’s name.

Evander Vidal was a legend similar to Lila in the Empire's chaotic space exploration social circles for having above average luck.

Rising from nothing, he managed to reach Tier 15 in five hundred years with the singular purpose of getting beyond mere normal space. Impressive but not eye grabbing, his reputation was born when, only months after breaking through to Tier 15, he set out on a solo expedition in a ship that never should have avoided its fate of being scrapped.

Against all odds, he not only survived but found several incredibly valuable Tier 13 Natural Treasures in his exploration, making a name for himself.

Officially, he had only been lucky, but most believed he was an unregistered Seeker. No matter the how, his fame had been cemented in the last three thousand years as he repeatedly came back from even short jaunts with hauls larger than most teams’ record ventures.

Leveraging those resources and his own prodigious combat ability, he had advanced to Tier 30 in less than five thousand years, making his name famous throughout the social ranks of the Empire’s explorers.

Growing up, Matt had been part of a generation when Evander Vidal’s name was fairly entrenched within popular culture, with several movies coming out in short order of some of his adventures, which was why he was interested in meeting the man himself.

According to everything Matt knew, Evander Vidal was an elite somewhere between high and peak, but even as a fresh Tier 30, he managed to slip out of the grasp of several notably aggressive exploration groups. To back himself up, his ship had two contingents of well-trained troops who were all at least low-level elites, with most being mid-levels.

Vidal’s guild was a one ship crew, and was all the stronger for it.

Matt wanted to know if the reputation was an illusion or if it was true, how good the older explorer really was.

His hope was dashed when they received a query from a voice Matt had heard on movie screens as Evander exited his ship and spoke. “I hadn’t really expected to find you all. Is this the world you wish to ride out the initial storm on? It seems unnecessarily dangerous.”

The man looked similar to his movie self, his appearance not particularly striking, but he carried himself with such an air and dignity, he simply radiated charm. His most notable feature was the striations that slowly rippled over his body in purple waves, in sync with his slow heart beats. According to his movies, it was the effect of taking a unique Natural Treasure found at the heart of a world’s ruin, but Lila’s guild doubted that claim, though they didn’t have definitive proof.

Liz spoke for them. “We had been considering it. Since you expected us, should I assume the Clans ship we let go spread the news?”

Evander nodded, his medium length hair flailing in front of his eyes exactly as it did in the movies Matt had seen.

Brushing the offending lock of hair away, he grinned as he put his full attention onto Aster. “Indeed they have. Me and mine were close by when we heard the news. I’ll offer a place at my side as my team and I go to a nearby Tier 20 world. Fifty-fifty split and we help each other defend it. A much better offer than staying here, considering how many people are coming now that the word is out.”

Aster flicked her tail, seeing that he was still looking at her with an easy grin. “And just what would the cost of such generosity be?”

Evander did not surprise Matt by grinning back. “Would it be too forward if I made the cost of my offer of alliance a nice little dinner between the two of us when things settle down back in the Empire?”

Given the undisguised glances the seasoned explorer had given Aster, Matt had expected something more crude. Liz and his committed relationship and public rejections of all kinds of offers kept all but the most bold at bay, but Aster was often considered ‘fair game’.

The other explorer hadn’t been too pushy, so Matt wasn’t surprised Aster didn’t react more harshly. In addition, he could feel Aster was secretly gloating for a reason unrelated to this situation through their bond. He couldn’t clearly sense why she was so happy, despite probing her a few times, and so let her play her game.

Seeing no immediate acceptance, Evander smiled as he took a step back. “I kid about that being the price, but I’ll make the offer for a more friendly dinner all the same. There are a lot of people coming to this breach, and it is dangerous to tread alone.”

After smiling at Aster once more, he turned his attention to the rest of them.

“Being a little slower than you all, I’ve got a better understanding of what is coming than I think you do. This area is going to be heavily contested. Against all believability, the Sects unleashed a new waypoint and are using their combined strength to claim a good portion of the breach. They attack anyone who approaches and the rapid expansion of their territory is pushing everyone else into each other, causing even more conflict. I suspect it will only get worse until everyone starts to settle down. High Tier areas such as this will be the most contested. If you choose to stay, prepare yourselves and be careful. There have already been instances of Tier 35s punching down. Some even managed to hide their identities after the fact, making it unlikely anyone will ever be able to get retribution. Instead of fighting over these scraps, the strange realms’ rewards are the true prizes.”

Evander tried to convince them once last time.

“We knew of the Sects’ new waypoint, but thank you for being willing to pass on such important news anyway. We will stay here for a bit, but we will take your advice to heart,” Aster responded in a serious manner.

Her expression relaxed slightly and as she added, “I will, however, accept the dinner invitation.”

With perfect timing, exactly when Evander was registering her acceptance, Aster finished, “As friends. Let's get to know each other better before considering anything else.”

Matt nearly turned and looked at his bond when he heard her last sentence. He was surprised Aster had accepted, let alone flirted back. It was rare for her, and so far, there hadn’t been any second dates. Though, she kept in contact with a few of the people she’d gone out with. If he wasn’t her bond and knew she wasn’t interested in the other explorer, he wouldn’t have been that surprised, but she indicated she would explain later, so Matt dropped it.

Evander grinned as he floated back into his ship. “Then you must protect yourselves. Good luck. Maybe we'll see each other during the scramble for strange realms.”

With Evander’s departure, they were left alone for another week before they got their first challenger.

The Guilds ship arrived and tried to leverage the relationship between their Great Powers to get a slice of the pie that was the world below.

Liz refused flatly the abysmal terms they were offering and told them to leave. If they had been at all equitable, she would have happily agreed, but when it was clear they wanted to freeload, she sent them packing.

The Guilds’ crew left the real space system with a new scar on their hull, courtesy of Zack, who disabled their shield long enough for Matt to land a [Mana Slash] to encourage them to be on their way.

Before the next encounter, the portion of the crew who had been delving returned safely, having pulled out the easily accessible metals and ores they found through their journey.

Even normal Tier 30 metals were valuable at such scale, and for the teams that stuck around on a world and delved it down, a lot of their cargo space would be dedicated to moving such material back to the Empire as efficiently as possible.

The team that showed up next was no slouch.

Tier 33s, the group weren’t elites but they seemed willing to press their luck with a four Tier advantage.

Matt calmly listened to Liz talk, all while quietly preparing himself for an alpha strike.

He used that time to build up momentum, and when words failed and blades were raised, he rushed forward.

Matt didn’t use any complicated spell, keeping to his to-be-merged trifecta of spells.

The four Tier gap wasn’t just for show.

The lead tank blocked Matt’s opening attack, his Tier 34 shield taking the hit with hardly a scratch. The spells’ combined energies billowed around them in space like a creeping fog, obscuring the battlefield to visual and spiritual sense alike. An unintended consequence of throwing so much mana around but a useful one as it didn’t hamper his senses nearly as much.

Having Tiered up, the cloud was considerably bigger than before, even though their combined energies were still ineffective against the higher-Tier man’s protections.

Matt didn’t let that slow his follow up attack.

[Wind Cutter], much faster than even [Mana Slash], flashed out, aiming for the smallest gap in between the informal shield wall, allowing the spell to bypass the frontliners, heading for the mages in the rear.

The attack struck one of the support mages, tearing a wound across their torso and turning their battle with Aster over the magical surroundings decisively in his bond’s favor.

The world turned white around Matt, but whispers on the wind told him where his enemies were, while those same winds screamed dissonant and confusing things in his opponents’ ears.

