Chapter 449

A few additional planets worth of Natural Treasures added to their haul and people quickly approaching their rear, the Unsparing ran into the final obstacle for the breach: the bubble of third layer energies at the core of this scramble.

Despite their surroundings making it easy to forget, they were still well within the first layer of chaotic space.

The layer two energies, along with the higher than normal concentration of worlds they traveled through for years now, were only a pocket of higher strength energies shoved into the first layer. That was what a breach was after all, and what made it so valuable.

What was much rarer was a third layer bubble of energies making it all the way to the first layer. That was what separated the Rasdale tidal breach from the others: it regularly shoved third layer worlds into the first.

Anyone with a ship that could probably do so, would enter the third layer, but Matt expected few to be able to, and fewer still willing to risk it. Most ships that could enter the third layer were aiming for the portion of the breach that was still in the second layer of chaotic space, the portion that had failed to penetrate the calmer areas. Those worlds had the possibility for far greater riches, which inadvertently limited the Tier of the people around the Unsparing by tempting the strongest away.

That wouldn’t stop higher-Tier people from trying to insert themselves among the Tier 35 and below, but the breach was big, and they could hopefully avoid most of that type of explorer.

Since everyone was operating under the same general timeline, it was far safer to wait for the energies to dissipate. Once the third layer area started to weaken into a second layer energy state, everyone would descend upon the core of even more valuable worlds.

The Unsparing was no exception.

Ships that could handle third layer energies were incredibly expensive, and Lila had chosen to buy a new ship instead of retrofitting her existing one.

They would wait, but in the meantime, there were two things to do.

Properly loot a world and delve its rifts for first clear rewards. While that happened, word would start to spread about strange realms and then they, like everyone else, would start flying to the nearest ones that seemed enticing. The trick was in arriving before the strange realms broke or were taken over by a faction that was too strong to negotiate with.

It would then be another round of fights to determine who could enter what, but that was typical for breaches.

Being Tier 29, they would almost certainly be fine, so long as they didn’t fight over any of the incredibly rare Tier 32 and higher worlds, now that there were probably Tier 35s openly running around.

If anyone like that with overwhelming cultivation confronted the seven of them, they would have to retreat.

The size of the loss would determine how far they retreated; they wouldn't mind sharing the system if someone really wanted to dig in long term, but even their titles could only do so much if someone too strong arrived. At that point, all they could do was retreat or flee via Allie’s Talent, and that would be a lot easier if Allie had a waypoint out here.

With that in mind, the first thing they did once they reached the wall was perform several divinations, both of their Seekers putting in their best efforts to pinpoint where they should go.

They were only able to get a vague direction of where they would find the best loot, but both seekers had warned the seven of them that being so close to the higher layer energies, their divinations would be weaker, and nearly useless inside.

They were only Tier 30s, and like the ship, not rated to enter the third layer.

Matt was of little mind to push them or the ship.

After their latest experience, Matt wanted to tackle more strange realms more than he wanted to delve planetary rifts. For the rest of the crew, the allure of first delve rewards were nigh irresistible, so Matt had no issue in them settling down and letting the crew run a few of the rifts for first clear rewards until things quieted.

As it turned out, their Seekers' predictions were dead accurate, because after a few weeks of flying semi-blindly on their best guesses, they found a Tier 30 world just as it exited the third layer where they dared not probe.

They set down on it, knowing it would draw attention, but they weren’t going to give up their first-mover advantage so they wouldn’t be contested. Even if they intended to move on quickly and not linger, like other guilds would.

Seeing that there were no strange realms, Matt’s interest dropped as he looked around them and saw what they had for defenses nearby.

The very strength of the planet's core would prevent other groups from entering reality much deeper than they had entered at. Unless their enemies' cultivation or equipment vastly surpassed Tier 30, the seven of them only needed to defend themselves from above, which was an advantage.

With only seven of them, they didn’t have the manpower to fully contend against groups who would want to use their numbers to circumvent them and reach the planet while they fought the combatants, but that was unlikely to happen at all.

Unless an exploration team was willing to earn a lot of unneeded animosity, most fights were to surrender, and so there was no reason to fully stop anyone who slipped by. If the seven of them won, the interlopers wouldn’t be able to return without emptying their pockets.

Still, they needed to be cautious.

Technically, the Unsparing even had a solution for more hostile engagements, but it was so expensive that if they lost, the winning team would undoubtedly demand it in any negotiations.

The deployable drone network, for all of its advantages, had one glaring flaw. While it only took fifteen minutes to deploy the system, it took longer to properly store them, making them difficult to collect in a retreat in anything but the most ideal situation.

Matt voted no on deploying the network, not caring too much about anything anyone got off the world after their people already went through and collected everything they could grab. Instead, he worked together with Zack and Rah while the crew let loose.

Intending to stay for months, possibly years, as the energies weakened, they planned to give the Tier 30 world a proper scouring, which they hadn’t been willing to commit the time to yet in their journey so far.

Matt thought he had seen thorough looting before, being on the Path and in the army both, but he underestimated what an exploration team might find valuable.

When he had spare attention, he idly watched the gathering process as he carved miles of enchantments on the fortress they were creating.

The first thing the crew did was to inspect all three inner most worlds, including the moons, identifying everything of value in the star system.

Then, starting at the highest-Tier world, they started digging in.

Matt expected another quick but thorough sweep of the world, where they grabbed more of the world’s items, such as metal deposits too small for them to usually bother replacing, but the Unsparing’s crew went much more in depth than that.

Assisted by Matt, who was able to cast and hold two [Portal]s to the other nearby planets in the star system, the crew could hit all three worlds at once. That increased their work load, but also increased their efficiency, as they were able to better stagger their work. He pretended he could only cast it for fifteen minutes every hour, but that was still more than enough to earn him looks of awe from the crew and teasing from the others, but Liz and Aster most of all.

Matt, at least, didn’t mind this admiration. Even with his Talent doing the hardest work of powering the spells, he had worked long and hard to even be able to cast and hold spells of that magnitude all on his own.

He didn’t mind accepting praise for things he actually earned.

That, and being Tier 29 helped a ton. The Tier up actualizing their last layer of essence had bolstered his spirit, increasing his normal range and making it easier to go past that range with Allie’s help when needed.

Tiering up was truly the answer to most problems— except the ones it created, like destroying Matt’s fine mana control after his mana doubling.

The crew started with the Natural Treasures and rare metals like usual, but they took the time to strip mine the worlds, going after anything solid and larger than a person.

The crew was well practiced in extracting not only the fairly valuable Tiered ores, including the enriched and depleted variants, but replacing the metals with ores pulled from the nearest low-Tier rift that had the appropriate metals deposits.

Matt knew that expeditions were mainly after the depleted and enriched ores, but without replacing what they took, an exploration team might ruin a world and make it impossible to produce Natural Treasures in the future. At their Tier, it wasn’t too much harder to replace what they took, so they kept to the accepted best practices.

The crew had told Matt of worlds inadvertently ruined because of such rough treatment, later found as energy-rich wastelands with little left to collect, regardless of Tier.

That meant any serious explorers were masters of thousands of tasks which Matt had never considered, and all of them were to make money.

Once the Natural Treasures had been collected, Matt expected the harvest crew members to start delving with the remaining members of the crew, who together wanted to see if they could complete a delve in the allotted six months before the risk of another team arriving and forcing them off the planet became too great.

They would exit or the rift would be dissipated, but Matt didn’t expect issues.

Instead, he watched in a sort of sick fascination as the harvesting crew crawled around like ants on a corpse, extracting every ounce of value they could without damaging the ecosystem.

Because of readily available spatial expansion, storage space was cheap but mass was impossible to entirely reduce with enchantments; they didn’t grab everything but it sure felt like it. Especially with how they went as far as returning mass to an area after they harvested it by creating a small wildfire and adding a corresponding amount of material pulled from nearby rifts, simulating natural events as much as possible.

The crew then took samples of all of the populous wildlife, so long as they weren’t still directly connected to a rift, identifying anything with any kind of value before calculating how much of each it would be optimal to take.

Then they ruthlessly hunted down and purged every rift-connected monster through small-scale floating fortresses they built over the first few busy days, in a practiced fashion, out of preconstructed slabs mixed with local materials.

Their well-rehearsed groups were perfectly capable of clearing hostile rift monsters on their own, but they seemed more than happy to have Liz, Aster, Allie, and Susanne step in while Matt, Zack, and Rah continued their orbital enchantment efforts.

The crew didn’t move on once the outer rift breaks were handled. Instead they broke down the monsters they had just killed, harvesting and packing everything away in various storage rings.

Matt asked what would happen and the captain explained, “It’s not surprising you don’t recognize the practice, most teams don’t go this far, but we do this for the highest-Tier world we think we’ll hit and take as much as we can fit in a set amount of storage. The first step is to clear rift breaks and collect the parts as you see here. The common meats, once confirmed to be safe at the normal rift monster complications levels, are thrown into hyper large preservation-capable storage boxes made for this effect. Most of the meat will be sold to various food companies. They will clean it up, grind it up, mix it with a ton of other things so it’s balanced and sell it. Most will end up in various animal feeds. Anything more valuable or rich in power will get set aside to be checked. If we are lucky, one of these rifts will make something that tastes really good, then we can give you and everyone else a little surprise, Ascender Titan, as we target farm it.”

When Matt asked about the rest, the Captain continued, “The same goes for the bones and hides. Anything valuable gets set aside, the rest gets sold to bulk traders. It's not worth a ton, but the boxes aren’t used much beyond once per exploration, so the wear and tear is minimal. Most only need maintenance every few thousand years, so they are a small but expensive investment some teams won't make. To me, it's one of the signs of a good guild. If they are thinking about the small stuff to that degree, they are usually covering the really important things."

Better informed, Matt checked in from time to time as the crew continued to clear the planet of monsters. All of them were peak Tier 30s, but they were more than happy to have so many Tier 30 monsters to collect, smiles on everyone's face.

As for the two other worlds, they cleared them out the same way but didn’t bother collecting the materials so carefully. Bodies were stored separately in the leftover space until they were full, then they were simply thrown into the rifts from where they had escaped. That many bodies would ruin an ecosystem otherwise.

Once the monsters were taken care of and all three worlds pacified, the crew went and tasted one of everything.

The Ascenders were, as promised, invited to the impromptu party. A type of pig creature, as well as a fish of unremarkable color or size, had both been rated as excellent tasting, and so the crew cooked up half a dozen of each animal, combining them with other local items, seeing what worked well and what didn’t.

