It wasn’t often Aster was able to cast [Winter’s Last Whisper], a technique won from a minor bet with Sien. The original air spell wasn't nearly so useful, but Matt had to admit, the modified version lived up to the reputation.

With the very wind at his beck and call, Matt darted in, this time not alone as Susanne, Rah, and Liz arrived.

Metal meeting metal, magic meeting magic, the fight was on.

The three approaching Lizzes were in her own miniature phalanx, covering each other as much as possible from the rain of spells and arrows. However, when a mage did manage to land a blow, the struck Liz exploded in a shower of ichor that was carried along by Aster's wind.

Surprisingly, one of the enemy healers caught the maneuver. Even with Aster's debuff spells weakening their opponents, they managed to force all of Liz out of their circle, saving the rest of the team from being attacked by every drop of blood that made it inside.

That didn’t stop the following two Lizzes from clashing with the frontline fighters, trying to draw one of them out of the skirmish line and overwhelm them.

The enemies were faster and stronger thanks to the Tier difference.

Matt, even fully boosted, was forced to plan three steps ahead to keep his limbs mostly attached.

He willingly traded limbs for attempts at weak spots, but their enemy commander kept their people from overextending, which meant any wounds Matt did inflict were immaterial.

Fighting at such a Tier deficit against people, especially well-organized and trained people, was much harder than monsters, and their higher-Tier equipment made everything harder still.

Not that it was impossible to land a blow.

A sudden, sharp turn from a magical spell, as it transformed into travel mana to increase its speed, forced out a surrender from one of the enemy crossbowmen who had been focusing on Zack and Aster.

Zack hadn’t managed to kill the archer with the redirected attack, but the spell melted their eyes badly enough they immediately admitted defeat to prevent a followup.

That brought a small moment of relief to the group, but it was short lived as the attackers pressed their advantage again.

The fact they were fighting in space suddenly became obvious, causing everyone to pause briefly to ensure a rout wasn’t about to happen before resuming their clash. The impenetrable winter winds faded for a moment, leaving only the stillness of vacuum. They were replaced by even stronger and more ferocious winds as Aster reestablished dominance once more.

Matt used the momentary pause to reengage next to Rah, who was doing his best to stop the advance of the enemies near him. Two on one, the lower Realm ascender was barely holding on. Despite being out-sped and out-muscled, he managed to get one of their enemies’ shields out of position, forming an opening at the cost of his left hand and creating an opportunity for Matt.

Aiming for the armpit, Matt landed a wind-empowered thrust that slipped into the chest cavity, bypassing most of the armor and reinforced flesh, shredding the man’s softer insides. His enemy's life was only saved by his helmet's protective enchantment, which cut his head off, getting a barrier between the brain and the wind blades running rampant in the cage that was his former armor.

The blow wasn’t inherently lethal; the wind blades might not have reached the brain, but many would surrender knowing Matt could have directed the energies upward instead of down. Instead, the man fought on.

Not knowing if it was a bluff, a feint, or outright ‘cheating’, Matt thrust out. Energy crackled along the length of his blade, but this time, he aimed for the enemy's head, directly pushing himself to the point his flesh ripped and tore trying to keep up with the much faster fighter.

The moment before Matt’s blade could land, cyan lights danced around the man’s floating head, shielding him with a cotton-like barrier that repelled Matt’s attack. The man's wounds miraculously healed, the blood and viscera that had collected in the armor forming back into a recognizable shape.

Having felt that type of barrier before, Matt thrust forward again, aiming towards the weak area he knew existed in this sort of shield.

His second thrust wasn’t blocked and it bypassed the healing spell as if there wasn’t a barrier at all.

When the cold steel of his lattice sword skewered the man through the mouth, he surrendered.

In return, Matt took a spell-enhanced short-range lunge from the man’s replacement, who disengaged from where Susanne struggled to fight off two people.

Using the power from the Tier difference, Matt went with the blow instead of fighting it and landed next to Zack and Allie.

Not having a shield wall in front of him, Matt joined Zack in trying to take out the ranged opponents, while Aster maintained cover for the entire team.

Matt was forced to enter the frontline fight again when Susanne had to disengage to a Liz for healing, having willingly taken a sword to the chest in order to finish off an opponent.

Taking her place, Matt took a heavy blow on the chest that shattered most of his ribs.

Focusing on defense, Matt held off three fighters until Susanne returned, still covered in blood but mostly healed. Together, they baited out an extended lunge and decapitated another of their enemies.

They weren’t the only ones to secure a bloody victory.

Two Lizzes dragged a frontliner out of the shield wall and inflicted so much damage to the tank that even with a healer's full attention, their enemy still surrendered, fearing for their life. But one Liz was evaporated in return from a mage’s sound wave spell.

The battle stalled slightly for a few moments after that but Matt didn’t mind.

Instead, he signaled a retreat into their fortress and everyone followed.

There was little reason to not use their defensive advantage when it became clear their enemies weren’t pushovers.

From inside the shielding, it almost looked like it was raining, with the shield going opaque at the impacts before clearing, only to be hit again and restart the cycle.

Not content to let them batter away, the seven of them went on the offensive. Now that they didn’t have to defend, they were able to unleash much more power.

Three Lizzes joined together, and leveraging her multiple Domain emitters, she boosted a [Scarlet Plague]. With their mages occupied by Zack and Aster, she was able to circumvent their front line defenses and strike at the Clans team’s less-defended backline.

Zack followed that up by redirecting a fellow mage’s spell into the back of a shield wall member, letting Allie teleport next to them and cut off their head before teleporting away again, leaving them to flee the battlefield.

Their enemies’ Tier and gear were doing a lot of the heavy lifting, and even fully boosted, Matt found it hard to follow every move. Instead, he fought more with his instincts than coordinated planning.

Seeing a gap open up as Liz slipped a tendril of ichor into the formation and caused chaos, Matt flared [Mana Beam] but paused as the spell wavered.

Normally, that only happened when he had so much spiritual damage his control slipped, but Matt could feel it wasn’t because of that. Neither was it because of his mana control, though his recent doubling certainly didn’t help. Rather, he could feel the mana in his spell become so numerous that it wanted to obey natural phenomena instead of the spell’s instruction, and a wave pattern started to form.

The oscillation was less than a millimeter, so small most wouldn’t even notice the discrepancy, but as Matt increased the mana he sent into [Mana Beam] beyond a hundred million mana a second, the problem grew exponentially worse. At two hundred million mana a second, the problem became noticeable to the naked eye, and at three hundred million, Matt was fairly sure he’d lost control over the spell in his spirit and didn’t dare risk it in a fight.

Pausing and dropping some of his unnecessary physical enchantments now that they were behind the barrier, Matt felt as his spirit gained a minor amount of control back, but it didn’t eliminate the problem altogether. Matt had known his mana control would become harder, but he hadn’t expected his mana generation to outpace his spiritual strength to such an extent.

It was far from debilitating, but unless he got ahead of the curve, he’d end up with wasted mana in a fight.

Scanning through the known Natural Treasures they collected so far, Matt identified a few spiritual-strengthening treasures that might help but they were, like his mana concentration, temporary solutions.

He needed another mana crusher, but this time for his spirit itself.

Thankfully, unless the math on his spiritual control growth was different than he suspected, he had a few Tiers before he truly had more mana than he knew what to do with and he was fairly sure that he had a solution already in mind.

That thought made Matt alternatively consider more reserve spells.

Pushing all of the distracting thoughts away, with careful aiming, he forced out another surrender from a mage with [Mana Beam] as their enemies drained themselves trying to keep up the assault on the fortress they retreated to.

Liz took that opportunity and her phoenix body slipped inside a gap in the shield wall, morphing into liquid form and splitting three ways.

Seeing a chance, Matt flared his Domain Meld for a moment, interrupting the enemy Domain binding that tried to trap Liz.

Panic immediately descended on the attacking team as Liz was let loose on their backline, but instead of retreating directly, their leader called for an attack. It wasn’t a bad move, as it kept the momentum from shifting too far out of their favor, but it was risky.

If they didn’t win their first push, they would be in no place for a second.

Pulling back to the barrier, Matt still took multiple blows, but the few that did get through [Cracked Phantom Armor] healed quickly.

Sadly, he was the only one doing so well.

The others had taken their own wounds over the fight. The four Tier gap rendered their armor less effective than normal, but all of them were still in fighting shape while their enemies had suffered numerous losses.

Matt was contemplating casting [Sheer Cold] for the next assault, or detonating the mana talismans he had hidden on the outer walls, but before he could do either, the enemy team decided to cut their losses and pulled back. Having not destroyed a single shield projector in their latest clash, they made the smart call.

All of them were battered and bruised but they had defended their world.

For the first time.

Now they needed to do so again and again for the next five or so years until most explorers, and their conflicts, settled down and it was time to hit as many strange realms as they could before the planets still inside the bubble third layer energy became accessible.
