“Ten silvers on seventeen exchanges!”

“Overconfident fool. Twelve silvers, twenty-five exchanges.”

“Hmph, if the match lasts twenty exchanges, this granddaddy will eat his boots. Twenty silvers, fifteen exchanges.”

Putting the noise out of mind, Mila clenched her jaw and narrowed her eyes, reviewing what she knew about her opponent. Say what you will about his hateful character or shameless behaviour, Zian’s talents were first-rate. Speed, power, coordination, he had it all, paired with a deep understanding of the Forms and a talent for improvisation. Yesterday’s Zian was already gone, replaced by a smarter, better Zian, improving with each match while Mila languished and stagnated, the gap between their martial skills closing bit by bit. Yesterday, the bout lasted seventeen exchanges, so twenty-five wasn’t so far a stretch.

No. No more holding back to hone her martial skills. Today, she would go all out and show him the true difference between them.

“Ready, Young Master?” Jukai asked, officiating the spar. Zian nodded, twirling his blunted sabers. There was no hesitation in his eyes, only grim determination.

“Ready,” Mila declared in answer, falling into her stance and Reinforcing her body, prepared to unleash every bit of power available to her.

“Begin.”

Her spear flashed out the moment Jukai spoke, aimed at Zian’s throat. Leaping back as she advanced, he slapped her spear once, twice, thrice to no effect, the spear still unerringly headed towards him. Eyes wide with surprise, Zian sidestepped, hoping to slip past her guard while still unable to understand why his parry failed time and time again. Hmph, easier to uproot a tree with bare hands than divert Mila’s full powered thrust. Growling, she shifted her stance and kept her prey in her sights, drawing her spear back for a second thrust. Feinting high, she stopped the spear short and charged ahead, crashing into her opponent’s chest shield first. Caught off-guard, Zian backpedalled away but her boot snapped out and caught him mid stride. Tumbling back headfirst, his feet planted into her gut in an effort to stay her hand, realizing that if her spear descended, it would nail him to the stage, blunted or not.

And just like that, the spar ended.

Three exchanges. Her best record yet.

Laying on his back, Zian snarled and cursed as his Aura slammed into Mila, freezing her in place. Digging deep, she fought the waves of overwhelming terror with heated rage, her spear raised and ready to deliver the killing thrust. Victory would be hers, if she could only control her quivering muscles, but the effort was futile.

Her struggle lasted only a heartbeat before his Aura overwhelmed her, the strength fading from her legs as she collapsed on the stage. Tears welled up in her eyes but she refused to cry, unleashing the full force of her glare, the only measure of defiance left to her. Every day the same thing, this hateful, unprincipled, thick-skinned, son of a mule. Unable to defeat her in a fair spar, he'd unleash his Aura before she struck the final blow, robbing her of both pride and victory. To make matters worse, Jukai declared Zian’s victory, his Chi-infused voice carrying over the crowd's jeers and boos.

This marked eight matches and eight losses, the hateful bastard intent on paying her back with interest for assaulting him on Yo Ling’s island. No matter how hard she trained or powerful she became, without Aura or someone to help her block it, Mila was a fish upon the chopping block when facing Zian. It didn’t matter that he relied on Aura to achieve victory, it was merely a skill she lacked the means to counter. If Mila won using her prodigious speed and strength, she’d pay no mind to his cries or complaints either.

To his credit, Zian didn’t gloat or taunt her, merely studying her in silence before turning to leave. His Aura lingered until he was out of sight, the terror melting away as fury and indignation rose in its place. Tossing the practice weapons aside, she ignored the crowd's curses and consolations and hopped onto Atir, riding back to Rain’s ger with all haste. Slamming the door behind her, she buried her head in his pillow and cried with all her might, unleashing all her sorrows and frustrations.

Stupid Zian and his stupid Aura, taking advantage of her stupid pride. Stupid Rain and his stupid bandits, too busy to come avenge her. Stupid Lin and stupid Song, running off and leaving her to face humiliation on her own. Stupid Mama for not coming out to help and stupid Papa for not noticing.

Stupid Emperor, abandoning the Western Province without a second thought. Hundreds of millions of innocent people forsaken and left for dead. Not even the barest efforts made to save them from the Defiled, a cruel, callous decision which shocked her to the core. What was the point? If the Emperor could abandon the West, what’s to stop Him from abandoning the North? Why fight for an Emperor who cared nothing for His people?

Alone in Rain’s bed, Mila mourned the Western Province alongside her crushed hopes and dreams. All her life she’d dreamed of becoming a Hero of the Empire like Mama, only to find the title worth less than dog shit.

What was she supposed to do now?

Chapter Meme
