The Heirs traveled onwards that night, skirting around a settlement that toed the line between a town and a city and had security patrols and protective magic to match. Then they detoured again to avoid paralleling a major road that buzzed with enchanted conveyances carrying people and goods towards the city of Esebus. The density of human habitation decreased after that, with fewer and fewer settlements dotting the windswept plains until they cut off at a sudden line.

It was reminiscent of the eerily deserted mountains, except even the monsters were gone. There were just barren moors as far as the eye could see, without any sign of human habitation. It was hard to believe they were approaching the undisputed capital of the continent. The presence of patrols of soldiers flying high above the plains reassured them they were on the right path. The patrols' eyes and magical sensors played across the terrain to find anybody trying to approach the city along an unsecured path.

Nathan’s antimagic was more than up for the task of keeping them hidden, and they continued to travel carefully and at night to avoid being spotted with more mundane senses. They were pretty sure the soldiers had night vision enchantments, but the simple truth of it was that they didn’t patrol at night.

Finally, after a couple of weeks of travel, the Heirs sighted the city of Esebus on the horizon.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 84192/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 572

Regenerative Focus: 5740/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 5

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 6

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 5

Veracity 2

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 6

High-tier Disguise 7

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
