It couldn't be any of them. That might have been a neat solution if not for the fact that they didn't even originate from the realm. One of the few things he did know was that for the transfer to take, it had to be someone who was native to the realm. That meant they would be in for a difficult conversation sometime soon, but first and foremost...

There was the matter of comforting a child who had lost her father.

Thorn knelt by the atverian child's side. He said nothing for a long moment—simply offered her his hand and made sure she could see it. Gradually, the sobbing trailed off into hiccups, and she looked up and spoke, something in her voice lost and broken.

"Mister...?" she asked. "Who are... why are you all here? Are you here to help Dad?"

Thorn bowed his head. "I am sorry, but—"

"No!" the girl burst out before he could finish speaking; she started hitting him, fists wailing weakly against his shoulders. "No! Don't say it! If you say it, you'll make it real! Magic can do anything! Dad said so! I just have to wish hard enough and... and..."

She trailed off, slowly weakening, and let out a quiet sob. "He's not coming back, is he?"

"I am sorry," Thorn said again.

"Are you one of the Tendrils?" the little girl asked. "Did the Holy Mother send you?"

"I am not."

"Good." Something bitter flashed across her face. "I hate the Holy Mother. It's her fault my dad's—"

She cut herself off before she could finish, her expression crumpling again, and she pulled herself into Thorn's arms, crying uncontrollably. Thorn allowed her to cry out her grief, one hand rubbing gentle circles into her back. He'd withdrawn most of his thorns so he wouldn't stab her by accident.

"I don't understand," she whispered. "Why'd they come? We weren't doing anything. But that stupid... that stupid, evil woman..."

She clenched her tiny fists. "I'm going to kill her," she said, and Cale felt the Darkness that flowed from her with that statement. It was the sort of determination a dark one had that underpinned their very existence, and it had no place coming from a child.

"That is not a task that should be left to a child," Thorn said quietly, and though in most cases that might have been the wrong thing to say to a very determined child, something in his tone seemed to reach her. The girl sagged in his arms, still weeping. "What is your name, little one?"

"It's F'lora," the atverian said quietly. "And the woman that killed my dad is K'teri. Don't let her get away with it. Please. No one even knows she visited, and I-I don't know how long it's been since—"

"Months," Thorn said softly, and F'lora jerked in his arms; she looked up and seemed to notice for the first time the state of the fungal forest, the utter silence that enveloped it. She saw in the distance the other vinewalkers of her village, trapped in roots of her making, and gasped.

"No!" she exclaimed. She reached out instinctively, and the moment she did, the roots retracted, letting the vinewalkers collapse loosely to the ground in relief. "I didn't... I didn't mean to..."

"I know," Thorn said roughly. "They know it, too. They were trying to get to you so they could help. It is alright, F'lora."

"But it's not," F'lora said. "I... I hurt them. I didn't mean to hurt them, but I still hurt them. Dad always said we need to take reponsilibity when we hurt people."

"Your father was a very wise man," Thorn said gravely. "But there is a more pressing matter we must address. Can you stand?"

"I think so, but... I don't want to leave dad alone." F'lora turned to look at the still-frozen state of her father and pressed one hand against his.

"He will be there for you later," Thorn told her. "But he would want you to eat. It has been months, after all. Your magic may have sustained you, but you must be starving."

"I..." F'lora looked down. "O... Okay. I'm pretty hungry..."

"Come now." Thorn took her hand gently, standing. "We will discuss this further elsewhere."
