“Renny... can you...” she gestured to the area and the watching animals. They weren’t quite self-aware, but their time beyond their natural lifespan had increased their intelligence. They were watching the scene intently.

Renny bowed extravagantly.

His power as a ringmaster seeped out like colourful cheery lines and slowly began to connect to each animal, gently...

Delta got a pop-up.

Ringmaster Renny would like to hire the animals of the Silence Menagerie. Spend 50 DP to increase the Circus room to hold these unique animals?

Delta hit yes and smiled.

“They’ve suffered enough. Let’s give these animals a good home, but if any don’t thrive... we’ll set their souls free,” she promised Renny, and a few animals seemed to shift as their forms began to vanish.

Breaking down and being rebuilt on the second floor.

Delta knew this was supposed to be bordering on contracts, but it was more like three steps below contracts. Delta couldn’t empower them nor would they be as well-fed on her mana (good thing they were already dead), and on top of that, they were limited to a single room as a unit.

All around her, the room was becoming consumed by her Mana. She watched as the pain and suffering caused here was removed. It was cleaning itself for a better future.

Delta nodded, wiping her eyes to make sure she could see it all.

First, this room.

Next?

Every last inch of this fortress would be scrubbed clean.

A notification appeared in front of her with an orange screen showing it was from the system, not Nu.

Silent Menagerie absorbed. Dissolve room in exchange for one monster slot?

Delta blinked.

“I can do that?” she asked in shock.

The system reports that clearing the excess space will cut down on third-floor performance issues. Since the animals are now on the second floor, the area here is entirely redundant over the need for more monsters to defend the core. The system, too, is learning to change the rules when the need for it arises.

Well. How could Delta argue with her logic used against her?

“I can get another Guardgoyle or... something!” She announced and she suddenly gave a yelp as she and all her monsters were hoisted out of the room as if attached to bungee cords. The door slammed shut before stone ran down its surface like liquid, removing any trace that it had been there. Beyond the door, the room was yeeted into the void, if Delta’s senses were correct.

Total monster slots available: 2
Please keep working hard.
I am proud of you.
-Sis.

---

Brother watched as a crumbling room was flushed down into the void below, disturbing his fishing. He didn’t quite blink in surprise, but as he slowly sipped from his off-brand soda (so interdimensional lawyers didn’t sue for using named brands),“What is she doing up there?” he asked, his Ceko-Calo can ringing empty.

The room went deeper and deeper until it was only visible by the trailing orange sparkles. Brother leaned forward to see which side of the void it might hit.

Down there was the demon world... the void-void, the shadow-void, and the occasional pocket-void. Little Bro was somewhere in the Void-Void, but the room smashed through the demon world barriers and the mana within landed with a loud cheer before the hole sealed up.

“Wow, Sister littered. I might die of shock if I wasn’t already suffering a slow and gradual demise of the self,” Brother said leaning back in his deck chair with a stretch, causing a slight earthquake in the southern part of the world.

“I guess my days of fishing quietly are coming to an end... I feel a little sad, but I’m also a little happy. Go figure,” he said with a smile.

“Proud of you, Delta... Just stop corrupting my sister before she dyes her hair. The world is used to a yellow sun, blue or green might be too much,” he grinned and cast his rod again.
