Erick sat in his living room. The early morning sun colored everything with a pale gold paint brush. Steam curled up from the cup of coffee in his hands, and Erick took a sip.

The [Prismatic Ward] of the rest of the house was an archway away; barely one meter.

Sitting across from Erick was the organizer for the day’s event; the only person who had showed up at Erick’s house. The main bulk of Songli’s forces were elsewhere, prepared to head out wherever Erick’s Imaging led them.

Erick said, “I must say that I was expecting an early morning, but that Songli wouldn’t be ready till later. I have an obligation that I made yesterday that I was hoping to get done before this.”

Kaffi nodded.

Kaffi looked the same as she had before; an older, mostly human woman of pale skin and blond hair, but with bright red eyes that marked her as demi. She was slightly more haggard around the edges, but who wasn’t, these days.

“What obligation, if you don’t mind me asking?” She tried another sip of her coffee, then set down her cup and added another small pour of white milk to her tan drink, saying, “It’s not my most favorite flavor, but it is better with milk and sugar.”

Erick smiled, saying, “It’s an acquired taste, for sure.” He added, “I have decided to bail out Red Ledger’s university.”

Kaffi smirked, then said, “They’re lucky to have your assistance. I am guessing that you require a trip to the bank? Banks, perhaps? I assume you use the normal ones. I could arrange for the Clan Exchange or the Grand Bank of Songli to send a representative here, so that we do not have to stop overlong.”

Erick almost chuckled; Kaffi knew his bank. Of course she did. But then again, everyone at least had a Mage Guild Bank account, even if most of their wealth were in other institutions. Erick said, “Yes. Let’s do that, then. Have them show up whenever. I expect it will take a while to find all of these people you have samples for.”

On the table, beside the coffee, sat three wooden boxes wrapped in leathers, each smaller than a breadbox. They were marginally enchanted, and filled with samples.

Kaffi said, “I will have the banks bow to your needs.”

He supposed she would.

Erick decided to get down to it, asking, “So how is this going to go down? Any changes from what I was told yesterday?”

“There are a few things. In an almost unimportant way, and for right now, for security reasons: We’ll be framing this as tracking down Terror Peaks collaborators. The idea there is that when the story eventually makes its way to the Knowledge Mages, which we expect to happen within hours, potential targets aren’t given too much of a warning. In a year or two, or in a week, the real story might come out, but for now we would prefer not to alert any of our targets.

“Aside from the small break for you to talk to your bankers, we also ask that you continue with us all the way to the end of this prepared counter-hunting. If it takes 10 hours, that’s great. But if it takes 24, then we need to work for those 24 or 30 hours. These people are dangerous, and the Hunting community is connected. They will know that a major move is being made against them, so we wish to contain and kill these particular Hunters and face stealers before they become too organized. It is in this reasoning that we have the most dangerous targets lined up first. Serial killers. Known Hunter leaders. Etcetera.

“Also, we would appreciate for the Imagings to be high in the sky; nothing too close to the ground that commoners would be able to notice.”

“All reasonable. I agree.” Erick glanced down at the table, to the enchanted boxes. “So those are them, eh? More than what I was told we would be searching for.”

“Some of our targets have multiple known bodies, thus the large number of extra samples.” Kaffi touched the first box, opening it. Mist flowed out and down, heavy and cold. “423 vials between these three boxes. Together, these represent 301 killers, each one responsible for anywhere between a hundred to a thousand deaths, though there are a few outliers with considerably more, and it is hard to put a number to the Hunters who organize their people to Hunt.” She gestured to the front row of vials, indicating fifteen vials. She pulled out one. Written on its surface was ‘Subject 1: Divider’. She said, “We have 15 vials for the one we call ‘Divider’. They— I can spare you the gory details, if you wish. This one doesn’t have a Quest, for that would make them more active, as history has shown. Divider revels in having a large bounty to his Quest, and so, we deny him that. I will let you know when we get to the ones that have Quests. By the end of the day, I expect you to have gained at least a hundred points.” She added, “If all goes well.”

Okay?

Uh.

Many things about that little speech stood out to Erick. Aside from ‘Divider’… Points?

He had not been expecting points, or Quests. Or. Well. He had not expected that many points. He got 13 points from Treehome, but…

Of course Songli would have a larger number of Quests to catch people. It was part of their entire culture. He was certainly not expecting over a hundred points, though!

Erick ignored the points, for now. He didn’t even know how to spend that many. He focused on ‘Divider’, and the danger of this undertaking. He glanced around.

Jane and Poi stood to the sides of the room, their mouths shut as they looked on, ready for something bad to happen. Teressa was in the other room with her mana sense wide open, paying attention to large scale attacks; ‘shadows in the manasphere that occluded all other futures’, to read Redarrow’s notes on prognostication. Even if she wasn’t that good at it right now, Teressa might be able to give them some small heads up.

Like a dragon coming in for an attack, to give one possible event.

Erick steeled his mind, thinking about all the possible problems of today, knowing he was going to hear something terrible, and said, “Give me the short version for Divider.”

With a horribly calm voice, Kaffi said, “Divider separates commoner families into two, then they have one half kill the other half. By vote, or by group melee, or any other number of ways. It is most gruesome when the family decides not to fight each other, for Divider then kills the most righteous of the family members, takes their form, and then mentally tortures the family until they give in to kill someone else in the family. He continues with this tactic until the family kills one of its own members, or only one member is left. In the latter case, the survivor is told ‘You could have saved three if you had killed four; now you have none’.” Kaffi’s mask of empty emotions seemed to get stronger as she spoke, betraying a deep wound in her heart. “However it happens, half or more of the family dies, one way or another. And then Divider leaves. They’ve been active for the last three hundred years, the world over, but mostly in Songli. They have an estimated 11,500 kills to their name. Maybe as many as double that much.” Her emotional mask broke in a tiny way, her eyes turning hateful. “I have been looking for this killer for many of those years. Divider, by the way, is not redeemable through the use of your Blessing; I will not allow it. Others will be allowed on whatever basis you wish.”

“… Okay. If any of the others are like that then perhaps they don’t deserve redemption—”

“They do not.” Kaffi paused. With a softer voice, she said, “They do not.”

Erick nodded, slowly. He almost spoke about how Raidu had been acting, there, at the end. How Raidu had even needled Hangzi with taunts. That maybe the Blessing wasn’t as inviolable as Erick believed it to be.

That would mean bad things about the Shades being out there…

But they weren’t doing anything except helping others, right? In their own twisted ways, but... They had those Quests for redemption, and Melemizargo demanded that they redeem themselves? Right? Or was Erick just imagining that.

… Maybe no tests of Blessings today. Not against people like ‘Divider’.

Kaffi handed over Divider’s first vial, and pushed the cold box closer to Erick’s side of the table.

With the vial in his hands, he sent out his senses to the Ophiel he had strung throughout the Highlands, and then he moved them upward, higher into the sky. He cast Imagings all across the land, giving enough space between each of them that there would be no radio static.

Erick came back and said, “The maps are up and running. We might get hits within five minutes. Poi knows where they are.”

Poi said, “Locations are already dispersed.”

Kaffi stared at Erick with eager eyes.

They waited.

They got a ping on the first vial, but it turned out to be a mausoleum, and an old skeleton. Vials 2 through 5 were the same. Vial 6 found a young man in a warehouse operation out of Alaralti, floating huge boxes of apples onto a mage’s waiting [Teleporting Platform]. The search didn’t find him, exactly, but it did find the tunic or the pants he was wearing. That was Erick’s guess, anyway; they didn’t want him to recast the Imaging too close, lest the target realize he had been spotted. The trail of the search had gone through half a dozen locations, from the scene of an old crime at a house south of Alaralti, to a fishery, to a hideout in the open lands, outside of Alaralti’s border.

Kaffi sat across from Erick, a [Viewing Screen] floating to the side of the room, showing the warehouse and the man in question. The actual image was taken from kilometers away, also to not spook the target. She spoke to others through [Telepathy]; tendrils of thought wrapping around her head, her thoughts multiplying from three to ten. She frowned, nervous and excited and worried all at once, showing some of her true self. She whispered words for Erick’s benefit, “We’re going in as soon as the platform departs.”

The platform had already come and gone twice in the time since Erick had found the potential target.

Erick watched.

The target joked with another man, as he was not the only one loading up crates of apples onto the platform. The warehouse was filled with people; maybe nine of them, all helping to ship out food as fast as they could before the markets opened in the cities. The woman on the platform snapped at the jokesters, telling them that they were on deadlines. The jokes died, and three more crates went onto the platform in ten seconds. When the woman departed, the jokester was already telling another funny story.

The team moved in, all at once and all around the pair of men. Five people formed the five points of a formation, each holding talismans written in blood upon thick paper, each pointing their talismans toward the jokester. Pulses of light went out, wrapping the two men in the sudden appearance of an iridescent bubble, filled with shadows and stars.

The jokester realized what was happening a fraction of a second after people appeared. He ran. He was too late to escape the trap. He slammed into the bubble and bounced away, clipping into the other man, who stood dumbfounded, wondering what the fuck was happening all around him. Then the jokester took his friend hostage, wrapping the friend’s right arm behind his back, while taking out a knife and holding it against the friend’s throat, all the while screaming to let him out.

When the knife came out, and drew faint red drops from his neck, that was when the friend started to panic. He earned a small stab to his chest for that, along with a harshly spoken command into his ear to calm down, or die now.

All the while, Mana and Health were streaming away from both the jokester and the friend, like starlight into the Void, strengthening the iridescence of the spell.

Erick watched with emotions removed.

A far off part of him decided that he should try to join [Draining Void], [Prismatic Lullaby], [Spatial Denial], [Merciful Ether], [Harmonic Counterspell], and [Force Wall], all into one spell, so that he could do many of the same things that the iridescent bubble were doing, but better. [Prismatic Lullaby] might even counter the volatile gasses created by [Merciful Ether], while the draining of [Draining Void] might be able to supply mana to [Harmonic Counterspell]. Force Magic wasn’t prevented by that setup, though, so maybe he needed to work that spell that excluded Force, before he made such a combined spell. … And it was possible that including [Prismatic Lullaby] would instead make the whole thing not work at all. Erick would have to experiment to find out.

The surface part of Erick watched as the lead agent spoke, his voice rising above the volume of the suddenly confused and angry and worried and terrified people of the warehouse. His voice did not rise above the voice of the jokester. He spoke of crimes. He spoke of proofs that Erick had no notion of. He spoke of many things, rapidly and professionally. In the space of five minutes, the warehouse was silent; listening. The teleporting platforms had come in and gotten [Dispel]ed; their riders unceremoniously falling to the warehouse floor, where other agents of Songli came in and controlled the bystanders to stand away. Those bystanders were now lined up with the normal warehouse workers, all standing to the side, except for the worker inside the bubble, with the jokester.

Some of the workers puked upon hearing the first mention of ‘Divider’.

When the lead agent was halfway through his list of crimes, Divider started to laugh.

The lead agent’s voice turned serious, as he asked Divider to let the man go, and they would make his death painless.

Erick gasped, for he had guessed what would happen the second he heard the lead agent say those words. He knew what would happen when he saw the grin on Divider’s face. He understood that the capture team, and everyone else involved, had already written off the hostage as dead. It wasn’t till then that Erick realized what was going to happen to the hostage. Some people in the audience caught on almost as quickly.

Erick said, “Let me—”

He was too late.

Divider was a Polymage of an extreme sort, with a hundred lifetimes lived across way too many centuries. He had a lot of time to accrue power in the form of [Perfected Body], like the one Jane had gotten from the Queen Blood Weaver, including whatever other Polymage Abilities there were out there. He probably had dozens of other abilities he could stitch onto his base Form.

Divider tossed the knife at the iridescent bubble like he was flinging a toothpick. That knife clanged off of the bubble, then fell, its inertia completely gone. Divider laughed at that, then said something about how they finally got a good spell to trap him this time.

