Was it getting easier for him to inflict harm on others?

Perhaps this was getting easier.

Yeah.

It was getting easier.

It was pretty damned easy to see that he needed to continue, too.

“When I agreed to this, I didn’t consider the extra points. They were a pleasant surprise.” Erick said, “They are not the fulcrum that will move me to say ‘yes’. All I ask is that the new targets truly be ones that need to be counter-Hunted. If they are not, then we will have a problem. Do as much as you need to do to ensure that you are meeting this demand of mine with as much proof as necessary. A similar level of Sin Seeker and trapping and vetting will be sufficient.”

Kaffi said, “We Enforcers did not plan on this addition, but we can adjust.”

“What sort of additions did you plan on?”

“We still have the matter of searching for ‘people’ outside of Songli, and that is where most of our resources would have been devoted over the next few hours.” Kaffi said, “These new Quests you are seeing are from overzealous clansmen, but while many of them are unknown to me, some of them are partially vetted already. I recognize the 5-pointer Quest targeting Green Spikes. A dossier for that situation came my way years ago, but at that time, it was deemed a personal problem for Clan Tarip Grove. If they’re willing to spend the points on it, though, then it will be done, one way or the other.”

Erick nodded.

Kaffi said, “I ask for your allowance for some time to go through the new Quests, to see which ones you can do according to your own demands, and to get you the vials or otherwise which contain the blood of appropriate, vetted targets. I will make it take an hour. Maybe two.”

“Am I going to continue to see new Quests laid before me, with perfectly reasonable demands to back them up? I do not appreciate this. What about the pirate coves to the south?” Erick added, “Or the face stealers of the Warlord Clans?”

“Matriarch Lingxing was most thorough in eradicating the pirates, thanks to the Imaging you already provided when we hunted Terror Peaks.” Kaffi said, “As for the face stealers, we are attempting to reach an agreement with Ooloraptoor to have them cooperate with us for the searching of their face stealers. It has been difficult. They are nowhere near ready to sign the Compact, and we fear that much of our work with them as a theoretical combined nation will be undone due to actions which are outside of our control. The revelation of the face stealer problem is deeper than anyone thought it was.” She readily said, “If you desire to go out there on your own, we will assist you in any way you wish. I would personally wait for the ambassadors to do their duty and pave the way for a joint exercise between all the Warlord Clans, but that is only my humble opinion.”

“That seems deeper of a problem than I thought it was.” Erick said, “Forget that for now, then. Let us move on to this new round of counter-Hunting.” He got up, saying, “I’m going to take a break. I’ll be ready whenever you are.”

Kaffi stood, and bowed. Then she rose, saying, “Thank you for your help, Archmage Flatt. Songli will try to make this reorganization as quick as we can.”

She departed the house first, and then she blipped away.

Erick went to the kitchen and made himself a sandwich, while Jane passed out on the living room couch and Teressa woke up to start her shift. Erick told Poi that he could stay awake until Kaffi showed back up, to ensure that Kaffi was Kaffi, but otherwise, he should get some sleep, too.

One hour passed, along with most of another.

Kaffi showed up with another cold box, whereupon Poi verified her, then he took the offered out.

Erick set down a tray with fresh coffee in a pot, clean cups, and more sugar and milk, asking, “Care for a cup?” as he poured himself one.

“Happily.” Kaffi gestured to the newest box of tissue samples, saying, “We’ve got 124 verified samples and 113 Quests, ready to go. The 9 target difference is due to some last minute additions by a few Warlord Clans of Ooloraptoor. That was a confusing mess for a good 40 minutes, but we got some of their problem targets. One thing: they don’t do Quests up there. We will be assisting them with Sin Seekers and spellwork, but they have no points to offer you.”

Erick was glad to hear that something was being done about the face stealers of the Warlord Clans. The reveal of Songli ambassadors as face stealers started this whole shitstorm, so it was only right that the grass travelers benefit from this, too. But only 9 targets? That seemed not near enough.

“This is acceptable, for now.” Erick said, “I noticed the 5 pointer from Tarip grove is gone, though.”

Kaffi said, “It is. Some Scions completed that one while I was organizing people and targets.”

“Nothing to apologize for. You all are doing most of the work, anyway.” He looked to the box. “Let’s begin.”

Kaffi opened the box and handed Erick the first vial. It was a clunky tube of glass with a sealed wax stopper. Most of the vials in the new cold box were like that, with many of them non-uniform; some thin, like the previous samples, some thick, like the one in Erick’s hand. These were put together in a rush, for sure, and yet they had been put together correctly.

Erick said, “You all work fast.”

“I’m as amazed as you are.”

Erick searched.

Targets were found.

Some of the samples were duds. Targets were captured, but when the Sin Seekers on site revealed white or grey guilt, things got complicated. Red guilt was the sign of a Hunter; of someone who had killed others for the levels, or for some other heinous crime against the sapient beings of the world. The people found were still captured, of course, but they were captured. Not executed. All of those so detained would likely be released tomorrow, or the next day; whenever the authorities on site could get someone in to ask them questions.

The nine counter-Hunting targets in the Warlord lands were easily found, and then verified as face stealers through questionings laid against them by everyone else nearby, and through the Sin Seekers of Songli. Two such face stealers were a part of Warlord Niyazo’s clan, and Niyazo readily took up the call to justice, and when his clan was satisfied that the found targets were face stealers, Niyazo enacted that justice himself. Erick wasn’t too comfortable with that sort of justice, but the man’s clan seemed to be fine with it.

The day dawned.

Teressa made breakfast. Hours later, Jane made lunch.

Erick was up another 87 points by the time the second round of counter-Hunting was done.

And then it was time to search for ‘people’ outside the borders of Songli. It was at that point that his involvement in the search dropped to near-nothing, and every single border clan, and major clan, took up the task set before them.

Maps hung in the afternoon sky, and Songli used them to find people where there shouldn’t be people. Erick moved the maps when needed, but mostly, he watched, and when he wasn’t watching, he took breaks to read, or to think about [Renew]. He eyed his Status a few times, glancing at all the extra points, ready to be assigned, but he didn’t do anything with them. Not yet, anyway. Including the 23 he originally had, he was up to 213. The recent counter-Hunting had gained him 190 extra points.

As soon as he assigned all of these, ‘Ezekiel’ would basically be a true Scion of Songli, running around with way more points than any commoner. More than most Scions, too, if he added in all the extra points he got from Particle Magic and the Remake Quests.

‘Erick’, however, would only be slightly more protected from the dangers that this world had to offer.

By the time dinner rolled around, Songli was nowhere near clearing out its borders.

Erick had expected this second half of his agreement to take several hours, but there were thousands upon thousands of oustings happening beyond the border in a roughly 500 kilometer band, all at once, all afternoon long. The border clans were providing much of the manpower, but the army was also involved when the places found were larger than simple living spaces meant to hide from Songli.

One of the few violent outstings Erick had seen was of a gang of small-time criminals, who were first told to leave, and when the criminals pulled out their swords instead of packing their bags, they were summarily executed. A similar story repeated itself here and there, but most people simply abandoned their homes, or hideouts, or caches, and went back to their normal lives inside the city. In every case, the names and faces of the squatters were recorded for posterity. Erick imagined that those papers would be added to the same massive registry that Erick had submitted paperwork for, when he first came into Eralis under the name ‘Ezekiel’.

Most of the people found were fined some percentage of whatever it was they were hiding out there under the grasslands. Some people had nothing in those hiding holes except a small vacation house, away from the city; those people were merely told to file proper paperwork for such a thing. Some people already had proper paperwork. Those people angrily showed those papers to the soldiers who poked at their front doors.

Erick was kinda pissed that he was being used for this level of ‘bullying’ oversight, but he had agreed, and the soldiers were polite except when they couldn’t be, and so, Erick continued to provide this service.

When it was over, which happened at noon the next day, Erick was glad that it was over.

Maybe not the final border searching. That was a bit too much, in his opinion. He wouldn’t be doing that again. But the counter-Hunting? That was worth the pain, and the time.

It seemed that there were horrors everywhere, but there was also brightness and goodness if one worked for it. It was possible to make a difference. More than possible, actually. Erick had made a profound difference in the Highlands; one that would be felt for centuries to come.

He had helped Songli to identify their own cancers, and remove them.

He had lit the way for Songli to become an empire.

No one had been Blessed with empathy, though, which was probably for the best, for now.

When it was finally over, and they had spoken of how it was over, Erick said to Kaffi, “It was nice to see you again, Kaffi. This went well, but I’m glad its over. We did a lot of good today.”

Kaffi bowed, looking tired but happy, saying, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt. On behalf of Songli, we thank you. I thank you.” She stood, and smirked, as she gave a small joke, “Don’t worry about the fifty thousand gold for Void Song. You didn’t even get a full lesson.”

Erick was not prepared for the joke.

And then, he felt that joke hit him in some odd kinda way.

He felt giddy.

It was probably the lack of sleep. He laughed. Kaffi giggled. She seemed sleep deprived, too.

When he came down from his high, Erick smiled. “I intended to pay for it! Truly. It just… slipped my mind.”

Kaffi nodded, knowingly. And then she turned somber again. “‘Kaffi’ is rather well known right now as an Enforcer for Void Song. This doesn’t work for me, so I’m going to retire. The next time you see me, I’ll be a different person, but unlike the people we counter-Hunted, I’ll be doing it the right way.”

“… Oh. I’m sorry to hear that.” And he was. He had started to like Kaffi, but Kaffi was signing off, for her own reasons, of which Erick would not pry. So instead, he asked, “How does that work?”

Kaffi seemed mournfully happy to have one final lesson plan. She spoke with the easy air of a private tutor, saying, “It’s rather easy. Physically, you understand. All it takes is some skilled applications of [Polymorph] to get rid of the wrinkles or add or subtract color to the eyes. Horns are more difficult, but if you’ve ever experimented with [Polymorph], you can get them mostly right.” She got a far off look in her eyes, then she turned her attention back to Erick. “And then it’s a year living as a different person. Sometimes less. Oftentimes more. You have to separate yourself from your previous versions, too. Play-act as a different person. Different spellsets. Different accents. Different lives. When it comes time to shift, then you erase your previous Familiar Form, and if you did it right, you gain a new one; the one you’ve been pretending to be for so long that seeing your new name show up on your Status is like seeing a truth manifest. Erasing your primary Familiar Form is always emotionally difficult, but that’s the only way to make the new one real.”

“You erase the previous— And you do this? All the time?” Erick was surprised. Erasing a Familiar Form was a big deal. Erasing your primary Familiar Form seemed even larger.

“Not all the time.”

“Are you going to switch right away?”

“I want to…” Kaffi said, “I probably should stay as ‘Kaffi’ for several more years, until this latest trouble settles down, but… This life has become too damaged for me to salvage and I’m just an Enforcer; I don’t make the decisions around here. Last time I switched was 40 years ago, and ‘Kaffi’ was 25. Kaffi has become comfortable… But. No. It’s time to switch.”

“What about your soul, though?”

Kaffi smiled. “My previous soul was pink. It’s red now, but I might go purple; mana altering a color away is easy enough. You were on the right track with your magenta coloring; all it would have taken you was more time along the paths you already laid down for yourself.” She went silent, then offered, “If you ever feel like leaving behind your old life, I can teach you how. Void Song always knows how to contact me.”

Erick felt a small swell of joy in his heart. A part of him wanted to accept. But.

“Thank you for the kind offer. I truly appreciate it, but I’m not dropping out of this life just yet.”

Kaffi smiled softly, and shrugged. “The offer remains. Maybe after you get that [Gate] network up and running, you’ll want someone to help you find a new life. Look me up.”

Erick saw the future stretch before him.

He came back to himself before he went too far down that escape tunnel.

He said, “Maybe I will.”

Kaffi nodded.

Erick escorted Kaffi out the front door. She stood upon the stone walkway for a brief moment, looking up to Erick.

Kaffi vanished in a blip of red.

Erick stood on that porch for a moment, watching as ruby light faded back into the manasphere. When it was gone, he went back inside, [Cleanse]d himself instead of taking a bath, and hopped into bed. He was asleep in minutes.

- - - -

