This stronghold couldn’t be left in place, but they no longer had time for a measured approach. There were to many unknowns. Even so, a smile pulled at Tala’s lips.

They also no longer had reason to hold back, trying to stay ready to engage with more powerful foes. These commanders were likely the cream of the crop of the enemy forces on the field.

Let’s do this.

Tala flickered, appearing behind a commander, her hands snapping up to grab either side of its head.

The thing began thrashing, but she bore down.

The other commander arrived—having retrieved the destroyed commander’s concept sword—and began striking her with abandon.

The automaton she held twisted its grip on the weapon it held and drove its own blade at her stomach again and again.

Tala let the blows land, her body and magics being thrown into a tumult from the forceful imposition of reality with every powerful strike.

Still, she took the trade.

Her soul thrummed as she brought magic, void-magic, and reality-iron to bear, worming around and blasting through the defenses within the commander.

Captains and lieutenants fell upon her, raining down blows with two handed weapons that seemed more suited to cracking city gates than for melee combat.

Tala manifested iron and white steel, driving deep pylons into the ground and melding them with her armor, locking her in place.

Her grip would not be broken.

Still, that locational permanence cost her, and she felt each powerful blow ripple through her flesh, pulping her insides and sending cracks through the harder parts of her make-up. Should she use the existence armor? No.

She needed to be fast, not lose all urgency. She just didn’t have enough control when so locked away.

Three. She jerked her head to the side, accepting the powerful downward blow to her left shoulder instead of taking it on her crown. That arm lost strength, but her gauntlet locked with the other, maintaining her grip despite the loss of functionality.

Two. Tala was forced to twist her right arm and draw the still stabbing commander closer so she could duck under a sweeping strike from a hammer that was closer to the size of an anvil on the end of a wagon’s axle. The hit might have snapped her neck.

Not necessarily lethal, the blow would have still been inconvenient.

One. She dismissed her pylons, launching vertically upward and carrying her charge even as the concept blade finally found its way through the armor over her abdomen.

She screamed within her helmet as the makeup of her body was churned further, her armor and bones the only things below her neck not in near-utter ruin.

Even so, the vocalization was more from rage and determination than pain.

The soul-spirit pair was laid bare before her, and she tore it apart, destroying the spirit and sending the soul on to the next world.

The commander vanished into her sanctum—appearing where the researchers would easily find it—and she threw her arms wide, spinning in the air to reorient like a falcon on the wing.

Her vision snapped to the final commander that had been harassing her, and she gave a bloody grin from within her helmet.

Next.

She flickered, on the hunt once more.

Terry would be proud.
