“Uh huh.” Gina said and looked at Ren. “If we do the back of the bar, this whole wall...” She pointed at the right wall. “...the wall in the hot tub room, the ceilings in the 12 work rooms, and the mirrors in the dressing room... will you have enough?”

“Plenty.” Ren said when he did the math. “Should I get started?”

“Please.” Gina said and Ren stood up.

“I'll do this wall first.” Ren said and walked over to it and removed the plaques of weapons and shields from the wall.

“How are you going to attach them?” Janice asked.

“I thought about making wood frames and setting them into it; but, I don't think that would look good in this setting.” Ren said. “Then I thought about making a rune for stickiness or something, and that made me realize I already have the perfect thing to stick them up.”

“What's that?”

“Webbing.” Ren equipped his armor to gain access to his wand mounts, and 3 of the dancers around him gasped. He turned around when he felt extreme desire, and saw Cinnamon, Jennifer, and Spice were practically drooling.

“What is it?”

“You look... delicious.” Cinnamon said and almost moaned. “Shining gold armor is such a turn on.”

Ren could feel it really was for her, and looked at the other two.

“You look just like... a really short Prince Charming.” Spice admitted. “I fell in love with him while reading Sleeping Beauty.”

Ren knew she was telling the truth, and looked at Jennifer. She actually was drooling and had a firm grip on one of her breasts as she massaged the other.

“Jennifer?”

“Your metalwork... the inset gems... the... the intricate details!” Jennifer said, then gasped and shook slightly. Ren fought hard not to react to her reaction as his Emotion Siphon ability absorbed some of the pleasure she felt.

“Sit down.” Gina said to Jennifer and gave her a chair, and she sat down.

“Oh... oh, my.” Jennifer said and took several deep breaths to calm down. “That hasn't happened in a while.”

Cinnamon bent over and hugged her from behind. “Easy there, girl; it's just armor.” She said. “Jewel-encrusted hand-crafted shimmering gold armor.”

Jennifer gasped again and shook. Cinnamon laughed and kissed her cheek.

“Stop teasing her.” Gina said and looked at Ren. “Mirrors.”

“Right! Mirrors!” Ren said and turned to look at the wall. “What was I going to use again?”

“Something white and sticky.” Janice said, and Ren's face flushed a little red. She laughed and touched his shoulder. “I meant webbing.”

Ren nodded and he replaced one of the wands with Web spells, then shot the wall with a single web spell. At Level 5, the web covered a 30 foot wide circle; so, Ren equipped his hammerpick and Jennifer gasped again. He closed his eyes as her pleasure washed over him and absorbed some, took a deep breath and enchanted the hammerpick with Fire runes, then used Double Infusion to do it again. The hammerpick was engulfed in an inch of bright blue flame, and he used the plow end to cut the excess webbing off.

Ren only needed the web to be 10 feet tall; so, he used his Fire Manipulation ability to burn away the rest of the web; which left a 10 foot tall and 30 foot long web. Nearly all of the dancers had gasped when he walked up the wall to cut off the top of the web and burn that away; but he successfully ignored them. He used another Web spell to cover the last 10 feet of the wall, used the hammerpick to clear away what he didn't need, and jumped off the wall to land on the floor.

Ren used a Permanency spell to make the Web permanent in it's current state, then took out a mirror and stuck it into place. He put up the other three, then took out the plaques that used to be on the wall. He laid them down on the floor and did the same Web application trick to the backs, made the web permanent, and stuck them to the mirrors in the same spots they were before.

“There.” Ren said and stored the hammerpick as he stepped back to look at his work. He could see a perfect reflection of the entire room and everyone in it, and with the mirrors so big, you barely noticed the lines where one mirror ended and the other one started. He smiled broadly as he looked at the women and their reflections, and he could feel their awe. He turned around and walked over to the hot tub room and did the same thing to cover a wall in there, then came back out.

Everyone still stood there in awe as Ren picked up the mirror Jennifer had danced in front of, went over to the bar and applied the mirror to the wall in behind after moving the shelves out of the way. He put the shelves back and felt the women start to overcome their awe.

“I'll need help positioning the mirrors on the ceilings.” Ren said, and several of the dancers came over to him.

“Mine's right there!” Candy said and pointed to the door beside the bar. Ren nodded and followed her inside her room. He didn't know where the mirror was supposed to go, so he told her to get on the bed. Candy jumped onto the bed happily and rolled over to look up at the ceiling. Ren applied the web to the ceiling and walked up the wall.

“This is so trippy!” Candy said and giggled.

“Let me know if this is where you want it.” Ren said and took out a mirror and held it just below the web.

“Um... a little to the left. No, the other left.” Candy said.

Ren chuckled and moved it back.

“A bit more. Now up a little.” Candy said. “Right there.”

Teepo?

“I got it.”

Thanks, buddy. Ren thought and stored the mirror, and followed Teepo's instructions on where to trim the webbing before making it permanent. Once that was done, Ren put the mirror in place and walked back down the wall to the floor.

“How's that?” Ren asked.

“I think it looks okay.” Candy said. “Have a look.”

Ren climbed onto the bed and laid down beside her, and looked up at the ceiling. The mirror was so big that it showed the entire room's reflection, and he looked a little odd wearing full armor laying on a bed, and he chuckled.

“What's funny?” Candy asked and moved her head to rest it by his, and her reflection did the same.

“You're almost completely naked.” Ren said and pointed at her reflection, and his reflection pointed at her. “Me? I'm fully armored.” Ren said and pointed at his reflection, which pointed back at him. “Doesn't that look odd?”

“Then store the armor.” Candy suggested and turned her head to look at him. “Just for a minute.”

Ren stored the armor and left on his black bodysuit. “You're right. That does look better.”

“It sure does.” Candy's hand reached over and rubbed his chest, then she rolled onto her side and draped a leg over him. Ren didn't feel any overt sexual desire from her, even when she pulled herself in to cuddle and gave his cheek a kiss. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome, Candy.” Ren said and pat her arm. “I really should get the other mirrors put up.”

Candy smiled and pulled her leg off of him. “My sex appeal isn't doing anything at all for you, is it?”

Ren sat up and leaned down to whisper in her ear. “It might if you were genuine about it.”

“Wh-what?”

Ren held up his index finger and very lightly touched the spot over her heart. “I can feel what you feel. I could be any man at all, and you'd feel exactly the same way.” He said. “Right?”

“I... yes.”

“There's absolutely nothing wrong with that.” Ren said and smiled. “Having you treat me normally is a definite improvement over when we first met.”

“Wh-what?”

“You remember, don't you?” Ren asked. “When the guys took me to the Pink Pearl for the first... and last time... you, Jennifer, Spice, Saffron, and Pepper were debating on what you were going to do because of me.”

Candy's mouth dropped open. “H-how do you know that?”

“I normally don't tell people this; but, I don't want you to think that anyone is spilling secrets about you behind your back.” Ren said and used the finger he had touched her heart with to tap his ear. “These ears of mine aren't just for looks.”

“You... heard us.” Candy said and then sighed. “You must have hated us for what we said.”

Ren shook his head. “You were being honest, and it was a real problem.” He said. “I also didn't want any of you to choose me over your regular customers.”

“Spice was tempted to, but she really likes Hank.” Candy said. “I like Tommy.”

“I know.” Ren said and sat up. “I don't hold anything you said then against you; or against any of you.”

“Why not?”

“You feel how you feel.” Ren said. “You don't need to feel ashamed about it.”

“But... we were being mean.” Candy said and sat up, too. “Then we were all relieved when Janice came in.”

“I was, too.” Ren said and smiled. “It let me solve your problem without causing any awkwardness.”

Candy blinked her eyes at him for a moment, and Ren felt a spark of actual affection from her. “Thank you, Ren.”

“I'll accept your thanks, if you accept my apology for making you all lose your jobs.”

“Since you gave us a great vacation and then our own place to work so we can make more money than we've ever had before.” Candy said and laughed. “I'll gladly accept your apology!”

“As long as you're having fun while doing it.” Ren said and grinned.

“Oh, I am.” Candy said. “With no boss to boss me around...”

Gina poked her head into the room. “Hey, get to work!”

Ren and Candy exchanged glances and laughed.
