To regain the honor Regalius had besmirched. His eyes glittered, but his arm never wavered.
“That tragic event was one of my brother’s doing; he did invade over the dispute, but Ovela had struck his lands too.”
Murmurs of agreement. Anger and loss. Until a voice called out from the stage.
“Yet it was Ovela who was invaded, not Ailendamus’ lands. The Baron of House Ecte came to slaughter all present. Just as he sowed dissent earlier.”
The Singer of Terandria stood on that stage, looking down at Regalius. Ryoka’s head swung to her, and the Wind Runner recalled something that Cara had once said.
“Afiele and Ovela.”
Regalius’ sword cut the air. He nodded.
“There were many strange oddities during that time. The Kingdom of Shade has its secrets. Yet as I recall, the 4th Princess of Calanfer was there. Coincidence? I know not. I cannot explain all of what I heard from survivors of that place. But what I remember clearly is that they spoke of…a strange phenomenon. A voice which raised the dead against Ailendamus.”
Ryoka began to remember a part of the battle that had unfolded near the end. When the 4th Princess had charged, she had seen something completely at odds with Terandrian customs. The undead fighting for her. She had assumed Seraphel did it.
But now she recalled a faint sound.
“A singer. I gave it no thought, for many voices are powerful, and I assumed it had to be one of Noelictus’ own. Now…I watched the terrible battle in which our Great General fell. At the end, I heard something familiar. It took me too long to connect the pieces. Yet now—though the voice was different, I come to one conclusion. To someone who has friends in Calanfer and Noelictus. To a name. Singer of Terandria. Cara—and the title given to her.”
The [Baron] led his audience to their conclusion, such that they realized it a second before he said it. Every eye swung to the young woman on stage, and she waited, face impassive as Regalius pointed the tip of his blade at her.
“The Gravesinger of Afiele.”
Ryoka gasped. She turned beet red as Cara raised a brow, but that had taken her by surprise. And then she saw the [Singer] on stage, the [Actor]…slowly smile.
Cara took a bow, and when she replied, her voice was calm. Like someone reaching the end of her act. Nearly time to step off the stage.
“Ailendamus made a terrible incursion into Ovela. They sent a rogue [Necromancer] to despoil the lands of Afiele. All on the orders of one [Baron]. Regalius du Ecte, your brother was no good man to me.”
Regalius’ sword hilt trembled in his hand, but his eyes burned.
“Whatever he did, and I do not trust your words—he was my brother. I will have you surrender for questioning, Miss Cara. That is fair. That is right…”
His chest rose and fell heavily.
“…That is what I offer you.”
He wanted to do more, but he was a [Baron of Ceremonies]. Yet the Singer of Terandria just tossed her head back.
“He was monstrous to me. A man who made war purely to conquer. I watched him die. Yes, I sang then and here. I will not stand idly by as Ailendamus erases every nation of people on this continent.”
The [Knights] and nobility looked up at her with cries of shock. Regalius’ eyes narrowed. Ryoka had her three fingers in her mouth. If Cara were playing the heel…she was doing too good a job.
Cara looked down on Ryoka, then pointed down at Regalius.
“I will not surrender to Ailendamus’ unkind mercies. Nor are you wrong, Baron Regalius du Ecte! I am the Gravesinger of Afiele! And I say to you all: Ovela stands! Ovela and Afiele, and the Kingdom of Shade!”
Baron Regalius’ lips parted in a snarl, but before he could speak, someone interrupted. Ryoka was shoved aside.
“This is insane. I am reporting to you live, Sir Relz—it’s confirmed that Cara, The Singer of Terandria, was involved in a conflict against Ailendamus! Hello, Sir Relz? I hope you got that. We were just observing a ceremony for the fallen when the [Baron] left the stage and—”
A Drake pushed his way past Ryoka, holding a scrying orb. Of course this was on television. A [Reporter] probably had a Skill for it.
The moment was sufficient to throw even Cara and Regalius, the two actors in the middle of this moment. Cara rolled her eyes, and her painted eyelids flickered. She muttered so quietly only the wind told Ryoka what she said.
“Wonderful. That’s going to go down well…”
Then she raised her voice.
“Yes, I am the Gravesinger! And I came here to prevent war! But it seems as though the Kingdom of Glass and Glory has only false artifice painted in the shape of honor; they will not consider true peace. Even children are not safe here!”
“Sort of unfair.”
Ryoka muttered. But Cara was playing to her audience, and again…Ryoka had no idea what Regalius was talking about.
Nor did it matter. The [Baron]’s jaw tightened, and he nodded to the [Knights].
“Seize her.”
“Regalius. Wait!”
Ryoka went to stop him, but the [Baron] just held up a hand. He was breathing hard as Cara backed up and the audience gasped, watching the arrest.
“This is not your kingdom, Courier Ryoka. This…this is a matter of war. I know the Singer is acquainted with you, but please, do not try to interfere.”
Ryoka hesitated. Cara was waiting as the [Knights] came up the stage. She had a microphone held loosely in one hand, but she was just a [Popstar] and [Thespian]. She addressed Regalius in that moment.
“He could have left. He was a harsh man.”
Regalius looked up at her, and his eyes were lost.
“You may tell me the truth, Singer. It falls upon deaf ears. He was my brother.”
She nodded. That was all. Cara’s head bowed as a [Knight] reached for her.
“Surrender quietly, [Singer]. Do not use a Skill—”
Cara’s head rose slightly. Her eyes gleamed. Ryoka saw her look up—and Cara’s polite veneer, her poise—all of that faded away.
Cara, the real Cara, who had spoken to Ryoka Griffin, who was prickly and intelligent and furious, raised her head. She lifted the microphone to her lips.
“No, thank you. I will be leaving and wish you all the worst, ladies and gentlemen. And as a parting gift—”
The [Knight] grabbed for her—too late. The Singer of Terandria had no sword. They did, and armor. She was no warrior…but she had survived the Spider of Terandria.
She was the highest-level person in that room. The [Knights] and Regalius were trained warriors who could cut someone down in a moment.
Sound was still faster.
Cara’s shriek into the microphone deafened Ryoka, and the Wind Runner had put her hands over her ears, guessing what was coming. Ryoka was expecting that—
But not to go blind.
[Banshee’s Voice]. The howl turned Ryoka’s vision dark, and she stumbled into Regalius. The entire room collapsed, clutching their heads. When Ryoka got up, head breaking, Cara was making a break for it.
“Sound the alarm!”
Regalius rose to his feet and howled above the ringing in every ear. But Cara had already vaulted the stage and was halfway down the hallway. Ryoka stared.
She ran like—
Ryoka. Like she was an athlete, and fast. Was she copying Ryoka with a Skill? Then Cara popped a vial and sped up.
Potion of Speed. She hadn’t been unprepared for a getaway. But the palace was in uproar, and the alarms were ringing. Ryoka looked around and ran for the only place she could think of, as Cara tried to escape.
Baron Regalius and the [Knights] made to follow, but they ran into a problem. For the third time since Ovela, a half-Giant disgraced the Kingdom of Glass and Glory.
“I can’t let you hurt her! Stop!”
Menorkel shouted. Gilaw was looking between him and the escaping prey, still shaking her head to get rid of the Skill.
“One side, young man!”
Regalius bellowed. Menorkel shoved him back, and the [Baron] went stumbling. That was it—the [Knights] had enough.
“Arrest him and sort it out later!”
They went for him. [Knights] leapt at the ‘half-Giant’. He was so tall they spared no force. Not when a state criminal was escaping. One of the Thirsting Veil grabbed Menorkel.
“[Grip of Paralysis]!”
The Titan punched her. The woman had no helmet on in the palace, and she dropped without a word. A Drell Knight hesitated and raised a fist.
“[Minotaur Punch].”
He would have been really useful against Rabbiteater. Menorkel caught the fist, and the Drell Knight hesitated. He raised a hand—and Menorkel punched him.
It was just…a fast punch. That was how it looked. Baron Regalius turned his head as the Drell Knight, a Level 34 one…dropped. The other [Knights] saw that and drew their blades.
Menorkel grabbed a chair.
 
——
 
The immortals of Ailendamus reacted to the alarm with…alarm. They were ready to kill anything and instantly thought of Ryoka.
It was one of the Lucifen, Igolze, who reached the sound of fighting first. Not the [Singer]. What he found made even him stop.
The Agelum were the fair counterparts to the Lucifen. One was most skilled at magic. The other the physical element of war.
That wasn’t unique to immortals, though. Even as a young one, Gilaw was already on-par with a Great Knight. Ailendamus let immortals train their already prodigious talents. Rhisveri himself was a Wyrm who had improved himself and continued to do so.
Menorkel, Fithea’s ward, had to take combat lessons, but the Titan was infamous for evading them to practice his not-so-secret passion of singing. Igolze knew all this with little interest.
It had never occurred to him to ask why Rhisveri was so insistent a Titan learn to fight. Ryoka could have told Igolze some stories about Titans. They were not Giants.
In some mythologies, they predated the ___s. And so Igolze found Menorkel wielding a pair of chairs he’d picked up—
Fighting off over three dozen [Knights].
They weren’t trying to kill him, but they were baring their blades. One swung at Menorkel in a [Flash Cut]. The Titan’s two heads saw it, and he stepped back—then hit his opponent in the chest with a kick.
The [Knight] took out six more before he landed. Igolze saw Gilaw beating down someone trying to stop Menorkel. He whirled. Baron Regalius seized the Lucifen; the impeccable clothing was torn. But Regalius was still upright.
“Where is the Singer?”
A [Knight] went flying as Menorkel tossed him. Distraction or not, the Titan was one person, and the entire palace was up in arms. Regalius and Igolze ran towards the Singer’s obvious escape route.
The caravan. Her band hadn’t left! The colorful wagons were right there, and Regalius howled.
“Surrender in the name of the Kingdom of Glass and Glory!”
“Wait—”
Igolze’s eyes narrowed. The [Baron] ignored him and charged…straight through an illusion of Rae playing the bass. He whirled, slashing at the air, and Igolze blinked.
The entire caravan was…
 
——
 
Everyone had a secret. Everyone had come to this world and survived. If you were here, you had depths.
Even Greg. He lay on his back, staring up at the clouds.
“I think she fancied me, you know. Everyone was talking about me and her—I never got a chance to even talk to her, but—you know, Rae?”
“No. Shut up, Greg.”
The entire band was a bit dispirited and confused. Especially since they were crammed into the wagons and unable to even advertise their presence. Greg stared through a glass skylight in the wagon as he rested his head on a pillow.
“Why’d we have to leave in secret?”
They had gone nearly non-stop for two days, breaking for the southeast, the closest border—with all the speed that Abebi could get out of the [Caravan Master] and their enchanted wheels. Abebi snapped as she unfurled a [Message] scroll. She went pale.
“…Because something’s going down. That’s it—”
“We’re going to stop?”
Thien sat up. He really, really needed to pee. The dark wagons around them had no colorful paint; they could change color so that they could hide. Cara had spent a fortune on them in what most assumed was paranoia.
…Or not. Abebi shook her head.
“Nope. Get me the [Caravan Master]. Everyone—gallop! Cara’s on the run, and Ailendamus is going to chase us and lock us up forever if they catch us. Get to the border! Cara will find us.”
Greg sat up.
“Huh? Why?”
“Shut up, Greg!”
 
——
 
Cara was the only person left anywhere near Ailendamus’ capital…but it was Cara that they all wanted.
Rhisveri was, himself, watching her flee. He was muttering.
“So that’s who it was. Someone from your world.”
He looked up as Ryoka Griffin came to a standstill. The Wyrm stretched.
“Ecte’s failure was unexpected, but it makes sense now. So this Singer was always against us. Did you know? No…it doesn’t matter. What do you want?”
Ryoka was panting.
“Let her go.”
“You say the most outrageous things. Let her go…? Why?”
Ryoka Griffin pointed at Rhisveri.
“She…you don’t really care why she did it, do you? You know everything.”
“Most things. But she is an enemy of the state. Not a particularly dangerous one to me, but it’s good to have an enemy to try. Fairly, I imagine.”
Rhisveri allowed. Ryoka Griffin shook her head.
“Just…just let her go. Or don’t get involved. Let’s make a bet. I help her go free—you don’t lift a claw. Not one spell. If she gets free—”
The Wyrm snapped.
“You are trying my patience. This time, I’ll teleport you underground and see if your precious wind magic saves you! You have three seconds to get out of my sight! One, two…”
“Menorkel will riot. And you owe me this.”
Ryoka pointed her finger at Rhisveri, and the Wyrm stopped.
“…I forgot the Titan was obsessed with her. And ‘owe you’? I owe you, Thief—”
The Wind Runner shouted at Rhisveri, and her voice echoed around the room and palace.
“I stabbed the Archmage of Memories for you! I have proven I care about your life, Rhisveri! Give me this!”
He stopped, and Ryoka shouted on, into the silence.
“Haven’t you had enough death? Just make a bet with me and let her go. Please. She defended herself and her friend from Ailendamus. She pleaded for an end to this war. You owe me this. Does a Wyrm have no respect for anyone but himself?”
She called on the one favor and thing she had and saw the Wyrm draw himself up. He glared at her and barked back.
“Of course not!”
Then he hesitated.
“…But it makes no sense to create a martyr. Very well. A bet, you said? If she crosses the borders, I’ll relent. So will every immortal—to help or hinder. You are free to do what you wish. But you will pay for any transgression.”
He sat back as Ryoka nodded shortly.
“So be it.”
 
——
 
Cara O’ Sullivan called the dead to defend her.
…Or tried to.
The problem with Ailendamus’ palace was that there were very few helpful dead bodies. The Singer of Terandria ran, cursing.
