“I…am sure they will hear you as soon as possible, Lord Veltras. I do not make decisions for Calanfer.”
He hesitated.
“Ah, then I will inquire with them. A brave charge, Princess Seraphel.”
And that was it? Seraphel blinked, and Aielef swept forwards to introduce the Griffin Prince formally. The man really was a sword given life.
Seraphel supposed she’d ask him about his reasons for entering the war and everything else she was intensely curious about later. These were only introductions…which spoke to Tyrion’s character that he brought up the war even now. He greeted the Griffin Prince, still dusty, and Seraphel was moved to interject as the Griffin Prince began to step away.
“…returning to harass Ailendamus, Lord Veltras. Keep me apprised. The Wing of Shame flies only in defense of Kaliv, but I will join any attack you think wise.”
“Wait. Wait a minute. Absolutely not.”
Tyrion and the Griffin Prince turned as Seraphel strode over. She looked around and saw how, even in the victorious aftermath, the Wing of Shame and the Griffin Prince stood far away from the others, ready to fly off.
Indeed, Kaliv’s forces were the most removed. Seraphel du Marquin took a breath.
“By the Eternal Throne, I will not have the Griffin Prince fly off and be forgotten for his deeds! Your Highness, you are unwashed, unrecognized, and I insist that you stay and be celebrated.”
She raised her voice and knew it was captured by the scrying orb recording all this. Aielef tried to signal her to stop, but Seraphel was a [Princess] of Calanfer. You could not unsay that kind of thing…and it worked.
Aielef instantly turned and beamed.
“Of course we must! My dear, dear sister is correct—despite his reputation, the Griffin Prince’s true character shines through in this dark hour. Three cheers for the Griffin Prince, and let us welcome him with all honors!”
The young man blinked at Seraphel as Aielef used a Skill to get her cheers. He ducked his head slightly, and Seraphel did likewise.
She did not know him—but his look of plain gratitude for something he didn’t expect said it all. She knew what it was like to be the cursed one.
Speaking of friendships not yet made, encounters on the battlefield…every head turned as someone strolled forwards.
Ser Solstice of Izril, the Goblin Slayer, stopped scratching at his armor under one armpit and looked around. He had been told he’d be meeting some people, but clearly lacked the regal context. He looked at Seraphel, began to wave…
Then spotted the others.
Griffin Prince. [Princesses]. Commanders of Calanfer, including the leader of the Thronebearers in the Lightherald’s absence, who looked at Rabbiteater with awe.
The next Lightherald? Seraphel had deep, deep suspicions about who had given Ser Solstice the blessing of the Eternal Throne. If it was who she thought it was…her little sister had just risen to the top of Seraphel’s favorite family members.
Dalimont would clue her in later. The boon still hung around Rabbiteater, but he just looked at one of the people turning with genuine enthusiasm to him.
“Ah, and this is Ser Solstice of Izril. The anonymous [Knight] who championed Calanfer.”
Aielef was introducing him as he walked forwards, still in battle-gear. Lord Tyrion Veltras turned and actually smiled.
“A [Knight] of ability. Ser Solstice—”
He hesitated. Jericha, the nobles of House Veltras, the onlookers…all sensed a certain…animosity fill the air.
Ser Solstice’s face was never visible, and the dented helm and armor were the same as ever. Did he walk differently? Was it simply his aura, or that animal instinct?
Tyrion Veltras stopped talking. Seraphel frowned, and a few of the Order of Seasons blinked as Ser Solstice strolled over the ground. Very quickly. A fast, long-legged stride as he reached up and put his hand on the haft of the enchanted axe he carried. He drew it in one motion and brought it down.
Lord Tyrion’s shield came up and the sound of the weapon meeting shield deafened Seraphel. Aielef shrieked and everyone shouted and drew their blades, coming together to—
Rabbiteater’s [Grand Slash] hit Lord Tyrion so hard the [Lord] staggered, even at full-guard. His sword was half-unsheathed, but neither he nor the strange [Knight] swung twice. Rabbiteater walked past him without a word.
“What was—do you two know—?”
Lord Tyrion stared after Rabbiteater as he caught himself. Jericha was already sweating over spinning that off as a surprise attack—Tyrion could obviously block that attack regularly, he was just tired.
The Lord of House Veltras saw Buscrei aiming an arrow but lifted a hand. There was only one conclusion to come to.
“This Ser Solstice never removes his helmet?”
He turned to the others, and Seraphel nodded.
“No one knows who he is.”
Tyrion nodded briefly. His eyes focused on Rabbiteater’s back as the helmeted head turned to him. Rabbiteater made a few gestures that made Aielef gasp and clutch at her mouth.
“…He must have been at Liscor. Or, if not that, the Bloodfields. I may have met him on some battlefield before.”
It was, for once, the most correct answer from Tyrion, who read Rabbiteater’s hostility right. Everyone turned to him and then eyed Rabbiteater with the sudden interest of people who knew exactly who he was…probably. Vernoue muttered behind Seraphel.
“If he’s from a tribe…tribes have magic. Walled Cities have huge libraries. I can do fur. Or scales.”
Seraphel and Aielef turned to eye her. So did Dame Meisa.
 
——
 
If Ser Solstice held a grudge against Tyrion Veltras, and the disgraced Griffin Prince was somewhat restored in battle, that was the largesse afforded to the victors.
By contrast, everyone in Ailendamus’ defeated army bore a share of the blame. Ironically, it was the Bear of Ailendamus, General Yerzhen, whose name was somewhat cleared, though still blackened.
His defeat at the hands of a lone [Knight] he had taken prisoner made more sense now that everyone saw it was the same soul who had bested the Dame of the Hills. Even so—he was in disgrace. The army was in disgrace.
Yet Dame Merila, the Hill-Knight, the only Great Knight on the field…she had failed her nation.
Twice. This was the second pivotal battle where a leader of Ailendamus had been slain, and she walked back in shame. Some even called for her to be stripped of her [Knight] class.
However, the crown and capital were silent for the moment. Itorin II and his war council were mustering troops, assessing the forces spared, arguing the ransom with the Dawn Concordat…
The immortals, though, said little at all. But if Merila were a blackened name, it was the biggest traitor, failure, and fool that had the most to reflect on.
Ryoka Griffin.
She had watched the battle with Dioname sick at heart. Rhisveri and she had been…odd when she first came back. He had looked at her with plain shock for what she’d done, but she had neither stopped Tyrion nor Eldavin.
In fact, Sammial and Oesca had nearly died because someone had tried to kill her. Much of the last five days had simply been the Lucifen, Ailendamus’ best [Mages], the [Spymaster]—all working with Ryoka to find clues as to who had nearly killed her.
Queen Oiena of Ailendamus was on the warpath. However, the great battle had cast a pallor over all. Ryoka…
Ryoka Griffin did not collapse into a puddle of self-loathing. Or panic. Or run off. She visited Sammial, who was already up by the third day and demanding a tiara of his own just in case he had to keep hanging around with her. She hid from interviews and [Message] spells from people demanding to know if she was mind-controlled or just evil.
She tried to understand who was trying to kill her this time.
 
——
 
Queen Oiena didn’t know, incidentally. It wasn’t her. She checked. The [Queen] of Ailendamus, and formerly Princess of Gura of Taimaguros, had a purr in her voice when she was beyond anger. It meant she was about to have someone killed so horribly that the [Executioner] would have nightmares about it.
She had, as had been mentioned, her own network of agents, spies, and people separate from Ailendamus proper. She had imported it from Taimaguros and added to it with her power, such that even the Circle of Thorns had been taken in by her ruse.
In fact, some former [Assassins] from Izril were in her employ, having switched sides long ago. They had stayed out of poisoning House Veltras; she had wanted the Circle to fail. She bore Sammial Veltras no ill-will. And her daughter…
“Just so I am perfectly clear. I want honesty. I will have any lying tongues torn out of their mouths and hammered to the Taima-damned walls. I did not order Ryoka Griffin harmed in any way.”
Her people looked at her and shook their heads as one. The thing was…Queen Oiena was checking to make sure she hadn’t done it.
…Because she might have. The trick to lying was that if you didn’t remember what you’d done, you were de-facto innocent to many spells. It was conceivable she had ordered something, then carefully erased that knowledge herself.
Oiena had already been almost sure she hadn’t, though. A bomb of that magnitude in her own palace? She wasn’t an idiot! If she were going to kill Ryoka, she would have faked an allergic reaction and let the Wind Runner expire that way.
“No, Your Majesty. You did have our agents prepare subtle itching powder to be added to all her clothing upon your discretion.”
“Countermand that. So I didn’t order it. Who did?”
One of her new agents was a Face from Izril. The [Assassin] bowed.
“Your Majesty. I can tell you with complete certainty—I don’t know.”
Oiena twitched.
“And why am I not hammering a nail into your forehead for that?”
The [Assassin] met her gaze levelly behind the mask he or she wore. The muffled response was quiet.
“Because, I cannot find any clues. Whoever it is knew the palace well enough to slip the package into the Courier’s room. It passed no security, was not inspected—it slipped past the [Knights] on duty, though they are not experts at surveillance and they were aware the Wind Runner had left the palace, and so were lax. If a foreign agent did this—they have the run of the palace, and your life is in danger.”
“…So why kill the Wind Runner alone if that? If there are more ‘presents’, that would be one thing. The other option is…”
Queen Oiena mused, thinking hard. And she came to a conclusion that was accurate—but lacking information.
It might have been someone within the palace, obviously. But who? And why? She sent her agents on a hunt. There was treachery in Ailendamus’ palace, and she wanted to root it out. Soon enough…she’d have at least one answer.
 
——
 
Treachery. Intrigue. Someone was working against Ailendamus, and they would soon be found.
The hints were there. Ryoka Griffin knew it. However, she did not have time to care about her life as much.
Sammial had nearly died. It was probably the case that she was meant to explode, but Sammial had nearly died and Oesca too.
He was actually under royal bodyguard now, and they did not let him run about alone.
Which goes to show, Queen Oiena has a heart. Unless she’s pretending? But why involve Oesca? Unless that was a mistake or the most heartless, genius distraction. I feel like Oiena would be more direct.
Who?
Well, the easier thing was to say who didn’t want Ryoka dead? Her list ranged from Eldavin to Persua to the Circle of Thorns survivors to possibly Magnolia, to…
The six.
Ryoka felt a chill. If anyone had the means, and if anyone really took Ryoka as a serious threat—and she was probably not high up for most other people given that she couldn’t even kill Eldavin in a traitorous…
She had to lean against a wall. No, think.
“The six hate me. They know what I’m up to. Whose side I’m on.”
Of the people who might hate Ryoka with that passion, it was the six, the Circle of Thorns, and Persua. And now, perhaps, Eldavin. But she doubted he would have set up a trap that fast.
And if he wanted her dead, he would have killed her when she was trying to cut his head off in the air. No…she did not suspect him.
Nor the immortals, frankly. Because if it were them—why would they hide it? Maybe the Lucifen or Visophecin had an angle? But it was not Rhisveri.
The Wyrm was the only person that Ryoka could trust. Why? Because if he wanted her dead, he’d just kill her.
He sat in his giant room, head resting on his claws, eyes narrowed to slits when she came in. Unlike every other time, the Wyrm said nothing. He just…lay there.
Dioname was dead. Ryoka had heard his roar. She looked at him and saw something familiar. She had seen it on Teriarch.
However, Ryoka didn’t speak the Great General’s name. She had given him one night. Her assassination, her meeting with Eldavin…they had discussed nothing more. The Wind Runner felt empty and worthless, but she would not curl up. Not yet.
“Rhisveri.”
He said nothing. Just watched her. Not wrathful…but with a long, thousand-mile stare. Ryoka Griffin knew he was listening.
“Tyrion is coming. I can’t stop Eldavin.”
“No. You can’t. You gave it a good shot. Dioname failed to kill him even when she crushed his heart. His body must be magical.”
The Wyrm whispered. Ryoka hesitated.
“Sammial Veltras nearly died. Tyrion is advancing. He will not stop until Sammial is free. Maybe me—but he must fear for Sammial’s life. Understandably.”
“…He’s younger, now. Dioname must have hurled him back in time. Weaker. Even in her last minutes, she thought of Ailendamus first.”
The Wyrm’s head snaked around. He looked blankly away from Ryoka, then back towards her. She hesitated, thrown from her course for a second. She had seen the transformation, but didn’t understand it.
“Tyrion’s younger? Why would that…?”
“He lost his levels. Only explanation.”
Ryoka’s eyes went round. He lost his levels with his age? She understood in a flash why that would be—
“Can she do that?”
The Wyrm blinked at her like a snake, eyelids closing vertically, and then the first bit of annoyance entered his tone.
“…No, she just de-aged Lord Veltras for a lark. And that [Lord of Love and Wine] got a Skill capable of wiping a decade off someone. If this Pellmia Quellae were Level…70 I’d believe that. Or 60! He is not. That [Lord] is weak, now. He might have levelled, but Dioname took his fangs. She was a Great General to her end.”
His voice rose, gained some kind of strength. Ryoka looked up at him. That wasn’t…good. If Tyrion was that much weaker, what level was he now?
