“He might not be a threat—but he represents the Five Families. Sammial Veltras is in danger. Wellfar is advancing on your coasts. It might not end this war, not after all that’s happened, but for purely humanitarian reasons, for a father to see his son and know he’s safe—or at least, home, since Sammial might never be safe because he’s Sammy—I want your permission to send him home. I’ll do it if I have to. But he goes.”
Rhisveri blinked at Ryoka a few times.
“Fine. Done. Get rid of him.”
The Wind Runner hesitated. She peered up at Rhisveri.
“Someone tried to kill me.”
“…Wasn’t me.”
“I know. I’m not leaving the palace, either. Not yet. Eldavin…Eldavin’s here. But I have someone I came here for.”
“Steal my scroll and die.”
The Wyrm was really throwing her off. There was no rancor in his tone, no bluster. Ryoka shook her head.
“No. I won’t try that. I don’t need to. But if I lean on the other immortals, pay them or convince them…”
“They’re free to do what they want. Whatever. Permission granted. You’re not a prisoner of the palace. I, Rhisveri, Duke, authorize you. You want it in writing?”
He was really, seriously mourning Dioname? Ryoka wasn’t sure if that was an act. Now, she thought he was being serious. She backed up a few steps.
“I…okay. In that case I’ll just, um—leave you. Which you want. Thanks.”
She wavered between saying something more and wisely shutting up. For once, wisdom won. Ryoka Griffin trotted off, but slowly. She counted.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven…
Eight seconds and she was halfway jogging out of the room when Rhisveri spoke.
“Just so you know. She would never have been revived with the Resurrection Scroll. It’s not just my vanity.”
Ryoka Griffin swung around.
“I never mentioned it.”
The Wyrm glared at her.
“You very loudly didn’t. She knew nothing about it. And even if she did—she’s a mortal.”
“I didn’t say anything.”
“She may be a Great General, but she’s still a mortal.”
“I know. Even Visophecin isn’t eligible. Makes sense.”
The Wyrm of Ailendamus just stared at Ryoka, pushing for an argument—but all he got was air. Ryoka Griffin waited. For what, she didn’t know—then the Wyrm curled in on himself, his body entering a spiral.
Inwards, inwards…and his head rose above the huge coils of his body. It rested on his curled self, like…someone leaning on his arms.
“It…wouldn’t work anyways, you see.”
Ryoka Griffin made a sound, and Rhisveri just stared at her. She stopped the half-scoff and thought that if it came out of her mouth—she died.
“It. Would not. Work. I am not lying or prevaricating. If I…had the thought, I wouldn’t. A Scroll of Resurrection is one type of way to revive someone. There are lesser versions, you know.”
“I know.”
The Wyrm didn’t blink at her knowledge of things thought impossible in this world. He went on.
“This scroll is perfect. It can work on any being and bring them back to their body, no flaws, no lost levels, no ulterior costs. You’re not bound to some stupid phylactery, you don’t have only ten more years…but perfection is a cost. And that is that you return to your body as it was. Great General Dionamella ended her life by using time to strike down the Archmage of Memory and Tyrion Veltras.”
“…Oh.”
Rhisveri nodded. He looked sideways and laughed softly.
“She had no idea the scroll existed. If—I—she might turn to ash the moment she reappears. She vanished. Where? What threat? I do not know.”
“I’m sorry for—”
“Get out.”
The Wind Runner hesitated. The Wyrm didn’t look at her. She backed up a step. Then a few hundred more. Ryoka hurried to the doorway. She hesitated, put herself behind the stone and archway, then called out.
“…Ghosts exist.”
Rhisveri looked at Ryoka. The Wind Runner froze.
“[Teleportation Ray].”
She turned to run, but the ray curved, zapped her in the back, and teleported her two thousand feet straight up. The Wyrm wished it made him feel better. He lay there.
“Ghosts exist. That Human thinks she’s delivering the Book of Levels each time she opens her mouth.”
He muttered to himself, growing a bit more animated despite his…Rhisveri slithered around.
“I know ghosts exist. I taught you to see them, after all. Is that what you saw? What killed you? You left no body.”
He spoke to the air of the throne room. Rhisveri’s voice echoed, and the chamber was warded against all intrusions and voices. Yet he spoke…not to himself. His head rose. He looked right and left. Up and down.
“Are you angry at me? I should have sent you allies. Visophecin. You assured me you were in control, and I believed you. It isn’t my fault. Are you…sulking?”
His eyes narrowed, and he scanned the room. The Wyrm’s voice rose.
“Do you want me to apologize? Grovel for your forgiveness? You accepted my call! You could have retired or asked what you wanted! You already had your wish! Do you want me to—”
He caught himself, and his eyes went wide. Rhisveri looked around. Not the visible world, but…his voice dropped to a whisper.
“I’m sorry. There. I am sorry. Will you speak to me?”
Ghosts exist. Ryoka Griffin did not tell Rhisveri anything he didn’t already know. The Wyrm stared around a world unseen…and then something rose from the floor. Someone.
He could even hear them. If he tried. The stronger ones could even return to the mortal world, sometimes. Though they needed gaps or magic most times. Or just death magic. Yet a ghost slowly climbed upwards.
“It is good you apologize, Rhisveri. Let us put bygones behind us, Brother. I forgive you.”
A female Wyrm, far smaller than Rhisveri, slithered up from the floor. The Wyrm of Ailendamus blinked at the person he hadn’t expected.
“Sister?”
“Of course. And I forgive—”
“[Dismiss Specter].”
He hit her with a spell, and she shrieked as she was cast into the aether, somewhere else. Rhisveri snarled.
Ailendamus’ palace was warded against ghosts. It was one of the places they could not walk—but he had relaxed the magics and wards today. He waited, looking around.
“Dioname. Speak to me. You told me to meet you…here.”
He lost his patience. Rhisveri began chanting in a dead tongue. Magic that had fallen out of use long ago.
“By bone and blood I summon thee…”
Old magic. Chanted magic, even as he activated a spell.
“[Nekhret’s Ritual of the Underworld — Summon Soul: Dionamella]!”
He drew a magical ritual on the ground, slapped his tail, and the room flashed with magic.
No one appeared.
Rhisveri’s anger turned to sudden…he hesitated.
“But that does work. My idiotic brother himself answers it. [Nekhret’s Ritual of the Underworld — Summon Soul: Dioname]?”
It took him fifteen more minutes, and he was panting when he cast it again. Yet the flash of magic, the summoning—
Failed.
He tried one more time.
“[Nekhret’s Ritual of the Underworld — Summon Soul: Dionamella of Ailendamus]! Why does it not work? I know her name! [Scrying] spells work on her, so why…”
Had she erased herself from time itself? Rhisveri cast about. He didn’t understand. He called her name in vain.
 
——
 
This was a story of multiple…realities. Points of view.
Queen Marquin of Calanfer stood there, amid the ghosts of the dead, both Calanfer and Ailendamus. As yet, they joined the countless of Terandria. Some had been consumed, but even as the dead went to watch the end of all rising from beyond The Last Tide…
Terandria’s shores were held. None of the six were here.
Yet there was a strangeness that made even Marquin the Radiant uneasy. A victory had been won. A Great General had fallen…but she was a woman, and Marquin regretted that they had ever come to blows, such a pointless war, even if a Wyrm were orchestrating it.
The dead knew all secrets. Yet—something was wrong. She had waited, but she needn’t have, in truth. She had looked about, in case the Great General had moved slightly in her last moments. But the truth, as her people came to her and reported in, was undeniable.
Dioname was nowhere in the lands of the dead. But then—who had erased her?
It had not been one of the six. That, Marquin knew.
 
——
 
This was a story beyond one kingdom. Beyond one world, even.
As Rhisveri mourned, as Ryoka Griffin did whatever she did—perhaps she was vaguely aware they were pieces of another story.
One that the Wyrm had set in motion by cunning, but intersected with the Faerie King. Those stories seldom went how anyone expected.
Yet the auspices of greatness touched it. As the mortal realm fought and traitors and people discovered, planned, or just ran about in one world…
The realm of the fae lay in chaos. Not for Ryoka Griffin or a single Wyrm or Dragon. They had loads.
Rather—for magic. For something that was rare across any reality and available here in a neat, perfect scroll. Rarely was the law of death broken so accessibly. Sometimes, a great hero with the blood of gods could venture into the underworld, overcome great guardians and trials, and in the end, fail to bring back a single soul.
Sometimes, a great sacrifice could be made, a life for a life, always at cost.
Sometimes, a dark relic could be constructed, a ring forged, a cauldron fouled such that life or half-life remained.
Preserving oneself from death was easier. Even if the method was taking your soul, shattering it like a cheap vase, and hiding the pieces. That…tended to have consequences.
Yet the real stuff? The genuine, accept-no-substitutes, actual come back from death for whomever you wanted? Even if it were only once? With no costs, drawbacks, and again, self-contained in a scroll?
Well now. That had begun one of the largest auctions, bidding wars, and fights in any reality.
Not just the fae’s realm. Not all the gateways were closed, and the Faerie King had guests. Word had spread. Emissaries were sent, plots hatched.
Kingdoms were sending bids in, and the inhabitants of the lands of the fae stirred. Even those who had been offered sanctuary had brought something.
As myths and legends went, yes, some of it was merely handbags—but nice, designer-quality handbags. But would you ever believe any Wyrm in existence would flee her home without secreting at least one or two truly valuable objects? Just to have? Just in case?
The metaphorical piggy-banks were being smashed open, and the immortals counted what they had, made deals to combine it. For one life.
What wouldn’t you trade for one life?
Even the Faerie King, perhaps. What could he offer?
Rhisveri did not know what he had started. Ryoka might if she worried about that—the Faerie King’s rule was absolute.
But for that scroll, even the denizens of his lands and his guests and visitors might…plot…certain things. If nothing else, to disobey or oppose his bid. And that was enough.
The first battles between the guests were small. Quickly, it became worse. An army marched through one gate and clashed with another.
Describing such conflicts and the whos and whys of each would take a thousand books. Enough to say they were as varied as the places they came from. Nor were the matches fair; a Dragon might well think to rob some emissaries of their own gifts and find out that technology had advanced enough for space-flight and that it wasn’t a colorful floating wagon he was robbing.
…But the Faerie King brooked no strife here. So when fights occurred, his people, the strength of the fae, at least one aspect of them, emerged.
The Wild Hunt. Champions of the fae. A single warrior strode between raging giants, and they backed down. If someone violated the Faerie King’s laws…well, they were free to. Even his own subjects did.
There were simply, always, the consequences. The problem was—each warrior was timeless, wielding magic beyond the pale of any sorcerer of mortal make, and a warrior fit to lock blades with legends. Even the King of Knights acknowledged their might.
But the lands of the fae held legends too. It was never an easy fight—but some of the denizens did challenge even the Faerie King’s order.
All for a scroll. The day was coming. Time was subjective in this place, but soon the Wyrm would offer it, and, most likely, choose what he would trade for. Everyone was preparing for that moment. Even if they didn’t want it themselves, it was an object beyond price.
They would all have their turn. Even if the entire thing went fairly—the Faerie King had a mess on his hands for what came thereafter. He was a being that even Dragons hesitated to even name, to think of…
Challenging.
But what would you do for that damn scroll? The oldest laws in the world were of that kind. Hospitality, fair trade for trade.
And if you wanted something and failed to get it every other way…take it.
Time until that moment was drawing closer and closer together. Like inevitability, walking to meet destiny. The Faerie King waited. His plans unknown to all but himself.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin beseeched the immortals for the aid she knew she needed. She had a plan. Sammial could not stay here.
Oh, he bitterly fought, tried to kick her shins…but listened when she sat him down and spoke to him like an adult.
“Sammial. If Tyrion, Jericha, Swey, Buscrei, and the others come here to battle Rhisveri and Ailendamus, they’ll die.”
“No they won’t! Swey only lost a hand! My father can beat anyone! I don’t want to go! Come with me, then?”
“I can’t.”
“Why? Because you’re busy kissing those [Knights]? Did Rhisveri do something to your head?”
Ryoka Griffin just looked the [Lord] solemnly in the eyes.
“No, Sammy. I have to finish what I began with Eldavin.”
The boy hesitated.
“Are you going…to kill him?”
The Wind Runner was still for a long time.
“I’m going to try.”
He gulped. The fight went out of Sammial as Ryoka looked at him, so she took him by the hand.
“How are you going to get me home? We’re on Terandria, you know.”
“I know.”
“Do you actually have a plan?”
Ryoka Griffin shrugged.
“…Sort of.”
Sammial Veltras considered that. He squinted up at Ryoka.
“Well, you cured me once. I guess you might know what you’re doing.”
His dubious consent earned, Ryoka had to now figure out a way to get Sammial Veltras, a [Lord] who was worth a lot as a ransom and might have people wanting to kill him—at the very least, a vulnerable target—
To Tyrion, or House Veltras, or just ‘safety’.
It was an easier job than dealing with Eldavin. In some ways, breaking a [Lord] out of Ailendamus with a Wyrm’s disinterested consent after she’d nearly ruined her life and betrayed one of her friends was Ryoka Griffin’s area of expertise. And she had people who could help her.
 
——
 
“Nope. Sorry.”
