In the next week, as Ailendamus began to defend itself from multiple nations, the Dawn Concordat’s army would advance to meet a quickly rallied army in the field. To the populace, a desperate stand as even the famous House Shoel, Baron Regalius, and even ministers like Sophridel took to the field.
All or nothing. Enlistment surged to defend Ailendamus, the capital, from this army. The immortals marched upon the Dawn Concordat for the first time, and only a Wind Runner remained.
Waiting for an auction, a terrible battle, searching for a way to resolve it all. Or perhaps…convince the Dawn Concordat to flee. This was no joke. This was not even the Great General of Ages alone.
This was the Wyrm of Ailendamus, come to kill everything. The Wyrm, the Devils and Angels, the Dryad, Elementals, and more.
Oh…my.
Shortly before the two met in battle, the last Seamwalker crawled over the edge. A month passed during that week, and the dead of this world saw the end. Amid it all, the confluences of war and battle, desperation at every corner, Ryoka Griffin took one small solace.
If she failed here, at least Sammial Veltras would be safe. Two days before King Fetohep of Khelt heard the herald of dire news, Sammial Veltras reached a port city of Ailendamus. There, he found an escort waiting to take him to Izril.
Not just [Knights]. Nor The Pride of the Wellfar or a navy. Those were highly dangerous, highly contentious figures. Ryoka Griffin entrusted the wellbeing of Sammial Veltras to the two figures who met the young man at the port.
Who could protect Sammial Veltras, who had learned from Ryoka Griffin? Who could take him to Izril, across seas where [Pirates] and worse than Krakens lurked?
The boy was sulking, waiting to meet a Wellfar [Lord] or [Lady] or sit on a stupid vessel. But he perked up when he saw who it was.
“You’re the ones Ryoka sent?”
Two figures stood there. Well, two figures and a monkey. The monkey scratched under one arm as a gigantic Beastkin rumbled.
“A Courier calls. She bows to the sea—for a Courier we answer. I, because Gnolls owe Ryoka Griffin a debt. The Bearkin of Baleros heed our distant kin—no Gnoll by sea could answer, so I stand in their place.”
The Waterbear folded her arms, and the second, a smaller man, bowed, and his tattoos flashed under the sun. The Hundredfriend Courier, Seve-Alrelious, bowed to the awed [Lord].
“For the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, I too answer the call. For a fellow Courier, and the one who helped spread the Yellow Rivers cure. Lord Sammial Veltras, you are bound for your home, and we will not fail that charge. Let no one in the world slow our passage. Couriers outbound.”
 
——
 
Deliveries and runs. That was Ryoka’s specialty. She took comfort in one thing, as it all came to a close.
Before the King of Khelt panicked for the first time in ages.
Before the last shape crawled over the Last Tide.
A week before the worst came to the worst…at least she had this. She read a [Message] and closed her eyes in relief, as she sent all she could across the world. To help. To speed their way.
A week before the dead woke from their dream, the Great Goblin Chieftain, Rags, flew across Izril. Returned to the place where it all started. Liscor and The Wandering Inn.
To wake Erin Solstice.
Too…early.
