At first, it seemed like she would make it. Then someone turned her magic off. Someone suppressed the Skill and spells she was trying to use.
Then—just as abruptly—she felt her Skills return. Cara didn’t know what was going on, but she had a chance if she could use her Skills.
Her heart sank when she saw Ryoka Griffin. The Wind Runner touched down as Cara began to activate her trump card. Her final Skills.
Baron Regalius du Ecte stopped, looking as exasperated as Cara as the Wind Runner spread her arms.
“Stand aside, Ryoka.”
“I can’t let you hurt her. Cara—run.”
You fecking idiot! Cara backed up as [Riders] surrounded her. Did she have to rescue Ryoka too? What was she doing?
Whose side was she on? Regalius dismounted and walked past Ryoka. Or tried to. She barred his way, and he turned to face her, a look of true anger on his face.
“You have fought for Ailendamus, Ryoka. I consider you a friend. Please—do not try to play every side.”
“The Duke will let her go if she crosses the border. She’s against Ailendamus, but she just sang a song.”
“A song can kill. It has killed. My brother’s death is part of her.”
The Wind Runner gripped something tightly in one hand.
“Please, Regalius. I’ll stop you if I must. Cara—get out of here.”
“You are the dumbest, most addle-brained piece of shite who ever—”
The [Singer]’s voice broke off as Regalius pushed past Ryoka and strode towards Cara, sword drawn and a pair of magical cuffs in the other hand.
“You will have to—tsing—kill me, Ryoka…”
Then he stared down at the glowing blade poking out of his chest. Cara’s eyes went wide, and everyone turned as the brilliant blade of the Windsword emerged from Regalius’ chest.
But not an immortal Archmage. Just a man. The sparkling, bright yellow blade swept through Regalius as he turned and looked up at Ryoka with pure betrayal as he fell.
She was used to that. Ryoka turned, and the sword passed through a [Knight]’s chest and armor, enchanted metal and all. Cara backed up, eyes wide, as Ryoka murdered another [Knight], then ran through a third.
“Would you run already?”
“Murder! Murd—”
A [Knight] tried to parry the Faeblade, but it passed through his sword, armor, and…Cara looked back.
Left no cut? Hm?
Hadn’t Ryoka claimed that the Faeblade, sharp as anything—couldn’t cut through magic? But it went straight through an enchanted breastplate, and her opponent dropped without a word. But it didn’t…cut them.
“What’s…what kind of magic is that?”
“Treachery.”
As the [Knights] backed away from the shining, yellow blade that was distinctly different from the hardlight projection, someone whispered it up. Baron Regalius, his face locked in betrayal, looked up at Ryoka. He was…quivering. Trying to move, but his entire body had suddenly gone as limp as a rag. A [Knight] was staring at his hands.
“My body won’t move. What’s…?”
The Faeblade swept through a fourth figure, and they keeled over, muscles relaxing. Going limp as the Faeblade’s nonlethal setting cut them down.
Set fucking phasers to stun. Ryoka Griffin leapt forwards, wind blowing her around as she attacked with all the will in the world. She was bad at killing people. But she would definitely give them muscle paralysis.
Cara saw enough. She ran. She had no horse, and now more pursuers were coming.
“Grab on! I’ll fly you—”
“Get your hands off me! I have a plan! Just cover my back, alright?”
Cara swatted at Ryoka and began her escape. The Wind Runner leapt into the air. She circled—and the wind slammed a [Rider] off their saddle. Ryoka Griffin dropped, stabbing, and a horse and [Knight] fell, stunned.
Dead gods, she’s a menace! The Wind Runner flew like Eldavin, blade flashing around, wind howling. A Griffin screamed and was thrown to nearly crash into the ground before the wind stopped it.
No time to talk to the Wind Runner or find out the rest. If they met again—Cara looked back just once, and the Wind Runner caught her eye. Cara offered her one last look and gesture to express how she felt about their brief meeting.
Then she began to activate her final Skill. The power of a [Popstar].
Predictably—Cara began to sing.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin had no idea what Cara was planning. She was deep in enemy territory and she ran fast, but she was already clutching at a stitch in her side.
Tyrion Veltras himself would have hesitated to just blitz across Ailendamus. But Ryoka knew Cara had a plan.
Which was to use the power of her class. Something only a [Popstar] could do. Her voice caught the wind, and Ryoka turned and saw the Singer of Terandra light up. A spotlight shone down from the heavens, her costume glittered, and in front of the scrying orbs, Ryoka, and the world, she sang.
“[Remember My Name]/[For Every Soul I Entertain, Goodwill Remains]/[I Can Do Anything I Claim]!”
Ryoka Griffin’s eyes widened. Cara leapt…and her feet left the ground and stayed there. She drifted upwards, and Ryoka Griffin saw Cara turn.
“[Fame Is My Magic].”
She was flying. Ryoka saw Cara’s face shining with sweat, burning through…
The concerts. Fame? All that accumulated fame and attention—the [Singer] saluted Ryoka with two fingers.
“You’re not the only one who can fly. See you around, Ryoka.”
Then she took off into the sky. Cara flew through Ailendamus, following her band’s path, and came crashing down like a rock…six miles short of her wagons. They had to turn to pick her up as she lay on the ground, exhausted.
“Cara!”
Abebi dragged her up, and the [Singer] let them pull her into the wagon.
“The Wind Runner covered you?”
“Yeah. I’m not sure what her game is, but she’s staying. Hopefully they don’t reanimate her corpse. Either way—we’re out of here. Cat’s out of the bag…send the signal. I’ve failed.”
Cara collapsed into a chair as Abebi hovered there. Thien, Rae, Greg, and the others not-in-the-know looked confused as Cara’s head lolled. She’d failed the instant the Great General took the field. 
No Wind Runner saved, nor war averted. But at least Seraphel made it. Damn it, it didn’t feel like a victory.
“What signal?”
Thien demanded. Cara cracked one eye open.
“Grab a scrying orb. Do you think that Pheislant’s the only nation who was waiting for an excuse to go up against Ailendamus? There wasn’t a chance before this. Now…they’d better sue for peace. And if they do, it will be more than they ever gave others.”
 
——
 
On the borders of Ailendamus, their northwestern defenses were substantial. House Ecte and Noelictus had clashed often enough that it was not beyond belief that an attack might come from the nation beyond.
The Kingdom of Shade, Noelictus. Even the skies turned grayer at the borders of that kingdom plagued by death.
A strange land that people thought was filled with mad folk, who lived in a place with that much death magic. Yet it was filled with fields that produced much of Ailendamus’ grown food.
This particular section of the border, next to Ovela…this was most heavily reinforced of all. Last winter, Ailendamus had gone into Ovela and nearly taken it.
Nearly. But the [Baron] had fallen, and both sides agreed to a formal ceasefire for a time. Bad blood remained, though, oceans of it.
So when the first movement started across Noelictus’ soil, practically monochrome, bleached of color, either dark black or pale white, an alarm was raised.
The Greatbows of Ailendamus aimed at whatever was coming; Noelictus could send armies, and they would not so easily take the fortresses. However, this was not angry [Soldiers] on a raid from Ovela.
This was something else. The watchers on the walls frowned.
“What’s the count? How many detachments?”
The commander demanded, but no one could give him a straight answer.
“Contact on nine points…but I can’t pull the sizes of each. I just sense movement, lord.”
One of the [Scouts] had a [Sensor Network] variant that detected movement on the ground. But it should have provided rough estimates of a hundred soldiers here, ten here, thousands…
There was only one conclusion, which became evident as the trespassers broke through the treeline.
It wasn’t an army. At least…not in numbers.
Nine figures cleared the trees, which were grey, even the leaves, pale bark shining like strange faces in the ever-gloom, even under the day.
They were instantly recognizable to Ailendamus’ [Soldiers]. But the Greatbow archers hesitated as they saw the tall hats, dark clothing, and even capes. Clothing that revealed no skin for a monster or zombie to bite.
Dark leather and cloth. As bleakly stylish in its way as Regalius’ clothing. Nine figures—then ten—advancing in a wide, wide, scattered formation, carrying crossbows and swords. Weapons suited for their work.
[Hunters] of Noelictus. The famous Hunter’s Guild, which contained [Undead Hunters], [Witch Hunters]…
They were definitely hostile. The [Commander] saw one aim a crossbow and sent a flare into the sky. Another aimed their crossbow up, and a single bolt flew up, exploded into a shower, and sent people shouting for cover.
“Greatbows! Aim! Sound the alarm! Noelictus may be invading!”
The [Commander]’s gut churned. So soon after the Great General had fallen? They’d only received word today.
No…they had been waiting for something. This moment. A weakness. Ovela had never forgotten Ailendamus’ incursion.
The Greatbows fired, and the arrows snapped like thunder and flew, giant iron missiles. They targeted the [Hunters] and…
Missed.
One threw themselves sideways in a [Perfect Dodge], the arrow passing past their clothing. Another just leaned out of the way, and the [Counter Fire] took an [Archer] through the chest.
Ranged experts. The [Commander] realized they had to be the first wave, to take out the Greatbows. More enchanted quarrels were hitting the walls.
“Prepare for an all-out assault!”
Then he saw something rolling through the trees and looked up.
“Lance-arrows protect me—send word to the capital! The Hunter’s Guild is on the assault! I see banners of Afiele! Ovela—they’ve brought the siege weapons of the Hunter’s Guild! This is all-out war!”
The furious people of Noelictus followed the Hunters. And the Singer of Terandria, the Gravesinger’s voice.
Ovela stands. The advancing Hunters slowed a moment as something crashed through the trees. Those watching the battle on the border forts would see Noelictus’ declaration of war as it entered the conflict—the giant contraption, a siege weapon specialized to Noelictus.
The first gigantic impact stuck in the enchanted walls. Another blasted soldiers off the battlements. A third crashed into the gates and stuck there, preventing it from being fully raised.
The weapon was a tool of the Hunter’s Guild. It was known, colloquially, as a Bloodbeast Slayer. Why, exactly, no one could say but the oldest [Hunters] or those who recalled when it had been used.
The projectiles launched from the oversized ballista looked and were always made out of wood, incidentally. They looked like giant stakes.
 
——
 
Noelictus entered the war against Ailendamus the day after Pheislant. First two nations—who sent their forces to harass the Kingdom of Glass and Glory or link with the Dawn Concordat—then more.
If not outright war, then Desonis announcing it had closed its borders to any [Merchants] or forces of Ailendamus. Other nations sending funds or [Mercenaries]. Weighing the benefits to the dangers.
Taimaguros stood with Ailendamus. That was something. The two giant nations made all but the most belligerent think twice about all-out war.
Even so, this was a disaster. The rulers of Ailendamus, the immortals, gathered for a conference with the Wyrm.
Rhisveri. He lay there as they argued, the center of ire as much as anyone, because it was he who had pushed for war after war. They could have heeded the Wind Runner—they could have bided their time.
“Now we face the Dawn Concordat’s main army. We can muster a force to defeat them. But the psychological impact and loss of Dioname is most pressing. The Archmage of Memory is the most dangerous individual by far.”
Visophecin summed the situation up calmly. He looked at the Wyrm, not mistaking Rhisveri’s silence for fear or confusion.
The Wyrm was too quiet. Such that the other immortals waited for his words. Rhisveri raised his head, looking tired.
“Okay.”
Okay? The Merfolk’s representative was agitated. Paterghost herself raised a gauntleted fist.
“If you will not let us punish that insolent Wind Runner—then at least give us leave to combat the enemy, Rhisveri! I will go to battle Noelictus! Let Visophecin and Sophridel contribute.”
“No.”
Rhisveri spoke curtly, and Paterghost began to object when he turned and looked at her. The immortal fell silent, and Visophecin waited.
“Pull no army. The capital will link with the retreating forces. [Royal Knights]…even Baron Regalius and his staff. A grand, desperate army, which will meet the Dawn Concordat at best speed. Within the week.”
“That’s no army. Who will lead it?”
It would be a cluster of forces unused to working together. True, lots of [Knights] and high-level forces, but it would take a genius to use them all. The immortals waited for a name. One of the Great Generals? Two? Rhisveri’s head rose, and then Visophecin saw it.
The Wyrm’s wrath. Rhisveri hissed as everyone backed up.
“Everyone. Visophecin. You will head to the front.”
He’d lead it? Even Paterghost was surprised. Then they caught what Rhisveri meant.
“Sophridel. Four of your most dangerous war-masks. Gilaw.”
“She’s young—”
“I don’t care. Not Gilaw if you want. No children if you must—but every adult Lucifen. At least six Agelum. Every single one of us. I will send my body. The Archmage of Memory is there? I will crush him. Every Great Knight who can make it—every Great General. Everyone. No tricks or gambles. We wipe them out so badly there is nothing but ash.”
The immortals went silent. All eyes turned to Visophecin. The Viscount had never gone to war fully. Nor had Rhisveri. There was no need to.
Send Visophecin alone, and he could hold back the Dawn Concordat. Visophecin, Rhisveri, every single adult Lucifen, Sophridel, Fithea, and the others?
Paterghost had dueled Named Adventurers, and she wasn’t among the mightiest of them. It was beyond overkill, and yet…Rhisveri’s words had a seductive allure.
Everyone. Make an example. The kind of overwhelming victory that would reverse all losses. Duke Rhisveri hissed.
“If I must, I will melt Tyrion Veltras, the Archmage, the Griffin Prince, and the 4th Princess myself! Tell Dame Merila to assemble and wait for us. Everyone is going to wipe them out.”
 
——
 
