Sleep after great deeds was an endemic problem that most flesh-people faced. Some cloth-people too. They had to just collapse after great deeds were done. That was a natural response as the last endorphins or whatever it was that kept them upright, pure will sometimes, just drained away and they relaxed.
The trick was not to die in that moment of weakness. Of course, superior bodies did not need to sleep.
Yet Eldavin was weary. Somehow—Dioname had imposed the law of age, a mortal exhaustion, frailty of the bones, even weariness on a body that should not have age.
The Great General of Ages had perished, but she had left her mark even in passing. Politically, on those who had clashed with her—
And those she had left behind. In a very real sense, this battle was not the glorious victory the Dawn Concordat was hailing it to be. Yes, Ailendamus was in retreat and surrendering, but there were consequences that many had no idea of.
Still—amidst grief or bitter triumph or simply regret—you had to sleep. It was this world that made it so incongruous, though. Amidst loss, and sometimes the most heartbreaking tragedy, you were used to the sound, the voice. Even trained to expect it.
 
[Conditions Met: Aura Knight → Knight of the Dawn Class!]
[Knight of the Dawn Level 20!]
 
In the dark of night, a [Knight] rose.
“Whooo!”
His scream woke everyone in a thousand paces. And deafened Dame Meisa, who shot up, fumbling for a sword.
“Rabbit—what—”
“New class! New class—wait. I woke up.”
The Hobgoblin realized he had a problem. He tried to lay back down. Yes, it was the same dispassionate voice that was probably repeating in the minds of everyone napping—those that hadn’t been woken by his scream, that was.
Because you were sort of awake in that hazy fugue-state. It was the moment before true oblivion or dreams came, when you slipped away—that was when the voice came. That perfect moment when you were finally sleeping, not gripped by insomnia. Able to process, in a vague way, what was going on. Even refuse…if someone were so foolish.
The trick was to wait. Drift off…and hear…
 
[Bound Spell: Steps of Light obtained!]
 
“Mobility! I get spell! I’m magic! Argh—I woke up again!”
This time, Meisa hit him in the side. Someone threw a helmet at him.
“People are trying to level up over here, too, you know!”
“Sorry, sorry.”
He lay back down, really trying this time to not react…and the voice came, rushing a bit, not irritated, but perhaps as if even this unknowing force were worried it would be cut off by the overeager Goblin.
 
[Skill – Lightsoaked Armaments obtained!]
[Condition – Body: Solar Storage obtained!]
 
Meisa had waited for the third outburst and the Hobgoblin’s genuine, even childish delight. But it never came. He definitely woke back up after another few minutes.
“Rabbit? Did you get something great?”
She thought he’d changed classes, but the troubled head turned, and a visor cracked open a bit. She saw a deep frown as Rabbiteater spoke.
“…I’m a plant.”
 
——
 
The two slumbering [Knights] in the open battlefield napped under the stars, too tired to bother with beds.
[Princesses] got beds, even in the chaotic aftermath of a battle. This particular one?
Well. They cheered her name. Her parents wanted to speak to her, and even her sisters looked in awe. She didn’t tell anyone she’d nearly wet herself or how terrified she’d been.
Her class, her levels, her journey were a continuation of the one she’d taken with the Singer of Terandria. So, context? Context was lacking, and it was going to be a problem. But at last she had found it. A strange road that she’d stepped onto. Seraphel du Marquin heard a voice.
 
[Deathtouch Princess Level 27!]
 
[Skill Change – Royal Slap → Ghost’s Hand!]
[Skill Consolidation: Deft Hand removed!]
 
[Skill – Hearts of Courage obtained!]
[Reputation: Infamy, Now My Fame obtained!]
 
[Skill – Royal Bodyguard: Two of Life, Two of Death obtained!]
[Order – Induction: Royal Bodyguard granted.]
 
[Skill – Lesser Toughness obtained!]
 
Her eyes snapped open at the massive, conflicting, strange boons granted. Her thoughts mixed and mingled.
Oh no. Oh yes!
In the background of it all, she could swear she heard someone shouting at her.
“Wear armor, stupid!”
 
——
 
Among the many and varied level-ups, not all entirely welcome…the most notable and arguably the most levels gained came to one person. One man.
 
[Diligent Lord Level 27!]
 
Amazing! It was rare for a [Lord]-type class to gain six levels in one event. In one battle! At twenty-eight years old, Lord Tyrion Veltras…
Would have been ecstatic about that. Especially since, even at twenty-eight years old, he had been embarrassingly older in age than levels as a Level 21 [Lord] at the time. Now, by the grace of having triumphed over a foe with no peer, risking his life day after day in a battle that had tested him to his last—
He was now twenty levels behind where he had once been. Lord Tyrion Veltras listened, so bone-weary with shock he didn’t even truly wake as a list of notifications he had never quite heard in that way played in his head.
 
[Skill – Lightning Hooves restored!]
[Skill – Fourfold Strike restored!]
[Skill—
 
Some were Skills he had once had and gained at that time. Others? [Fourfold Strike] would later consolidate into [Lancing Hydrastrike].
They felt…different in his mind, too. Almost cooler, as if there were some difference to regaining the Skills. If he had to describe it, well, he’d describe it like a breeze. Blue?
He remembered now—Level 21. His parents had been alive. This would be before the Second Antinium Wars, and unlike Magnolia Reinhart, he had not ridden to aid the Drakes. She had passed him around that time.
Tyrion Veltras would make his name and gain the most levels and come into his own during the disaster of the Goblin King’s rampage, as he took up the mantle of House Veltras. If Dioname had thrown him only…ten years instead of sixteen, he might have kept the lion’s portion of his strength.
Instead, he listened, waiting to hear the same Skills reobtained. What would this mean for House Veltras? The war? Jericha had more levels than he did, now. He would have to abdicate at once. But no one could know; it would be disastrous.
However, something did change. Tyrion heard a different set of words than he had, long ago. Amidst all the other Skills he’d regained, there were two that were…new.
 
[Skill – Greater Resistance: Chronos obtained!]
[Skill – A Second of Time obtained!]
 
Those sounded like…well, the first sounded highly situational and too late by far. But the second? That sounded…valuable.
Still, between that and twenty levels and just as many Skills, Tyrion knew which one he’d pick. Small blessings. He could only assume they had come from deed. Slaying the Great General of Ages had granted him a vestige of her power; it was not uncommon.
A younger body did not make up for this. If Tyrion Veltras were sixty, but with all his levels and Skills, he would have been able to take on two younger Tyrions at age 28. He might have more aches and pains, but his Skills…experience was one thing, but [Greater Speed] was not something you could learn! Did he even have [Lesser Speed] at this time? [Enhanced Speed] was at Level 30—
…Wait a second. Wait a second. Tyrion remembered something suddenly. He had forgotten, but he did have [Lesser Speed]. And—after giving him all his [Diligent Lord] levels, the voice should have stopped.
Now he remembered. Oh no. The [Lord]’s eyes opened, but he didn’t jump to his feet. He just listened as he recalled where he had been in that point in his life. And his…true…class began to chime in his head.
 
[Conditions Met: Peerless Lance → Lancer of the Ages Class!]
[Lancer of the Ages Level 34!]
[Skill Change – Ten-foot Strike → Twenty-foot Strike!]
 
The [Lancer] class! The one the prodigy on horseback, Tyrion Veltras, the young [Lord] of House Veltras, had been most gifted at and later consolidated!
A class that only leveled from combat, not a [Lord]’s class. Tyrion covered his face with one hand, but it wasn’t done.
 
[Skill – Mount: In Time, Your Truest Potential obtained!]
[Skill – Summon: The Phantom of My Legend obtained!]
[Skill – Lance: Touch of Age (temporary) obtained!]
 
Someone was mocking him. Three fantastical skills, a changed class…the newly-minted [Lord]-[Lancer] sat up in bed. He was stationed in the keep, of course, and pointed.
“[The Phantom of My Legend].”
In the darkness of night, the rather small room in the tight keep changed. The drapes over the closed window blew in a sudden breeze, and a faint, ethereal light filled the room.
Grey and calm, not beautiful except in how austere it was. A plain, revealing light without much beauty to it. Rather like a lance of steel, and the figure itself.
A man on horseback, middle-aged, if young for that, hair still dark, sitting tall upon a warhorse. Armored, lance in hand, Lord Tyrion Veltras rode forwards, searching for a foe. He sat there, poised…as a young Lord Tyrion watched him.
The summoned version of him lasted mere seconds. Yet in that short moment, the two locked gazes. One, dispassionate, a figment of a memory with no real personality. The other…
The younger man leapt. Sword flashing out.
[Fourfold Strike]! His sword danced, trying to recapture a form he knew—
The phantom Tyrion calmly blocked all four strikes on his shield, hand a blur. He didn’t bother drawing his sword, just angled his mount away. His expression was carefully neutral, which meant he was bored but trying not to show it. The phantom-him vanished in the next few seconds as Tyrion, panting, stared at the place he’d been.
“My lord? What was that sound?”
Someone immediately rapped on his door. Tyrion answered—he didn’t know what he said—then sat down on his bed.
Tyrion Veltras rubbed at his face.
“…I have a long way to go.”
 
——
 
The next few days would be spent healing the wounded, reorganizing, and debating a push into Ailendamus. Later, it would be debated whether that was a sound move, but Their Majesties of Calanfer, Gaiil-Drome, and even Kaliv were hot on the victory won and eager to advance.
Seeing Ailendamus’ greatest army, which had been led by a figure who had won almost every major conflict in their vast century of expansion, laid low—well, that had a big impact on morale and the ego.
Besides, they still had the Archmage of Memory and two of the Five Houses in force. Plus, the Order of Seasons and Pheislant were now in this war! His Majesty of Pheislant had declared formal war with Ailendamus…about an hour after the Great General fell.
This was the time to strike. Heck, even the Griffin Prince had made it! He’d dug himself out of the ground this morning, very upset at being buried alive.
No one knew Lord Tyrion had lost his levels…at least not publicly. To all, it seemed as if he had de-aged, of course, but that was a Skill he’d gotten, and Tyrion could not be [Appraised], so it made sense.
A great Skill for a [Lord], right? Of course, that was still a gamble. So, after a long conference with his most trusted allies, Lord Tyrion Veltras came up with the most cunning plan in his life—because he had to keep his weakness secret. In order to really sell his sudden youth as a positive…he made the excuse that would not only be believed, but bought wholesale.
 
——
 
“Sir. Sir…I know this is completely out of order, milord. But I hoped I could catch you?”
Lord Pellmia Quellae, [Lord of Love and Wine], turned as a surreptitious [Knight] hurried over. The [Lord], who couldn’t help but notice hundreds if not thousands of eyes on him, leaned over.
“Er…yes?”
The [Knight] was a Thronebearer of Calanfer, and she hesitated.
“I wouldn’t take up your time, Lord Quellae. However—we might never meet again, and I have heard that you are the most high-level—that is to say—if I may be honest, there is a young man of my affections that I have been looking after for years. But coincidence, relationships, even fate has never allowed me to say anything—and I have tried! Given your level, I thought…”
Pellmia blinked at her. She looked at him hopefully. He was only a [Matchmaker]—well, yes, he had consolidated his classes, but she was a Thronebearer, renowned for diplomacy!
Yet if ever there was a [Lord] fit for the greatest battlefield of all: love, it was him. The peerless hero beyond any other. Champion of the hopeless. Savior to even Lord Tyrion Veltras.
The Thronebearer glanced at Pellmia—then at Lord Tyrion Veltras, restored to youth by Pellmia’s Skill that he might pursue his paramour, backed by the flawless [Lord of Love and Wine].
Pellmia gave her an uneasy smile.
“I…could certainly hear you out.”
Only for you, Tyrion. The Thronebearer’s relieved smile lit up her face, and Lord Pellmia engaged in the most difficult path in his life yet. In truth—he was amazed Tyrion had thought of it. Pellmia didn’t know this, but House Quellae, upon hearing the revelation that their [Lord] could not only fix any relationship, however dire, but de-age someone, however rarely, had received over two thousand missives from around the world.
Including even a subtle inquiry from Chaldion of Pallass. Everyone needed hope.
 
——
 
Ailendamus was not laughing. Nor celebrating anything. Although Duke Rhisveri had—well, Itorin II had—but Rhisveri had declared a period of mourning for a year, and statues and memorials for their Great General. The people’s unshakable confidence in their nation, the infallible Kingdom of Glass and Glory, turned to fear as they heard of their great army, defeated.
They might have the number to replenish that army, but that army needed to be formed, armed, leaders trained…and it was not a simple game of logistics. The defeat of their Great General meant the Dawn Concordat had their opening.
So it was handshakes, congratulations, and introductions the day after the battle. Seraphel du Marquin met Tyrion Veltras, two heroes of the day—although you could very well argue one had done a lot more heroing.
Still, Calanfer had to have its [Princess], and the [Bards] were already, carefully, editing the story to give Tyrion an equal part to Seraphel du Marquin’s heroism and the Archmage of Memory. Calanfer could win any war of the words it wanted.
Lord Tyrion seemed to take his reduced credit in stride. At least—Seraphel saw not one muscle move on the man’s face besides his lips as he gave her a formal bow and greeted her.
“Your intervention was pivotal, Princess Seraphel. However, I must speak with Their Majesties of the Dawn Concordat at once. An advance into Ailendamus is not to be taken lightly.”
