Cara O’Sullivan met Ryoka outside of the caravan. Her band was practicing in the distance, but the audience wasn’t really in the mood for music.
They were in that they needed it—but it was a hushed feeling in Ailendamus. They didn’t want a band, so Cara sang to them.
No one was allowed within a hundred feet of the caravan. Cara’s guard was up for reasons Ryoka didn’t fully understand.
One of them was Ryoka herself. The [Singer] had a scratchy voice as she drank a potion. Had she been singing?
The answer was yes, but Cara looked at Ryoka like a stranger. Nearly killing an Archmage on camera did that to your relationship.
“I guess there’s more you didn’t tell me. Just—tell me this. Do you regret it?”
Ryoka Griffin looked at Cara as the [Singer] offered Sammial some toffee. It instantly glued his teeth together, and Ryoka learned a new way to deal with the boy.
“I regret all my mistakes. But…I had my reasons, Cara.”
The [Popstar] rose and shrugged. Her hands in her pocket, she stood back from Ryoka, looking her up and down, eying the Faeblade.
“I bet. I can’t help you. I want to, but Sammial Veltras is too famous for my band, and we’re not bound for any port. Ailendamus has some on the west coast.”
The Kingdom of Glass and Glory stretched so far it did have ports on the west, above Pheislant…but only there. Ryoka could get Sammial to Tyrion, but Tyrion was going to war.
“Okay. But if you—”
“No. Sorry. I’m canceling my contract with Ailendamus too, Ryoka. I…can’t stay. Nor can I stick around as this nation fights these terrible wars.”
Ryoka understood that after seeing that bloody five-day battle. Yet she tried to stop Cara.
“I thought you were going to sue for peace. If there was any time…now’s your chance. Our chance. I’ll help you.”
“By killing an Archmage? Or are you going to stab everyone who wants to keep fighting? I grant you, if it works it works. But no. I have to go. Soon.”
Cara’s eyes shifted, and Ryoka glanced over her shoulder. Was it one of them? Cara?
“Where’s Greg?”
“Practicing.”
Cara waved to the distant band, rehearsing without her. She looked at her audience.
“One more day, Ryoka. One more night. I’m doing a few quiet songs—then I’m bouncing. We’ll have to talk later.”
She was…off. So much so that Ryoka Griffin had already realized that Cara was a bad bet. And in truth, she had a better option.
 
——
 
“I want unlimited money to get Sammial home. Unlimited money, magical help…and I could use an artifact that just cancels all hostile magic on me.”
That last one was an extra. Viscount Visophecin raised his brows.
“…And you want me to provide it?”
“Yes.”
The Devil tapped his fingers together.
“…No. I don’t believe I wish to grant that request. Why would I do that?”
Someone sniggered, and Ryoka glanced at Azemith. Paxere, who was a ‘missing finger buddy’, watched Ryoka as her parents, the other Lucifen, and the Agelum heard Ryoka out in their rooms in the palace.
“Does saving Paxere count for nothing?”
“It most certainly counts. Just not for what might be a poor strategic move. Sammial Veltras’ safety might best be ensured here.”
“Where he nearly got blown up?”
Visophecin raised his brows.
“A journey into a warzone—or sending him back overseas—is just as dangerous. There are ways, but the cost, the magical expenditure—why do these things now?”
“Because he might be in danger. And I’ve had enough of putting people I like in danger.”
Ryoka rested her hands on the table, and Sammial looked up from punching into Uzine’s palms. The Agelum was training him to fist-fight.
“See? She is a good person. I don’t get why she stabbed the Archmage, but I’m sure it was a good reason.”
The Lucifen eyed Sammial, who was, in some ways, their exact opposite. The Agelum laughed and nodded, and Ryoka played her trap card.
“You’ll provide everything I want, Visophecin. I can guarantee it.”
“Why?”
Paxere was watching Ryoka curiously. Even the Lucifen girl didn’t seem willing to just open House Shoel’s treasuries for Ryoka. The Wind Runner knew that, so she looked straight past Visophecin.
“…Because I bet your fairer cousins won’t let him die if it’s just a matter of coin. Right, Gadrea? Uzine?”
Visophecin closed his eyes as the Agelum turned in their wheelchairs and gave Ryoka wide grins.
“No. Hear her out, Visophecin. And do what Ryoka wants! The boy should be with his family. What’s a few hundred thousand gold? We’re rich!”
The Devil gave Ryoka a mild look of respect before pinching the bridge of his nose. He might not like being forced into something any more than anyone else…but Ryoka suspected he rather admired someone who rubbed their opponent’s nose in their weakness and played dirty.
“I am listening. But the quality of the plan does matter, Uzine. What did you have in mind, Ryoka?”
Sammial looked up eagerly as Ryoka outlined her plan with a breath.
“First…how far could House Shoel teleport someone? And I am going to need money. A lot of it. Not hundreds of thousands or even a hundred thousand…but maybe a few thousand.”
 
——
 
The trick was thinking of every move Ryoka could reasonably make—but thinking of how it could go wrong.
Let’s say I bring Sammial to Tyrion. Smart move, right? Bring a kid into a warzone.
Wrong! Stupid idea! Classic Ryoka idea! Children? Warzones? Did not mix!
Do the most practical, non-idiotic thing possible. Not un-dramatic…the Lucifen and Agelum liked the dramatic, and Ryoka had to get Sammial on-board as well.
She made a few [Message] spells, did some arranging. Really, it was all about having unlimited funds, the reputation of House Shoel behind you, and spellcasters on an Archmage level. Everything seemed so easy when you had that.
The disaster came that evening, as Ryoka Griffin was saying farewell to Sammial. He clung to her hand.
“Can’t I stay? Please?”
“You nearly died. People are in danger around me, Sammial. And even if that’s okay normally…I think it’s about to get bad here.”
Eldavin, Rhisveri’s auction…the [Lord] kicked at the ground as the Lucifen waited. He pointed at someone waiting to say farewell, too.
Oesca was surrounded by so many bodyguards, including two Great Knights—not Gilaw—that Ryoka could barely see her. But she had apparently convinced her mother she had to say farewell. The [Lord] aimed a finger at her and spoke loudly.
“It’s not fair! I like the people here! Like Uzine! And Uzine! And mostly Uzine, but also Oesca! Can I take her with me?”
“…She’s a [Princess], Sammial.”
“Well, Rhisveri kidnapped me.”
The bodyguards did not seem amused by the banter, and before Ryoka could be tackled by a linebacker wearing plate armor, she spoke.
“Maybe you can visit if the war ends.”
“Or I shall visit you, Sammial! You have to give me a tour of House Veltras. I’ll ask my mother and father to end the war—and so should you! It’s silly—we’re not on opposite sides! Just on different continents!”
Oesca came forwards, and Ryoka gave the [Princess] a smile. The [Princess of Trousers]—and Ryoka dearly hoped she got the class—had done away with a skirt today.
Sammial Veltras shook her hand and turned to Ryoka with a sigh. But he brightened up when he saw his escort.
Dame Chorisa and the Thirsting Veil [Knights] under Rhisveri’s command had good reasons to leave the palace themselves. They had volunteered for this ride—with some persuasion by Uzine. They were all waiting in the teleportation circle that would send them across Ailendamus.
Teleportation is safer than me carrying him…? Yes. Teleportation by Lucifen is safer than me, Ryoka Griffin, strapping Sammial to my glider. 
Sammial Veltras being in the company of [Knights] who were not prone to Ryoka’s drama? Also check.
“It’s not a long ride, Lord Veltras. We should be at the port by nightfall on the third day. It is our honor to escort you.”
“Alright. But only if you show me how to poison my dagger!”
Dame Chorisa gave Ryoka a look, but Ryoka just nodded to her. I’m not making your life easier. Sammial Veltras walked away from Ryoka and glanced back a few times as the spell began.
“Are you coming home?”
“As soon as I can. I promise.”
He vanished in a flash of light, and Ryoka sniffed hard. Uzine patted her on the back.
“There, there. He’s perfectly safe. Your plan is very logical. Even Visophecin agreed. Why not distract yourself? I haven’t seen that young man who you brought to your rooms. What was his name? Greg? No accounting for taste, but maybe he’s around.”
Ryoka covered her face as Oesca looked at her. Greg.
Damn you, Greg!
 
——
 
Yet she didn’t see Greg that night. Only Cara, who was preparing for a somber song about the loss, a tribute to Dioname.
She didn’t see Rae or the others, either, and assumed the band was coming. Word of the Singer leaving abruptly had spread, but no one was mourning it hard given the true loss of their Great General.
…Except Menorkel, that was.
“Ryoka. Ryoka! You have to help smuggle me into Miss Cara’s caravan!”
The Titan tried to drag Ryoka over to the caravan still off-limits to all. Ryoka tried to get free, but her legs kicked a few feet off the ground. Gilaw captured them, and they began to carry her off.
“Menorkel! You can’t go, and you know it. Gilaw! Don’t help him!”
The Titan’s face was a mask of grief.
“I just met her and she’s leaving! Was it something I did? Why does she have to go? I love her, and she told me I could be a singer, and she doesn’t even know I have two heads!”
It wasn’t about him at all, but he thought it was. Talk about self-absorbed.
So thought pot-Ryoka as Gilaw nodded a few times. The Great Knight herself looked interested in going…but it was impossible.
“You’re a Griffin and a Titan. Even if you could make the magic stick, you know that Rhisveri wouldn’t allow it. I’m sorry, Menorkel. I don’t know why Cara’s leaving but…maybe she’ll come back?”
The Titan sagged as Ryoka patted him on the hip. Gilaw smacked Ryoka’s shoulder, but Ryoka just retreated.
“I can’t stop her, and hitting me won’t help, Gilaw! I’ll tell Fithea!”
She had to admit—it was odd that Cara was leaving so soon. But Ryoka also sort of understood why.
I’m at a confluence of stories, like the fae. She’s had her own issues with Ailendamus, so she has to leave. Seraphel and Merila were people she knew.
It had already been a risk. Frowning, Ryoka thought about it as Cara took the stage and Menorkel ran over to hear her last songs. Gilaw hopped over too, staring up at Cara as the [Popstar] began to light up the stage with quiet colors, a song for the fallen. She sang beautifully, and Ryoka thought she did sing with real sadness and regret.
Perhaps not for Ailendamus’ dead, though. She mentioned Afiele. That’s somewhere in Noelictus, which fought against Ailendamus. She’s leaving soon…because she tried to kill me?
Or was it something she did that I didn’t notice? Did she pick up on Rhisveri? Or is it…
They were on the same side, weren’t they? The Singer met Ryoka’s eyes across the crowded hall, two spotlights of magic illuminating her. A shadow glimmered against the curtain she’d set up as she sang alone, pale silver and deep violet. No bangles or jewelry, just quiet clothing with no sparkle, a frizz of brown hair as her head moved back and the lips moved.
We’re from the same world. Are we friends? Or…
Ryoka looked around as the quiet gathering in the banquet hall, devoid of any true notables except maybe Menorkel, Gilaw, and Cara. Someone else she recognized moved through the crowd, and Ryoka Griffin’s brows crossed at once.
She sensed the disaster before it struck. Just pure intuition from the messes she caused, the moment. Ryoka reached for her Faeblade and adjusted the weapon to a new setting as someone stepped through the crowd.
She would give them this: they were direct. The figure who moved through Ailendamus was well-known to Ryoka and others.
They did not run, nor hide. The bared blade in their hands had a faint glow to it. Like a rind of orange. Not intimidating…
However, the look in Baron Regalius’ eyes made Ryoka Griffin know he was serious. The [Baron of Ceremonies] was even smiling. But it was that set smile of a man staring at death. The listeners, the audience, turned and backed out of the way as the [Baron] strode through them.
He looked like he had stepped out of one of his ceremonies—a vigil for the fallen [Knights], perhaps. Indeed, confused [Knights] from all three Orders in Ailendamus trailed him.
Regalius’ attire was perfect, a billowing cloak like blood—cloth, not liquid—and a garb that let him move as freely as he liked. He had pinned a single white orchid onto his chest.
“Treachery.”
That was all he said. Ryoka Griffin appreciated that, too. She turned to him, reaching for the Faeblade. So this was it? How fast could he be? How large was the cabal? Why?
“Why?”
The [Baron] slowed as Ryoka turned to face him. He blinked at her—and walked right past Ryoka Griffin. She blinked.
Oh. This one wasn’t about her this time. The [Baron] advanced through the crowd as they parted. On-stage, the Singer of Terandria fell silent. He pointed the sword at her, one arm extended.
“Cara O’Sullivan, Singer of Terandria. Upon my name as Baron Regalius du Ecte, I must ask you cease singing. Upon my reputation and the honor of House Ecte—I accuse you of taking arms against the Kingdom of Glass and Glory.”
Gasps. Menorkel whirled, confused, and Ryoka Griffin herself started.
“Arms, Baron?”
A smiling [Thespian] upon her stage gave away nothing but polite confusion. But that was a tell in itself. She did not look frightened or confused, just poised.
The [Baron]’s eyes locked on Cara’s like a hawk’s. His own expression was grim. Triumphant.
“I will stand before His Majesty and accept any disgrace if I am wrong. Yet I am not.”
“What’s going on? Baron, have you taken leave of your senses?”
A [Marquis] cried out, and Regalius swept around, sword still aimed, coat billowing as he addressed the crowd. Someone with the same presence as Cara. A fitting match. Indeed…as Ryoka listened and the pieces fell into place, she realized this was more than fitting.
“My peers of Ailendamus! I remind you of something not long past, yet it seems an age ago. Last year, you surely recall when an incident on our borders involved the Kingdom of Shade, Noelictus, and ours. One [Baron] besieged the earldom of Ovela. There, he perished, despite the presence of Dame Merila.”
Every eye swung to Regalius, and Ryoka felt a sudden chill race down her body. He had mentioned his brother passed away. But so soon…
