“Let’s check the city.”

“We go first,” Zero-Five said in a voice that brooked no argument.

The town was abandoned, but a cursory search revealed it had been done peacefully. Most of the furniture was missing along with any coin or valuables. They found only one house intact in a corner, filled to the brim with broken things. The damage hinted that the person living there might have been the one to go aberrant.

“Peaceful evacuation means survivors, hopefully? Maybe they left when trade died out?” Marruk asked.

“Yes, though we will get our answers sooner rather than later.”

The journey continued, the mood just as good as before. Those were people who’d seen death too many times to let an aberrant ruin their mood though Viv’s appetite was shot for a day. Those were really nasty beings.

Three days later, the group stopped at the edge of the woods. The ground lowered onto a vast plain of rolling green hills peppered with small copses. In the distance, smoke rose to the horizon, coming from the charred remains of a village a few kilometers away. Viv used a farview spell to have a clearer look.

Basic buildings, the kind built without skill but with patience. They were burnt to a crisp, completely demolished. Nothing moved. Not even carrion birds. It was recent too.

“By the Ancestors,” Marruk said.

The group moved forward, keeping their eyes open for danger. Whoever had done this might still be around and more importantly, they were without mercy. Viv remembered Anelton, the border town in Enoria, after Elix had been done with it. It paled compared to the level of destruction seen here. Whoever had destroyed the village had been very systematic. She had to learn more.

She had not expected danger.

And then, something itched at the back of her neck. She recognized the sensation immediately. It was danger sense.

“Wait, something is —”

“Is Arthur supposed to be here?” Zero-Five asked.

Viv looked up to the blue sky and cotton clouds, to a distant yet familiar seek shape. The sun reflecting on shiny white scales, the crimson glow of malevolent eyes. Wings, longer than the main body.

The dragon roared. It was a lower pitch.

More muscular. Larger. Significantly larger. Around Viv, mana twitched in a way she recognized, as if the world itself became a weapon in the hand of her enemy. Every hue shivered when the creature pulled power to itself. It grew larger in her normal and mana sight, a tiny, multicolored sun contained in a package of fangs and claws.

The dragon dove.

“Spread out,” Viv said.

“What?”

“Spread out. That’s not Arthur. That’s her brother.”
