“Some people in town were looking for revenge. Abenezigel has decided to talk to them, but I am here in case some of them choose the path of violence instead.”

“Not what I meant. More…”

“The fact that I am protecting some of the worst humanity has to offer?”

The crossbow woman flinched, but she didn’t object.

“Oh don’t be like that Sahey. You know what I meant,” Lorn half chided, half apologized. “And, well, it relates… to Farren.”

Viv waited to see if he wanted to continue. He did.

“He was right in the end. A bit too early and we lost him for it but… he was right.”

“I thought you would be more angry. You seemed angry.”

“Are you taking the piss?” Lorn suddenly said, and Viv immediately shook her head.

“No, Lorn, I am not taking the piss.”

“I apologize. Ugh. Well, I was angry, and still am. I was also grieving. It took me a while to realize that. Koro has been of great help. She is very proficient at expressing her emotions and naming them. What Farren wanted was a better world, one where genuine regret can lead to genuine redemption. Many people are facing great burdens that either life or their own poor decisions have placed on their shoulders. I will defend their right to receive help. And I will always support the retribution aspect of the new god. Some of the new Hadal followers and I have already hunted those who thought they had escaped the grasp of the law.”

“It’s interesting how some of the mantle overlaps.”

“If you are referring to the attributes of the gods then yes, they overlap. The two gods are still brothers in arms. I hope that one day, they will face the darkness together as equals. Until then, I am willing to lend a hand.”

“Ok, I admire you for it.”

“You are not a very forgiving person, Viviane of Harrak. On the other hand, those you killed never expressed remorse, so I suppose I cannot hold it against you.”

***

Viv remembered one of the concepts her online friend Gevaudan had mentioned. It was the idea of balance. Balance was a mechanism that made several choices viable and fun in any sort of game. His greatest source of entertainment was finding a way to break it. Viv thought this applied here. In any balanced system, the number of available portals would be limited so there would be some sort of arbitration. Does she choose to keep the path east open for trade? Or the path north into the deadlands so her army can loot it and try their teeth on the undead? Here, she didn’t have to choose. The portals didn’t have to be constantly powered, so mana wasn’t an issue, and as far as glyph coordinates went, she had a perfect memory. She could install a thousand portals and remember each active pair with unerring accuracy.

It was great when the world bullshitted in your favor, she thought.

The expedition to search for remnants of the old empire started south of Kazar, at the end of the old fertile strip where one of the temples of Neriad’s old fortress still stood — though now it was unmanned. Directly south of there, the forest was no longer quite the Deadlands. Its magic fizzled, keeping space stable and vegetation growth at a reasonable rate. For this endeavor, Viv brought a squad of scouts led by Zero-Five, one of the few Hadals who really enjoyed fighting, a group of Kark fighters led by Marruk who absolutely begged to get away from her duty as the local Kark leader, and helpers with beasts of burden so she wouldn’t have to sleep under the rain. She didn’t expect much to happen until they reached the surviving Old Harrakans, so they traveled light.

It was now the beginning of spring and the woods were filled with burgeoning life, fucking life, and things killing each other. The scent of sap and living things provided a nice change after too much time spent either in the deadlands or in the more crowded and developing spots of Viv’s budding nation. Latrines didn’t smell nice. It was also a pleasant break from people expecting stuff from her. There was only the contemplative walk, the rare encounter with a crazed predator and their subsequent cooking in the cool air beyond the mountains. Mushrooms provided some nice variety, after they were checked, and they sometimes came across edible roots. Sadly, berries were not yet in season, but her rations had permon slices.

“Do you think we will find something?” Marruk finally asked her one morning, shortly after one of her sentries bellowed there was nothing to report.

“Yes. Solfis confirmed the armor is of recent make, but of an old technique. Our only concern is the quality. It’s… subpar. Wouldn’t match Harrakan standards. They may have lost some of their techniques over the years, but the main interrogation is the political situation. The death of the old empire must have been an extremely traumatic event. The south lands were not well-connected to the rest of the empire but it still needed a lot of supplies, so they would have had to adapt.”

“A shame that Solfis cannot join then.”

Viv shrugged.

“Can’t be helped. He’s no longer mobile. We knew it would come to this. There are charging stations across the land but a stroll like this one cannot be achieved without a dedicated carriage and those need special roads.”

“He can still join us at the end. When we have arrived.”

“I think he will want to, but let’s hold back for now.”

“Why?” Marruk asked with a deep frown.

“Because he is a massive war machine with an attitude.”

“Oh,” she replied. “Oooooh. I only see him as Solfis.”

“You have known him for a while. Just remember what he does to people he doesn’t like.”

“I have seen the head collection.”

They both shuddered.

“Anyway, more planning?”

***

There was one more reason why Marruk had joined. Viv would participate in the Glastian wall purge very soon, but after that she would both help Marruk and even the score with the Pure League. The two were still at the brainstorming part, however. What Viv wanted was a permanent solution.

“Will Enoria allow your army to go through?”

“Maybe but… the supply chain will definitely get attacked. The Pure League has more than enough operatives to destroy several caravans and, although Enoria is allied with us, its lords will not favor us fighting in support of non-humans. No, I have… another idea. But even then, if we are here, we can only campaign for a while. The Kark should have the tools to win by themselves.”

“I know guerilla,” Marruk replied.

And she did, to an extent.

The two remained quiet for a while. This was an old topic they never really agreed on. Marruk insisted that she could change things but her attempts to organize and reform her band of young traveling males had hit a roadblock: subterfuge was utterly alien to Kark culture and they fought her off every step of the way. This made Viv’s usual approach of getting the right weapon for the job difficult. For the first time in a while, she didn’t know how to approach the problem.

“We might need to go there and assess. Usually, I try to have a solution to a problem before I show up but this time we might have to improvise, and more importantly, your tribe may have ideas.”

Marruk grunted. It was clear her hangups had only grown in the recent years since helping other exiles like herself. Viv wasn’t sure, but she believed the Kark might have a harder time adapting to new circumstances than humans did. That didn’t mean they deserved to be ethnically cleansed.

“We’ll figure out something.”

The worst thing was, Old Harrak and the Kark steppes had a common border far to the north, though they were separated by mountains. The Old Empire deemed that the steppes had no resources worth fighting the Kark over. It was funny how that had turned out to be true, now that the Pure League got to experience a dust bowl.

They continued in silence. Viv just enjoyed the moment, step by step. Everyone’s physical stats meant that walking at a brisk speed was barely an exercise, even through the heavily forested terrain, and the temperature was just perfect. A part of her wanted to just fly off and set up portals as fast as possible but this wasn’t the deadlands. There were perhaps things to explore and, more importantly, she was destructive but not invincible. It would be stupid to kill necrarchs and then get sniped off by some weird wasp species that shot darts or something. For once, she was not in a hurry. The Glastian gathering wouldn’t be until a little later that year.

The first sign of civilization came from a tower, standing apparently randomly in the middle of a clearing. The Harrakans approached it with caution but the lack of danger or mana confirmed this was indeed just a wreck. It took a little while for Viv to realize what was happening.

“The green mana has returned to normal forest levels.”

“What does that mean?” Marruk asked.

“We are out of the Deadshield Woods. This is an old guard tower for the old Imperial way. There should be a tunnel entrance north of here, back towards the Harrakan heartlands.”

A quick search found the overgrown remnants of an ancient stone road. They decided to follow it since it would be the optimal path towards whatever was left of the old empire.

“Solfis said this way was seldom used. Merchants much preferred to reach the southern islands by sea. It was quicker and safer.”

“But we have no ships now,” Irao said.

Viv blinked. She just now remembered he was around.

“Yes. The forest seems healthy and the trees are old though, so there is a good chance this place escaped the cataclysm.”

“Beastlings,” a Hadal scout reported.

Everyone turned to Viv.

“I mean, why not?”

***

There was no battle. The beastling horde was small with a single shaman, and their only surviving beast appeared wounded. It had been a very long time since Viv accompanied Varska and the Kazaran militia against a horde. Now, they were just a formality. She opened on them from the air and then the rest of the escort swept in to finish off the stragglers. After they were done, Viv landed by the dead shaman to check his gear.

“Hmmm, I thought you were easily disgusted,” Marruk remarked as she approached, mace still dripping with brain matter.

“Just making sure… ah, here it is.”

The shaman had a piece of gray cloth tied around his neck. It was filthy and disgusting, but that was all she needed.

“Human craft. It’s unlikely to have come from the Kazaran outskirts due to the distance.”

“You believe the beastling found it on a human… to the west?”

“Possibly. We’ll find out soon enough.”

“I also find it strange the stench of undeath does not bother you, but people eating with their mouths open does.”

“One, it’s the sounds. They just rub me the wrong way. Two, I kill the undead for their transgression.”

“That makes sense.”

***

Rather than building a portal every evening, Viv set them up at the maximum, most efficient distance which would reduce the mana expenditure for long trips. Since she and Hadals didn’t need to sleep as much as the others, they spent parts of their evening training. That training mostly consisted in Viv trying to survive not being tagged all while using only colorless mana to defend herself. Those masked fuckers were a vicious lot. She had never been happier to have them on her side, and they were also amazing at catching her with her pants down, metaphorically, when she thought she’d gotten away. Paradoxically, Zero-Five struggled more despite being the strongest due to his in-your-face style that really didn’t work against Viv.

He kept sticking leaves in her hood as revenge. Every time she put it down, it took a minute to get them out of her hair.

After two weeks on the trail, the forest opened around the buried road. They came across more deserted towers and other abandoned facilities clearly made for travelers. A little later, they came across their first town.

It appeared deserted, and in poor repair. Viv recognized the brutalist architecture of Old Harrak, but there were also additions made of a mix of thick logs and low stone walls, fitting for the cold winter down here. The gates were open, one of them hanging miserably from a rusted hinge. More importantly, mana was behaving erratically here.

“Do you feel it?” she asked.

“I smell it,” Zero-Five replied.

The Kark split into a half-circle with the Hadals disappearing. Soon, the stench of rotten meat became overwhelming. Something shuffled among the derelict buildings. They heard a pained gurgle.

A cancerous mass of flesh and tentacles erupted out of the doors with a ghastly scream. It was strangely humanoid except for the back which was a mess of appendages, spikes, and other revolting growth. Viv reacted immediately.

“Excalibur.”

With the range extended to a few meters, she sliced the creature’s feet off which barely slowed it down. Marruk received the charge on her shield and slammed the beast back, then the Kark struck together. The wounded aberrant collapsed against the wall. The Hadals emerged from shadows before it could right itself and planted their blades in its bulbous flesh. Viv knew for certain the thing had no organs, and yet thick arterial sprays erupted when the blades withdrew. The creature died a few seconds later.

She had stopped herself from vaporizing the thing because the others clearly needed some mid-travel entertainment but… so many elites together against a weak aberrant certainly made the fight trivial. She shrugged. Gaining experience was all well and good but she could use some more trivially easy battles from time to time.

By her side, Marruk frowned.

“We need to burn—”

Viv disintegrated the thing down to the blood it had shed, then she did the legs as well.

“— it. Or I guess that works as well.”

