“What I’m saying is: Don’t get too riled up by her warnings. Some new person always does and I always need to clean up the inevitable mess from that person feeling like they were in an antirhine noose, with no options to escape except every horrible thing they can think of, so I usually give this warning a lot earlier in any meeting of new powers. But… Well. Things happened yesterday. That was my fault. Apologies.”

Erick felt a loosening of a knot inside his chest, and this time it felt real. Illustrious’s words and body language and tone all conveyed that she believed the words that she had just said; that Fairy Moon threatened everyone. Erick just hadn’t noticed it until now. But looking back… Every single time he spoke to Fairy Moon, she told him where her lines lay, and then she threatened him in a nebulous way if he ever crossed those lines.

“I didn’t notice her constant warnings every meeting until now. But now that you mention it…” Erick frowned. “That is very unwelcome of her. I get that they’re threats, but… Why does she do that all the time? Isn't her power enough to dissuade most people from trying shit? It’s needlessly antagonistic.”

“Here now is a truth: Everyone is a threat to Fairy Moon. She has died and come back more times than the years she had been alive. Every horrible thing you can possibly imagine has been done to her, and many times over.” Illustrious Moon said, “That doesn’t explain everything about her, but it should help you to see her as less of an enemy and more as a force in the mana; something you just don’t mess around with, like Elemental Destruction, or calling out to Melemizargo in the shadows. As soon as you regain your power through proper cycling and proper aura control, and as long as you don’t cross the lines she lays down, then she shouldn’t even try to control you ever again. The only ones who have to beware of her are those she deems an overt threat.”

Erick had serious doubts about ‘everyone being a threat to Fairy Moon’, because the wrought were unable to invade Ar’Cosmos specifically because of Fairy Moon… But that was just here, inside Ar’Cosmos, wasn’t it. Here, where she was reborn through Redflame’s [Gate Space], every time she died...

Maybe that was the real reason Fairy Moon sent off Erick’s Crystal Star; so he couldn’t add Empathy to her here, at her ‘core’…

Or maybe he was reading too much into it. If Fairy Moon could survive death and probably all the other horrible things people have done to her to try to actually kill her, once and for all, then a bit of soul tampering probably wouldn’t do shit. Someone had to have tried that before now. Probably a lot of someones.

They probably just made her mad, really.

Sure, she might have ‘died’ more years than she has been alive, but she still managed to fight Kydyr and win. She had plucked Erick right off the beach like it was no trouble at all. All the wrought were scared of her, even when she wasn’t on her home turf.

Fairy Moon truly was just a ‘force in the mana’, then, eh?

Erick thought about that for a moment longer, then said to Illustrious, “Your advice is well received.”

Illustrious grinned at that. This time her teeth were perfectly normal; not at all like the vicious cavern of knives he had seen in that first meeting.

“That’s how to handle Fairy Moon, then.” Erick asked, “How do I handle the rest of you?”

Illustrious instantly said, “I plan on handling myself and making this visit of yours easier for you, so if there is some way to make this better, I will do what I can to ensure it is thus. Let me know what I can do.”

“… I have no paper or pens to write a letter. And no books.” Erick decided, “And I want whatever history books you guys publish for yourselves. Let’s go to your arcanaeum and get them.”

Illustrious gestured toward the door, which swung open to reveal the hallway beyond. She stepped forward and out, asking, “What sort of books were you looking for? We might be separated from Veird, but we do have limited access to [Duplicate], so our libraries can get rather large.”

Erick followed, and could not hide his surprise. “You have [Duplicate] here?”

As the two of them walked down the hallway, Illustrious said, “We have a few rescued Book Binders from Oceanside under our aegis, but their identities are well-protected. Even then though, we don’t know how to make that spell and the Script stymies all our attempts to learn it, while everyone Kirginatharp teaches is mind wiped. We have, however, been able to transfer this spell from one person to another, though the transfer of any magic requires Wizardly power and is a dangerous prospect that we do not undertake lightly.”

“Ah…” She had thought he was asking for the spell for himself, but Erick was just surprised they had the ability to [Duplicate] items at all; Erick let that confusion stand. He said, “Well okay then.”

… He almost wanted to ask her of her thoughts on a post-scarcity society fueled by [Duplicate], but he was not ready to have such a conversation with her.

Instead, Erick said, “So you go outside to make the big magics, because the Script soulbinds magic to your core, so that you don’t need to shape that specific spell every single time. What about the Shades? I heard they need to manually cast every spell they make? Do they not also have cores with all their spellwork inside them, too? And cast without Script assistance? Do you know what is going on there?” Erick added, “I was always under the impression that they lost all quick casting with their magic. I know for a fact that shadelings lose [Cleanse] and Healing Magic, for instance.”

Illustrious did not get a chance to answer yet, for they reached their target door. The door glowed green at their approach, while one of Illustrious’s rings glinted a bright green, the same color as the door. And then the door swung open. She stepped through first, and Erick followed.

On the other side was a long, wide bridge under the open sky, like a highway across a low-income area, except this one arced over a vast city of stone towers and scattered forests and large apartment buildings. It was not an expansive place down there, and there were lots of people. The sun shone brightly in the sky while white clouds drifted across the blue heavens. In the far distance, Erick saw other bridges that connected to this one, but also a horizon full of trees. Somewhere far away, the buildings and such were replaced with deep green forest.

The road ahead had a few people on it here and there. All of them wore nice clothes but they also hurried along to stairwells here and there along the skyway. Many of them immediately noticed Illustrious and bowed and stepped aside, though there was ample roadway for everyone else to walk unencumbered. The roadway itself spanned like a sparse spider web across the sides and tops of many buildings in the city, while the city itself sort of reminded Erick of Ar’Kendrithyst, or Stratagold, but made of stone. It was not the same city that he had seen out his windows at Fairy Moon Manor, but it was similar.

Back behind Erick and Illustrious was just more skyway. No door, and no Fairy Moon Manor, or whatever it was she called the place. Far, far in the distance, though, Erick saw Fairy Moon Manor on the horizon; his necklace working to make that particular landmark always visible to him, if he looked for it.

And then two guards in purple livery stepped down onto the road behind Erick and Illustrious. One was a woman in deep purple armor, who looked like a small orcol, or a very, very tall human woman. She was taller than Illustrious, even with Illustrious’s extra horn height. The other was a dragonkin man with no tail or horns, who was a little taller than Erick, and who wore robes and carried a staff.

The two guards fell into place, behind Erick and Illustrious, with no acknowledgment from Illustrious. Ophiel certainly noticed, though. The little guy was sitting on Erick’s shoulder and looking around at absolutely everything, but as the guards stepped behind, Ophiel bleated out a tiny warning that unknown people were getting close. Erick patted the little guy, and he calmed down. Some of their usual telepathic connection was open and active, but it was not nearly as strong as it usually was, or else Erick would have been talking to him. Yggdrasil, upon Erick’s other shoulder, was similarly silent.

Illustrious eventually picked up Erick’s question after a minute of walking tall, without saying a word. Erick got the impression that she was thinking how best to answer him now that they were in public, and about how much she wanted to actually discuss. Gone was the absolute-caring nature of her private persona; here now was one of the three rulers of Ar’Cosmos.

Illustrious began, “You ask after the workings of Shades, their magic and their loss of magic when they become Shades, or even shadelings. You compare us to them for the cores in our chests, but this is only a superficial likeness. For we are dragons, and we have been living with cores for longer than the entire history of the Shades, in any Cosmology. So I will forgive your ignorance, and answer your question:

“The Script empowers many to great heights, for one of its deepest and most powerful functions is to take the magic that one manages to create once, and imbue that magic into one’s soul. This is a difficult art for any person —mortal or immortal— to undertake, and is best left to the true professionals; there are many people on such a list of professionals, and one of them is us, the dragons.

“There is actually no difference between souls kept in a core, or souls kept in a fleshy body, though souls kept in a core are much harder to harm. I will speak with you at length about the differences in the following days, and hopefully years, of our careful cooperation, for it would not do to have one such as yourself gain such a poor understanding of we dragons...

“As for the Shades and their need to manually cast spells all the time: This is a common misconception. It is a misconception that is allowed to spread because Kirginatharp and the powers of Veird detest us here in Ar’Cosmos, for we are a threat to his power, and the power of even the wrought.

“For we know the truths of many things.

“When one follows the Dark God deep enough into his depravity to become a Shade, the Script recognizes this and strips the darkling-soul of its Script-given power. This is a terrible process like unto half of a Soul Sundering. The Dark God then fills this broken soul with a Truth of his own; a kernel of power that the new Shade grows around, like unto a rebirth. In this rebirth, the person will have gained whatever spells Melemizargo decides they need, but past that, they will need to re-imbue themselves with their various soul-bound spells if they wish to recast them how they normally would, but as a Shade.

“This is difficult for non-dragons to re-establish soulbound spellwork in a cost and space-effective manner, for an improperly grown core made of someone else’s mana, like how the Shades are made from Melemizargo’s mana, gets ‘full’ very fast. Monsters, for instance, grow their cores with ambient mana, but they’re only really able to gain a handful of key spells and abilities, because those are the abilities they think they should have.

“The difference between a monster’s accretion and a dragon’s accretion, then, is one of quality, and ability to imbue oneself with unlimited spellwork. Monsters can get maybe 5 or 10 spells, with the possibility for more spells and abilities if they break the safe limits of their power, thus mutating their rad into a grand rad. Most monsters break this naturally-felt limit, if they can.

“I and all other true dragons, however, can place an endless number of spells inside our cores, for even if our cores are only the size of a baby’s fist, we know how to cycle mana and accrete properly. The Script, however, continues to assist us when we cleave to its tenets, for we are not party to the Dark; we are simply on what you would call the ‘Monster Script’, instead of the Open Script to which most people use.” With a political smirk, because some people and also her guards were looking, Illustrious finished with, “But if we want to make a spell, most people just jaunt back to Veird for a spell-making visit.

“For we are not like the Shades. We still have access to the Script, but because of our cores, our bonuses and abilities are more than what you would find in a normal Status. Our Statuses —if we had them here— might measure our mana in the millions, for our mana pool is much different than what the Script normally fortifies and supports. Our Regeneration might be listed as 10,000 Mana Per Day, but our actual regeneration is tied to the strength of our cores.

“There is a downside, though.

“When we abandon our cores, when we are on Veird, we have the same Stats and Statuses that our Stats say we should have, along with the same limits common to anyone on Veird; the Script Second, and so forth.

“When we have cores, though, we are limited by a Script-imposed 500 Mana-throughput limit. There are some nuances, though. Manual aura shaping and spell creation is limited to 500 mana per second, though the number of spells we can cast in any particular second only has to obey that 500 mana per second cap, in total. We can, for instance, manually cast ten 50-mana spells in a single second, without worry. Core-casting, which is to cast from a soulbound spell in the core, can get rather rapid, too, but sticking to one-second-per-cast is usually best practice. Those with a well-formed core would do well to respect this limit, for beyond that limit lies breakage.

“This is where the Script Second originates from, actually. Rozeta took the natural limits of core-created magic and imposed them across all of everyone who would ever Matriculate into her Script. I can respect her for her decision, and I have no qualms with her or the rest of polite society.

“We are not hermits, seeking refuge from the world, Erick. We are a Cursed people, seeking refuge from war. We are not the usual sorts of people-with-cores you have dealt with before; we still practice the precepts of peace and prosperity for all.” Illustrious said, “I look forward to showing you the proof of this in the following days.”

Erick took that all in, filed it away, then said, “I look forward to that journey.” He added, “I didn’t know that about the Script Second’s origins. That’s rather surprising in a way that is not surprising at all.”

