Illustrious nodded. “Mostly true. Ask your questions then I will explain what I did, for what I did was much more than that.”

“The veins. You didn’t have them till I watched them appear when you flowed mana through them. What is up with that?”

Illustrious looked happy to hear that question, and also about being able to answer it, as she said, “Those mana channels are a manifestation of the soul, and proof of your Wizardry. If you were to disconnect from the Script, you would find your mana flooding out of those channels, constantly spilling mana all over the place, until you learned how to control your aura and lessen that flow; to contain and grow your own power instead of leaving it all over the place for anyone else to pick up.

“Dragons have lesser channels than Wizards, and ours are normally dormant, unless we want them to be otherwise, or unless they are in use. Wizards cannot hide their nature, though, once they throw off the yoke of the Script.

“Normal people can learn how to unlock their mana channels, or create mana channels in the most extreme cases of mana-affinity deficit. Thusly, they might eventually become like you or I, but while the end-goal is the same for all —perfect control over oneself and one’s environs— only dragons or Wizards or other immortal species usually have enough power, or live long enough, in order to accomplish this goal on their own.” Illustrious said, “And so here is the second warning:

“If you’re okay with being a monster, you can take in ambient mana and achieve sort of the same success. If you’re able to get a sponsorship from someone high-powered, who is willing to donate to you their mana, and if you’re okay with accepting their Truth into yourself, then you can get mana donations from them and shortcut much of the same process. There are multiple roads toward the same end goal; all are viable, but for most people, ‘viable’ is not good enough. I suggest you never settle for what is ‘viable’, and always strive for what is best.”

Erick mulled that over, while Illustrious waited.

“Okay.” Erick said, “So the healing on your core. Did your mana fall into that chip and automatically repair with that sort of spherical perfection by following the lines of your soul? Or did you direct that regrowth? Would someone with a malformed soul have problems making a perfect core? And why are cores all spherical? Is that just the best form for them to take?” He rapidly added, “And what about grand rads? And such? Where do those fit into this picture? And what about healing one’s core with rads? I’ve literally never seen a spherical core for sale in any market, or watched anyone trade one in at the local mage’s guild; why not?”

Illustrious breathed deep as she listened to Erick’s litany of questions. “I will answer the easiest ones first: About the buying and selling of spherical cores, and grand rads.”

“Rads are mutated, out-of-control cores.

“The two words are not equal at all, but language drifts and such is life.

“Grand rads form in the bodies of large monsters who can support those rads.

“Now… This part is a bit complicated: All rads are adequate for taking into oneself as a way to heal your own core, in cases of degradation, for the monster that made such a core already filtered all the impurities of ambient mana into itself and created a rad that was mostly good. While a rad is made of about 250 mana, or even thousands of mana in the case of a grand rad, the usable amount of mana inside of them is only about 10 mana in a normal rad, or a thousand in a grand rad. This is due to the impurities.

“Those impurities are what caused the monster to be a monster. The inability for a monster to cross the line between ‘full of impurities’ or ‘able to ascend to a grand rad’ causes many rads to remain small. But those who manage to cross this line are able to do so because they have figured out some part of their own truth. In this manner, grand rads even continue to pull in ambient mana after they are removed due to the incorrect, ‘viable but crazy’ way in which the monster made them.

“You can use grand rads to heal your core, but this is an advanced technique due to you needing to remove a great lot of impurities inside such a core, and thus this should not be attempted until you know what you’re doing. Smaller rads are okay.

“You likely won’t need to do this at all, since you have [Renew]. But even if you didn’t have that, you are a Wizard, with certain advantages in this area which I will go into later.

“You will never see a spherical core for use out there because when a person with a spherical core dies, the core dissolves unless special treatments are made prior to death. All spherical cores have come from a person, though, so keep that in mind when you see that out there in the world.” Illustrious paused, then said, “I’m surprised that you haven’t seen any spherical cores out there. Aside from inside a person, I assume? Not even inside Ar’Kendrithyst? In statues?”

Erick’s eyes went wide as he remembered. “Ah. I did see a few locked inside statues… But they were the size of heads. I thought they were just grand rads? Shaved to be spherical?” He frowned. “Oh. I might have seen one at Songli during a soul sundering… But that thing was just mostly spherical, and also the size of a person’s head.”

“How about inside a Shade, then.”

“OH. Oh. Well. Yes. I guess I have, then?” Erick said, “Yes. I have.”

Illustrious nodded, satisfied, then said, “All true cores are about the same size as my own, or maybe as large as a human heart, but no larger than that. Even we who live as our full-size selves do not have cores larger than this. Size does not matter for a soul. Indeed, the smaller the core, the easier it is to protect, for they are vulnerabilities. They’re also the most protected objects in a person’s body. The brain, the actual heart… These do not matter for ones with a core. We can regrow those body parts and we lose nothing for their temporary absence.

“To answer your question about the shapes of souls:

“Souls naturally form spheres around mana cores, and mana cores naturally turn into spheres because of the soul inside. Most people out there who have malformed souls, and thus malformed bodies, would find that if they used proper accretion techniques and had proper initial assistance, then they would solve their malformation issues.” Illustrious said, “Someone with a withered arm due to a malformed soul would find that after they formed a proper core, that once Healing Magic was administered and their body was fixed, that they could forgo monthly healing treatments to keep their body in the proper shape it should be. With continued proper cycling, their soul would eventually forget that it was ever malformed at all. The healed soul would heal the body properly.

“This is not a way to immortality, though. The body still affects the soul and the soul the body. Immortality is another topic entirely.

“Healing the crack in my core just required proper cycling, and some directed healing toward the affected area.” Illustrious said, “The only true ‘skill’ I employed was using some of my own mana reserve to directly heal myself; I took out what I was able to take out from the whole of my soul, to reinforce and heal what was missing… I also followed all the other rules I will tell you about, but they’re normal rules; nothing special.” Illustrious finished, and then waited for a little while, before asking, “Any other questions?”

Erick said, “Not right now.”

Illustrious said, “Then here now is the proper accretion methodology for core growth and natural body fortification:

“Let your aura seep out, and fill it with your mana. If you were back on Veird, and if you were a normal person, you could even use the mana gifted to you by the Script for this. But for a normal person, they could only gain about 10 or 20 mana-worth of growth per day using this method and they will need to go slow, for they will build up impurities if they go too fast. They will need pills and special techniques to get rid of those impurities. For a dragon, we can gain 500 to 5000 per day, depending on personal ability. For a Wizard, your growth is unparalleled.

“This is because the Script lines up your own mana for you to use every day, when you most need it, and accretion is one of those times. Spell creation is another.

“Anyway:

“Draw in your mana saturated aura, through your mana channels. Be sure that you do NOT take in any ambient mana. If you take in ambient mana you will eventually go insane. Use your mana-filled aura to block out all other mana. Only take in your own mana.

“At this point in time, your mana will be flowing from your core into your aura, then inward through your body, into your channels, then into your core, and then out through your aura, to then trace back into your body, into your channels, into your core. In this way, you will be steadily accruing power inside of yourself. This is just the start, though.” Illustrious asked, “Do you understand?”

“Yes,” Erick said. “Continue, please.”

Illustrious nodded. “Once you figure out the nuances of your own accretion, you will find you have choices:

“To fortify your physique, or your spirit, or to do both.

“Most people eventually direct their growth one way or another, but everyone starts off doing the same thing, unless they wish to purposefully direct their future self in a specific way. This is only for advanced students, though, and very much not for everyone. In the same way that Rozeta’s Registrars recommend that people pick a generic Class, instead of a special-sounding one, generalization is usually better in the long run for almost every person out there.

“I will explain the intricacies of accretion that are common to everyone:

“Continued cycling will naturally fortify your body, first. This is what the Script does for you when you put a point into Strength or Vitality. This is what monsters do all the time, to become physically stronger than a comparative non-monster. This fortification will continue until you reach a saturation point, which is different for everyone. This ‘maximum body limit’ can be raised based on the physical prowess of your physical form.

“If you make yourself stronger through exercise and such, your body-accretion limit will rise. A stick-thin man will not raise his body high at all, but a muscular, strong man will have to go a long, long distance with body-accretion to reach his particular zenith. By this same distance, though, the muscular man will find himself many, many times stronger than the stick-thin man.

“In either case, once you reach the body-accretion zenith, and often long before that, you will have noticed a change.

“During the fortification of your body, you will notice your core gradually begin to gain new facets, increasing the strength of your spirit. After your body reaches its first accretion-point, all this growth will then go into your spirit.

“What this does, is the same thing that happens when you raise your Willpower and Focus, at the same time. The accretion-point for the spirit is when your core becomes a perfect sphere.

“Full Accretion can take a normal person nearly forever to accomplish, and can only truly happen with dragons who can grow themselves, or with groups of people who live in communes and who make the ambient mana their own. Monsters become monsters by taking in whatever mana is around them, and you should not do this. As a Wizard, and once you get the charge rolling, it might take you a week to go from fortification to Full Accretion in both body and spirit, for every mana you manage to fit into your core will mean more ‘Focus’ and more ‘Willpower’.

“We are mostly disconnected from the Script here in Ar’Cosmos, but certain things remain, like the fact that our natural mana is still stolen by the Script. Through proper accretion, though, we can work for and regain much of what the Script hands out for free. There’s a lot of nuance to those two small comments, with a lot of impact on how mana and spellcasting works here in Ar’Cosmos, but I will not get into that tangent; not today.

“So as I was saying:

“Accretion will also reveal any underlying abilities that are not present until after one forms a core. A dragon’s ability to polymorph is one such ability, as well as one or two various personal aspects that vary between individual, or family, such as a Domain of small strength which can grow with time and further fortification, or natural flight, or ability to control illusions— Or anything, really.

“I suspect that since Rozeta helped you to make your body that she has already solidified all of these possible options for you, and you already know what you have gotten. If not, then I wish you luck with uncovering something nice.

“If you were a normal person, and if you were fully saturated, your Status, when you went back to Veird, would show you to have something like 20 to 75 in each of your four main Stats. Since your body and your spirit has already experienced having very high Stats for a long while due to your success with mana-light Stat enhancements, I expect you to be closer to 75 in all your Stats, than 25, so you will likely take a while to reach Full Accretion. With the New Stats, too? It might take you a truly long time.

“But on the light side: The stronger you are at this stage the easier all the rest will become.

“Reaching this point is commonly referred to as ‘Second Foundation’. First Foundation is attaining a stable core at all and creating or unblocking your mana channels, and you have already cleared that requirement in full.

“We will continue these lessons after you reach Second Foundation.” Illustrious asked, “Questions?”

Erick had understood everything she had said, but while he wanted to get back to the ‘differences in spellcasting in Ar’Cosmos’ he stayed on topic, too, laying out there, “You say this is supposed to be instinctual, and therefore the process, if you keep ambient mana outside of yourself, is completely safe. Why do you say that? This whole process seems deadly if done wrong. This seems like Soul Magic.”

Illustrious nodded, then said, “I will answer the later part first: This is not truly Soul Magic. It is Accretion Magic; the magic from which all others arise. It is also called Foundational Magic

