“The name ‘Foundational Magic’, is used in other places, most prominently in the Foundational Bans of the Script. Those Foundational Bans were seeds planted in triplicate at the creation of the Script, from which all other magic is now controlled. You have seen the Core of Veird, yes? The Core was founded with this magic in its center, in order to direct all further growth going forward. This is what allows Rozeta to enact further Bans and such, because she was the one who placed those Foundational Bans upon the Core in the first place. It is important to know this, because this is how Rozeta, and how other dragons, myself included, have placed seeds into others which will then germinate into cores, allowing us control over all which comes next.

“If you hadn’t already formed your core, we would have tried to Break you along certain lines, and then introduce a seed to sprout into a core of our choosing; Fae, Death, or Carnage.

“But we didn’t do that. Rozeta already got there, it seems.”

Erick had a sudden bout of disbelief about everything Illustrious was saying; about this whole lesson. But she seemed honest. She did not seem like she was lying. But could he truly trust his senses in this land of the fae? No, he could not.

Illustrious was waiting for him to comment, though.

Erick said, “Heard and disbelieved. And even so, Rozeta has a proven track record of helping people, and me.”

Illustrious took a moment to nod, but she did, and then she continued, “At your stage, with your core already made, and because you are a Wizard who will continually generate new, personal mana depending on the size and clarity of your core, there will be no issues with the growth of your core… Unless you were to do something truly odd with yourself. Practically any cycling method which empowered your whole body would have the same outcome: growth to Second Foundation.” Illustrious said, “You could even do this back on Veird, using the hundreds of thousands of mana provided to you by the Script each day, but… Every Wizard is cut off of the Script at some point when they gain enough power, and this can happen truly fast for them. Even a dragon can be cut off if they gain too high of a reserve. I don’t want you to get the wrong idea about my next words, though, which is why I say this now.

“Pursuing this path is the only way you can grow as a Wizard, for you need to reach Second Foundation to reach all the rest. I don’t know where your limit is, but your limit could be the very moment you succeed in properly cycling. That has happened before to some of our other Wizards over the last thousand years I have been in charge of House Handinoi.” Illustrious said, “The good news is that we would know right away if that happens: You would begin to erupt with mana like a raging river, and you would not be able to stop the flow. The bad news is that… Well. You would be outed as a Wizard. We could remove your core at that point and hope that you can go back to Script-assistance, but I don’t think that would work, either. It rarely has before.”

Erick saw her concerns, and did not feel them himself. He said, “I already had some of this talk with Rozeta and I know my limits are much further than that.”

His limits were when he began to turn his entire body into a core, well after he passed the ‘grand rad’ stage—

Oh yeah. Jane had called this ‘cultivation’ before, hadn’t she? Jane had said something to the tune of ‘oh, so all monsters cultivate, huh?’ Erick wondered if she would be happy or sad to learn that it was called ‘accretion’ here on Veird.

… Erick hoped Jane was doing okay. She probably was. Everyone out there was likely doing just fine.

Illustrious sat a bit straighter, and smiled slightly. “Ah! Good. Then… As soon as you reach Second Foundation, not only will you regain much of your previous casting capability, I can begin to assist you with reacquiring all of the various Script enhancements like Discipline to triple your Mana and Concentration to triple your Mana Regen.” She added, “You will not be able to cast more than 500 mana into a spell, though; that’s how it is for those of us with cores, unless you cast in ritual— That’s a whole other conversation that will take us days to go over.

“If you would prefer to reacquire Discipline and Concentration on your own, then you and I can instead focus on ritual casting... I would be more comfortable if we did the ritual casting lessons much later, preferably right before you leave Ar’Cosmos, and on good terms.” Illustrious turned contrite, “I know you did not come here on the best of terms, and I was atrocious to you when we first met, but I will endeavor to make this up to you if you will allow such an apology.”

Erick narrowed his eyes. He was already suspicious due to this whole scenario, and then again with the comment about Rozeta installing a seed inside his core (which maybe Melemizargo’s comment of a ‘killing spell’ was more appropriate than he had considered?) but now he was truly paranoid. Erick made no attempt to hide his doubt.

Illustrious got a concerned look on her own face.

Erick asked, “What changed?”

“A lot.” Illustrious Moon said, “Your arrival on Veird is very new and disruptive and my people and I had a lot of notions about what a visit from you would look like... It was mainly execution-row humor, considering your alignment with Rozeta and Kirginatharp. Some people dabbled in hope, but I was not one of them. How could I be? I am a leader and I have to safeguard against bad outcomes. And then I was invited here for a surprise meeting with no preparation...

“Fairy Moon gave me a ten-minute talk about what she had done before she brought me into that dining room. It was yet another hour till you showed in person, and I must admit for the first twenty minutes I was in disbelief. Furious, raging… I almost hit her because she would not answer my questions properly. But that is just her; who she is.

“You might not have picked up on this, but she doesn’t like to talk about how she views other people, so I must admit that I was simply terrified out of my skull.” Illustrious said, “And then, you showed and… I saw the truth myself; the truth that Fairy Moon had not actually explained to me in a way that made sense. And I was rude to you, because I thought I knew what was happening; I thought we were being given a Wizard to solve our current problems. I thought there would be some overly-tough times ahead as your achievements demand a certain worldly level of respect that would make your acclimation to Ar’Cosmos a difficult one… But then she spoke of her actual plans. Anti-Sundering Magics. A new House.

“And I was terrible to you.

“When I got back home I spoke to practically every intelligence officer we have and got a great many new opinions on the matter that I did not have before that meeting.” Illustrious said, “But at the time of that luncheon I was simply Blinded by the truth that you were already there, sitting in front of me in Ar’Cosmos, and then again by your honest words of a desire to help, no matter how awful I’m sure Fairy Moon treated you. No matter how much of an established danger we are to Wizards the world over—

“I apologize for my actions, and for the actions of all of Ar’Cosmos.

“I cannot go against Fairy Moon’s wishes, for she truly is the First Foundation of this land and our civilization, but know that in order to bridge the gap between the terribleness of your abduction and where I wish for us to be in the future, one of my first acts as Head of House Handinoi is to open communications between you and anyone you wish out in the world. That much, at least, is under my power. If you wish to pen a letter to anyone, I can send it off, and get a reply. I will even promise not to read it.”

Erick felt a tightening around his heart as his paranoia ramped up, for Illustrious was not lying. Everything about her screamed that she was being completely honest. And right now, Erick didn’t know what to do with that information except to disbelieve it.

And yet...

Erick sat there for a moment longer, then he said, “Okay. Apology accepted.”

Illustrious practically beamed with happiness…

But Erick was not happy, and it showed. The gulf of emotion between Illustrious and him was too large for anyone to not notice. A moment of silence passed, as Illustrious realized this, too. Illustrious’s smile vanished.

“… I’m not forgiven at all, am I?”

“A major part, yes, actually. I planned to come here with the intention of helping, for no one should live like you all have been forced to live.” Erick added, “But no; you’re not fully forgiven. I do believe —now— that you had no direct part in my kidnapping, but you’re complicit. It doesn't matter that there is no way for you not to be complicit; you are, and that’s that.”

With a serious tone, Illustrious asked, “What will I need to do to earn your true forgiveness?”

Erick thought for less than a moment, and answered off the top of his head, “I need to visit the town and ask about accretion from whoever I wish to ask, to ensure you are not lying to me and trying some shit. Especially with that part about the seeds and germination to First Foundation. I want to see people living normal lives. I want to know that this society is worth saving. And I want to know what actually happens to other Wizards you find. And if possible, I want to see if Redflame’s idea of [Renew] would work as he wishes it to work; to make small Wizardry on demand, and thus free every newborn from the Dragon Curse.”

Illustrious breathed deep, taking in all of Erick’s demands. “Okay. The first is doable; accretion is everywhere in the city and the methods I told you are well documented to work. Nothing I said was a lie, or an attempt to lead you down a dreary path.

“I can show you people, too. Markets and streets and such.

“I am also interested in this [Renew] idea that Redflame has been going on about over at the arcanaeum, ever since that information first came to us through our sources out in Veird… Actually. We could solve all of these requirements just by going to the arcanaeum, if you wish…” After a moment, she said, “Redflame has some Wizards working there, I believe. He might be amenable to letting such meetings take place; we shall see.”

Redflame had already approved such meetings yesterday; Erick expected no trouble on that front.

Illustrious continued, “I will deliver unto you paperwork on the three Wizards currently under the care of House Handinoi. Two are fully broken, and therefore are not a threat to anyone. One is a farmer and the other is an architect. Both have been with us for a long time and have found nice lives here in Ar’Cosmos. The third was discovered a mere 3 years ago and is under guard and frozen time, for we are awaiting a confluence of a hundred eggs, and we are only at 56. You will not be able to interact with the third.”

Fair enough. Erick wasn’t happy with whatever they were doing to the Wizard in their custody, but he had no idea of that person’s circumstances… Maybe they were a baby killer, though; that would be easier to swallow—

No. They were probably just a completely normal person, forced into this life because of the circumstances of their birth. Whatever. Erick would deal with that later. He had enough problems on his plate at the moment.

Erick said, “That works for me.” He got up from his cushion. “Let’s go to this arcanaeum. I have more questions, but I won’t ask them of you.”

He would ask them of other people, who might not be able to give canned answers. Of course, it could be possible that everything in this [Gate Space] of Ar’Cosmos was completely fake and produced exactly for Erick whenever he wanted to see it, but he doubted… this was… the case.

Ah.

Well there was some more sympathy for Melemizargo right there. Odd, that.

Illustrious remained seated, looking slightly worried. Fairy Moon had instructed her to teach Erick proper cycling methodology, so her worry was understandable. But then she got over that worry and got up from her own cushion, saying, “I look forward to proving the hospitality and truth of our land to you.”

Fairy Moon stepped out of the wall, saying, “I would rather you return to accretion advancement and the furthering of Erick’s foundation, but a delay of days will not dampen this particular destiny. So. He is under your care, Illustrious. See that he is not harmed, or his harm will fall upon your head.” And then she stepped back into the wall, out of sight.

In her brief moment of appearance, she had seemed like a woman stepping away from an important part of cooking, or something like that, to answer the phone; here and then back to whatever she was doing before.

Erick just stared at the wall for a little while.

Fairy Moon threatened everyone, it seemed, and all the time; not just him.

Illustrious simply nodded, though, unconcerned, as she said, “I hope the audit is going well, Fairy Moon.”

“It is, though I have concerns for when you get back,” came Fairy Moon’s voice, from all around.

Illustrious acknowledged Fairy Moon’s declaration then stepped toward the door, saying to Erick, “It’s an hour walk to get there for us normal people.”

Erick almost wanted to laugh. “There is not a single normal thing about you or I, but I take your meaning.”

Illustrious smirked—

She stopped and turned to Erick. She and her great big amethyst horns did not tower over him, but it was a close thing. With a concerned voice, she said, “I don’t know if anyone has told you this, but Fairy Moon’s warning to me was a reminder: She does that to everyone. Don’t take it personally. She likes people to know exactly where they stand with her, and which lines they should not cross.”

Erick scrunched his eyebrows. “So… Was that not a threat against you? It sounded like a threat.”

“She very much means every warning she ever gives.” Illustrious said, “She gives a lot of warnings, and they’re all real, but as long as you don’t cross her lines, she won’t do anything to you. You could burn down the house and as long as you didn’t harm anyone in the burning, then she would simply remake the house, along with everything else she wished to remake. If she was feeling particularly vengeful —rare, but it happens— then she might rebuild the whole house but leave you with ashes for a bed.

