“The natural nuances of self-made magic and where that overlaps with what the Script does for all people… This is also a course of deep study at the arcanaeum.” Illustrious said, “I’ve told them we’re coming, so they will undoubtedly make available competent professors able to answer anything you wish to have answered, about cores and true magic or anything, really.”

Erick nodded. Then he decided he wished to see how Illustrious would give her previous lesson about accretion here, in this public forum, where people walked to the sides of the roads, and tried to get out of their way, though there was plenty of space on the bridge for everyone. That people would make way for Illustrious kinda freaked Erick out. Like… What was Illustrious known for, if people got out of her way with as much haste as they could—

Ah. Wait. They were making way for Erick, too. Yeah. Okay. So…

Erick ignored that.

He asked, “What makes your core formation different from a monster's?”

Illustrious gave a small smirk, then she said, “Well. Core germination is undoubtedly the most difficult of the accretion process. The Script makes it so that one doesn’t need to form a core in order to make magic, but back in the Old Cosmology, only those who were able to form a Truth and then plant that seed of Truth inside themselves were able to become proper mages. Maybe one in ten thousand people. Prior to this, one would first need to unlock their aura, and learn how to cast small spells, using the mana they managed to collect inside of themselves, but it was not until they were able to germinate a true core could they go further than that. If you would like, I could explain our accretion process?”

That was exactly what Erick had wanted.

Part of him was glad that Illustrious was picking up what he was putting down, and the other was a bit worried that she was obviously good at subterfuge. He really shouldn’t have been, though, since he was trying to be sneaky in the first place by having her publicly repeat her accretion lesson.

Erick said, “Please do.”

And then Illustrious began repeating their lesson that they had had in private. She changed her language to make it all impersonal, but she kept the lesson pretty much exactly the same, except she didn’t actually need to repair her core at the moment, so that part was cut short. She did open up her aura for all to see, though. Out in the open, on that bridge, her violet tails reached out for ten meters in every direction, gently wafting on the breeze.

Some people to the sides of the road bowed down when that happened.

Erick just kept right on walking beside her, listening, and looking.

Some people stopped and listened, but not a single person gave a weird face, or some other indication that Illustrious was lying. The guards behind Erick never flinched or gave anything away, either. Eventually, the lesson ended, and it was pretty much exactly the same as before.

Erick asked if Illustrious would mind if Ophiel took to the skies, for a better view of everything. Surprisingly, she approved, though she did add that this place was not actually as large as it seemed. The ‘sky’ ended half a kilometer up. The ‘road’ they were on was actually in the middle of the city, though their ‘slice of reality’ was called High Road.

Illustrious pointed to a brazier burning brightly on a column to the side of the road, and then to all the similar braziers far down the way, and back where they had come from. The flame was a gentle white, and small, at the bottom of the fluted-glass-like brazier. She explained, “The height and strength of the flame represents how many people are on the road. We’re not too crowded on High Road, but if we went to Center Road then we’d be hawked at by a thousand different vendors and that flame would be poking up past the edge; people would need to come back to that slice of reality some other hour. Around midday that place gets absolutely packed and House Fizacaw Guards need to keep people from coming in whenever they want. Further down from Center Road is Nightly, which is through the main residential neighborhoods.” She added, “Everything that you see out there is merely the High Road city; you would need to move through the stairwells to visit the other lands.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “Sounds complicated.”

Illustrious said, “Only a few of us truly understand how the city works; Most people simply live here.”

As Ophiel spied around, watching people going about their lives, Erick asked, “Is what I’m seeing out there real?”

“Oh?” Illustrious was a bit surprised. “It’s all real. Everything you see out there, inside the boundaries of the space, is real. All those people are real. But you just can’t see Central City from this High Road.” She waved an arm around, saying, “It’s all still here, though. Just not here.”

Erick said, “Ah. So you mean it like that. I see.”

Illustrious gestured toward a staircase on their right, down a bit of a side skyway. “That stairwell leads down to Center Road.” She gestured to the other side of the street. “That one goes further down to Nightly. Go down either of them and you will have only moved several meters in both situations, but you will have stepped into another facet of Ar’Cosmos. We have an overall number of people we can support in here, but we can add facets as necessary to give everyone more than enough space.” She added, “And we call it ‘going down’ or ‘going up’ but those are just colloquialisms.”

“That’s…” That was many things, and all of them were interesting. Erick settled for saying, “That’s fascinating.”

“We’re mostly through water season, too, so we’ve opened up the Guest Road for this part of the year.”

“Ah yeah. It is that time of year…” Erick almost wanted to ask about all the wyrms that pour out of the Forest of Glaquin at the end of every water season, but he did not. That seemed like a sensitive topic best left for smaller audiences. He was very willing to put in a specific barb, though, as he said, “Is this all a [Fairy House]-equivalent spell but twisted deeper and deeper inside of itself? I must admit that I was going to try that experiment with my own [Fairy House] but then your invitation came, so I did not get the chance.”

Illustrious maintained her cheerful mood, but Erick could tell he had hit her hard by mentioning ‘your invitation’. She said, “That is, unfortunately, a state secret. I am sure that we will eventually be able to share it with you, but not at this time, and not in a public place.”

“… Fair enough.” Erick shifted the conversation, pointing toward a domed building that loomed on the horizon like a minor mountain. “What is that place?”

“That is the grand arena. Warriors and mages alike test their skill against each other, but mostly against monsters called out of the guarding paths by House Welixor; House Death. Testing oneself against summoned monsters is one of the best ways to gauge one’s growth and power, and House Death’s monsters are some of the best around.”

“Those blocky towers over there?”

“City hall.” Illustrious said, “Administrative space for the three Houses, as well as...”

Erick glanced around, picking out obvious landmarks, asking what they were. Illustrious supplied answers. It was… Normal, and therefore nice.

Eventually, they reached a large green archway that was like an open door, set into a much larger arch of grey stone. Beyond that archway was not a view of the city outside of the High Road, but of another land.
