The elf waved her arm and warm wind swirled around them and the water was siphoned from their clothes and fur. She turned and walked inside, and the rest followed.

Dinner that night for the humanoids was some kind of brown stew that smelled like meat and herbs. Intellectually, Elise thought it smelled delicious, but internally, she was repulsed. Her new herbivorous instincts didn’t much like the smell of cooked meat. Especially when the odds that the meat was one of the rabbits the man had hunted were as high as they were.

Dinner for her was a small plate of assorted greens. She recognized lettuce and kale, but there were three other kinds of leaves that she wasn’t sure of. They were all delicious. She ate on the floor, which she didn’t like, but she was an animal, so expecting a seat at the table would have been odd. She listened in on their conversation while she ate, and though she still didn’t understand a word, she thought she had a rough guess at what the girl’s name was now. It sounded almost like ‘Sophie’, but the -ph sound was closer to a -v than a normal -ph would be. Elise mentally filed her as Sophie to make things easy, but if- no when she was able to speak, she would make sure to pronounce it properly.

After dinner, they sat around the table and talked for a little while longer before they went to their respective bedrooms for what Elise assumed to be the rest of the night. Sophie didn’t go to sleep immediately, instead choosing to stay up reading a book at her desk by the light of a magic lantern, but Elise was wiped out, so she curled up on the bed and fell asleep almost instantly. Some time later, Sophie put out the light and joined her in bed, curling up into a fetal position wrapped around Elise.

Elise realized as she lay there that at some point, the father must have accepted that she was staying there. She had tried to pay attention for if the conversation would turn to her, hoping that even if she didn’t know the words, she would at least be able to sense the attention on her, but it had never happened. It seemed that he had just gone along with it as soon as he got back home.

She didn’t have the mental capacity to think any deeper than that though, as she was drifting off into a deep, dreamless sleep.

The next morning, they were awoken by a pounding on the door and a voice shouting from the other side.
