Ksmvr of Chandrar was no naturalistic force in the world’s consciousness. That did not mean he didn’t deserve to be there. Only that he was made.
Of course, he had to have the right stuff to appear, and it had to be the right moment. Yet not even Ksmvr would deny the fact that he was, in some sense, as artificial as Domehead. He had been created, not born.
He told the audience a story as the fourth entry in his series began. It was, at first, a simple scene. A lone Antinium Worker, sitting around a campfire, speaking.
Until you saw he carried a glowing sword, partially-hidden by a cloth wrap. A relic from another era. Until you saw that he wore a cape, and had a little cat in his lap.
When you saw the Empress of Beasts, leaning against Domehead, who sat perfectly still, in the company of her army; the huge, hunched forms of the Loquea Dree clan, as the camera panned across everything, it became a moment. Then—you heard Ksmvr’s voice.
“The day the Horns of Hammerad were named Crelerbane, Hell’s Wardens, was cloudy. I distinctly recall a buildup of clouds that hinted at approaching precipitation. However, it did not, in fact, rain, which might have aided Captain Ceria Springwalker in conjuring ice magic. Indeed, the cloud cover dissipated over the course of the day.”
His audience stared at him. Nsiia coughed.
“Ksmvr. Is that important to the story?”
Ksmvr looked blankly over at her.
“I am trying to add salient details. Strategically, you see, we were fighting in the area just outside the Bloodfields, which was largely grassy, with only slight gradation to the terrain. If we had been fighting in the Floodplains, we could have used the landscape as cover…”
“Yes, yes. But perhaps…you might tell us the story dramatically?”
For a second, everyone, including the audience captured in the image, looked as though they expected Ksmvr to try and fail. After all, what they knew Ksmvr could be amazingly literal at times. Oddly silly, fixated on trees, a fond lover of cats.
Spitty’s mortal enemy. It was amazing how many small details about Ksmvr were known by hundreds of thousands, nay, millions of people. Objectively useless information, even if you were to meet him. Yet they did not know him, for now the Antinium went still. He seemed to think, to ponder for a great moment.
When he spoke next, his voice deepened, as deep as he could make it. He struck a pose and, if you knew what he was imitating, you might see some Wesle or Jasi in him. Perhaps even Barelle the Bard.
“The Crelers attacked a group of adventurers hired for simple guard-duty just outside of Liscor, along the Bloodfields. We were one team of many, all Silver-rank or Bronze, tasked with protecting [Builders] and road layers. Hitherto this moment, we had encountered exactly one substantial danger from the Bloodfields itself.”
He looked around.
“We were not prepared. We never reached the magical portal door leading back to the inn. We had no teleportation scrolls. We assumed, naively, that we would be able to retreat in the face of any threat. It was a rare lapse in the judgement of my team, but my Captain, Ceria Springwalker, did not have command of the operation. Nor were we allowed to deploy undead, another fact that might have saved lives. When the Crelers struck, they came out of the ground by the thousands. Juvenile Crelers, Baby Crelers. And the Adult Creler.”
His audience shifted. Even here—no, —anywhere—the word ‘Creler’ was synonymous with terror, with one of the world’s universal threats. Ksmvr’s own voice reflected that. A kind of warble, never heard before. Intensity. Hatred.
“If you have never seen one, I cannot describe an Adult Creler fully. It was approximately twice as large as a house. It spat bolts of…something. Internalized substances that could kill from afar. Nothing but great magic stopped its fangs from slicing armor apart. It was so well-armored that few weapons could even harm it. And it was aware. It fought us with tactics. It was cunning. It had a mind.”
He looked around.
“Even magic could not stop it. I watched a [Mage] of Wistram cast the full might of his power on it and fail to kill the Adult Creler. It was not a threat for Silver-rank teams. The instant it emerged, my captain, along with all of the others, instantly ordered a retreat. We did not reach the door; in fact, Crelers pursued the teams that did escape into the inn. We realized we would surely perish in flight. So we took a stand.”
It was a tale already told, the greatest moment of the Horns of Hammerad, the instant they became Gold-rank adventurers. Ksmvr did it some justice, although he had peculiarities in the way he talked. He was not a natural [Storyteller], but his enthusiasm and the fact that he had been there gave some moments a quality other renditions would lack, as did his style:
“The Adult Creler severed Yvlon’s arm after it began to break. Nevertheless, she picked up her arm and, using it as a replacement for her sword, began hitting the Creler. It was ineffective, but I believe it may have unsettled the Adult Creler.”
“She used her own arm to attack the Creler?”
Someone called out. Ksmvr turned his head.
“Only briefly. She made a tactical retreat to request Pisces reattach it. Which he did, to the best of his abilities. However, when Yvlon Byres reentered the battle, she charged the Adult Creler alone. Brave warriors like Crossbow Stan had already fallen, yet she brought her damaged blade up and performed a mordhau blow—with the crossguard as the hammer. It was she who finally broke the weakened armor of the Adult Creler’s head. One adventurer, who ignored the wounds she had taken. She would surely have died in moments, but she advanced. And that is why we took hold of victory.”
His voice rose with evident pride, and his gesturing, with three arms, became more dramatic.
“Yvlon Byres knew no fear. That is why she became a [Silversteel Armsmistress]. She fought, despite losing her arm. Despite taking near-fatal wounds. I believe that, of the two, the Adult Creler knew fear first. Its spirit and armor broke before her, and she began to carve out its main brain as it began to retreat for the first time.”
A Frostmarrow Behemoth dueling with the Adult Creler, a spontaneous link moment. The desperate barrier raised by Montressa du Valeross. Yvlon’s suicidal charge and, as she cut into the Adult Creler’s brain, the final, pivotal blow.
The audience leaned in as Ksmvr concluded his tale.
“I took advantage of the moment, landed on the Adult Creler, and finished her blow. Thereafter, it expired.”
His audience, like a free-falling bird in a beautiful dive, came to an abrupt stop, slamming into the end of Ksmvr’s story. Leka Thri frowned, his beak opening.
“Your story seems to lack a proper ending, Ksmvr.”
“Yes. You told parts of it well—parts not at all!”
Nsiia objected loudly as Ksmvr looked blankly at his companions. The Antinium scratched at his antennae.
“I am not a perfect storyteller, so I apologize for not giving my team due diligence—”
“No, Ksmvr. Not that. You told it fairly well. But just not about yourself.”
That was the key element his audience noticed. Ksmvr hesitated.
“Yes I did. I represented myself in the story—”
At this, he stopped because everyone began to chuckle. From Vasraf to the crow-Garuda—even Yinah opened her mouth. Nsiia’s smile was humorous—but a bit sad. She looked at him.
“Ksmvr, recount the part where Pisces drew his blade and fought.”
Ksmvr nodded slowly.
“He was the swiftest warrior on the battlefield, and fought up close, despite lacking armor. Crelers were all about him, but he had his flaming rapier in one hand, slashing, casting with the other. I personally witnessed hundreds of Crelers attacking him, yet he danced between them as if he were on a ballroom floor in Terandria. Even when they struck him, he refused to stop fighting. Indeed, his white robes of surpassing hygienic value turned crimson and orange with blood—”
He was warming to that section of the tale, but Nsiia propped her chin in her hands.
“…And where were you?”
Ksmvr gave her a blank look.
“Fighting Crelers. I contributed in a distraction role, as I was unable to do any qualitative damage to the Adult Creler until the end. My role was lamentably low.”
“Yet…you mentioned you are invulnerable to Creler poisons.”
“Yes. Therefore, I did risk wounds.”
“Where, exactly?”
Ksmvr shrugged matter-of-factly.
“I believe I concentrated on centers of the smallest Crelers, to do the most effective damage. You see, the smallest Crelers were weak enough that one could easily inflict damage, even by biting. Although they swarmed over and attempted to eat everything. I kept mobile, and survived by luck as much as the others’ efforts. Mostly due to Captain Ceria, in fact. Her fortress of ice—”
Vasraf had been listening. Now, he narrowed his eyes as he put the pieces together.
“You mean to say, you were fighting while they climbed you, in the thickest swarms of the Crelers, biting them?”
“It is an effective use of mouth-parts when not imbibing potions. Yes, General Vasraf. What of it?”
His audience looked at each other. Yes, this was Ksmvr. The Antinium looked genuinely uncomprehending. Because he had no worth. Or so he claimed.
“Ksmvr, you make it sound as if your team single-handedly killed a thousand small Crelers, scared the Adult Creler into fleeing, and then brought it down while you sat to the side, knitting!”
“I did not, Nsiia. I have well-documented my role. I simply contextualize it with their achievements.”
Nsiia was shaking her head.
“Ksmvr. You make too little of yourself, and that does a disservice to your team. Surely they are impressive, the three of them. I would quite like to meet them all. Ceria, Yvlon, Pisces. And yet—when you lie, even by kindness, it still paints a picture of them. Each one has a fault. Only not when they come from your mouth.”
The Antinium sat there, digesting her words. He almost shook his head, but looked around.
“I am aware they have their faults, Empress Nsiia. No one is perfect.”
“Ah, then…?”
Ksmvr shook his head.
“They are simply superior to me. You see, I am an exile. I am inferior by every standard I should be held to, and therefore, it does not merit me pointing out any flaws they have when…”
His audience sighed. Ksmvr tried to justify himself, but he already had, just not in the way he wanted. He looked around, then finally at Rémi. Even the [Journalist] seemed skeptical, but Ksmvr spoke to the camera.
“They are not perfect. But truly, they lack great flaws. I am honored to be their teammate. They each set a great example. You do not know them. Nsiia thinks I am biased, but I can find little fault with any of them that truly matters. They are…”
 
——
 
“Raaagh!”
The scream from Yvlon Byres’ mouth was followed a second later by her running a [Gladiator] through with a lance of metal. Silversteel, a jagged point that emerged from her arm. Her arm of living, shifting metal.
The [Silversteel Armsmistress]’ scream was followed by her stomping on the other woman’s chest, to screams and roar from the crowd. She whirled, and the melee around her moved, drawing away, as everyone in sight saw the berserk Human searching for a target and declared ‘not-it’.
The two women holding Yvlon’s back, Rexel and Leprel, watched as Yvlon’s head turned left and right. Her face was contorted with fury—more so than last time.
“Byres! Slow down! We’ve already taken out one. Don’t—sands blast it!”
Rexel, the [Storm Bandit], watched as Yvlon charged towards the biggest foe, a huge Hemp-caste [Gladiator] holding a tower shield and spear. He backed up, cursing.
“The Silver-Killer is on a rampage again!”
A voice was roaring over the din of it all. And with it, a chant.
“Silver-Killer! Silver-Killer!”
The chant was a thrum in your veins, a second heartbeat to mix with the roaring of blood. The air smelled like iron, and the packed ground radiated Chandrar’s heat. But despite it, all you could see was the other fighters.
Low-grade ones, in this entry bout in one of the capital’s lesser arenas. The capital city of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, ironically or fittingly dubbed Tyrant’s Rest, was so large and the arenas so popular it had lesser arenas and the central one, the Coliseum of Monarchs.
As in, the [Gladiators] were [Kings] and [Queens] of their class. This place was good enough for monarchs to visit. Nerrhavia did few things small.
And because there were so many bouts and the arenas could be specialized, there were countless crowd-favorites. Old veterans with wily tricks, champions who came from other cities to rise and fall, eternal losers, lucky dark horses, and, of course, newcomers.
The Silver-Killer of Izril was the latest entry into that lineup, and she was taking the Arena of Change by storm. So-named because it was where a lot of new gladiators got tossed in; into huge fights like these, where outstanding talent rose to the top and got shuffled to other arenas.
 
——
 
“We’re not going to stay here long.”
After the bout, Rexel made the proclamation to Leprel, the [Thief] and her teammate in the three-woman team. Yvlon was sitting on a bench as an [Arena Healer] gingerly tended to her wounds.
She had some bad ones, but Yvlon had avoided more of them by being on the offense so much that her enemies largely focused on saving their skins. Rexel winced as the [Healer] muttered over a huge gash that actually seemed like it had gone into the tendons of her leg.
“You’re wounded badly, Miss Byres. I don’t know if it’s infected—I need to put this gel on it. If it turns dark, there will be no potions and no fighting for you for a while.”
“Got it.”
Yvlon finally spoke, the first time since she’d entered the arena. The woman nodded warily, and turned to Rexel.
“Any more wounds…? Speak up; you don’t want a small infection. Even a scratch? No?”
“No, Miss Healer. Do we have time to rest?”
The [Healer] began packing up.
“Rest, eat, request anything you have credit or coin for. I think Miss Yvlon Byres has at least a few notices in her room. You won’t fight until tomorrow at the earliest. I will be back in ten minutes to check the leg. Don’t move until then.”
Yvlon nodded tightly. The [Healer] paused, pursed her lips, and regarded Yvlon’s right arm.
“…As to your arm, I have no remedy. But it seems as though I am not needed.”
Rexel stared at it in a kind of morbid fascination. The jagged metal that had been Yvlon’s right arm, torn off from her encounter in the Village of the Dead, had gone up to her shoulder, a terrible, crippling wound.
Now? Yvlon’s right arm ran down to the crook of her elbow. It even tried to flex slightly.
