Yet Domehead was a Golem. And a Golem had realized what the people had not. He knew exactly how Illivere was tracking them. Their army was almost upon the battleground. Femithain had pushed them hard, and they crested a ridge and saw…
“What the—?”
Armsmaster Dellic had been prepared to call a charge. Golems with huge bows, swords, and more weapons, all stopped. Steel-type giants, rough stone, even the rare Ceramic-type Golems armed with spellbooks.
They saw no desperate Scaied army waiting for their fresh one. No Tiqr force. Just a lot of flat ground.
“We should be right on top of them! How are we not there? How—?”
And then he saw him. Illivere’s army stopped as they saw a lone figure standing there. Crafter Se screamed.
“Domehead!”
The Golem stood still. Femithain’s head rose from behind his two Golem bodyguards.
“Domehead?”
One Golem. They were in the wrong place! No…Femithain narrowed his eyes and saw a little figure move. A tiny, blonde cat yowled, and leapt out of Domehead’s arms. Yinah dropped something and went after the little, rolling gemstone.
The gemstone Domehead had removed from her artificial legs. She batted it around, saw the giant army standing there, and meowed.
“It’s a feint. We’re—we’re off-target. We might be miles away from the fighting.”
Armsmaster Dellic realized what Nsiia had done. He spun, calling for scouts, but Crafter Se lifted an excited hand.
“No, wait! Domehead’s right here! We can get him and attack Nsiia! Magus-Crafter! Domehead, to me!”
She began to fumble for a command scroll, but Femithain didn’t respond. Domehead was just standing there. Regarding Illivere’s army. Then—
Yinah was backed up, hissing, ready to attack. She glanced up as the huge Golem stepped forwards. The house cat saw him draw an axe many times her body mass and decided to leave it to him. She skittered backwards, then turned.
Domehead had drawn his axe. Without a visible command from anyone.
“She must have given him orders to fight. Domehead! Erase—commands. There!”
Crafter Se activated a scroll. Domehead’s dome lit up brightly in response. Crafter Se beamed. Then she waved at him.
“Domehead, to me! Forwards march and halt!”
“Crafter Se.”
The woman ignored him. Domehead heard her voice. He turned his body slightly. And didn’t move. The [Golem Artificer]’s voice trailed off.
“Magus-Crafter…we are close to Tiqr’s army. Local scrying spells indicate we can reach them in the next thirty minutes.”
“Turn the army and prepare to attack. Long-range spells. Inform Scaied to hold.”
Dellic was giving rapid orders, ignoring Domehead. It was just a Golem to him, and he did not relish the idea of Tiqr free to attack them if they wanted their prize back. The man was pivoting the forces when the Golem moved.
He moved from a standing position, axe in hand, to break-neck run with the speed and perfect motion Femithain had given him. The sight of an armored giant surging at them was enough to freeze all but the Golems. The army swung back as Domehead moved—to block their path.
Femithain’s eyes opened wide. Domehead stood there, an angry cat yowling in the distance.
“Domehead, what are you doing? Obey orders!”
Crafter Se was bewildered. And how could Domehead answer? The lights in his dome winked on and off, on and off. Not even other Golems could tell what they meant. All he knew was routine. All he knew was…what he had been taught. What he saw.
So, the axe rose. Domehead’s legs shifted. Armsmaster Dellic, Femithain, and Crafter Se saw him adjust his stance. Stance wide, legs braced. A hand rose as he held the axe one-handed—and he had never been taught to do that.
The armored digits rose on the other hand, palm out. Like a striking [Empress] of another land, Domehead stood. No, he strode, steps light, shoulders thrown back. He planted the axe in the ground and drew a line. He pointed down to it, walking back.
A perfect copy in all but voice. Just like the Empress of Beasts had once stood against Garuda [Raiders]. Domehead stood, axe raised.
Waiting. If they are honorable warriors…prepare for treachery…
Where you make the most difference. The [Golem Artificers] were staring, like they had just seen a painting come to life before their eyes. Or—since that wasn’t actually that rare—as if their tea cup had suddenly risen in rebellion.
“Sentience.”
Crafter Se whispered. She saw something move. A Steel Golem, weapons raised.
“What are you doing?”
“We have to restrain it. It is taking a hostile stance. Don’t worry! If we just subdue it—”
Domehead watched the Steel Golem advance on his position. The other Golem had a sword and shield and swung the blade as it lifted the shield, in a perfect Block and Attack, Routine #2. Domehead leaned back and brought the axe down as the sword missed.
Two more Golems strode forwards to win the battering match that happened when Golems fought. They were not prepared for the first Golem to fall backwards, missing the center of its body.
Domehead stood there, axe already raised. He made the gesture again. Drew a line in the sand. He did not know how to speak. But this time he was clear.
“We can hit him with spells. We have arrows trained…”
Armsmaster Dellic’s voice trailed off as every [Golem Artificer] in earshot looked at him. Crafter Se’s mouth was open in horror.
“At Domehead? He’s a work of art! I will [Lightning Bolt] anyone who damages him irrevocably! We must capture him—”
“With what? Nets? Other Golems?”
Armsmaster Dellic was beginning to understand. There was…Domehead. The greatest Golem of the Testing Grounds. The first Sentience-class Golem. If you weren’t going to destroy him—who wanted to volunteer to run up with a net?
“Magus-Crafter? What are your orders? Magus-Crafter?”
Femithain didn’t respond. He just looked at Domehead, standing there. He smiled, as the Golem looked right at him. He had often been proud of his creations. But only because he had made them. So it was still a form of vanity. Now?
The Magus-Crafter smiled as a single Golem held Illivere’s army at bay. Slowly, he dismounted from his horse and walked forwards, despite Armsmaster Dellic’s warning. To have a word with his prodigal son.
 
——
 
Ksmvr felt light. He shed the cape behind him in a flutter of cloth. And his Forceshield. Captain Ceria had told him he deserved to keep it. The magic sword was in Nsiia’s grip.
Ksmvr knew all these artifacts were good and necessary. But oh, they were awkward. For that matter—Hscel watched him coming, eying the two blades Ksmvr held.
“In imitation of me? You think that—”
He was braced for a trick. But Ksmvr didn’t need a trick. Two swords were all the trick you needed. This…yes. This was right.
His first cut with the shortsword established the distance between them. Ksmvr had more reach than Hscel. The Gold-rank adventurer’s eyes narrowed.
Ksmvr was moving faster. Of course, with no chainmail or other gear. It meant he was as exposed as Hscel. And—
He was still slower. Ksmvr deflected a quick slash and both of them knew it. Rather than dismay him, it only convinced Ksmvr he was right.
He was slower. But he had two shortswords, the same weapons he had trained with under the Free Queen’s guidance. Not a longsword and a shield. Against Hscel, with two blades of his own, both could attack and defend.
Two blades. Three arms. Did you know something?
Three arms were a pain to use properly. Four? They got in the way of your range of motion. Fighting was completely different with four arms than two. And two—
He had been trained to use two shortswords and two daggers. But that was a derivative fighting style, invented by the wielder himself to accompany a new body. In all of her teachings, Ksmvr had not learned from that style. That swordsman. He had glimpsed the Free Queen’s memories of that one person he was a substandard, flawed, failed, inferior replica of.
Klbkchhezeim the Slayer.
“—fast—”
Hscel muttered as he ducked a blade. Ksmvr was manipulating both blades perfectly, independent of each other. But not ignorant of each other.
He leapt, and Hscel pivoted to punish him in the air. He lanced outward, strike, strike—and met Ksmvr’s shortswords. Ksmvr swept in low.
My body doesn’t move right. Strange. It should be flexible. 
Dissonance. He felt it. Was this what Klbkch felt in his Worker body? It couldn’t even bend properly. Four arms?
Someone else’s body. Galuc the Builder. Like this? Yes. Like—
He remembered Nsiia’s conversation with Loquea Dree’s clan. Attack and defense. Fighting schools. Very silly. All they were doing was playing in reality. But once you gained a Skill, you were fighting across dimensions. Fighting with blades that cut through armor, or stepping out of shadows. Seborn could even begin to do that.
Hscel was focusing on Ksmvr, cutting him with short moves. He was still a step ahead of Ksmvr. But he was making a mistake. He was watching Ksmvr’s body, his blades, but he didn’t see what Ksmvr was creating.
The shortswords rasped together, a flash under the rising moon. Hscel narrowed his eyes, moved back from a cut warily. He saw a blade flicker up—feint—leaned back. Blinking, he saw Ksmvr’s right hand waver, almost like a mirage.
“What the—?”
Nsiia was shouting at Ksmvr as she charged past him. She was screaming as loudly as she could, swinging that shining blade. He heard her, dimly. He was almost doing it. Almost…what was she saying?
“Believe, Ksmvr! Reach for it!”
How did she know what was pounding in the back of his head? A feeling—Ksmvr wanted to snap at her. What did she think he was doing? Hscel blinked again. He was falling into feints. The swords were confusing him—was the Antinium angling them to catch the fading light? The pale ivory was almost like a mirror. But it would work even better if they were…
“Claim it, Ksmvr! It is yours! Believe you are worthy of it! Take it! You’r—”
Nsiia slashed through one of the Oisk Stingers. Ksmvr hesitated.
Worthy? Ah. There it was. A core of uncertainty. How dare he try to copy it? Substandard. Failure. Hscel was moving his blades in an arc, mouthing a Skill, no longer confident. He was going to use a deadly attack. Ksmvr saw it. A moment of death.
Yes. In his mind’s eye, he saw a true expert move. Unconsciously, he copied it. A flash of light. A confusing…mirage. Hscel squinted. How was the Antinium doing that with those swords? He took aim—
“[Kiss of the Viper]!”
His greatest Skill. He cut the air, a venomous blade slashing. Straight at the Antinium’s face. Straight at—
The air. Hscel stumbled. How? He was faster than Ksmvr! The Antinium had been right there! How did he do that? It was like Ksmvr had tricked his eyes. Like a desert mirage. Or an—
Illusion. A figment of the blades. They moved so hypnotically. A flash of metal. They belonged somewhere else.
To an Antinium in the darkness, bearing silver swords. A warrior who fought alone. One of the few of his kind to ever pick up a weapon. A story long forgotten. Just a name, they called him later.
Centenium.
Klbkch the Slayer. Hscel stared at his opponent. An Antinium with two shining silver blades under moonlight. He slashed, lunging as fast as he could and missed. Someone slashed him across the leg and he cried out. Who was he fighting?
Ksmvr heard a voice. An answer to his question. But only because he already knew what he was being told, somewhere.
 ̶I̶ ̶a̶m̶ ̶s̶u̶b̶s̶t̶a̶n̶d̶a̶r̶d̶.̶
I am Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad. Though I was exiled, I have a good memory. I remember—
This.
Hscel slashed wildly. He couldn’t tell where Ksmvr was. He felt like he was fighting dozens of illusions, with no idea where the twin blades were coming from.
It was an echo. Rémi Canada’s camera caught what stirred old memories. In the Blighted Kingdom. In the Demons. In the Drakes who saw it, who remembered those old days. Even then, it had been a pale memory of the original.
You have never seen the original. Even this was a copy. But it was true. It was everything Ksmvr had ever been made for. And Nsiia knew it. So she shouted for him to claim it. His…
 
[Heritage: Silver Illusion – Conditions Met.]
[Skill School – Silver Illusion (Sword School) acquired!] 
[Skill—]
 
A blade pierced though Ksmvr’s face. Hscel felt nothing. The image vanished and he saw the silver blades flash.
One cut through his hand. A second slashed at his ribs and he screamed, trying to bl—
A second shortsword slashed through his elbow. The Gold-rank adventurer’s blades dropped along with his severed limbs.
He stared up as Klbkch the Slayer…no. His heir crossed his swords, shaking the droplets of blood off them under moonlight.
“Glorious.”
Hscel closed his eyes as he sank to his knees. He waited, defeated by that common story. Counter-levelling.
Heritage Skills. Nsiia was screaming in triumph. Ksmvr swept his blades down—
The final blow never came. Hscel looked up.
“What are you doing?”
Klbkch vanished. Ksmvr calmly picked up Hscel’s severed hand and arm and prised the fingers off the kris blades. He tossed the limbs back at Hscel—and they were already cloth.
“You are a Stitch-Man. I believe limb loss is not an issue, although blood loss is.”
“You’re not going to kill me?”
Ksmvr turned. Scaied’s army was fleeing, as they realized Illivere was not coming. An [Empress] with a sword, fit for a legend, led her army in pursuit. Ksmvr smiled.
“That looks quite appropriate. I told her I was not fit for the blade. No, Hscel Scarless. I am an adventurer. As are you. I do not kill fellow adventurers or innocent people.”
He hesitated.
“…Unless they attack me first or really get on my nerves. But I will be content to rob you of your blades. I have learned something.”
Hscel stared as Ksmvr turned. He shouted after Ksmvr.
“What if I come after you again? That trick saved your life! But you still have a lot to learn.”
“I know. I will be content not to kill you.”
The Gold-rank Stitch-Man stared after Ksmvr as he ran back towards Vasraf’s army. He laughed, and turned his head to see a giant Golem with a glowing domed head sprinting across the sands, pursued by Illivere’s army. A yowling cat was clinging to his head-dome.
Domehead had learned the art of duplicity. And running away. Hscel laughed.
“You belong with us, rookie! Ksmvr of Chandrar! Gold-rank adventurer! I won’t forget this!”
 
——
 
That was what they would call him. Ksmvr of Chandrar. And also—heir apparent to one of the last Centenium. Klbkch the Slayer.
Ksmvr of Two Trees. He and Nsiia rode into the next adventure, armed with a realization—his new Skill fit for his level.
Inherited.
