His audience left so fast that Ksmvr looked around, slightly hurt. He turned to Domehead. The Golem was standing, observing the fighters. The lights in his head lit up as Ksmvr turned to him.
“…Fighting with any weapon is about that. Dodge or parry. Blocking is silly.”
Domehead’s lights…dimmed with dubious understanding of Ksmvr’s mentality. Ksmvr gestured at his Forceshield.
“I know this advice is incompatible with my current gear. But my current gear is made up of artifacts I have been given by my team. Ergo, it behooves me to use it. Yet true fighting is…creation and intention. With any weapon, one must eventually learn more than attacking and defending.”
Domehead’s lights actually flickered off and on. Ksmvr frowned. He tried to explain further.
“Dodge or parry. You see, other people use magic. Swords with enchantments do not conform to Nsiia or Leka Thri’s styles. The same with spells. So you must learn to parry magic itself.”
Domehead’s interior crystals, which had been going dim one by one, suddenly regained their color and glowed even brighter. Now, the Golem seemed to focus as Ksmvr went on. The Antinium stared at his relic-class sword.
“Create. You see, all those present fight with very silly styles. Simple styles. Someday, Skills will create a different world than mere steel. Their fighting will do nothing because they do not understand.”
Domehead turned to look at Nsiia, wielding her blade with perfect economy of form. Ksmvr shook his head.
“It is only good if everyone fights as if they have limbs. As if swords move in three dimensions. Skills.”
He looked at Domehead. The Golem stared at him. Ksmvr remembered his audience, and frowned.
“You will never level. Therefore, you will never have Skills and never be able to fight thusly.”
He patted Domehead on the shoulder. The lights started to die in Domehead’s mind once more. Ksmvr paused. Then leaned in and whispered.
“…So you will have to learn how to wield magic itself like a blade.”
He patted Domehead on the shoulder and walked off.
 
——
 
That wasn’t recorded by Rémi Canada, Nsiia, or anyone else. Ksmvr rejoined the discussion on fighting just in time for Nsiia to comment.
“Loquea Dree has mighty warriors. Some of the most able I have seen, even your weakest. Tiqr does not lack for strong fighters as well. I cannot imagine our foes will exceed us on average.”
Ksmvr saw Leka Thri nod and Vasraf smile. He stared at the warriors fighting, honing their talents every morning before they continued their journey into the Empire of Scaied. He spoke, calmly.
“They are very acceptable for average [Soldiers], Empress Nsiia. But I must take offense with ‘mighty’. Loquea Dree is average. True blademasters will threaten all of us. I have not yet observed anyone with the abilities to match even a partial master.”
He said it so politely and matter-of-factly, as if it were not an insult, that it was twice over. Nsiia’s head rotated slowly.
“You speak very boldly, to insult every warrior in front of you.”
Ksmvr looked at her, astonished.
“I did not. I merely spoke facts.”
Vasraf and some of the other warriors looked at each other. They came closer, folding their arms and frowning.
“Do you claim to be an expert, Ksmvr?”
“No. I am substandard. I have reiterated that point many times, Nsiia.”
She was smiling dangerously.
“But you do have the gall to tell me that every warrior present is merely…average. Even Loquea Dree?”
Leka Thri opened his beak.
“Who is superior to our abilities? Your team?”
Rémi Canada had come over by now, and he swung his camera towards Ksmvr. For the first time ever, the Antinium visibly hesitated.
“…Comrade Pisces is a fine duelist. Yvlon is a highly talented Gold-rank adventurer. Yes, they are quite good at fighting. Pisces is…superb for his age and class, especially without Skills.”
Nsiia’s wrath had been growing. Suddenly, it abated, and she raised her eyebrows high and looked at Vasraf.
“Really. And how good is your friend, Yvlon? The one with the arms, who beat an Adult Creler?”
Ksmvr opened and closed his mandibles.
“She is…good…and exceptionally direct.”
Nsiia opened her mouth, hesitating. Leka Thri, of all people, turned to Ksmvr.
“As an adventurer. How amazing is your Comrade Pisces, Ksmvr?”
The Antinium brightened up with relief.
“He is one of the most superior [Necromancers] to ever exist. You see, he has not only ignored the prejudices of flawed judicial systems of law, but he also trained himself in swordsmanship at a basic proficient level as well as becoming a strong [Mage] and [Necromancer]. His insight and…”
He went on like that for a while. But it was fascinating, especially given his penchant for how he talked about his companions. Nsiia frowned.
“…Ksmvr. Wait, you would not have actually seen…say. Does anyone have a recording of the Village of the Dead raid?”
Ksmvr looked up, interested, as someone did produce the famous recording. Rémi Canada offered Ksmvr a recording of the scenes Ksmvr had not seen. Fascinated, Ksmvr stared at the crystal.
“Ryoka Griffin was present? And House Veltras? That is very intriguing.”
“You know the Wind Runner?”
“She is a personal friend of my team. Not me myself, but she had a longstanding association with the previous incarnation of the Horns of Hammerad and I consider her an ally. Hmm. Hmm. What is that!?”
He pointed at the image of two glowing Antinium appearing to battle the specter undead. Nsiia glanced at him.
“You don’t know?”
“I…ah. That appears to be a dangerous Revenant.”
Ksmvr stared as the Drake who had cut a path through undead and adventurers alike made his grand entrance. [Dragonbane Swordlegend]. Nsiia pointed at him as the lone [Duelist] challenged him.
“Now there is a warrior without equal. Or will you gainsay that?”
Ksmvr did not immediately respond. He watched as the two crossed swords, rapier and parrying dagger versus the Drake’s sword. Attack and defense, a whirling dance of blades that was so fast that the recording had to slow down to give regular members of the audience time to appreciate the elegance and form.
Tomoor the [Duelist], who was immortalized in this single battle by his students as one of the great [Duelists] of this era. Posthumously awarded a golden bell.
The Drake [Swordlegend], fighting with a smile on his face. Ksmvr looked up slowly.
“The Drake appears to be quite good. The [Duelist] is certainly fighting at a superior level. It is impossible to tell if this ‘[Swordlegend]’ is exaggerating his abilities, however. It may be he is only using his Skills.”
Nsiia stared at Ksmvr like he had a huge grin on his face. The Antinium’s mandibles clacked as he went back to watching.
“Yes. He is certainly high-level. As to his actual skill with a sword—”
“Dead gods! Are you not seeing the battle? Am I blind?”
Vasraf exploded, turning a bit red with outrage. He gestured at the duel between the two. Ksmvr calmly stared at it.
“I see it too, General Vasraf. But that is only an indication of Instructor Tomoor’s proficiency. He did not challenge the Drake to use his true school of fighting. I believe he’s probably a true master, but I cannot tell from this alone.”
He handed the recording to Rémi. The [Journalist] silently took it, and zoomed in on the others’ faces. Nsiia turned to Ksmvr.
“You speak like you know something, Ksmvr. Yet your team is not made up of anyone who could come close to this level, even your friend Pisces. You must admit that, surely.”
Ksmvr hesitated. He clacked his mandibles together a few times, and twiddled his thumbs as he clasped his hands. He responded slowly, looking the other way.
“…They are adventurers. They may be the finest team ever to exist, that will leave their mark on history. One…one does not need to be proficient technique-wise to be a fine adventurer. Skills make up for many lacking qualities. Magic is also not my purview, so Ceria might be…Comrade Pisces may be very skilled in that area.”
He edged away, eager to be out of the conversation. Nsiia blew out her cheeks, looking purely amazed as Ksmvr went off. Vasraf leaned over.
“He does not have that talent, nor show it.”
“No. He does not.”
Nsiia frowned, eying his armaments. Ksmvr had a shortsword, longsword, bow, and Forceshield, along with his crossbows and used all…well, quite well. He was an excellent shot with any ranged weapon and he used all three arms at once. Even so, it sounded like he was talking amazing smack.
On the other hand…she tapped a finger to her lips.
“Ksmvr is not able to beat me or warriors of my level easily, Vasraf. With his magic sword, yes. But he lacks the strength to break my guard. He is fast, but he does not strike perfectly, and he struggles to keep up with a warrior who can push him constantly.”
“Is there anything that sets him apart?”
Vasraf waited. Nsiia nodded.
“…I have never seen him actually surprised by any technique I used. In that he never seemed to lack for a counter. He was only unable to move to it in time. I have a thought, Vasraf.”
“Yes?”
Nsiia looked at Ksmvr’s back.
“We remark upon Ksmvr’s abilities with a sword and his weapons. He seems arrogant. Yet now I wonder. I have heard of the Antinium fighting, just like you. So I must ask. Since he is the only Antinium I have ever heard of to wield a blade save one…who taught him?”
The others looked after Ksmvr. The obvious answer was simple. So Leka Thri walked over and asked.
“Ksmvr. Were you taught by the one known as…Centenium? Klbkch the Slayer?”
Ksmvr looked up blankly. He almost flinched at the name.
“No. Klbkch was occupied with his duties. I had no interaction with him until shortly before I was expelled from my Hive. I have never learned swordsmanship from him directly. My education was overseen by the Free Queen of the Antinium.”
Leka Thri turned and gave the others a blank look. He turned back to Ksmvr.
“Then, if you have observed Klbkch the Slayer’s style. Is he a master?”
Ksmvr turned from scratching Yinah, who was lying and wiggling on her back.
“He was.”
 
——
 
The Slayer of the Centenium stared at Ksmvr in the still recording. He flexed one arm and it moved, slowly.
Klbkch the Slayer. Revelantor of the Free Antinium. True Antinium of Rhir. Once he had been Klbkchhezeim, a [Swordslayer] and [Assassin] both.
Yet never hugely high-levelled. Even as a [Swordslayer], he had told Ryoka Griffin his highest level there had been…44.
Of course, dying didn’t help, and he had died many times. But what Ksmvr said was true. He had been far better, once.
“…Why is Ksmvr in Chandrar? Why is he being interviewed by Humans and associating with Garuda? Finally. Why are you showing me this? Wrymvr?”
The Centenium, Wrymvr the Deathless, dangled the scrying orb from one limb.
“Mockery and entertainment. Do you disagree?”
Klbkch’s hand twitched towards the two silver swords waiting for his new body’s completion. He looked at Wrymvr.
“There is more to combat than mere levels. Centenium were too superior to level quickly.”
“I am higher level than you.”
“You never died.”
Klbkch decided to ignore Wrymvr. The Centenium stared at the recording, then turned to Klbkch.
“Ksmvr. An unauthorized Prognugator of the Free Queen. Competency?”
“Minimal.”
A foreleg tapped Klbkch on the head. The Slayer stared at it.
“…He was created and trained by the Free Queen. Query her—I was unaware she was training a replacement. It is my understanding she wished to create a copy of me to ease our burdens. He was deployed prematurely. We exiled him for the reasons I outlined.”
“Yes. Experiment. Grow. But competency?”
Klbkch shrugged; he had control of his upper body, if not one of his arms or legs. He was impatient, but the time was allowing him to adjust to the enhanced reflexes and make plans.
“He was trained on the Free Queen’s abilities. I assume she based his fighting style on mine. She attempted to replicate my Worker-form abilities.”
“Ah. Therefore, weak.”
Klbkch looked around for something to throw at Wrymvr.
“He is most likely aware of my true capabilities. Hence his statement, however foolish. I am the basis for Antinium such as the Custodium the Grand Queen employs, as one of the few Centenium to use weapons.”
Wrymvr rubbed two limbs together.
“Yes…basis for inefficient, expensive Custodium. Alas. Regrettable. Weak.”
“Wrymvr. I am coming close to violence.”
The Centenium turned. Wrymvr seemed pleased by his interaction. He spread his wings, then shifted to turn back to Klbkch.
“Pity. You were good with blades. Will you reclaim them?”
Klbkch’s head rose. His mandibles opened and lifted in a smile. He flexed his one arm, and looked down at his body.
“Yes. I only need to wait a little longer.”
Wrymvr returned the gesture.
“Good.”
 
——
 
The pleasant days could only last so long. When they found Nsiia’s army, they struck like lightning.
“[Lightning Bolt]! Take cover!”
The crackling surge of electricity was strong in dry Chandrar. The static charge earthed itself as the shout came up: a sudden ambush! The [Scouts] had missed the invisible assailant. And the lightning bolt streaked towards Nsiia and Ksmvr as they whirled on their mounts—
—And earthed itself about two hundred feet to the left. And about two thousand paces too soon.
The invisible [Mage] shouted.
“There she is! You won’t escape you—you thieves! You wretches! Domehead! I’ve come to rescue you!”
Ksmvr stared as Crafter Se revealed herself and a small group of Illivere’s warriors. And by ‘small’, it was literally two hundred, a mixed force of the more advanced Golems, a few conventional ones, and armed Humans…who were doing a quick count as thousands of Tiqr’s warriors turned.
“…Is that Crafter Se?”
Nsiia shaded her eyes. Another lightning bolt fired from Crafter Se’s wand, but she was no combat magus. Even then, with nearly a mile between them, the enraged [Golem Artificer] was striking and howling.
“Domehead! Return! Domehead! Femithain is right behind us! Give Domehead up and we might let you live, Nsiia!”
“What’s she shouting?”
Vasraf saw Nsiia put her hand to her ear. He glanced at the force of two hundred.
“Looks like they have Stone Golems, and some ceramics. How dangerous are they?”
He turned to their [Strategist].
“Tough, agile; they might be armed with enchanted weapons, but there are only two hundred. A scouting force, perhaps meant for the Empress if we hadn’t found her first. I don’t think they’re wise, unless an entire army is close enough.”
Vasraf eyed another lightning bolt that just dissipated in midair before it got close.
“I…don’t believe this is a clever trick. Your Majesty, what are your orders?”
