By now, the jeering was so loud Vitte could hear it everywhere. From Thexca, too. She even threw the snack she was carrying into the ring. Compared to the earlier fighting, this was like watching children squabbling. Yvlon Byres was good, but with only one arm—and her off-one at that—she was far less dangerous, and Mectail also pulled his best Skills.
“Dead gods, it was so kitschy. I forgot that Mectail is famous for his wholesome fights.”
The [Gladiators] were complaining loudly. Only the [Martial Artist]’s fans, who loved watching him perform stunts like this, were happy.
And maybe a certain Sandquen, who had a new chapter for her story entry. Vitte just watched as the two eventually stopped with Mectail knocking Yvlon down, and helping her to her feet. They departed the arena, talking, even laughing as detritus showered down around them from the stands.
“Well, I guess Mectail’s got a new friend. Does that mean we have to fight with her?”
“She nearly got him before his stunt. Might be a regular.”
The others were groaning. Vitte smiled.
“Look at it this way. He might convince her not to try and kill us in every match. Which means we don’t have to kill her. I’m going to introduce myself.”
She hopped off her seat. Thexca shook her head.
“I hate Mectail.”
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres felt like a cloud of resentment and ire had lifted from her head. She didn’t stalk back to her rooms to debate unleashing an unknown scroll after the match. She talked to Mectail and met his companions, a Fox Beastkin named Vitte, an annoyed woman named Thexca, a warrior called Relladen…all of whom awed Rexel and Leprel.
“You, uh, look a bit calmer, Yvlon. Never thought I’d see the audience boo someone off the grounds. I nearly thought the guards were going to halt the match.”
Rexel commented. Yvlon brushed at her hair.
“…Mectail’s interesting. He told me I’m suffering from a Skill I received. I didn’t believe him…but he’s offered to practice with me. I might take him up on the offer.”
“I just hope your patron doesn’t mind.”
Yvlon shrugged. She looked at her two teammates, bit her lip, and then exhaled.
“Rexel, Leprel…you might have been right. I have a slight temper.”
The two women stared at Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] raised her hand.
“A bit of one. I’ll work on it, alright?”
“A bit of—”
Rexel yelped as Leprel pinched her. She gave Yvlon an unconvincing grin.
“Sure. I mean, that’s great!”
“Thank you.”
Yvlon Byres remarked drily. She went back to her rooms, shaking her head, and went for a lie-down; even with potions, she’d been kicked around.
 
——
 
“I am beyond ashamed, Your Majesty. We—can prepare a far more suitable duel!”
The [Arena Master] had been both apoplectic and very nervous, but Yisame swept absently back to her rooms, already thinking about what to commit to writing next. It was a shame, but she wouldn’t be able to summon the triumphant or courageously defeated Yvlon —not after that show.
But it was like a book! The [Martial Artist], breaking her out of her fury. Offering her a sword! Yvlon and him, dueling genteely. A comradeship already born!
Yisame was nearly at her rooms when someone had to interrupt her. The Emissary of Cloth. The beaming woman stopped the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen in the Court of the Steel.
“I beg a word, Your Majesty? I have tasked Ste-General Hvcia with bringing Pomle to heel and making a small example of them to remind them of their place. And I have also taken steps to address the Tiqr matter.”
“Very good, Emiss—what did you say?”
The woman beamed, her cloth radiant and her expression waiting for praise that was not about to come.
“Ste-General Hvcia believes she can deliver a small victory suitable for a reprimand. Pomle lacks for [Mages]; she will conduct an attack shortly. As for Tiqr, since no more forces have been authorized and Femithain is…shall we say, suspect, I have arranged for the Empire of Scaied to intervene, as our intelligence suggests Tiqr’s rebel army is headed into their lands. I have even hired a mercenary capable of killing that Antinium.”
She beamed at Yisame. The [Queen] looked at the Emissary of Cloth, and her war council, who all looked very pleased with their actions. This was the problem with encouraging a court to deal with things Yisame didn’t want to have to deal with personally. She decided…it might be for the best that she and Yvlon had not met today. Now, how was she going to deal with this?
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres slept. Which was a thing she did usually every day. And, like every day so far in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, she had a very unfortunate habit of turning all the metal she touched fragile. Even the sword Mectail had offered her.
She had wondered if it was the effect of her arms, making the metal weak to rejuvenate her flesh. Regardless, she hadn’t paid too much attention to it, preoccupied as she was with everything else, from her sickness, to changing locations, the fury simmering in her, and so on.
So one of the things she never thought on was…well. What happened to the bits of metal she broke by accident. She assumed they were just cleaned up by servants or staff.
Which was partly true. But the broken sword and silver knife that Yvlon had both placed on a dresser underwent a…change…as the woman slept. Not all the metal. Indeed, by the time the [Servant] did creep in to toss them away, they had already disgorged the tiny metal insects.
Like a beetle, albeit not one Yvlon would have ever recognized in form…or substance. A little steel beetle cast around the room. It began to move towards her, but recognized…something. Instead, it and the other one made of silver, a tiny insect of another kind, headed straight for the drain. They disappeared down into it.
Sewer systems. The sign of an advanced civilization. Pipes, plumbing…key infrastructure. A testament to Nerrhavia’s richness that it could afford superior materials, not cheap clay or stone. Lovely sewers for a capital city.
All made of metal.
 
——
 
Ksmvr sparred with Leka Thri. Well, sparred was not quite right. Because neither warrior had the ability to properly ‘spar’.
When it was clear that the Loquea Dree clan would join them, a number of Tiqr’s warriors, including Vasraf and Nsiia, expressed the earnest desire to see how good the crow-clan was.
The answer was…complicated. To someone with a connoisseur’s appreciation for battle, like someone who followed the thrilling fights in Nerrhavia Fallen’s arenas, say—
It was sort of boring. For actual experts in fighting, warriors, it was fascinating, because skill in combat did not always equate to flashy matches.
Most of Loquea Dree’s sparring exhibitions were over in a flash. Either their opponents slipped into their guard and managed to touch them, or they ran into the deadly scythes—true, a practice variant, but it was considered a mortal wound.
“As befits the deadly Executioners of the Kilalle Steppes.”
Nsiia herself got ‘cut’ on the shoulder at the same time as she ‘stabbed’ one of the warriors. Ksmvr considered she’d lost an arm, but possibly inflicted a mortal wound.
“Not Executioners. We prefer Loquea Dree.”
Leka Thri, who was the mouthpiece of his clan, hurriedly corrected her. The image-rehabilitation of his clan was in full…attempt. A nervous Yinah was sitting on Leka Thri’s head, meowing uneasily.
“We do not bare our blades except when a true crime has been committed. We have other techniques. See.”
And to demonstrate, he went barehanded up against one of Tiqr’s warriors. The woman gamely leapt forwards, earned herself a snap-punch from Leka Thri, and stopped moving. Some of her friends went to check on her.
…It was a work in progress. However, that was the style of Loquea Dree, and fascinating for Tiqr’s warriors. They actually used punches and kicks with their claws; if someone got under the huge scythes they wielded, they might eat a powerful punch.
Naturally, Ksmvr requested a sparring match and everyone watched as he and Leka Thri…spent the next five minutes trying to figure out how to effectively spar.
“I cannot use the relic-class sword. Or my crossbows. Even without points, the bolts could kill.”
“Barehanded?”
“I can fight barehanded, but it is not my natural weapon. I could attempt to use a scythe?”
“Do you know? How to use a scythe?”
“I have been taught to use almost every variety of weapon in existence, to a degree of competency.”
Leka Thri eyed Ksmvr.
“…Have you ever used a scythe?”
“No. I could borrow practice weapons.”
“Which weapons?”
“I am adept at using every kind of weapon…”
In the end, Ksmvr copied his current gear. Longsword, buckler, dagger. Leka Thri had a practice scythe. The two leapt into a mock battle…which became instantly boring.
Mostly because Ksmvr darted left and right, leaping, while Leka Thri swooped and dove. Neither one saw a perfect moment to strike, so they kept baiting each other.
Yet still, Nsiia and Vasraf watched.
“He is quick. As fast as anyone in the army.”
Vasraf was more fascinated by Ksmvr, and it was to him that Rémi and the others turned for commentary. Nsiia frowned.
“Yes. Far more of a danger with all his tricks like the crossbows. Leka Thri is a skilled warrior too, but if they are trying not to harm each other…”
It became that boring dance. Even so, Ksmvr was keeping up with a Garuda on the wing. Vasraf nodded.
“If all Antinium were as quick, I would be amazed. I always thought of them as hand-to-hand fighters.”
“That is my understanding. Ksmvr is an exception.”
Again, the [Wild General] nodded.
“And yet…it is almost a bit disappointing.”
“How so, [General]? He seems skilled, as any adventurer might. He’d press any warrior fairly hard, even our best.”
One of the veteran soldiers observed. Vasraf nodded, but he was frowning. He turned to Nsiia.
“Your Majesty. You have sparred with Ksmvr. How good is he with his blades?”
Nsiia pursed her lips.
“I can beat him almost every time, but that is because my Skills and class exceed his. With his crossbows and Skills and gear, I think he could push me hard enough that it might be equal if I had to charge him, and I without any artifacts. And I am the [Empress of Beasts].”
She tossed her head and grinned. Then turned to Vasraf.
“With his magic sword, he could threaten any warrior here with death. Especially with his speed.”
She nodded to him. A magic sword plus Ksmvr’s agility? Vasraf folded his arms.
“…But he is no great master of arms.”
Nsiia raised her brows.
“No. He fights very well with his sword and shield, and his extra arm makes him surprising. But he is no expert—ah, see.”
Leka Thri won. He came down in a risky attack, but his kick caught Ksmvr on the buckler, and the scythe descended. Ksmvr dodged, but it hooked him in the air. He stopped, nodded.
“If I had my Forceshield, your kick would have failed.”
“Yes. I know.”
The two regarded each other with approval. Nsiia strode over.
“Ah, Leka Thri. Will you or the First of Judgement tell me what unique style your people use?”
Because it was a style. Leka Thri looked over at Seelaw Ya. The clan leader gave a nod.
“We developed a style from warriors of old, who used similar weapons. We adapted it for the skies. Jakka and moreit.”
He demonstrated. Ksmvr saw him hold the blade out. Point to the scythe’s edge.
“Moreit. To fight like Loquea Dree is to understand threat and attack. Moreit is threat. Jakka—”
A fast punch that moved the air.
“—Attack.”
“A strange way of classifying it. You mean, you don’t consider the scythe an attack?”
Vasraf was fascinated. Leka Thri shook his head.
“It is a threat. If you fail to account for it, it will kill. Threaten areas where the opponent moves. Like so. And so—”
He changed the scythe rapidly, twisting it, cutting, but often just placing it at angles around an imaginary foe. Leka Thri could choke up on the handle, change directions, and move the long scythe blade anywhere he wanted. It was a bit odd until you remembered it was meant for an aerial battle.
“Moreit. Threats as the opponent moves. As you close—jakka.”
“Interesting. But you see, the way Tiqr teaches its warriors is like so. I imagine you know other weapons. So…do you see our fighting styles in the air? We have a style of blades based around animals.”
Nsiia herself demonstrated the mobile form of fighting she had used on Ksmvr. But she described the fighting more conventionally. Attack and defense. Watching your flanks, keeping your guard up, pushing your opponents—quite utilitarian. Leka Thri was only too happy to compare observations, and Ksmvr himself was drawn into the technical discussion.
“Here, Ksmvr. Do you know any style of fighting unknown to us?”
The Empress turned from a demonstration of two warriors with shield and sword battering at each other. Well, battering was the wrong word.
It had a kind of elegance, the way a proper shield and sword technique was used. You could clip the enemy with the edge of your shield, trap a blade, hit them with your shield, or just ram them back. Some styles even used larger shields as a weapon, lashing out sideways to tear an enemy’s face or hit them with a concussive edge.
Ksmvr observed that, the Loquea Dree warriors with their careful scythe placement and brutal hand-to-hand closers, and the warriors with axes showing off techniques for a student.
Domehead. The Golem was watching their methods, as someone who also used an axe. It was all about finding the moment to transmute all that weight and momentum into the final killing blow, unlike the dance of someone with a less all-or-nothing weapon.
“I have indeed been educated in the art of fighting in multiple weapon sets. My expertise is not the same as my ability, but I have an understanding of some advanced techniques.”
Leka Thri, Nsiia, and Vasraf turned to him eagerly.
“Yes? Then what blades would you use? Would you be able to use Leka Thri’s war scythe? I cannot fit it into my understanding of battle—at least, not without practice.”
Ksmvr looked at the war scythe. He nodded slowly.
“That is an acceptable weapon in my school of blade fighting. It is not one I am familiar with, but the concept is applicable.”
“Really?”
“Of course. A giant club, a sword that is ten feet long, all work. If you can apply the most important principle.”
“Which is?”
Everyone leaned forwards. Ksmvr looked around, as if to impart some great secret. He even whispered, so Rémi, who was capturing the rest of the fighting, couldn’t see or hear.
“…Do not be hit. Learn to parry blows. You see, fighting with any weapon is…”
