Hscel saw Ksmvr kick the ground. A shower of dirt sprayed at the Gold-rank adventurer. Ksmvr drew a spare dagger, wishing he had the Flamecoat Dagger. He leapt forwards, sweeping the longsword up in a diagonal slash. If Hscel jumped—
A miffed Stitch-Man appeared through the dust. He kicked Ksmvr in the chest and slashed, cutting Ksmvr deep along one arm. He leaned under the slash, tried to sever Ksmvr’s hand, but backed off as the dagger slashed. Even so, he flicked his arm and cut Ksmvr across another wrist. He circled, staring at Ksmvr.
“You do not fight honorably at all.”
Ksmvr felt green blood running down his body from his wounds. Uh oh. Uh oh. He reached for another potion, speaking rapidly.
“People with acid for blood do not fight fair.”
Hscel blinked down at his blades.
 
——
 
The battle was going well and going south. Tiqr was pushing Scaied hard. However, without Ksmvr, the Oisk Stingers were conducting deadly hit-and-runs. They were suffering for it, but the battle was already dragging on.
And Illivere was coming as fast as they could. Ksmvr was fighting Hscel, and only the Gold-rank adventurer’s wariness and Ksmvr’s lies had kept the Antinium from losing more than two potions.
However, Illivere could change it all. Nsiia even heard the Scaied officers shouting.
“How much longer?”
“They’re closer than we thought! Less than an hour—”
“Damn!”
Nsiia ran through the [Tactician] who hadn’t spotted the break in their lines. She screamed at one of her warriors.
“Tell Vasraf we have one hour! One hour!”
She spun, looking for Ksmvr. Some battles were over fast, but those tended to be ones where it was an ambush that turned into a rout. Unfortunately, without grand magic or that kind of momentum like a cavalry charge, this was turning into a long battle.
One that could go many hours. If they beat Scaied before the end of the hour and withdrew, they could hold Illivere off. But they had to be winning much faster than this. They needed Ksmvr. Loquea Dree was circling, attacking weak flanks, but they had to keep out of range of the enemy [Archers] and there were only sixty of them.
But Ksmvr…
“Pull back! Pull back the line!”
Nsiia saw the warriors disengaging around her. A second wave hit the enemy. She backed up, panting, as her bodyguards surrounded her.
“Your Majesty, to the rear!”
“I can fight. Where’s Vasraf? Tell him to send me into another spot!”
Warriors moved back, some carrying the wounded to [Healers], others on their own momentum. Nsiia thought it had been nearly thirty minutes since they’d started fighting. Even with stamina potions…
Vasraf was standing in the rear, directing the army’s clashes and loosing arrows. He turned as Nsiia strode back, gulping water.
“Where’s Ksmvr? Has he won or…?”
The [Wild General] pointed. Nsiia turned and saw Ksmvr. He was staggering backwards from Hscel Scarless. True to the man’s name, he hadn’t taken a single wound. Ksmvr on the other hand…Nsiia saw green blood splashing the ground.
“Ksmvr!”
She began to run towards him, but Vasraf bellowed.
“[Pinpoint Volley]!”
Hscel looked up as the archers loosed. He stared at a wall of arrows, cursed, and flicked his wrist. A bracelet glowed and a bubble enveloped him for a single second. Long enough that the arrows bounced off the temporary shield. He whirled to attack Ksmvr, but found The Laughing Brigade. Snarling hyenas and warriors advanced, as the laughter picked up. Hscel backed up, scowling, unwilling to join the clash.
“Get him back here.”
Vasraf ordered his forces. Nsiia ran from their back lines to meet Ksmvr. He was already healing as they helped drag him back.
“…so that. So that’s…”
She almost thought he was saying ‘substandard’ at first. Ksmvr looked up as she seized his arm.
“Ksmvr!”
The Antinium sagged. He reached for a stamina potion as a [Healer] and Vasraf himself hurried forwards.
“So that’s Gold-rank. He is—difficult.”
“He beat you? Even with the sword?”
Nsiia could hardly believe it. But then—she had seen how fast Hscel moved. Ksmvr shook his head.
“I would rather fight Eldertuin the Fortress, please. Someone chose him well.”
Nsiia had to agree. The Empress looked towards Hscel. He had done something in Scaied’s ranks. They were chanting Ksmvr’s name.
“Could you avoid him?”
“I suspect he’ll seek out Ksmvr no matter where he goes. Do you need arms? Can we help you win?”
The [Wild General] crouched beside Ksmvr. The Antinium shook his head slightly.
“Tricks are too slow. He dodged dirt.”
“Vasraf, we need Ksmvr’s sword. Could he lend it to me? I would fight the Oisk Stingers.”
“Could you defeat Hscel, Your Majesty? If he goes after you, with that blade?”
Nsiia hesitated.
“—I don’t know. I don’t think he will find me easy prey.”
“And I will not risk it. He may well assail this camp if you take the blade and leave Ksmvr defenseless. Ksmvr, if you cannot win, stand back. We will take Scaied’s army without your sword.”
“Vasraf, we have one hour at most.”
The [Wild General] nodded. He stood and strode back to the front. Ksmvr was panting.
“I—do not think victory is impossible. He is fast. He is fast. But he is not a master. He has weak spots. I am just substandard.”
“Don’t say that.”
Nsiia gripped his arm. Ksmvr looked at her.
“I know I am. If I was better, I would be a [Hero]. I am not. I have a plan. I need gear. Wands.”
He was stumbling to his feet. Nsiia saw a [Mage] rush forwards. Hscel Scarless waited. Ksmvr got up.
“You don’t need to be a [Hero]. I will fight with you, Ksmvr. But not being one—remember what I said.”
Ksmvr turned blankly to Nsiia. He half-shook his head.
“You do not understand, Empress Nsiia. I was almost…no. Maybe not. But it was not a Skill. What kind of class was it?”
He ran without another word. Nsiia’s brow furrowed. What did…that mean?
 
——
 
Hscel and Ksmvr met a second time. The Gold-rank adventurer seemed surprised Ksmvr had returned.
“You know I’m faster. You’re worse than I am, relic or not.”
Ksmvr lifted a wand. Hscel twisted left.
“I can defeat you.”
He knew he could. Hscel was quick, but that was all he was. He was almost like Halrac. He had weaknesses. Ksmvr thought Jelaqua could beat him.
He never got close. He refused to, because if he did he was at risk, like the one time Ksmvr had detonated the Tripvine bag. No armor.
Captain Ceria could beat him. Freeze him. He would not be able to bypass her [Ice Walls] so easily.
But could he sweep her head from her shoulders before she cast a spell? Ksmvr bled. He slashed. The hand was gone before he could strike it.
Comrade Pisces could lock him down with undead. With magic and his rapier.
Yet—would Pisces also step into the whirl of blades and take a poisoned wound? Yvlon? Her arms—
He was so fast. All or nothing. Each one of Ksmvr’s teammates—
Another sting. Ksmvr let Hscel drive the blade deep. He leapt into the kris dagger, biting, slashing with all three limbs. He just needed one wound. The man jerked—he was not perfect.
But the mistake never came. He dodged back, letting go of the blade’s hilt. Ksmvr staggered as Hscel drew a spare.
“Brave.”
Ksmvr thought he heard it again. He was bleeding badly. Stumbling. He drew Hscel in. One more time. One more time. He thought he heard himself levelling, despite the sword. Because he was outmatched.
 
[H—]
[Her—]
 
Substandard. A blade swept in across his neck and opened it. Ksmvr bit and slashed without looking. A cry. Ksmvr clutched at his throat. Blood in his airway. Hscel stared at his cut arm.
“I shall remember this scar.”
That was all he said. Ksmvr said nothing. He was gurgling, reaching for a potion. Hscel Scarless leapt at him, blades closing towards Ksmvr’s neck. His eyes locked on the Antinium, staggering, the glowing sword wavering. Ksmvr tried to move it but it was so…
Heavy. Heavy? Something…
Hscel never took his eyes away from Ksmvr’s face. Antinium features. Broken antennae. Adventurer still. He saw Ksmvr’s chitin, the huge, beige snout. The giant lolling tongue and yellow teeth.
“What the—”
Spitty spat right into Hscel’s face. The Gold-rank adventurer almost dodged it. He stumbled back. Ksmvr heard a sound.
“Mweh.”
Then Rémi Canada was grabbing him, towing him back with Sandi.
“Get back here!”
Hscel howled, but camel spit was in his eyes, and for some reason it burned. Probably because of the hot peppers Spitty ate. Ksmvr was alive. And yet—and yet—he saw Nsiia running towards him. Saw Vasraf turning a grim face to the distance as Scaied’s army cheered, hearing Femithain’s forces were imminent.
“What is it? Why do I keep failing? It’s so heavy.”
The [Paladin]’s sword. Nsiia stared at it. Ksmvr whispered.
“What is it?”
“You’re delirious. Potions! [Healers]! You will not fight Hscel again. Vasraf, we have to fall back. Where’s…”
The Empress of Beasts turned her head. Her lips moved, but Ksmvr was still whispering.
“Almost. Almost. What is it? [Her—]. What does it mean?”
[Hero]? But he wasn’t one. Nsiia bent down.
“—What was that?”
“My class. I can’t level up. I failed. [Brave Skirmisher].”
“What do you hear? Say it again.”
Ksmvr didn’t know. Only that it started with an ‘her’. But…Nsiia was looking down at him. It was all because he was substandard, didn’t you see?
“It’s too heavy. Too heavy.”
The Antinium complained. He stared at the sword. Nsiia reached for it. She lifted the blade, with Ksmvr’s hand.
“It’s…not.”
She looked down at the Antinium, mystified. What was he talking about? Swords were not heavy, contrary to what non-warriors believed. They were light. Even this longsword was perfectly balanced, a beautiful weapon designed for slashing and quick movements.
Ksmvr muttered.
“Not heavy then. What’s the word? It’s…cumbersome. It’s…”
Forceshield in one hand. Dagger, longsword, crossbows. These were the tools of an adventurer. He also had his belt, with his potions of healing and his bag of holding. All of which were necessary. Important gear.
But even a bag of holding weighed several pounds. Hscel had almost nothing. Ksmvr had on armor. He had…
Something was flickering in the back of his head. Nsiia looked at him. With a monarch’s knowledge. And a sudden—burning suspicion.
“That’s not a class, Ksmvr. That’s…how long have you been hearing it?”
“Since Level 30. I am wearing too much gear.”
“No. I don’t think so. You’re just not—”
Ksmvr dropped his Forceshield, began taking off his belt, his cape. Nsiia stepped back as he shed his modified chainmail armor.
“Ksmvr. What are you doing?”
“It’s heavy. It’s all so heavy. Captain Ceria told me to wear it. But capes make me slow in the air. The Forceshield is mine, but it isn’t necessary. Just evade or parry. These weapons are wrong.”
He was muttering, searching around on his hands and knees. Still dizzy from bloodloss. Ksmvr was going back in time. This…this wasn’t right. What had possessed him? An adventurer fought with all kinds of gear, though. But he hadn’t trained with any of the weapons here.
“What’s happening? Empress, I am preparing the retreat.”
“Ksmvr. I think he has a rare event occurring, Vasraf. But how—it doesn’t make sense with the Antinium. No wonder he doesn’t understand. Ksmvr, we have to leave.”
Ksmvr stared upwards.
“…There. That’s it. I need that to fight him. Everything else is too slow. Even this stupid sword.”
He tossed the blade to the ground. Nsiia and Rémi turned their heads. Spitty cocked his head and frowned. What was Ksmvr staring at? A weapon better than the [Paladin]’s sword? Where? Where was—
General Vasraf of Tiqr stared at Ksmvr’s finger. Then…at the weapons hanging by his side, which he had never drawn in the heat of battle, in all the time he’d spent with Nsiia and Ksmvr. After all, he was a bow-expert. A [General]. These were weapons for dire fighting.
A pair of twin shortswords made out of ivory. Enchanted, well-crafted, but hardly the stuff of legends.
“My blades?”
“Yes. I know them. Everything else is hard.”
Nsiia’s brows snapped together. Did he mean that every other weapon he had ever used…? No, but it made sense. If he had been trained to use every weapon, there was still one that he would use above all others.
One style he had learned from…her eyes flickered and opened wide. She began to understand.
Slowly, Vasraf drew his blades and offered them to Ksmvr.
“Hscel Scarless is advancing. General, I hear cheering. Illivere’s army will reach us.”
“Ksmvr—”
The Antinium was rising. He looked down at Hscel and the Gold-rank adventurer frowned as he saw Ksmvr had abandoned the sword. Ksmvr wasn’t even holding a weapon in his third hand.
“Ksmvr. It’s madness. We’re falling back. The Relic-class sword!”
Nsiia shouted at him. Ksmvr barely heard her.
“You take it. I hear something.”
The voice kept repeating in his head.
 
[H—
 
He had a feeling. Nsiia looked at him and her eyes flickered.
“Go.”
She bent and lifted the sword. It shone and Scaied’s warriors hesitated as the Empress of Beasts pointed it down at them. She stared at the Oisk Stingers and shouted.
“Tiqr’s children! To me! Rout them! Drive Scaied to despair!”
Vasraf looked at her as she swung herself onto the nearest mount. Spitty led her down in a mad charge. The [Wild General] turned.
“Illivere’s army will be upon us in moments, General—”
One of the [Strategists] was scanning the horizon. Vasraf nodded tightly, looking for hints of an invisible or camouflaged army. Then he looked down at Ksmvr. The Antinium was sprinting down the hill and Hscel had cleared a space around him. And behind him came the Empress of Beasts, holding the glowing sword in her hand, straight at one of the Oisk Stingers.
“We can grasp victory.”
If…his gaze swept across the ground again. If they had time. Vasraf looked around. Then around again. Then his eyes narrowed. At last, he realized something. An oddity he’d missed because it was gone, but it—he—should have stood out one time in this desperate battle.
“…Where is Domehead?”
 
——
 
Domehead was standing very still. He knew he had done something that violated his laws. Nsiia had told him to stay with the [Archer] and [Mage] designations. He had not done so.
But he had done one thing she had told him, once. And Domehead never forgot. He cradled something in his arms. You see—he could not speak. He didn’t even know how he’d begin expressing himself.
