Nsiia sighed.
“I don’t want to slaughter them. Crafter Se is owed her fury. Vaguely.”
“Is it worth letting Domehead return? If that would pull Illivere off our backs…”
Everyone turned to Domehead. The Golem looked at Nsiia and Ksmvr. It didn’t move, or make a sound. Nsiia’s face screwed up.
“I…that would be helpful. But I will not tell Domehead to do so.”
“Because he is a valuable asset…?”
“Because Domehead may choose. As he chose to follow me. It is your choice, Domehead.”
The Golem stood there. He did not react as Nsiia pointed at Crafter Se.
“Do you wish to go back? I do not think she will punish you.”
No movement. The lights changed, but who could divine their meaning? Nsiia slowly rode to one side. Crafter Se was being restrained by her people.
“There she is. You may go to her or…”
Domehead walked towards Nsiia. He stopped, and the Empress of Beasts turned a rueful smile towards Vasraf.
“You see?”
The [Wild General] sighed, but nodded.
“Her Majesty’s will be done. Then let’s harry this force. I have no wish for them to trail us and lead the Magus-Crafter and a real army towards us.”
“How? Kill them?”
The blunt suggestion came from one of Vasraf’s officers. Ksmvr hesitated. He looked at Crafter Se. He did not wish that, but he listened. The [Wild General] shook his head.
“It shouldn’t be difficult. Have two Garuda squads in reserve. Archers, with me…”
The attack on Crafter Se’s advance group was fast. She squeaked as she saw nearly a thousand [Riders] coming her way. She tried casting more lightning bolts, but a [Mage] opposing her countered the spell.
“To arms! Arrows! Bows!”
The smaller, ceramic Golems smoothly raised their bows and the other [Mages] drew their wands. But the [Riders] bearing down on them were [Soldiers] used to fighting enemy [Mages] and arrows. Just before they drew into range, someone pointed up.
“Garuda! Garuda with—”
The first ceramic jars filled with the [Sticky Web] spell—an alchemical version of it—exploded, the ropes of webbing sticking to the archers and [Mages]. The [Riders], divided into two groups, came in for a pincer attack.
“Surrender or die!”
Crafter Se screamed.
“Surrender! We surrender! We—”
The purpose of the Garuda was twofold. After Crafter Se and the force had been stripped of weapons and useful gear and armor—including bags of holding—they were pointed back the way they’d come. But not directly back towards Illivere or their army.
“Send them on this route.”
“Yes, [General].”
One of the Garuda sighed as they began to herd the loudly-protesting Se and others away. Soon, the [Golem Artificer] would have no idea where she was or had been, Tiqr’s army would be far away, and it would be a guessing game to find them again.
Ksmvr thought little of that, aside from waving at Crafter Se, who cursed him so loudly from afar that some of Tiqr’s [Soldiers] began laughing and writing down the idioms. Nsiia shook her head.
“We’re on the border of the Empire of Scaied. She reached us before Nerrhavia’s garrison or anyone else. She must have truly wanted Domehead back. Do you wish to say anything to her?”
Domehead didn’t move. Nsiia shrugged.
“On we go, then. Crafter Se! Apologies! I will bring him back some day!”
A scream was her only answer. Tiqr’s army set off, distributing the gear they’d plundered. A shame they couldn’t take the Golems, but they were bound to Illivere and it was too risky to try and figure out how to control them without experts of their own.
Something occurred to Ksmvr only a bit later, though. He twisted to look back, but Crafter Se was far out of sight already. He supposed it was just a Skill or something. But to his knowledge, they were all part of General Vasraf’s army. Yet from afar…she should only have been able to see Vasraf.
Perhaps she had seen Domehead and Ksmvr? The Antinium rode on, thinking.
 
——
 
He could not stand by forever. Nsiia kept pushing him, but it took even Rémi Canada a while to understand why. It was a rare moment when the [Journalist] asked Nsiia why.
On film, of course. He could have done it off-screen, but he was genuinely confused.
“What, exactly, makes you want Ksmvr’s help so badly, Nsiia?”
The frankly astonished look on the Empress’ face turned into high amusement. She glanced over at Vasraf, who was not-so-subtly listening in. He had the same question.
“I forget, you were not there when I was freed, Rémi Canada. I would have thought you understood, Vasraf.”
“The sword, of course. A weapon worthy of you, Your Majesty? That’s all I understand. Perhaps some cleverness in how he freed you from the Magus-Crafter’s clutches? I never did ask how he secured the key.”
Nsiia started chuckling. Then laughing. She threw her head back. Oh, silly audiences. The thing they never saw. Ksmvr hadn’t unsheathed the [Paladin]’s sword. Not once.
 
——
 
They were crossing into the Empire of Scaied’s territory; however, they still had to pass though Tiqr. Ksmvr observed that it changed something in the warriors. In Nsiia as well. They stared at their homeland, though the geography only changed by increments.
But with such longing. As if there was something about just standing in their home. Ksmvr did not see it as wholly positive; some grew agitated or morose. Few fought directly in Nsiia’s presence, so she would walk the camps and calm warriors at night.
Their motive was not to fight the garrisons. Multiple nations had cut Tiqr up and put their forces here, seeking to exploit new lands neighboring theirs or establish close colonies. Some were even trying to make their areas into vassal nations—with little success.
Even so, the armies outnumbered Tiqr’s rebel force, and a single nation could potentially do enough damage to ruin Nsiia’s ambitions. So Nsiia had reluctantly accepted Vasraf’s advice to hold off on any conflict if possible until they found allies like the Monks of Sottheim at their destination.
That resolve lasted right up until the first convoy they passed. ‘Caravan’ was too small for the several thousand of Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Soldiers] leading a group half as large. No shackles, but the Garuda [Scout] came flying back, cursing.
“Rebels, Empress, General! Either rebels, dissidents, or Nerrhavia’s Fallen is selling Tiqr’s people by the thousand. They must be bound for Roshal!”
“Not all the way. A Slave City. In Scaied, perhaps. Somewhere to hold them; no ordinary convoy could carry that many.”
Nsiia’s head rose as Vasraf called their army to a halt. She stared at the army moving through one of the valleys below. Tiqr’s army had been crossing the rough hills, and both groups were close enough that they kept getting glimpses of each other across the ridgeline.
The difference was that Nerrhavia’s commander saw a single man on a horse. A few [Riders] were lazily summiting the slope, beckoning for Vasraf to come down.
The Nerrhavian [Commander] kept turning his head towards Vasraf and rubbing the back of his neck. But his instinct was to send more scouts, a handful of Garuda and Stitch-Folk on horseback, to scout around, in every direction, on a hunch.
“There’s enough of them to put up a real fight. Your Majesty, if there’s a garrison anywhere nearby…”
Vasraf was murmuring. Nsiia stared down the slopes. Ksmvr eyed her. Rémi Canada was focused on the people trudging along. This was not his moment; he was not in command. So he just looked at Tiqr’s people.
They looked poorly. Not poor, though they only had the clothes on their backs. What they looked was wounded. Ksmvr stared at bloody gashes and didn’t understand until he saw one of the [Soldiers] wielding a whip.
Then the Antinium went still. Rémi Canada looked left and realized there was something Ksmvr had never seen: a [Slave]. You could expect most people to at least understand. Ksmvr did not.
“…Give away our position.”
Vasraf concluded to an audience barely focused on him. His own voice trailed off. Nsiia was perched on Chance’s back. The horse was breathing hard, pawing the ground with a hoof. She nodded.
“You have made your point. Now I ask you, Vasraf. Do you truly believe we should leave our people to that?”
She pointed down at a [Soldier] angrily moving the people forwards. By hitting them as hard as he could with the butt of his spear. Ksmvr saw Vasraf stare down as he spat on a man. The [Wild General] sighed.
“I have two conditions, Your Majesty.”
“Name them.”
“Five minutes. [Claw Captain]—take your forces around, fast. Stealth-Skills once you leave my radius. Seelaw Ya, will your warriors commit to an attack?”
“I will give you eight.”
The Loquea Dree warrior saw Vasraf grimace. Nsiia turned and the First of Judgement nodded to her.
“Eight to the death.”
“Hit the archers. Otherwise, keep the skies clear, [Sky Strikeleader].”
One of the Garuda nodded. Nsiia turned to Ksmvr.
“Will you join me at the fore, Ksmvr?”
The Antinium looked at her. He stared down at the valley below, then opened and closed his mandibles, clacking them several times.
“—I cannot.”
“No? Do you see my people down there? I thought we were allied, Ksmvr.”
“That army is Nerrhavia Fallen’s. My companion, Yvlon, is their prisoner. If I am identified, and I believe I would be—I would not put her in jeopardy.”
The Antinium spoke uncertainly. Nsiia looked at him, but the army was moving. She whirled.
“Very well. I cannot argue with that. Domehead!”
The Golem moved. Nsiia pointed. Vasraf glanced up from his rapid-fire orders to see Nsiia point.
“You will stay with the archers. There. Protect the [Mages] and [Archers]. Do not move from this area unless Vasraf tells you to.”
Domehead began walking over to the spot Nsiia pointed, but his torso swivelled as she set herself with the [Riders]. Ksmvr watched as Tiqr’s army moved into position. Not a full encirclement; the commander was getting so antsy he’d stopped the convoy and had begun moving them into a defensive stance. Nor did Tiqr’s army have the patience for it.
Five minutes. The second of Vasraf’s two demands was this:
The [Scouts] approaching the lone warrior saw him dismount. They watched, waving him on and telling him to get his worthless flesh-body down so they could interrogate him. Then…they saw him climb onto something.
Something big. And invisible. The man scaled a rope that appeared out of nowhere. And then sat himself on…a giant, grey thing. About twenty feet tall. It had big, floppy ears, long horns, and a strange, trunk-like nose. Normally, the two wide-spaced eyes in the head looked almost cute, or at least as friendly as any animal got. This animal…did not look so placid.
It was glaring at them. The Grand Elephant raised its nose and blew a blast of air like a trumpet. Nerrhavia Fallen’s army turned just in time to see General Vasraf shed his Skill. He stood on the Grand Elephant’s back, put an arrow to his bow, and shot both [Scouts] through the neck. Then he pointed.
“For Tiqr’s children!”
Nsiia howled at the same time.
“Charge!”
They went down the hills from multiple flanks, appearing out of nowhere to Nerrhavia Fallen’s terrified army. Ksmvr, watching from Spitty’s back, saw Tiqr’s warriors charging on foot. Many had horses or camels or other animals and rode with amazing nimbleness down the rocky terrain. They didn’t fear stray stones or breaking their mounts’ legs; they had Skills to protect their friends.
Flights of Garuda took to the air, chasing down the enemy scouts, who screamed when they saw eight of Loquea Dree’s warriors spread out. [Archers] mixed with the small number of [Mages] in pockets, aiming down at the soldiers below.
That was what Tiqr’s children of flesh and metal did. The ones of fang and claw fought too. Ksmvr saw hyenas, packs of them, racing down, laughing, in a flanking move. Even some birds joining the Garuda in the air.
The hammer was the two Grand Elephants, who moved behind the riders with the warriors on foot, trampling towards the enemy lines. They had armor protecting their fronts, and Vasraf was only one of several [Archers] on the giant animals’ backs, shooting down into the melee.
They didn’t wipe out Nerrhavia’s army in one go, or rout them. They did hit the soldiers below so hard that Ksmvr saw the shock ripple through the Stitch-Folk [Soldiers]’ ranks. But then Tiqr’s warriors were skirmishing with ranks of Hemp-caste [Soldiers], and their blades dug into the tough ‘skin’ of their opponents as well as armor.
Nor did Stitch-Folk fear blades or fangs like other warriors. Ksmvr saw one take a terrible slash from Nsiia that nearly severed her shoulder. The [Soldier] screamed, scrambled back, but some kind of [Healer] or…[Stitch Healer] sewed the wound back up and pushed the warrior back to the front.
It was still a battle that favored Tiqr overwhelmingly. Ksmvr stood there, with the [Archers] and noncombatants. Rémi Canada shifted from the battle to Ksmvr.
“You’re not fighting?”
“I have reiterated my points to Empress Nsiia. I am an adventurer. I do not know if…”
Ksmvr trailed off to look at the fighting.
“—I am one warrior. Hardly as high-level as Empress Nsiia or General Vasraf. My contribution makes little difference.”
Yinah yowled from her position with Rémi; she had not been allowed to join the attack. Spitty took umbrage as well and kept trying to turn his head straight around so he could hit Ksmvr with phlegm.
Rémi Canada said nothing, but turned to Seelaw Ya and Leka Thri.
“And Loquea Dree?”
“Eight warriors, life or death. We stay here. With Ksmvr. We do not hunger for blood. Our kin should remember that.”
Seelaw Ya replied. Ksmvr thought he was genuinely calm. Ksmvr was conflicted. But…Tiqr was winning. Nerrhavia’s Fallen was retreating backwards, literally sacrificing its front ranks to pull into a better formation.
Ksmvr saw something that the soldiers in the melee missed. Amid the terrible fighting in the fore, the convoy of Tiqr’s people had broken away. They turned, spotted Vasraf and Nsiia, and began to cheer and scream.
They did not join the fighting; they had no weapons or armor. However, the few [Soldiers] guarding them met swift ends. Tiqr’s people streamed away from the fighting. And the Nerrhavia’s Fallen [Commander] saw it.
 
——
 
“[Bodies of Iron]. Push forwards.”
General Vasraf’s Skill took Nsiia and the warriors in the vanguard forwards without fear. They charged in, yet not just because of him. The Empress of Beasts herself had taken to the front as well, and she raised her sword.
“[Wild Gift: Elephant’s Strength]! Bring me that [Commander]’s head!”
