Two top-level Skills combined, one from the [General], one from Nsiia, taking the place of a [Captain] or [Vanguard]. Even the horses turned into terrifying beasts of war, trampling forwards as the [Soldiers] in front of them were knocked backwards by terrific blows. A hyena that had somehow found itself near Nsiia leapt and dragged a [Soldier] down by the leg. Strong as an elephant, with fur like iron.
No matter how well-armed the enemy were, in this place, they could only slow down Tiqr’s advance. In this place. Nsiia saw something strange. The enemy cavalry hadn’t fought with her people for long. Not when a quarter of their horses would buck them, rather than fight Nsiia. Now though, they were streaming away from the defensive half-circle she was breaking into.
Nsiia’s head turned as she let a warrior charge past her with mace and shield. She traced the riders heading…away? No—they were on a collision course with—
“Vasraf!”
He’d seen it too. The [Wild General] furiously blew a horn and pointed to intercept, but even as both watched, the [Riders] sped up.
The Nerrhavia’s Fallen [Commander] was laughing. Check! To use a chess term. He was threatening the one area that would force Tiqr to split its forces.
“[Skirmisher’s Onslaught]! Don’t let them join Tiqr’s army!”
He pointed at the unarmed people now fleeing from the riding [Soldiers], racing past Vasraf’s desperate encirclement. Vasraf began to pull warriors back from the fighting to give chase, but they would still be too slow.
 
——
 
“What a commendable move.”
Ksmvr quietly spoke. Rémi Canada looked at him. The archers on the hills were furiously shooting arrows down towards the force going after the civilians, but they were having trouble even hitting the enemy, fast as they were.
“Commendable?”
“It is working. Of course, such tactics have their flaws. I do not believe the Nerrhavia’s Fallen [Commander] realizes he is being recorded.”
This was true. Rémi turned back to the battle. Then—back to Ksmvr. The Antinium sat there.
“They will not be able to stop the [Riders]. One side has a speed Skill.”
Seelaw Ya stared at Vasraf’s [Soldiers] giving pursuit. Leka Thri opened and closed his wing-arms. But before anyone said anything else, Ksmvr spoke.
“I am resolute in my decision not to aid Nsiia openly. She has dragged me into her war. An adventurer should not play politics lightly. These are things I have been told by my team. ‘Do not dip your quill in an inkwell without an ink cap.’ Wise words, by Crossbow Stan. I…think they apply?”
Seelaw Ya looked at Leka Thri. The crow-warrior shook his head in the background. Rémi Canada was looking at Ksmvr, his camera fixed on the Antinium. He was staring down at the people, screaming and running.
“I am an adventurer. Not a [Soldier]. I do not participate in wars. It is bad for my health.”
“I understand that, Ksmvr.”
The Antinium looked at Rémi, bouncing a bit now.
“My team captain or my teammates would make their decision, because they are capable and understand the nuance of everything they do. I am not empowered to make such a decision.”
Rémi’s camera was bouncing a bit too, despite his best efforts. Some of the shaking entered Rémi’s voice. He tried not to bite his tongue.
“Perfectly understood. So…why are we riding down the hill?”
Spitty was picking up the pace. Ksmvr was already halfway down the slopes and moving faster.
“I am just going for a ride! This does not mean anything! I am an adventurer. I do not let random groups of clearly-criminal [Bandits] slaughter unarmed citizens going for a walk! I wish to clarif—”
Spitty hit a rough patch and Ksmvr bounced in the saddle. At first, no one noticed the lone Antinium picking up speed as he went down the hills. That is—until over twenty dark shapes took wing.
“Leka Thri?”
The crow-Garuda led twenty of his kin after Ksmvr. He flew next to Ksmvr. The Antinium twisted in his saddle.
“What are you doing? I am going for a walk. I mean, ride.”
“Stretching my wings.”
The warrior opened his beak with a sharp, menacing smile. Ksmvr looked at him. Now Nerrhavia’s soldiers spotted them coming, and slowed uncertainly. But it was twenty-some versus hundreds. Tiqr’s civilians ran towards them, screaming. Ksmvr looked ahead.
“It occurs to me that if we are fighting [Bandits]—”
“Leave the riders to us.”
Ksmvr nodded. He angled towards the soldiers on foot. Leka Thri pulled upwards, but Ksmvr shouted after him.
“Advice! Scream for psychological effect!”
Leka Thri did a double-take in the air. Then—he laughed. Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Soldiers] saw a lone warrior on a camel’s back racing towards them. The figure leapt from the saddle and the affronted camel peeled away. He landed, and they slowed in their mad charge.
What was that thing? A bug? A bug-person? With a cape?
A shimmering Forceshield came to life in one hand. With his other two hands, he drew something, both hands clasped around the hilt of…a wrapped blade. A longsword. Overhead, twenty Garuda sped at the riders on horseback.
It was just one…in the heat of the battle, only a few [Soldiers] realized what he was. They remembered a name. A story from Rhir and Izril.
Antinium. Again, just one.
But then the binding on the blade fell away. Vasraf, twisting in his saddle, bow drawn, saw the light. A blinding radiance at first. A…strange light, different from magic alone. He felt the hair on his arms rise from thousands of feet away.
A Relic-class blade rose. Nsiia turned and laughed to see it, in delight. In relief. The Antinium held the sword up. He turned his head to the first rank of Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s hordes. Then he opened his mandibles and screamed.
A screaming, running Antinium with a magic sword charged at the warriors. Which was scary enough. Then the Loquea Dree clan shrieked like the ravens of death. Like the heralds of the end. They dove, and the warrior leading the attack twisted, looking for the enemy. He saw a huge shape moving overhead, and saw a single glowing blade right in front of him.
Moreit. Threat and—the [Captain] tried to swerve, and collided with the scythe at neck-height. The other crow-warriors swept across the [Riders], aiming for the Stitch-Folk in their saddles, unable to dodge.
Ksmvr didn’t see Leka Thri’s battle. He was running, charging, and wondering—what would Captain Ceria say? He hoped she understood and wouldn’t be too angry.
“Kill—kill it!”
A [Sword Captain] charged Ksmvr. The Gold-rank adventurer saw a sword moving, and judged his vector of attack. The longsword was light in his hands. Not his preferred weapon, but he knew how to use it. The Forceshield angled, and he swung the sword down in a perfectly executed slash.
The [Sword Captain] moved to parry the vertical blow. He was quick. His blade slashed across Ksmvr’s downstroke, to send the blade sideways and move into a slash—
The [Sword Captain]’s enchanted sword split into two. His parrying blow sundered his own sword and the man stared at the neat cut through his weapon. Ksmvr was so surprised he almost missed.
Almost. The [Paladin]’s blade slashed down without any resistance. Ksmvr was again surprised and had to reverse the motion before it cut into the ground. Such poor execution and form! Even so…he stepped back, shield raised, ready to attack. Only to see the [Sword Captain] staring at his right side.
“That’s my arm.”
The Stitch-Man stared at his severed arm and shoulder, mildly shocked. Ksmvr glanced down at the arm, still holding a shield. He whirled the blade as someone stabbed at him.
The sword cut a spear in half. Ksmvr slashed, and was rewarded with a scream of pain. The other [Soldier] had been too far away for a killing blow, but Ksmvr had sliced across the top of her metal shield…and breastplate…and cut through the top of the shield and into the woman’s body. She stumbled back, staring at her shield.
“Kill—”
The Antinium spun, swung his sword, and sheared through another sword instead of rebounding or locking, and the top of someone’s shoulder. He blocked a mace blow with the Forceshield, and swung in two crescent arcs.
The longsword was fast. Not as fast as it could be…but it never met any resistance. Even the air seemed like it refused to impede the blade.
The [Soldiers] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen pressed closer, hearing screams, shouts. Was the Antinium dead? Suddenly, their momentum was coming to a standstill, and they had to get forwards before Tiqr attacked from behind! But the forward advance had stopped. No—it was going backwards?
[Soldiers] were trying to push back. Some were running, holding severed limbs. A few simply threw their weapons down. Why? It was just—
A single Antinium with a magic sword. A holy blade with no peer. Whatever it struck was cut. Even enchanted weapons and shields. Even—
“[Perfect Block]!”
A [Shield Warrior] threw up his shield. Ksmvr slashed. Carefully. Like a science experiment. The two warriors regarded the Stitch-Man’s shield. Or rather, half of it. The Nerrhavia’s Fallen [Soldier] regarded his shield, dropped what remained of it, and put up his hands.
“I surrender.”
He didn’t even look ashamed. It was just…common sense. And it spread amazingly fast. The [Commander] couldn’t understand it from afar, as his entire attack wave of infantry came to a standstill. He was cursing them and ordering them forwards when Nsiia threw a javelin.
[Officer’s Second Chance]! The javelin curved in midair and the man yelped, scrambling back as he realized Tiqr had pushed too far in. He was turning to issue more orders, his gambit failed, when Vasraf shot him through the armpit.
 
——
 
The battle was over soon after that. Ksmvr stood in front of hundreds of surrendering [Soldiers], trying to argue with them.
“No, you are not surrendering to me. I am not here. I did not know you were [Soldiers]. Therefore, your surrender is to Empress Nsiia of Tiqr.”
Leka Thri had landed with his warriors, having routed his foes almost as quickly as Ksmvr. In the distance, the army of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was surrendering—or dead.
“This was only part of whatever garrison was in the region. Too many soldiers to count.”
Vasraf was counting losses and grimacing. A single convoy had put up too much of a fight, even taken by surprise. Nsiia shook her head.
“Vasraf. Hush. We have liberated our people. And look—”
They found Ksmvr by the cheering. When the Empress of Beasts parted the crowds with her [Wild General], he was standing there, surrounded by Tiqr’s people. Her [Soldiers]. The Antinium looked confused as Rémi Canada fought to record it all, jostling for room.
“Nsiia. Please confirm that my involvement in this battle was accidental. Please do not cheer. Unless it is because I am a Gold-rank adventurer. Why are they cheering…?”
He still didn’t see it. Vasraf turned to Nsiia. This close, the air felt charged. The Antinium saw Nsiia gesture.
“Lift the sword, Ksmvr! So we can all see it!”
“Why?”
“Just do it!”
Slowly, the Antinium lifted the sword overhead. He still didn’t understand. But there it was. A glowing sword. And as her people saw her, they turned and fell to their knees, or looked at the Empress of Beasts. She raised her fist.
“Tiqr lives!”
A symbol. No. Just look at him. The Antinium, standing with his cloak and shining sword, fighting for Tiqr no matter what he claimed. He looked like something out of those old stories. The warrior in Tiqr’s darkest hour.
A…[Hero]. You looked at him and remembered they had once existed. Ksmvr stood there, holding the sword up. He saw people smiling at him, cheering him. Even wanting to talk, take his hand and thank him.
“This sword is a bit heavy.”
He confessed to Leka Thri. The crow-warrior didn’t answer him immediately. He looked around.
“It is not unpleasant. Is it?”
Ksmvr was confused as to what he meant. Then he looked around at the smiling faces. Leka Thri’s expression was hard to read. But it looked…the Antinium shook his head slightly.
“No. It is not.”
“It is what I dreamed of. Someday, for all of my people. We will not be answered by screams, but by this.”
Leka Thri looked at Ksmvr. The Antinium offered a smile, and got one in return.
 
——
 
Ksmvr did not become a [Hero] that night. In fact, he did not level. When one had a magic blade of the caliber he wielded…it was unlikely one would level. The one drawback of such things.
He did remember something, though. That he was substandard.
It was good to remember. Otherwise Ksmvr might have a huge ego, which was a terrible flaw to have. He had indulged too much in the accolades of yesterday for not doing much.
Nsiia was still beaming over the victory days later, despite the headaches it had given Vasraf. He’d made a quick decision, and split the freed people.
Those who wished to fight for Tiqr, former [Warriors] or just men and women with the will, he let join the army. Those who feared they would not make it, but couldn’t fight, he sent to the Kilalle Steppes. They already had some of Tiqr’s liberated citizens hiding there. The rest? He let them go back to Tiqr if they wanted, to find their families, hide, or spread word.
Nsiia gave them all her blessing. It was an emotional reunion that Ksmvr saw, as she went among her people. It reminded him why she was fighting. Each person in Tiqr was her responsibility, her burden.
When you saw Nsiia like that, surrounded by people, pledging to find each and every one of their family members, friends, to return with an army—an impossible promise she would keep or die—that was the Empress of Beasts. Ruler of a nation.
He was Ksmvr. Even now…
It came out in a moment as Tiqr’s army crossed into the Empire of Scaied. Still fairly dry in the north; relatively rich as it reached the coastline.
Scorpion territory. Ksmvr saw the curious insects the first week. One crawled up by the fire, six-legged, all dark chitin, stinger raised. He eyed it.
“Ksmvr…what are you eating?”
“Nfing.”
Ksmvr’s voice was a bit muffled. He had been told that eating insects was a faux pas, even though Captain Ceria did it. He spat the stinger out of his mandibles. Nsiia stared at the limb.
“It is poisonous. I am most likely immune, but poison does not taste good. Nor is it very nutritious. If I was eating something. Which I was not.”
Nsiia eyed him, and then cursed.
“These damned things. I think they sense we’re here. Scaied is a haven for such vermin.”
“Technically, I believe they are arachnids.”
“What?”
“Spiders.”
Nsiia flicked another scorpion, this one pale and semi-transparent, and turned to Ksmvr.
“Don’t be ridiculous. They are bugs. Spiders look different. And spiders are a kind of bug, are they not?”
Ksmvr huffed.
