wer to remain composed.Jets hidden near the top of the pyramid ignited, sending bursts of flame into the air like some strange musical show and the demon gyrated its hips as the music thumped and rose in a crescendo.Trysha climbed, every step demanding more of her than the one before. Inside, Trysha wondered what would be left when she reached the top?How much could this monster strip her down as a person? What would be left but a raw exposed woman at the top, her most innerself revealed?Hopefully... enough to hold a sword and stab.---Delta tried not to think of the first floor. Maybe the people had found Waddles or maybe they had even passed the Mudroom by now? Nu would likely enjoy throwing his signs at them or making snarky comments at their expense.Still, she was having fun.She hummed as she worked in the Gargoyle Spawn room, making the ceiling more vaulted and adding in the illusion of a full moon flowing in through a window to give it more of a refined air. She was stalling just a tad as she slowly moved over to the Demon Blacksmith's room, knocking politely. The demon was rather introverted, only venturing out to get drunk before going back to work."Aye?" he answered and Delta walked in, seeing him work on a newer sword than before, this one more thorny than the last one, which was more of a hooky sort."I was just making sure everything is good!" she explained. She didn't know why she felt awkward around the demon... he was like Jack, a rescue of Mharia's domain but unlike the Kobold, Runilac remained politely distant from Delta.It was a little odd honestly. Delta thought of herself as a people person."All good. Not getting tortured on the regular or being forced to make crude weapons means I'm happy. Why, you seeing an issue?" the demon asked curiously."You're free to go but you don't... I don't know if you need something or if you just don't want to go back home?" Delta asked curiously, seeing nothing of value in the room. Runilac snorted."You're looking too much into things. I'm still bound to the area, but you mean why don't I ask you to magic up a solution? Because while the contract holds me here, it allows me to wait on something," he admitted with a glint to his eyes."The contract from the Nephew who summoned you here... but it benefits you, why? What are you waiting for?" Delta asked curiously.Runliac thought about his next words carefully."Someone of no importance," he decided to say. What an odd thing to say, he might as well say he was waiting on a sentient sock for all the good that explained things.---In a tiny nowhere village between the capital and Durence, a man poured fresh blood over a circle, chanting a spell over and over as he fed the circle mana. Rumor was that the Heir to the Throne would be passing this way... as a demonic summoner... he could get a massive reputation from killing her!He just needed the correct tool."Rise, killing machine of hell. Rise, temptress of the night. Rise, lord of suffering!" he beckoned as the circle glowered and the tip of a horn began to rise out of the tear in reality."Yes... yess…" the man hissed, drunk on power as his basement lit up in red light. It began to roar, its voice small and sad sounding. It must be huge for its voice to be so distant sounding!A tiny paw pierced the circle and pulled through a large sword.An... imp stood before him, hacking and coughing. An imp... he could work with this! Perhaps it would even evolve into a... beautiful succubus? A soft spoken woman with heaving-"My eyes are down here," the imp said and the man opened his mouth to argue when the imp kicked him between the legs and stepped out of the circle."I... b-bind... you!" the man gasped and the imp turned, snorting."Your summoning circle sucks, you're using your mother's bath candles for the ritual and that blood came from steak you squeezed out and mixed with water to get enough for the spell. You're lucky I came through and not your dead father's spirit soaked in eternal disappointment at the loins of his fruit that must have rotted somewhere between himself and your mother's womb," the imp said caustically."Harrod, what's going on down there?" came a concerned voice from above as candle light streamed down in the basement."Excuse me ma'am," the imp said, making his mother shriek and run for a broom as Harrod laid there, moaning in pain."I hate this world and all whom inhabit it," the imp sighed loudly then ran for the hills as Harrod's mother came back swinging the broom with all her might.---Just outside the village, a royal carriage came to a stop in the sleepy town for the night, one of the wheels coated orange as if the carriage had run through some very odd mud on its way here.In this sleepy village, a king, a servant, a princess, and a knight all walked into a bar.
