Training Overview

General Experience Earned

Stamina Use: 178

Mana Use: 16,028

Skill Experience Earned

Mana Manipulation: 1

Synchronization

Strength: +2%

Endurance: +1%

Vigor: +1%

Rain waved the brilliant blue menu away with a groan, opened his eyes, then immediately shut them again. He’d just woken up, it was past noon, and he felt like death. He’d explicitly turned off his alarm before going to bed and slept in as a consequence. Summoning the dialog upon waking had been almost automatic, done before his brain had really kicked into gear. It had also been a mistake. The brilliant blue light had sent a spike of agony straight through his skull. The light from the dialog wasn’t real, of course, but his eyes didn’t know that.

He felt hungover, and also run over—as in by a truck. For all that he’d taken it easy on the mana use, it seemed that the respite hadn’t been enough for his soul to recover from whatever state it was in. There was a dull ache behind his eyes, and his entire body felt like one giant cramp.

Rain cracked his eyes open again, squinting against the noon sun, then levered himself into a sitting position. He shivered as the cloak covering him slipped away, exposing his naked skin to the frigid air. The pool was still partially frozen, the ice not having melted significantly overnight, and that had kept the air cool as well. Rain wrapped the cloak back around himself, then used Immolate in space heater mode to break the chill that had settled into his bones.

I need a bed of my own. All this sleeping in strange places isn’t doing me any favors.

The murmur of voices attracted his attention, and he looked up to see a group of men on the other side of the pool standing next to a stack of barrels. One of them was pointing at him, speaking to the others. Clearly, they’d noticed that he was awake. One of them broke away and started heading for the walkway near the inlet. After a moment, the man stopped, looking back to his fellows, then to Rain as if uncertain.

Rain sighed and beckoned to the man.

Might as well see what he has to say. As much as I want to just go back to bed, twelve hours of sleep is enough. I’m lucky I didn’t wake up with an angry Citizen staring at me.

While Rain waited for the man to make his way around the pool, he did some slow stretches, trying to work the kinks out of his aching muscles. He felt like some sort of desiccated corpse, frozen stiff from the cold. He cranked Immolate up another step or two and dug out his canteen, taking a long drink.

Soon enough, the worker arrived, standing at a distance and looking distinctly nervous. Whether that was the influence of oversoul or just his reputation, Rain wasn’t sure. The man looked to be about his own age, and he had black hair and a neatly trimmed beard.

“Good morning,” Rain said, his voice coming out as a croak. He coughed and cleared his throat. “Or afternoon, I suppose.”

“Lord Rain, uh… good afternoon. Are you, um… Do you need anything?”

Rain sighed. “Please, just call me Rain. Not ‘Lord Rain’ or ‘Night Cleaner’ or ‘Death Zone’ or any of that. I’m not a lord, and I’m not some legend. Anything Tarny has told you, just ignore it.”

The man hesitated, then nodded. “Yes, right. Vanna said… Sorry. Just Rain it is.”

Rain nodded. “That’s better. Come over here. I don’t bite.”

The man approached, still looking nervous. Rain straightened himself up to face him, trying to look as dignified as he could, given his current zombie-like condition and state of undress. “What’s your name?” he asked, trying to sound friendly.

“Smelt, sir,” said the man.

“Smelt. Nice to meet you. You’re on one of the work crews, right? The ones I sent Vanna to hire?”

The man nodded. “Yes. I’m also her younger brother.”

“Oh.” Rain blinked. “I didn’t know she had a brother, but then, I’ve only known her for like a day.”

Smelt shrugged. It looked like he was starting to relax.

“Alright then, fill me in,” Rain said, gesturing toward the archway. “What’s going on over there? Any trouble while I was asleep?”

Smelt shook his head. “No, sir. We’ve been filling barrels like you said. We were gonna start letting people come get them, but my sis thought it would be better to wait until you woke up.”

“Lose the ‘sir.’ Just Rain is fine. Where is Vanna, anyway?” Rain asked.

Smelt shrugged. “She said she was going home to sleep. She needs it. She’s been working too hard lately.”

“Yott? Tarny?”

“Yott’s taking a nap in the storeroom. Tarny, well, he’s been a bit…”

“Fanatical?”

“Yeah, that,” said Smelt, nodding. “Anyway, he left. Said he was going to get more people.”

Rain pinched his forehead, his headache seeming a lot worse all of a sudden. “Of course.”

“If you’ll pardon me, Lor..sorry. Rain. We’re going to need them. We’re just workers, and if there’s trouble, well. We’ll need enough people to thump some heads. There’s already a huge crowd waiting outside.”

“Right,” Rain said, nodding. “I expected word to spread. I should have considered that.”

“Oh, one more thing,” Smelt said. “Do you know a man by the name of Carten? Big fellow? Adventurer?”

Rain nodded. “Yes, I do. Why?”

“Damn,” Smelt said. “I knew we should have let him in. Sorry.”

“He was here?” Rain said, arching an eyebrow.

“Yeah,” Smelt said, rubbing at his arm. “He said he knew you, but we told him you were sleeping. He made a bit of a fuss, but agreed to just leave a message.”

“What message?”

“Dunno,” Smelt said. “He wrote it down. I think it’s back on the counter. Wait, I’ll go get it.”

“Hang on,” Rain said, raising a hand. “That can wait a minute. I’m sure if it were important, he would have just come in anyway. Carten is a lot of things, but polite is not one of them. Is there anything else I should know about?”

Smelt shook his head. “No, I don’t think so.”

“Nothing from Citizen Sadanis?” Rain prompted. “Or her guard, maybe? Anyone with a hawk pin? What about the nobles?”

Smelt shook his head again. “Carten had one of those pins, but no one else. Just thirsty people, wanting to get in. We had to chain up the door. Someone broke the lock.”

“Yeah, that was my bad.” Rain said. Smelt tilted his head, and Rain played back what he’d just said, realizing that he’d never heard anyone use that expression in common. “My fault, I mean,” he clarified. “Right, well, you’d better go let them in. If there’s trouble, I’ll handle it. Just tell everyone to form a nice, orderly line. I’m going to shave and have breakfast. Don’t bother bringing Carten’s message over to me. I’ll come get it myself when I’m ready.”

“Yes, sir,” said Smelt, bowing.

Rain groaned. “Please, stop that. Don’t call me sir, and for crying out loud, don’t bow.”

Smelt rose. “If you insist. Also, thank you, Rain.” He gestured at the pool. “You don’t know how much this means to the common folk. Pardon my saying this, but most adventurers are, well…assholes.”

Rain laughed. Smelt smiled and continued. “We really appreciate what you’re doing here. Of course, the money you gave my sis to pay us all helps, too.”

Rain nodded along, taken aback by the honest gratitude in the man’s voice.

“My crew and I would be honored to keep working for you if you’ll have us,” Smelt said. “I’m sure my sis and the other crews feel the same. We’re just honest laborers, but paying work is hard to find right now, and, well, we want to help. Anything you need, just let us know.”

“Uh…thanks,” Rain said as the man turned to walk away. He stared after the departing worker, a curious mixture of emotions fighting inside him. He was happy that he’d been able to help the city, confused that no one else had done the same, and uncertain about where all of this would lead. He didn’t want to start his own organization, which is what seemed to be happening here, but if people were willing to work for him, then he could do a lot of good for the city.

I need to find out more about what’s going on. I need to talk to the Watch and the Guild. And Velika. Fuck.

He looked down at the cloak he was wearing and sighed.

I should probably get dressed first. Then, breakfast. One thing at a time.

He blinked and looked over at the cart. Oh, I should probably feed Dozer, shouldn’t I?

The blanket that had covered the cart had been disturbed, revealing the piled equipment, but Dozer was nowhere to be seen. A quick pulse of Detection confirmed that the slime wasn’t within a hundred-meter radius.

“Shit!” Rain swore loudly. “Hey, Smelt!”

“What is it?” the worker said, hurrying back toward him.

“Did you see a crystal slime anywhere?” Rain asked. “It’s clear, and it’s got a few Tel floating around inside it.”

Smelt laughed and hit his forehead. “Oh, yeah, that. I knew I forgot something. It’s over there,” he pointed to the arch. “The thing was being a bit of a nuisance, following people around and, well, sliming them, I guess would be the best way to describe it. Vanna said you’d be mad if we hurt it, so we kinda just ignored it until it went away. It fell asleep under the counter.”

Rain blinked. “Oh.”

“Don’t know much about fancy crystal slimes, but I’m thinking it got full,” Smelt said. “It eats sweat or something, right?”

Rain snorted. “I suppose it does.”

Rain was lost in thought as he walked through the sewers in his borrowed pair of shoes. He had a large pack on his back and was carrying the Hefty Maul over his shoulder. There had been only the occasional slime attack to distract him from his musing, and Dozer was trailing after him obediently, leaving a clean trail of stones behind itself.

It had been a mistake to wake the slime up. Once it had realized that Rain was leaving, it had outright refused to be left behind. The presence of the monster, along with his oversoul problem, meant that it was simply easier for Rain to travel through the sewers to his destination, rather than the surface streets. It was around four in the afternoon, and there were a lot of people out and about.

Rain had taken his time cleaning himself up. He’d converted the small pool he’d camped next to into a hot tub by freezing it solid, then melting a divot into it with Immolate. By carefully controlling the range, he was left with a blissfully warm tub of water separated from the main pool by a plug of ice. A meal plus almost an hour of soaking his aching muscles had left him feeling like a person again.

Some basic hygiene work had also helped. His hair was neatly combed, his nails were trimmed, and he’d tidied up his stubble so it looked at least a little deliberate. He only had a small hand mirror, but he was satisfied with what he’d been able to do under the circumstances. The starter beard was itchy, but he liked the way it looked on his new, thinner face. The longer hair wasn’t bad either, but he was still planning on getting it trimmed. It was too much of a hassle, otherwise. His brown hair was naturally wavy, and it tangled easily.

Once he was presentable, he’d reluctantly left his bath and gotten dressed in his old workman’s clothes. He’d decided not to wear his armor for this trip into the city. He had to get over his irrational fear, and the best way to do that would be to just dive in headfirst.

To stop himself from spending the rest of the day worrying about someone stealing his stuff, he’d tossed the armor and a few other things into the pool he’d been using as a hot tub, then froze the whole thing solid. Everything else he owned, he had with him. The ice would be a significant obstacle on its own, but he’d still made sure to do it when no one was looking. Smelt seemed trustworthy enough, but the other workers, he was less sure of. If someone did steal the armor, then Rain would simply find them. He had a particular set of skills.

The next few hours had passed with Rain overseeing the distribution of water to the eager crowd. Fortunately, there were no incidents. With all of the work crews, plus the group that Tarny had eventually shown up with, there were over twenty people working on the project now. Rain expected that number to keep growing.

Smelt had turned out to be a competent leader, so Rain had placed him in charge in Vanna’s absence. Rain had been expecting either the nobles or the Watch to show up eventually and make a fuss, but that hadn’t happened. He’d later found out that Velika had forbidden the Watch from leaving their strongholds. The absence of the nobles was still unexplained, however. He was undercutting their water-selling operation and had been expecting some sort of reaction.

As for the bathhouse, it was public property, not under the direct jurisdiction of anyone in particular. No angry owner had shown up, quite simply because no real owner existed. Some of the staff that normally ran the building were now working alongside the work crews, in fact. Nevertheless, Rain had sent one of the workers off with some money to hire a carpenter. It was always best to leave a place better than you found it. A new door was the least he could do, especially after having broken the old one.

One of Rain’s other motivations for lingering so long was simply to let people see him. A faceless adventurer in full plate armor was intimidating and mysterious. If he could convince them that he was just a regular person, it would go a long way toward fixing some of the rumors that were spreading about him. Plus, he wanted people to get used to his oversoul.

The effect was like an aura in some ways but different in others. He couldn’t turn it off, for one. The range seemed to be around three or four meters, though it was hard to tell. The effect was gradual, getting stronger the closer someone got to him. Most people reacted with confusion as he approached, growing to alarm, but stopping short of panic. They would also slowly get used to it, the feeling fading into the background the longer they spent around him, so they said.

Rain was a little uneasy at the prospect of everyone knowing he had oversoul going on, but there really wasn’t any hiding it. Once word spread, he’d be able to walk around on the streets without causing a commotion, but that would take time. For now, it was the sewers for him, unless he found a way to fix whatever was wrong with his soul.

