The cry came again, closer now, and Rain used Detection to narrow it down. The spell couldn’t distinguish children from adults, but there were only a few signals ahead, so it didn’t matter. He skidded to a stop as he rounded a corner, seeing a small girl standing at the mouth of an alley, dimly lit by torchlight from across the street. To his surprise, it was someone that he recognized. It was Ava, Mlem’s daughter. She looked unharmed, but her face was filled with tears.

“Someone, help!” she yelled again, then, seeing him, she waved her arms over her head. “Please!”

Rain hesitated, then approached slowly, checking for other people, monsters, and anything else that could have been the source of the girl’s distress. There were a few animals around, but that was it.

“Ava, it’s me, Rain,” he said as he approached. “You know me, right? The Rag Man?”

Ava’s face lit up in recognition as he drew closer, her eyes managing to pick his features out from the darkness. “Rain!” she shouted, still waving rather than coming to him. “Hurry!”

“I’m here,” Rain said, still walking slowly. “Now Ava, don’t be scared. You might feel something strange when I get close, but don’t worry about that.”

Ava shook her head, pointing down the alley urgently. “Hurry up! He’s hurt!”

Rain swore and picked up his pace. “Who’s hurt?” he asked, but Ava had already darted down the alley.

Mlem? Shit. I didn’t sense any people down there.

A rapid pulse of Detection allayed that particular fear. There weren’t any corpses in the alley either.

When Rain turned the corner, he saw a muddy form lying on the ground. It was too small to be a human, but the mud and the darkness prevented him from instantly identifying what kind of animal it was. Even for his enhanced eyes, it was still very dark in the alley. Ava was fumbling her way toward it, clearly struggling in the darkness.

Rain rushed over to join her before she stepped on the animal, whatever it was. If his pseudo-oversoul was affecting the little girl, she showed no signs of it. She choked back a sob, falling to her knees and feeling along the ground. When her hand found the creature, it jerked, then let out a pained whimper. Rain dropped to his knees beside her, pushing her back gently.

It’s a dog…

Rain activated Purify. It was the best he had, lacking any healing potions or scrolls. Ava cried out at the unexpected light, but Rain was too focused on the form of the fallen dog to look at her. The mud vanished, revealing long, white fur, still wet and tangled. He blinked in astonishment as he recognized the animal. Cloud? What are the chances of that?

“Shit,” he cursed as he saw the dog’s leg. Something bit him.

He kept Purify going as he leaned in to inspect the wound. The puppy had a nasty-looking bite mark on its shoulder. The bite had been infected, judging from the way the area had swollen. Gingerly, Rain combed aside the wet fur to get a better look.

Before his eyes, diseased flesh was slowly vanishing, enlarging the tiny punctures left by the teeth of whatever small animal had left the bite mark. Probably a rat or something. Rain almost dropped Purify then and there but changed his mind. The removal of flesh had stopped mere seconds after he’d noticed it. The damage was already done, and the spell wouldn’t harm healthy tissue. It would have only removed cells that had already died, along with whatever bacteria had gotten into the wound.

Hastily, Rain pulled off his shirt and tore it in half. Then, he began wrapping the fabric around Cloud’s shoulder. Just because Purify was erasing the blood, it didn’t mean that the dog hadn’t started bleeding again. When he was finished, Rain tied the makeshift bandage tightly.

Cloud had been whimpering weakly as he did all of this but didn’t fight him or try to bite at his hands. That wasn’t a good sign. The infection had taken its toll, and even now that it had been dealt with, blood loss was a real concern.

“Is he going to die?” Ava asked, watching anxiously.

Rain glanced at her, then back to the dog. “I’m not sure. We need to get him some real healing.” Carefully, Rain slipped his hands under the dog and bundled it up into his arms. “Come on, Ava, I know where we can go.”

He started walking briskly, taking care to jostle his cargo as little as possible. Ava followed after him, practically running to keep up with his long strides. Rain slowed down slightly, not wanting to leave her behind. The streets weren’t safe for grownups, let alone children. What she was doing out here without her father, he had no idea.

They reached the mouth of the alley, and Rain turned left. Myth and Reason was only a few blocks away. The shop would likely be closed, but he couldn’t think of anywhere better at the moment. Its titular owners might be there, and they’d have health potions.

A sudden cry of alarm from Ava caught his attention, and he looked back at her, then followed her gaze. Dozer was headed straight for them, moving as fast as a slime could move.

“Oh, don’t worry about that,” Rain said. “The slime is with me. Come on, Ava.”

Rain wished he had a hand free to pull her after him, but Cloud was quite an armful. If not for the puppy-like features, he’d have called him fully grown. The dog had to weigh over twenty kilos. As strong as he was thanks to the ring, that was barely worth mentioning; he could have easily carried the dog with one hand. However, the idea was to treat the injured animal gently, not like a sack of potatoes.

Ava followed him after only a moment of hesitation, looking at the oncoming Dozer over her shoulder. Rain put the slime out of his mind as he continued striding toward his destination. Dozer would catch up.

About half-way to the alchemistry shop, they turned a corner, and Rain spotted an orange-robed figure on the street headed toward them. It was Mlem, carrying a torch, clearly out searching for his daughter.

“Ava!” Mlem shouted, surprise and relief mixing in his voice. “I was looking everywhere! Who is that? Rain? What are you doing here?”

“Dad!” Ava shouted, running toward her father. Rain increased his pace to keep up.

“Mlem, do you have any healing scrolls on you?” Rain asked, slowing to a halt as he entered the light of the merchant’s torch.

To his credit, Mlem didn’t even bat an eye. “No,” he said, looking at the dog in Rain’s arms as he swept up his daughter. “No potions or spells, either. How bad is it?”

“Bad,” Rain said, adjusting his grip.

“There’s an alchemistry shop near—” Mlem began, but Rain had already taken off at a dead run. He didn’t need to worry about Ava keeping up any more, now that she was with her father.

He tore down the streets, feet pounding on the cobblestones as he used Velocity to boost himself even further. The light of Mlem’s torch had revealed that the shirt he’d wrapped around Cloud’s shoulder had already been soaked through with blood. Removing the dead tissue with Purify had broken open the wound even worse than he’d feared.

Damn it. You’d think I’d have learned after what happened with Val. I’m never going anywhere without healing potions again.

Rain skidded to a stop beneath the familiar sign of the alchemistry shop and tried the door, finding it locked. He pounded on it loudly, clutching the dog to his chest in an attempt to apply pressure to the wound. After almost thirty seconds of this, a voice yelled from within the shop.

“Who dares disturb—”

“It’s an emergency!” Rain shouted. “Open the door!”

Rather than the door, one of the wooden shutters opened, revealing Reason’s tired-looking face. He was wearing a night-gown, rather than that over-the-top black coat of his. His eyes widened, and his face vanished from the window, followed by the click of the lock.

Rain carried the dog inside, placing it down on a table that Reason indicated. “Get the candle,” Reason said, spinning away toward a shelf filled with various bottles and jars. Rain grabbed the candle that Reason had left on the windowsill and joined him at the table as he returned with a small jar. “Just the shoulder?” Reason asked as he unscrewed the lid.

“Yes,” Rain said, holding up the candle so the man could see.

Reason reached into the jar and pulled out a handful of powder, then sprinkled it on Cloud’s wound after pulling away the bandage. The white powder turned red, rapidly absorbing the blood and turning into a paste. Reason then spread it over the area with his fingers, pressing it into the bite marks.

Some sort of coagulant?

Reason set the jar aside, then bent down to inspect his handiwork. He frowned, then headed for the shelf again.

“Will a healing potion work on a dog?” Rain asked.

Reason shook his head but didn’t reply.

“Yes, it would,” said another voice, and Rain looked up to see a half-dressed Myth emerging from the curtained archway into the back of the shop. “But we’re out. The new batch isn’t ready yet.” Like Rain, the man was missing his shirt.

“Time is a river that heeds not the whims of mortality,” said Reason, selecting another jar, then tossing it aside after a cursory inspection.

Myth walked forward and peered at the dog lying on the table. His eyebrows rose. “That’s Meloni’s dog,” he said, looking at Rain. “Where did you find him? She’s been a complete wreck since he went missing. It’s been days.”

“I didn’t, it was—” Rain began, but was interrupted as Mlem arrived, charging through the door with his daughter in his arms.

“What the? Who are you?” said Myth, startled into taking a step backward.

“Don’t mind me,” Mlem said, setting his daughter down smoothly. “I’m just along for the ride. Mlemlek Ko-Latti, at your service.”

Ava rushed to the table, then looked up at Myth with tears in her eyes. “Is he dead?”

Myth opened his mouth to respond but didn’t manage to actually say anything before Reason elbowed him out of the way.

“In a time of need, look to the bounty of nature,” Reason said, then grabbed Cloud’s head and started forcing the dog’s mouth full of lumpy green paste, scooping it with his bare hand from a small cauldron. Cloud didn’t react, having fallen unconscious.

“Ah, yes, that could work.” Myth said, rubbing his shoulder. “The precursor should be strong enough to at least stabilize the creature as long as the infection isn’t too bad. Do you need my help, Reason?”

Reason held up a hand, then laid his head against the dog’s side, listening. Rain watched anxiously, hoping that he hadn’t doomed Cloud with his hasty use of Purify. Damn it, Rain, think before you do things!

After a few excruciating moments, Reason lifted his head and nodded.

“The passage of autumn has been arrested prior to winter. The flame burns on and will wax with the passage of time,” He said in a mysterious tone. After a moment, he glanced at Ava, then clarified in a much more normal voice. “The dog will live.”

Ava laughed in relief and grabbed Cloud’s paw, squeezing it tightly.

“Well done,” said Mlem, smiling and laying a hand on his daughter’s shoulder, then looking around at the others. “Everyone.”

Myth took a deep breath and sighed, looking around the room. “Right, then. I’m going to go put on a shirt.” His eyes lingered on Rain, then on the bloody rags lying on the ground. “We might have something that will fit you, just—” He stopped, looking sharply toward the open door. “Excuse me, but does anyone know why a crystal slime just oozed into my shop?”
