Rain was distracted from his musing as a pack of slimes came into range. Purify took care of them easily, as it had taken care of the last group, and the group before that. Rain set down the maul and took a moment to extract the Tel from the monsters, adding them to his pouch. The creatures weren’t exactly happy about him taking the tiny shards of crystal from them, but it didn’t seem to harm them in any way. The trick was to fool the monsters into sucking his hand through their membrane. After that, it was a process not unlike trying to remove bits of eggshell that had fallen into a frying pan. He’d extracted the Tel from Dozer earlier, not wanting anyone to attack the slime while he wasn’t looking.

Rain had more than just his bleeding heart as a reason for converting the slimes, rather than killing them. It was clear that while regular slimes spread filth, crystal slimes did the opposite. They also attacked their less pristine brethren on sight. If he was able to convert enough slimes over to the crystal variety, he might actually tip the ecology of the sewers into something beneficial, rather than harmful.

He got back up after collecting the last Tel and sighed. As much as he wanted to work on the slime project and ignore all of his other worries, he just couldn’t justify spending all day in the sewers. He had work to do, and in this case, that meant going to visit the remnants of the Watch.

His initial plan for the afternoon had been to go and see Velika, figuring that nothing good would come of waiting, but Carten’s message had changed that. The big man hadn’t gone into any great detail, but the gist of his letter was that the Citizen was in “a mood” and that he shouldn’t come to see her until she summoned him. That was fine in Rain’s book. As much as he needed to talk to Velika about the state of the city, the thought of speaking with the woman was…

He shook his head, pushing the images of the corpses aside. He knew that the Watch had struck first, and that Velika had only been defending herself, but still. Melka was dead, and the Citizen was the one who had killed her. It wasn’t an easy thing to forget, let alone forgive.

Eventually, Rain came to a stairway leading up out of the sewers, relatively near where he wanted to be. He adjusted the pack on his back, then schooled his face into a calm, controlled expression. It was time to face the city.

Climbing the stairs turned out to be hard. It wasn’t physically difficult, even as loaded as he was with the pack and the maul. It was his mind that was the problem.

He was alone, without his armor, or even his cloak. While he’d thought he’d come a long way toward mastering his fear by interacting with the public back at the bathhouse, this was something else entirely. These stairs led to a street that was only one block away from the largest Watch stronghold in the entire city. A stronghold that he was meaning to just walk into, while carrying a pack full of the belongings of dead sentinels and with a literal monster trailing along after his heels.

I think I might be an idiot… Speaking of, I should find out what happened to Val. Can’t forget about that.

Rain reached the street and stepped out onto it with resolve. He didn’t stop, fearing that if he did, he might just turn around and slink back into the sewers. He kept his pace steady, doing his best to keep a firm grip on Dozer’s metaphysical leash. Once more, he wished that the thing had listened when he’d tried to get it to stay behind, but nothing had worked. He’d even tried feeding it, hoping that it would fall asleep, but it had been to no avail. The slime was absolutely determined to accompany him.

He hadn’t made it more than ten meters down the street before a man, a servant, by his clothing, shouted in alarm. Counter to Rain’s expectations, rather than running away, the man ran toward the hapless slime, drawing a cudgel from his waist in a smooth motion.

“Wait!” Rain shouted, raising his hand and moving to intercept the charging man. He gestured to the slime, then the bronze Guild plate that he’d made sure to keep hanging outside of his shirt. “I’m with the Guild. The slime is mine.”

The man halted, a bewildered expression on his face. “But…” the servant said, staring at the monster. “Oh. Oh, um. Is it, uh…” the man was stammering, looking around, nervous all of a sudden. Rain winced, taking a step back.

“Halt!” shouted another voice, and there was the sound of boots pounding on the cobblestones. Rain’s face paled as he saw an entire patrol of Watch officers charging straight for him, having come around the corner at the servant’s shout.

“I’m with the Guild!” Rain shouted, activating Force Ward just in case. He dropped the maul and raised his hands, then cursed as the weapon crashed into the ground with a mighty thump.

The oncoming officers didn’t stop, though they hadn’t drawn their weapons. There were five of them, two women and three men. The leader of the patrol was a younger man with blond hair. He opened his mouth as if to speak as he approached, but then something curious happened. The man’s eyes suddenly widened in surprise, and he skidded to a stop, fumbling for his sword. The other officers reacted similarly, drawing their own weapons and looking at Rain with a mix of alarm and disbelief.

Oh shit. They can feel it. Rain cleared his throat, “I don’t want any trouble. Whatever you’re feeling, I’m not doing it on purpose.”

The lead officer tightened his grip on his weapon but didn’t otherwise react. The servant looked to the officers, then back to Rain, then to Dozer. That was apparently enough for the man to decide that there was somewhere else he needed to be. Urgently. The officers didn’t stop him as he scurried away.

Well, this isn’t going well. Rain controlled his expression, waiting for the Watch to make the next move. He was ready to run if it came down to it, but realistically, he had no hope of escape. While the officers were just bronze like him, they likely had builds much more suited to combat than he did. If this turned into a fight, he would lose.

He was banking on the fact that the Watch was the closest thing that this world had to a police force. They wouldn’t just attack him, not as long as he didn’t do anything threatening. His oversoul, however, was something that he hadn’t expected to be a problem. Wallace hadn’t felt it, which had led Rain to assume that it was only an issue for the unawakened. Clearly, he’d been wrong. That’s what I get for trusting a sample size of one.

Seconds stretched into minutes as the group of officers stared him down. Finally, the leader spoke. “Your name?”

“Rain,” Rain said, keeping his hands raised.

The reaction from the leader was bizarre. Surprise, mixed with suspicion, mixed with something else that Rain couldn’t identify. The leader looked to the other members of his patrol, then back at Rain, seemingly trying to decide what to do.

“Look, I honestly can’t control it. I don’t even know what it is.”

“True,” said a short female officer, one that looked like a mage. She laid her hand on the leader’s shoulder. “He means it, Joln.”

“I know, Tam,” said the leader.

Interesting… Their truth-telling skill seems to be working on me. Rain searched the faces of the officers, seeing that they all seemed to be in agreement. Very interesting.

“I’m going to lower my hands now,” Rain said. “Then I’d like to come with you to your stronghold. I have some things I need to give you.” He tilted his head toward the maul lying on the cobblestones. “That maul, for one. It belonged to one of your sentinels.”

“What is this?” the leader asked, not relaxing in the slightest. “Did the usurper send you?”

“You mean Velika?” Rain asked, slowly lowering his hands. “No.”

“True,” said another of the officers, a man with a spear. “I don’t like this, Joln. I don’t trust what I’m seeing. It could be a trick.”

“I know,” said Joln, “But…” He shook his head. “We’ll let Bartum decide. We’re taking him in.”

“Yes, sir,” said the spear wielder.

“Right,” said Joln, sheathing his sword, but keeping his hand on the grip. “Follow us. Keep that slime under control and your hands where I can see them. Give Keenen’s maul to Officer Tamorin.”

Rain nodded, stepping away from the fallen weapon. The female officer in mage’s robes approached, then bent down and lifted the maul with one hand. She kept her eyes on him the whole time, watching him warily as she settled the head of the maul over her shoulder.

Rain wasn’t surprised at the ease with which she handled the ridiculously heavy weapon. Even though the woman’s head barely came up to his chest, he’d have been a fool to underestimate a member of the Watch. She was probably at least as strong as he was currently, if not stronger, despite the mage’s robes she was wearing.

There were no further incidents as the officers led him into their stronghold. Rain had been expecting them to demand that he give over everything he was carrying immediately, but they hadn’t. Instead, they brought him to a large brick building and shuffled him and Dozer into a room with a table and some chairs, not unlike one of the meeting rooms at the Guild. The door to the room had a small pane of glass set into it, a rarity in Fel Sadanis. Windows were common, windows with glass, not so much. Unlike the door, the walls were solid wood, with oil lamps hanging from them for light.

It wasn’t long before the leader of the patrol returned with a slightly older man in a neatly pressed black tunic. He was wiry, with a bald head and a neatly waxed black mustache that was turning to gray.

“I am Officer Bartum,” the man said politely, nodding to Rain. “I’m the acting commander of this stronghold. Officer Joln says you have some business here?”

Rain got to his feet, straightening his tunic. “Yes, Officer.”

Bartum looked at him with a neutral expression on his face, then turned to Joln. “Please leave us.”

“Sir, need I remind you, the adventurer Rain is classified as a category three threat. If he is who he claims to be, it would not be safe for you to remain here alone with him. Also, there’s the…” Joln licked his lips. “You can see it, can’t you? Wouldn’t it be better if—”

Joln cut off as Bartum raised a hand. “I will be fine,” he said, then turned back to Rain. “Do you mean me or the Watch any harm?”

Rain shook his head. “No.”

“You see?” Bartum said. “Now, please, leave us. Don’t go far, in case I’m wrong. Keep an eye on us through the window.”

This seemed to satisfy Joln, though he still looked uneasy as he pulled the door closed. The moment that the wooden portal snapped shut, a glowing white rune flashed into existence above the door, flared, then began to spread. The runes formed a chain, running down the doorframe, then spreading along the intersections between the walls, floor, and ceiling until the entire room was outlined in a wireframe of glowing magic. The process barely took more than a few seconds.

Rain clamped down on the sudden spike of fear that he felt, though he kept clinging to Force Ward with all of his might. He’d seen something like this before in the antechamber to the Fells, though those runes had been glowing purple. Is this a suppression ward?

“Do not be alarmed,” Bartum said, sounding amused as he took a seat at the table. “I always forget to warn people about that. It is a modified Muffle Ward, nothing more.” Slowly, the runes faded until they were barely visible in the lamplight. Bartum motioned to a chair. “Please, sit.”

Rain hesitantly joined him at the table, conscious of the lack of sound from outside the room. He could hear his own heart beating loudly in his ears. “A Muffle Ward? Is that what it sounds like?” He tilted his head, listening to the sound of his own voice. It was flat, with no echo whatsoever.

Bartum smiled politely. “Clever pun. Yes. It blocks all sound crossing the plane of the runescript, even if someone uses a skill like Remote Listening. No one outside this room will be able to hear a word that we say.”

“Why?” Rain said, looking at Bartum. “Not that I mind, but…”

“Some things are not for those outside the Watch to know,” said Bartum with a shrug. “These rooms are convenient for conversations like the one that I expect we are about to have.”

Rain nodded, accepting the man’s explanation. He didn’t feel anything unusual, apart from the lack of sound, and Force Ward was still going strong. He did feel a bit hungry, but that was just… Shit.

Dozer launched itself at Bartum under the table, engulfing the officer’s foot before Rain could even react.

“Dozer, no! Officer, I’m sorry about—” Rain began, but cut off as he saw the amused expression on the officer’s face.

“It’s fine,” Bartum said, motioning Rain back into his chair. “I’ve encountered crystal slimes before. I think I might have stepped in something on my way here.” He chuckled as Dozer continued sliming his leg. “My boot could use a good cleaning.”

“Ah,” Rain said, sitting back slowly. “As long as… Still, I’m sorry. It doesn’t really listen to me that well.”

“I said it’s fine,” Bartum smiled, reaching down to pat the slime as if it was a dog. “Dozer, you said? An interesting name.”

Rain smiled uneasily, “Yeah, I suppose.” Something about the Watch officer’s casual demeanor was putting him at ease. The contrast between this man and Joln was striking.

“Perhaps you would like to explain why you have come here,” Bartum said mildly, nodding at the Hefty Maul lying on the table. “Joln tells me you have come to return some equipment?”

Rain nodded. “Yes. How much do you know about what happened?”

A pained expression flashed across Bartum’s face. “We suspect that all of our members involved in the operation are dead.”

Rain nodded. “They are. I’m sorry.”

“And so you have brought their equipment to us,” Bartum said. “We had thought it lost, taken by the usurper. We sent some of our prospects in disguise to retrieve whatever they could from the Fells stronghold once we heard that it was open. They only found broken remnants. I take it you are responsible for the lack of bodies?”

“Yes,” Rain said. “I’m sorry if you wanted to bury them or something, but I couldn’t just leave them there.”

“I understand,” Bartum said solemnly. “You have their plates?”

