Rain reached into his pack and retrieved a cloth bag, placing it gently on the table with the clink of shifting metal. Bartum stared at the bag for a few seconds, then closed his eyes and sighed. After a moment, he slid it over and poured the contents out onto the table.

Rain watched silently as the officer picked through the plates, extracting the silver ones and setting them aside. He checked the number stamped on the back of each one as he did. One plate, in particular, made him grimace, a deep pain visible on his face through a thin veil of control. Rain managed to read the number from the plate before Bartum squeezed his fist around it. Bartum closed his eyes, shaking his head slowly.

“You knew her well?” Rain asked. “Sentinel Talasa?”

Bartum took a deep breath and opened his eyes. He nodded wordlessly as he placed the plate into a pocket of his tunic. “I did,” he said. “I was one of her instructors when she was a ward, and I left my position at the academy when she surpassed me. I had the honor to serve as her second in command, and as her friend. She was…” He shook his head. “She was one of the best of us. She warned the other sentinels of what would happen if they attacked the usurper, but they did not listen.”

Bartum absently returned to sorting through the plates on the table. He wasn’t even looking at the numbers anymore, merely straightening them to lie in even rows on the table.

Rain reached out and let his hand hover over one of the bronze plates. He hesitated, then picked it up and placed it neatly in one of the rows. “I understand.” Rain’s fingers lingered on the plate before he reluctantly took them away. “It isn’t easy to lose someone. I didn’t know Officer Melka that well, but I like to think we were friends.”

Bartum nodded, touching Melka’s plate lightly. “Another of my former students. She was in the same cadre as Talasa, you know? Both of them gave me such a hard time when I was their instructor.” He smiled sadly. “Talasa was such a marvelous actor, but I could always tell when she was being serious. The passion that she felt for what the Watch should be always came through. I think I became her assistant just so I could tease her. Get a little payback, you know?” He smiled, then slowly shook his head. “Now, all we’re left with is zealous idiots like Joln. Pride for the Watch. Vengeance for the insult. Foolishness.” Bartum scoffed, then looked down at the table.

Rain remained silent, unsure of what to say.

Eventually, Bartum straightened himself up and looked at Rain once more. “My apologies. Thank you for what you have done.”

Rain nodded. “There’s more. Around eight hundred Tel, plus these.” As he’d been speaking, he’d reached into a pocket and pulled out a bundle. He set it on the table and folded the cloth back, revealing a crimson metal plate, one of the accolades that he’d recovered. The other accolades followed one by one, Rain unwrapping them from the cloth and placing them on the table.

Bartum waited for him to finish, then cleared his throat. “Well, I can’t say I expected you to give those up without being prompted. You are a very strange Guilder. It’s no wonder that my students took a liking to you.”

Many hours later, well after sunset, Rain was sitting in an inn and working his way through a delicious steak and some less delicious wilted vegetables. The city was in somewhat of an odd food situation. Fresh meat was relatively cheap, while everything else was getting more and more expensive.

While not many people quartered their livestock in the city, enough did that cows, sheep, chickens, and the like were a common enough sight. Some outlying farmers had brought their herds to market prior to the dome going up, and that had worsened the problem. Simply put, there wasn’t enough feedstock to go around. People were slaughtering the animals, rather than see them starve away to nothing.

The city’s warehouses were full of supplies for the winter, but those supplies were for people, not animals. Salted fish, root vegetables, and the like. Spoilage was apparently a problem, the heat in the city being hardly ideal for the preservation of food. The situation wasn’t dire yet, but the longer it continued, the worse it would become.

After leaving the Watch stronghold, Rain had stopped by the warehouse district. He’d spent a few hours negotiating with the owners of the warehouses, those that he could find. Some of them were nobles, but not all of them.

In the end, the warehouse owners turned out to be surprisingly reasonable. It had been fairly easy to convince most of them to start rationing the food by placing limits on how much each person could buy, rather than just jacking up the price as they had been doing.

Rain had also used Purify and Refrigerate to deal with some of the rot and to chill down the warehouses. That had been helpful for getting the merchants to listen to him, but he would have done it regardless. It wouldn’t last, but it was better than nothing.

Hopefully, those two things would stop the poor from starving until the DKE relented and sent some supplies, or better yet, dropped the barrier completely now that they had driven off the Empire. It was a bit worrying that that hadn’t happened already. Rain would have thought he’d have heard something from Westbridge by now, but there was nothing. That might have just been Velika not sharing what she knew, though.

Her leadership was glaringly absent. Similarly, the nobles were hardly a cohesive force, and they were doing little to keep any semblance of order outside of their own households. Lord Rill, arguably the only one who could have brought them together, was dead. It hadn’t been Velika’s doing, but the Watch’s. Lord Rill had tried to stop them from executing the attack on the Citizen and had been killed when he refused to step aside.

Officer Bartum had described it as an accident, though he did acknowledge that he hadn’t been there. Rain had been shocked to learn that Rill was dead, but he believed the officer when he said that the powerful noble wouldn’t have been harmed deliberately. In fact, he believed pretty much everything the interim leader of the stronghold had to say.

Rain liked Bartum. The two of them had discussed many things in the few hours that the meeting had lasted. Bartum was surprisingly candid with Rain, answering his questions honestly where he could, and politely refusing to answer when he couldn’t.

Bartum seemed to trust him, saying that he preferred to treat people by what they would do, rather than what they could. This was in direct contrast to the policy of constant suspicion that the majority of the Watch seemed to adhere to. It was refreshing to be spoken to as a person and not a potential disaster.

Of the many things that Rain and Bartum had discussed, the most important to Rain at the moment was his oversoul situation. Bartum had revealed that he couldn’t actually feel the pressure in the same way as the unawakened could. Instead, he could literally see it when he was close enough.

Rain had long known that the Watch had some method of detecting lies, and Bartum confirmed that it was the same ability that allowed them to see what Rain had done to himself. Rain had asked a few followup questions, of course, but Bartum had been unwilling to elaborate much further.

The skill—Reading, they called it—wasn’t something that could be found in a skill tree. It was a secret of the Watch, its mechanics and the method of learning it forbidden to outsiders. Rain had let that topic drop, not wanting to damage the goodwill he’d earned. Plus, he was more interested in what Bartum actually saw. The officer had described Rain’s soul as ‘cracked’ and ‘leaking chaos.’ Neither of those were things that Rain had been particularly pleased to hear.

Souls, according to Bartum, had a sort-of layer around them. He’d called it ‘the paling,’ but there were apparently other names for it. Followers of Dystees called it the ‘Divine Envelope,’ and in Ter’karmark, it was ‘Me’ke-Tar Tek,’ directly translated: ‘the barrier which divides.’

Bartum had prefixed all of these descriptions with a disclaimer that the Watch’s interpretation of the soul was far from the only one. Even within their organization, opinions varied. Rain would have expected that the ability to actually see the paling would have unified things somewhat, but Bartum said that wasn’t the case. When pressed, he’d said simply that Reading worked differently for everyone.

As for the paling, it wasn’t just an awakened thing. The unawakened had it too, but it was different, somehow. More porous, and much, much weaker. Bartum suspected that that was why Rain’s condition was having such an effect on them, though he had never seen anything like it before. Incidentally, oversoul was a real thing, but it wasn’t like what Rain had done.

According to Bartum, high-level people—really high-level, as in goldplates, and even then, not all of them—could exert some level of control over their souls. That included lowering the paling completely. Bartum had experienced it once when the leader of the Watch, Warden Vatreece, had come to inspect Fel Sadanis over twenty years ago. He‘d said that he’d felt like an ant standing beside a mountain. He’d been too afraid to even look at her, let alone try to Read her. Contrast that to Rain’s situation, where Bartum felt nothing whatsoever and could Read him like an open book.

Bartum’s description of the Warden was terrifying. She was platinum, full stop. That meant she was an absolute monster when it came to sheer power. If that wasn’t bad enough, she was a Mentalist to boot. Rain had no interest in having his mind read, thank you very much. He’d yet to find a skill that purported that to be possible, but who knew what kind of stuff a platinum had access to in the higher tiers.

Mental Resistance was a problem for later, like so many things. Right now, Rain had other issues to deal with. It wasn’t the damage to his paling that had the Watch staring at him like he was a monster, it was what was leaking out. Apparently, whatever state Rain was in wasn’t as simple as having a paling like a cracked eggshell. To really strain the metaphor, there was something wrong with his yolk. His soul was strong, he knew, but according to Bartum, it was also turbulent, like a raging fire. Chaos, destruction, and rage. Bartum had trouble describing exactly what he saw, saying that mundane reality lacked the required colors.

Ameliah had described her soul as a deep pool of power within herself that she added to with experience. After speaking with Bartum, Rain was now visualizing his own soul as a nuclear reactor on the brink of meltdown, the housing spider-webbed with cracks and spewing radiation everywhere. Radiation that glowed octarine. Needless to say, this was a slightly concerning image.

As for how to fix this problem, Bartum hadn’t had any straightforward solutions. According to him, the system—the Watch called it ‘the guide’—didn’t have any skills for manipulating the soul. That checked out with Rain’s experience. Soul manipulation, Bartum said, was something that you had to learn on your own. The process was different for everyone, tied into how the system presented itself to each individual. The first step down that path was to ‘access your inner self,’ whatever that meant. Bartum hadn’t had much to offer in that regard, saying that the practice was incredibly uncommon.

Bartum’s opinion was that the damage to Rain’s soul would heal itself eventually, but Rain wasn’t happy with that answer. There was no basis for it, no evidence to back it up. Yes, he felt a little better today, but that probably had a lot to do with the fact that all he’d been doing was walking around and talking to people, instead of swinging a hammer at rocks for hours on end.

He’d ask around at the Guild tomorrow. Someone there might also know about the process of fixing a soul. The tavern would have been closed by this time of night, which was why he’d come to this inn instead of just heading straight over there. He also needed to visit the Guild to ask if anyone knew any relatives of the adventurers who’d owned the remaining accolades.

Accolades were another thing he’d asked Bartum about. The officer had said that binding or unbinding an accolade was as easy as deciding to do so, which was clearly not the case. He’d made Rain eat his protestations to the contrary by doing so right in front of him. They’d decided that Rain’s inability to do the same was likely due to the damage to his soul hindering him somehow.

Stupid Essence Well…

Rain sighed, staring at the last sad, wrinkly carrot sitting on his plate. He speared it with his fork and finished it off, then Purified the dishes. A flash of disappointment told him that Dozer didn’t approve of this action, but the slime could deal with it. Rain wasn’t about to let it lick the plates in the common room of a public inn.

He got to his feet and made his way to the door. He’d already paid, both in cash and by cleaning the entire common room. Dozer oozed after him obediently. The dopey slime only seemed to understand one command, ‘follow.’ Not ‘come,’ mind. The slime would only listen if Rain was actually going somewhere.

It had spent the entire time in which Rain had been eating his meal by bothering the last few patrons of the inn who hadn’t been driven away by his oversoul. Commands like ‘stop,’ ‘get down from the ceiling,’ and ‘don’t engulf the waitress’ had been ignored. Luckily, the waitress in question had thought Dozer was adorable, rather than a nuisance. Reactions to the slime from the general public were mixed.

Dozer’s disobedience had Rain thinking that there were some system shenanigans going on that he couldn’t see, such as a limit on the number of ‘tricks’ for his ‘pet.’ That or the slime only obeyed the ‘follow’ command because that was what it wanted to do in the first place. It was clingy like that.

Rain hadn’t made it three steps out the door before he froze, tilting his head. Did I just hear…

“Help!” a voice cried in the distance. It sounded like a little girl.

Rain took off immediately, breaking into a sprint. There weren’t many people around at this hour, not with the city as unsafe as it was at night. His feet were sore from the ill-fitting pair of shoes he’d been wearing all day, but the discomfort didn’t even enter into his mind as he rushed down the cobbled street, headed south-east toward the river.

