It would also be expensive to do the testing he suspected would be necessary. In his own Realm, he knew of rare items that allowed one to shift their cultivation, and he could only hope that they had similar things.

Still, despite the hurdles, he was excited as he turned to Matt and started hashing out a deal for his knowledge.

Even as he chatted his mind went to the duels. He might have lost all of the battles, which wasn’t too surprising given what he had encountered with Titan, but his reality was shattered when the Ascenders started a duel among themselves at the end.

It hurt his pride, but when they went all out, Ra’thala knew he would have been defeated in moments should they have done so from the start.

They were truly in a league he had never thought possible before.

It wasn’t just that they had better items and skills, though they surely had them. But more than that, their combat instincts were honed to an edge that he just couldn’t match even with his years of combat and lived experience.

It was a league he wanted to reach.

If that was possible. He wasn’t sure about the translation magic, but there was a tone of finality about becoming an Ascender he didn’t have the cultural understanding to follow but he knew that few things were truly impossible given enough time and motivation.

Turning to Susanne during dinner he asked, “Is it possible to reach their levels?”

Susanne nodded. “It's extremely hard, but possible. Rarer than Ascenders themselves really. Yun Me is the most famous one due to how long she has been doing it, but there have been others. It's not easy, but nothing is impossible if you work hard enough.”

Ra’thala could tell she was talking more to herself than to him in that moment, but he took the words to heart and made a mental note to look up this Yun Me for himself once he absorbed the [AI] skill shard he had been given.

As he had learned thanks to his inspiration that had forced him to ascend, having no goals or aspirations led to stagnation and he refused to fall into that pit once more.

Goal: Reach Ascender power level.
