Even as Ra’thala’s mind was reeling over the decades of downtime such an injury should incur, and Titan ignoring it all, his opponent seemed to speed up even further. His blade, or rather the solidified mana inside of it, started to glow with a truly massive amount of mana as an attack that made his spirit tremble was readied.

Ra’thala used [Pebble Bouncing] to dodge the initial swing, but he was too slow to fully dodge the wave of mana that arced out and felt some of his armor crack and wounds open up all over his body as the tremors rattled him silly.

[Mud Mends] fixed all of the surface level wounds in an instant, but the deeper level wounds would take longer.

Not that they would stop him.

Ra’thala hadn’t gotten to where he was without learning how to fight while wounded.

Still, that was an impressively strong spell, and Ra’thala was starting to understand his new opponent, which was the most important aspect of any fight.

Titan kept up the pressure of his offensive and his blade came down once more. This time, it crackled with lightning that Ra’thala was able to redirect into his Concept, where it dissipated harmlessly and invigorated him as he took the power for his own.

He used the moment that bought him to cut upward, wanting to remove the offending arm, but Titan reached out and grabbed his blade with his hand.

The deceptively thin blue armor was penetrated with the now familiar resistance, but his blade stopped dead when it came in contact with the flesh of Titan’s hand.

Through the contact, Ra’thala could feel some sort of secondary effect, as found in rare items, bolstering the hand, but he had never encountered the Treasure before and didn’t know how to circumvent the effect. Unwilling to let an enemy grip his blade, he wrenched it back, letting its pristine blade turn jagged, hoping that might help pierce the unnaturally tough flesh.

It didn’t, but it was indicative of the fight in general.

Despite hearing these people were the best in this Realm, Ra’thala hadn’t really believed it. But he was starting to understand. Or at least he thought he was.

Titan seemed like the children of Origins who had been given every item they could possibly want, need, or use, making them far stronger than they should be at their Tier. He had dealt with those before, but the gap had never been quite so big.

It made him eager to defeat Titan.

As Titan pushed him back step by step, Ra'thala analyzed his opponent. Titan was good with his blade, not the best he had ever seen, but he was good enough there were no flaws he could exploit for an easy win. As was sometimes seen with those with lots of Celestial Guides, Titan seemed to rely on spells for most of his damage and effects, but he wasn’t one dimensional with physical flaws, as seen by him matching Ra’thala blow for blow.

This was a well-rounded opponent who he was glad he wasn’t actually fighting to the death, and was instead having a friendly spar with.

Ra’thala thought his main victory condition was that Titan didn’t seem particularly tired or pressed in the fight: he was clearly trying, but he wasn’t going all out. As Ra’thala was also holding back a portion of his power, there was an opportunity to go all out in an instant and try to overwhelm his opponent before Titan realized what was happening.

In a real fight he would do exactly that, but he was trying to feel out this new Realm and where he belonged in it, so he decided to take the slower approach.

Tapping into his Aethe— Intent, he pushed a wave of high mountain fog at Titan, wanting to obfuscate him. A physical fog was created around them that blocked all types of observation that was at least twice as strong as it had been before. Another benefit of his ascension, no doubt.

While his six senses were blocked, his connection to the fog let him feel as Titan hurtled forward to his last location, letting out another arc of mana that expanded to twice their heights as it passed through where he had been standing. Ra’thala had already dodged to the side, having expected a move like that, but was thoroughly impressed by this Titan’s general prowess.

Throwing his Concept out, Ra’thala commanded the battlefield to Tremble.

Spells faltered, weapons grew weaker, and stamina was sapped from everyone he designated as an enemy.

Titan slowed and Ra’thala slashed upward, sending a wave of earth at him. Instead of being a loose collection of earth, it formed into sharp projectiles that he flash-enchanted to drain mana from everything they touched.

It was an old tactic he had learned when fighting the Silent Silhouette Organization when he was Tier 8. It typically ended most fights on its own, but was always good enough to stop their magical armor, and he was confident in the same outcome.

He was already rushing forward, a gathering of essence forming around his blade and enlarging it as he prepared for a heavy slash as a truly monumental amount of mana poured out of Titan.

The flow cut off fairly quickly as the enchanted stone melted under the influx, but Ra’thala was already bringing his now massive sword down onto Titan, ready to cleave him from shoulder to hip.

Just as his blade was about to hit him, there was an impact as an unseen force pulsed outward. It didn’t stop the blade's descent, but it did slow it enough that Titan only lost his left arm as he dodged.

Ra’thala let the extra growth fall off of his blade and brought the now light blade up and around. The severed arm was already regrowing with a speed Ra’thala had never seen before, not that Titan seemed particularly worried about its loss, as he brought the crystal filled blade around and unleashed a point-blank spell not seeming to care about the back blast that would hit him.

Encasing himself in stone, Ra’thala took the hit, wanting to inflict more damage, but staggered as he was sent flying backwards from the spell. He caught himself with a flex of his Concept, but the lapse was enough for Titan to finish healing himself and rush at Ra’thala.

On the back foot once more, Ra’thala felt a mounting pressure as Titan pressed him. But after a good parry, he regained his momentum and decided it was time to show the rest of his hand and end this fight before he was too tired to fight the others.

Gathering more and more power into his blade and using the opportunity to change the enchantments he had laid upon it to ones focusing on magical armor penetration, Ra’thala cast his penultimate skill, [Collapse the World].

Space and time froze for an instant as the blade rose and fell, it being the only thing that moved.

Ra’thala expected to cut through Titan in a single blow, but the simple armor he had been dealing with turned incredibly ornate as a second layer formed, which seemed twice as strong as the first layer. His blade still cleaved through it, but the strain was palpable and he grit his teeth as he put everything he had into the swing, letting his cultivation surge with all the brilliance his stars contained.

The blade was two fingers width through Titan’s shoulder and he was hopeful he could continue his cut all the way through when the blade encountered a stopping force from Titan’s Intent.

Intents being fairly rare in his Realm, even for Tier 20s, Ra’thala didn’t have that much experience fighting opponents with them, but he had encountered a few before. He had never felt one quite like Titan’s. It had a flavor he couldn’t quite identify, but he pushed that idle thought to the side as he threw his own Intent at Titan’s halting effect and tried to pry his enemy’s metaphorical fingers off his blade to allow it to finish its cut.

Except the moment he tried to do that, he felt a twisting sensation as there was suddenly no space left in the world for his Domains to exist and his blade fully stopped.

Knowing he was defeated, Ra’thala jumped back and held his hands to the side.

“A wonderful fight that shows me just how much I have to learn in this new Realm.”

There was a clamoring from the others as they all wanted to start their own spars, but Ra’thala had to hold up a hand. “I am a little low on sta— mana from my last fight. I will need some time to meditate and recover. I—”

He stopped as he felt a wave of mana start to fill his mana pool. It was like his mana pool was being stimulated to produce more mana, but it wasn’t like him meditating and stimulating that portion of his cultivation. It was more like an outside force doing all the work, leaving the mana in his pool in a strange way he struggled to put to words.

Following the trace of power, he looked over to Titan as a few things clicked in place.

Titan confirmed it a moment later. “My Concept has the effect of allowing me to increase mana regeneration for those I choose. I can and do often keep this up at all times, so feel free to spend as much mana as you want. We can…” He looked over to Shadow, the teleporter who vanished for a second to return with a small device and a few small stones. “Set you up with a rapid mana converter, which will let you refill even faster when I’m not around, though at a cost.”

After being shown how to use the device, Ra’thala was mildly perturbed as he heard from where these mana stones normally came from.

An Origin family, a Tier 20 family, from his own Realm had been known for being able to have seemingly endless star power thanks to devices they implanted next to their hearts that used crystalized star power.

No one had known where they got their source of crystalized st— crystalized mana, but Ra’thala was now pretty sure he had just had it confirmed they were delving rifts. Even if they weren't absorbing the monster essence, they had learned that there were rewards at the end of those locations and had kept the secret to themselves.

A quirk of the family he and everyone else he knew had just written off as oddities thanks to how random Talents were was seemingly explained away with a piece of knowledge these people considered common.

He would never call himself a people person, but it was becoming clear he had been a bit too much of a recluse if there were all these secrets that he had never encountered, despite being one of the strongest people in his old Realm.

A decision he felt he needed to rectify immediately.

He had come to a new Realm where he could start over, and he promised himself he would do exactly that.

Part of that meant making new friends, and from the previous display, these seemed like important people who it would be good to be at least friendly with, even if they didn’t become close friends.

Nodding to the others as he felt his mana reach an acceptable level, he started sparring with each of the Ascenders.

He lost every fight, though some seemed a little closer than others, but the reason as to why was shown when he asked when he ranked in their Tier for relative power.

It took a little back and forth before Zack said, “I would rate you at a mid-level elite. Maybe a weak high-level elite.”

After a little more back and forth, Ra’thala had an understanding of what that meant and he couldn’t help but feel a little disappointed. But at the same time he couldn’t help but be excited.

As Liz put it, “If you're this good without all of our advantages, you can possibly reach peak or maybe even pinnacle level elite given enough resources and training.”

It was a good point, and Ra’thala wanted that. Not just to climb to the peak of power, but to show that his methods worked.

He also understood that he had a lot to learn, and so took the offered opportunity for a small tour around the Imperial Capital before they went to dinner at a luxurious restaurant. The food was kind of strange and new, but he enjoyed sampling everything and had a good time as he learned more about the people who picked him up.

Ultimately, it solidified in him that he was going to push himself here in this new Realm, and that started with earning money.

In his old Realm, he had been wealthy thanks to his long accumulation of not just material goods but knowledge, and if he needed wealth there were numerous organizations that were nothing but blights on their surroundings that he had no issues with wiping out for money. None of that seemed true here, and with such a seemingly strong government, it would probably not be tolerated.

Matt had, however, spoken of his guild and their willingness to pay well for information about his homeland and their various differences.

Even just his enchanting knowledge would be completely unique and novel which, even if it was limited in Tier, should be valuable. He knew his people would have clamored for such novel information. Even if it had only been of low-Tier enchantments, they could have built off the unique foundation.

Combined with his deal with the Librarian, that should be enough to get him started.

He also needed to have a better understanding of this culture and the ins and outs of its peoples. Things seemed good from what he had been shown, but that was only that, and things could be irredeemably bad once the surface was peeled back. He wouldn’t willingly stay in a place like that, but he’d need time alone to learn such things.

That gave him a few smaller short-term goals, but his main long-term goal was making his next cultivation levels, which wouldn’t be easy. Oh, it wouldn’t be that hard if his only goal was to continue what he had been doing, cultivating ambient essence, but he had learned first-hand that despite its simple nature and slower progression, there were significant advantages to absorbing the monster essence instead of letting it disperse.

Before he continued onward, Ra’thala wanted to create a hybrid method that could give him the best of both worlds, and that would be anything but easy.

