And, to celebrate the grand victory won by the Yellowstone Republic over the Necrotech Legions and the impending marriage of his heir, Pathbearer-Adept Adam Arrow, Pathbearer–Master Lord Roland Arrow of Blackedge has declared the grandest Festival of the Eclipse yet.

This year, the festival will run from the heights of Starhawk’s Perch down to Minhall Avenue. Food, beverage, and pleasure will flow as merry waters from the greatest Pathbearer guarding our town and kingdom to the lowliest Pathless toiling tirelessly in determined service.

Chosen as guest-chef for this year’s grand feast is Georges Archambault of the Swan-Eating Toad. In recognition for his years of redemptive service and to shed a light on the plight of the downtrodden, Lord Roland Arrow has decided to reward Georges Archambault with this great privilege!

Let all citizens of the Republic hold him in our esteem and remember that there is no depth of darkness that one can sink to beyond the redemption of light!

Praise be the Yellowstone Republic, and eternally may the flame endure!

-Blackedge Town Paper

2

Return

“—at?” Tran said, stumbling back and away from Shiv. Shiv started laughing, sticking out his tongue slick with vampiric ichor and showing the black blood between his teeth. Getting teleported always felt all kinds of uncomfortable, with how much spatial weirdness was happening, but at least the process was quick. Quick enough for Shiv to mess with Tran a bit before life returned to its usual state of disappointment.

“I did drink several Potions of Resist Vampirism beforehand,” Shiv added, nodding sagely. “Forgot to mention that.”

The other members of Tran’s team were halfway through drawing the weapons or readying a spell before they stopped. Tran sputtered and cursed, his face raw-red with annoyance. “Godsdammit, Shiv. What the hell kind of joke was that?”

“Funny one,” Shiv chuckled. “Should have seen your face.”

For all her animosity toward him earlier, Alice had the dignity to laugh. “Little shit…”

Shiv grinned. Tran’s frown deepened.

“I see you’re as unpleasant as ever, Omenborn,” the team’s Jump Mage said. She regarded Shiv through narrowed eyes. Lesser Dimensionals of fire, ice, earth, water, and air danced around her body, forming something of a protective aegis. She was, like the typical Jump Mage, clad in a ridiculous amount of armor—most of it seemingly made from tungsten. A narrow slot in her cone-shaped helmet revealed the face of an elf. Gaunt features. Pointed ears. Large, purple eyes. She really fit the stereotype, which was made all the more awkward as she wasn’t a natural-born elf. No, Heather Hawgrave was a race-shift. Got that change through some Blessing or another.

Finally, on the top of her helmet was the pointed wizard’s hat of brilliant blue she earned by graduating as an Adept-Tier Pathbearer from Phoenix Academy.

Must be nice having parents that could bestow a Path on you and give you a functional future, Shiv grumbled internally.

“Heather. The hat still looks stupid with your armor.”

She huffed and looked away.

The chamber they were in was layered in moving sigils and interwoven streams of magic-stuff. Shiv didn’t know what they were meant for exactly, but he’d been in this chamber enough times to know their general purpose.

Spatial magic was a risky thing. It let people get in places where they weren’t supposed to. Worse, it allowed dangerous things getting released in the midst of dense crowds. Even in times of peace after the war between Yellowstone and the Necros from the Abyss had concluded, Blackedge was still a tripwire town—with all the risks a tripwire town presented.

Shiv remembered no less than ten instances of teleportation-based mass casualty events. A plague being dumped into the middle of the town. An assassin-build mithril automaton going on a rampage, ripping through the town's magi before it detonated itself near the Slayers Guild.

The teleportation anchors inside the guild hall were designed to change that. It was like a focal point for all Jump Mages—or a trap they couldn’t avoid. It was also so complicated with its spatial weaving that anyone who tried teleporting here without knowing the exact “formula” usually ended up in a death trap.

The rest of the spellwork lining the inside of the chamber were things associated with purifying diseases, containing blasts, analyzing people, and then flash-frying them should they fail to be vetted. Convenient, neat, and something the veterans of the Abyss War kept griping about not having during their day.

After a brief series of symbols passed through Shiv and the others, confirming they weren’t Abyssally Tainted or carrying any actual plagues on them, they were ordered to proceed through several decontamination fields and told to pass through a final checkpoint before they could secure their release.

Shiv dropped most of what he had left in a carrier bin that went through its own set of magic scans. All he had left after his little hunt was a knife and the scavenged leathers. Everything else was used and spent. Before he followed the others into the checkpoint, he gazed at his own reflection in the mirror.

The person that greeted him filled him with unease. He was a little too pale. A bit taller than most people, and quite a bit bigger due to his maxed out Physicality. Beneath his short crop of messy black hair, he studied pitch-black eyes devoid of any irises or pupils and sighed.

Omenborn. Pathless. Whatever his parents were trying to do with that miserable ritual of theirs, it just made him seem like he was someone suffering from the initial stages of the Abyssal Taint. That kept most people away from him. For some, it kept them just far away enough that they could start throwing things at him. That was always a delight.

“Please step through the final checkpoint. Thank you.” The magical speaker outside the clerk’s room returned Shiv to focus. He did as the speaker asked and entered the next room. Once again, he and Slayer Team stood before a bored looking clerk who eyed them all with a sigh.

“So. Omenborn. Did you finally find what you were looking for?” Stanley Ivanchovic muttered. He stamped a series of confirmations into a form and finished verifying the group for release back into town.

“No. I didn’t manage to find any of those dirty he-tai cartoon magazines you like so much this time, either. Sorry.”

Stanley’s face turned beet-red. “Dammit, Shiv, don’t say that shit in front of other people. They don’t need to know that.”

“Everyone knows,” Tran muttered.

“Yeah, because he keeps telling everyone,” Stanley sneered.

Shiv eyed a half-open dirty mag hiding under a messy pile of files and shared a look with Tran. Both he and the Pathbearer shared a faint smirk. After a few stamps and a signature, Stanley looked them all over and coughed. “You’re all cleared. But… Shiv, you might want to wait a minute to head through.”

“Why?” Shiv asked. “What’s wrong? Has Lord Arrow finally decided to finish me off?”

“No. But his son just got back. With his bride-to-be from the capital.”

“Adam Arrow is back?” Alice said, her voice high with excitement. “Oh, wow. I thought he wasn’t to return for another eight months. Didn’t Phoenix Academy just finish their regionals?”

“Yeah,” Stanley chuckled. “And the Young Lord is a bit of a monster. He smashed through everyone. Even took on half a team by himself. He broke through to Adept by the end, too, for multiple of his skills apparently! He finished his Graduation Trials early and is back with his beloved to prepare. He’s even preparing to get married during the Festival of the Eclipse in a few days! It’s wild!”

Tran’s eyes grew wide. “Adept? Already?”“Yep. And not just one skill. The kid is a beast. He’s got his father’s archery and his mother's Divine—ah.” Stanley trailed off as he winced at Shiv. “So… on that note, maybe…”

“Just let us out,” Shiv said. “I have a shift to get to at the Swan-Eating Toad. I gotta get there before Chef Georges skins Seymour alive for being too slow with the potatoes again—after letting Georges scream at me first.”

Stanley hesitated. “Alright. But it’s your funeral, Omenborn. Try to keep to the shadows. You’re good at that, right?”

“Yeah,” Shiv snorted. “I’m good at that.”

With everything cleared, Shiv got his dagger back and watched as a sealing sigil winked out over the door leading out of processing. A slight tension flooded his veins. It was like his muscles and bones were turning to lead. But he didn’t stop walking, because Shiv played the cards he was dealt. Almost the entire world hated him. He was still Pathless. But he was still in his own corner.

He had to be.

Because there was no one else.

“So, hey, Tran, what if Young Adept Arrow decides to—you know, make the Omenborn here an ‘accident,’” Alice asked without a care if Shiv heard her. “Like, the republic’s got laws, but still… he’s got cause—”

“He’s got no cause,” Tran almost snapped. He glared at the rookie in his team as he shook his head in disgust. “He might be able to get away with killing Shiv.” That was a warning. Shiv knew that. “But he has no cause. The kid didn’t ask for this. He’s not his parents.”

“Yet,” Heather said with a dismissive attitude. “The curse in him is still ripe, though. Lord Arrow is beyond kind for letting him live, if you ask me. His biggest problem.”

Shiv smiled grimly as his insides churned with long-dulled resentment. On some level, he knew why others feared him. The curse he carried could mean anything. Even the experts that Lord Roland Arrow brought over from the capital weren’t sure what Shiv’s fate was to be. Most of them couldn’t detect any changes to his body or soul, aside from the pale pigmentation and the black eyes. That just left him even more alienated. No one wants to live next to a potential bomb, after all.

“Lord Roland Arrow’s biggest problem is that he is indecisive,” Shiv grunted. He could feel the Slayer Team looking at him. “He can’t stop fearing me for what I am, for what my parents did. Fine. But he’s too good of a man to just kill me, while he's also not kind enough to exile me and let me live. He’s not damned by a flaw—he’s damned by his own virtue.” A bitter smile passed over Shiv’s face. “If I were him, I wouldn’t take the risk.”

And that was the ugly truth of it.

Most of the Slayers fell silent and pretended Shiv didn’t say anything. Tran was the only one that had the decency to show his discomfort. And that was always the problem with Tran: He was a good, open-minded guy among shortsighted power-grubbers. Maybe he knew what it was like to be like Shiv, to be alienated on a level few could understand.

With the pointless talking done, Shiv opened the door and stepped out. Only to nearly run into someone else. The hallway leading into the main lobby of the Slayers Guild was packed full of people of all Paths and races. Slayers and Journalists alike mingled in this space. All of them had their eyes pointed forward, clamoring for a look at the returning Young Lord.

Shiv didn’t bother. He immediately started gliding his way through the crowd.

“Hey, Shiv,” Tran called out. Shiv looked behind him for a beat. The Pathbearer opened his mouth and shrugged. “Just go see a Bio if you can, okay? Some cancers—they’re hard to notice without magic. And it can be too late if you wait too long.”

The boy just nodded, and kept on moving.

As he made his way down the Guild Hall, Shiv kept himself small and unassuming—as well as someone of his stature could—while avoiding eye contact to not draw anyone's attention. Most people were inattentive and ignorant if you didn’t give them something to look at. That helped him most days. The dagger helped him some others. Shiv raised his head. An artistic mural depicting Lord Roland Arrow and his team of “Eclipsebreakers” facing off against swarms of abyssal horrors decorated the ceiling.

Roland Arrow and his wife were in the fullest detail among his companions. The former was a lean but well-built man with sharp features, sky-blue eyes, and hair spun from gold. In his hand was the greatbow “Startear.” Legend had it he obtained the weapon by closing a gate on his own. Legends didn’t do Lord Roland Arrow justice. His wife, meanwhile, served double duty and more as his team’s Jump Mage, Diviner, and all-round spellcaster. Her flame-red hair was the only thing Shiv felt comfortable looking at.

There were four other people in their team. All of them were deceased now. But of the four, only two had their faces scratched out entirely. Only two were entirely disfigured and struck from the mural, leaving marred absences that ruined the rest of the work.

Shiv didn’t know what his parents really looked like. He expected it to stay that way for the rest of his life.

Shiv didn’t want to look at Adam Arrow. He really didn’t. But, like his father, the boy had a presence most couldn’t deny. As Shiv crept between two Slayers, he glimpsed a flash of blood-red hair, of a young man slightly shorter than himself but even stronger of build. There was a girl next to him. Shiv didn’t see much of her, only that she was holding a craftsman’s hammer. A flick of sky-blue eyes slashed into the crowd, but Shiv was already gone. And he even got something out of this.

Stealth 15 > 16

