As the Omenborn slipped out through the grand doorway leading out of the guild at the same time a few people were coming in, he let out a breath he didn’t know he was holding, and some of the weight inside him lightened. He kept his head low as he made his way down the steps and looked out over the dense rows of bunker-shaped buildings dotting the lower sections of town. At the center of a residential cluster, he spotted where he needed to go by the massive statue in its corner. A statue depicting a toad swallowing a swan.

The fresh, afternoon air caressed Shiv’s skin while the sun was approaching the bend of the horizon. Not quite dinner yet. If he ran, there might be more than enough time to—

“So. You’re still alive,” a calm but hard voice called out.

Shiv froze at the bottom of the steps, and finally a few of the people streaming into the Guild Hall noticed him. They immediately did the typical thing and started backing away. A tired sigh escaped Shiv as he turned to face the one person he didn’t want to run into. But it might’ve been his hubris to expect an Adept-Tier Pathbearer to not have an ascended awareness skill.

“Young Lord Adam,” Shiv said, greeting the Town Lord's son. “You’re an Adept now?”

Young Lord Adam Arrow glared down at Shiv. His face was almost entirely a copy of his father’s, but his hair? That belonged to his mother. A mother that was murdered by Shiv’s parents. Adam would have had a sister too, for that matter, but she never made it out of the womb.

There were people crowding behind the young lord. Most of their chatter praising him and proclaiming his greatness turned to muttered breaths of horror and curses directed toward Shiv.

“Omenborn. Omenborn.”

A few of the Slayers licked their lips, as if eager to see a fight. Except it wouldn’t be much of a fight. Not between an Adept-Tier Pathbearer and some mortal.

A few seconds passed as the woman Shiv assumed to be Adam's fiancée came to a halt behind him. She looked… plainer than Shiv expected. Short, black hair, and wide, brown eyes, with features that leaned toward the cuter side of things. Still, Shiv didn’t miss the way she clenched her hammer tighter, or the strange techno-mechanical armor she was wearing.

Two Pathbearers against a lone mortal was even less of a fight.

“Did you earn a Path yet? I’m assuming you just came back from another attempt. Did killing vermin and stray dogs finally get the System to recognize you?”

Slight laughter and mockery followed. Shiv hated the crowd much more than he ever did Adam Arrow. Adam, he understood to some extent. Didn’t forgive, but understood. The Young Lord bore a wound that wouldn’t stop bleeding. Just like Shiv. Only a shame there was no real revenge to take, only humiliation to inflict.

“Nope,” Shiv said. And that was all there was to it. What else was he supposed to say? There were no winning options here. Not physically. Not psychologically. But if they were expecting Shiv to give them an emotional breakdown for entertainment, they were sorely mistaken.

Slowly, Young Lord Adam Arrow nodded as a look of hateful satisfaction twisted his features. “Good.”

And that was all he had to say before he turned and went back inside the Guild Hall. A few more leering faces and hissed slurs followed Shiv, but most of the attention was back with Adam—the hero triumphing over the monster like in all the stories.

Except Shiv wasn’t the monster. He was just the thing they left behind. The monsters were dead. And there was never making what they did right.

The Omenborn noticed his right hand was shaking and barely held back a snarl. He needed to get better control over himself. It didn’t matter what he felt. If he gave them a reason, they would finish him off. They would be right about him. And that, more than anything, was unacceptable.

So, he kept his mask of indifference on and played the cards he was dealt.

***

Shiv found Seymour predictably crying in the back alley leading into the kitchen of the Swan-Eating Toad. The small goblin was sniffling while smoking three different brands of cigarettes at the same time. He even took his spectacles off. Chef Georges must have really let him have it today.

“Too many onions again today?” Shiv asked.

Seymour jumped with a yelp and turned to glare at Shiv. The goblin snatched his glasses off the top of the dumpster and put them back on, doing his best to pretend he wasn’t crying. “When are you going to get a new joke?”

“When are you going to stop crying?”

“You’re an asshole, Shiv,” Seymour snapped.

“Get better at cutting. It’s not Georges’s fault you’re terrible at your job. How is he, today?”

“Pissed.”“I was asking for something specific. It’s not Georges if he isn’t pissed.”

Seymour shrugged. “Well, you know, with all the orders coming in and the festival coming up and Modatha leaving Blackedge…”“Yeah,” Shiv grunted. Short-staffed. Underpaid. Overstressed. Being a chef was worse than active combat in a number of ways. For one, if you lost a fight, you died, and it wasn’t your problem anymore. Screw up a dish, and you got a two-hour dissertation on why your parents were failed abortions and them not killing themselves was a great sin to the world.

Problem with that speech when it came to Shiv was he might just agree with it.

“I better go in and get changed before he finally makes the rest of the staff quit.”

***

“Itha, this tainted chicken is so felling raw that if it gets any rawer, the bloody bird will come back to bloody life and fly off!”

Chef Georges shouted every single word in the face of the sobbing elf girl, who just looked on, shell-shocked.

The rest of the staff were standing in various corners of the kitchen, facing the walls. Shiv shook his head. Someone ruined the chicken again. Shiv sniffed. And burned the goat too. Not good. Not good at all. Time to draw the beast’s attention.

Shiv entered the kitchen with a casual stride, outfit already on, knives spinning in both hands as he stormed toward his favorite victims: the potatoes. He winced as he saw what he had to work with.

Seymour really botched his job today, he thought. Damn.

“Chef. I’m back. Didn’t quite manage to kill myself this time. I’ll start on the potatoes.”

Georges waved Shiv off as he prepared to do his standard “throw plate of bad food against the wall next to the newbie’s head to break their spirit” technique when he froze, did a double-take, and narrowed his eyes at Shiv.

Here we go, Shiv said, twirling his knives and focusing on his task. Well, whatever happened here, it wouldn’t be worse than Adam Arrow.

“Everyone back to work. Don’t shit things up this time. Shiv. Stop. I want to talk with you outside.”

Shiv froze. His heart dropped. Oh, no. This was worse than Adam Arrow. Worse by a lot. Georges didn’t communicate with calm and measured tones unless something terrible was coming. The Omenborn gritted his teeth. Well, now that his desperate attempt at a Path failed, he couldn’t afford to lose this job. Nowhere else would take him. Nowhere near as decent. And Georges put up with quite a few of his absences…

“Shiv. Now.” The head chef’s voice brooked no argument.

Shiv put his knives down beside the mountain of unpeeled potatoes. “Yes, chef.” He glared at the potatoes. “I’ll be back for you bastards. No matter what.”

As he followed Georges outside, he made eye contact with Itha. The elf looked up at him with teary eyes and immediately twisted away, trying not to look at him. She was new. She would learn to ignore him at a distance like most of the others soon enough. That was if she managed to find the strength to stay. He gave her low odds of that.

Shiv and Georges emerged from the rear entrance of the kitchen. Seymour gave a terrified cry and sprinted back in. As the goblin vanished from sight, Shiv prepared to do whatever he could to keep this job. It was one of the few options he had left, after all. “Chef. I’ll work a month for free. I’ll do all the shit-work. I’ll—”

“Stop that. I’m not firing you.” Georges pulled out a smoke from his pocket and lit it with a gesture. Every now and again, Shiv found himself reminded that Georges was a Pathbearer too. Not a combat Pathbearer, but that didn’t stop the man from being able to use magic. “Smoke?”

“No. I got enough cancer bills as it goes.”

Georges shook his head. The chef’s dense mane of dirty blonde hair bounced as he did. His face was red from shouting too much, from staying in the kitchen too much, from drinking too much, and from brawling with rowdy customers too much. “You should try out for comedy night, lad. You got a real talent there too.”

“Yeah. People everywhere will come see me make jokes,” Shiv deadpanned. “The Omenborn delight.”

“Now, that sounds like a sex thing.”

Shiv winced. “Does it?”

“Yeah.”“You think I could have any talent at that?”

“You—Piss off.” Georges broke into a smirk as he tore the cigarette out from his mouth and chucked it at Shiv. The expensive Griffon Desperado brand smoke splattered into the nearby gutter. “I’m not firing you.”

Shiv nodded. “Am I getting pay docked?”“No. But I’m going to need you to work tomorrow. And the day after that as well.”

The Omenborn shrugged. He expected this. The entire city was going to be getting ready for the festival anyway. Shiv knew he was going to be a part of that effort if he didn’t die fighting lesser vampires. “Fine. But that’s not what you came out to tell me.”

“No,” Georges said. “I talked to Lord Arrow yesterday.”

“What a coincidence. I ran into his son earlier. He’s back. He’s getting married. He’s an Adept too.”

Georges grimaced. “Anything happen?”

“About the usual. He stared hatefully at me. Everyone else did the same thing. But he couldn’t quite muster up the strength to kill me. He’s his father’s son.”

Georges looked down at the ground as Shiv said that. “Well. I spoke to Lord Arrow. About you.”

“Ah, this’ll be bad,” Shiv said, feeling his stomach tighten again.

“You got a talent. For the knife. For paying attention in the kitchen. You don’t flinch when I yell. You don’t bend or break when things get bad. You’re like… You’re a bloody pillar, kid. You know that? A bloody pillar that I can always rely on when you’re not out there trying to get yourself killed. And you’ll be a good bloody cook if things go right.”

It took Shiv considerably more effort than he would have preferred to swallow the lump in his throat. He wasn’t used to compliments from anyone, and on the other end of the spectrum, Georges never gave any compliments, so this was likely a first for both of them. “If things go right?” Shiv asked.

“I asked Lord Arrow for permission to bestow you a Path,” Georges began carefully. “And he said no.”

That hit Shiv harder than he expected. “Huh.”“You… You got to understand that he… He doesn’t… He's not a bad man—”“But that’s not the problem, is it?” Shiv said, clenching and unclenching his fists. His heart was pounding, and the world—it was shrinking to a pinprick. There was so much frustration and anger inside him, and it flared every time he was told no. None of this was his fault. He didn’t make his parents do what they did. He didn’t ask to be cursed. But these were his cards, and damn did the cards like to mock him. Shiv took a deep breath and kept himself composed. Like a pillar. He was a pillar. He played his hand. “He still can’t decide. He’s still afraid. But he also can’t let go. He’s not nearly bad enough to just kill me. And he’s not nearly noble enough to release me, to let go of this final act of vicarious revenge.”

“I was there. I saw what your parents did. I lived through their failed ritual.”

“Semi-failed,” Shiv said. “The curse is still here. And I know what they did. Everyone keeps telling me. Every year, the papers remind me on the anniversary of the massacre. So what do I do about that?”

Georges stared at Shiv for a moment. “I want you to be Sous Chef for the Festival.”

Shiv blinked. “What?”

“I want you to be Sous Chef for the Festival. In fact, I don’t want anyone else.”

“I—the others—”“They’ll listen to you. They’ll do it if they want to keep working here. And they’ll do it because you’re a bloody nightmare with those knives. And at the end of the day, I want you to help me finish the courses specifically for Lord Roland Arrow and his family. And the cake for his son and his wife.”

More blinking. Shiv opened and closed his mouth. “I… I don’t know if this is a good idea, Georges. Lord Arrow won’t like this. I don’t even think he’ll allow it.”

“Good thing I won’t tell him until after,” Georges snorted.

Shiv’s mouth gaped at that. “You’re risking a lot—your indenturement contract… What if he punishes you for this?”

“That depends on how good the food we make for him is, doesn’t it?”

Shiv was at a loss for words. “I…”“Listen. We can’t change the past. The Dawn knows we want to. But we can still do something about the future. If Lord Arrow eats our dish and doesn’t drop dead, he’ll be more likely to think that you aren’t a threat. He might include indenturement or a Curse of Everlasting Nonaggression, but I think we let him accept you as a Chef. I mean… a bloody chef, for crying out loud. What are you going to do with that? Feed him to death?”

Now, it was Shiv staring at Georges like Itha did earlier. “I—” His hand was shaking again.

“What?”

“Georges… I don’t know if I’m worth the risk.”

