Even the color leached from the world as Ali tried to blink. But she couldn’t move, her mind filled with the whispers of powerful magic. Her body was frozen in place, stretched towards her mother. The Lich was unmoving. The ball of intense energy was pinned in place, not moving at all. Behind the Lich, a leaf hovered mid-fall.

Her library book, runes now faded to gray, hung frozen in place a few centimeters above the ground.

What…

“Aliandra,” her mother spoke, slowly rising to her feet, exhaustion etched upon her face. She alone had color. “I know you can hear me, but you will be unable to speak. It is ok, just listen. Nevyn Eld has exchanged his humanity to gain immortality and power in service to his Dark Gods. He must never have you. I’m sorry, he is too powerful for me to fight off. This is the only way I can protect you. Please do not hate me.”

The gray world around them flickered, and the Lich vanished, replaced by a scene with ghostly people standing frozen in the Grove while a gray sun shone in the sky above. Several birds hovered in the air; their wings frozen in mid-flight.

Ali’s mother walked up to her – the only thing moving in this strange frozen world – and reached out to cradle Ali’s face with gentle, warm hands.

“I wish this moment could last forever.”

Mom! Ali struggled to speak, to return her mother’s touch, anything. But her efforts were in vain.

The hands touching Ali grew translucent. Tiny motes of golden light floated up out of them, drifting slowly towards Ali. A sphere of golden energy began forming around her, encasing her entire body. More and more of her mother’s body grew transparent as her energy drifted out and merged with the powerful magical construct. And within the sphere, the magic grew inward, crystallizing the entire space. She could feel the powerful mana slowly seeping into her body and crystallizing within her.

Around her the gray world flickered again, restoring the night sky and the frozen forms of the Lich and his undead servants. The only color in this bizarre world was her mother, and the golden energy drifting from her, slowly forming the sphere around her.

She couldn’t blink. She couldn’t cry. All she could do was watch as her mother slowly faded.

“Always remember that I love you,” her mother said, as she finally dispersed into golden mana and the spell snapped into completion.

Ali’s heart screamed her pain as her mother faded into nothingness, and the last remnants of her magic solidified, the last sounds of her voice faded into silence.

A sudden, shatteringly loud gong sounded, its reverberation felt through the crystalline magic that held her. And then it sounded a second time.

[Realm] Elowynn Amariel [Guardian of the Realm] has cast the legendary spell: An Instant, Frozen in Time.

[Realm] A Guardian of the Realm has fallen.

Everything restarted. The leaf fell. The book clattered to the stone path. The black energy smashed into the golden sphere protecting her body and dissipated harmlessly into the air.

Nevyn Eld roared silently in fury, in the gray world outside her sphere.

The only thing that didn’t restart was Ali. She couldn’t move. She couldn’t hear. She could only see what was directly in front of her through the golden barrier. Her entire being crystallized within the glowing magical construct, held apart from the strange gray world, and the monster intent on her destruction, by the magic her mother had conjured.

Lightning flickered across the sky, and rain fell on her barrier. Nevyn Eld and his Death Knight minions silently raged and vented their fury against the unyielding magic for what seemed like an eternity. But all Ali could see was the memory of her mother’s face, and all she could hear was her last words.

The world shifted in flickers. The sun appeared suddenly in the sky. The Lich and his minions disappeared. The sun jumped forward across the sky while birds and animals vanished.

Ali struggled to grasp what was happening, her heart empty and desolate with grief. With all her being she desperately wished for her mother’s touch, or the sound of her voice.

The flickers came quicker and quicker, the sun crossing the sky in sudden discontinuous jumps. Night fell and passed in several snapshots and suddenly the sun was high in the sky again. The entire mountainside before her suddenly exploded, crashing down on the forest and covering the vast canopy with tons of rock and earth, blocking the sky and leaving her alone in a vast cavern of darkness.

As her consciousness faded, she wished only that she could cry.
