“Pardon me, Your Majesty, but you are making some kind of overexaggeration. They surely exist. If they are all but unnoticed, that is one thing, but you have sewers. Rats…are rats. They have burrows, just not in cities.”
Fetohep smiled.
“No, Fellbow. They do not exist. Allow me to give you a prescient example. Two hundred and thirty years ago, mosquito swarms were plaguing Chandrar. A rather prolific spawning. They flew across the borders into Khelt, as one might expect. They brought sickness, itches…a million skeletons were deployed. Every body of water was treated for their eggs, [Detect Insect] spells honed and sands combed for their offspring. Skeletons with fine mesh nets waved them through the air ceaselessly. Every bush, every plant in Khelt was treated to destroy the insects. Then the undead advanced. A hundred mile radius was cleared around Khelt in every direction. The Quarass at the time thought it might be an invasion at first until I clarified. Finally, I had a barrier spell erected across Khelt that killed every single bug that flew through it. There were five mosquito found the next year. Ah, I correct myself. Five mosquito eggs, as they could lay dormant for years, hence the thoroughness of the search. None found the year after. Bugs. Do not. Exist. In Khelt.”
The Named-rank Adventurer was once again reminded of both Khelt’s richness and its ruler’s single-minded obsession with, well, perfection. He shifted in his chair.
“…But the insects in Khelt are no plague, Your Majesty. Your subjects claim that.”
“Would it not be the result of plague spells? Some foreign assault by Roshal, Fellbow? The complaints and sightings are daily, now.”
Fetohep stood and stared out the window of his palace, disturbed. Alked peered at his back and coughed.
“…No, Your Majesty. Bugs are a regular occurrence.”
“A daily one?”
Fetohep swung around, and Alked nodded slowly. Fetohep tapped his teeth.
“Truly? Could it not be a plague?”
Alked thought of the tiny ants that probably came from a single colony in one woman’s bag of flour and a beetle nest that had required him to go out and just destroy it. Then he thought of a [Plague of Lice] spell.
“…I am positive, Your Majesty.”
“Hmm. But they must be stopped! Where one bug exists, more are hidden. And yet, and yet…my skeletons cannot clean. They are inept. I must control them myself, perhaps. A full deployment lest this spread. Do you have any advice, protector of my realm?”
The Stitch-man wore the expression of a Named-rank adventurer who had suddenly been relegated to bane of insects. Hilarity, uncertainty, dismay.
“I…could you control enough undead to sweep the city, Your Majesty?”
Fetohep was thinking, musing.
“Two hundred thousand may do. They may have to go across all of Khelt. Yes, I will try this. It is taxing, you see, Alked. You understand, the undead of Khelt were, until now, loyal and intelligent. I needed not direct them manually, which is what I shall do. What I now must do. I am not a [Necromancer]. I have some powers in that area from my status as ruler of Khelt, but in life, I was but a passable warrior and weak leader.”
“Were you not Level 50, Your Majesty?”
Fetohep flicked his fingers.
“Barely passable. I had no legend of me like the Herald of the Forest. A different time. I am the weakest of my predecessors in talent in my respective field…I digress. I can control the undead, but this shall take my focus entirely. Monitoring my kingdom is how I would prefer to use my focus, but if no other solution can be effected…”
“What about magical spells?”
“Magical spells tend to create magical monsters if overused. Additionally, it requires [Mages] to cast them in most cases, or scrolls. And Kheltians would be…hesitant to deal with so many insects.”
“Ah. A beetle would have them run screaming.”
Fetohep didn’t care for Alked’s honesty, but he sighed.
“…As so. Lastly, this is simply the role of skeletons. If alternatives needed to be found, there would be questions. I have looked into other solutions, but alas…the only other servants who can act autonomously would be Djinni or Golems. And I trust Djinni not at all and object to their use. As for Golems? I have bought near two hundred from Illivere and House Terland.”
“Is that not enough, Your Majesty?”
Alked ventured, and Fetohep glanced at him and realized the man was serious.
“Aha. No. Two hundred? Two hundred can barely provide one service for a city, Fellbow. If I deployed all two hundred purely in service of cleaning in Koirezune…they might stay on top of the insects. No. I have tasked most in service to Farmer Colovt.”
They had to have a source of food. Khelt could pay for it for a long time, but without the skeletons tilling the fields…Alked sobered.
“So, you must control the skeletons.”
“Yes. Unless there’s some…anti-insect Relic that can shield entire cities. I shall put my [Historians] upon the task. They must be dealt with, Fellbow. My citizens are noticing.”
And the bugs were spreading. They multiplied like, well, bugs. So, Fetohep sat on his throne the first night and began sending out skeletons by the thousand. Then realized he had to control them even more finely than he wanted.
Two hundred thousand is not enough! But even working without a second’s pause, he could barely keep up. Not for the first time since the Meeting of Tribes, Fetohep wished he had a [Necromancer] he could trust.
If I could induct Pewerthe or…no, two hundred thousand can at least clear the most obvious insects. It was only ten hours of managing two hundred thousand skeletons, more or less simultaneously.
The morning thereafter, Fetohep placed a call with the Magus-Crafter Femithain of Illivere and Lady Ulva Terland, inquiring if they might take a larger order of Golems as he had some interest in them.
Both were rather receptive to his request, but Magus-Crafter Femithain regretted to report that the war with Nerrhavia’s Fallen that Illivere had entered on the side of Empress Nsiia meant that his [Golem Artificers] were occupied and could not satisfy such an order.
House Terland also indicated that they would be delighted to produce a thousand Golems for Khelt over ten years’ time. When he requested they be their highest-grade, multi-faceted Autonomous-class Golems able to adapt to multiple situations, Lady Ulva Terland laughed…then realized he was serious. She informed him it was not a matter of cost, and the King of Khelt ordered as many Golems as she could make as quickly as she could make.
Then he spent the rest of the day sending [Messages] to Kevin, asking about these ‘vacuum cleaners’ that the young man had once mentioned.
Then Fetohep remembered Kevin was dead.
He returned to business. Commanded two hundred thousand skeletons again that night.
The next day, Fetohep smiled when no reports of insects came in—until someone found them nesting in their laundry hamper. He began sending [Messages] to Wistram about mass-cleaning spells, but Archmage Viltach also backed down on an order of a hundred thousand mass-insect cleansing ward totems.
The third night of directing the skeletons, King Fetohep was so occupied he missed three [Messages] from Jecaina and a query from the Quarass and had to reply to them in the morning. He spent the rest of the day having servants bring him notes on Relics of cleaning and searching up how fast ants spread.
He did not like the facts he obtained.
On the fourth night, Fetohep of Khelt dreamt his first dream in six hundred and fifty years.
 
——
 
The thing about being King Fetohep’s heir apparent was that it gave you very little power and a lot of work. Which, Pewerthe supposed, was appropriate.
The rest of her afterlife would be spent largely the same way, if her King was any indication. Not that it had been hard before this…she’d met with Fetohep twice a year, which he’d deemed sufficient, for only twenty minutes sometimes. They had lived like half-Elves in their unchanging kingdom.
These days, she might meet the king every day of the eight-day week, and it was rare they didn’t speak at least one day. And she had duties that took her outside of Koirezune too.
It meant her pottery classes and workshop were in danger of closing—which meant her license for the workspace might be revoked. Space was at a premium, and if she couldn’t justify her craft, she’d lose the entire cozy area down Giantsbreath Avenue filled with flowers and a morning breeze that swept through the city…
Argh. It would be fine. Pewerthe didn’t have time for her pottery beyond a few pieces each night, and her only hobby was communicating with some penpals via her [Message] scroll. She had a lot. More and more Kheltians were picking up people to talk with, but they often came across as too sheltered or didn’t realize their penpals couldn’t keep firing off [Message] spells because it cost money where they lived.
In fact, she was writing to one of them now using Wistram’s new messaging services.
 
Potgirl: I must go. I have to ride and check on some farms this morning.
SexyAir: Noo. What? They make you work?
Potgirl: It’s not work, it’s His Majesty’s interests.
SexyAir: Darling child, that’s just work for monarchs.
RealStitching: Forsooth, as I think it’s said. Doesn’t Khelt import everything?
Potgirl: His Majesty wants Sweetberries he doesn’t have to pay for. And I actually can tell if a plant is growing. I must remove myself and return at a later date.
SexyAir: sys
Quiescent Bloom: ???
SexyAir: ‘See you soon’. You have to srsly learn how to write.
RealStitching: No, I believe you do.
 
Pewerthe smiled as she closed the scroll that Fetohep had given her, one of the few perks of her job. Talking to outsiders made her feel better. Made her feel useful and important. She strode to a stable where horses were free for anyone who could ride and hadn’t hurt or endangered themselves or the animals.
You had to have a license for that too. A lot of deaths in Khelt came from injuries while riding or operating vehicles. Still very few, but it was the leading cause of death, so the handler checked her license twice.
“I’ve seldom seen an All-Animals pass, Potter…Pewerthe? Oh—”
Yes, yes, the Potter Who Returned. The Girl Who Lived Outside For Several Years. Pewerthe kept her face straight, but the younger [Handler] was congenial. He eyed her nose and faint scars, but he had a few himself from horses. The more physically demanding your hobby or job, the more tolerant you were in Khelt, she’d found.
“Where are you bound? I ask only because some of the animals do better the longer they go.”
“Round trip to Farmer Colovt’s new farms and back. It’s a four hour trip?”
Normally, she’d take an undead horse and carriage, but like everything else…the [Handler] seemed to read her mind.
“That’s hard, even with our best saddles, if you don’t have the legs for it. I’d offer a carriage, but they haven’t been available of late. Needed in New Jecrass, I think.”
Another moment where Pewerthe felt her stomach churn. The secrets unravelling. She crossed her arms casually as he led her to the stables where happy horses, camels, and even magical animals were trotting around a huge ranch area rather than being penned in. Several came over excitedly as he chose among them.
“I can ride that long without issue. Do you get a lot of complaints about the lack of carriages?”
“Oh, constantly. Especially because half the citizens who want to use the carriages wish to visit New Jecrass, but it’s too dangerous for that. Some of the soldiers who went north tell me it’s still a wild and dangerous place. One can be attacked there, you know!”
“By [Bandits]?”
The young man gave Pewerthe a blank look, then shook his head.
“No, other citizens, I mean! They shove each other and raise fists—terrible things. Though the ones who come here are well-behaved. It’s not that much grumbling. The bugs were worst. I had to deal with flies around the animals’ manure.”
“Ah, well, it is spring. These things happen now and then.”
The [Handler] shook his head in the face of Pewerthe’s blithe comments.
“The city’s abuzz with it, Potter. So many complaints. It must be some terrible migration of insects! But these last few days, I’ve not heard of more than one or two incidents. Those skeletons are back sweeping the streets. One was cleaning the manure pits just the other night—I had worried since they seemed less active of late. These are exciting times, so I don’t complain, but you know our olders.”
That was good. Pewerthe nodded slowly and smiled. The ‘olders’ certainly did like to complain, but she suspected even the youngest Kheltians would be up in arms if things were really bad.
“Well then, thank you for this lovely mare. I’ll be back.”
“Of course. Wait, you forgot your bag of treats for her! And if she tosses her head, it means she’s uncomfortable, so check her hooves or for anything on the road…”
Pewerthe was on her way after a few more minutes, and the ride to Colovt’s farm was not bad. She set a brisk pace, enough for the mare to clearly enjoy actually having to run, and Pewerthe realized she was not that saddle-ready. But she doggedly kept going, even when she felt a bit saddlesore. This was nothing to worry about. She knew that.
 
——
 
Farmer Colovt was another Kheltian who had real levels. More than Pewerthe’s. And he had weathered hands, even if his skin was in immaculate condition. But he actually knew his trade—over a hundred thousand skeletons and four dozen Golems were moving around the huge fields he had constructed, and he doffed his straw hat to bow to her.
He knew her true rank.
“Potter, His Majesty’s attention is an honor—”
“Oh, stop it, Colovt. You know he values you, and I’m just Pewerthe.”
She was tired and a bit saddle-sore, but the [Farmer] just smiled at her.
“I don’t grow tired of awe for our [King]. Do you?”
“…In some ways, I think the awe wears off. But I do admire and love him. I’m just tired, and you shouldn’t speak like someone who doesn’t know him, Colovt. He respects someone who speaks to him not like a fawning subject, but an equal of sorts.”
Pewerthe ducked her head by way of apology, and Colovt offered her some purified water in a crystal cup. She drank gratefully as her horse munched on some grass.
Grass since the entire area was being misted by water spewing out of a series of magical gemstones configured to draw from Khelt’s aqueducts and hydrate the entire area. Colovt had Golems, the skeletons of Khelt, and magical backing from Khelt’s mages, who were still top-tier in the world.
Everything he needed to ensure Khelt could feed itself. The problem was that Colovt’s face was still anxious as he gestured to the fields.
