He had not dreamed since the night before his death. Not once in six hundred and fifty years.
Perhaps, as the [Sage] Y’klitre once claimed, the dead truly did dream. But the undead had no dreams. There was only, for Fetohep of Khelt, the permanent, eternal wake.
He had never described what it felt like for so few, even [Necromancers], had ever asked until his chosen successor had wondered what she might experience. That she had asked when all other candidates over the long centuries had not spoke to the fact she was the best among them. Thus, he had told Pewerthe the [Potter].
“What is it like? Ah…it is a difficult thing to explain. What do you think it is?”
Solemnly, the brown-skinned young woman with a plain, sometimes unnoticeable face—a twice-broken nose from her time as the captive of [Bandits], and eyes that flashed with cunning insight an owl might envy—brushed at some potter’s mud on one cheek. She ignored the handkerchief made of Seasilk that Fetohep pointedly glanced at; he had one placed next to her whenever she attended him.
She did not have royal decorum. Her posture was good, for a [Potter] sat all day, but she smelled of loam. Her clothing was not…refined. She wore a workwoman’s overalls stained with colors and mud. She did not carry herself with his regal authority, as if his will were draped over the throne room itself, a carpet of his regality that made any moment he was part of royal and austere.
These things she must learn, but the stubborn young woman was proud of her class. And she alone in this vast kingdom dared argue with the monarch of Khelt.
It was one of the virtues by which he had chosen her. Khelt’s ruler must have the will to survive dying. Khelt’s ruler must have the morality to lead, the foresight to choose, the strength of arms…
She lacked so many qualities, but so had he. He had few options. If she were to die…Fetohep’s golden gaze focused on Pewerthe as she thought. If she were to die, Alked Fellbow might well be her successor, for all he had no knowledge of Khelt.
Dark times were coming. Nothing Fetohep had placed his faith in might remain. The undead of Khelt had lost their ghosts, the anchor of knowledge and experience that gave them their famed intelligence. Khelt had lost its eternal monarchs who watched over them from the afterlife. And soon Khelt might…
“What do I think it is, Your Majesty? I imagine being undead is…cold.”
“Cold? Why would this be, Potter?”
He smiled, and she ducked her head.
“I do not know, Your Majesty. Perhaps it is because I think of death as cold. Bodies grow cold. Should death not be the same? I imagine you feel, if not cold, then nothing at all, perhaps. That you are will and intention, and your body is but the vessel your spirit inhabits. Much like a—a Golem.”
He shifted, then. Crisscrossing a leg on the throne. For she was not entirely wrong, and her insight sometimes unnerved him, though he would never show it.
“Close.”
Here sat Fetohep of Khelt, whose emaciated body wore open robes of royal purple written with the names of his every subject. Upon his head glinted the bone crown and ivory tokens hand-scribed by Khelta herself. He carried no arms upon his person, but he had been a warrior; when he moved, his grace was that of a king, but the surety came from a man who had once commanded his own body as well as armies.
He…forgot at times. But her words evoked memory, so the King of Khelt spoke.
“It is not pure emptiness, Pewerthe. I would rather it. What will you feel? I recall…exercise as a mortal man. My lungs burning until I could not but breathe. Days when I drank or stayed up too late and lay abed, cursing the sloth that gripped my bones. These feelings…you understand them?”
He glanced at her, and she drew her black brows together.
“…Do I understand staying up too late and wanting to sleep in? Yes, Fetohep.”
“Good. One does wonder about the commonality of experiences. Is it a—common emotion?”
He had forgotten. Pewerthe nodded again, slowly.
“I did it just last night, Your Majesty. Too long writing [Messages]. Half your servants might be too long awake at night, preparing for their duties here or bragging about the honor. Or asking others what they should look at when they are not serving.”
Fetohep glanced at some of the aforementioned servants, who drew from a lottery to work in the palace, and they bowed instantly, staring at Pewerthe with frank amazement that she dared be so open—or that Fetohep was so interested in their lives. He saw a flash of silver hair, yellow, pink—coloring one’s hair was all the rage, he understood.
Fashions swept Khelt like a faerie’s fancy. One day he would see everyone with hats, desiring the biggest, the best, and the next, they had it in their heads to learn fencing or play tennis. New things from Earth were always hits.
He had thought…truly thought that when he proclaimed they should learn a practical trade, learn to fight or gain classes, they would stick with it.
They had not. In the weeks after his return from the great battles at the Meeting of Tribes, they had been passionate. In a month, all but those who had found something to love had ceased to practice skill at arms or show up for daily practice. Today…
This story of Khelt’s woes was a long one. Fetohep returned his attention to Pewerthe.
She gave him hope.
“Then you understand the opposite, Pewerthe. When one is filled with energy after a day of rest. When you spring out of bed or drink the strongest tea or restorative before heading into battle. That shaking adrenaline? To be undead is to be…just before that. Not tired. But not full of energy either. It is to be active, to be filled with just enough energy as to never want for more. And never to feel otherwise.”
He was always awake. He always could exert his body or mind to the utmost capacity. But he would never again feel that burning rush. Pewerthe seemed to understand this, because her smile dimmed.
“It seems…difficult to be always so, Your Majesty.”
“Perhaps.”
An admission he would not have made last year. Fetohep lifted a hand, summoning a cup filled with liquid mana. He showed her the liquid which could fall and become a gas-like haze if he sloshed it unwisely.
“Some things—magic—can create a sense of greater energy or reduce it within me. Otherwise, I am thus. Much like a Golem, as you say. Though I do feel my body. It has no sensation. No pain, but I can feel it. I know the shape of my hand. I know it flexes, but not what that feels like. This is what it means to be undead. But also…”
His head turned sideways just so. Chin turned up, and he tapped his bare, yellowed teeth with a finger.
“Perhaps an illustration of other rulers of Khelt would do. Servants. Find me smaller illustrations of the rulers of Khelt. All of them.”
The servants attending the two dashed from the room with bows, hurrying to find images of Khelta, Serept, and the other rulers preceding Fetohep. Pewerthe raised her brows.
“I have seen the many likenesses of…oh.”
Fetohep waited for the servants to rush off before returning to the conversation. He did not lower his voice, but she scooted closer on the little chair. These words were for her alone.
“That is how it feels, Pewerthe. But the other thing that is required, the reason I chose you and any of your successors must have the same will, is this. There is the silence. The mortal form I bear, and my soul for company. We are alone. Betimes, I feel great powers of undeath in the distance, like distant voices. But I share no kinship with other mortals beyond my love of Khelt itself. My heart is silent. Will anchors me. Will and duty. The silence of my resolve and soul. And in the distance…”
His eyes winked out, and his head rose. Fetohep seemed to peer across the great horizon as he had once seen Erin doing. As Khelta had once turned and proclaimed the doom of Khelt. And he heard it. Perhaps the ghosts had forgotten, but he?
“There, like the sea and thundering of the tide, in the distance, oft-ignored or unheard, is that roaring.”
“Roaring, Fetohep?”
The golden flames flickered. The magic flaring in his eyesockets, golden fire pulsing upwards, subtly altered. Was there a flash of green? Just for a second? A single twining light among the gold?
“It sounds like a chorus. A million, a billion, a trillion voices all crying out as one. And below it all, the first word. It speaks one thing: death. A scream urging me to lay waste to the living. To forsake all vows. I know it echoes to every body that rises.”
She shifted. The golden gaze swung back to her, and the green flicker was gone. Fetohep leaned back in his throne.
“It will be loudest when you first wake. Master it. Even the least of Khelt’s dead master it. Khelta spoke of this voice, the will of undeath itself. There is nothing to it.”
“What is it, Your Majesty? Instinct? Some grave curse from the first [Necromancers]?”
He shrugged.
“Khelta’s own writings in her journals are there for you to peruse. I have never found an answer. But that is what it is.”
Will and silence and eternal wake. A grave weight. She sat there and looked him in the eyes, troubled.
“I do not want this, Your Majesty. It sounds like a dreadful curse.”
“I know. It is. Will you bear it, my chosen heir?”
“…Yes.”
He smiled. He always smiled, but he could not in his heart for her. The King of Khelt bowed his head. Then, when she had left for her life of many distractions and delights, he sat there. He did not rest, for he could not. He simply worked.
Duty unending.
 
——
 
His dream came to him as he worked. Sorting through reports of insects in each city, town, and village in his kingdom and manually assigning skeletons to cleaning duties. Going to each one—and he had assigned over two hundred thousand—and re-checking them to make sure they were working and not…going astray.
They were doing it more and more. They obeyed orders, but not with the same grace or efficiency as before. The ghosts were dead. They had given Khelt’s undead their loyalty and minds. Now…they were still loyal, but foolish. Prone to mistakes. Inept; they could get lost. Or, he feared, do worse.
So he checked them. Two hundred thousand plus skeletons, correcting any that ran into issues, moving them to comb street-by-street for the bugs. In places he had never thought to check; cracks in walls, sewers. It had been so easy before.
When he finished checking all two hundred thousand undead, he started again from the beginning. This was how he passed a night, of late. In the days when spring began, he thought he could keep doing this night-after-night.
He was wrong. The dream stole over him as his mind worked, the constant, repetitious nature of his tasks blurring together until the dream came in waking. A vision. Memory and falsity, imagination, all rolled into one.
A man inhaled. He could not remember his own face. Only that when he raised his hands, they were strong, callused. A halberdier’s trained forearms, brown skin like Pewerthe’s…nothing else. Did he have hair? Was he bald? 
The details of his life had fallen from him like the grains of sand blowing around his face. Where was he? He stood in a garden of dead plants and knew it. The wailing gardens of Queen Xierca, his beloved Queen. 18th Ruler of Khelt.
But the plants were dead. The obnoxious blue blooms that drove people away with their wails and screams were rotted to the vine. Withered and flaking away as a sandstorm struck Khelt. But this was wrong.
He had preserved Xierca’s cursed gardens, just transplanted them bloom-by-bloom elsewhere. Sandstorms did not hit the capital of Koirezune; magic protected the citizens from that.
Yet it blew and seemed to take parts of his body away as the man felt at his face and didn’t sense any features. He walked forwards, a puppet, confused. Falling to pieces.
If this was her garden then…
There. He saw Queen Xierca as he had known her. Not as she had come to him, a ghost remembering her stitched flesh, but the withered, mummified corpse adorned in the robes of Khelt’s rulers, just like him. Her eyes glowed with a pale, icy-blue flame. So piercing in their insight that men and women had wept before them.
“My Queen?”
She had been facing the palace. When she turned to him, he saw that eternal smile she wore, like him. Her robes swept around, the fur lining glittering, and he saw her hand rise as the rings he had inherited shone. 
The wind blew. Parts of her face and body flaked away, as if the sand were disintegrating her. Fetohep saw Queen Xierca falling to dust and raised his own hand.
“Xierca?”
Then he saw the palace unmaking itself before the sandstorm. Stumbling, Fetohep tried to climb the stairs, searching for Xierca as she blew away. Going towards the throne room. 
The world was falling to bits. He could see the lower levels of the palace blowing away as he ran now. Lungs straining for breath. His body was so slow, so weak. When he came to the throne room, he could not breathe. He gazed towards the throne, thinking to sit there and halt this. But the throne was gone.
There was only…a stone bier. Frozen, engraved like a tomb of Khelt’s greatest heroes. He had never seen it with his own two eyes, so his imagination made the resting place regal. Fit for the [Queen] who lay there.
Khelta. Her hands were folded across her chest, and she was blowing away as the sandstorm swept into the throne room. Fetohep stumbled forwards and saw three figures kneeling before her berth.
He knew them.
Hecrelunn, the first [Vizir] of Khelt, the great mage and spellcaster, turned crimson eyes to him. He was dwarfed by Thuermenon, the half-Giant who had been Serept’s greatest honor-guard in life. And last was Captain Cikroleth, who had come with Sand at Sea and its undead crew. Each one a protector in Khelt’s hour of need. Its last champions.
They turned to gaze at him, faces emotionless, each one an undead being regarding him from where they had died in the age of legends. He halted, panting, and a final figure rose. 
Erin Solstice. She had been bending over Khelta. But now, as the undead ruler blew away, she stepped backwards. The throne of Khelt appeared behind her, and he waited.
Waited for her to take a seat. But instead, the throne and the wall dissolved into a sea of dust as she was walking. Walking into the Great Desert itself as his kingdom vanished. Only the man remained, now grasping at the sand. The three Revenants regarded him with contempt, sorrow, and pain in their gazes. Then they turned and walked away. And he…
“Your Majesty? Your Majesty.”
