She’d seen a single image of the Carven City’s people boiling out the great monstrosity’s orifices and climbing the Jaw. Like a sea of zombies, biting, tearing at the giant undead. It was crushing them second by second, but they had no fear. If the legends of it were true—
“Me? What do I say?”
Frieke whirled, and Pewerthe’s lips moved faster than her heart. The [Potter of Secrets] glanced up, and everyone turned to her.
“Tell him…His Majesty of Khelt is raging. A citizen of New Jecrass was slain by a [Bandit] who came from the north. No, an entire family. Alked, repeat the warning to the Claiven Earth. You are both petitioning His Majesty of Khelt.”
She had a quill in her hands, and she was writing in her personal [Message] scroll. Frieke’s mouth fell open, then she was scrambling for a quill. Pewerthe saw Alked’s head turn to her as Captain Cikroleth grinned. The Named-rank studied Pewerthe.
“Medain will take immense casualties if it can even defeat the Jaw. It’s not the Claiven Earth.”
The undead [Captain] nodded.
“Aye. A bastard’s lie. Or do you disagree with Khelt’s heir?”
He placed a hand on his side, favoring the hilt of his shortsword, and Alked hesitated just once.
“No.”
Pewerthe met his gaze levelly.
“If I sent Sand at Sea, they would be hours to reach Medain, and they are but one ship, even if you and Frieke crewed it. This is what I deem best, Alked. Tell them to break the Jaws.”
He considered it, like a man approaching a battle from all sides, then nodded.
“Of course.”
They wrote and watched as the Jaws rampaged into the night. The city had gone quiet outside, Pewerthe realized. The citizens had scrying orbs. They had heard the news. A citizen—a family of Khelt had died, and this was the punishment of the King of Khelt.
She wondered if they understood how this appeared to other nations. When she sent a servant to check, they gave her a simple report:
“Citizens are watching the destruction and battle with solemnity, Potter. They mourn the damage to the Jaws of Zeikhal. There were tears when the one in the Claiven Earth lost one of its pincers.”
She just studied him, and the servant himself stared at the images of a Jaw collapsing outside A’ctelios Salash and gazed away, as if that hurt his spirit. The sand was red with blood. It had torn pieces out of A’ctelios’ head, but the wounds seemed to be regrowing, and the Jaw was dying. Pewerthe murmured.
“I see. You are dismissed.”
She sat into that long night, watching the scrying orbs, writing replies to her friends abroad, and counting the missives on Fetohep’s [Message] scrolls rising in number. She had produced a quill and was inking it when there was a voice.
“Pewerthe?”
She turned, ready to react, to speak, and saw a figure standing in the doorway. His eyes were banked, the fires low. The golden flames of King Fetohep’s eyes reflected something she had scarcely seen in him.
Fear.
Guilt.
Horror.
“Your Majesty—the Jaws—”
“They have halted. One is dead. A’ctelios Salash has slain its Jaw. The other two have retreated. I have sent Captain Cikroleth and Alked Fellbow to…effect their dismantling once they reach New Jecrass. Have you communicated in my name?”
“Not yet. I was about to—”
The [Message] scroll floated towards Fetohep as he beckoned for it. He caught the golden parchment and tapped something, then read. His eyes dimmed further, and he stood there, but then he produced a golden quill made of magic and began to write.
“Your lie was an apt one, Pewerthe. I shall rectify all that I can. Rest—”
“Your Majesty, what happened? Was it an attack?”
She had to know. Fetohep glanced up, briefly, and shook his head as his hand moved. He snapped his fingers, and servants appeared, relieved, overjoyed. Heedless of the cost.
“No. Servants, scrying orbs now. In my throne room.”
They vanished, and Fetohep regarded her.
“I believe it was the skeletons.”
“The…the cleaners?”
“Yes. Too many, too long. I was unconscious for…a day? Yes. I dreamed, Pewerthe. I dreamed for a day and thousands died.”
He had dreamed of Khelt’s ruination and woke to the sound of crumbling dynasty. The King of Khelt stood there as she rose and bowed, and the same fear was on her face, of someone thrust into a role she was not ready for.
“I can help, Your Majesty. The tale is a decent one. It will have repercussions, but…”
Then she stopped, and digested part of what he’d said. King Fetohep nodded, and his worries about the bugs seemed so small. But he said it, so softly.
“There will be more insects as the spring deepens. Alternative solutions must be found. I shall release the Claiven Earth and Medain from the terms of their surrender forthwith.”
It would not be the same again. Then, as the overweary [King] sat back upon his throne, and Kheltians began to realize something was wrong…
Then came the Prophet.
