“Perhaps I…I am not so confident because my efforts, despite all I am given, fail to bear fruit. Literally. You see my fields, Pewerthe?”
She peered at the swathes of green, occasionally changing into bands of other colors, that marked huge fields of various plants. Sweetberries, as she’d said to her friends, but also mundane crops like Yellats or corn—some had to be controlled in different bounded fields marked by pillars of hardened magicore that raised the temperature or adjusted the humidity.
She even saw a Terland-made Golem taking a soil sample. The wooden Golem had leafy limbs like it were a tree and inserted some soil into a compartment on its hand before discharging the soil. It seemed to approve of the results and went back to tromping down the field, inspecting crops.
It all appeared very good to Pewerthe, but Colovt wasn’t happy.
“Something is wrong with half my crops, Pewerthe. The Yellats have already had a first harvest. I could let them lay in the ground long as needed, of course, but I wanted to check…they’re fine. A few other crops, but the Sweetberries? These cucumbers? I think it’s the imported seeds or something…nothing’s growing.”
That alarmed her.
“They look green to me.”
She could see the plant’s leaves growing; some of it didn’t even look like plants. Cucumbers, for instance, were viney flowers of yellow, and she refused to believe the yellow buds would turn into the oblong cucumbers she knew and cordially despised. But Colovt just knelt over them, frowning hugely.
“They’ve been so for weeks. This is wrong. They should continue growing. I’ve never had this issue in my entire life. I’ve sent for [Druids] to figure out the problem. At first, I thought it was the Golems or foreign seeds, but these are ones from my own crops I re-planted.”
Her heart began to beat worriedly.
“If it’s a disease or something…?”
He gave her a wretched glance.
“I don’t know. My Skills aren’t what other [Farmers] usually have. I don’t have any to prevent disease or rid myself of pests, Pewerthe! Some for poor soil quality from my time in Reim, but the rest is just quality-focused. Skills to make the yields better or shorter—I haven’t needed anything else before now.”
He was still a Kheltian [Farmer]. Pewerthe stomped over to another field and saw bright red flowers above the Sweetberries.
“Could it be they’re missing nutrients?”
“The Golems don’t think so! And they’ve been a huge help. The skeletons are not as—as responsive as they used to be. Perhaps because so many work here? Or they are busy in New Jecrass?”
He didn’t know the entire truth, so Pewerthe let that go, but the Terlands’ farming Golems seemed very good at their jobs. Colovt mopped at his brows.
“They even helped me with those insects that everyone’s spoken of. We had a number of them—gone now, of course, and I’m used to the odd bite or finding them, but perhaps? If His Majesty would send for another [Farmer], I might be reassured. There’s a woman from Germina who I have written to who may be able to figure it out.”
“Give me her name and I’ll see about bringing her in. Just to consult, you understand. It wouldn’t do for anyone to think things were ill. Khelt must be best in all ways.”
“Of course, Pewerthe. I just hate to let His Majesty down, but I don’t know…”
Colovt seemed like he’d been tearing his hair out over his first harvest for weeks. Pewerthe took down the name of the woman and promised to look into it. She even saw some [Druids] coming as she rode back to Koirezune: more flower than man, one of them, so bestrewn with blooms that his clothing was literally alive, some leafy overcoat of flowers.
And bugs. Bees and butterflies clung to him, and she guessed he’d come from the one [Druid]-based settlement far to the northwest. It was the only one allowed such insects, and most Kheltians never visited because of the ‘hazards’. Another [Druid] was a Falcon Beastwoman who flew down. Not high-level, but higher than most Kheltians; they were allowed to cherish nature to the fullest extent there.
Well, she hoped they’d find the solution, but her report to Fetohep wouldn’t be that promising. Not the worst, either; Colovt was growing Yellats, and he’d shown her enough to feed even Koirezune…for a day. Assuming you could get anyone to eat raw Yellats.
 
——
 
The point was that Pewerthe saw progress despite the many problems she knew Khelt to be facing. She had just returned to her workshop after dropping her tired mare off at the stables and was putting her feet up on a little heated footstool while she reached for a scrying orb and some clay.
She’d see Fetohep that evening; Colovt’s report wasn’t dire, and that hard ride deserved a moment of pottery. Pewerthe began to spin some truly black clay on her potter’s wheel—magically powered to spin, not manual—and began finding some bright colors to mix into the clay.
She wanted something with real contrast, like a vision of stars in pitch blackness or something. Anything to match the tales Fetohep had told of her of that [Innkeeper] who was Khelt’s ruler as much as she. If Erin Solstice were to take the throne…not that anyone would need to replace Fetohep for a long time. But if she were to do so, could Pewerthe cede the position to her easily?
I must think she is fit to rule Khelt, if so. Though my opinion may not matter if Khelta herself approved of her. I just want to know what she is like.
Fire. Pewerthe was picking out colors like those magical flames she had seen the [Innkeeper] make when a rattatatatat! on her door made her jump. Her hand hit the clay, and it instantly spun itself into a lump.
“Khelta’s bones, I’m closed!”
She snapped at the knocker, annoyed. This wasn’t that rude; Kheltians might be a people without physical strife, but they could be nasty and socially obstreperous. So much so that throwing hands was Pewerthe’s trump card at times. However, the urgent voice from the door was both a whisper and shout.
“Potter Pewerthe! Is that you?”
“What? Speak up!”
She had to get up as someone hissed at her. Pewerthe groaned as she turned off her footstool, pottery wheel, and stomped over to the door. She glared as she yanked it open—three people nearly bowled her over.
Each one wore black and gold on their tunics. She blinked. That was the mark of the palace.
“What is it? Does His Majesty want me that urgently?”
They scrambled up, and one of them, another day-servant chosen to work in the palace, grabbed her urgently.
“It—he—you must come quickly! We checked your workshop, but they said you’d left! And you didn’t answer our [Messages]!”
She blinked, then checked her scroll and realized she hadn’t—Pewerthe sighed.
“What is it? If His Majesty wanted me, he’d send a skeleton.”
She was used to them walking towards her and his voice speaking through their mouths, or one rising from the ground where they were buried, delivering instructions. But the man clutching her arm had a face like he’d been stabbed. And she knew what that looked like. He was sweating, eyes darting around as another shut the door, then yanked it back open.
“It—you must come very quickly. Adventurer Fellbow is there, but you are on the list of those to contact.”
“What? What’s wrong?”
Then she felt a note of alarm, and when none of them wanted to say—it was not far to the palace. She could have run, but they insisted on walking, on acting casual. Of course, that probably made it more obvious, but when she got to the palace and saw all the servants gathered around the doors to the throne room, some on their knees—Pewerthe stared at them then strode into the vast chambers.
“Your Majesty?”
Alked Fellbow turned from a figure sitting upon the throne with perfect, regal posture. King Fetohep of Khelt stared out into the distance, ever as she had known him, perfect of grace. Unwavering, his robes pooled around the ancient Truegold throne.
There were no golden flames in his eye sockets. Alked Fellbow had an arrow loosely nocked to Heaven’s Arc, and he had been feeling at the ruler of Khelt’s head. Pewerthe stopped.
“Your Majesty?”
 
——
 
“We found him like this last night. At first, we thought—he did not wish to be disturbed. But when the sun rose and he did not move, we attempted to rouse him.”
“How?”
The day-servants were terrified. One spoke to Alked and Pewerthe as they stood in a drawing room. Not the throne room; they were so terrified half could barely speak there.
“W-we called to him. Then raised our voices. We thought he might wake, but after hours passed—”
“You should have sent for me immediately!”
“We thought—then you were gone, and—”
Pewerthe was tearing through a book Fetohep had given her. She riffled through instructions on how to ring the Dragonward Bells, commands to activate this function of the palace or this contingency. Alked wanted to peer over her shoulder, but she snapped.
“Don’t touch this book or even read it! The ward-spells will kill you just for looking!”
He backed up at once. This was a relic of Khelt. Instructions for the next ruler. The next heir. Which was now her.
She had thought she had at least another century. Fetohep’s body was not in nearly as much disrepair as Xierca’s had been. He was…she…
“He might not be dead.”
“He cannot be!”
The servants wailed as Alked spoke, and Pewerthe’s heart twisted in her chest. She spoke, trying to keep her voice from shaking.
“This has never occurred in the history of his rule that we know of, Alked. After the Winter Solstice…you recall his orders to you?”
She remembered them. He’d had her locked in a safe-room while he confronted the woman he refused to name. Had Alked aim an arrow at his head so that if he fell—the Named-rank adventurer was thinking the same thing, but his reply was incisive. He wasn’t panicking.
“I know, but he thought he’d be possessed. This isn’t the same scenario. Nor is His Majesty truly dead, I think.”
“How can you tell?”
She glanced at him; there were no instructions about malfunctioning Revenants she could find in the book. There was a…ritual though. A way to kill herself and bind herself to Khelt if need be. She stared at the words, then tore her attention away.
I will do as I must. But first—the Stitch-man replied, eyes flicking to the throne room.
“Undead don’t die like the living. If he was alive and had passed, I would observe his body stiffen like it is now. It’s a known phenomenon among non-Stitch-folk. Bowels empty. The skin grows taut, and joints lock up—”
One of the servants blanched, but Pewerthe nodded impatiently.
“But undead don’t do that?”
“No. They turn to dust or crumble. Skeletons crumble; zombies collapse. But the nature of undead is that they reanimate as long as there’s potential, usually a head. If he were…dead, then I’d expect his corpse to reanimate. Which would mean facing an undead of Fetohep’s caliber. I’d imagine it would start at Draugr-strength—at least. Probably higher-level.”
There was a horror of a thought. Pewerthe swallowed and cast her eyes towards the throne room.
“Have all the day-servants leave the throne room. Do not let them go into the city. No one is to speak a word of this. Understood?”
The man was staring at her uncomprehendingly.
“Potter, what are you talking about? We—we must rouse His Majesty at once! Surely there’s some way to heal him? If he is—is—the next ruler of Khelt. Someone must help us! The Quarass?”
She closed the book with a snap, and he jumped as she stood. Alked’s eyes fell upon her.
“The next ruler of Khelt is me. Until we know if His Majesty is…here or not, I will do as he has appointed and trained me to do. Seal the palace. No one is to speak of this.”
They gazed at her in horror, and one of them dropped one of Fetohep’s favorite drinks. The ghostly liquid spilled out as they gaped at Pewerthe.
“You? The potter?”
She sighed.
 
——
 
Locking down the palace was the easy part. The servants were in no fit mood to do anything. Most were frozen, but Pewerthe quickly realized that getting anything else done was going to be—hard.
“We cannot admit His Majesty is incapable. Not until we are certain. If I am Khelt’s next ruler, I must have the authority of Khelt, and I do not. Not for its citizens or the undead.”
She grimaced as she stood with the only capable people in the capital: Alked Fellbow, Frieke of Medain, and an officer of Khelt’s armies, [Death Commander] Lanodest. They were on break from their duties in New Jecrass and luck had them here. They had served during the war against the Claiven Earth and Medain, and that made them capable enough.
Frieke of Medain and her Seahawk did not seem happy about the news, but they were still Named-rankers. Lanodest appeared ready to puke, and Pewerthe felt the same.
“Just so I’m clear—you cannot command the undead?”
“I can command them like any citizen of Khelt if I see them. The wardens of the vaults recognize me and would listen to me. But I don’t command the breadth and scope of Khelt, no. If I speak, they will not rise across the land. Nor do I…look the part. You saw how those servants reacted to me.”
They were not taking her new leadership well. One look at her and they’d asked why Fetohep had chosen a [Potter]. Why no one had told them. Pewerthe’s smile was grim.
“I am well-known, but it would be like hearing your next-door neighbor were the new King of Destruction, adventurers. Yet I have been prepared, and I was chosen near a decade hence. Understand that it is true. Do you doubt it, Death Commander Lanodest?”
He bowed immediately.
“If His Majesty wills it, let it be so, Potter. But…”
He glanced up at her, and she saw doubt in his eyes. Yes. Pewerthe touched her face.
She did not look the part. No mortal, living, and breathing soul could command Khelt. If she were a Revenant, undead, with eyes of fire, then she would be their Queen, regardless of her background.
But I do not want to die yet. Frieke raised a cautious hand.
“Er, killing yourself and rising as a Revenant seems a bit extreme at the moment, Your Majesty.”
“My thoughts exactly. But I am in a difficult position, then. I have no command of the undead or living. But it must be until we know what is wrong. Have the [Magi] arrived?”
Alked glanced at the doorway.
“They’re gathering.”
“Good. Then swear all to secrecy and inform them of the situation, Alked. You direct them. You will give orders to the servants. Lanodest, you will command the undead and army. Frieke, you will represent His Majesty’s voice if we need communicate with other nations.”
