All three nodded at this, and Alked looked unsettled, but then agreed. He was a known subordinate of Fetohep and a Named-rank. He strode out of the throne room as Pewerthe glanced around.
“I’ll use this study. Come here to find me, and get the servants running messages. We shall say nothing, show no weakness.”
Khelt could continue running a day without Fetohep, surely. Enough time to uncover what was wrong, right?
 
——
 
The [Magi] had no idea what was wrong with him. A pale-faced [Grand Magus]—a magister Recime, formerly of Belchan—gave a report to Pewerthe.
“I have never seen the like, Potter—er, Your Highness. I studied some death magic in Belchan, but it wasn’t taught widely after Az’kerash. And you know the rules against death magic in Khelt.”
“I’m aware. But can anything be done?”
“We—very cautiously—tried to inject death mana into His Majesty. That might rouse or empower undead. But he had an abundance of it, and the palace is steeped in death magic. That was not the issue. More than that? You could have a [Necromancer] try to command him, but such a powerful undead would resist anyone under Level 40 completely, I imagine, and if they were to control him…”
Bad options. Pewerthe cursed.
“Do you have any contacts who know death-magic, Magus? Ones not in Wistram or a…large organization?”
“I…I could reach out. What about the [Necromancer], Pisces the Scourge?”
For a second, Pewerthe hesitated, but she shook her head.
“Even if he is trusted, he is an adventurer. They bring attention, and he is unpredictable and far away. Find an expert who can devote their time to this matter now. Do so covertly. Have a [Mage] stationed in the throne room. Next!”
 
——
 
The Quarass of Germina raised her brows when Frieke of Khelt appeared on the scrying orb.
“Where is Fetohep? He is late.”
“Er—I am Frieke of M—Khelt, Great Quarass! I merely beg your forgiveness. His Majesty is occupied, and I have been dispatched to render due apologies.”
Frieke was pale-faced, but she bowed as the Quarass’ brows instantly shot together. She sat up.
“And what requires Fetohep’s attention so thoroughly that he will not issue such apologies to me in person?”
“I am not at liberty to say, Quarass!”
Frieke bowed and apologized as Konska flapped his wings, and the Quarass peered at her. Only the Quarass had necessitated a personal apology; the other groups that had been waiting to speak to Fetohep or asked for his time could easily be [Messaged]. The Quarass had been insistent.
“I see. Then I shall accept his apologies myself whenever he finds it convenient. Farewell, Frieke the Falconer.”
Her eyes flicked left, once, and she nodded and rose. Frieke exhaled, then dashed off to find Pewerthe.
 
——
 
“She’ll send a spy to the palace if she hasn’t already. Someone intercept them.”
Pewerthe had been warned about the Quarass. Sure enough, Alked caught a single citizen of Khelt trying to sneak into one of the palace’s entrances, and the undead halted another. Two more came posing as day-servants and were turned away. She wrote down their names as Frieke looked horrified.
“The Quarass has spies in Khelt?”
“She has spies everywhere, Frieke. They might not even think of themselves as spies, merely people who owe favors. I am trying to…”
She had taken King Fetohep’s personal Scroll of Messages—well, he had a bunch of them—and had been reading through them. Some of what she found made her blink, but the urgency kept her reading on.
It felt like intruding into someone’s personal life, and she had never thought of His Majesty as having any personal moments, but here was the entirety of it. Just small things like a conversation with a little girl.
 
Mri (14/23/23): ur a poo head.
Fetohep (14/23/23): Thy fur coat would not satisfy a Fraerling beggar, or even be worth a place as a chimneysweep’s doormat.
Mri (14/26/23): Your Queen called, she said your skin is so dusty that all the water in the sea couldn’t moisturize it.
Fetohep (14/27/23): Your mother wishes me to inform you that your odor has set off [Dangersenses] across half the world.
Mri (14/29/23): Fetohep? The Winter Solstice is coming. I’m scared.
Fetohep (14/29/23): I will do what I can. Listen to your mother and Erin Solstice, Mrsha.
Fetohep (15/1/23): Mrsha? Is all well?
Mri (15/3/23): your underwear stinks worse than Ekirra’s after he eats a bean-curry pot.
 
Little things. She saw messages to Kevin—unanswered. And a message from the Quarass.
 
Quarass: What is occurring, Fetohep? If you are reading this, Pewerthe, respond and I shall render my aid.
 
“As terrifying as you said, Your Majesty.”
Pewerthe debated writing back, but the Quarass was like quicksand. Engage with her and she’d find out everything in moments. Pewerthe left the message be—she was searching for someone.
“Vizir Hecrelunn. Vizir…”
Of all the beings who could help Khelt, it would only be him. The terrifying, the dangerous, the egomaniacal burner of cities. Hecrelunn. He’d vanished after the Meeting of Tribes, but Fetohep’s spies had noted a certain eastern coast of Chandrar had gone dark, and rumors of a ‘Great Overlord’ had appeared despite the information blackout.
However, if he’d messaged the Vizir, it wasn’t among his casual parlances. Cursing, Pewerthe called out.
“He doesn’t have a way to contact Erin Solstice or the Vizir, Frieke! Can your Seahawk fly messages or would a Courier be faster?”
Frieke leapt up from where she’d been sitting and trying to write in a journal.
“Konska? He’s not that fast, but he could fly…you want to contact the [Innkeeper]? Why?”
Pewerthe didn’t want to explain right now and glanced back at the [Messages].
“He has a lengthy missive composed to her in the Forgotten Wing Company of Baleros, and to Niers Astoragon, but he never sent it. Why? Both could help lead Khelt. Nevermind the [Innkeeper]; she’s too far. But the Vizir—”
Frieke was turning to Konska, who was giving her a look as he preened at one wing, when the doors to the study blew open and salty air stung Pewerthe’s face. She spun, and Frieke drew a sword, but hesitated as a voice booming like the sonorous deeps spoke, and two blue-white flames burned in a skeleton’s eye sockets.
“If you seek the Vizir, my crew and I will reach him fast as any bird can fly. But the moment he hears of His Majesty’s weakness, he’ll return to rule this nation, Heir of Khelt. Be that the right course, I shall steer us that way, but be certain of it. Sand at Sea sails by your will.”
Captain Cikroleth. Pewerthe stared at him and then realized she had forgotten entirely about Khelt’s last and only remaining Revenant—the vessel and crew of King Dolenm, the famous pirate-king of Khelt. She almost bowed to him, but the [Captain] was all action as he strode towards her. He still wore the garb of a [Pirate], clinking with jewelry upon his bony limbs, and a bandolier with six different weapons strapped across his chest. His clothes hung across his thin frame, but he spoke like a [Pirate].
Ironic, then, that he was the only Revenant not to abandon Khelt.
“We came the moment servants sent word. We were returning already with a haul of goods.”
“Sit, Captain Cikroleth. If there is anything you can do, tell me. What—what has His Majesty had you doing?”
The undead captain sat, uncorked a bottle, and drank some ghostly liquid which ran down into his ribcage past his open vest and pooled there before making his bones glow. He made a spitting sound and wiped his mouth, despite both actions being entirely unnecessary.
“Naught but escort or trade work. We’re too restless upon land, so His Majesty had us run deliveries for Khelt, mapping the new seas out. ‘Twas luck had us back so soon. I’ve already taken a look at His Majesty. He’s not dead. But nor is he here.”
She felt relieved at that, then worried.
“But what, then?”
“I don’t know. I’m no death-magic expert nor a bone-fucker from Wistram. Being made undead—eh, the most I can do is pull my head off and gut a bastard who thinks I’m some skeleton. Dolenm was the one who knew death. I’ve seen this sort of thing happen, though. He could throw his soul from his body to another undead. It looks vaguely like that’s what happened here, but Dolenm would always rouse himself if his main body was endangered.”
“So His Majesty could be…elsewhere?”
“Aye. Or cursed, or any manner. The question is what your will is. Find this Vizir? He’s a bastard sure enough. We had to rouse one time just to keep him in check. I warn you: if he comes, he comes to rule. Wouldn’t be the best, wouldn’t be the worst of options.”
Pewerthe didn’t know. She was paralyzed by the decision, and so did what she feared might be the worst option: delayed.
“Until we know if His Majesty is well…”
Until we know. Cikroleth seemed to understand what was wrong, so he stood briskly.
“Sand at Sea’s naught much good for more than fighting or movement. We can kill a score, but we’re one ship, not a fleet. I remind you of that, just as I reminded His Majesty. Not every [Pirate] of this era is a wet-behind-the-ears rookie. Same for armies. Have you need of me, Majesty, call and we sail.”
He bowed once, then stepped away. Frieke exhaled, wide-eyed.
“I forgot…that’s a relief. I felt like Alked and I were the only fighters here.”
“Khelt has backups. Magical weapons. Even more undead. It just lacks for a thinking, functional army. It’s all mindless skeletons now.”
“…Say what?”
Frieke’s expression of alarm made Pewerthe realize she wasn’t in on the truth. Rubbing at her face, Pewerthe began to explain then wondered if this was a mistake.
But Frieke has seen Fetohep. If she isn’t loyal, I’ll soon find out. Trust needed to be extended because it was clear they had four people in this palace besides Pewerthe who could be trusted to act! More if Captain Cikroleth’s crew could be counted, but…this was a nation.
Even so, Sand at Sea reassured Pewerthe, and after a few more checks to ensure no one was suspicious of Fetohep’s ‘busyness’, Pewerthe let herself relax as the day turned into evening. Another mistake. It was only as the sun was setting that someone came to her study in a panic.
“Pewerthe! It’s from the city! I didn’t realize it because we locked the palace, but I went out—just to get some food because no one here is doing anything and—”
Frieke burst back into the room and Pewerthe leapt to her feet where she’d been dozing.
“What?”
“The skeletons. They’ve stopped.”
 
——
 
All the undead of Khelt had gone still. They stood where they were, staring skywards, frozen. They had to be re-commanded to work, and they did, but with a slowness that was palpable.
It was not a disaster—but it required a statement, and Pewerthe was working on one with Grand Magus Recime.
“A death-mana spike of unknown elements…command any undead you see to return to work. His Majesty is busy ensuring the most sacred dead are not disturbed…there.”
That would scan, and if anyone was spying on Khelt…Pewerthe was having it sent to each city when more servants entered the study.
“Your Majesty, requests for urgent communication from the Claiven Earth and Medain.”
“Send them the same polite apologies.”
Pewerthe waved it off, and the servant hesitated, again unwilling to quite believe she was—
“Yes, but it’s the Speaker of Trees and the High King!”
Pewerthe paused this time.
“His Majesty is busy. He is most definitely not here. What else is there to be said? Polite apologies.”
Her argument got through to the woman, who hesitated, then began to scribble a reply. Pewerthe noticed a few icons on the [Message] scroll. Six missives from the Claiven Earth, eighteen from Medain. Then again, she’d noticed High King Perric loved to chatter to Fetohep.
It would hold. After ten more minutes of ensuring that the announcements had gone out, Pewerthe was relaxing when the servant returned.
“Pewerthe—A’ctelios Salash wishes to speak. And both previous nations have issued requests of the utmost importance. The Herald of the Forests, now, and High King Perric and his [Generals].”
“The Carven City? Same rules.”
“They’re insistent—”
“He’s busy.”
What else could be said? Pewerthe didn’t like it, though. Why those three nations? She got up after a second and checked the message scroll.
114 unread messages from High King Perric.
34 from the Speaker of Trees.
7 from A’ctelios Salash.
She stopped, then, and an uneasy feeling grew in her stomach. She turned.
“Perhaps I could speak to one of them. The Speaker—”
Then Alked Fellbow burst into the room, and his face was pale as he raised something.
“Pewerthe. The scrying orbs. The Jaws of Zeikhal have activated. They’re attacking.”
She turned, then raced out of the study. Into the throne room, which had a view of—Pewerthe threw open the doors to a patio and strode out, and she thought she might even be able to see them, even if they were just dots on the horizon. Moving dots.
 
——
 
The Jaws of Zeikhal were moving. Attacking from where they had been stationed across each border. One was lumbering at A’ctelios Salash as the image on Nerrhavia’s Wonders network changed to a Jaw approaching the forests of the Claiven Earth. Hundreds of lights were blooming over its skeletal body, and it slowed, shuffling backwards as if in pain.
The half-Elves were trying to force it back. But Medain—Pewerthe saw a Jaw of Zeikhal bearing down on a city, looming over the walls, which barely stopped a pincer as it smashed through the enchanted masonry in a second. She peered up.
“I cannot stop them.”
“We have to destroy them.”
Alked was reaching for his bow, but even the Relic-class weapon…could it destroy a monster that big? Pewerthe was staring at the image as someone argued.
“If we do that, we admit Khelt lost control. No. Let them rampage.”
Captain Cikroleth stabbed a finger at the scrying orb, and everyone turned to him, appalled.
“What reason would His Majesty have for doing that?”
“I don’t know. Find one. But Khelt never admits it’s down a hand. Politics is a game of cards.”
“They’re murdering people! We have to stop them!”
Frieke gazed down at her former homeland. Pewerthe’s lips moved.
“Frieke. Do you have a [Message] contact with His Majesty of Medain? No—send a missive to him anyways, and to the Adventurer’s Guild. Tell him to mobilize his army to fight the Jaws off. The Claiven Earth is already fighting, and the one at A’ctelios Salash—”
