“Ah, that. It’s been generations since we left. I grew up on those stories, and most of the clans that forced us to flee are dead or changed. It’s the kind of dream that you speak of, but in truth? Getting aboard so many ships to leave the home we know? Much less to carve out a place in Baleros with the Dyed Lands erupting?”
She glanced at him, and he understood. When someone like King Fetohep enabled any dream or wish, sometimes you realized what you had wanted didn’t shine as brightly when you could have it. Geraeri chuckled softly.
“I feel rather embarrassed. I have not pressed His Majesty, and I hope he does not take us at our word. We would rather rest in paradise than leave it.”
“I shall assure him of that, if he asks.”
Another chuckle.
“You are an adventurer who wields words as well as blades, Fellbow. Thank you. As you can see, we have come to peace. Will you also retire, now all debts have been paid and we sit in this pleasant eternity?”
For a second, Geraeri’s eyes focused on it, and Fellbow shook his head.
“I have a few more things to do before I can rest, Herdmistress.”
“Oh. Good. I envy you.”
 
——
 
Frivek saw Fellbow off with politeness, only commenting that he thought Geraeri might simply need rest. Fellbow agreed and privately thought she might be dead within the year if nothing roused her.
Something for Fetohep to remark upon. Alked had seen it happen with other Named-rankers. He’d known someone in her nineties, a hard-as-hell Cotton Stitch-woman who’d kept going despite her age and injuries.
When some idiots had finally gotten her to stop, she’d drained of life like that. Just fallen asleep and never woken up.
Sometimes, people needed a drive. Kheltians were born without. How could they live like this?
Alked had met their ilk in Nerrhavia’s Fallen countless times. Silks, not fat in form mostly because they could change it to be beautiful and elegant, but corpulent in their heads and souls, permanently dissatisfied, permanently with something to prove because they had never struggled for anything.
They were, ironically, the ones with the greatest ambitions, with huge ideas of things they could do to prove themselves and little ability to make such things happen. Dangerous clients both for their tempers and inability to gauge threats.
Yet…not all Kheltians quite fit that mold. They were privileged, yes. Rich beyond imagination! But not as cruel, not as petty or insecure.
Why? And could he love them?
Certainly, one of the Kheltians in Ishrilcandrer, one of the new cities built for the Gnoll tribes, did not impress Alked greatly.
Three entire Gnoll tribes had been offered sanctuary by Fetohep, much like how the King of Destruction had inducted so many to his kingdom. The King of Khelt had spared no expense in giving them both city and land to live upon. He had failed to give them people to help integrate into Khelt, but they were not without locals.
Kheltians had come to the new cities, one of which was dubbed Ishrilcandrer, to live alongside the Gnolls. The one who had met with Fellbow to show him around was named Zamec, and he was a native-born Kheltian.
“Welcome to Ishrilcandrer, Adventurer Fellbow! Do you wish to meet the Chieftains? Or an Honored Gnoll, or just see the city? Do you like the name, yes? It is Gnollish! Izril and Chandrar combined, you see, yes?”
The ‘yes’ quirk of Gnolls sounded weird coming off Zamec’s tongue, and it annoyed Alked from the start. The young man was well enough, fully Human and fit enough to stride through the huge archway decorated with…vines? Fellbow saw much of the city was practically overgrown as he tilted his head back.
“Hm. Low buildings. These plants—did the [Shamans] of the Gnolls grow them?”
“Yes, Adventurer Fellbow! This is the Decles tribe’s work. They decided they wished to live amongst nature while the Satest Fletching tribe refuses to live in any city at all! The Gembows have a more formal design, but it is fascinating, yes? The Druid-village of Losht came to help build this place. Some even stayed!”
“There’s a [Druid]…of course there is. Nevermind. And you came here to live?”
Zamec’s eyes gleamed as Alked saw Gnolls opening shutters to hang clothing off lines, sweeping the streets, or, since it was early morning when he’d come to the distant northern city, bringing in kills from hunts. A Gnoll had a string of armadillo-like rats slung over a pole dripping blood.
Zamec halted in clear startlement, but he regained his composure quickly, suggesting that while this wasn’t normal to him, he’d seen it a lot. Alked?
He smiled.
Now this was a city he liked. 
 
——
 
The Gnolls refused to stop working even if they were in Khelt. They hunted, made food, did laundry, and if they had excess? They gave it back to Khelt’s storehouses or traded it for favors.
Since it wasn’t high-grade luxurious food, there was little demand for it, but the Gnolls insisted on eating their own fare and seemed to regard the rest of Khelt like a luxury best taken in small bites.
“It is something we visit on weekends, Adventurer Fellbow, yes? I have visited, hrr, seven cities now, and I intend to go further abroad when I have time. But I keep hunting. Do you know if there is more than small game in Khelt? Myself, I find it hard to keep hunting rats.”
The Gnoll who’d had the armadillo-rats was actually one of the higher-level Gnolls in the Decles tribe, and the eager Zamec introduced them as Alked warmed up to the Gnolls almost as fast as they warmed up under the Chandrarian sun. There were plenty of canopies in the short, mostly single or double-story city. They were all, in fact, laying on long, foldable chairs with more stretched fabric or hammocks.
“Hunting is difficult because anything dangerous is killed by the skeletons, Master Qirrel.”
“Hunter Qirrel if anything, Adventurer Fellbow. Or just Qirrel; I would not call myself master of aught in front of you.”
“Qirrel, then. And I’m just Alked. Mostly, the biggest animals you’ll find are gazelles. They roam from the oases, which Khelt has plenty of; entire herds. I’d be wary, though. Some are friends of [Druids], and they might object if you shoot them.”
Qirrel heaved a huge sigh through his nose.
“This I have been told, yes. Anything else? Of worth?”
“Hmm. Try birds. They migrate more frequently than you’d think, and some are quite exotic. Plus, their feathers are of more use to Kheltians. Come to that, if you don’t mind a bit of digging, there’s a number of subterranean animals. Not much to hunt with a bow…”
“…But hunting of a different kind is hunting. We must all adapt.”
Qirrel’s eyes lit up, and he smiled as Alked outlined a few valuable animals. The Gnoll grinned as he found a map and swiftly marked the spots, then sighed.
“Argh, but the sand. It gets everywhere, yes? And it is coarse and grainy.”
“I’ve heard half a dozen Gnolls say that.”
Fellbow felt like it was a saying, and Qirrel heaved a huger sigh.
“Some Human came up with it, and we have all agreed they were words of wisdom indeed. The heat bakes us dry and itchy, and the sun! We cannot even function when it grows hot. You see?”
The long hammocks or folding chairs had countless Gnolls who were lying in the shade, taking a siesta against the heat. This was not the Decles tribe’s way, but they were adapting. And that was what they were doing, Alked realized. Adapting.
“I have already called for Gembow’s Chieftain and Satest Fletching. Satest still has their Chieftain, but former-chieftain Lessha, she still is one in spirit. She may well win the elections for mayor of her city even though she refused to run.”
That amused Qirrel, who grinned toothily. Alked raised his brows.
“Two tribes have done away with their [Chieftains]?”
Qirrel spread his paws.
“How could we keep them? We must change, Alked, yes? We wanted change, we who fled the damnation of Izril and took King Fetohep’s generosity. I am glad of it. There was nothing but death and despair in Izril. No matter what the other tribes pretend: that Meeting of Tribes was damned by the Drakes, and they will damn us again and again until we are all dead. Not in any one battle, but I am tired of enemies.”
Then Alked realized that Qirrel was the Chieftain of the Decles tribe. He seemed younger, after laying down his class, and he smiled wearily.
“I have renounced my [Chieftain] class entirely. I am but a [Hunter], and a low-level one, but I think…yes, I think I am happy. Even if we have little worth in Khelt, we will adapt. It is stubbornness that keeps us wanting to clean and do what we can now do without. Our young are more energetic.”
Zamec jumped into the conversation here, grinning fit to burst.
“They are coming to our cities more and more! I go around with plenty of friends these days. I know over a hundred Gnolls by name and sight, yes? I often introduce other Kheltians to my Gnoll friends; they can be so ignorant.”
Alked and Qirrel both winced at the ‘Gnollish’ Kheltian, but his heart was in the right place. Qirrel muttered to Alked.
“Here I feared that the Decles tribe would vanish from how many died at the Meeting of Tribes. But to smell and see it, our population is about to double or triple. Though I cannot see what most Gnolls see in him.”
He jerked his head at Zamec, who was flirting with a Gnoll who sat up on another hammock and waved at him. Alked snorted.
“Young people have their own standards, and Kheltians can practice fitness if nothing else. Both are exotic to the other, I suspect.”
And it probably seemed like Zamec could buy them endless luxuries even if he only used the basic amenities of any citizen. Qirrel rolled his eyes.
“Yes, but…sixteen in a week? I don’t think I was that lucky all year when I was young. Damn cities. When I was young, you had to wait until another tribe came over and—argh! I’ve become old! I’m not even married!”
He pulled at the fur on his head in visible distress, and Alked had to laugh. Qirrel rubbed at his fur, hugely embarrassed.
“Maybe I should shave my fur short. It keeps you cooler, but I am still the former [Chieftain]…it just seems surprising for so many Gnolls to find so much to love in Kheltians of any species. No offense, but it is not that common in Izril.”
“Hmm. Does it help that Chandrarian species aren’t Drakes and Kheltians love and admire interesting foreigners?”
Qirrel stopped tugging at his chin-hair and glanced at Alked respectfully. He ducked his head.
“Yes. Yes, not having to warn our younger folk to stay away from Drakes lest there be trouble for any reason—yes. We have less history, and all that we have is gratitude. But the flesh…”
He shook his head, then narrowed his eyes at Zamec, who’d already, somehow, managed to secure a date for a hangout that night. With two people. Even Alked had to stare.
Does he have a relationship class or Skill or something? It’d make sense. He glanced back at Qirrel.
“Stitch-folk can have fur and look rather…furry. Ever heard of Alterkinds?”
“No. But I’m now listening. How is that Human doing that?”
Qirrel edged forwards, still peering at Zamec. Alked coughed into one hand, realizing the oversight Qirrel was making.
“All the Gnolls he’s flirting with are males, Qirrel.”
“What? Oh. Oh. That would also…in Izril, I’d lecture them about relationships that would have Drakes come down on you and needing to have children. Here?”
Qirrel put his feet up on the folding chair and smiled ruefully, then peered at Alked.
“So if I went to the capital, say, would a former-[Chieftain] who is a decent hunter attract any attention? From, say, Stitch-ladies? You know what? Any species. I’m really not sure what you meant by fur. But let’s say I—”
It was at that moment that Lessha of the Fletching Tribe and Chieftain Honoghest of the Gembows arrived. The aged male Gnoll bopped Qirrel on the head with a staff, and Lessha gave him such a look that he fell out of his folding chair.
“Qirrel, we have His Majesty’s servant here and you ask for dating tips? Shame, you fool you!”
“I wasn’t—I was only—ahem! Let me introduce you, Adventurer Fellbow…”
Both Gnoll tribes were close by to Ishrilcandrer. The Gembow’s city, named after their tribe, and the camp of Satest Fletching were very close.
In case of danger. The Gnolls wouldn’t let their guards down again, but both groups were exceptionally cordial with Alked and, it seemed, more integrated than he.
“The richness of Khelt? Yes, it shocked and dismayed and, I will say, even upset us. To see what they have and we do not, that is pure jealousy. Some of us were bothered, but we talked it out. And I hear you, Fellbow, and respect His Majesty’s concerns. But we have found enough to love here. Even if not all of us stay.”
Lessha was the youngest and another skilled archer, though she was a [Bowyer] like her tribe. She grinned as she carved a piece of wood, working on a bow, and old Honoghest sat with a sigh; he was a [Shaman] and [Chieftain] combined.
“Where will you go? Out of Khelt? There is no way back if you do.”
Alked warned them, not sure if Fetohep would relax that rule even for the Gnolls, but Lessha waved this away airily.
“Oh, I do not speak of tomorrow or even years from now, Alked. But perhaps in time, those of us who do not want to live here will set out. We will use this safety to train, to rebuild, to learn. And if we feel it calling in our fur…Gnolls shall explore the world again. Some may want to reclaim Izril. I think it would be wiser to let them go out; once, we roamed Chandrar. We should again.”
Ah, now there was a vision for a people. Qirrel muttered softly as Honoghest nodded.
“We clearly left because of the sand. Which gets—”
He received two pokes and shut up. Alked nodded in appreciation of the Gnolls’ plans and trust to share this openly, but he paused.
“There are truly no problems with the tribes?”
Another grin, and this time, Qirrel replied.
“For a people taken from the site of bloody massacre and dropped a continent away? Few as you could hope, Alked Fellbow. Some, yes. But we have found what it is we admire in Kheltians.”
“Admire?”
Alked sat up, and all three Gnolls nodded. Honoghest spoke in a low rumble, amused.
“We saw what you did, but they demonstrated their own worth in time. You may not see it yet, but if you wish it, stay a day in our company and it shall become obvious.”
