Well, you could survive there forever. Magic and Golems took care of every conceivable need, so despite the low population, paradise it was called. The Silent Dome was bigger; it was some kind of heat-shielded dome in the wintery north of Baleros. Magically protected from any outside influence.
Apparently, it had once been made to deflect Dragon assaults. A kind of safe-haven that became another ultra-rich hideaway. It was protected by one of the Four Great companies, and everything inside the dome was brought to you. In a sense, the Silent Dome was the least self-sufficient; a Great Company had to fund and pamper those inside since it didn’t have its own agriculture or means of production.
“Doubtless a single [Thief] could rob everyone inside blind.”
Alked had grunted sourly when a Dullahan foreign adventurer had told him about it. The other Dullahan—who, unlike Frieke, was a native of Baleros—had snorted mildly.
“They did do that, Fellbow. The Lightning Thief ran the entire place. Stole everything. It’s in one of his books. The Iron Vanguard still holds a grudge over it. I thought you liked your adventure books?”
“I like books that don’t sound like fairytales. The Lightning Thief kills no one. He always gets out by the skin of his teeth; there’s no blood or real drama aside from the lady of the hour he sleeps with.”
“Ah, but it’s a real story. Real enough that my mother swears he stole a kiss from her.”
The Stitch-man snorted as they had a drink in a dust-ridden pub in Germina, bordering Khelt. It was so much…realer to him than Khelt. He had to get outside of the kingdom; the sight of dust, the smell of a bit of piss, and a drink that he could nurse without thinking it was the greatest thing he’d ever tasted grounded him.
The Dullahan, whose name was Blithe, sipped from the bowl his head was resting in front of and shot Alked a side-eye. His main body was throwing darts at a board on the other side of the room. Germina loved throwing games. It came of being a famous assassin-nation, Alked supposed.
He might have worried about someone trying to steal his coinpouch or slit his throat for his gear, but the new Quarass was apparently very thorough. It showed; the last time he’d been through, crime had been high for all they had loved the Quarass. This time? People seemed healthier, but they watched him constantly with those polite smiles.
Alked knew cultures. Just not Khelt’s. It was alien. He glanced at Blithe.
“Does your mother have any real facts about the Lightning Thief, then? How many people really died?”
“She claims none by his hand.”
“Hah.”
“I mean it, Fellbow. He was a [Thief], not some killer. He could steal the glimmer out of your eyes. Steal an army’s weapons rather than let them fight. Which he did—”
“Yeah, yeah. I know. The War of Fists.”
Blithe gulped down more of the piss-beer.
“What do you read, if not the Lightning Thief?”
“Take a look.”
So saying, Alked placed a book carefully on the counter and winced as he saw the beautiful cover instantly stick to some not-quite-dried beer. Blithe had to put his head back on his shoulders to stare, and so did the [Bartender] and everyone else.
A book from Khelt was unreal. It looked like what people thought adventurer’s loot was. Something sparkling, too-bright, pristine, because it was.
Four gemstones set into each corner of the golden metal inlays on the book. Each one was the eye of a Dragon, who roared across the cover, the work of some master engraver, and the pages were brushed with gold—real gold—and the paper was so bright that Alked saw stains from the finger-grease where he touched the book.
“Damn me, Fellbow. Treat it more carefully!”
“Don’t bother. It goes through a special artifact at the library, Blithe. It automatically restores everything about the book. Like casting both a [Repair] spell and [Cleanse], but higher-tier. This is Tales of Adventure and Woe, Issue 10,000.”
Blithe blinked.
“Only that? Wait, issue…?”
“Yep. Special edition. It’s about Dragons. Dragonlords. Their adventures. Apparently, some Dragons decided to write a book about their exploits, and they published it as the ten thousandth edition.”
It was a fat book and, Alked had to admit, very well written. Someone had worked hard on it, and Blithe’s eyes grew round.
“I had no notion. How many editions of the Tales series does Khelt’s library have?”
“Literally thousands.”
It’d fill at least a decade of Alked’s life, he reasoned. He smiled, but Blithe’s expression of envy and disbelief…the Dullahan leaned over as he delicately inspected the book.
“What’s Khelt like, Fellbow? And why all these questions about other paradises? If you say you’ve got buyer’s remorse, I may have to stab you.”
Alked grunted. He sat back on the stool which hurt his ass, despite it being woven of hemp, and he knew he seemed somewhat…rough. Crude. Some might even say unfinished, in a sense; his nose was blocky, his cheeks were coarse—both from weather and his very cloth—and his skin had a thick, darker quality to it, beyond even what a tan or birth could give.
He was Hemp. His cloth came from the fur and manes of monsters he’d hunted. It was hard to process, so he looked even less-refined than others of his cloth, but the nature of thicker-threaded Stitch-folk was to look like this. They were tough, resilient, but considered thick of mind and inferior by other Stitch-folk.
His entire life, Alked had been treated like he was half as intelligent as anyone of Cotton or Silk. There had been discussion for two years on awarding him Gold-rank status, let alone Named-rank, because it was unseemly for a Hemp to surpass the other cloths. He had not liked it, of course, but thought it the way of things until he’d started leaving Nerrhavia’s Fallen and seeing other nations, where a Hemp man was treated like a Silk Stitch-folk by many: just another species.
Not that Alked was a revolutionary. That got you killed. Of course, he’d done research there too. Attended a few meetings, but he doubted if the Burnt Strings remembered him. Then again, with that disastrous war in Pomle he’d gotten out of…perhaps they were gaining momentum.
That just meant more raids, infiltrators, crackdowns—they’d told him the hour when they changed all threads was coming when he was fourteen. It was always coming, to hear them say it, but right now Nerrhavia’s Fallen…
No, no. Alked wrenched his mind away from the thoughts of home. He was Khelt’s champion now, and it needed protecting. But the first step was to want to safeguard this nation, so he spoke candidly to Blithe.
“It’s hard, Blithe.”
“Yank my other leg off. You smell like a rose, your clothing nearly got both of us mugged on the way in, and you can take books like these out from some amazing library? How’s it hard?”
The Dullahan gave Fellbow an outraged look, but they had a past friendship; Dullahans and Stitch-folk had the ability to detach limbs and connected on that point, unlike other species. Alked drummed his fingers on the counter.
“I mean it. Don’t get me wrong, everything is the best I’ve had in my life. The food, the art—the streets! Blithe, I feel like a [King] every second, and my family tiptoes around the mansion we were given, too afraid to touch anything! No one accepts any coins, the streets are free of dust or insects, and if you so much as sneeze wrong, the best [Healers] will see you in a moment.”
Everyone in the bar listened with envy as Alked spoke, but this was what everyone knew of Eternal Khelt. The Stitch-man wet his tongue with the foul alcohol, then took a breath.
“Before you shout, Blithe…you grew up like I did. Poor.”
“I wasn’t a Hemp living in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but sure. They only kicked my teeth in for not having any money instead of just existing.”
A twisted smile from both men, and they clinked mugs. Alked downed his cup, motioned with two fingers for another, and spoke.
“Then tell me, Blithe. How d’you think it feels to speak every day to men and women who’ve never even done their own laundry? My neighbors came out, appalled, when they saw me hanging up linens to dry. Told me to get skeletons or, better yet, a charm to do it. They said it was beneath me. I was at a bar in Khelt’s capital, fine as could be. Enjoying myself, even the company, playing darts with a fellow who could throw as well as I. Then he stopped just as we were heating up. Guess why?”
Blithe frowned, mouthing.
“…Because you were Hemp? No, damn. I don’t know.”
“Not Hemp. He couldn’t care less; it was because his fingers were chafing. He’d thrown a dart wrong and it hurt his flesh. He’d never taken so much as a bruise in his life, you see.”
This time, the Dullahan sucked in his lips before grimacing.
“Ah, makes you want to rob the entire place blind and piss on their doorsteps. Like living with a bunch of nobles?”
“Exactly like that.”
The richness of Khelt could indeed delight and awe you, but like fat on the tongue, it could become rancid until you wanted to puke from the excess, the wealth. And the worst part was that Kheltians didn’t even understand how rich they were. They complained of ordinary woes and sounded so privileged…
“Khelt’s the worst for it. Samal and the House of Minos are better, to hear it said. Samal because one can visit and because the keys provide enough incentive that you have something to work on, and the House of Minos points you towards a task, a calling. Whereas Khelt…”
“…Doesn’t admit even a hundred people in a decade. Ah, so the man who has it all suffers a bit. Well, that makes me feel better. Think you’ll still adventure to stay sane?”
Blithe knocked back his drink, slightly amused and satisfied, and Alked shrugged moodily.
“I think I will if only to keep sharp. But I want to love Khelt, Blithe. There’s nowhere I’d rather be.”
On paper, Khelt had it all. His family would never be conscripted or killed for being Hemp. They were safe, he was safe. He just had to love the nation. It was hard. It was damn hard.
They did not hate him. They were, in fact, in awe of his rank, his deeds. They admired him, but he could not help but feel some contempt for Kheltians. Like fat roaches living as one man, King Fetohep, took upon himself the duties of a nation, and Fetohep was no perfect man. But Alked had no respect for Kheltians. Some respect for Frieke and certainly for Pewerthe, the heir apparent, but two among a nation of countless people who would drive him mad.
He had to rectify this. Along with securing Khelt’s safety, of course, but one went with the other. Knowing his problem now, Alked decided that he had best be his own introduction to Khelt.
 
——
 
The issue was that there was no tour guide, no one to acclimatize new citizens to Khelt. No one to be both reassurance and guide, the hype man and gentle greeter.
A Baron Regalius for lack of a better word. Alked had watched the Baron doing a tour of Ailendamus for some promotional video the Kingdom of Glass and Glory put out.
“Greetings, citizens of Ailendamus! You who see me now are honored citizens of the Kingdom of Glass and Glory! I salute you!”
The man, with all his impeccable dress and puffed-out chest, was grand. A [Baron], a popinjay, but one who took a bow, an unheard of thing, and set the tone. He swept his arms out as his wife joined him and introduced his silly naked cats before showing his audience a guided tour of Ailendamus.
“In every city in Ailendamus, you may find changes you are unused to depending on your home nations. For instance, the water? Pumped via these magical fixtures on wells. Free of charge, and drinkable! No well in Ailendamus with such a fixture is unpotable water. And, may I just add, that if you find any hint of sickness or grime, you should inform your local official, who will take the matter seriously. Public threats shall always be dealt with. Thus, if you are sick, you are encouraged to go to a [Healer], who shall not charge you, regardless of the ailment. Sickness is a menace that threatens all citizens…”
It was a splendid advertisement. It made you want to join Ailendamus for all the things any citizen got for free. Not once did Regalius point out another city lacked these things or afforded you less rights; it was purely implicit by comparison.
By contrast, Fetohep had directed one of his servants to give Alked and his family each a vast house after asking him where he wanted to live, sent a two-thousand year-old wine bottle to Alked along with a sheaf of magical arrows as further gifts along with his Relic-class bow, and the next day, Alked had tried to pay at a restaurant with gold and the staff had laughed at him.
Utter confusion, and he was handling it well. Alked broached the subject with Fetohep himself, actually. He had a twice-weekly meeting with the King of Khelt for security, and Fetohep’s golden eye-flames focused on the recording in silence.
“This…is not an issue I had foreseen. Few join Khelt in any year, and I have often taken it upon myself to ensure their comfort personally for years. This pressing time has stolen my focus. Fellbow, this issue must be rectified. Servants—have volunteers prepare a suitable ‘entry video’ to be shown to new citizens and training begun for the position amongst officials. Let us say…five per each city.”
Say this about Fetohep, he could admit when something was lacking, but his response was immediate and even overblown. Like this, Fellbow realized he had accidentally created at least a hundred positions in government and bit his tongue on a protest. It wasn’t like Kheltians had anything else to do, and the cost? What cost?
Fetohep’s servants scrambled to do this as Fetohep returned his attention to the scrying orb.
“We should not be behind Ailendamus in any conceivable way. Hmm. This troubles me, Fellbow. Adventurer Frieke seems well, but then, do the People of Zair feel this same ostracization you do?”
The Stitch-man coughed into one fist, shifting his feet uncomfortably.
“I wasn’t uncomfortable, Your Majesty. I merely…”
Fetohep glanced at him, and Alked ducked his head. The King of Khelt raised a finger.
“You are an adaptable man, Fellbow. Your family? Ah, yes. It will take time to perfect such methods. I wish that I had one recently inducted to Khelt…but most went to the north. The Gnolls!”
He had admitted three tribes to his kingdom. Fetohep’s head swivelled again.
“They must surely feel this disconnect even greater than you. Fellbow, if I task you with the monitoring of their conditions? You need not resolve the issues, merely report.”
“I could do that, Your Majesty. But what of the other concerns of Khelt?”
