She was about to stomp off when the [Chef] grew more incensed.
“You’d trouble His Majesty for food? How dare you!”
He strode off his podium and began poking her in the shoulder. Pewerthe’s shoulders hunched.
“Listen, Chef. I realize you are acting in your role as is perfectly fit and normal for any citizen of Khelt, but I caution you with due…probity.”
Frieke had to actually look that word up with a personal dictionary she’d bought. Everyone in Khelt had too much education. Actually, Pewerthe seemed like she was also annoyed by the elevated use of diction. She turned.
“Poke me again and I will slap that hand of yours.”
A gasp from the [Chef], who recoiled and glanced at the other guests; they turned as if Pewerthe had drawn a knife.
“Did you hear that? I knew you were a savage woman, but the rumors didn’t do it credit!”
Pewerthe rolled her eyes.
“Yes, the dreaded [Potter] who slaps hands.”
She said it so ironically that Frieke grinned until she realized everyone else was gasping in horror. Then she realized Pewerthe’s nose was crooked.
Seems broken to me. Konska shot Frieke a side-eye. Few citizens of Khelt would have any kind of damage. The [Chef]’s nostrils flared so wide Frieke wagered she could stick that evil bug from this morning up there.
“Begone, you dastardly…disruptor! If you annoy His Majesty in any way or gainsay his free time, I shall ensure you never eat in this city again! I—”
Pewerthe was already striding away when Frieke got up from her chair, grabbed the half of the crab she’d really been unable to finish even with Konska, and called out.
“Miss Pewerthe, if you’d like some crab—Konska’s only pecked a bit of mine.”
Another gasp. The [Chef] turned and clutched at his heart as if stabbed from behind. He gave Frieke a look of betrayal as Pewerthe turned and smiled, gratified. Konska fluttered over and pecked the man on the forehead.
He screamed.
 
——
 
It took twenty minutes for the ‘Watch’, who were more like civil servants whose job it was to resolve squabbles and fights, to finish interviewing Frieke and soothe the screaming man—after he’d woken up.
Frieke’s brush with the law was enough time for Pewerthe to eat some of the crab on the side of the street, like a savage to judge by the horrified looks of the pedestrians. She didn’t care, and when Frieke ambled over, Pewerthe glanced up.
“I hope I haven’t troubled you unduly, Adventurer. I was just hungry and…sometimes, it wears upon me.”
She wore an expression that suggested she felt like a Seahawk pecking you so lightly he didn’t draw blood was a ridiculous thing, and Frieke squatted down next to her, relieved to talk to someone normal. Fellbow and she got together to commiserate sometimes, and she nodded.
“They just scolded me for a few minutes. Honestly, the fellow was obnoxious.”
Pewerthe wore a guilty smile.
“His Majesty will lecture me once he hears of this. The [Chef] was within his rights entirely to refuse me service. I just…really like crab, and it has been a wearing day.”
“In Koirezune?”
Frieke meant it as a joke, but Pewerthe wiped her mouth on her arm and nodded. Her gaze, when it turned to Frieke, was direct.
“For very few of Khelt’s own, yes, there can be bad days. Oh, and here’s another day-ruiner. Look. Dead gods.”
She pointed down, and a fly was buzzing around her crab. Pewerthe’s voice was flat.
“I may never eat food again. I may vomit. Such an insect cloys at my mind. Oh, Eternal Khelt!”
Konska snapped the fly up, and Frieke eyed Pewerthe. The [Potter] sighed.
“More flies.”
“They don’t…bother you?”
“I may have lived here years, but I can still swat one if it lands on my food, not toss out an entire meal over it, Adventurer Frieke. You will be happy to know that you never get to that point.”
That had been a legitimate concern of Frieke and Konska, and they sighed in relief. Pewerthe shook her head.
“Some things of Khelt I accept as citizens living in safety. But that?”
“Oh, so you lived outside of Khelt? If it is personal, I shouldn’t like to pry…”
Another nod. Pewerthe brushed at her hair.
“I am rather infamous for it. It is no bother. I am Pewerthe the Exile. Whose family left Khelt, and who were admitted back by the grace of His Majesty. It was barely nine years, in truth. I was just young enough to adapt to living outside. My family…less so. My father was a skilled [Mage] who grew fascinated with the outside and left, then realized ‘out’ was less pleasant than he dreamed. My mother? Well, both of them and my older brother were traumatized by leaving Eternal Khelt. They begged for re-entry after the second year, then every year hence.”
That intrigued Frieke, so as Pewerthe stood, they walked back towards Pewerthe’s house, chatting.
“I was informed one did not re-enter Khelt lightly. What changed?”
“They were captured by [Bandits]. We all were; we’d been begging on the border of Khelt for His Majesty’s largesse. They held my family for a week. Me for six months. His Majesty sent his undead to slaughter the [Bandits] when the tale finally reached him, and upon hearing my story, he granted us all citizenship.”
One week versus six months? Frieke’s mind jumped to one conclusion, and she studied Pewerthe.
“Did the [Bandits]…?”
She didn’t know how to broach the subject, but Pewerthe smiled at her tiredly.
“No. They might have, or at least, my mother, because I inherited less of her looks, but I convinced them to let her go. The wrath of Khelt and all that. They made me cook and clean, and by the time His Majesty sent the undead, they’d fallen to infighting and were easy pickings. My tale impressed King Fetohep enough that he gave us all citizenship again. It was just a local bandit group in Ger.”
In Germina, the Shield Kingdom? The Quarass didn’t suffer bandits lightly. Even if the old one had been inept…Frieke thought that story sounded familiar, actually, but she just smiled.
“That’s an incredible tale, Potter Pewerthe. And your family’s fine? I imagine they loved returning to Khelt.”
Pewerthe paused, then softly laughed.
“What? Oh, yes. They live further inland and swear they’ll never even go near the border. I’m now the daring [Potter] who’s too violent and forgets Khelt’s graces.”
That checked out. But it endeared her to Frieke, who said so.
“Well, for one who knows the lands outside of Khelt, you are very refreshing. If you ever need someone to chat to or win entry to restaurants, Konska and I are delighted to talk to someone.”
“Thank you, Adventurer Frieke. Perhaps I will take you up on that. His Majesty was hoping you had settled into Khelt well.”
Pewerthe smiled and nodded, reinforcing Frieke’s image that Pewerthe was worth cultivating as a friend. Konska clearly agreed because he hopped over and let Pewerthe pet him. They liked Pewerthe of course, but it was always good to cozy up to people like this.
Pewerthe had classes to teach, and they parted ways after this. Frieke ambled around the city, of a mind to maybe take classes herself in something or other. Like that, another halcyon day passed in Khelt save for two events.
The first was that Frieke’s worries about getting bored of all this largesse and gaining a paunch were interrupted by an excited message from the Mage’s Guild. She raced back to gain a missive (already read and annotated with his commentary by the nosy magus) from no less than Satar Silverfang!
It not only expressed admiration for Frieke’s historical research, but asked if she’d also paint a picture of Khelt in the modern day. The Gnolls of Izril owed Khelt a debt of gratitude, and it would be an honor to instill their history and current events into a library in the Great Plains!
Frieke suddenly had work! She rushed around obtaining journals and trying to figure out how to set down both history and current events in Khelt for a record for Satar—apparently, the Gnoll was asking for other accounts from other cities.
The second thing was this: on her errands rushing about the city, asking excited people who wanted to be part of this moment in history to give testimony and opinions, Frieke stopped by the Adventurer’s Guild.
It was a joke of a place where Bronze-rankers existed. They had one Silver-rank team; there weren’t enough monsters to hunt anywhere. But it did have all the up-to-date records and information because of course it did.
After patiently teaching all the people from staff to adventurers some swordplay for half-an-hour, Frieke got access to the guild records. Being a history buff helped for research and work. Frieke muttered to herself as Konska peered at the book—he could read.
“Bandits in Germina. Bandits in Germina…aha! I knew I remembered them. Hold on.”
She blinked at the page.
“Those weren’t any [Bandits]. That—did Pewerthe get captured by the Sands of Cuzale? They held up Djinni-guarded caravans in Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
That was not a regular [Bandit] group. Frieke distinctly remembered them; there had been bounties posted for their apprehension, and she’d taken one glance at them and decided against. Word on the streets was that they had Level 30+ regulars and a Level 34 [Robber Baron]!
Pewerthe had downplayed the events. But her name was so famous that even the ‘Guildmaster’ of the Adventurer’s Guild knew her and repeated her story more or less verbatim to Frieke. That wasn’t the shocking thing. Even if they’d been a dangerous gang, Pewerthe’s story checked out, but Frieke kept reading, and several details made her stop and think.
“The Sands of Cuzale were eliminated by a Kheltian force sent by His Majesty of Khelt including local adventurers…but all but a tenth of the [Bandits] were dead when they were found. Infighting. And there were no Kheltian survivors aside from one girl. Other nation’s victims were repatriated…one survivor of Khelt?”
Hadn’t Pewerthe said her family was living safe and sound inland of Khelt? Frieke had to ask, but the Adventurer’s Guild had no records. Still, it was easy. All she had to do was ask Magus Veirde.
“Pewerthe the Potter’s family? Let me just check…you know I met her once? Dreadful, though, she never asked for [Messages] through me. She had so many issues with me taking looks at people’s [Messages], as if everyone doesn’t read them, and apparently she got a Scroll of Messages for her own personal use! The nerve! That’s expensive even here! Her parents? Yes, yes, we all know the…huh.”
The [Magus] sorted through his lists of people and places and stopped. Then he frowned.
“Mother, father, brother. The Sincleis family…”
“Could I send a message?”
Veirde glanced up.
“Ah, no. Sadly, they have entered Khelt’s eternal service.”
“Oh. Oh, I see. Was it sudden?”
“No…the date says…it must be a mistake. Otherwise, they’d have passed years ago. Before Pewerthe even came back to Khelt. Well, I’m sure it’s a mistake.”
Veirde laughed, waving the moment off, and Frieke schooled her face to neutrality. Well then. That told her something, but what of it? A woman was allowed to lie. Frieke did it all the time. But it did suggest that Pewerthe was a bit harder than even Frieke had given her credit for. Perhaps that was why she had Fetohep of Khelt’s interest. At any rate, Frieke was as happy as could be.
Then she began documenting Khelt as it was now. She realized…there were a few issues.
 
——
 
Of all the paradises in the world—and there were so few—Khelt was arguably the…hardest to acclimate to. Which was something that Alked Fellbow hadn’t predicted nor known, and in hindsight, it made him feel like a Bronze-rank fool.
He’d leapt at King Fetohep’s offer and spent all his caution trying to find out whether it was genuine or a way to get him to go on some Death Zone mission, and not on Khelt itself. It wasn’t a huge issue, but it made him feel like he was getting soft, and he could not become soft.
Even if Khelt was a paradise, Alked personally refused to relinquish the levels and talents he had worked himself unto death to acquire. And he knew it was not…safe. The Winter Solstice had proven that.
Even paradise would be threatened by what was coming, but Alked did not feel tricked by King Fetohep. Having gained a measure of the Revenant, Alked felt sure his citizenship had been truly offered without hidden strings attached. For that one reason, King Fetohep had Alked’s loyalty.
It may seem a small thing to other adventurers or his glorious homeland of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the vast empire beyond compare in so many ways. But Alked had never met a monarch who engendered a sense of loyalty in him that had lasted longer than a week. A boy had once knelt before one of the former rulers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and stared in awe at a regal Stitch-man made of fabulous thread and thought it fitting that one should rule another. Dreamed of changing his cloth.
A man of Hemp knew his cloth would never, could never change in the eyes of the Court of Silks. And he placed more faith in an undead Revenant than his own people.
Oh, but it was hard to emigrate to Khelt. Fetohep was not to be blamed in many senses; he didn’t know.
Consider paradise. Alked had been doing a bit of research of late. He’d kept bumping into Frieke in the libraries and assumed she was doing her own information-gathering. He had his eye on her, but she actually seemed to be into books. Alked wasn’t that scholarly; he enjoyed adventure tales more than dusty histories. He was a man who used knowledge in pursuit of his goals, so he had quickly dropped books and reached out via contacts. Sent a few gifts, gone out of Khelt and bought some drinks. Gotten some expensive [Communication] spells and learned the truth.
There were five official paradises in this world. Lots of places that could qualify for certain residents or had been at one point or other—Ailendamus was said to have a high standard of living, for instance. But paradise meant you didn’t have to work at all. It didn’t just mean safe. It meant beyond safe. Bliss.
They were: Samal, the Silent Dome of Baleros, the Archmage’s Isle of Heiste, the House of Minos, and Eternal Khelt. And of the five, two weren’t even full nations.
The Silent Dome of Baleros was a paradise, yes, as was the Archmage’s Isle of Heiste, but if you knew anything about the two locations (and Alked had needed to do his research on both), you quickly realized they were more like…resorts.
Oh, you could live there forever, and some people did. But both were clearly gated by wealth and power; the Five Families—or rather, House Wellfar—owned Heiste and only about a dozen people had permanent residency. That had changed over the years, so was it really a paradise…?
