What could he say to that but to accept? Alked found himself reclining on a folding chair with the other Gnolls until Qirrel got up to serve them some of the armadillo-rat he’d hunted, drizzled with fat and only a few spices. Alked washed the meal down with some fresh water and then just lay, belly full, staring at the blue skies as the sun warmed him just enough to be drowsy…
Could he live forever like this?
 
——
 
When he woke up, he reached for his shortsword, not knowing where he was for a second. Kill or be killed. Are you safe? Be ready to defend—
Only when he saw Lessha’s eyes on him, and his hand jumped free of the hilt, did he understand. And saw she did too.
For those of us who have lived a life of death and violence, perhaps rest is impossible. Maybe Khelt would just be a place he came back to time and again to relax before being driven back to the knife’s edge where he felt at home.
…He could live with that. Alked wondered if he was a broken man. He’d chipped away a younger man’s body, taken lives, placed himself against monsters again and again, breaking his sense of normalcy down.
It was worth it to see his mother weeping in relief for days in this safe place. To see his younger brother flirting without fear of his cloth landing him in trouble for loving the wrong person, or his father cease his endless work at the grindstone. In time, perhaps he’d find something for himself.
But first, protect this nation. Love it. Alked didn’t know what had woken him at first. Then the voices from below the roof where he had been napping rose again, and he heard it.
The Gnolls in the city. They were singing. Alked saw Lessha beckoning him to the edge of the roof and glanced down. Then he saw, in an open square filled with a huge ring of furry bodies around a bright, glowing crystal hovering in the center, what the Gnolls did with their free time.
They sang. It surprised Alked immensely; he had heard countless songs in Hemp communities, the kind that Cotton and Silk would never hear. But he didn’t realize…
“You’re surprised, Fellbow? This pleases me that a Named-rank adventurer looks so.”
Lessha stretched out as she leaned over the railing. She had some feathers tied into the mane of hair running along her back. She had mostly black fur and a streak of silvery grey highlighting her features. The former [Chieftain] closed one eye as Alked replied softly.
“I knew Gnolls sang, of course. But I didn’t think so many sang so…well.”
“Ah, well. Every Gnoll in a tribe joins in songs. Is it not so among your species?”
When he told her it wasn’t common, at least, in Stitch-folk societies in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, she looked surprised and a bit sad for him.
“Learning that any voice can be part of beautiful chorus, regardless of talent, is a valuable thing. Kheltians sing, of course, but not like this. This attracts them, so it became a tradition. It’s…hrr. What is the word? Tourism, yes?”
She was a bit dismissive, but the chorus of Gnolls were singing songs that Alked had never heard. He knew Great Plains Sing, but this wasn’t that. The Gnolls were crooning, and they were very good at that with that bass rumble in their voice. This was some song about a Chieftain fighting a great monster.
First, the male Gnolls sang, then the female Gnolls sang. An alternating dance of voices until they joined together.
That was the first song—then the music picked up, and Alked heard a far faster song, and the crooning became a roar of voices. A chant—the stomp of feet. Drums played, and he thought this was a warrior’s song, perhaps for before battle.
“It’s fine music, Honored Lessha. Fine as I’ve ever heard.”
He smiled and was surprised by it. The Gnoll woman grinned at him, in delight for the compliment, and pointed down. Qirrel was there with Honoghest. Singing with Gnolls young and old.
“We are Gnolls broken by the revelation at the Meeting of Tribes, Alked Fellbow. By treachery and the lies of Plain’s Eye and Chieftain Xherw. It took a horrific undead from another continent showing us mercy to survive.”
He opened his mouth to deny that, and she lifted a paw to his mouth.
“It is fair to call us that. A broken people surviving only on generosity. But we have not forgotten our community. We shall thrive. Both Gnolls of Khelt and our cousins in Reim. If a thousand years pass, we shall not forget that.”
In her eyes sparked a different promise than the Centaurs of the People of Zair. Like a pool of bark, a river of a forest, her gaze was like the history of Gnolls. Changing, shifting, but always that people who had once explored every inch of the world.
In a thousand years…Alked wondered what her people would look like and if that dream would come true. He supposed only Fetohep would know, and for that one thing, he envied the Revenant.
Truth behind these promises. But then Lessha stepped back and pointed.
“Ah, but here—this is good. Here is the other part. Which endeared us even to Kheltian’s silliness. Look.”
He’d been lost staring at her for a moment. Alked swivelled on his heels, and he was just in time to see Zamec of all people appear in the center of the ring of Gnolls next to the floating blue crystal.
“What is that thing? It’s magical, some kind of mass-spell…”
She grinned.
“A stone of cooling. It would be a bonfire in Izril, yes? But it’s too damn hot here. In the nights, we’ll set a flame, but now…do you see?”
King Fetohep had probably just sent a giant stone of cooling because the Gnolls were sweaty. Alked shook his head, but then he saw Zamec stop and beam as he lifted something up.
A bag of holding.
“Honored friends, I am Zamec, here to answer the Gnolls’ great music with Khelt’s! I am the poorest of those here, yes?”
Half the Gnolls, Alked was pleased to see, winced at the ‘yes’, but they held back as Zamec went on.
“This is a quickly-made copy, and I am little-practiced with this, but I have had to play and adapt this listening to the Singer of Terandria’s works.”
Oh, great. He was going to put on music, but it was from the Siren of Songs? Alked sighed; he’d bought enough song-crystals for his sister and mother (and father) to know what to expect. Each new song was good, but—wait. He narrowed his eyes as Zamec lifted a bag of holding up and then carefully pulled something out of it.
Something…huge. No Bag of Holding had that capacity! But the object he sat on with a flourish was a stool, and in front of it was an entire…
“What is that contraption?”
He’d never seen the like in his life. Lessha snorted softly.
“Damn Kheltians. It’s a modified harpsichord. They must have watched the broadcast of the Meeting of Tribes and seen our piano.”
It was a more simplified version of the larger instrument that was the grand piano. However Zamec had come by this one, it was clear from how he sat that he had some practice with it. Some kind of broadcast…? Lessha smiled mysteriously when Alked glanced at her and tapped the side of her nose.
“I get some information from the Meeting of Tribes, even if we have left, Adventurer Alked. Though I am not the Chieftain of the Fletchsing tribe.”
She chuckled at that as if that were some huge joke, and Qirrel glanced up from where he stood and rolled his eyes. Alked just watched Zamec spread his hands over the keys.
He was prepared for a cover of Singer Cara’s music. Or for some of the other Kheltians or Gnolls to join in and just sing a song straight, but Zamec just took a breath. Then he leaned his head back, chin tilting upwards, and he closed his eyes. His hands rose and touched the keys of the piano.
And then Fellbow realized that the Singer of Terandria’s songs did feature a piano, harpsichord, or something close to what Zamec was playing. And—her songs didn’t feature complex parts at all. That instrument was just one note in a chorus, and the voice almost always predominated.
This was a song only from the piano. With deference to the power of the Gnolls’ combined chorus, the lone Kheltian created just as much awe in Alked with his solo performance.
He played. He played like a master, and Alked had heard enough to recognize it. He was not as good as the likes of Barelle the Bard, who was an undisputable master across the world, but one or two levels below Barelle?
“Dead gods.”
Zamec’s fingers were dancing across the keys of the piano, faster and faster, as the gentle song picked up in intensity. It was a beautiful song, like someone building a structure out of panes of glass, each one polished.
It continued to be so beautiful, each note pristine, but the tempo was increasing. Half again as fast. Double…then back to a slow, building chorus. But when the music slowed, there were twice as many notes despite the slower beat.
The careful chaos was—actually a bit damn stressful to listen to. It reminded Alked of his rushing heart when he was waiting for a monster to round the corner, a hammering crescendo of panic as he lay, bow drawn, one arrow left. Life or death—
And the song was getting faster. Building and building as Gnolls shifted, striking faster and faster until the tension made Alked realize he was actually gripping the railing of the rooftop. Lessha’s teeth were bared, but she was nodding to the beat until both caught each other’s eyes and realized they were tensing. Then they laughed, and Zamec struck the keys, leaving only a ringing silence, a rushing of beating hearts—and he turned and bowed. Then he caught sight of Alked and waved his hands.
“It is an incomplete song, Adventurer Fellbow! But it evokes a panic well, I hope! Next? I apologize if I have disappointed my great Gnoll friends, but we try music here!”
He leapt off the harpsichord and swept it into his bag of holding. Another Kheltian strode forwards, a middle-aged man with a cello. He planted it in the center of the ring of Gnolls and spoke.
“This is a poor performance, but I have practiced it for a decade, and a Noelictan once told me it was good. For our new citizens and their music, I play a song from Noelictus’ fields.”
Then he touched the bow of his instrument to the cello and produced a somber note that ran across the city. And Alked saw it. He turned to Lessha and whispered.
“Music.”
She winked at him.
“Well, the art is very nice, but yes, we were impressed by the music. You should see them dance or act.”
 
——
 
It was no grand revelation. In fact, Pewerthe and Fetohep seemed rather surprised when Alked relayed this to them later, but the thing that had charmed the Gnolls and the redeeming element of Khelt was just that.
King Fetohep’s triumph. Queen Xierca’s really. How did you deal with a citizenry who had everything? They might turn to hedonism, or worse, and other rulers of Khelt had been forced to curtail such rising corruption in their citizens.
The solution that Xierca had found and Fetohep had continued was art. Music. Dancing, even.
Alked had associated the fine food of the capital city with richness, but he realized—someone did have to make that food. The skeletons made plenty of food you could eat for free, but to have a city full of tasty delights, you had to have citizens who wanted to cook, who took pride in it.
As for cooking, the same for music and the other arts. Kheltians, it turned out, could dance. Not only that, but their obsession with the latest fads meant they had both [Actors] and a wide, wide variety of influences.
Cut his strings, Alked swore he even heard some Hemp music in the hodgepodge of musical stylings that went on through the rest of the day. The Singer of Terandria’s music style predominated, but like Zamec, countless Kheltians were experimenting with her music. It was like a cavalcade of talented artists emerging from rather insipid, ordinary people.
Because, clearly, the Kheltians felt like they were barely rising to the Gnolls’ splendid culture. Nevermind that the Gnollish tribes had far fewer musicians-per-pound than the Kheltians.
It was the communal singing that drew the Kheltians like Zamec in, Alked learned. The community among the tribes was foreign to Kheltians who loved the mass-songs and traditions.
And that…was all Alked wanted to see, really. He let out a breath then as he spent a day with the Gnolls and found that there was indeed something of Khelt to love. It was not perfect, of course. Zamec was still mildly annoying. But it was that promise that maybe…if he laid down his bow, lost all his edge and means of protecting himself, he too might learn to make something beautiful like that.
He wasn’t going to do that, obviously, not any time soon, but it was enough. Alked smiled, and motivation returned, he intended to tell His Majesty of Khelt that the Gnolls and Centaurs would be just fine, each in their own way, though Herdmistress Geraeri was a consideration.
When he returned to the capital, of course. Tomorrow. Because he spent the rest of today circulating the city, seeing the many things the Gnolls were building, listening to music, eating Gnollish food, ducking Zamec, and flirting with Lessha.
The former-chieftain of the Satest Fletching tribe seemed to regard it as a game, and Alked might be a Named-rank adventurer and thus a tad bit close to insanity, but he was still a master-class archer, and Gnolls loved archers. She made the ‘mistake’ of betting a kiss that he couldn’t hit any target she could point at with an arrow.
 
——
 
The next day, Qirrel pointed an accusatory finger at Alked as he saw them off.
“You too, Fellbow? I thought you were on my side! Curse you, curse—”
He earned a full kick from Chieftain Honoghest, and Alked rode away back to the capital with lightened spirits. The Gnolls were doing great. In fact, when he brought up Khelt’s woes, they had all just gazed at him.
“Oh no, flies. Beetles. I saw five of them this year. I may die.”
He had laughed about that with Lessha that morning. Upon his return to the capital, though, the first thing Alked Fellbow saw was an upset Kheltian woman screaming about ants in her flour that she’d left out in the open overnight.
In the middle of the street.
He sighed.
Back to Khelt’s woes.
 
——
 
The bugs really disturbed Fetohep of Khelt. They disturbed his people. They could not be allowed to stand, and he explained it to the man a sixteenth time.
“Insects do not exist in Khelt.”
“…At all, Your Majesty?”
“No.”
Alked smiled politely, and Fetohep paused a moment and realized he must explain.
“You laugh internally, Fellbow, thinking I make some hyperbole or joke. No. I am telling you that insects, ants, mosquitos, much less beetles, do not exist in Khelt. There are no rats in Khelt.”
The smile vanished. Alked frowned and leaned forwards.
