In that way—Frieke was like a puddle that had depths. She sat in her rather spacious apartments half-converted into a nest where Konska had torn up all the bedding and made a huge, slightly poo-covered roost for himself, and tried to write a letter to Satar begging the Gnoll to read her attempts at a historical analysis of Khelt. Then someone rapped on her door urgently.
“Adventurer Frieke! Adventurer Frieke! Help!”
Retired or not, Frieke and Konska were lounging one moment, then in action the next. Frieke’s shortsword was drawn, and she had her shoulder to a joist in the wall in a second. The hardest place to stab through if someone was on the other side. Konska was at the window, ready to fly, swivelling his head.
“Mister Mistreq? What is it?”
Frieke thought she recognized another tenant of her ‘apartment’ complex. They were in the big city, which meant they were in what Kheltians called ‘cramped’ quarters. In truth, it was more like a vast mansion of houses; each apartment had multiple rooms and a patio or rooftop space. Dead gods, Frieke had a swimming pool on her roof!
Mistreq was her next-door neighbor, and she flicked a little orb into the air. It froze and hovered; the Seeing Eye let her glance out the top of her door and see the man. Konska leapt out of the window and dove before gaining altitude rapidly.
No threats so far—he’d circle and be her eyes in the sky. Frieke heard a muffled sob.
“Miss Frieke, you must help! It’s a b—b—no one can do anything!”
“A what? A Blood Slime? Bagrhaven?”
What kind of threats appeared in a capital city? Even Koirezune—
“A bug! A huge one!”
Mistreq wailed. Konska nearly slammed into the side of the apartments. Frieke stopped reaching for an enchanted arrow. Her head slowly rose.
“A what.”
 
——
 
It was a big bug. Not your standard roach, but a weird bug with two ‘heads’, which wiggled as the multifaceted eyes bulging from each ‘head’ glittered in a gross way. It had bright red wings, but the bug also had a tan underbelly that looked rather maggot-like.
So, yeah. Gross. Frieke made a face as it crawled up the destroyed room’s wall.
Not that it had destroyed the room, you understand. Or the other three. But the cowering residents of the apartment had hurled everything they had at it, trying to kill the bug, and the alarmed insect had fluttered out of one apartment after terrorizing a screaming family and into Mister Mistreq’s.
He was taking cover behind an overturned couch of hand-patterned silk as Konska and Frieke exchanged glances.
“It’s horrible! Be careful, Adventurer Frieke!”
“Er…I will. Definitely. How’d it get in? The window?”
“Yes!”
“Which you left open.”
“I always leave them open! This has never happened!”
What, never? Not once? Frieke was confused, but she let go of the squirming bug and tossed it. Konska snapped his beak closed and crunched the bug up. He shrugged his wings at her.
Tastes like shit. She waited for it to be poison or something, but he just swallowed after a moment. Frieke coughed.
“I’ve, uh, dealt with the bug.”
“Oh, thank His Majesty! You really are brave as can be, Frieke!”
The man had tears in his eyes when he rose. Frieke and Konska traded glances, but he was actually, legitimately serious. Mistreq shook Frieke’s hand repeatedly.
“First, you save young Altet when he was so badly hurt, now this! We’re all so much safer for you around! And you’re so exotic! So worldly!”
“Altet broke his leg.”
“I know! It was so dreadful! We were all screaming for His Majesty’s skeletons, but they were slow to arrive, and you came by and dealt with it! First that, now this. This has been such a distressing month. My entire year might be unsettled!”
It was the first month of the year. Frieke just kept staring as the man went on.
“I heard rumors about bugs appearing in houses, but you know, you never think it might be you. I feel changed. Older.”
Konska spat a leg onto the man’s floor. Frieke covertly stepped on it to avoid the fellow fainting, then smiled.
“I, uh, I’m happy to help. Truly.”
She had to leave before he kept praising her and gifting her vouchers for his favorite restaurants. This was unreal, but despite Konska’s gagging, Frieke whispered.
“Konska, be nice. If this is the worst we ever have to deal with…”
He nodded. But seriously? A bug?
Frieke smirked herself. But this was Khelt. Now that she thought about it, mosquitos didn’t have as much presence in Chandrar as other nations. It could get bad on the coasts…but she was used to rats, beetles, any kind of pests. Even ants. She hadn’t had a mosquito bite or seen any insect in all Khelt her entire time here, only this one, today.
There were no insects in Khelt. Or at least, by her standards none. The streets were clean.
 
——
 
The streets were…beautiful. Each one a masterpiece of art. Frieke stared down at the glass street that her apartment exited onto. This particular street was known because when you walked on the clear glass, you were walking over a literal river. With fish inside, streaming down the pathways and staring up at the people who walked on the sky of their world.
A beautiful river made into a street just because it was pretty to look at. A fortune in glass and water. And magic, Frieke just knew. Cooling spells so that the fish didn’t broil with the light hitting them and ambient temperatures. Probably anti-glare spells so they didn’t burn in the sun. Insanity.
Water was a premium in any Chandrarian nation, but Khelt had so many gemstones that could produce water that it had created vast reservoirs. This one allowed fish to swim below the street. When she turned the corner, each flagstone was a piece of art from a different artist, a work of over two thousand years in the making.
And people walked about and didn’t even glance down because this was their home. To Frieke, it was the most glorious work of art she had ever seen. To them, it was the ground.
Oh, and lest you think this was just artistic excellence, the street was flat. It was so damn flat, in fact, that Frieke felt like she had sea-legs. There were no bumps, unlevelled road, or anything else to trip or stumble on. Someone had taken a level to the ground and ensured it was the most pristine walking experience in your life.
It was a level of wealth that Medain’s richest citizens could not aspire to. It was a city of beauty, and if it was just this, Frieke, as a girl who’d grown up in Medain’s dregs, might hate it and King Fetohep. But…she glanced sideways and remembered a friend she’d had as a kid.
Mirq, he’d been called. One-legged, hopping around on a crutch, born that way rather than a casualty of Medain’s mines or any other hard industry. Hop, hop, always with a new scheme or plan to get ahead.
Too slow. Too slow to run when trouble came. Just one of the many faces a Named-rank adventurer remembered, even if he had come and gone before she had even been Bronze-rank. Little Mirq…whose sin was being born missing a leg.
He did not exist in Khelt. Or to be more precise, he did exist! She saw a girl who was missing two legs, whether by birth or accident, who could say? But she was leading a pack of children ahead, running faster than the others.
Two Golem-made prostheses were allowing her to sprint like the wind. She was kicking a football ahead of them, and they were shouting.
“No fair! No fair! Turn your legs down, Khalatta!”
Past Frieke, the girl ran, eyes alight with joy, as if she had worn those legs forever. And she probably had, but they were legs custom-fitted to her. She’d have to change them as she grew older, and Frieke had no doubts she would get those prostheses. How would King Fetohep allow anything less? He had probably had someone commission these legs from House Terland.
Luxury beyond imagination combined with the compassion of a monarch beyond all limits. Be it so selfish, Frieke would hope this kingdom endured so long as she resided in it.
“I could actually see myself having kids here or something, Konska. I wouldn’t worry about them or—it’s so safe. No one’s going to cut our throats here.”
The Seahawk nodded solemnly as the girl ran on, then nudged Frieke with a wing. She scowled at him.
“Don’t ask who! I’m just saying, I could have a kid—I’ll find someone. People like me.”
He smirked at her like any other Named-ranker. That old refrain of adventurers. ‘I’ll find someone once I retire. I can do it. I’m just busy now. It’s not that I’m a sociopath with the personality of a blood-hungry lemon, it’s that I’m busy.’
In fairness, Frieke thought she could pull off a relationship with some nice…person. Not many Dullahans in Chandrar, but in fairness, she wasn’t very Dullahan. She’d practically been raised Human; no cultural background other than being a streetrat of Medain. She’d tried to go to Baleros and visit her ancestral roots, but everyone had given her looks like she was some kind of idiot savage…
“I could find a nice…meek fellow in Khelt. And squash all the bugs for him.”
Konska puked some of the bug up, and one of the passersby gave him such a horrified gaze that Frieke hurried him on.
“Behave, would you? Let’s get to the Mage’s Guild!”
 
——
 
Here was the thing. The one downside of Khelt was that in a city where no one had to work, finding someone to do a job for you could be, uh, hard.
Skeletons took care of all the menial tasks. Sweeping, hauling, even cooking and cleaning. And Kheltians loved the arts, so plenty of people could make food, pottery, what have you. But that meant there was a sector of skilled work that no one wanted to do.
Mages to send [Messages]? Boring as anything. Khelt encouraged them to work by offering incentives. Little vouchers that were ‘currency’ here, or luxuries in exchange for effort, but the end result was still lackadaisical effort.
For instance, the way the [Mage] on duty at the Mage’s Guild coped with all the effort of sending [Messages] was by being the most gossipy person ever.
“Hello, Adventurer Frieke? Who are we sending to?”
He leaned over the counter and read her missive as she handed it to him. Zero confidentiality here; if you sent something, he was going to read and comment on it.
“A missive to Satar Silverfang, Magus Veirde. Could you oblige me?”
“Of course! For a Named-rank adventurer, obviously! If she sends you anything back, I’ll log it for your next visit. If she sends you anything interesting, I’ll make sure you get the message! Via a Street Runner—these skeletons are so unreliable. Now, where’s Vhidye? Vhidye, your penpal in Pallass has so much amazing gossip! She actually saw the white Gnoll girl, Mrsha!”
Every head snapped around as the delighted [Mage] shouted at someone else. Frieke sighed.
In Medain, you’d be dead in a day for all the things you say, Veirde. But here it was power and social capital, so she just smiled at Veirde and resolved never to trust him with anything she needed confidential.
She could send to another Mage’s Guild in Germina or even Reim if she needed to. She had gold, connections. Frankly, if she wanted more, she could pick up any number of objects Kheltians “sold” or gifted each other and sell it for hundreds of gold coins in another city.
After that? Frieke and Konska had lunch. Just like every day in the city, they were spoiled for choice.
 
——
 
“Adventurer Frieke! One meal if you tell a story?”
“Hello, Adventurer! If you teach us how to fire a bow, we’ll serve you!”
Even now, Frieke ate where she wanted. Of course she ate for free; gold was meaningless to most citizens of Khelt. Some liked it, but they bartered for what they wanted, and even after her fame had worn off, Frieke had a valuable currency.
Stories. Her level. She could parlay a harrowing tale of life-or-death into a meal at any ‘top’ restaurant, another reason why she liked Khelt. She bypassed the social order. So, after some whispering, they ended up sitting at an open-air restaurant where huge, ginormous crabs were being cracked open and seasoned by a [Chef].
“I recently levelled up to Level 30. As a reward, His Majesty allowed me to choose a gift—those who hit Level 30 are rewarded, so I asked for the largest crab species he could find. These are ‘Hollowstone Deceivers’, which I breed. They can grow even larger, but they only taste delicious when young.”
Frieke and Konska licked their lips and beak as the crab was opened, and they began to devour the rather delicious meat inside. They savored their bites, adding butter and more condiments to flavor the crab just right, and they were so engrossed in their meal, they didn’t notice the young woman trying to ‘buy’ a seat until they heard her arguing.
“I’d like a seat, even a side-one. Just give me some crab, please?”
“I don’t know…Potter, is it? I’m not in the mood for some pots.”
The [Chef] was drumming his fingers critically on a podium where he admitted guests to his very small restaurant. He was a startup; he might well get bored and switch his entire theme, so he was picky unlike [Chefs] who did this all the time. And the young woman with an exasperated expression on her face was neither beautiful nor socially famous enough to gain entry.
But she really wanted some crab. Frieke got a nudge from Konska and recognized the woman vaguely.
Wasn’t that…Pewerthe? She was important in some way, and Frieke tuned into the conversation out of pure instinct. The young woman was trying to be polite.
“I’d just like a crab, Chef. The smallest will do.”
“Yes, but…for free?”
“Everything’s free, Chef. If it helps, I’ve attended to His Majesty today.”
That normally got you entry, but the snooty [Chef of the Refined Palate] just drummed his fingers on the podium again.
“I hear you do that a lot. Why do you have His Majesty’s favor? I’ve seen your pots. There are better, you know.”
Pewerthe gave him an exasperated smile.
“Sometimes, I make pots just to make a pot, Chef. Beauty is not my talent.”
“Oh, evidently. I simply mean to elucidate that you have little to offer His Majesty, and I, personally, would hate to think you waste his time when one other could do it better. I have never been called to the palace as a day-servant, you know, but I imagine I would impress him when I am. With my sterling conduct, if nothing else!”
Pewerthe’s smile grew more strained.
“I am not King Fetohep of Khelt, so I cannot know what he sees in me. But as I have been helpful, a crab?”
“I don’t know. I’m not feeling your presence meshing with my guests.”
The [Chef] tilted his head back and forth, and Pewerthe sighed.
“Fine. I’ll go to the palace and ask for crab. The one time I want seafood…”
