—He realized each grain of sand was a face. A soul. Children, men, women of Khelt blowing around him. So many souls, and he tried to capture them in his hands. But they kept streaming towards a darkness engulfing everything as the world itself fell into the void of eternal night, and a woman who was the death of everything beckoned him—
“Your Majesty! Please!”
Then he realized he was dreaming. And woke. When he finally stirred, and voices screamed and gasped and they fell to their knees and sobbed in relief, he realized he had woken to another disaster.
Just like every day in Eternal Khelt.
 
——
 
The story of Eternal Khelt, the great paradise nation, the Necrocracy that had endured for ageless millenia, was truly amazing. It spanned back before some of Terandria’s kingdoms; only those founded by the Hundred Heroes themselves could claim to be older.
For instance, Nerrhavia’s Fallen? Way younger than Khelt. The Walled Cities of Izril could claim to be older in inception, but no other place in Izril. The Five Families were children who had founded their claims in the north as Khelt watched.
Khelt was ancient. It had records dating back to eras of Giants and Dragons, and that was a claim any long-lived nation could state, but Khelt had actual, preserved records. Even they had lost their records in the endless battle against time and the decay of magical bindings, but Khelt was still a goldmine of information, and Named-rank Adventurer Frieke, known as the Falcon of Medain Khelt, loved reading the records.
She was a Dullahan woman who had a Seahawk named Konska. She was a [Falconer], a dangerous multi-role specialist with a powerful bird-ally, and she was utterly convinced that the only reason she had been given a place in Eternal Khelt was to annoy High King Perric of Medain.
And yes, maybe it stung to have her entire adventuring career reduced to a single joke—that of her ‘slaying’ Fetohep, and that she only was here because it was amusing—but one did not quibble with that when paradise came calling.
Frieke liked history. It was one of her quirks. Not that anyone really asked; Fetohep didn’t treat her like Alked Fellbow, whom he seemed to enjoy the company of. She was just…here. So she read histories.
According to the books she read, Khelt was not nearly as old as she imagined. She’d always assumed it might be as old as the Hundred Heroes of Terandria, but they predated almost everything.
The Hundred Heroes had settled Terandria at the dawn of time and were so mythical records of their exact deeds were scarce, but they predated every major event she could find. The Dragonwars and formation of the Shield Kingdoms, the Continent of Glass—huge and major moments took place after those [Heroes] created kingdoms by battling Giants and myths to win humanity a home.
They had settled the land inhabited by mythical monsters and carved out kingdoms for the struggling Humans—and made alliances with the half-Elven kingdom and Dwarf mountain city, which, funnily, predated even them. But Khelt?
Let’s see. Frieke had jotted down a rough timeline, and you skipped Erribathe’s founding, the last known sighting of Elves in their first queen, the first reference to the Witch of Calamity, the Continent of Glass, the Continent of Glass sinking piecemeal, Dragonwars, the Quarass and Shield Kingdoms and Gnoll’s Time of Hiding, Wistram forming, the Long Night, the Stitch-folk’s war for independence, emergence of Selphids, and…aha!
Perhaps it had been long after the start of recorded history and the age of the Hundred Heroes, but you could still argue the world was far more ancient back then, and magic was greater. Unstable—it was always unstable after the fall of a great age, and the Breathless Age of Nekhret had led to a warring, restless time in Chandrar marked by hardship and lots of rogue undead.
It was then, with necromancy still powerful, even if its true era of power had come and gone, that the stage was set. Then, Khelta had walked on Chandrar’s sands and envisioned a nation where the dead might serve and protect the living rather than the other way around. Around twenty-one thousand years ago, Khelt had been formed.
That was ancient. The Quarass might be older, but she was probably the only being on Chandrar who could lay claim to that, unless there was some Dragon still alive. A’ctelios Salash was older, but even the Immortal Tyrant came from a period after Khelt. That was how old the nation was.
“And so you see, Konska, even if Khelt isn’t that old, they have records salvaged from other kingdoms with stories that do reach back several eras! For instance, I found this tale from the Era of Broken Fangs—I’d place it, um, in one of the pre-Long Night dark ages. Not as bad as when the Hundred Heroes existed, but close. Giants and great ‘Beasts’ everywhere. People can hardly exist!”
Konska was trying to ignore her. He had put his head under one wing and was pretending to be asleep as Frieke showed him the book. She doggedly went on.
“Come on, this is great stuff! There were Rocs, you know. Imagine it! You couldn’t live without a Roc swooping down on your cattle and eating them all for a snack or seeing Dragons duelling in the skies! Even the Hundred Kingdoms aren’t doing well. Erribathe is, but it was founded by some actual Elven Queen, and the other Hundred Kingdoms are, uh, lesser in number now. I think they’re down to sixty originals or something at this point.”
Erribathe wasn’t the oldest kingdom in the entire world—though it might be the oldest one still standing. As an [Amateur Historian], the only place better to be than Khelt, in Frieke’s opinion, would be in Erribathe.
But no one ever wrote much about the first Queen of Erribathe. A real Elf? Anyways, Frieke went on as Konska poked his head out to take some fine ashwheat seeds she was tempting him with. He gave her a look as he fluttered his grey-white wings speckled with blue. ‘Alright, you’ve got me as long as I’m eating, but this had better be good.’
“Okay, so this is the Era of Broken Fangs—chaos, terrifying monsters. The kingdoms of Terandria are still beset by ‘Beasts’, and they need to be slain. This is a story about [Hunters], believe it or not! They’re like super Named-rank adventurers who are going around slaying the ‘Beasts’ of each land. The Beast of Fiskren, the Beast of Avel—and one of them, Piortesenzth the Stalker, is called upon to go all the way to Izril! He has to obtain a poison that can slay the undying Beast of Albez. Albez! That’s a place that exists! Apparently, some Gnoll tribe was wiped out, and he was sent for. But he goes to Chandrar first…because he wants poison from the world’s finest maker of it. And, I quote, ‘the woman who walks a hundred lives, Ruler of the Shield Kingdom of Ger, sat upon her throne and demanded a mighty price for the poison that took her sixteen days and nights to brew’. That’s the Quarass! The Quarass!”
Konska stopped pecking at his seeds and gave her a second look. ‘Okay, this is mildly interesting, but how does this matter?’ Everyone knew the Quarass was old.
Frieke knew that; she’d even met the previous Quarass and been let down, but it was one thing to meet the woman or see her, and another to read a history book as ancient as this about her! But Konska didn’t care, that barbarian. He was a very straightforward bird. She pointed, and he flew over and raked someone with his claws, then pooped on their corpse. She glared at him.
“I should have chosen the Balerosian Parrot when I was at that bazaar, you ingrate! She had culture. And she could talk! Ow! Ow, stop it!”
He began pecking at her, and she shielded herself with her book until he and she realized he was actually damaging the precious material. Then both hurriedly stopped fighting because Fetohep might behead her for damaging this tome—even if it was a copy. It had been copied a hundred and two times according to the notations in the book. Frieke went on, sighing.
“…The point is that Khelt has records that go back way beyond it, and all its histories are tens of thousands of years old! They document everything about Khelta beautifully. She doesn’t live long, you know; barely eight hundred years, I think? Which sounds unimpressive, but she was alive the entire time. She never became a Revenant. So it’s her successors who begin to live for millenia. Fetohep’s short-lived compared to some of them. Well, I think magic’s also a bit more powerful back then. Several records indicate they could repair their bodies.”
He could not. And there were no [Necromancers] in Khelt. Frieke made some notes in a journal.
“Mostly, thereafter, Khelt stays to itself. It does not participate in many wars. All the Nagatine Empires? Khelt never fights. Or if they try to invade, Khelt fights back. There’s a hilarious story about how some Dragonfire General invades Khelt because the Lizardfolk are all sweeping across Chandrar, and ten years later they’re in full retreat because so many undead are attacking even they’re getting overwhelmed. But Khelt’s in all the big events. Even the Creler Wars!”
She had a list of some huge world-events with Khelt’s parts in them noted down—and a few events that seemed big that she’d never heard of. Frieke went on as Konska gave her an encouraging squawk, getting invested despite himself.
“Like what? Okay, Creler Wars. King Razzimir. They start living much shorter lives; he only exists…one thousand one hundred years? It says he died of grief and shame because he failed to act for so long. But he builds ‘Razzimir’s Arrows’, the huge [Light Arrows] that King Fetohep can fire, and he unleashes three out of the five Revenants. So Serept’s half-Giants, the Scourgeriders, and Sand at Sea. I think he avoided Hecrelunn and Salui because they weren’t that controllable.”
Having seen both in action, Frieke could understand his wariness. She went on.
“The Revenants joined the push to get rid of Crelers in Chandrar, but even they couldn’t end the war; it took decades to purge Chandrar once the tides shifted! Lots of notes from Razzimir’s journals about how he was holding onto Salui and Hecrelunn in case an Elder Creler or ‘greater’ appeared. He’s quite guilty about not using them, but they never went after Khelt’s capital.”
Isolationism was the name of Khelt. In the same way, she pointed out their role in another pivotal moment of world history.
“Khelt survived their fair share of calamities, you know. The ‘Bloodless Shores’ is a lesser event that took place where some kind of super-Kraken that drank blood terrorized every coastline and killed trade worldwide for nigh on a century before someone killed it. Imagine it, no trade except teleportation. No one could even live forty miles inland of the coasts or it would pull the sea with it and eat you. Mass starvation, kingdoms in jeopardy. This was Queen Emrist’s time, and her Scourgeriders came into existence around now. Er, she kept Khelt intact, but she did a lot of plundering to ‘keep Khelt’s greatness intact’.”
An era when you had to look up and fear carpet-riding Kheltians throwing [Fireballs] and carrying off everything. Terrible, but…also amazing. Something you could imagine, like the tales of Jinn walking the world.
Sometimes, it felt to Frieke like all the amazing moments were in the past. Any age where she was considered a famous Named-rank adventurer surely wasn’t that amazing, right?
Her companion, Konska, saw Frieke glancing down at her scarred hands and paused in preening himself. He knew her thoughts thanks to their bond and pecked her hard, but affectionately, on the arm.
Don’t think of yourself like that. She yelped, but then relented. Frieke finished writing in her journal and took a huge breath.
“There. That’s a basis. Very rough, but I don’t want to, um, commit to a full account of history since I might be wrong. These books are dated, but the dates are always changing because of the eras. So I don’t know. But this—d’you think this would impress her? Historian Satar?”
Again, the Seahawk rolled his eyes in his head. Another feature of Frieke that might have been inbuilt even before Fetohep was her lack of confidence. A feature King Perric appreciated but…Frieke treated Satar Silverfang like some kind of hero. Frieke the Falconer, a Named-rank…
In some ways, it allowed Frieke to integrate well into Khelt. She’d hopped ship from Medain and was loyal to Khelt; she loved it here. No need for money? Amazing vistas? Historical records and admiration for her class?
She was as good as retired. And she had no problem with that. Only the fear that she’d be exiled, but she’d realized once she was in that King Fetohep didn’t expel anyone unless they broke some major law. She was Kheltian, and…and she would be for life. Her descendants would be.
She’d made it. And Frieke had brought no one into Khelt, so she didn’t have Fellbow’s worry about his family, who had all the culture shock of integrating into Khelt. Frieke was…alone.
Oh, she had family of a kind who’d claimed her after she’d become a Gold-rank adventurer, but they hadn’t raised her. She didn’t owe them Khelt. The street urchins and beggars she’d grown up with were her family, and if she could have taken them…
You didn’t live long in those conditions. She’d paid for [Healers] and respite for the last of them, and now she was alone and had come to Khelt as such.
Alone save for Konska, a bird she’d bought by chance at a bazaar, who had become her only companion and person she could rely on. She talked to him, treated him like an equal, and by Named-rank standards, she was actually very healthy because she had one friend she could trust.
Konska, for his part, felt like he’d also gotten lucky with Frieke. Sure, sometimes he had that itch that said he should fly out to sea and start a nest, but he’d have been dead of old age if not for Frieke. When she settled down, he’d find some lovely bird to make eggs with. Though he was really unclear on how he was going to get some eggs going since all the other Seahawks he’d clicked with hadn’t been female, but hey, cross that bridge when you came to it.
The point was, they were lounging in Khelt’s largesse and Frieke could be a silly nerd trying to win the approval of a nineteen year-old Gnoll. He’d been with her from the start, and even if Khelt’s ruler set himself against Frieke, Konska would just peck out Fetohep’s flame-eyes and poop in his eye sockets. He’d been there when Frieke had been forced to kill her father. He’d be there at the end.
