This had meant to be light conversation, but Fetohep was devoting a lot of time to it. Alked, personally, felt like Khelt’s other issues were important, but Fetohep was insistent, so he promised. Only then did the Revenant turn to the matters of state.
“For now, the Jaws of Zeikhal are inactive, Fellbow. The one who slew George…destroyed by the King of Destruction, and he believes it was the work of—that woman. Not Khelt. I am inclined to agree, but four more hold position. On Khelt’s borders, Medain’s, the Claiven Earth’s, and outside of A’ctelios Salash. Along with the corpse of the great Ash Giant, Zirconia.”
He tapped a map, and Fellbow felt a chill as four gigantic undead figurines stood on the map of Chandrar. Each one a weapon of mass-destruction, an undead of unparalleled size and scope. Jaws of Zeikhal kept growing all their lives, and these had been adults.
City-destroyers. A single bite from their bone-mandibles could crush buildings between their jaws. Of course, only a foe of Khelt had anything to fear.
If Fetohep could control them. If the dead hadn’t lost their ghosts.
They were…inactive. For now. But Khelt’s war-potential had been reduced to almost nothing. Their armies of intelligent, capable undead were now mindless skeletons. They could no longer bring to bear countless legions upon their foes capable of fighting with tactics. They had armies of, well, trash. Fearsome enough in numbers, but utterly outmatched against any trained foe.
In a real sense, Khelt was toothless. But the world could not know this. The problem was that Khelt…Fetohep’s finger tapped two glowing nations to the north.
“The Claiven Earth and Medain continue to send the agreed-upon tributes to Khelt. Today, I will inform the Speaker of Trees and the High King that I will withdraw all but the Jaws from their lands in exchange for a sizable sum. The pretext is that I have grown…tired with the use of my undead. The implication they will pick up upon is that I am wary of other threats, existential ones such as Erin Solstice faces.”
Alked shifted again. He was no great man of politics, but he did understand them. He exhaled.
“Will they accept that, Your Majesty? To their knowledge, you have armies without equal standing ready to crush them. Just as you almost did when you rode north. Would keeping the illusion not be better?”
Fetohep lifted a finger, eyes flashing.
“I had considered this, but an army upon either nation’s lands may be tested. By accident if nothing else. Serept’s Honor-Guard has left Khelt. Their locations unknown. Vizir Hecrelunn has vanished. Salui is dead. To the Claiven Earth, the lack of Revenants might embolden them to take action alone.”
And if they attacked or even tested the undead, they’d find the truth. Fellbow nodded. Retreat was the only option.
“If the pretext works…”
“It should upon the half-Elves. I have always respected their danger, even when Khelt was mighty. High King Perric seems intimidated before me. He has not gainsaid a single thing I have ever said. All forces shall retreat to New Jecrass or Khelt, and the training of our mortal army has begun. Assuming there are no moments of strife, all will be well.”
A safe thing, or it would have been. But Khelt had been active of late. Far too active. Between their new lands in Jecrass, the crushed Terandrian crusade…Fellbow stared at the map. Fetohep waved a hand as the Named-ranker hunched his shoulders.
“I merely apprise you of the situation, Alked Fellbow. This is my duty.”
“Of course, Your Majesty. If I may aid in any way, let me know.”
Alked glanced up, and Fetohep smiled at him, lifting a ringed hand.
“Perhaps I shall send you to inspect New Jecrass, teach the soldiers, or check on the Jaws, Alked. But not yet. Better to present the illusion, as you said. Check upon my subjects; that is all I ask until our next meeting. To them, Khelt’s focus ever lies.”
What could he say to that? Alked bowed, and that was the situation in the early spring for him. The charade, and the King of Khelt maintaining that all was well to his people and to the world. There were not many cracks—then.
Just a few incidents of bugs. Just the magnanimity of Khelt, which was not that out of character, really. Just Alked’s worries. So he tried to make himself like Khelt, but it was so damned hard.
In some ways, it was a poison, and he realized it had missed him, and Frieke, because they were Named-rankers and knew to dodge. But it nearly killed Herdmistress Geraeri.
 
——
 
The People of Zair mostly occupied New Jecrass, the third of Jecrass ceded to Khelt in exchange for their aid by Queen Jecaina. It was their home, and they loved the nomadic lands, but they’d also come to Khelt just to see it.
They were doing well. Centaurs could party as hard as any species, and more than one young Centaur was racing around Khelt, bedecked in new finery, flirting outrageously with interested Kheltians, drinking, eating, the truest joy in their eyes.
“Paradise, we are in paradise!”
They made wreaths of flowers and draped themselves over newcomers to their vast herd-camps. Even Alked got one made of bright white flowers by a singing Centauress. The People of Zair understood what they’d received, and they had thrown a party that hadn’t stopped since they’d been inducted into Khelt months ago.
There was some practicality to it, actually. The food and drink was wasteful, but Khelt had unlimited amounts of that. Rather, the Centaurs were rather shrewdly drawing in Kheltians, teaching them how to hand-braid rugs or make Centaur alcohol by stomping fruits in huge tubs, essentially finding a role in this barter-based economy.
They were good artisans; more than one was accepting orders for bows by Kheltians, and they only had to keep catching themselves and remember not to ask for coins. When Alked introduced himself to a warrior-Centaur by the name of Frivek, even the lifelong fighter seemed happier than not.
“Ah, His Majesty worries about us? He needn’t fear; it was something to see Khelt’s riches. We had some of the young colts and fillies growing lightfingered—but all was returned! The owners barely noticed they were gone.”
Alked nodded, keeping his face straight as Frivek shot him a sideways glance, worried perhaps this might reflect badly on them. Thievery was associated with nomads constantly, but Alked knew better.
“But how do the adults do, and yourself, Frivek? I’ve worried about growing soft and my role here.”
Frivek snorted, but nodded as Alked brought up some of his own worries. He pawed the ground as his hand stole to the light lance he used.
“Well, I’m no Named-rank. Half of my warriors would rather settle down. They’re already planning children. Me? I think New Jecrass will need security, so I fear for my position less. Centaurs can be hot-tempered, especially males fighting over courtships. There will always be a need for someone who can kick everyone into line.”
A fair answer, a good answer. Alked envied Frivek and cast his eyes over the People.
“Do you think you’ll keep to your herd camps and make art?”
It seemed like a logical choice, but Frivek hesitated. He glanced at the enamoured Kheltians before saying something odd.
“Hard to compete. I imagine the Gnolls will parlay their uniqueness too until we find another way to make a mark. A familiar people, they are. I find common ground with them, but I think…no. I think in time, only some of us will stay in the herd camps and practice our arts and ways. The rest will move to the cities. This will kill much of the People of Zair, but our people will be Kheltian, and we will be represented in their numbers greatly from now on.”
What a statement. It sounded like the death of an entire culture, yet Frivek did not sound horrified by this as Alked thought a proud member of his clan might. He eyed the Centaur, and Frivek grinned, brushing at his hair.
“You’re surprised, no, Fellbow? Don’t take this wisdom as falling from my mouth alone. ‘Twas my great aunt’s aunt who said it. Herdmistress Geraeri saw the nature of our bargain with King Fetohep from the start. It is still worth it. Paradise may change us, but safety such as this is worth it.”
“Of course. It sounds like the Herdmistress.”
She was like Fellbow, someone over Level 40, but a leader, someone who could see and direct this entire group of Centaurs and empower them. Small wonder her people adapted so well. Alked smiled; Fetohep would be relieved to know the largest and most powerful of his new people were splendidly integrating.
“May I offer her my compliments? I have a gift from Koirezune, though that means little here.”
He expected she was out and about, but this final formality was actually the hardest bit. Frivek hesitated and stepped backwards. He raised a hoof, put it down, twisted his torso to glance at a Centauress that might be his wife, then seemed to think better of lying as he turned back to Fellbow.
He dropped the half-smile he’d tried to conjure, then lowered his head and voice to whisper.
“Since we are all allies and you and I rode to the Meeting of Tribes and you report to His Majesty who we trust implicitly, this I shall do. But you understand…she has paid her debts. She rode to the Meeting of Tribes as she promised.”
“Of course.”
Fellbow’s internal sense of alarm rose as Frivek nodded to a tent that was not central in the herd camp; it was set back away from the noise and hubbub. Still one of the largest. He noted a few Centaurs entering and exiting as Frivek led him that way; all female, of varying ages, but the rest stayed away.
“Great aunt’s aunt? It’s I, Frivek. I’ve brought Adventurer Fellbow with me to give his greetings.”
Frivek stomped in front of the tent, and a voice spoke from within.
“Who?”
“Fellbow, Great aunt’s aunt. He—the one who fought with you.”
“Oh…come in, come in then. I’ll put some tea together. I’ve been sorting roots for the baskets.”
Another glance. Frivek pushed the huge flaps open as he trotted through, and when Alked saw the Herdmistress of such renown, he sighed, suddenly, as it clicked.
Khelt’s poison.
He bowed as Herdmistress Geraeri stood, somewhat unsteadily, and three Centaurs trotted around her in a panic.
“Grandmother—”
“Mother—”
“Great aunt—don’t trouble yourself!”
Alked’s memory was of an older Centauress, but one who was regal and wild, yes, lined with age, but hair of bronze streaked with grey, wearing gemstones braided into her hair, and the kilts Centaurs loved, patterned with hand-embroidered fabric.
Both warrior and leader, leading her Centaurs after Fetohep into new lands like a storm. In many ways, she was the same woman, but her hair…
It had been bleached of all color. Perhaps she’d been dying it, but it was now fully gray, and instead of the sharp, intelligent features, she seemed lost as she stood, trotting over to a high-standing teapot. She’d been kneeling on the ground, sorting through a tablecloth filled with various roots.
When he saw that, Frivek stopped ducking his head to Herdmistress Geraeri and glared at her family.
“Why are all those roots here? That’s work for a low-level sorter!”
“She doesn’t want to rest, Frivek! We had to give her something or she trots around. Adventurer Fellbow, please sit—”
They had high cushions for Fellbow to sit on so he could be somewhat level with the Centaurs, who sat on huge rugs and cushions to support their horse bodies. He did so nimbly and saw Geraeri moving with practice, finding tea, pouring water into a kettle over a fire. Then pausing for a second before turning blankly to him.
“Fellbow…I remember you. Yes. Greetings, Named-rank adventurer. Have you come on business of some kind?”
“No, Herdmistress. Merely to check on the People of Zair on behalf of His Majesty.”
“Oh, His Majesty. So good of him. Yes, there’s nothing to be done. We have reached paradise.”
She trotted back slowly, and one of her daughters sprang up to check on the hot water and make the tea. Geraeri almost rose, but they bade her rest, and then she sat, blowing on the tea after it was served, and making polite conversation.
And he realized after only a few more sentences that her mind had gone, a bit. She was distracted, asking Frivek about the camps, which had no worries. About if they had food planted and were gathering and had to be reminded that Khelt had all they wanted. Then she sat aimlessly.
“It is well, Alked Fellbow. Very well. Do you go to see the Gnolls next? You must take a gift from us.”
“We gave them several, Mother—but oh, we could find something.”
The three members of Geraeri’s family had to spend the next fifteen minutes picking out a choice gift, which turned out to be a white jade flute that Alked accepted with a bow and promised to gift to the Gnolls. He offered Geraeri some wine from Fetohep’s palace, which she smiled over, and then she sat.
“My strength deserted me when I returned to Chandrar’s soils. Is the King of Destruction still warring?”
“With Nerrhavia’s Fallen, yes, Herdmistress.”
For a second, her eyes seemed to focus, and she whispered.
“He shall never stop his war. The war is a means more than its end. Sometimes, I think he came back just to fill that hole he lost in the last one. But it is nothing to do with us now. I think I shall rest a while, Fellbow. I have grown very tired.”
“You look as brilliant as the moment I saw you riding across Izril’s plains, Herdmistress.”
He lied, and Frivek managed a smile as he glanced away from Geraeri, and the Centauress laughed at Fellbow.
“Whom ever said you were a simple man, Fellbow? No. No, I’m just—content. Strange.”
She looked around, a smile on her face, without her people to worry after. No food, no dangers, no threats…nothing at all for the Herdmistress to focus on.
You lost your edge. Geraeri lifted her cup and drank with both hands clasping it.
“Relaxation will be the death of me, but I have nothing else to do, Fellbow. Will you take your ease? I have countless granddaughters and daughters to introduce you to.”
He studied her and smiled, a slash of an expression as he touched the bow on his back, and it gleamed. Heaven’s Arc, the Relic-class bow entrusted to him. And Fetohep had promised to reward Geraeri in kind, hadn’t he?
“What about your vow to return to Baleros, Herdmistress? Didn’t His Majesty give you armor for that purpose?”
He’d heard the People of Zair had left due to some blood-feud and they had dreamed of returning to Baleros one day, but Geraeri just looked about, and he saw said armor, polished and hanging upon a rack. She smiled at it, almost guilty.
