“I was an Adventurer back in Remus. Sure, the job was broader, but we did fairly similar things. Many of the jobs were to hunt down any monsters and other beasts that became problems. It’s been a long time since I was last… just out there, doing some good and helping people. While earning a few coins—er, gems—in the process, of course.” Ranthia finally voiced her answer once her impatience insisted it was time.

“Yeah, let me stop you right there. You need to check your expectations. The Hunters aren’t out there ‘doing good’ or saving anyone—you’re unlikely to help anyone except your own sense of pride. Sure, we get the odd monster that managed to hurt or kill an elf, but they’re rare. We can go centuries between such an incident, and even then, it’s usually because some idiot got lost and ended up in the territory of an old beast—much like you.” The elf prefaced her words with a dismissive snort.

“What about monsters that get too close to cities or roads? There’s value in culling or relocating those.” Ranthia argued.

“Anything stupid enough to do that usually does it when it’s too weak to be a threat. Yeah, a lot of those idiots deal with things that might become problems someday, but it’s not like anyone’s impressed by it. No one gives a damn about something that could become an issue if enough time passed without it ever getting pasted.

“Most of the bounties are like what you stupided your way into: beasts that carved out their own territory and don’t bother anyone. Except the Unchanging Council claims absolute ownership of every last finger of land within the Tympestshard Council, and they take offense to ‘mere beasts’ denying this. Thus, there’s standing bounties for ‘em. And that’s the list you’re so desperate to get access to—for the entitlement of ungrateful assholes that you’ll never even meet.” The woman sounded amused, even as she verbally dismissed the highest authority of her nation like…

Well, like she dismissed everyone else. Okay, maybe her words weren’t quite as surprising as they first seemed.

“All the land? How does that even work?” The question slipped out before Ranthia could stop it.

“Read the fucking laws for yourself, dumbass. Cities like this one get a license to manage the Council’s lands, that’s how a town becomes official—before that moment, they’re squatters hoping to become official before they get removed. Businesses like mine get approval to use a parcel of land indefinitely, but all I own is the building. And in theory, some idiot could come along and demand I pull it up and restore the land to pristine condition at my own expense—as if I wouldn’t just put my boot through their face.” The woman continued to do her best to convince Ranthia that socializing with her was hazardous to someone that wanted to be in the good graces of the powers that be.

“I… see.” Ranthia swallowed her nerves as the stretching came to an end.

It wasn’t just the woman’s words. The air itself felt heavier as the time of whatever test or trial arrived. Something subtle about her body language was far more serious than it had been a mere moment beforehand.

She was no longer a tavernkeeper. And her level was no longer a novel, casual oddity. Ranthia was facing down a triple-classed [Warrior] that was well over three times her own level.

“First test. Punch me, as hard as you can. And if you hold back, I will break your damned arm.” The words were an order, not backed with the formal weight of those in power, but one that carried the true weight of someone that was in a league beyond what Ranthia could hope to reach.

Ranthia didn’t even hesitate. She charged in at a run and delivered the best punch she could—directly to the elf’s lean stomach (mostly because that was what was at the height of Ranthia’s shoulders).

“Pathetic. Are humans that weak or is strength just your dump stat? Fine, moving on. Attack me all out. Use your weapons—your true weapons—and don’t hold back. Do your best to make me bleed, or you’ll be the one bleeding out.” She dropped into a brawler’s stance, one meant for someone with light feet—except, instead of bouncing on the balls of her feet, she kept them planted firmly in place.

Ranthia took a deep breath and exhaled it slowly to calm her nerves. The outer layer of her adamantium bracers broke down and trickled down her palms to form her knives while she tried to compose herself. This was, more-or-less, exactly what she’d expected of the test. Her adamantium was sharp, but she wasn’t too worried about dealing excessive damage—the woman’s vitality was undoubtedly staggering.

The moment her knives finished forming, Ranthia rushed in and made a probing strike, wary of reprisals—she had no idea if the woman would evade or counterattack with a (hopefully pulled) punch.

Instead, the elf let the knife poke her skin. But there hadn’t been enough force behind the blow to draw blood, nor did Ranthia’s follow-up strike fare much better. She truly hadn’t expected the elf to just take the blows, but—

She never even sensed it coming. Her opponent didn’t even seem to move, but the next thing Ranthia knew, she was airborne. And the elf’s flat palm was positioned where Ranthia’s torso had once been. The impact could have—should have—shattered bones, yet somehow the blow had been diffused across her entire body. The pain was little more than a dull ache and several segments of her armor had popped their connectors, just as they were designed to. Ranthia rolled her impact and vaulted back to her feet, freeing the loosened steel plates in the process.

“I warned you not to hold back, fuckwit.” The elf snarled.

“I wasn’t! Those were just probing attacks, to test your defenses.” Ranthia shouted her own indignant response.

“I’m the one testing you, idiot! Now fucking come at me seriously, or I won’t hold back next time.” The woman roared, loud enough that the words seemed to rattle their way through Ranthia.

Fine! Ranthia swallowed the petty urge to shout the word, keeping it confined to her own skull. As she made her next charge, she embraced the rhythm of the moment and let the dance guide her footwork. Once she drew near the elf again—seriously, how was she only bruised after an impact threw her that far?!—her first image appeared, in mid-thrust toward the elf’s unguarded back.

“A spellblade, adorable.” The elf’s head had turned enough to glance at the image, but she otherwise ignored it. Instead, she met Ranthia’s real knives with her fingers, effortlessly turning aside each slash Ranthia made with a single touch.

As Ranthia struggled against her opponent’s defenses, she continued to form her images, but each beyond the first went wholly ignored. For several seconds the stalemate continued, but just as Ranthia decided it was time to try shifting, the woman suddenly stomped a foot.

And the resulting shockwave annihilated all of Ranthia’s images. Ranthia was forced back too, as dirt and scattered rocks peppered her.

“Last damned warning, stop holding back!” She was undeniably pissed off. Her expression, her tone, and her body language were united in undisguised fury.

“I wasn’t, you just interrupted me before I— Fuck!” Ranthia’s words cut off as a knife slammed into her arm. She wasn’t even sure where the elf pulled the damned thing from, but she definitely felt the thrown dull blade as it tore deep into her flesh.

“If your Void [Warrior] class is so shoddy that the only manifestation of your element is whatever Skill that lets you see with that idiotic bit of expensive cloth over your face then I don’t want to see you set foot in my Lodge ever again!” The words came off as a warning. Which would normally be something someone gave before throwing a godsdamned knife!

“I’m not trying to kill you!” Ranthia snapped as she recklessly yanked the broad knife that was meant for spreading butter out of her arm.

“If I can be cut down by a half-assed whelp like you, then you deserve the boon of experience that you can harvest. So, stop holding back, show me everything that you can do. No one can see us here, so stop pretending your idiotic build is some grand secret to protect. Because right now you haven’t proven anything to me except your inability to follow a single fucking instruction I give you.

“Less than half of the idiots in there have access to the bounty list, because most of them are aimless children that are toying with hunting monsters for a single cycle. If you think you’re better than almost every elf that steps through that door, prove it!” She threw down the proverbial gauntlet with a ferocity that could rival anything that Ranthia had ever faced.

With her temper up, it was hard to appreciate it, but Ranthia acknowledged that there was real wisdom buried in those words. She was trying to prove herself more capable than elves, and she knew first-hand just how incredible they could be. Avyna hadn’t just been her equal—the woman she loved was, in many ways, better than Ranthia was. And she had no classes meant for combat, unlike (presumably) every Hunter.

Ranthia wasn’t going to prove herself with a few fancy steps and a harmless image or three.

“Fine.” Ranthia ground the word out as she started to dance again—to an entirely different rhythm. If the nameless woman wanted Ranthia to face her as more than a sparring partner, well, Ranthia could do that. She hadn’t spent the bulk of her life fighting against people for nothing. Ranthia approached the woman just as she had against the shimagu twins.

[Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation] activated for the first time as she made her first slash—while she danced past the immobile elf at high speed. But much like the gorilla, her Void-kissed blade failed to penetrate. Her attack left only a thin line of sweet crimson.

Her newly formed image came in after her, mirroring the attack on the woman’s other arm. Its pale echo of her attack failed to draw blood, but that was fine. She was confident that her opponent would at least feel the attacks, even if the damage they inflicted remained superficial. By the time Ranthia came around for another pass, she had six images—and had activated [Reflections of Reality]. She left another scratch on her opponent, yet just before she came around for another pass, her perception warped.

Right on time to deliver a driving thrust into the elf’s side. Not that it did much. She couldn’t even pierce through the woman’s leather bodysuit! Either it was made from a material wholly unlike any Ranthia had experienced, or the woman possessed an armor Skill potent enough to make the thin, form-fitting garment dramatically more resilient than her own skin.

Gods and goddesses, Ranthia was more than a bit jealous!

“You have experience fighting against people.” The elf noted, her voice accelerated to match Ranthia’s combat perception.

“Yeah, I fought in the war against the shimagu.” Ranthia confirmed her tester’s theory while she attempted to stab her again. It wasn’t very effective.

“I see. How many people have you killed?” The woman asked curiously, utterly ignoring the minor cut Ranthia delivered to her cheek midway through the question.

That was a hard question. There was a time that Ranthia could have answered it readily, but her [Mind Healer] had gently encouraged her to stop carrying the weight of the number. War was a horrific necessity, but tormenting herself with a number—of kills made or of allies lost—wasn’t honoring the loss of the fallen. It was self-serving self-flagellation, guilt for the sake of guilt. The System could give her the number, if she wanted it, but she knew the answer that she had to give.

“It doesn’t matter, everything past the first is meaningless.” Ranthia slowed her dance to a stop as she spoke.

“Ah, good. You do have a bit of sense. I would have left you unconscious and banned you from my tavern had you bragged.” For the first time ever, the tall elf smiled at Ranthia. “Lemme give you a little reward.”

[Divine Eyes in the Void] screamed an impotent warning as the Skill’s eye fixed on the woman’s left hand, but there was no possible time or space to react. The very instant Ranthia tried to move, the air exploded.

The elf’s arm was right beside Ranthia’s head. And all she could do was stagger away after the fact and hesitantly raise a hand to her stinging ear. She expected it to come away bloody, but despite what her body was shouting, she seemed to be relatively undamaged.

“Huh, you have a companion bond, don’t you? One that hasn’t quite reached your level?” The elf asked as she leisurely lowered her arm.

Ranthia nodded mutely, as she finally noticed that she’d dropped her knife. She’d never dropped her weapon like that before, no matter how horrible an attack came her way!

“Damn, I’d hoped to get you to level 768. Oh well, your bond probably got several levels from that. You’re still an idiot, but I suppose you can have access to the full list. So, give yourself a moment, then get inside and buy Anthelleon some drinks so I don’t have to pay her back.” The elf made her pronouncement and began to casually walk away, as if nothing more serious than a conversation had happened.

Ranthia stiffly retrieved her knife as she tried to make sense of that final attack. It’d felt real, but it hadn’t even touched her! Could an intentional near-miss from a level 2560 [Warrior] really have enough System weight to be worth at least two levels at her tier?!

“Oh, and wash my damn knife!”
