The evolution of [Focus] to rare changed things so much Ben was left a bit stunned after he tested them out.

Gliding back toward the camp after the first Tide ended, Ben felt pretty damn good about himself. He had just gone out to hunt a few stragglers specifically to field test his new upgrade. And it was honestly amazing.

Alice gave him a puzzled look.

"So how was it?"

Thinking for a second, Ben figured he could trust her with this much. Besides, she obviously knew way more about the system than him anyway, so maybe she could actually help him out.

"I have a mental skill."

She blinked in surprise.

"I knew it, but never thought you'd willingly share. But yes, it's painfully obvious to anyone with eyes. What does it do?"

"It's called [Focus]. It lets me completely zero in on skills so I can do isolation training, and it suppresses my emotions when things go bad. It also helps me use my skills better."

Smiling slightly, he pointed at his own head.

"It just evolved, so now I can basically do all of that in parallel without frying my brain, and also do it better than before."

"Let me guess. Parallel [Focus]?"

"Yeah. It changed everything fundamentally. I can focus on multiple things at once now, which means I can combine skills way easier since I can divide my attention."

"And it inadvertently made mana control much easier because you can consciously micromanage it better."

"Exactly."

"You took the basic evolution path on [Focus] all the way, didn't you?"

"Yeah. Someone... Someone important to me told me to do it. They said it would be the best thing for my future growth."

Frowning thoughtfully, she nodded in approval.

"Well, whoever this person is, they were right. They're incredibly smart and clearly care about your wellbeing to have shared that information. Basic paths for mental skills are tedious to level, and no one really gives them attention because they're not as 'shiny' by comparison, but they possess the highest ceiling for sheer utility, especially rare and onward."

"Good to know I lucked out then."

Ben just smiled.

"It is incredibly lucky. Getting a parallel processing evolution out of [Focus] is actually quite rare. It will especially help you smooth out mana control, which makes perfect sense given your reckless display earlier."

She narrowed her eyes, stepping just a little closer.

"Though I do have to wonder why you would possibly need that much mana control this early on. Did you perhaps go heavy on the mana essence path?"

"...Yeah. Something like that."

"Wait, is this why you were able to go so high on the stairs?" Alice asked suddenly. "No wonder it was so easy for you! You didn't even break a sweat! Actually, you weren't even trying hard enough!"

I really wasn't trying hard enough.

Ben mused as he crossed over the 40th step easily. Looking up at the massive monolith, Ben replayed the conversation with Alice in his head.

And he realized she was totally right about him not trying hard enough earlier. So he had come straight back here to test his absolute limits on the stairway.

Taking the steps one at a time, he stepped over the 45th mark. But right after his foot hit the stone, the pressure clamped down hard on his mind and rose considerably.

Grinning slightly, he just let his evolved [Focus] handle the weight.

He brushed off the strain and kept climbing. And he actually made it all the way to the 50th step before an invisible wall literally slammed into his chest.

Oof.

He immediately ramped up [Focus] and forced his legs forward. Though it was hard, so he had to stop and take a breather sometimes, while also making sure he didn't stop long enough for the wind to come and knock him down.

Thankfully, the other team members were off monitoring the perimeter or resting, leaving only Alice standing nearby to witness him climbing.

Ignoring the growing ache in his skull, he squeezed out every ounce of willpower to reach the halfway point of the monolith.

But the pressure was just getting insanely heavy now, so he strained, hitting his limit just a few steps shy of the middle mark.

He took a long time to take another step, and a gust of wind threw him off the stairs.

He let out a sigh and caught himself midair, slowly floating to the ground. Landing on his feet, he immediately saw the notifications.

[Focus Lvl 1 > Lvl 2]

[Focus Lvl 2 > Lvl 3]

I can do this.

But he couldn't just sprint up the steps and burn out his mental stamina right away.

Treating it like a long marathon, maybe, he knew he just needed to preserve himself and not spend all his energy early on. So he just had to maintain a steady pace next time.

And save the real push for the very end.

"Do try not to track mud onto the rugs, Ben. They take quite a lot of space in my storage ring, and I don't go through the hassle of bringing them for others to trample over."

Ben glared at Alice.

"I am literally bleeding from three different places right now, Alice."

"Which is precisely why you should remain on the stone until that terribly slow healing of yours finishes its job."

Ben sighed and just sat down on the cold stone and looked around.

"How did you make this place anyway?"

"I didn't."

"Then how?"

"I bullied Ethan into making it for me."

"Figures."

Instead of letting him go back to his own hideout after he told her how he made it, Alice had dragged him to her hideout for some reason.

And honestly, it was absurdly nice.

It was literally carved out of the inside of a massive boulder!

Using her gravity magic, Alice had just lifted the giant rock, ushered him underneath, and dropped it back down to seal the entrance.

Looking around the spacious room, he couldn't help but stare at the glowing crystals on the ceiling for the light and the hidden vents feeding fresh air. And was that a fully functioning bathroom in the corner?!

What the hell!

Who exactly was this Ethan guy? What kind of crazy magic did he have to help carve out this thing inside a solid rock! And more importantly, how could Ben learn it?

Don't fall for it, Ben! All you need is mana! Focus on what you wanted to do today.

So he carefully threaded strands of mana together using [Mana Manipulation] and [Mana Construct], trying to fix the flaws in his [Healing Mark].

The damn thing just couldn't hold enough life mana without threatening to burst open under all that pressure.

And that's why now that he had more knowledge after tinkering with [Healing Mark] and [Learning Model], he started adding more of what he had roughly identified as the "strength" pathways.

Or runes, or inscriptions, or whatever the hell they were actually called. He didn't know the official terms and didn't really care.

He just knew that layering more of these lines in the outer ring of the construct made the construct sturdier after messing around with [Learning Model] for a bit.

But the change immediately caused the other parts of the construct to dim and weaken.

And he quickly realized this whole thing operated on a sort of allocation system, basically like his essence path allocation. He only had a 100% of total capacity to work with.

So pouring more of that power into strengthening the construct inherently stole priority from the other functions.

Staring at the fluctuating lines, Ben was a little frustrated.

Is my priority lots of smaller burst heal bombs? Or is it better to just make one massive bomb to heal it all at once? Or do I try to strike a perfect balance?

He wondered if the "potency" of the "ink" he was using actually mattered.

What if I try to make a higher quality ink? Will that automatically make the construct better without eating up the percentage allocation? But then, what even is that ink? How do I make better quality ink… And do these constructs even have ranks?

Frowning deeply, he checked his system status just to be absolutely sure he wasn't missing something obvious.

Just like always, constructs had no indication of a rank or rarity or anything of the sort. Not even [Learning Model] which he thought would have one given that it was literally made to, well, teach.

He doubted Edwin Solstice would have missed mentioning or adding ranks.

…Unless he could literally not see ranks yet?

If they have ranks, why does the status screen completely ignore them? Are they like regular skills in that they only unlock after I actually make a rare ranked construct?

Wait.

That could be it.

Shaking his head to clear the useless clutter, he decided to just focus on the immediate problem in front of him. He could figure it out later.

Stripping priority away from the deployment speed and extra features was going to probably bite him in the ass later, but what he really needed right now was something else.

So he dumped all of that freed up capacity directly into the pathways that strengthened the construct, inscribing more of them into the construct.

With this change made the construct would be strong enough to hold a massive payload of burst healing, allowing him to safely pour way more healing into the "bomb."

That meant this construct was mostly going to be a crutch he could use, his 'get out of life threatening danger' card. Which was the point.

[Regeneration Lvl 8 > Lvl 9]

[Mana Construct Lvl 5 > Lvl 6]

He got a notification right as he finished tinkering with the construct.

…I want to make constructs for my other skills now if they help level them up so much.

He wondered if it was because creating and tinkering with the constructs made him understand the underlying skill all the more?

So did knowledge increase levels?

Curious. Perhaps I should try reading some books when I get to civilization.

"Oh, you're finally awake."

"Awake?"

Ben looked over at Alice in confusion.

Alice rolled her eyes.

"Oh, please don't tell me you are not aware of these weird trances you get into? Whenever you're focused on your skills or training or whatever you do, you end up losing track of everything else. Ethan told me what happened when he met you. You should really start giving your surroundings more attention, Ben."

"…"

Ben remained silent. Well, she wasn't exactly wrong.

"Anyway, you look tired. Get some rest, Ben, I'll be the first watch."

"Nah, I can do first watch—"

"Sleep. You look atrocious. How long have you not slept?"

He honestly had no defense for that one.

"I am well rested, so I will take first watch because even though we're in a boulder, you never know what can happen in rifts. You can do second watch later, since we don't need that much sleep anyway."

"That's true."

Pulling a folded bundle from her storage ring, Alice chucked it at him. Looking closer, it was a camping bed.

"Here, I had this spare one. You can take it, put it in that bag of yours later. The one that you also ethically acquired."

Smiling sheepishly at her pointed look, Ben set up the bed and settled in for some actual sleep.

And considering all the new pathways he'd built and the levels he just snagged, he was happy with today anyway. Things were progressing smoothly. Much smoother than he'd hoped.

His luck had been rather good lately.

Too good.

Ben suddenly had a very bad premonition.

I hope I didn't doom myself just now.

Shaking his head, he closed his eyes and drifted off.