The world passed underneath Jane’s feet, her wings turning to shadows as her black scales retreated. Hopefully her father wouldn’t freak when he saw her, and likely saw all of her new self, thanks to that All-Seeing Eye… But he probably would freak. And then the anger and the quiet words would come, and Jane would talk and he would talk, and the Other, Sleeping Janes would probably talk, too. Solomon would be there.

Either way, This Jane had to try to make at least Erick aware of his own sideways-time. If Destiny could do it, Erick certainly could.

Melemizargo eventually spoke like a friend on her shoulder, “People are not meant to know of multiple timestreams at the same time for that way usually leads to insanity, so I have specifically not told him about that option, and neither has that ghost of Phagar... maybe for similar reasons. I do not know. But he is a Paradox Wizard and Wizards are different from normal people... Perhaps you should tell him that option. Destiny seems to be doing okay with it…” He left the rest unsaid.

Jane finished the thought, “But Destiny is hard to mark as ‘sane’ on any day, so there’s no way to know if she’s been negatively affected.”

“I try not to call others insane. It makes me look bad.”

- - - -

Jane set down in the grove in front of the dungeon—

She had done this before.

She REMEMBERED.

Many, many times. Many different lives. Many different places. She glanced at her nails. Due to the vagaries of magic and Other Realities brought forth due to her elevation to Melemizargo’s Paladin, Jane’s prismatic magic tended towards red right now. And so, her nails had been red, because that was apparently the type of color her rock devourer nails took on right now.

Except now her nails were of every color of the rainbow; properly prismatic.

And Solomon stood in front of her, and yet he wasn’t Solomon at all.

He was just her dad, as Jane remembered him throughout most timelines. A little frumpy, with a thickness around his waist that Jane hadn’t seen in years, and yet wearing nice clothes that hid most of that fact. His hair was black, but with white here and there. His eyes were not bright white as they had been for the longest, recent time; but simple brownish-blueish, like Jane’s eyes had been. He wore rubber-soled shoes from Earth. He still had his phone that he had lost years ago, stuck in his pocket, but now it was protected by magics and kept running on power, somehow. He had figured that repair out years ago, hadn’t he. Yeah. He had. And now it connected him to node networks here and there. And yet, that’s not true at all.

Her father had no phone. He was tall and strong and built like an orcol.

And then he was an orcol, briefly, because that’s what he liked these days.

And then he was a human again, or an incani.

Wings, and yet no wings.

A devil propped upon one shoulder, an angel on the other, and yet neither angel nor devil saw each other, because they existed in different realities.

In this place, Jane had lost an arm and had it fully replaced with a sentient ooze. She had become an ooze summoner. She had become an ooze destroyer. She had become a dragon of Carnage, or Death, or Fae. But those were the rarer places.

In the most common place, Jane was a ghost, tied down to this reality by a father that could not let her go.

In countless shades of the multiverse, Jane was simply dead. In slightly less countless shades of the multiverse her father was dead, too, and both of them looked across the glade at each other like they were two non-entities, lost to another time—

Red Sparks encroached upon them, hunting outside of the glade, trying to find whatever was causing them concern. The Darkness held back the Red Tide. He could not hold them back forever.

Jane looked to her father, and her father looked to her. How many times had they tried this? How many times had Time Itself been folded back, to get back here, to the beginning? Was this, then, the final try? It seemed like it was the final try. A culmination of all that came before, and one final farewell.

Jane knew how this would end, as it had already ended multiple times.

Seemed unfair, but life was never fair to anyone.

Jane looked to her father who was currently named Solomon, but that wasn’t his real name at all.

“Hey, dad.”

“Hey, Jane,” Solomon-Erick said, with tears in his eyes that had yet to fall. “How about we undo whatever is happening here, and you go back to being here, and I go back to being here, and we don’t have to touch upon the anti-meme.”

Jane chuckled once. “No. This is too important. The infection is all-powerful, and it’ll always infect this world, stopping progress and hurting people unless you do something about it. I saw it eat a homeless man once. I saw it eat a friend in another lifetime. I saw it eat you, and then me. I think it ate a god, too, I am not sure.” She held out her left arm, where the Bracelet of Memory was linked to her very soul, leaving a simple black line and a silver diamond tattooed around her wrist. “And I know just how to make it so that you can see it, too. Give me your hand, dad.”

Erick breathed.

Jane wasn’t sure what her father was seeing right now. Was his paranoia acting up again? Was he seeing Melemizargo trying some shit, instead of his daughter, reaching out? Maybe he was seeing a devil’s bargain, for this was surely one of those. Should he trust her? Maybe. Jane wouldn’t trust—

Erick grabbed his daughter’s wrist.

Jane smiled softly, and returned the grip.

- - - -

They were in the middle of the glade outside of the dungeon. The other girls stood back for some reason. Shadows crawled everywhere, even in the light of the bright sun overhead. Erick stood transfixed and wrapped in Darkness, though his eyes shone outward and the Darkness wasn’t impeding him at all. It was just gently holding him back; telling him ‘not your turn, not for you’.

And Debby held out her hand.

Solomon gripped her wrist and Debby gripped his.

Suddenly, Solomon was not Solomon, and Debby was not Debby.

Erick saw the land as his dead daughter saw the land. It was full of Red. He had been here before, and yet not. He had seen the Red before, and yet it had been absent from his life for the longest time. How long? Erick did not know—

Jane was a rainbow of people, standing to the left and right, each holding hands with him at the same time.

Erick was just himself.

And a blue incani woman, unknown to him, stood there at the side, one of her hands gently laid upon where he held his daughter’s wrist, the other hand gently laid upon where Jane gripped him. The unknown woman asked a silent question. Asked if he really wanted this burden. Asked if he would take this burden from his daughter, and probably end up killing his daughter, because that is what happened in these situations, to those who had seen too much and who had lost the solidity of REMEMBRANCE.

Panic.

Erick tried to say ‘no’. He tried to reason. To delay. To negotiate.

Jane said, “Yes.”

Time froze. Erick watched multicolor tears fall down his daughter’s face as she smiled nonetheless and a strip of black magic crawled up from her skin like the peeling of old, sticky tape. That magic crawled onto Erick’s fingers and then down his hand. The black inchworm stretched across Wheatly in his bracelet form, avoiding the pseudo-[Familiar], to slip under Jane’s hand and wrap around Erick’s wrist.

The rainbow of Jane, all stretching to the left and right, collapsed down to the one holding his hand.

And Erick multiplied.

He could REMEMBER.

All the talks that they had had about what was happening. All the decisions made to let knowledge carry forth, to those who could use that knowledge. The jumpstarting of ‘Solomon’s’ ‘immunity’, like how Erick was already becoming immune. The talk of Oozy, and of Atomic Magic, and of what had happened to Destiny, and how one might retain knowledge through Time Magics. The Wizard of Chaos’s immunity had probably been jump started by her interaction with Jane today, too.

Which was good.

Erick remembered more than he thought he would.

He remembered discarded timelines.

- - - -

In the Sewerhouse of Spur.

Erick woke up from having invented [Call Lightning].

The Headmaster sent a [Viewing Mirror] toward him, inside Al’s house, where Erick rested, and Al sat beside him. Red Sparks filled the air around Al for a moment too long, dazing him just long enough for him to get caught in the picture frame, and the Headmaster saw Al. Two dragons saw each other from across the world.

Spur had not survived that dragon fight. There were survivors, and Erick was one of them, but the city was gone. Silverite dead. Killzone held back by laughing Shades, except for Fallopolis, who tried to stop the dragon fight. Fallopolis was unsuccessful.

Jane did not survive.

Things went downhill from there.

But that never happened. In this universe Al had jumped away from the [Viewing Screen] in time, and the Red Sparks sparked on nothing at all.

- - - -

In the time of the Daydropper Jane stood as a spider atop a grand statue of a person raising their hands to the heavens, which was made from the mashed-up parts of the Garden of Ar’Kendrithyst, and from the bodies of the adventurers Erick had ‘sent’ in there to kill the Daydropper, and Shade Planter. There was Yetta, the Champion of Atunir, Cyril, prince of Odaali, and Dorthy and Basil, brother and sister and childhood friends of the others. Allan had already died in the fight with Shade Planter. The other four had been transformed into parts of the upper hands of the statue. They were offerings for Melemizargo’s summoning.

Jane had managed to get Yetta and Cyril free, and now she had come back for the other two.

That is when Melemizargo appeared from a rift in the world.

Melemizargo instructed Jane to try a magic —any magic at all!— and he would help her do it properly. He suggested [Polymorph], because that is what she was doing right now.

Red Sparks interfered, and Jane never counter-suggested [Shadowalk].

Jane died to her own malformed body.

Melemizargo brought her back, told her to try again, and she did. This time she got it right.

Ten days later, in an unimportant time and place, Red Sparks interfered again, and Jane died of massive cardiac malformations in her [Polymorph] that she didn’t even catch because she had fiddled with the nerves, too, and she could not feel herself dying.

But that never happened.

- - - -

A parasite of Messalina’s, used by that Lower Trademaster of Pearl, Caradogh Pogi, got into Jane’s brain, because Red Sparks got into one of the orcol guards at Erick’s house just a little bit too much, at the exact right time. That orcol ended up giving Jane a dazed sort of look, which Jane interpreted wrong, and which the guard decided to roll with. Jane ended up in his bed, her head on his pillow, and thus, she got a parasite that was not meant for her.

When the draconic Flare Couatl came to town to attack, Pogi triggered the parasites. Jane and both guards triggered their [Defend]s way too much, zeroing out their Health. Under the onslaught of [Flare], Jane and others became instant ash.

Erick got her revived through Messalina but Jane was never the same. Eventually, Erick confronted the fact that Jane was not the same, and that Messalina had fucked up.

That timeline ended in the Headmaster’s dragonfire.

- - - -

In the fight against Terror Peaks, Red Sparks distracted Melemizargo for a moment, and Jane died to a Soul Spear attack. The Dragon God of Magic asked Erick if he wanted her revived, but she would not be the same. She would be a different person. The Soul Spear had killed too much of her soul for anything more than a 15% revivification, and that Erick would have to find Quilatalap to get that done.

Erick didn’t bother protecting himself when another Soul Spear launched toward him.

- - - -

Some timelines were so different they weren’t even recognizable.

Erick landed without Jane, and he searched for her, but never found her, and he died in the desert.

Jane was killed by Bulgan, and Erick joined the war on the side of the Angels, eventually culminating in the destruction of Hell. The Paladins of all the gods beat down his tower doors in that one.

Food poisoning on the yurts of the grass travelers killed Nirzir and all of Songli turned against him, and Void Song’s assassins eventually won.

Tiza Nindi shot him with a Bolt from Sininindi, right there in the classroom of the Mage’s Guildhouse of Spur, killing him instantly.

- - - -

Erick stood in a glade, holding his daughter’s wrist.

All around them were uncountable stars. Melemizargo stood to the North. Rozeta stood to the South. Fairy Moon was at the West, and Erick was at the East. The starfield zoomed in, culminating in a zoom all the way to this very glade overlapping all of the participants. The imaging finished.

A pulse rang out across the world—

—and struck a barrier of red lightning that materialized just beyond the Edge of the Script. Nothing escaped Veird. No signals went out. Instead, Red Sparks infected the world, and they were a layer of power just outside of the Script. In the void.

Melemizargo broke from the Ritual and looked at the sky from his seated position at the North. He sighed. “That certainly got a reaction… Hmm.”

No one else commented on those words, and so, Melemizargo tried looking on the bright side.

“I’m going to get so many new stars and planets! This is gonna be great!”

- - - -

Erick came back to himself, and yet he was not fully himself. He was still partially Solomon. That Other Name still felt comfortable for him, because something untoward had happened.

Solomon held his daughter’s hand, and Red Sparks had replaced all of Jane’s soul.

She was dead. She had always been dead.

And the Sparks kept eating. Those Sparks had interfered in the transfer of the bracelet like gleeful nails on a chalkboard, pulling apart the black band around Solomon’s wrist, leaving behind a cracked tattoo, damaging the magic of the bracelet. Solomon couldn’t even see that until now, and even as he saw their ravaging, he lost sight of them. Solomon would care about the failure to transfer this power later. He would talk to Guile on his right wrist, silent and observant, and Erick and Melemizargo, watching from afar, about all of what had happened here, and what had failed to happen. But for now...

It was just him and his daughter, under the Sparking Red sky, surrounded by red lightning, thick as wrists and jagged upon everything—

