“I’m infected with a memetic threat, and while it is secure in my mind, if a Mind Mage should see me then they would be subject to that threat. Also, you cannot tell them about this, Xue, for that triggers it, too. You just have to trust me that I know what I am doing, and that I need the Mind Mages to tell you about any potential memetic threats in the area. I’m crossing them off the list of threats to the world.” Which was true! She could do that rather easily with Melemizargo’s direct help. Xue didn’t look convinced, though, but he was willing to hear Jane out. And then Jane handed him an anti-mind reading helmet. “Here. Wear this when talking to them.”

Xue stared at the helmet. And then he put it on, saying, “I will do this, Miss Flatt. I’ll have your locations of memetic threat noted within the hour. I do not appreciate this. Do not let this blow up in our faces.”

“Heard and understood, Patriarch Xue.”

“I only do this because my wife —rest her soul— had a good opinion of you, and for all the other good you have done for us, from the Delver Guild to all those associated monster exterminations, to the ease of this particular task which does not seem that onerous. But this is still onerous, Miss Flatt. Coming at me with mental threats… It is not a good look.”

Jane smiled, nodded, then said, “I know. Apologies.”

And then she left.

An hour later, Jane returned, and Xue had his list of locations of potential memetic threats. Melemizargo was readily protecting her against all threats, so the warning the Mind Mages had given Xue alongside the list was nice of them, but unneeded.

After that, Jane spent a week going around the Highlands, checking memetic containment zones and dodging Mind Mages who were wondering who the fuck was looking into Mind Magic threats. And because Xue was not immune to disbelief among the Mind Mages, the Mind Mages eventually went checking up on him, which caused a major Red Spark infection. The entire Crossing above the Songli Highlands got infected, briefly, which caused a memetic containment threat to escape containment briefly.

Jane personally intervened in that case to erase a written-word-monster that escaped its bindings and which almost escaped into some books ten kilometers away from the containment site. Normally, the Mind Mages would just try to kill it, but they could not, which was why it had been contained in the first place.

But then Jane used some of her Melemizargo-gifted claws, and managed to turn the ‘bookwyrm’ into dead, sloppy ink. The Mind Mages were wondering who the fuck had come through and killed the thing they had been keeping in check for the last few centuries, but more than that, they were simply happy it was gone.

Similar battles eventually played out all across northern Nelboor, and then in the Forest of Glaquin.

It was during a trip near Treehome that Jane saw her first Red Devoured person, or at least what she assumed was one of those unlucky people to meet their end to the Red. This one happened in a dark hole under a bridge far outside of town. Jane only noticed the location because of the scattering of Red everywhere. Kilometers outside of the purview of an Arbor, Jane found Red Sparks crawling over scratchy blankets, a piece of moldy, untouched bread, and a faded picture of a young woman and man, holding each other beneath a wedding tree. The man who had been ‘living’ there was gone. Nothing remained except for stuff that no one would miss. Jane took the man’s small photo-realistic painting and set it down in town, near Arbor Home, the closest one. Maybe Home would remember the man in the painting, or maybe the woman.

But probably not. The man’s face had a few Red Sparks upon it that lingered long.

Jane decided to sit and watch the tiny painting instead of just leaving it there. She watched as the man’s entire body was eaten away by Red Sparks, leaving nothing behind except for a gap in the painting.

Jane moved on to other memetic threat areas.

- - - -

Jane breached four containment zones in Continental Nergal, in the deep, Decay-filled jungles where Atomic Magic had played with the landscape several hundred years ago and across a handful of nearby realities, to hear Melemizargo speak of it.

It had been 3 weeks since the start of Jane’s anti-meme worldwide threat assessment, and she had yet to find a better lead than Oozy, in Storm’s Edge, and who knew what he was doing down there. Even the missing homeless man wasn’t a real lead, and none of these memetic threats were either. But they were still threats that needed to be eliminated, and Jane felt really good about doing those eliminations.

As Jane was skipping along the frozen forests of deep southern Nergal, near the southern pole. She had just cleared out a spectral anti-meme threat that had been contained to a square kilometer cube of space, half buried in the frozen forest and at a tilted angle, and that was the last major threat on her list. Those people had been the last separated group of Mind Mages which could have possibly been slowly eaten by the Red Menace, unbeknownst to anyone, but that Mind Mage security station had had no Red Sparks at all. None of them had.

“Honestly, someone in one of those stations should have been eaten by now. I did not lie to you about who the Red Sparks eat, Jane.”

“And I am not calling you a liar.”

“Hmm!”

… Jane considered it might be time to go back to Storm’s Edge, to check on that lead and see if Oozy was reachable, or a problem.

That was when Destiny appeared.

The Wizard of Benevolent Chaos slipped onto the frozen canopy in front of Jane, looking summer-fresh in a ray of sunshine out of the cloudy sky and wearing a light yellow dress, along with big black boots. Her hair flipped as she shot Jane a smile, calling out, “Ohhh, Jaaaane!”

Jane stopped. She was still Unknowable right now and the Red Sparks should have already erased her from the world, but…

Destiny called out, “Talk to me, please! This will be good practice for your father. For how you will explain to him what the fuck you’re doing.”

… Her father remembered her?

“Well what did you expect? You haven’t actually been affected by the Red Sparks much, thanks to me.”

Melemizargo’s voice was silent to everyone but Jane right now, as it usually was, so Destiny did not react to that.

Jane revealed herself ten trees over from Destiny.

Destiny locked eyes with her. “Hello, Jane. You’ve been a naughty girl, leaving your father all worried about you while you went off tackling big memetic and antimemetic threats.”

“… What’s the problem, Destiny?” Jane asked, keeping her eyes peeled for Red Sparks.

“Well…. No problem, actually. He thinks it’s great that you’re clearing out problems that we didn’t even know were problems while they’re adding stability to the world in other ways —I like that Life Seed they gave to Tiktik, and the Fishery they gave me— but it’s about 7 days from the start of the Prophesied Storm Season, and your father tasked me with catching you if I should see you. And lo! Here you are...” Destiny paused. “I don’t actually want to capture you, though. But I do want to know what you’re doing. From my understanding, you’re in my backyard and plucking up weeds in one space and setting down deep fire in others, burning out everything that could possibly survive. Not to mention you destroyed that entire Mind Mage facility the other day.”

Jane rolled her eyes. “No one died.”

“And how can we know that? These places were top secret hush-hush with people living in them and dying in them with zero checks except for visual and from a very, very far distance… if I have that right. I haven’t been fully read in.” Destiny said, “I would like to be read in now, Jane.”

Destiny was not a demanding person, until she became a demanding person.

Well.

Jane could play ball.

Jane had been testing what she could say to people here and there for the last 30 days, and her ability with that had improved a lot, since she could See the Red Sparks so much better.

“When I say move, you move with me,” Jane said. “It will be random. Try to keep up.”

A few Red Sparks appeared, because they were a Time-based anti-meme, and they could react backward and forward in time and space. In that way they were a little proactive, even when Jane didn’t even touch upon the anti-meme.

Destiny paused. “… I agree.”

“Use your Wizardry to keep yourself unaffected by the anti-meme—” Jane was already moving, ten kilometers west and then four north.

Destiny appeared right in front of her. Brilliant Benevolence and something deeper wrapped around the Wizard of Chaos’ entire body, like lightning made physical. It zapped away some of the clawing Red Sparks, because powerful Domain magic had a way of doing that, but it wasn’t perfect. The ‘Domain’ of the Red Sparks was greater still.

Jane stared for a little bit, looking straight at Destiny, not Looking at the Sparks at all. In fact, most of her senses were off. Over a month ago her father had turned off his senses and turned away from Jane, allowing her to finally impart some sort of clue about what she had been about to do. And that is what Jane did now; don't acknowledge the Sparks and they had a tendency to go away.

Which is what happened over the next ten minutes of Destiny flaring power, and no new information passing that would inflame the Sparks.

Destiny calmly waited.

Jane did not watch the air, but she did see when the air was clearer of Sparks.

Jane softly asked, “Did you feel it crawling upon you?”

“What the fuck— No!” Destiny spat, her eyes going wide as she looked all around.

Sparks appeared.

Jane moved.

Destiny moved, too.

Jane waited for the Wizard to appear, but this time Destiny did not appear like she did earlier. This time the Wizard tried to directly fight off whatever she knew to be there, which, of course, was the wrong thing to do. Jane hadn’t been able to tell her that, though. Oh well. Maybe next time.

Looking back to where Jane had been, she saw Red bloom on the horizon—

Brilliant white light erupted—

Dark claws yanked Jane backward, pulling her into the Dark and then puffing her out of Melemizargo’s domain far from the explosion which detonated the world. It was a shattering of white, a scream of absolute hatred like a raging banshee, and then a descent of Red from the sky above, like the [Luminous Beam] of the sun itself. And maybe that’s what it was, considering the Enemy was on the sun; inside the sun.

Jane had never seen such a reaction before.

That Beam of Red expanded wide, and then wider. Red Sparks flew across the world like the release of an ocean—

- - - -

Destiny said, “I would like to be read in now, Jane.”

They were back on the treetops from earlier. Time had been reversed in a major way, and Red Sparks littered the world in every direction—

Destiny’s expression shifted. She stared. “You’re not Jane. You’re one of Melemizargo’s pets.”

And this would be how the Red Sparks fucked over proper communication of itself.

Right.

Well Destiny was fucking pissed. Probably not gonna listen to reason, either.

“The Red Sparks come from the sun because something lives up there and causes this whole antimeme.”

Jane didn’t even get to see the Red Sparks move.

Time shifted.

- - - -

The world was awash in Red, and Jane had just stepped onto a frozen canopy, kilometers away from her first interaction with Desti—

A meter-thick cascade of Benevolent Lightning shattered through the sky, aimed right at Jane, yet Jane just lifted a black wing and the Lightning went wide, scattered on her perfect [Dark Dragonhide], or whatever Melemizargo felt like calling the skill. Jane instantly knew something was wrong, but also, maybe right? Destiny was obviously able to retain something through Time shifts just like Jane could, now that the Bracelet of Memory had been melded with her soul, so there was no point in trying to hide her new allegiances.

Benevolent Lightning continued to shatter in every direction, turning the frozen forest to kindling and lighting fires here and there among the charred and blackened trees. It was a soft sort of flame that gave off no heat, and yet felt absolutely Destructive to all of Jane’s gifted Senses. All the world was Red, though, as though it was lit with natural fire but not at all.

Jane waited, midair, black wings extended from her back, her red hair and red eyes shining bright, as black scales crawled up from beneath her skin.

Destiny appeared, looking absolutely filthy with Red Sparks. She stared.

Jane asked, “What’s up, Destiny?”

“I seem to have some conflicting memories, and you seem to be an agent of Melemizargo now, Debby.”

Jane wanted to tell her everything, but that would be bad. She was already poised to hate, and if she was this far along…

“Leaving her be is the correct choice. I was not aware her power was progressing in this direction, but I approve. Do not interact with her further.”

Jane said to Destiny, “It’s technically ‘Jane’ and I’m not going into the specifics about all that right now. Speak your piece, please. My father is looking for me, yadda yadda. What else.”

Destiny had a surreal moment, and then she stood straight in the air, and said, “Talk to your father and stay out of my backyard.”

And then she left—

She reappeared, shouting, “I did not attack you first!”

And then she left again.

… She did not reappear.

When Jane was far away from that confrontation, she allowed herself a small smile, because Destiny had a constant small spill of red around her while she spoke. That could mean many different things, but the primary was that she remembered. Maybe not a whole lot. Maybe not much at all. But she was waking up. Anything was better than nothing.

And also—

“Yes, yes. No need to rub it in. I was being hasty with Oozy. Maybe he was simply immune to the Red Sparks, and thus he and all the people around him were constantly being attacked. That does make a whole lot more sense than him being an ‘agent’ of the Sparks. The anti-meme has never had an agent before, as far as I can remember.”

Jane nodded, highly satisfied. As she shadowstepped across the world, heading north back to Dungeon Island, she asked, “Can my father be made aware of his own time, like I am of mine? I thought that was a dangerous magic.”

