The Atomic Woman from another age held onto Solomon’s and Jane’s hands as she said, “It appears I have touched too much upon this horror, and your daughter was way too deep to ever extract herself safely. Even my own power has been exhausted trying to fulfill her last wishes.” The Red Sparks crawled into the Atomic Woman, replacing her completely, as they had replaced Jane’s soul. Her voice was still there, though, still indelibly marked upon the world. “This is not the ending I would have preferred, but I am okay with this ending, for you and your surviving daughters know of the horrors of that magic that must never be remade, even if you never saw such a thing yourself. As for your own horror, you have gained an uninterrupted moment of Truth about the horror you faced without knowing, until here, until now. I am glad for that. It will have to be enough of an inoculation. I’m sorry I couldn’t help you more with the Redness. Your own Path might see you through the rest of this journey through evil.”

Like butterflies in the shape of a corpse, the Red Sparks left the Atomic Woman, leaving nothing behind.

Solomon stared at his daughter, begging her to still be there, to hear her say, ‘I love you’. To be an indelible mark upon the world as the Atomic Woman had been. But that’s not how it was. She had never gotten the chance for one final word, and neither had Solomon.

Jane was gone.

- - - -

The world returned.

Solomon gripped his daughter’s cold wrist as Jane’s grip loosened, as her body fell to the ground. He roared. He cursed. He tried a thousand things to bring her back, from [True Resurrection] to [Reincarnation] to calling out to the mana itself, begging it to bring Jane back, and then cursing it in equal measure for taking her from him.

But there was no soul to bring back. There was no Time to reverse, either, for Melemizargo had done as much of that as possible in this space. Melemizargo spoke of how he had helped as much as he could, and Solomon fell silent as he knew the Dark God was not lying. The other Erick still had his words about him, though. Erick roared at Melemizargo for the liberties he took, for taking Debby as a paladin and then subjecting her to unknown Wizardry. Melemizargo countered about how Debby had known what she was doing, and how Erick should know by now that he would never want to hurt any of his daughters, and how none of this was his fault at all. If he could have picked a different person to resonate with the Bracelet he would have.

“What did you even accomplish?!” Erick demanded, yelling at the God of Magic.

Melemizargo stared right back at him. “I’d tell you if you could understand, but it looks like that’ll take a while longer.” He declared to them all, to every Jane in the glade, to Guile watching from Solomon’s side as Solomon lifelessly gazed upon his dead daughter, to Solomon and Erick, “None of you know the full extent of this anti-meme; this Red Plague upon this world—”

“Shut up,” Solomon declared in a soft, stern voice.

Jane still lay before him as though sleeping on a pure white bed of stone. Solomon had managed that much; had been able to give her that much dignity. He wasn’t sure why, but he knew that the fact that they had a body at all was a miracle in itself. That being able to remember Jane at all was yet another miracle. Melemizargo had probably done that. But Solomon didn’t know.

So he asked, “We have a body because you made that happen, didn’t you, Melemizargo. We have memories of her because of you.”

“I could manage that much without touching upon Grand Wizardry.”

The dragon god of Magic seemed like he wanted to say more, but also that he knew enough to stop right there.

“... Right.”

No one wanted Grand Wizardry from the insane god of magic.

In a divorced, almost clinical sort of way, Solomon moved past the moment of pain, and considered… Everything.

He knew he had experienced this same feeling, this same scenario, ten thousand times already. Jane was dead. Jane had always been dead. He had never gotten to watch her grow older than now; that had been the fate of other Ericks, from other timelines. This Jane, who had been ‘Debby’ for a while, was gone. ‘Debby’ had never been her name; it had always been ‘Jane’. And ‘Solomon’ was not like the Other Ericks.

He was the one who lost.

‘Solomon’ stood. With an anguish he had worn for decades and not at all, Erick said, “We’re not arguing about fault. We’re continuing with the rescues from the Dark. We are securing this world from every possible threat we can envision.” He stared at both This Erick and Melemizargo. “And when I get a chance, when I understand what happened here, I will be fixing it.”

‘Solomon’ brooked no argument.

He went back into the dungeon.

- - - -

Melemizargo watched as Red Sparks swarmed around Solomon, but they could not touch him, not completely. He was waking up. Those same Sparks couldn’t fully touch Erick right now, either, but his immunity was of a different sort than Solomon’s. More of a secure immunity. Solomon’s immunity was that of scars; of alterations unable to reach him through all of his old wounds.

It was similar to Melemizargo’s own immunity, granted to him through centuries of insanity, and then finally waking up to the realities of this reality.

The Janes were less awake; even the ‘original’ was the same sleepiness as her reflections. It would take them a great deal of time to notice the Red Sparks as ‘Debby’ had noticed. They would probably never wake up at all. Most people never did.

When Solomon and Erick met Poi inside the dungeon, Poi got a brief dazed look to him, due to the Red, but he recovered...

He was waking up, too?

Poi was waking up, too. His immunity was one granted to him by Erick and Solomon in a way that neither of them had noticed what they were doing, and which Melemizargo had not noticed either. It was a lesser form of either Ericks’ immunity. But still. Perhaps… Perhaps the Crossing could be saved? It would take a great deal of effort to do that, though. The Mind Mages were mostly a failed attempt at unraveling this cage… But maybe that could change. Maybe Melemizargo would find success if he revisited that project.

All of their various immunities to the Red Sparks were different from Oozy’s immunity, though. Oozy was a focal point. Something different. Something major. Something that hadn’t happened before, and Jane hadn’t been able to see that, so Melemizargo had allowed that dereliction of duty. But Melemizargo had known what he was looking at when he saw it.

Melemizargo should have made Jane kill that man.

… But that would have definitely caused an even larger rift between him and Erick than the one that occurred, for Sininindi would have gotten involved, and then the mess would cascade. That might have been exactly what the Red Sparks had wanted when they shoved Oozy in front of Jane—

Rozeta’s voice came to him, “WHAT THE FUCK.”

Melemizargo sighed, and then he planned how best to explain himself without coming across as an insane person, all the while with Red Sparks constantly interfering. Melemizargo wasn’t too worried about his daughter’s rage right now, because Melemizargo was done poking at the problem. For now. Whatever this cage was, it wasn’t overly dangerous until you confronted it directly, and even then the worst it could do was unravel a soul that was already extremely vulnerable to its power.

At least when he talked to Rozeta, Melemizargo was able to honestly say that he did his best to save ‘Debby’ and that he didn’t enact any Grand Wizardry of his own; he had merely been shielding Jane while she went around killing memetic horrors, which was still a valued service that any Paladin would have been honored to enact. It had been her choice to do all of that. Melemizargo hadn’t actually told her to do anything at all except what she wanted to do in the first place. All he had done was help her enact her own choices.

Rozeta called that a weak argument.

Melemizargo did not gainsay that rebuttal.

Of course, the real reason he didn’t enact any Grand Wizardry of his own was because direct confrontations with the Red Sparks was how you ended up with cascading horrors like with Idyrvamikor and the Death of All Halves.

Maybe Melemizargo could have saved Jane.

But maybe it was better for ‘Solomon’ to want to bring Jane back himself.
