It was the place where people sometimes displayed the artwork they made while they were coming to terms or reveling in their new body, and what that all meant to them. The gallery itself was perfectly normal; a bunch of paintings on the walls with some metal or clay sculptures on plinths. People painted in all sorts of colors, and some of it seemed professional, or semi professional. Some of it was less professional, with paint applied to canvas through the use of the feathers of one’s new harpy body, or with the horns of new incani, or with the giant fingers of orcols. Painting with new fingers was a popular method of impressionist style painting that was actually catching on in a lot of the world. Jane had talked to her father about that in a sarcastic manner once or twice, in an ‘are you happy you’ve regressed society from painting with brushes and getting actual style out of their work, to using their fingers’, sort of way. Her father had happily replied, ‘Just be glad I stopped them from painting with their genitals’.

Every painting in the Revived Gallery was a work of newfound joy, which was the general theme of the Wake Up House, and this whole artistic style.

But one painting stood out to Jane. It probably didn’t stand out to anyone else.

It was a red painting that was done with brushstrokes, and it wasn’t lit by any of the spotlights. In an orderly sort of way, paintings hung on walls every meter or so, each of them lit with their own private wardlight. But this red painting was between wardlights, crammed between smaller paintings just so it could exist on the wall at all, as though it had been put there as a last ditch effort to simply do what everyone else was doing, and yet which had been denied to the painter.

Which is probably exactly what had happened. Probably not out of malice, though.

But did the painter feel that way? Hard to say.

It was a sunset painted in red. All reds. No other colors. It would have been an odd choice if there weren’t other paintings in the single-color style here and there in other parts of the gallery, and even in this very same gallery.

But this one had Red Sparks crowding the sun in the sunset.

It was as though someone had stuck a spot of red light in the middle of a darkened wall, and then surrounded that darkness with shades of red. Dangerous red, too. Not normal red. That tree looked like it was made of flesh, with veins poking in and out of heavy red paint. That ground looked like it was made of dried gore that cracked in the sunlight. Red lightning flickered in the sky of the painting, crawling between mounds of red clouds like the painting was a hole into another world, and the clouds were large enough for lightning to truly play upon.

Jane focused on the sun.

The sun was a crowd of Red Sparks. Crawling. Feasting like a tiny carpet of ants.

Melemizargo’s claws wrapped around her shoulders, his presence heavy behind her as she read the name on the artist’s signature, which did not look like an artist's signature at all. It was not stylistic. The signature was the simple writing of a name, in red; blocky and bold.

Jane knew that name. Why had she not recognized the Red Man?

Why did she not know who Oozy was?

Because she knew him. She knew of Oozy Stormcaller. She had heard her father talk about the last scion of the Stormcallers of Storm’s Edge and how the Regency was operating just fine without a king, and how Oozy did not want to be a king. She had even seen him… Recently. Hadn’t she?

Had she? No. Jane touched her head as she tried to think. To REMEMBER. She had been at the dungeon every time her father had gone to this very same Wake Up House after they started pulling people from the Dark. And yet, she remembered being with him at least once, coming to this place when he brought the people from the Censer to the Red Wing.

But no. Edward had gone every time with her father, hadn’t he? He had been Jane’s repro who had decided to be a man, because everyone desired to try out the other sex at least once, right? And Jane was all about polymorphing anyway, so Edward had… wanted to see how other people transitioned…

What…

What…

She had two sets of memories?

She was Jane and she was… Also Jane?

“What the fuck?”

In a fury born from rapid anger, without an outlet, Jane slapped the painting to the ground, her hand turning into a giant black claw and then turning back to red-nailed—

The red painting crashed to the ground, partially broken.

Red Sparks exploded out in every direction like an ephemeral bomb going off, touching nothing and yet hitting everything. Jane held onto herself, and she had no idea why—

And then she gazed upon the painting on the ground, flakes of red having fallen off from the thick-painted ground where the signature had been, the name disturbed and unreadable, and the Sparks trying to crawl back into position, back onto the sun—

Jane felt her heart still and Melemizargo’s claws dig into her shoulders.

There was another color to the painting.

Black. A single squiggle upon the sun. The entire orb, together, was not the shape of an eye, for that was Jane’s first, largest worry. It was the shape of something hiding below the surface, and only surfacing from the sun in parts, like a leviathan prowling in the depths of—

Red Sparks filled the air, crawling out of every part of reality, clawing towards—

“Run.”

Jane ran.

- - - -

“What the FUCK, Melemizargo?”

“Whatever could you be referring to?” the God of Magic said, playing dumb.

Jane was ten thousand kilometers away from the spilling of Red Sparks, all the way on the endless plains of Nelboor and on the other side of the planet from the sun, before those Red Sparks finally stopped coming after her, and her Unseen, Unsensed, Unknown finally started working as it was supposed to work. She had triggered something hard back there. Even now, if she thought too much about there being something living inside the sun—

Sparks flickered out of the air.

Jane shadowstepped far away from that point, and the Sparks stopped chasing her.

She had no idea how come she hadn’t triggered an [Area Return]. Perhaps because she had run so fast, and not had any more sun-leviathan-shaped thoughts...

Jane rounded on her shoulder-riding voyeur, saying, “You know exactly what the fuck—”

Claws pressed Jane down to the ground and then materialized. Jane could barely turn her head, but she could see the full body of Melemizargo towering over her, his claws ten times the size of her body, holding her down without fully crushing. Melemizargo’s eyes bore down on her, and she stared right back as much as she could from the corner of her own eyes. His jaw opened, and hot breath spilled forth between radiant white teeth.

“A little bit of civility, please. I am trying to think. I am also angry, and I am deflecting with humor instead of answering you like I am some [Book Familiar]—” He stopped. He lifted his claws. He stepped away from Jane. When he started talking again it was much softer. “And to answer the question you have, instead of the ones you should be having, is that you and all the other repros are actually people taken from timelines and realities that don’t exist without us gazing upon them. The reason you remember your time slightly different from the Jane of this reality is that you are from one of those different realities, but until just now, until you fully shed your ‘Debby’ persona, you were still halfway in that other reality. Now you are here, fully.

“Thus, the double memories.

“All shadelings not made from the real soul of a person are exactly that, and you were a ‘shadeling’ until you woke up just now. All repros are alternate selves with different triggering methods for waking up, and one major way to wake up; if they can see the anti-meme. Why do you think I guided Fallopolis and Lapis and others to make the dungeons work how they work? For fun? For ease of dungeon use? I could have done that many other ways, but I wanted to create people who could SEE, and so, here you are, finally able to See.

“Maybe if enough repros suddenly wake all the way, we might be able to overload the anti-meme. Most singular magics have a breaking point, after all.” The Dark Dragon shrugged his wings a little, adding, “But I doubt it would work that way. The Mind Mages never worked out properly.

“Now. Do you need time to process that? Or can we get on with the investigation?”

Jane had slowly reoriented herself to sitting on the ground as she listened. Melemizargo had taken a lay-down, too, shrinking to be less domineering, but he was still giant. Jane stared at him as he spoke. When he finished, Jane said, “I would like a moment.”

Melemizargo nodded.

He stayed right where he was.

Jane thought. First, she noticed how the anti-meme wasn’t coming back, even though Melemizargo was talking about it—

“I had my mind in a hundred different spots but now I am here making us both Unknown.”

“… So I’m from another reality.”

“Not really. But that is the easiest way to explain it. 50% correct.”

“What’s the other 50%?”

“Wizardry. Creation and Paradox, specifically, leaning toward Creation. Paradox with a side of Creation is what your father is doing in the slime dungeon with pulling things from the Dark.”

“… Why do I have memories of a different life from after the split into a dungeon master slime? And not before?”

“Because that particular slice of reality where you come from did not exist prior to that moment of creation. It still doesn’t really exist; you are the only part of that reality that truly exists.”

Jane looked at the black tattoo around her left wrist. “… I was Debby, and then I was pulled from a side reality onto this one.”

“Somewhat correct. You’re both. Like a shadeling waking up, but not quite that either, for I make shadelings from this reality and not a side reality. Shadelings are easy to make whole-cloth when the cloth is already here, but when making a copy of a person then it is best to steal the cloth from realities that don’t exist and then make them whole-cloth from that… Now that I think about it, it’s quite strange that your specific deviation of reality happened after your creation. I would have assumed that it would have occurred before your dungeon slime deviation… Eh! Sometimes these things happen strangely. It is possible that you aren’t even truly aware of how you are deviated from this world’s Jane. I doubt whatever memories you have are the whole story. Wizardry can get very weird, Jane.”

Jane was absolutely sure that she wasn’t understanding a lot of things in all of that, and there were at least one or two logical fallacies within all of Melemizargo’s diatribe. All of that was likely covered by ‘It’s a Paradox’ which was just a variation on ‘A Wizard Did It’. It was not truly satisfying.

“I’m sure I can explain it better for you some other time, Jane,” Melemizargo said, “But I really would like to get to the problem at hand. This Oozy fellow. What he is probably doing to Sininindi must be… I’m not sure. Stopped? Used to expose the problem? … Actually, this break of me explaining the simple things has been good, and I probably need a longer one. I see that now.” He stared off into the distance. “I must decide how to proceed.”

Jane was thankful for that. She also needed a large break to digest whatever had—

“I have decided. We kill him.”

“… Okay.” Jane asked, “Could you maybe reconsider such a drastic move, because murder is hard to come back from, especially when such murder could easily be misconstrued as something else, considering the targets and nearby-targets involved?”

Melemizargo looked like he was about to say something cross. But then he mellowed for a moment. “We likely do have time to make better decisions, if that Prophesied Storm is any indication… And murder is not my preferred method of solving things. This is true. This damned anti-meme would probably cause a large problem if we attacked it directly…” He looked away. “It has done that before.” He fell silent.

Jane wondered exactly how many times the God of Magic had been thought of as insane, when really he was just furious and caged, and no one else could see the cage.

Melemizargo stared at the distance, saying, “More times than I wish to count… But I was also insane for a great deal of the last 1451 years. That fact doesn’t vanish just because now you know some of the truth, whatever that ‘truth’ might be.” He stared at the night sky for a long moment, and then he looked back down at Jane. “I’ve decided. We’re killing him.”

“Can we please look for other targets? That guy might not be the only one.”

“I have already looked. He is the only one.”

Jane kept her voice even as she said, “If you were capable of seeing everyone that was so afflicted like that man, then why am I here?”

“To give me deniability for killing the man you have discovered, and to help me See…” Melemizargo frowned. “Maybe you have a small point.”

“...”

“Very small.”

“Please let me try to talk to my father, to get him to intercede, and to that end, I request a week of preparation, to try and figure out how to speak to him with this new clear mind of mine.”

“… You have one chance, and when he cannot understand you at all... I want to tell you to execute that carrier of the Red Sparks, but in truth, we likely should go looking for more people like him. Maybe there are connections out there I am missing.”

“Thank you.”

- - - -

Jane’s experiments with talking to people about the Red Sparks and about Oozy involved those who were not crucial to anything she was doing, for she did not want to potentially mess up later, very important conversations with her father, who would surely be checking up on everything she said after she gave her report...

If he could even remember her.

Hmm.

Melemizargo was not happy with the delay, but he still let her delay, explore, and refine her new powers. It wasn’t dealing with the known problem, which is what he wanted, but it was investigating for other people like Oozy, which he begrudgingly accepted as probably necessary.

For her first action, Jane spoke with people from Clan Star Song in the Songli Highlands, with Patriarch Xue, who acted as a good intermediary between her and the Mind Mages and any mental threats in the area. After a few tries, a few failures, and a need to circle back the next day lest she cause an [Area Return], Jane discovered she was able to tell Xue something approaching the truth in order to get him to act as she wanted.

