"I kind of want to know too, now," Syphus said. "In fact, I feel like you kind of owe it to us, prof."

The professor sighed again. He was silent for a long, uncomfortable moment, and then he spoke.

"I have a restriction curse, as you may have noticed," he said tiredly, gesturing to the scar over his eye. "It is a lich-cast mark; a powerful variant of the standard curse that cannot be removed by any cleansing magic we have attempted. Worse, it is a curse that worsens over time, narrowing the scope of the spells I can cast.

"I have had this mark for a long time. Before I was even named Mage Killer. This curse is one of the reasons I have grown so greatly as a mage; it has forced me to adapt, to learn the true depths of every spell that remains within my repertoire.

"It has not, however, stopped increasing in strength. And the only magic capable of halting it—not curing it, not reversing it, but merely temporarily halting its progress—is contained within the Brightgrove Pools. Its sacred magics can prevent the curse from progressing, at least for a time. I take the occasional sabbatical to return to the Brightgrove and extend my time without the curse progressing. If I were to be exiled..."

"You'd lose the ability to cast magic entirely," Cale said, frowning. He'd suspected as much. Curses weren't his area of expertise, but ones that left scars were usually not the kind to be trifled with. Really, anything that left any kind of mark tended to be dangerous magic.

It wasn't something he could just dispel, either. Most magical effects were easy enough to break with a sharp burst of mana, because they settled around their target as a sort of pseudo-spellform. Curses, on the other hand, engraved themselves into a mage's core. A blind dispel was more likely to do severe damage than cure the curse.

Cale's own method of countering curses mostly involved not letting them tag him in the first place. It was one of the reasons he kept his barriers up so consistently—his mana core couldn't be tagged with a curse if the curse couldn't reach it in the first place. On the rare occasion one was able to slip past, he simply burned up the part of his core that held it.

There were some advantages to the reincarnation thing.

Almost every world forbade curse magic, and with good reason, but as with all forbidden magics, it never stopped mages from practicing the art. That was part of the reason curses were so common—for all that practitioners were technically rare, curse magic liked to spread. Give a few foolhardy mages enough time and an infinite multiverse, and, well...

This sort of thing was rather depressingly common.

"Wait—are you saying Nala was threatening you with becoming corebound?" It took Syphus a moment to process the gravity of the threat, but the moment it did, it leaned forward and slammed its fists into the desk. Both Cale and Graystalk jumped at the sudden display of emotion. "That's vile. You can't just do that to another mage."

"She is, to the best of my knowledge, unaware of the particulars of my condition." The professor rubbed the bridge of his nose tiredly; Cale could see he'd had this conversation with himself countless times. "She simply knows I cannot lose access to the Brightgrove Pools, and uses that to get what she wants. That ends now, however. Hopefully your little demonstration has humbled her, but if it has not..."

He turned to Cale, clearly wanting to move on from the conversation. "It... surprised me, how much your words and your presence changed the perspective my students hold toward the Standard Array. I received more questions about the Standard Array after that duel than after any class I have ever held."

Graystalk hesitated for a moment, then dipped his head in a slight bow. "I look forward to having you to assist me with my future classes, Cale, and to that end..."

He produced another Astral credit and pressed it into Cale's hands. "Here," he said. "Let it not be said that I am ungrateful, though it does seem that you are collecting these rather quickly." His lips twitched with faint amusement. "I do hope you know what to do with them."

"Absolutely," Cale lied. They stared at one another for a moment.

"...I am sure your friends will inform you of the details," Professor Graystalk said dryly. He nudged the stack of tomes over to the pair. "As I said, I would like to change the way I do things. I will inform Headmaster Akkau to ask the Astral Wing students who were removed prematurely to return. With your help, we may be able to find ways to allow them to cast more of the Standard Array. These tomes should help in the meantime—they are annotated textbooks I had originally created for Ms. Whiteleaf and her friends. Please hand them out as you see fit."

Cale exchanged glances with Syphus, then grinned. "Looking forward to working with you too, then," he said cheerfully. "Syphus, do you have some sort of storage spell?"

Syphus seemed startled. "I do," it said. "But how did you—"

"Great! Let's go for lunch," Cale said brightly. "We might as well get started on this whole Standard Array thing, so let's figure out what's up with your magic, hm?"

Professor Graystalk frowned. "Lunch... This is your first day at the academy, is it not?"

"Sure is. Why?"

He grimaced. "Be cautious, please," he said. "Our lunchlady is rather volatile, and given your personality... Well. Simply put, we do not need another, ah... incident."

"Are you going to elaborate on that, or am I going to have to find out on my own?" Cale asked, and then before Graystalk could answer, he shook his head. "Actually, nevermind, I definitely want to find out on my own. I'll see you there, Syphus."

Without even waiting for a response, he darted out of Graystalk's office, schedule scroll already unfurling. He was starving, now that he thought about it. Being summoned always made him hungry, and he hadn't had a meal since then.

Funny thing was, the cafeteria was on fire even before he arrived.

That was weird. Cale wasn't used to not being the cause of a fire. He contemplated the burning doors for a moment—no one was screaming, so the state of things probably wasn't that unusual—then shrugged and let himself in, voidcyte still in hand. He could always hand it off to Akkau for containment after he'd had a bite.
