My ears ring as a shockwave of air slams into me. The snake had swung its tail at Tabitha so fast that it created a small explosion when it struck her shield.

There was no way Tabitha could deflect such an attack, and she was sent flying through the air until she landed a few feet away from me, unable to move. Her left arm was completely destroyed, and what remained of Tabitha’s shield was twisted around her bloody flesh. Tabitha’s right arm was better, but it still looked broken in several places. By some miracle, Tabitha was still holding onto her sword, but there was no doubt she was down for the count.

Tabitha was still conscious somehow, but she was losing a lot of blood fast. Her breastplate had a massive dent, and the rest of her armor didn’t look much better. Honestly, I wasn’t sure how she was even alive.

“Why didn’t you run?” She feebly wheezes, blood dripping from the corner of her mouth.

“Not without you,” I rush to her side and grab her limp body by her armor.

“Then we’ll die together,” she rasps.

“Not if I can help it,” I start dragging her over to the largest pile of nearby bones.

While I’m dragging Tabitha, the winged serpent returns to the sky and slowly circles over us like a vulture waiting for its prey to drop. It must think with Tabitha out of commission, it was only a matter of time before I shared her fate, but I wasn't going to give it the satisfaction.

As we near the pile of bones, I finally draw my hammer, but not for the reason one would think.

The flying snake hisses above us, but I ignore it and focus on my real target. While holding on to Tabitha with my left hand, I take my hammer in my right and prepare to use all my skills simultaneously.

I don't know if the snake realized something was wrong with my actions, but I wasn't waiting to find out.

With everything I have, I slam my weapon down. My hammer pulverizes bone and strikes my real target, the grey bricks hidden underneath. The grey stone resists for a second, but soon I hear it giving way.

If there was no place to hide up here, then why not try underground? That was the crazy idea I came up with in the heat of the moment. Of course, we weren't necessarily escaping, but at least I could save Tabitha and buy us some time to devise a real plan.

The monster overhead sees what I’m doing, but even it’s too far away to make it in time to stop me. “That’s what you get for playing with your food, you bastard!” I shout at it as I'm about to jump into the newly formed hole with Tabitha.

The winged serpent probably didn’t understand exactly what I said, but it sure as hell pissed it off all the same because before we disappeared underground, a wave of brown mist crashed down from above and enveloped us.

The poison clings to Mana Skin as I pull Tabitha underground. The lesser dragon may have gotten the last word, but we were alive.

For now.
