Ren bid the servers a good night and left the restaurant. That's a good point. He thought and came to a stop halfway down the street. I wonder if there's an option to send her a message. He opened the Land Owner menu and chose Goagan City from the drop down menu. All the information popped up and he scrolled down to see what options he had.

Mayor... mayor...mayor... there it is. Ren thought and chose the 'Contact Mayor' option. He typed up a quick message and sent it to her. Since he had a menu opened anyways, he switched to the Business Owner menu and ordered rope and parchment. He'd been out of both for a while and wanted to rectify that problem. The delivery time was set for the next day at noon, so he closed the menu and ran down the street, around the corner, and down to the Housing District.

*

Patty was awoken by a loud beep, and she opened her eyes. This isn't my bed. She thought sleepily, wiped her eyes, and sat up. A message popup had appeared and she looked at it.

Message From Land Owner:

Hi, Patty.

I hope you weren't too surprised by the amount of money I put in the budget. It's for the whole year, and I didn't want to worry about having to put more in it later. You can use as much of it as you want. I'm sure there's things that people are going to need that I can't think of right now, so go ahead and get it for them.

- Ren

Patty stared at the message and shook her head. She couldn't believe that he had given her complete reign over the entire budget without a second thought over how she could abuse it.

How can he be so stupid? Patty asked herself, then typed out a quick response to say she was fine and that he was crazy for giving her so much money. No one in their right mind would just hand over nearly a th-th-th-th-thousand pl-pl-platinum coins!

Patty shook her head again when Ren sent her a happy face with the eyes pointed in different directions, and she sighed as she closed the message. She opened the Item Order tab to put the order through for the parchment, after increasing the amount from 10 to 100, then increased the writing instruments from 1 to 20. A very minuscule amount of gold and silver was deducted from the budget, then Patty closed the Item Order tab.

I'm tempted to order everything I can on that menu. Patty thought. It would serve him right!

Patty opened it again and chose one of everything, and saw the total at the bottom.

125 platinum! Patty thought in shock. It wasn't just the total amount of the cost that was shocking, it was that Ren had been right. If there was anything at all that she wanted for the city, or for anyone in the city, he had given her more than enough money to handle it.

“Miss Patty!” Russell said from the doorway.

“AAAHHH!” Patty screamed.

“Sorry, Miss Patty.” Russell said. “I came back to tell you that you're missing the town council meeting.”

“The council meeting!” Patty said, closed the Mayor menu, and stood up. “Go back and tell them I'm sorry I'm late, and that I'm coming right now.”

“Yes'um.” Russell said and ran out of the building as Patty came around the desk to follow him at a jog.

*

Ren ran inside the house and up to the bedroom, and Teepo took off and landed on the ceiling. The maids were already undressed and had laid down on the bed on the far side, to give him room to lay down and log out. He took off his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and folded it up, then remembered his crafting station. He took it out and opened the treatment compartment, and several of the maids gagged.

“Sorry.” Ren said and took out the Dire Wolf pelt and put it into the drying compartment and closed the crafting station to store it. He then stored his clothing, which left him in just his underwear, and he felt how much they liked the sight. He let them feel how much he liked the sight of them on the bed like that, then he crawled up onto the bed to join them.

“Can you move over a little?” Ren asked. “I want to be in the middle this time.”

“But... before you said...” Navruth started to say, and she felt some admonishment from the other maids. She stopped talking and three of the maids moved to one side, and two of them moved to the other. Ren laid down in the middle of them and sighed dramatically.

“Goodnight.” Ren said and closed his eyes. The maids watched and waited for him to speak again and then fade away; but after about 30 seconds, Ren hadn't spoken and they couldn't wait anymore.

“Ren?” Frikara asked. “Aren't you leaving?”

“Do you want me to leave?” Ren asked, and kept his eyes closed.

“By the gods, no.” Frikara said. “Are you going to?”

“I've postponed my Adventurer's business-” Ren's words were interrupted when all 5 maids practically piled on top of him. “-for tonight.” He finished with a laugh, and the maids settled down to cuddle with him as they held onto him tightly. Ren was actually tired, even though he had been tempted to stay back at the county to work all night and build up the defenses. Now he was glad that he didn't do that.

Ren let sleep drag him down, and the maids soon followed him as they shared his comforting warmth.
