“The only thing we are not allowed to offer are discounts. Master Shadoweater will know if we do, and the repercussions are… unwanted.”

After a long moment, Erick said, “Okay.”

And then he had nothing more to say. What could he say? That it was awful? That he wanted to help? He certainly wanted to help, but how could he, when they were probably lying about everything?

Maia frowned at Justine, then said to Erick, “That’s the same story we already heard.”

Ramizi said, “Shadelings need a baseline thousand mana per day to live.” He looked to Justine, saying, “Some of you can eat your own mana though, can’t you?”

“We all can. Most of us do.” Justine said, “But it is a wyrm eating its tail; there is some loss, each day. It is not enough.”

Ramizi looked to Ophiel. “Yesterday we saw a desperate shadeling kill and eat the rads out of the chests of two others.”

Maia asked Justine, “Whose fault is it that you live like this?”

Justine immediately said, “It is no one’s fault save our own. We have been given an opportunity, and some are incapable of rising above our shared beginnings. That’s all there is to it.”

She spoke her words with obvious false conviction. Erick did not need to be there, in that space, to see the way her shoulders slumped a little, or how her words were vomited up from some deeply ingrained place in her mind, but not in her heart.

But all of that could have been an act.

Erick almost ended his visit to Candlepoint right there.

But...

Back on Earth, Erick had been a healthcare social worker for a time, but he also helped children, and the local highschool, and the local gangs. He got around. He had seen a lot in his almost eighteen years on the job. He had seen people stabbed. He had been threatened with death, and he threatened others with punitive action in order to save himself and others from danger. He had seen through lies and spoken uncomfortable truths. He had rescued kids from parents that abused them. He had reunited kids with parents who got their acts together. He helped people get chemo and doctor visits and housing and more, both as part of a team, and as an individual, back on Earth.

Veird had thrown everything into chaos, for him. Emotionally, physically, mentally; all ways. He had seen some shit during his time here, but seeing four people murdered and cleaned up and the whole event brushed over like it never happened…

That was a new experience.

But he still felt the need to help, where he could.

Erick briefly came back to himself, sitting comfortably in the library of his house, over three [Teleport]s away from Candlepoint. Kiri sat across the room from him, reading, sipping her coftea. Erick’s own mug steamed into the air on the short table beside him.

With an expert flick of mental control, he Handy Aura’d a scratch pad and a pen from his nearby desk and quickly wrote out a checklist of problems to solve. Right off the bat, he saw a lot that needed solving. Food, was a major problem—

“Kiri.” Erick asked, “Monsters eating rads. Does it do anything for them? Small answer.”

Kiri looked up from her book and blanked for a moment, before saying, “Uh. Yes and no. Meat-based monsters need to eat rads to stay alive, or else they wither away. Plant based monsters can grow their own rad. I don’t know why it is this way.”

“Any issue with giving rads to monsters?”

“Nooo?” Kiri winced, seeming to dredge up knowledge she barely knew. She said, “In a… in a laboratory setting, if a monster is given the option, they will only eat enough rads in order to maintain their own rad, interspersing the consumption of rads with normal food. However, if no other food is available, they will eat rads. Overeating of rads can lead to a wyrm-like scenario, where the monster either evolves into a new form, or dies, violently, often taking others with it.” She got up from her chair, saying, “I don’t know a lot about this subject. I’ll go to the Mage Guild library right now, and find out more. Poi can come in here to watch over you.”

“Yes. Thank you. Do that, please. Good plan.” Erick returned to Ophiel.

Another person had walked closer to join their little group near the entrance to the Garrison: the man in the sequined tuxedo, along with two flanking automatons. He had not made it to Erick’s group, yet. He stopped to talk to adventurers at the gambling tables, and cheer them on, or buy them more drinks that he blipped in from somewhere else.

But it was very clear he was headed this way. The Mage Trio had spoken a bit to Justine while Erick was mentally back in Spur, but they were quiet, now; waiting. The sequined man finished speaking in loud, happy tones to a dragonkin who rolled high at a card table, then snapped his fingers at a waitress in a thin dress. The woman fell in with the man, as he made his way, finally, to Ophiel.

Maia, Eduard, and Ramizi, fell back a bit, making room for the man. Justine moved away from the Mage Trio, and the new person, both. She stayed somewhat near Ophiel, though, and that was intriguing, to Erick. What was her goal in all of this? To ingratiate herself with him? Obviously, yes. That’s what her body language said, but there was something else going on here.

“Greetings, Archmage Flatt!” said the sequined man, throwing a hand up in the air, then toward the waitress with him. Five dark drinks appeared in crystal glasses on her tray. “I am Mephistopheles, the caretaker of this Garrison. I’m charmed to meet you.” He picked up a drink, the dark liquid inside sparkling with white flashes. “It’s a new drink on the menu, just today! We call it Vivid Gloom. It’s sure to burn going down, but feel great afterward. Compliments of Mister M!”

Erick mentally brushed over the name of the drink. Much more interesting things were happening all around him.

Thanks to Ophiel having eyes in every direction, Erick saw several events occur simultaneously with Mephistopheles’s announcement. Justine went stock still, as did every other shadeling in earshot, including the waitress Mephistopheles had commandeered to hold the drinks, but the waitress’s demeanor was already at a very tense stage. Then they all relaxed, as rote training kicked in, and the whole place seemed to run a bit smoother. Waiters handed out drinks with practiced motions and larger smiles. Cards were dealt with perfect aplomb. Congeniality took hold of the Garrison, with a titanium grip.

Some of the adventurers saw what had happened, but most either did not see, or care.

Erick took a second to make sure he wasn’t imagining what he was seeing. And nope, he was not. The Garrison ran smoother, in the moments after Mephistopheles mentioned ‘Mister M’.

And then the moment passed. Ramizi took the offered drink. Maia and Eduard respectfully declined. Mephistopheles casually stared at Justine, and then Justine took a drink and waterfall’ed the whole stein-sized crystal glass.

She declared, as though plotted out in advance, “A delicious drink. Thank you very much.”

Mephistopheles smiled wide, then turned to Ophiel, smirking playfully as he asked, “So what brings the great Archmage Flatt to my humble demesne? Here to kill a monster, perhaps?” He joked, “I hope your sights are set on the Board back there, and not on the innocent inhabitants of this little plot of paradise we call Candlepoint?”

Erick wanted to like Mephistopheles, so this answer was easy, “I won’t be going to war today.”

Mephistopheles cheered, “Hooray and huzzah!” He turned to the room, and in a voice barely louder than when he announced half priced drinks, said, “Free drinks for the next hour!”

Erick had noticed that everyone was casually looking in their direction, of course, but at that moment, when the entire Garrison instantly erupted in more bright jubilation, he saw more than the conversation right in front of Ophiel. He saw patrons dismiss conjured blades held under tables, or take their hands off of the weapons tucked into their belts. The automatons relaxed a fraction. He saw card dealers sigh in obvious relief. One even brushed away a tear, then went right back to dealing cards.

Erick came halfway back to himself, and said to Poi, sitting across from him, “If these people are actors or controlled, they are perfectly controlled, all to give the illusion of free people down on their luck.”

Poi nodded, saying, “That’s our consensus, too.”

“Everyone’s?”

“The Mind Mage police and Spur and a few others; yes.”

Back in Candlepoint, Mephistopheles said, “I could deliver you one of these drinks, if you wish, Archmage.” He smiled, adding, “Drop it at your door in Spur, perhaps?”

“No thank you.” Erick skipped right over what could have been an implied threat, or not, and returned to the matter of how he just saw four shadelings murdered right in front of him. “I’d much prefer to know how come those people who rushed in here, had to rush in here at all. Is your Garrison meant to feed everyone? Or is something else going on, there?”

Mephistopheles smiled, saying, “I would love to take this conversation into a more comfortable location, especially since you managed to call us ‘people’.”

Erick said, “Lead the way.” He turned to the Mage Trio, and sent to the three of them, ‘Talk later?’

All three rapidly responded with affirmatives, then left.

Erick floated alongside Mephistopheles, as the sequined man led the way through the main floor of the Garrison, and spoke of the card games and how they worked. He had a nice voice. It was all standard gambling, though, luring people in with promises of multiplying their darkchip reserves, while the Garrison took in the allotted chips from every single shadeling who played nice, and adventurers paid in rads to get chips. Those rads then went out to everyone who gave their darkchips to the Garrison. Mephistopheles’ answer to ‘what is the Garrison’, was much the same as Erick already knew, and what Justine had already explained: it was a way for shadelings to get rads without directly dealing with adventurers. A variation of collective bargaining, perhaps?

Though the sequined shadeling certainly put a larger, more colorful spin on it all.

… Erick really wanted to like the man. Everything about him was obviously an act, but it seemed like it was an act born of desperation. A need to set himself apart, perhaps? Or an act of defiance for the atmosphere of the place? ‘Mephistopheles’ was not his real name, either. Erick might not have been ‘with it’ when it came to fantasy stuff, like his daughter, but he knew that name was from some German play, or book, or something, and much, much older than Jane’s D&D.

Or maybe ‘Mephistopheles’ was his real name, but it was a name given to him by Melemizargo.

Whatever the case, Mephistopheles led Erick and Justine to a slightly raised area, set off of the main gambling floor, where a large, plush red couch sat, under a large, blank black spot of the wall. It was a luxurious spot for anyone to sit, but it was obviously reserved for VIPs. It even had a pair of automatons stationed just to the sides.

Mephistopheles walked right past the automatons, leaving his own flanking pair to join the other two. Erick floated Ophiel up into the space, to hover just off of the red couch. Justine stopped at the edge of the staircase, and turned around to face the casino floor.

It was just Mephistopheles and Ophiel, right now. Mephistopheles casually fell backward onto the couch, coming to a rest on the plush leather. A glowing red drink appeared in his hands. Erick couldn’t help but think that the man certainly did strike a dashing, devilish figure, even if he looked to have lost a fight with a monstrous bedazzler.

Mephistopheles said, “To answer your question about the people of this fair city: the people of this fair city are destitute. We are scrabbling for whatever scraps we can get, you see? I put on this outfit and this demeanor to put people at ease. It is an act, like so much of life! But just like any good act, I tend to enjoy mine, and that has a nice effect on the crowds.” He smirked, adding, “I am the fourth person to hold this position, since Candlepoint opened. With any luck, I might last a few more days, but I fully expect someone to come kill me for some imagined slight. Candlepoint is in no way, shape, or form, stable.” He smirked. “Besides the stables for horses. But who has a horse? Certainly not me. We have more than a few whores, though. Not quite the same, but some would say they make for even better rides.” He gestured to the automatons, saying, “Those things are for your protection, not mine. If I should ever choose to defend myself, for whatever reason, I will be murdered just as fast as those ruffians out there were murdered.”

“… I did not expect such an honest answer.”

“I could lie.” Mephistopheles said, “I often do. In fact, what I just said might be a lie.” He added, “You can never know, you know? So don’t take my word for it.” He asked, “How’s your visit going?”

Erick answered honestly, but without giving his full opinion. “It’s going.”

“That good, huh?”

“This was my first stop, and it’s already seeming to be too much.”

“Ah ha! Now just imagine how good it must be for us who cannot leave.” Mephistopheles brightened, asking, “Any way I can help you decide not to kill us all?”

