“Our hosts seem to be a boisterous people and open to contests of martial skill from visitors,” Xia Lin reported in a clipped tone. On the other side of Cai Renxiang, Gan Guangli looked briefly disgruntled. “If I might offer some small insight, their warriors seemed very bored.”

“How so?” Cai Renxiang asked.

“It is difficult to put into words,” Xia Lin said slowly. “But their demeanor held a certain... silliness that I have only seen among soldiers too long left on light duty or deployed in a peaceful region.”

“Silliness?” Meng Dan asked, cocking an eyebrow.

For a second, Xia Lin’s eyes darted to the side, and Ling Qi could have sworn she saw the girl’s cheeks darken. Sixiang hummed thoughtfully in her head.

“A coping mechanism. In the lower realms, discipline will inevitably suffer some decay when there is no action, even under the best of drill,” Xia Lin said stiffly. “It is thus my belief that this fortress is likely considered a light duty station.”

“Useful information.” Cai Renxiang nodded toward Xia Lin. “We might assume that any tribes within easy striking distance have been pacified then… one way or another.”

“Their reach is longer than we thought then,” Gan Guangli said. “What I would give for a well made map…”

“We’ll have contributed to the first steps toward getting one,” Ling Qi said thoughtfully. “Meng Dan, you said earlier that you had something you didn’t want to speak of out in the open, didn’t you?”

Cai Renxiang’s gaze flicked from her to Meng Dan, who dipped his head.

“I was able to get a small amount of information on this ‘Sky Palace,’” Meng Dan said, drawing surprised looks from everyone else. “My hosts underestimated their own fortitude.”

Ling Qi thought that Meng Dan’s usual smile looked a little smug for a moment there.

“Firstly, the project seems to be a matter of some pride as they spoke of it as something which would improve their standing within the Confederation significantly,” Meng Dan continued. “It also seems that the cloud tribes are not merely a labor force for the project. Something about their contribution is vital to it.”

Ling Qi frowned. They had assumed the cloud tribes were merely doing labor because their grasp of formation craft was generally primitive by imperial standards, relying on the quality of the material and binding minor spirits to the objects rather than proper enhancement.

“Were you able to get more information than that?” Cai Renxiang asked.

“Alas, my new friends caught themselves. Luckily, the demeanor of oblivious simplicity I had put on kept them from being incensed by my prodding,” Meng Dan replied. “I could not push my luck further though.”

“Still, also useful information. More than we had acquired so far.” Cai Renxiang gave him a nod as well.

They all fell silent then, sensing the approach of a person other than their perfunctory guard at the door. A moment later, there was a quiet knock. Cai Renxiang glanced toward Xia Lin and gestured toward the door. Making her way way over with swift strides, Xia Lin opened the door. On the other side was a meek looking young man with dark brown hair, wearing the plain white clothes of the serving folk.

“What is required of us?” Xia Lin asked simply.

“Guests, Emissary Jaromila wishes to inform you that the Voice will meet with Emissary Lingchee and her sister,” the young man said solemnly, lowering his head in deference. “I am here to give notice so that you may prepare. Someone will be down shortly to escort her to the Voice’s orrery.”

“They are to meet your Voice alone?” Xia Lin asked, voicing the question that flashed through Ling Qi’s thoughts.

“The Voice has only requested her,” the young man said apologetically, withering a little under Xia Lin’s stare.

“That is acceptable,” Cai Renxiang said, not rising from her seat. “Please inform your superiors that we will be ready.”

Ling Qi met Cai Renxiang’s gaze and inclined her head. In the end, it wasn’t something worth arguing. All it would accomplish was potentially offending their host. She wasn’t going to jeopardize negotiations out of fear. Besides, if the Alaniar had ill intentions, there was little they could do except rely on their escape talismans anyway.

She would just have to mentally prepare herself.
