After the first 4 hours pass, everyone matches the same level as the strongest boss that can possibly spawn, level 997.

Just about 500 million MCP is gained by each of them fighting. Luna does not have the combat ability to kill a minotaur, but she comes along for the ride and gets power-leveled through the roof.

She passes level 500 in just a few boss room runs and gains a new buff called [Eye of The Last Full Moon]. In addition to this, her available proficiency points are force-used during the rank-up process and her single skill [Moonlight's Gaze] is upgraded to Legendary Grade.

After another 5 hours pass, everyone reaches level 998, the fighters gain 600 million additional MCP each, and they begin taking rests in isopods at staggering intervals.

After 9 hours of staggered 1 hour breaks and nearly 1 billion additional MCP gained each, everyone on the team hits level 999.

I speak up once everyone is well-rested, staring at the boss room portal, waiting to enter again.

"We have 18 more hours until Maria awakens from her pod. Let's push through and rank up."

Roughly 15-16 hours later, after close to another 2 Billion MCP have been farmed, everyone in the boss room is overflowing with power just from this grinding session alone. Even without a rank-up, their mana control and Qi capacity has risen far over 2x in just a day and a half.

The first to hit level 1000 is Abby.

The next is Arie, then Monk. Following just two boss room runs later, Fisher and Lydia hit 1000 as well.

They all stand back and wait with bright [Rank Up] options floating in front of their status screens while I bring Luna back into the Bossroom a few more times before she gets the notification too.

All 6 of them stand in the middle of the grassland dungeon on the 39th floor as my double slaughters minotaurs with Ember in the background.

Simultaneously, they all press [Rank Up] and white light floods over their bodies.

A few minutes pass as I float in front of them, but none of the lights stop shining. I remember when I ranked up a second time, it took me a few hours to come to as well. However, I thought that was only because I was awakening a Greater Energy Form.

I think to myself for a while longer, then open my link with Ember once I sense him nearby with my double again.

"Hey, could you two come here for a minute? I have a special task I need done."

My copy and Ember both come over and I relay the news.

We brainstorm for a few more minutes about the time it would potentially take to get here from Sector 1 on foot, and the relative power my teammates have shown during this training session compared to the 7th, 6th, and 2nd ranked Dark Guards.

However, the conclusion we both agree on in the end is the same.

"They're strong, but not strong enough..."

I toss a teleport crystal to my double, and it transfers all of the containment stones it's farmed and charged over the last 2 days into my storage along with two more glistening shards of luminite.

I nod, "Thanks, you know what to do next. It's time to speed things up even more."

It disappears without a trace while Ember and I are left to watch my teammates rank up below me.

Every half an hour or so when the Elite Minotaurs here spawn back in, I subjugate them quickly, and even get to see Ember use a light red manifested soul energy sword to cut down a few minotaurs of his own.

All of the powers he was granted other than a human body are still a mystery to me; he drops some hints about them once we get back to the 6 people ranking up with collected firestones in my storage.

"You know, that second ranked Dark Guard sounded like he was a blast to fight. No excuses this time, I'll be ready for the next battle, I still have a few new finishing moves I need to try out."

I nod with my arms crossed.

"We'll all have plenty of opponents to go all out with soon. Save your energy."

Once my double blips back into the 39th floor, it's laughing while pulling out 5 brand new isolation pods from its storage.

"I did what you asked, but Lith was using one of them. I would have asked him before taking these, but his timer said 5 hours were left."

I place my open palm on my face but accept the 5 brand new isolation pods without hesitating, then transfer over the uncharged firestones I farmed back to my double.

"That's fine. Even if he said no, I would have taken them anyway. His life relies on these next few hours too. He can try to be angry with me after we deliver him the Dark One's head."

At these words, the 6 white lights below me begin to dim down, and three of them even stop glowing entirely.

The rank-up process seems to be finishing up now.

Ember and my double go back to collapse another dungeon with the newly farmed stones out in the desert while I watch everyone begin waking up and standing to their feet. They look down at their statuses with awe, and I too am impressed at the new mana control frequency coming off of most of them.

I point out into the dungeon as the Minotaurs respawn.

"Take a few minutes and test out your new ranked-up buffs; it will be good to get a feel for your new power before we move onto the 3rd and final stage of your training."

My eyes widen as I take in the magnificent sight of varying shades of blue, green, and bright white lights fill the dungeon and incinerate lvl970 monsters the instant they're touched by the energy blasts.

The body of a serpent, visual of a white ghost, roar of a tiger, eye of a god, arms of a demon, and form of a goddess fill my senses. It's hard to keep track of everything as I take in the magnificent view.

A corner of my lip turns up as they all deactivate their buffs and walk back to me.

"Good, you've awakened your ultimate weapons. Now let's sharpen these blades and get you ready for war."

I dungeon walk them back to the canyon, and we fly back to the town with ease.

Everyone's movements have become far more agile and confident. It's clear they're itching to use this new power, but as we make it to the center of the city and begin to descend, I put my flame emperor's disguise back up and speak.

"Patience. You still have a long way to go; you'll soon see what I mean."

We descend into the town as the morning sun rises, and a few new things become visible to me.

Full sections of the center square are completely rebuilt, and other sections are still being remodeled.

The section of housing where people were staying before in 1 to 2 story old homes have been turned into 4-6 story apartment buildings that have beautiful windows and balconies, and the front entrance has a square of its own that connects to a main road back to the guild hall.

On this road, I see a few small shops already open.

A pawn shop, tiny bakery, and a bar are the most prominent ones with people walking in and out; however, most of this road is still vacant and still being built.

Off in the distance by the megawarehouse I made the other night, I sense my surveillance double looking over 21 slaves under the elixir of suggestion carrying supplies. There is a team of architects directing them and giving orders while building up another apartment complex on the other side of town.

They're so far away, they don't even notice us arrive. However, I'm glad they're enjoying themselves and using the resources I've given them.

"Good... One less thing for me to think about, now, let's see how things are going underground."

All 7 of us walk into the guild hall and I open the hatch that leads downstairs.

Immediately, a loud humming and rattling sound erupts from the bunker, but it's followed by a dense wave of Qi that feels like a warm ocean wave is hitting my ankles.

There's so much coming out, it's almost a shame to watch it disperse into the atmosphere without trying to absorb some.

Everyone feels the same way, so we walk down the spiral stairs quickly and close the hatch behind us.

The isolation pod at the back of the room shakes and vibrates violently, but the timer on top says [00:05:21] so we stop and stare.

Abby speaks up after a few seconds pass.

"Just in time to see the great reveal."

We all slowly walk forward and watch the minutes and seconds tick down to [00:00:00].

Then, the curved metal door swings open.
