Turning back to Rah, the Tier 50 spoke as a box floated over from the nearby table. “Carissa mentioned that you were working on an older, more traditional ambient essence cultivation style, and found the Empires’ records lacking.”

Rah’s eyes went wide, as did Matt’s, as they realized what was in the box.

Winter Hornet didn’t move, but his Domain shifted into a strange mix of approval and disapproval. “The Sophrons rose in flames, burning the old to make way for the new. And yet, it is a truth that fire rarely discriminates, and thereby has lost much of what it once was. Yet, preparations were not made to preserve such knowledge, no Elders hiding away valuable knowledge whereupon a future generation may yet stumble upon them. Had you ascended into the old dynasty, or had they taken proper precautions for their inevitable usurpation, this information would likely have been made available to you and I have some curiosity as to what you might become with it. Within this is a fairly comprehensive set of manuals and teaching aids pertaining to ambient essence cultivation. Perhaps some of it may prove useful to you. Sadly, none of these techniques are truly exceptional, as time more than malice saw to it many of these records were lost as they were deemed worthless.”

Rah bowed even deeper. “Thank you. This means more than I can convey.”

Winter Hornet’s happiness intensified to the point it was nearly painful, and he gestured for a second box to float over in front of Rah. “Gratitude is valuable, but you underestimate what is rightfully yours and requires no thanks. My next gift is freely given. A writ of Sect Elder status. It carries with it no duties, but should you ever desire it, you may found your own Sect. Even a Sect of a single person, should you simply desire to settle within the Hierarchy of Sects and be left alone. From my understanding, you may find our society more comfortable than the Sophron Empire.”

Matt raised an eyebrow at that comment, wondering if Carissa had informed Winter Hornet about Rah’s realm.

Rah took the second box much slower but bowed all the same. “Thank you. I can’t promise I’ll use it, but thank you, nonetheless.”

Winter Hornet gave a dismissive wave, and his happiness changed inscrutably before a third box appeared out of nowhere.

His next words caught them all off guard. “This isn’t a gift or reward, but a payment. I desire manuals for every technique you possess of base Tier 14 and below.”

Rah’s eyes widened, but he remained silent for a long few minutes. Finally he said, “I would prefer to not share that information. I shared all of the easy to create Tier 0 skills I had with Ascender Titan, and was willing to do so with you, but they were found nonviable with this Realm’s level of technology and availability of skills.”

Winter Hornet didn’t even waver. “I am strong enough to compel you. Not with force, of course, for my power is hardly so limited. Yet I am certain you shall give way, once you see the payment.”

Rah’s shoulders slumped as he asked the question Winter Hornet was waiting for. “And what is in the third box?”

“The full cultivation method of Nahla of Waves Rise. An ascender who arose from a realm about a million years ago or so. She landed in the Sects, and founded her own as befit her strength and power. In her glory, she rose all the way to Tier 47, taking on a leadership role before Ascending when she lost her bid for Tier 50. Before she left, she recorded her cultivation technique in its entirety, along with her notes from before she arrived in our realm, as well as her notes of her adjustments post arrival in this realm.”

Matt leaned forward with nearly everyone else except Rah, who stood there in stunned silence until he shook himself awake.

“That would be a price worth paying. But why, if she arrived in the Sects, do you not have this information already?”

Winter Hornet’s Domain wavered for the first time, becoming one of disappointment. “A very interesting question and one I wish I had an answer for. There was no mention of an ability to create skills in her preserved writings. Which means either she didn’t come from your realm, or she is so old she predates your method’s spread, and you somehow never heard of her or her time. If she had this ability, she chose not to share it, even at the height of her power, which I find unlikely given her recorded personality. Or, someone wiped the information, which I would be very keen to uncover if so. Sadly, all I have is speculation.”

Rah nodded slowly. “May I see the beginnings of her techniques? I have seen many a cultivation technique in my time. Especially for beginners, so I should be able to see if the methodology matches anything I know from my realm. That won't guarantee that she didn’t come from my realm, but it would mean she didn’t come from the interconnected areas that I was in.”

Winter Hornet made a show of thinking for a moment, before nodding and holding out a sheet of magically conjured paper to Rah.

After taking it, Rah scanned it before handing it back, and then conjuring what Matt recognized as his first few cultivation layers with its stars and eddies.

“That is like nothing I’ve seen. This projection is the Tier 1 technique which I utilized, and its methodology is wholly dissimilar. Even in its variations, my people believed they harnessed the power of the stars, and our methods reflect that. This to me seems more like a methodology of building a tower. Interconnected, and reaching both up and down to create a firm foundation. It's quite marvelous.”

Winter Hornet approved. “Fascinating. I wish we could ask her, but this realm rarely gets ascenders. Common belief is that, if there is a realm connected to ours, they aren't that advanced, but I believe there simply isn’t a realm connected to ours, and only people like yourself and Nahla, who are blown off course, so to speak, arrive here. Shame, given how much there is for us to learn from just a single person.”

They sat there in silence as Rah pondered the offer, long enough for Allie to start asking Winter Hornet questions about his history.

“Ey old man, people in the Empire say you are happy you were born a slave; is that true? Feels like bullshit propaganda, so I wanted to ask.”

Winter Hornet’s attention focused on Allie for a moment before answering, “That question has many answers, as things change in a life as long as mine. Now, yes I am happy for it. When I was a slave, no, I wished with all I was for it to be different. I wished for an easy way out. For someone else to change the slave pens, the sect, the planet, the Sects as a whole, or even the realm itself and save me. I wished to have a life like I heard rumors about in the other Great Powers. I dreamt of soft beds, of warm feet, and full bellies. But now that I am older, and possibly wiser, my perspective has shifted. Ignoring the philosophical question, that if my life was different, would I still be myself, my early years shaped me more and in more profound ways than the ones that followed. I learned that no one will save you except yourself, and the hatred that burned within me fueled my rise farther than other more transient motivations. Risk must be smartly balanced against reward, and sometimes you need to be willing to bet everything to win, but you also need to know when to surrender. I am the man I am today because nothing was given to me. I earned everything through my own efforts. I had no easy way out, and that made me capable. It was cruel, but there were clear ways to escape for those of us who were willing to put in the effort. I was not born exceptional, but I made myself extraordinary. It is not the only path, but it was mine. So yes, I am happy I was born a slave.”

Allie just looked at Tier 50 strangely. “Has anyone ever told you that you're a weird fucking guy?”

Winter Hornet burst out laughing at the comment. When he got himself under control, he nodded deep enough it was almost a bow. “Many times Ascender Long Shadow, many times. But I am who I am, and I am happy with who I am.”

Full of merriment, the Winter Hornet waved and a scroll appeared. “Give this to Ascender Drowning Waters when you return. I painted his moment of glory and wanted to give it to him in thanks for showing me something so exceptional. I am still working on one to commemorate your victory, Ascender Long Shadow, but I have yet to feel truly compelled. As marvelous as your feat was, it was rather eclipsed by Ascender Drowning Waters’ moment of glory. In other circumstances, I might have presented this with far more pageantry, but I know how little he cares for such things.”

Allie plucked it off Winter Hornet’s hand and unraveled the scroll, showing them the artwork.

It was genuinely master level work.

Looking at it instantly immersed them in a battlefield whose place could have either been in deep space or the deep oceans, cloying blacks and oppressive blues seamlessly flowing outwards from an exceptionally radiant Aiden, glowing with tentacles as he hunted the minnows around him, and the tentacles snatched ships and people, breaking them in half and dragging them into absolutely impenetrable depths at speeds Matt couldn’t even follow.

Aster whistled. “That's really well done. Any chance you have one of me being super cute?”

Winter Hornet acknowledged the compliment. “I must apologize, as I do not. Do something truly exceptional, even amongst your Ascender peers, and maybe inspiration will strike me.”

Aster nodded. “Deal. And I’ll hold you to it.”

Rah finally seemed to finish his internal deliberations. “I can accept this deal on one condition.”

Winter Hornet inclined his head towards Rah, giving the man his full attention. “Naturally. Though I do not possess enough feathers to truly offer anything, the Realm is within my grasp.”

“If I give you the skills, I will share them with Ascender Titan. I already did for the lowest Tier ones, and some of the higher Tier ones, but I would feel remiss if I went back on my word thanks to being tempted.”

Matt immediately waved the comment away. “Rah, don’t feel like you owe me anything. You’ve seen my intentions. They would just be interesting curiosities to me. I’ll let the masses of people make their own skills so they may profit off of them. I simply wanted the things that could help the poorest of people. There is no need to give up this trade for me.”

Instead of looking relieved at Matt’s reassurance, Rah just looked more conflicted.

Winter Hornet made things worse by bringing his full attention onto Matt. “You are truly unique, Ascender Titan, are you not? Selflessness is good for a frontliner, yet you are not a true defender. You do everything to your utmost. Stronger than a warrior, more magical than a mage. A true Master in your hybrid style, yet most individuals I have met like you think of themselves as the most important person in the Realm, the one to whom all things are owed. The Master of All certainly did, and that ultimately killed him. There is much you dabble in, yet you never give anything anything less than your full capability. It matters not whether your guild is but a passing fancy, for you would never allow yourself anything less than full commitment to it, giving away secrets that could easily define a powerful Sect to all those who would listen. Do you have some grand, nefarious plan you wish to monologue about, by any chance? It would certainly prove enlightening.”

Matt met the Tier 50 clone’s eyes without wavering. “No. Believe it or not, I’m dumb enough to truly want to help people.”

For the first time, Winter Hornet’s emotions became that of steel, and Matt saw the Tier 50 who had climbed over a pile of corpses to rise out of the slave mines he had been tossed into. “Do not disparage yourself, Ascender Titan, it is unbecoming. Those with power set the trends. Not the sheep or the cattle. If your goal is generosity, it is not foolish, it is right. If you wish to hoard your power like a dragon, that is also right. The strong are right, and doubt is for those who are wrong. The desire to bend the Realm in your passage is not foolishness, it is the only endeavor truly worth pursuing. Let all those who follow after you do so upon a monument of your greatness. Already, the techniques and potions you have provided the means to create have empowered even those who may claim to be your enemies. They curse you but they suckle at the teat of your generosity like a hungry cub. That may prove to eventually become your undoing, should you overestimate your own might. A secret shared is a secret dulled.”

Winter Hornet paused for a moment, “Though a dulled dagger would hardly be the worst weapon a Master has utilized to grand effect. No matter your path, Ascender Titan, never apologize nor denigrate yourself for your goals.”

Matt nodded to acknowledge he heard the Tier 50, but he disagreed. “I don’t disagree that greatness can come from hardship, but I also don’t believe it's a necessary ingredient either. I'd much rather let those who are hungry, as you say, chance the dream regardless of starting wealth, while ensuring everyone else can be comfortable.”

Winter Hornet returned to polite interest. “To reshape the Realm in your passage is the only goal which matters. Perhaps you shall surprise even me, for all that I disagree with your philosophy. I shall be watching you with great interest, and perhaps someday you shall compel me to gift you a painting as well.”

He then became far more somber. “It is a pity you weren’t born within a Sect. You would have made a truly fascinating Young Master.”

Matt vehemently disagreed, but just nodded once more, letting silence return to the room.

