"It will take time to digest," Akkau warned him again, although he was smiling. He knew how significant this was for Cale. He reached under his desk to produce a vial containing a potion that was bursting with magic so potent it made everything else in the room dim.

Cyte immediately reached out for it, and Akkau sighed, grabbing the tendril. "No," he said firmly.

Cale snorted. Judging by the way Cyte was pouting, that wasn't the first time that had happened. "Thank you," he said sincerely, taking the potion and eyeing it with wonder. The liquid within was a cerulean blue that seared itself so deep into his eyes that it left an afterimage every time it moved. "If this is so valuable, is there a reason you don't just..."

He trailed off. Dragons didn't share the draconic aspect with others, as a general rule, but Akkau seemed different from most of the others. As if he could read his thoughts, Akkau chuckled softly.

"We guard our magic quite jealously, as you may know," Akkau said. He tapped his claws on the desk. "Yet there are few left that can practice it. You are not wrong—it would be wise to share it with more if I were able. But it is not quite so easy.

"As I said, a number of prerequisites must be fulfilled before you can acquire a resonance with the draconic aspect." Akkau paused, eyeing Cale carefully. "One of those prerequisites is that you must display the qualities of a dragon. Pride bordering on arrogance, with the power to match; a force of will capable of bending even unknowable forces to your whim; a tendency to hoard..."

Cale blinked. "I haven't hoarded anything."

"You have acquired four apprentices in a single day," Akkau said dryly.

"That shouldn't count!" Cale scowled. "I'm not going to keep picking up apprentices."

"Are you not?" Akkau raised a single scaled brow. "I suppose we will see. It does not matter—for the purposes of this first level of resonance, it counts."

Cale grumbled something to himself. "Fine. I guess I can see how requirements like that might make this resonance hard to gift."

"If those were the only requirements, it would still be possible," Akkau said. "But there are more. You must defeat a dragon in single combat. You must impress a dragon. And finally, the dragon that you impress must volunteer a single drop of their essence to create an Elixir of Draconic Resonance."

"I can definitely see how that makes it hard to spread," Cale said, eyeing the potion with a new respect. Akkau had downplayed it, but essence extraction was a difficult process for even the best of mages. It involved distilling out a part of the mage's very soul along with a combination of their life force and mana core, then compressing it down into something that resembled a liquid. "...Thank you."

"I suggest drinking it tonight," Akkau said, giving him a knowing smile. "The potion may not work for any other mage, but that will not stop them from attempting to steal it nonetheless. I promise it will not disrupt your sleep, aside from perhaps your resonance vision."

"Resonance vision?" Cale asked.

"You will see." Akkau smirked at him, folding his arms across his chest. "I suspect you would rather I not spoil it for you."

Cale snorted and laughed. "You know what, fair enough," he said, slipping the vial into one of his pockets. "Any other side effects I need to worry about?"

Akkau hesitated. "I do not believe so," he said after a moment. "There should be none. Cyte had examined it for any untoward magical anomalies."

"We want a taste!" Cyte agreed, this time reaching a tendril out toward Cale's pockets. Akkau grabbed it before it could get anywhere close, sighing, and Cale could almost swear he could physically hear the voidcyte pout.

"There is some contamination in my magic," Akkau confessed, more quietly this time. He didn't quite meet Cale's eyes as he did so. "I admit this only because I believe you suspect it already. But it does not affect the potion—I have ensured that. That said, if you believe it too risky, I will not force you to take it."

"Oh, trust me, I've taken much worse," Cale said cheerfully. It didn't bother him that much. What did bother him was this allusion to magical contamination. He hadn't planned on pressing Akkau too hard about it, but since the old dragon seemed willing to talk... "What happened to your magic, anyway?"

Akkau sighed. "I was afraid you would ask," he said. He rubbed at his wrist, an almost absent-minded gesture that spoke of a lot more nervousness than he was willing to show. "But I suppose it would be foolish to keep this hidden from you if there is any chance at all that you might understand."

Cale frowned. "Is there a chance that I won't?"

"There is, albeit through no fault of your own." Akkau seemed rather serious about that, too, judging by the look on his face. "I have mentioned once already that less than ten of my kind remain. You assumed, I believe, that I was referring to Utelia's population."

"Of course I did." Cale tilted his head. "Why wouldn't I..."

He paused, trailing off, and the barrier around him began to thicken substantially. Akkau watched, eyes growing subtly wider as more and more mana began to pour into those barriers—and then that mana began to twist into complicated whorls and patterns. Nothing quite reminiscent of high-level magic, of course. Cale didn't have the kind of control needed for that.

But he'd learned long ago that some types of magic could slip through his barriers, and he'd learned ways to counter that, too. It was invariably more taxing and took more of his concentration, but if any situation warranted it, this was one of them. The interference and density of these barriers made it far more difficult for anything to pierce them without being twisted and torn apart.

Cale's expression cleared a bit, and his mouth settled into a grim line. "You meant throughout all the Great Realms," he said. "But that information is being magically hidden. A mass censorship spell?"

"...Correct." Akkau seemed shocked, but mostly relieved. Cale, on the other hand, stood from the desk and began to pace.

"Have you talked to Sternkessel about this?" he asked.

Akkau shook his head. "We have not spoken of personal matters in some time," he admitted with a slight wince.

"Well, you should. Sternkessel seems immune to this sort of magic," Cale said. His hands balled into fists at his side, and he took a deep breath, trying to suppress a rising surge of emotion.

If Akkau was telling the truth... then what he was saying was all too familiar. Cale had no memory of how humanity's demise had come about, admittedly; there was no time he could remember where their population had diminished into the hundreds or the tens. But the presence of this sort of censorship and the erasure of an entire species?

Cale forced himself to calm down and take a seat. "Akkau," he said. "This is important. Tell me everything you know about what's happening."

Akkau gave him an exhausted, weary smile. "There are many who would balk at giving orders to a dragon, you know," he murmured. "...But yes. Very well."
