“Apologies-confusion-why? I do not swear falsehoods. I want change-mutation-new colors. But that can be up to us. We have an opportunity. A bridge for proper power. The Starhawk’s champion is wounded. But the source of his power remains. We can sustain the source if the Starhawk allows it. And you can carry this skill as a betweener. Your presence is perfect. The System will smile on this arrangement. And so will we.”

“I do not,” the Starhawk replied again. “And I will not let you perform any action that will jeopardize what must be done. The fate of the Republic—and this world—is paramount above all.” He glided across the room and came to hover before Uva. Yet, before the Starhawk reached her, Adam leaned his father against a wall and stepped between them.

“Adam,” Roland choked.

But the Young Lord was unshaken by his act. The Starhawk looked upon Adam with surprise as well, but waited for him to respond.

“I have bled alongside her, and she has given nearly all for me,” Adam said, staring both his father and god down. His nervousness was plain, and his doubt was deep, but his resolve shone brighter than the dawn rising within his eyes. “That is more than iron. That is more than anything I can put in words. I trust her. And I would respectfully ask that you refrain from even thinking about threatening her, my Lord Ascendant.”

The Starhawk regarded Adam, and he nodded. “I will grant your request, Gate Lord Adam. Within reason.”

“And I can ask no more from you, Starhawk,” Adam replied.

A look of gratitude flickered on the Umbral’s face. For a moment, Roland wondered if there was something more between them—feared it. And that brought another uncomfortable thought to the forefront of his mind.

I haven’t even told Adam about his fiancée. She contracted one of the plagues unleashed by Sullain, and I had her placed within my personal infirmary. But I haven't checked on her in…

“Thank you, Adam,” Uva said quietly.

He offered her a weak smile. “Now. Please tell me you’re not even remotely thinking about the Dreamtaker’s mad plan.”

“Why is the plan mad-insane-incomprehensible?” the Dreamtaker asked in confusion. “It is simply efficient.”

“And unwanted by the Starhawk,” Uva replied on the Ascendant’s behalf. “There is no path to achieve your mutual colonization if the Starhawk himself refuses to lend you his might.”

“Why?” the Dreamtaker asked again.

Uva frowned. “There are times when you seem beyond divine, and others when you have the awareness of a toddler. Do you know this?”

“Perhaps it might seem so to you,” the Dreamtaker answered.

“Right. Fine. But—”

Just then, a small mob rose into shape in the corner of Roland’s vision as the elevator connected to the top of the Perch arrived. The Town Lord turned to find a group of people huddled together. They were guardsmen, and all of them sported brutal wounds. Among them were several orcs. Most of them were armored in organic material, and they were actively healing the survivors.

At their front stood Roland’s Captain of the Guard, Master Leinen François—recently promoted after Roland’s former captain died to a plague. With him was Chris, Roland’s personal Psychomancer, and beside her was someone entirely unexpected. A lich hovered at the center of the group, his body a faint, illusory outline of corrosive mana. Within his right hand was a half-burned skull. Roland recognized the make of the melted helmet around the skull. It was an Inquisitor’s full-plate helm.

The Town Lord’s first instinct was to call out to his own people, confused as to why they were so relaxed with the lich and orcs around them. But he was interrupted by a whisper of misery that came from the skull in the lich’s hand. “No more of us… You have slain us all, Great Valor. You have taken the only thing I have left that matters to me. Please… Release the shadow of my spirit. Please…”

“So be it,” the lich intoned. He closed his right fist, and the skull shattered. Necromancy crackled around him, and then it faded. Finally, he turned to regard the others in the room. “Ah. The Town-Lord has survived.” The lich’s burning eyes fell on Roland, and he involuntarily shuffled back. The Abyssal recognized him. But then his eyes fell on the Starhawk's manifestation. “And you have been summoned as well, Matthew.”

“Matthew?” Roland breathed.

The lich regarded the Town Lord for a beat. “And you never bothered to tell your faithful servant your true name? How cruel. Truth be told, it eluded me until I laid eyes on you just now…”

The Starhawk turned away from Uva, and his shrouded form tightened with tension. “Legend Valor Thann. So. The town is cleansed of all remaining Necrotech holdouts?”

The name pierced Roland’s mind like a blade from the sky. “Thann. Valor Thann! Udraal Thann’s father?” he gasped.

“The very same,” Rose whispered to him. “But he hasn’t harmed me. He’s been with Adam all this time, and he hasn’t harmed him, either.”

“It is,” Valor said to the Starhawk, and he glided over to face him. “And now, finally, we get to speak. Speak about your original sin. About how you and your ilk inflicted all this madness upon us, you Light-Cursed worm. I want to know what you have done—how you became a god, and what you did thereafter. And I want to know just what you took from the Great One to pervert your nature so.”
