<<No stupid words for you,>> she said sternly. <<It will ruin my costume. Instead lots of glaring.>>

She chuckled as if she’d said something very funny.

“Bti-qwol said I had to smile.”

<<Smile like you hope they all choke to death.>>

“Um…” This lady would get along well with Sophie.

<<It goes with the theme.>>

“Didn’t Bti-qwol say beige Ryeh-b’ts were known for their shyness?” She seemed to have a vision that involved Alden blending in with the environment and being “discovered” by hungry partygoers before he disappeared again. Like a game of hide-and-seek with special effects appetizers for a reward.

Alden wasn’t entirely opposed to it. Standing off in a corner sneaking bites of food for most of the party was easier than real mingling.

<<Beige,>> spat the costumer. <<Tuck the wings. Make the boy match the walls. Subtle Ryeh-b’t that won’t distract fromfood.>>

She was gelling Alden’s wire-laced hair into a pointy halo that was probably going to be a nod to a male Ryeh-b’t’s skull spikes. Behind her, notices kept popping up in the mirror.

“Are there other people working on the costume somewhere?” he asked. How else were they going to finish in time?

<<I brought my own fabricator. Top of the line! It’s working in another room. Not enough ventilation down here.>>

She stepped back and admired her handiwork. The wires in Alden’s hair were glowing orange.

<<Now paint!>> she said enthusiastically.

Alden examined the paint bottles on the table. Not a single one of them was beige.

The old woman didn’t finish Alden’s costume until there was a timer blinking in his vision reminding him he had to be upstairs in a few minutes. It had far less to do with the complexity of the outfit, which had been delivered to them fully made almost an hour before, and more to do with the fact that she seemed intent on making absolutely sure Bti-qwol would be  unable to alter anything about the design.

Alden examined himself in the mirror. He didn’t always get Artonans, and he knew next to nothing about their fashion, and even less about what they wanted from Avowed at their parties. But a loud enough “screw you” was universally recognizable.

He was dressed in pitch black formal wizard’s clothes. There was no mistaking it. The harem pants, the wide sleeved coat, and the shockingly comfy boots made him look like Joe’s cousin from the dark side. The coat was even embroidered with sigils.

There were a set of large Ryeh-b’t wings attached to Alden’s back with a nearly invisible harness, and he did have the glowing orange wires in his hair. But the costumer hadn’t even gone for much makeup. He had a simple pair of black and orange bands painted across his eyes in a nod to a mask.

He was very recognizable as himself, unlike most of the other Avowed he’d caught glimpses of in their costumes.

It looked really cool. And like it was probably a political statement. One loud enough that he’d actually considered asking the old woman not to do it.

But it had occurred to him that this might actually get him out of the party without any damage to his own reputation or Joe’s. So he’d just…let it all happen.

Bti-qwol was so controlling; Alden was absolutely sure she would want to look him over before the event started. She’d have no choice but to send him away after she saw him. The trip to rescue the kids could be salvaged, and all he had to do was act like he was too dumb to know he should have called Bti-qwol when the costume first appeared.

<<Smile!>> the woman encouraged him. <<Practice the smile.>>

Oh right. Like I want people to choke.

It was easier than it should have been to get the expression right. The fake fangs she’d given him pulled a lot of weight, turning any half-hearted smile faintly sinister.

Apparently the variety of Ryeh-b’t he was representing was known for its rebellious nature.

The costumer cackled joyfully and patted Alden’s arm. <<Good work! I’ll sign it.>>

He didn’t understand what she meant until she literally pulled out a silver marker and grabbed the edge of a wing to sign her name on it.

“Met-oosa?” Alden asked, trying to pronounce it right.

<<Yes, my masterpiece! Those dressed by Met-oosa do not blend in with walls!>>

He finally left the dressing room and maneuvered his way through the hall, careful not to bash his wings against the carts full of tableware and covered platters that were lined up by the elevators. Met-oosa followed after him, chortling to herself at every shocked stare they earned from the workers. She seemed absolutely delighted to be making a scene.

Alden pressed his palm to the elevator panel. Part of him expected Bti-qwol to bust out and tackle him to the ground the second the doors opened, but instead he came face to face with Manon, who was a pastel pink Ryeh-b’t in a jumpsuit patterned with rhinestones, and the lortch with all the knives.

<<That’s a bad idea,>> the lortch hissed, brow ridges crinkling as they stared at Alden. <<That’s a very bad idea.>>

Manon looked a little shocked, then she smiled as well as she could around her snout. “Don’t worry. I’m sure it’s fine!”

<<We should call the manager,>> said the lortch. <<She couldn’t have approved this—>>

“Oh, Bti-qwol is so busy, though! We humans have given her a hard time today. First there was Laura’s accident, and now Farhan is having an allergic reaction to one of the floral sprays.” She shook her head. “In fact, let me head upstairs with you, Alden. Bti-qwol was supposed to be there to talk us through everything one last time, but she’s going to miss her chance at this rate. I’ve done this so many times I can cover it myself.”

Her lips had been painted to match her face, and she had costume contacts in. When she smiled, she really did look like a snake.

I was so paranoid about her arranging my thoughts, but I’m almost positive she hasn’t done anything to me lately. And she seems shocked by the costume. Yet here we all are…

It wasn’t like he had proof, but this felt an awful lot like someone had been pulling strings to create a perfect disaster for Bti-qwol.

Thwart Hog’s wrong about Manon and her dolls not being a big deal. If you manage the lives of a dozen people, there’s a ripple effect. Even bystanders get pulled into it in unexpected ways.

Maybe Manon didn’t know what the real-world effects of her rearrangements would be. She was just aiming for a finished puzzle that suited her. Or one that didn’t suit Bti-qwol.

Alden was too high ranking to control, so she hadn’t wanted him near her boater. But break the correct doll’s knee, and Alden or someone else like him would  just fall into place with the rest of the puzzle. Make another doll stand next to a hay-fever bouquet, and all of the sudden, the personnel manager was busy at just the wrong moment to notice Alden, Manon, and a beaming Met-oosa stepping off the elevator into the museum.

Well, something this dramatic probably didn’t happen every time the Rabbit shoved puzzle pieces around. Bti-qwol had done more than her fair share of the work. She’d been abrasive to so many people this week, she was bound to butt heads with someone who was willing to butt back eventually.

But this was going to completely ruin Alden’s escape plan. If nobody in charge saw him, how was he going to get out before the party started? And how mad are the people in charge going to be when they look like jokes in front of all the guests?

“I need to pee,” he said suddenly. “Where’s the bathroom?”

“Oh we’ve only got a few minutes before the doors open!” Manon gave him a reproachful look. “We have to line up for the welcome of the incoming guests.”

“Then I’ll pee fast. System, where’s the bathroom?”

Manon made a sound of protest, but it was hard to seriously argue with someone who claimed they urgently needed the toilet. Alden dashed toward the restroom. Met-oosa chased after him at a shuffle, calling out warnings every time she thought the giant black wings might crash into one of the displays.

The second he was in the restroom, he texted Bti-qwol. And promptly got a notice saying she’d listed him as a low priority contact, and he’d be added to her queue.

Next he called Joe. He’d requested video, but Joe set it to audio.

“Hello? Do you miss me that much after only a few hours, Alden? You’re getting very dependent, you know.”

“You’re coming to the party tonight, aren’t you?” Alden said in a rush. “Are you at the museum already?”

Maybe if he threw himself in front of Joe, the professor would have an excuse to complain to someone and get him thrown out.

“I’m on my way there in a cart full of some very charming friends.” Then, via text, he added, [I’m only talking to you at all right now because this group should think you and I have an unusually close bond. I can’t do this at the party, so get whatever it is off your chest quickly.]

He must be with the students from the mishnen incident, Alden realized. Or their parents.

They would probably be relieved to think that Alden was one of Joe’s private contractees. It made it less likely that he would go around blabbing about their mistakes.

“How much trouble would I be in if I wore the wrong outfit to the party?” Alden asked.

“I’m flattered that you love the lab coat so much, but it’s really not formal enough. You should wear what you’re given.”

“I am wearing what I was given. Bti-qwol was incredibly condescending to the costumer, and wait…is there a way to…System, send Joe a selfie! Like a picture of me in my costume? Can you do that?”

Joe sighed. “I’m embarrassed for you in this moment,” he said, his face appearing to float in front of Alden with no background whatsoever. “What’s so awful about…”

He trailed off, looking speechless for a couple of seconds.

“You can see me?” Alden gestured at himself. “Do I need to fake a stomach virus and hide out in here until someone comes to fire me or something?”

“Alden, I’m stunned. You make such a stylish wizard. With embroidery indicating you’re quite accomplished in the transmogrification field. Which explains the wings. You must instruct me, Master, for I am but a lowly—”

“JOE, please,” said Alden.

“Well, it’s definitely a statement. A controversial one…”

“I figured that out, but are people going to throw spells at me or just ask me to leave the party?”

“Nobody’s going to throw spells at you in public, silly. How did this happen to you again?” [And why didn’t you just call the personnel manager when it started happening?]

“Bti-qwol made this ancient lady named Met-oosa really angry. And I was pretty annoyed with her, too. And I know that’s not a good excuse, but I figured nobody could blame you or me for it and I could maybe go pick berries tonight. Only now Bti-qwol’s not even around to send me back to the dorms, and I’m going to have to actually wear this in front of everyone.”

Joe’s face turned sideways as he spoke to the people in the cart with him. The System didn’t translate, but it seemed like a lively conversation. Joe laughed several times before he looked back at Alden.

“The consensus is that it’s funny,” said Joe. “Wear it.”

“Funny.”

“Too outlandish to be offensive to anyone who’s not absurdly sensitive. Embarrassing for the honors student and, by extension, the school. But someone says your costume designer used to be a fairly well-known local artist. They all thought she was dead by now. The story’s only going to get more hilarious after everyone’s had a few drinks.” [You’ll need to be pleasant and agreeable all night long, though. Or you really might offend the wrong person.]

“I think I have a stomach virus after all.”

[Don’t be a baby. It’s just a party. You can enjoy the peace and quiet on Moon Thegund tomorrow night.]

With only the dubious comfort of Joe’s new friends finding his predicament funny, Alden marched out of the bathroom.

Met-oosa was there to make sure he hadn’t hurt the wings at all. He wondered if she was planning to stick to him until she was thrown out. Maybe she was just waiting for Bti-qwol to arrive and see what she’d done?

Alden joined the other Avowed by the doors. Everyone gaped at him except for Manon, who was beaming. “Drinks!” she said, and an Artonan waiter who’d been standing off to the side brought Alden a tray of fizzing blue liquid in shot glasses to hold.

He targeted the man and took it, assuming there was no reason not to use preservation on the drinks.

Everyone else had trays of the same beverage. They stood in two evenly spaced lines by the door, except for Chris, who was struggling with a giant metal launcher that couldn’t possibly be as deadly as it looked.

“Alden, did Bti-qwol have time to introduce you to your helpers?”

“She didn’t,” said Alden. “But she mentioned them.”

Manon pointed out four of the real waiters—non-wizard Artonans who would keep him supplied with whatever he was supposed to be serving and take over his zones of the museum whenever he was otherwise engaged. Alden wondered if they’d all looked this incredibly nervous before he arrived.

Maybe they did, he thought hopefully. Maybe it has nothing to do with me.

The overhead lights went off. The ceiling behind the flying whale bones turned into a field of stars. The museum was suddenly a dark forest of greenery and colorful pools of light from the lanterns. The display cases and ornaments on the walls were lit at random with gold spotlights that faded in for a couple of minutes and then out again as other objects took their turn.

Alden stepped from side to side to keep his tray of drinks cold.

