THIRTY-EIGHT

Hedonistic

Alden was supposed to meet Bti-qwol in a specific room of a building that looked like a concrete beehive. But she met his cart on the path before it even arrived at the door and practically yanked him out of it, shouting, <<Finally!>>

“I’m half an hour early,” Alden protested, jogging so that she wouldn’t actually be dragging him along behind her.

<<There is no time,>> she babbled. <<None at all! People are injuring themselves for no reason. The designer sent an assistant instead of coming himself. I had to order a new singer. One of the professors is disappointed in the tmithans I chose for him.>>

Alden decided to keep his mouth shut. The alien personnel manager looked like she was on the edge of either tears or violence, and since he was already committed for this event, he might as well try for a smooth experience.

<<You must be exceptionally careful tonight, Alden Ryeh-b’t. You have no social recommendations, and this is a difficult event.>>

“I’m a waiter, right? Like I’ll be carrying food to people? As long as I don’t drop it….”

<<NO!>> she said, looking aghast.  <<You are an Avowed waiter. You are there to create an impression. There are always thirteen Avowed waiters at this event. People expect to see them at LeafSong. It’s a tradition!>>

“If it’s that important, maybe one of the others…?”

Bti-qwol’s nostrils flared. <<I have planned it thoroughly. The kitchen is already preparing things that take advantage of your preservation skill. As long as you use your skill correctly and do not distract the other Avowed from their performance, that will be enough.>>

She whisked him into the beehive. It was a natural history museum. Colorful lanterns, tables, and sprays of green and black plant life were artfully mixed in among the exhibits. And Alden stared up in awe at an enormous, magically suspended skeleton overhead.

Alien whale? The charcoal gray bones moved silently, swimming without ever going anywhere, and the sharp spines that must have protruded from the creature’s sides in life were tipped with shining points that caught the light.

They wove through a jungle of potted plants, around glass cases full of fossils and alien animal models that moved so smoothly Alden wasn’t really sure they were models. Then she led him through a hidden door, and they took a large elevator down a level to the place where all the work seemed to be getting done. People were racing around with carts full of decorations and padded boxes full of museum pieces.

Bti-qwol bulled her way through the chaos, telling everyone that her business was urgent and earning quite a few withering looks from Artonans who were clearly engaged in their own urgent business. A minute later, Alden found himself in a room that looked like a hastily assembled hair salon.

When it said to arrive early for a uniform, I wasn’t expecting a full makeover.

He’d thought he would be taken to a closet full of spare shirts so that he could try them on. Or something similar. Of course, he’d also thought that being waitstaff meant being waitstaff, and apparently that wasn’t quite right.

He was stuffed into a chair by a tiny old woman with dark purple-brown skin and a lot of beaded necklaces. She gave him wevvi in a wooden bowl and started examining him through a pair of glasses with square rims.

<<Nice,>> she said, pinching his cheek lightly. At his startled look, she stood on her tiptoes and peered deeply into his eyes. <<Pretty.>>

“Thanks?”

<<Good strong back?>> she asked. <<Hard worker?>>

“Is that important?” he replied after a moment’s hesitation.

<<What are the arms like?>> she muttered to herself, squeezing one of Alden’s through his shirt and making a disappointed sound.

I think a four-foot tall centenarian is disappointed in my upper body strength.

The only thing keeping his feelings from being a little hurt was his confusion. She was doing his hair or something, right? Not hiring him to tend the oxen on her family’s farm.

As if she’d read his mind, she dug all of her fingers into his hair. <<Lots of this,>> she said.

A vivid image of Stuart’s half-bald, half French-braided look popped into Alden’s mind, and he shuddered. He was so busy trying to think of ways to convince her not to try that particular style out on him, that it took him a while to notice the old lady’s mirror was measuring him while he sat there.

A network of red lines had appeared on top of his reflection, and there were Artonan numbers out to the side. Why would anyone need to know the length of my nose?

Bti-qwol was standing by the mirror, examining one of the three inset screens. Alden couldn’t see around her to the one she was looking at, but the others showed what appeared to be designs for armor and prosthetic add-ons for his face.

Alden suddenly realized that he would be wearing an elaborate costume tonight.

Unexpectedly, the idea brightened his mood a little. It was stressful to be doing a social event at all. And he was still frustrated and worried to be here at a party instead of on Moon Thegund where he was actually needed instead of some convenient piece to complete the special magic number of Avowed Bti-qwol had in mind.

But judging by the designs, it looked like his costumer was planning to put him in a set of green scale armor. That was kind of cool.  A decent costume would give him a starting point for conversations at least, and—

<<This is no good,>> Bti-qwol said, her tone dismissive as she swiped away whatever was on the screen she’d been peering at. <<I have decided that his entertainment for the night will be his skill. The kitchen has already been informed that they have to make use of it with the food. A costume like this will draw attention to him instead of whatever he’s carrying. Make it simpler.>>

<<The green Ryeh-b’t is popular,>> the old woman said absently. <<Costume changes color throughout the night to represent the journey from youth to adulthood. Very appropriate for a young human! I spent all afternoon designing the effect. It’s nice.>>

<<I just said it’s no good,>> Bti-qwol argued.

<<The joint claws are carved from bone, and the scales are coated with powdered—>>

<<I don’t care how you cobbled it together! I don’t want him to be the focus of attention,>> Bti-qwol argued.  <<He’s just going to be a backdrop for the culinary special effects. Make it subtle. Maybe a beige Ryeh-b’t to match the museum walls. And tuck the wings.>>

<<I’m an artist. Not a technician!>>

<<You’re just a fill-in the costume company sent,>> Bti-qwol said dismissively. <<Have you ever even costumed an alien? Make it beige. You have a short while to redesign it while I go through the rules of service with him.>>

The old lady made an angry noise and stomped over to her screens. Alden gave her an apologetic look in the mirror.

Bti-qwol had whipped out her tablet and now she was talking rapidly about what he’d be doing. She had an annoying habit of micromanaging the assignment so that every single step of the evening became a part of the quest. Timers were popping up in front of his eyes for every little thing. There were even an alloted number of minutes for his bathroom breaks.

This is incredibly obnoxious, he thought, watching the timers minimize themselves into a string of green lights in his peripheral vision. The System here on Artona III did a good job of presenting him with information when he needed it and keeping it out of his way when he didn’t, but he much preferred Joe’s method of giving a broad assignment and then offering advice on how to complete it rather than a bunch of official quest steps.

Alden would naturally have been polite to guests who spoke to him at the party. Being ordered to do it, complete with a reminder that would flash over peoples’ heads, made him want to act like a barbarian to spite Bti-qwol.

He distracted himself by shoving his hand into his pocket and swapping Joe’s magic ring from finger to finger. It was capable of resizing itself, but not infinitely. It was too loose on his pinkies.

He’d spent the whole of the afternoon lab session playing with its magic by subtly manipulating the bottle full of pills he had neglected to take during his emergency teleport. Joe had said the ring would make up for the lost dexterity stat from the coat, and that had led Alden to believe it would work similarly.

It was a completely different effect, though. It was like anything he held in the hand with the ring on it didn’t want him to let go of it. Everything clung to his fingers for just a fraction of a second after he’d dropped it. Heavy or light, the weight of object didn’t seem to matter much. Alden had tried it out on some of the lab equipment after the students left, and he’d almost broken a beaker trying to show Sophie how he could splay all his fingers, and it would hang for an instant, pressed against his palm like it had been glued there.

To his disappointment, the sticky effect didn’t work on items he was currently preserving. If his skill was active, it was like the ring wasn’t there at all. But at least it would keep him from dropping the items when they weren’t in the preservation state.

By the time Bti-qwol left, there were a couple of humans from the boater and a lortch present. They were getting dressed in their own costumes with help from an Artonan man. One of the boater members had arrived with her makeup already done, so they clearly knew the drill from previous years or had been prepped for it over the course of the week. She had a river of purple paint running in a line down the center of her face.

One of the lortch was in a leather costume absolutely bristling with short blades.  Maybe he’s a Meister of Knives?  Since Alden was going to be a Ryeh-b’t it seemed reasonable to assume the other Avowed would have class specific outfits.

Chris from the boater was taking an elaborate headdress covered in gears out of a box, and he was a Wright so it seemed like a good guess.

The old woman waited until Bti-qwol had been gone for a long while before she started speaking again. She was flinging makeup brushes around with a lot of force and breathing rather loudly for such a small person.

<<I’m an artist,>> she told Alden as she swiped away the image of the beige and brown robe and wing set Bti-qwol had approved with a wrinkled hand.

“I…she’s probably just really stressed out,”  he said placatingly.

He didn’t know if the woman had a translator or not because she kept right on steaming as she started opening drawers and slapping packets and bottles onto the table beside her.

<<‘Have you ever costumed an alien?’>> she said in a mocking whine. <<I used to own this company! I’ve costumed species that look like amorphous blobs, and they looked fabulous when I was through with them! I came in today as a favor because they called at the last minute and my grandson’s team has another event!>>

She’s definitely going to shave my head, he thought, staring as she approached with a slightly larger version of the hooked razor he’d been given in his care package.

“You know I don’t care a ton about my hair,” he said. “But I do like having some of it. Even if it’s really short that would be better than nothing. In case you were wondering.”

<<Some little sprout of a wizard who isn’t even out of school thinks she can tell me what to do!>>

She grabbed the razor.

<<I’ll show her!>>

While Alden froze in place, she started grabbing locks of hair and whacking at them. At least she didn’t seem to want him completely bald. She was  cutting off apparently random amounts from each lock, but not so much that it couldn’t be repaired by a human barber.

I wonder if I get a bonus for this. It feels like the kind of thing I should get a bonus for.

In the mirror, he couldn’t tell what was happening to his own appearance yet, but Chris had started covering his own arms and legs in bodypaint behind a sheet of plastic. He was a skinny guy, and the off-white paint made him look like a ghost in need of a good meal. But over the next half hour he was transformed into something quite a bit more alien. He had knee-length white robes and the headdress made of moving gears. Something attached to his back teeth made his mouth glow a poisonous green when he opened it.

He seemed to be reciting lines. <<I am Lunervikk! Behold my metal!>>

“Is there supposed to be some kind of theatrical component to this?” Alden asked.

He hoped he wasn’t included in it. He’d been a raccoon in an elementary school play once, and he’d forgotten which piece of trash he was supposed to steal from a pile of it on the stage—which was his one and only job. He’d frozen there, agonizing over the horrors of stealing the wrong crumpled chip bag, and had to be rescued by another raccoon.

<<Lunervikk. Famous Avowed Wright from over a century ago,>> the old woman said while she worked slender orange wires into Alden’s freshly chopped hair. <<Popular historical figure. He died trying to repair an untranslatable ship on untranslatable.Silly line to make drunk people laugh. Tasteless.>>

So she can understand me. She had a habit of talking to herself instead of him, so he hadn’t been sure. She must have had a translator in her glasses.

“What kind of ship?” Alden asked.

<<Untranslatable ship,>> she said.

The word wasn’t untranslatable. It was something like escape or evacuation. Alden knew because he’d heard Joe’s assistants use it to describe his role in coming to pick them up on Moon Thegund.

Lunervikk couldn’t have been human, since he would have died before Earth even met the Artonans. But if the gray-white paint and the eerie green mouth-light were meant to make Chris look like a member of another species, Alden couldn’t pinpoint which one it was.

