“I’m not killing my pets against you.” Hollowsaur said, “That was just a toad from the Jungle that happens to explode upon destruction.”

“Ah. Well.” Erick said, “Here’s my next attempt. It probably won’t kill you, but I just have to know.”

Erick did not wait till he had finished speaking to cast. Even Hollowsaur seemed to flinch, as a tendril of light shot forward, just to get close enough to cast a shaped [Luminous Trap], that was only Mana Shaped in order to give Erick even more range. A void-dark, ice-cream cone shape of a spell, slipped over Hollowsaur, even as the man tried to step away. He was almost fast enough to get away, too, if not for his left foot. That single foot was caught by the void space, and that was enough.

The orcol’s white eyes went wide.

With a slip and a pull that happened too fast to understand, Hollowsaur flowed into the [Luminous Trap]; vanishing completely.

“Holy shit it worked,” Erick said.

A moment passed. Then another.

A spike of disbelief disrupted Erick’s hope. He wondered aloud, “Did that really happen?”

Erick waited. And waited.

No notification of a kill. No further attacks. Five minutes had passed, but the [Luminous Trap] held in the air, darker than black.

“Did that actually work?” Erick asked himself.

He waited another minute, just to be sure. In the meanwhile, he resummoned his Ophiel.

He called out to whoever might be looking, “I’m going to do more to him, now!” He mumbled, “If he’s still in there.”

Silence.

When there was no answer from anywhere around him, Erick spoke up, again, “I’m going to shoot some light into there. It might actually kill him. If you wish for me to not do this, then I’m going to need some assurances to make him do what I originally asked him to do.” He muttered, “He’s probably not even in there.”

Erick lifted his hand, and pointed at the void space—

“Hold,” said a voice.

Erick lowered his hand, and regarded the intruder. They wore dark cloaks, or some sort of layered cloth outfit, and a featureless, black mask. They hovered a good hundred meters away; well out of the range of Erick’s spells. And then came another person.

Undine stepped out into the air, also a hundred meters away, saying, “He’s a good guy, you know.”

Bulgan stepped out across from Undine, saying, “Let him go.”

The first person, the masked one, said, “He will be forced to abide by the terms of his deal, or else we will not save him a second time. You too, will need to abide by your deal.”

Erick said, “I am renegotiating. I give him nothing. He does what he should have done in the first place.”

The masked person said, “Give him the rest of the gems you have made and we will accept this compromise.”

“Accepted.” Erick said, “I am going to back up before I release him.”

Erick began stepping away from the dark cone. The visible Shades around him also did the same. Erick got two hundred meters away from the void-cone, then released the spell.

Roaring darkness flooded out of the space, like fire made solid, an explosion of shadows that crashed out and down to burn everything it could touch. Erick was too far away to be touched, but if he hadn’t have moved, he would have been in the thick of those flames. Where the dark fires touched, caught flame. Crystal burned. The molecular wires below burned, too. The very air seemed to turn hot, briefly, as the roaring, continuous explosion, stilled, and then shadowflames flowed together, a roar becoming a cry that fell silent, as Hollowsaur reformed in the center of the sky. He breathed heavily, as his white eyes glowed bright. He stared at the abyss below, and then his face whipped up. He glared at Erick. He almost spoke, but the masked person spoke first.

They said, “You will attempt to turn your captives back into functional people, and you will keep them safe until they can leave Kendrithyst under their own power. There will be no swindling on this deal, Hollowsaur. That you attempted to scheme at all is a disgrace; you would do well to remember this.” They continued, “In return, Erick will grant you twenty of the gems he promised, and that is all.”

Hollowsaur frowned, but he stood straight, and strong, and said, “Accepted.”

Erick had an Ophiel grab twenty of the silver gems out of his bag, then float over to Hollowsaur.

Hollowsaur, for his part, slashed the air with more shadowflames, grabbing the gems in one swoop, as well as killing that Ophiel; burning the [Familiar] to black ash. The Shade looked to Erick, and said, “Thanks.”

And then he left.

Erick had missed the departure, even though he wasn’t even capable of blinking. Hollowsaur just left, from one moment to the next; gone, as though he was never there.

He got the distinct impression that he had been lucky. He said, “Alright then.”

Undine said, “See you at the party, Erick!” as she walked away.

Bulgan said nothing before departing with the same swiftness that he had appeared.

The masked person turned their mask toward Erick, held for a moment, then turned, and walked away, slowly, at first, but after their fifth step, they too vanished.

Erick hovered in the sky for a little while, thinking, planning. Considering.

Trying not to falter.

Alone again, or as ‘alone’ as he could possibly be, Erick considered if he wanted to go and oversee how Hollowsaur was going to implement ‘soul healing’, or whatever it was he was slated to do. But he also wanted to check on the people he left at Dorofiend’s bend in the river. Doing the first would have invited reprisal, though he probably could check rather easily, if he put a [Scry] into the air far enough away from Hollowsaur’s plateau. It was still a risk, though.

So Erick put a [Scry] into the air at Dorofiend’s place, instead.

People were wearing clothes. The river looked cleaner than before; a lot cleaner. Lights had been put up to drive away the shadows, and those lights seemed to be working well enough. Erick counted eight people, some working on a perimeter, others working on the interior to turn the lair into a temporary home.

Erick came back to himself, for Fallopolis had appeared.

Fallopolis stood in the air in front of him. She said, “I didn’t think [Luminous Trap] would work on a Shade. The possibility was always there, of course, back when Tulamana Blackvoid invented the same spell. But I didn’t expect it to actually work.”

Erick said, “I didn’t expect it to work, either.”

“Hmm.” Fallopolis turned to the south, saying, “Shall we?”

“Right beside you.”
