“The same belt, but no need for any gems; it’s a decorative piece.” The Librarian picked up a metal wire, saying, “You’ve figured out a lot of little tricks… For anyone. Really. Most Planars never get as far as you in their entire lives. Getting Deep Sky Silver to enchant-quality is yet another trick that you’ve seemed to have effortlessly picked up. Or stumbled upon. Of course, if we had True Magic, there’d be no need for these little tricks.” She set the wire back down, saying, “I will say one good thing about the Script, though, and that is that I do quite like [Duplicate].”

Fallopolis scowled at the Librarian, as she un-angrily huffed out, “Blasphemy.”

“This whole Shadow’s Feast this year is about bridging differences, Fallopolis.” The Librarian said, “Part of that is acknowledging that some parts of the Script are good. Like its ability to grow. Erick’s got a trick to his ability, for now, for sure, and so he’s ahead of the rest of us, but the Script does grow to include everything everyone puts in it… Eventually.”

Again without rancor, and maybe with a bit of a musical note, Fallopolis repeated, “Blasphemy~”

The Librarian looked to Erick, and said, “I expect Melemizargo to give up all of these new Stats, or for something major to change about them all. They’re just too disruptive, but they did bring everyone to the table. Everyone was waiting for you to pick up one of the new Stats, you know? But it’s probably for the best that you didn’t. Charisma is definitely changing.”

Now that was interesting. Not the part that they had been spying on him, but the other part. Erick asked, “Changing to what?”

“Intuition.” The Librarian said, “It’s my understanding that Melemizargo got the suggestion from his Silver Friend, and so that’ll likely happen soon enough. Or, what could happen is that we go the other way. Melemizargo’s new four Stats might make it to the real Script, without the need for our Stat Fruits.” She smiled, then lost her smile. “That’s best-case scenario, though.”

“It won’t happen.” Fallopolis said, “Not unless Shades like you get off your ass and help me kill the ones that don’t deserve to live, and then we all abandon Kendrithyst and go become hermits, or something. The Faith will have to go mainstream, too.” She added, “And that’s only a few of the necessary impossible events, listed like they were no big deal.”

The Librarian said, “It wouldn’t take much to gain the Orcols to our side. They’ve been looking to throw off the shackles of the Bloody One for a long time.”

“That one tribe in that one part of the world.” Fallopolis said, “No. The best option is for Kendrithyst to go away and for the few surviving Shades to go into hiding.”

“With you being one of those ‘few Shades’.”

“With me being one of those few Shades; yes. I’m very sane, of course, so this is only natural.” Fallopolis said, “Now you’re catching on.”

The Librarian fell into silence, frowning at Fallopolis. She took up a vanilla cupcake—

Fallopolis snatched the very same cupcake off of the table, before the Librarian could wrap her hand around it. Fallopolis smiled at the Librarian, as she took a bite. The Librarian breathed in, then gave a long sigh, as she grabbed a chocolate cupcake. Silently, the two of them watched each other, as Erick wove metal into mesh.

Ten spinning wires going this way, ten going the other way, each twisting into each other and then their neighbor, coming together in a tight weave of Deep Sky Silver, layered over several thicker and twisted wires of the same blue-silver metal. When he was done with the Librarian’s belt, which took twenty minutes, he moved onto a necklace. That one only took ten minutes. During that time, he resummoned his Ophiel, at their new, much higher Mana total.

It was only when the event was over, after the Librarian accepted her items and some cupcakes and then departed, that Erick realized that this was probably the most peaceful time he would have in this Shadow’s Feast.

… If that whole interaction had been real, that is.

Fallopolis’s presence led him to believe that these brief moments had been real. But who would know, for sure? Not Erick. And not right now.

What he did know, was that he had a fuckload more Stats, and that his Ophiels were very beefy boys.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 85, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 7.77 e17 / 6.79 e 19

Class: 10/10

Points: 19

HP

6,960/6,960

77,040 per day

MP

17,517/17,520

77,040 per day

Strength

20

+212

[232]

Vitality

20

+212

[232]

Willpower

80

+212

[292]

Focus

80

+212

[292]

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Fallopolis walked beside Erick, through the sky, her footsteps flashing black, while his flashed white, and most of his Ophiels trailed behind him. One hovered in front, a good distance away; on the lookout for upcoming problems.

Fallopolis commented on the Ophiel in front, “So that’s different. Don’t trust me?”

Erick countered, “Why would you think I don’t trust you?”

“What cause have I given to sow distrust?”

“Surely you know?”

“Surely you can think of a specific example?”

Erick pivoted, “Are you going to tell me how I failed in my interaction with Hollowsaur?”

Fallopolis smiled, then said, “You did everything quite well. He’ll never turn those people back into people without a lot more forcing, though.”

Erick felt like there were suddenly lead weights attached to his whole body. For a brief moment, he checked himself, to make sure that the feeling was truly emotional. And it was. He centered himself, saying, “Ah. So he needs an asskicking before he can do the right thing.”

“Might makes right, and Hollowsaur is the embodiment of this precept.” She added, “But if you had attacked and killed him, things would have gone bad for you. The Shades of the Spire would have gotten involved, for Hollowsaur is one of our most sane Priests of Darkness. You would have also made an enemy of Undine. She’s quirky, but not truly insane. One of Melemizargo’s better aspects, in my opinion.”

“… But I would need to fight him, and not kill him.” Erick said, “That would be difficult.” He stopped walking. Fallopolis stopped too, after a moment. She looked back at him, with white teeth showing in a dark smile. Erick said, “But let’s try, anyway.” With a thought, he canceled every [Tree of Light] he had spelled into the Jungle, as he also activated [Hunter’s Instincts]. “I canceled the lights on those trees. Do you think that’ll be enough to get his attention?”

Fallopolis cackled, throwing her head back as she laughed louder, and turned darker, becoming more insubstantial. In moments, she vanished backward into the shadows of the sky.

Erick did his best to ignore Fallopolis’ departure, and walked forward, expanding into his full sunform self, while Ophiels observed, and a few of them took up the same sunform formations.

Step.

Step. Step.

Step. Step. Ste— DODGE.

A thick spear rocketed through the space where Erick had been, but instead of evading, he had stepped right into another one. Erick peeled himself out of the way of the second spear, somewhat, but the dark spear still struck the edge of his sunform. It shattered into a hundred pieces, surprising Erick, for it did no damage and barely disturbed his sunform edge.

But then the scattered pieces of the spear reformed into smaller spears, that hung in the air and rocketed into Erick again. Erick didn’t dodge this time. The tiny spears broke against his sunform.

Ah. Good. He was worried there, for a moment!

“You’ve crafted a gods’ damned fine defense, Erick,” said the man who had attacked him.

Erick brushed his Ophiels wide, reorienting to face Hollowsaur. The Shade stood where Erick had been, moments before, but a bit deeper in the purple abyss below. At his announcement, he stepped upward, into the crimson sky. With one step, he flickered from thirty meters below, to level with Erick. It was practically a [Blink] effect—

“Oh?” Erick said, as he had a thought.

Chaining that thought into the next logical conclusion, Erick had an Ophiel attempt a manual [Teleport], just like when he was reinventing all those Spatial spells. Ophiel, in a surprising, and unsurprising fashion, did not blip. No [Teleport]s allowed!

“Bah.” Erick frowned.

Hollowsaur glanced at the Ophiel who Erick had used in his attempt. Then he looked to Erick, and said, “If you cast [Tree of Light] on three hundred of my trees, I will forgive you. For now.”

“How badly do I have to hurt you to make you turn those people back into people?”

“More than you’re capable of achieving.”

Erick nodded, then had a normal, non-[Lodestar] Ophiel release a [Shooting Star]. Hollowsaur stood there, as the speeding ball of light zipped at him, and through his chest, like he wasn’t even there. Probably because he wasn’t. Or not all the way, at least. Hollowsaur’s chest gained a head-sized hole, yes, but flesh and shadows came right back together, with the Shade looking none the worse for wear as his scars reappeared on otherwise unmarred flesh.

Hollowsaur said, “My turn.”

The Shade’s attack took form in the periphery of Erick’s full vision, like shadows that vanished when viewed. This was, in itself, a problem, since how could there be a periphery to full vision? Whatever it was, Erick responded with an Ophiel casting itself into a full-powered [Hermetic Shredder]. Sixteen thousand molecular wires wove around the arena, some of them so densely woven that they were visible as a whiteness in the air, but others were so spread out, that they were undetectable to the naked eye. Each wire was capable of 16,000 points of damage—

Hollowsaur moved through the hundreds of wires that Erick had cast around him them like they weren’t even there. But this was fine. The Shade’s attack was not so fortunate.

Shadows with blowguns shredded on the wires all around the battlefield. Some managed to loose blowdarts at Erick, but even those tiny spear-like effects carved into broken shadows as they touched molecular wires.

But Erick had only recognized the Shade’s attack for what it was when simple movements brought the summoned creatures into contact with the wires, and they killed themselves. That was a bit concerning.

Hollowsaur said, “I think that counts as your next attack, so I will take another. But first…” While standing inside the mess of Erick's spell, he reached out, and touched a wire. The tip of his finger carved off, falling to more wires, where it split in two, then even more pieces as it fell further. Shadows crawled along the cut edge of his severed finger, replacing what was lost. “This is a rather deadly area spell. I must commend your apprentice.”

“She accepts Mage Bank. If you have an account, send her a million gold.”

Hollowsaur’s response was to occlude the sky with a dark shape. Erick could barely tell that there was a difference overhead, but as Hollowsaur gave no quip and the shape grew larger, Erick recognized it as an attack. The attack touched down onto the upper parts of Erick’s wired space, well before he thought he needed to get out of the way, or do something else to stop the approach.

Shadows broke into liquid that rained down, through Erick’s [Lodestar], glowing to bright greens and reds and blacks as though it was a real object.

… It was a real object?

Bright red blood. Flesh. Bone? Yes. All of that. Body parts decorated the slicing sky. What the fuck was this supposed to—

Something else happened and the world turned to burning fire and impossible noise. An explosion rocked Erick up, out of his molecular wires, into the more open space above. A quick check revealed four Ophiel had lost temporary control of either the safety of their position in the wires, or their cohesion, and they splashed into the cutting field. His bag was out of the field, and down below, but it had still tumbled much further down before that Ophiel collected himself, and the bag.

Erick hovered in his sunform, above a suddenly empty space in the skyline.

Crystal towers had been broken, and smashed away from the explosion, creating a hole a good kilometer across. Glowing, shadowed kendrithyst was still crashing against each other and against his wires, as Erick hovered higher, and guided his Ophiel around the problems of Hollowsaur’s attack. Briefly checking his own Status, he saw he had not lost a single point of Health, out of his new, nearly 7000 Health pool. He had not lost any mana. He had not lost anyt—

Ah. His [Personal Ward] was kinda gone. Erick had protected that white surface rather well; keeping himself intangible, and also protected under the density provided by his [Lodestar], [Greater Lightwalk], and the Light Dedication Class Ability. He hadn’t expected his ‘sunform’ to be so effective, but it was. But even so: that explosion had gotten through. Not fully through. Anyone else would have died to that attack, though. Some of his Ophiel even had; probably due to a combination of the explosion, and [Hermetic Shredder]. Whatever the case, most of Erick’s 27,000 point [Personal Ward] was gone. It’d come back to full strength in 25 minutes, but that would still take 25 minutes. Erick wondered if he had that long.

Three seconds had passed since Hollowsaur’s attack. Erick collected himself above the broken and breaking skyline, waiting for Hollowsaur to join him. The Shade did not disappoint. Hollowsaur hovered into the sky in front of Erick, but remained a good fifty meters distant.

“What was that?” Erick asked. “I thought you had a theme going. Spears. Blowguns. I heard you had pets, too.”

