He passed a Desert Rose. It was growing upon the top of a kendrithyst tower like a strangle fig. The plant was giant; thirty meters across, with thorny vines draped across every nearby tower. It was also closed; the ‘rose’ part of the plant hidden behind thick, green leaves. Erick gave the rose a wide berth, but still, a few hundred [Force Bolt]s poured out of its collection of central thorns, aiming at Erick. He didn’t do anything to stop the attack, for the Bolts didn’t hurt. If he had gotten closer, it would have loosed [Force Beam]s at him, and those might have hurt, but there was no need to test the Rose’s strength like that.

Erick continued on.

- - - -

An hour had passed since he left the Jungle, and Fallopolis still hadn’t shown, but Erick still had these 25 silver spheres. He decided to take a small break. The nearest opportunity to do so was several minutes later, when he came upon a thick kendrithyst tower that poked up, higher than all the rest. It didn’t poke up too much higher, and its thickness didn’t look too conspicuous; it simply looked like a better place to stop than most. The top of it was angled rather hard, but that was fine.

So Erick approached the tower, and stepped down onto its peak. He conjured a porch of hard wood, turning that peak into a platform that would last for a good hour, as long as Erick didn’t walk around too hard upon the surface. He conjured a chair, next—

He had a thought.

He tried flexing his lightform self, like he had when he remade all of the basic Force Spells. He had yet to remake [Conjure Item], but now was as good a time as any. He spent ten minutes trying again, but failed to do more than waste a thousand mana. So he moved on with his life.

He had his Ophiel conjure a [Prismatic Ward] across the peak, while a few other Ophiels conjured dense airs at the corners of the crystal tower, whereupon Erick set those Ophiel down in their defensive positions, to both relax, and regenerate back to full.

The shadows inside the kendrithyst didn’t seem to care. They lazed far below the peak of the tower; the top forty or fifty meters were clear of obvious shadowy threats.

Erick settled down into his conjured chair. He conjured a table in front of him, and grabbed a sliver of Deep Sky Silver metal out of his bag. It was barely a sliver, but with a bit of [Duplication Aura] from an Ophiel, and [Metalshape] with his own power, that sliver became a good four kilograms of blue-silver metal. He stuffed a dollop of the metal back into the bag, as he grabbed three of the enchanted orbs. Each of the orbs was a good three centimeters across, so he couldn’t make wrist bands out of them. Or, he could, but they would look rather funky. A necklace would work, but he didn’t want anything bouncing around his neck.

Did he want a crown, again? That seemed like it would be a rather gauche thing to wear, considering he was going to a party full of megalomaniacs. No. None of those options were good options.

A belt would have to do.

Metal bar became wire, pulled into seven long pieces that wove together in a concentrated working that resembled a steel cable, about a centimeter thick. This part would just be the interior, though. When Erick was done, this item would easily be twice that thick, and much better looking.

Erick took his three orbs and wrapped them into a separate working of silver-blue metal, fully covering and securing them in metal, so that they could not rub against each other, the belt, or Erick’s body. He wanted a high quality product, not easily damaged by normal wear and tear. When he settled the three orbs into position, the item was already a magical item, all on its own, worth 150 All-Stats, if Erick had made it right. Good news: it did not explode. Erick didn’t try it on, yet, though.

Erick pulled back the main cable of the belt and slipped the three-orb item into the center. It was a solid arrangement, but it was far from complete. He went back to the bar of Deep Sky Silver and turned out more wires. Thinner this time, and with the help of a few Ophiel, he had at least a thousand of them. From there, he began weaving with the wires, in and around the gem holder, and then down both sides of the belt using [Metalshape], over the interior cable band. Soon enough, he got into a rhythm, and hundreds of metal wires began flying around each other, creating a dense, overlapping weave.

He couldn’t do this with wrought-iron, or gold, or any of the other metals he had packed away in his single bag. Those metals strung into these shapes would have this belt break from casual, bendy usage. Gold would last a few days in a hard-working, flexible item like this belt. Iron would last longer. But Deep Sky Silver lent itself to these types of flexible workings that other metals simply couldn’t—

“That’s very pretty.”

Erick had seen the Shade coming, but he had ignored her, until now. He turned to face the woman standing in the air outside of his [Prismatic Ward]. She was a strong looking girl in her early twenties, with an unsheathed sword at her hip that seemed to be the most magical thing about her. Her adventuring leathers were worn, but well-cared for, but her boots were bright red, and completely at odds with the rest of her otherwise drab outfit. She was a Shade, for her eyes were bright white, but Erick found his sight drawn to the sword again.

“That’s a pretty sword you have, too.” Erick said, “Not a conjured weapon, I guess?”

“Of course not.” She tapped the sword at her hip, turning a little so Erick could see it better. It was a white metal, with a simple crossguard and a pointed pommel. Ancient Script scrawled down the length of the blade, reading, ‘pierce the heart, pierce the soul’. “I made it with White Bone Steel, just like the original. But this is a replica. No power in this one.”

Ah. The Librarian. Erick had wondered how close he was to her place.

Erick said, “The Librarian, I presume?”

“You presume correctly.”

Erick set down his wires and let go of his spells, as he turned to the Shade, asking, “Which book is this heroine?”

She smiled, saying, “Legacy of Bone.” She added, “I normally wouldn’t interrupt your crafting, but you’re nearing the end, and… Well… You’re getting close to my library, and while I don’t think you’d destroy the place, since I have no prisoners or… Anything. Really. Except for books.” She added, “You know Hollowsaur is trailing you, right?”

“I know.” Erick said, “I was expecting him to attack before I finished the belt, or even put it on.”

The Librarian nodded, then said, “I was kinda waiting for you to come anywhere close, because I’d like to know some stories from another world and I think you’d actually be willing to talk considering how your interaction with Hollowsaur went… But Hollowsaur is rather uncultured, and he would likely use the opportunity to harm something of… mine...”

The Librarian’s voice trailed off, as she looked to the left. Both she and Erick watched as Fallopolis stepped into the sky, not ten meters away.

“Hello, dear.” Fallopolis spoke in a kindly voice to the Librarian, saying, “Erick was rather close to killing that awful man, but he’s run off, now. You needn’t have interfered.”

The Librarian briefly frowned, then one-upped Fallopolis’s sweetness with her own saccharine facade and tone, “Hollowsaur would have tested me and then I would have had to be angry with him. It’s better for everyone if that doesn’t happen. So I stepped in. Pardon me for ruining your plans.”

“I’ve got plans within plans, so don’t worry about ruining them; I’ll just find another way.” Fallopolis turned to Erick, asking, “Are you going to finish that belt?”

“Can I commission a belt?” The Librarian asked, then clarified, “Not that one. Nothing magical. Just pretty. I like the woven metal with the boxy part in the front. A matching necklace and belt would be nice.”

Erick said to Fallopolis, “I was planning on finishing it, yes.” He said to the Librarian, “And sure, I can make a similar belt for you, and a matching necklace, too.”

The Librarian smiled wide. “Great!”

Fallopolis frowned. “Great.” She stepped closer to Erick and casually poked on the dense air around him and his platform. “I want a seat. And cupcakes. Let me in, or drop the barrier.”

“Sure. One minute.” Erick handed some stray wires of Deep Sky Silver off to one of his Ophiel, as well as the two cupcakes in his bag. “This shouldn’t take long.”

While Ophiel lifted the cupcakes and wires to the edge of the dense air, but still inside, another Ophiel turned on his Copy Aura. Wires and cupcakes fell into Erick’s light, where he held them tight. He cut Ophiel’s aura, then moved the cupcakes out of position, while putting all of his wires into position. The next instance of Ophiel’s Copy Aura, unloaded a good hundred thousand Deep Sky Silver wires, ready for enchanting work. Erick held them all, while he sent that now-spent Ophiel down to a different dense air, while bringing a fresh one up top.

With more than enough wrought-quality Deep Sky Silver to make a few items, and a good three dozen cupcakes, Erick dropped the [Prismatic Ward], and said, “Care to join me for cupcakes?”

“Don’t mind if I do!” Fallopolis stepped onto the platform, and grabbed a chocolate cupcake as she conjured a dark chair to sit upon.

Erick looked to the Librarian, who had yet to move, and offered, “That invitation was for you, too.”

The Librarian smiled, and then walked forward. She sat down on a simple layer of darkness, upon Erick’s conjured porch. She grabbed a chocolate cupcake, saying, “Thank you for your hospitality.”

Erick resumed his metal weaving, adding in more wires to the ends of other wires with seamless [Metalshape]s, as he wrapped up the cable core of the belt.

Fallopolis finished her first cupcake, then silently began on her second. Erick was sure that if the Librarian weren’t here, then she’d be telling him how he fucked up with Hollowsaur, and how he succeeded. The Librarian, for her part, silently watched Erick work, going through one cupcake rather fast, then rushing onto a second and third, as Erick wove blue-silver metals into a cohesive whole. When he was done, with no one saying a word the whole time, Erick finished the belt by standing up, sizing it to his sunform self, then turning one end into a solid receptacle with a few slots carved out of it, and the other into a tension-loaded insertion. Erick tested out the ‘clasp’, by poking the insertion side into the receptacle. The tensions locked into the slots with an audible, four-piece click. Erick had to press down rather hard and in four different places in order to depress the tensions and unlock the belt, but that was on purpose.

And then, waiting for something to happen, Erick pulled his sunform inward, returning to his mortal coil. He already had copies of his rings if they exploded on him, though they shouldn’t. But this belt was already +150 All-Stats, and that was more than his rings, so even if an explosion occurred, he would be okay in the short term. Erick looked to the Shades, flanking him, and broke the silence, “I’m going to test this a few steps away.”

Fallopolis nodded.

The Librarian said, “I don’t think it will explode. The resonance is going to be pretty darn tight, but your soul-stability is higher than it was when you came in here. Dorofiend was level 85-ish, right?”

Erick hadn’t known that ‘soul stability’ had anything to do with Stat enchanting, but he kept that surprise off of his face, as he said, “Even so.” He said, “I’m still going to step away.”

And he did. And they let him. And Erick was still waiting for the attack to come, when he put the belt on, gained 150 more Stats, his rings stayed on, and everything was fine. Nothing exploded.

… Everything was not fine. There were Shades everywhere.

Fallopolis was currently on her fifth cupcake, while the Librarian was on her sixth, and while they seemed to be competing with each other in a casual eating contest, for whatever reason, the two of them also had their eyes on Erick. Fallopolis was rather nonchalant about the whole thing. But the Librarian was staring, and also trying not to stare, at Erick and his new belt.

… This was fine.

Erick returned to his conjured table, platform, and shady guests, and began working on—

The Librarian just couldn’t take it anymore. Half-amazed, half-disbelieving, she blurted out, “Do you even know how much of an advancement in the field of Stat Enchantment you have created? I mean! You do. But I don’t think you do? It’s just—! I’m happy to be able to see this happening in my lifetime. To see what you just did.” She added, “You have to understand, that I can make my own plus-100 Strength or Willpower or Intelligence belts and crowns, and I can even create a get-up that holds the four original Stats in harmony enough for a wearer to get 100 All-Stats. But you’ve combined them all into one nifty purple lightward!”

“Lightmask,” Fallopolis added.

“Right!” The Librarian said, “Lightmask.” She added, “And there’s no Stat Dissonance! You’ve balanced them all perfectly. Truly a breakthrough. I just have to ask: Why haven’t you picked up another Stat? Those are a pretty large breakthrough this year, too. Is it because a fifth Stat would lead to an unbalancing?” She said, “I can get you one of each fruit, if you want it. I can… Hmm. I probably can’t get them to remove the inherent curse.”

“No curses for me, please,” Erick said, deciding that reasoning was good enough for an answer. He asked, “The same belt? Or…?”

