Garen stared at the smoke as the two Goblins embraced and sat down, laughing and talking. The Hob’s crimson eyes were distant. Reiss looked up at the smoke and clenched his hands.
“At first, they were ecstatic. Both had fulfilled their promise. Both were alive. Garen wanted the Goblin with magic to join the Halfseekers. The Goblin with magic wanted something else. He told Garen about his master. And he showed him what he could do.”
In the air, the Hob with robes pointed. A zombie burst out of the earth, startling the Hob with a sword. He backed away, sword drawn. The smoky Goblin with magic pointed at the zombie, waving his hands. The Hob with the sword shook his head. He leapt forwards and slashed the zombie in half.
“Garen did not accept what the Goblin with magic had done. He called his brother a traitor. A slave. What Goblin would kneel to a Human, let alone a [Necromancer]? Goblins could not be slaves. And undead—he hated the undead.”
In the air above the fire, the two Hobs quarreled.
“They argued. Then fought.”
The Hob with a sword swung at the Hob in robes. Light flashed amid the smoke, and Rags saw the Hob with magic firing spells. The two retreated.
“Garen could not accept that the Goblin with magic had a master. He did not wish to be part of the Necromancer’s plan—to make a Goblin Lord. He swore to oppose his friend, his brother, if he ever tried to carry out the plan.”
“Why?”
Rags stared up at the smoke as the two Hobs stared at each other. She looked at Garen. The Hob looked up at her. His red blade sat on his knees.
“Because of the undead. Because of him. The Necromancer. Because we are not slaves. Because of the undead.”
The hate in Garen’s voice was physical. But Rags thought of Pisces, and her heart hurt. She looked at Reiss.
“Just that?”
The Goblin Lord’s eyes were sad.
“Velan the Kind hated undead. And we are his people still. Garen refused to listen. He and the Goblin with magic separated. That was the last time they saw each other for years. The Goblin with magic went back to his master, heartbroken. In time, he would leave and form his own tribe. Become Chieftain and then a Lord just as he said. And Garen would go north. He would be an adventurer for another year until he betrayed his team and escaped to the High Passes. There, he would form the Redfang Tribe and ride against his brother.”
The smoke showed two Hobs. They looked older and stood apart from each other. On one side, a Goblin in robes stood with shambling undead and Goblins at his back. On the other, a Hob with a sword pointed and Goblins mounted on wolves rode towards him. Rags felt her heart squeeze as the two met. Reiss and Garen looked at each other.
“We can still join together, Brother. It does not have to end like this.”
“It does.”
Garen stared up at the smoke. He moved suddenly, and his sword slashed the air. The illusory figures made of smoke vanished. Reiss lowered his hands and shook his head.
“I betrayed no one.”
“You claim that. But you serve the Necromancer. I lived while he destroyed the Humans in the north. I saw him, once.”
Tremborag spoke up suddenly. He leaned forwards, for once not sneering or furious. He looked at Reiss, one Goblin to another.
“He is not Human. He was once, but whatever that part was is gone. He is a monster, and he will use you as a pawn.”
Garen nodded. He stood and pointed at Reiss. He had spoken little, but now his voice was loud. So loud that every Goblin heard it.
“You are a slave. Reiss! You betrayed Goblins! You served the Necromancer! You are not Goblin. You are a tool! Better to be dead than join you! Better to die than be undead! Better—”
He stared at the wisps of smoke trailing upwards. Garen’s voice grew quiet.
“—better not to be a traitor. Why did you have to betray us?”
He looked at Reiss. The Goblin Lord’s eyes flashed. He stood as well, thinner than Garen, his magical robes sweeping about him.
“I betrayed no one! My master offered me a chance, and I took it! Yes, he uses me. But he gave me power. The power to do this.”
Reiss raised his hands. The fire went out. And something rose in its place. A spire of bone. No—an undead. It was folded up, compacted. But as the earth shook loose, it unfolded. A creature taller than all but Tremborag. Old, yellowed bone forming strange arms. It was humanoid, but the bones were oddly proportioned. Only when Rags saw the head did she realize.
It was a cow. A cow whose bones had been rearranged to make it stand upright. It towered over Garen as he raised his sword. The Goblins shrank back. Reiss shouted.
“Look at it! It will fight! It will die at my command! Instead of Goblins! How can that be so wrong? It’s just—just—”
He looked around. The Goblins of Reiss’ tribe looked at him, fearful. The others stared at the horror he had brought to life. The Bone Horror’s dark sockets burned with green light from within. A Goblin child hid behind Pyrite. Reiss faltered as he saw the terrified eyes. The Bone Horror collapsed silently onto the ground, amid the embers.
“Redfang called you traitor. He was right.”
Tremborag spoke in the darkness. The Great Chieftain was a shadow as he stared at Reiss. He pointed at the pile of bones.
“You serve something no different from that. Traitor indeed.”
“You think so?”
Reiss stared at the fire. He pointed, and the fire burst back into life. The bones cracked as the sudden heat engulfed them. The Goblin Lord strode back to his seat and sat. He reached for his cup of water as Garen sat as well. Reiss drank and pointed at Garen. His face was twisted by anger and grief.
“If we’re speaking of traitors. You had a tribe, Garen. Not one of Goblins, but of adventurers. The Halfseekers were famous in Izril. They championed all races, and they alone let a Hobgoblin enter their ranks. And you betrayed them. You slaughtered half of them and fled. You are the traitor as much as I.”
The Goblins turned to look at Garen. The Hob went still. His eyes burned as he slowly looked up at Reiss and shook his head.
“They were not my tribe. They never believed I was one of them.”
Reiss’ eyes narrowed as he gulped more water.
“But they were yours. They trusted you. And you killed them. For the key. Do your Redfangs know that? Garen killed his own?”
His Redfangs did. At least, Redscar did. But even his gaze was uncertain. They must have heard the tale from Garen. But Reiss had thrown that into doubt. Garen shifted.
“I did everything for Goblins. For Goblins.”
“So did I!”
Reiss nearly stood again, but Eater of Spears patted his shoulder. The Goblin Lord visibly calmed himself and kept drinking from his cup. Garen copied him by eating from his bowl of meat. The two of them glared at each other, looking so alike in that moment that Rags could see them sitting together, just like they had in the smoke.
At last, Reiss sighed. He tore his gaze away from Garen and looked at Rags.
“So, little Chieftain. That is our story. That is our past. That is why Garen calls me slave and I do not. I have a master. I will not pretend he thinks of Goblins as anything but tools. But he will give us power if we fulfill his wishes. What other option is there?”
“Freedom.”
Garen spoke quietly. Tremborag crunched a bone.
“Pride.”
“So you say.”
Reiss looked back at the other two Chieftains. His gaze fixed on Tremborag.
“You sat in your mountain, ‘Great Chieftain’. The Goblin King called, and you did not answer. You grew your tribe, and it was mighty, yes. But for what? Are you content to hide from Humans forever? Why have you done nothing?”
Tremborag tossed aside the cow’s femur.
“You want to know my past? You want to know why I refused Velan? How I became Great Chieftain? The secret of my strength?”
He flexed one arm, and muscle grew out of fat. Reiss nodded. The other Goblins leaned forwards. Tremborag gazed around.
“No. That story is mine. I am Tremborag of the Mountain, and I will reclaim my home. I bow to no Goblin Lord. You traitors I will hunt down. That is the only story you need know.”
He pointed at Poisonbite, who jumped. Reiss shook his head. He looked towards Rags.
“So. The Great Chieftain refuses. Garen refuses. But do you see, Rags?”
“Yes.”
Rags did see. She saw pride in Tremborag and that burning fury and loss in Garen as well as Reiss. The two were separate, but they had been—she hesitated. Rags looked from Garen to Reiss. Her eyes narrowed.
“One question. You two have sex? Lovers?”
Reiss choked on his water. Garen paused as he chewed on his meat. Both Hobgoblins stared at Rags. Then Garen dumped his bowl of meat onto the ground and spat out what he was eating. Reiss shook his head.
“No. We were never—no.”
“Oh.”
Rags shrugged. The Goblin Lord’s face was a mix of chagrin and amusement as he wiped his mouth. Redscar looked amused as well. Garen did not.
“Fah. That was your question?”
Tremborag eyed Rags as he found another wine flask. Rags shrugged.
“Important question.”
Pyrite nodded.
“Good to know.”
Tremborag snorted and glanced dismissively at Pyrite. His gaze found Pyrite’s face and then paused. The Great Chieftain frowned and put down his wine.
“Wait. I recognize the other traitors behind you. But you. Do I…know you?”
He stared hard at Pyrite. The Hob glanced up. He was breaking up bone and sucking the marrow out. He shrugged.
“No.”
Tremborag wasn’t convinced. He stared at Pyrite.
“I…do. You were of my tribe once, weren’t you?”
“Maybe.”
Reiss glanced between Pyrite and Tremborag with interest. Garen frowned. It seemed like a distraction, but Rags could see how Pyrite’s left foot tensed up as he stared calmly at Tremborag.
“You were in my tribe.”
The Great Chieftain insisted. Pyrite nodded at last.
“Small Goblin. No name.”
“Yes. A worthless little Goblin. But for some reason—”
Tremborag peered at Pyrite. Then his huge eyes widened.
“Now I remember! You were with him all the time. That decrepit old Hob. Grey…Greybeard! Yes, that was it! That useless fool and you were always together. Where is that traitor? Dead?”
All the Goblins in Rags’ tribe stirred. They looked at each other and then at Pyrite. Redscar sat up and stared hard at Pyrite. All of Rags’ lieutenants and Rags herself remembered. And Reiss sat up too. Snapjaw was poking Eater of Spears urgently, and the huge Hob was nodding. Garen sat bolt-upright, his eyes widening as he realized who Tremborag was mentioning.
Only Tremborag himself didn’t notice. Pyrite glanced around and seemed to sigh. He nodded.
“True. I was with Greybeard. But not right name. He had another.”
“Oh yes?”
Tremborag smirked. He opened his wineskin with one claw.
“What was it? Was he an old Chieftain from another tribe? A wanderer who stole his name like the child? What did he call himself?”
“Greydath of Blades.”
The wineskin slipped from Tremborag’s claws. It landed on the ground, leaking wine. Tremborag stared at Pyrite.
“Do not lie.”
“No lie.”
Pyrite met Tremborag’s gaze. The Great Chieftain drew himself up to shout, and then, at last, caught the mood around the camp. The Goblins in his tribe stared at Reiss’ face, at Rags’ expression, at Garen and the other Hobs.
They knew. Rags remembered the grinning Hob with the grey beard. Tremborag’s jaw worked soundlessly.
Perhaps if he was Human he might have denied it. But Goblins seldom lied, let alone to each other. And the truth was written on every face. The Great Chieftain’s face changed from shock to fury to confusion and a host of other emotions as he tried to process that information. Then, at last, he croaked.
“Greydath? But he died—”
Pyrite nodded amiably. He fished around in his pile of bones for a new one. Looking unconcerned by all the eyes on him, he cracked another bone and hunted for the marrow.
“True. Greydath died in war. Probably like Necromancer. Probably was just imposter. All he had was rusty greatsword. Didn’t do much. Ate. Slept. Worked. Cut Griffon in half. Go poo. Talked. Taught me.”
“So that was Greydath who visited my tribe?”
Reiss stared hard at Pyrite. The Hob looked up and met his eyes. He shrugged at the Goblin Lord, which was incredible in itself.
“Maybe? Old Goblin? Beard? Cackle like this?”
Pyrite made a good attempt at Greydath’s crackling laughter. Reiss hesitated.
“He spoke to—what did he want? What did he teach you?”
Every eye was fixed on Pyrite. The Hob seemed reluctant to speak. He looked around, saw Garen’s burning gaze on him, scratched his butt, and then shrugged again.
“Names of rocks. Edible moss. Good bugs to eat. Bad bugs to eat. How to poo smart. How to make tweezers for splinters.”
Rags stared at Pyrite slack-jawed. Then her eyes narrowed. His ears were twitching slightly. She reached over to punch him in the side. The Hob blocked her fist effortlessly. He paused. Tremborag was glaring at him, as were the others. Pyrite sighed again.
“How small we are. How strong Humans are. What it means to be Chieftain. And…stories.”
“Stories?”
Redscar stared hard at Pyrite. The Hob nodded.
“About old Chieftains. Famous Goblin warriors. About Goblin Lords. And—about a key.”
He looked up, straight at Garen. The Hob froze. His hand clamped to one side. Every eye turned to him.
The key. Rags glanced at Pyrite. The Hob watched Garen carefully and then went back to his bone. His ears were still twitching.
He’d diverted the conversation successfully. But while that had fooled the others, it didn’t fool Rags. Or the other Chieftains or Reiss. All three glanced back at Pyrite, but now the focus was on Garen. Tremborag growled furiously at Garen.
“Redfang, you told them about the key?”
“Didn’t tell.”
Garen defended himself. Reiss nodded.
“He didn’t tell us. I already knew. Besides, Garen is simply a bad liar.”
The Redfangs’ Chieftain glared, but didn’t deny Reiss’ claim. Tremborag looked furious as he glanced swiftly at Reiss and at Garen, clearly worried. The only one in the dark was Rags. She threw a stick on the fire for attention.
“The key. What is it? Secret to Goblin King treasure? What treasure? How you know?”
Reiss looked at Rags. Instantly, Tremborag spoke up.
“Don’t tell her. This is a secret for true Chieftains, not mewling pretenders.”
Reiss ignored Tremborag. He glanced at Garen, who was giving him an unspoken look. Rags thought it was that which made Reiss decide to tell her.
“It is a memory, Chieftain Rags. A memory I saw. And Garen. When we were young, we were part of the Ghostly Hand tribe. We could not remember, but our Chieftain did. And our tribe was large, so she looked back and saw the memories of Velan the Kind. Or rather, the months before he died.”
