She thought she detected a fourth type of magic, but it was a more slippery one, and it took precious seconds for her to determine that it was something to do with the shadows.

Huh, interesting.

There wasn’t even a question of them intervening, and so Tala wasn’t surprised when Rane jerked to a sudden halt between two of the largest attackers before blasting outward with kinetic energy, throwing those two into two more.

Terry flickered behind many of the Leshkin, severing legs at the hip, or otherwise crippling those he passed.

Tala drew herself to a hovering halt above the center of the caravan before stretching out with her and Rane’s combined aura.

There was nothing nearly powerful enough to oppose her, so she didn’t bother to anchor her aura with iron spikes.

Once that was established—taking less than a couple of heart beats—she opened a series of portals down near ground level. As each opened for the briefest moment, she released one orb to send a projectile tearing forth to obliterate long columns of enemies. After each passed, there were only gouts of Leshkin blood in the wake.

The shock of their arrival seemed to send even the usually stoic Leshkin back on their heels, even as it rallied the spirits of the defenders, both magical and mundane.

The crossbowmen atop the wagons moved from their frantic shots to a more regular cadence, and the guards on the ground were able to recover and settle more fully into warding formations, keeping the weaker Leshkin back as the Mages worked to destroy all comers.

One of the Mages—seemingly the leader of the Mage Protectors and a fire Mage—waved toward Tala. “Mistress! Thank you for the assistance.”

She altered her gravity to shift a bit closer to him before giving a slight bow. “We were passing through, and it seemed like we could be of help.”

“Oh, absolutely. Thank you so much!” He grinned briefly. Then, the smile fell away as he pointed to a woman in darker clothes, a Mage who was sending out black blades of power. “That Mage arrived with Leshkin in hot pursuit. She asked for protection, and we’ve been under assault ever since.”

Tala’s eyebrow rose. “Oh?”

He nodded. “When these are addressed, can you please see her safely… somewhere else? I am concerned that she might bring more enemies down upon us if she were to remain.”

Tala grunted at that. “I’ll see what I can do.”
