But Kamus seemed content to wait for Nathan to reset himself before beginning the next phase of the fight, and Nathan was happy to take the opportunity. The Questor was dangerous, but Nathan thought he’d been on the mark with his comment earlier. Kamus didn’t care about winning as much as enjoying himself while doing it, and he enjoyed testing himself against new opponents. Nathan flashed forward with as little warning as possible, feinting with a fist before striking out with a foot. Kamus spun in midair to catch the blow in his hand, but Nathan simply bent his knee, denying contact and confirming his hypothesis.

He can only channel that spell through his hands.

Both of them kept their auras tight, focused on concentrating their power in preparation for any future contact. They danced across the sky without touching, with Kamus trying to catch Nathan with his hands and Nathan trying to catch the Questor anywhere else. The old man was proficient in hand-to-hand combat, with at least one skill that was boosting his movements. His magical bonuses also gave him the edge in speed over Nathan, but not by an insurmountable degree.

But Nathan had four limbs he could strike with, and he had more movement skills to rapidly and deceptively change directions. He feinted up, down, then tucked and flipped in midair to kick Kamus in the nose. The Questor’s head snapped back, and Nathan went in for the kill, accepting a hand slapped to his side while he shot past the Questor, stopped, and drove his hand into the man’s back. He concentrated his aura into his fingertips, digging through the magical domain and dispelling the buffs as his fingers moved deeper. Without the reinforcing magic, the man’s flesh was no tougher than fresh bread against his strength.

The Questor’s other hand came down on Nathan’s head, and Kamus bared his teeth in victory. “I have won.”

Nathan’s focus bottomed out, and his Stamina was on its last dregs from the repeated drains. But he pulled with all of his strength, feeling his Legendkiller skill activate for the first time. His antimagic unzipped the magical reinforcement on skin but not bones as he yanked Kamus’s spine away from his body. The head came with it, and Nathan spun it around to look the man in the eyes.

“Could have fooled me.”

Magical Destruction 6 achieved!

Utility skill: [Tranquility]

Your mind will be calm and focused under all conditions, and your mind’s eye is expanded.

Utility skill: [Perfected Mind]

Your mind obeys your will.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 6

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 1831/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 0/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 2

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 5

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 6

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 5

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
