“My personal opinion is probably farther than you realize from being one of the best-educated opinions.”

“You’re a powerful hn’tyon.”

“I am. But my opinion on the likelihood of us defeating chaos isn’t rooted in our historical successes or our finest research. I was out here with Lind one day, not that long ago, at a time when I was hunted by doubts, and she slowed the leaves that blew from that limb there during a gust.”

He was nodding in the direction of the limb that shaded the other side of their seating circle. “Those leaves hung in the air as if pinned there. While we talked, I eventually stopped watching them. By the time night came, the sky above us was clear of them. They’d all reached the ground. And Lind said, ‘What seems still may just be moving slowly in the direction it should. Trust that what we <<pit our might against>> moves.’ And I said, ‘What moves at all can be destroyed once a weakness is found. I’ll find it.’”

They both watched a leaf break away from that limb and flutter down to fall on the woven seat across from them. There was only a gentle breeze tonight, and the leaf was green.

Esh-erdi must have made it fall.

“Those two things are what I believe. It’s the answer to your question. It’s not the answer of a chaos researcher or a strategist who has found the route to a logical victory.”

“It’s faith,” said Alden.

“In myself and Lind. In all who fight alongside us. Yes, it is.”

Alden smiled. “I’m glad I asked you.”

“You don’t think the answer is insufficient, coming from someone who’s supposed to be repairing the universe?”

“No, because…I think I’m just happy to hear you say that everyone pushing back against chaos matters. It would be great if you could give me a list of things that have to happen to make it end. Knowing the Primary needed to kill eight hundred demons of a certain danger level by next summer to set everyone else up for success—that would be something I could cheer for from the edges and look forward to hearing about. But I’d still need to have faith that my own tiny pushes were doing something to make chaos move. If faith is enough for you and Lind-otta, then I can go forward with it, too. I should be good at it. My father was…someone who tried to understand God. He taught at a church.”

He had to fall back on English for the word ‘church’. He knew a few Artonan words for religious buildings and groups, but he was wary of what subtle connotations might be packed into them. He didn’t want Esh-erdi to picture the Palace of Unbreaking. Mother would surely do him the favor of selecting a descriptor that didn’t call that to mind for the translation.

A word for God was easier. Alden remembered a couple his dad had liked to use, so he had picked one of those.

“Your parents were taken from you,” Esh-erdi said. “I struggle to imagine the weight of that loss.”

“It was an Avowed,” said Alden. “The person who killed them.”

“I am aware.”

“He got stronger by hurting people. His powers were really…were they just random? The Contract gave something like that to him randomly?”

Boe had described his own abilities as random.

“How do you feel about Avowed like him? Those who fall outside of Earth’s class categorizations?”

“Uniques? I think they have interesting powers. The head of my school program is a famous one. They’re fairly popular on Earth—in our stories and television shows—because of all the special circumstances around them. Considering how few of them there are, a lot seem to become celebrities. I have a close friend who’s an unregistered Unique.”

Esh-erdi began to watch the stars with one eye while he kept the other on Alden. “At some point in your childhood, your planet’s Contract identified you as an unusually high-risk chaos <<matrix>>. Which means that if you were exposed to chaos, you were more likely than others to continue living, for a time, by becoming a problematic entity.”

The way he said it was matter-of-fact.

Alden responded in kind. “I knew that. Not quite in those words, but I figured it out on Thegund. That Avowed might be people who had the potential to become demons before our existences were stabilized by our bindings.”

“I’m relieved that you don’t sound concerned. The people in power on Anesidora seem convinced that humanity will be unable to cope with that information being formally confirmed by the Triplanets. They prefer the present state of things, where truth shares a basket with falsehoods they consider more pleasant. But a fact widely known on other planets can’t remain controversial on Earth forever, surely.”

“They’re probably hoping it goes from a rumor to a fact without ever becoming a serious reputation problem for us,” said Alden. “Today if someone shouts, ‘Avowed were born demon people!’ they sound like they belong to a crazy hate group. But one day, maybe someone will say that and everyone will respond, ‘That’s technically true, but why are you being weird about it? It’s been that way for a century. Old news.’ Anesidora must be worried about the transition between those two points.”

“You were never a ‘demon person’. Only a person whose spot in reality was identified as a potential risk. From the moment the Contract recognized you as such, it devoted additional attention to you that reduced the chances you would be touched by the influence of chaos even further. Before they are selected, the children it plans to choose as Avowed are the best protected people on Earth. In that particular way.”

“Isn’t it dangerous to have all the children on Anesidora so close to the cube?”

Alden had been wondering that ever since the floods.

“In the event of an instantaneous, catastrophic Contract failure, yes,” said Esh-erdi. “But in almost all the more likely scenarios, having so many of the children it needs to keep a close watch over in one location benefits it. A few places like Anesidora spread around your planet, rather than a singular one, might be its ideal, but the present situation does have advantages.”

“So Earth guarded me extra from chaos when I was little.” Alden let his head fall back to join Esh-erdi in stargazing. “That’s kind of nice to imagine if I don’t overthink it.”

“The ones you call Unique types are people who weren’t identified as high-risk until the moment when chaos began to blossom around them,” Esh-erdi said. “Your Contract’s response to such situations is swift, but its options are limited. It attempts to bind the person’s authority, maneuvering against a change that’s already begun. If the individual survives, they are given the Unique classification. Their abilities are a cauldron surprise that results from random ingredients.”

If the individual survives…

“This should be a temporary phase in the growth of your planet’s Contract. There’s usually a period in which a Contract isn’t adept enough to prevent every such occurrence but is adept enough for a few people to be saved with its assistance. Earth has been extraordinarily good at the saving part, so you have significantly more Unique Avowed than anticipated. It may be because the variety of talents designed for humans has given Earth unusual insight and creative potential for a Contract of its age.”

Esh-erdi stopped there to let Alden think for a while. But Alden’s thoughts were so full of Boe—who’d been moments away from becoming some kind of demon before the System managed to customize him into an empath instead—that he almost forgot what had started this explanation of U-types in the first place.

When Esh-erdi finally spoke again and said, “The one who killed your parents had powers resulting from such creativity on Earth’s part,” Alden found himself blinking like Body Drainer had come out of left field.

Right. That’s who we were talking about. Not Boe.

“Are Uniques in danger afterward? The binding makes them as sturdy as regular Avowed, doesn’t it?”

“They’re not at heightened risk of becoming demons afterward. Their new magic can cause them problems beyond the ordinary, though. Your Contract prioritizes saving them during their initial binding. Making their powers function well has to be a secondary consideration. Most come to the Triplanets at some point to have their abilities studied. They can have our Contracts and our skill designers plot a course for their development that will eventually make their powers more harmonious.”

“Your skill designers! Like the same ones who would advise knights?” Alden was fully focused on Esh-erdi’s face once more.

“Some of the same. Learning about unique bindings and their effects on reality is of interest to them.”

But designing harmonious skills for Contract refusers must be way lower on their priority lists than advising people like Principal Saleh and the Primary’s son would be. And the significant help Boe said he could get if he agreed to certain things…it’s probably that. Otherwise, it’ll just be him and Earth figuring it out together.

“I can’t be sworn to secrecy about this,” Alden said urgently. “I need to talk to my friend. The Unique friend. So I can tell him I understand what he wanted to say to me about this once. And then you can swear me to secrecy. I won’t breathe a word about it to anyone else.”

Esh-erdi gave him half a smile. “I would have warned you before telling you something that required another tattoo. Perhaps I should have. But I didn’t.”

Alden looked at that half smile. Maybe it was more of a sad smile. It’s because I led us this way via my parents, isn’t it?

“Thanks,” he said. “I really will be discreet.”

My parents. Body Drainer. I should let him put the Matadero hallway tattoo on me so he can spend more time with the people he loves.

But there was one more thing that Esh-erdi might be able to answer better than someone like Stuart.

“Sometimes, Avowed go missing after they’re summoned,” said Alden. “Not like I did, with the Contract telling everyone I was missing. They’re just gone without any news at all. We have funerals for them without knowing anything for sure. One of the superheroes who was there on the night when I lost my parents went missing like that. Is there a way for me to find out how she died or where she was lost? Even if it’s bad, I think I’d like to know now.”

“You refer to Hannah Elber.”

Alden stiffened. “You already know her name. From researching me…or because you’ve heard of her? Do you know what happened?”

“I heard about her before I met you. From the Avowed who Lind and I trained at Matadero. Some of them knew her well, and others consider themselves friends of her mother. A couple hinted that they would like an explanation for her disappearance. One asked outright that I look into it.”

Alden had known The Gloom would have talked to her important Artonan contacts, but he’d forgotten that many of Hannah’s friends and former classmates were high-ranked Avowed who had access to their own information sources. Of course some of the people in a Matadero battlegroup would have thought to ask the knights. They’d probably had a gym class or twelve with Hannah at Celena North when they were teenagers.

Alden braced himself. “Did you look into it?”

“Only enough to determine whether or not all had been properly handled. It was.”

“It was?”

“Yes. I’m sorry for the pain the lack of information causes, but there’s little I can do to ease it. From my point of view, all Contracts and any summoners who may have been involved with Avowed Hannah Elber have behaved as they should.”

Alden sat there staring.

“Are you angry?” Esh-erdi asked.

Alden shook himself. “No. Surprised. Confused. I believe you, and it’s good her last summoning was handled properly. But I was almost certain you were going to tell me an awful wizard had summoned her to fight a hopeless battle against a solar flare or something and then decided not to bother telling anyone that she was gone. And I hated that imaginary situation and every imaginary person who caused it, but it was very…over. Now I’ve got nothing at all to imagine. Are there a lot of proper reasons to hide what happened to a missing Avowed?

“Several at least.”

“She wouldn’t have run away to live somewhere else on Earth. Not without telling her mother. But her mother was really sad at her funeral, and I don’t think she was acting…”

“No matter how intently you look at me, I will only say what I have said,” Esh-erdi replied.

Alden rubbed his hands over his face. “Sorry. Let’s tattoo me. What’s it going to look like? And can I see the way you’ve arranged yours on your calf again? That band is multiple contracts, isn’t it? But they look so good together. Did you get them all at the same time, or is there a method for choosing designs that are easy to add to others without looking scrambled?”

“You like my leg!” Esh-erdi said, swinging the very leg they were talking about toward Alden. “As you should. Picking what symbols you’ll carry with you is most of the fun. And isn’t it best if they’re lovely to your eyes as well as serving their practical purpose? Look at mine for inspiration. I’m also sending you images of the standard Matadero tattoo and hundreds of others I think are much better.”

“Hundreds?”

“Remember,” said Esh-erdi, “you have time. And I’ll be honored to share a mark with you if it’s well chosen.”

******
