302

******

There was a place Esh-erdi liked, half an hour’s walk from Alden’s birth tree, where a copse of the native trees surrounded nestlike seating circles made of woven grasses. Each circle was big enough for a dozen people to sit with room to spare, with footrests waiting in the center and bulbous carved lanterns that could be turned on with a touch or a word. It was a comfortable spot that looked ready for visitors who hadn’t shown up.

“People were out here all day and night when I first came to Rapport III. But the nearby houses are full of busy adults instead of <<boisterous>> adolescents like they were then, so I suppose it’s natural that it sees less use.”

“Why were there a bunch of adolescents here before?”

“The housing used to be designated for newcomers who hoped to be knights or votaries,” said Esh-erdi. “Then we all grew up, and enough of us wanted to keep our places here for the newcomers to end up elsewhere.”

He tossed a lantern to Alden. It was lightweight and organic-looking except for the silvery blue light shining through a diamond pattern cut into the surface. Alden thought it was made out of something like a gourd. He set it on a spare footrest to the left of the one he was about to prop his own feet on while Esh-erdi took a seat beside him.

Their walk to this place had been chatty, but the chat had been about birth trees, storytelling class, and Esh-erdi’s family rather than the business they needed to take care of now. Alden had learned that the knight’s sister was one of several siblings, and she was the only one who had followed him here and devoted her own life to the Rapports as a votary. The two of them rarely saw their brothers and sisters or their parents.

Esh-erdi settled in, adjusting a cushion behind his back. “Almost everyone who sees inside the structure your people call Matadero is contracted to secrecy.”

“I know.”

“There are people on Earth and elsewhere who wish to harm others or gain profit for themselves by having information about that place and its purpose. It’s very secure, but its security is also so important that not taking such an easy measure to protect it would be careless.”

“I understand that, too,” said Alden. “I’ve only seen what the hospital and the residential section look like. And the halls I have to travel through to get around between those and the teleportation area. It doesn’t seem like dangerous information. But, at the same time, it’s not so fascinating that I’m going to have regrets if I can’t tell other people about the weird stockpile of canned peaches, the number of bathrooms, or the flood traps.”

“One of those is unlike the others.”

“The peaches,” said Alden. “I should have known they were the cure for chaos all along.”

Esh-erdi chuckled. “I haven’t already given you your tattoo because of your age and your history. You deserve to have a proper talk about contracts before you have another one drawn on yourself, and I decided I’d be the one to give you that talk. I’ve kept adding things to it as I learned about you. Now it’s too long, and you have your own questions to lengthen it more. You’re also in a different mood than when we first met. You change very quickly, Alden Thorn.”

“You met me at a really bad point. That point was never supposed to be my normal.”

“I’m glad.”

“And my favorite Artonan drug is the inward path at the House of Healing near Vethedya. That’s a change accelerator.”

“I’ve walked such paths before. I wouldn’t call them a drug.”

“My brain likes them so much that I have to be dragged out of my steeping grotto sometimes.”

“So if I’m rudely blunt during this talk and I hurt your feelings, I can take you to an inward path grotto and put you there for a while to reset you? That’s a technique I haven’t considered. And simple!”

Alden looked at his own boots. Though they were so recently purchased to go with his Triplanets outfits, they were already looking broken-in. He’d been coming and going even more than he’d expected on the day he’d bought them.

They’ve been in desert sand, forest leaves, and river mud. They’ve been pecked at by o’odees. Who could’ve seen that coming when Tuck and Yinuo asked how rough I planned to be on my new clothes?

And who knew what might be coming in the future?

“I’d rather you be blunt,” he said. “I’m not in a position to sacrifice knowledge for the sake of my feelings.”

“I’ll do my best to follow Zakithee-und’h’s example then.”

“Nobody needs to be that blunt!”

“You’re too young to make contracts in private with your summoners,” Esh-erdi said. “You’ll be too young for several years to come. Do not agree to any.”

“Oh. That’s what you wanted to be blunt about.” Alden tried to sigh out the lingering shreds of his embarrassment about the deal with Ro-den. “I know it was a mistake to trust someone I’d just met like that. You don’t have to tell me. I was immature, and I won’t do anything like it again.”

“Let me talk to you about it anyway. I don’t know if you were immature, but even if you are the most mature human of your age ever to have lived, you’re still too young. The dangers come from your ignorance, and your ignorance isn’t a fault of your personality or your efforts. It’s a natural, unavoidable consequence of being young and unfamiliar with the places and people you’re encountering.

“Think of the most mature child you met today at rock class, or the most mature Artonan child around that age you’ve ever met. How difficult would it be to convince them that most humans wear socks on their hands and live at Earth’s poles? If you told them blue rocks were sacred to your people and collecting enough would allow you to buy rare food for your sick uncle’s final meal, wouldn’t they rush to help you gather them? That you could lie to them so easily doesn’t mean that they’re stupid or unusually immature for their age. They’re simply nice people who haven’t lived enough years to encounter better information. It takes time for a young Artonan to learn the combination of facts that would prove you a liar. Likewise, no matter how intelligent you are, it will take you time to understand all the ways a wizard might want to lie to you or gain advantage through an association with you. You have to worry about that more than most Avowed do. Because of your commendation.”

“You mean people might think I’m a way to meet Hn’tyon Alis-art’h? Or get favors from her somehow?”

“Not clever people. But you may meet unclever ones. When you do, be prepared to refuse their offers, no matter how innocent or even necessary they sound.”

I like this advice. Just refuse all tattoo-happy wizards on principle for the next decade or two. Delete risk. “I’ll do that,” said Alden. “But is this a tricky way of telling me to turn down the tattoo for Matadero? Because—”

“Matadero’s completely different because I’m a good wizard who has your best interests held safely in my pockets.”

Alden nodded.

Esh-erdi threw one of the smaller gourd lanterns at him. “Wrong! Don’t trust me when I say that! That’s exactly what a bad wizard might say!”

“But it’s you,” Alden protested, letting the lantern fall between them. “I know you’re not a bad wizard. You saved my life. You’re warning me. And there are so many other things…Grand Senator Servin-ith, Lute, Ploomp.”

“Were those three individuals listed with any particular ranking in mind?” Esh-erdi asked. “Tell me later. The real answer is that the tattoo for Matadero is only a contract for secrecy, not a contract I’m asking you to make with me in secret. It’s also not my own personal idea but an established policy you were familiar with before you met me. You can ask other wizards you trust, or certain Avowed, to listen to me go over the terms with you if that would make you more comfortable. I might insist on it just so that you have the practice. It’s a simple contract, but we could call a professional tattooist to oversee its completion if you like. If you need time to ask questions, you’ll have it. Even if you held much more serious information than you do, and it wasn’t safe to send you back to Anesidora without the protection of a tattoo, I would provide you with a safe place to think without being rushed.”

He paused, then added, “This is no generous offer. It’s how you should be treated by an honest person who wants you to agree to a magical contract. And that’s even more true when you’re in the weaker position. Wizards use contracts so frequently. You’ll meet many who are careless about them and some who hope you will be careless about them while they themselves are careful. Both types will be annoyed if you refuse or insist an agreement be evaluated by trustworthy others. So let them be annoyed and call upon trustworthy people at once.”

“I’ll do it,” Alden said firmly.

“Haoyu’s parents?” Esh-erdi suggested. “If you did want to talk to humans who have already been sworn to secrecy about the cube, they would be an option.”

“I’ll call them if I need to call someone. They’re a good suggestion. But the contract is just going to be, ‘Don’t tell people what you’ve seen at Matadero,’ isn’t it? Basically?”

“Basically that,” said Esh-erdi. “Unless you’d like to know more about why we kill demons there. Then you’d know as much as the Avowed who train there do.”

Eagerness made Alden drop his feet from the rest and lean toward Esh-erdi, ready to say, “Yes, please. What does Matadero do for Earth, and what other things are protecting my planet, and how?”

Only…if he tells me now, I’ll end up with a stricter tattoo about it. And if Stuart tells me or I figure it out myself I won’t have to have a contract unless I want one.

Right now he felt even less inclined to tell the universe why demons were killed at the cube than he did to share details about the place’s bathrooms. But he hadn’t imagined how much he’d want to tell someone about his skill when he was agreeing to everything Ro-den suggested either.

The more important knowledge is, the more likely it is that having a choice about it in the future is going to be something I care about.

“Let me think,” he said.

“Of course,” Esh-erdi said. “You’re already following my advice. I knew I had the makings of an instructor.”

Alden sat back and let his gaze rest on a lantern while he considered his own resources.

Stuart probably knew as much about Matadero as Esh-erdi planned to share. It seemed like the kind of thing he would have a decent general understanding of. And the proper discretion that had kept him from talking about certain subjects and Alden from asking about them had recently gone out the window.

I should give us both more credit than that. Proper discretion didn’t change; my life goals did. And now we both agree that I should know as much about chaos as he does. Can’t walk as brothers on the same path if I’m stumbling around in the dark, can we?

If Stuart didn’t know about Matadero’s purpose, he would be able to find out when he was a knight. And we’re hoping for me to be accepted as one, too.

He looked at Esh-erdi, surprised by a sudden impression that an insurmountable gap between them had narrowed until the knight was only a step away.

Even if Stuart doesn’t know everything, this feels like something we can figure out together just by trying. He knows chaos facts. I know cube facts. I’m learning more about magic every day.

If, once he found out the truth about Matadero, that information needed protecting, wasn’t it better to make the contract with Stuart, who would be more readily available to release him from it during future unforeseen circumstances than Esh-erdi would?

Esh-erdi’s going to be way out of reach a lot in the future. Doing battle. Beside the Primary.

That thought expanded the gap between them a bit for sure.

Brim and Droon’s uncle. Ploomp’s rider. The heart of the pitcherhouse on Wathe’s Ribbon when he visits.

Lind-otta said that they would remember their time in the light and know it was only one layer away when they go to places that are much darker. With what they’ve got looming ahead of them, days like today must feel so important for him to hold onto. To savor.

It’s not generous of him to give me time? Bullshit. Time may be something I deserve, but it didn’t have to come from him. He could call Drusi-otta to talk to me while he goes to visit with his sister.

I’m lucky to know someone like him, really.

“I’d rather have the Matadero hallways tattoo instead of the Matadero demon truths tattoo. Thank you for being willing to tell me. It’s a shame not to hear it from you because I know you’d explain it well. But I’d rather skip that part.”

“Not curious?” Esh-erdi blinked. “It’s fine if you’re not.”

“No, I’m very curious. I told you all those things I want to know about earlier, and ‘chaos on Earth’ was on the list. But the information I want doesn’t have to come right this moment from you.”

“From me? You’re not planning to squeeze the knowledge out of some other, younger wizard you know, are you?”

Alden’s boots seemed safer to look at than Esh-erdi’s face. “No. I won’t be squeezing or pressuring anyone. Don’t worry. Besides, there are other things you could tell me instead. Things I couldn’t learn from someone else, like your personal opinion about whether or not we can beat chaos. Can it be corrected before I’m ancient or dead? Is there any chance at all I could wake up one morning in a universe where none of us have to worry about that?”

