Brilliant as my teacher is, I’m surprised he overlooked such a simple solution to my poisoning problem. It presents an interesting issue which I’ve never considered before. Chi isn’t all powerful and it can’t fix everything. All Healing does is restore the body to its previous condition, but the ‘base’ condition changes over time, like an automatically updating save state of sorts. Lose an arm? No problem, an easy fix unless the stump heals over on its own. Though it may take weeks to get to this point, eventually, at some seemingly arbitrary point which changes for each person, even if you chop the stump off and try to regrow the limb, it’ll end up as a stump again and not even the greatest Healers could fix it. It’s the same thing with warts, skin tags, melanomas, and other irregularities though Martial Warriors appear to be immune to such ailments. At some point, those irregularities just become ‘normalized’ to your body, and no amount of Healing will get rid of them.

Now that I think about it, there are plenty of things Chi can’t fix which could be handled with the proper application of mundane tools. Maybe I should put together another book, an easy, do it yourself health care guide. Simple things like dealing with ingrown nails or proper treatment of wounds and abscess. I bet basic sanitation practices could save countless lives each year. The one percent don’t really have to worry about germs or bacteria, but the rest of the population does. It doesn’t have to be world shattering, just things like don’t chop raw meat and vegetables with the same cutting board, or wash your hands before you eat. My first book already has easy to make soap, so it’s just a matter of getting people to use it before every meal.

And maybe, just maybe, if I save enough people, I’ll stop having nightmares about the ones I killed.

I doubt it, but who knows.

Someone knocks on the wooden divider and I answer without thinking. “Come in.”

A second later, Fung barks with laughter while BoShui, Zian, and Jing Fei turn away, as if they’re surprised to find me naked in a tub of water. “You know,” Fung begins, “Most people would cover themselves up before inviting guests in.”

Unashamed, I shrug and reply, “I’m taking a bath. If you weren’t prepared to see me naked, then you should’ve waited till I was done.”

“We would, but Father says its time we retire and leave you to enjoy your new concubine.” Pointedly glancing at my crotch, Fung feigns sympathy and pats me on the shoulder. “It’s okay. You have a wonderful personality.”

“Excuse me, my eyes are up here. I know it’s impressive, but staring is impolite. I’ll forgive you this once because I know you’re jealous.”

“Indeed I am, but only of your luck. Not only does Zheng Luo bestow you with such an enviable title, but the woman herself is a city-destroying beauty possessed of steely resolve. You should have seen it, that beautiful goddess browbeating your guests into submission with but a few words to the Death Corps. Oh, the looks on their faces is a memory I’ll treasure for the rest of my days, not to mention your concubine’s noble and dignified bearing. Difficult to pull off in a dress like hers, but she did it without batting an eye.”

His stupid joke about my title aside, Fung’s assessment leaves me with mixed feelings, considering this is yet another new side to Luo-Luo. In the (admittedly short) time we’ve spent together, I’ve seen her pretend to be friendly, charismatic, meek, dutiful, pitiful, and seductive at different times, but I’ve yet to see anything genuine from her. She only shows what she thinks other people want to see, and this ‘noble bearing’ might be yet another act. She’s like an onion, with too many layers of deception surrounding who she really is. Maybe I should see if she wants to marry Fung. He seems to like her and I doubt she’d enjoy a simple life in the mountains. One week of washing her own clothes and drawing her own bath, and she’ll probably run to Shen Huo if I made the suggestion.

It’s feels strange to seriously consider gifting a human being to another person...

After Fung and BoShui say their farewells and set off, Zian and Jing Fei stick around, their backs turned while I splash around in the tub to fill the awkward silence. After what feels like an eternity, I finally ask, “So... did you have something you wanted to talk about?”

Jing Fei answers for the both of them. “No.”

“...Then why are you still here?”

Turning around to flash me a murderous glare, Jing Fei snarls in fury. “Because we’re waiting for you to ask.”

She’s super hot when she’s angry. She reminds me of a snake, so lithe and relaxed, yet ready to strike without warning. But a snake with large, perky breasts and luscious red lips...“Ask what?”

“If I was the one who poisoned you.” Crossing her arms, she puffs out her chest and tilts her nose to the sky, which does... interesting things to her boobs. “I didn’t, just so you know. If I wanted you dead, you wouldn’t be here exposing yourself to a fair maiden like some vulgar old man.”

“Ah. I see... Well... Thanks for clearing things up.”

“That’s it?” Grabbing the side of my tub, Jing Fei looms in what she thinks is a threatening manner, but offers me a wonderful view of her pale, perky breasts. “You don’t even want an Oath? You think so little of me, you didn’t even consider I might have poisoned you?”

Flipping over to hide my junk before it periscopes out to say hello, I shrug and answer, “Well truth be told, the thought crossed my mind once or twice, but I trust Zian.” Though not his mom or Jing Fei. Why are beautiful women so hard to trust? And why am I so turned on by it? “Besides, Zian just asked for my help this afternoon, so it’d be silly to have me killed. If I die, Baatar and Akanai would no longer have any reason to shelter him.”

Once again, it’s blank stares all around. Self-conscious of their disbelief, I duck underwater to give my hair a good scrub, thankful I did once I find some crusted blood on the back of my head. Jebus, how much blood did I lose? When I emerge from the water, I find Zian and Jing Fei have been replaced by Gerel and Yuzhen, neither one looking pleased with my antics. “You...” Yuzhen starts, her hands moving to pinch my cheeks but stopping mid-way. “You were right to hide your new status as an Imperial Consort, but did you have to keep it from us too?”

Does no one care for the sanctity of the bath tub anymore? Why are these dividers even here? Might as well throw them all away and charge admission. “I wasn’t hiding it, not exactly. Hand me the towel please?” Might as well get out, water’s getting cold and I’m too irked to keep meditating. The brisk night air has me shivering seconds after getting out of the tub, my scrawny frame completely lacking in fat to insulate me from the cold.

Wrapping the towel around my shoulders in an intimate and uncomfortable show of affection, Gerel asks, “Then why hide it from Yuzhen?”

“The truth?” With a sheepish shrug, I continue drying myself off and confess, “I don’t like how it sounds.” Getting sick of all the blank stares, I continue explaining and hope they’ll understand my logic. “‘Imperial Consort’ makes me sound like I’m someone’s kept man, a pet and plaything for a powerful woman. It’s emasculating, so I kept quiet about it.” Wait. “How’d you know I’m an Imperial Consort? Who let the cat out of the bag?”

Exchanging glances and sighs, their displeasure and disappointment is evident. Shaking her head, Yuzhen asks, “Rain... no one put your cats in bags. Moving on, do you understand what the title means? What benefits being an Imperial Consort provides?”

Ugh, it’s so frustrating when my idioms don’t translate well, it makes me sound like a gibbering buffoon. “Yea, I’m not an idiot. That’s the first thing I asked.” Shit... What was it Mila said again? “It means I’m of Imperial Peerage without being beholden to Imperial politics. Big deal. That plus two coppers buys me a grilled skewer from the market. Maybe not even, they probably raised the prices, right?”

“I can’t do this. Educate him, please.” Throwing her hands up, Yuzhen stalks away in a huff, leaving me naked and alone with Gerel.

Handing me my new pants, Gerel chuckles and shakes his head. “No matter, Rain,” he says with a hard smack on my back. “A warrior needs nothing but the sword in his hand and the courage to wield it. Leave politics to the politicians, yes? Besides, with your new status, there’s not a person in North, South, or Central who would dare act on past grievances, much less complain about your manners. You’ve ascended to lofty heights, a long way since we found you lost and scared in...Why is the turtle drinking your bathwater?”

Well that’s one mystery solved, but something tells me there’s more to this Imperial Consort business than I thought.

...

I think it’s time to face facts: I may actually be an idiot.

Chapter Meme
