All Avyna had to do was to set aside her pride. All she had to do was deny White Dove and her hateful curse. All she had to do was convince herself that the majority of her life had been meaningless. That a single human was more important than everything Avyna had ever sought to accomplish.

…And Ranthia truly was. Avyna had struggled with the choice before, but as she knelt there, bleeding and facing death, the decision she had once made felt outright obscene. How could she have ever doubted her heart’s truest desire? How had she allowed her old pain to cloud her judgment so severely? How could spitting on the pride of a few exploitative elves possibly be worth so much?!

Evi would have never made such a dubious decision.

“There are other wagons, not just mine! Are the drivers I hired safe?!” Avyna looked to the other elves as she declared her innocence.

After all, she wanted them to believe that she was a [Merchant] that had arranged for a phased caravan and ended up attacked. Of course she was concerned about the other wagons! She was financially responsible for their well-being, and she was a generally pleasant person to work for.

As she hoped, many elves seemed to seriously consider her words. She had remained silent for longer than she would have preferred, but she was wounded and somewhat traumatized by Spatial recklessness. With her answering Ranthia’s impassioned words, it was enough to seed doubt in the hearts of some of those present. After all, most elves had some degree of aversion to killing their own.

“Who cares?!”

Most elves.

“She can’t prove she wasn’t with the orcs. Besides, she was at the site of the recovered goods; she’s part of the bounty! And I’m not going to leave good gems on the table just because some hornless wannabe has a soft heart! Out of the way, fake Hunter!” The elf with the blade of conjured ruby shoved Ranthia forcibly out of his way, leveraging his superior strength, as he raised his sword.

And that was the problem. Even if she was innocent and her Skills worked as Ranthia had claimed, Avyna had no means to prove anything that would convince those that would rather see her dead. And he was hardly the only one, few elves in the group had much control over their expressions—more than a few were openly doubtful of the truth that Ranthia had tried so hard to create. Worse, a handful wore their hostility openly.

The elf with the highest level, at least among those present, stepped forward.

“Hold on, we—” A path to peace.

Offered too late.

Ranthia had recovered her balance in an instant and came around in a beautifully executed spin. With needless force, she drove her knife through the side of Avyna’s would-be assailant’s skull.

[*ting-a-ling* An ally in your party has finished off a [Exquisite Blade] (Gemstones, level 768), [Peerless Hunter] (Erosion, level 768), [Suave Self-Protector] (Mountain, level 505).]

The elf stumbled. In one moment, his eyes were alight with avarice. In the next, life and light had already left him. His heavy blade fell from his hand, followed thereafter by the softer impact of his corpse.

There were no other sounds in the vicinity, aside from the background noise of the woodlands they were surrounded by. For a precious moment, every single elf present seemed to be frozen in shock. Ranthia’s expression registered a worrying blend of regret and calm acceptance.

Desperately, in that infinitesimal space, Avyna sought some path forward. Anger, followed by violent retribution was the most likely outcome; and Avyna refused to let Ranthia die. Not for her sins. Yet she had no answers. Perhaps only the creator gods could stop what was to come.

“That loathsome fool! He always acted without thinking. A foolish act begets a foolish end.” The girl that had been eyeing Ranthia with unmasked pity spoke up, just before her peers could rile themselves into a frenzy.

By the prisms, it worked. Many of the elves shed their anger and nodded in agreement! The high-level elf looked displeased, though there were no longer enough elves masked with fury to matter. Any call for retribution was unlikely to succeed.

Avyna started to relax her shoulders, only to invite a spike of pain from her wound. She was far from safe, and the situation remained quite fraught. However, if calmer heads prevailed, there was a chance that she could talk her way out. She may have become a [Merchant] out of strategic necessity, but she found herself genuinely well-suited to the career. She was confident in her own prowess for negotiations, to say the least. So long as the Wardens or the Unchanging Council found no need to fully investigate her, she could keep both Caeli and her beloved safe. She had a chance at happiness. A chance to start over.

“Oh, I agree, he was incredibly foolish.” A young elf, carrying a sickle-and-chain—with blood still dripping from the sickle—projected his voice as he stepped forward. “Why would anyone give the slightest damn about the difference of a couple of paltry gems? My friends, the ignorance of those who proclaim themselves our betters—the elders that remain as inflexible as quartz—have given us an opportunity to make ourselves wealthy with a mere moment of work.”

The grandstanding fool spread his arms like a peacock fanning its tail. The momentary pause was offered only to allay his own ego—he spent it glancing about to make sure all eyes were on him. With that, he spoke quickly, counting on his audience to have the stats necessary to follow his words.

“We have a cargo that is of interest to the Unchanging Council itself. Who gives a damn if the pretty idiot was stealing it or unable to protect herself from a few filthy orcs? We just slit her throat, kill whatever the fuck that thing shielding her is, and bash in the skull of our hapless supervisor,” he turned to point his pinkies at a mounted elf that was approaching, “with an orc’s weapon and we all get to live it up! ‘Alas, so tragic, the orcs slew our valiant guide and set everything on fire before we could retrieve it!’”

Grimy gemstones! Before Avyna’s eyes, lines were drawn.

“As if I’m going to let you do that? Come on now, Ryondin. You know better than that, no matter what you call yourself.” The highest-level elf—inasmuch as level 1024 was somehow noteworthy—stepped toward the youth, cracking his knuckles.

Quite a few elves stepped back hesitantly.

“Aegiomus is far weaker than he pretends to be. Come at him from all sides, and his mana will last what, twenty seconds now?” A cape-wearing woman stepped next to the sickle-wielder, lazily pointing her curved sword at the elf.

“Something like that, but hey, twenty seconds is plenty of time to rip a couple of troublemakers into pieces.” The dubiously strong elf cracked his neck.

“So, what will it be, friends? Will you wallow in mediocrity under the thumbs of those that think themselves special? Or shall we kill a few assholes and split the bounty that they have so generously given us?!” The sickle-wielder sneered as he began to spin his weapon.

Uncertainty reigned. Greed and the comfort of what had been established warred in the hearts of elves. Unfortunately, those that became Hunters seldom chose their career out of a fondness for the normalcy of their environment.

“Get cracked, Aegiomus! I’m sick of acting like you’re somehow superior just because you cycle a class tier ahead of the rest of us! You don’t speak for us, and that monster isn’t here to stick up for you!”

A spike of conjured metal flew from a nondescript elf near the back. Aegiomus—the highest-level elf present—raised an arm as shimmering energy formed over it. The projectile deflected off his Skill and flew into a different crowd of elves. A wet, tearing sound was promptly followed by a cry of outraged pain.

The possibility of peace died as Skills, battle cries, and long-suppressed grudges roared into existence. Prisms, Avyna had specifically chosen to pursue a path that would avoid spilling the blood of the young, and yet…!

“<Gemheart, run. I’ll be right behind you, but you have to get clear of this. Just let me get Anthelleon.>” Ranthia whispered in nigh-flawless High Elvish as she stepped fully in front of Avyna.

It was valid advice. If Avyna stayed—or worse, fought—she would only draw more ire toward Ranthia. Yet she still hesitated. The situation was volatile, but if this Aegiomus could crush the main provocateurs quickly enough there was some hope…

Naturally, he was pinned down between six other elves. A quick peek around Ranthia revealed that his shimmering energy had covered his entire body—and lifted him into the air as though he was several times his actual size—as he defended himself against his assailants and tried to shout them down. As for the largest two problems…

Ranthia began to dance in place as she deflected a sickle. The girl-elf—presumably Anthelleon—projected a sheet of Brilliance to block his follow-up, but the woman provocateur launched herself forward. Wind and energy streamed from her feet and back as she vaulted over the projected barrier. A moment later, Ranthia danced to Avyna’s side as she tried to bleed the momentum she absorbed. Sparks flew through the air as elven steel forcibly met adamantium. Ranthia’s counter-attack forced her adversary to launch herself backwards, buying a precious moment while she came around to try again.

“<Go!>” Ranthia shouted her order, as she danced toward her opponent.

Avyna found her feet and activated her Spatial storage to retrieve her bow and arrows. …Only to find herself empty-handed. Whatever disruption the facetless fool had inflicted on her [Hidden Hideaway] had completely made a mess of her [Spatial Safe Box]! The items were there—they had to be—but she no longer knew where any item was, which prevented her from summoning specific implements.

She had nothing to contribute. Knife-work or hand-to-hand had never been her forte. She had experience with them, of course—she had competence. But mere competence was no match for [Warriors] and [Mages], especially when she had no meaningful defensive Skills to back them up.

“<Be careful, my love.>” Avyna whispered her plea out loud. And with that, she turned away from the conflict and began to run, hating herself with every step she took. She had acted to weaken the grip the Unchanging Council had on the world, yet children—elves approximately her daughter’s age—were the ones that would die for it.

She truly was a failure. Her hopes, both those she had carried for much of her life and the naïve dreams she tried to seize before everything shattered, were truly as poisonous as any venom. The truth had never changed, no matter how much time passed: Pallos would have been a better place had she died instead of Evi.

Avyna fled into the woods, haunted by the sounds of the ongoing conflict. Lacking a better destination, she ran toward the disassembled cart she had hidden away. There was no time to retrieve or assemble it, but it was the area she knew best.

Avyna had no classes intended for combat, but she was still an elf—and her class qualities were much higher than any idle child’s. Speed was the least of her stats, yet the woodlands still blurred around her as she rushed for a modicum of safety, embroiled in regret. She was confident that no pursuer could possibly catch up.

She remained confident up until the very moment a sickle once again tore its way into her same shoulder.

Intentionally, Avyna diverted her path to the nearest tree to keep the sickle from ripping its way back out of her shoulder. She was already hurt; her options narrowed considerably if she entirely lost the ability to use her arm. Instead, she bled as much momentum as she could, then embraced the tree to transfer what remained.

“Thought you could get away from an Elf Hunter? It’s always a shame to ruin a pretty face, but hey, I knew what the job entailed before I ever took it.” His tone and expression certainly disagreed with his words. The unpolished brute was aglow with untoward excitement.

“I… had hoped.” She struggled to keep her pain from coloring her words.

“Before you die, tell me the truth. What wonderful prize are we getting out of this and why did you steal it?” The child acted confident, though it was quite obvious that he was doing his best to buy as much time as he could. Whether he was awaiting his partner or just hoping to avoid the main melee was irrelevant.

After all, Avyna was confident that the woman she loved would save her. If the child wished to buy time, she intended to play along.

“Why would I answer? You shall find out soon enough if any of this was worthy of the choices you have already made. Even if I told you that the contents are worthless, it is not as if you could undo what has been written.” Avyna turned her nose up in disdain.

In retribution, the child flicked his chain. An instant later, the sickle tore free of her shoulder with far more force than the minor movement should have allowed. Stubborn or not, there was little that she could do to stifle the pained cry that slipped between her gritted teeth.

“And your guilt?” He mocked her suffering.

“I… stole nothing. I was attacked.” Avyna hissed her answer through her teeth.

The lie had to become the truth. The child had chosen to flirt with Black Crow, but Avyna denied him all the same.

“Bad luck then. Well, I suppose we’ll see if you change your tune while I cut supple meat off your bones.” The beaming child approached her. His expression and gait suggested an easy confidence, yet he never lowered his guard.

Again and again, Avyna tried to retrieve items that might be of assistance. She sought Skill gems that might protect her. She sought her bow. Nothing was where it should have been within her storage space. She could have manifested her entire storage in a mess, though she was more likely to arm her adversary than herself—and drain much of her mana in the process.

“Just to give you a little incentive to behave.” The child produced a bottle from his own Spatial storage and poured its contents over the sickle. “I’m told this blend of toxins is exquisitely agonizing—and it’s quite fatal too. The last time I used it, my quarry screamed for just a dozen seconds before she died. So maybe let me take my time.”

He produced a serrated knife to replace the bottle.

Avyna had her own knife hidden in her cinch, but it would do her no good. As much as she hated it, her best choice was to take his abuse. At least until he relaxed his guard.

Besides, she fully believed that Ranthia would save her before she suffered too much in his hands.

The child menaced her with his sickle as he got within reach of her.

She had faith.

He raised his knife with sadistic glee.

