Astiviya hated to admit it, but hers was a miserable existence. She remembered little of how she had acquired the domain of war, but it should have been more than this. Perhaps war itself was not glamorous, but it had once meant something to her. Now it was nothing more than one constricting expression of her being.

How strange a thought for the Goddess of War to have.

It was a truth that all that was divine had to reflect their domain in one way or another, and though some were able to choose which aspects of that domain to reflect, others were less fortunate. Astiviya was among the lesser, in that regard. She held great divine power, and the cost was that she had never been able to choose which aspects of her domain she reflected.

Wars waged internally. The strife that came from a grudge long held. She was war without and within, but of the aspect she reflected, it was mostly the wars held within.

Perhaps Purén had been right, and this was an opportunity. Before, she had not dared to hope, but now?

Well, it remained to be seen. Her domain still demanded that she throw everything she had at this human when the duel began. It demanded many things of her, really.

"I will not allow your tricks any longer," she said. Divine power began to shine from her—golden mana coiled along the edges of her body like smoke, and her eyes began to glow. "The duel is next. When the Gift declares us ready, you will perish. But consider yourself fortunate to have won a victory over the Goddess of War."

"Kay," Cale said. Astiviya did her best not to rise to the bait.

The second challenge may begin. The victor will be the first mage to break their opponent's barrier.

Astiviya cast [Shades of War], and a terrible mist of blood began to rise around her. Figures moved within that mist, slowly coalescing out of the ether—soldiers that had once fought in wars long past, now called to battle again. Each one was a great mage in their own right.

"Survive this, if you can," she said coldly, but her voice was distant, even to her own ears.
