Helios supported his forehead with hand, looking disappointed, "The escape was working well until Lehesion discovered what we were doing. He was furious, howling out his insanities. Instead of letting us evacuate, he drained the life force of the gialgathens and surrounding wildlife. They howled out in anguish as their life drained from their bodies."

Helios shivered, "I created an ice vortex to destroy the life nearby, including their kind. It was strengthening him. He stealing their lives. I decided to eliminate them before he could."

Helios stared at his hands, "I...I take no pleasure in genocide." He clasped his gauntleted hands into fists, "But sacrifices needed to be made." He turned to me, "Tell me, does my choice bother you, oh great Harbinger?"

There was a bitterness there I didn't expect. I crossed my arms,

"You did what you had to do. Besides, I've been there. My hometown was wiped out by a plague from Yawm. I ended up killing almost everyone that ever lived there, down to the last woman and child. I lost my friends to that plague. They almost killed me at the time."

I shook my head, "Sometimes, you aren't given good choices. You just do what you can."

Helios stared off into the distance, "For once, we agree."

We stood there in silence for a while, both of us thinking. As the doors opened in the elevator, Helios straightened up and walked out. We entered a more luxurious room with old wood, various paintings, and gold lining the walls. It was a more old fashioned kind of place, though it lacked nothing in modern niceties.

We turned to one of the rooms were Helios knocked on the door. We waited a second before a familiar voice answered.

"Come in."

Helios opened the door towards Caprika's voice. We found her and Althea standing over the model of a city. I turned to Helios,

"So that's why you let Kessiah treat you that way."

Helios stepped up them, "Silence. There's work to be done."

Althea walked up and gave me a jumping hug. I hugged her back,

"I love you too."

Helios glanced at Caprika's model city,

"It seems you lack the standard barriers between classes. Do you intend on implementing a less physical obstruction? I wouldn't suggest it. It's far easier to forget a mana barrier than an actual wall. You wouldn't want rabble wandering, would you?"

Caprika shook her head, "No, I don't intend on having them at all."

Helios leaned back, "Hm...if this is a joke, it isn't humorous in the slightest."

Caprika walked up to him, "You've seen what rabble can do. I'm not letting someone with talent get smothered. I'll use every resource I have."

Helios tilted his head, "Even if you believe your so-called meritocracy of classes will result in equality, you're simply replacing one oppression with another."

Caprika looked him in the eye while crossing her arms, "How so?"

"It's a simple deduction. Talent is dispensed unequally, creating an imbalance in how resources are distributed. This creates individuals with sufficient collateral that can be leveraged for better training and education. This is difficult to differentiate from talent."

Helios leaned over Caprika, "This is how the Empire began. Is that no different than the monarchy that's now been formed?"

Caprika held her ground, "It's good to give people the chance to make empires of their own, however. It's more motivating that way you'll find."

Helios stared her down a for moment before letting up the pressure. He gave her a slow nod,

"I'm impressed by your conviction. Do as you wish. I look forward to seeing the results."

Althea and I looked on, my hand over her hip. Caprika turned to us as she sized me up. I gestured a hand to her, "It looks like Kessiah fixed your legs."

Caprika nodded, "She certainly did, though she was generously compensated for that...You seem even more menacing than before. What changed about you?"

I gripped my hand into a fist, "I'm tougher than before."

Caprika scoffed, "I find that hard to believe. Now, I've been speaking with Althea about various details of my city. Her insight's been helpful, but she's no replacement for the guild leader. I was hoping to discuss a few trade deals with you."

I scratched the back of my head, "Hmmm, alright, I can do that. It can't take up too much time though since I need a few days to learn this mythical compendium."

Caprika let out a laugh before laying a hand on my forearm for a moment,

"You'll find them amicable, I'm certain."

I raised an eyebrow, "You seem more confident than before, like your old self."

Caprika raised her glance, looking haughty, "I've much to be confident of. I allied us with a rather potent ally, The Immortal."

Helios shoulders drooped as he let out a groan. I glanced between them, "What was that?"

Caprika nudged Helios, "He's the one that gave you that title from the Empire. That's what he told our father when reporting to you earlier. That's what I overheard while listening to him in his office earlier."

Helios sighed while holding his head up with his hand, "He is a giant block of iron with a brain of equivalent functioning. I chose a rather flattering interpretation in my report."

Caprika put a hand to her face, "Ho ho, of course you did. Thank you for that."

I turned to Althea, ignoring the siblings' antics. I pressed my forehead to hers, "It's great to see you."

She grinned up to me, "You're looking handsome today. How'd the...uh, evolution treat you?"

"It was painful. Not as painful as missing you though."

Helios raised a palm to me, "That's enough. Any more flaunting of your affection and I'll vomit."

Caprika pointed towards the city, "Perhaps we could talk business instead?"

I frowned, "Eh, ok."

Helios left us while we ended up spending the better part of the next hour discussing some economic transactions between my guild and her city. Though it was pretty tedious, we ironed out a few resources to exchange. I learned a bit from the talk too.

The way resources worked in the galaxy wasn't quite what I was expecting. Of course, dungeon cores, credits, and troops were valuable. I saw that coming. On the other hand, it shocked me how useful our old world tech was. It wasn't because it served a practical purpose, but quite a few wealthy collectors sought out the remnants of ancient societies.

Caprika let me know a few spots for premium exchanges using her contacts in the Empire. She gave details for a few material collectors that would pay top dollar for fragments of my armor as well. Combine that with our old world style paintings, and Earth was turning into an antique shop rather than a junk heap.

I wasn't sold on selling pieces of my skin, but it was nice to know that this would help Earth transition into a new power, though it would still take a while. That got me curious about how Earth was doing in general, including Hod and Amara. I was about to open up my status to send them a message before I remembered that Thisbey could read it.

I turned to Caprika as she gushed over the new design of her city,

"Wait a second before you continue, I was wondering if you knew anyone that understood system hacking?"

Caprika sputtered her words, "Ahem, wait a moment, you mean hacking into Schema?"

I waved my hand, "I already know someone like that. I'm talking about someone's status."

Caprika spread out her hands, "What? How do you know a system hacker? I don't even know one, and our resources are incomparable."

I shrugged, "I'm lucky. I don't know a status hacker though."

Caprika facepalmed, "It's like talking to a baby that can't crawl but has access to nuclear bombs. I've learned that the more I know about you, the more you have hidden."

I waved off her concerns, "I'm not really hiding anything. I just never mentioned it. I really need some status hackers though."

Caprika sobered up, "Would you mind disclosing why?"

"Thisbey could read my status. From our fight, it wasn't my character screen at least. That's why I was able to overwhelm his trap."

Caprika froze up for a second.

"What?"

"Thisbey could read my messages. Most likely, Tohtella could as well. That's why Althea was captured."

Caprika leaned back from me, her head tilted, "Wait. Before we speak further, I'll send in a techsmith for you. Your system might be recording us now. You should have mentioned this earlier before we elaborate on any sensitive information."

"Yeah, you're right. I've been juggling a lot here recently, and details are leaking through the cracks."

Caprika sighed, "I know you'll be fine if they lure you into some sort of deathtrap. Your followers are far less tenacious, however. Nothing is guaranteeing that they aren't attacking your base on Earth, for instance."

I shook my hand, "I'm doubtful. No one's sent me a message about it, and Hod and Amara are very powerful, Hod in particular."

Caprika raised her head, "What are his accolades?"

"He killed Yawm by tearing him apart. With help of course, but still."

Caprika nodded, "Then assaulting your keep isn't as easy as you'd presume. Hmm, would you need me to send guards perhaps? The Empire's resources are vast, so we could afford to spare a few."

I raised a hand, "Thanks for the offer, but I want Earth to be independent. We start our own fights, and we finish them." I frowned, "You do have me nervous, though. This system hack might be blocking messages from my allies. I should check up on them."

Caprika scoffed, "Whoever hacked into your status did so by very subtle and difficult to detect means. Otherwise, it would've been easy to pinpoint when and where they did it. That means it must be relatively limited. Otherwise, they know of hacking methods that even the Empire doesn't know of."

I sighed in relief, "Thank god. Here I was thinking they could stop me from leveling up at this point."

"That power only belongs to Schema."

Well, she wasn't quite right about that. Amara put me out of exile status, and that let me level up again. I wasn't about to mention that, so I turned to the door,

"If you say so. This was a good talk, and I'm glad your legs are up to snuff again. I have to go organize my guild though and come up with a plan to take out Lehesion."

Caprika scoffed, "If an Overseer couldn't kill Lehesion, what makes you think you can?"

I shrugged as I walked out of the door, "Who said anything about killing him?"

I rubbed my hands together, "I've got a few better ideas."
