In summary, the bow had Records of two absolute pinnacle gods, a bow with perfect system-granted Records, and finally, Jake also added his own energy and thus Records. What part of that would Jake even want to see altered?

Was it theoretically possible that introducing Jake Juice into the mix could create something better? Yes. Was it equally, if not more likely, that Jake would end up just ruining the entire thing or end up with something worse? Also yes.

Hence why the best approach was indeed to trust that the ancient god knew what he was doing.

Besides, he still had to save a bit of his Jake Juice for a special little someone who was still hiding down in the cellar of the palace, hidden under the biggest pile of loot he had assembled. The poor Warpsnatcher hadn’t been a fan of the King returning as the aura of a Unique Lifeform, especially that of the King’s, was quite scary to other monsters. When everyone else had also arrived, it hadn’t made things better, especially not Minaga with his god clone.

Luckily for the Warpsnatcher, the reunion party ended up being a relatively short one, as everyone soon left once more. Dina and the Sword Saint would remain on the Great Planet, though, so they did sound like visiting again soonish was an option. Sylphie was as flighty as ever, so maybe she would also stop by.

Seeing as Minaga took the job of teleporting everyone where they wanted to go, only the King would stay back at Jake’s residence, as he’d started meditating right there in the garden area.

With everyone else gone or too busy focusing on their own self-improvement, Jake headed down to the cellar to where the Warpsnatcher was hiding. So far, Jake had considered whether he wanted to help the little fella out and ultimately decided to do so, partly for personal reasons, as he wanted to see if he could have a more purposeful, positive effect on the evolution of another creature.

However, before he would even begin setting up the ritual, there were still two more important matters to discuss with the Warpsnatcher. One was if this was even what he wanted. Jake didn’t want to force his own experiment on an unwilling subject and wanted the Warpsnatcher to participate fully aware of the risks... or at least as aware as Jake was.

The second matter, which was only truly relevant should the Warpsnatcher agree, was of equal importance. Because if Jake were to actually go forward with the ritual, it would be nice to no longer have to refer to the Warpsnatcher as the Warpsnatcher, but instead give the Warpsnatcher a name.
