Alctua and Obolis turned to one another before peering back at me. Alctua raised a spiked brow, "The most educated on Valgus would be Iona. She led the Schema faction before being dismantled by that primitive beast."

I nodded before gesturing to everything, "Alright, I'll take that advice. Also, how is everything working out? Any kinks anywhere?"

Obolis raised his brows, "Your adjustments have run smoothly, outside of a few mental collapses."

I crossed my arms, "Mental collapses? Sounds pretty bad."

Obolis peered down in disgust, "A few members overgorged on the mana supplies and were, in turn, overwhelmed by the energies they ingested. Apparently, there's never enough warnings for certain people."

Shalahora murmured, "For many, it doesn't matter what form temptation manifests as. It always corrupts since those individuals are designed to crumble."

Obolis peered at Shalahora with a sideways glance, "Perhaps...But shouldn't you both be trying to find Iona?"

Shalahora whispered, "I know where she is already. There's no reason to search for whatever is already found."

Obolis frowned but remained silent. He and I shared a glance, one where the Emperor displayed intense skepticism towards Shalahora. I shrugged before following the shadow Sovereign towards Iona. After passing several floors, we reached the armory where Iona patched up several wounded rulers.

Despite the injuries, the atmosphere changed entirely. Several of the rulers laughed and joked around, each of them carrying joyful exhaustion. The kind of rugged joy came about from someone elevating themselves out of poor circumstances. Even if the situation was tricky in the present, the hope for the future made it easy to tread through.

That energy saturated the room as Shalahora and I reached Iona. She stitched a nasty wound across a gray-skinned warrior, her brow furrowed and eyes sharp. A magical needle and thread held the two edges of the gash together, and in seconds, the mana seeped through the alien's body. The congealed, blue blood evaporated into a glowing mist.

Finishing the aid, Iona's eyes darted toward us before letting out a sigh. She dragged a hand down her face, "What is it now?"

I raised a palm, "You already know. We need to figure out what Valgus's combat tactics are. It's like my golem said yesterday; I've been attacked."

Iona's brow raised before she sat up straight. She grabbed her chin before murmuring, "What do you know already?"

Shalahora tilted his head towards Iona, "And what difference does that make? Tell us what we wish to know."

The Sovereign's words set even me on edge, so Iona stammered out, "Er, well, w-we were attacked before we even knew what to do. Valgus assaulted us within a few days of our arrival, and that was well before we were able to do...Like, anything really."

Shalahora's eyes narrowed, "Then that would mean you observed an assault. Describe it."

She raised a hand, "It was...So several rulers with Valgus attacked us. A few members of our faction did too, so our defensive lines collapsed immediately. We had no idea who was friend or foe, and we were dismantled in the confusion."

Shalahora simmered, "Members of your own faction allied with him before your arrival?"

She nodded, and Shalahora turned to me, "Then he's been utilizing psionic methods since his arrival here. Either that or Valgus has planted spies within each faction pre-emptively. I doubt he is so calculating or careful."

I shook my head, "Well...Damn, that's pretty awful. Ok, so we'll keep that in mind moving forward. Did you happen to see any attacks?"

Iona blinked before shaking her head, "No...It was just pure chaos."

She clammed up, the memories drawing her into a protective shell. I tilted my head at Shalahora, "We got what we came for. Let's go."

With the quick trip handled, we warped back towards my base. Once inside the city, I turned to Shalahora and telepathized,

"So...Has anyone's mind been heavily altered?"

"Yes. 37 of the rulers carry a fragmented consciousness."

I blinked before tilting my head, "Huh...37?"

Shalahora nodded, "Those are the ones whose minds were unrecognizable from before. I didn't believe the psionic replacements would be so shoddily done."

I rubbed the sides of my face, "That's bad news. Very bad news. Any particular names you could mention?"

Shalahora sighed, "None that you would know. The majority of the converted rulers were quiet and withdrawn. This made them easy targets that wouldn't draw suspicion should their minds be emptied. There are far worse events unfolding, however."

I grimaced, "Like what?"

In the distance, a flow of Shalahora's shades arrived on the horizon. They darkened the sea of shining bones, their forms umbral and menacing. As they weaved in from overhead, they cast us in shadow. In the gloom, Shalahora murmured,

"The Kalat survived your destruction, and they are leading a charge with Valgus to your cities. They reek of bloodlust and frenzy."

My eyes set while my gaze lowered, "Then they head in for war?"

"It is unmistakable."

I grimaced, "Then we'll clash."

Shalahora waved a hand over me, several shades adorning portions of my armor. The Sovereign menaced, "They'll let us communicate and act as your scouts."

I pulled out several dozen blue cores, having them embedded into my armor. While pulling out their mana, I breathed out energized miasma. It floated down, a cloud of crimson red adorning me in a coat like living blood.

I menaced,

"Then we march to war."
