Lyn began inspecting one of the weapons as Vanna continued digging through crates. The spear shaft was made of hard oak and perfectly straight. Ascension’s symbol had been burned into the wood near where it met the spearhead, which bore its own copy of the insignia. The spearhead was Tallheart’s work, clearly, while the shaft was likely Shena’s, though the quality was better than Lyn had thought the fledgling Woodsmith capable of. I know she was getting better, but… Gods, this might actually be better than my own staff. Did she somehow find wood this good, or did she MAKE it? She shook her head. “Since when do we have spears like this? Mine broke ages ago, and you told me you didn’t have any more.”

“I was planning on teaching everyone army tactics, so I asked Vanna to have some new ones made,” Samson said.

“Army tactics?” Lyn asked. “You mean like the Empire uses?”

Samson shook his head. “No. That’s different. We might get there eventually, but we don’t have enough awakened yet. How much do you know about Rellagia?”

Lyn blinked. “The continent?”

Samson nodded. “Yes. When I was a child, I lost myself reading accounts of the wars between its various kingdoms. It’s fascinating, really. The monarchies don’t tolerate awakened in general, but especially not in war. It would lead to escalation, you see, and then devastation like what happened here before the DKE became the DKE. Instead, they’ve come up with formations that multiply the effectiveness of their unawakened soldiers. I believe something like a shield wall would work well for us, particularly as we get more recruits from Vestvall. The spears are a part of that.”

“Huh,” Lyn said, looking back at the spear in her hand.

“There,” Vanna said, dropping a quiver of arrows to the desk, which she’d continued to pile with supplies while Samson had been speaking. She dusted off her hands, then planted them on her hips and looked at Lyn. “Take all of this, then get some torches and whatever else you need from the other storeroom. And be careful. Nobody is allowed to get themselves killed, you hear me?”

Lyn looked down at the mountain of gear, then back up at Vanna. She smiled. “How am I supposed to carry all of this out of here?”

Vanna snorted. “You have a team, don’t you? Oh, I forgot to ask. Who’s in command? Please tell me it isn’t Mahria.”

Lyn shrugged. “We hadn’t really discussed it.”

“Then it’s you,” Vanna said. “If Mahria doesn’t like it, tough. Don’t let her push you around. She might have more experience as an adventurer, but she’s…”

“Mahria,” Lyn said, smiling. “What else is there to say?”

“She is getting better,” Samson said diplomatically.

Vanna snapped her fingers. “Oh, Lyn, since you’re here. I need you to write a posting about your staff class for the board. I’m going to start paying you per-student based on their progress, so make it convincing, yeah? Come and see me once you’re back, and we’ll talk details.”

Lyn blinked, then grinned. “I’ll do that.” I guess this quest won’t be the only way for me to get ahead, after all.

Mahria jiggled her foot impatiently, listening to the others prattle on about the types of monsters that they were likely to encounter. They weren’t wrong to show caution, but at some point, it simply became excessive. They were prepared—overprepared, even, now that Vanna had loaded them down with what seemed like half the weapons the company possessed.

Holding up her hand, Mahria inspected the three Frost Resistance rings that festooned her fingers, then she looked through them in the direction of their creator. Tallheart was playing with Ava. The little girl had gotten ahold of his hammer and was giggling and running in zigzags. Tallheart lumbered after her, seemingly unable to keep up with her rapid changes in direction. It was all an act, naturally. Even Ava was doubtless aware that Tallheart could have caught her with little trouble, had he wished to do so.

Just as Mahria was considering joining the two of them in their game, perhaps to play an evil witch intent on stealing the magical blacksmithing tool, a touch on her shoulder brought her attention back to her surroundings.

“Mahria, are you with us?” Fredek asked, waving a hand in front of her face.

“That depends,” she replied, pushing his hand away. “Are we finally ready to go?”

Fredek snorted, sitting back. “We are.”

Lyn—who’d somehow become the leader of their little party—got to her feet. She looked down at Mahria and sighed. “Please, just stick to the plan, will you?”

Mahria rolled her eyes, brushing a strand of hair out of her face. “The plan. Right.”

Lyn scowled at her, and Mahria paused, noticing that there appeared to be genuine anger behind the expression. It was hard to remember that they were all so new at this. She raised her hands and made a placating gesture. “Sorry.” She paused. “Really. I know my role, and I’ll do it. I’m just saying that no matter how good the plan is, something will always go wrong. You have to be ready for the unexpected.”

Lyn seemed to accept this, offering Mahria her hand. “Just take it seriously, okay?”

Mahria nodded, allowing her to pull her to her feet. “I will.”

She actually liked Lyn, despite how often they seemed to end up at odds. It was just hard to respect the woman’s judgment concerning adventuring when she’d only been at it for a month. Still, the young noblewoman was…driven.

After taking a moment to adjust her robe, Mahria swept on her Ascension cloak and scooped up her staff from where it was leaning against the table. Unlike Lyn’s, hers was intended for casting, not thumping bandits over the head—though it was perfectly capable in that regard. The white-painted wood concealed an enchanted core that helped guide her magic, improving her aim somewhat and allowing her to wear rings without the risk of interference.

She needed the thing more than she liked to admit. Without it, her accuracy was almost as bad as Kettel’s, though in her case, the underlying reason was more than just a lack of experience. The various boosts to her magic from both equipment and accolades made things a bit unstable, but such was the cost of power.

The heavily-laden party headed for the gates, dodging between the tables, many of which were filled with townsfolk who’d come out to visit the camp for one reason or another. It was almost eleventh bell now, and there were a surprising number of them. Some were seeking healing for bumps and bruises, others were coming to trade, and a few wished to hire adventurers for various inane tasks. As they walked, Mahria chuckled, overhearing one fellow trying to convince Carten to come clear rats out of his basement—Dire Rats, granted, but honestly. Who walks for an hour to hire an adventurer for a job they could do themselves with a stick?

Upon leaving the camp, they turned east and followed the wall until they reached the crack, then walked beside the mounded gravel, heading south. They soon left the area where the snow had been cleared, continuing until they reached the southernmost point. There was a small, narrow section here that hooked off to the west. Nearby, three wooden stakes had been driven into the ground, each anchoring a coiled rope. Mahria set down her staff and the shovel she’d been forced to carry, then carefully climbed the mound of gravel, stopping once she could see the bottom of the chasm. She smiled in response to what she saw waiting for them.

This should be fun.

“Anything dangerous?” Fredek asked.

“No, not before the bend,” Mahria said, kneeling and creeping slightly closer to get a better view. The gravel shifted beneath her, so she quickly stopped. She could see well enough. “Getting a foothold shouldn’t be that challenging. There’s a cartload of Slimes, a level six Deepcat, and a small pack of Sepulcher Ants.” She counted quickly. “Six of them that I can see, all level four.” Her eyes widened, and she pulled her head back quickly. The jagged spine that had been hurtling toward her face sailed over her head, arcing through the air to land soundlessly in the snow. Mahria laughed as the others reached for their weapons. “And a Quillbear. Level eight.”

“Hold on, let me see,” Ruce said, shrugging out of his pack and moving up beside her. He peeked over the edge, and his eyes flashed with magic twice, each time in a slightly different shade of blue. “The Quillbear is weak to Heat and to Mental,” he said. “Its quills are dangerous. Poison, I think. Its level is making it hard for me to get a clear reading.” He flinched back from the edge, and moments later, there was a clatter of another quill impacting the lip of the chasm.

“I could have told you that,” Mahria said, smiling. “They aren’t that bad, as long as you don’t try to use one for a pillow. Weak for their level, really. They can only shoot one quill at a time, and it’s easy to see when they’re going to do it. My advice? Don’t get hit. Happened to me once. That shit burns like getting stung by an entire hive of bees all in one spot.”

“What about the Deepcat?” Lyn asked. “Is it dangerous too?”

“Don’t worry about it,” Mahria said, waving her hand. “You find them everywhere underground. They’re stealth hunters. Fast, but not a problem if you know they’re coming.”

Lyn frowned, looking at Ruce. “Can you verify that, please?”

Mahria rolled her eyes. Come on. Give me a little credit.

Ruce poked his head out, his eyes flashing as he used his skills once more. He pulled back more quickly this time, Mahria noted. He nodded to her. “No particular weakness. No magical attacks. It’s like you said.”

“You see?” Mahria said, turning to Lyn. “Come on, this is going to be easy.”

“Don’t forget about the Sepulcher Ants,” Corrin said. “I hate those things. Nothing with that many legs should be allowed to get that big. Remember the pack of them we ran into a few weeks back?” He shuddered.

“Ah, they look meaner than they are,” Fredek said, setting down his pack. “They’re just overgrown bugs. Nothing to be afraid of.” He cracked his knuckles. “Mahria’s right. We can handle this.”

Mahria smiled at him. Finally, someone with a backbone. I was half expecting Ruce to do a threat assessment on the damn Slimes. Rain has infected everyone, I swear.

“Fine,” Lyn said after a moment. “The mission is still a go. Everyone who brought a shovel, get to work clearing away this gravel in case we need to come back up in a hurry.”

Mahria grunted her assent, returning to where she’d dropped her shovel and stomping on the blade to kick the handle up into her hands. She joined Corrin and Mereck, helping them push the gravel over the side. The Sepulcher Ants chittered up at them in outrage at the rain of stones, while the Deepcat and the Quillbear remained silent—as did the Slimes, obviously.

She glanced at Corrin as they worked. It’s a pity he doesn’t have the mana to just deal with this. Actually, wait… Does Earthmolding work on gravel, or would he need Stonemolding for that? It’s kind of a gray area. I suppose Rock Push would do it, but that’s in Geoevocation.

“That’s good enough,” Lyn said before Mahria had a chance to ask Corrin about it. “Don’t wear yourselves out.”

“Aye,” Mereck said, tossing aside his shovel. Mahria did the same, kicking at a few remaining pebbles and sending them tumbling over the edge before stepping away.

Lyn gestured. “Everyone, take off your packs and get ready. Fredek, Evonna, help me with the ropes.”

“How are we doing this?” Mahria asked as the others moved to obey. She peeked back over the edge, conscious of the Quillbear. It was staring in their direction, its spiked fur making it look more like an overgrown porcupine than the creature it was actually named after. She pulled her head back with a smirk before it took a shot at her. “It’s about twenty meters to the bottom. I could drop a Froststorm down there. It’s in range.”

“That’s one option,” Lyn said, pulling a small stone from a pouch. “The plan is to try this first, though. You’d know that if you’d been paying attention earlier.”

“What is it?” Mahria asked, ignoring the jab. It was a fair point, after all. She motioned for Lyn to give her the stone, but instead of handing it over, Lyn merely tilted it so she could see the rune etched into its surface.

Mahria frowned. Isn’t that one supposed to be…sound? A Messenger Stone? But why is there only one rune, and where in the hells did she get it?

“Romer calls it a cricket rock,” Lyn said. “He’s been working on the design for weeks. I know you’ve heard him running tests.”

Mahria blinked, realizing her error. Not a Messenger Stone. Just a rock with a basic rune etched into it. She smiled. “So, he’s been working on sound runes, huh? That’s what all that screeching was. I doubt it will work, though.” She pointed toward the edge. “They’ve already spotted us. A little bit of noise might trick those Slimes, but isn’t going to fool the Quillbear.”

“It doesn’t have to,” Telen said, a note of strain in his voice as he struggled to string his bow. Just from looking at the thing, it was clearly not something intended for an unawakened to use. It was almost the size of a longbow, and yet it had the back and then forward sweeping shape characteristic of a recurve.

Mahria frowned. I need to start paying more attention to what the crafters are doing, I think.

“I’ll deal with the Quillbear,” Telen said with a smirk, drawing a razor-tipped broadhead from the quiver on his left hip. He set the arrow to the bow and held it horizontally, taking a wide stance near the edge. “Ready.”

“Okay, I’m throwing it,” Lyn said. “Mahria, remember what we talked about. Stick to the plan. Don’t waste mana.”

Mahria forced herself to simply nod, though the patronizing tone Lyn had taken rankled a bit. Lyn looked surprised by the lack of protest, and Mahria had to turn away quickly to hide her smile. See? I can play along. When I want to.

Once everyone was set, Lyn counted down on her fingers, then whipped her arm forward, hurling the stone with considerable force. It arced high, then dipped below the lip of the chasm, bouncing off the far wall and ricocheting around the bend before plummeting out of sight.

Mahria tilted her head. Wait, how will it activate with just—

A shrill chirp echoed out of the chasm. It was devastatingly loud and, thankfully, equally brief.

Oh. Mahria smiled. I guess that works. Why worry about how to activate the rune properly? Just overcharge it so much that it goes off when it breaks.

