Moving up to the edge, she looked down and saw that all but one of the ants were headed away, chasing the sound. They rounded the bend as she watched, a slow procession of slimes oozing after them. Telen’s bowstring thrummed, and she shifted her gaze to watch his arrow find a new home in the Quillbear’s leg. The monster gave a deep grunt and shuffled back, leaving a smear of crimson on the stone, though its health bar barely budged.

“Go!” Lyn shouted, flinging herself over the edge. She caught one of the ropes with a gloved hand and let it slide through her grip to slow her fall, clutching her staff in the other. Evonna and Fredek followed her, imitating her technique, though they had to keep their weapons undrawn on account of their shields. About five meters from the ground, Lyn kicked free of the wall, dodging a spine that had been headed straight for her. It clattered off the stones harmlessly as she spun through the air, staff leading the way. The metal-capped tip slammed into the lone Sepulcher Ant that had remained, splattering the creature’s head like an overripe melon. She landed in a roll, coming back to her feet and whipping her staff around, though there was nothing in range for it to hit.

Mahria found herself grinning. Okay, that was actually kinda impressive.

Evonna and Fredek reached the ground, and the pair of them drew their weapons and moved to stand next to Lyn. Three of the Sepulcher Ants that had gone to investigate the noise suddenly thundered back around the bend, the commotion drawing them back just as surely as they’d been lured away.

“There,” Ruce said, laying a hand on Mahria’s shoulder and pointing urgently. “Something new.” His eyes flashed blue. “It’s dangerous.”

Mahria smiled, recognizing the monster that had followed the ants around the corner. “And weak to cold.”

It was a Flaming Hare. The rabbit-like creature wasn’t on fire at the moment, though Mahria knew from experience that it was capable of both setting itself alight and throwing what basically amounted to Firebolts with kicks of its hind feet. She raised her staff, pointing the tip toward the hopping monster.

Ice Bolt

A shard of jagged ice crystallized at the tip of her staff, then shot toward the monster, leaving a trail of frost in its wake. It was almost an impossible shot, given the distance, but she didn’t need to hit the thing directly. The projectile crashed into the stones nearby, then shattered, pelting the rabbit monster with the shrapnel. Mahria smiled as she saw its health drop by a quarter, even from the indirect hit. What are you doing here in the middle of winter, little bun? Don’t you know it’s cold outside? She stopped herself from launching another bolt. The rabbit monster was retreating, which was enough for now. She’d have been more than happy to just stay up here and pelt the monsters below with magic, but she knew she’d run out of mana long before the mission was complete.

While she’d been preoccupied with the Flaming Hare, Lyn, Fredek, and Evonna had killed all of the Sepulcher Ants, the low-level monsters unable to stand up to their weapons and skills. They were presently fending off the Deepcat, which seemed to be presenting them with more of a challenge. The agile monster kept pouncing at them and darting out of the way before they could strike back. The Quillbear, meanwhile, was still essentially unharmed. At level eight, it was going to take more than a few arrows to put it down. It launched a spine at Lyn as Mahria watched, but she swatted the projectile out of the air with a whirl of her staff. The fluidity of the motion suggested that a skill was guiding the weapon. The monster roared in frustration and launched yet another spine, this one at Fredek. He ducked, and it hit his metal skullcap and bounced away.

The Deepcat’s next lunge was met by a perfectly-timed Shield Bash from Evonna, knocking off a third of its health and sending it flying. It twisted in midair so its paws landed against the chasm wall, then launched itself diagonally back the other way. It kicked off the far wall, sending itself streaking straight toward Fredek, teeth bared. Caught flat-footed by the unexpected angle of attack, Fredek punched out with the hilt of his sword, landing a devastating jab right between the monster’s eyes. Its health bar dropped by another third, and it collapsed to the ground, dazed. Taking advantage of the opportunity, Evonna stepped forward and staved in its skull with a brutal chop from her mace.

“Humph,” Mahria said, walking toward one of the ropes. They’re actually doing okay.

“Wait,” Mereck said, catching her by the elbow. “Don’t go until they finish off the Quillbear. It will spike you on the way down.”

Mahria was about to open her mouth to argue that her robe was more than enough to stop such a weak attack, but she thought better of it. She’d said she’d fill her role, and she’d actually meant it. There’s no need to rush things. She tightened her grip on her staff, wondering whether it would be worth taking a shot at the Quillbear or if that would get her in trouble. She glanced at Ruce. “Are Quillbears resistant to Cold?”

Ruce shook his head. “All I know is that they aren’t weak to it.”

“Damn,” Mahria said. She raised her staff, spotting the Flaming Hare hopping back around the bend. It was on fire, now. She launched another Ice Bolt, then clicked her tongue as the creature sprung back out of the way with a puff of flame. “At least I have one thing to shoot at,” she muttered. She leaned over the edge, then shouted down to those below. “Hurry up and kill that Quillbear! It’s hard to hit anything from up here.”

“Working on it!” Fredek shouted back, advancing in line with the others.

Mahria sighed, then looked around, recalling her father’s instructions about not getting so focused that you ignored your surroundings. It was only thanks to this that she noticed the pack of Snow Sprites gliding toward them. Huh. Would you look at that? I guess they were drawn in by the commotion.

Stepping back from the edge, Mahria raised her staff, then hesitated. Snow Sprites were fodder monsters, level two, looking basically like large, jagged snowflakes. They were only dangerous if they got close to you, and the pack was still some distance away. The trouble with them was that they were incredibly resistant to cold, to the point that she’d need more than one shot to kill one. There were enough of them to make dealing with them herself an annoying waste of mana and effort.

Mahria smiled, poking Corrin in the back of his head with her staff.

“Ah!” he yelled, having been entirely focused on the battle below. Mahria pointed, and his eyes widened as he saw the approaching pack of monsters.

“Shit!” Mereck swore, also looking in that direction. He stumbled back from the edge and dove for his spear. Ruce, too, let out a panicked shout and went for a weapon. Telen glanced at the oncoming pack of Snow Sprites, but a roar from the Quillbear made him focus his attention back on the battle below. Mahria gestured to Corrin. “This is all you, bub. I don’t think I need to tell you they’re weak to blast damage, do I?”

The alarm faded from Corrin’s face, and he grinned as he reached into a pocket, removing a perfectly round stone slightly smaller than a hen’s egg. He cupped it in his hand, and orange light spread across its surface, making it look like it had been filled with magma and was about to crack apart from the heat. He quickly lobbed it underhand at the monsters, and the moment it struck the lead snowflake, it exploded with a flash of light and sound. The Snow Sprites, which had been rather tightly packed, didn’t stand a chance. Several of them were blown apart completely, and the survivors came out of it significantly worse for wear. The monsters’ crystalline bodies were spiderwebbed with cracks, and they were drifting drunkenly away from the site of the blast.

Corrin removed another stone from his pouch. Instead of using Rockbomb again, he slipped it into his sling, then whipped it up to speed and let fly with a crack of snapping leather. The rock sailed straight through one of the wounded monsters, shattering it like glass.

“Nice,” Mahria said, patting him on the shoulder. “I’ll leave you to it.”

She walked back to the edge and looked down to see the three fighters circling around the Quillbear. Its health was down to half, and as she watched, Fredek stepped in and punched the thing right in the short ribs where it lacked any quills for protection. He’d discarded his sword and shield for some reason, but he had equipped his spiked knuckles, making the blow unquestionably effective. Even from this distance, Mahria could spot dozens of puncture wounds covering the monster’s side.

The Quillbear roared and tried to whirl to face him, but it instead caught the metal-capped tip of Lyn’s staff in the side of its jaw. It stumbled, leaving itself wide open. Evonna’s Shield Bash knocked it to the ground, and Lyn capitalized on its fall, slamming her staff onto its skull with both hands. This didn’t kill it, but the following merciless pummeling from staff, fists, and mace surely did. Telen, meanwhile, was sniping at Slimes. The stupid creatures kept oozing around the bend, only to find his arrows waiting for them.

“Mahria, get down here!” Lyn shouted, waving her arm over her head, then pointing toward the procession of blobby monsters. “Seal it off!”

Waving back, Mahria tossed her staff over the edge—the fall wouldn’t hurt it—and then jumped after it. She caught the rope as she fell, letting it slide through her hands and feeling her skin heat with the friction of the coarse fibers. Screw gloves. Thank you, Force Resistance. Reaching the bottom, she picked up her staff, then walked calmly toward the gory scene of the battle, chanting softly under her breath.

“Ice Wall, Ice Wall, Icy, Icy, Ice Wall. This is my chant for Ice Wall. It summons a wall of ice, which is why it’s called Ice Wall. Chanting is stupid, and I can say whatever I want, so there.”

With the final word, she planted the butt of her staff on the ground, shaping the magic with her thoughts as the spell took hold. She felt a chill spread through the wood beneath her fingers, her staff vibrating with the force of the magic it was being asked to contain. She normally avoided casting Ice Wall through the implement for fear of damaging it, but she needed the precision this time. Using the spell in tight spaces was tricky.

With a blast of displaced air, ice shot up from the floor of the chasm, perfectly forming itself into a barrier extending from wall to wall and reaching perhaps half a meter above her head. It was mostly clear, allowing them to see through it to the other side, though jagged imperfections remained as evidence that she still hadn’t tamed the magic perfectly.

Mahria smiled, spinning her staff over her head showily as she turned on her heel. She fought back a laugh, seeing the panting melee fighters painted in blood and gore, none of it their own. This is why you should have decided to become mages. She grinned at them. “See? Nice and easy. Anyone need a five-minute break? Maybe a wet towel?”

“Ha ha,” Lyn said, pointing at the ropes. “Go help bring down the supplies.”

Mahria laughed, deciding to leave her teasing there. “On it,” she said, spinning away to do as instructed.

“Mahria,” Lyn said again.

Mahria stopped, then looked over her shoulder.

Lyn nodded to her. “Thanks.”

She raised an eyebrow. “For what?”

“For sticking to the plan,” Lyn said, running a hand through her bloody hair.

Mahria snorted. “I said I would, didn’t I?” She turned away once more, headed for the ropes, smiling to herself. “Let me get you that towel. It looks like you really need it.”
