can merely let you be called back when the time is right,” Pip held both hands up to show the two options. “In this business, the Contractee—,you—, would slowly have their natural soul replaced by Delta’s perfect Dungeon Mana copy over the years,” Pip began and smiled at Jack’s sudden wide-eyed expression.“Your previous soul would be ground up and fed back into the Core as a price. There is no doubt your soul is you. A boat rebuilt piece by piece is arguably the same boat in spirit and all, but there is that knowledge that your soul would be gone from the cycle until Delta is also dead,” Pip said and relaxed in his chair.“It doesn’t bother me nor Marvin. Sally can be a bit perfectionistic when it comes to counting her lot, though, and Ted didn’t help there. Liam would come back and see a Kobold causing a spot of bother and dive in trying to get in on the fun. Terry would sit back and pet Maurice, the cat reaper, and overall the whole thing would reopen the Death Tournament to settle the differences. Other minor death related gods and goddesses and non-gender specific deities would hop in and I wouldn’t have time to read my books!” Pip whined.Jack really didn’t see how he was causing the afterlife to become gambling addicts.“Listen, not every reaper is as well-adjusted as me,” Pip promised in his bathrobe and slippers, surrounded by literally miles of trashy romance novels. Jack was beginning to think dying wouldn’t be so peaceful at this rate.“Sometimes we mess up, and sometimes we fall asleep. That’s why you get idiots who won’t die when they really should have, countless times over. Sure, people call it destiny or plot armour but really, I promise you, their reaper is just literally worked to death and passed out,” Pip rubbed the pinch of his boney nose.“So… if I cut my ties, you get to read your novels?” Jack summed up. Pip shrugged.“I’m literally taking about 30 souls as we speak. To one woman, I am a giant smoky demon. To a priest, I am a talking shaft of light. Very annoying to read with no fingers… Point being is that you don’t bother me. It’s everyone else who’s crazy,” Pip explained. Again, in the distance, a shelf collapsed under the mounds of paper covers showing fainting women in men’s arms or some couple embracing.“You’re a mad, contracted, Kobold with lots of achievements and karma under your belt. Your soul, while ugly, is a hefty bonus to the afterlife,” Pip hummed. He leaned in.“I’m thinking you should give us the bird and go home. Avoid dying, because you will be fished out to talk to one of the others. Maybe Sally, once she’s done devouring her ex-husband. The fishfolk are going to be immortal for a whole week at this rate…” Pip grimaced.Jack eyed Pip.“You’re… kind of a weirdo,” he admitted. Pip smiled.“Banish such thoughts. I am just a powerful creature of death that sits around in his home, reading trashy novels and giving out unwanted advice. I am perfectly normal,” he huffed. Jack grinned.“If I do die, can I ask for you or is there some sort of paperwork I need to fill out? You’re kinda not an ass,” Jack nodded.Pip stood and stretched, bones popping much louder than they would in any human or Kobold.“No luck, m’afriad. I only managed to cause Sally and Ted to break up, Liam to get inspired with some new dish, and Marvin to be lost in another dimension by chance and luck so I could speak to you today. So, I believe this is until next time?” Pip smiled and Jack crossed his arms.“I didn’t say my choice!” he argued. Pip snorted.“Your orange patch grew by an inch. You need not say anything,” Pip promised and then Jack was falling.Falling…Falling.---Pip liked Jack. The mad thing had heart. An ugly hamburger heart but it was pure in its intent. He sat down and picked up his novel. He was sure he’d read this one about… well the number didn’t matter nor did the overused plot.Pip just liked the novel idea that there was no good romance without Death involved somewhere. Like a third invisible partner that hung over their mortal hearts.It was like reading about himself in love. Egotistical, and Pip loved it.His study was quiet and Pip knew it was a lie.“Come out, I know you’re back there. Eating my books,” he called good naturedly. This guest was a little less annoying than his fellow reapers. Mostly because the thing didn’t really have a motive beyond being curious.From the shadows. A shifting shadow of many limbs and heads moved at angles impossible to humans until the being trotted out of the darkness to stand near the fireplace.White wool, four black legs, and a mile long stare from two left eyes. The creature was an odd one. Old but new. Lost but on track… he was controlled chaos in a very fluffy form.“…” the god-like sheep did not exactly speak but its intent reached Pip nonetheless. The two had been friends for a long time.Mostly because Pip couldn’t keep the pest out his library nor from eating his first editions. But the creature was known to its followers as the Finder of Paths. An unusual God-centric religion that focused on the sheep before him.“Me, lie? Perish such accusations, my friend,” Pip smiled at the creature. He pretended to buff his nails.“I didn’t exactly say I was a reaper of humans. I merely said two legged at the best of times. You know it’s not becoming to brag of titles,” Pip huffed. The sheep chewed a rather smutty piece of a chapter from one of Pip’s books.“You are such a prude.” he sniffed. The godling before him merely passed its amusement on silently.It wasn’t really a sheep. Pip could see that, most higher beings could, but for mortals, it was safer to see the form of a sheep than what it actually was. To be honest, the human mind preferred the sheep. It was closer than anything else to its true form.Still, the sheep pressed and Pip was beginning to roll his eyes at the chiding he was getting.“Jack would have had issues with me. If I had said I was the reaper of heroes. He would argue and deny and no one wants to have that debate in the middle of a good book,” Pip nodded to himself.He was glared at.“Okay! Okay! Maybe I really did want to get back to my story. But come on! Rosealine Thighlina is about to bust into the evil fortress of Celimanty and rescue her true love Long Rod Robin-” he said in another whine but the sheep was already gone.“Come back! I haven’t gotten to the part where they become a threesome with a werebadger!” he cried out but the spiritual door of his realm was slammed shut as Pathfinder left in a hurry. Pip sat back down and grumbled to himself.He picked up his book and smiled to himself.“No one appreciates true art,” he sighed in contentment.After all, these books all gave Pip one thing besides the obvious lift in his ‘spirits’. A happy end where the hero wins, sleeps a lot, and Pip would never meet them.It was a sad hobby but Pip did the best he could. He turned the page and chuckled.“Oh, there’s her famous Thigh Crusher of eggs. Girl, you are deadly,” he commented as he read on. The book would be read quite a few more times that night.---Jack will respawn in 5 days automatically.----
