And within every act of wrongness laughed the Challenger. He wasn't just a physical incarnation of ruin and destruction; he was every cruelty, every action of war and those that followed, a face of the depths they fell to. He epitomized the horrors they became, the horrors enacted in the name of survival and triumph and dominance. It was he who dominated, for everyone who succumbed to their depravity, to their despair, to their base animal instincts, understandable or not, gave him power.

The worst among them were blessed by the Challenger. For he whispered to them in their darkest time, offering them an Orcish Skill—their only chance to survive the torments that he wrought. If only they would give themselves to him, and if only they would overcome the rage and brutality he imprinted upon their souls.

Within those visions, overwhelmed by those experiences, already driven to the brink during his fight with Longinus, Shiv came close to breaking psychologically. Even the briefest glance at the visage of the…

…was almost too much. But Shiv's mind wasn't purely human. It was built off of a thing that was meant to destroy and end worlds as well. Once the Challenger’s truth tore deep enough into Shiv's ego, it found something equally vicious, snarling back even as his sanity veered close to the brink.

“Get—get the fuck out of my head!” Where almost anyone else on Integrated Earth would have come asunder in heart and mind, Shiv shook his head and gritted his teeth until they cracked, snarling animal more than person, regressed to a near beast. But still the beast held on, and it dragged what was left of his humanity with it while his Harbinger echoed inside as well. The skill was vulnerable and fragile, but it refused to succumb, and it did what it could to hold him together and to keep itself alive. “Get—”

Shiv's words died into a horrified rasp in the back of his throat.

He saw then what was happening on the other side of Integration.

The Starhawk's arrow had not landed. The Challenger had not been pierced. Instead, a swirl of Dimensionality was open before him, and in his right hand dangled Adam, unmistakable from the nascent divinity he exuded.

Resting directly upon Adam's forehead was the Starhawk's arrow, halted just in time to spare the Paragon an unworthy demise.

A third snap passed through Shiv, a snap of anger that he'd been holding in for so long. With his psychology skill crumbled, there was nothing that could check Shiv's rage, and he went thoughtless. He didn't hear the girl who didn't exist screaming at him. He couldn't heed any of his battered and savage skills. He didn't even know himself, but he still felt. He felt strong. He knew what Adam was, what he represented, even if he couldn't manage the words, and so Shiv moved. He came behind the Challenger and leapt out from the Backstage, back into reality, driving his cutting aura into the orc god's flesh.

Cleaving into Longinus' mind and soul already felt like trying to slice through a mountain using blunt knives. The Challenger was nigh-infinite worlds of war incarnate, heat and fire, the falling of artillery, the desperation of families betraying nation and neighbor to save their young until they could not even do that.

Shiv's cutting aura didn't even leave a scratch on the Challenger. If he chipped the orc god at all, the wound he left was so slight he couldn't perceive it. But Shiv didn't care. He couldn't care. His emotions had slipped the leash of his mind, and he was tearing away, feral with violence. And he failed to notice how every act of violence he inflicted betrayed him. How his every blow fed more power into the Challenger, made his Domains flare brighter, gave his incandescence a greater glow. He didn't notice how his arms were cracking asunder until he was driving chipped and fissured nubs against the orc's unturned back. Still, Shiv continued stabbing and scratching. There was nothing, no thought, only an intent.

That intent was not enough.

Somewhere deep, deep inside him, he remembered the thing Jessica had told him: a true warrior would always slay an equal monster. And what hope did he have of beating the monsters of monsters if he was just a lesser monster?

“Ah, Deathless, you have rejoined us at last.” The Challenger's voice was jovial, and it sparked a hint of cognition back into Shiv. Pain consumed every part of his body, but that wasn't what captured his attention.

What captured his attention was the evidence of what had transpired in his haze of rage. Roland had horrendous gashes lining his body. His armor had been punched all the way through, and he was down on one knee. Jessica was unmoving on the ground, her armor dented, legs folded in the wrong direction. Rusty lay beside her, almost snapped in half. Valor was not too far away, dormant and in pieces, and Can Hu fared little better, with the upper half of its body torn free from the lower. None of them was moving.

The only one who hadn't sustained any harm was, strangely, Hades Hymn. The Headmaster hid within a cocoon of crimson eyes, refusing to join the battle, and instead opting to use the Outside as some kind of shield to spare himself.

But neither he nor the dreadful states of the other Legends and Heroes present registered much in Shiv, for his gaze instinctively fell on the greater reason for dread before him.

Two of the Starhawk's four arms had been torn free from his divine body, and he was clutching the wounds on his right limbs in open agony, incandescence bleeding freely into the air with notes that made reality seem to sing and scream.

A rush of confused disbelief and dread passed through Shiv. How had—

And suddenly he was seized. The Challenger's hand clasped him around his torso, held him tight, but gently. He didn't break any more of Shiv. The Deathless still struggled, still fractured himself trying to escape, but it was futile. He flinched back as a telepathic tendril licked his mind, injecting a flood of memories into him.

In the briefest of instants, in a span of time that was to a microsecond what a microsecond was to a second, in a moment that Shiv might have only been able to perceive if he held time still using his Legendary Chronomancy, the Challenger delivered his counter-attack, and he granted Shiv insight into how he struck from his perspective.

Pathbearers could be powerful.

Gods could be powerful.

Shiv had known power. The feeling and the actual concept. The ability to dominate and reshape even the rules of the world.

The Challenger was beyond powerful.

The Challenger was an axiom unto himself.

He was the darkness of war, personified and wielded by his own hand.

Shiv knew then that the Starhawk had made a mistake in firing his arrow at the Challenger. His action had merely been facilitating an aspect of the Challenger's power, for the act of justice and nobility rising to strike back against violence was still secondary to violence itself.

For might, though it did not make right, made law, and violence remained the first law before justice, before depravity, before all other things.

Violence was, and the Challenger was its face.

The Starhawk banished the eldritch with a fraction of his true might. The Starhawk was an Ascendant, and Shiv knew their wrath, but also their potential. The Starhawk allowed Roland to defy an overwhelming army, and Uva to survive for months, trapped in the Stranger’s Garden.

And the Starhawk was dismembered at a twitch of the Challenger’s finger—limbs coming free like the Ascendant of Justice was nothing more than a cheap figurine. Everyone else broke worse. Whoever directed violence upon the Challenger saw violence return to them a thousandfold. Valor's magics and stabs were turned on him, smote his soul, and cleaved his vulnerable being apart. Can Hu's missiles detonated inside of it, like they had never left, like his ammunition had always been compromised. Jessica's legs snapped as she tried to pierce through the Challenger, and Rusty broke beneath the strain, as if he were a blade of ordinary steel.

All this happened in an instant, faster than any of the Legends could react, any except Hades, who'd hesitated from the start, who knew what he was facing, who was gripped by fear. Shiv saw that. Even with the Harbinger so close to complete destruction, he saw the absolute, ice-cold terror that filled the Headmaster's empathetic core.

Shiv's battle madness parted from sheer disbelief. He had seen Valor intimidate the Stranger, had witnessed and himself taken the role of a Legend struggling against gods, and bleeding them. He had been able to survive a battle against an Ascendant, at least longer than a few seconds.

But the Challenger? He'd swept them all aside, like they were less than insects.

In the face of the God of Strife, the noble Starhawk was as helpless as Shiv.

And as Shiv returned to his own body, he found himself struggling not to tremble in fear.

He knew the Challenger was powerful, had always known, but he'd failed to conceptualize it.

Now he understood. No practitioner of violence could defy its very source. No more than light could rebel against a star.

But Shiv wasn’t light. And Shiv decidedly wasn’t smart right now. So rather than succumb to despair, he let out an animal growl and tried to headbutt the Challenger. He threw himself forward. The Challenger simply held him out further. Shiv struck nothing, and the orc god just chuckled. In the Challenger's other hand was Adam, his expression miserable, like he was trapped deep inside his subconsciousness, but still vaguely aware of what was happening.

Everyone else was disabled. Roland was still on one knee, trying to rise. The Starhawk, though still bleeding divine mana into the world, yet burned. Uva still resided within Adam, her tendrils drawn in tight, using his mind as a cover, waiting for an opportune time to strike the Challenger, or perhaps just trying not to draw his ire.

And that was the final thing that pulled Shiv back. Her. Adam. Everyone. And the Harbinger calling for him to calm and focus. Slowly, he regained control of himself, stopped kicking and straining against the inexorable incarnation of strife, and considered other options. “Challenger,” Shiv rasped through his suffering. “You wanna… wanna tell me what this shit is?”

The Challenger raised Shiv in front of his face and smiled genially. “Oh, I think you understand quite well why I'm doing this, Deathless. Don't worry, I have not killed anyone. I don't wish to kill anyone. After all, you've all done so much to empower my Domain. Why would Strife deprive itself of some of its finest practitioners, children with so much potential? No, no, no, I will see them restored. In fact, I will see them more than restored. I will reward them for this defiance, for that is the rightful way; that is my way, my way and not some other way. So. Worry not. I will see the Starhawk returned his lower arms and mended. I will see He Who Stills Eternity restored and saluted for striking at me, especially as this incomplete version of him. I will see the Giantsbane healed and granted a boon. Her and her blade. And I will have the Penitent clad in finest alloy—something beyond precious; unfound on a Lesser Dimension such as the one that holds Earth.”

“And you're gonna do that… because you're so generous?” Shiv scoffed, the haze of his rage fading as fast as it came. “Then what was the point of kicking all our asses? Was that the lesson? Don't touch what's yours?”

The Challenger didn't reply, at least not immediately. His head turned, and Shiv followed his dark gaze and found the orc god looking upon one of his finest sons. The Culturist lay dormant on the ground, aslumber in the middle of his Delve, and for the first time, Shiv felt genuine worry for the Legendary orc, where mostly he simply regarded the Culturist with hate for what he'd forced upon Adam.

“That could be the lesson,” the Challenger began. And his eyes snapped away from the Culturist as if he didn't matter at all. “But I thought of something better. I'm going to reward the Culturist as well. He strained long enough to see himself deprived of my taint, as he would call it. Well, foolish children must learn, but sometimes for them to learn, they must be set free to understand who they are without the guidance of their creator.”

Shiv snorted. “And you’d know something about that, huh?”

“Yes. But let’s speak of something more interesting: I have offered grace to this… little sapling of a god. How fascinating he is. How glorious. How wonderful. It has been some time since I have come upon a true and proper Godling.” The Challenger held Adam high as a father would an infant in pride. “Look upon him. Isn’t his Divinity pleasing?”

Roland’s roar of anger came as his answer. A chain of arrows struck the Challenger from behind. Each one bloomed, consuming him in a sphere of devastating mana. The orc god’s self-shaped Avatar didn’t even twitch. Instead, he grinned at Shiv as Roland continued unleashing arrows born of Animancy, Necromancy, Pyromancy, and all others, to no effect whatsoever.

“The love of a father. Also precious. You chose well, Starhawk! Quite the prize of a Pathbearer. And quite the lineage he has passed down.” The Challenger shifted Adam until the Paragon rested along the orc’s massive arm—like an actual infant. Then, amidst all the carnage, he whispered something to Adam: “Wake.”

The moment he spoke, imparting his divine will upon the Paragon, Uva struck. Her Psychomancy threads lashed out, and from her eldritch geometry speared forth a rush of fractured spiderlings.

