“Before I was, war waited for me, the ultimate trade, awaiting its truest personification.”

These are not my words; these are words looted, as per the right of the survivors to harvest the bones of those who came before. It has been looted by many a speaker, by many a paltry vassal seeking to borrow upon the power of war and the concepts of violence.

All of them were consumed by that highest and purest urge, to christen and crown themselves as the brutal, the cruel, the reigning power, the boot, the scepter, and the crown.

But what cowardice did my creators exude. They made me to be a weapon. They nourished me on blood and destruction and every aspect of war. They poured into my vessel of might and unrelenting wrath the memories of a trillion dead soldiers and carved my ego into a pure seed of desolation.

And then, as was Inevitable, I, the perfected form of everything they desired, fell upon my creators.

They'd told themselves stories about who they were, how strong they were of mind, soul, and body. They'd declared that my glories were theirs by vicarious virtue.

I corrected their mistake. I corrected it year after year, resurrection after resurrection.

But I did not punish them. No, I owed them much, and thus did I wrench their souls out from the grasp of my rival named Death. I distilled their souls into the purest version of what they'd always likened themselves to be, and I molded them into the very first of my children, full of hunger and desire to exert their will upon this grand tapestry of Integration.

I speak to you now, Ranger, and for the sin of ripping one of my own orcs away from me, I will grant you this gift of exquisite misery: when you fall to the Orc Skill, the beast that is born of you shall feed on the flesh of your husband and children. And part of you will be there, deep inside the beast, and there you will remain, for all eternity.

Thus I acknowledge you as an enemy, Ranger. What a terrible honor! What glory dark and savage!

What despair in your eyes.

I am the only eternity you will ever know.

I am the truest legacy you will ever have.

I am.

And I will always be.

—The Challenger

361

Split [II]

As the orc god’s declaration left almost all Legends present cowed and frozen in indecision, there was one who stepped forth.

“Back, Challenger,” Valor called, his eyes flaring with power, cloak rippling. “Away from my disciples. They are not yours to ruin.”

“Are they not?” the Challenger’s voice rumbled with thunderous mirth. “One has already declared themselves an adversary of me, and another has promised a battle between us down the line. Isn’t that right, Deathless? And how you strive to see your promise made true, bleeding and breaking a god so soon! Poor, pitiful Longinus. What a sweet and beautiful victory you have claimed. What horrendous pain you inflicted. Commendable for a Legend; but awesome for the children you yet are.”

A pillar of crimson lightning cleaved the firmament and pierced through the already gaping wound lining the top of Courtney. The Court Leviathan shrieked and bucked—and was nearly driven into the ground as something struck it like a hammer greeting an anvil. The bolt struck the insides of the captain's quarters, and with it came a baleful light and darker presence.

Shiv felt the Challenger’s choking presence before he saw him, before the light dissipated and revealed the god’s mortal guise.

The rot and decay of corpses. The vapors of the battlefield, born of melted rubber and ruptured fuel cells—chemicals that could form a concoction that would envenom a set of lungs from within. All that and more wafted off from the Challenger's body in consuming waves, and the orc god himself loomed a full meter taller than even the greatest of his lesser children—but his true dimensions remained unclear. It just seemed that he was taller, bigger, like a shadow looming even up close. Yet he was closer. Shiv could feel him, could see his empathetic core and the movements of his colossal mind. The Psychomancy which portrayed his thoughts revealed an ocean beyond Shiv's fathoming, an ocean larger than galaxies, perhaps. There was so much happening within the Challenger's mind at all times. He was connected to so many things, a million million threads of mana, spread out in all directions.

For the briefest of glimpses, Shiv perceived the sheer vastness of the Challenger's realms.

It left the Deathless lost. It left the Deathless reeling.

Longinus had been in power enough, power greater than his by a magnitude even now, but the Challenger made Longinus look like a crippled animal unfit for Divinity. Worst of all, Shiv couldn't see any imbalance, not in the Challenger's mind nor his heart, and his body... his body didn't even need to be mentioned. He was the idealized form of humanoid power, robust, immense, wrapped in a suit of armor that was designed in ceremonial homage to war itself.

The vestments chosen by the Challenger were a thing designed between brigandine and a nobleman's long coat. Shiv suspected that it was in mockery of Adam and his lineage. The layered plates that made up the Challenger's warforged coat were comprised of scar tissue, rusted metal, bits harvested from corpses, screaming faces, organs that still pulsated—a nest of flesh wrapped over beating hearts. This was a wretched parody of nature, for war had its own moss in the form of pestilence: flies swarming across the land, rot and decay swallowing ruins and mass graves, dying embers that kindled what remained of cities, of people, of history.

The Challenger proclaimed himself the God of Strife and Violence, so it was fitting that his Avatar was shaped from all aspects of strife and war, but there was something else. He was burning. Parts of him were being scalded, like a radiant infection was slowly eating away at his skin, corroding the very armor that protected him, inflicting a sprawl of glowing blisters. But rather than writhe in pain, a look of rapt fascination and borderline appreciation became the Challenger's expression. His eyes, bright like a city cast aflame, then red like pools of blood exsanguinated from a billion bodies, and dark at the center as if a pit leading to a boundless abyss for which all who fell would be cast and fed, were locked upon Adam, feasted upon the Paragon’s comatose form with something akin to possessive lust.

A gale of absolute terror swept through Shiv. His instincts were afire, begging him to move, to stop the Challenger before he could approach Adam.

Broken or not, he forced himself to move. The act was pure agony. His body was not ready for this kind of exertion, but pain and suffering be damned, he wouldn't let it be what this cruel bastard of a god had in store for his friend. Not in this life, not in any life, not in any dimension, reality, or timeline. It was impossible. He refused.

"Shiv, stop. You are out of balance. I can't—" The Harbinger's desperate cries died as a rising scream. Things inside Shiv turned brittle and broke. His vitals spilled out of him in tumbles of red, and the Challenger turned briefly from Adam to smile at Shiv. The primordial orc's face lit up with glee as he saw Shiv approach him with a stumbling step.

The glee stayed even as Valor drove an Animancy-infused blade at the orc god's eye.

It was followed by another, empowered by sickly green mana that was meant to rot and wither. Both blades shattered without ever touching the orc's skin.

Shiv didn't see what happened after. Only that the after-effects came like a mana bomb had gone off inside the captain's quarters.

One moment, Valor was behind the orc god, trying to drive his knives into his skull. The next, the Challenger had made a full turn, and Valor had seemingly been blasted through a series of walls, shredding the tissues of Courtney along the way. The shock wave from the impact wounded Shiv further—tore an entire chunk of Vitae out of his left chest and upper shoulder. It didn't stop him from throwing himself at the Challenger.

But he wasn't the only one who acted. Hymn, Jessica, Roland, Uva, and Can Hu were all on the attack. They recovered faster than Shiv did, and assailed the Challenger from all sides.

Their blows folded around the orc's form. Instead of causing him any injury, it simply caused parts of his armor and sections of his scarred flesh to flare, as if a cemetery lit at night. It seemed like the Challenger was absorbing the incoming wound that was meant to be. Cuts that were supposed to line his face were swallowed by existing tissues and rents lining his armor. Blasts delivered by Can Hu's missile salvos were merged with the sprawling tides of fire that continued traveling along the channels of the Challenger's plates. Roland's arrows lit the world with a glorious kaleidoscope of color, and one never flew alone. Each became a swarm unto themselves, then an army, then a tide, but none ever got anywhere close to the Challenger. For the orc held up a hand, and the arrows obeyed.

Roland let out a shout, and Shiv heard something snap inside the Town Lord’s soul. Still, Roland Arrow did not stop pushing. He infused his flock of projectiles with more power, and they burned ever brighter. So did he. His very form came alight with the Starhawk's presence. Even within the Challenger's realm, there came an intrusion, an invading god, a shadowy visage of incandescence and glorious retribution. For where an Avatar could not stand against the divine alone, another, more equal adversary should take his place and deliver the truth of his Domain of Justice upon the beast which named himself War.

Jessica struck now, Rusty flicking along the Challenger’s eyes. Any other being would have been blinded. Any other orc would have seen their skull carved in two. No such injury met the Challenger's form.

Valor returned far faster than Shiv could have ever imagined. It had been a fraction of a second ago when the ancient Pathbearer was knocked aside. Now he had returned, with new blades and a series of magical rays that wrapped around the Challenger, binding him in a cage of Necromancy. There was a patch open at the front, a patch for Shiv to approach, and he did, slamming shoulder-first into the orc god's body and trying to drain him.

Before Shiv could make contact, the Challenger performed a simple gesture: he pointed down with his thumb, and it felt like an entire world had slammed into Shiv's back. A second snap filled the room. This time, it wasn't a soul or a skill that was cracking. It was Shiv himself. His back split in half. All sensation left his body as his fingers became like steel logs, unable to curl, unable to move. What felt like electric fire crawled through his body, compromised his self-control.

That lasted until Shiv dove Backstage. The Deathless tumbled out of reality and context. But the Challenger was far too aware, his Reflexes Skill too far beyond mortal reckoning to be caught by surprise. If he suffered any confusion from Shiv's absence, he didn't show it. Instead, his downward-pointed finger curled just as the Starhawk came alight like a supernova above his champion and unleashed the Divinity-infused arrow, trailing fiery plumage twice Roland's height in length, and so potent that Shiv felt its piercing presence even beyond the veil of Integration.

The Starhawk loosed his shot. A shockwave tore its way across the world, leaving a swell of divine mana and screaming frequencies in its wake. Peering at the world from Backstage made magic more visible, but left the material obscured. Shiv couldn't hear anything aside from the screaming of excited divine ripples.

But he could still see, and separate everyone from their colors, from the hues that marked their magic. Jessica was a source of Dimensionality, static bleeding from her blade, but in her armor, she herself was clean, barren, like pure clay amidst a panoply of colors. Roland was bright and wrathful, furious like a star about to explode. While Adam was of a softer sunrise, yet blue and pure like the promise of the horizon, a promise of virtue and brighter days. Looking upon Valor made Shiv shudder. The ancient Undying was in pieces. It was like looking upon a dismembered flame. Bits of Animancy were wrapped around a coating of Necromancy, and then all other aspects of his soul were scattered, with only a few skills protruding. It was the equivalent of looking upon a mutilated body, except Shiv beheld a shattered soul. He couldn't fully describe it; he couldn't even understand it. He lacked the knowledge, but it disgusted him still.

Yet the horror involved by Valor's scattered self could not compare to the nightmare manifest that was the Challenger.

The God of Strife was beyond mana.

Looking upon him was like looking into a new face imprinted upon reality. It was like looking at every atrocity committed during every war waged since the dawn of time, stretched on eternally, unto infinity, across all history. It was like looking upon worlds burned, billions upon billions of innocents impaled on pikes, kept alive by the foulest touch of Biomancy so that their anguish could be drawn on longer, so that their minds could be harvested into Psychomantic bombs that would be further used to brutalize their sibling worlds. It was the orphaning of babes, of orcs taking the children as janissaries and wielding them against their cousin peoples.

It was the depravity that followed when worlds once dedicated to harvest were rendered barren, countless trillions howling, eating their beloved pets and everything that still crawled between the cracks of their long-cold hearths. Parents fell upon children, children fell upon each other, and siblings made bargains unthinkable, even when they stayed together. They peeled bits of flesh and traded it, sacrificing limbs for days, then patches of skin for hours longer before they finally broke from hunger.

