“Yeah, and just like a woman, I have the right to change my mind whenever I want.” The guy said and stood up. “This is the best game I've ever played. I've made more money committing crimes than I ever could doing an honest job. I've only been caught once, and that was a mistake on someone else's part and I got off.” He turned and walked away. “I'm not giving all of this up just for someone else's stupid revenge plot.”

Everyone around Tristan stood up as well, and they all started to leave.

“That's far enough.” Tristan said and stood up. “If you don't go through with this, you'll all be added to my shit list.”

They all turned back to him and gave him their best evil-incarnate stares.

“Wow, Tristan.” Ren said, and they all looked at the magical barrier to see Ren standing there in mid-air in front of Tristan. “You just openly threatened 28 hardened criminals in front of the entire country.”

The criminals in question looked up at the displays above the arena and they were all on it.

“You really should learn to be more diplomatic about things like this.” Ren said. “With it all out in the open, they need to protect their reputations.”

“Shut up pipsqueak.” Tristan said.

“I'm just trying to help you.” Ren said. “It's one thing to believe that someone crossed you and then add them to your revenge list; but, you're not supposed to tell them to their faces.”

“I don't need your help!” Tristan spat.

“I am so sorry that you actually believe that.” Ren said and looked at the criminals. “Thanks for not killing yourselves by coming after me.”

“Yeah, we got the point of your little demonstration.” One of them said. “No one wants to piss you off now.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said. “Keep your noses clean while you're here, and I won't have to ban you from my lands.”

“Go ahead and ban us if you want.” Another guy said, smugly. “We've got ways around that.”

“You do?” Ren asked, intrigued. “What's your name?”

“John Smith.” The guy said, completely seriously, and everyone around him laughed.

“Really?” Ren used Identify Person on him and took out the All-Seeing Mirror just for show. “Well, according to this, your player name is Janus McNasty and your level is 78. You are a Rogue with a crossbow specialty, and you have no titles.” He said and looked at the very surprised mercenary. “I assume you're wanted in a few towns?”

Janus turned his head to look at the other criminals, and they studiously avoided his gaze.

Ren took out a piece of parchment and cast Full Illusion on it, and held it up. “This looks like a Wanted poster to me.”

All the criminals immediately looked at him and saw the poster, and the reward if Janus was returned to the port city of Braddock for trial.

“You're lucky I'm too busy to take you in.” Ren said. “I'm about to officially open the water and amusement parks I advertised on the flyers.”

Janus nodded and stepped back.

“Oh, it looks like someone I know isn't too busy right now.” Ren said and pointed.

“Janus McNasty, my hometown requires your presence.” Selene, the Mistress of Dance said as her party of Adventurers spread out to surround the poor guy. He knew he was caught and didn't have a chance to escape, so he held his hands up in surrender. She held her swords at the ready as the huge brute of a fighter stepped forward and tied the guy up and tossed him over his shoulder.
