Was this overly cautious? Perhaps, but the system message still struck Miranda as weird. It told them to consider the circumstances of the city and then take action, and wasn’t it entirely possible that those circumstances were that it was filled with B-grades far more powerful than their party?

In the end, her caution proved unnecessary, as William returned with a surprising discovery.

“I didn’t detect a single presence above D-grade,” he said, frowning a little. “However, there are formations in the city that I doubt even C-grades could have made. I would say it’s a safe assumption that there are B-grades involved with the city; there just aren’t any of them there right now.”

“Yet no C-grades?” Miranda asked, perplexed. “Anything else of note?”

“It’s a shithole,” William said very curtly. “Lots of negative karma floating about. Whoever is in charge isn’t very popular, and the citizens aren’t happy.”

“I see,” Miranda muttered, having quickly gotten an idea of what kind of place this was. “A city in disarray, ruled either by someone incompetent or malicious, with us having the option of stepping in and taking action to propel change.”

“How will the system judge whether whatever approach we decide on is the right one, though?” Lillian asked. “What would someone worthy of being an Administrator do?”

Miranda considered it for a while before looking towards the city again. “I guess we’ll find out. For now, let’s head there and decide after a careful investigation.”

A couple of days later, after having covertly investigated the Unnamed City and gotten familiar with the frankly dystopian metropolis, Miranda reached a conclusion. The city, which was reminiscent of a world undergoing the industrial revolution without any workers’ rights, truly was a horrid place, with the citizens discontent and the leader incompetent, which was probably why Miranda’s answer to the objective was surprising:

She decided to leave the city and spend the remaining weeks of this Administrator Test stage far away from everything, getting more familiar with her skills as a B-grade, joined by the other four who did the same.

From beginning to end, they never truly interacted with the city, but instead ignored its existence, as Miranda had concluded that dealing with it was an utter waste of time. Her chosen action had been inaction, as in the end... wasn’t doing anything besides focusing on personal progress an utter waste of time given where they were?
