Stuart motioned for him to stand closer, then began tapping on the front of a piece of dark metal furniture the size of a truck. He still had a warmth in his voice that Alden couldn’t understand. “Without so much obscuring you, I mean. If you were not afraid, guilty, and hiding, what would you have said to me about the patient creatures? When we stood beside each other during Leeter-zis’s ritual, what were you thinking? What questions did you have about Maker of Narrow Ways that you didn’t ask for fear of revealing how well you understood magic?”

The furniture was in motion, the front unfolding into a hundred pieces and expanding outward, the sides lifting up like wings. The process was loud enough for Stuart to increase his volume.

“If I had known you were a wizard when I was showing you the spell that created a way for the keda bean, we would have had such a different day! You could have stood beside me, and I could have taught you how to help me build up to the casting. Maybe you could have stayed with me through all of it if we were very careful about not straining your authority. So you could feel the spell with me!”

There was a roof forming over their heads, and walls were unfolding around them. They had to step up onto a panel that had slid across the floor. They were being eaten by a piece of furniture. That ought to have been the most surprising thing going on.

But here Stuart was, being like this all of a sudden.

“I’d have loved that,” said Alden. “I’d have loved to cast that spell with you.”

“It would take half the daylight I think. And you don’t have the background to understand it completely yet, but—”

“I’d have enjoyed it even if it took a whole day. I wanted to watch closer while you were doing it. I wanted to really watch.”

“You did?”

“And I wanted to know how to cast that spell you use to bury beetles for Other Alden. I wanted you to show me how to heat the rock that we used to cook food. I wanted to tell you how worried I was that Yenu-pezth would take one look at my mind and know, and to ask your opinion about what kind of patient creature I could be, and to tell you so many times that you weren’t talking to someone who couldn’t hear you. You weren’t ever explaining what you wanted and what you’d be sacrificing to someone who didn’t really understand.”

The walls were almost complete around them. Only a sliver of light was left. The way this thing moved reminded Alden of origami.

“When we made paper flyers together, I wanted to tell you that I visualize my skill like that when I’m figuring new things out,” he said. “As folded paper that can move in all these different ways. I started doing it to break the habit of thinking of it as a more limited set of on-and-off switches. I wanted you to know that about me. But I never said it.”

“I’m glad you’ll say more from now on,” Stuart said into the darkness.

A couple of seconds later, the walls began to glow white. The two of them were surrounded by rings, necklaces, and bracelets that ranged from stunning, ornate pieces carved to look like flowers to ugly lumps of bug-eaten wood.

“This is one of our larger jewelry boxes.” Stuart waved a hand at everything around them. “It has some wands in it, too. And belts. You saw a few of these things when I was serving as votary for Emban’s squad. Were you curious about them?”

What am I like?

“I wasn’t just curious,” said Alden, looking around. “I wanted you to show me how to use every single one.”

“I will then. Will you cast it with me? Even if it takes half a day?”

“The spell that sends the keda bean on a trip? Yes. I have no idea how to cast something with someone else, but we can fire the bean through things anytime you want.”

“That will be very nice.” Stuart started scanning the walls. “Help me look for ten-ring sets. There should be one in here. You need it.”

“I do? Ten seems like a lot.”

Stuart looked over his shoulder.

“I’m not saying that out of guilt, and I’m not disrespecting my position. Or being foolish about my education. I just meant it sounds like a lot. I can’t really picture myself wearing a ring on every single finger.”

“It’s a set that provides protection,” said Stuart. “For your hands and lower arms.”

“Armor?”

“Don’t you need it? You’re primarily a hand caster. Of course there will be healers for you if you’re injured, but serious injuries or healing errors could make you lose the ability to cast most of your spells for days or weeks. Imagine how you would feel if you lost a finger in the final weeks before your binding.”

The final weeks before binding. The best time for casting since he’d have so much free authority.

What if the finger couldn’t ever be regrown?

“Ten rings sounds like exactly the right number,” said Alden, squatting down to check the lowest shelves. “Unless they come in twenty ring sets. Do they protect from crushing as well as severing? What about burns? Acid? Keep loading them on me. Stack them up until they form a gauntlet.”

“Ten should be enough.”

“I’m going to be a proper wizard. I’ve seen how many some of you wear. Don’t limit my ring count.”

He only paused his search for a moment as a worry flitted past. Something about calling himself a proper wizard, or something about openly wearing hand-protecting magic rings, must have called it back from where it had been hiding. “What if you’re the only one who thinks I should have…all of this?”

The ingredients, the rings, the knowledge. His auriad.

“I won’t be.” Stuart was still rummaging.

“Kibby also thinks I should have these things, so that’s true.”

“It won’t only be me and her.”

Alden wasn’t sure Stuart was right, but he left the question behind by reminding himself that he’d already accepted the consequences of it having a bad answer.

“Will you make me a list of spells to learn?” he asked instead. “For what’s ahead? If there are emergency spells I need to know or tiny gaps in your own knowledge I could make up for…something like that.”

“We’ll make a list like that together,” Stuart said. “We have much to do.”

******
