Taken aback by his abrupt apology, Luo-Luo stared at her Lord Husband who defied all expectations. Did he truly care nothing for reputation or prestige? And how was she supposed to respond to his apology? It’s not as if he got drunk and made a scene, he almost died. Her anger subsiding, she bowed her head in shame and whispered, “Luo-Luo begs forgiveness for her earlier outburst and asks Lord Husband to pass judgment so that she may atone.”

“For what? Speaking your mind? Psh.” Dismissing her apology with a wave of his hand, he grinned and added, “I think that was the first genuine exchange you’ve had with anyone since you arrived. It’s good, much better than sifting through all your subterfuge and deceptions. Acting all friendly and cheerful one moment, then girlish and shy the next. You change personalities more often than I change pants, and that’s saying something.”

Blushing at having been exposed, she held her tongue for she had nothing to say in her defence, but thankfully, her Lord Husband magnanimously let the subject drop. His exhaustion showing through, he soon nodded off to sleep, head resting against the cushioned walls with eyes closed and breath steady. Such a strange, unpredictable man, unlike anything she’d been taught to expect. Most men of the Empire would kill for the title of Imperial Consort, yet her Lord Husband found it more burden than boon. Brilliant, yet humble, arrogant, yet charitable, Falling Rain fought not for honour and glory, but for duty and love, to protect his family and people from the Father’s evil minions.

Perhaps that’s why the Guardian Turtle loved him so, always looming over him like a protective hen watching over her chicks.

When they arrived at their destination, Luo-Luo gently touched her Lord Husband’s arm to wake him. Coming to with a start, his body tensed as he surveyed his surroundings, ready to fight and kill should the situation demand it. It shouldn’t come as a surprise for the number one talent in the Empire to possess such instincts, but for Luo-Luo, it was like seeing a different person come to life, a ferocious, untamed warrior completely at odds with the quiet young man she’d first taken him for.

After rubbing the sleep out of his eyes, the untamed warrior faded into memory as her Lord Husband slapped his cheeks and grinned. “Okay then. Time to meet the Legate.” Stepping out of the palanquin, he held the silk curtain aside for her and asked, “Are you two close?”

Linking arms with him, she followed him up the stairs alongside Mother-in-Law Akanai, Marshal Yuzhen, and a handful of scruffy soldiers from Lord Husband’s retinue. “Legate is merely a title, so Luo-Luo is uncertain if she knows Lord Husband’s Patron, for she was unworthy to meet with such an esteemed nobleman."

“Oh. Well, his name is Shen Zhenwu. Ring any bells?”

Uncertain what bells had to do with it, she shook her head. “This name is unfamiliar, for it too, is a title bestowed upon him by Imperial Edict. ‘Shen’, written ‘Divine’, denotes he holds the Emperor’s authority, which stems from the Mandate of Heaven. ‘Zhen’, written ‘True’, denotes he has demonstrated excellence in his chosen pursuit, which in this case is indicated by the last character of his title, ‘Wu’, written ‘Warrior’.”

“Oh? So he earned the name? And here I thought his parents just had unrealistic expectations for their newborn son.” Tilting his head, he turned and Sent, “You say ‘Zhen’ denotes excellence in a chosen field. Zhen Shi means ‘True Corpse’. Was his title bestowed upon him too?”

Luo-Luo heart skipped a beat as she almost missed a step, thankful he had the presence of mind not to ask it out loud. “Yes, but we should speak of this another time.” Unable to Send, she prayed he would let the matter drop, and thankfully, he did. Zhen Shi’s origins touched upon an unspoken secret and century-long shame of the Imperial Clan, not something they should discuss on their way to meet Lord Husband’s Imperial Patron. Keeping her voice low, she coached him on etiquette and topics to avoid, worried he might upset his Patron and lose favour.

When they finally reached the antechamber, Luo-Luo’s legs burned with exertion, but she stood tall so not as to shame her husband. There was no Crier to greet them, only an old servant who gestured for them to follow, bringing them out of the throne room through a side door. Unable to follow, the Divine Turtle settled down for a nap and watched them leave, causing Lord Husband to mutter something about how ‘turtles want only one thing’. They didn’t go far, for the servant brought them to a small, private room where Lord Husband’s Imperial Patron sat waiting, a man who Luo-Luo was so shocked to see she almost forgot to curtsy.

Realizing she’d recognized him, ‘Shen Zhenwu’ smiled, unfurled his fan and displayed the Imperial Sigil for her to see, a casual gesture which the others overlooked. “Hear me,” he Sent, speaking as the Emperor’s chosen voice. “Imperial Servant Zheng Luo is not to reveal our true identity, under punishment of death.” Gently closing the fan, he added, “It’s no fun if everyone knows who I am.”

Unable to do anything else, Luo-Luo nodded and curtsied in compliance, wondering how her Lord Husband caught the attention of the most infamous man in the homelands. At least she now knew her Lord Husband was backed by a man of means. The youngest son of the previous Emperor, half-brother to the current Emperor, nephew to the Imperial Grand Marshal, and the publicly favoured contender for heir to the throne, there were few who could stand against this ‘Shen Zhenwu’, politically or otherwise.

Oh, how wonderful. Truly, with a man like this propping him up, Falling Rain was destined for greatness.

Chapter Meme
