Some people focused all their affections on a single Avowed, but DurnMary thought the best part about being kind of maybe a little bit famous herself in the superteen fandom world was following all of the new kids together. The friendships, the scandals.

They were the same age as the people she went to school with, but they were hotter, richer, and powerful, with the shadow of unknown futures hovering over them.

Any one of them could be a star in the making. Or they could die. Or disappear.

Sometimes, you could even see love blossoming for them.

The cool breeze on Konstantin’s face, she thought. It was always there when he needed it most. When he was walking back to his lonely room in Garden Hall after a hard day in the gym, one where he’d struggled to match the other S’s in combat and suffered another string of humiliating defeats, that breeze came to him.

Just when he was wondering if he should give up and return to the solace of ballet, as his jealous brother Alexei kept commanding him to do, he felt it again—so soft, so silky. The wind brushed over the hair on the back of his neck…almost like…a kiss.

Thank you, gentle breeze, Konstanin thought, sighing woefully. You’re the only one who cares about the most useless S-rank.

In the dark shadow of the MagiPhys building, Vandy watched over him with her hands coaxing the wind to caress him, her beautiful eyes full of a hopeless yearning.

DurnMary slapped the desk. “Yes! That’s going up tonight. It’s the next chapter in CNHearts. It’s practically a prophecy.”

Vandy and Konstatin were perfect for each other.

Everly could have that new fire adjuster at LiJean.

“So naturally I volunteered to help him out,” Winston’s voice said.

DurnMary shook herself free of the ideal romance she was planning for Kon-who-should-always-go-by-his-full-name-stantin. She looked back at the phone.

Duper Supers, chat’s going nuts. What did you do, Win-Win?

“Of course the whole class is contributing, but it’s an American holiday, so…I can take a leadership role if they decide they need me to. I’ll be making hotdogs. Like a cooking show with all of you watching. Make some suggestions. What should I top them with? What kinds of condiments do Artonans like? Hit me with your answers and grilling tips in the comments.”

“Holy Duper Supers,” DurnMary breathed as she read back over the chat history so fast her thumb was getting sore from the rapid scroll. “We have confirmation that RadishBunny is at the cube. My god. Oh my god! I thought that was just a stupid rumor. He could be the first B-rank there ever. He probably is. This is proof that…that something! He must be friends with a wizard or maybe—“

She couldn’t think straight.

Alden Thorn. The most mysterious teenager on Anesidora. Maybe on the whole planet. People who said he wasn’t that interesting compared to real heroes needed to stuff some non-limited edition Frosted Brutie-O’s in their mouth and chew so nobody else had to hear them speak.

He was silent on social media even if you tried to tell him your parents were into pigeons, too. He had such a tragedy of a life. He had been spotted flying around on a green thing that belonged to one of the powerful anti-demon military wizards. But all the curiosity about why he was doing that had dried up after the Maricel Alcantara bombshell. That girl had shot up the popularity rankings fast.

But now Alden was definitely at Matadero? For sure? And he was doing something there?

More. Info. Needed.

[Win-Win, Heelerman, Sir Winsalot,] DurnMary typed. Three heart emojis. One prayer hands. [You are my FAVORITE Avowed. But what is that Alden guy doing at Matadero? Is it safe? Is he breaking the law?]

Win-Win was adorably uncomfortable about discussing people in his class who might be more popular than him. Most of his fans didn’t notice, but DurnMary had a gift for detecting his little facial twitches. Or maybe she’d just realized that he was more likely to answer questions about his classmates if the person asking the question said something negative about them.

Winston Heelfeather looked at the camera. He put down the pack of hotdogs he’d been displaying. He was sitting in his dorm room, in front of the bulletin board with all his non-digital fan mail pinned to it. His roommates didn’t let him film in the rest of the apartment.

“We’ve got a question from FeathersFavoriteNYC that I feel like I have to answer. You guys know I always run, but never from the truth.”

He winked at the camera.

DurnMary winked back at him.

“I’m positive Alden isn’t doing anything illegal,” said Winston. “How could a Rabbit break into Matadero when even a deadly organization like SAL couldn’t? No, he’s just really, really close to the Artonans. He lived with them for months during that thing on the moon. Some people in our class are even saying the System rescued him from The Span before them—oh my gosh, by the way, you guys have to remember to visit the socials of all my classmates who suffered through that. Tell them how glad you are that they’re okay! It was really terrifying for them. But yeah. Alden got saved from The Span first. Even though his combat potential…well, he’s the best B-rank in our class!”

Winston laughed.

“So it’s natural for him to be close to the wizards and want to thank them for protecting him and cleaning up Anesidora. Some of us are even thinking that with that green octagon he’s flying around, he’s probably on his way toward a dream job for a Rabbit. There are rumors that he’s really hoping that General Esh-erdi will offer him a permanent position if he does a good job as an assistant and octagon driver.”

Winston smiled. “It’s only a rumor, but…good for Alden. A job like that would probably pay better than superhero work. If it ends up taking him away from the program so soon after we’ve met, I know we’ll all be sad, but  we’ll also be happy he found the career that makes his heart race like a speedster.

“So…when I heard he wanted to host a big Thanksgiving for the wizards and he was worried there wouldn’t be enough food, I was so glad to help him out with it. We’re going to make this a great party together!”

The next twenty minutes were some of the best television DurnMary Davis had ever seen. Winston kept dropping hints about how close Alden Thorn was to General Esh-erdi and it started to sound more and more like his position as the General’s personal Rabbit errand person was a done deal. Meanwhile, the Super Tomorrow group that talked about all the young Avowed was blowing up—almost as big as it had on the day Maricel’s involvement in trying to stop the SAL terrorists had gone public:

“Is RadishBunny leaving us? Nooo. It’s too soon! This group only just named him RadishBunny!”

“Is General Esh-erdi the reason RadishBunny got lost in the first place? Or did they become best friends on that Thegund asteroid?”

“STOP EVERYTHING. Guys, did RadishBunny help Maricel defeat the SAL people? Maybe she’s going to be at #MataderoThanksgiving!”

“Alden has no family. Remember that. Maybe he met General Esh-Esh on Moon Thegund and became like a son to him. I wish an Artonan would adopt me, too.”

Winston was so busy talking it took him forever to get his hotdogs downstairs to the grill outside Garden Hall. But DurnMary stuck with him every step of the way.

She watched as Jeffy—S-rank Aqua Brute, definitely going places—came over to say hello.

“You’re not doing the charcoal right, Winston.”

“I think I know how to grill,” Winston said, massaging one of the briquettes with the flame on the end of his lighter.

The Brute shook his head. “My Grandpa grills all the time. He doesn’t just light the coals while they’re spread out flat. You need to go get the chimney from the community kitchen.”

That sounds pretty logical, thought DurnMary.

Jeffy almost walked into one of the filming drones. He didn’t seem to realize he was part of a cooking show.

“Like I was saying!” Winston said loudly. “Today we’re making hotdogs because Alden asked for my help. And I’m always here for my friends.”

“These are for the Thanksgiving potluck at Matadero?” Jeffy said excitedly. “I made beef jerky.”

He looked at the camera. “I made beef jerky. Actually I just bought it, but I mixed it up so every wizard gets a bite of smoky maplepeño turkey jerky instead of only one flavor.”

So he does know he’s being watched.

“Alden realized that the wizards weren’t going to have a Thanksgiving, so he’s planning it for them,” said Jeffy. “It’s a special Anesidoran Thanksgiving with food from lots of countries. He’s a nice guy. He gave me his shirt when mine broke once.”

Winston grabbed the tongs before Jeffy could.

“I was just telling my fans how Alden is probably going to be making a lot of money working for General Esh-erdi. As his Rabbit assistant.”

He keeps saying assistant and Rabbit like he’s driving a point home, thought DurnMary. Careful, Win-Win. You’re being more heavy-handed than usual.

“That’s why he’s at Matadero,” Winston said.

“I thought he was there because he got hurt and the healer wanted him to stay,” said Jeffy.

DurnMary’s face was so close to her phone she was fogging the screen.

“That’s what he told us,” Jeffy said.

“These are American beef hotdogs,” Winston said. “Arfdogs! My favorite brand.”

“He came to school in a cast and everything,” said Jeffy. “It was a magic cast.”

“ARFDOGS,” said Winston. “I’d love to talk to the people who make them about a collab because they are delici—eep!”

A green blur dropped out of the sky so fast that Jupiter, who was collecting peppers from a nearby plant, dropped several. Winston, apparently under the impression that an aerial attack was taking place, ran away so fast he completely vanished from view.

“Hi, Alden!” Jeffy said brightly. “Are you here to pick up my jerky?”

******
