Dragon Rabbit’s delivery drone arrived right on time. It was a large green one with a crown of propellers overhead and fangs painted on its bulbous nose. Alden stood up to greet it and gave it plenty of room to drop the soft-sided cooler bag it was carrying. But it kept circling overhead, propellers buzzing, apparently bewildered by the nonagon.

“Right here, dude,” said Alden, pointing at the nonagon’s surface. “No, not like that. Don’t go under me.”

He spun the driving ring on his finger and flew a few feet higher. “Come here. Put the delivery on this. On top of this.”

The drone flew up again and hovered. Its lights flashed. “Please clear the deck of your ship for delivery.”

It had a voice that Alden thought was supposed to be sultry.

Of all the choices…

“The deck is clear. To get it any clearer, I’d have to jump off.”

He thought he was lucky not to have a brand new case of thalassophobia after what had happened. But he still didn’t feel like going for a cold swim.

“Please clear the deck. I want to deliver your parcel,” the drone said.

“If someone were here to entrust me with you, I’d…System, call Dragon Rabbit again.”

Another instant pickup. “Is something wrong with your vegetables?”

“They’re being held captive by a drone with a weird voice.”

“I can fix that.”

A minute later, the drone had been remote piloted into position. It lowered the cooler onto the nonagon across from Alden, along with a surprise t-shirt in a plastic bag. As it flew away, Alden examined his repeat customer reward.

The bunny-eared dragon lounging on its mound of luxury goods was cute as far as advertising went, but he couldn’t help wondering how much mental effort Stuart would expend trying to interpret the shirt if he ever saw Alden wearing it.

He opened the cooler and found the lima beans, with ice packs, plus the specific variety of onions his grandmother had recommended and a smoked spice blend that was supposed to be a good substitute for the bacon flavor.

He smiled. I get to eat something my mom probably ate, with almost all the right stuff in it.

He was still feeling pleased with how well his day was going by the time he made it back to the kitchen. Kabir was absent, but the radio station the chef liked was turned up again, and he’d dug out white tablecloths from somewhere.

Matadero really does have almost everything if you look hard enough.

Couldn’t expect people to fight and then eat at a naked table.

Alden found an appropriately sized pot, figured out the stove, and congratulated himself on starting the water boiling process without any mishaps.

He read the recipe again.

Measure everything in advance, he decided. No mistakes.

He was looking through drawers and in cabinets, trying to find the measuring spoons, when Kabir returned, carrying an impressive tower of coolers and boxes. One giant takeout bag started to slide as he came into the kitchen, and Alden jumped toward him to grab it.

“What’s all this?” he asked.

It wasn’t time for the TC to send over a delivery yet.

Once Alden set down the bag and grabbed a box full of aluminum pans covered in foil from the next level of the tower, Kabir’s face was revealed. He looked worried.

Slowly, he said, “We may have misjudged…some things.”

“What do you mean?”

“The TC called,” said Kabir. “They wanted to know if it was all right to send the food that had already arrived, since they were worried about the staff at the teleshipping area getting overwhelmed with packages.”

“Must be a busy day,” said Alden.

Kabir grimaced at him. “I think they were saying that we are the busy day.”

“Come on. We can’t be contributing that much to their load. Even if they’re having to run it all through extra security checks or…are these candles?”

He stared at the next box. The top was taped, but the label said it contained “Special Occasion Candles—Autumn Evening Picnic Set—Made by Wrightwax Studio.”

“You got decorations, too?” he asked.

“I didn’t,” said Kabir.

“Then these are…”

“I didn’t ask for most of the things downstairs. There are buckets full of pickles. Who needs that many pickles? We aren’t starting a deli. And people keep calling me to ask if I’ll be sure to put their restaurant’s name on the food.”

“But you called everyone and told them we were good,” Alden said. “Did they not pass that on? I haven’t gotten any messages from my friends, so I don’t think it’s still leaking on my end.”

Surely if teenagers could chill out and control their urge to gossip, then adults should be able to. He looked at the lima beans waiting to go into their pot and the onions sitting beside the cutting board.

“I’ll come help you clear the teleportation room.” He grabbed a couple of the tablecloths. “I can haul a lot of stuff at once if we put it in these. And maybe you can call all of these places and tell them to cease and desist?”

“It’s gone too far,” Kabir said. Instead of panicking, he now sounded gloomy. “There’s nothing we can do but accept our fates.”

“I think you’re being a little…never mind. We’ve got this. It’s going to be fun.” He clapped the chef on the shoulder. “Let’s go collect some Thanksgiving!”

******

We don’t got this, Alden thought a few minutes later, blinking in mute fascination at the room full of donations. We don’t got this. Too much Thanksgiving. Abort.

The Matadero teleportation chamber smelled like twenty kinds of takeout, and it looked like a post office had crashed into a food court. He waded through it all, trying to beat down the growing, nervous worry that he might have screwed up somehow.

“I mean it’s food.” His eyes landed on a stack of plates that looked like they might be hand-painted. “It’s mostly food. Food can always be eaten later…are those French fries?!  That bag says French Fry Truck! French fries are gross left over. Why would anyone—no. No, it’s fine. All we have to do is take all of this upstairs and sort it. And you need to make sure it stops coming. And I will call my friends and make sure nothing weird is going on over there. We can handle twenty gallons of pickles. I have been mistaken for a pickle expert in the past. Long story. Let’s do this!”

He spun around to give Kabir a high five of solidarity. He ended up standing there with his hand lifted awkwardly. Kabir was staring at a bag of croissants.

“Let’s do this!” Alden said again. “We’ve got hours still. Teamwork!”

He started making a clear spot on the floor to spread out his tablecloths. No problem. No sweat. Gratitude is great, and the fish can have the French fries.

“The wizards are going to be really surprised when they see everything,” he said.

What if they’re surprised in a bad way?

“They’re going to be really surprised in a good way!”

Arguing with my own inner voice is healthy.

“Don’t you think you’re overloading the tablecloth?” Kabir asked, finally pulling himself away from contemplating the bakery bag.  “I don’t know if shoving everything into a tablecloth sack will actually make it easier—”

“Trust me! Carrying things is my thing. I can empty this room in two trips if I stack things right and put my mind to it.”

Four trips later, he was crammed into the elevator with the last of it. Kabir had been left upstairs to unpackage and sort. Alden had a giant tablecloth sack gripped in both hands in front of him. A few things were probably getting more jostled than the creators had hoped they would be, and he was getting more of a workout than he’d expected since he’d been moving everything onto the tablecloth as fast as possible. But this was all fine.

He smelled like seafood after accidentally spilling some kind of broth on himself, but that was fine, too.

He called Haoyu, trusting that the System would do its job and block out the background if the elevator buttons were Earth-ending intel.

“I hate to say this,” said Haoyu when he answered, “but I kind of love having so many video lectures instead of regular classes this week. It feels like we’re on a vacation from school, doesn’t it? And someone just brought an entire case of mooncakes to our room. They’re good. They’re really good. I’m putting them in the dessert pile.”

The relaxed tone and the sight of Haoyu standing beside his bromeliad and casually biting into a half-eaten pastry was a balm to Alden’s mood.

“Everything’s normal there, then? Nothing’s wrong?”

Haoyu swallowed. “This is my first time collecting food for a wizard Thanksgiving, but other than that, it’s all normal. The strangest thing going on is probably Jupiter’s cornucopia. I went over to the girls’ dorm to see it, and it’s too large. But everything else is okay. We’ve got a couple of unexpected dishes so far, but I figure that’s fine as long as they taste good. If I get full, I’ll ask my dad to help me taste test when he gets here.”

“You’re tasting all of it?” Alden asked.

“Of course. My dad thinks what you’re doing is fun. He says Matadero needs an injection of fun. And he bets nobody has found where he hid the rice bomb. Whatever that means. But then he said that if we served subpar food, maybe the wizards would let Anesidora get submerged next time. And I know he was joking, but I started thinking about you getting in trouble for serving subpar food. So I’m tasting it for the good of the nation. And so that nothing bad happens to you.”

“Thank you.”

“I’ve got your back.”

“I’m relieved things are going smoothly over there,” Alden said. “You wouldn’t believe how overboard the restaurants are. They’re all telling each other. I’m worried we’re going to have to trash some of it. Artonans can eat a lot, but they’re not bottomless. Okay. Call if anything changes. Bye.”

Haoyu’s mouthful of mooncake muffled his own goodbye.

<<NO!>> Kabir was saying when Alden stepped out of the elevator. <<No more! I don’t care if it’s not fair! This is not a chance to show the Triplanets what you can do with your spell impression and a pie crust. It’s for thankfulness, and we have plenty!>>

Alden knew it wasn’t the most admirable reaction, but he was so much more relaxed now that he had final confirmation that his helpers probably hadn’t contributed to the gossip chain that was responsible for the overabundance of food. In the light of his own innocence, Kabir’s renewed irritation seemed like an overreaction.

“Kabir, it’s fine,” he said in a placid voice. “A few extra loads of food to carry upstairs is nothing in the grand scheme of things. It will all work out.”

Kabir shot him a look.

Alden carried his tablecloth sack to the sorting corner they’d established and started cutting through tape and opening carryout containers.

Work fast, finish grandma’s succotash, go to Natalie’s…

The music was upbeat. It was keeping him going at a good pace, and when one of the songs ended and the voice of the announcer came on for the “happy thought of the hour” thing they were doing throughout the broadcast to keep everybody’s spirits up, Alden was looking forward to hearing it.

<<Happy thought of the hour! For those of you celebrating Thanksgiving with your family and friends tonight, you won’t be alone. A young man who had a difficult welcome to Avowed life earlier this year is not only thriving at one of our Apex schools now, he’s also organized a group of his new friends to bring some holiday joy to our Artonan visitors.>>

Alden was bent double, reaching for an ugly organic lump that had rolled out of one of the packages. He thought it might be a truffle.

I’ve never held a truffle before. I wonder what it tastes…what? What did the radio lady just say?

It was something terrible. He knew it because his whole body had clenched as his subconscious processed the words.

<<—Alden Thorn, a Rabbit attending school at Celena—>>

“NO!”

<<—haha! I’m not sure how a sixteen-year-old ended up at Matadero, but there’s a rumor that General Esh-erdi—>>

“Stop saying my name. Why are you saying my name on the radio?! With his name! About this?!”

“—Rabbit teenager organizing a feast for exhausted wizards returning to Matadero tonight is a very happy thought. According to one of his friends—>>

“Whoever it was, you’re unfriended!”

It took him about three minutes to find the culprit.

Because the culprit was live streaming about Alden and the Thanksgiving dinner.

******

******

DurnMary Davis, named for her great-grandma Mary and Durn-afor, the wizard who her parents admired for founding the passenger pigeon de-extinction program, was sitting at her desk eating a candy bar. The limited edition box it had come in featured Carousel, New York’s homegrown hero, looking dazzling in his Winter 2040 costume.

DurnMary’s social studies homework lay untouched on the desk beside her while she stared at the handsome boy on her phone. Sun-kissed hair, a slightly mischievous smile, and he did the Win-Win wink exactly three times per live Q&A session. To let everyone know which questions were his favorites.

Some of your fans are switching over to Finlay, Win-Win, she thought. You must be so sad, but you just keep smiling for us.

She was going to type that into the Heelfeather Club forum later. If a comment got more than a thousand upvotes, Winston would autograph a photo for you.

DurnMary had a soft spot for A-ranks, so she’d keep boosting Winston’s spirits as he inevitably faded into obscurity compared to the obvious superstars of the new classes at the Big Three hero programs.

