What few orcs were left began to besiege the Legendary Pathbearer from all directions. Massive hands of Dimensionality pinned him in place as he tried to teleport. Fists formed from Dynamancy crashed down, crushing more of Sullain's crumbling form. Winds of Psychomancy splashed against the Vicar's mind as he tried to fight off the orcs with a single hand. Spells from all directions bombarded the Legend, and even now, even in this pathetic state, Shiv found something in Sullain to admire.

The Vicar wasn't fighting one Hero or even a few. He was fighting Shiv along with an army of a few thousand Masters at the least. And the Deathless had no doubt that if Sullain wasn't a fool, if he'd applied any true strategy, he would have won despite it all. But his heart was too broken, and though his magic was strong, his spirit was frail. And he was too short-sighted to realize that Shiv had thought ahead.

Here was a Legend who betrayed their skill because of a lingering weakness in their will.

The Deathless discharged his built-up Inertial Overdrive once more, and the blast, even stronger than before, tore through Sullain's physical body. A second chasm followed the first, and this time, Sullain's physical body began to crumple and dissolve into particles. Shiv could hear Sullain screaming even over the immense detonation.

He watched as the Vicar's kilometer-long form of alloy began to shrink. It faded, as if a shadow cast beneath a lantern. He tried to cast a spell, but it sparked and fizzled out—something was broken about his magic. Shiv’s eyes narrowed. Was the spiritual manifestation an externalized projection of his Omnimancy?

In a weird way, it made sense. It was unburdened by time, and it could cast spells and affect Shiv’s soul. It was effectively a second Sullain hidden within the first—only invisible and intangible when time flowed normally.

An ocean of ionized plasma chewed at Sullain, and Shiv watched as a new color burst into existence. It was the broken, fractured form of Sullain's spiritual manifestation. It only had ten arms left. Most of its body had been broken away. Only a jagged tail remained of it. Its head was fractured as well.

Most of its jaw was missing, and Sullain's spirit trembled as it tried to pour its flagging magic into its physical self, trying to maintain its existence, trying to preserve its actual body from full annihilation.

And though this moment was urgent, Shiv took a second to study Sullain. And then he noticed it: a thin strand of vitality connecting Sullain to the physical body.

Perhaps the spiritual and physical bodies were both halves of Sullain instead of being an embodied skill. But despite this Shiv would bet everything he had, would bet everything he would ever have, that Sullain had another vessel somewhere.

Shiv didn't know overmuch about the ritual of the dichotomous soul, but he knew it was called that for a reason. Some split parts of themselves into different bodies at the same time. For one as skilled in magic as Sullain, not doing so would be a strange oversight.

So why was he fighting so hard to preserve this body? Why was he fighting at all?

And that’s how Shiv found something else. A strand. Just a single, thin line of Psychomancy extending far across the battlefield, through the dense plasma choking the air. And it went in the direction of the Tarrasque.

Awareness 47 > 50 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Shiv laughed. It's not for him, at least not now. It's for his pet. Vicar Sullain was full of shit. He might have released most of his grasp on the Tarasque, but part of him held it still. He had to give the creature commands, after all.

“Hey, Sullain,” Shiv called out. He projected his words using his Psychomancy, and the Vicar's spiritual manifestation froze.

It looked at Shiv, and despite its posture radiating with anger, something else extended from Sullain and anchored itself within Shiv. It was a chain made out of that same crystalline mana that comprised the spiritual manifestation’s being. It was a chain of fear, and that chain fed into Shiv's social skills as well. Sullain's great weakness wasn't his Physicality or his Toughness. His great weakness was quite simply that he was too easy to abuse. He had no self-control, and Shiv exploited that to the utmost of his capacity.

Shape of Monstrosity 108 > 112

"I think you should run," Shiv began. As soon as he started speaking, he gained a piercing insight into how the subject of his focus was going to react.

Psycho-Cartography: Mock failure; insinuate he was the one that failed Submission and that Roland Arrow could have protected his city—high chance of spiking rage to new heights.
