“Bring me to her? So she’ll know I’ll be gone fer good. The big girl never did like it when I left her alone too long, but least she’s got the rest of you and the boy to keep her company now.”

And just like that, Sai Chou gathered Guan Suo carefully into her arms and carried him out to Ping Ping, without so much as a thank you or goodbye. Still standing at her side, Rain pulled Mila closer and asked, “Do you want to sit down?”

“No.” Dry-eyed and dispassionate, Mila shook her head and met Rain’s concerned gaze. “I’m fine.”

She could tell he didn’t believe her, and truth be told, she didn’t believe it either, but she certainly felt fine. No, not exactly fine, but numb and indifferent, as if all this had nothing to do with her. In truth, it didn’t, because Guan Suo was little more than a stranger, so why should his death affect her on a personal, emotional level? No, she would mourn his loss, as she would mourn the loss of any Imperial Warrior, but she had no tears to shed for the Smiling Slaughterer, not tonight.

Unsurprisingly, her aloof response troubled her beloved husband, as well as Mama and Papa who were hovering nearby, but it was the truth and Mila had no words to console them, because she didn’t understand it herself, nor were her thoughts capable of focusing on any particular subject for long. Time simply passed between blinks, as one moment she was standing with Rain, and the next she was on a couch between Mama and Papa. Another blink found her at the table with a cold pastry in hand, and yet another found her back in the courtyard, watching Monk Happy bring the Abbot away with Rain following at his side. From snippets of conversation, she discovered that while GangShu had passed through the worst of it and would most likely survive, the Abbot’s outcome still looked bleak. Mila was no Healer and didn’t understand what was killing these Divinities, from the looks of things, Mama and Papa didn’t know either.

“Mila?” Hearing her name, she turned around and found Sai Chou standing at the manor doors, beckoning for her to come over. “He asked to see you.”

Mila wanted to ask why, but then she spotted Sai Chou’s reddened eyes and thought better of it. At least Guan Suo would have someone to mourn him, even if it wasn’t his own child. That was good. No one should die unloved. Mila looked to her parents to see if they’d like to come with her, but Mama held Papa back and shook her head. “Go to him and hear what he has to say,” Mama said, her gaze filled with concern. “Try not to judge him too harshly; remember that your parents owe him for a lifetime of happiness.”

Meaning they were grateful to have her in their lives. This was how parents should be, not like Guan Suo who’d given her away, never sought to reconnect, and offered a pithy retort when she bared all her pain and anger for him to hear. “Yes Mama.”

Sai Chou brought Mila out into the park at a brisk pace, which did not bode well for the Ancestral Red Panda. Down by the lake, he laid in Ping Ping’s embrace, who had flattened herself in the dirt to watch her friend pass. There was so much pain and sorrow in the giant turtle’s expression, so much anguish it hurt to watch, and Mila felt a surge of guilt and remorse welling up from within over being less concerned with Guan Suo’s passing than a mere beast. Patting Ping Ping’s beak in hopes of consoling her, Mila sidled around into the Divinity’s view and waited for him to speak, until belatedly remembering he couldn’t see. Clearing her throat, she said, “I’m here. What did you want?”

So brusque and impersonal, she regretted the words before they left her mouth, but she could do nothing to change them. She wasn’t experiencing this moment, but rather spectating it, watching another Mila speak with Guan Suo during his last moments before returning to the Mother’s Embrace. If her words pained him, he certainly didn’t show it, but then again, he barely seemed to notice all his horrendous injuries, so it was hard to say if her blunt greeting caused any hurt. “My earliest memory is of her,” he began, his sightless orbs fixated on Ping Ping’s mournful expression. “There was nothing, and then there was light, and she was just standing there studying me with the most curious expression. She couldn’t have been more than a quarter her current size, and me even less, but for a long time, it felt like the most natural thing in the world to wrap my arms around her beak and smile.” With a chuckle that was half cough, he shook his head and sighed. “There’s a story there, one I’d hoped to one day figure out, but it looks like I’ve run out of time. Was it fate? Did the Mother guide her to me? Or was it mere coincidence that she happened to be ambling by when I ascended to Divinity? Damnedest thing was she didn’t want anything from me, just followed me around and kept me company, and I never could figure out why.”

“Because she knew you before you ascended.” It was a guess, one Mila never shared, but hearing this all but confirmed it. “When she was a smaller turtle, you were a giant red panda, and I think you kept her safe from predators, much like she did for the forest creatures around Ping Yao.”

“Haha, you think so?”

“Yea.” Settling down beside him in the grass, Mila did what she could to make him comfortable while making contact so she could Send, “Rain does this thing, where he can slip into her Natal Palace. I don’t understand it, but he saw a giant Red Panda there, and...”

Mila’s explanation was neither clear nor concise, and it was some time before she realized she was rambling, but Guan Suo didn’t seem to mind. In fact, he wore a rare smile stretched across his face, and even put down his coveted pipe to pat Ping Ping on the beak. “I see, I see. So we were friends in a past life, so to speak. Well, how about one last hug in case we don’t end up friends in the next?”

Struggling to work his one remaining arm, Guan Suo tried to sit up without success until Mila could no longer stand idly by. Helping him up, she swallowed the lump in her throat and tried not to cry as Ping Ping gently nuzzled him with all the love and affection she could muster and he clung tight to her and cried. After a short while, Guan Suo’s ravaged body was wracked with coughs, and Mila had to lay him back down, but Ping Ping remained in close contact and never once left his side. There were no mournful squeaks, not tonight, and Mila felt like the Guardian Turtle wholly understood what was happening here, and had already come to terms with her loss.

Which was more than Mila could say about herself...

“The boy,” Guan Suo said, as soon as his coughs settled down. “He’s doing better?”

“Yes. He’s not frail and in constant pain anymore, almost as healthy as a mortal can be.” Though that was all Mila meant to say, she added, “We were married this past summer, on midsummer, in fact.”

“Oh? Congratulations to the happy couple.” Coughing twice more, Guan Suo sheepishly asked, “Err... How long ago might that have been? Can’t rightly say how long I been gone for.”

“You, the Abbot, and GangShu left Sinuji to battle the Enemy Divinities just over two weeks before spring, and we are currently one month into autumn.” Almost eight months had passed since Rain last laid eyes on Guan Suo, and even longer for Mila, but as much as she wanted to know how a battle between Divinities could last so long without anyone dropping dead of exhaustion, she knew now was not the time to satisfy her curiosity. “And thank you. For the congratulations.”

“Didn’t get you a gift,” Guan Suo muttered, not repentant in the least. “Not that I would’ve. Coin, Pei. Never understood the draw of it, or why fools felt the need to risk life and limb for it. Shiny bits of metal is all it is, and we’d all be better off without it.” Patting Ping Ping’s beak as he settled in against her, he took a few shallow breaths to recover before continuing, “Live as long as I have, and your whole perspective changes. You won’t have as many years, but you’ll see what I mean soon enough. Humans base their world around what they can perceive, which rarely goes beyond a decade or two. Hell, most can’t see beyond the next day, but even the best and brightest don’t care to plan for anything over a century away, because they don’t have any reason to. Most will die before ever making it that far, but you? With luck, you’ll live five human lifetimes, and if you live them well, then you’ll find plenty of pain and heartache for your troubles.”

A bleak outlook on life, and Mila was in no mood for fatherly advice from a man who never once showed inclination to be her father, but seeing as how he felt the need to share this in his hour of death, she held her tongue and listened. “Don’t rightly know how long I’ve lived,” he said, smacking his lips which sent Mila reaching for the water-skin Sai Chou left for him. “I’m sure someone could look it up and get a number for you, but I doubt it’d be right. I lived many lives before my name became known, had more than my share of heartache. After running around with Ping Ping for Mother knows how long, I stumbled across a little village, where a kindly older couple, maybe fifty, sixty years a piece, took me for a feral half-beast and adopted me as their son. Showed me how be a human, dressed me up, taught me to speak, loved and cherished me like their own flesh and blood. I took up the woodcutter trade and soon enough, the tables turned and it was me lookin’ after them with Ping Ping by my side. Thirty three years I spent at my parents’ side, like a blink of the eye now, yet I remember it so fondly. First, they looked after me, then I looked after them, then both passed of old age. My Da went first, then my Ma a few months after, one after the other real peaceful like, and truth be told, I think Ma only stuck around to get me to promise her I’d find myself a wife.”

Clearing his throat in wordless appeal for a drink, Guan Suo smiled as Mila helped him up and raised the water skin to his lips. From the smell of it though, it wasn’t water in the water skin, and his impish grin told her he knew she wouldn’t approve. “So after lighting the funeral pyre and squaring away my things, I set out in search of a wife, and after travelling about for some time, I found one in Hua Meng. Lovely girl, deserved more than a destitute woodsman, but she was young and I was a handsome, exotic traveller from ‘far off’ lands, with a giant pet turtle to boot. We fell in love, got married, settled down, and then... well, then we started a family.”

Wheezing as if he’d just told the funniest joke in the world, he accepted another mouthful from the water skin and continued his tale. “See, I didn’t know I was an Ancestral Beast back then. Da said I was a half-beast, so that’s what I must’ve been. Didn’t think I could have kids, but then Hua Meng got pregnant, and seeing how we was together all the time, there was no doubt the baby was mine. Being young and dumb as we were, we thought it was a miracle from Heaven, a baby to bless our loving union.”

Guan Suo’s smile slipped, and he fell silent for long seconds, until the pall passed and he continued on. “But those were darker times, times before the Treaty and alliances. Word got out, Martial Warriors came a hunting, and Hua Meng died with our unborn child still in her belly. That night was the first time I killed a man. Seven men, to be exact, experienced Warriors one and all, and me without any Martial training. I was strong then, stronger than I’d ever known, and I could’ve saved Hua Meng and our child if I hadn’t been so damned stupid. Blamed myself for years, decades, centuries even, but then I came to see her death and the death of my parents as a blessing, because they died without knowing what sort of monster I truly was.”

Lost in his memories, Guan Suo skipped ahead and Mila wondered what other pain he was hiding. “By the time you came around, I’d long since forgotten what they all looked like. I’ve lived so many lives it’d take years to recount them all, but here’s the long and short of it. I learned I was an Ancestral Beast, and that strong as I was, there were people who were stronger and wanted to hunt me, enslave me, break me to their will while I was still young and malleable. I hid when I could and fought when I had to, spent decades living in obscurity until my pursuers caught up to me again, and then the cycle would repeat. I made friends and enemies, took lovers and raised Disciples, and did my best to start a family every chance I got, because somehow I thought the next time would be different from the last. It never was, and eventually, I gave up entirely, and that’s when I earned the name of ‘Smiling Slaughterer’. Death was all I knew, and dealing death was all that I enjoyed, right up until things came full circle and I found my way back to Ping Ping.”

Patting the turtle’s beak once more, Guan Suo polished off what little remained in the water skin, and it put some colour in his pale, wan cheeks. “I lost her somewhere along the way, in one battle or another. She never was suited to combat, and more prone to run and hide until it all blew over. When I found her again, she greeted me the same way she always did, with a happy squeak and a nuzzle, the same way she first greeted you, and all my other children. She ain’t real bright, thinks anyone with a fluffy tail is her friend, but there are worse ways to live life.”

Unable to resist, Mila straightened up and asked, “I have siblings?”

