As the household came alive to tend to the defeated Divinities, Mila sank deep into the void.

This void was not the Void she was familiar with, the all-encompassing darkness which found her when in the throes of Balance, and the vast chasm held back by her Core and Natal Palace. This was a different void, a sort of inner emptiness which left her a vacant husk of a person. Her body still worked, as evidenced by her actions, moving about the busy manor keeping the rabbits, bears, and wildcats out of the way while Healers tended to their patients, and her mind was sharp as ever, taking in every detail her eyes picked up. The Abbot’s sand-encrusted robes, GangShu’s shredded Runic Armour, Guan Suo’s bloodied, ash-streaked beard, Monk Happy’s furious and frankly frightening visage, Taduk’s frantic expression, and Rain’s determined anxiety, Mila noticed all this and more as the seconds stretched on into minutes.

All the while, the void expanded to engulf her heart and even her soul itself, for today, her beliefs had been shaken to the core. Three Divinities lay in the courtyard before her, brought low by foul agents of the Father Himself, and Mila feared this might be an allegory for the war itself. For so many months, Rain had been harping on about the Imperial Army’s failures to adapt their tactics in response to this ‘new’ threat represented by the evolving Enemy, but Mila’s staunch faith in Imperial supremacy remained strong as ever. Yes, the West had fallen, and yes, Central’s defences were far from ideal, but the Defiled would come, and Imperial Heroes would throw them back with courage and determination, heroes like Mila herself who had been blessed and guided by the Mother Above. While there would be a cost in lives lost, if, Heavens forbid, she were to stumble and fall, there would always be others to take up her cause, Experts further along of the Martial Path like Alsantset and Gerel, Baatar and Sarnai, or Mama and Papa.

And if even the greatest of them fell, then there were still Divinities to rely upon, Divinities like the Smiling Slaughterer, Guan Suo, an Ancestral Beast whose name inspired fear in friend and foe alike for hundreds, or maybe even thousands of years in the past. Except now he lay in her courtyard, bloodied, defeated, and possibly dying, and Mila wondered where they would turn for still greater Experts to hold in his stead...

Awake and conscious yet only barely responsive, Mila stood and watched events unfold with Mama Bun and Tawny One in her arms. Taduk knelt over GangShu, whose body appeared mangled beyond repair, while Monk Happy glowered over the Abbot a fair distance away. Fung’s manservant and torturer, Fu Zhu Li, laboured over Guan Suo in similar fashion, though from the look of the half-weasel’s stoic demeanour, one might think he was perusing a historical record of grain prices or counting ants marching across a dirt path. It made sense he was an able Healer, considering his position as Fung’s undercover bodyguard and torturer, so Mila made sure to add this to the formidable half-weasel’s extensive list of skills and continued watching events in the bustling courtyard unfold, all while keeping the pets in line.

Where Tong Da Hai found a Warrior of Fu Zhu Li’s calibre and how he won his loyalty were questions for another day, though Fung claimed he didn’t know the first thing about his manservant’s past, only that Fu Zhu Li had been with his family for as long as he could remember. Still, the half-weasel’s presence raised many questions, like who called for him to come? A great number of Peak Experts had responded to Rain’s call for aid, no doubt echoed through Sending by Kuang Biao and the other Death Corps. Taduk had been first to arrive, followed closely by Baatar, Sarnai, and Monk Happy, which was hardly surprising considering they had only just left. Fu Zhu Li had arrived hot on their heels, and somehow made it here before Mama and Tokta, which was strange considering Mila wasn’t sure who would even call for him. Taduk maybe? Baatar and Sarnai rarely ever even acknowledged Fung’s manservant, out of respect for his desire to remain inconspicuous, but it would make sense for Taduk to recognize and call for one of his peers. Yet another question to raise once matters settled down, but Mila realized she was merely trying to distract herself by looking at Fu Zhu Li rather than the dying Guan Suo.

And there was no doubting it now, for Guan Suo was most certainly dying, so the half-weasel’s skills had better measure up.

At first glance, Mila hadn’t recognized the crumpled mass as her progenitor; she hadn’t even taken the Abbot’s cargo for humans. Even after Fu Zhu Li straightened Guan Suo’s body out and set to work, Mila still had trouble accepting that she was looking at a living, breathing person, rather than the mutilated remains of a half-eaten corpse. His right shoulder had been cleanly hacked off by a Honed edge, but his legs ended in mashed stumps just below the knees, the flesh crushed and bones shattered by a single blunt impact. Though never the snappiest dresser, Guan Suo’s tunic hung in tattered ribbons from similarly shredded flesh, so frayed and abraded that white bone and pink organs shimmered in the firelight. Mila couldn’t even imagine what sort of weapon might have caused such an injury, until Fu Zhu Li poured water over Guan Suo’s torso and she realized with detached horror that the sand had scoured his skin until almost none was left. Not Chi Sand, but real sand, driven into his flesh from repeated impacts, much like dirt or mud might get into a wound during a sprawling melee.

And now, it interfered with Fu Zhu Li’s efforts to Heal Guan Suo and needed to be rinsed and scrubbed out, yet throughout it all, Guan Suo never uttered a single groan or even flinched in response, merely clutching his Spiritual Pipe close with his one good hand as he lay there comatose and unresponsive.

Sometime during her observations, Mila had stopped seeing anything besides Guan Suo, so it came as something of a surprise to find she’d lost Mama Bun and Tawny One somewhere along the way. She experienced a brief moment of panic until then she remembered handing both bunnies over to Song, and found Papa looming over her protectively with staff in hand. Leaning back to seek his comforting embrace, Mila took in her Papa’s fearsome, yet gentle expression as he smiled and hugged her tight, his unthinking actions ingrained from years of habit.

This was her Papa, her big, strong, dependable father, a man who was quick to laugh, slow to anger, and would do anything to protect her. The man lying in the grass was a veritable stranger, one who never rocked her to sleep or made silly faces for her to laugh at. He never read stories to her at bedtime, or held her close when she scraped her knees. He never taught her how to work the bellows or guided her through proper hammering techniques, never snuck her out for sweets or stole her away for a relaxing quin ride. He didn’t help pick out her dress or cry at her wedding, didn’t lug furniture over to her new manor and lend a hand washing floorboards. No, instead, Guan Suo abandoned her long before she could even form a memory of him, which was the only good thing he’d ever done for her, giving her to parents who loved and cherished her. Everything she knew about him could be summed up in five minutes or less, and even this meagre information took considerable effort to unearth, as he’d been in hiding since before even Baatar had been born.

He was nobody to her, a veritable stranger, so why was Mila so perturbed by the thought of his death?

“No need to mind my feelings, lass,” Papa Sent, kneeling so he could touch his forehead to her head. “You cry if you want to, scream if you must, just do what you need to do. Like it or not, he is blood of your blood, and I know how complicated that can be.”

The problem was, things weren’t all that complicated. Mila didn’t feel like screaming or crying, and in fact, didn’t feel much of anything at all. All she felt was emptiness, a void of nothingness within her chest. No pain, no sorrow, no joy, no satisfaction, and nothing beyond or in between, though a small part of her worried that this wasn’t right. Her progenitor was dying before her eyes, and all she cared about was if there was anyone else she could go to for answers regarding her past.

Mama also came by to check on Mila, as did Song, Yan, Lin-Lin, Luo-Luo, and even Rain. Her poor husband looked so shaken up from tonight’s events, because despite the constant arguing and muttered insults, he rather enjoyed the Abbot’s company and doted on Guan Suo like the father of a close friend. GangShu was more of a business associate, but Rain was not a man who dealt with loss well, and already she could see his calm demeanour coming apart, but despite his fear and distress, he still took the time to come comfort Mila, offering his hand to hold and shoulder to lean on as the Healers carried out their vital work.

As the minutes passed by, more people arrived, including Rustram’s lady love Sai Chou and GangShu’s sons, Daxian and Jorani. The men of the Azure Ascendants also joined them, the drunkard Lei Gong, the solemn Wugang, and the tempestuous Yelu Shi all dropping by to support their leader, and were the Tyrant not absent testing Rain’s wild theories, there was no doubt in Mila’s mind she would be here too. GangShu was a surprisingly likeable Ancestral Beast, or rather he would be if she didn’t see the way his sons and daughters wanted nothing to do with him. While GangShu’s friends were visibly concerned, Daxian seemed more bored than anything else, and Jorani spent more time watching Monk Happy and the Abbot than his own father. Sorya and Anrhi weren’t even in the courtyard, having long since retreated to help Song tend to the animals, but somehow, Mila was certain this was only an excuse. Even before Rain’s Core was shattered, the twin handmaidens wanted nothing to do with GangShu, which somehow made Mila feel a little better about not being the only ‘unfilial’ demi-human.

Unfortunately, seeing Sai Chou’s visible concern made Mila feel nothing but anger, for this was more than the concern a subordinate holds for her superior. Rustram and Sai Chou had been amongst the first guests to dine at their new home, and even before that Mila had many chances to converse with the Protectorate second, and from what she could tell, Guan Suo had all but raised Sai Chou after her parents were murdered by loan sharks. Not in any fatherly capacity, and not on his own, but Guan Suo did more for Sai Chou than he ever did for Mila, which was a sore spot she didn’t care to touch upon.

Why did he care for Sai Chou, an unrelated girl who literally dropped into his life, but didn’t bother identifying himself to his own flesh and blood?

To make matters worse, Sai Chou’s story was hardly unique, as many members of the Protectorate learned their skills from Guan Suo himself. Were they amongst the People, most of them would be counted as Guan Suo’s Disciples at the very least, if not his outright family, which showed that the surly old red panda was capable of raising children, just not interested in raising children who were his. Then again, Mila couldn’t really be sure since she’d never even heard of another half-red panda, much less met one, so perhaps she had older siblings whom she’d never met who’d been raised by Guan Suo, in addition to his surrogate sons and daughters in the Protectorate.

A tortured gasp shattered the tense silence of the courtyard, the first overt sign that any of the three Divinities were still alive, and it came from Guan Suo being worked on by Fu Zhu Li. There was so much pain and suffering crammed into the incoherent utterance that it finally broke through Mila’s shell of apathy and set loose her suppressed emotions. Despite all the anger and abandonment, she still clung onto the small hope that Guan Suo had some minuscule scrap of love for her, and it pained her to see him so. Maybe he checked in with Mama and Papa to ensure she was growing up well, or asked about her in secret letters sent every year. Maybe she reminded him too much of her mother so he had to give her away, or maybe he just thought she’d find a better life amongst the People than in the Protectorate. Whatever the reason, Mila had romanticized this errant progenitor of hers for years in her youth, and thought there might come a day when they would reconcile and be... not father and daughter, but some other form of family, one which didn’t conform to societal norms.

And now that might never happen, which left her... not dismal or heartbroken, but mournful of a relationship which would never be, with a man she would never truly know...

After hours of cleaning and effort, Guan Suo finally regained full consciousness, the only Divinity to do so thus far. Unfortunately, this was far from a good sign like Mila thought, as he reached up and feebly pushed Fu Zhu Li’s hands away. “Enough,” Guan Suo said, his raspy voice wracked from silent screams and eyes still clenched in pain. “Enough. You’ve done what you could. No point wasting effort on a dead man.”

To Mila’s muted shock, the half-weasel didn’t argue, nor did he move to resume his work. “I could make you more comfortable,” he said, though there was no comfort to be found from his demeanour. “Ease the pain of your passing.”

“Pain ain’t what’s killing me, and I’ve still some affairs to settle.” Sinking into the grass with a sigh, Guan Suo’s sightless, clouded eyes peered up at the night’s sky and Mila worried he would pass then and there, until he drew another breath and said, “Sai Chou? You here?”

“Yea.”

