“None living,” Guan Suo replied, dashing all her hopes. “And for good reason. You remember what I told you the day we met? I might look human and play at being human, but deep down, I’m no more than a beast. My pipe and wineskin are all that keeps me sane some days, when I feel like killing every living human and predator within a thousand kilometres for daring to encroach upon my territory. Friends, enemies, it doesn’t matter, because whether I want to or not, I claim the land I live on and will not suffer intruders lightly.”

Sinking into Mila’s arms, Guan Suo could barely even hold himself up anymore, and his voice grew weak and haunted. “I’ve lost count of the number of my children I’ve given up, all because I felt they weren’t right. When they first come out, it’s all smiles and kisses from daddy Guan Suo, but then they stay... babies. They can’t even sit up, much less stand and walk, and they take so much care and attention to keep alive. Pick em up too quickly and their neck could snap, put em down too hard and they might never wake up again, need to eat every few hours for months without end, and still they need constant coddling just to make sure they don’t run off and die. Soon enough, a little voice starts up in the back of your head, telling you this ain’t right. The kid ain’t right. They’re too weak, too feeble, too much of a drain on time and resources, and it’ll never change. How is this tiny thing supposed to have a life on its own? It can’t, so it’s best to put it out of its misery.”

“How can you say that?” Mila’s tears came easily now, burning a trail down her cheeks. “How could you do that?”

Though his features softened, Guan Suo’s tone remained grim. “Never said I did, and even if I had, there’s no malice or hatred in it, only misguided animal instinct overcoming human good sense. You see it all the time in the wild, with animals eating their own offspring or letting the weak ones die off. Nature is cruel and merciless, and it will not grow kinder with time, so if a child is weak, it’s best to let it die in infancy. Gives the other, stronger children a better chance to survive.” Sighing, he shook his head and slid over to lean on Ping Ping’s arm. “I kept you the longest. Not for any special reason, just wanted to know if I could do it, if I’d changed after so many centuries of life. Six months I tended to you, changing diapers and rocking you to sleep, and throughout it all, I had this constant, incessant urge just to snap your fragile little neck, even as you smiled so prettily in my arms.”

There were no tears in his sightless eyes, for his tears had long since been cried out, but his regret was clear as day. “I wanted to love and cherish you, to raise you as my own, but I couldn’t. You were mine, and the animal in me wanted you dead because of this, but gone was good enough. I gave you to one of my Protectorate, told him to take you away to a good home, somewhere far enough I’d never see you. He was a half-beast who remembered the grand chase your scamp of a mother put us through, so I suppose he thought it’d be funny to bring you to her, and you know the rest. Didn’t even know you were with the scamp until I heard word of your exploits during the Society’s Contests, and as much as I wanted to feel pride, I didn’t. I just felt... nothing. No love, no hatred, just indifference.” His voice broke, just the tiniest bit, as he added, “Because it’s easier that way.”

Tilting his head towards the starry night sky, Guan Suo’s lips twisted in a grimace. “Some days, I feel like Ancestral Beasts are the result of a cruel joke of the Heavens. We have the capacity to be human, but not the ability, for our bestial instincts are far too strong. Even sitting in the same room as another Ancestral Beast is almost enough to drive me to murder, for I see a rival and competitor, someone to kill or be killed by, even though the human side of me knows there’s more than enough food, land, and resources to go around. You half-beasts? Demi-humans, however you want to call it, you are most certainly more human than beast, and for that, I envy you.”

Gazing upon the pitiful Divinity, Mila quietly asked, “And my birth mother?”

Guan Suo shrugged, and Mila’s heart broke. “Can’t rightly say,” he replied. “Don’t even remember her name. Died in childbirth is what I was told, and her parents gave you away to the Protectorate. I tried to raise you, couldn’t, and you found your way to the scamp. You were right, Sumila of the Bekhai. You are far better off without me, and it pleases me to know you lived a life full of love and affection, a life I never could have given you.”

“So why tell me all this?” Mila asked, unable to accept that he had no familial feelings at all. “Why justify yourself to a child you never cared about?”

“Never said I didn’t care,” Guan Suo countered. “I wanted to care, tried to love you like my own, be more than the beast would let me, but I couldn’t. Don’t expect you to forgive or understand, just figured you’d want to know the whole truth.” Closing his eyes with a sigh, he patted Ping Ping one last time and murmured, “Tired. Gonna rest now. You be happy. Tell your husband to look after Ping Ping. Bring her home. Safer that way. Be smarter than I was and let the Imperials fight their own battles for once.”

And then the Smiling Slaughterer’s arm went slack as he breathed his last, and Mila’s father sank quietly into the Mother’s warm embrace.

Chapter Meme
