His spell was a rather simple magic, the only part offering real complexity was the way in which the light acted as an oppositional force against stealth magic. But that was mostly due to the fundamental nature of the light affinity as far as she could tell. The control mechanisms that allowed him to direct the orbs wherever he wanted were relatively complex, too, but for flushing out assassins she didn’t require that amount of control.

I didn’t miss anything.

It was an admission of failure. She had already created several perfectly constructed runic circles duplicating Calen’s magic, and they would have been the perfect solution to her problem were it not for the limitations of mana affinities. She was truly stumped – neither her nature-, nor her arcane-affinity mana could power the set of light-affinity runes essential to getting the spell to work.

She had tried having Calen inject his mana into the circle, but even that had failed. He would need a skill similar to her Runic Script to manipulate her magical constructs.

“Anything?” he asked.

“No,” Ali sighed. “Thanks for being patient with my experiments. I think I’m just going to have to find a different approach.”

There must be some effective way to defend myself against stealth and ambush.

“I don’t suppose you can run around with your barrier up all the time?”

“I don’t think I can get much done from inside a permanent magical bubble,” she answered. Besides, it quite clearly didn’t protect her against some fairly important types of attacks and spells. The light magic beams of the Coruscant Rays or the Radiant Brawlers had ignored her barriers. She assumed spells like the Lich’s fear and Mieriel’s mind manipulation would similarly ignore her barrier magic. Although, she had to admit the perma-bubble strategy would have been quite effective against the last assassin.

“I’m sure you’ll think of something soon,” Calen offered. She knew he was just trying to be encouraging but her entire experience with this line of study had left her feeling frustrated, and more than a little grumpy. It was worse than being unable to grasp the magic: the issue was that she completely understood it – her experiment had been a total success. Apart from the very important factor she had not considered – her mana was incompatible – making it vastly more frustrating than failing outright.

There was a brief flicker in the ambient mana, followed by a pop and a flash. Ali jumped before she recognized the distinctive signature of Ryn’s teleport spell.

“Hi Ryn, over here,” she called out, trying to get her racing heart back under control. I can’t spend the rest of my life jumping at shadows.

“Ali!” Ryn called out, zipping down to alight beside her, flushed and out of breath. “I got the membership! I can borrow six books at a time! I brought them all, and I got one book for me…” she paused, only to take a quick breath.

“Slow down,” Ali said, grinning at Ryn’s infectious excitement, her grumpy mood evaporating instantly.

Ryn cast about quickly before frowning. “We need some tables.”

“Easy to fix,” Ali said, pulling out her Grimoire. With a thought, she summoned the beautiful green marble from the Dal’mohran vault, making it flow like water with her Domain Mastery skill as she sculpted it into a beautiful, polished table. It was perhaps not the cleverest design – she was no crafter – but it did show off the beautiful stone to its fullest.

“Maybe I should learn to make wood,” she muttered, studying her creation. While the green marble was certainly beautiful, it seemed more suited to floors and sculpture and was a little incongruous as a table meant for reading. With wood, she would be able to bring out the rich grain and softer, warmer tones, which would go a long way to making the library look more inviting and comfortable.

“Wood is nice for a library,” Ryn agreed, unpacking some books and placing them on the surface of the new table. “But this is good for now.”

“Maybe you can buy some chairs and couches for us?” Ali suggested.

“No money, remember?” Ryn answered, a flicker of the sad frown returning to her face.

“I didn’t put any limits on that bank release I wrote you,” Ali countered.

“Oh,” Ryn said, staring at her with wide eyes.

“So, which books did you get?” Ali asked, turning with mounting excitement to the stack of six books on her brand-new table.

Ryn’s excitement returned as she showed off several magic books. Then she turned a little more serious and pushed a thick black book across the table toward her.

“Ali, I tried my Seek Knowledge divination in the library, trying to have it figure out what you might want, and it picked this. I’m not sure how I feel about that, but I brought it just in case.”

Necromancy? Ali looked at it with a rising premonition. She lacked a death mana affinity so there was no way for her to learn useful magic from the book – which meant it was likely that they would be encountering the Necromancer soon.

At least if the divination was accurate.

“Thanks,” she said, placing her hand on the cover of the problematic tome for a moment, thinking. Divination magic was notoriously fickle – a subtle and confusing magic intricately linked to time, probability, and causality. It could often find unbelievable connections through layers of the butterfly effect and chaotic entangled connections that only became clear after the events themselves were observed. Or, often, people would match outcomes post-fact to the prediction and claim success.

Scholars had struggled to understand and quantify divination even back during the height of the Grand Library Arcana’s prominence, simply because divination was so rare, and the skills were almost always highly specific and niche in nature. There was never a skill that simply told you the future, but most lay people were certain that’s how it should work.

Ryn’s skill seemed to have provided her a resource based on the probability of encountering necromancy in the near future, and the coincidence of having a powerful necromancer on their doorstep meant it would be irresponsible for Ali to ignore the dramatic portent.

If nothing else, it should offer hints for fighting a necromancer. Ali put the book to the side, intending to study it properly.

“What about this one?” Ali asked, picking up a book on basic Elvish grammar.

“That’s for me,” she said. “I hope that’s ok. I thought I should try to learn to read and write other languages if we’re going to help restock the library properly.”

“Good idea,” Ali said. “I can also help you study if you like, I can read and write Elvish and Dwarven. Those should be the most useful.”

“Thanks!”

Ali picked up the first book and began to memorize it. It didn’t take too long to work her way through all of them, though a couple of the magical texts contained magical runes. But it took her no more than a few moments to figure out how to use her Runic Script skill in combination with her imprint to reproduce the magic accurately.

Finally, she duplicated the necromancy book. While memorizing it, one passage in particular caught her attention, so after she had copied it, she opened it and read it out loud.

As a novice necromancer, you may be tempted to pass up the lowly skeleton in favor of the more powerful, fashionable, or exciting undead summons that may be available to you. However, the skeleton’s attributes make them highly suitable for necromancers of all levels. While they don’t have most of the class skills they possessed in life, they are exceptionally versatile, able to carry out simple instructions and perform menial labor. They are immune to poison, hard to damage with piercing weapons, and do not require sleep, food, or air. The raw materials to summon them are plentiful and available almost anywhere, and if they are not powerful enough, you can always summon skeletons from the corpses of more advanced monsters.- Basic Necromancy: Summoning the Undead.

“I guess this confirms what you said, Calen. Skeletons are immune to poison,” Ali said. She had tried to use her wyverns on the skeletons at the small logging village and had discovered the hard way that their poison breath did not seem effective. The book also mentioned they would be immune to suffocation, and probably daggers and arrows would be poor choices too.

“That makes sense,” Calen said, peering over her shoulder at the book.

“Fire mages, I guess,” she mused out loud. Fire and explosions work on everything, she thought, deciding once again that she really wasn’t a pyromaniac. Can I help it if fireball is always the best solution?

Ali turned her attention to Ryn, noticing her distraction.

Librarian – Human – level 8 (Arcane / Divination)

“Two levels for that?” Ali asked.

“Mmm, yup,” Ryn said with a grin. “I think I’ll head back to town to do some furniture shopping for the library.”

“Didn’t you already use your teleport?” Ali asked.

“Each location gets a separate recharge,” Ryn answered, “I found that out today when I got my membership.”

“Oh,” Ali said. “Maybe we should get you more libraries sooner than later.”

“Why is that?” Ryn asked.

“With the way your teleport works, can’t you just do a round through all the ones you know every day?” Ali asked. The only challenge would be getting Ryn to the library in the first place. But once she set the location, she could use it indefinitely. Ali could already imagine the piles of books Ryn would bring for her to copy.

“Oh, yes,” Ryn squeaked, “I think that would work!” Catching Calen’s wide grin at her reaction, she turned redder than a tomato. “I’ll just… uh, go? Yes?”

“Mmm,” Malika drawled as the librarian vanished.

Spots of color leaped into Calen’s cheeks. “Don’t you start!”

“Start what? Do you think she’s pretty? Do you? Calen?”

“Oi, I get enough of that from my mom already! I’ve got work to do!”

Ali hid a chuckle behind her hand.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
