A shiver went through Nathan as he considered combat between Questors, where that kind of destruction was common. He would be engaging in more fighting like that, and didn’t want to end up the only survivor every time.

Will I be able to protect the Heirs from that kind of attack in the future? Not with my current power. But my antimagic is already growing to cover a battlefield, and Khachi and Stella have some pretty formidable protections of their own. We’ll manage. I just hope they’re ready to come with me when I leave the continent. They’ll probably need to catch up with me in power.

He’d reached a good height, so he looked around, keeping a careful eye out for any Golems. There were none visible in sight, just the sprawling tangle of workshops, warehouses, forges and tenements that made up the Chokiz industrial district. But coming down one of the streets that led to the estate was a small group of mages and slave-elites.

As Nathan watched one of the slave-elites pointed up at Nathan before drawing back a bow and firing an arrow in his direction.

Oh, my next target has volunteered. Nice of them.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 6

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 4

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 7

Class: Void of Magic level 517

Deepened Stamina: 14696/15810

Void of Feeling

Antimagic Momentum

Raging Thrill

Implacable Inertia

Unarmored Resilience

Magic Anathema

Airborne Agility

Hand-to-hand Expertise

Voluminous Aura

Denial of Wizardry

Mana Severance

Class: Spellslayer level 379

Regenerative Focus: 3613/3890

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Wizard’s Meditation 7

Inspiration 3

Acceleration 7

Wizard’s Detection 5

Alertness 8

Wizard’s Understanding 6

Effortless Dodge 6

Mental Vault 1

Tutoring 3

Parkour 6

Visibility Control 1

High-tier Disguise 1

Mid-tier Battle Cry 8

High-tier Aura Manipulation 6
