The scouts, at the very least, were convinced the ogre wouldn’t attack their patrols anymore. Their return journey was filled with crass jokes, not that Ranthia was entirely in the mood. She wasn’t some moron with a ‘code of honor’ or anything—she had inflicted similar injuries on rapists more than once—but she was displeased with herself for failing to finish him off.

All she could do was hope that the scouts were right.

Barely a month later, a second force of shimagu arrived, renewing the population of hostiles in the vicinity. The new arrivals assembled a new base, closer to Remera than the old camp—then tore it down and reinforced the existing camp instead, after the dwarves proved they could fire their siege weapon into its heart.

As much fun as that day was, the ones that followed were less entertaining. Almost daily, the shimagu camp disgorged a force to challenge Remera, and Ranthia found herself perched atop the stone tower facing down an angry winged ogre.

Which all but confirmed that the shimagu had some sort of [Healer] available. Without one, there was no way that the ogre’s leg could possibly be restored so quickly from the spear that tore through his thigh.

Remera was back to playing games with the shimagu as spring arrived properly and warmed the wasteland day by day. Small attack forces skirmished with small defense forces in the middle of the wasteland while Ranthia ignored crude and hostile displays from her adversary, neither of them ever taking action.

Ranthia tried to push for permission to engage the winged ogre so Remera’s forces could attack the enemy base directly. The shimagu’s base had been forced to take down their former defenses when it swelled in size, which left them with short walls that were mostly conjured material. It was a battle Remera could win if they attacked, so long as she kept the twin out of the fight. The base commander refused—he called her plan “reckless” and remained concerned about the potential risk of some unseen additional twin that could prevent it from working.

Ranthia’s response to the man’s cowardice wasn’t suitable for shouting during the meeting, so she held it in until she complained to Avyna.

Ranthia’s 35th birthday passed with almost as little fanfare as her 34th had. It was hard to celebrate while most of her time was spent atop her stone tower.

With the shimagu’s return to their former tactics—and the lack of any sign of an all-out attack or true siege in the works—Legion command was even more openly apathetic to Remera’s status. Several crates of arrows were airdropped from above the clouds—which tested their defense [Mages] more harshly than anything the shimagu tried—but supplies otherwise remained minimal. The base commander and his advisors seemed to be the only people in Remera that were okay with the dearth of support after so long, though they continued to try to convince everyone else that the shimagu presence near Remera was likely a feint, meant to distract the Legions from some greater attack.

The position felt like it came out of nowhere, which was suspicious in and of itself—especially with how vocal they were about it.

Summer arrived with a heatwave, and it showed no signs of abating. It wasn’t as brutal as some of the ones that the war-torn wastelands had endured, but it made each day unpleasant—even before the issues with their neighbors.

The shimagu made sure most days were far worse than just ‘unpleasant.’

Unfortunately, Ranthia’s problems weren’t limited to the heat and the near-daily stints on her tower. In fact, they were, in many ways, the least of her problems.

“<I am uncertain what I shall do, my love.>” Avyna fretfully admitted.

Late at night, in the back of Avyna’s shop where the storage area was, they concluded an inventory that confirmed what Avyna’s records showed. Happily, there were almost no discrepancies—even for a business located in a military base, theft was impressively rare. Less happily, it was impossible to deny that Avyna’s stock was nearly depleted.

“<Not even the elves are willing to run a caravan out here?>” Ranthia allowed herself to ask a stupid question.

“<They are averse to risk, my love. There are gnoll caravans that would be willing to visit our base and the camp of your enemies, but I have no way to invite them. Their tribes follow their own whims. Granted, even if one arrived, they are unlikely to carry many of the staples that I stock.>” Avyna’s frustration was palpable.

Demand had, if anything, increased as Remera remained cut off from resupply. It was great for Avyna’s profits, but it wasn’t like she was getting any new stock either. Without more supplies, she wasn’t able keep the legionaries’ bakery running and there was nothing to fill her barren shelf space.

“<I suppose I’ll have to attack the shimagu camp and defeat them singlehandedly to get things moving again.>” Ranthia tried to joke in a solemn tone.

Which earned her one of Avyna’s trademark glares, followed by a thin smile.

“<We shall not resolve this issue tonight. Come, my love, it is late. Let us retire for the night.>” Avyna finally spoke into the brief-lived silence.

Hand-in-hand, they crossed Remera’s quiet streets. Attacks by the shimagu after dark were exceedingly rare, and everyone was eager to get rest while they were able. The walls weren’t left undefended, of course—they weren’t stupid—but there were few signs of life on the dusty streets of the base.

In their home, the two undressed and settled into bed, while Ranthia cuddled and tried to soothe Avyna’s worries. She had no actual solutions to offer her beloved—and she absolutely was not going to ask if closing the store for a while was really that bad of a problem—but she could offer the elf her love and her presence.

Together, they could endure anything. Ranthia had come to accept that for her own circumstances, and she hoped that Avyna felt the same.

“<I love you, my Gemheart.>” Ranthia whispered drowsily. She had no idea if Avyna had dozed off or if she was just at peace in Ranthia’s embrace—her elf was far too perfect to do anything so crass as snore—but she had to whisper the truth of her heart one last time before she succumbed to her own slumber.

Ranthia closed her eyes. And the sound of horns blasting through the once-tranquil night chased all vestiges of her restful state from her mind.

“Shit, that’s the urgent crisis pattern!” Ranthia shouted as she lunged for her armor, her promise to speak High Elvish momentarily forgotten.

The horns continued to blare the same pattern as Avyna worriedly watched Ranthia prepare. A single shift was all it took to get herself fully equipped once again.

“<Be careful, my love!>” Avyna called out after Ranthia’s shift concluded.

“<I will, just stay here!>” Ranthia replied, thankful that Avyna kept her bow at her shop.

Ranthia rushed from her home, her mind conjuring frightful possibilities about the emergency. For all she knew, it was some grand shimagu invasion or a team of twins out to crush their base once and for all—and those were on the likely end of her imaginative explanations. Ranthia opted to ascend the walls instead of throwing images, just in case her mana was about to become essential—her arcanite was full, but if she found herself locked into prolonged combat again, every bit counted.

“Situation report!” Ranthia ordered as she finished her ascent.

Not that she needed to bother—her own eyes told everything that she needed to know.

Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship] was approaching their base—fast—and it grew less resplendent by the moment. One of the base’s officers that stood nearby started to explain his theory that it was a shimagu ruse—a false vessel—but Ranthia made a different judgment call.

“That’s the real thing, but she’s out of mana! Get a rescue team together and tell the dwarves that we need to recover whatever cargo and arcanite we can salvage! Go, that’s an order!” Ranthia roared, even as the fading, crumbling vessel skimmed the ground.

Ranthia spared a single glance at the shimagu base, which was already disgorging an unorganized mass of charging hostiles. Their window to act shrank by the moment, and Remera was on the back foot!
