“Straight Orgasminium, mined from the halls of Saliss of Light’s laboratory. And I made it while teaching my new apprentice, so I don’t have to lie if I get interrogated about it.”
Onieva tapped the glowing bottles of liquid pleasure, which she’d made a few days ago while teaching Octavia. Mirn reached for one.
“I thought they were banned. Even you said you couldn’t risk making it—you can do it if it’s your apprentice?”
“Yup. Nice loophole, right? If you’re found with it, I was giving them away. Which I’ll do later, with a few of the bottles.”
“One, two…six?”
“Split them into quarter-doses if you need to. That’s all I’ve got, Mirn. Xif’s got two bottles, but knowing him he’s already traded it for favors from his Gnoll friends and social circle.”
The Drake spat the words. Mirn nodded.
“These ones will go straight to the ones who need it most in their life.”
The glowing potions disappeared as well as the gold. Onieva sighed. Her head lolled back as the whiskey hit her all at once. Mirn looked at her.
“What would I do without my best customer?”
“Keep running this place. Only, your clientele would eventually end up sitting on the ground and eating dirt and bugs instead of using tables and spitting out awful sandwiches.”
“Hm. Sounds appealing. So…tell me.”
Onieva passed a claw over her eyes. She turned to face Mirn at the bar.
“Chaldion’s fine. I slipped him some of the you-know-what.”
“Again? How much did you spend to…?”
“I’ll make it back with the Potion of Youth. Enough. I have a new lead on some ingredients. I’m not in the mood to talk shop, Mirn.”
“I’m just asking. In all seriousness, if you disappear, I’m not going to have the money to keep renting new places. Let alone replacing the door or…you know.”
Onieva sighed.
“Don’t worry, Mirn. Saliss of Lights knows how to juggle his finances. And he’s not an idiot. If worse comes to worst, he’ll sell some of his potions.”
“Not hunt Wyverns in the High Passes?”
The Drake opened one eye and gave Mirn a look.
“He’s not an idiot, I said. He doesn’t risk his life without a damn good reason. Those adventurers are going to get slaughtered there.”
“Really? Damn. There’s one of us in a team planning to head north. Should I warn her off?”
Onieva sat up slightly.
“Really? Who?”
“Drake. She’s been here twice. Her team’s after that gold, like anyone else. Should I…?”
The [Alchemist] closed her eyes and thought.
“…No. It’s a fair risk for a team. That much gold for a Wyvern? I have no idea who’s posting the bounty, but if it’s legitimate—I’d jump at it and take the risk if I was that level. She’s high-Silver rank, right? I think I know who you’re talking about.”
“Yes.”
Neither Drake mentioned names. Names—were a risky thing to mention in this place. After all, this was a bar, a pub for a particular sort of person. They had a name in Drake society.
Turnscale. Or at least, that was a broad term. It didn’t cover Onieva quite right. Drakes didn’t have a name for her. Mirn regarded his friend.
“Does Saliss have any more Polymorph Potions, Onieva? I’m asking for a friend.”
The Drake’s head was lolling a bit. She was tired—the alcohol was working fast. But her body was dispersing the drink just as quickly. She sat up, shook her head.
“[Polymorph] is the spell, which applies to people turning into completely different forms. This is different, Mirn. And I can’t make it last…that’s not my specialty, and even if it was, this is serious magic.”
“I know. But could you—Saliss—”
A fist smacked the bar. Mirn recoiled just in time. He saw Onieva’s eye glaring at him. Even her eye color was different. Pale blue and yellow.
“Me, Mirn. It’s always me. I’m as authentically Saliss as I am when I’m Onieva.”
“So, always lying through your teeth?”
The two Drakes looked at each other. Onieva sagged back down.
“Yeah, probably. We’re different, you know? I’ve been noticing it more and more. Saliss likes smoking. I like drinking.”
Mirn eyed the empty glass.
“You don’t say. Look, the potions aren’t for me. I’d only be curious to try it once, and even then—I’m fine in my scales. But there are some people who’d…need them.”
The [Alchemist] closed her eyes.
“I can’t make enough of them, Mirn. This isn’t just scales-deep. It’s complete. It’d be easier to buy illusion spells. Or…”
“It’s not the same.”
“No. Damn. But I can’t. Someone finds that potion, and they will trace it back to me or Xif. Or one of a few [Alchemists] in this city. Saliss cannot be linked to you. I’ll give you gold, even the other potions, but not that.”
The male Drake chewed that over. He nodded at last.
“Fine. You do enough for us as it is. So—no potions.”
“Want me to ram one right up your ass?”
“No thanks. Not even as Saliss.”
Onieva made a fist, and Mirn chuckled. He looked at his friend. Then he decided to ask another question on his mind.
“But let’s say you perfect the potion and it doesn’t wear off. Would you ever consider not being Saliss? I mean, you’d have to have an excuse. But if it could be permanent…also, do you ever get the urge to have sex as…Saliss? Or only as you? Or does it change between…?”
He saw Onieva pause. She closed her eyes. But then she shook her head.
“I’m not in the mood to discuss every way I’m a disappointment to my grandfather, Mirn.”
Mirn sighed.
“He hasn’t changed?”
“Do you think he would after all this time? No. That old bastard is the same. I could strangle him. Rgh! Hero this, future of Pallass that. Haven’t I done enough?”
Onieva made a grasping motion with her claws. It was something Saliss would never do. But then—even if he was the famed nudist of Pallass, he was also Pallass’ hero. Or as close to it as they got.
“Saliss is pretty beloved. I didn’t hear anyone even so much as calling you out for the naked dancing for a week after the Wyvern attack.”
The [Alchemist]’s lips twitched and she relaxed.
“That was funny. But Saliss is the closest I can get to what Chaldion wants. And even then—I’m not putting on pants. I’d rather tweak all of Pallass’ tails as their famed Named Adventurer than be the respectable hero. I’d be a fraud.”
Mirn was slowly trying to polish a cup and smearing it with some kind of oily residue. He eyed Onieva from the side as another Drake came in, following a group of cloaked and masked Dullahans.
“And you’re not a hero already?”
“Don’t you start, Mirn. We don’t need heroes. We need to change—we need—I could do it. I could. I could walk around, pretending to be as perfect as Chaldion wants. He might even be proud of me. But that’s not what I want to be. I have to drink this potion. Come here or walk around Pallass as me. Or I will snap. Even as Saliss, I can’t pretend to be a ‘good Drake’. I have to run around naked and annoy those idiots. Or else I feel more and more like an imposter.”
Mirn nodded. He watched as the Drake newcomer walked over to a table. The people there greeted him warmly. They were all friends here.
Turnscales. Or—people that didn’t fit, like Onieva. There weren’t many of them—or at least, many who came here. But more than you thought. How many were there, really? How many had no clue? Or were afraid to know the truth?
“What’s wrong with us, Mirn?”
The [Alchemist] stared past him. At nothing. At the wall. Mirn leaned on the bar.
“Me? Nothing. You? You’re rude, violent, a nudist, you enjoy annoying people no matter who you are, you gobble food—”
He dodged the swipe from the claws. Onieva kept staring past him. And Mirn—was concerned. This was bad, even for her. Chaldion and Saliss seldom spoke because this happened. And Chaldion and Onieva?
Never.
“Tell me about Zel Shivertail, Onieva. He was one of us?”
“Turnscale. Yeah. I met him a few times. Never in secret. I bet you he could never have come here.”
“I wish I could have met him. I bet you I could tell. You’re sure?”
Onieva still looked past Mirn.
“Absolutely. You’d know in a heartbeat. I think he found me out.”
“General Shivertail. The Tidebreaker.”
Mirn closed his eyes. The hero of the Drakes. He was dead. But the knowledge mattered. They were not alone. If Zel Shivertail had been one of them, they were not wrong.
“He was one of us, Onieva. That means something.”
“It means Drakes, the cities, need heroes, Mirn. It means the old man’s right. And that the world needs Saliss more than Onieva. It means I shouldn’t come back here. And you know what? Part of me agrees. That’s why I’m Saliss. Because I know we need Saliss of Lights. The Antinium. Humans. Monsters. We need him. Not someone who’s a traitor to our species.”
She was resting her head on the bar. Mirn had nothing to say to that. He left her for a moment as someone came over.
“Mirn, Mirn. That Drake is asking if this is our regular gathering spot.”
A Garuda whispered urgently at him. Mirn saw the newcomer circulating the tables. Laughing, smiling. But something—he felt a warning bell go off in his head. He looked at the Garuda.
“That’s not bad, Quet—”
But the Garuda had the same thought as Mirn.
“It’s how he’s asking, Mirn. You know? Like last time.”
His feathers were standing up. Mirn grabbed the Garuda and towed him back. He whispered, urgently.
“Don’t get alarmed. Onieva and I are both here. I’ll deal with it. Tell everyone else not to run for the doors. Stay put.”
The Garuda nodded. Mirn strode over.
“Hey! You! No one asks questions here. You can come back tomorrow. No details, no names. Don’t you know the rules?”
He glared, and saw an unfamiliar face turning towards him. The Drake was young. Fairly handsome. Nice tail. He raised his claws, looking sheepish.
“Sorry, I’m new.”
“No questions.”
Mirn repeated. Nothing was certain. He saw Quet glancing at him and nodded. Keep an eye out. He got a nod and went back to Onieva. She was past depressed and spiraling. Now she was staring at the ceiling. And when one of her eyes moved towards Mirn, he got worried.
“Do you ever feel like burning it all down, Mirn? Sometimes I wonder if I could.”
“Burn…what down, Onieva?”
“Pallass. Sometimes I wonder if I could. Just destroy the city, maybe. I can’t destroy the walls. But the rest of it? If only the people weren’t in the way. Then it would be easy. I could do it. They couldn’t stop me. Not at first. It would be like the Greater Wyvern.”
She stared past Mirn. And he remembered. His friend was a Named-Rank Adventurer. Mirn made his voice cheerful.
“You—wouldn’t do that, though. It’s a shit society. But we need the cities. And we’re still Drakes, aren’t we? You can’t quit being that. You can’t stop being a Drake, right?”
He believed that. But the [Alchemist] just looked past him.
“In a heartbeat. But you know why I’m still me? It’s because I still love that old idiot. Still. And because he’s right. Not about…Onieva. But because Saliss is needed. He has to do terrible things, Mirn. Things I can’t even tell you about. The Antinium don’t stay in their Hives all the time.”
She whispered that and Mirn’s scales tingled. Onieva’s head rolled. She looked at him again, seriously.
“And even then. Even when he’s seen me fighting for Pallass. Chaldion won’t look me in the eye. Not me. After all I’ve done. And you know what? I’m keeping him alive until he’ll look at me. Because someday he’ll die. And when he does, they’ll come down on us harder. Turnscales.”
She raised her voice. The pub went silent. Mirn saw the Drake newcomer circulating near the back look up. The forbidden word made the other guests look at Onieva nervously. They knew her, but—
She was too angry to care.
“They won’t ignore us after the old man. They’ll hunt. Overturn every rock and exile us. If they don’t find enough rope first. But it’s not like that everywhere.”
“You mean—Oteslia? I hear it’s easier there. Or Zeres?”
“It’s the same in all the Walled Cities.”
Onieva snapped. She pointed at Mirn, her finger remarkably unwavering despite how drunk she was.
“I’m talking about other places! It doesn’t have to be like this, you know. Nerrhavia’s different. For Drakes, at any rate. They care about your fabric. So—ironically, us Drakes can walk around as we please. It’s the Alterkind they hate. So it’s the same everywhere, actually. Nevermind.”
“Onieva, you’re drunk.”
Mirn gently pried her claws off her empty cup. Onieva stared at him. Then she shook her head. Mirn remembered his friend. She had come back from Nerrhavia as a seasoned [Alchemist]. With a potion and her name. And a resolution not to take an apprentice and get romantically involved, ever.
The normal atmosphere returned after a while. Onieva idled as Mirn fed her some of the terrible sandwiches.
“…You should get food from The Wandering Inn. They have good food. It’s a nice place.”
“Yes, yes. But it’s not for us. Liscor’s like Pallass, I bet.”
“It could be better. It could all be better. I could burn it down.”
“If you burn this pub down, I’ll hit you.”
“You couldn’t touch me. No one can. I’m the biggest disgrace in Drake society and they can’t fire me or stop me. Isn’t that funny?”
“Hilarious, yes.”
“Mirn—he’s asking if there are more places like this one.”
The Drake was bothering some of the other clients. This time Mirn looked up. Onieva jerked upright and pointed a finger. She didn’t bother with subtlety.
“I am so angry at that old damn Drake. Hey! You! Stop bothering them or we’ll pull out your scales one by one!”
She shouted at the Drake. And Mirn saw the Drake look up nervously. He waved apologetically and slid towards the doors. Mirn’s scales chilled.
“Onieva. I think that guy’s…”
“Yeah. Clear everyone out.”
The [Alchemist] might have been beyond drunk, but she was still an adventurer. She narrowed her eyes, and sobered up almost at once. Mirn’s clients watched sedately as the Drake left, smiling around and apologizing. The instant the door closed they moved.
“Downstairs. No one bother with the doors!”
Mirn snapped. Everyone flooded towards the real secret exit. Mirn checked all three of the magical doors he’d installed.
Erin wasn’t the only one who’d learned you could install your own magical doorways. These were only reinforced and magically locked. Onieva looked around and cursed.
“We’ve got four minutes, I bet. Grab the doors.”
“No. They’ll slow them down—”
