It turned out that summer was hot. Not just in temperature, but…hot. The sun could scorch at times and while Izril wasn’t…Baleros, or at least, what people imagined Baleros to be, an endless, humid jungle, it was true that parts of Baleros had that swampy, oppressive heat that went into your lungs and dehydrated you to death.
But then—Chandrar’s weather could freeze and scorch you in Zeikhal, and yet there were wonderful coasts full of verdant greenery too. It was rude to generalize.
All of that didn’t really matter to the young woman lying in a puddle of her own sweat in a dry patch of land. She looked around, vaguely.
“…’shot. Whysithot?”
She mumbled as she looked around. Then her head flopped down. You could die like this. She might die like this. So—Erin Solstice rolled over. Once, twice, doing full-rotations. She stopped next to a glass pitcher.
Lovely glass, beaded with condensation from the cool liquid within. Erin Solstice stared at the lemonade and licked her lips.
“Mm.”
It would be deliciously sour and sweet. Perfect for the dry mouth she had. Erin reached for it. And someone lifted the pitcher up and poured himself a drink.
“Noooooo. Monster.”
Numbtongue stared down at Erin as he paused with a glass raised to his lips. Erin paused and corrected herself.
“Sorry, Numbtongue. I thought it was some monster. Like Lyonette.”
“Oh. Right. Want some?”
He found another glass lying in the dry, arid ground and filled it. Erin reached up.
“My savior!”
She drank, gratefully. Numbtongue casually sat down. He too was covered in sweat. And dirt. He stared at Erin. She waved the glass at him and he obligingly refilled it. This time with the water pitcher. There were actually three—the third had apple juice. Because…why not?
“It’s hot.”
Erin mumbled as she found the hydration in her to sit up. She had been miserably hot, she realized. Dehydrated. But now, the liquid was doing her a world of good.
The Goblin shrugged. He stared at Erin, and then the dry landscape around them. An acacia tree, arid, tall grass yellowed and scarcely green—he peered at Erin.
“Why are you sitting here?”
Here, as in—the driest part of her Garden of Sanctuary. The arid section, to be precise. Erin wiped her forehead.
“It was cooler! And I was digging a hole. See?”
She pointed to the left. Numbtongue looked. Erin had abandoned her shovel to flop onto the ground. But she’d been working hard; there were several holes in the ground. Erin nodded proudly as she pointed.
“See? I cleared the ground! Got rid of the weeds, made some space…how’s your end going?”
“Mm. Chopped down a tree. Well, kicked.”
“Awesome. Well—wait, what?”
Numbtongue pointed. Erin saw…a tree. In the jungle-section. Someone had ripped the roots out of the ground, and with Bird’s help, literally pushed it over. She stared at Numbtongue.
He had also dug every hole he’d been assigned. And weeded the entire area. The [Bard] was sweaty and dirty, but he wasn’t dead. Erin stared at her cup of water and then at her friend.
“You have a green thumb, Numbtongue. You know that?”
The Hobgoblin grinned. He got the reference and joke. He waggled his thumbs at Erin.
“Can plant now? Bird is chopping tree up.”
“Sure. Just give me a second to stand up?”
Numbtongue waited for seven seconds. Then he stood and pulled Erin up without effort. She sighed, standing. And she saw Bird was hard at work.
“La, la. Chop, chop. I am helping chop wood. Which is good. This song has rhymes. I will think more up in time.”
The Antinium [Bird Hunter] was holding an axe. He was chopping at the tree, removing limbs with eager, if inexperienced, effort. Erin saw a little white shape grabbing each branch he tossed to the side and pulling it away. A young woman with red hair was putting the branches to one side with the little Gnoll. They’d be good firewood once they dried.
Five people stood in the Garden of Sanctuary. Just five. An [Innkeeper], a Hobgoblin, a [Princess], a white Gnoll child, and an Antinium Worker. If you wanted to reduce them to the basics.
They were planting things. Erin was no [Gardener] or…[Horticulturist], but she reckoned that it was time. She nodded around as Bird looked up from his task.
“Hello, Erin. Are you done melting?”
“I am, Bird. And no thanks to you all! I could have died there! Of dehydration!”
Erin waved her arms, smiling. Lyonette sighed as she wiped sweat from her forehead.
“Mrsha would have smelled you dying, Erin. And you didn’t dehydrate. You fell asleep.”
“…No I didn’t.”
“You laid down and slept for twenty minutes. I saw you.”
Erin opened her mouth and looked around for confirmation. She saw Numbtongue nodding.
“Huh. Really? Well—I worked hard!”
“Numbtongue uprooted a tree.”
“Wasn’t hard. Weak tree.”
The Hobgoblin pounded his chest as Mrsha flexed her biceps and waved her paws to show she had helped! Erin smiled.
“Well—that ground is harder! This is nice soil. Lush. Fertile. I think. Let’s plant stuff. Where’s the seeds?”
“Here. And here. Are we really doing this?”
Lyonette had a handful of round…seed cores. She handled them very gingerly; they’d break if you squeezed hard. They’d been mostly denuded of the blue flesh, the sweet fruit they resided in. Erin nodded.
“Yup. Let’s put four of them here…four over in the arid spot, and four…”
“In every biome. I get it, Erin. Numbtongue?”
Lyonette tossed him the cores. The Hobgoblin caught them and walked off. Lyonette looked at Erin.
“Do you really think they’ll grow in the dry spots?”
“I have no idea where they grow. What do I look like, a gardener?”
“Absolutely not. But they do grow in…Liscor. So why not put them in the temperate section?”
“Well, they get submerged by water once a year for like, a month. So I don’t know where they’d grow.”
“And your answer is to put them in every section?”
Erin Solstice smiled triumphantly. It was her logic, which was why Lyonette and Mrsha were giving her skeptical looks.
“It’s an experiment. We’ve got ground to spare! Anyways, we’re planting more cocoa seeds. And all the vegetables.”
She pointed to the side. In another section filled with friendly grass, the kind you could wiggle your toes in, some space had been cleared near the vine-covered walls. Lyonette nodded; they’d planted hundreds of little seeds with some fertilizer earlier this morning. Carrots, cucumbers, potatoes, even some wheat and other plants.
“I hope it grows well. It would certainly cut down on costs. Especially if someone makes them grow, isn’t that right, Mrsha?”
The little Gnoll nodded her head proudly. The [Druid] produced her wand and waved it about. She’d make the garden grow!
“And all the plants? Not just the ones you like? That means not just garlic and squashes and wheat, Mrsha. Cucumbers too. And potatoes.”
The little Gnoll stuck out her tongue.
Bleh. Potatoes? Cucumbers? They were both Terandrian foods Lyonette loved to feed her. The [Princess] picked Mrsha up and cuddled her.
“If we get good crops, I might make you a treat, Mrsha. Fresh food!”
“And blue fruits! And chocolate! All free! Mountains of chocolate! And faerie flowers growing on the hill! And—and apple trees! Although those might take a while.”
Erin threw up her hands excitedly. This was it! Free food! She saw Bird throw a seed core into a hole, kick the pile of dirt over it, and smack the ground a few times with a shovel.
“I am done planting, Erin.”
“Thanks, Bird!”
“May I go back to the tower now?”
“Yes, Bird.”
Lyonette and Erin chorused. Bird waved at them. Lyonette sighed as she flicked hair out of her face.
“Well, I’m sweaty and dirty and I think we all need a bath. But we also have work. Ishkr’s about to get off-duty, Erin. I’ll take over for him—will you take Mrsha to the public baths?”
The private little bathing room Lyonette wanted made wasn’t done yet. There would be a hot tub in it—a big one, as well as other, convenient cleaning places. And thanks to Erin’s Garden, water wouldn’t be a huge issue—although Lyonette wanted to divert the local stream to run by the inn so they’d avoid draining the pond.
Divert a stream. She had the Antinium working on it. And the inn was coming together. The 2nd floor was done, there were new tenants in the inn—the [Mages], the Players of Celum, and more. Erin nodded as Mrsha edged backwards.
“We can take a bath. It’ll be fun, right, Mrsha?”
The little Gnoll wrinkled her nose. She didn’t see the point. Nor did she want to sit in a public bath while Erin—who could be slow—splished about and got clean for half an hour. Or longer! She shook her head and pointed towards the pond. Erin frowned.
“Mrsha, no. We can get clean with soap! It’s fun, right? Mrsha? Come back here. Mrsha—”
The white Gnoll raced off. Erin ran after her, shouting. But she didn’t realize that her attempt to stop Mrsha from taking her own bath was actually…a trap.
Numbtongue, walking back from his finished planting, saw Mrsha waving her paws at him and signaling frantically. He paused, grinned, and obligingly stuck out a foot as Erin ran past him. She tripped and saw the pond.
 
——
 
“Mm. I have nothing. Damn. Three Archmages again, Palt? What’re the odds?”
Montressa threw down her hand of cards and glared. She was sitting at a table. Gambling. She saw the Centaur smirk and reach for the pot.
“Good ones, Montressa. Especially if you know when to fold. Which you don’t.”
“I nearly had a straight.”
Beza grumbled. Palt rolled his eyes. He reached for his cigar and lit it with a snap of his fingers. Montressa and Beza saw him take a puff, and sigh. Then the Centaur looked around. But Erin wasn’t here.
“She’s still planting in the garden. You’re clear, Palt.”
“Thanks, Mons.”
The [Illusionist] smiled and puffed away. Erin Solstice still had a ban on him smoking in her inn. It was the one sour note in an otherwise quite pleasant experience. The three [Mages] were guests of The Wandering Inn.
And right now, they were gambling. With cards.
New cards. Montressa peered at the little deck Palt was shuffling. Cards. They were hardly unknown to her. Although this particular deck and configuration were.
“I don’t like this game. Palt’s winning far too often. If you’re cheating, Palt, I’ll pull out your tail hairs one by one.”
Beza gave Palt a suspicious look, as was somewhat appropriate for a [Mage] specializing in illusion spells. Palt smirked at her.
“Not at all, Beza. Stay away from my tail. I just understand the rules of the game better than you. I told you, it’s about odds.”
“And luck. Do you have any luck-Skills?”
“I wish. Another hand?”
“Sure. But we’re going down in the ante.”
Montressa grumbled as she slid four copper coins over the table. Palt gave her a flat look.
“Come now, Montressa—”
“I’m not losing silver to you while I’m playing the game. Anyways, this game’s decent. Not sure it’s that great. And Wistram already knows about it.”
The Centaur puffed on his cigar.
“True, but Miss Solstice is introducing it. ‘Poker’. I’m a decent fan; I played with some of the…guests, though. Thoughts?”
“I object to these cards. They’re all Drakes. Even the Archmages.”
Beza held up one playing card. Montressa and Palt nodded. They were playing cards, from this world. Card games existed—if not the specific ones Erin knew. There were four Archmages that Palt was shuffling into his deck—the equivalent of Aces, Erin had decided.
“Well, she ordered some cards from Liscor. Drakes being Drakes, of course they’d make all the cards Drakes. Archmage Zelkyr, Archmage Salindeca…not speciesist at all. Oh, look. A Gnoll [Soldier]. I don’t see any of them on the face-cards.”
The Minotaur held up another card with a lowly Gnoll [Soldier] and a symbol marking it as ‘3’. Montressa looked for some chips.
“Are you making a point, Beza?”
“I’m making chatter because I’m tired of losing to Palt. And I’m bored. We’re banned from the garden—”
“To be fair, so am I.”
“Shut it, Palt. We’re banned, so why don’t we do something?”
“Like what?”
“Something other than wasting money playing cards!”
Beza put down her fist on the table and the cards and drinks jumped. Palt sighed.
It was a quiet day. A few days since the…incident with Klbkch. And the dozy morning had brought cards to the inn—and gardening. But not in any big way. He puffed on his cigar and gestured around the inn.
“Beza, Beza. You have to be patient. Just wait until Erin gets back. Then, we can let her know how we feel about the cards. Proving once again we’re not weasels from Wistram—”
“So you can get in her good graces. I don’t think telling her how her playing cards idea is going will earn us many points, Palt.”
Montressa sighed. But it was that sort of morning. She reached for more chips and wondered if she was eating too much. It reminded her of Wistram, actually. Good food, drinks, time on your hands…
And a bee. In the quiet morning, a large bee detached herself from the ceiling. She flew downwards, like a stealthy…giant…bee. Bright yellow and black. Buzzing. A colossus compared to most insects.
Apista alighted on the Centaur’s cigar. Palt went cross-eyed and stopped smoking. Montressa and Beza froze. After a second, Montressa whispered at him.
“Palt, you have a bee.”
The Centaur didn’t move. Probably because he was aware of this fact. Apista’s wings beat hard. She lifted, and the cigar dropped out of Palt’s mouth as he leaned back.
The bee flew away, carrying her prize. The Wistram [Mages] stared. And Apista buzzed through an open door and into her little nest that Lyonette and Mrsha had made for her in the Garden of Sanctuary.
With the cigar, which she lit as her wings beat sparks and the air burst into fire around her. And the cigar smoked and Apista was happy.
After all, what was a bee if she could not fly as high as could be? A bee was high as she could be. And she was free.
But not her comrades in the dark. So the bee went higher in her head. For the hive fought valiantly. But one day, if not rescued, they’d be dead.
Those were the bee’s thoughts. But who could hear them? No one. At least—no one listening. Not even the [Mages]. They just stared after Apista. Palt slowly fumbled out another cigar from his belt pouch.
“…Do you think Erin’s trained the bee to smell you, Palt? Can they smell?”
“She hasn’t. That bee just wants my cigar. It—she—has good taste.”
Palt glowered after the bee, from one smoker to another. Apista didn’t hear or care. She was high in the sky of her head—rather than in reality, which could be cold and dark and dead. She could do nothing to save the others.
