Saliss of Lights, Saliss Oliwing, Named Adventurer, famous [Alchemist] and even more infamous nudist, walked out of the crowds, holding up a claw for people to high-five. No one did. He didn’t look put out by this. He strolled towards 4th Army’s squad and the doors.
“Halt. No one’s allowed in. General Edellein’s orders.”
The [Major] called out weakly. The two elites, a Dullahan and Drake, crossed the blades they carried—long glaive-type weapons—in front of the doors. Saliss paused.
“What? Oh, hey. Do I know you? Don’t mind me. I’m just going to both—I mean, say hi. I’ll just slip in and…”
He tried to limbo under the spears. The Drake [Major] stared at Saliss. Like a true Pallassian, he almost forgot Saliss was naked, even though it was…obvious.
“Adventurer Saliss, no one is allowed in. Not even a [Senator].”
“What? No one? Come on, make an exception. I know you, you know me, I know Edellein. You’re, uh, Qune, right?”
“No, sir. And I can’t open the doors—”
Saliss was edging around the spears. The [Soldiers] were looking at the [Major] for guidance. By all rights, they should have already picked Saliss up, slammed him onto the street, and proceeded to kick him hard enough to justify his visit to another [Healer].
For someone else they might have. But Saliss just leaned on the two spears the [Soldiers] were keeping crossed. He gave the Drake [Major] a cheerful grin.
“It’ll just be a little bit. Promise! I won’t get old Chaldion too riled up. Anyways, I brought lunch. Chocolates. And this nice pie I got from this inn in Liscor. Have you heard…?”
“Adventurer Saliss, I can’t—”
“Let me just slip under the spears…hey. Nice armor. The door…oh, it’s locked? Well, I’ll just…”
The elite [Soldiers] of 4th Army stood to stiff attention as the naked Drake did something to the lock. There was a click, and he slipped inside. They did not stop him. They did shout ten kinds of obscenities at the young Garuda who tried to copy Saliss and raised their weapons.
But not towards Saliss. They let him in, embarrassing as it was for their pride. Because it was that or Saliss would walk in, through 4th Army’s best and brightest if he wanted to. And both groups knew it. And the affable, liked, tolerated, Named Adventurer, Saliss of Pallass, who was always cheerful and annoyingly friendly, would walk through those doors today. And anyone who got in his way. He’d done so before.
Word got around.
 
——
 
Chaldion was staring at the ceiling when he heard the familiar voice arguing with the [Healer]. The old [Strategist] sighed and glowered, but he knew even Demerra wouldn’t keep Saliss out for long.
Nor did she. Because soon, a figure poked his head through the doorway.
“Heeeey Chaldion. You’re looking terrible!”
Saliss waved cheerfully. The old Drake glanced up and gestured with one claw. The magical projection of Noass and Sir Relz vanished; he’d been watching a scrying broadcast. At least he had entertainment. Scrying, books, correspondence…no chess, though.
“Saliss. I’m not in the mood for you. Go. Away.”
The old Drake turned his head. Saliss spread his arms. He edged around the bed. Gyrated, rather.
“Aw. Come on, Chaldion. Here I am, to cheer you up! Look! I even brought you lunch. Since I bet no one thought of that! Tada! Pie! And chocolate. Want some? I’ll feed you. Say ‘ah’.”
“I will have you thrown off the walls first before I let you feed me. Get out.”
The Drake watched Saliss busy himself around the bed. Saliss had a floating tray in front of Chaldion with the pie and a fork propped in the center.
Demerra’s clinic had a lot of expensive treatment options. Like healing crystals placed around the bed which naturally boosted a body’s recovery. Floating trays, options that relieved stress on an injured patient…it was a far cry from a simple cot and some poultices.
But as she said—she couldn’t cure old age. And a [Healer] was a…[Healer]. At some point, Demerra did rely on magical objects or tinctures to aid natural healing potions—which could do a lot.
Saliss was an [Alchemist]. And Chaldion, eying the cake and half-melted chocolates that Saliss put on the tray, glowered at Saliss. His one good eye flashed.
“I. Fell. It was perfectly natural. I do not want or require your sympathy, Saliss.”
“Aw, don’t say that. What would the Walled Cities do without ‘Chaldion the Great and Powerful?’ The Grand Strategist of Pallass! Oh, heavens! I swoon just imagining it!”
The Named Adventurer pretended to do so by the bedside. Chaldion looked around for his stick. He swiped irritably at Saliss with his claws and winced.
“I. Am. Fine. I do not need a minder or—or a bodyguard!”
“Aw, come on, Chaldion. It’s only a matter of time before someone hires a killer to off you. Or the Antinium get you. Frankly, if they asked me, and I was an [Assassin], I’d do it at a discount. They don’t even need a knife, just a staircase. It would be the perfect assassination.”
Saliss spread his claws past Chaldion’s head. The old Drake just stared at him. Then he flipped up his eye patch with commendable speed for someone his age.
The naked Drake ducked. There was a flash—the blast and flash of light wasn’t too strong since Chaldion didn’t have his good eye in, the ones that could do nasty things, but it still blasted around the enclosed room.
Demerra came running.
“No casting spells! Saliss! If you can’t avoid provoking Chaldion, you’re leaving!”
“I didn’t do anything! He’s touchy! And old! And he smells like…ew.”
Saliss protested as Chaldion swore and looked for his bag of holding, which carried more deadly weapons. It was missing, not on the nightstand. Demerra pointed at Saliss.
“Stop provoking him.”
“Fine, fine. Don’t ruin your pie, old man. Or the chocolates! Mm. These are great. Have you had any? Say ‘ah’.”
Chaldion stared at Saliss. It was the kind of stare that couldn’t kill, but only for lack of trying. The fact that he’d actually had his missing eye replaced with magical gemstones that could kill with a look proved Chaldion’s commitment to the art of the death-glare.
But it didn’t work on Saliss, who was giving him a smarmy smile. The Named Adventurer leaned on the gel-bed Chaldion was resting on.
“If you’re good, I’ll bring you entertainment. Like Erin. Or Olesm. Or we can get Grimalkin in here to teach you how to lift! Yeah! So you’ll have strong bones that don’t break whenever you sneeze!”
Saliss posed, flexing his slim physique. And Chaldion, turning redder behind his grey, flaking scales—paused. And abruptly, the anger went out of him. He didn’t give up per se…he just put it away.
The old [Strategist] eyed the pie and mangled chocolates. Saliss had helped himself to some of the melted chocolates. And it wasn’t as though Saliss had brought an oversized pie; it was actually closer to tart-size, given Chaldion’s stomach capacity. He looked at the pie, chocolates, and then Saliss. And he spoke, in a quiet voice.
“Can I assume you put the age potion in the pie, rather than the chocolates? I’ve had my fill of them.”
Saliss stopped, mid-flex. The younger Drake looked at Chaldion. And his smile slipped. For a second, the two Drakes met gazes. And the anger and annoyance of Chaldion, Saliss’ insincere taunts. They vanished. Saliss took a breath, and heaved a sigh.
“It doesn’t fit in chocolates. I don’t even want to think how I’d manage that. At what process in making it? And if I poured it on top…? Nah. It’s in the pie. Eat the entire thing. I think it’s a mincemeat pie. Erin made it.”
He held up a claw.
“And before you think it’s something else, it’s just a meat pie. She told me she was trying to figure it out. I thought it was self-explanatory, but apparently it’s different. Anyways, it’s good.”
“Hmf. At least you got me something I can stomach. What kind of meat?”
“…Pork?”
The old [Strategist] nodded. He picked up the fork and began to eat. In silence, Saliss watched Chaldion take bite after bite. It was a decent pie. And the added potion did little to take away from it. Well—it did a bit.
“It still tastes foul. I don’t suppose that youth potion is in here too?”
The [Alchemist] laughed. He produced a little vial. And Chaldion saw a vibrant, viridian glow. He put his fork down for a moment and saw…magic.
A potion, held in Saliss’ claw. And it shone like what it was. Pure magic. A Potion of Youth. Something that could make even the oldest of people young. For a moment, a week.
“Hmf. So you did make one. I got the report, but I know how often you fail. The world’s already abuzz with people ready to pay far too much for it. How was making it?”
Saliss shrugged, tiredly. He spoke conversationally as he found a little stool and sat. Chaldion kept eating.
“You know how it is. Actually…no, nah.”
He waved it away, but it was too late. Chaldion’s good eye snapped towards him.
“Erin Solstice. Something in her inn helped you improve the process. Her fire. Or was it the flowers mentioned? Something else?”
Saliss laughed innocently, waving it off.
“What? Why would you…”
He fell silent. Then he looked at Chaldion.
“Go rot yourself, Chaldion. Why do you have to bother her?”
The unexpected aggression would have caught anyone off-guard. But Chaldion just grinned. Victoriously.
“For the same reason you’re interested in her, you brat. So. Something helped with your process?”
Saliss swore under his breath. But eventually, he nodded.
“It helped in the refining process. No ingredients, which would be massive. But I’ve got…another 6% chance of making the potion rather than it exploding.”
“Useful. Very useful. And you won’t tell me what her level is? You know I will find out.”
“Leave her alone. She’s not your anything.”
“She’s not a bystander either. You may stay out of it. This is my decision as a [Strategist]. You are a busybody that Pallass deigns to call on and suffer.”
The two Drakes glowered at each other. Saliss turned his head and saw his tail was moving snappishly over the floor. He took a few breaths.
“…Well, I’m going to sell my Youth Potion on the market. You can pay me for it, Chaldion. I’ll give it to you for the same price the last one went for. How about it? You can dance around for a week like when you were young. The duration’s a week now, by the way.”
“Congratulations. I’m sure any number of petty idiots would like to sire a new generation of fools. I wish you the best of luck selling it.”
“Oh, not me. I have an apprentice now. And I have someone to sell it for me. Sales skills, you know? You going to eat the chocolates?”
“After the pie. Don’t touch—”
Saliss swiped a chocolate. Chaldion hissed at him. He settled back as Saliss smirked and moved his head back out of smacking range. Then—Chaldion was quiet again. He looked at Saliss, seriously.
“Tell me. Honestly. How much does the Potion of Youth earn you?”
“What? Trying to outbid the competition already? I told you—”
“And how much do you spend on the Potion of Reverse Aging in this pie each time?”
Chaldion pointed at the pie on the tray. Saliss froze, mid-cavort. He looked at Chaldion. And shrugged, as innocently as could be. A perfect shrug. Like an Erin-shrug. And his voice was as good as Erin’s. Better.
“Eh. You know how it is. You make money, you don’t make money.”
The old Drake looked at Saliss steadily. He looked at the pie, and gestured with his loaded fork.
“…If I didn’t eat the pie?”
“I’d probably feed it to you with a funnel. Anyways, I can’t just spike your drink. It’s best eaten with food.”
Saliss’ voice was perfectly serious for a second. Chaldion nodded.
“I’m not turning it down. Put the funnel away or I’ll shove it somewhere we’ll both regret.”
“Is that an offer or a threat?”
The [Alchemist] chuckled as he put away the metal funnel. But the two of them…Chaldion chewed, swallowed.
“…How much?”
“I don’t count numbers, old man.”
“Liar. I’ve never met an [Alchemist] who didn’t. It’s that much, is it?”
Saliss turned his back abruptly. He rested his elbows on the bed as he leaned against it.
“I’m getting better. It’s up to two years now. If I get to four, or higher? That’s a real savings. I’m still leveling up. And I don’t depend on levels. Who knows, maybe I will find something amazing at that inn?”
The Grand Strategist regarded his grey scales on one arm. As he chewed, he thought he saw them brighten a bit, turn colorful. Some of the places where dead scales had flaked off…were they starting to regrow? Was it just his imagination?
“And until then? No—even if you master it. How many Potions of Reverse Aging will you give me? How much of the profits of your adventuring work, your Potions of Temporary Youth—everything else—goes into this pie?”
“Eh. I’d charge Pallass for it, but the Walled City can’t pay all my bills. Enjoy your pie, old lizard. I liked it.”
The other Drake’s head never moved. Chaldion poked the back of it with his fork.
“Be serious for once in your life. When will you stop, Saliss?”
Silence. Just pure silence. And then, Saliss replied, without turning his head.
“When you dance naked with me in the middle of Pallass.”
Chaldion snorted, despite himself. He looked at the pie, finished but for a quarter and put the fork down for a second. He chewed on a bit of chocolate.
“Hmph. Then, I suppose I’d better prepare to live forever.”
Laughter from Saliss. Chaldion enjoyed the sweetness for a moment. He felt better already.
Two years. It hadn’t always been two years. He still remembered when it was one. And the cost…
People often said it was amazing that Chaldion had lived as long as he had. A hundred and six years. But he looked like he was in his seventies, at the latest. And—in a way—he was. How many potions was that? More than just twenty. How much gold…? Even the old [Strategist] feared that number’s truth.
Chaldion just looked at Saliss. Eventually, he went back to eating. He cleaned the pie tin, carefully, wasting not a crumb. He put down the fork, saw Saliss turn, about to make some smart comment and leave. And the old Drake couldn’t bear it. He spoke to Saliss’ naked back.
“You can’t keep me in this world forever, Saliss. I’m too old for it. And I am no hero. Just a [Strategist]. Someday, even your age potions will stop working, just like the healing potions.”
The [Alchemist] paused. He sat back down and kept facing the opposite wall. The two Drakes weren’t alone. There was a little fly, buzzing around. Saliss must have let it in when he’d walked in—Demerra allowed no pests in her clinic.
