The [Gossip] and [Bartender] gave Selys a bright smile. The Drake shifted. She was still friends with Drassi, who was a childhood confidant and who hadn’t been affected by Selys’ newfound wealth in that she hadn’t asked for favors. But this conversation was…awkward.
“Adventurers make tens—hundreds of thousands of gold coins. And they spend it on potions, armor, artifacts. And because I can rent the Heartflame Armor—I don’t have to work. Because my uncle—because Zel died. But he wanted me to have this. Should I feel…guilty?”
“Absolutely. It’s totally unfair.”
Selys stared at Drassi, poised to take another sip of tea.
“Really?”
Her friend laughed and waved one claw.
“No, I’m being serious. It’s disgusting. But hey—at least you’re benefiting, right?”
“I’m building houses. An entire apartment complex.”
“Good for you. How much is rent?”
“…Drassi, are you in a bad mood today?”
The [Gossip] winked at Selys cheerfully.
“I’m not. I’m just throwing numbers around. Does it bother you?”
Selys put her cup down. She was done having tea. Her friend chewed on a scone and sighed.
“Think I can get a bag so I can share this with Mrsha? I’ve got work in twenty minutes. Or—can you lend me your bag of holding?”
“What? And absolutely not. Drassi—that’s disgusting. Can’t you stay? I wanted to talk more.”
“Work! Hey, can I get a bag for this?”
The [Bartender] was talking with a [Waitress] as she shoved her scone and the whipped cream into one mess. The worst part was that Selys was sure Mrsha would eat it and enjoy it.
“Erin could let you off, Drassi.”
The [Gossip] paused. She looked back at Selys as the other Drake fumbled for an appropriate tip and the money for the food. She saw a gold coin flash as Selys put it down on the table.
The two Drakes looked at each other. Drassi glanced around at the café. Tea parlor, whatever. It was for well-to-do Drakes and Gnolls, and they were waiting in line. The [Waitress] was already thanking Selys profusely for a silver tip. Drassi smiled with teeth.
“I’m sure she could. But you wouldn’t ask her to do that, right?”
The two Drakes looked at each other. And Selys felt…she glanced at the tip. That wasn’t something most Drakes did. It was more of a Human tradition, but Selys had adopted it because it made a difference. She could afford to tip.
Silently, Selys got up, and the two walked through the streets towards The Wandering Inn. They joined a crowd around the door.
“Whew. Looks like a bigger crowd. I guess word got around about Erin’s new card games. It’s great when she comes out with something interesting.”
Drassi commented as they got into line. A few people looked over. Some of them seemed to take offense to the comment.
“We’re not here just for entertainment, Miss Drassi. The Human’s not the only fun in Liscor.”
A Gnoll sniffed at Drassi, doing a pretty good Pisces impression. Selys suddenly missed him. The other people waiting for the magical door to be switched to Liscor agreed.
“Of course not. There’s dancing, card games, dice games, magic games, drinks, socialization, music, um—[Bards] with jokes or news—”
“Sex.”
Drassi helpfully nodded as she balanced her snack-bag from the café in one claw. The guests coughed or shuffled their feet awkwardly. Someone went on.
“Training, ball throwing, sekach—swimming in the spring, and visiting the [Traders], cooking…”
Sekach, a Drake game of conquest and hoarding…stealing the opponent’s treasure, played with colorful pieces of wood. The subject of many fights between players.
“Um…plays? Baseball?”
Two new crazes sweeping Liscor. But the plays were confined to The Wandering Inn mostly; there were some knockoffs, but The Players of Celum were the best, without question. And baseball? Teams were playing for fun, but there was some talk about another competition. People wanted Erin to organize it.
The guests in line frowned. And who had brought that game to the city?
“No, that’s her new stuff. But there are pets!”
Everyone agreed. Pets. Pets were good. See? Liscor had more entertainment than just the crazy Human with the inn! Absolutely! They could entertain themselves elsewhere.
At that moment, the door opened. Drassi pushed past everyone.
“Excuse me! I’ve gotta get to work. Mrsha! I have a treat! Let me know if you’re not coming through. Hi, Ishkr. Want some cream scones? Anyone who’s coming through—we have card games! Poker! That’s what it’s called, right?”
She smiled back through the doorway. Selys and the other Liscorians looked at each other. There was tons of stuff…elsewhere…they could do for fun. Tons of it. However, well…
 
——
 
“Erin! What’s new?”
The young woman in the inn looked up to a small avalanche of guests coming through from Liscor. She saw Selys, Drassi—Mrsha had already raced towards the Drake [Bartender] as she set up.
“Selys! Hi! I’ve got cards!”
She waved her hand in the air. Selys, walking over, saw Erin was alone at her table. There were a number of guests and familiar faces around the inn. At other tables.
“Cards? Oh, the poker thing Drassi mentioned. How do you play? I’m free for the day. Hello, Mrsha!”
The Gnoll waved at Selys absently. Drassi had scones with cream! Selys turned to Erin. The young woman was explaining.
“It’s this fun game. You can play with a group. Want to learn?”
“Sure. Will anyone play with us?”
Selys looked around. She caught the eye of a Centaur, moodily smoking near an open window.
“Palt. Do you want to…”
“No.”
The Centaur glanced up. Normally, Palt was affable as could be. Right now? He gave the deck of cards a dark look. Selys blinked. She looked at Erin, whom she was fairly certain Palt liked. Erin wore a guilty expression.
“Anyone else? Montressa? Beza?”
“I will not play with her.”
The Minotauress folded her arms. Selys looked around.
“…Bird?”
“No! I am not playing! You cannot have my birds!”
The Worker shouted. He was possessively clutching his boiled eggs to him as he had lunch. Selys looked at Erin and raised one brow.
“What did you do, Erin?”
“Nothing! I was just playing—and I kept winning—”
“Miss Erin has an unusual gift for playing cards. Which in turn takes away from our enjoyment of the game.”
Palt explained as he blew a smoke ring out the window. Erin blushed as Selys looked at her.
“Well…”
“Apparently it’s known as ‘counting outs’. And Erin can do it in her head.”
Montressa was counting the coins she had left. Erin had returned some of the money, but she’d swept the table too many times for anyone else to be happy. She’d even won two birds off of Bird.
“You never told me you’re a [Gambler], Erin.”
Selys was surprised. Erin shook her head instantly.
“What? Psh. I don’t gamble. I thought you all liked to play!”
She pointed accusatorially at the Wistram [Mages]. All three looked quite put out.
“We like to play fair games, Erin.”
Montressa shot back. Erin turned red.
“What? All three of you were cheating! You used magic to see my hand!”
“That’s how you play in Wistram! And it didn’t help because you figured it out each time we tried! You—you’re using calculations to win! That’s not fair!”
“It’s just math! Odds! Probability! It’s easy! And you have to not show people what you’re really thinking.”
“So says the board game expert.”
Selys rolled her eyes. Of course Erin was good at games like this. She could be surprisingly competitive, and when she learned a game, she learned it. Especially how to win. And her poker face? Erin’s poker face? It was probably unbeatable.
“So, do you want to play, Selys? Or—I know! Why don’t you check out my garden? I was planting stuff with the others all day.”
“I…”
Selys glanced at the cards and table. And at the Garden of Sanctuary. And she realized she didn’t really want to do either. Perhaps it was that, or Drassi’s nettling comment that made Selys look back the way she’d come.
“You know, Erin? I was sort of wondering. Is the door to Pallass open? I…might want to visit again.”
Erin Solstice blinked. She looked at Selys. And then she smiled.
“Yeah. And the grass has it fully charged up so it’s easy…easier. Lyonette wants to charge people. But if we go now, she doesn’t have to know…”
“I can pay—”
The [Heiress] saw Drassi roll her eyes. Erin laughed as she led Selys down the passage to the door. She waited as a group of Humans came through.
“You coming for the inn?”
“Uh? No, Miss. We’re here to work, actually.”
A small group of women and men hurriedly bowed to Erin, some removing their caps. Erin smiled.
“Really? Where are you from? Wait—Esthelm?”
“We’ve got day-jobs in Liscor.”
“Oh—then let me put you through. One sec, Selys…”
The Drake watched as the Human disappeared. Liscor was changing a lot. Selys looked at Erin, in her [Innkeeper]’s work clothing, a bit dirty from gardening and newly dried from her pond bath.
“…Do you want to come with me, Erin? I’m actually hoping I can meet some people in Pallass, and I have some—acquaintances Keldrass recommended me to.”
Erin Solstice paused at the door.
“Um, I probably should stick in the inn, Selys. I could go through, but the last time I went…aaah! Wyvern attack! You know? I might hold off.”
The young woman mimed and Selys nodded. When you put it like that—she was somewhat glad as Erin adjusted the door.
“One to go through! Hey Zekia, is that you?”
“Halt! You can’t just open—Miss Solstice!”
The voice instantly became resigned as Erin poked her head through the doorway and waved. Selys glanced at Erin.
“You know the guards?”
“Sure do. I sometimes leave pizzas in the door at night. They stopped shouting as much at me. And threatening to shoot me. Hey Zekia, this is Selys. Can’t she go through? I told you, the door’s all charged up now. See? I can jump through, jump back—waitasecond. I’m gonna stop doing that now.”
Erin caught herself, turned to Selys and smiled. The Drake [Lieutenant] on the other side sounded resigned.
“Miss Solstice, we cannot just waive the list. We have a system!”
“Yeah, but the door has magic now. Come on. It’s Selys. She’s been here before.”
“That doesn’t constitute a reason to let her through. Miss Solstice, we cannot allow you to break the rules—wait.”
The pair of eyes behind the sliding panel flicked to Selys. The Drake eyed the steel door—crenellations from which the guards could shoot through—and the other eyes watching her. She saw the Drake [Lieutenant]’s eyes widen.
“Do you mean Selys Shivertail, as in…the niece of General Shivertail? The owner of…”
Erin blinked. The Drake, Zekia, looked at Selys. And the [Heiress] saw her step back, confer with one of her squad mates. Then Zekia spoke again.
“Miss Shivertail?”
“Um—if this isn’t legal, I can go back…”
Selys pointed weakly over her shoulder. She was no Erin. But—Zekia paused.
“Allow me ten—five minutes, Miss Shivertail. I will communicate with the Watch Captain on duty. Pardon me.”
Erin stared at Selys. And the Drake waited nervously in the box of a room where the door was now stored. Until Zekia came back, opened the door, and motioned Selys through.
“Right this way, Miss Shivertail.”
“What? You’re letting her through?”
Even Erin was taken aback. Zekia nodded to Selys and the [Heiress] realized that there was someone waiting for her.
“Miss Shivertail is on a list, Miss Solstice.”
“She is?”
A Drake with a monocle was waiting for Selys. He bowed quite smartly and adjusted the monocle he was wearing. Selys recognized him of course, instantly. The world would recognize this Drake. And he was not alone. Watch Captain Venim gave Selys a smart salute and Erin a glare. The [Innkeeper] waved. But it was for Selys the two Drakes were here.
“Miss Shivertail? My name is Sir Relz Hauscale of Pallass. And this is Watch Captain Venim. I had the good fortune to be speaking with the Watch Captain when I heard about your desire to visit our city. May I be the first to welcome you here?”
“A pleasure, Miss Shivertail. I had the honor of meeting your uncle. Twice.”
Venim nodded to Selys. She blinked at him. And then at Sir Relz.
“I’ve uh, been here before. I just wanted to visit because…I’m Selys. Uh—pleased to meet you.”
Sir Relz didn’t miss a beat. He bowed and offered his arm.
“Ah, in that case, it would be my delight to introduce you to Pallass, Miss Selys. Or rather, a part of it simply begging to meet you. We were aware of our peers in Liscor, but this is a fortuitous circumstance.”
“Me? Why?”
Sir Relz gave Selys a curious look as Watch Captain Venim saluted them and went to lecture Erin on bothering the [Guards] on duty. Erin blinked after Selys.
“What people? Hey, are you that monocle-jerk? Hey!”
Sir Relz ignored Erin. But he answered Selys as he gestured down the street, waving at people who turned to stare at him and thus, Selys.
“Society, Miss Selys. Proper society. And if you’ll allow me to be forthright—it pays to get to know an up-and-coming Drake. I doubt anyone has introduced you to the right circles. But for the niece of General Shivertail and the owner of a relic-class artifact…”
The [Heiress] looked at Sir Relz. And she looked down at her clothes and adjusted her hat as he led her down the street. And she realized—
She might be underdressed. Erin stared after her friend’s back. High society? She scratched her head.
“No one’s ever invited me to high society.”
Watch Captain Venim closed the door in Erin’s face. The Drake sighed.
“I can’t imagine why.”
 
——
 
High Society. It needed the capital letters. Because it was high society. The kind of society you couldn’t get into without something.
Fame. Wealth. Connections. A mix of the three. It was a world hidden from the masses. And it had its own rules and system. Most people were probably aware it existed. But if you danced in the world of the elite, you understood the game, even if you didn’t play.
You had to. And the young, female Drake who appeared in the ritzy room of socialites knew none of the rules. You could just see it, from the way she looked around at the décor, the names—wide-eyed, impressed. That wasn’t how you were supposed to do it. Even if you met your hero, you were supposed to be casual. Act as if you belonged and everyone might believe it.
Then again—she belonged. Or else why would she have been invited? A name ran around the room as fast as lightning.
Selys Shivertail. Heiress to the Heartflame Breastplate. Relative of a hero of the Drakes. Rich—well, moneyed. And new to all of it.
“Ancestors. They’re going to eat her up.”
