“I’m doing pretty well, aren’t I, Chaldion? You’re younger than when I started.”
“By three years.”
“That’s three years on time itself! What do you want? Fine, I’ll brag when I get you to fifty.”
The fly buzzed as Saliss raised his voice. It was just a fly. Although—if it ate some of Saliss’ healing potion in the pie, would it turn into a larvae? Chaldion wondered. What would someone else, like, say, the Blighted King, or even the King of Destruction, pay for a service Chaldion got for free? Even against his wishes?
“What was it you told me once, Saliss? Four [Alchemists] in the world can make Potions of Temporary Youth? How many can reverse age?”
“We don’t brag about it. That’s how you get captured forever. Temporary Youth’s one thing. Reverse Aging? That makes people go crazy. No sane [Alchemist] advertises that, and we’re all a bit sane if we make it this far. Hazard of the job.”
Saliss pointed that out. Chaldion nodded.
“So you might be the only one who’s able to create them.”
“Rediscovered. No one makes anything new in our line of work. But yes, I am better than Xif. He thinks we’re equals. I laugh about that, when I’m in a bad mood. Praise me more.”
Saliss raised his claw and made a beckoning motion. Chaldion snorted.
“You didn’t bring me any wine, did you?”
“What, and ruin your good mood? I’ve got some shots of that filth Rufelt makes. Your ‘Chaldion’s Eye’, minus the sweet. Not that you mind. But I think Demerra will kill me if I give you any.”
“…Put it in my bag of holding and pass it to me.”
Saliss did. Chaldion sighed as he took a covert swallow. [Healers]. Tyrants every one. After a moment, he spoke again.
“It’s a waste on me. How much gold? What kind of [Alchemist] would you be if you weren’t making these potions and giving all your profits to me?”
“Everyone needs a hobby, Chald. Can I call you that? Besides, it’s kept me busy. And you’re the ‘Grand Strategist’ now. It’s a public service.”
Chaldion looked at Saliss. The Drake still hadn’t turned to face him. It was easier for the both of them.
“I’m the Grand Strategist because I’m old. I’m no Niers Astoragon.”
“Yeah, you’re taller. So what?”
“Listen to me.”
The old Drake swiped at Saliss’ head in genuine anger. Saliss ducked without even looking and the claw missed him. In a way—that reassured Chaldion most of all. He calmed down again.
“I’m not the Titan of Baleros. I’m only a Grand Strategist, and that’s after I had twice the time most [Strategists] have. I’m not a hero like Zel Shivertail.”
“Yeah, you’re not dead yet.”
This time Chaldion tossed the pie tin. The fly and Saliss both dodged. The Grand Strategist went on.
“We need a hero. The Antinium will attack a third time. And an eighth. They won’t stop. They overpowered the Blighted Kingdom and the only reason it survived was because they wanted to leave Rhir. Listen to me, Saliss. I am not that hero. Zel Shivertail was. And he was killed.”
“By a Goblin Lord.”
“That practiced necromancy. A single Goblin Lord spellcaster, who beat the Tidebreaker in single combat, out of sight from everyone. That’s not strange to you?”
Saliss was silent. So was Chaldion. He paused, looking around the room. But the two Drakes spoke no further on a hunch that Chaldion might have had. The Grand Strategist took another breath. He did feel better, truly. Not only had he received another two years of life—or rather, de-aged by two years, the effects of the potion would last with him for as long as a month.
What a waste.
“Saliss. I can’t rally the cities against the Antinium. Or the Humans. I couldn’t even convince the Assembly to reinforce Liscor. And I pushed for that.”
“You’re just not bossy enough. But yeah. You failed. Feel ashamed.”
Chaldion inhaled and exhaled.
“You think they’ll listen to me more after today? All of Pallass saw me carried here. I don’t blame them for pulling back. We need a hero. Someone younger. Someone who can inspire. Bring together our squabbling, idiotic species.”
“Don’t forget the Gnolls. They hate that. Also, this is sort of their continent too.”
“I’m not forgetting anything you insolent little lizard!”
The [Strategist] turned purple in the face. He gulped for air and tried to go on. Convince Saliss. He had to try again.
“You could be one. You are one. A hero. Pallass’ greatest child. You could bring us together. You and your potions—you could do it. No one else in the city has the will.”
Chaldion waited for a response. After a moment, Saliss shrugged.
“…There’s Grimalkin.”
“He could barely stall the Greater Wyvern. You could have beaten it.”
No answer. They both knew it was true.
“Who could replace you? One of the Gold-rank adventurers? General Edellein?”
Both of them laughed at that. Edellein was no Thrissiam. And Thrissiam Blackwing was dead too.
“Thrissiam might have. But he’s dead. We have too many dead hopes, Saliss. But you could do it. Become Pallass’ hero, even now.”
Chaldion’s voice was pleading. But—he saw Saliss’ head turn. The [Alchemist] looked back at Chaldion once. Then he gestured towards the wall. Towards the fly, picking over the tin.
“Everyone’s a hero, Chaldion. That fly on the wall? That’s a hero if it dies in battle. Drakes, Gnolls—we have too many heroes in our culture. It’s not for me. I don’t want to be one.”
The Grand Strategist exhaled, tiredly. Furiously, exhausted. No good. It was the same argument and both of them knew it.
“If you weren’t…”
“Like you?”
Chaldion’s head rose, wrathful. But he contained it. He stared at Saliss, and his eyes narrowed.
“So stubborn. I’ve met Turnscales. If Shivertail was one—the Walled Cities abandoned him, ignored him, because of his politics. That was our fault. But you? I know enough about Turnscales. That’s not a choice. You don’t have to…act like what you are.”
This time it was Saliss’ turn for his head to snap around. He stared at Chaldion, wide-eyed. With the same fury of a thousand conversations. He opened his mouth, stopped himself, and then spoke. Slowly.
“You’re right; I could pretend. I’m good at it. I could be the great hero you all want me to be. Put on pants and armor, strut around talking about how amazing Pallass is and how superior Drakes are.”
“I don’t want that.”
A fly buzzed past Saliss’ face. He clapped his claws together without missing a beat. Then he wiped the guts on Chaldion’s bed.
“Ew.”
The two Drakes didn’t break eye-contact, although Chaldion resolved to get that cleaned. Saliss went on.
“I could. And maybe it would be for the good of all Drakes. I doubt it. But guess what? I want to choose, Chaldion. And I choose this.”
He jabbed a thumb-claw at his chest. Chaldion stared at him. Then he put his head back on the bed and stared at the ceiling.
“What did I do wrong? What made you turn out like this?”
Saliss eyed the old Drake. He spoke slowly.
“You gave me everything I needed. Look at me. I’m a Named Adventurer. The best [Alchemist] in all of Izril. Isn’t that enough? I found who I was. Your mistake? It wasn’t turning me into a [Slave] to Pallass, a blind idiot like the ones you complain about.”
Chaldion stared straight up.
“So you say. But all I see is a disgrace.”
“You can’t even look at me, old man.”
Painful words. The two of them tore chunks out of each other with words alone. Saliss turned and walked towards the door. He—both Drakes shared a thought. They should have known it would turn out like this.
“The Antinium are coming. We need a hero to lead us. Can you be that hero?”
Chaldion stopped Saliss at the door. The Named Adventurer turned, claw on the doorknob.
“No. I’m just me.”
“Then who will lead us back?”
The quavering question struck Saliss harder than any of the old arguments. He looked at Chaldion, turned away.
“Enjoy your medicine, Chaldion. And stop falling down stairs.”
Then he walked out the door and shut it softly behind him. Not slammed; that wasn’t really Saliss. The Drake teased Healer Demerra as he left and she gave him that look. Envy, annoyance—because she knew what he could do. Or guessed. But she was wise enough to keep that to herself.
Gnolls often were. Saliss left the clinic, bothering the [Soldiers] on guard duty, and gyrated up the steps. People stared. They pointed. But they didn’t see through him. Chaldion, for all he had one good eye, had more vision than all of them.
And…Erin Solstice, for that matter. Saliss only dropped the mask when he was in his alchemy lab on the 9th floor. He had a home. But in some ways, he was safest here. Certainly, most of his protections and such were built into this place.
The Drake leaned against the wall as he entered his laboratory. He covered his eyes with one arm and sagged. For a single second. And then ten. Then a minute.
Stay alive, Chaldion. Stay alive.
That was all he really wanted to say. A fall? Damn it. Ancestors take it. After the Wyverns? After who knew how many wars and conflicts and decades? Saliss had the urge to explode staircases everywhere in the world.
But he just rested there. Hurt, furious. And…unable to be with himself, alone, like this. For any number of reasons.
Chaldion wanted a hero? Saliss fished in his belt pouch. And he pulled out two items. He stared at one of them dully. The Potion of Youth, which would earn him hundreds of thousands of gold coins? Tens of thousands at least. It depended on the market. A coveted item.
“Temporary Youth. The real thing? That was alchemy, Octavia.”
Saliss murmured to himself. But he put the Potion of Youth away for a moment. And the other potion…Saliss looked at it. Then he turned. He put his clawed hand back on the door, and then he uncorked a vial. He paused, for just one moment. And wished there was a potion to change Chaldion’s mind, rather than his body.
But [Alchemists] weren’t miracle workers. So Saliss lifted the vial to his lips.
He drank a potion and changed.
 
——
 
In Liscor, a Drake sat at an outdoor café which was pioneering a new treat. Sweet cream tea. Or, as the Drake owner was advertising it…Cream Tea.
The branding could use some work. But the point was that someone had made it and, in the way of fads, every tea-lover had to try it out, critique it, and tell all their friends they’d tried it.
The idea for the tea was actually based on ice cream; people had been innovating, but they’d failed to crack Erin’s mysterious recipe.
(Ice cream is now permanently on sale at The Wandering Inn! 2 silver a bowl! Ludicrously expensive, but who else is selling it? Huh? Huh? Also—free ice cubes. And depressing fire!)
Nevertheless, they’d made progress. And this new tea brand was…decent. Too sweet by half, but it had something to it. The café was close to crowded, but each table had a decent remove and most patrons were being cycled in and out. You had to wait for a table and your turn.
Unless you were one of the two Drakes sitting there. One of them had light green scales, wearing a very stylish cut of clothing made of high-quality cotton. The other, bright yellow scales and was dressed for work.
Selys had not waited for a table. One had been procured for her when the owner saw her coming. And Drassi, as her friend, was also free to enjoy her tea as long as she wanted.
“Mm. Nice snacks. What’s this? Cream and scones?”
“Too much dairy. I’m gonna throw up. Hand me your hat.”
Selys recoiled as Drassi reached for her hat. The Drake swatted at her friend’s claws.
“Back off. I like this hat. What about the tea?”
“It’s good. But expensive. Do you know how much they’re charging for all of this?”
Selys paused.
“I do not.”
Nor had she asked. She’d assumed—rightly—that she could cover it, whatever it was. Selys Shivertail adjusted her hat and noticed the envious stares. The [Heiress] paused, and again, felt that sense of surreality at her position, the amount of gold she knew she had. But only for a moment. She was getting used to it.
Money. It bought so many things. And—it was wrong how much it could buy. A position at the head of the line, for instance. Respect, or at least, privilege.
“We didn’t wait in line to get in here. I would have been right at the back of the line—I couldn’t even have gotten a tea before work started. Oh. Hey! Is that you, Fransk?”
Drassi pointed down the line of waiting guests and waved to a Gnoll. Selys winced.
“Stop waving, Drassi.”
“Why? What are they gonna do, kick you out?”
The [Gossip] and one of Selys’ best friends looked at her blankly. It was true as well. Selys shifted uncomfortably. Her name was one of the up-and-comers around Liscor. Selys Shivertail, owner of the Heartflame Breastplate.
Part of it might have been due to her Skill. [Shadow of His Name]. Or it might have been the money again. Because Selys was rich.
“So—how much is the tea? Three silver a cup? Ew. And I thought Lyonette was greedy. And the scones and cream…let’s see. That would be how many hours of work for both of us if I was paying?”
Drassi curiously and unashamedly began adding up numbers. Selys blushed.
“Drassi…”
“No, I’m curious. Do the math with me. And how much money does Keldrass pay you per day to rent the armor?”
“…Drassi.”
“What did you say? Like, three gold coins per day? And that’s because you’re giving him a discount in case he finds treasure. Just asking.”
The former [Receptionist] took a deep sip of the tea. It really was too sweet. A bit invigorating—the [Teamaker] had a Skill after all—but it was just a fad. The recipe would have to be improved.
Former [Receptionist]. It was true that Selys still had her class. But…she didn’t really work as much in the Adventurer’s Guild anymore. She was there for parts of the day, and she came by to help train the newbies. But even her grandmother had let her stop working as much. It was a hobby now; Selys didn’t need the coin.
“He can afford it, Drassi. Adventurers make that kind of money every single day.”
Drassi rolled her eyes. That wasn’t the point and both Drakes knew it.
“I know that. I heard Keldrass complaining that his team only pulled in, like, five gold coins on a bad day. Five gold coins. That’s like…Erin pays well, but I can’t toss five gold coins out. I’d sit down and cry if I lost five gold.”
“You heard him wrong, Drassi. He’s mad if his team earns fifteen gold a day.”
“…Oh.”
Selys felt the need to clarify.
“It’s from the dungeon. With the monster parts bounties, he can make a lot of money. And that’s an average…”
“Right. So he can afford to pay you a measly three gold coins each day.”
