And the one person who could have heard her was busy. A sopping wet Gnoll hung from under one arm as Erin Solstice, dripping, stomped through the open door to the Garden of Sanctuary.
Heads rose. People watched Erin as she put Mrsha down. Ishkr glanced up from his job waiting on a table. He looked at another Gnoll, a new hire. The rookie stared at Erin.
“Err—Ishkr?”
The other Gnoll, the veteran of The Wandering Inn, didn’t even look over as he went back to taking an order. The guest didn’t bat an eyelid as he requested a smoked fish. Nor did the other guests, after a quick look to make sure Erin didn’t explode or start spitting blood. Ishkr nodded to the new Gnoll [Waiter].
“Get a towel, Rkhi. Better make it two.”
“Erin. Trouble with water? Need a drying spell? How’s the planting going? Care for a round of cards?”
Palt tried to smile and hide his lit cigar as Erin turned her head towards him. The [Innkeeper] narrowed her eyes. She stomped over as Mrsha, quite proud of herself, walked over to the fire to get dry.
And that was the day. Erin sat down, taking a towel from Rkhi, grumbling about evil Gnolls and jerk-Goblins. Eying Palt’s cigar pointedly as he winced, and getting dealt into the hand of cards as Montressa and Beza leaned over, relieved to have someone to beat. After all—they weren’t bad at cards.
Palt was just too good. Lyonette came through, ready to relieve Ishkr, as the second shift began to replace the first one and the lunch crowd arrived in trickles from different locations. Mrsha sat by the fire, wondering why Apista had suddenly gone cloudy after being sad—she did that a lot. Bird sat in his tower and the Workers building the 3rd Floor got free bird samples, gratis.
Numbtongue was wondering if he could steal Apista’s cigar while he practiced fishing in the pond. He rather liked fishing. He might go mining later.
It was that kind of day. Nothing much was happening in The Wandering Inn, by the inn’s standards. The most that might happen was a conversation about thieving bees, which was just…boring.
In Liscor, Relc returned to work after two days off due to injuries. Senior Guardsman Klbkch was on indefinite leave. The Free Antinium had guests.
Small events and large. Boring and consequential in Liscor.
As morning rose in Pallass, Grand Strategist Chaldion fell.
 
——
 
In the way of things, Grand Strategist Chaldion fell down the steps. He was walking with General Edellein Blackwing of 4th Army when he tripped. One moment, he was arguing over the distribution of funds and recruits. The next, falling.
It was just the accidental slip of his walking cane. And he, overbalanced, was unable to catch himself. And the other Drakes around him realized what was happening too late. They had amazing reflexes, boosted by training and Skills. But surprise was surprise.
They were a bit too slow to catch him. And he tumbled down eight steps on the Northern Grand Staircase before General Edellein and his [Strike Commander] leapt after him and stopped him from falling further.
That was all. Eight steps. But it was a poor tumble. And Pallass’ citizenry who saw the incident stopped and stared. When they didn’t see the Grand Strategist immediately rising, they had a thought. And when General Edellein called for a [Healer] and a stretcher—the Walled City worried.
All the Walled Cities worried. Over a single moment. An accident that had nothing to do with Wyverns, the machinations of Humans or other foreign powers like the King of Destruction. Of course, they demanded answers as word spread—too quickly, as it now did by way of [Messages].
 
Oteslia. Inquiring about the state of Grand Strategist Chaldion.
Manus. Is this information confidential? Requesting lockdown of unnecessary gossip.
Fissival. And how did you find out about it, Manus?
Zeres. Seconds Oteslia’s request.
Salazsar. Seconds both requests.
Manus. Pallass, confirmation?
Pallass. Standby.
Zeres. Ancestors, not again. Pallass, CONFIRMATION?
Pallass. ‘Go to Rhir’s hell and stop spreading gossip.’ From Grand Strategist Chaldion, verbatim. Exiting shared [Message] spell.
 
He wasn’t dead. But neither was he alright. And—despite his words, there was worry. About thirty minutes later, Grand Strategist Chaldion lay in a bed in the best [Healer]’s personal treatment clinic. And the [Healer] was fending off queries from a hundred different people, including several [Senators] and General Edellein and more.
She was, somewhat ironically, a Gnoll. And they were mostly Drakes, Pallass’ leadership. The Gnoll woman, a City-Gnoll born and raised in Pallass, was trying not to growl her replies. But she did snap with a bit of a hiss in her voice.
“He is fine. Fine as can be expected for someone of his age falling down the stairs! It would have been worse if he hadn’t been caught. But he needs rest, which means no visitors. None!”
“But we applied healing potions on the spot! Are you sure he’s…”
General Edellein Blackwing, a relation to the late Thrissiam Blackwing and Osthia Blackwing, two family members who’d been lost recently, was not having a good day. First the Wyvern attack that his army had failed to fight because they’d laid the ineffective ambush, next, this. Right next to him. He was thus very concerned, for his reputation as well as Pallass’ military leadership. He peered past the [Healer] into the room.
Chaldion lay in a bed lined with stones enchanted with healing properties. The very fabric of the bed itself was a composite fabric-gel that he was not happy about lying in. One of his legs was raised and in a sling. For all that, the Drake looked healthily annoyed. He was conscious. But his old scales, grey and flaked off in places, were mottled with bruises. His left leg had a fractured bone.
The female Gnoll [Healer] propped her paws on her hips and sighed.
“General Blackwing, you did everything you could. However, Grand Strategist Chaldion is too old for potions to work perfectly. I told the Grand Strategist as much last time. He should have a personal [Healer] or [Bodyguard] with the appropriate specialization on him at all times. A [Minder], at the very least. He’ll be sitting on that broken leg for at least two days, even with my best crystals and recovery Skills. And he’ll have to take more care.”
“Two days? But I was in and out of here in sixteen hours when I broke my claw—”
“You are half the Grand Strategist’s age. Bodies develop resistances to healing potions, General. You know this.”
He flushed at the tone in the [Healer]’s voice. But it was basic knowledge any [Warrior] knew. He cleared his throat.
“Well—obviously, yes. Then, in that case—what about another [Healer]? No disrespect, Healer Demerra, but perhaps the Healer of Tenbault might…?”
The Gnoll woman laughed.
“If you could get her to make a visit to Pallass, that would be the miracle, General. And even if she were able to restore the Grand Strategist’s health, the fact remains that any fall could have done this. He needs an aide. And he has to have one. No arguments. Someone has to order him to have one.”
The Drakes standing around in conference looked uncomfortable. They exchanged glances. One of the [Senators] coughed.
“Healer Demerra, one does not order…Grand Strategist Chaldion.”
He was the Grand Strategist of Pallass. Older and more experienced than any Drake…here. Perhaps anywhere. None of them, any of them, had been serving in their positions when he had first been appointed head [Strategist] of Pallass. Some of them hadn’t even been born, back then.
“Someone must. He has fallen before. If this had happened in his quarters or somewhere out of the public eye…”
Demerra let her voice trail off. The others looked at each other. Senator Errif winced. The Gnoll adjusted his skullcap.
“It’s bad enough in the public eye. We can’t have another lapse in confidence. As for, erm, ordering Grand Strategist Chaldion, we could put it to a vote in the Assembly…”
“He’ll just ignore it.”
[Strike Commander] Bes, known as ‘Lighthouse Bes’ for reasons that were entirely uninteresting, predicted glumly. The others paused, and nodded. What were they going to do? Relieve Chaldion of his post? He was the best [Strategist] they had, the best and highest-leveled of all the Walled Cities. And oldest.
And yet. General Edellein searched for ideas.
“What—what about a Ring of Stonescales? We have Barkscales-level enchantments in our army. Any number of artifacts. Surely that might…”
The [Healer] glowered. People loved to tell her how to do her job.
“Stone skin, fur, or what have you isn’t much good if your bones are glass, General! Grand Strategist Chaldion could use a high-grade artifact, like a Ring of Health. But that is relic-class. If the Walled City could source one, I would be happier. Even so—he’d quickly be dependent on it.”
“Do we have anything like that in our treasuries…?”
Senator Errif looked around. Healer Demerra snapped.
“We do not. Ladies and gentledrakes, I remind you that this is age. And there is little anyone can do…”
She paused. And reconsidered her words because they were patently—wrong.
“…There are options. Many of which I have explored, and so has the Grand Strategist. Even so, few options are cheap, let alone convenient, even for Pallass. I would like to remind you all of one thing: Grand Strategist Chaldion is one hundred and six years old.”
Everyone stopped. General Edellein opened his mouth and closed it a few times. But then he nodded.
In the face of that, no one had anything to say. Demerra sniffed and ushered them into the waiting room, sealing her clinic against intruders. A squad of 4th Army’s elites were blocking the doorway as well; no one would assassinate the Grand Strategist.
The others talked outside the clinic. Edellein paused.
“I forget how old he is. He’s as spry as someone three decades younger.”
Lighthouse Bes chuckled, and prismatic light lit up the inside of her throat for a second. But then she realized no one else was laughing. She adjusted her armor, blushing.
“I think we all take Grand Strategist Chaldion’s youth for granted. At least…his health. But he is aging.”
The others nodded. It was moments like this, moments like when you heard Zel Shivertail was dead, that you feared for the worst. If Grand Strategist Chaldion were to pass away suddenly, or Dragonspeaker Luciva, or…Captain Femar—the Sharkcaptain of Zeres—any one of the Drake heroes, their bulwark against the Antinium suddenly grew weaker.
But what could be done? Replace him? Maybe in three decades. But today? The high command of Pallass shuddered and argued and made very little in the way of concrete plans. And that was what they did the last time Chaldion had fallen, or snapped his wrist, or taken ill with a common cold.
And while they worried—someone else heard the news.
He listened. Nodded. It was news he’d heard before. So—without worrying, or rushing about, or getting into an insults-match via [Message] spell, he went into his home, pulled out a few of his possessions, and made an arrangement or two.
A while later, Octavia Cotton went back to The Wandering Inn to find a little Gnoll passed out by the fireplace. Mrsha was snoring and giggling after warming herself back up. Erin was playing cards. Her opponents—were not happy about it.
“How did you do that?”
Palt threw his hand down in disgust. Erin smirked as she pulled the hefty pot over.
“I told you not to gamble. Wait, do I get to keep all of this?”
“Gambling makes it fun. But how—”
“I count cards. I mean—I learned to. It’s like chess, except not. But I had these friends who loved to…well, they stopped playing. Which is good, because gambling’s bad. Like smoking!”
“What’s counting…”
The Stitch-girl saw Erin poking the stacks of coins. The [Innkeeper] looked up vaguely.
“I didn’t know there were actual [Gamblers] in this world. But it’s just a strategy. I don’t play much, but…oh, hey Octavia. I thought you were going to study with Saliss?”
The [Alchemist] frowned. Something about what Erin had just said…but then she smiled ruefully and shrugged.
“Saliss had to cancel. What’s that? Cards? Can I play?”
“Oh, really? Why? And you know how to play cards, Octavia?”
The Stitch-girl gave Erin a curious look.
“Everywhere has card games, Erin. Even Nerrhavia and Chandrar. What game is this?”
“Poker.”
“Poke…? Well, I’ll learn. I didn’t catch why Saliss was busy. Where’s Numbtongue?”
“Fishing.”
Montressa was on her third bowl of chips. She couldn’t stop herself. And she was sure she shouldn’t be eating this much ketchup and mayonnaise. But she kept crunching. Chips, fries…it went well with drinks. Too well.
“You have fish?”
“We tossed some in the pond. Not the huge, jumpy, bitey ones. Those are jerks. Okay, you play like this, Octavia…”
Erin began to explain. Octavia listened as Beza grumbled and demanded to be dealt in; she was on a losing streak and was convinced her luck would turn! The [Alchemist] wasn’t upset about the cancelled lesson. She still woke up and pinched herself that she was being taught at all by a living legend.
She didn’t think much of it; after all, Saliss was an important Named Adventurer and [Alchemist]. He had any number of things that could keep him busy.
 
——
 
Healer Demerra’s clinic wasn’t exactly besieged by crowds. But there were people keeping tabs on the place. [Informants], the kind of fences for information like Fierre, busybodies, well-wishers, keeping track for any number of reasons. They were not allowed in.
4th Company’s Elites were a mix of Drakes and Dullahans. A pair of Gnolls—no Garuda. The kind of elites who took after Relc, rather than, say, Bevussa’s old squadron, or Keldrass’. That meant they were quick, rather than burly. True, Relc was both, but the Gecko of Liscor was famed for speed over brawn, ironically.
“No one’s allowed entrance. Don’t block the street!”
The Drake [Major] was snapping at people asking questions. And he was not in a mood to share details, even if he’d been privy to them. He put his hand on the hilt of the mace he carried when words weren’t enough.
Not that many people tried. That was—until a rather familiar voice and figure caused a disturbance in the crowd.
“Coming through! Hey! Whoops. Where are you going? The street’s big enough for all of us. Hey! Hey. Do I know you?”
A Drake with dusky yellow scales, rather slimmer than the [Soldiers] in their armor, was navigating through the crowd—although no one really stood in his way. In fact, they got out of his way rather quickly.
Because he was naked. The squad recognized him on sight of course; anyone living in Pallass for any amount of time would.
