One of the watchers on the outside of the room commented as she saw Selys being swept into the room by one of High Society’s darlings. Sir Relz himself, one of the two [Commentators] whose star was on the rise. And she was being introduced to the other big names in Pallass.
“This is Lord Werdin Blackwing, Miss Selys. One of our distinguished nobles—Lords and Ladies of the Wall, as I’m sure you’re aware.”
“Simply Werdin, Miss Selys. We’re not exactly as antiquated as the other Walled Cities. I have a number of business interests. The Blackwing family is one of the largest in Pallass. And this is my wife. Lady Melika. And my daughter, Salkis—Salkis, this is the Selys Shivertail. Owner of the Heartflame Breastplate!”
Look. From the sides you could see the Wall Lord—one of Pallass’ few remaining families—introducing his daughter, whose scales shone like onyx. Lady Salkis, the demure, sheltered young Wall Lady, her father, Lord Werdin, who was more business-Drake than noble. And his wife…
“A delight. Truly.”
Selys blinked at the plumed Garuda’s colorful feathers. But—points to her, the young Drake greeted Lady Melika. A Garuda.
Unthinkable in another city. But Melika was stunning, and her marriage to Lord Werdin after his scandalous divorce was set in stone for nearly a decade. Sir Relz was adjusting his monocle, speaking quickly, still in his commentator-mode. Which really meant giving his opinion on everything and everyone.
“We’re far more progressive than other cities, Miss Selys. Not a strong Human population as Liscor has, certainly, but our Garuda and Dullahan minorities are growing. I’d like to introduce you to everyone here; it’s not a large gathering. But—well, this is the place we tend to congregate in. The Noble’s Fancy.”
“An inn?”
Selys was taken aback. Sir Relz chuckled as did Lord Werdin, Lady Melika—the Garuda sheltered her beak with a wing as she laughed.
“Well, what else would you call it? But an inn—I suppose it fits, but this is one fit for royalty. The [Innkeeper], Adalton Serristail—wonderful fellow, we’ll introduce you—designed this place based on Terandrian mansions. With a classic Izrilian take, of course. But any Human [Lord] or [Lady] would be envious of this place.”
He gestured around. Selys looked around the room designed for socialization and private company. You couldn’t pay to get in—you had to be invited. Rather like Tails and Scales, honestly.
But Tails and Scales wasn’t the 6th Floor’s largest building by far. The Wandering Inn, [Grand Theatre] and all, was dwarfed by The Noble’s Fancy. The most expensive and elite…‘inn’ in Pallass. And then—only because the idea of a hotel hadn’t been properly introduced yet.
“This is a marvelous residence. I’ve bought my own room and stayed for, dead gods, it must be eight years now. Lord Werdin has his own estates, but we like to visit here. It’s something of a hub. Linger here long enough and you’ll meet anyone from General Edellein to Grand Strategist Chaldion himself.”
Sage nods. Across the room, someone’s face twisted at the names. Edellein Blackwing. Their family was the big name of course. And Chaldion…Lord Werdin was nodding sagely.
“Rarely. Although he has made an appearance now and then. Although I fear we won’t see him for a while. Have you heard about the accident, Miss Selys?”
“Accident? No. I thought—I saw him just the other day at The Wandering Inn.”
A pause. Sir Relz blinked behind his monocle. Some of the outsiders laughed, those in the know about the other inn. It was as if these people forgot that Chaldion met ordinary plebeians as well. And that he preferred Tails and Scales, which didn’t serve most of High Society’s clientele.
“Ah, well—it was today. A terrible tragedy. He slipped on some stairs. He’s at the healer’s now. Broken leg, as I understand it. Oh—and let me introduce you to Miss Duskal.”
“Oh no. Um—”
Selys found herself shaking a hand of a Dullahan woman and staring at the head being borne by an attendant, rather than asking about Chaldion. The torso bowed slightly.
“I am in charge of Pallass’ manufacture of mechanical devices. Its export to other cities. Control and design.”
The Dullahan woman was very formal. But she offered Selys a cordial smile. The [Heiress] looked at her rather riveting armor studded with costly metal and clearly designed for ornamentation rather than combat. Miss Duskal preened like a Garuda under the gaze.
“Are you an [Engineer], then? And you make—siege weapons?”
A titter of laughter. The Dullahan woman looked offended and hurried to correct Selys.
“Oversee. I manage the [Engineers] and Pallass’ innovations. Which are of course, the pride of Izril.”
“Unmatched. And here is Dellibe, our [Merchant of Curios]. Well, not exactly of Pallass, but he circulates between all the Walled Cities. Say hello, Dellibe—don’t let him make you an offer for the armor, Selys. He couldn’t afford it. And that fine Drake lady with the white and pink scales is a [Fashionista]—”
It was funny. Here were classes and people you had no idea existed. Well-dressed sorts of various invisible ranks falling over themselves to be remembered by the important people. Who, of course, changed with the seasons and the whims of High Society.
“It wasn’t too long ago that Relz was one of the hangers-on. And Noass would have been allowed in here only on sufferance.”
A female Drake hanging out near the back of the circle engulfing Selys commented acidly to the Dullahan in fake-gold armor. Well, it looked good, but she was quite aware that it was just gold leaf painted onto ornamented, plain steel.
He was an [Auctioneer]. She was…well, her. The two traded glances. The Dullahan, whose name was Calert, whispered back as he adjusted his head.
“Don’t let Relz hear you say that. Do you know…her?”
The Drake snorted. She cast her eyes dismissively around the gathering. Selys had come at a good time—well—sort of. Most of the movers and shakers were here, and she was getting to know them all.
“She’s a kid from Liscor, Calert. She inherited the Heartflame Breastplate.”
“Ah. Does she have any plans on selling it?”
The Dullahan’s eyes lit up. As stated, he was an [Auctioneer], and he was allowed in these sorts of gatherings because he often sold the very things Pallass’ elite—and other elites across the world, even [Monarchs]—fought over. The Drake flicked her tail and smacked him in the leg.
“Don’t think about it. You don’t have the security to protect the armor even if it went on sale, Calert. I’m surprised no one’s stolen it, but I hear she’s renting it out to Gold-rank adventurers. Smart for her, but someone’s going to make a move eventually.”
Calert buffed at the spot that had been smudged on his armor, nervously checking to see if the gold paint had flaked away. He gave the Drake a glare. But she was immune to it.
Nor was she entirely welcome here. She was not a mover or a shaker or someone who enjoyed playing the games of High Society. But then—that was because this Drake was aware that high society was rather like the low society. In the underworld of Pallass, there were faces. Master criminals, and gangs. Similar to the Blackwing family, except not sanctioned by the law. And anyone who was anyone had to obey the rules down there too.
The only difference was that High Society just ostracized you if you made a mistake. In the shadows, you got stabbed and if you were lucky, people found enough of you to identify.
“At least [Thugs] are honest about when they’re about to bash you over the head and take everything you own. How much do you want to bet half of Miss Selys’ new friends are just begging to try on the Heartflame Breastplate so they can be first to show it off? She’ll get a lot of favors until the novelty wears off. And then she’s at the back of the line. Unless one of them gets her first.”
The Dullahan shushed his companion, looking around, askance. But no one was listening.
The Noble’s Fancy really was…fancy. Refreshments were of course, freely offered and the [Innkeeper], Adalton, was keenly aware that his clientele weren’t coming here for just the food or rooms, but the service and the scene. So there was entertainment to be had at all hours.
Including the work Calert was here for. The [Auctioneer] was checking a magical time-teller nervously; it reflected the sky above him.
“I’ve got to begin the bidding soon. Onieva—do you have it?”
The Drake sighed. She plucked something from the bag of holding she wore and dangled it at the Dullahan. Heads turned. Even with Selys in the middle of the gathering.
“Fresh from himself. Catch.”
She tossed it. The vial of liquid spun through the air and Calert grabbed desperately at it. One of his arms detached and caught the vial. It hovered in the air and slowly floated back to his body. He was sweating.
“Onieva! Don’t do that!”
“Relax. Don’t get your tail in knots. Saliss wouldn’t put his potions in a regular glass vial. You can give the money to him. And I’m done being his Street Runner.”
The female Drake snorted. She turned. And she missed Calert’s glare at her back. She looked around, disinterested in the entire room. But Selys—as Calert hurried away with the item of the hour, Onieva counted.
“Ladies and Gentledrakes, we are ready to begin the auction. Our top item—which will be bid on worldwide—is a Potion of Temporary Youth, brewed by Saliss of Lights himself!”
Calert’s voice echoed through the hall. And scrying mirrors began to light up as viewers from elsewhere tuned in. Like many auction houses, those from afar could bid on items in Pallass.
Well, there were private auction-houses too, with darker items on sale. Chandrar had them. And there were even more elite gatherings than these. But Pallass’ was notable, despite being smaller for one thing.
The Potion of Youth. Onieva saw heads turning. Everyone who was anyone here grew attentive. Some weren’t even that old. But it was the name, the power and desire that made them look for the very item she’d tossed at Calert. And which gave the fake Dullahan his small amount of power here.
Youth. A way to restore age, however temporarily. Lord Werdin broke off from speaking with Selys, and Onieva chuckled, seeing the naked desire in his eyes. This was why she stuck around. And also why they let her in here.
“Fat chance you’ll get it, Werdin. You can’t outbid the really rich. And for what? One week.”
The Drake was drinking something expensive. She made a face and spat it into an ornamental vase. She caught sight of one of the few Gnolls sniffing at her in horror. Onieva stuck out her tongue. The Gnoll hurried off, shaking his head in disgust. And Onieva strolled across the room.
“You must attend one of our gatherings, Miss Selys. I am part of it, but Healer Demerra organizes the events. I believe there is one in four days. Allow me to send you an invitation—it will be at my estates this time, but we do alternate locations.”
“Oh—uh—and what do you all do?”
Duskal, the rich Dullahan woman whose armor was totally authentic and totally worthless, smiled grandly.
“Speak, of course. About such matters that concern us. But we also bid on our own small collections. Demerra has a collection of very fine healing crystals which rejuvenate the body. There are tonics, other artifacts—ah, but speaking of which, the auction has begun. I was waiting for this. If you’ll excuse me?”
Her head was looking as well towards the auction, and the vial of viridian liquid. Age. Duskal had to be pushing sixty. Oh, to be a young Dullahan for a moment! But she’d be bidding against the world’s biggest purses. She wouldn’t make it past the first round of bidding, but she’d be part of it, just to prove—she could have it if she beggared herself.
Selys saw the Dullahan woman walking quickly towards the auction house. Well—a measured tread, with the attendant Dullahan holding her head on the pillow. Now that was rich. Someone just to hold your head. She tried to count how many invitations she’d received.
One from Duskal to join…a circle of Pallass’ most wealthy? Lord Werdin wanted her to visit his estates—the shy Lady Salkis was a bit younger than Selys, but he seemed to think they’d be friends. A Gnoll had told Selys there was this delightful trend to go to Pallass Hunting—Selys had been under the impression that it was all fake, according to Erin, but maybe not?—and someone wanted her to go to—
“A party tonight?”
Sir Relz had invited her to that. One in this very…inn. Selys glanced about. She was tempted to go. And she felt distinctly poorer than she had with Drassi. Sir Relz was on the scrying orb! And Duskal controlled all of Pallass’ engineering…?
“Psst. Idiot. A word of advice. Stop gaping and pretend you’re not impressed. And don’t go to that party.”
Selys jumped. Someone was standing next to her. She saw a taller Drake, slim, with rose-and-cobalt scales eying her from the side. She had a glass in one claw.
“Excuse me?”
She had to have misheard the ‘idiot’. The female Drake looked at her.
“You don’t want to go with them to their fancy shindigs. You’re just going to do the most expensive and overpriced drugs and have mad sex—or buy a bunch of magical ‘healing gemstones’ or illusions. Again, overpriced.”
Selys blinked. Here was someone who didn’t fit in. The Drake eyed Selys with urbane amusement. And she had a sharp tongue. Selys frowned.
“How would you know that?”
“I’ve been, of course. If you want to, go ahead. But you’re going to catch something. Or get hooked. You’re new to ‘High Society’, aren’t you? It’s all a bunch of idiots in a bucket clamoring for attention and you’re the newest bait.”
She reminded Selys a bit of Drassi—when Drassi was in a bad mood. She was also fairly familiar for someone whom Selys had never met. Selys glared.
“I’m new here, yes. But I don’t think we’ve met. I’m Selys. Shivertail.”
“…niece of the great General Shivertail, owner of the Heartflame Breastplate. Yes, so I’ve heard. Congratulations. You got lucky, like everyone else here. Including myself.”
The Drake transferred the drink to her other claw to hold out a claw to shake. Selys stared at her. The [Heiress] folded her arms.
“Charmed. And you are?”
A slight smile, like a razor’s edge.
“Onieva Oliwing. Yes, yes, related to the great Saliss Oliwing. Please don’t compare us. He’s part of the family, but distantly.”
“Saliss? You mean—”
“Pallass’ naked, dancing [Alchemist]? Or Saliss of Lights? Same one. I delivered the Potion of Youth. That’s my job. Also—being rich. How do you do?”
