Angus looked into the kitchen and saw his wife and daughter with their heads together as they talked, then looked back at Ren. “I've had several boys in here that asked to date my daughter.” He said and stared at Ren. “I suppose you want to plead to me for permission, too.”

“No, sir.” Ren said. “I wouldn't presume to do something like that to you.”

“Why not?” Angus asked and frowned.

“Jhulune is a smart and resourceful girl. You raised her well. If she wants to date someone, it's her I'd need to ask.” Ren smiled. “Or plead with. Not you.”

Angus scowled for a moment, then let it go and had a blank face that showed no emotion.

“She's old enough to make that decision for herself.” Ren said. “All you have to do is decide if you trust her judgment or not.”

“I trust her.” Angus said right away. “It's everyone else that I don't trust.”

Ren nodded. “That, sir... was the best answer you could have given.” He said and smiled. “You're a good father to believe in her so much, and still care about how other people treat her.”

Angus didn't say anything in response.

“I saw right away where she got her looks from.” Ren said. “After talking to both you and your wife, I know where she got her Intelligence and Wisdom from.”

Angus still didn't speak, but he did give Ren a small nod.

“Hey! What are you two discussing?” Jhulune asked as she came into the living room, then sat down on Ren's lap and put her arms around his neck.

“Fishing.” Angus said without missing a beat as his wife Gail did the same move to him.

“It's terrible near the harbour.” Ren said. “All those boats churn up the water and scare the fish away.”

“It's definitely a problem.” Angus said as his wife leaned in and put her head on his shoulder.

“I think that's enough man talk.” Gail said and kissed her husband's neck. “Jhulune? Why don't you show Ren the upstairs.”

Jhulune leaned in and put her head on Ren's shoulder and kissed his neck. “I think that's a great idea.” She said. “We can hang out in my room.”

“Then go on.” Gail said. “Your father and I need to discuss something.”

Jhulune grinned as she got up off of Ren and held a hand out to him. “Let the redundant house tour continue.”

Ren chuckled and took her hand, and she led him out of the living room and up the stairs.

“That's my parent's room.” Jhulune said and pointed with her free hand at a closed door. “Spare room.” She said and only made a small wave in the direction of an open door. “That's a closet.” She said and didn't even bother to point, then turned around and leaned against the door to her room. “This is my room.”

“I can't wait to see it.” Ren said, and her eyes widened.

“Um... wait! Wait! Turn around!” Jhulune said and let his hand go, then tried to turn him around. Ren chuckled and turned around for her, and he heard her room door open and shut.

“There's clothes tossed everywhere.” Teepo chittered softly in laughter as he whispered into Ren's ear. A couple of minutes later, the door opened and a slightly dishevelled Jhulune looked at him with a smile.

“Come in.” Jhulune said and stepped back, and there wasn't a trace of clothing anywhere to be seen.

“I'm glad the Ring of Storage is coming in handy.” Ren said teasingly, and Jhulune chuckled.

“You shouldn't have peeked! I didn't want you to see how messy it was!”

“I didn't.” Ren said and pointed a thumb to Teepo on his shoulder.

“Teepo!” Jhulune exclaimed mockingly. “How could you?!?”

“I have working eyes.” Teepo chittered in laughter. “I'd say I'm sorry, but it's my job to scout.”

Jhulune shut the door behind them and told Ren to sit on the bed. He did so, and Teepo took off and landed on the ceiling. Jhulune sat beside Ren and he looked at her.

“We're all alone.” Jhulune said in a breathy voice.

“We're also in your room, in your parent's house.” Ren said. “With your parents downstairs.”

Jhulune ran a hand through his fluffy hair and leaned in close. “They'll ignore anything we do as long as we're quiet.” She whispered to him, slid her arms around his neck, and kissed him. Ren kissed her back, and when her hands slid down his tunic towards his waist, he moved back.“Jhulune, we can't.”

“Why not?”

“Please refer to my previous statement.” Ren said and smiled. “Your parents are downstairs.”

Jhulune laughed. “Ren, they're probably going at it right now.”

“Wait, what?” Ren asked, surprised.

“Mom and dad never 'discuss' anything.” Jhulune said. “I doubt they waited for us to get all the way up the stairs before they started.”

“You're kidding!”

Jhulune shook her head. “You got mom good and fired up with all that flirting and cooking.” She said. “Dad's probably raring to go, too.”

“How can you be so casual about it?” Ren asked her.

“They usually wait for the weekend to play around, but with us showing up like this and pretty much encouraging them...”

“I didn't encourage them.”

Jhulune smiled. “Dad loved those mashed potatoes.” She said. “That would have been enough to get him going. Teaching mom to make the puff pastries on top of that?” She chuckled. “I'm a little surprised he didn't kick us out of the house until morning.”

Ren sighed. “I still don't think we should... I mean, this is your bed, and...”

“Ren.” Jhulune gave him a very serious look. “If we do it here, every time I go to bed, I'll remember you.”

“That's kind of why I don't-”

“I want to remember you!” Jhulune said. “I want your arms around me! I want you to hold me tight!” She said and wrapped her arms around his neck. “Be mine, Ren.” She said and kissed him. “For tonight. For the few fleeting hours we have left before you have to go... please, be mine... and let me be yours.”

Ren had already agreed to be hers for the night a long time ago, it was just the chosen venue he had a bit of a problem with. Jhulune seemed fine with it, though; so, he nodded. Jhulune squealed a little bit from happiness as Ren stood up and took off his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and folded it on a nearby chair, then he crawled onto the bed and locked lips with her. Jhulune moaned as Ren put his practised make-out skills to good use.
