Lighting a second lantern to read by, I curl up with Mafu and the bear cubs to continue my studies. Disappointingly, Yo Ling's knowledge starts and ends with a single rune, one he found on a stolen, non-functioning antique helmet. It’s only good for stopping chi-infused strikes and nowhere near impenetrable, but his insights on how it works are fascinating. Essentially, this particular rune is like an intangible shield which stops Chi, keeping Honed weapons from tearing through armour like paper or extinguishing Chi-powered flames and whatnot. The force from an Amplified strike will still be felt, but a strike containing Resonance will be treated like a regular hit. In contrast, Li Song’s runic breastplate is far superior as it mitigates impacts and can even Deflect blows if they’re slow enough.

As with all things, there are limits. The rune has something like a reservoir of energy, a threshold of how much power it can absorb at once. If we denote the threshold as 100 units and the wearer has infinite Energy to replenish the rune’s reservoir, then any attack dealing less than 100 units of damage is unable to break through the runic defences, though the force of regular impact still carries through. Exceed 100 units of damage and the runic armour is no different from standard armour.

Yo Ling’s notes go on to detail trapping Spirits to power and enhance his creations, which is disturbing to say the least. I can only hope these aren’t orthodox practices, but if they are, so what? Power is power, it’s all the same in the end. Besides, even if Yo Ling only knew one rune of limited use and only made enough copies for himself and his captains, it’s still better than nothing. What’s more, his notes on how he deciphered the rune are invaluable, since now I can do the same with the runic rings, Li Song’s breastplate, and Jorani’s one-time use runic baton. No one knows exactly what it does, and I’d be more willing to test it out if I could replace them.

After going through the notes thrice, a thought strikes me and I drag Roc’s cage out and scurry around, flipping through the books one by one while ignoring their angry squawks. Maybe I’ll find more of Yo Ling’s studies hidden within their pages, or a map to his treasures, a list of his hidden allies, something, anything. There’s a real treasure trove here in this bookshelf, and I’ve ignored it for too long.

And to think, I only have these books because no one else wanted them. If Zian ever finds out, he’ll regret it until the day he dies. Between this and my sweet soon-to-be-crafted spring-coiled Spiritual rifle, I’ll be well equipped to deal with whatever life throws my way.

...

That was in no way, shape or form a challenge to the universe.

Please have mercy.

Chapter Meme

– End of Volume 14 –
