Then there was the prospect of following from here. Was it dangerous? Fuck yeah. Was it worth it? If it meant he might be able to gather some real information, or maybe even save these guys? Then definitely.

If it meant he could say ‘fuck you’ to this disgusting world and ruin something that mattered to them, then a million, trillion percent it was worth.

In a snap decision that Markus might soon live to regret, he clambered onto the cart, quickly shoving his glaive into the corner, ignoring the commotion of the other passengers, trying to bury himself deep in the middle of the mess of limbs and find the most inconspicuous nook of it possible.

“Hey! What’s going on back there?”

“Probably the centaur bucked someone again. Let’s just get this over with.”

Shit. Someone had heard him. Luckily they didn’t seem all too bothered about checking out the commotion.

“Hey,” Markus whispered as quietly as he could, leaning in the direction of one or two bag-wearing prisoners. “Hey. Where are they taking you?”

“Who are you?” asked a voice, female, feeling out with her hands. She was clearly scared, unable to see a thing.

“I’m with you guys. Don’t worry. Just tell me where we’re going.”

“We’re being freed today,” the woman responded, a shred of hope in her raspy, anemic voice. “A wealthy man will buy us for our labours.”

“Yes, and it can’t come soon enough,” another voice added, this one male. “I’ve been wasting away in this place for weeks. I only hope we’re out of here quickly.”

Freed today? Why would they take you into what looks like the second layer of Hell to free you? Well, on the off-chance it was true, maybe I’d learn a way out of here.

Somehow, Markus still had pretty immense doubts.

“Quieten down!” came a scream from the front of the cart. With a lurch and a shuffle of motion, the great wooden vehicle began to move, shifting and lurching as it was repositioned and prepared to be taken down the ramp, most likely by the troll.

“If we’re simply being sold, then why do we have bags over our heads?” one man asked, his voice lighter than the others, as well as a touch faster. “We already know what this place looks like. We saw it when we came in. Why take the extra step now?”

“Oh, here we go, Daven and his bleedin’ conspiracy theories once again. Oh, it’s all a cult! There’s a weird feeling in my tail… it’s a sign! We’re all going to be sacrificed in a blood ritual!”

“I never said any of that!” Daven roared, as all the while the cart began to roll its way down the ramp, the feeling of the terrain below noticeably shifting. “I simply said that if this venture were as innocuous as these imps claimed, then why would we need—”

“Shut up!” screeched one of the imps, kicking the cart. “You’ll all have your burning questions answered shortly, so just keep a lid on until then!”

Silence from the cart, then, from ahead, a bumbling, brutish laugh, followed by an intensely deep voice. “Ohohoho… burning. Imp make joke! Ohoho…”

That was unmistakably the voice of the troll. And if his reaction was anything beyond a subtle indication, what was waiting for them below was very unlikely to be a timely liberation, and a lot more likely to be on fire.

That was okay. Fire, he could deal with. He had Frost and Flame Mana at his disposal, plus Frozen Tomb, and he’d had plenty of time since yesterday to store more energy. What could go wrong?

Markus attempted to manifest a material resembling one of the bags over the left part of his face, then peeked out once he figured he was significantly covered.

It was dark. He couldn’t really make out much. What he could see was that for as far as the dim torchlight from the imps ahead carried, this was a vast and cavernous space, looking unlike the much more carved and sculpted area above, appearing more naturally formed and untrodden, the only sounds in the tenebrous distance those that one might expect to find in an addled nightmare.

Faint, eerie clicking sounds complimented scratchy roars and ringing howls; as far as the eye could see, nothing, but it felt as if the group of them could be attacked at any moment.

“Place gives me the shits,” one imp grumbled. “Fucking hate this job.”

“Yeah, well, unless you wanna defy our boss’s boss, keep your thoughts to yourself, Merril.”

“Why don’t Drathok know about this, anyway? What if he compels us to tell us?”

Markus heard the sound of a slap, likely on the back of Merril’s head. “How can Drathok compel us to tell him something that he doesn’t know he doesn’t know?”

Merril the imp simply grumbled, no response coming to mind.

Huh. That was interesting. First there was crazy imp that hates Drathok’s guts, and then there was this. He really didn’t have his house in order, did he?

“Why don’t you carry the torch, at least? I don’t wanna be responsible for what happens if I drop it.”

“Because, Merril, I have killer arthritis. We’ve been over this.”

“And I get anxious in a cave filled with monsters! The fuck’s the difference?!”

“Imps argue…” announced a slow, dismal drawl.

“Look, you’ve gone and upset Ugro now. Now you’ve really done it.”

“Alright, alright, I’ll relax. I fucking hate this place though.”

If anyone wasn’t relaxed, it was Markus. Where the fuck were they going?

Markus pulled up his system menu and started applying stat points fast, attempting to prepare his body for whatever horrific, insane threat he might face next.

In the distance, a rumbling, sulphuric growl grew progressively louder.
