Calen used the sudden burst of speed to dodge the strange crystal platforms that shot off on high-speed, unpredictable trajectories, buzzing like giant hornets, and instead raised his bow and unleashed a multishot Ambush at all four of the elemental minions. If Lyeneru planned on kiting the boss until it revealed some of its abilities, he could only help by reducing the load on her.

The boss took off at an angle to him, chasing after his flying mentor, while the four smaller copies of it did an instant about-face as soon as his arrows struck, zooming across the runic inscriptions to close with him. He backed up, critically aware that the limited range of the domain-enhancing magic empowering these monsters may be his biggest tool to manage the danger. The loud reports of Arcane Blast echoed behind him as he abused the few seconds of extra speed from Fade to get some distance, but the shock fronts of spell damage overtook him in less than a second, pushing the count of Arcane Amplification higher with each blast.

Suddenly, the massive runic circle pulsed once, right at the instant the elementals passed the outer edge. The intense purple light darkened dramatically, becoming ominously black. Deep inside each elemental, visible through their transparent exteriors, a dark kernel of blackness rippled outward, warping and shifting their magic and form. They darkened to pitch black, creating amorphous quasi-humanoid shapes with featureless faces of smooth inky blackness, a vague hint of a shroud, two shapeless arms, and below the waist was simply a pillar of gaseous darkness that billowed and boiled. By contrast to the strange shapelessness of the monsters’ new forms, the giant scythes they carried seemed all too real.

Avatar of Annihilation – Elemental – level 247 (Death)Reaper of Ruin – Elemental – level 245 (Death) x4.

A huge surge of mana rippled through the giant Avatar of Annihilation, and suddenly four new Reapers of Ruin spawned beside it. And four more platforms shot up into the air, buzzing loudly from their crystals.

Form change? He registered the magic as he scrambled to avoid the sudden storm of black energy bolts that filled the air.

You have been afflicted with Death Amplification.Your Death Amplification has increased to 3 (+2).Death Amplification+1% to Death damage taken.Duration refreshes on reapplication.Magic – Domain – Duration: 30 seconds. Count: 3.You have gained Fade.

He dove, free-falling for a moment before catching himself with his wings and darting sideways, trying to avoid the sudden storm of magic. But even with his speed, he was struggling, the bolts curving around as if seeking his energy, ignoring the fact that he was supposed to be invisible. The air filled with the sizzling crackle of magic, the stench of death, and the sudden, deafening buzzing as one of the platforms shot up behind him.

***

Calen opened his eyes.

It was strangely quiet wherever here was, and he had a splitting headache. He groaned, struggling to lift the weight of his head. The ground was polished black stone, and there were glowing runes in the floor.

Novaspark Academy? He thought he recognized the locus. Why…

“You’re awake?” a voice spoke – directly into his ear.

He jolted upright, startled by its shocking closeness, finding himself cradled in Lyeneru’s arms in the center of the locus. In a spasm of panic and flailing limbs that had somehow turned to jelly, he tried to extricate himself, but all he succeeded in doing was stumbling and tripping.

She caught him again. To his horror, one of his expensive enchanted mithril arrows seemed to be embedded deep in the back of her shoulder.

“What… what happened?”

Her face twisted into a dark scowl. “Mind control.”

She did not need to say any more. Mind control was one of the most dangerous spells to encounter in a dungeon; every text, tome, or lecture advised running and never coming back.

He shifted his thoughts, replaying his last recollections of the fight.

It had been a named arcane elemental, Avatar of Annihilation, a domain-enhanced Theuronic Crystal that had radiated power. He and Lyeneru had pulled it to see what it could do, and despite all his avoidance, he had still been hit several times by the immensely wide blasts of arcane energy. Each hit had come with a stacking vulnerability debuff, too. He remembered that clearly.

And death bolts. He suddenly remembered the storm of black energy bolts with arcing curved trajectories that homed in on him with unerring accuracy as he tried to dodge. He remembered the giant scythes and the featureless black masks of death magic.

“Form change,” he managed, “right when they exit the rune circle?”

Lyeneru nodded.

“More minions at the same time.” There had been a loud buzzing right then as he dodged the bolts of death magic.

“The platforms with the crystal…” he said, the mechanism finally clicking in his mind. “Those have mind control?”

“Yes,” she answered. “And it’s a domain ability.”

Domain ability? That did not bode well for them. Domain abilities were almost impossible to disrupt, resist, or guard against. “Can we even defeat something like that?” The fact that they were even talking about it was unbelievable – the only answer was to leave. Forget about reclaiming Ciradyl. But she was Lyeneru Silverleaf, the legendary pathfinder. If anyone could think of a way, it would be her.

“Maybe,” she answered grimly. “But it’s going to be difficult. Come, we need to share this intelligence with the guild.” She fixed him with an unreadable gaze. “I could use a few of your inspired strategy ideas right now.”

Me? he thought, as her shocking words hung in the air, incomprehensible, unimaginable. He simply stared at her back as she turned to leave.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
