Within barely a minute, Ren had used portals to jump to key locations in the city and installed all different kinds of screens so that everyone could see the battle when it happened. Once that was done, Ren and Artemis moved to the next city and the next, and did the same thing. By the time the 30 minutes was up, the entire country had been given displays to watch, and they were all keyed to the broadcaster in the arena. He had even put one in Valercia's office.

Ren had also made a special side trip to the castle in the capital city of Bore Reale and met with a half-asleep and startled Princess Diana, and gave her a personal display to watch. She had protested at first and requested to be there in person; but, Ren flatly refused to let her put herself in danger, just for him.

“It's my choice.” Diana had said adamantly.

“Yes, so make the right choice and stay safe.” Ren had said back just as adamantly, activated the display, and left. He went back to the house in Aurora and met the succubi and Suniva. “Do you want to cuddle here or at the county?”

“The county.” The succubi said without having to think about it.

“I'm outvoted, so I'll go with the majority.” Suniva chuckled.

Ren picked her up and everyone left the house, then they flew for several minutes to get back to the succubi roost.

“You've got an hour and 20 minutes left.” Teepo said as they entered Seldanna's bedroom with the double beds.

“That's perfect.” Ren said. “Suniva?”

“Yes, just a second.” Suniva said and grew twice to become 4 feet tall. “Is this better?”

“For me? Yes.” Ren said and took her into his arms and kissed her. Her Fire responded to his passion and flared up, and he carried her to the bed. The succubi gathered around them and climbed onto the bed as well, and for the next 15 minutes, did nothing but wallow in Ren and Suniva's lovemaking emotions.

Since they were in the roost, all of the succubi felt it and were turned on, and those with significant others at the time woke them up and made love as well, just so they could share in those emotions and add their own. After that short session, Ren, Suniva, Artemis, Seldanna, Ellaria, Katori, and Chenoa cuddled together and went to sleep for the hour that Ren had left before the big fight.
