Grinning at him, Vatreece snapped her fingers. “In any event, it should be clear what you must do. I will spell it out for you, regardless. You must refine potential of level twenty-five or higher to house your mind’s projection, then build defenses around it. To begin, manually create level two potential, then forge it into a structure of level two soul, designing said structure to automatically refine foundation potential to level one. This process, you will repeat—‘bootstrapping,’ to use your word—until you have created the required volume of silver soul. You had the right idea with your little ‘sub-cores,’ but no structure of soul may manipulate essence of an equal level save through investment of will. Neither may any structure manipulate essence of a higher level than its own, even with investment. That is why you were never able to get your automation working. Ask.”

Rain blinked, though it only took him a moment to realize that he did indeed have a question that stood out from the others. “If the chaos in here is level thirty, how can I manipulate it?” He pressed a hand to his chest. “Everything I’ve built is rank zero, including this avatar. From what you just said, I should only be able to manipulate rank zero chaos. Filth, even before I built this, I condensed chaos into essence—soul, sorry—with will alone. And what even is will? Is it the same thing I’ve been calling ‘will’? Just...? How? Just how?”

“As I said, this is a subject that could fill textbooks,” the Warden replied with a commiserating smile. “That is just from what I know. Libraries could be filled with what I do not. To answer the question you probably asked, for I confess I did not plan for significant divergence from the script at this juncture, chaos is fundamentally different from ordered essence. It may be concentrated through simple compression, yet when refined, only foundation potential is produced. I cannot tell you why any more than you can tell me why time flows forward instead of back. Take it up with a god if you ever catch one’s ear. I’ve never managed it.”

“I need to think,” Rain muttered, massaging his scalp.

“I told you to do that later,” the Warden said. “I have one last thing to teach you before I go, and that’s how to refine potential. As I said, compression will not work. Just as Sana taught you to structure your soul’s outflow, you must now structure the outflow of your will. Fill the bowl again, please.”

“With potential?”

The Warden gave him a look.

Rain rubbed at his eyes, then moved to comply, bending to lift the bowl from the sand. He dusted it off, his thoughts feeling like they’d been scattered to the winds.

“Chop chop, Custodian. You’re wasting power.”

“That is really annoying,” Rain said, knowing that was the point. He started filling the bowl again from the ocean, holding it up as soon as he was finished. “Okay, done.”

“Look deeply. This time, apply your will as you would to a hostile soul. A pattern will appear. A resonance. You must bolster it.”

“It’s there!” Rain gasped, having started his attempt before she’d even finished speaking. His third eye felt like it was watering, staring at the metaphysical equivalent of the sun, but he was growing less uncomfortable by the moment. After looking at the chaos, this was nothing. “I see it! I see the pattern!”

“Don’t just see,” the Warden said. “Push.”

Rain pushed, and instantly, the fragile pattern collapsed. Muttering a curse, he tried again, gentler this time, sticking his tongue out through his teeth.

“This will be difficult for you, I am sure,” the Warden said. “Most awakened go their entire lives without so much as...”

Rain tuned her out, rapidly getting the hang of it. After countless clashes with Sana, timing the pulses was child’s play. Indeed, very much like pushing a child on a swing, each gentle push of his will built the pattern stronger and stronger until there was a brilliant flash. The level of the liquid dropped, the remainder sloshing from side to side and glowing ever so slightly brighter.

“Got it!” Rain shouted, interrupting the Warden’s ongoing instructions.

“Not bad,” she said, flickering to appear lounging on a sofa that hadn’t been there before. “It only took three times longer than I expected.”

“So full of shit!” Rain said with a laugh, staring at the bowl.

I...might be okay.

“Careful with that,” the Warden said, suddenly right in front of him and nodding significantly at the shining liquid. “Level one potential cannot be stored in a level zero vessel for long. It will degrade, taking the vessel with it.” Looking up at him, she grinned. “Liver, remember? Make sure it’s nice and hard. I recommend whiskey.”

Rain rolled his eyes, though he was still smiling. The liquid was starting to steam, so he condensed it to a solid white marble of soul, which took quite a bit more effort than he was used to. He didn’t even need to test it to know it was stronger than the strongest imitation adamant he’d ever created. It looked...dense.

How didn’t I see?

The Warden flickered again, glitching back to her pacing lecture with no transition. “The process for creating level two potential from level one potential is the same, but with a more complex pattern. This remains the case for each step thereafter. Yes, the conversion is two units to one each time, and yes, it gets out of hand quickly. You will need to enhance the other aspects of your soul to keep up with the progression. As you’ve discovered, your feeble mind cannot affect your paling as it is now.” She raised a single finger in front of her. “A warning there, however. As your ability grows, you will begin to notice places where the system has integrated itself with your soul. Be. Careful. Those structures do not belong wholly to you. If you break one, the best you can hope for is for it to simply stop working. You are about fifty levels and a hundred years too soon to be modifying anything system-wrought. I would say that applies to your paling as well, except the modifications there are simple, by comparison, and it is already broken. It would be hard for you to do much more damage than that, though I don’t doubt you could find a way.”

Chuckling to herself, she returned her arm behind her back. “Where was I? Ah, yes, refining potential. Before long, you will exhaust your stockpile of chaos. You will have difficulty maintaining your soul at its current level, even with the system’s assistance. You are already familiar with the side effects of essence starvation. If you do not wish Ameliah to scold you, you should find a highly ranked zone in which to restore yourself periodically until you stabilize. Lastly, before you ask, no, I can’t tell you how to make the actual structures you’ll need, whether for essence management or mental defense. Image is individual. Figure it out.”

Turning away sharply, the Warden kept her hands firmly clasped behind her back as she stared out at the horizon. “That is all, Custodian. Summon me again when you’re ready, and I will test you. Survive, and this construct will answer what questions it can with what power remains. Oh, and one last thing.”

She turned to face him, wearing a serious expression. “Now that you’ve proven yourself worth bothering with, a piece of advice.” She met his eyes, narrowing her own. “Stay away from Kev.”

*pop*

And with that, she was gone.
