Ceria waved at Erin and the girl skidded to a halt as she carried drinks over to Griffon Hunt. In the background Revi groaned loudly.
“What is it, Ceria? Emergency? Need something?”
Erin tried to wipe sweat off of her forehead as she turned towards Ceria. The half-Elf shook her head. She raised a half-devoured rib and pointed to it.
“Good meat! I love the sauce!”
Erin stared at Ceria for a second. She opened her mouth, and then turned and hurried off.
“Erin! Erin! Hey, Erin! I dropped my fork and can’t find it! I need another!”
“When are we opening presents?”
“Do you have more vegetables? Too much meat gives me gas.”
“I’m sorry, but I need another bucket of water. Too much heat. Do you have any on hand?”
Erin measured the minutes by the requests she got. She ran back and forth, smiling trying to avoid adding to the mess on the floors, and serving drinks and food in between. She wasn’t aware of the time until Revi spoke up as Erin was serving her another drink.
“Is there any entertainment for the night? Or are we supposed to watch the Ants play that board game and chat and eat?”
The [Innkeeper] paused as Halrac and Ulrien both glared at Revi and she steadfastly ignored them.
“Entertainment? Um, like what? More alcohol?”
“No! Don’t you have someone who plays the lute, or tells stories?”
Revi stared around the room, eying the group of [Actors] hopefully. Erin wondered if they’d be able to perform, but her heart sank as she realized half of them were so drunk they could barely sit straight.
“I’ll see what I can do.”
“Why not sing?”
A laughing Drake who’d heard their conversation called that out. Erin turned towards him—he was one of Selys’ friends and had scales which were pink. He might have claimed they were red, but they were more pink than red in Erin’s eyes.
“What? Sing?”
“Aren’t you the Human who sang that one time? I heard the music on Hessal Street, halfway across the city!”
“That’s right! You could sing, Erin!”
Selys stood up and called it out. Heads turned, and after the guests at the inn pieced together what was going on, more raised their voices in approval.
“Sing!”
“I loved that song about defeating the Huns! Nice war song! Who are they?”
Ceria, sitting at a table and trying to talk herself out of eating another rib, sat up and nudged Yvlon. The woman stared as Erin was bombarded by calls to sing.
“Songs, huh? I remember Erin singing.”
Yvlon stared at Ceria. Their eyes found a table in the center of the room. Both remembered Erin singing. In a room full of adventurers, as she held an injured Pawn, singing into the night.
The half-Elf held her breath as Erin made her way into the center of the room. Erin was blushing, looking harried by all the pressure on her. But she obligingly grabbed a wooden spoon and used it as a fake microphone.
“Attention! Attention, everyone! I guess it’s song time! I’m going to sing you a few Christmas songs from home—I hope you like them!”
“Finally.”
Revi muttered and got a jab from Belgrade in the side as the Antinium went back to sit at their table.
Standing in the center of the room, Erin wiped sweat off of her face and tried to think of a good song to sing. She felt so tired. But this was Christmas, and she had guests to entertain!
“This one’s a song I hear—heard all the time back at home. Jingle bells!”
She took a breath, and people cheered. Erin closed her eyes—
And remembered.
The sounds around her faded. Part of it was people growing quiet, listening to her sing. But another part was different. It might have been magic, it might have been her Skill. But the guests in her inn suddenly heard a ringing bell, a beating drum, and then Erin’s voice, singing a song from childhood. From home.
“Dashing through the snow on a one-horse open sleigh, o’er the fields we go, laughing all the way…”
Home. It was something she’d avoided thinking of. But here, in this moment, in this place, Erin couldn’t escape. So she gave voice to that feeling in her chest, the memories.
Home.
Maybe that was why the next song she sung wasn’t a Christmas carol. Erin sang a song from the band Journey. The classic. The story in the song that she’d danced to so many times as a kid. The song played in the 3rd Season of Scrubs.
Don’t Stop Believing. The crowd in her inn cheered wildly when Erin was done. Some of them were rubbing their ears and staring around the inn for the drums and electric guitars that had been playing—others just sat, listening with mouths open to a type of music that had not existed in their world until now.
Erin smiled as people cheered her on, demanding another song. She immediately launched into the classic she’d sung for Lyonette and Mrsha, Silent Night. She sang with her eyelids shut. She wasn’t standing in her inn anymore. She was somewhere else.
Where would she be if she were at home? She’d be…she’d be in her living room, eating with her mom and dad. She’d probably be laughing and eying the presents under the tree. Knowing her father, he’d have bought her some chess guide or a new board—her mom would get Erin some tasteful clothing that Erin had hinted she wanted. And Erin would be looking forwards to seeing her parent’s reactions for the presents she’d bought.
Or—Erin’s voice faltered. Would she be in college? She would have been in college after her one year break. Erin would probably have come home for the holidays, but—
“Erin?”
She looked around, and realized the song had ended. People were waiting for the next song. Erin smiled. She felt something building in her heart. She searched for a song, and couldn’t think of anything off the top of her head.
“Um—what should I sing next? Another Christmas song? Okay. Then I’ll sing…”
It came to her without thinking.
“How about Home For the Holidays? Anyone heard that song? Well—”
Erin smiled faintly as people cheered and clapped. She took a deep breath and began. There was no accompaniment for this song. It wasn’t an immortal moment. Erin felt her heart beating slowly as she began to sing, mechanically reciting the song she’d heard so many times.
“Oh there’s no place like home for the holidays—”
Only when she was halfway through did Erin’s mind catch up with what she was singing. She paused, and people looked up. She coughed, and felt something in her stop. The people who’d been swaying to the music paused and looked at her. She tapped her throat, cleared it.
“Sorry. Something was in my throat. Let me try again.”
She opened her mouth, and tried again.
“Oh there’s no place like home for the—”
Again she broke off. This time, the noise in the inn died. Erin lowered the wooden spoon in her hands.
Something was wrong. Her eyes were stinging, and the world was getting fuzzy. Erin tried again. She took a deep breath.
“There’s no place like…”
Silence. Every eye was on Erin. The people in her inn had stopped. They stared at the girl standing in the center of the room. Erin’s cheeks were flushed, her eyes bright. The last word she’d meant to sing died unspoken.
She dropped the spoon. It landed on the floor with a clatter. Erin looked around. Her eyes were bright and overfull. The word echoed in her mind, in her heart.
Home.
She wasn’t home. She was far from home. And though she’d tried to forget, Erin couldn’t. She remembered her parents, her home. Her friends. They weren’t here. This wasn’t her world.
Standing in the center of the room, Erin blinked and then lost the smile that she’d kept on her face for so long. Her mouth turned down.
She couldn’t stop it, no matter how hard she tried. The world blurred. Erin’s shoulders shook. Slowly tears rolled down her cheeks and fell onto the floor of the inn.
Drip. Drip.
Erin covered her mouth with her hands. She pressed the heels of her hands against her eyes, but the tears wouldn’t stop.
Home. She missed home! She wanted to see her mom and dad again. She wanted to go to her room. She wanted it so badly that Erin couldn’t do anything but cry.
No one could speak. Erin looked around, tears falling, unable to speak. Wide-eyed faces stared up at her, people soundlessly gazing at her.
She made the smallest noise, and then turned. Erin ran for the door to her inn and flung it open. She disappeared into the snowy night. The inn’s door slammed shut behind her.
For a second no one spoke. All of Erin’s guests stared at the closed door. Then Mrsha began to howl, and everyone began shouting at once.
 
—-
 
The first few minutes were all chaos. Mrsha ran for the door, only to be caught by Lyonette. Ceria stood up and wanted to go after Erin, but Yvlon pulled her back. The Human woman tried to tell Ceria to let Erin grieve by herself at the same time Grev burst into tears and Klbkch flipped his table and stood up.
Some people went for the doors, but others got in the way or had other opinions. The noise was so intense that it became impossible to think or make sense of any individual voice.
In the end, Relc leapt onto a table and bellowed at the top of his lungs.
“Alright. Everyone shut up!”
He had a voice used to shouting in the middle of battles and over noisy crowds. Everyone grew quieter as they stared at Relc. The Drake looked around the room, and then hopped off the table.
“Damnit.”
He kicked at a fallen cup. Relc stared at the door and sighed heavily.
“Someone should go after her. It’s cold out there. And there’s Rock Crabs and Shield Spiders hiding in the snow.”
“I’ll go.”
Klbkch, Halrac, Pawn, Olesm, Krshia, Selys, Ceria—there were fewer people who remained sitting. But it was Pisces who appeared at the door in an instant with his [Flash Step] spell. The mage looked around the room.
“I shall go. Discreetly. I know [Invisibility]—I shall make sure she doesn’t freeze and keep any monsters away until she returns.”
No one had anything to say, so Pisces opened the door and disappeared into the night. The others sat down and began talking amongst themselves anxiously in low voices.
“Happy?”
Halrac snarled at Revi. The Stitch-girl raised her hands, looking upset.
“Don’t glare at me! It wasn’t my fault! Why did she start crying like that?”
“Because she’s homesick, you idiot! And she’s worked too hard putting this party on!”
“Well, how is that my fault?”
Revi’s raised voice attracted a few dark looks, but people were more concerned with Erin. Selys stroked Mrsha’s head as the Gnoll clung to Lyonette and buried her face in the girl’s shirt.
“I had no idea Erin was feeling so down. She didn’t say anything to me, and we’re best friends!”
“I say it’s all the work she’s been doing. Halrac is right—she needs a rest. And a friend. We should see if she wants to talk when she gets back.”
Ceria put her head in her hands as she sat at a table with Yvlon, Ksmvr, and the Halfseekers. She felt her own eyes stinging and brushed angrily at them.
“We should have been helping out and keeping her company instead of drinking and doing nothing! We should take tomorrow off and—just be there with her.”
Yvlon and Ksmvr agreed to the idea and Ceria saw other people nodding in agreement around the room. But it was Relc of all people who stared at the ceiling and shook his head.
“Naw, that’s stupid.”
“What?”
Ceria turned and glared at him. The Drake sighed. He looked older as he sat in a chair and leaned back.
“You know what we should do? We should leave her alone. If anyone stays here, she’ll just look after them. That’s what she does. Look after people. She’s a weird Human like that.”
The half-Elf opened her mouth to retort angrily, and then closed it. At his table, Ulrien nodded.
“That’s true. If we’re here, she has a job. We’re her customers, not just her friends. I say tomorrow, we all go into the city and give her the space she needs. We eat, and sleep there if we can manage it.”
“Ulrien!”
Revi protested. He looked hard at her.
“It’s what’s right, Revi. We won’t have a problem occupying ourselves for one day. And in the meantime, anyone who wants to talk with Erin can. But I think the Drake’s right. Giving Erin time alone is what she needs.”
“My name’s Relc, asshole.”
The other guests of Erin’s inn were in agreement. Selys was still very upset, though. She paced back and forth in front of her table.
“I just—I don’t know what to tell Erin! She wants to go home? Where’s she from? Terandria? Baleros? Chandrar? She’s never talked about it once!”
She looked at Krshia.
“Where’s Erin from? Has she told you?”
The Gnoll shifted, and looked around the room. Brunkr, who’d put his head down, raised it warily. Krshia nodded at the door.
“I have some knowledge of her home, but it is not for me to say, no. I am sorry, Selys. But Erin is a girl of many secrets. Her home is one of them, and few know of it.”
“Some know. Or have guessed.”
Ceria folded her arms frowning at the door as well. She was talking about Pisces, whom she was sure knew more than her.
“How hard is it to find out? Erin’s got to have said something to someone. Why’s going back so hard? Does she not have enough coin to pay her way home? Is she an outcast? What?”
Wesle’s face was filled with honest confusion. He looked around.
“I mean, she’s never spoken to me about it. But where’s her home?”
No one knew. And those that did weren’t saying. Yvlon sat with some of the others, frowning as they talked it over.
“She didn’t know about Terandrian nations. And she’s not from Chandrar.”
“Are you certain?”
Olesm nodded. He was toying with a chess piece, tail twitching with emotion.
“Yeah. She didn’t know about the King of Destruction.”
Yvlon shook her head.
“What, him waking up? That’s big news, but—”
“No, she didn’t know about the King of Destruction at all.”
“You’re kidding. Then is she from Baleros?”
“Hardly. Remember Gazi? She told me she’d never met a Gazer before in her life! She thought Gazi was a full Gazer, not a half-Gazer!”
Jelaqua walked over, suddenly alert. She stared at the others.
“Wait, Gazi? You mean, Gazi the Omniscient? That monster? How does a girl like Erin know her?”
“She poked Gazi’s eye out.”
“She what?”
Amid the second uproar, Halrac ground his teeth. He grabbed the wooden spoon Erin had dropped and snapped it with a twist of his hands. The sound of breaking wood echoed through the room like a gunshot. Everyone stared at the [Scout]. Halrac’s face was red and he looked angrier than anyone but Ulrien had ever seen him.
“None of this is helpful. So Erin doesn’t seem like she’s from one of the four main continents. So where did she come from?”
“The same place as Ryoka Griffin.”
