When he was gone, Xrn turned to the speechless room. She smiled, opening her mandibles as the swirling lights in her eyes lightened and turned bright orange.
“Well, I have done one of the things I have come here to do. Klbkch, we shall speak now. Or perhaps after your presents are opened. Erin Solstice returns.”
All heads turned towards the door. After a few seconds, it was pushed open. Erin walked into the inn, no longer crying. She smiled cheerfully at everyone.
“I’m so sorry guys. I don’t know what happened. I can’t apologize enough, but—”
She paused and stared at the overturned table, at the people gathered together, the tense adventurers, and the stunned looks on most of her guests.
“Uh. What happened?”
 
—-
 
After that came presents. It seemed like almost a letdown after all that had passed, but no one had told Erin what had happened and she was determined to salvage the party.
“Here you are, Klbkch! It’s from me!”
The Antinium took the present gingerly, ignoring the stares coming his way. He unwrapped the gift and found…
“A scarf.”
It was black, with splashes of red along the ends. Klbkch stared at the scarf as Erin smiled nervously.
“I had it specially knit. Jasi knows a good [Seamstress], and, well, I thought it would look good on you! I know the Antinium don’t have possessions, but I thought you could wear it now and then…”
Klbkch looked at Erin. Without a word he wound it around his neck. The scarf’s red ends dangled around his shoulders.
“I appreciate it deeply, Erin.”
“Ooh, is that for me? What did I—food!”
Relc goggled at his present. Erin laughed as he lifted out the huge jar of what were to him, strange, round, golden-brown circles.
“They’re cookies! Honey cookies, extra sugary, Relc! Ever since Octavia helped me make baking powder, I’ve been dying to make some!”
“Are they—are they all…?”
“All for you! Go on! Try one!”
Relc did. He bit into the chewy, thick cookie and teared up. He hugged Erin tightly, making her yelp as he scarfed down another cookie.
“They’re so good! So good! So sweet!”
Everyone had presents, and everyone opened them, with the exception of the absent Zel and Xrn, whom Erin hadn’t included on the list. They opened presents, at first awkwardly, but soon getting over the excitement of the last few minutes for a more normal, fun experience.
“A new robe?”
Pisces stared incredulously at Ceria. He held up the pristine white robes, made of strong, soft cotton. She smiled wryly at him.
“Don’t go crying on my shoulder. Erin insisted I get something for you—hold on Ksmvr. Is this for me?”
“I have obtained the present for you, yes, Captain Springwalker.”
Ceria frowned as she opened the present.
“What is—”
She gasped and Pisces’ eyes nearly fell out of his head as he stared at the lump of gold. Ceria gaped at the gold nugget and then at Ksmvr. He nodded in satisfaction.
“I was advised to get jewelry for you by Erin Solstice. Gold is a component of jewelry, hence this gift is appropriate. Do you like it?”
“Um. Yes!”
Other presents weren’t as dramatic. Lyonette was explaining to Halrac that the jar of honey and sausage was a gift from Mrsha—the Gnoll had picked out the sausage herself. Brunkr blinked down at the bottle of wine Wesle had given him and the [Actor] introduced himself awkwardly as he clutched the blanket Jasi had bought for him around his shoulders.
Relc had bought a wickedly sharp curved dagger that [Assassins] used for Klbkch. The Antinium had bought him a signed receipt from every tavern owner in the city, promising Relc ten free drinks.
“You guys are so sweet!”
Jelaqua laughed as she accepted her gifts from Seborn and Moore. Respectively they were a powdering kit to make her body look more alive, and an extra-powerful liquid soap bought from Octavia.
When Erin asked what the soap was for, Jelaqua winked at her.
“Helps with cleaning all the parts that get really messy. You know how it is.”
The girl shuddered. But then she laughed, and gave Jelaqua a hug, much to the Selphid’s delight.
It was Christmas. In time, people began looking towards their beds. The adventurers trooped upstairs, and the others bid Erin goodnight.
“They’ll all be heading out tomorrow. But if you want to talk—”
Selys gripped Erin’s hands gently with her claws. Erin didn’t quite meet her eyes as she smiled.
“I’ll be fine, Selys. I’m sorry about—well, merry Christmas.”
“Yeah. Have a good one. This was really fun, Erin.”
The others passed by Erin, nodding to her, shaking her hand, hugging her—Klbkch paused as Xrn stood by his side.
“I apologize for causing a commotion in your absence, Erin.”
“Oh? Uh, well, you’re forgiven.”
Erin blinked as he bowed his head and left. She stared as Klbkch walked out into the snow with Xrn.
The two Antinium moved in silence, and then Xrn looked at Klbkch.
“Do you understand what I did in there, Klbkch?”
“I understand, but I do not know why.”
Klbkch stared at Xrn. The Small Queen sighed.
“Had we talked, you would know. But understand this, Klbkch. I did not come here to simply evaluate your Hive’s latest works. There is more at stake here.”
Klbkch hesitated.
“Then it seems we must talk after all. I feared what you might say. Now I do not know what you have come here to tell me.”
“Well then. Let us find out.”
They walked off towards their Hive.
 
—-
 
Back at the inn, Halrac, Revi, Typhenous, and Ulrien stood together in the hallway as Erin bade the last of her guests goodnight, speaking quietly.
“We’ll leave tomorrow, then. Halrac, are you sure this is what you want to do?”
“Ask, Ulrien.”
The [Scout] stood with arms folded. He stared down towards the staircase. He could still hear Erin saying goodbye to Octavia.
“There’s something about her. Just ask your contacts and I’ll ask mine. That’s all I want.”
“Who is that girl?”
Revi stared at her teammates. No one answered. Ulrien yawned, and looked to his room.
“We may find an answer tomorrow. Until then…Merry Christmas.”
“Yeah.”
“I suppose?”
“Merry Christmas to you all.”
Halrac and Revi went to their rooms. Typhenous bade them goodnight. He paused at the doorway, and turned to make sure the corridor was empty. Then he smiled and put a finger to his head. He whispered as he entered his room.
“[Message] spell to Lord Tyrion Veltras. Please record the following message and deliver at once. Yes…I will pay for immediate priority delivery.”
He spoke a short message as he closed the door to his room. No one heard. Or rather, Typhenous thought that no one heard.
Pisces shook his head as he cancelled the [Invisibility] spell and walked silently down the stairs towards the basement. Mages. It was the same in Wistram—despite knowing such powerful magics, even the best mages were so careless. How hard would it have been to put up a [Muffle] spell, or a [Contained Sound] ward? He could just put his ear to the door and listen!
“What the hell were you doing up there?”
Ceria hissed at Pisces as she and the other Horns of Hammerad stood at the door to the basement. Pisces flicked his fingers and the specialized magic only she could read flickered before her eyes.
Tell you later. Much is afoot.
She stared at him, and then yanked the trapdoor open. Yvlon and Ksmvr went down below.
“Erin? We’re going to sleep. Goodnight.”
“Oh. Goodnight!”
Erin turned and smiled at the Horns of Hammerad. Ceria nodded to her, searching the Human girl’s face. But Erin seemed cheerful, if tired.
The half-Elf and Pisces went down below. Erin turned and saw Lyonette and Mrsha standing on the stairwell.
“Do you need anything else, Erin?”
“No, I think we can clean up tomorrow. You two have a good night. Merry Christmas!”
Mrsha made a small, indistinct, sleepy noise and Lyonette smiled.
“Merry Christmas, Erin.”
And then she went upstairs. Erin stood in the center of her messy room, smiling faintly. She noticed coins on the tables and frowned. Apparently, people still paid her for the party.
She went around from table to table, collecting coins. As she did, Erin mechanically piled up dishes. When she got to the overturned table, she stopped.
Slowly, Erin looked around the dark room. The only light now came from the fireplace. Erin went over to it and stared at the embers. They glowed in the darkness, but dimly. They were fading, without any fuel left to consume.
She looked around again. No one. Erin was sure everyone was asleep by now. So she sat by the fire and stared into the remains.
“I really screwed up, didn’t I?”
Erin said it softly, not wanting to wake anyone. How could she have done that? Broken down in front of everyone? On Christmas?
Her hands trembled. Now that she was alone, really alone, Erin felt her eyes stinging again. She’d ruined Christmas. Even if people were happy now, she’d made them all sad. Because she was sad.
But she was sad! Erin stared at the blurry orange light and wiped at her eyes. Her shoulders began to shake.
Standing at the top of the stairs, Lyonette made not a noise. She stared down into the dark room, at the figure sitting by the fire. She heard the muffled sounds, almost indistinct in the quiet inn. And then Erin’s voice.
She was crying again. When no one could see. Lyonette leaned against the bannister as she heard Erin’s voice.
“I want to go home!”
Erin wept uncontrollably as she sat alone by the dying fire. Hidden in the shadows, Lyonette stared down at Erin. She reached a hand out, and then turned away.
There were tears in Lyonette’s eyes as she went into her and Mrsha’s room, closing the door softly behind her. She stared out her window up at the clear night sky. She cried too. Not for herself, but for Erin. For a girl that wanted to go home.
Her voice was a whisper. Lyonette stared up at the dark sky. There was no one to hear her, but she spoke anyway. She spoke to the world and the stars.
“I, Lyonette du Marquin, swear on my name. I swear by my blood. Someday I will…”
In her inn, Erin curled up on the floor. She kept crying, letting loose all the emotions she’d kept bottled up for so long. She lay on the ground as the day she’d called Christmas ended. The longest night began as Erin slept on the floor of her inn, eyes red, curled up by a dead fire.
The shortest day of the year began as Erin Solstice slept. Her friends stayed in the city, left her to her grief. Erin was alone.
Alone.
