And then…it was Christmas.
Erin was up before dawn again, rubbing at her eyes. She hauled water, helped Lyonette finish cleaning the room—and got food ready.
That was what it was. Food. Erin mechanically created and seasoned a fatty soup with sausage, mushroom, vegetable extract, flour, garlic, a hard-boiled egg…all added to a rye flour and water base that had been mixed several days ago.
Sour soup. It tasted better than described. That was course one. But Erin had far more to do. She fried little dumplings with meat in the center – a Drake favorite food – toasted kebabs in the Gnollish fashion, and finished with some good old Human decadency.
Hamburgers, pizza, popcorn…anything Erin could think of she made. Because she knew she was going to need it all.
Her adventurer guests came and went, eating breakfast, and then lunch. Erin kept cooking, getting ready for the real meal. From time to time she pulled a piece of paper out of her pocket and stared at it.
 
On a delivery. Emergency—a village needs supplies and food. Will try to be back in time for Christmas. Ryoka.
 
She’d received it from the Mage’s Guild. Erin stared at the paper each time, and then carefully folded it away. Each time the door opened she looked up hopefully. But it was never Ryoka. And eventually, Erin stopped looking for her. She had a job to do.
They began coming in at noon. First Relc, rubbing his hands and exclaiming with delight as he saw two presents with his name on it. Then Selys and Krshia and to Erin’s delight, a tired Brunkr. His arm was bandaged and cleaned and he managed to smile at her.
At some point, the door to Celum opened and Octavia fell through. She slept on the floor. After a while Jasi, Wesle, and the [Actors] came through, along with Maran and Safry. Miss Agnes was not there, but Grev darted in as well and stepped on Octavia’s head, waking her up.
After that, Pawn, Bird, Belgrade, and even Garry appeared. Erin had to come out of the kitchen to meet Garry and hug him. Anand was still in Esthelm, but the Antinium Workers had brought some more Workers and Soldiers with them. They sat in a corner while Garry offered his services to Erin. She accepted with relief and they went back into the kitchen.
The Horns of Hammerad hadn’t ever really left, but Pisces came in with Ksmvr with last-minute gifts. They joined Ceria and Yvlon, who were sitting and drinking with the Halfseekers.
Griffon Hunt came to the inn around the same time as Klbkch did. The Antinium was not with the adventurers; he snuck in, looking guiltier than Erin had ever seen him. The reason for that was obvious; an irate Xrn followed him into the inn later. She would have dragged Klbkch away, but Erin presented her with a deep-fried bee and she stayed.
Who else? Erin was beginning to lose track. She was surprised when Hawk appeared, looking wide-eyed at her multitude of guests, but she had sent him an invitation too, hadn’t she? And then came other people, Selys’ Drake friends, some Gnolls that Krshia knew, more people from Celum…
One person came last, as the party was underway. Zel Shivertail stood at Liscor’s gates, shivering a bit as the wind froze his scales. It was cold, far colder than yesterday. He would love to be inside and drinking some of the ‘eggnog’ that Erin had made. But he was outside, listening to someone he really didn’t care for.
“If you’re so worried, come and join the party yourself.”
He snapped at Ilvriss as the Lord of the Wall stood, warm and comfortable in his heavy fur coat and enchanted clothing. The other Drake stared at Zel Shivertail with a look of incredulity.
“I would rather eat my tail than sit in the same room with one of the Ants. You seem to be able to tolerate them—and all those Humans. I am simply telling you what to look out for.”
“I know what to look for. Anything. We don’t know why Xrn and the other Antinium are here. Your precious city leaders and councils have oh so many suspicions and fears, but you know nothing.”
Zel growled at Ilvriss. The Lord of the Wall was unmoved. He glanced towards the inn with a sour expression.
“Just listen and don’t drink yourself under the table, Shivertail. We have a duty. You and I might have come north looking for that Human Runner, but this is far bigger than either of us.”
“Don’t I know it. I’ll keep an earhole open, don’t you worry.”
The [General] turned away from Ilvriss. He began stomping towards the inn, moving quickly to keep out of the cold.
Quickly for Zel meant that he reached the inn in three minutes. He was still half-frozen by the time he did, but opening the door and feeling the warm rush of air on his scales and smelling all the delicious scents in the air made everything worth it.
“Uncle!”
Someone called his name. Zel looked around and smiled as he saw his favorite niece. The one who didn’t treat him like a living legend. Selys was sitting at a table with Mrsha, the Gnoll named Krshia, Olesm, and—Zel’s smile faltered a bit—Pawn.
The Drake only hesitated for a second. He came over and smiled as everyone welcomed him. He didn’t sit next to Pawn, but he didn’t sit far away from the Antinium either. Pawn he could tolerate.
“Uncle, I think that blue Antinium’s here. So is Klbkch. Don’t make a scene.”
Selys warned Zel, which was probably wise. The [General] stiffened, but Selys deposited Mrsha in his lap. The Gnoll stared soulfully up into Zel’s eyes and a crisis was averted.
Running about the inn, Erin felt like all was crisis. She lifted a pan up and yelped as the hot handle scorched her hands. She would have dropped the pan filled with fried ground beef and onions, but someone caught it by the base.
“Are you alright, Miss Erin?”
Garry held the hot pan without a care in the world. Erin blew on her hands as he put the meat back on the stove.
“Great, Garry! Your carapace is awesome, you know that?”
“It is a very helpful aid when I handle hot or cold objects. Or cut myself.”
Garry nodded. He lifted a basket of Erin’s new, ultra-fluffy bread up and carried it out into the common room. Erin followed him with a pot of butter and another one of honey.
Noise. And people calling her name. Erin smiled as people eating and laughing and playing games turned and waved at her. She put the food down in the center of the room and saw Mrsha leap off of Zel’s lap and make a beeline towards the food.
Someone who made a beeline towards Erin was Revi. The Stitch-girl [Mage] put her hands on her hips.
“Erin, please tell Octavia to stop trying to sell me things! Just because we’re both the same species doesn’t mean I’ll buy her insane potions.”
“I’ll have a word with her. Would you like some bread?”
Erin dealt with Revi as someone else came up to take a few warm buns and slather them with honey and butter.
“Miss Solstice, are you sure you have enough food for me? I am quite fine eating whatever—”
“I’m fine! Eat! Eat!”
The girl turned and smiled up at Moore. He smiled back and ducked his head. As the half-Giant walked back to his table where a bunch of the adventurers had gathered, he passed by two arguing Antinium. One, a slim Antinium with blue carapace, unique among her kind, was not happy with the other.
“You have run off to this inn and avoided speaking with me for the fifth time, Klbkch. What attracts you so?”
Klbkch the Slayer, one of the legendary Centenium, Revelantor of the Free Antinium of Liscor and acting Prognugator, hunched his shoulders as Xrn glared at him.
“It is Christmas. This is an important tradition that I must undertake to spread goodwill—”
“You spend all your time eating and talking with that Human. Does your Queen know you’re doing this?”
He did not reply. Xrn made an exasperated hissing-click that needed no translation.
“Once I am done eating this bee, you and I are going back to the Hive. We must talk, Klbkch.”
“But I have to obtain my presents.”
“That is no—what kind of presents? And is that honey I see over there?”
Xrn grew distracted as she saw the fluffy bread, sitting appetizingly on one table. She knew the Antinium could not process gluten well, even if her biology was superior to regular Antinium. It was inefficient, even so. But she still desired to taste the food.
“Honored Prognugator Xrn.”
A voice interrupted Xrn as Klbkch was sinking down in his seat. Both Antinium looked up. Ksmvr cringed as he bowed, but he still offered her the small trinket in his third hand.
“What is this? And who are you?”
“I was the Prognugator for the Hive until my…failures. However, I see your gaze upon the bread. I would like to give you this small token, that you might eat it.”
He offered Xrn the trinket he’d taken from the dead Goblin that resisted food poisoning. Xrn stared at the amulet, and then at Ksmvr. She closed his hand over the trinket.
“Fascinating. Thank you, Ksmvr. I have seen the spell and will copy it. Your help is appreciated.”
Ksmvr was stunned. He bowed and retreated, staring once at Klbkch. Xrn muttered to herself and tapped her chest, replicating the spell she had just seen.
“I had no idea such a spell existed. I did not look or think of it until now, but this is extraordinary. I should like to taste that bread.”
Beside her, Klbkch sat up.
“Will you cast that spell on me?”
“No. You do not deserve it. Why did you exile that poor Antinium, Klbkch? And why does he look like a copy of your former self? He walks like you. What has your Queen been up to?”
“It is a long story. If I tell you, will you cast the spell on me as well?”
As the two Antinium sat together, Ksmvr passed by Erin on his way back to the Horns of Hammerad. He saw her desperately calling for Lyonette to help her; she was balancing at least eleven dishes together on her way back to the kitchen.
“Let me.”
Ksmvr was preempted from helping by Typhenous. The mage lifted the mess of plates up and walked into the kitchen. Erin sighed with relief.
“Thank you so much!”
“Sorry, Erin! I was running to get more water!”
Lyonette came over, puffing from her run outside with the buckets. Erin saw several basins full of snow lined up by the fire, melting into water.
“It’s fine, Lyonette. Go back to serving if you’ve got time—I think Garry’s got the pizzas all ready. Now—who was calling my name?”
She went over and found Jasi wringing her hands. Grev was sitting at the table, glaring at Wesle as the former [Guardsman] hunched over in his seat. Erin didn’t see Relc at first; he was trying to hide under the table.
“What’s wr—”
She felt the cold air and saw a hole and the broken glass. Jasi explained.
“They were playing a knife flipping game, but Wesle lost his grip and—I’m so sorry, Erin!”
“No problem. It’s no problem—I’ll just uh, board that up—”
Erin ran off. Relc came out under the table.
“Oops. How mad was she?”
It was Krshia who saw Erin run back with a hammer and nails and a piece of wood. The Gnoll stood up to offer Erin a paw, but Brunkr, sitting beside her, suddenly hissed and grabbed his Aunt with his good hand.
“Aunt! That’s Zel Shivertail sitting there! I knew I’d seen his face before! That’s him! The Tidebreaker!”
“Of course he is. He stays at Erin’s inn, yes?”
Krshia shook her head as Brunkr goggled at her.
“If you’d been out at any time, you would have learned this. Go talk to him if you are so desperate.”
“Talk? Me?”
Across the room, Halrac’s keen ears heard Erin yelp. He saw her blowing on a finger she’d accidentally hammered and lowered his mug.
“Why’s she got a hammer?”
Ulrien, sitting next to him followed Halrac’s gaze. The [Scout] grunted irritably.
“Someone broke a window.”
“That’s why glass is risky.”
Halrac’s longtime comrade shook his head. Ulrien gazed at Erin as she took her tools away and stared at the rough patch on the window. The big man nodded to the [Innkeeper].
“Your friend seems tired.”
“She’s not my friend. And she’s fine. She’s smiling.”
Halrac glared at Ulrien, but the leader of Griffon Hunt pushed his mug back and shook his head.
“How can you be a [Veteran Scout] with over 30 levels in your class and still not see the obvious, Halrac? Look at her. She’s smiling, but she’s exhausted.”
The [Scout] looked, and this time he saw Ulrien was right. Erin was smiling, but she nearly tripped over her own bucket bringing it back into the kitchen. She had rings around her eyes.
“She needs to hire someone else. Running an inn’s no job for just her and a [Barmaid].”
That came from Hawk. He was sitting with Halrac and Ulrien, having made their acquaintance earlier today. He’d actually met them a few times while running deliveries, hence their easy camaraderie.
All three males watched as Erin ran over to help Garry and Lyonette put a positively gargantuan platter of barbequed ribs on the table. Erin rushed into the kitchen and came out with the fried potato strips she called ‘fries’.
“A hard worker. You were right when you said we should stay here, Halrac.”
Ulrien raised his mug and took a drink. He tilted it up for the dregs. Hawk nodded, looking hungrily at the fries. Some were made of sweet potatoes, and reminded him of carrots.
“This inn is hopping. And the food is excellent! I’d heard that Erin came up with new food every other day, but this is just impressive. You wouldn’t happen to know if anyone’s planning on moving out, would you? I’d love to rent a room…”
“Oh Erin! Erin!”
Halrac gritted his teeth as a familiar voice called out Erin’s name for the seventh time that night. Erin came over a bit slower than usual, because Revi was the one waving her hand.
“We need a refill! We’ve been waiting for five minutes already!”
“Coming up!”
Erin ran off. Halrac glared at Revi, sitting at the table behind him.
“Stop pestering her. Can’t you see she’s busy?”
Revi gave Halrac the condescending look he hated so much.
“She’s an innkeeper, Halrac. This is her job. If she’s too busy to serve drinks, she should hire someone else to help!”
“That’s what I said!”
Hawk leaned around Halrac to speak to Revi.
“Did you know there used to be a skeleton that helped around the inn? It was the talk of the city! I wonder what happened to it…”
Pisces could have told Hawk, or any of the Horns of Hammerad. But they were all busy watching Belgrade and Pawn take on the entire room at the tables where the game of Go was being played.
The two Antinium played anyone and everyone who sat at their tables. They moved their hands quickly, placing white and black stones, easily defeating most players. Pisces and Pawn were engaged in a heated speed-battle where each player had only a second to place a stone, while Belgrade dueled Olesm in a slower, more thoughtful match.
“Erin! Hey, Erin!”
