Delta felt relief surge through her as Nu’s box faded. He was a tad bit annoying but in the end, he had been honest about Delta’s desires and really what close friends didn’t annoy each other?“Ya hear that, Cram? I think we just got challenged on some whole new level,” Smalls nudged the larger man. Cram nodded and eyed the room.“I accept the challenge,” he called and Smalls echoed him a second later.Delta watched in fascination as an orange circle appeared on each man’s left hand. It pulsed like a heartbeat.“There we go, nice and simple. I remember that one dungeon that made the mark appear on our rears. I didn’t know when I failed anything and I was not letting anyone check...” Smalls muttered and Cram laughed.“I saw more of Marsha than I wanted to that day,” he slapped Small’ back hard but the man barely budged.“Dainty flowers first,” he offered and Smalls sniffed.“Oafs last,” he said, the words held warmth and Cram nodded as Smalls began to nimbly move around the webs and towards the midpoint. The berry bush. Delta knew that she only had enough mana for two rooms so far. She had chosen the spider room and the mud room.Both held rather different possibilities and Delta took it as a learning example. It took grace and elegance to do the spider room. The mudroom?It was a mad dash as each person had 10 seconds to clear the platforms and reach the end without falling in. The wording was interesting as well.Use the wooden platforms to cross the room without falling into the mud.The person had to use the platforms to complete the challenge. It meant no one couldn’t just fly or leap across. Challenges were the perfect thing for her dungeon. The only problem was that they all needed rewards. Delta felt a little unsure when the rooms required an appropriate reward.Delta guessed slaying a dragon with one hand would need a reward suited towards it. Not just a nice apple...So as Smalls reached the far end of the room and opened the door. The glowing circle on his hand flashed and lifted off his skin into the air where it began to reshape itself. Delta watched with a smile as her reward formed.“Oh... this is cute!” Smalls said as he held a shirt made from the spider web. He ran a finger over the material.“Soft, flexible... hm something about it.,” he said as Cram’s head brushed web near the ceiling and it broke free. Cram grimaced as the orange circle on his beeped red and peeled off, crumbling like ash.“Cram! You missed your chance to get a web shirt!” Smalls tutted and Cram picked a few berries.“I’ll live,” he said with a sigh. Delta saw a shimmering energy flaking off Smalls, the man didn't even look at it. If he could see or not, Delta wasn’t sure. The glowing energy soaked into the nearby wall and Delta shivered as she felt... something settle inside her.Delta felt a sigh as the challenge went inert for a time. Delta guessed it would be a day or so before this challenge was operational again. Delta tried to guess there might be some way to speed that up...She shivered. Delta closed her eyes to follow the feeling of that energy tickled as it flowed up her feet to her chest. It made her feel warm. She blinked as she missed Smalls and Cram entering the Pond room.“Cram, you have your fishing hook?” Smalls mused as he smiled at the quaint little campfire and logs. Cram bent down to look into the water.“That’s a metal fish,” he grunted and Smalls looked as well.“Is that a duck?” he said instead and Delta swallowed she remembered one of the possible challenge options for this room.Anger Waddles the duck and complete the dungeon with the Dark Drake Curse in effect. Reward not set. High quality item needed to be set as a reward.It was a tad bit extreme and Delta had backed out the room when Waddles had begun to tap his webbed feet excited in some tippytappy dance when she read it aloud.Delta wanted to challenge her visitors. Not break them.
