ragon one pointed out."Do you guys do riddles?" Gunsmith called, her gun readied but no one was rushing as it let the Alchemist mix bottles discreetly behind his back. The crafty man had each of his bottles marked with different raised symbols so he didn't need to see as much as feel to use them."Riddles? Eh, that's more of Doc's thing," the dragon one admitted."Not riddles, you just can't understand science jargon," the bull one retorted. The dragon one went to say something then clicked his massive claws as if coming up with an idea."I've got a riddle. Guess my name," he declared.The group stared at him.He looked like a dragon, but that was too obvious."That's not really a fair riddle," the Necromancer pointed out and the gargoyle deflated like they punctured his fun with a sharp needle."You can just pass if you want. But if you want a riddle how about this then," the bullish one grinned as he leaned down off his perch."What is a question you can never answer if it's true?" the bull asked and the dragon one looked surprised."Where'd you learn that?" he asked curiously."A book, they're this small rectangular thing with paper," the other retorted."Hah. Hah.""Do I look fat in this, partner?" the Alchemist offered first. The Gunsmith eyed him."You better answer with an emphatic 'no'," she warned."Do I exist?" the Warrior announced. The Mage thought that was a good one. The Gargoyles just looked at them, so he supposed that wasn't the answer."Are you dead?" the Necromancer said and the Mage thought that was both clever and fitting for his teammate. But they could answer if the Necromancer wanted them to...Still, no response from the watching monsters."Are you asleep?" the Archer answered slyly."Usually they say yes if you're the one asking in bed," the Alchemist muttered, causing the Gunsmith to shoot him with a withering look."Or 'your time ran out an hour ago, get out'," the Warrior added.The Mage thought about it and decided on his answer."Do you hate yourself?" he said and the rest looked at him in surprise. He flushed, but pulled his pretty spider veil down over his face.There was a long pause."Well?" the dragon gargoyle asked the other."Oh, I don't know the answer. All the answers were at the back and I fell asleep on page two," the bull one admitted."How can you ask a riddle that you don't know the answer to?!" The Archer demanded."Yeah, it was riddles like those that put me to sleep. Glad you got a riddle of your own too!" The bull one beamed at them."The only riddle they have is riddled with a headache, let them pass!" the dragon one announced.The Mage was sure to be just as confused as the rest of his group."Oh, and my name is Dragon. You'd never have gotten it," the draconian gargoyle yelled as they moved through the doors, watching their backs for an ambush.Before he could respond, the Mage felt a strange pulsing of energy and he turned to see the most powerful binding magic he had ever seen over something that looked like a rounded map.Why was the map rounded on a stand?The world was clearly flat.The four protective pillars projecting the magic were made of such a tough material that not even the strongest hammer swing from the Warrior or the most acidic solution from the Alchemist could affect them."Only one reason someone guards something," the Gunsmith said then looked at the doors leading left, right, and forward speculatively.Oddly, the traumatizing smell came strongly from the right door and a little from the door leading forward.The other door didn't smell of anything the winds could carry except very new books-"The winds of fate say this way," he said quickly and headed to that door."The winds of fate?" the Necromancer asked dubiously as he petted his new bird."Like how Death's gentle hand guided you to that pet store," The Mage said and the Necromancer was suddenly distracted by a tapestry.The Mage couldn't wait to lift some books. Surely, no one would mind.---In a dark throne room, the small pudgy form rippled as it expanded slightly once more.The skull it wore was now properly fitting and small arms flexed. King Jellagon exhaled, breathing out green fire in short bursts."Poi..." he rumbled."Oh, I think a cleaver would be dashing," the nearby Mharia said as she looked over the dozens of weapons she got from the Demon Blacksmith.The king thought about it then reached down for another weapon.A firm leather shoe with an open back to allow one comfortable to slip into."That's not a weapon, that's just something for guests to wear when they're in the library but have boots on-" Mharia began but Jellagon focused, causing runes of power to appear on the surface of his weapon.The Runes were an inverted Delta Symbol. It invoked displeasure, uncomfortable attention, and disapproval.Perfect for his weapon.These intruders did not yet deserve the sword of arrogance to fall upon.They deserve the slipper of punishment to slip up on.
