304

******

Stu’s pet ryeh-b’t had emerged from her egg on a chilly morning, when the forest outside his bedroom window was dark. He’d been anticipating the event and monitoring the egg for days, so he’d been awake and ready when it had begun. The habitat he’d made for her was summer-warm, and her future meals darted around the tiny pond or crawled across leaves and vines. He hoped it would be a rich home for her.

At the first sign of movement, he’d almost sent a message to the family:  “Anyone who’s awake, come and see the new life being born.” A ryeh-b’t hatching wasn’t the most important birth that would take place at the siblinghold this year, but it was still a rare small joy in their midst. He knew a few early risers would come to watch with him. They’d bring him a cup of grain tea and comment on the bright patch of red scale that was already showing. Whoever decided to stop by to witness the occasion would probably add something positive to it.

But the ryeh-b’t’s name, and Stu’s reasons for remembering a dead Avowed in such a way, had already been called odd by some of them.

He knew it was odd. And he knew these remarks weren’t mean-spirited. But he wanted to watch Alden break free of her egg and live the first moments of her life as she pleased, without anyone diminishing the moment for either of them.

So he never sent the message.

He was the only witness to the struggle, the brief rest she took before her final effort, and then her clumsy steps into a bigger world. She’d stretched wings that weren’t quite ready for flight yet, and Stu had felt a puff of air against his skin from her first flap.

She had arrived. Her existence changed everything around her. And Stu knew it first.

His friend, Alden Thorn, was not a ryeh-b’t hatchling. But there was something about this night that was like that morning.

More than once, Stu allowed his thoughts to split to sharpen the present against the memory as he sat under the lantern Alden had planted at the base of the Yatanger triangle’s mound. He was listening to everything the human had experienced in the short time they’d been apart.

They wore the old rings that made conversations private. Stu had been carrying them with him ever since Aymeg Dad had reminded him, needlessly, that they were not toys. Even though the rings didn’t hide actions or the motions of mouths, they were talking and acting as if there was no chance of being discovered. Both of them were taking the vision of Alden sitting on the platform above them as a promise that they were unobserved here.

“She appeared here to talk to me, and she showed you what I look like in the uniform,” Alden had said. “She might not warn me if someone was spying, but I’d feel betrayed if she encouraged me to talk about my secrets while someone was listening in. Well-dressed Alden and conversations like the one I was having with her before you decided I needed to be levitated wouldn’t happen if we didn’t have privacy.”

Stu knew he was right. Even if there had been some miscalculation at first, and those things hadn’t been intended to mean it was safe for Alden to behave as he pleased, the way he’d understood them had now changed that. And Stu’s own agreement mattered, too. They’d both decided the vision of Alden would disappear if someone approached. She hadn’t denied it. The trust of a declared and an unsworn knight wouldn’t be broken over something like this.

“I’m thinking of you as an ‘unsworn knight’ now,” Stu said after Alden finished describing what it was like to sense the presence of his cat. He’d been diligent about his sensitivity training because of Stu’s recommendation.

“And I used it to find him on top of my bed, exactly where he shouldn’t have been!”

He’s still thinking of the cat. He must not have been finished talking about it after all, and I interrupted.

“I’m beginning to notice how I can sense different things happening in the  gym, too. Although everything goes so fast in there that I’m not quick enough to…‘unsworn knight’? As a sort of title, you mean? Unsworn Alden.”

“Unsworn Hn’tyon Samuel Alden Thorn,” said Stu. “You’re more than a declared, but your oaths are yet to be completed. If I have a title, you certainly should.”

Alden mouthed the words “unsworn hn’tyon” to himself, then snorted and shook his head. “Who would even use it but you? And I don’t want you to be formal when you say my name.”

“I won’t use it as a title. Only when it comes up. Soon-sworn would be better than unsworn! We’ll use that.”

“I do like that better. Okay, so…now that I’ve told you how the sensitivity training is going, you understand why I need to experiment on the hot spot over there.”

“No,” said Stu.

“But what would happen if you said yes instead? I can feel that spot from all the way over here if I close my eyes and think about it.”

“What would happen is you’d burn a bunch of grass, and we’d have to apologize to whoever has been using this triangle to prepare an environment for their own casting. And that’s without thinking about how you using a Yatanger triangle would be explained.”

“If I used the spell that heats stones instead of the candle lighter?”

“The result would be similar.”

Alden thought for a moment. “What if I called the memory of sunlight, but in that wrong way I told you about—the one that made a huge flash, exhausted my authority, and made the air in my dorm room smell like it was burning?”

“We’d survive if we positioned ourselves correctly within the triangle, but is flash burning everything else in sight really something you want to do?”

Alden laughed. “No, I don’t. It’s such a nice Rapport now that it’s not sweltering. And when Esh-erdi encouraged me to explore I doubt that was what he had in mind. But it’s something, isn’t it? To be able to figure out that the potential for big heat is there and have more than one spell that can interact with that potential? Three spells! I’ve got three that can make heat.”

He beamed at Stu, holding up three fingers. “Sincerely, though, I wouldn’t have tried it even if you hadn’t shown up. I’m a careful wizard. Respectable. Not like a LeafSong student who runs out of the insight chamber without waiting to thank his instructor at the end of a once-in-a-lifetime learning opportunity.”

“Whose fault was that?!”

“Completely yours.”

“I asked Hn’tyon Esh-erdi what you two were doing and if you were well, but he sent back messages like, ‘Alden is throwing sausage into the river.’”

“For the terackerin. Her name is Ploomp.”

“And, ‘Alden is trying to justify his affection for the number fifteen.’ I know his sense of humor is as it is, but those descriptions of your activities didn’t help me convince myself that you were thinking clearly!”

He let the full extent of his grievance into his voice. He had waited until the fan casting lesson was over, but then they were all supposed to thank their teacher in order of seniority. He was going to be one of the final three among hundreds to bow to her and say a few words of gratitude.

“Leaving after receiving instruction like that might be as rude as leaving in the middle of class. I’ve never had to question which would be worse because I never thought I would be so inconsiderate. Calassa Mom may erupt if she hears of it. I don’t know what I’ll say in apology to the Master. Amantha may assume the best of me and tell her that I must have gone in a rush to Emban’s side. I’m ashamed to hope for that, but I do. When you are welcomed as a hn’tyon by all the Triplanets, I can go explain the truth to her.”

Stu drew closer to Alden’s self so that he wouldn’t misunderstand and think the frustration was directed at him.

This is a way I didn’t know we could communicate with each other a couple of weeks ago.

Alden welcomed the closeness as easily as any friend or family member ever had. “I didn’t know it was that bad,” he said. “All right. It was eighty percent Esh-erdi’s fault, ten percent yours, and ten percent mine.”

“You’ve given him such a large portion.”

“He’s not here to defend himself,” said Alden. “It’s unfortunate for him, but that’s how it goes.”

He was still smiling. He’d been smiling ever since Stu arrived. In large part because he’d told Esh-erdi he wanted to live in the Rapports and work toward defeating chaos. It was an important truth for him, if not every detail of his truth.

He’d decided it. A stretch of wings.

He’d spoken it. A puff of air.

“If you went now, is there any chance you’d be in time to thank the Master wizard properly?”

Maybe there is a small one. But such a small one.

“I’ll stay here.”

Something more important was happening here.

“That’s good for me,” Alden said happily. “Can I show you my spell abbreviation here, or should we go farther from the triangle?”

“We should be safe as long as we’re not on the platform,” said Stu. “But let’s go down the trail. Just in case.”

“Let’s do it.” Alden sprang up and grabbed the lantern. “When I sent you a picture of myself holding this, you were supposed to think, ‘How natural Alden looks in Rapport III, going for a nighttime walk with his light on a stick where lights belong!’ What did you think instead?”

“That a gorfal lantern resembles some of the weapons you devised in MPE last term, and that you were about to reenact your defeat of Winston for Hn’tyon Esh-erdi’s entertainment. And that, after drinking everything I thought you drank, you might say something like, ‘This is how The Bearer of All Burdens does it!’ to finish your demonstration, leading to unknowable consequences and regrets.”

Alden raised his eyebrows. Vathas and their shadows flapped around him.

“I was letting my fears eat my reason,” said Stu.

“It happens,” said Alden. “I know you know I’m not an idiot.”

Stu nodded.

They headed for the trail. The image of Alden walked ahead of them. Stu was a little disappointed that its coat had been exchanged for the sleeveless blue top Alden sometimes wore, but it still had some pieces of a knight’s uniform. And watching the tattoos on its arm change was interesting. Alden had settled on the design and location of the contract he’d share with Esh-erdi, but he was enjoying trying different symbols above and below it.

“Are you thinking of adding placeholder designs even if you have no other contracts yet? Would you like to have one that matches with—?”

A glowing gorfal swept toward Stu’s face, and he chirped, leaping back before he realized it was going to pass harmlessly over his head.

“This,” Alden said, deepening his voice and striking a strange pose with one fist on his hip and the lantern pointed in front of him toward the twisted remnant of a tree stump, “is how The Bearer of All Burdens does it.”

“Why are you standing like that?”

“To intimidate demons.”

“That’s a stump.”

“One of the burdens I must bear is The Maker of Narrow Ways’s lack of imagination.”

It’s not proper to call me that, thought Stu. Not until I’ve finally done it. Maybe I should say so.

But friends who’d declared did talk this way to each other when no one was around to take offense. Especially as the time drew close. His longing ears had caught similar comments shared between others.

“I was mistaken,” he said. “That’s obviously a demon.”

“Try to fan its feelings of intimidation with your fan,” Alden suggested. “It thinks you’re easy prey because of that chirp.”

Stu took his new casting fan out of his pocket with a flourish and waved it at the stump. He couldn’t remember the last time he’d done something so silly on purpose.

“Here,” he said, passing the fan to Alden when he’d finished intimidating the demon. “I know you want to hold it.”

“I do!” Alden said eagerly, bringing the light closer to see it better. “You did learn the spell, didn’t you? Even though you were worried about me? Being invited to the insight chamber and getting a casting tool sounds like something you’d be excited about under normal circumstances.”

“I learned it well enough to cast it, but I’ll need to observe others who were better focused to capture some of the nuances. It shouldn’t be too difficult to do that. Everyone who was invited will be casting the spell all over campus to show off.”

“Will you teach me how to use the fan someday?” Alden closed the tool and handed it back.

“I will. And we’re far enough from the triangle here if you’re ready to show me your abbreviation.”

He shouldn’t have been able to brighten more, but he somehow managed it. “Promise stick?”

Stu had a few. He held one between them and watched closely as Alden demonstrated his first abbreviated spell.

Two gestures. The second one was a snap that caused sparks to burst around the tip of the promise stick before it lit.

That was a lot of excess sparking for that spell. Is he disappointed?

No, he wasn’t. He was grinning as he blew out the tiny flame, and he immediately cast the spell again. If anything, there were even more sparks this time.

“What do you think?” he asked eagerly.

“It’s actually an abbreviation and a modification since you changed a gesture. The sparks are on purpose?”

“They weren’t the first time. They just happened when I changed the spell. But I think they’re fun, so I haven’t tried to get rid of them. I want them for this version. I can always cast the other if the situation needs it.”

