“I like it,” Stu said. “Personalizing everyday spells makes your wizardry seem more considered. More artful. There’s nothing wrong with doing everything exactly as taught, but I think, for you, showing comfort with your casting might help.”

“Help with what?”

Stu’s thoughts had crawled over the question of how Alden would be viewed and treated by others many times now. If his language was farther from perfection than theirs, if his authority greetings weren’t fluent, if a thousand irritations and indignities dragged against him on his way, people wouldn’t be able to deny great magical ability. Alden just needed time to develop it.

“Even during my earliest days on this planet, when I seemed like a lost cause to almost everyone but Father, people still noticed I was gifted at magic,” Stu said. “At LeafSong, there are many students who I have almost nothing in common with, but we can still talk about spells.”

“Help with fitting in,” said Alden. “That’s what you mean. Storytelling and magic. Learning how to ride terackerins. Learning how to put lanterns in nets.”

“Magic is the most helpful of those. How did your storytelling go?”

“I told an amusing one. Not the one I wanted. I think coming here with Esh-erdi helped me figure out why I couldn’t get any farther with the story I really liked, though.”

“What was the story?”

“I’ll tell you it if there’s time. It’s…early evening according to your LeafSong schedule. And you have class tomorrow. Is Eeaner-ket’s Stuart-focused party still going to be during your coming weekend?”

Stu felt the reminder like cold water in his boots. “It will be the last day of the weekend. He’s hired a company to do things to our student house to make it ready.”

“I like my rings that used to be Eeaner-ket’s rings,” Alden said comfortingly. “I’ve worn them everywhere except gym. And my obstacle course class yesterday proved how useful hand protection could be. I broke a finger, almost got hit by a dart, and Ignacio decided I could probably catch knives and hold onto them while he called them back. I need to show you how that worked out. I used my free authority and my skill to make something cool happen.”

******

It was a rare joy. Almost all of it. The new spell, the long walk through a part of the third Rapport he hadn’t seen before, and especially hearing Alden speak with growing certainty about what he liked and wanted to have here, as a knight.

He said he felt more like who he wanted to be right now than he had at any point since Stu had first met him.

“It’s not fair how it works, Stuart. I’ve been putting the same amount of effort into doing the right thing and finding a direction all along. And if I look back, I can point at all these moments when I made progress. But every step only moved me forward about a finger’s width, and now, with more solid ground under me, the same steps turn into big leaps. I even got forward progress out of meeting Zakithee-und’h. A little boy trying to <<shun>> me for being an Avowed would have made all my worries worse a few weeks ago. Today it was good for me. He said the problem out loud, and that gave me a chance to chew on it, spit it out, and step over it. It’s still a problem, but I’ll plan for it and carve around it. The life I want is this way, so I’ll do it.”

He kept pulling food out of his bag while they explored the trail, and Stu kept accepting it because he’d only had one meal this morning before entering the insight chamber.

Eventually they turned and headed back the way they’d come. They were nearing the triangle again, and Alden had turned off the lantern a while ago so that the vathas swarming them would leave.

“I’m supposed to tell you about someone,” Alden said. “But there were so many other things to talk about, and this was sad. Yaril-honn’s brother was one of the knights who was lost on Goldbush. Did you already know?”

Yaril.

Her smiles had been nervous and her hair crimped from the braids she’d taken down to prepare herself for her first oath ceremony. Stu had hoped that he would hear from her ever since. He’d wondered if she had changed her mind about going through with first binding or if she’d changed her mind about casual interaction with an art’h. Or if someone had warned her about him specifically.

In a shameful period of self-pity one night, he’d allowed himself to imagine how such warnings were whispered when he wasn’t around. Did they tell her to avoid attachment to someone who wouldn’t be able to cope with being bound? Or did they tell her that encouraging him was the same as threatening the wellbeing of the Primary and the Quaternary?

But of course she hasn’t kept her promise to send me a message if this is what she endures so soon after her first binding. She must be trapped in pain and turmoil.

“I didn’t know,” he said. “So much has been happening.”

Alden let the news fill the silence.

“I’ve lost people I loved,” Stu said. “But I don’t know what to say to others enduring the same. Maybe it’s because my mind is different. If I’d had a normal childhood…”

“It’s not that,” said Alden. “Because I have my own experience, and I don’t know what to say either. ‘What’s happened is shitty. Most days in your life won’t be shitty.’ That’s what I’d say to my younger self if I went back in time. But it’s not poetry or surprising wisdom.”

“Knowing when not to use poetry is a kind of wisdom.” Stu would hold that in his mind when he called Yaril. He’d say something plain.

“Earlier, when I pretended I was going to hit you with my lantern, you were about to comment on the tattoo.” Alden climbed a few low steps onto one of the sections of the trail that was elevated above the ground. Water often stood here. At present, it was just muddy. “Were you going to ask if I wanted a matching one with you?”

“I was,” said Stu, following him up onto the narrow wooden path. “Do you?”

“I would value matching tattoos and an oath of friendship,” Alden said. “But if we want to try deepening toward inesvul, isn’t that redundant? A friendship of oath like we talked about in the past can’t be stronger than what Esh-erdi and Lind-otta have.”

Someone hopes to deepen with me. Alden wants to hold my place in reality.

When I told him it would mean more bindings for him, he was afraid, and he still said he wanted to try.

It’s been days now. He’s still talking this way.

Something like this is too wondrous to have wished for, but here it—

“Stuart?”

Stu had stopped to admire every angle of the marvelous question instead of answering the person who’d asked it. Alden was several steps ahead of him now, probably wondering why he was smiling down at the boards beneath his feet.

“It might be unusual to make oaths about friendship as we reach for the bond of knights,” Stu said, hurrying to rejoin him. “I was thinking of simple adornments since you seem to be considering adding placeholders to your arm.”

“I’ll think about that. What if after your party we cast spells together? The last day of your upcoming weekend will be a Friday for me.”

“That would be a very good way to recover from whatever happens!”

“You make it sound like they’re going to throw you into a pit and force you to fight the other partygoers. You told me during our last call that it would be fine, but as the dreaded day approaches…”

“It will be fine. After Eeaner is distracted by the others, I may retreat to my room and contemplate. I have much to contemplate.”

“I saw something before you got here that made me think of you and one of your major contemplations,” Alden replied. “Are you tired of walking yet? We could call a flyer.”

“I’m not in a hurry to go back to school.”

******

Alden’s birth tree was being cared for by some of Rapport III’s votaries in a high-maintenance ingredients garden.

“It sounded like such an extreme thing for Esh-erdi to do when I first heard he and Porti-loth had bought my tree and a bunch of dirt and sent it across the universe,” Alden said. The gate to the garden swung open to allow them entry. “But this place is near his house, and my tree is almost no trouble for the votaries compared to everything else here from what I was told. They just put it in its own climate pocket, and they point an eye at it every now and then to make sure it’s healthy. Once I saw it, I couldn’t believe it was ever allowed to live on the edge of a parking lot anyway without people complaining and trying to have it chopped down. It’s safer here.”

The path from the gate was as wide as a road, and though many of the plants were attractive, they were positioned for the convenience of caretakers and ingredient collectors rather than for viewing. Equipment had been left out, ready for tomorrow’s projects. At the end of the path, Stu and Alden had to skirt the edge of a field that was being prepared for future planting.

“A couple of the people who work here live over there. They talked to me and Esh-erdi, and they know I’m allowed to come see my tree.” Alden was pointing across the field toward the house.

“Which one is it?” Stu asked.

There were trees of different shapes and sizes at the back of the field. He only recognized one species.

“Its climate is set to January in Tennessee. Winter. So it’s lost its leaves. But it has some long seed pods hanging from the branches.”

“Oh, that one!” Stu said, spotting it and passing Alden, in a hurry to get a good view. “A lovely little tree! I wish I could see it better. At least it’s not long until sunrise here.”

“It’s not little. That’s a big tree. A big, full-grown tree. Your sense for tree size is biased by a forest full of giants. Don’t rush at it if you can’t see it well.”

Stu crossed into a patch of cold air. His nose stung, and he tapped the warming rings he wore on each hand to activate them. He heard Alden’s steps behind him.

“It’s called a honey locust. I was keeping the light off so that it could make the best impression possible when you finally saw it. Maybe you won’t think the same thing I did…but look.”

The lantern he was carrying lit, and he swung it toward the tree’s trunk.

Stu blinked once at the brightness, and then again as he saw what Alden had wanted him to see. “Thorns,” he said.

Large, multi-pronged thorns grew in clusters from the trunk. They were gray or brown. Sharp. Many of them were as long as Stu’s hand.

Alden nodded at him, then reached to touch one of the thorns lightly.

“My family name in English is the word for thorn. So that was the first thing I thought when I saw them. But then I thought of you. My birth tree grew these sharp spikes to protect itself. It looks weird in some places because it grew so many. Some of them are broken, and it’s not a tree you can hug without bleeding. Doesn’t it remind you—”

Stu knew. He saw it.

“Of my patient creatures,” he said, placing a hand on one of the tree’s less dangerous spots.

“Yes,” Alden said. “Some of the smaller clusters even look like patient creatures. Slightly.”

They do. I know it’s only a coincidence. But they do.

“Two kinds of beauty,” Alden was tapping his fingers against more thorns.“I can’t tell you how significant this seemed when I saw it. I’m glad you thought the same thing. I’d have been a little sad if you didn’t.”

My friend.

“Pick one,” said Alden. “I will too. We can cut them off with a spell.”

“No!” Stu exclaimed. “How could we?”

Green eyes peered at him. “It’s a tree. It’s only two thorns. You used much more than two thorns worth of tree material recently. Remember?”

Stu suspected he was purpling now. He’d been comparing the tree too much with his patient creatures.

“I want us both to have one,” Alden said. “As a reminder. Maybe they could even be an accessory. I could replace the pin I wear on my pezyvas with something thorny if I can figure out how to keep it from stabbing anyone who bumps into me. And we’ll have an ingredient that makes a great Alden-healing potion with us wherever we are. That’s good, isn’t it?”

It was very good.

They both started searching the tree for thorns.

******
