Erick followed Sizzi into the main room, back by the receptionist’s desk. Anhelia was not there. Instead, the young man Erick had seen before was there, trying to deal with an angry customer he was woefully ill-equipped to handle. He caught Sizzi’s eyes, and whisper-shouted to her for help. Sizzi shook her head, mouthing, ‘Sorry,’ and kept walking.

Up the main staircase, they walked; Sizzi leading the way.

Every step they took, Erick felt dread settle onto his shoulders. Ophiel trilled in quiet flutes. He may not have understood exactly what was happening, but he understood about as much as anyone. Whatever had happened could not possibly have been a good thing.

The war room was not located up any tower, but was instead down at the bottom of a staircase, past a few deep, well lit, yet empty rooms. There was not a shadow to be seen, down here; not even under Erick’s own feet. An archway at the end of the hallway held a thick pair of deeply red doors, but those doors were open. A flurry of activity rustled papers and scratched on chalkboards beyond. Raised voices spoke of shadelings and danger, and of … Magical items? Gifts? Points?

Erick glanced back to Poi as they walked. Poi, in turn, had about thirty lines of intent radiating from his head, and a grimace on his face. He glanced to Erick, but said nothing. Erick held his questions close as he followed Sizzi into the red room.

It took a moment to take in the sight of so many people working fast and speaking at each other, though from the threads of intent in the air, there was a lot more happening below the noise.

Largely, the room seemed divided into two sections. One section was situated around a strong wooden longtable, where magically-powered screens floated at one end, near the wall. There were chairs scattered around the longtable, and near the viewing screens, but nobody was there, yet. The other part of the room was filled with desks and individual floating screens, and the people who likely controlled those screens. That half of the room was full of people, but almost none of the screens held anything except for solid colored light; likely the colors of whoever had cast those spells. They were still in the set-up stage, if Erick was reading all of that right.

Zago blipped in at the head of the longtable, opposite the viewing screens. She immediately turned to Erick. She said, “Take a seat. Hold your questions, please. There’s no immediate rush to action, but there will be heavy decisions made today.” She added, “Sizzi? Please wait to the side with the others.”

Erick glanced to the side. Anhelia and a few other people from the Mage Guild stood to the side of the room, against the wall, watching the unfolding mess in front of them. Sizzi went to Anhelia and began whispering with the wrought woman. Kiri stepped to the side, near to Sizzi, but not next to.

An orangescale man who Erick barely remembered as Tamarim, walked from the crowded viewing screen area, to the seats sitting beside the main screen. He sat down, speaking to the room, “Main view is coming on right now.”

The largest screen in the center of the rest, flickered from orange to blue sky, orange sands, crystal agave and mimics, no doubt, and a blot of black on the horizon. The view moved closer. The dark blot slowly resolved into a city made of shadows—

Poi said, “Silverite and Killzone are arriving now.”

The air next to the longtable blipped silver and black; Silverite, the silver dragonkin-shaped Mayor of Spur, and Killzone, the completely black orcol-shaped general of Spur’s Army.

Silverite said, “Attention, everyone!”

The room went silent.

She continued, “The city is called Candlepoint, and the threat of this location has been downgraded from imminent danger to threatening. As you were.”

At least two guys visibly relaxed at their desks on the other side of the room. A few others just nodded, and turned back to their discussions. All around the room, viewing screens flickered from solid colors to images of ‘Candlepoint’; from the sky, to the streets, to the walls, to far away. Erick watched as shadelings walked across dark roads or hauled colorful fruits across the view, or spoke with one another.

All at once, in every single interior view, the shadelings turned to the camera.

Erick felt his blood freeze as a collective gasp went through the war room. [Hunter’s Instincts] went on, instinctively.

Without doing anything else, the shadelings returned to whatever they were doing; harvesting fruits, feeding their babies, talking to their neighbors, talking to adventurers—

Erick watched a shadeling behind a market stall, characterized by a gentle shadow that licked across their skin, talking to an adventurer on the other side, characterized by their heavily guarded stance and distinct lack of shadows; compared to the shadeling, the person was a riot of brown leathers and bright pink skin and white hair and color. The adventurer looked to be trying to sell something to the shadeling; a pile of rads, perhaps?

Erick pointed across the room, whispering, “What the fuck is happening there?”

Killzone spoke without the comforting twang to his voice, “It’s commerce, of a sort. They require rads, and then sell… we’re not quite sure what they’re selling.”

Poi said, “Mog and Merit are arriving, now.”

The air blipped grey in one area and orange in another; Mog and Merit, already on opposite sides of the longtable.

Mog took a seat. Merit took a seat on the opposite side.

While Poi stayed to the side and Kiri had already made herself a nonspeaking fixture to the side of the room, Erick took a seat at the longtable, next to Mog. The large orcol smiled a bit at that, but on the other side of the table, Merit mouthed, ‘I need to talk to you about more scanning’. Mog switched to a glare at nothing in particular. Zago sat down on the other side of Erick. Killzone took his place at Silverite’s left hand side.

Silverite looked to the air as she sat down at the head of the longtable. A tendril of intent flowed out, then back.

The air blipped on top of the table, near Silverite, revealing the pixie, Fillarina. She spoke to those seated, saying, “The archmages send their representatives.”

There were just enough seats left for three more blips. One blip was opalescent, revealing a hovering, pearly ovoid without any defining characteristics. The other two blips were black and blue; a hovering, dark jumble of star points the size of a head, and a hovering blue blob, with air bubbles trapped inside. All three of the new arrivals were about the same size.

Ophiel trilled on Erick’s shoulder at the new [Familiar]s, but quietly; he knew something important was happening.

Silverite began, “Fillarina. What have you uncovered?”

Fillarina stood atop the table, saying, “This shadowy city is called ‘Candlepoint’. They claim to be something of an adventuring town, but this location is also a means for them to put their new magics out into the world.” She flicked a hand up, toward the main viewing screens. “These new magics are either created through wizardry, or through divine magic, and since the source is the Dark Dragon, it’s probably wizardry. Whatever the case, they’re gamechangers, and everyone is interested for varying reasons.”

The main screen changed, revealing a carved section of Candlepoint’s walls, that looked more like a treatise than a proclamation. This particular section was to the right of the open archway; the city’s main entrance. Based on the people in view standing in front of the proclamation, reading right alongside Erick and everyone else, the walls of Candlepoint were easily ten meters tall.

WELCOME TO CANDLEPOINT!

Our goal is to PROMOTE THE GROWTH of the shadelings in this city from drones to SAPIENT individuals. As such, you might notice that some of them act strange. Don’t worry! They are still finding their feet, and shouldn’t be too aggressive. Please just continue on your business without harming them, and they won’t harm you! EASY!

In order to promote this growth, they are living normal lives, and as a part of their lives, we have an economy. You pay us in rads, and you get credit, known here as DARKCHIPS.

1000 mana in rads = 1 DARKCHIP.

Exchange these DARKCHIPS for various items, UNLIKE THE WORLD HAS EVER SEEN BEFORE.

Example Normal Prizes:

OCEANDROP FRUIT! Gain an extra point of Willpower, PERMANENTLY, 100 D

SUNDROP FRUIT! Gain an extra point of Dexterity, PERMANENTLY, 1000 D

Example Lesser Prizes:

STAFF OF HANDS! Lesser Artifact Item! Cooperative Cast with yourself! 100 D to 1000 D

BOOTS OF THE JUGGERNAUT! Lesser Artifact Item! Unmovable greatness! 500 D

Example Basic Prizes:

Reduction Pearls, 5%! Stacks with all casting cost reductions! 5,000 mana, guarantee! 10 D

Reduction Pearls, 25%! Stacks with Clarity! 25,000 mana, guarantee! 5 D

The room remained silent though more than a few people had finished reading the list and began to look toward Silverite, or Killzone. A few people even glanced at Erick.

“Okay.” Mog asked, “That all looks… really bad. But what is Dexterity?”

Fillarina answered, “A new Base Stat, like Strength or Willpower—”

The side of the room containing Mage Guild people went loud. Zago snapped her fingers, and the murmuring died off.

Fillarina continued, “—We’re not sure what Dexterity does, exactly, but we do know that it enables better bodily reaction speeds and combat effectiveness and weapon use.”

Erick heard himself say, “Can he do that?!”

Silverite’s mouth was a hard line. She said, “Apparently.”

Erick asked, “Are we flattening the place?”

Before the mumbling and the discontent could inundate the room, Silverite said, “Fillarina. Continue with the report.”

Fillarina spoke, filling the waiting silence of the room, “The listed rewards are less than a percent of what is actually on offer inside Candlepoint. Their largest trade seems to be Basic Tier items, and that includes almost anything you could find in a normal magic shop. Rods of [Treat Wounds]. Staffs of [Fireball]. High tier potions. That sort of thing. Many people have already begun trading in rads for darkchips, though that only started this morning. Candlepoint itself has only been existent for three days, now.”

The main viewing screen vanished, as eight smaller ones moved to fill the air, each holding a different perspective on the dark city. There were markets and hotels and gardens and farms, filled with shadelings, and even the rare person.

Fillarina continued, “The cities of the Wall already tried flattening Candlepoint. They even sent out a pair of level 75 Darklight mages. There is a Shade on site. This Shade killed all attackers, effortlessly. He’s still there, too. Usually, he is stationed atop the shadow kendrithyst in the center of the city.” The main viewing screen shifted to show a dark-skinned incani on the top of a dark stone. “It’s Bulgan.”

Erick whipped around to look at Zago. Zago sat stoically; unwavering and unblinking, staring at the screen in front of them all. Erick was not the only one looking Zago’s way, but he barely noticed the other people, because anger roiled through his chest like lava. Just as quickly as he looked to Zago, he turned back to the screens. Fillarina was still talking.

Fillarina continued, “We don’t know the purpose of this charade. We don’t know how they managed to make shadelings look and act like normal people. As far as I can tell, it’s all a trick of some sort, but I don’t see their angle, except to make more shadelings from the adventurers that come into the city without those people realizing that they’ve taken on the Curse of the Shadeling.”

Zago said, “Of the people the Wall has tested for the Curse, they have found none afflicted.”

Mog said, “There’s not a single person that gets a quest in this city that doesn’t know the dangers of dealing with Shades. We make them all sign off on that before they take quests for Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Fillarina continued, “There is more. Aside from the rewards listed on the wall, and inside the city at what passes for their ‘Upper Trade District’, other rewards are scattered throughout Candlepoint. One of them is an option to have a fair fight against Bulgan. It’s written up there by where he stands.”

The camera moved to the right of Bulgan, to zoom in on a stone plate near an attendant shadeling.

Challenge <Bulgan Shadoweater> in a fair fight for control of Candlepoint!

—{ 1,000,000 D }—

Killzone spoke up, “If you win, they probably take you and break you until you agree to become a Shade, yourself, and then set you up as the ruler of that city.”

Silverite added, “Likely.”

Mog asked, “What am I telling my adventurers, Silverite?”

Silverite said, “For now, you make them know how dangerous it is. Try to stop them if you can, but I don’t know if that’s possible. The Shades will just keep upping the temptations until they get a flood of people knocking down their doors, hungry for magic that would likely damn them for eternity.”

Erick stressed, “So flattening Candlepoint is out of the question? I really feel that we should flatten the place. As soon as possible.”

“For now, we will take no overt actions against Candlepoint.” Silverite said, “For those of you who might not know, we’ve seen strange things coming out of Ar’Kendrithyst in the past few weeks from a location known as Umber Street, just a few city blocks from the Spire; the largest zone of no return in the Dead City. There have been people wearing boots that give them the movement options of the Elemental Body Skills, and bone stitches that enable faster movement without an increase in Health cost. One woman was even able to confound a Mind Mage into letting her go, without the use of mind magic. Candlepoint might be the culmination of Umber Street, or Candlepoint might be a stepping stone to what lies in the Dead City. We’re not sure.

Silverite added, “Whatever the case, this is the old god of magic doing some major fuckery with the Script. Gods, demons, and angels are likely to get involved, and soon. I expect Champions to come to Spur. I expect Champions to be created in Spur, or elsewhere nearby. We haven’t seen this sort of action from Ar’Kendrithyst, ever. Usually, they’re a lot more violent, but sometimes they start off acting nice. I don’t expect any existent government to fall for it, but the people will. They always do.”

No one spoke.

The spiky black star broke the silence, “I vote we destroy Candlepoint. Get everyone together, and Red Dot the place.” He added, “Oh. And I reinvented that spell. It wasn’t very hard.”

Erick suddenly felt like the world’s worst archmage.

The bubbling orb said, “You did not! That thing you made barely counts as the Red Dot.”

Silverite said, “Obsidian. Take this to heart: We will not be destroying Candlepoint until they reveal their true motive. By then, the rest of the world will want to move against them, too, if history has taught me anything.”

“I told you, Obsidian!” said the bubbling orb. “I told you exactly what she would say.”

The spiky black orb, Obsidian, grumbled.

Opal spoke up, “Destroying Candlepoint is the final option, because if it fails, there will be no second chance. When the Wall tried to tear down Candlepoint, Bulgan poked ten kilometer holes in the Wall, then set about a hundred mimics loose beyond the border. In three days, those hundred mimics have become ten thousand. The horde is out of control. The Kingdoms are calling for help with that problem, too.” She said, “And that was Bulgan being nice about his retaliation.”

Erick said, “I’ll send Ophiel to help clear mimics. It won’t be a full extermination, but it will get all the adults.”

Silverite said, “Thank you, Erick. Zago? Set it up.”

“Of course,” Zago said.

Opal continued, “I haven’t been able to spot where they’re making these items in Candlepoint, so either they are hiding their stashes very well, or they’re making them in Ar’Kendrithyst and sending specific items to Candlepoint when someone turns in darkchips.” She said, “This means that most, if not all, of the Dead City is in accordance with Candlepoint. This means, that unless we have a coalition of nations backing us, attacking Candlepoint is a fool’s idea, as the Wall has already illustrated.”

Killzone said, “I agree with most of Opal’s assessment, but it is entirely possible that Candlepoint could fall apart from the inside in a month. If it does not… then we will have to consider drastic measures.”

Silverite said, “Here’s what I want to happen: The Guilds will tell people not to go, and warn them of the Shadeling Curse. The Guard will keep an eye out for strange magics around town, and give every single person that they haul in a full body scan for any strange magics. Use your Sin Seekers to find those with extra Stats and have them tell you what they do. The Army will conduct business as normal, but you will see about finding a way into Umber Avenue, and reporting on what, exactly, is happening there. Archmages: Do not directly engage Candlepoint. Aside from that— Opal. I want to know everything about Candlepoint you can possibly discover. Obsidian; you’re on discovering what new magics are coming out of Candlepoint. Link up with Merit and do what you have to do to understand the threat and what these new Stats and other magical items are doing to people. Wave; Find out where Melemizargo is right now, and his recent locations over the past week. Erick? I don’t know what you want to do, but figure out some way to contribute. And where is Melemizargo right now? Has anyone had any sightings?”

Zago said, “Not for years.”

Killzone said, “Not since Planter and Yetta.”

Obsidian said, “Five days ago, around Wyrmrest Mountains. He harried me while I was working on the Red Dot. For your information, the mountains have a new caldera.”

“Just can’t shut up about your magic, can you?” Wave said, but the floating blob of water seemed to be looking toward Erick.

Silverite’s face seemed to relax.

As others mentioned recent encounters, Erick felt his own encounter was less important, less unique, in the grand scheme. Erick spoke up, “I went to the Hole yesterday with Ophiel to test out [Lightwalk] and practice evading attackers. I’m pretty sure Melemizargo was down there, watching the whole time.”

Silverite went from whatever small joy she had, to staring off into nothing, looking like a person fending off a headache.

Okay. So. Maybe his most recent encounter with Melemizargo was not a normal occurrence.

Wave said, “I’m glad you said it! I was gonna say—” She spoke to the group, “But yeah! The big DeeDee is in the neighborhood, near the surface. Recent activity put him near the Hole, just like Erick says. People are talking about it, too. They were saying how there was this pair of ethereal winged creatures, one made of light, the other made of white, and how Melemizargo bounced around the Hole, following them around. A few adventurers witnessed the whole thing. Thankfully, DeeDee was busy with Erick!”

Killzone went stony silent, along with Zago and Silverite. Merit grinned at Erick, while Mog looked down at him with pain in her eyes. Obsidian seemed to bounce in the air, while Wave just blorped, and Opal remained steadfast and still.

Erick added, “He never said anything or made an overt appearance, though.”

Killzone spoke over Erick, “The Shades talk like he’s regained some of his hold on sanity, but…” He added, “I haven’t heard anything from the Geodes. Have you, Silverite?”

“I’m as unwelcome as you are; no, I haven’t.” Silverite turned to Erick saying, “Just ignore him; that’s the only thing you can do with Melemizargo. Hopefully he never wants to speak with you, but if he does, then you must thread a thin road between becoming too interesting for him to ever let go, and him killing you out of disappointment.” She stood up and turned toward the whole room, including the guys in the back, by the viewing screens. She said, “That goes for everyone here! If you ever happen to meet him: If he’s not actively harming you, then you probably don’t have anything to worry about from him. But if a Shade is there, too, then you are likely dead as soon as Melemizargo leaves. Jane got very, very lucky when they let her go. Don’t expect the same treatment at all.

She turned to Zago and Fillarina, saying, “I want to know every single thing you can discover about that town, using whatever normal means necessary. The rooms beyond this one are to be turned into information hubs open to us all here and in the Army or Guard, or any other trusted sources, but not for the public.” She said, “This scenario is unique, but we have dealt with weird Shade shit before. Maybe not some of you, personally, but I have. Killzone has. We’ll get through this, together.”

Most people in the room, not at the longtable, were looking better than they had before. Less antsy. Less worried.

Silverite continued, “Is there anything else anyone needs to say to me? To ask?”

Erick had long ago decided to ignore Melemizargo until he became a direct threat, but it was nice to hear Silverite directly address that concern. It was nice to hear her have a plan, too. When she finished speaking, he waited for someone else to say something, but when no one else spoke up, he did, “I want to make rings for the Army and Guard. I already dropped off a shipment of 600 to Liquid’s office, but I can do a lot more than that. They’re plus-10 All Stat rings, too—”

Zago smiled, as she sighed. The pointed black [Familiar] seemed to turn all of its attention on Erick. Even Opal seemed to look his way.

“—But. Maybe not All Stat, if there are new Stats?” Erick added, “Anyway. Rings. Yes? Maybe? No?”

“Yes.” Silverite said, “As many as you are willing to produce, the Guard and Army will absorb.”

“Okay.” Erick said, “I also have something a bit nicer that I wanted to give to someone, but it’s kinda unique and would only work with either you or Killzone. Or rather: any wrought. Someone without a solid body. If you want to come to the house, it’s there.”

Silverite asked, “Something defensive, or offensive?”

“Uh. A bonus?” Erick added, “I don’t know; you’d have to tell me. I haven’t actually been able to wear it, myself. It might not be useful, at all.”

Silverite said, “Killzone. You take that.” She stood. When no one else spoke up, she said, “And we’re done here. Everyone has their assignments or duty. Dismissed.” She blipped away in a flicker of silver light.

In moments, voices raised around the room as people spoke around viewing screens and to each other. Merit vanished in a blip of orange light. Killzone and the various [Familiar]s blipped away, one right after the other. Fillarina blipped blue, vanishing to wherever she usually was.

Erick said to Mog, “Mog? I also want to offer my rings to any adventurers you think might be useful against the Shades. Also! I have another question that would best be handled outside of this mess.”

Mog smiled down at him, and said, “Sure. But if you’re talking of Delia, then I can already guess that the Mother over at the Church denied your gift?”

Erick flinched. “Oh. I guess information travels fast.”

“That girl was talking about your sponsorship to everyone this morning. But then half an hour ago she wasn’t talking to anyone. Come by my office later, we can talk about this more.”

“Thank you, Mog.” Erick said, “I still want to support the orphans of the attack, but you might know of a better way than just giving them power.”

“I’ll think on it. See you later.” Mog nodded, then blipped away in a flash of grey.

Erick turned to Zago, to say—

Zago immediately said, “Would you like to take care of the adult mimics, first?”

Erick said, “I did not mean to turn to you like that when Bulgan appeared. It was an unkind reaction. I apologize.”

Zago stared at Erick, her face held tightly in place. She calmly said, “I want Bulgan dead just as much as any of you. He betrayed this city. He betrayed—” She went silent. “He hurt a lot of people.”

Erick understood some of why she didn’t speak more, of why she didn’t try to distance herself further from Bulgan. There were just so many unknowns regarding just how much the incani of Spur had conspired to try and oust him and his daughter from Spur, that if Zago said any more, she would be digging herself deeper into the mistakes of the past.

He didn’t want to confront that past, either, especially now, after so much had changed. The two of them being declared ‘Planar’ was only the first step. Since then, he had come to enjoy the people of Spur, no matter what sort of people they were, and Sirocco Zago was no exception. She helped him whenever he had questions about magic. Sizzi helped him to create Ophiel.

And besides; he didn’t want a Converter Angel loose in the world, just how he didn’t want a Breach Demon loose in the world. He lived here, after all! So repairing and keeping intact his relationships with the incani of Spur was an important need.

“I know, Sirocco.” Erick said, “My apologies. That was unkind of me to suggest such a thing. I just reacted.”

“… Apology accepted.”

“And yes. To answer your question, I would like to go kill the adult mimics, as soon as possible.”

She put on a smile, as she said. “Let’s go to my office. I can show you the maps for the Kingdoms and give you a primer on the Magisterium and then we can either go together, or I can go there with Ophiel and introduce you through your [Familiar]. The second option is likely the better one.”

Erick stood from his chair, saying, “Sounds good to me.”

- - - -

Sirocco Zago’s office was at the top of the Mage Guild’s main tower. Her waiting room held a window that overlooked the south of the city, with a clear view of the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst in the distance.

She led the way into her rooms, where fluffy yellow and teal carpets and drapes and cushioned chairs gave a soft overlay to the hard grey stone beneath. The spiny metal things to the sides of the room were still spinning; whatever experiment was going on there had yet to fall. The various bubbling or crystalline or bookish accoutrements of magedom rested in their proper places on shelves all around, while Zago’s two cats, one black, one white, lounged next to each other in the afternoon sun by a window.

Poi waited outside of the room. Kiri and Sizzi had already volunteered to remotely scout Candlepoint; Zago had sent them off with some of the people in the war room, minutes ago.

Right now, the only people in Zago’s office were her, and Erick. She went to a cabinet beside her desk and opened it, revealing an assortment of both glowing and mundane crystal bottles on glass shelves. She grabbed a bottle of flickering red liquid and two crystal cups.

She turned to Erick saying, “I need a drink before we begin. Would you like one, as well?”

“Yes. I would.” Erick said, “Thank you.” He added, “And I’d like to make you and Sizzi some rings as well. And whoever else you might consider, of course. I want to be prepared for the coming fight, this time.”

Zago smiled as she poured two short drinks, and handed one to Erick, saying, “I did not expect this sort of Dead City business to happen in my lifetime.”

Erick took his drink, and sipped. It was strong, but Erick could hold his drink. A warmth spread through his body. “This is good stuff. Thank you.”

Zago downed her drink, then grimaced, as she said, “Whew!” She poured herself another.

Erick smiled.

Zago sipped her second drink slower, and said, “It has a minor mana regenerative effect, too, but without the use of crushed rads. You probably wouldn’t notice the effect, but I suffered through arcanaeum practically living on this stuff.” She held up her flickering red cup, saying, “I had to get in the proper headspace to talk of the Magisterium, you see.”

Erick downed his drink, then said, “I can imagine. I haven’t heard much about how the Wasteland Kingdom treats magic except that they don’t like it.”

Zago filled his drink again, then set the bottle on her desk. “Broadly true, but not at all true, like so many things in life.” She took one of the chairs on the visitor’s side of the desk. “I won’t go over much of it, but as a visiting mage there are certain things you shouldn’t do, and especially not do, considering you’re human.”

Erick took the other seat, beside Zago. At the mention of his humanity, he was glad she had offered him a drink. The alcohol was already making this messy business of Quiet War and the Dead City and new magic, seem easier to handle.

Zago said, “As an archmage, and recognized as such by the Headmaster, you are not subject to the limiting tattoos that they would require you accept on your body before you stepped foot on Kingdom soil. But it’s important to keep this in mind, as if you threaten ruin, then they will take you down and put them on you. They might look for some stupid reason to tattoo you, anyway.

“This is why I suggest you go with Ophiel. Most archmages do that sort of visitation. But there is a catch.

“If you go with your [Familiar], and not in person, then you will be looked down upon. I don’t know if that matters to you, but it might to some, so I tell you this now so you’re not surprised.

“You’re there to help clear out adult mimics though, in what is one of the largest infestations the Kingdoms have seen since the Fracturing Wars, back when I was a child. They were not prepared for this sudden shift in lifestyle, and they have just lost many of the people on site that would have dealt with such an infestation. So it’s gotten a lot worse in a very short amount of time.

“Besides that, there has always been a tiff between the Wall and the other Kingdoms, so the most obviously needed help won’t manifest for the current infestation quick enough to really matter. And, according to my sources, Archmage Hocnihai has already spoken for you and bequeathed his remaining debt of his bargain of trade to the Magisterium.

“The way has been paved for you to appear in person, but I don’t think you should.”

While Zago spoke, Poi stepped into the room. Both Erick and Zago noticed him, but Poi said nothing; he just waited.

Zago continued, “Anyway. I was already there once today… It’s not pretty. Practically the whole Wall is active in either repairs or mimic killing. Your Domain would be much appreciated, but they will try to trick you into something more permanent. They’ll try to ply you with gifts to offset the good you have done them, but if you accept those gifts, you will have entered into an informal contract with them, placing you into debt.” Zago stressed, “You do not want to be in debt with the Magisterium.”

“Oh? Uh. About that...” Erick said, “They came to me while I was on Oceanside, and gave me copies of Hocnihai’s final tomes, but while he was still alive, he gave me specialized tomes on [Prismatic Ward] and [Reflection].”

Zago’s eyes went wide. She calmed, and said, “That is worth much more than…” She paused. She said, “Maybe they do still owe you something. But that is unimportant. You need to stress that helping with the current infestation is final payment of the gifts you have received, and there is no debt to be had on either side.” She looked away. She looked to Erick. “Yes. That might be good enough. It has a higher chance of working since you’re a declared Archmage, but it might not.” She continued, “Anyway! Don’t accept gifts. Don’t get trapped. Ideally, I should be able to introduce Ophiel to Magister Iordex —the man currently in charge of clearing out the mimics— and from there, you can go do your thing, and others can clean up the remnants, and we can be done by—” She glanced out the window. The sun was still up in the western sky, and it was hours from setting. “By midnight.”

“Sir,” Poi said.

Erick and Zago turned to Poi.

Poi said, “Mayor Silverite has requested a [Domain of the Withering Slime] on Spur, before you leave. Within the next ten minutes, please.” He added, “Kal’Duresh and Frontier desire the same, as soon as possible.”

Suddenly worried, Erick said, “I haven’t done that in months. That could kill people with intestinal rads.”

Zago said, “We check for those, now. Every person who comes in through the Wayfarer’s Guild or through the gates should see the signs by those entrances. There’s even a warning in the signing papers here, and at the Adventurer’s Guild.”

Erick looked to Poi. Poi nodded.

“… Oh? Okay.” Erick said, “Then… Right now?”

Poi tilted his head up, then looked to Erick, and said, “After the warning has gone out.”

Zago winced. “That thing is too loud.”

“What warn—”

Erick didn’t get to finish his question, as the sounds of bees and violence and the moan of a dying god vibrated through the air outside of Zago’s office, rising into a crescendo, surging to a peak of terror, then descending to a low volcanic eruption.

Zago’s two cats absolutely flipped the fuck out, meowing loud before dashing into a dark corner of the room.

Words echoed across the city:

“THIS IS AN OFFICIAL TRANSMISSION OF THE EMERGENCY WARNING SYSTEM. [WITHERING] WILL BEGIN, SOON. I REPEAT: [WITHERING] WILL BEGIN, SOON. PREPARE YOUR [WEATHER WARD]S, IF NEEDED.”

As the violent air stopped assaulting his ears, Erick said, “Holy shit! Why have I never heard that before?!”

Poi said, “We had time to put out fliers and proclamations before, so no warning.”

Zago added, “Most city-wide problems are solved by the archmages and such, so there’s no reason to warn everyone about a problem they couldn’t solve, or a problem that they would get in the way of if they knew about. But the warning system is there for when something drastic happens that the individual needs to be responsible for.”

“I get that, but...” Erick said, “Why did I not hear that at the Red Dot attack?”

Zago said, “The three locations where someone can send out a message on the emergency broadcast system—”

The air vibrated again, repeating the same incredibly loud message as before.

When the message finished, Zago said, “The locations to broadcast the message were attacked first. Those locations were supposed to be privately held knowledge, but someone like Caradogh could have easily discovered them.”

Hearing that, Erick finished off his second drink, then said, “He’s dead, you know. He went after Jane and she killed him.”

Zago smiled, showing bright white teeth between dark purple lips. “I heard. Good for her.”

“She is rather awesome.”

Poi said, “You’re clear to go, sir.”

Erick said, “This seems so sudden.” As he cast, he added, “And why no loud voice like that when Tania screamed across the city?”

The air around him flickered with insubstantial white light, forming a sphere nearly two meters across and centered on his sitting form. Almost nothing changed of his immediate surroundings, but past the windows of Zago’s tower, thick air played across the city, like a sentient tsunami diving into every crevice and drying out every monster it touched.

Zago smirked. “This is magic cast upon the city that Silverite wants to happen. And since we haven’t put out any proclamations, we have the warning system.”

Notifications flooded in.

Erick said, “Okay. Sure. I guess I understand.” He added, “But someone could die!”

Zago said, “And we likely have shadowcats or other nasties inside the city right now, too. They would kill more people than your spell, for sure. Especially if they’re waiting for some signal from Candlepoint.”

Erick glanced at some of his notifications, his eyes going wide. He said, “Looks like you’re right about that.”

Poi heard Erick and stood a bit straighter, as he radiated more telepathic lines.

Zago, for her part, sat in the white bubble with Erick and poured herself another drink, before refilling Erick’s glass. Erick focused on the notifications, hoping and praying that he wouldn’t clip any people in his spell. He didn’t hope for zero surprises; that ship had sailed in the first ten seconds.

Minutes added together to a dozen.

After a minute with no more notifications, but with the spell still running, Erick broke the silence, saying, “Poi, can you please tell Silverite that I can continue to use the spell if she wishes Opal to pop any of the [Weather Ward]s out there. She might. So far, I see 5 Shadowcats, over 2000 wolves, a few hundred mimics, something called a ‘Puppet Master’, along with thirty ‘Puppet Minds’, whatever those are, more than a few acid slimes, and something called an owliper, but that looked rather low level—”

You have slain Umbral Leviathan A!

95% participation!

+34,716,353,135,390 exp

“— and an Umbral Leviathan!” Erick asked, “What the frick is that?”

Zago frowned, and downed her drink.

A dozen more tendrils of thought radiated from Poi as he muttered, “Puppets! What the fu...” his voice trailing off.

“The puppets are a bit of a worry, but if you got the master then whatever they were up to is over with.” Zago said, “The Umbral Leviathan could have been a major problem. Sometimes they wander up through the deeper tunnels of the sewer, and when they get this close, they usually go all the way and burst up on a street corner somewhere. How much experience was it worth?”

Erick counted, then said, “34 trillion. 95% participation.”

“Level 55, then.” Zago said, “It would have likely killed a dozen people before it got killed in return. That’s one of the lower level ones. Good job, Erick.”

Poi said, “Silverite would like you to hold the spell open until she says otherwise.”

Erick downed his drink then said, “Sure!”

Zago smiled, then said, “Care for a refill?”

“Thank you, but not if we have to visit the Magisterium after this. I’d like some coftea.” Erick stood up. “I’ll pop over to the house and be right back with enough for all of us.”

Zago smiled. “Go right ahead.” She filled her cup again, saying, “Personally, I can’t meet them sober.”

Erick blipped to the house, gathered up some coftea, a pitcher, two mugs, the rest of the stuff necessary to make coftea, except for water, and blipped back. He set the stuff out on a work table. Zago showed him the water fountain, and in ten minutes, he had his first cup of coftea, surrounded by the white orb of his Domain. It wasn’t till he was through his first cup, that he thought to foist his [Domain of the Withering Slime] off to an Ophiel, and set that Ophiel into the sky in the center of Spur. He still had to use his own mana to hold that spell open so that it would benefit from all of his own bonuses, but that was easy.

And so, he sat down to talk with Zago, about the past, and the present.

Zago spoke of her time at the Magisterium-licensed Arcanaeum, and how awful it was to learn magic under that rule, but also how beautiful the country is, and how nice the people are. Erick spoke of failing out of university, and then never going back because he had a kid to raise, but he did manage to get his bachelor's in social work. Occasionally, notifications would ping, and Erick would tell Poi of those notifications.

More shadowcats. A second leviathan. A flock of couatls, for some strange reason. A whole lot more crystal mimics, as the spell had time to really stretch kilometers past the edges of Spur, and past the black sands near the city walls.

After an hour, Poi asked, “Silverite is finished. She thanks you, Erick, for your time and magic.”

Zago said, “That spell would basically guarantee you the right to start your own Kingdom, you know.” She smirked, adding, “If you were incani, I mean.”

Erick laughed. “Back home, I could start a whole religion using just [Cleanse]. I’d probably get executed, too, but that’s par for the course. Nothing quite makes a religion more serious than a martyr.”

Zago laughed loud.

Erick smiled, as he canceled his Domain. The Ophiel over the city turned small and blipped back into Zago’s office, to alight on Erick’s shoulder with a pleasant violin trill. Erick glanced at the window. Sunset was only two hours away. Maybe less.

Poi said, “Silverite has just informed me that Kal’Duresh and Frontier have been made aware of what your Domain has killed in Spur. Baroness Pirazel Xelxex and Viscount Andro Helix are asking for your aid.”

Zago lost some of her mirth. She said, “If you get an introduction from the Baroness for the mimic clearing then the Magisterium cannot touch you; you would be visiting as a dignitary. You could go in person to the Kingdoms, if you wanted, and them touching you would be an act of war.”

Erick grinned. “That sounds better than just showing up to help.”

“A lot better.” Zago said, “You have no idea how much better, and hopefully you never will.” She, slightly drunkenly, spoke to herself, “Honestly, I should have suggested getting an introduction from the Baroness.” She added, "Everything I already said still applies, but less so."
