Thankfully, she’d been watchful for just such a possibility, and so she’d been ready to act. Even so, if he had had the same physical volume as the prisoner, Terry would have been dead, and she’d have had to bring him back as she had before. That wasn’t the case however, and she felt like she was able to hold off such an end because there was that discrepancy in size.

Alright, not using that again for the moment. Send my apologies to Terry.

-He understands.- Alat did have enough space to facilitate their communication, though she sounded strained.

The terror bird, himself, let out a trill of exultation. It was truly a battle worthy of his attention.

Alat was clearly being distracted by the issue of the prisoner’s power, as she took the time and mental energy to quickly query Tala about it. -How are they breaching our authority—and his—to apply these effects? I’m not feeling any contests of such… though I am rather busy.-

I’m handling this. Focus on your task. Terry and I have got this. Tala did frown, however, redevoting a portion of her sight and mind to hunting down the how.

As she detonated a series of siege orbs across the battlefield—coating the ground liberally with ice to spoil the enemies’ footing—she saw it.

Her magics that were acting upon the orb expanded outward, along with the cooling effect.

Only a bit of cold got to some of the copies, but Tala immediately saw something like a pull on the reality thread that connected her to the effect that she had caused, power flowing back down it like a wave down a rope.

That power hit her, and frost crawled across her skin, her body cooling much more than if she’d been hit by her own magics directly.

Mirror the effect, not the cause, proven yet again. It’s an effect of reality threads, or at least enacted through them.

That type of effect was… not blockable? Not with what she knew. The baba yaga could have blocked it, and so Tala theoretically should, but she had not spent the time that she should have exploring that pathway. She’d correct that soon but couldn’t now.

As to the abilities that she did have well in hand? She could sever any ties to herself… and to Terry, otherwise he’d be the target of all the replication.

She couldn’t do that with him continuing to add threads with his every attack. Each was something that she’d have to address, and she had no illusions about being quick enough to cut each new one before any retaliation could come.

Or… She sent a feeling to Terry directly, it was more an emotion than anything else, and she did her best to convey just one thing: Brace for oddity.

Alat also caught her intention and filled in some details to their soulbound companion.

Tala immediately aspect mirrored her void and magic into her iron defenses. It had been years since she’d used her existence-shield, but even so, the awful feeling that it brought down on her was exactly as she had remembered, exactly as she’d feared it would be.

The isolation, the dawning horror of being separated from the world, it was sickening.

But this time, she felt her connection to—and bond with—Rane, and Terry was in this with her. Those two were anchors for her, though the fact that Rane was so far away made that connection a bit less reassuring. For Terry, this was his first time experiencing this, and so having her there wasn’t as much a relief as it was for her to have him.

Terry screeched seemingly involuntarily at the wrongness of the sensation, but Tala continued, purposely not protecting any of the reality threads that had been created, tying them to the woman within the cell.

Those were cut as cleanly as a mundane thread with a razor, and suddenly, the copied effects stopped coming.

In the grand scheme of things, it was a little change as the prisoner could still copy herself seemingly without end, but it was enough to tip the balance, at least for a moment.

Alat warned Tala that she’d need another hour at the very least—mainly because she and Kit were doing something that they’d never done before. Thus, Tala and Terry buckled down for the long-haul, trying to eliminate the woman entirely if possible, but mostly conserving their strength and capacities to be able to continue the fight for as long as Alat required.
