Ah. I finally realize why you've felt so familiar to me, ever since you set foot into my story. It’s more than our innate connection—my creator, lover to your unwitting grandfather. It is our nature; experiments, projects meant to deny oblivion its due. There is a kinship between us, even if you are the rawest form of the desire at the hearts of our makers.

I remember your other creator. Georges arrived in my Fairwoods for reasons much like yours. But he carried more than a Curse inside him: his very soul had been made the slave of a vile, lecherous god. A god he despised so much that he was more than willing to accept the embrace of death, if only he could drag the tyrant holding his chain with him to the darkness that awaits thereafter.

But Avatars have so very few options when they are claimed. It's a terrible thing to see someone else steal your own story away from you, to take the place of your person, and contaminate your legend with their own—something the Ascendants have more experience with than perhaps any other.

I understand Longinus, his urge to roleplay and take part in someone else's story. But I despise him for not being able to let go. For not enjoying the narrative for what it is. Maybe there's some hypocrisy on my part, but I don't think so. I've always let the Fairwoods play out as they are. I don't intervene on behalf of the Courts. I let things become as they should be. I let the genre take shape naturally, organically.

Oh, and I most certainly do not force myself on another. Not in that way. I’m not that kind of reader. I don’t have such… strong tastes.

But I can be a sentimental creature. In fact, I am someone who enjoys tragedies, Deathless. On that note… are you aware that all who have their soul cleansed by the Watchtower’s Flame leave a figment of themselves, an offering to be made vain? In my realm, one remains in part for as long as their name is still spoken and the shaded ripples cast from their essence continue to dance in their absence…

—Evanescia, the Usurper-Narrator of the Fairwoods

330

Haunted [I]

That subsequent death was lost to Shiv. He didn't remember anything after impacting the back of the Princess's throat. He didn't remember if he shredded flesh or even just bruised the inside of her mouth. He didn't remember how he died—if it was because of the discharge, her descending teeth, or even the continent-boiling substances that made up her stomach's inner ecosystem. He didn't remember. He was so tired that even his Severed Shadow was lost in a haze.

His consciousness existed in fragments within his Revenant. He was a silhouette, lingering in the world, apart from it but close enough to remain. He didn't react as shadows approached and placed a specific something in front of him. He noticed, at least some part of him did, but he couldn't do anything, was too worn to offer a response. In that state he remained for an interminable amount of time, until the searing stream that dulled his mind faded and his Physicality stabilized once more.

Holy shit, that took a lot out of me, Shiv thought to himself. Hells of a godsdamn effort for “just mediocre.”

But he still remembered the Princess' declaration that his soup was just okay. It still brought a smile to his heart. It was a shameful display, but frankly, considering what he faced, considering the mistakes he'd made, being mediocre was promising. He'd do better in the future. He would be mediocre for as long as it took to become better. Because that was what being a chef was about: pulling yourself out of shit and then, someday, after years of toil, when you were on the verge of being ground to dust, finally managing to make something edible.

“And then you'll have to do it again and again and again, and each time you'll wonder if you can. Each time you'll doubt yourself. And each time when you do manage to pull it off, you'll think to yourself: ‘Fuck yes, why did I ever think otherwise? I am the fucking best!’ And meanwhile, each time you fail, you'll think you're the silliest cunt in Integration for ever imagining you could have been a chef at all.”

Georges’ musings continued to echo in Shiv’s mind—but they served a strange accompaniment to the sight that lay before him. As Shiv's awareness cleared, he found himself staring at a plate thrice the size of his own body. Sounding from the plate was the sound of buzzing flies and jumping gnats. Drowned by the shadow of the now-empty kelp bowl, it took a moment to see or decipher what he was looking at: a plate filled with shit.

Shit of all forms, of all varieties. Shit harvested from all kinds of creatures. Little pellets, sloppy piles, and more. He was more curious than disgusted, and suddenly his memories snapped back to the deal he'd made with the Anointed Knight before the actual cooking began. A delirious laugh escaped Shiv as his Revenant perked up, igniting in a flash of Vitae as tangibility returned to his form.

Around twenty meters above him was a group of Bread-Knights. They held a series of chains that kept a single member of their contingent leashed. Said single member thrashed about, begging the Princess to think twice, while the others continued to remind him that he'd agreed to this. They wouldn't let their honors be sullied by him if he proved to be an oath-breaker and failed to adhere to the laws of hospitality.

It was an instruction that the other Bread-Knights took great pleasure in facilitating. You didn't force someone you liked to eat a massive pile of shit, after all.

At the same time, Princess Plum Blossom leaned over her table. She had both hands steepled and rested her chin upon the top of her knuckles. There was an eagerness in her expression, like she yearned to see how things would turn out. There was, however, no sign of damage on her at all: no injuries, no fevers filling her throat, no active healing of wounds. If he'd done any harm at all, it had long vanished by way of regeneration. But something told Shiv he didn't even manage to leave a slight tear in her flesh.

Either this Fae Princess is on another level of Toughness, or she has a Narrative Skill protecting her from harm. Or maybe even both. Actually, come to think of it, shouldn't I be banned from hurting her? Weren't the laws of hospitality preventing me from tearing reality open using my Severed Shadow? Wait, was I allowed to do this because I asked her if I could blow myself up? Is that how the laws of hospitality work?

One question always led to another in the Fairwoods. But these questions could wait. Shiv might not have succeeded in creating a worthy meal of kelp soup, but he did have a bit of pleasure to exact. Resurrecting the new physical body, he eyed the Anointed Knight and laughed as he breathed in deep. He fanned a hand over his nose because the foulness of the shit was truly pungent.

“Phew, thank you, guys. I thought I was gonna have to spend all day and night looking up creatures across this table and harvesting their filth. But I guess you were nice enough to do that for me.”

The Princess giggled melodically. “A promise is a promise.”

Her eyes flashed a bright violet, and he felt a crushing weight wash over him, but it broke before it could truly become uncomfortable. Was she trying to analyze him? He caught a slight frown pass over her features, like she was regarding him with new eyes. She was probably trying to figure out why she couldn't see his past or observe any of his skills. Non-Sequitur usually barred people from fully seeing what his capabilities were. Seeing how his Unique Skills couldn't have their levels taken away by the Narrative Loop resetting over and over, he suspected that it worked against the Fae Princess as well.

Confirmation came as he gained another level. The vibrations of a weak vision pulsed, but failed to fully trigger after.

Guess I got another ugly surprise coming my way. Must be another day in the life. Welp. Time to take what joy I can out of all this.

Shiv grinned like a fox who'd just discovered a gap into the back of a henhouse, stretching his tight ligaments and popping stiff bones. “Alrighty, let's see if I can drop the finishing touch. It's been a while since I ate something, but it's also been a while since I’ve been to the toilet…”

“No, please, noble Undying One!” the Anointed Knight wailed from on high. “You don't have to do this. Don't do this. I am sorry. I was foolish. I didn't mean to slander you. I can make things right. I will offer a retraction. You may keep my Narrative Skill!”

“You're the lad,” Shiv replied with a shake of his head. “A deal is a deal.”

“No!”

Retribution was sweet. For Shiv. He suspected it tasted slightly nutty for the Anointed Knight.

Comedy 17 > 20

***

After everything was said and done, Shiv found himself feeling much lighter.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: There is something to be said about decency and forgiveness. Both you and the Anointed Knight have been unkind to each other, but this does not need to be the way of things. I think it is time for us to turn the page and grant one another forgiveness.

And Shiv agreed with that assessment. “Hey, Toa—er, Ser Appetius, no hard feelings, you know. You might have been a piece of shit to me when we first met, killed all those people in Monster Mystery Meat, continued trying to slander me to your Princess and would have happily seen me killed once I got tossed here even though I kept my promise and brought you back home, but now that you ate all that fertilizer, I think I feel different about you. You're an honorable plant man, a real knight, and I’m ready to forgive you.”

The Anointed Knight, once proud of posture and imperious of expression, at least on a good day, now possessed a haunted quality to his gaze. His body was misshapen, his footman-like armor cracked in several places, and his plant-matter flesh below had expanded like a water balloon. His eyes twitched with every word Shiv spoke, and his arms hung limply by his sides.

“You are ready to forgive me. You!” Ser Appetius was over-emotional, clearly touched by Shiv's words. He sounded like he was on the verge of bursting into grateful tears.

“You hope? In fact, I'm that generous. I'm gonna forgive you right now. I'm ready to be friends.”

“Friends,” the Anointed Knight squeaked. His green face was reddening fast, like the yeast inside him was about to burst. Or maybe it was all the stuff he'd just eaten. Hard to guess when it came to the Fae, really. “F-f-friends!”

“Oh, how lovely.” Princess Plum Blossom sighed, clasping her hands together as she took the scene at face value. “Such a wonderful sight to behold: forgiveness at the dawn of spring. If all of us possessed such magnanimity inside of our souls, then perhaps there wouldn't be war at all.”

Her face turned forlorn for the briefest of seconds, and she briefly dabbed at her eyes with a colossal handkerchief. “Alas, war it must be! For Winter's Way is no way at all; to starve, to hunger, to be beneath shadows bleak and a moon so cold that our soil will remain barren and dead.” The Princess shuddered. “That is no world at all. That is a prison, a purgatory, a perilous, venomous hell.”

While Plum Blossom proved impervious to Shiv's combat-related skills, she was transparent to his social and psychological capabilities. The matter within her vast emotional core grew dense, like a building fog of anxiety, while a chain of fear coiled out from her and sought a target afar. Shiv wondered if that was bound for Evanescia, but then he reminded himself that the Usurper-Narrator wasn't usually the Mother of Moons, and might not be pretending to be the Sovereign of the Winter Court during this arc—or however the Fairwoods worked.

“Place is just godsdamned confusing,” he grumbled. Then, it struck Shiv that he could clear some of that up. “Hey, uh, Princess Plum Blossom. Your… Copu—Corpulent Lady.”

She was looking at him again. He didn’t even see her turn. He did feel the shockwave that came in the aftermath, however. The blastwave was great enough to send a landscape of plates, bowls, Bread-Knights, condiments, and more soaring toward the other side of the table—which was a hell of a thing with the other side being beyond Shiv’s line of sight a dozen times over. Only he managed to pin himself in place by pointing his tides against the incoming force. The crushing winds broke around his physical body and passed through his now intangible Severed Shadow. Everything else was wiped clean, and that left only him and the Princess facing each other, discounting all the worker Fae who clung to her body and managed her every need.

“Yes, my Deathless little enigma?”

“What happened to little delight?”

“Ah. You didn’t taste very good. And also, I nearly chipped a tooth trying to grind my way through you.” She clacked her teeth together, and the sound made the air roar like a landslide. “That has me curious whether your ghostly self will taste so disappointing. There was nothing particularly exciting about digesting your flesh. Where is your ghost, anyhow? I can’t quite sense it.”

“Well, that explains how I died,” Shiv said under his breath. “But probably not, Princess. My Severed Shadow will likely just phase through you, and frankly, it tastes worse than my physical body. No meat, no bones, no anything. Mostly just life force. And if you do digest it, you won't be able to get anything else from me. I kinda need that if I wanna stay undying, you see.”

