A part of Shiv wasn't sure if being so honest about his limitations was wise with the Summer Court Princess. However, with how powerful she was and considering how little he understood this realm, he didn't want her to just shove his Severed Shadow in her mouth on a whim if she ever got the chance. Maybe his Revenant's nature and Non-Sequitur would keep it from harm, but it was best to avoid things in advance.

“Oh, I see. Well, since you've been so pleasant and accommodating, I will regard your words as truth. I am good at judging character, and I think you have not led me astray so far.” The Princess still sounded too disappointed for Shiv's comfort.

Such was why he committed to distracting her with other questions immediately. “Well, I'm sorry I don't taste that good, and I couldn't satisfy your cravings, but if you give me another chance, I'm sure I'll eventually be able to make something special for you to eat. You might not believe it from my performance, but I'm actually a chef back where I’m from. Well. Sort of. I spent a long time trying to be a chef. And I would have been a chef if things had turned out differently. Long story.”

Princess Plum Blossom drew closer. Her head was like a moon about to impact the surface of a planet. “Is it a good one? I do like good and exciting stories.”

Shiv scoffed. “Well… It's violent, chaotic, pretty fun at points, a little bit tragic at others, but… shit. It sure as hells’ energetic.”

His life since he gained his Path had been nonstop escalation. It was one battle after another, and things never truly slowed down. He hadn't smashed up any cities or caused more mass casualty events recently, but the struggles continued. They were just different. The Fairwoods were testing him with another form of strife. Inner strife, social strife, and technical strife. Frankly, it was an enjoyable change of pace compared to the nigh-endless violence of the prior months.

“I can tell you all about it if you’re willing to keep me around and… explain a few things about this place to me. The Fairwoods, I mean. And the Summer Court too. A lot of stuff, really. I wouldn’t be against sticking around if you can do that.”

The Princess’s decision arrived in an instant.

Plum Blossom, Princess of the Summer Court, has decided to bestow a minor favor upon you.

“Oh, wonderful! Splendid! Delightful! Stupendous!” The Princess seemed like a girl whose parents had come home with a new puppy. “I would be overjoyed to see you made a more permanent fixture of my staff. You will be, if nothing else, entertaining. And Ser Appetius seems so lonely sometimes. I’m truly glad he found and brought back a friend from the Pattern Beyond.”

Shiv decided against raising his concerns regarding the terms "Permanent Fixture" and "New Friend." He cleared his throat and nodded enthusiastically. “Uh, yeah, sure. That… that sounds great.”

“It is marvelous. Already, I am envisioning the number of plates and meals you can carry upon your tiny but mighty back!”

No! Fuck! Shiv screamed internally. My meal was so mediocre that she made me a server instead. Godsdammit!

“But with your strength, and since you are such good friends with Ser Appetius, maybe it's best to include you as one of the Bread-Knights under his charge. I think you will look absolutely delightful in a set of gingerbread armor!”

His regrets doubled. I'll get gingerbread armor. Appetius is gonna make me wear armor made out of shit after what I did to him. Hells no! No way, no how I'll serve under him. Nothing would make me do that!

“Then again, with how fast you are as well, you might be able to clean all these plates in a practical instant. Why, you might be more effective than some of our Court Hydromancers.”

Shiv nearly blacked out from sheer horror. No, System. No! She's gonna make me a dishwasher! I didn't hunt those one hundred stupid fucking lesser vampires in Lost Angeles to become a felling dishwasher. Godsdamn it. A single, uncharacteristic tear rolled down his eye. Fuck. George's, I’m sorry. I failed you…

“Ah, what am I thinking?” The Princess threw her hand up. “I might as well have you do everything! Even your cooking might hold a little promise, considering you worked alone, and you are nowhere near as bad as I was led to believe.” She pouted and glared in the distance. “A topic I will be discussing at length with Ser Appetius. I think I will include you as kitchen staff as well, so you can service me anywhere I so choose: outside, inside, upon my person, under my lips, by the plates or in the heat of my Elysian Cookhold!”

You have been dubbed a minor Chef/Guard/Dishwasher/Platebearer/Winepourer/Jester/Conversation Partner/Teethcleaner/Mouthwiper/Backscratcher/… (Expand +376) of Princess Plum Blossom of the Summer Court.

The number of job titles he just gained simply went on and on. For three whole minutes, new roles loaded in the notification before his eyes.

“I think I might be a little over-employed,” Shiv muttered to himself when the last job finally loaded.

“How can it be labor if I'm so happy?” the Princess squealed with glee.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: That is indeed a form of logic, just none that we can recognize. Play along for now, get what we want, then we can depart at any time using our Shadow. Or perhaps we can stay and see what we can learn from her kitchen. This Elysian Cookhold… I wonder why it's called that…

That question inspired a deep sense of foreboding in Shiv. He wasn't sure if he was that excited to find out.

“Now. Begin your service by telling me your life story. Do not miss out on anything. I wish to know everything about you, oh, curious little not-quite-mortal!”

Shiv stared up at her face. “Like, right now?”

“Of course! In fact, I DEMAND it.” Plum Blossom’s words reverberated with a promise of power, and it felt like something was supposed to happen. The world boomed. The wood beneath Shiv splintered.

He remained utterly unaffected.

Princess Plum Blossom blinked in surprise. “I… I DEMAND YOU TELL ME YOUR LIFE’S TALE NOW!”

The entire dining table nearly disintegrated from the sheer force of her will. Strangely, Shiv still felt nothing. There was a brief spike of nervousness inside him, but aside from that, he wasn’t affected at all. It was like her Skill couldn’t affect him—wasn’t reaching him—which thankfully made Plum Blossom more befuddled than aggravated.

“How strange,” she muttered, cocking her head. Her eyes flashed violet once more, and a pout began to form. “I have changed my mind. I wish to know two other things first. How are you resisting my Regal Bearing Skill, and why can I not observe your Path and Skills at all?”

“Uh, not sure about the first one. For the second… My Path has a… Shyness Skill.” Shiv didn’t feel like telling her about his Non-Sequitur if he didn’t have to.

“A Shyness Skill?” She squinted at Shiv, uncertain if he was lying. “I have never heard of such a thing.”

“It's unique to my Path.”

Her mouth turned into an O. “Oh, a Unique Shyness Skill. That explains much!”

And he wasn't even entirely lying. Non-Sequitur was a sort of Shyness Skill; it allowed someone to shy their way out of reality.

“Do you think that is why my regal nature cannot affect you? Wait… do you fear or respect me at all, Shiv the Deathless?”

He almost replied honestly—and almost tumbled down the path of no return.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: No! Wait! Stop! Consider what she’s asking! Consider what she has done to her own Bread-Knights without care. She is not a kind nor noble figure. We’re dealing with a privileged monster to her root.

So?

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Sooo, if our answer displeases her in any way, she might try to get rid of us. Or attempt to kill us for good. We can try to escape from her and the Court, but where does that lead? We don’t know where Adam is, and he hasn’t contacted us in this loop yet. We don’t know where we are, and blocked from our other bodies, we can’t ask Cullywier for information either. We do not know where Evanescia is. We do not know what truly causes this dimension to revert, or if it can be meddled with. We don’t know too many things—we need a point of stability to build off of. A territory to master in case the loops trigger again and again. And we won’t be able to maximize our knowledge if we antagonize her. Look at her—she’s clearly bothered we’re not afraid of her. What does that tell us?

Shiv was forced to think again. That… her Regal Bearing…

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: …is an Intimidation Skill. We are unaffected because we are not afraid of her. And so she has no power over us. There is no narrative tension there either. She can kill us, but we don’t care about that. And what kind of overbearing noble with far too high an opinion of themselves would suffer a servant they can’t control? Our answer cannot be in the affirmative. Deflect. Reframe. Anything but the truth. Be a politician.

The Princess’s stare became unblinking. She waited for him to respond. Shiv closed his mouth, reworked his thoughts, and made an attempt to save himself from trouble.

“I think I just… like you too much, My Lady. I see you as a friend. Yeah. I… I think I like you more than anyone or anything else. That’s the emotion I feel.”

And at that load of bullshit, Plum Blossom, be it out of arrogance or genuine naivety, seemed overjoyed. “Ohhhhh! Aren’t you just the sweetest little creature!”

Her massive fingers somehow seized him with terrifying dexterity. He was surprised when she caught him, only reacted when he was meters away from her puckered lips, and felt no pain in her gentle grip. The massive kiss she planted greeted him like a falling meteor. A squirt of ruptured organ blood escaped from Shiv's orifices. His vision went dark.

When he came to once more, he found himself held at arm's length from Princess Plum Blossom. She was even bigger up close, and that was saying something. Is this what it feels like to be held by a living continent?

For a moment, she just marveled at him like a girl holding up said puppy in the prior metaphor. “I think it is the hand of fate that brought us together. Yes, indeed, fate. It is not often that I find such a genuine and delicious little soul. We are going to do great things together! You are going to feed me and spend such time with me that we will become almost inseparable. It's been too long since I had someone for a taste of this genuine affection. My brothers and sisters, bless them, are so occupied with their own businesses and holdings; they don't come down to spend time with me.” She almost sniffled. “And all my servants, though they are loyal and dedicated to their labors, are so consumed by keeping my stomach full that they scarcely have time to converse with me. But I can see things will be different with you. Oh, I'm looking forward to this!”

Shiv absolutely wasn't. Her apocalyptic enthusiasm was unnerving. Furthermore, his Psychology Skill identified another critical failure in her personality: she wasn't the type to let go. She wasn't the type to release someone from service. She wasn't the type to care about someone else's feelings. It was all about her: a glutton of heart and stomach.

She held up a finger, and her eyes went wide like saucers in delight. “Before you tell me your story, I wish for you to be properly dressed and properly distinguished from the others. Everyone must know that you are mine! All mine! And that must be made obvious through dress and attire alone!”

You have been dubbed Princess Plum Blossom’s Dearest Companion.

Shiv tried not to swallow. I have a bad felling feeling about this.

“Ahem. Servants! Take my Dearest Companion to the Cookhold! See that he is granted… the Vestments of Edibility.”

“What… what is that?” Shiv stammered.

The Princess laughed. “Oh, you will see, my sweetest dear. You will see.”

Slowly, Shiv realized it was wise to laugh along with her—as he sent his Severed Shadow rushing for an exit once more.

Fuckfuckfuck, I have to get away from this place. I have to get away. Godsdammit, Sage, why did you do this to me? What is she going to make me wear?

***

Adam Arrow wasn’t a big fan of being naked. He was even less a fan of a glass blade trying to lockpick its way up his prostate.

“Agh, ughhahh!” he said, which translated to: Oh, felling gods, my soul and mind feel like they’re in pieces.

Where his intelligibility failed, his sheer misery was carried by the tone of his voice alone. He tried to rise, but a massive hand—wider than his torso—kept him pressed down on the ground once more.

“Ah, ah, ah” the Culturist admonished him. “Not yet. I’m trying to fix a final thing. Patience, Young Arrow.”

“Uhhghh! Guhh! Ah-ah-ah! Awguuughh!”

What do you mean patience? I feel like my insides are about to spill out of me, oh, gods, the pain. Make it stop!

“Ah, it is not so bad,” the Legendary Orc chided. “Think of your friend. Shiv would barely notice this.”

“UH! UHUHUH! EYY-AHH!”

Shiv would barely notice if someone—wait, didn’t he tear his own bits off and throw them at you?

The Culturist hummed as he recalled that particular memory. “That was rather effective. And quite disturbing. Even for an orc. Conceptually, anyhow. We do not reproduce physically, but I can understand the horror of losing your means of propagation.”

A loud snap echoed inside Adam. This time, he didn’t make incoherent ape noises. This time, enough of him was pieced back together that he shrieked.

“Bloody felling hells! Bloody…” He gagged. He wanted to puke. He ended up dry heaving nothing but sour spit on the soil beneath him instead.

