“I shall go first then.” He said, walking in front of the boulder and sizing it up. Then, he raised his hoof and tapped it gently.

My eyes narrowed, as, to my surprise, a tiny crack appeared on the boulder. It was minuscule and barely visible, but it was there.

The deer looked quite proud of himself and said while turning to me. “Your turn.”

I walked forward and looked at the boulder. Finally, I could test how strong I was. However, instead of hitting it as hard as I could, I decided to follow the deer’s example and lightly tapped it.

I used my feet, of course, and gave it a tiny tap, but with concentrated force. I didn’t use any force, not any more than one would use to tap their fingers against a table.

A small crack appeared, one that was much, much smaller than the deer’s. He let out a prideful scoff, and I was about to question what my Strength stat meant. Just as the deer was about to talk, though, the crack became bigger.

And bigger.

And bigger.

More and more cracks appeared on the surface of the boulder, completely enveloping it in less than a breath of time. When it was completely covered, the boulder exploded into a million pieces, surprising both the deer and me.

A second passed. Silence.

Two seconds passed. Silence.

Three seconds pass—

“DamnnN!”

The bird cawed, breaking the quietness, and the deer cleared his throat.

“I guess you win, then.”

For a moment, I could have sworn he showed some actual emotion, but his face turned to normal rather quickly.

“Well, the boulder is yours now, as we previously agreed. I will now take my leave, as I have many other things to take care of.”

And with that, he left, completely disappearing from my senses once again. That technique of his was quite annoying, or useful, depending on how you saw it. Or perhaps it was the birds, who knew besides them?”

Anyway, I looked at the boulder and was… quite impressed, actually. I didn’t think that I had enough strength to actually shatter it. One could only wonder what would have happened if I used more strength than that. Or maybe it wasn’t my strength alone, but also my technique?

Either way, there was definitely more to it than just strength. That also meant that I was wasting precious energy using skills on lower-level beasts, right?

Sigh…

It felt like I’d gained a lot of knowledge, and also nothing at the same time. Why did that deer even come? Fuck, and I forgot to bathe! Did that mean those guys had to endure this awful smell on me, too?

Damn it!

***

“Good job.” A female voice spoke, making a deer-like creature and a tiny black bird tremble. They were both kneeling in front of a large tree, and a subtle purring could be heard from up above.

Neither of the two spoke, simply lowering their heads further as fear permeated out of their orifices.

“But…” The voice spoke again, and in the very next second, both of the deer’s antlers fell down. A clean cut severed their base from the deer’s head. He didn’t say anything, not even a wince, but his head almost dug a hole into the dirt as he kowtowed.

“Don’t ever call yourself ‘Lord’ over anything again. Understood?”

“Y-yes… Y-your L-l-lordship.” The thing’s voice was trembling so hard that the stutters he let out barely resembled a word. A damp spot appeared below his crotch, and the bird was trying to swallow its tongue.

“Leave.” The voice said, and the two left while bowing toward the tree, disappearing into the forest.

A large black cat with bright green eyes landed on the ground without making a sound, and without disturbing the blades of grass it landed on. It was as if her paws didn’t even exist.

Interesting little bird… She thought, looking toward the sky, her sharp gaze staring at the noon sun. A Phoenix, huh? I’m looking forward to the chaos you will create. Perhaps I could make use of you…

The giant cat then disappeared, her figure reappearing some distance away, on top of a more robust tree. She looked down at the Phoenix, who was currently bathing in the river water. Smiling to herself, the cat’s figure then disappeared again, her astonishing speed making it so that ordinary people had a hard time following.

She made her way up a mountain peak devoid of the normal vegetation and entered a cave that was otherwise invisible. The large feline’s scary expression turned soft upon seeing something, or rather, someone, encased in a yellow solution.

A cub that resembled her a great deal was sleeping inside a sort of yellow resin, unmoving, forever still. As for whether it was breathing, it was hard to say. However, a strong life force pulsated out of its tiny body, creating a great deal of heat around the resin.

“My son…” The feline said, almost weeping, and sat down, wrapping her body around the sticky substance. “Soon… I will free you. I promise, my little Emperor.”

***

In a small alley inside the tiny Hu village was a hut, abandoned and forgotten by both man and time. Vines clung to its rotten wall, and the fence that once protected a lively garden had been used as firewood.

At the top of the door was a wooden plaque; the red that coated the brown wood had dried out and was peeling off. There were some letters written in beautiful calligraphy that had become all but readable.

The smudgy text revealed a single character – Shu.

Inside, the house had a few abandoned bedrooms, a scarcely used living room, a forgotten kitchen, and a large attic. The only room that was being used was a bedroom at the far end of a long hallway, where a stove was burning a few twigs and dried leaves.

On the bed sat a young man, whose sickly body hid his age. At a glance, he looked like he was about twenty, but the illness he was suffering from made him look much older.

“Xu’er, where did you find this?” The young man with a pale expression and malnourished body asked a little girl standing in front of him. His bony fingers held a tiny, shiny, and colorful pill. It looked like a tiny, yet precious bead.

The little girl was smiling from ear to ear, showing her yellow teeth. She stood with her hands behind her back, her eyes sparkling with joy. “Big brother Wao, even if I told you, you wouldn’t believe me.”

Wao’s eyes switched from the girl to the pill, and though sickly, his gaze remained firm. “Xu’er, you must tell big brother. Such a pill… I cannot accept it.”

The little girl’s expression immediately darkened, her gaze meeting the ground as she said with a disappointed tone. “But… Xu’er went through so much for it… Ah- But the bir- err, immortal that gave it to me said that she has no use of it, so she gave it to me as an apology.”

“Apology?” Wao’s expression grew worried. “Apology for what? Xu’er, please speak clearly. I need to know what happened, or else I won’t accept it even if the immortal offers it to me personally.”

Upon hearing that, Xu’er didn’t know how to begin. Her mouth parted and closed, as if she wanted to say something, but after all that she experienced that day, it was hard for her to remember.

“I- “

However, a wild crashing sound startled her before she could start recounting her story, and by the time she reacted, the door to their room burst open.

A burly man walked in first, his clothing reminiscent of a merchant. His attitude and abundant jewelry said otherwise, and so did the two thugs that followed close behind him. He scanned the room, a grin appearing on his face upon seeing the pill the young man was too slow to hide.

“Shu Wao Tu, what are you trying to hide?” The man took a big step forward, closing the distance between him and the sickly young man in an instant. The aura of a Fourth Stage Qi Condensation cultivator emanated from him.

He snatched the pill from the man’s helpless hands and rubbed it between his fingers, chuckling silently as he did so. “Good pill, good pill. I don’t know what it’s for, but I will make sure to properly assess it."

“Chiao Gu, you’ve taken even the shingles off our house, what more do you want?!” The little girl yelled as she looked up at the burly man, her eyes reddened with tears. “Give me back my pill, it’s for my big brother!”

“Huh? Brat, you’re still wet behind the ears. Why don’t you scram and let the adults talk?” Chiao Gu scoffed, his smile turning into a frown as he looked at the little girl. He then turned to the young man, “Shu Wao Tu, as the last remaining members of the Shu clan, don’t you think you should take better care of your little sister and teach her some manners?”

Shu Wao Tu clenched his trembling fists, lowering his head. “Cousin Gu, I apologize for Xu’er’s behavior. I ought to have taught… her better.” He coughed, blood and spit mixing as he spat on the blanket.

“Indeed, you should have. Brats like her need to be obedient.” He then sighed and ran a hand across his short hair. “Cousin Wao, it’s not that I want to make things difficult for you, but the debt your Shu family has… You know it can’t just be erased.”

“I understand, cousin. Please accept that pill as my apology… As for the rest, I will pay everything… Soon.”

“Big brother!”

Chiao Gu nodded and tucked the pill away in his breast pocket. Neither he nor his thugs had any bags of holding, so that was the best he could do.

“I appreciate it, cousin Shu. Don’t worry, I will accept this pill. As for the payment… if you can’t pay back everything your family borrowed plus the interest, then I’m afraid…” He didn’t continue his sentence, though the fixated gaze he had on the little Shu Xu’er told Shu Wao Tu everything he needed to know.

The sickly young man lowered his head further, unable to say anything. His nails dug into his flesh as he gripped the blanket, dying it even redder than before. When the thugs closed the door, and he heard the entrance door close, only then did he allow tears to flow down his pale face.

“Chiao. Gu!” He growled through gritted teeth, fury coursing through his veins.

If you hadn’t crippled my meridians a year ago, would I be in such a sorry state right now? If your family hadn’t driven my mother to suicide, would we be this poor? If your father hadn’t sent my dad into the forest, would he have become food for the wild beasts? Chiao Gu, one of these days… just you wait. You and your entire family will pay!

***

“What?!” I asked, staring at the little girl who kowtowed before me, her forehead bleeding and cheeks red, eyes full of tears.
