Cold sweat drips down my back as I recover from the abrupt jolt, pulled out of the fire by Dad’s fast reflexes and Gao Changong’s timely intervention. The Western Major General fights alongside two of his comrades to keep Huanhuzi in check, their staves flashing in rhythmic tempo to the beat of their foe’s attacks. Even three against one, the Bandit King still holds the initiative, his speed only above average at best, but his strength and durability unmatched. Despite almost losing my life to deal what should have been a fatal blow, Huanhuzi’s wounds have sealed shut and even his armour has mended itself back together again, leaving no discernible sign of my valiant efforts behind. The ship shudders under his ponderous weight as he dances across the rolling deck with grace and ease few can match, still utilizing those same advantages he used against me in order to dodge the majority of the Western Warrior’s attacks and shrugging off those few that do connect.

But soon, the tides and numbers turn in his favour as his Demonic reinforcements join the fray, horrific, newly-birthed Demons and half-Demons eager to slaughter and feast to their dark hearts’ intent.

Dad has long since left my side to lend his efforts to the cause, slaughtering his way over to engage Huanhuzi but blocked by a seemingly endless stream of Demons barring his Path. Seeing him take a glancing blow brings me back to reality as I rush forward to lend a hand, but Dad recovers easily enough and waves me off while dispatching his foe with ease. Though he won’t say as much in words, he’s telling me my presence at his side would be more hindrance than aid, so I should fight elsewhere instead of distracting him. I can’t blame him either, because he’s right, for my greatest failing as a Martial Warrior is my inability to remain focused and stay ten steps ahead of what comes next. I can no longer afford to rely on reaction alone, because my foes move faster than my mind can process, and if Dad sees me going down a path to destruction, he cannot help but try and save me, even at the cost of his own life.

I must look forward and always be aware of my surroundings, but this is easier said than done. In the chaos of battle, anything can happen, and as I throw myself at the closest Demon and try to anticipate its next move, a new variable emerges to send me back to square one in the form of a half-Demonic pirate Warrior. Clad in a similar leather cuirass that is easily removed and wielding axe and cutlass both, this nameless pirate is similarly armed and nowhere near as nicely dressed as his king and captain, but seeing how he kept to the Razor’s edge and retained his sanity in the face of Demonic transformation, he must be a foe to be wary of. Already, I am on the back foot as I fight for my life, and I would already be dead if my opponent were more well-versed at using the swaying ship to his advantage. Though it only takes a few seconds to acclimate to the rhythm of the waves, in a battle of this magnitude, those seconds can amount to a few dozen exchanges. Here and now, I avoid death no less than eight times before I am able to get off the back foot and fight on even terms, only for a blast of Demonic fire to throw me for a loop.

The Demon in question is an ugly, torch-bearing hunchback, perhaps a night’s watchman in life turned into humanoid monstrosity, but the misshapen torch fused to its flesh sends gout after gout of burning hot flame in my direction as it keeps its distance well. If I could touch it, I could probably Devour and kill it, but despite my best efforts, I am unable to absorb it’s Demonic Ichor from a distance, especially not while dodging flames and cleaving attacks from my foes. There is no help nearby as the Imperial Peak Experts and Demon Slayers are woefully outnumbered, all fighting back to back atop the freighter ship’s deck and soon to be overrun should things continue in this manner. Kuang Biao, my Royal Guardians, the Azure Ascendants, and all other Imperial forces are fighting for their lives, and though their combined efforts kill many a Demon and Defiled alike, the Enemy forces care not for their losses as they swarm in to bring these Imperial Experts down.

Even my Emotional Aura proves to be no use here, ignored by Demons and Demonic Warriors alike, and it occurs to me that any negative emotions might even fuel their energies by driving their hosts deeper into despair, so I quickly abandon my experimental efforts to focus on what I know. From start to finish, my arms fly in a defensive pattern, one I have no time to plan out, moving on sheer instinct alone and reliant upon a dazzling defence of moving steel to keep myself in one piece. My actions are akin to what I’ve seen Zian and his uncle Jia Yang utilize, the secrets behind their Forms not wholly revealed to me, yet my memory of their movements alone allows me to put it to good use. This is what it must feel like to utilize Insight with ease as I weave in Mom’s Thorny Bramble Bush and Jia Yang’s whirling defence of impenetrable steel into my arsenal and use them to good effect.

Even this isn’t enough to secure victory against my foes or save the lives of any comrades, though it does help preserve my life for a few seconds longer. Though the Demonic fire is simply Chi masquerading as fire, the heat alone is enough to set the treated wooden deck aflame, the spreading blaze limiting our options as our Demonic foes corral the Imperial forces into a group atop the doomed freighter. Soon enough, anyone who is not a Peak Expert is either dead or hiding below decks, and only the cream of the crop remain standing to fight, a tempting prize for these ravenous Demons who crave the taste of blood and flesh. Though they have no need for such sustenance, they covet it all the same, not just for the Heavenly Energy contained within, but because the process of eating reminds them of what it was like to be alive.

And Falling Rain will be on the menu soon enough if I don’t do something drastic.

Cold despair grips my heart as I consider all my options, but I am unable to come up with a suitable answer except to rely on Pong Pong once again. Doing so would undoubtedly reveal his existence however, the ramifications of which I am not entirely sure I am capable of withstanding. If Pong Pong acts, it might well be tantamount to breaking the treaty once and for all and unleashing hell on earth for all mortals of the Azure Empire, both Imperial and Defiled alike. Once things come to a head and this war devolves into a battle between Divinities, there is nothing left for lesser beings like myself to contend with, and I have never been comfortable leaving my fate in the hands of others.

But what else can I do? The only choice left to me is the nuclear option, so I resign myself to the inevitable and ready to usher in the end times.

Only for my Sending to be cut short as Dad grabs me by the collar and hurls me off the boat, accompanied by Kuang Biao and a number of Royal Guardians.

“I love you son,” Dad Sends, and I watch as Huanhuzi drives his cutlass deep into my father’s belly. Even this much is not enough to bring the Bloody Fanged Wolf low as my father swings his crescent moon glaive and cleaves his foe in twain. “Tell your mother and sister I love them as well.”

The cold waters of the Azure Sea rushes up to greet me as I freeze up and crash into the sea below. Time slows as anguish and despair overwhelm me and I open up my senses to the world in a desperate bid to witness what comes next. The waters shimmers around me and part to reveal the world beneath the waves, made aware of every stream and current intermingling in my immediate vicinity, of the dead corpses and dying bodies sinking to the sea depths and the opportunistic scavengers coming out to partake of this feast, but this is not the awareness I seek. Reality blinks out of existence before returning to focus once more as my perception shifts from the material to the immaterial and back, the information delivered not to my fives senses, but to my Divine Sense which then translates the scenes into something my mind can comprehend.

On some superficial level, I recognize that what I’ve done here is similar to what Chen Hongji accomplished in the Central Citadel, a form of Domain Manifestation according to Monk Happy. By committing every corner and street to memory and creating a scaled model of the Citadel within his Natal Palace, Chen Hongji had created what was essentially a limited Keystone which he then manifested to allow him to keep tabs on the Citadel proper. Numerous different Chi workings went into making it all happen, of which Scrying was merely the baseline, but as impressive as the good Brigadier’s accomplishment was, I can tell that I’ve taken things a step further as I observe that which I cannot bear to watch.

For I see more than the movements of the people upon the freighter, more than their last, desperate struggle, their emotions laid bare by their own actions as they wield the Energy of the Heavens in stalwart defence of their lives and countrymen.

There stands Lord of Thunder Lei Gong, a former Lieutenant Colonel of the Imperial Army. At eighty-two years young, his personal strength is almost enough to declare the officer turned bandit a Living Legend in his own right, but the ruddy cheeked elder has never been one to covet fame or glory. No, this man is a patriot through and through, one who goes through life dancing to the beat of his own tune and guided by his own moral compass. The law protects wealth and property more than the lives of the Empire’s people, a fact which disgusts him to no end. His downfall came about when he discovered his subordinates were protecting bandits in exchange for a split of the proceeds, a crime he tried to have the perpetrators brought up on charges for, but they were all too well-connected and their victims anything but. Even a mighty Lieutenant Colonel was not enough to make the charges stick, and for his efforts, he was dishonourably discharged and sentenced to slavery for the very crimes he tried to have brought to justice.

And so began his life on the run after slaughtering his way out of prison before they could force an Oath from him, but while these trials and tribulation would have embittered a lesser man, Lei Gong simply lowered his expectations and tried to save those who he could. Robbing merchants to feed the needy became his noble pursuit in life, while eliminating entire bands of roving bandits turned into his favourite pastime, and for some years, things went well until his former subordinates banded together and sent an Imperial Unit to hunt him down and rid themselves of a thorn in their sides. Were it not for Gang Shu’s timely intervention, the Lord of Thunder might well have died in the wilds without anyone being the wiser, but even then, Lei Gong was driven to continue helping where he could, at least whenever he was sober enough to stand. Drinking became his escape from the demons of his mind, a way to numb the pain of living in a world that rejected his morals, but he has not had a drop in weeks, not since he tested Yuhuan’s first working Runic Cannon.

For now, he can truly live up to his name as the Lord of Thunder and do some real good in the world. Fighting a war isn’t the same as helping the needy, but the Defiled are a plague upon humanity, one Lei Gong is eager to be rid of.

Fighting alongside Lei Gong is none other than Gao Changgong, a man who only recently lost not only his friends and family, but his entire province to the Enemy. There is little grief or anger left in this shell of a man, only an unquenchable thirst for vengeance which drives him to wake up each and every morning. The Martial Path has become his only reason for living, his goal to retake the West, or failing that, to kill as many of the Enemy as humanly possible, but he cares not if he survives or succeeds. So long as he has his weapon in hand and enemies to kill, he is satisfied with his lot in life, and he sets upon the Enemy with a cold and calculating hatred that lacks any and all passion.

A similar lack of passion is found in Daxian the Virtuous, a bitter, disgruntled man in his early thirties whose complete and utter indifference to his own fate is startling to behold. Unlike the Western Major General however, Daxian never had anything to lose, and thus has no personal drive whatsoever. Raised in an orphanage that did little beyond ensure the children survived, the half-rat was eventually found and picked up by his real father, but it was not the loving reunion Daxian had hoped for. Instead, the young boy was thrown into a training camp with dozens of his half-siblings and made to compete with one another for limited resources. The only problem was that GangShu, being an Ancestral Beast, demanded too much from his children and provided nowhere near enough for them to survive. The only small mercy was that most died to exposure in the middle of winter, frozen to death after being left out without so much as a cloak to cover them or even the requisite training to teach them how to survive. Daxian himself almost died alongside them, but was saved by the Tyrant OuYang Yuhuan when she learned about GangShu’s plans. It was under her tutelage that Daxian blossomed into the Warrior he is today, but he takes no pride in his accomplishments and has little attachment to his Mentor, who herself is emotionally incapable of being the loving mother poor Daxian needed.

And so he fights, because he knows nothing else, envious of the lives his younger half-brother and half-sisters have made for themselves yet glad some of GangShu’s children escaped relatively unscathed. There are no regrets in Daxian, for he fights for the sake of fighting, because it is only in combat that he truly feels alive.

