“I told you. You get confused.”

She kept rattling on about the Primary, and Alden only got more confused.

Kibby made it sound like the man’s role in Artonan society was a cross between a nuclear warhead and the Pope. The two ideas did not mesh. He began to wonder if she just had such a huge crush on knights that it was preventing her from giving him an unbiased answer.

“Wait, wait,” he said. “One more time. All knights are better than all regular wizards, even if they’re not always stronger. Because they promise to protect the Triplanets from danger. Is that right?”

“That’s right,” said Kibby.

Okay. Now they were getting somewhere.

“Why doesn’t everyone make the promise then?”

Kibby made the double hand gesture she liked to use for a shrug. Then she added, “They’re not allowed to break the promise. And I think they have to be special somehow. Maybe it’s important to be stronger than normal wizards, too, even if they don’t have to be the very strongest. Because I never heard about a weak knight.”

She paused. “I asked Distinguished Master Ro-den if I could be a knight one day. After I saw one on a video.”

“What did he say?”

“He said to ask him the same question after I got older and finally learned some magic. He said it was a terrible life for crazy wizards, —————, and idiots.”

Joe, who’d spent years living here on Moon Thegund by choice, thought other wizards were crazy?

“Change of subject,” Alden said. “Then we can watch another show. I’ve wanted to ask you before, and since we’re talking about magic and culture…how do Avowed work with everything else?”

Kibby blinked. “Don’t you get assignments and complete them?”

“No, sorry. I didn’t mean to say ‘work.’ I meant…what do Artonans think about Avowed? What did you think when you first saw me?”

He had Joe’s opinion about the views most wizards had. But he’d never quite figured out what Kibby and the assistants thought of him.

“I thought, ‘A human! Probably it is a man human. Distinguished Master Ro-den might have sent it. Or Yipalck might have sent it. I wonder if it’s going to do magic. I hope it’s going to help us. I hope it’s not going to hurt us.’”

So it was that simple and obvious then.

He didn’t know why he was thinking it would have been anything more complicated. What else would someone think when a potentially powerful alien walked up to their front door?

Kibby smiled at him. “I can’t believe you met the Primary! I can’t believe you met a knight at all. I have never seen one in real life! Tell me what he said to you again!”

“He said I was amazing.”

“Liar.”

“He said I was the best human he’d ever met, and I should be the Primary.”

“Liar liar!”

“We held hands.”

Kibby looked like she wanted to bite him.
