Once the traffic starts to settle down, I imbue a few of my new element stones with plunderer and create new containment stones with roughly the same 7-8 billion MP allowances. My double brings them to the E-Grade breaks first, and makes sure everyone clears out before letting the stones out of my storage.

In the emptied breaks, these stones drain the excess mana away, and bring them back down to their natural state in a single stone.

Many hunters go back in after the neutralizing is complete to witness the massive hole in the dungeon's center, but I make sure to tell the Elemental Elites what to say, and they reassure regular hunters that the dungeons will naturally regenerate given enough time.

My double continues to neutralize the dungeons one by one with the containment stones as my main body continues to farm for more in the B-Grade break over the next hour and a half straight.

I leave the most popular breaks for last, so that hunters can get all the resources they want.

The D-Grade dungeons take up to 5-10 stones to neutralize, and some of the mid-level and high-grade C-Grade dungeons even take 30-50.

I've farmed over a thousand windstones, so this is perfect.

By the time every break is neutralized, and all of the dungeons are back to their normal state, I have 600 new full containment stones in my inventory, and just under 500 raw element stones still waiting to be imbued.

The massive wind element birds in the B-Grade dungeon divebomb toward the glowing red exit portal every time they respawn.

If I was not in here constantly farming them, they would escape out into the real world and cause havoc.

The stones in this dungeon are a valuable resource, but this is a dangerous dungeon to keep so close to the city at this unstable state.

I need to stabilize it before something unpredictable happens.

Outside, the crowds of traders and hunters celebrate their loot and harvest while my double tells the Elemental Elites they've earned a night off after all the hard work.

My main body stays in the B-Grade dungeon break for another six hours until I'm satisfied with the number of stones I've farmed.

Over 2500 fresh element stones are farmed, while 600 are still full to the brim with 7-8 billion MP each.

I task my body double to go out to C-Grade dungeons in the desert that I passed on collapsing in the past and give them newly crafted containment stones from these 2500 to fill with mana.

As the sun goes down on the final day before Ember is scheduled to wake up in the morning, my doubles fill almost every single stone they can.

About 700 are left uncrafted in their natural element state, while 1800 more are turned into full containment stones, adding to the 600 total and making 2400 full stones ready to release over 18 trillion MP.

I whisper to myself.

"I guess it's now or never... This should be enough."

Once I have these ready, I begin releasing their mana into the B-Grade dungeon.

After about 300 stones, the monster type changes again, making the birds disappear and a new level Elite scorpion-like monster form in a new dungeon. Some are level 950-965 in their base state, but others reach up to level 995 in their mutant form.

I use the exit portal to walk outside, expecting for it to be stable after the new rank up, but to my surprise, the spinning portal is still bright red. I jump back in and start defending the exit from dozens of massive creatures that are programmed to leave this dungeon by any means necessary.

"Not good..."

I decide to release even more full containment stones into the dungeon to try and bring it up in rank again to stabilize it further.

Over 2 hours pass.

I set off chain reactions of dozens of stones at a time, protecting myself within a soul energy shielding barrier at the far edges of the dungeon near the exit to release more mana inside.

It takes another 500 stones to make the dungeon move up in rank again.

The creatures are all aquatic, with long bodies and sharp teeth, with their base forms ranging from level 970-985. Some mutants hit level 999.

However, they're all aggressively hard wired to leave the dungeon too. The portal is still bright red.

I don't dare challenge the boss room because I'm almost positive it would destroy the whole dungeon once defeated.

My plan is to continue charging this dungeon higher. I'm so close to my goal of level 1000 monsters, I might as well use the rest of the stones to try and reach it.

If this dungeon actually stays unstable forever, I'll have a double stand by and farm it while standing guard. However, if it is really a lost cause and seems too dangerous to keep in the canyon, I'll take out the boss and end things here.

I have a feeling there is a light at the end of the tunnel, and I'm almost there.

It takes another 4 hours and 1100 stones before the dungeon finally hits its new rank.

As I watch the mutant sea creatures fade away and a new dungeon begin to form, the outer edges of my perception begin to shrink in toward me.

The dungeon itself feels like it's getting smaller, and the coloring and artificial sky and floor start to fade away until I'm only left floating in a small sphere of white and blue pure system energy.

A single blue text box hovers in front of my eyes.

[Create a Labyrinth]

[YES][NO]
