The disruption caused no ripples in Blessed Fate’s heart. As patient as the old friends in the shadows were, could they compare to the Buddhist Sangha? The Era of Order held the greatest potential thus far, but that was it. Nirvana was bound to wait at the Terminus, whether it was today or tomorrow. Not even Laondio Evrodok could upend the Eternal Dharma.

Blessed Fate was more interested in the hint of familiarity hidden in the complex tangle of ancient Karma. It appearing everywhere he turned was a sign from the Cosmos, yet the message remained unclear.

“Curious, indeed,” Blessed Fate said with a smile, turning to his neighbor. “Does benefactor have any insights for this poor monk?”

“When have I ever?” the reticent fisherman grunted, his hood failing to hide the subtle scowl on his face.

A distant gong, only heard by Blessed Fate, drowned out the Stillsun ancestor’s jab. Buddha turned, and Karma suddenly pierced the veil. Realization shattered the tranquility of Blessed Fate’s Dao Heart, triggering a storm so great it almost disintegrated his avatar. He finally remembered. After all these years, he finally understood the cause of his ongoing discomfort.

The Peak of Progress, the Emperor of Man! There was something terribly wrong with the First Mountain.

Sending back a warning proved futile. His thoughts were reduced to cosmic dust, his will eroded by the hidden hand. A billion incarnations were born with a thought, spread across every corner of the Cosmos. Each carried a seed of taboo knowledge in a desperate attempt to protect the truth. Every single one was washed away by an intractable power that only Buddha could endure.

“Something wrong?” a devilish laugh from his left became another barb in his heart.

“Namo Amituofo,” Blessed Fate chanted. It proved futile.

A sanguine pillar erupted in the continent’s absolute south, silencing the storm and errant thoughts. Transcendent barriers rose along the shoreline to protect against the extreme sharpness that overwhelmed even the System’s containment. The Cosmos stilled, the waters stilled, and the Heart stilled.

The window of opportunity had passed. As expected, the old friends hidden in the shadows chose to stay their hands. Stepping out now would make you a target of both Heavens and Earth. They’d remained patient for so long; they could wait a while longer. Blessed Fate was the same. What would be, would be.

And yet, he couldn’t cast off the shadow of his heart.

‘Laondio Evrodok, what must I do to erase this shadow in my Heart?’
