I never considered it before, but when someone calls you childish, you feel the overwhelming desire to prove them wrong.

Pouting the whole way, I walk over and take a seat across from the stony-faced knight. I fold my arms and cross my legs with a look of defiance on my face, which doesn't make much sense when I think about it because I'm the one who gave in and followed her directions.

“There, happy?” I sulk.

“Ecstatic,” she dryly remarks, proceeding to set down her teacup.

Now that I'm directly in front of her, I get a better view of the blue-haired knight. I didn't notice it earlier, but she's shorter than I initially realized. It was hard to tell with her sitting in her armor, but based on the length of her legs; she can only be maybe five foot four, max. And though she's keeping up her rigid military persona, she has contradicting delicate facial features, especially around her eyes.

If she weren't wearing armor and slouched her posture a bit, I'd say she'd look like the average mom next door.

But I don't let her appearance fool me; she's strong. Really strong.

And like Pacore, she has quite a few magic items hidden around her body. Her mana obscuring ring is better than mine, and I have to focus to push past it and scan her other gear’s enchantments, especially the beautiful set of armor she’s wearing. Tabitha's armor isn't as unique as Pacore's, but his was enchanted to remain invisible all while deflecting magic, making it a mana obscuring tool in and of itself. Still, the runes in Tabitha's armor and other gear are incredibly complex. I've only seen around a dozen basic runes so far, and none of them allow me to guess what her armor can do.

Using Sense Mana, I can see the runes' general shapes, and I'm sure they're at least tier 4. I still have no idea how people can make such beautiful three-dimensional runes inside the metal like that.

Maybe she’ll let me take a closer look at her armor sometime?

No, Alayah, stop that! I berate myself. You're angry at her for calling you childish, not impressed with her gear! I shift in my seat, still staring at Tabitha with a frown on my face.

Tabitha just watches me with cold eyes, not perturbed by my open hostility in the slightest. We watch each other like that for a few minutes before Tabitha moves to break the ice. “My name is Tabitha Leres, student under Master Pacore the Deathless. It is a pleasure to meet you.” Tabitha introduces herself like we haven’t been in the same room with each other for the last half hour.

Tabitha proceeds to offer me a polite salute while I look over my shoulder to make sure someone isn’t standing behind me. I point a finger at my chest and give Tabitha a ‘are you talking to me’ look.

“If I’m going to be overseeing you, it is only right I formally introduce myself. It would be polite for you to do the same,” she informs me in her mechanical voice.

A wicked smirk crosses my face. "Greetings, Tabitha Leres, student of Pacore," I say in a grandiose manner. I even wave my hand out in front of me like I’m addressing a crowd; a bit of showmanship never hurts. “My name is Aaliyah, protector of Spotted Creek Village. Slayer of goblins. Forger of epic swords…” I have to pause to make up more ridiculous titles. “Youngest sage in existence. Hunter of magic beasts!”

"Are you finished?" Tabitha, matter-of-factly, asks me.

“Give me a second to come up with one more,” I tell her.

Tabitha patiently waits for me to finish, but I can’t think of anything else. “Never mind, I’m done," I reluctantly tell her.

“You have the same title as I do,” she reminds me.

I refold my arms. "So far, I've only had one teacher, and it isn't Pacore. I'll call you master long before I address that old man as such."

Again, Tabitha angrily narrows her eyes at me, but she quickly relaxes herself this time and returns to giving me a blank look. "I'm aware of the circumstances behind your joining master as an apprentice. I won't ask you to change your mind about Master, but I will ask you to respect his name in my presence. Master Pacore might not be the strongest warrior in Scholl or the best mage, and he might not be able to single handily kill beasts higher leveled than himself. Still, Master Pacore has participated in countless battles and is one of the oldest humans in the world. As someone who’s fought him, I’m sure you can at least acknowledge that much.”

Tabitha starts to show more emotion the longer she talks about Pacore, and the worshiping look in her eyes tells me a lot about how she views her master. It’s hard to argue with someone like that. But I’ll admit, even though I hate Pacore for coming to our village and forcing me to join him, I fully recognize his strength. Pacore’s level alone show’s how much he’s been through.

The average villager is lucky to hit level 50 by the time they die; Pacore's level is three times that.

Tabitha takes my silence as agreement and continues. “If it makes you feel any better, I don’t want to be here anymore than you want me here,” she flatly tells me.

“Really?” I sarcastically say and roll my eyes.

“My master is fighting for our country. My friends are holding the line at Teeburn. When I received a letter from Master, I assumed he wanted me to join him, not ask me to go guard a small village out in the middle of nowhere. I had to forgo the honor of battle to watch over you.”

I cringe under her powerful gaze. Her eyes had a crazy look to them when she talked about missing the chance to fight with her fellow soldiers. Is this chick a battle maniac or something? Where did the expressionless woman go? “I didn’t ask for Pacore to send anyone,” I grumble.

"That is true," Tabitha gives me a slight nod. "But the fact that Master saw fit to send me here shows how much he values you."

“Or your precious master sent you here on a whim,” I point out to her.

"My master wouldn't do that," Tabitha tells me without a hint of doubt in her voice. "Master takes his role as a pillar of Scholl very seriously." Tabitha notices my look of doubt and explains herself. "Master only reveals his playful side to those he finds interesting or those he respects. I wonder which were you?” Tabitha gives me a kind look that catches me off guard. “Because I respect my master’s decisions, I agreed to come out here.”

“And you coming out here means what, exactly?” I ask. “To make sure I don’t run away?”

Tabitha shakes her head. "If that were the case, Master would've instructed me to rush here. No, Master sent me here to protect you and to offer you training should you ask for it."

"What!?" I ask in astonishment. "Forget about the training; why would I need your protection?" It isn't like I have enemies or anything. People fight over me, not attack me.

"Master's letter explained your situation with Silver Herd. They have people in their employ that could be quite dangerous." She must be talking about Two and Reel. I admit they're pretty strong, but it's hard for anyone to sneak up on me.

“Why would Silver Herd attack me?” I ask, dismissing her concerns. I've already agreed to work with Giovanni for as long as possible, and Grey thinks I'm ignorant of his contract's purpose. Why would either of them want me dead?

“What will happen when the two factions in Silver Herd finally clash?” Tabitha asks me like she’s trying to lead me to an answer I can’t see.

I assume Giovanni would win, but I doubt that's what she's looking for. "Then they fight, and one of them wins," I state the obvious, not sure where she’s going with this.

Tabitha nods. “That’s right, and one of them will win. What do you think the loser will do once the other wins?”

I shrug. Does she want me to predict the future or something?

"When someone losses, they rarely take the loss well. Both groups know about you, yes? Once it becomes apparent which side will lose, what do you think will stop them from making more drastic decisions?" Tabitha asks me with a small grin.

I feel the blood drain from my face when I finally see what she’s getting at.

"That's right; my master is not the only one who knows about your value. When things get heated inside Silver Herd, you can't be sure which side might try to abduct you or your family, maybe even try something worse. I'm here to make sure nothing like that happens until Master can come to pick you up and take you back to Scholl with him." Tabitha reaches over and sips her tea, happy to let me ponder over this new bit of information.

I wouldn’t put it past Grey to try something shady but would Giovanni do the same thing? I can’t predict how either of them would react if they were about to lose everything. “And the training?” I ask, trying to change the subject.

Tabitha doesn't press me on the Silver Herd issue and thankfully doesn't gloat as I’m sure Pacore would. "I was told you were talented for your age but that you don't have any fighting experience. You won't be forced to train with me, but the offer is open should you chose to."

“That old-!” I start to complain but stop myself when Tabitha’s brow creases. “Pacore, said I didn’t have any experience fighting?” I ask in a more measured tone.

Thankfully, Tabitha doesn’t look mad at me for addressing Pacore without any titles. “He wrote that you didn’t have experience fighting other people, though you didn’t seem hesitant to kill him, which was a start.” The hair on the back of my neck stands up when she casually compliments me for trying to kill her master. “Have you had to kill people before?”

“Once,” I tell her. “Some bandits ambushed me while I was on a run.”

“Did you find it easy?” She asks a little too enthusiastically.

"The fighting or killing them?” I ask for clarification.

“Both!” I once again feel Tabitha’s eyes light up with passion, just like when she talked about Pacore. So, she is a battle maniac.

What kind of people did I get mixed up with? She was so quiet a minute ago. "I was tired after a long run, but I got lucky with a large-scale fire spell and managed to kill all of them. I did what I had to do," I tell her the short version of my run-in with the bandits.

"You won through your own strength; that's all that matters," Tabitha gives me another half-smile.

"I don't like fighting," I try telling her before she gets the wrong idea about me.

Tabitha just lightly shakes her head. “Don’t worry, that will change. Everyone has a tough time killing for the first time.”

She definitely misunderstood me there. I don’t have a problem killing to save myself or other people, but I don’t take pleasure in battle to the point I want to go searching for a fight. Something tells me Tabitha won’t understand me even if I try spelling it out for her. That said, I’m curious about her offering to train me.

Master is like me and only fights when he has to, Camden has defended his village for years, but that's mostly against monsters; if I'm going to leave the village soon, I need to know how to defend myself against other people, and Tabitha is the best person to teach me those skills.

“You’ll teach me to fight people like you and Pacore?” I question Tabitha.

Tabitha gives me a real smile, not one of her small half-smiles, but a genuine smile, and honestly, it freaks me out. "If you want?" She grins at me.

I’m confident I’m talking to a demon disguised as a woman. I don't know if this is a bad idea or not, but here goes nothing. "I would appreciate it if senior sister Tabitha would instruct me," I ask, bowing my head respectfully.

"I would be happy to!" Tabitha's smile widens, and I don't think it's because I called her senior sister. “First, we should spar to see where you’re at,” Tabitha eagerly stands up, reaching for her gauntlets. How can a person change their personality so quick? She was calm and collected when I walked into the room, and now she’s acting like a child that was just given a present.

“Wait, wait, wait,” I quickly try to stop her.

“What’s wrong?” Tabitha gives me a questioning look.

“I can’t fight you right now.”

"Need some time to prepare? Alright then, I can wait an hour," The previous stony-faced knight is gone, and her place is an unreasonable battle junkie.

"I mean, I can't fight you today," I clarify.

“Why not?” Tabita frowns at me.

"I have other stuff I need to do," I tell her. My parents are probably waiting for me back at home to hear about Tabitha, and I'm sure Master Del is waiting for my return as well. Just because I agreed to let her teach me doesn't mean I want to fight Tabitha this exact moment.

"What could be more important than working on your fighting skills?"

“For one thing, I was preparing to do some forging with my master today,” I flatly tell her.

“You mean with the Stone kin,” Tabitha blankly looks at me before sitting back down.

“Yes, my master,” I stress. “I’m a crafter by profession. I can’t spend all day every day sparring with you. And don’t you need to move into Sandra’s room?”

The disappointment on Tabitha's face is clear to see. But as if a switch is flicked, all the emotion slowly drains from her face after hearing we won't be sparring today. "I didn't bring much with me, so unpacking won't take that long," she answers in a detached voice like when I first met her.

How!? Is she screwing with me? There’s no way someone can flip-flop emotions like that.

“When you’re ready to train, you can come and find me,” she tells me in a dismissive tone, moving to reach for her tea again.

I don't think she's screwing with me! Does she only show emotion when she's talking about her master or fighting? I'm curious; I need to test this out.

“Sister, Tabitha,” a little brown-nosing will go a long way if I’m wrong about this.

“Yes?”

