I point at my model, "Blaiton is only the first city we must take. I'm aware of the whispers around the camp." A few of my commanders flinch back, but I continue pretending not to notice them. I don't have time to worry about insubordination. "But we need to change our tactics for this battle, or else we'll lose the overall war. As soon as Blaiton falls, we need to march on Yleles."

"We'll need to leave behind at least 40% of our troops to secure Blaiton while the other 60% finishes our campaign. We cannot lose more than 10% of our forces. If we do, there's a chance our overall mission won't succeed." I pause and look each of my men in the eye.

"Scholl is a kingdom based on strength! Battlefields are merely testing grounds for us! Those who die do so for the kingdom; no sacrifice can be more honorable! These are the values we live by!”

"These are the values we die by." A few of the commanders start to cheer but stop when they see the pained look on my face. This is the only time I'll show weakness to my men; that's how important this is.

"It pains me to say it, but we have to set our core beliefs aside this time." A few murmurs break out amongst the commanders, but they all quiet with the raise of my hand. "Too much is at stake should we fail our mission. And I will not tolerate failure," I release my pressure, "nor insubordination. We will forgo our honor this one time, and in doing so, we will save everyone counting on us back home. Our friends, our family, our kingdom, they all hinder on our success!”"

"We won't like it, but we will hide behind our war towers. We will chip away at their forces. And in doing so, we shall win. Any objections?" I bellow.

I’m not surprised when no one answers me.

I start thinking about how I'm going to convince everyone to forgo their honor and follow my plans when the first commander steps forward. "I follow Master Pacore the Deathless!"

“As do I!” Another commander steps forward.

“I will serve!”

“As will I!”

“Me too!”

A few of my commanders still look hesitant knowing my plans, but one by one, they all pledge their loyalty. And I'll need all their support to keep the soldiers in line.

"Good," I address them. "Then gather around and listen; we have a lot to cover before the sun rises tomorrow."
