Helios looked around, trying to find cover. Before he could, I channeled some mana into the furnace. The ancient runes kicked into high gear, my mana clinking in place to fuel a preset series of commands. Giving the device way too much energy, the runes glowed, and the jade shook in my palm. The air around me shifted dark, an umbral tone infesting it. This cloud crackled and popped with an eerie foreboding.

I clanked my teeth together, ready for the onslaught of mana. As the aura around me snapped into the jade, a vast, enormous wave of power poured out from the device. It rushed into my frame, filling me with energy and vitality. I devoured much of the mana, my armor grinning with glee. My blood boiling, I trembled at the feast.

Seconds passed, and my armor glowed a bright white. I poured more of the energy into my cipher runes, and they engulfed some of the incoming rushes of energy. These sources of reduction proved incomplete, and the energy poured into my mind like a waterfall crashing onto me from overhead. It was as Helios described - wild and untamed.

The mana slammed into me like some insane phantom wishing to possess my body. It's entire being lacked anything uniform or coherent, yet the sheer size of its mind was behemothic. It was nothing like battling with Torix, more mirroring a mass of unleashed thoughts. These babblings and urges wanted to overwhelm me, pulling my concentration in a thousand different directions.

If anything, this entity of pandemonium mirrored an Old One, its mind profound with depth. These alien desires weren't made for this world, however. They were the results of the cipher converting energy into something usable by a mind. This didn't make it easy to use, however.

Despite this struggle, I'd wrestled with similar sensations before, both with Eonoth and Etorhma. My essential mind magic helped hold me together here as well. It allowed me to suppress this incoming, volatile entity. I took it head-on, tearing it apart from many angles. For the main rush, I stayed in place, unable to move or think of anything else.

It consumed me. It reminded me of when I was young and angry. My rage would be so blinding, I wouldn't even be able to move. This was similar, the strain stretching me to the absolute limit of my mind's ability to defend and my will's ability to endure.

Yet endure I did. I planted my heels, and I tightened my fists. I narrowed my eyes, staring forward at this monster. That monster, the untamed mana, stared back at me and roared. Having condensed it, I waved Event Horizon over the mana. It shivered, the uncentered mind screaming out in agony.

I crushed it under my heel, telepathically roaring at it with the might of a dimension. I shattered its unformed soul, giving it only one place to find peace. It found that sanctuary by relenting, the energy assimilating into my frame. The mana converted into my own will and into my own wishes.

It gave me energy everlasting. It emboldened me with thoughts of madness. It whispered thoughts of eternal life and power. I quieted those voices, tempering the new ideas and will as if it were my own internal demons. As my battle settled down into a light whisper, I contained the mana with one last burst of will.

I won.

Falling back, I crushed rock underneath me while letting out a gasp. If I could sweat, I'd be drenched at this point. My heart pounded in my chest like a sledgehammer against stone, and I could feel my pulse in my ears. Helios gawked at me in the distance. At first, horror spread over his face. As I looked at him, he shook that off.

The albony whispered, his voice wobbling ever so slightly,

"Hmmm...That was a first."

I lifted a thumb, "I didn't expect it to be that hard. You were right. I should've taken it slow."

Helios let his hands flop against his sides, "You're ability to listen is perhaps a skill you should invest more time into. Despite your hubris, we're alive. Thank Schema for that."

I let out a deep sigh, my mind's exhaustion fading, "Ah man, I definitely need to put in less mana than I thought."

Helios shook his head,

"It is strange. I've never seen that done before."

"Someone nail the furnace thing in their first try? How else can it be done?"

"You either succeed or fail in a fire. I wasn't speaking of the furnace. I meant you forming a mythical skill with such ease. You must have formed a backbone of trees and experience for it already. Otherwise, this should be impossible."

"Huh. A mythical skill, eh?"

I opened my status, and sure enough, Helios was right.

New mythical skill gained! 1,000 skill points rewarded for the skill's creation. Matter Conversion(lvl 10) - By defying the will of matter, you've used the energy stored in the atoms around you. You harvest ash into light, and you enliven that which is most still.

Well done.

I raised a hand, a grin popping up on my face. This was an absolutely massive boon for me. I'd been working on a few tasks that I wasn't skilled at recently. That slowed down my skill gain by several orders of magnitude, but despite that, I still made progress. Matter Conversion felt like something I was born to do in comparison, much of the difficulty involved similar to containing my own mana flows long ago.

It was like I was going into a battle I'd fought a thousand times because of that. That meant this wasn't me getting a skill for free. If anything, this was just putting a name on something I already understood deeply. Mana was a mind's will manifested physically after all. To rule it, you must contain the flow with your own mental direction. For that, I had plenty of practice.

Every time I used blood magic, it was using a process similar to this, but the scale and scope of mana production were entirely different. Before, I was working with pebbles, and this was like working with boulders. It required far less investment in health yet more focus from my mind. I imagined a furnace burning without my experience, and the idea made me shiver. That would be nearly impossible.

Turning to the guy, those realizations instilled newfound respect in me for Helios. To use a furnace, he risked his life and mind. That took some serious dedication, and he did it without needing to. Ambition and guts got him here, and I had to give props to that. I stared down at my jade,

"So, you've been doing that for a while now?"

"When necessary. I use it in large battles to fuel equally large incantations. I'm surprised you handled that surge of energy earlier for that very reason. For a beginner, that was an immensity of mana. How did you control it?"

"Well, I've been making a lot of mana for a long time. To control it, I've needed to direct and control that mana on my own. This isn't that different, though I have to admit, I almost bit off more than I could chew just now. That comes with the territory of trying new things."

Helios furrowed his brow, "You create mana with your mind. The mana from a furnace is like a beast by comparison. The device surges mana into your mind before you must tame it at that moment. That nameless monster it summons cannot be reasoned with. You must make it obey, else you'll be consumed."

Helios tilted his head, "This is often a desperate struggle for most since their own mana works differently. That is what I don't understand. How is the chaotic entity a furnace summons like your own mana? Are you too aimless and hateful?"

I shrugged, "I mean, my mana's always been like some monster as far back as I can remember. It took a lot of work, but once I got it under my control, it was mine to wield. This furnace is no different, honestly."

Helios shook his head, "But mana is generated through thought, not suppression. You sound as though your mana is made elsewhere apart from your mind. How is that even possible?"

"Heh, it might be because I'm a dimension. I know I use blood magic, so that might be why."

"Perhaps the sacrifice is similar, somehow?"

"Yeah, I think so."

"Then this is merely an extension of what you already do. That explains why you've got a handle on it so quickly."

I flipped the furnace above my hand before catching it, "Eh, I still have a long way to go. Let's see just how much mana I can make."

Over the next few hours, I worked with Helios on a more subtle use of the black jade. It took a while, but we worked out a few kinks in my application. I found that almost no mana was required to get the furnace started, and it generated a lot of mana even with next to no matter. That was good since I had every intention of having the device going full blast all the time.

After all, it would feed my cipher runes at a pace I couldn't match. Balancing that influx required a lot of effort, however. This meant handling other tasks at the same time was pretty much impossible. Working around that caveat would require practice and creativity. Having the jade out all the time also meant someone could steal or smash it too. We brainstormed a few solutions to the idea.

My first idea centered around a gameplan to keep the elemental furnace safe. From here on out, I'd use my dimensional shield anytime I fought with anything. This was partly for practice using the skill, but it also let me throw the dark jade into my pocket dimension before combat. The stasis would protect the gemstone from the rigors of battle thereafter.

Every other waking moment, I placed the gemstone on my chest just below my neck. I covered it with my armor, creating a reinforced metal cage that surrounding the jade. From there, channeling small amounts of matter into the furnace required next to no effort. It wasn't like using my own body as fuel was new to me in that regard. The jade was just a far more efficient method of getting mana than my own innate abilities.

My armor even stopped the crackling sound from escaping, keeping the magic somewhat hidden. According to Helios, anyone who could sense or see mana would pick up on this process from a mile away. He even mentioned that detail as if he was watching something outright horrific. I didn't know what he meant, but if that was the cost of using the device, then I counted it as worth it.

Still, Helios wasn't the only one horrified by me using the dark jade. The most obvious manifestation of that was the eldritch in this rift. They were outright terrified of me while the furnace fueled my inscriptions. I expected some of that, but they huddled into the deepest holes they could find. The moles and ants crushed each other trying to get out of here, and it threw me off a bit. I'd talk to Amara and Hod about it later since it might help with Blegara. For now, the furnace took priority.

After a bit of tweaking the flow, I maxed out my armor's draining abilities and my cipher rune's absorption rate with the device as well. This meant I could keep the furnace burning all the time to fill out those passive bonuses. It didn't even require my own natural mana production, so I steadily added gemstones to my pocket dimension all the time now.

Of course, I wasn't revving the device full blast, but I could keep it humming at all times. If I went over this base limit, the mana flowed right into my head, and before I knew it, I was fighting some formless specter trying to control my mind. It was a risky venture since overdoing it would render me paralyzed as I fought the thing off.

To gauge if the furnace was worth, I checked out my status. All my doubts faded in an instant as I saw an absolute motherload of mana coming in from the tiny gemstone.

The Living Multiverse(Lvl 15,000 | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden)

Strength – 46,576 | Constitution – 66,872 | Endurance – 141,686

Dexterity – 24,143 | Willpower – 98,789 | Intelligence – 53,146

Charisma – 17,502 | Luck – 27,029 | Perception – 18,807

Health: 160.1 Million/160.1 Million | Health Regen: 1.6 Billion/min or 27.0 Million/sec

Stamina: Infinite | Ambient Mana 4.001 Trillion

Mass: 8.7 Million Pounds(4.0 Million Kilos~)

Height: 15'11 (4.8 meters)

Damage Res - 99.17% | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 27.8 Million % | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% to allies within the radius of aura.

Mana Conversion - 4.0 Billion mana/min siphoned into runes and armor.

It was a massive boost to my mana generation. If anything, it made all my investment into endurance look silly. My own magic would never compare to this kind of production. Of course, the health and stamina were still useful at the time of investment, but one furnace already beat all those years of boosting endurance. The more I thought about it, the less true my initial line of thinking became.

The only reason I could generate this mana flow from a single furnace was because of my mana generation. If I hadn't had my previous experience, this would be impossible. If anything, more investment into endurance would be wise, considering it increased my overall furnace potential. It gave me the willpower to contain the mana flow, and it still had all the other stat-boosting effects it always boasted.

I would need as much of that as I could get given the situation I was in. My guild stood at the very center of the Blighted Schism, and that required me to be in tip-top shape. Combine that with the fact Schema didn't give me anything from facing Lehesion, and I needed a few boosts. In some ways, I understood Schema omitting an endless stream of attributes and stats for me. I mean, the guy had a lot on his plate at the moment. Still, this kind of stinginess blew my mind. I saved thousands of people by distracting Lehesion. I risked my guild, my life, and even my planet. For that, I expected some kind of level cap increase or something.

