Helios tapped the side of his head, "You wish to start that today? Right now?"

I gave him a thumbs-up, "Yes, I do. Come on. Let's go."

I floated him along to Springfield, each of us crossing over the woodlands of Michigan. Once near the beginnings of Springfield, we viewed the aftermath of our battle with Yawm in its full light. Many of the buildings were collapsed, several gigantic craters sprawled across the city's surface. New kinds of fungi and mushrooms cropped up, filling in some of the voided wildlife from before the porytian's arrival.

By now, the forest crept into the town, no one coming back to this ghost town. Well, not most. My guild explored here often for the dungeons, most of them higher level than usual thanks to Yawm. Springfield was a breeding ground for stronger rifts, and its proximity to Mt. Verner made it the perfect place to train up veteran dungeon clearers.

We looked around for one of those dungeons, trying to get one large and secure enough for an elemental furnace's fallout. It took a few minutes before I found the sewer system, exploring it once more to find a dungeon still there. I waved at Helios,

"Here, we'll use this."

Helios followed me into a tunnel leading to a jungled expanse. This was one of the first dungeons I ever entered, and I fought against two random mercenaries here. They used arcane magic, my first introduction to the violet beams of death. Initially, I wondered why those guys came to Earth as they had. After discovering how valuable dungeon cores were, it all made sense. They would have made a killing if they hadn't met me.

Since then, the sewers evolved entirely. New, vibrant, and toxic growths splurted out of every surface. The entirety of the space expanded, along with the denizens that occupied it. When I came last time, I hadn't even recognized that I'd waltzed into a rift because I thought every dungeon was like my first.

Instead, I discovered that few dungeons were guarded by Sentinels, and even fewer locked you inside and wouldn't let you out. By comparison, this was average, only a steeled gate keeping the wildlife in. Of that wildlife, some new kind of mole species moved in, and they expanded the tunnels beneath Springfield. Their claw marks on their many burrows exposed their weapons of choice, along with their dominance underground.

At the same time, they warred with an insect colony of some sort in the distance. I could hear the sound of claws and keratin clashing, the insects and moles tearing each other apart. These ants were armored on their fronts, extra limbs growing out of their backs. These mirrored a praying mantis's limbs, ready to grab and hold down anything coming nearby.

These armored ants defended their queen lying deep in their colony center. The moles kept their leadership dispersed, the strongest of them deciding how to approach the situation. These moles used creepy, finger laden noses to cast fire magic and enhance their healing. They matched with one another well.

This stalemate showed itself within the dungeon's layout. Many tunnels led to other tunnels, each haphazardly spread about. This left the place in a state of utter disarray, most animals here needing to burrow just to move around. In these hallowed halls, life thrived amongst their chaos.

The roof of the dungeon sported some glowing fungus, likely some variant from Yawm's invasion. These spore pods showered everything in a green-blue light.

If an animal swooped near a pod, it burst, coating the creature in gunk that quickly congealed. Soaking into the victim, the goo created these zombied, fungal creatures that served the greater fungal good. They fought over the corpses, the fungi benefiting from the mole and ants war.

Helios and I stepped into this veritable lion's den, several ants passing us without realizing what we were. A few carried spore pods on their backs, each of them working with the fungus to eliminate the moles. On the other hand, when a mole rose from the ground beneath us, it noticed us right away. With a nose covered in squirming fingers, it wriggled as it dashed at us, its mouth opened wide.

Helios raised a hand, but I acted first.

"Stop."

Like Yawm before me, the creature caved under the pressure of my voice. In the distance, the ants and moles ceased fighting, many of them beginning to hide. Helios scoffed,

"Cowardly, aren't they?"

I shrugged, disintegrating the mole in front of us with Event Horizon,

"Eh, these guys don't have a chance in hell of fighting us. Giving up is wisdom here."

As the mana wafted to me, Helios eyed the stream of energy, and he shook off some discomfort,

"Hm, perhaps."

He stared at the mana without needing to see it. In fact, Helios gestured about with a natural air that was downright uncanny once I thought about it. After all, the guy was blind. I wasn't trying to be mean spirited here, but I believed blind people wouldn't understand facial gestures well. Either way, Helios shattered that idea entirely, so I wanted to figure out why.

"Hey man, before we get to practicing, I wanted to ask something."

"You will no doubt assault me with a plethora of questions, so do digress."

I lifted my hands, "You're blind, right?"

"Yes. You've seen my eyes. Your point?"

"How come you still make facial expressions, even under your mask?"

Helios raised his eyes, "Ah, I see. That's a strange question. I expected something else rather than bringing up my disabilities. How polite of you."

"I'm not trying to knock you down here. I'm genuinely curious."

"Then I'll give you a genuine answer. Facial expressions are not taught nor learned. They are largely instinctual. To that effect, I often articulate them without meaning to. If anything, I've had to learn to numb my expressions for the exact reason you mentioned. They are obvious to those that see beneath my mask."

Helios raised a hand, "I learned long ago that those capable of interpreting my facial expressions could read me easily. I've taken my nonverbal communication under my control because of that fact, and this means enacting a measure of control over my actions."

Helios pointed at me, "In time, my adaptations and awareness gave me newfound abilities. For instance, unlike most, I am often able to tell if someone is lying or telling the truth. Sentients often focus on the face when telling lies, not the sounds in someone's voice. Hearing those gentle differences in tone and inflection, I can tell if someone is lying. My blindness makes spotting those fluctuations second nature to me."

Helios crossed his arms, "Even with my sense for mana, I oftentimes find other people's faces muddled as well. Their facial expressions don't distract me for this reason, and I see the truth of what they're saying instead of their faces."

I raised an eyebrow, "Damn, so you're like a lie detector?"

"In some ways, yes. I can also read the mana around me with great detail. That is why I can often read you with ease, though you've lied rarely if ever."

I pointed at myself, "Do people look different because of your mana? What do I look like?"

"Your mana is blinding compared to what's around you, especially when you release it. This makes you easy to spot and makes your outline far more definite and absolute. Most look faint by comparison."

"Man, I never knew it was that involved. I thought you just used something like echolocation."

Helios sighed, "Hah, echolocation is a method I've considered. However, controlling mana is far harder than controlling sound. For that reason, using sound as a second method for sight is fickle. If someone placed a silencing spell over me, I'd be unable to comprehend my surroundings if I relied on sound. Fighting in a vacuum or underwater would expose this weakness as well if I relied on something so unreliable."

Helios made eye contact with me right after,

"This is why I use the will of other's minds to find them."

"So why do you make so much eye contact then?"

Helios raised a hand, "Most species find a lack of eye contact uncomfortable. I find that people associate a genuine connection with eye contact alone. I abuse this factor to the fullest. In reality, eye contact dictates very little of someone's genuine emotions. As is the case with me, someone could mimic eye contact to trick someone into thinking they care when they, in fact, do not."

I frowned, "Oh, so you're pretending you give a shit?"

Helios gave me a sarcastic grin, "Ah, you've found me out. Perhaps you aren't so blind after all?"

"Alright wise guy, could you teach me to do that?"

Helios tilted back, "Do your eyes not serve you well enough?"

"Not all the time. Plus, it's always good to have several ways of finding someone. I know I end up with my head blown up in fights more often than I'd like. Being able to sense mana without my eyes might be helpful then."

Helios crossed his arms, "You would need to suppress your other senses then focus on the life force and mana around you. Remember, mana is your will and intellect manifested in the physical world. Only strong minds manifest mana, and most creatures will barely register at all."

He shrugged, "Outside of that, search for your own mana amidst the dessert of it floating around you. It shall shine like a sun in the middle of night, and that shall make finding it easier. Perhaps you shall uncover a hidden talent."

He smirked, "Perhaps not."

I pulled out my elemental furnace,

"I'll give that a shot later. Let's get this lesson started."

Helios lifted his gauntleted hand, pointing at the cipher encryptions,

"You believe you'll be talented at this?"

"I do. I can feel it."

Helios raised his eyebrows, "There's much that is required for furnace work, and few can handle it. What makes you believe you're so different?"

There were several reasons, honestly. For starters, I used blood magic, meaning I was used to converting stuff into mana already. At the same time, being a dimension might help me out here. So far, working with the cipher was more straightforward than usual for me for that reason. That's one of the main reasons I learned the inscriptions on my own when a genius like Torix couldn't.

Combine that with my ability to work with high volumes of mana, and I had every tool I needed to succeed here. Helios didn't need to know all that, though.

"Eh, I just have a feeling."

"Very well." He turned his gauntleted hand, giving me a better view of it,

"This is an elemental furnace. Simply put, you siphon mana into it, it splits atoms before converting the raw energy into usable mana. This requires a burst of energy to begin, then very slow trickles of it to maintain the ongoing reaction. Few would do so given the explosive volumes of mana these generate."

"So it's kind of like lighting a fuse?"

"In some respects, yes. A bomb is an apt comparison since a simple mistake in this energy generation process results in a colossal, nuclear explosion with you at the center of it."

I peered at my black jade, "Sounds...fun."

"Oh, it is. I've known seven others who've died from pursuing this venture. Be careful about this. Your success is my path to redemption, so your death would look unfavorable for me."

"I'll keep that in mind. Now how do I make the generated mana useful?"

"That depends on you. The mana this object creates is untamed and wild. It requires tremendous willpower to contain it, and if one lacks that willpower, the mana will diffuse throughout them. In the end, you'll lose your mind in the process."

The more he talked about this process, the more tailor-made I seemed for the whole thing. I nodded,

"That makes sense. What next?"

"Once the magic is contained, a firm constitution is required. Without a durable body, the mana flow will result in the destruction of a person's entire being. They will boil their blood and explode, unable to utilize the mana generated. That is why I and Obolis both have invested heavily in both constitution and endurance. Many Fringe Walkers are the same in that regard, at least those with access to a furnace."

I raised my other hand, making it glow with mana, "So the mana flow would be like this, right?"

Helios paused.

"Uhm...yes, like that. Perhaps you are right. You do seem built for this."

"Is there anything else to it?"

"Ahem, so you...you must then wield the mana as if it were your own. If you cannot hold the mana in place, you'll be unable to restrain your spellwork. This can result in misfiring a cast, which will likely result in a horrific death."

"So, if I'm already used to using large volumes of mana, I'll be able to work with this no problem?"

"If that were the case, it would certainly help."

"And that's it?"

Helios grimaced, "I understand your confidence, but do not let it run wild. You could get us both killed, along with this ugly, ancient town we walked into. Schema wouldn't even know why you brought us to this disgusting, filthy place just to perish in nuclear fire."

I scoffed, "Come on, it's not so bad. This was once my hometown."

Helios stared up, "Ah, it has fallen into disrepair, it seems. Where you unable to protect it perhaps?"

I frowned, "Yeah, for the most part. I didn't exactly help keep this place maintained."

Helios shrugged, "Each of us has limits. We must accept that and move on with them in mind."

I lifted my elemental furnace

"Well, let's figure out my limits here."

Helios took a few deep breaths, composing himself. Helios raised a hand,

"Wait a moment. We must first detail a contingency plan if the elemental flow of energy isn't contained."

"I doubt that'll be an issue. Worst comes to worst, I'll throw it into my dimensional shield."

I spawned the shield before rolling my shoulders,

"Here it goes."

