The merits of my many trees showed themselves here. Many of them enhanced my learning rate for mythical tiered skills and above. Those factors combined with my natural inclination for the furnace burning. Those factors culminated with my progress, and I shot forward in understanding by leaps and bounds.

It gave me confidence for my next fight with Lehesion. He'd never expect me to change my abilities like this all of a sudden. I'd show him where and how my magic progressed, and he'd feel my full fury.

In hours, I gave myself a notable increase to my cipher augments. My endurance increased by over 5,000 total points. Considering I exceeded 100K endurance already, that actually wasn't an enormous increase. At the same time, weeks of this would result in substantial changes. Months of this progress would make me into a real monster.

The new influx of mana gave me more than just cipher augments, however. I no longer needed to stick with simple inscriptions for my cipher work anymore. Fueling them wouldn't be nearly as tricky, meaning I could create far more complex changes to this body using the cipher. Hell, I had held back because I was terrified of warping my mind into mush like Yawm had.

A significant find I hadn't realized earlier was Obolis mentioning my response to the cipher wasn't normal. He said it was as if I was separate from my body altogether. That might be true, especially considering I stayed conscious even when I was a pile of mush. That meant I could experiment with the cipher without needing to worry so much.

Of course, I wasn't about to go crazy or anything. That being said, giving this body a few new abilities wasn't out of the question anymore. I mean, if I got a hold of the cipher inscriptions on the elemental furnace, I could carve it into my skin and use it on my own. It would be like cutting out the middle man. Who knew, in time, I might even improve on the formula.

I peered down at the furnace. Yup, incomprehensible gibberish. Based on how cryptic and obscure the inscriptions were, well, that would take a while.

Either way, the potential was there, and that's what counted. I stayed deep in this meditative state until the morning, and the sunrise stirred me out of my concentration. Standing upright, I stretched my back before rolling my shoulders. Within the hour, I was back at my place, waking Althea up from her night of sleep.

We shared a morning breakfast together, and she talked to me about some of the Empire's juicy gossip she learned from Caprika. I couldn't have cared less, but I listened as well as I could despite that. Althea always listened to me even when I talked about runes or fighting, and I know those topics bored her. I kept my discussions short because of that, but I still wanted to return the favor in full for her.

This peaceful morning passed, and we met with Florence and Helios already grouped around their living quarters. Everyone arrived soon after, from Torix all the way to Hod. Our resident warper rested well last night, his general demeanor improving from before. He still wasn't used to warping this much, but the guy was adjusting.

Soon we'd all be adapting to new circumstances on the ahcorus's homeworld. For now, however, Blegara stood in our way. I smiled at the prospect. We all aimed to shake things up before we left the blighted world. In my case, I'd do more than rock the boat.

I intended to flip the whole world upside down.
