She eyed me with a wary glance, wondering if this was an elaborate prank. That was fair. In many ways, this might as well have been an elaborate ruse, but hey, she got what she asked for. Ophelia used the paired rings for gravitation, lifting herself up. Using another round of crab creation, she made a bunch of stone crabs, each thudding against the ground like bricks. Her mana flow depleted, and she fell onto the ground, busting her ass.

Her friends laughed at their cafe table while Ophelia frowned at the rings,

"Ouch...Well, these aren't actually useless, especially the gravity ones. They're actually excellent. Very, very excellent."

She poked one of the stone crabs, "They could use a few quality of life adjustments, though." She stared up at me, "How did you make these so quickly?"

I offered a hand, "They're my specialties, so I can whip them up whenever. You just need to take them seriously, and they'll serve you well."

She grabbed my hand, though she grabbed only two of my fingers since her hands were so small. She stood up, brushing off the dust from her robe,

"I...I suppose they'll do. A deal's a deal then. I'll get ready to help you with your golem project. When will you need me to help?"

I evaporated the crabs near us with Event Horizon, bless their poor little souls,

"Right now, if you're not busy."

She turned back to her friends, each of the albony staring at us from behind red masks,

"I'm in the middle of something right now, but I can come in a few hours from now if you'd like."

It was surprised me how agreeable she was being about this whole process. I shrugged,

"If that's what it takes, then sure. You'll be arriving at my guild during nights, and you'll be working with a temporal specialist to teach me primordial mana. Let me know if the rings need tweaking after you've tried them out for a while, and I'll work on them when you arrive. Also, I'll need to warp you to and from there."

She raised an eyebrow, "So no coordinates?"

"No. Right now, security is more important than ever. You know that."

Remembering the rebellion, Ophelia and her friend's carefree attitudes faded. I gestured around at everything, trying to change the tone of the conversation,

"So, where is this place?"

One of Ophelia's friends spoke up from the table, "You weren't kidding when you said this guild is new. So yeah, this is Olstatia, the Empire's capital."

I stared at the multilayered blue cores, all my questions about the investment for this place answered. I nodded slowly, "Ah, I'll have to ask Obolis how he keeps his world's defended."

Ophelia walked back to her table, sitting down, "That's an easy one. He doesn't make the wrong enemies."

I scoffed, "Eh, If that were the case, Obolis wouldn't be putting himself up against the rebels." I turned, leaving them,

"Cya."

"Wait a second. Can you charge this blue core for this territory? You should already feel it draining your mana right now. I need you to power it up to full. That's part of our deal."

I stared up, "Oh, so you run one of the districts in the capital of the Empire, huh? That must be why your mask is both red and black."

She shooed me off,

"Yeah, yeah, go finish charging the core and let me enjoy the rest of my evening."

I left Ophelia and her friends, satisfied with the results I got. Halfway to the warp, I searched for the blue core tugging on my mana. I found a slight, minuscule tax being paid to the forcefield. Surging mana into that tether, mana rose from my frame, bursting into my surroundings. The sheer heat off my skin melted the orichalcum beneath me, and nearby diamond statues ignited.

They exploded, firing shrapnel nearby. Shop windows burst, and a few albony screamed. I raised a hand, pulling the mana back to me, willing the core charge to slow down. I didn't expect that kind of chaos to erupt from just channeling mana, but at this point, it might as well have been a weapon.

Once I finished with that, I regenerated some of the broken glass and paid out a few shopkeepers nearby. It cost a few hundred thousand credits to repair the damages, but that's what I get for not paying attention. After getting out of that complete mess, I got to the warp. It kind of surprised me that Ophelia changed her attitude towards me.

I mean, she wasn't exactly the kind of person I wanted to be friends with, but we didn't despise each other anymore. For her to share her skills, that's all I wanted. After taking the warp back to Mt. Verner, I took one last glance at Olstatia. It was a beautiful, vast city. It was so large, it looked endless, and it might have been.

This was a megacity supported by several worlds worth of resources. It was an economic and political backbone for many societies all under one banner, and that reach showed itself with the sheer splendor displayed here. In time, maybe Mt. Verner would be the same for Earth, though I didn't want to take over planets like Obolis had. I wanted my guild to give everyone a hand up instead of the Empire's more imperial approach.

Either way, I got back to Mt. Verner with much of my night left to me. With a reasonable amount of time left, I sat within earshot of the golem project. This time, I left a wall of trees and stones between us, their machines and discussions only a faint whisper in the background. Chrona's tutoring would begin tomorrow, and we'd be trying out a few new strategies on Blegara. This would be the only part of my schedule where I could focus on my own.

Knowing that, I contemplated how to get a Sovereign skill. It would require three legendary skills, and I already had two with Force of Nature and Apotheosis. These skills gave me a tremendous influence over the physical world around me, along with creation and rune carving. They suited me well for the most part.

Instead of just adding some random assortment of skills next, I wanted something to accentuate those two abilities. Hastening like what Chrona and Obolis did was a must; that would make me challenging to beat in direct combat. I was already taking on Lehesion in that regard, meaning any more oomph in that arena, and I would be dominant.

Outside of that, I was stuck on the whole golem creation thing. The idea of ending the need for dungeons kept bouncing in my head. If I could get really, really good at making golems, I could lockdown Earth and any colonies we made. We wouldn't need to fuss over other people's territories. I could go to a fringe world, golemize it, then make it an Earthen colony. Maybe I could lease my golems too, sort of like some mercenary company.

Those plans needed primordial mana for functioning. Otherwise, they'd bottleneck from a production standpoint. With this furnace, my mana production exceeded the rest of my guild combined. If I got a handle on the entire production process, I could make hundreds of golems a day. Territories would fall under my control, and I could let people govern themselves for the most part. I'd set up some regulation, but I didn't want to interfere too much. Part of that was simply not wanting to be clogged up with leadership duties like Helios had been. Another part of me wanted to avoid the dictatorship that the Empire stuck with.

After seeing how they handled Blegara, I didn't want to make the same mistake.

Either way, the core of those ideas rested on making golems. Thinking that all through, I racked my brain for memories of my time in the mythical compendium. In general, I learned skills quick there, and using that same template would work here again. For instance, the way I unlocked origin mana was by getting myself into a certain mindset.

The same could be said for ascendant and quintessence mana as well. Dominion mana was an outlier, my exposure to a dimensional tear unlocking that. I didn't understand how that worked, so mimicking that feat stood as impossible for now. Therefore, the best way to get primordial mana was to get into the right mindset.

Considering origin mana was about being at peace and letting go, that had to be a part of primordial mana. Dominion mana, on the other hand, was all about enacting a complete and absolute control, one led by an iron fist and without compromise. To me, those mana types were polar opposites. I couldn't understand how in the hell those mindsets meshed together.

I'd wait until my two primordial teachers arrived before I dived any deeper into the subject. I redirected my focus back towards my furnace for now. Tampering with the gemstone, I ramped up the mana production. To do so, I sat down and meditated, my legs crossed and my mind steeled. As I did, I sent a stream of mana into the jade at the center of my chest. It unleashed a violent, savage rush of energy as before.

I kept this brutish flow slow at first, trying to assimilate it without as much struggle. As time passed, I revved up this visceral inundation, practicing the newfound skill. For instance, I began using the furnace by burning some of the air around me. This dispersed the energy throughout a cloud, meaning I needed to condense it towards me instead of letting it leak out.

This time, I shifted my approach using minuscule bits of my armor. This smoothed out the process since it kept the mana condensed from the get-go. A few of the other tricks I figured out involved being calm. If the mana met my mind in a battle, it too battled me off of instinct. If I was serene when it arrived, that placated the mana some, making it easier to overtake.

These adjustments compiled until I found myself in a balance between stomping the energy out and inviting it to settle down. Stuck in this ebb and flow, I reached a sort of zen state. Everything blurred out of existence, this moment becoming all that mattered. It let me take a break from my worries, my concerns, and even my insecurities.

Minutes turned into hours, the sheer rush of mana from the furnace overwhelming. That rush crashed into my mind, but I met that cascade of energy like a brick wall against some raging tempest. In these moments, I did not yield. Over those struggles, I did not relent. Keeping my eyes closed, the dark void around me became comfortable. This rush of energy from the gemstone, it formed into a shifting shape, some monstrous beast.

Honing my mind against this onslaught, my awareness of my surroundings expanded. The energy flow turned visible, and it gained animation. It moved, writhed, and shifted. In its chaos, there was beauty among its everchanging nature. It wanted freedom absolutely, and there was something magnificent about that uncompromising desire.

It met my own mana, my body aflame with energy. It surprised me, seeing myself in this new light. At times, I forgot just how far I'd come. Compared to the dim trees, birds, and wildlife around me, I ignited my surroundings with life. I brimmed with endless vitality, the kind that overwhelmed with its intensity.

If I let that sheer lifeforce flood my surroundings, they would be submerged in the incoming flood. I chained that flood down using shackles forged from my will. These tethers were of iron, seeming unbreakable, yet they contained a monstrous, terrifying force. That was my own mana, I realized.

This is what the eldritch feared.

I comprehended their horror now. If this was how the eldritch saw, their subservience made sense now. The phantasmal machinations of my mana feasted on my physical body, the focal point centered on the furnace. These endless mouths were salivating, each of them starving for more energy. There was no end to their hunger, and they would feast forever or until nothing remained to be eaten.

As this delicate balance became clear to me, I gained a new skill.

New skill gained! Mana Sense(lvl 10) - Many can feel their own mana. It takes one with great reach to feel the mana of others.

It was a strange sort of perception. It scoped out everything in a blurry series of shapes instead of hard lines. This dynamic, flowing view left me confused as I stared down at my hands, my eyes closed. As before, my frame was ablaze. I raged in a swirling pit of fire, blinding when compared to the weak flows of the life around me.

Once more, I peered at myself with a clearer picture. I was a demon, a monster with an unceasing form. I squealed out into my surroundings, my jaws opened and starving. These twisting forms wished to feast upon all that was around me. Surrounding these monsters, the chains of my will suppressed the gnashing teeth and rabid maws. It was as if I was a delicate balance of two forces, one aimed at control and the other aimed at greed.

As I let my furnace rev down, the aberrations faded down, becoming less vehement. They were my mana, manifested outward in a way I could now see. Using my own mana, I fed the inscriptions of my cipher, these demons growing in size and scope once more. It gave me a few ideas of what I needed to do to get the eldritch under my control on Blegara.

I mean, if I could get really good at this whole furnace burning thing, I'd be a horror for anyone with a mana sense. Thinking of that, I thought of Helios. He sensed mana, and that's why his blindness wasn't much of a handicap for the guy. If that was the case, I must genuinely look like some monster to him. That might be why he stood back from me when I used the furnace. I'd ask him when I thought of it later.

Regardless of appearances, this was a solid way of spending time. I got the furnace burning full blast, my limit reached pretty soon. As I gained more and more control of the dark jade, I made more and more mana. This gave me a tremendous level of control over the furnace. Matter Conversion was no longer some foreign, strange skill. It reminded me of walking, a task I gave no thought yet was undeniably useful.

