“Oh!” Quilatalap smiled, saying, “I can teach you this, but…” He paused. He said, “[Soul Burn] is the beginning of all damaging, offensive Soul Magic. This is not a very deep branch of magic, and if you want to kill someone, almost any kind of magic would be better suited for the task. [Soul Burn] is only useful in that it weakens resistance to other Soul Magics.” Quilatalap handed Erick a blue box.

Soul Burn, instant, close range, 50 mana

Disturb the soul of a target, dealing 50 damage. Damage is increased or decreased by the stability of the target’s Shroud. May cause a minor decrease in the stability of the target’s Shroud.

Quilatalap asked, “You can see how [Soul Burn]s can rapidly increase in damage?”

Erick could certainly see that. “It’s a spell that gets more destructive the more a person is struck. That’s impressive.” And then he remembered something. “Oh. My apprentice made a spell that increases firelight damage taken by the target.”

Quilatalap said, “If you had a mana sense, I could show you the actual effects of a [Soul Burn], and you would see that it is not as impressive as it might appear in the Script box. Almost any other spell is stronger if you actually want to hurt someone, and whatever spell you speak of with regard to your apprentice is likely better than [Soul Burn] for the purpose of causing damage. [Soul Burn] only truly works in two scenarios: in long, drawn-out fights, where the target is unaware that they need to say ‘no’, to all outside forces. Or when the target is unaware they are being attacked. In both cases, if they are able to say ‘no’, then [Soul Burn] will do almost nothing. In most fights, most people will instinctively be able to have that ‘no’ going on in the back of their mind, so the second scenario is more likely to work than the first.

“This is why I teach students to first defend against these spells by learning to have that ‘no’ in the back of their minds, always.” Quilatalap said, “That is the most important thing, because without that defense… [Soul Burn] does damage, yes, but it is an easy thing to make a better version of [Soul Burn] that does zero damage and inflicts a much stronger, stacking debuff… Imagine, you’re flying around in Kendrithyst, or you’re at a party, or you’re just inside your house, and you’re being struck from the shadows with this second tier of [Soul Burn] every second. You might barely be able to feel more frightened—

“Ah. That’s another thing. A burned Shroud makes the person feel frightened in a primal, complete sort of way. I forgot to mention that.

“Anyway: Suddenly, your Shroud is gone. It’s all over. You’ve lost, and all you felt was a gradually increasing fear that was as normal as any other fear. But your Shroud is gone, and someone hits you with a [Soul Splice]. You’ll never see your death coming.”

Erick felt a chill.

Quilatalap said, “You understand, now.”

“Yes.” Erick shivered. He asked, “If I gained a mana sense… I could see my own Shroud? Know if I was being attacked in that way?”

“Yes.” Quilatalap said, “This is how you can know if you’re being targeted by Soul Magic.” He added, “I see you worrying, but you should know that the Script has other defenses in place against the more terrible Soul Magics and Mind Magics. Health and [Personal Ward] automatically help resist almost all Soul Magic by automagically keeping your Shroud intact. Health provides less of a defense against Mind Magic, and very, very little against Blood Magic, but against Soul Magic? Health is a great defense. The easiest way to harm someone with Soul Magic is to first grind down their Health and then their Shroud, then strike them with the deadly spells.

“You might be immune to most Soul Magics, just because your heavily inflated Stats gives you a great deal more Health than most mages. Most mages, and Rookies, and most of the population of Veird, have under 600 Health. That much Health is not much of a defense.

“Using a [Soul Burn] against people with that low of Health, will almost always result in the wearing away of the Shroud. It is possible to make a [Soul Burn] work against Juggernauts, too, or other such persons, but you have to get their Health down to low, low numbers first, which is a chore. Those types always have Skills like [Second Wind], to turn their Health Regen per day into per minute, for one minute.” Quilatalap said, “Or they just have a really good healing spell. Or a Healer, on hand.”

While all of that was interesting, and Erick vowed to gain a mana sense as soon as possible, Quilatalap’s mention of ‘Health as a shield’ had Erick frowning. “Really? My [Personal Ward] and Health protect me?”

“Of course they do.” Quilatalap said, “And I see you rethinking that all this talk was useless, if you are able to keep your Health and [Ward] up. Know now, and keep this close, that that sort of thinking will do you a disservice. Those sources of defense are not infallible.” He added, “It is much better to have a ‘no’ defense constantly running. Besides, this ‘no’ defense works after death. Having your soul captured is… It’s not good, Erick.

“Whatever the case, if you develop a mana sense and then only use that to inspect your Shroud every now and then, and you only ever use the ‘no’ defense when you’re around people or when you think you’re in danger, that would be a good enough outcome for some good starter defenses.” Quilatalap said, “Actually, you should only work on one of those, for now. I suggest you attempt to gain a mana sense, and try to see your own Shroud, for it takes more than a mana sense in order to see a Shroud.” Quilatalap asked, “Any questions?”

There were a lot of questions. Erick tried to keep it simple, for now. He remembered all his failed attempts at gaining a mana sense in the past, but, just to be sure he had been taught that correctly, he asked Quilatalap, “How does one gain a mana sense?”

Quilatalap said, “Purposefully using the lower ranks of Meditation allows you to experience the world of your soul. From there, become one with the mana. And then, you need to understand what it is you are seeing. I could go into it in more detail, but that is usually enough for most people, and any more explanation than that usually ends up messing with what comes later.

“This is the only way to gain a mana sense, and it takes time. There are no tricks to it, but… If this Perception turns out to help you achieve this ‘oneness with the mana’, you let me know, okay? That would be nice to know, going forward.” He stood up, asking, “Are you coming to the presentations? They begin in a few hours, and though I will be occupied for a short while giving my own presentation, we can walk around afterward and poke around at all the other presentations?”

Erick smiled. “I’d like that.” Erick stood up, saying, “I wouldn’t want to miss it.”

“You might be called upon to give a presentation yourself.” Quilatalap said, “You can probably just say ‘no’, if you want.”

He almost made a joke about how he needed to learn to say ‘no’ sooner, but that thought fled as another took hold. He asked, “How many times has my soul been attacked, so far?”

“Eight times that I know of and witnessed myself.” Quilatalap said, “Five of those people who tried it were executed yesterday.”

“… Ah. Okay then.” Erick asked, “Was anything… done to me?”

“Nope. None of the attacks were real attacks. They were probing measures that couldn’t get past your [Personal Ward] or your Health. Also, your Domain is rather tough, though you would do well to learn to keep that around your whole soul, and not just around your heart and your back.” Quilatalap said, “When you gain a mana sense, we can work on transforming your mana sense into a [Soul Sight], and then you can see what I mean regarding your Domain’s more nuanced functions. We can also talk about... Eh. There’s a lot to talk about. But not until you get past that first step.”

“Okay… Ah. Wait. What about this ‘no’ you’re talking about. Would that interfere with the ‘becoming one with the mana’ part of mana sensing?”

“No. They’re different. You can do both at the same time. You’ll understand when you get there.”

Erick had one more question, and he was loath to ask it. But he asked anyway, “What about Fallopolis? Has she tried to attack my soul?”

Quilatalap lied, “Nope.”

- - - -

Erick sat on his bed, in his room, and banished all thoughts of Fallopolis.

Then he tried to recall everything he had ever heard about mana sense.

Thoughts came to him like a brush of rain, of talking to Teressa every so often about her [Witness], of what Professor Rue Downs had spoken of back at Oceanside, and of what Ramizi had teased when he revealed that there existed a skill that let him see the world as mana saw the world.

Mana sense allowed the viewer to see the world as the mana saw it, which was from every single angle, from both inside and outside of both people and objects. That was how Ramizi counted the fingers behind Erick’s back without using any tricks except for his mana sense. A mana sense would almost be like his own [Detect Intent Aura], which he was guided to by Rue Downs. But a mana sense was also capable of letting you gaze into the past, and unlock [Witness], like in the case of Teressa’s own mammoth affinity for that skill.

Erick smiled a bit, as he understood, now, why those three people had their mana sense.

Ramizi had it because he was likely delving into forbidden knowledge. He went for an Intelligence fruit as soon as he could, and then kept that Stat, even though he had already agreed with Eduard and Maia to get Intelligence purged from his Status, as soon as the test of that Stat was over. What sort of forbidden knowledge? Erick didn’t rightly know. Ramizi had complained about not being able to reach the deeper Force Magics on his own, and yet Intelligence enabled that to happen. So maybe his whole deal was he thought he needed Intelligence to progress as a mage. And maybe he did.

Rue Downs was an Underworld incani. Her familiarity with mana sense was likely exactly as she needed it to be; an extra sense when sight failed down in the deep dark. She had spoken of Underworld inhabitants gouging out the eyes of their children to help them gain a mana sense, and maybe that’s what had been done to Rue. There were too many other variables around the woman for Erick to make a guess about any other possible motives at gaining such a skill.

Knowing what Erick now knew about mana sense allowing a person to inspect their own soul for damage…

Teressa had wanted mana sense to be able to defend herself from the darker magics out there, so that she would never again be subjected to the horror of having everyone she loved killed and then transformed into abominations to then harry her through illusions, while she was forced to kill each and every one. Even just surviving that terribleness ended with the Witch going after Teressa’s whole tribe, to do the same thing to them that she had done to Teressa.

There was no doubt in Erick’s mind that a properly honed mana sense could negate many illusion magics, or at least such a sense would allow the practitioner to recognize illusions for what they were.

Erick banished his new revelations regarding acquaintances and friends, and focused on the steps to gaining a mana sense. He had read some books and passages in various books on the subject, but all of them had given the same steps to mana sense acquisition that Professor Rue Downs had given.

Step zero: Rid yourself of all magical items and effects, and put yourself in a place where there are no influences upon you, save for the mana all around you.

Erick failed step zero, and there was no way to succeed on this matter; he was not about to abandon all of his defenses, while he was here, in this place. But step zero might not truly matter, for Teressa had gained her mana sense while she was inside Erick’s [Prismatic Ward]. She had compared the feat to lifting heavy weights. Erick could probably lift some very heavy weights right now, so: Moving right along.

Step one: clear the mind of all thought.

… Okay. Step one might be difficult.

Moving right along!

Step two: become one with the mana, and see the world around you. Step three was making sense of the new sightless senses granted by step two. Step four was expanding on the understandings of those new ways of seeing until your skill got large enough that you could see outside of yourself, and both into the past and into the future. Teressa’s [Witness] saw into the past. But people like Krakina Kali, the Weather Witch, and her granddaughter, Ikawa Kali, could attune their mana sense to see slightly into the future.

Too bad Erick was stuck way back on step zero.

Maybe this wouldn’t go as smoothly as he wished.

He still tried, though. He gazed out at the room around him, checking on various corners and outside with various Ophiel, before finally deciding that he had seen enough; he wasn’t in danger at this particular moment. And then he Meditated, using the lowest rank of the Skill, divorcing himself from his body for a brief time. Everything became darkness. Everything became nothing. And there he was, somehow, in the center of it all, with his body beyond him, and only his mind to keep him company.
