The Path of Ascension has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 5-41 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible.

The Path of Ascension book 2 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 45-72 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible.

The Path of Ascension book 3 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 75-105 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible. 

The Path of Ascension book 4 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 107-129 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible

The Path of Ascension book 5 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 132-168 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible.

The Path of Ascension book 6 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 172-196 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible.

The Path of Ascension book 7 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 199-212 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible. 

The Path of Ascension book 8 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 215-246 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible.

The Path of Ascension book 9 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 247-277 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible. 

The Path of Ascension book 10 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 278-310 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible. 

The Path of Ascension BOOK 11 has moved to Kindle Unlimited (Chapters 312-341 removed). Here it is on Amazon and Audible.

Here it is on Amazon and Audible. (Links will be updated when they aren't broken any more) The rest of the story will continue here worry not.

Discord link: https://discord.gg/6ukhCjayC5

***

The story follows Matt, a young man planning to delve the rifts responsible for the monsters that destroyed his city and killed his parents. His dreams are crushed when his Tier 1 Talent is rated as detrimental, and no guild or group will take him.

Working at a nearby inn, he meets a mysterious and powerful couple. They give him a chance to join The Path of Ascension, an empire wide race to ascend the Tiers and become living legends.

With their recommendation and a stolen skill, Matt begins his journey to the peak of power.

***

Chapters will now be MONDAY and FRIDAY AT 3:00pm EST.

 

This is a mix between LitRPG and Xianxia. It's like a car that looks like a LitRPG with dungeons and skills, but the interior and engine are all Xianxia. 

So no blue boxes and clicking +’s to get stronger.

***

What you won't see in this novel:

Bland protagonists.

Bland love interests that immediately fall in love with the MC.

Murder hobos who kill entire families and clans for looking the wrong way at somebody.

Pacifist MC’s who wouldn't kill a single person to save millions.

Cartoonish villains who are bad just to be bad.

***

What to expect:

A MC who acts rationally.

World building that has more depth than ‘strong people 'stronk'. There will be no rules only benefiting the strong and no rule changes as they see fit. 

An empire that actually cares for its citizens.

People who act and talk like real people.

A magic system and progression system that are logically and internally consistent.

Realistic fight scenes.
