Such was life, but Ravil learned early to make the most of it, because the Mother was a fickle bitch. Today, Falling Rain was the Undying Savage, Unrivalled Beneath Heaven, but tomorrow, he might be the dead or dying Savage, destined for the stew pots of some Defiled lunatic.

Best to celebrate today, because you might not get a chance tomorrow.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Though Song understood the concept of command, she quickly realized it was much easier in theory than in practice, for there were nuances of leadership she had yet to grasp. Take for example inter-unit communication. When Rain ordered her to support the Xue clan’s Captain positioned north of BoShui, Song sent Tursinai and Tenjin over to explain her intentions while she led Yellow Unit to stand guard beside them. Rather than showing gratitude for their assistance, the Xue Captain cursed out the husband and wife duo so loudly Song could hear him from where she stood. Knowing Tursinai’s temper, Song interrupted the Xue Captain’s tirade to call them back, which only earned her more of the foul-mouthed Captain’s ire.

What was Song supposed to do? Walk over and take his head for the insult, or swallow her pride and ignore him?

Ultimately, she chose the latter and waited for the Defiled in silence, which only emboldened the Xue clansmen as they joined their Captain in hurling insults and invectives at Song’s unit. Luckily, Yellow Unit was a disciplined and orderly bunch, unlike the rest of Rain’s unruly retinue. So reckless and untrustworthy, Rain specifically stationed Song between Ravil and Bulat so the two troublemakers couldn’t join forces and make a mess of things. While the two ruffians worked well together, Rain confessed he felt it unwise to leave them unsupervised and asked Song to keep an eye on them. Were Song in his place, she would have ordered both men lashed until they were ready to obey, but Rain had a soft spot for his former cripples, a flaw which might prove fatal soon enough. Instead of arming his most promising soldiers with Sister’s ingenious Spiritual Weapons, Rain gave them to survivors of Sanshu, as if to atone for the deaths of their comrades.

A foolish and sentimental gesture, but Song expected no less of a man who took in orphaned animals and turned majestic hunters into hapless fools. Poor Jimjam was so lacking in instinct he couldn’t even kill a rabbit trying to force its way into his mouth. Sweet George, so brave and reckless, Song missed him and his siblings dearly.

As the Defiled massed for the charge, Song took a quick glance around and realized why the Xue Captain was so incensed. Unlike her, Ravil and Bulat had stationed their units behind the soldiers they were supporting, which made Song’s actions of forcing her way onto the line seem discourteous at best. Perhaps the Xue Captain thought she was here to steal his glory or that she looked down on his ability, neither of which were true. Unsure how to make amends for her blunder, Song took Tursinai’s hand and asked for advice through Sending.

Her open-faced leather helmet doing little to hide her smile, Tursinai pulled Song into a hug. “Oh aren’t you just adorable,” she said, squeezing Song tight. “Listen carefully, sweet Li-Li. Yes, your actions offended the Xue Captain, but so what? He has no choice but to accept the insult, because you’re Li Song, Daughter of Akanai and Husolt, Sister to Sumila, and Khishig of the Bekhai. He can complain all he wants, but you’re far above his station.” Releasing Song from her embrace, Tursinai pinched Song’s cheeks and added, “And if he’s foolish enough to try anything underhanded, well that’s what hubby and I are here for, to look after the Chief Provost's precious daughter. Forget about the wounded pride of arrogant nobodies, you concentrate on the battle ahead.”

Warmed by Mama’s loving regard, Song took a deep breath and nodded before turning her attention back to the Defiled ahead. As an afterthought, she said, “I would like to test my blade. Please don’t act unless my life is in danger.”

“Yes Commander Li-Li. Hubby and I will butt out so you can have your moment, you glory-hungry fiend.”

Blushing at Tursinai’s sickly sweet timbre, Song turned to Yellow One and said, “Ready the torches. Prepare to engage.”

“Yes, Commander Li-Li.” Though they spoke the same words, Yellow One’s delivery lacked Tursinai’s teasing tone, a gruff and humourless woman who took Song’s every order with the utmost sincerity. Song rather liked her, and in a rare show of affection, she gently patted the soldier’s helmet as encouragement.

Though she wanted to say something to bolster morale, Song didn’t know what to say, so she said nothing. Soon enough, the Defiled gathered their collective courage and charged ahead, screaming in their incomprehensible, guttural tongue as they surged forwards. “Light the braziers,” Song ordered and the fires blazed into existence, revealing their presence to the Defiled mob. “Weapons ready.” Grasping her sabre’s hilt, she left the weapon sheathed and Reinforced her body. Waiting until the Defiled were a mere ten meters away, she shouted, “Charge!”

And charge she did.

With a tortured hiss of metal on leather, Song’s sabre leapt from the sheathe and scythed out to claim her first three kills. Shifting to a two-handed grip, she brought her weapon up and around for an overhead chop, pushing down on the hilt with her upper hand and pulling up with the bottom one to maximize the impact. Her blade passed through the leather headwraps and cracked open her Defiled opponent’s skull, slicing a gash from crown to nose before she retracted her strike and raised her sabre high once again. No need to cleave him clean in half, Defiled or not, no one could survive with their brain in two pieces. Precision over power was the key in these engagements, for as the commander of this hundred-man unit, Song was responsible for killing any opposing Champions in the Enemy ranks, though she had yet to mark one worthy of her attentions.

Down came her blade and another Defiled’s head split from skull to nose, the cut so clean both halves stuck together after she extracted her blade. The corpse dropped like a sack of rice and Song moved on, cracking skulls and killing Defiled as easily as chopping firewood. It didn’t matter if her opponents used their weapons to block or if they rushed forward to kill before being killed, Song stayed the course no matter what. Those cowards who blocked lacked the strength to stop her blows and those brave enough to attack couldn’t pierce through her Runic breastplate. This battle was too simple, too easy, hardly the challenge she desired. She could only hope the truly strong Defiled were lurking in the rear, waiting for the Imperial defenders to tire themselves before willing to act.

If so, Song never got the chance to find out.

Unnoticed by the blood-hungry Defiled, Rain snuck his cavalry around to their rear and quietly formed ranks behind them. A reckless gambit, considering there could be more Defiled still hiding in the grass, but Rain was nothing if not reckless. Luckily, the Defiled had committed all their forces to the attack and there was no one left to encircle Rain’s cavalry, as expected for one beloved by the Mother above. After leisurely getting into place, Rain charged in and took the Defiled by complete surprise, and Song knew this battle was won.

To add insult to injury, after seeing her glory stolen away by Rain and Dastan, Song felt even worse for encroaching upon the Xue Captain’s territory. She knew she should apologize, but she bristled at the thought of wasting her hard earned coin on someone who wasn’t likely to appreciate it, so she decided she would leave it be. Like Tursinai said, Song was far above the nameless Captain’s station, so he would have to grin and bear it.

A rather thrilling experience and a first for Song, offering insult instead of receiving it, and truth be told, she rather enjoyed it. Still, she cautioned herself against making this a habit, else she cause too much trouble for Mama and Papa. As for the rest... it didn’t matter. This was merely the first of many battles to come, so Song would have plenty of chances to show the world Falling Rain wasn’t the only talented warrior among the Bekhai.

For she was Li Song, Khishig of the Bekhai, and she would make her family proud.

Chapter Meme
