“Nothing.” He said. “FORM UP!” He bellowed and everyone did as he ordered. “Forward, MARCH!”

*

“Damn, you were right.” Dorcot said. “They're all coming now.”

The tower group was close enough to see their faces.

“HOLD IT RIGHT THERE!” Ren yelled, and the dwarves stopped. “I could have had you shot long before you got this close.” He said and pat the giant bow bracer. “I don't want to hurt you if I don't have to.”

“Do your worst!” The Knight spat at him.

Ren chuckled. “Okay.” He thought and pointed his fist at them, and activated his Screaming Terror ring. Three quarters of the group dropped their weapons and screamed as they scattered. The Knight turned on them.

“Get back here, you deserters!” He yelled, but they didn't listen. Once the scattered dwarves were far enough away, they calmed down and collapsed from the exertion of running in full plate mail.

“Want me to keep going?” Ren asked.

The Knight raised his sword. “Charggglll!”

Ren hit him with the Water Spray ring, and drenched the remaining dwarves.

*

“Sir! Are you seeing this?” The Knight beside the Commander asked.

“Yes, I see it.” The Commander said. He's taking on 2 squads by himself, and he's not even on the ground. He thought. “Double Time! Hut Hut Hut!” He said and the group doubled their pace.

“Sir! What about the crossbows?”

“He'll only get a couple of shots off with them before we hit the Keep.”

*

Ren gave the dwarves below him several quick shots from his Lightning ring once they were wet enough, and they fell unconscious.

“Ren! They're coming fast!” Croggart said.

“Golir. 10 bolts into the ground in front of them.” Ren said. “Now.”

Golir opened up with the quick fire option and put 10 bolts into the ground right in front of the formation. The ones in front stumbled over the sudden appearance of foot long bolts at their feet, and the first few rows of dwarves tripped over them. The formation broke apart slightly.

*

“HALT!” The Commander yelled and they came to a stop. “Crossbowmen!”

Several squads of dwarfs carrying crossbows stepped forward and formed up in two ranks, the front row knelt and they all took aim.

“Ready!” The Commander said. “FIRE!”

*

“Ren! Crossbow bolts!” Teepo said.

Ren concentrated on all of the wind glyphs he'd cast on every second stone. Activate! He thought, and 20 gale force winds shot out to create a wind barrier that covered nearly the whole Keep on that side. Ren hadn't had the time to go all the way around the Keep with them.

*

The Commander watched in surprise as every bolt that was fired flew off in different directions when they got close enough to the Keep. He let the crossbowmen load and fire again, but they had the same result the second time.

“Cease fire.” He said.

*

“What do you think they'll try next?” Dorcot asked.

“If it was me, I'd rush us.” Wohrum said. “Overwhelm with numbers.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I think so, too.” He said, and picked up a Fire enchanted stone brick. “We'd all be wrong, though.” He activated the enchantment and lit the now completely spread out oil in the 8 foot wide moat. It lit up with a whoosh, and covered the whole space with 6 foot high flames.

*

The whole formation came to a stop 100 feet away, and without orders to do so.

“I didn't call a halt!” The Commander said. “March!”

The formation started to march, but the dwarves in the front started sweating. When they were 50 feet away, Ren concentrated on the remaining enchanted stone bricks and spoke.

“Activate.”

12 stones with Fire enchantments shot out a geyser of flame over the heads of the dwarves. 12 stones enchanted with Water Spray gushed out and soaked them, and 12 stones enchanted with Screaming Terror hit them at the same time. Some dwarves ducked from the flames, others were washed away with the water, but most just dropped their weapons and screamed. The entire formation dissolved and they scattered. Even the dwarves not affected by the terror ran, because they didn't want to be electrocuted like the dwarves still unconscious on the ground.

*

The Commander watched in shock as his entire Battalion broke apart, except for a few that were out on the fringes of the impact area.

*

Ren looked around and saw the Commander and a Knight standing off to the side of the battlefield, then at what his enchantments had wrought. He sighed and shook his head.

“They sent them here to take you, or to keep you here as a prisoner.” Croggart said. “You were just defending yourself.” He said. “Defending us.”

“I know.” Ren nodded slightly and jumped down to recharge his Mana Pool. “That doesn't mean I have to like it.” He said. “The dwarves were just following orders. It's not their fault the orders were both ridiculous, and cost them Honor.” He finished recharging his Mana Pool and climbed back up on top of the battlement. Ren switched his Command Aura to Fear, and formed a Connection to his Screaming Terror ring and walked to the edge of the wall.

“Geezus, I hate that feeling.” Croggart said, and rubbed his arms to try and get the feeling of ants crawling on his skin to go away.

“Sorry.” Ren said. “I'm going over to talk to the Commander.” He deactivated the stone brick enchantments, and jumped.

*

The Commander watched as a gold-colored armored figure jumped down into the flaming moat. The flames were only about 3 feet tall by this point, so the Commander saw as the oil splashed the figure and his clothes. The figure walked through the flames as if it was nothing, then stepped up and out of the moat, covered in flames.

*

“By the gods, he just jumped into the moat!” Dorcot exclaimed. “Now he's on fire!”

The 6 men watched in surprise as Ren walked down the road a little ways.

*

Croggart was shaken out of his surprise by an impending attack on Ren, and yelled. “On your RIGHT!”

Ren side-stepped the incoming sword easily, as Teepo had already warned him. The dwarf held a shield up and Ren punched it as hard as he could. The shield shattered, and broke the dwarf's arm from the impact. The dwarf dropped the sword and grabbed the arm. Ren walked on as the flames he was covered in burned up the oil and went out. He was attacked several more times, mostly as an after thought by fleeing dwarves. With Teepo's help and his trusty hammerpick and shield, Ren easily dispatched anyone stupid enough to come near to him.

Ren went over to the Commander, saw the shocked look on his face, then stored the hammerpick and shield. The Knight with him stepped in front and tried to swing a sword, but Ren caught it easily and used Iron Grip to crush it. They both let it go, and it dropped to the ground. The Knight tried to punch him in the face, Ren grabbed his arm, and flung him away without thinking.

“Anything else?” Ren asked, then 3 crossbow bolts bounced off of Ren's armor. He turned and ran at the trio of dwarves at full speed, used a classic clothes-line move on two of the dwarfs, and took them to the ground. It knocked the breath out of them and the third dwarf turned to try to shoot at Ren again. The dwarf hadn't reloaded, so Ren stood up and grabbed the dwarf by his chest plate, used Iron Grip and crushed it.

“Don't.” Ren said, and let go of the ruined chest plate.

The dwarf dropped the crossbow and backed away. Ren kicked the crossbow away, then walked back over to the Commander.

“I assume the Council sent you.”

The Commander nodded.

“Capture or contain?” Ren asked.

“Both.”

Ren shook his head. “They're so desperate to keep everything for themselves that they'd have you compromise all of your soldier's Honor for this.”

“Do you expect them to just step aside and give it all to you?”

“Ha!” Ren barked a laugh. “Why the hell would I want this?” He said, and waved at all of the fleeing dwarves. “I'm fighting the Council because stuff like this shouldn't have happened at all.”

The Commander sighed.

“So, are you done?” Ren asked. “I have a Council meeting to get to.”

The Commander nodded slightly. “Yes.” He said. “I surrender.”
