Alden held out his hand and let the instructor jab him with the needle. She wiped the drop of blood onto a test strip, he spit into a vial of potion, then stepped into the body scanner.


“Going to go ahead and check you for magical tools as well,” she said.


Alden’s heart beat faster. He was hyperaware of it thanks to the wordchain.


Calm down, he told himself. Control your expression.


“Sounds good.”


He’d already been through this before. The scanner didn’t pick up on the auriad last time. It wouldn’t this time either.


It’s closer to being a part of me than it is to being the kind of magic tool the school checks for.


Alden assumed something like Joe’s enchanted ring would set it off.


He made his body relax, and he stood still while the scanner worked. Foxbolt was watching the test strip do absolutely nothing.


“The wordchain can be quite a feather in your cap,” she said. “If you use it often enough for us to be sure you’ve mastered it and can put it into play on demand, we’ll add it to your official transcript. It’ll become an additional proficiency consideration for entry into certain courses…and for when you’re trying to get jobs one day, of course.”


The scanner stopped. Foxbolt was quiet for a moment as she received the readout.


“You’re not on drugs,” she announced. “Keep it that way.”


“Will do.”


“You can head back to the gym now. By the way, how’s it going with the rope?”


“I wish it was a poncho sometimes. Otherwise, it’s fine.”


She laughed. “Keep plugging away at it! You’re just getting started, and you’ve got your whole life ahead of you to turn it into something amazing.”


Alden paused on his way out the door.


“Thank you.”


There wasn’t really anything else to say, so he spun the knob and headed out.


That was unexpectedly nice to hear.


“You’ve got your whole life ahead of you,” was one of those throwaway things people said. But it felt a lot less throwaway these days than it used to.


I’m not going to die in that awful place. I’m not going to watch Kibby die. My biggest problems, for the next few months at least, are wondering when Boe will get himself unstuck from catspace and dealing with Winston Heelfeather thinking I’m cheating in gym class.


Life was really sweet right now.


******


“Lute!”


Alden had ducked into the bathroom, and he was just in time to spot a pair of combat boots disappearing from the narrow gap at the bottom of a stall door as the owner tucked his feet out of sight.


“What are you doing here?”


The door opened to reveal Lute sitting on top of the toilet lid. He was still wearing his homemade yarn tank top over his t-shirt. “What the fuck? Can you see through walls?” he asked.


“I know all your footwear,” said Alden. “I’ve been watching you check for Shoe Pisser’s interference for weeks now.”


Then he realized why his roommate was probably hiding out in the bathroom in a building where he definitely didn’t belong. “Were you worried about the team? Have you been spying on us?”


“No!”


“You were! I’m going to tell Haoyu you’re a spy, too. Lexi and I are the only truly honest men in the lodge.”


Lute dropped his feet and stood up. “I was just making sure my wordchain students were actually using what I taught them. I was going to be very angry if I spent hours tutoring those idiots and they didn’t even bother to chain up before the course.”


“They did. I think Reinhard actually tried to do the energy chain twice, but it didn’t work the second time.”


“They become harder to call toward you as you stack more of them.” Lute took a step closer to him. “Soooo…Self-Mastery was so good you got drug tested?”


Alden held up the finger that had just been pricked. It was now sealed with a waterproof bandage.


“They stole my blood and everything.”


Lute looked pleased. “I know something that small shouldn’t make me feel like I’ve accomplished anything, but it does.”


“I can’t stay and talk to you,” said Alden. “I have to do my business and get back to the gym. But yes. You’re the best. Are you just hiding out in here until we start running again or…?”


“Once people get on the indoor part of the course, everyone seems pretty distracted,” Lute replied. “I just watched a little from the sidelines. Couldn’t see everything, but I saw enough.”


“I’ll show you all our recordings later,” Alden promised.


Less than a minute later, he was out of the bathroom and on his way back into the gym.


He mentally pulled up the North of North website again and navigated to the page where they sold memberships. Then he texted Lute.


[Do you ever work out?]


[No. Are you insinuating something?]


[Of course not. Just a sec.]


He bought the annual spa package. It granted you access to the fun stuff at North of North—relaxation rooms, the pools, and one free spa treatment a week.


[Here,] he texted. [A thank you present.]


Lute didn’t respond until Alden had nearly reached the team. Instructor Klein was with them. He seemed to be busy breaking down the offensive and defensive decisions everyone had made on the course.


[You didn’t have to get me anything,] Lute wrote.


[You didn’t have to spend forever teaching me. It’s just me being friendly to a friend. Don’t sweat it.]


[I plan to sweat it. In the fancy saunas. I believe I’ve told you I am well trained in the art of spending other peoples’ money.]


******


By the time the race was a third of the way through, it was obvious that the Finlay/Tuyet/Jupiter team was going to wipe the floor with Vandy/Marsha. Even though Vandy provided a decent counter to Tuyet’s darts. The Sky Shaper turned the air turbulent over virtually every part of her team’s course any time the opponent was on the attack, and since Tuyet couldn’t tell which way the wind was blowing between her sniper perch and the other team’s members, she couldn’t account for it with her throws.


“This is where my shooting has an advantage,” Reinhard whispered.


“Sure it does,” Lexi said.


“It does! It’s not like when I try to shoot at Shrike with his skill active. My arrows will adjust themselves back toward the target if it’s only wind in the way.”


“Could you shoot through Vandy’s level of air movement though? I thought you said it would be hard when we talked about it before?” Haoyu asked.


“It depends on how much wind is blowing between me and the person I’m aiming at, and air is, unfortunately, invisible.”


“So you have exactly the same problem as Tuyet,” Lexi concluded.


“Now you’re just being an ass!” Reinhard exclaimed. “This is why everyone likes your brother more.”


“I’m reminding you not to take wild shots. You have a history—”


“I’m the captain now, and I order you both to stop fighting,” said Haoyu. “You’re creating tension on board my tightly-run ship.”


“Our tightly-run ship,” said Astrid.


“We aren’t on the course yet,” Lexi pointed out.


“Astrid and I are already co-captaining,” Haoyu told him. “Monitoring your morale, ensuring good behavior.”


“Anyone who says anything negative to another teammate before the end of class has to chew jerky so that they can’t talk anymore,” Astrid added.


“I like that!” Haoyu said.


She nodded. “Punishments should fit the crime.”


Alden was paying more attention to the happenings on the course than their conversation. Max was out, taken down by Jupiter on his way up the wall. He’d hit his head, and it looked like it was going to count as unconsciousness, rather than death, which was the worst possible outcome from a game perspective.


“We’ll have to deal with Max for most of our run, then,” he said.


There had been some question about whether or not his team was going to overuse him on the first run again, but since he was currently unable to cast, he’d probably be able to do a lot more damage when they faced him.


Well, he’ll be able to if they actually have him doing the right sorts of things.


Prior to getting knocked out, he’d been casting zones in the same locations as last time.


They were a selfish team. Nobody defended anyone else. They wanted zones that improved their individual ability to conquer specific obstacles rather than increasing the team’s overall chance of winning.


Typing notes up for when Instructor Marion came back around to talk strategy, Alden allowed himself to be scathing in his analysis.


“Are you worried about Max?” Everly asked him.


“Strategically?” Alden shook his head. “Not really. But it’s only because they’re the worst, and he’s decided to spite them by letting them go on being the worst. If he was actually trying to help them, he’d be a serious problem. They should use him to lay down the float zones on the wall so that they can swim up it, then they should send him back out to the track to ruin our life.”


“I did expect them to use him that way,” said Haoyu. “They’re not using the treadmill zone at all.”


Alden nodded.


Max’s trap zone—the one that made it so that the person inside it ran without ever moving forward—was one of the few talents that could be used out on the track against other players. It was completely harmless, so it wasn’t off-limits out there; and even if it only captured someone for a couple of minutes, that was a really long delay on the course.


“All he has to do is lay it down after everyone on the other team has gone inside where they can’t see him. There’s no way to know where it is until you step on it.”


“And there’s the reason they haven’t been letting him use it.” Haoyu pointed toward Marsha.


She was heading toward Jupiter like a rocket.


It was abundantly obvious that Marsha considered the attacker job to be hers. When her team had a strike available, she would only hang back if a member of the enemy team was assaulting their half of the course and she felt like dealing with them first.


“So she’s really only interested in fighting S-ranks,” Njeri said. “Until now, I was still wondering if she might be thinking of it as going for the most valuable members of the other team, and those all happened to be the S’s. But it seems more like she’s got rank tunnel vision.”


On the bleacher below Alden, Lucille was biting one of her fingernails.


“We’ll be fine,” he said. “Just like the other teams have been.”


“Let’s feed her to victory,” said Jeffy.


Njeri held her hand up for a high five.


I think we’ve got this.


******


They were heading out to the track for the final run of the night, all of them in a great mood and hatching plans for how to deal with the other team’s every-man-for-himself style, when Maricel suddenly gasped.


The bags of dirt she was floating ahead of her, looking a lot dirtier and worse for the wear after having been repackaged and heavily taped back into useable condition, hit the ground with a weighty thud.


“You didn’t just fatigue your skills, did you!?” Reinhard said in a horrified voice. “We’ll lose.”


“Wow,” said Astrid. “Go ahead and tell everyone who you think the best teammate is. Don’t hold back.”


“Maricel?” Everly asked in a concerned voice.


Alden was worried, too. Maricel was staring straight ahead, her face slack.


“Hey, are you all right?”


“I…” she said. “You all go. I have to talk to someone.”


“What?” Reinhard said. “Now? Right this second?”


“I’ll be…I’ll be right with you.”


She started tapping her fingers through the air, texting somebody.


“All right,” said Haoyu, when it looked like everyone was just going to hang around awkwardly waiting on her. “She’ll meet us on the track.”


Alden kept looking over his shoulder all the way to the track. Maricel stood staring for a while at something on her interface, her fingers nervously twirling one of the protective cuffs they all wore on their wrists.


She said something. Then a shocked look crossed her face, and she froze for a while before whirling around and taking off back toward the gym.


“I think there’s a problem,” he said.


They all exchanged looks.


“Maybe it’s bad news from home?” Everly suggested.


I hope not.


A short while later, Instructor Ivanova headed for their team. “All right,” she said in a brisk voice. “I just got word from the gym. Maricel had a sudden personal matter to deal with. She’s not going to be able to make this run. You can take a couple of minutes to adjust your plans, and then we’ll start.”
