Erick smiled. “Nice timing, Poi.”

Poi just smirked, as he sat down in the chair across from Erick. He picked up a book of his own, and started reading.

- - - -

With a dozen white wings, stretching out to catch the wind, Ophiel flew across the orange sands of the Crystal Forest. Clouds lingered in the sky above, and the day was not quite as hot as usual, but the air was still warm, and smelled lightly of static, and rain. Wind trickled through Ophiel’s feathers, as his eyes scanned the dunes below. Here was as good a spot as any.

Feathers, wings, and eyes, lined with light, bright and expansive, as Ophiel’s sight and senses competed with the minor shadows racing across the expanse below, cast by the clouds above. Ophiel won, pushing back the dim darkness, as he gathered light from everywhere and folded it around himself, forming a house-sized expanse of gently glowing brightness.

Ophiel dipped down to the ground. He was not fully light, not right now; merely lined in radiance given form and function. Wind still brushed against his body, but he no longer held himself up with air; there was no need. He picked up a clump of dirt with hands made of brilliance, and shaped it into a stone with a bit of other magics. When he stopped his shaping, the boulder was a good meter across, but Ophiel lifted it like it was nothing.

With a tug and a shift, the boulder moved into the light, dull orange rock flashing to neon orange, and held in place with a firm grip.

The neon rock flickered under concentrated thought, moving left and right inside Ophiel’s brilliant aura. And then it ripped apart, shattering through the space like a bomb going off, tearing apart light and ripping through Ophiel.

Wings disintegrated. Eyes cracked and broke like smashed marbles. Feathers vanished.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself.

“Hmm,” he said, before sending another Ophiel out into the desert.

- - - -

Ophiel hovered over a vast, bright land, much further north than before. Here, there were no shadows, only the bright, bright sun. He picked up an orange stone and turned it neon, again, but he also turned his entire self to light, as well.

Neon orange brilliance stretched into a possibility curve; it could be here, or there, or over there.

And then it was an explosion. Ophiel’s lightform body briefly pulsed away from the epicenter of the failed experiment, like a cloud of light cast into the wind, but he reformed almost instantly. There was no need to resummon Ophiel, this time.

- - - -

Again. Again. Again.

- - - -

Erick read the black book the Wayfarers had given him, looking for clues. Three hours later, Erick started making dinner. After Teressa came back and dinner was over, and she couldn’t talk about what happened to the kidnapping victims, Erick sent his Ophiels back out to the Crystal Forest.

- - - -

The sun hovered in the western sky, casting long shadows across the wavy dunes below, turning the world red, gold, orange, and many shades of blue darkness. Gentle winds blew from the north, as Ophiel, bathed in light and light itself, hovered over the twilight land.

At a touch of intent, boulders raised from the sand, to turn neon under Ophiel’s influence. And then neon stretched; here and there at the same time, like the world rippled at a point, light flexed back and forth. Neon orange was two places at once, its original and a new spot, not too far away.

The rock dropped outside of Ophiel’s influence. It was no longer made of light, as it crashed in the shadows below, cratering a tiny, tiny part of the world.

Ophiel trilled in violin harps, thrumming reality with a happy, fresh sound and light, that radiated in all directions like a minor second sun, for the briefest of moments.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself, to see two blue boxes hovering in front of him.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you do not already have Teleport Object, here you go:

Teleport Object 1, instant, touch, 25 mana + Variable

An object you touch moves to another known location, within 1 kilometer.

Erick picked up an unimportant book from the shelves; an easily replaceable treatise on weather patterns of the world. Holding the book in his right hand, he cast. The book appeared over his left hand. He caught it, and giggled.

The book blipped back and forth, from one hand to the other, a few times, before Erick turned his attention back to Ophiel, still out in the desert.

- - - -

Ophiel zipped through the twilight evening, back to the cubic meter sized boulder he had cast out into the world. The boulder was now in pieces; broken from the fall and barely distinguishable from the crater it had created. With a bit of [Stoneshape], the boulder came back together, for more experimenting.

A thousand arms of wind and intent reached out from Ophiel’s winged body. The [Familiar] touched the stone, holding its hefty weight into the air, as he supported the extra mass with a few more hands pressed against the ground.

Blip went the stone, passing from one side of Ophiel to the other, instantly reappearing in other airy hands, on Ophiel’s other side. Wings shifted as weight transferred, and Ophiel steadied himself.

- - - -

Erick checked his mana. That single blip had cost him close to a 25 mana, while blipping the book had cost him the base, Clarity-cut cost of around 12 mana. The boulder was just north of ‘medium sized’, but maybe it was the weight that caused the cost to rise? [Stoneshape X] allowed him to work large sized amounts of stone for 50 minutes, for 100 mana, and a large size of stone was roughly a 5 by 5 by 5 cubic meter of space, or 125 cubic meters of stone. [Stoneshape] always cut when he reached that ‘large-sized’ limit, though. He couldn’t just pick up a small house and move it around for an hour. He could, however, pick up a small house and move it over a meter or two.

‘Large sized’ wasn’t always uniform among every spell, or among every caster, but for Erick, ‘Large sized’ was generally 5 to 7 meters across. A large amount of weight, however, like that in his [Teleporting Platform] spell, was only 5 tons.

Teleporting Platform, instant, 197 MP + Variable, 204 MP per person + Variable

Create a mobile, hovering platform of stone that moves quickly at your discretion. Supports a large amount of weight. Lasts 1 hour.

You and the people or objects on your Teleporting Platform appear in a known location, max 1000km distance

… So how big of a stone ball could Erick blip?

- - - -

Ophiel descended to the ground and pulled on a 5 by 5 by 5 section of sand, lifting the rock up into the air, scattering smaller stones and glowbugs out of the way. He had to recast the spell once, but that was fine. Sand rushed underneath the floating stone, to fill the void left behind. When the sand below had turned stable again, Ophiel let the mass drop, whumphing the house-sized boulder into the land. Sand billowed outward, as the shockwave from the drop vibrated a small part of the Crystal Forest.

Mimics, some dozens of meters away, some hundreds, jolted to life, before settling back down; whatever had disturbed them had done so far enough away that they didn’t care, or so close, and so strongly, that they dared not investigate.

With a hand made of intent and air, Ophiel touched the stone, and blipped it away, directly up, two kilometers straight into the sunset sky.

- - - -

Erick briefly came back to himself, as an unexpectedly strong spell rushed through his body, leaving a chill in its wake. That was a lot of mana! He checked his Status.

He said, “Over three thousand mana! Ha!”

- - - -

Ophiel hovered away from the future impact site, as he watched the sky above.

Slowly, the stone came into view, like a dot half orange and half black, against the gold-red-purple sky. And then all at once, it came faster and faster. The stone descended under the power of gravity, and was made all that stronger for its simplicity. Ophiel rushed to get away as Erick suddenly realized that this would be bigger than he thought it would, but it was too late, and not enough, so he switched to light, transforming to the intangible, right as the stone touched down.

Stone plunged down. Sand erupted into the sky. A vibration cracked through the world, heralding a wave of power and dirt and stone and sand that rushed away from the impact site, filtering through Ophiel’s intangible form like so much dirt passing through air.

When the dust cleared and the sand settled, Ophiel bore witness to a crater more than a hundred meters across, with rims larger than most dunes. The sides were made of sand that was already rushing down the crater walls, but of the bottom, it looked like normal, if darker, desert soil. If the original ‘meteor’ was part of that loamy land down there, Erick could not readily tell. It had likely been destroyed in the crash.

This was an impressive lot of destruction.

And it was kinda fun!

Okay. It was a whole lot of fun.

Erick cast down immense stones from the sky a few more times, in the same location, leveling his magic in the pursuit of joy, spell levels, and knowledge.

… Not like anyone else was around to see his fun times. He had checked.

Over the course of leveling [Teleport Object] to 10, and seeing that the spell now had a max range of 10 kilometers, Erick discovered some fun facts.

A full strength [Prismatic Ward] from Ophiel would not survive a direct strike of a large-sized stone, but an indirect strike that only clipped the dense air, sometimes survived. There was no issue surviving the shockwaves and debris.

He also discovered that he could [Teleport Object] the stone, right before it touched the ground, blipping the stone in place, and ‘bleed off’ all the stone’s momentum. There seemed to be no control over this functionality. Momentum always bled away, every [Teleport Object]. If Erick wanted a spell that maintained momentum he would likely have to make a tier 2 spell.

And now that he saw what [Teleport Object] was capable of…

… Erick had no doubt that there was someone in Spur, whose entire job it was to watch for this type of attack and ‘catch’ the falling stones, so [Teleport Object] could not be so easily deployed against cities. Was this person someone in the Wayfarer’s Guild, perhaps? That seemed likely.

But what happened to the object’s momentum? All that ‘bleed off’ energy had to go somewhere, maybe? What happened when spells produced byproducts—

[Cleanse]. Right. Duh.

Was [Cleanse] the solution to stray spell phenomenon? Where would [Teleport Object]’s stray phenomenon go? What would it look like? Was [Teleport] causing stray spell phenomenon all the time? Was Erick overthinking this whole thing? Probably.

Anywho! Back to learned facts:

By combining [Force Bolt]s innate ability and desire to touch things from afar, with [Teleport Object], Erick managed to make:

Teleport Ranged Object, instant, long range, 30 mana + Variable

An object you touch moves to another known location, within 5 kilometers.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself, smiling and laughing. He looked over to Kiri, sitting across the library from him, and said, “— Oh! Kiri! Welcome back! How did it go?”

Kiri smiled as she looked up from her book, saying, “It went great. I can’t really talk about it, but I can say that they’ve taken the Charisma belt and they are investigating the Stat. Charisma seems pretty scary, though.” She gestured to the blackboard Erick had left up, saying, “But that’s more impressive than what happened to me. That’s your goal list, isn’t it? I especially like the ‘Mana Generation’ entry.”

“Oh yeah.” Erick said, “I have absolutely no idea where to even start on that one.” He asked, “What does a good [Melee Reflection] look like? Do you know?”

“No idea.” Kiri said, “I always felt I was better served by [Blink]ing out of a warrior’s [Strike], than trying to reflect it. [Strike Reflection] only works on [Strike], too. So if they don’t [Strike] you, then you’ve just wasted mana you could have spent in other, better ways.”

“… It only works on [Strike]?” Erick said, “I was hoping for a [Melee Reflection].”

Kiri smirked. “Maybe, when you get [Teleport Other], you can try for a [Delayed Teleport Other] that activates if someone tries to deal more than 100 damage to you. You’d have to include an intent scanner in the spell, or perhaps a velocity scanner. They might get one hit off on you, too, so you need to ensure that they only ever get the one.”

Erick thought about that for a long moment. He said, “That’s a good idea.” He asked, “So what does a Mana Generation spell look like to you?”

Kiri leaned back in her chair, thinking, looking at the ceiling for a moment. Sunny curled up from around her neck, flickering green light down her serpentine, feathered length. Kiri turned to Erick, “I thought about the answer to that when I saw the board, but I honestly have no idea. Meditation doesn’t actually increase your regeneration, you know?”

“Yeah. It just opens your soul to the mana, allowing it to flow into your reserves.” Erick said, “And your reserves are dictated by your Willpower, or, more accurately: your ability to hold onto mana without having it turn into rads inside of you.”

Kiri nodded, saying, “Hence, I have no idea where to even begin for Mana Generation.” She said, “Obviously, you can just eat potions, and that works, because of the rads and the component herbs dissolved in the potion are designed to let the imbiber take in the mana in the crushed rads, without the rad reforming in their guts. But you don’t want potions. You want an actual spell you can cast on yourself, right?”

