A minor moon appeared in the sky, then blasted apart into a hundred smaller orbs of compacted stone, that suddenly descended with whistling strength. The shotgun attack filled a minor part of the sky before it crashed against the entire mountain and the surrounding land, scattering elementals to the air, but breaking nothing. The mountain continued, slightly smaller after the barrage of stone, but still two-peaked, and headed for Spur.

… Ophiel threw out a [Withering], just to see what would happen.

Nothing happened. There was no water in rock elementals, after all.

- - - -

Erick looked at his second, new spell.

Stone Crash, instant, super long range, 6500 mana

Cast a large size of stone into the sky, breaking it into a hundred rocks to fall upon a super large area.

Erick showed both his new spells to Kiri. “Do these look good?”

Her eyes went wide. “Uh.” She said, “But?” She collected her thoughts, and said, “You could try for smaller, fire imbued [Comet Swarm]s. Elementals are hard to kill because you have to change their element to kill them. Throwing stone at stone is fun, but ultimately you’re doing a lot more than you need to do. You could be spending mana more efficiently.”

Erick said, “I knew that.”

Kiri raised her eyebrows, as she looked away. “Sure.”

“I did!” Erick laughed, then said, “I’m just having some fun, testing out magics.”

“Those stone spells are fine.” Kiri said, “Not very useful for smaller scale fights, though, or actual damage, unless you manage to directly hit something.”

“The next experiment should fix that.”

- - - -

Ophiel flew wide, around the reforming mountain, while Erick recovered his mana. It didn’t take long. When he was ready, Ophiel descended, back to the ground, to hover over a boring, normal dune. The dune did not remain boring for very long. Dune turned to stone, and flaming light, and then vanished, all at once, only to reappear in the sky like a minor sun.

The sun broke into stars, then stars descended.

Stars met stone, and exploded into light and fire, turning the night briefly to day, as shrapnel littered the land. A mountain became flaming, bright debris. Stone elementals burned, or flashed to dust, as white firelight held the night in its tight, relentless grip. Ten seconds, thirty, a full minute. Elementals died, returning to the land from whence they came. When the white fire finally passed, there were no more orange eyes in the dirt, and the mountain was no more.

The mountain was barely a small rise in the normal features of the Crystal Forest.

- - - -

None of the monsters Erick had killed were high enough level to give him anything close to resembling a level of his own, but the spell he had gotten out of the night was pretty good.

Firelight Comet Swarm, instant, super long range, 8100 MP

Cast a large size of Firelight Stone into the sky, breaking it into a hundred smaller pieces to then fall upon a super large area. Deals massive initial damage + 5x WIL, and 10x WIL damage per second for 60 seconds for all in affected area.

Shadow aspect magic turns solid.

Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects.

Erick smiled. “So this seems good.” He showed Kiri.

Her eyes almost bugged out. “And you made it at tier 2? Just now?”

“Yeah.” Erick said, “I think I’m getting the hang of this magic thing.”

Her voice got a little distant, and quiet, as she asked, “What did you put into it?”

“[Teleport Object]. [Stoneshape]. [Firelight Shift]. Mana Altering, 500. [Force Crash].”

Kiri gave a weak. “Haaa.” And then she sat straight. A green fire burned in her eyes, as she said, “I want to see it used. Did anything survive?”

Erick checked back to the mountain’s remains. He came back, and said, “Maybe?” He sent Kiri the location of the monster. “Once my mana comes back, I can show you the spell.”

Kiri smiled.

- - - -

Sunny, green and bright, hovered in the dark night, next to Ophiel. The not-couatl flickered green colors, happy to be out in the sky. Ophiel replied in trills and whistles, then led the way to the ground.

Sunny and Kiri watched as the sky filled with a hundred flaming, white comets. The spell descended upon the land, just as an orange eye lifted from underneath the sand. The survivor did not survive, this time.
