Torix lifted his hands, staring at them as they shook. A few moments later, the flames receded a bit, though they still rose from his frame. His hands ceased shaking. His aura condensed, his approach refining with each passing second. By the time he finished wrangling in the psionic energy, the difference was staggering.

It was like comparing a chunk of iron ore with a sharpened knife. The latter was far more deadly. Even gialgathens in the distance took note, many of them staring at the metamorphosis. Torix turned towards me before coughing into a hand,

"That was far more difficult than I anticipated, yet it was altogether necessary." He looked towards the sky, "Ah, she has finally arrived."

From above, Chrona's silver skin shimmered in the sun's light. Lean and lithe, she darted between the trees and canopy without slowing down. Touching down without so much as a sound, she glanced between us, a grin over her face,

"It is good to see you are both well."

Torix gestured towards the X on the ground, "This will be the position you guard. Simply create a time field around this area, and cull any Hybrids or enemy forces that so much as look at it."

I crossed my arms, "Man, so that's why you're not worried about leaving a portal open. We have the perfect defender right here."

Chrona raised her head in confidence, "I will be a mobile fortress. This is our land, and it will remain that way as long as I am here. Just as well, it eases my heart to help the war effort outside of defending the city. These claws and teeth of mine were getting dull."

Torix turned to me, "With this, our preparations are complete. It is time."

With our forces pulled together, we stood in the jungle surrounding Elderfire. The sun belted down with intensity, the heat sweltering everything for miles. That is, except for a single point above the jungle's floor.

There the light dimmed. It ran from a source of darkness, a creeping dread that infested those that saw it. Radiating blue flames, Torix stood over the treeline, his figure unmistakeable. He lifted a hand, his sound amplifying magic taking effect,

"Those present, I ask you to listen."

His request hit home like a command. The eyes of our troops locked into the shadowy figure, his sapphire hue contrasting the umbral outskirts of his presence. He raised a hand,

"I am Torix, a lich serving under Daniel, your commander. I am the one who commands and organizes the resources of Elderfire. I've worked tirelessly within my lair, ensuring that your kind has a chance against the Adair Family."

He clenched his hand into a fist, "This shall continue no longer. Armed with a new body harder than steel, I shall join the battle with each of you. I may command the dead to rise and fight alongside you. Know this - each enemy you cull is another ally at your side."

The gialgathens roared with approval, bolstered by the unexpected blessing.  From behind us, the army of silvers and stone angels crawled out from the treeline. The gialgathens grimaced at the undead troops, but Torix raised his palms,

"Wait a moment. These are your new brethren. They shall take fatal wounds for you. They shall bleed in place of you. Where you would die, they shall die in your place."

The gialgathens calmed down as the growing army of the undead skulked from the trees. Torix spread out his hands,

"I am also armed with a mind that can combat their mages. Many of you have tasted the sting of mental warfare. Know this as well - I too am armed with psionic abilities. I shall leave their forces scattered, and I shall turn their own footsoldiers against them."

As the army amassed behind him, Torix gestured to his soldiers, "You all shall no longer fight against a superior force in number. We may take the city by storm, each of their dead given new life and purpose in our cause. With but one mighty surge, we can cripple them, scattering them like ashes in the wind."

The gialgathens cheered once more. Torix steepled his fingers, his presence sending a chill up my spine,

"Armed with these new tools, we will do more than land a strike at their side; we will slice into their neck. Our battle in Fuasel will be different than any other assault before it. Here we make our first true stand against the enemy. We will expunge them to the last man and save nigh everyone of your lost. Our return will be triumphant, our heads held high."

The mention of saving their fellow kind bolstered the troops, and the remark about heads held high made the soldiers do the same. They remembered what they fought for, and it reminded me too. Torix thought this speech through.

As the thousands of silvers stood behind him, the lich cackled. His laughter echoed across the dense undergrowth. As its haunting remnants faded,  Torix steepled his fingers, his entire being exuding confidence,

"We shall show them what it is to have their own turned against them. We shall take back everything they have stolen from us. We shall retaliate with force unmeasured. We shall show them the might of the gialgathens. We shall stand over their empty graves."

My hair stood on end as Torix seethed,

"And regardless of their wishes, they shall join the Harbinger's legion even after death. Of this, I assure you."
