“Okay, Luke! Okay!” I laughed, hugging him while also trying to push him away from my face. But he was relentless, and he was so big he had an easy time forcing his way through and pushing me to the ground. I guess some things never change.

Don’t get me wrong, I couldn’t be any happier to have my brother back with me, but I was seriously coated in slobber now! It felt quite worse on human skin than with puppy fur.

Besides…

“Luke, that’s enough,” the Umarii said.

I stiffened, and watched how Luke’s ears folded down. He backed off a little, though his tail was still thumping behind him and his posture pivoting, like he was holding himself back from tackling me again.

I looked up at the Umarii, my eyes narrowing. Fire stirred in my chest seeing the control he seemed to have over my brother.

“You must be one of Luke’s sisters, aren’t you?” he asked.

“Yes…” I answered. I still didn’t trust this person. I doubted he’d just let Luke and me go our separate way at this point.

He nodded. “That makes sense. He picked up your scent around the kill outside the city and has been tracking you since.” He reached down, offering his hand.

I didn’t take it. I picked myself up, and beside me Luke whined with contained excitement.

“Why do you look human?” he asked. He didn’t seem offended by my refusal of his hand.

“It’s a skill. As far as I can tell, I can take human forms and the form of anything that is dog-like.”

“So a Hell Hound is what you would really look like?” His eyes moved over me again, studying my ears, tail, and claws.

Luke couldn’t hold back anymore and gave another whine, shoving his head beneath my arm, and I instinctively scratched behind his ear. He yipped at Themiel, tongue lulling, tail still wagging as he pressed into me. I really couldn’t believe how big he was, but it’s not like I was very big myself being that I was still in a teenage body. Speaking of which, the Umarii was only slightly taller than me, but he seemed short for an adult. Of course, that did nothing to take away from how much of a threat he clearly was.

“Why is my brother with you?” I asked. “Who are you?”

“Well, my name is Themiel. As for why Luke is with me… it’s a long story. But ultimately, I rescued him from the Bloody Peaks Tribe.”

“Rescued him?” I asked.

“Yes. I would have done the same with your other siblings. My partner and I were caught in the middle of trying to collect the pack." His eyes shifted away for a moment. “My partner was killed, and all I could do was grab one of the cages and run. Luke was in that cage.”

“I see…” I said.

His story didn’t make sense. He went to rescue my siblings? For what purpose? It obviously wouldn’t be out of charity or simply to right the injustice that had been done to us. No, that was no reason to trust him. He wanted them for the same reason the Bloody Peaks Tribe did, surely. He saw us as a resource.

He smiled. “Do you have a name I can call you?”

“No. Not really.”

He tilted his head.

“I just don’t have one. Call me whatever you want…” I looked down at Luke, who looked up at me, still breathing happily. I needed to get him the Pack Bond skill so we could talk.

“How did you end up all the way out here, by the way?” Themiel asked me.

I just stared back, not sure how much I wanted to share with him. Saying anything about the empire was certainly out. It was better if he thought I was just some lone wanderer, rather than potentially seeing me as allied with someone he might consider an enemy.

“I just ended up here,” I answered. “I’d been traveling and fighting ever since my family split.”

“I see…”

There was something else that bothered me about this guy… and then it hit me.

“Are you not surprised that I can talk?” I asked.

He kept his eyes on me; something in his expression showed he was thinking of something. What he went with is, “Of course. Well, you have some kind of shapeshifter path, but the more surprising thing is certainly that you can speak so well.”

“I learn fast,” I answered.

“I don’t see why a skill couldn’t teach language to a monster as well, though I’d never heard of such a thing.”

Hey, that’s a pretty good explanation. I’ll take it.

“Yeah, I got a skill,” I answered him.

I could tell there were things he wasn’t saying, which is kind of fair because I wasn’t saying a whole lot either. But I decided to just address the elephant in the room.

“I’d like to leave with my brother. Will you allow that?”

He folded his arms, looking down at me, head tilting slightly. “You mean to leave me behind?”

“Yes. Luke is my brother, and we are Hell Hounds. I don’t know much about you, but there is no reason for you to stick with us going forward.” I bowed my head slightly. “I appreciate you watching out for him. He seems strong. But I think it’s time to part ways.”

“I’m not going to do that,” Themiel answered.

I narrowed my eyes at him.

“Besides…” He whistled and patted his thigh. Luke instantly broke away from my side and came to Themiel’s side. Luke still innocently panted at me with excitement in his eyes, but as he leaned into Themiel’s touch the same way he had done with me, I felt that fire in my chest burn even hotter. “I don’t think that’s what Luke would want,” Themiel finished.

I clenched my fists at my sides.

This bastard.

“But you don’t have the air of aimlessly wandering,” he said. “Where is it you’re going exactly? Perhaps I can help.”

“Help? So you’re saying you want to be my ally?”

“There’s no reason to be your enemy. It may be mutually beneficial if we can be friends.”

“Friends, huh? The way you’re friends with my brother?” A growl slipped into my voice as I couldn’t help barring a fang, and my tail bristled. “Or do you mean you want to tame me?”

“I doubt that would be possible either way,” he answered. “And it’s obvious you’re not an ordinary monster, and furthermore, at the very least, you’ve spent some time around humans. It’s not just that you have a speech skill.”

I only stared back.

“A skill wouldn’t affect your mannerisms,” he went on. “You are monster-like in your expressions, your posture. There’s definitely something feral about you. But then you also bowed your head when you thanked me, you speak with your hands. You’re very humanlike as well.”

I narrowed my eyes at him.

“There it is again. That's not an expression monsters make,” he said with a smirk.

I growled. He was pissing me off.

Luke looked back and forth between us. Ears folded down. He then looked at me and yipped. When my gaze fell down to him, he pressed into Themiel’s side, and panted at me. It was like he was saying, “He’s okay. Look. See? He’s my friend!”

I didn’t know how to get my brother away from him. Make him realize he didn’t belong with this Umarii. But how?

“In any case, we shouldn’t stay around here,” Themiel said, looking down the street. “You probably realized more of the elites have been showing up. That’s because you’ve killed too much. The city is starting to defend itself.”

“…What?” I asked.

“I’d show you, but not while Luke’s with us. He can’t sneak around the way you and I can, nor travel by rooftop.” Themiel started walking and whistled, Luke falling into step beside him. “I trained here when I was about your level. I know the area well. Since we killed so many elites, something strong is coming soon. Something you likely couldn’t defeat by yourself.”

I didn’t trust this guy, but I didn’t exactly have a reason to believe he was making that part up at least. “But you could beat it?” I asked.

“The three of us together probably could,” he said. “And I don’t know if beating enough of them would mean something even bigger might arise eventually. But that does seem to be the logic of this place, so it wouldn’t surprise—”

He drew his sword as a Skeleton Night Sentry descended from above. He managed to parry her daggers with a swing, then he jumped to the side to avoid a follow-up slash. His feet found the side of a wall, then he torpedoed right at her, coming so fast she hardly had time to react before he hacked her head off.

“Luke!” he called while the head was spinning mid-air and screaming.

Luke hopped into action, jumping up to catch the screaming skull between his jaws and then biting down, ending the screams and sending shards of bone flying in every direction.

Themiel landed at Luke’s side and patted his back. “Good boy, Luke. Good job.”

My fists tensed once again.

“Come on, boy.” Themiel let out a low whistle and started walking, Luke once again coming to his side.

I dragged behind, unable to get my feet moving. I couldn’t stand it. I hated what I was seeing.

But then, as Luke’s head tilted back to look at me, tongue lulling proudly, I suddenly snapped. “Stop doing that!”

Themiel looked back as Luke’s ears folded. “Doing what?” Themiel asked.

“Stop calling him a good boy! Whistling at him! Patting your leg and expecting him to come running! He’s not your damn pet!” I felt tears sting the corners of my eyes despite myself. “He’s my brother! He’s a Hell Hound! He’s not some dog you get to train and teach tricks to!”

I swear, I wanted to just kill this bastard. If I was stronger than him I probably would. Or at least, I’d give him a choice: get the hell away from us so I could take my brother with me, or face my blades.

But he already had made it clear how much stronger he was than me. And that made the fire in my chest all the worse.

“You keep telling him what to do, make him follow your orders, and then pat his head and tell him he’s a good boy like some stupid animal! You have no right to treat my brother like that!” I snarled at him.

Themiel merely tilted his head. “It’s not as though I’m mistreating him.”

I stepped towards him. “That’s not the damn point!” I yelled.

This is not how I imagined finding my brother again. I thought I’d find him locked in a cage somewhere, or chained up. I had imagined ripping apart whoever had him and then we could run away together. Why did he look so damn happy being called a good boy?

“We’ve bonded,” Themiel said, a little more defense coming into his tone. “We watch each other’s backs. Defend one another.”

“You only got the chance to work on him because he was separated from us!” I hissed. “You take a scared puppy, make him depend on you, and teach him when he does what you want he gets rewarded. When he disobeys, what do you do? You punish him, don’t you? Beat it into him that you’re the master and he has to obey you.” I locked eyes with the Umarii. “I’m right, aren’t I?”

“I never once hurt Luke,” Themiel defended.

“Liar!” I snarled at him.

Luke suddenly jumped forward. He snarled at me, showing me his fangs, hackles raising. He didn’t make an actual move to bite me but came at me viciously enough that I had to step back.

I blinked, and whispered. “L… Luke?”

Luke barked at me a few times, a growl rumbling in his throat. I could see it in his face, this intensity in his eyes: he was warning me not to threaten his master.

Then… Themiel whispered. “Luke, down boy. To me.”

And slowly, Luke’s hackles lowered, though he kept his eyes locked on me.

“To me!” Themiel ordered again.

This time, Luke listened. He gave me one last look and then turned and went to Themiel’s side.

Instead of the fire in my chest burning hotter, I felt it petering out. I felt like something inside me shattered.

“I don’t suggest hanging around here alone,” Themiel said to me. “It’s nearly dark. Let’s go camp in the wastes and we can discuss what happens from here. But now isn’t the time to do it.”

Not knowing what else to do, I followed. I kept some distance behind them, and when Luke looked back with a soft whine, I only felt worse.