“What did she do? Because I know you don’t kill for no reason, and there’s not a hint of grief for her inside you.” Shiv stared him down, and the False Master-Tier Pathbearer looked away. “I’m not judging you. You’ve done right by practically everyone but me. You’ve never blemished your goodness anywhere else. I’m not attacking you. I just want to know. Because better safe than sorry, right? And I’m the one with a pre-Legendary Skill. Unless you can evolve one right now with that Unique Skill of yours.”

“I can’t,” Roland admitted without any shame. “I don’t have your legend. And I can’t risk a Delve.”

And that inadvertently revealed a few more things about Roland, mainly that he could get to Legendary if he wanted simply by moving a few levels around; however, he needed to Delve every single time, and that wasn't something he could risk, with all the enemies he had.

Shiv accepted Roland’s words. “Alright. Well. Whatever you did, I want to know that I don’t doubt you. Telling you this right now so my Harbinger doesn’t accidentally crack you or something.”

“It can do that?” Roland replied, betraying a hint of terror.

“Shit, it’s been ripping me up all godsdamned day. I would be dead without Uva drinking the poison out from me.”

And she took that chance to chime in. “And if the Giantsbane tries to strike at you, I will see her life forfeit. She pursues her grudge with Roland, and forgets a greater one already exists.”

“Right. Her son and your mom.” Shiv sighed. “Looks like almost everyone has a reason to go after someone else. Just do me a favor: give me a chance to defuse if things get heated. Vendettas, love, hate, if there’s anything I learned, it’s that it is too important to be settled sloppily on an impulse. We’re not going to let your moment just be forgotten. Everything has to be handled and handled well. No halfway for revenge or reconciliation.”

He felt his words exert a pull on her, and though there was a stubborn piece of her that wanted to see things through on her own, Uva mastered herself and sent him a ping of acknowledgement.

Just in time too, as the platform to Roland’s personal quarters descended—but Jessica bypassed that by teleporting into the room with Rusty. A gash of dimensional mana unzipped a gap in existence, and the Giantsbane stepped through, crossing over from the very base of the castle to its apex with a single, horizontal step.

Jessica's core boiled at the sight of Roland. She despised him in a dull, aching way—with a weary hate that she was pursuing with the full extent of her half-wake heart, filled perpetually with an old sadness so calcified it might as well have been concrete.

“Look upon her, and give her your pity, the same way you've given it to Roland. She has been drowned by her own grief, and it has taken hold of her. Despite the Psychology Skills she possesses and her capacity to nullify anger, she is a creature broken by her traumas. She's capable of so much virtue, and yet, even as a Legend, she is a slave to her heart. What a wretched thing to be.” The Harbinger's words were filled with genuine heartbreak. It was a skill meant to bear the burden of sympathy, which was a blade that forever cut in two directions.

“Jessica,” Roland began.

But she strode right past him and Shiv. She remained at her baseline height, barely reaching Roland's shoulder, even though he wasn't a particularly tall man. Despite the animosity she still held toward him, her eyes and focus weren't on him. Instead, she did what she'd claimed to have come here to do: offer Adam her respects.

“Ascendants. Look at what that orc fuck did to you, kid.” Jessica sniffled. Her heart became a complicated interplay of emotions. Shiv sensed that she saw a glimmer of Roland in him, and that inspired her loathing, but it faded just as fast as she realized the boy looked like Rose as well. Her gaze scythed away from the bleeding boy in the bed and settled upon his mother. Jessica's illest tidings melted at the sight of her old friend. “Sorry, Rose. I tried. I did what I could, but it seems that I just keep fucking things up when they matter. It’s just your kid who paid the price this time.”

“Shut the fuck up, you dumb bitch,” Rose snapped. Then she stepped across the room and snatched Jessica off the ground and into an embrace. “Thanks for coming. Despite everything.”

Jessica mumbled something incoherent into Rose's chest and then made a sudden raspberry—causing Rose to let out a bark of laughter—and they pulled apart.

Jessica shot Adam another grimace before she shook her head. “Alright, I didn't come here to bullshit any of you. I've been speaking to Veronica. Asking if she might have any way of fixing him. And before you get pissed off about that, I want to know what your other options are, because right now it seems like we got jack and shit going for us.”

She technically wasn't wrong, but Shiv's mood soured at her admission. “I would have liked a heads up.”

Jessica rolled her eyes, then her gaze settled on Roland ever so briefly, and that dull, tired anger inside of her began to move like a landslide approaching its inevitable destination. “We all would like something. Doesn’t always work out that way. Speaking of, grandma wants me to deliver you a message, kid.”

“Don’t call her that,” Shiv said. “You have to be someone's mom to be a grandmother, and she was never even that.”

“She wants to know what the fuck you did to Longinus,” Jessica continued, ignoring Shiv's retort. “Because right now he's screaming. He’s borderline insane with pain—worse than even the kid here. Nothing they can do to fix him. Nothing they can do to reduce the pain. According to Veronica, he doesn't even have a mind left at all, and the other Ascendants are raring to round up some Avatars and smash through your surface gateway if they don’t get a proper answer.”

“Well, I should have seen that coming,” Shiv grumbled. “It’s never just one thing. Look, it’s complicated, but I’ll explain everything to Veronica. To make a complicated story short, a portion of Longinus—and what I guess was his actual consciousness—got destroyed due to Fae fuckery, and then a part of his soul got twisted up by some eldritch bullshit. That’s the glowing egg you saw earlier. A copy of Georges is in that as well.”

Shiv sculpted the truth with every statement he spat. He wasn't technically being dishonest, but he was also distancing himself from the chain of events because the last thing he needed right now was to fight all the Ascendants after barely surviving a battle with Longinus. He latched on to Jessica's incredulity before she could demand further elaboration. “And before you ask, yeah, we're partially to blame, but it wasn't up to us. You ask Veronica if she knows about someone called the Usurper-Narrator, and you tell her that we were just characters in someone else’s story.”

As soon as he said that, he felt a painful tug drag him from beyond this dimension. Evanescia still had a portion of his soul burning in the Watchtower, however that worked. Him and Uva both. The only reason why they weren't fully assimilated was because of their Unique Skills, and even then, the Watchtower still exerted some influence over them.

A sputter of exhaustion escaped Jessica. “Broken fucking Moon, kid. You were gone for what, a couple days at most? How do you keep getting into this much shit?”

“Have you tried being actually favored for once?” Shiv taunted.

The height-challenged Legend flipped him off.

Shiv fired back with both hands.

“Rusty, help!” she shouted in pretend panic.

The sword heeded her call and hovered over her head as the blade turned into a curve, doing its best imitation of a middle finger.

But Shiv wasn't outgunned, for he had a new hand to deploy. Almost without thinking about it at all, the Red Rider's Hand drifted closer and extended its middle digit once more. The massive appendage, burning with violence and vitality, caused the room to tremble from its merest movements. Roland took a step back. Valor regarded the hand with worry. Rose stepped closer to Adam, prepared to shield him, and Jessica went pale. “Okay, I've been meaning to ask this, but there was too much other shit first… Is that the Challenger's right hand?”

“Yep,” Shiv said nonchalantly. He refused to acknowledge the hand much, for it seemed to have a will of its own, and it burned with dark desires and violent delights. “Wait, actually no. The Challenger lost the hand, and since he was trying to do whatever with my soul, it ended up getting integrated with me, so technically it's my hand now.”

Jessica tried really, really hard not to gawk at him. “But that’s… that’s bullshit. You can’t just absorb the hand of a god. Wait, how did you even cut it off in the first place?”

“By trying really, really hard,” Shiv deadpanned.

A flood of frustration bubbled inside Jessica like building steam. “Fuck you, be serious. How did you do that?”

“I am being serious.”

“Bullshit! If I couldn't cut him apart, how did you manage, twerp?”

“I don't know, maybe you just didn't try hard enough. Maybe I'm stronger than you. Your biceps really aren't anything to write home about, so it wouldn't surprise me.”

“You mother—” She briefly tensed and then used her Psychology skill to dissolve the first sparks of budding rage. “I know what you're trying to do. I see you, you little shit.”

“I mean, one of us is little.”

“Kill… me…” Adam groaned.

Jessica stomped up to Shiv and reached up to jam her index finger into his chest. “Eat shit, and tell me how you got the hand.”

“I told you just now,” Shiv replied, adding a dash of worry to his demeanor. “I know you're getting up in the years, Jess, but is this a hearing or a memory issue? I could ask Helix to do a brain check on you.”

Once more, she had to use her Psychology Skill to dissolve her ire. “Really? You're gonna be that way with me right now?”

“I might have to hit you with the hand in the future. You know, in case you decide to help the Ascendants invade the Gate. I'm going to need every advantage I can get so that you don't end up kicking my ass.”

A chain of incoherent noises slipped out from Jessica. “Okay, if you can beat up the Challenger, then why do you need his arm to fight me off? There's something wrong with the power hierarchy here, kid. This picture you painted is hanging a little crooked on the wall.”

“Or maybe I just didn't try that hard while fighting you before.” Shiv shrugged. “Felt bad for you. Didn't wanna make you all depressed.”

For the briefest of milliseconds, Jessica wanted to stab him more than Roland.

But as fun as annoying her was, Shiv decided to take pity. “Look, to be honest, I don't even know how the hand works. It was just attached to me after I woke up, and if you want to know how I managed to cut it off, well, that's some kind of weird time magic thing. I can't explain it in detail either. I can barely move the hand. It's got its own will, and it just follows me around.” He finally shot the offending limb a glare. It tilted slightly and aimed its middle finger at him. “And I would have chopped the damn thing off the moment I saw it if I could. There's nothing I want from the Challenger. Nothing.”

The substance that comprised Jessica's core went from irritation to sympathy in a nigh instant. “Yeah. I get you. But fuck me, your life is a never-ending chain of… fuck.”

“Pretty good summary.” Shiv nodded. “Thing is, though, I'm never the one who pays for all this chaos; just the people around me. And I don't think that's ever going to let up. Not without a lot more power or some ability to control what happens around me.”

Jessica sighed. “Look, ignore the shit I said earlier. Rose is right. The Challenger beat the shit out of all of us. That wasn't on you. Hells, maybe you're the only reason we got out of it. I don't know how you did it, and if you're not lying, you don't know either, but you know what? I'm not going to look a gift sword along the tip.”

“This has nothing to do with self-blame,” Shiv said—and then let out a snarl of pain as something inside him tore.

“Too much, too much dissonance!” the Harbinger cried.

Once more, there was a consequence for feeling one way and thinking another. Not even Uva could guard him against such self-devastation.

Shiv lost his balance and stumbled. Three different people moved to catch him at the same time. Valor got to him first, but Jessica wasn’t far behind—and Roland arrived in the same instant. Together, they prevented his collapse, and Shiv would’ve been ever-grateful—if only he wasn’t suffering a sundering of mind, heart, and flesh.

His lower abdomen had been pulled apart. Vitae spilled free, staining the air with vibrant crimson. S-sorry, Harbinger. I’ll try to lie less to myself.

“That would be wise…”

“What the fuck was that?” Jessica cried, barely noticing how close to Roland she was. How easy would it be to send Rusty through his head while he was distracted? Though the temptation was there, she saw Shiv was watching and decided to rein in her wrathful considerations.

He managed a smirk despite his spiritual guts spilling out. “Oh, that was just Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin, a pre-Legendary Skill Fusion of Berserk, Striking Proficiency, Silver Tongue, Psychology, Chronomancy, and Psychomancy.”

“I’m gonna fucking throw up. Six skills—I’m gonna throw up.” Jessica began gagging exaggeratedly. “What the ever-loving fuck even is the Fairwoods? And how much other bullshit do you have hiding up your ass?”

