“Ask me when the pain passes,” Shiv groaned. “Great. I need to start siphoning vitality again.”

“But you will recover from this?” Roland asked.

Shiv coughed and tried to straighten his back. “Of course.”

“Felling hells.” Jessica sighed. “You know something? I think I figured out your actual problem. You keep throwing yourself into all the problems. You try to handle everything. You see, if you were back at the Republic, they would have you under lock and key. You'd be guarded by the most elite of the office—”

“Office?” Shiv asked.

“The Inquisition. And Veronica would see you trained by all the best Legends and see you fed and happy and properly taken care of with no expense spared; you would have an army of people to boss around.”

“Sounds like hell.” Shiv paused. “Unless I have an army of people in the kitchen, in which case hells yeah, let's do that.”

“Look, I'm not trying to talk you into giving yourself up or anything like that. Not entirely. What I am saying, though, is that you don't have anywhere near the support you need. You needed an army; you got a bunch of orcs, and look at where that got you. You need more than just a couple of people here. This stuff keeps happening to you because you don't have anyone else to come bail you out. A couple Legends are great to have, but they don’t make up a real army. We can’t hold ground or clean up all the problems. Even with your escaped prison buddies, there’s only a few of us. What you guys need right now is a layer of insulation. Something to keep the storm at bay while you hunker down for a while.”

“And where are we going to find that?” Shiv mumbled. “Weave? They don’t have enough people. The Composer’s probably sparing all she can. The orcs are… We can still use them. Fucked up as it is. We just have to—”

“Wait,” Roland cut Shiv off. A sudden realization lit up his face. “Orcs… The orcs here are tied to the Culturist, their Maestro. If he is severed from the Challenger’s influence, and your ritual is still active, that means they aren’t attacking—”

“Lone Star!” Jessica gasped, realization dawning on her face. “Oh, shit. It's Summer right now! Lone Star’s fucking free! For the first time in… forever!”

And a final piece of the puzzle snapped into place within Shiv’s mind. “And we got a way straight into the Tutorial. We got a Slipgate too…”

Everyone went quiet at the same time.

“Hey, I think we should call a group meeting or something,” Shiv said. “Small council. Uh. Get Hymn. And Still Water. Veronica too. Valor—I want the Five Faiths to send representatives as fast as they can. Descenders especially. And I’m going to need someone to make a trip—”

“I’ll go,” Roland said. “I know the people there. Many among them owe me more than blood or mithril can ever repay. And we have the Culturist as well. I know they would want him—especially in his current vulnerable state. If not for me, they’ll come to see about him.”

Shiv winced at that. He knew the Legendary orc had done a lot of wrong, but to use him as bait this way felt—well, it was smart. And we do need help from the premier orc-killers of Earth.

“I’m not letting them kill him,” Shiv clarified. “Not until he comes out of the delve and gets to plead his case.”

Roland did a double-take. “He’s an orc. He’s—”

“Adam didn’t burn the itch out of him for nothing. I don’t give a shit if he dies, but would Adam let someone he saved from a poison of the soul die for his past, vile nature?” Roland went quiet. He knew Shiv was right. “But yeah. Tell them. And try to get them to come quickly. I think… I think I have an idea for the Gate. I think I can help Adam with his Gate Quest too.”

And as the pain faded, Shiv felt a sneer paint his heart instead. Oh, I think I just might be able to buy us a little peace, Adam.

These Words of Truth and Adoration 73 > 75

Scheming Bastard 15 > 19
