When you survive for centuries, you will find yourself moving to the edges of history, and you learn, through triumph and torment, that things are always changing. This platitude, on its surface, is simple. Even a child can grasp this, but more than the platitude is the true context behind it. Everything is changing.

Many people view fixtures of their life to be permanent. The store run by the auntie will always be there. Your parents will be your authority. You will be a child forever. Summer will never end. Your apprenticeship will always be a burden. You will never be strong enough, fast enough, wise enough. The world will always seem too vast, too great. Your friends will always be your friends, and those you loathe, who burdened you with insults, will forever deserve your scorn.

Not so, and I mean this in both the bleakest and most blissful of ways. I have outlived nations. I have seen gods die—some at my own hand. But I have also murdered people I consider to be fine Pathbearers. Former lovers. Former friends. I have fought and brought empires I formerly served to heel. Empires I thought would last an eternity, that were the summit of triumph and civilizational ingenuity.

I have joined forces with those I regarded as barbarians and marauders beyond our gates. I spent time with them. I learned to forgive them. I watched as their children grew, as they came into maturity, and I found myself thinking they would be my new permanence, this new fixture in my life. They faded as well. Some of them died by my hands once again, while others stayed longer and changed themselves. Old enemies learned to let go of ancient slights. Some came to apologize to me, admitting they were fools, while others simply forgot about their grudges—for what use was old pain for someone who truly grasped the potential of their agelessness?

And so hear these words. Try to grasp them completely. Try to internalize them.

Those who stand beside you today may be memories and then fading ripples in a pond's reflection in the future, and someone you have declared a blood grudge against, someone who might have done you grievous harm, who might have taken someone you love and you dealt them a similar blow in return, would be breaking bread with you or sharing a bed with you.

This is all too common. Life is complex beyond the measure of words, and every choice cascades: yours, theirs, and the choices of those you have not even noticed. Life is a wave. Ride it and ride it well. For those who fight it do not live to see tomorrow. They are buried beneath the crushing blows of their past.

And there are few shackles heavier than regret, few waters that can drown even Legends like unaddressed sorrow.

—Valor Thann

368

Friend and Foe

“Twice! You bombed his planet twice!” Rose threw her head back and let out a piercing laugh. “And now he has a permanent vendetta against you and Adam. You've got to be fucking with me. You absolutely have to. Roland, this shit is priceless.”

The Lady of Blackedge was a passionate flame. She combusted easily, not only from impulses of anger, but from incentives of joy. But while she laughed, Roland's face grew dark with worry as he considered the consequences of the story. “And this Lord Scorn is the same Lord Scorn who will be coming for our Gate in the future, per Adam's Quest?”

“Yep,” Shiv grunted. “Just another piece of shit that keeps climbing back up the pipe.”

Rose’s laughter grew, her amusement fanned by the metaphor, while Roland’s troubled heart grew ever more laden with worry. “And we need to prepare. Start preparing right now. Wait, why does he know Adam by name and call you the Skintaker?”

Shiv coughed. “Uh, some psychological warfare stuff.”

Roland gave a suffering sigh.

“You thought we were trouble, huh?” Rose teased him. “Look at the kids putting us all to shame.”

“We were trouble,” Roland shot back. “I still am. The System’s favor still burns within me, but how can I compare to someone who possesses the power to return from death?”

“Get a little more reckless?” Rose suggested, draping an arm around Roland’s neck.

He squinted at her. “It is a small mercy the System didn't give you his Path.”

Rose gave him an impish grin. “Yeah, cause if it did, I'd tear some shit up and keep tearing shit up.” She shot Shiv an approving look. “Oh, the amount of people a couple Tiers above me I'd tell to go fuck themselves…”

“You've never had a problem doing that. A Path won’t change that.”

“Hm.” Rose frowned and seemed to remember a few instances of her insulting Legends to their face. “Yeah. But hey, you’d need to save me less.”

Roland just shook his head. “No. Just the thought of you in pain is too much for me to bear. Deathless or not, no one is to touch you.”

“Only you, huh—how possessive you are, Master Arrow…” Rose’s voice dropped to what Shiv could only assume to be a seductive growl at the end.

Roland said nothing. He didn't need to. Shiv saw how Roland's Adam's apple was bobbing back and forth, how both their emotional cores came ablaze, not with hate or anger, though that still remained there for what the Challenger did to their son. Instead, a new emotion came to the fore, and its name was lust. It was clingy. It was desperate, but it was freeing and joyous—twin infernos in two hearts reaching out to become one once more.

Meanwhile, Shiv did his best impression of Valor, who loomed close behind yet never truly intruded, his presence as thin as a ghost despite no skills being used.

I really shouldn't be here for this. Shit, even Adam went silent. Picked a hells of a time to stop moaning and shivering, man. Come on. Remind your parents that you’re suffering, so I don’t need to endure this.

But Shiv's pleas were not answered. Worse, Adam's gaze seemed more vacant than before, and that drew a resurgence of worry within Shiv. To finally cap off this growing calamity, Shiv felt someone press a hand against his back. Valor leaned over his shoulder and cast a thought via a tendril of translucent mana.

“Shiv, I want you to know that I am likely feeling what you are feeling right now: an urge to leave this room, to escape the crushing awkwardness that is beginning to build. I also want you to know that if you try to leave this room, I will use all of my Skills to keep you here—even if the Lord and Lady of Blackedge lose hold of their self-control, tear each other's clothing off, and indulge in the most carnal and intimate of reunions right before us. Especially if that happens. You will remain. You will be silent. You will keep your dignity.”

Sweat began to pour down Shiv's face “I… Valor… Is this because of what I did to you back in Weave?”

The twin Necromantic flames behind Valor's magic-shaped eyeballs twinkled, casting his dark-skinned visage in a sinister glow. “I want you to know, oh disciple of mine, that during this time of reconciliation and forgiveness, I am unforgiving. I hold grudges until I see them squared, however that may be, and you will honor them, as I have honored you.”

Shiv's spirit spasmed so hard the Harbinger nearly shattered. “I’m never making that mistake again.”

“Then, you have grown wise, Young Pathbearer,” Valor intoned, patting him on the back before stepping away again.

To Shiv's considerable delight, Roland and Rose did not consummate their affection amidst this time of grief. If Adam had any awareness of what was happening around him, this also spared him the helping of brutal psychological trauma in watching his parents make up for lost time while his mutilated skull continued gushing blood. To endure such an atrocity would likely shatter him completely—or at least add a layer of disgust on top of the madness he had to endure.

I guess there are some advantages to being a miserable orphan, Shiv thought to himself.

As Adam let out another gasping wheeze, Rose and Roland broke apart, sharing a concerned look for their son. Adam's condition didn't worsen, but there was only so much suffering someone could take before something inside them shattered. His agony turned his parents' desires into fleeting smoke. Once more, their affections for each other were overwhelmed by a new, higher emotion: a greater love, one that was directed toward Adam, one that was further alchemized into grief.

The stories Shiv told of what they'd lived through these past months, from their reunion in Weave to their escape from the Rubix Well and everything after, only amplified their affection toward him. He was never greater in their eyes, never more lovable, never more impressive, never more perfect than right now. And though that strengthened their sorrow as well, there was a spark of hope building amidst everything. For if Adam had survived all the calamities that had come before, why could he not endure now? Why could he not defy the System's will and spite the gods one more time? He'd done so with Lord Scorn and Evanescia. He'd survived so many things.

Why should he fail now?

Rose and Roland drew close to their son. They pressed their hands upon his brow, uncaring of the blood that soaked their hands. The sheets and pillows, enchanted with self-cleaning magics, struggled to keep up with all the blood spilling out from Adam, but it seemed like he'd achieved some measure of stability, if it could even be called that. He was quiet now, his mutters barely more than a whisper, his eyes distant and growing further so.

“I wish I was there with you,” Roland choked. “I wish I was there to protect you. I wish I was there to see what you did, to see who you became. We didn't have enough time. I didn't… I should have been a stronger father. A better father.” The pain threatened to overtake him. “There will never be enough time. I will always want to be with you and your mother. I will always regret—”

Roland was interrupted as a snaking tendril of Psychomancy slithered into his mind. His eyes widened and then narrowed, and then a soft breath escaped him.

“What?” Rose asked before Shiv could. “What's wrong?”

“It's… Jessica. She wishes to come and pay her respects.” Roland’s demeanor grew grim. “Or so she claims.”

“Nah, she’s not lying,” Shiv said. “The only person she really does that to is herself. If she was going to do something with you, Roland, and she is going to do something with you eventually, she'd do it face-to-face. She'd try to cut you down straight up. That’s who she is. And you should get that. You’ve known her longer than I have.”

“No.” Roland shook his head. “If there's something you'll learn, Shiv, it's that with the passage of time, you don't really know anyone. Not even yourself.”

“Yeah, yeah, people change, but I'm telling you right now, Roland, she's not going to try to assassinate you. She won't do it, not with Valor here, not with me here. She's not going to get any relief out of killing you like this. That’s what she’s looking for—relief. I guess that’s what almost everyone is looking for at some point.” Shiv paused. “I'm not telling you to do anything. This is your house. It should be your decision. Adam's your son. And I might not even be right. Whatever happened between you two might just make her angry enough for her to break the rules of hospitality. It doesn't seem like that to me, but I don't know enough to be sure. All I can say, though, is that I think she's genuine, and I think what happened to Adam did something to her. She's probably honest about wanting to pay respects, but she also probably wants to figure out what you did to her daughter or whatever happened there.”

Roland’s eyes grew distant and dark, almost as distant as Adam's, but then Roland bowed his head, and something inside him surrendered. Something inside him didn't have the strength to care anymore. He sent the Psychomantic tendril back a second later and rose to his feet. A comet of incandescent flame speared through the ceiling, yet melted not a whit, and crashed down upon Roland, crowning him in a blaze of fiery magic and enveloping him in plates of gleaming bright armor.

Once more, the past and present overlapped. Shiv remembered being in this chamber, remembered Roland calling upon his hawk and arming himself for the first time. The Town Lord had struck down countless assassins before Shiv could even come close to reacting. The Omenborn boy had thought him a god in the flesh at the time—and loathed him for being so unreachable. Now, however, Roland wasn't quite so invincible in Shiv's eyes. He was even pitiable.

But of all the things he was, a fool was not one of them.

“Better safe than sorry,” Shiv said, signaling his approval. He noted how Roland remained unarmed despite sporting a full set of plates. His pauldrons burned with the glow of gleaming hawk-heads. Rows of gleaming chain mail were riveted in the shape of plumage, and twin wings that could turn the world afire were furled back and disguised as a cape. “Armor but no arms. Good idea.”

“I just don’t want to give her the wrong idea,” Roland said. Shiv noted the crushing nervousness and frustration inside him.

Almost no regret, though… and he'd supposedly killed Jessica’s daughter.

“Roland,” Shiv said, trying to process his surprise. “Did she have it coming? What did she do?”

“What?” Roland gasped, looking up at Shiv, eyes wide from shock, but not confusion.

