Sitting atop one of the wooden trunks stowed on the forgewagon’s cargo deck, Rain smiled. His feet were dangling over the side as he surveyed the trail of carts arrayed behind them. They were linked to the forgewagon like boxcars, one after the other, connected by chains to form an enormous land-train. Anywhere else, it would have been a terrible idea, but the salt flats were, well, flat. Here, it was working perfectly. There was one caveat, though. They were only moving at about ten kilometers per hour, and the plume of dry, salty dust being kicked up by the passage of so many wheels was enormous.

Someone might notice…

Rain chuckled to himself, falling back to stare at the canvas awning that had been erected to shield the cargo from sun and rain. It had been three days since the vehicle’s debut rampage, and now, finally, Ascension was on the road again. Ameliah was driving at the moment, seated behind him on the control platform. Tallheart and Staavo were below, monitoring the reactor, but everyone else had elected to ride in the cart train. For whatever reason, most people seemed to think that the forgewagon was unsafe.

Rain had no idea why.

The ride was entirely smooth, thanks to the insane vibration-damping capability of enchanted Force Steel. He could hear the carts rumbling along behind them, and there was a gentle rush of wind thanks to their speed, but the vehicle itself was utterly silent. Only the soft crunch of dirt beneath its treads gave away its passage. And yet, it was completely impossible to miss.

And he calls it Subtlety. Ha. Tallheart is a genius.

Still smiling, Rain conjured a progress report using the marker he’d set just before they got underway. He’d already seen it, but he wanted to see it again. Finally, he’d made some headway.

Progress Report

marker_1: attempt_asdfasdf2 [3061 Sowing 27 19:20]

marker_2: giddyup [3061 Seedlings 12 09:00]

Span: 16.6 days

Character

Level: 27 -> 30 (+3)

Total Exp: 2,138,665 -> 2,536,316 (+397,651)

↳Health Use: 21

↳Stamina Use: 1,152

↳Mana Use: 396,499

Clarity: 270 -> 320 (+50)

Skills

Radiance: +67,825 exp, 10 -> 15 (+5)

Detection: +65,212 exp, 10 -> 15 (+5)

Aura Synergy: +55,932 exp, 11 -> 15 (+4)

Immolate: +27,140 exp, 11 -> 15 (+4)

Refrigerate: +27,113 exp, 11 -> 15 (+4)

Channel Mastery: +44,367 exp, 12 -> 15 (+3)

Aura IFF: +33,677 exp, 10 -> 12 (+2)

Purify: +16,795 exp, 13 -> 15 (+2)

Magical Synergy: +33,950 exp, 14 -> 15 (+1)

Shroud: +17,500 exp, 10 -> 11 (+1)

Essence Well: +14,240 exp, 10 -> 11 (+1)

Amplify Aura: +4,590 exp, 10 -> 11 (+1)

Aura Focus: +2,624 exp, 10 -> 11 (+1)

Aura Compression: +30,377 exp

Extend Aura: +3,200 exp

Force Ward: +1,099 exp

Mana Manipulation: +240 exp

Arcane Ward: +120 exp

Fulmination: +100 exp

Winter: +96 exp

Mental Ward: +64 exp

Chemical Ward: +39 exp

Velocity: +25 exp

Suppression: +15 exp

Prismatic Intent: +1 exp

Synchronization

Endurance: 7.0 -> 7.4 (+0.4)

Vigor: 8.9 -> 9.2 (+0.3)

Clarity: 270.0 -> 320.0 (+50.0)

Perception: 10.0 -> 22.3 (+12.3)

Everything else aside, it was the experience gain for Prismatic Intent that stood out to him. Sure, a single point was almost insulting, considering the amount of effort he’d put in, but it spoke of more to come. Besides, he hadn’t really been focused on the metamagic itself, but on his auras. Samson was always saying in his Swordsmanship classes that by practicing wrong, the only thing you got better at was doing things wrong. You needed to master the basics the right way, and only then should you move on.

And so, Rain had been avoiding metamagic, allocating his daily mana to his lowest-tier auras to rank them up first. They’d level the fastest, and thanks to Aura Synergy, that would boost the efficiency of everything he did. That was just a side benefit, though. The real point was to get a feel for how each of his spells worked before he started tinkering with them.

For training Prismatic Intent, though, he needed to polish a single aura to perfection as a starting point. For that, he’d chosen Purify. With its low cost, he’d been able to spend an order of magnitude more time working on it than anything else. Winter’s cost was even lower, true, but the subsequent torrent of mana in the other direction disrupted things. It was like trying to find patterns in ripples on a lake versus the ocean in storm.

Granted, my ocean is never exactly NOT in storm. #DynamoProblems. There might be a way to fix that, but I need to talk to Tallheart to see if the trick I’m thinking of is possible. I’ll ask him tonight as long as he’s in a good mood for questions. For now, I’ll just carry on with the tricks that I have.

Reaching into one of his pouches, Rain removed a ball of wax, which he divided in two then stuffed into his ears. Next, he tugged a heavy cloth blindfold from a different pouch, wrapping it around his eyes before donning his helmet. After deactivating his armor’s Tactile Transference, he called up his interface to slot the accolades he’d borrowed.

6/31 Slots

Accolade

Bonus

6 [1x6]

Everdeep Fortress

+60 Perception

The wax-muffled rumble of the wagons became a grinding roar, and the smooth ride of Subtlety suddenly felt not so smooth. Every jostle sent signals verging on pain shooting through his nerves. The dry, salty air rasped at his lungs with each breath, tickling his nose hairs on the exhale.

The first time he’d tried this, he’d sneezed, and the resulting explosion of pain had practically knocked him unconscious.

It wasn't just his senses being multiplied by seven—that, he could deal with, especially with boosted Endurance. The real problem was the delta between Total Perception and Effective Perception. A delta of ten was nothing; in fact, he was so used to it at this point that it felt odd to go without it. At a delta of thirty, he started feeling hypersensitive, and some normal stimuli began to verge on being uncomfortable. At a delta of fifty…things became...worth it.

No pain, no gain. As sure as Dozer loves to clean, there’s been plenty of both.

Purify. Status.

Purify (15/15)

Purify poison, corruption, and contamination

Range: 68.1 meters

Cost: 150 mp/min

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

CLASS

LVL

CAP

+STAT

Engine of Change

30

30

0

EXP

NEXT

TOTAL

+SKILL

130,422

130,423

2,536,316

4

Vitals

CUR

MAX

RGN

Health

1,700

1,700

300/d

Stamina

1,700

1,700

520/d

Mana

88,400

88,400

172.9/h

Attributes

287/2,690

EFF

TOTAL

BASE

ACCLD

MISC

SYN

STR

85

85

10

0

75/500

20.6

RCV

16.8

30

10

0

20/770

5.6

END

62.9

85

10

0

75/310

7.4

VGR

47.8

52

10

0

42/1,140

9.2

FCS

85

85

10

0

75/2,000

50

CLR

320

320

320

0

0/2,500

320

PER

22.3

70

10

60

0/0

22.3

SPD

9.4

10

10

0

0/10

9.4

Rain looked at his positive—albeit slow—mana regeneration and smiled. He couldn’t help that smile, even though it was old news. Purify didn’t draw enough mana to overcome his base income. If not for the self-imposed mana budget, he could have used it literally twenty-four eight. And it was strong, too. Thanks to Aura Synergy, the filth-free zone was massive. The luminescent fog didn’t ramp in brightness as quickly as the spell’s stain-busting power, fortunately for his sensitive eyes, but it was still bright enough to be noticeable through the blindfold. He was making a point not to use it too much at night, lest he make himself visible from space.

Subtlety would be doing its part to keep his practice covert, at least. It was an enormous hunk of metal. Even with him elevated atop the cargo, far from the chassis, it would still be absorbing a good bit of the spell. It would block it entirely if he went inside, of course, but that would annoy Tallheart. That was something to be avoided. The cervidian had been grumpy ever since the brake failure incident, seemingly having taken it as a personal mark of shame or something.

As if I don’t ever make mistakes. Come on, Tallheart. Nobody is perfect.

Rain sighed gently, then focused on his mana, watching as it wove through the spell’s framework. With his Perception boosted, Mana Manipulation was less of a blunt club and more of a…slightly less blunt club. It was still pretty bad, honestly, but it was something. Even as hazy as his view was, he could see a few places where things had obviously gone wrong in the spell’s weaving. Picking the worst of these, he let the spell fade, then concentrated and tried again.

Purify.

The spot he’d focused on came out better that time, unga-bunga’d into submission.

Nice.

The mana-sensing side of Mana Manipulation got better with Perception, but the mana-moving side was still just as blunt as ever. Mana Manipulation was a spell too, of course, with its own pattern that was presumably leaking. By the spell’s nature, though, its pattern was invisible to him. It was like trying to see your own eyeball.

Rain clicked his tongue, seeing that in fixing one of Purify’s leaks, he’d created another elsewhere.

And so, the eternal game of whack-a-mole goes on.

He let the spell fade, then cast it again.

Purify.

While he’d had some success patching leaks after the fact, he found it better to nudge the spell’s matrix while it was forming. Once the pattern had solidified, any change risked shattering the whole thing. It was the difference between molding molten glass and trying to fix a window after it had cracked.

Purify… Purify… Purify… Shit.

He ground his teeth, having pushed too hard on the last attempt. The spell hadn’t even activated. There was nothing for it but to try again.

Purify.

Frustrating as it was, he WAS making progress. Every once in a while, the spell’s pattern would come out just a little bit better than average. In remembering how he’d done it that time, he’d be more likely to be able to do it again. If there was one thing he had, it was a good memory.

Purify.

It’s just… The moment I think I’m getting a handle on how the system works, it throws me a curveball. If I ever meet a Majistraal, I’m going to have some words with them about their documentation. I know I’m being petulant, but really, would it have been so hard to just slap the word ‘kata’ in the spell description?

Purify.

Granted, I shouldn’t be complaining too much. I get more detail than most. Mollo and his ridiculous jars. I mean, seriously. Still. It’s impossible to know what to expect sometimes. And other times, the expected thing seems impossible, then happens anyway.

Rain chuckled, then immediately regretted it. As the pain of spasming muscles faded, he turned his thoughts to his most exciting discovery in the last week, namely that Aura IFF went negative past level ten, just as advertised. Wards became damage amplifiers. Offensive Auras became flat resistance. And Purify, well… The less said about that, the better.

Purify.

There were a few strange ones, too.

In Detection’s case, the strict opposite of ‘finding’ was ‘losing’—which apparently meant selective amnesia or something like that. Critically, the person getting the amnesia wasn’t Rain, but everyone else. With Detection inverted, he could prevent people in range from noticing the spell’s targets, making them seem to slide into the background. He could even veil himself, he’d been delighted to discover. He hadn’t known if he’d be a valid target for Detection in the first place, not having previously felt the need to verify his own existence.

Purify.

It wasn’t invisibility, though, and that was an important distinction. The veiled individuals would be seen, just not noticed. If they did anything sufficiently interesting, the effect would break, and people’s memories of them would come rushing back. Even after the fact—say upon discovering a strip of bacon missing from their plate and asking themselves where it had gone.

Why yes, that IS an oddly specific example. Why do you ask?

Purify.

Boosting the power made the effect harder to pierce, yes, but not by much, and Arcane Resistance seemed to be particularly effective in helping an observer ignore it. Still, it was something.

Purify.

Compare that to Suppression, which did nothing at all. Ameliah had reported feeling a bit tingly, but that was it, no matter how much Rain boosted the power. His interface had been no help in explaining what was going on, and for all he knew, the tingle might have just been the placebo effect. The system generally didn’t allow flat mana cost reductions. No free lunch and all that. Energy had to come from somewhere.

Purify.

As unsatisfying as it was, the answer might just be: ‘Inverted Suppression does nothing, sorry.’ He’d need to run a proper blind trial on the tingling, of course, but he needed to do a lot of things. On the list it went.

Purify.

And then there was Essence Well. Rain’s dreams of becoming a mana vampire had been dashed. While the spell did let him hoover up mana from everyone in range, it cost him an equivalent amount of mana to use, making it net-zero. In other words: useless. The mana drain was divided amongst the targets, so it was basically a crap version of Discombobulate. The comparison had prompted Rain to boost the spell to see if he could make a decent attack out of it anyway, and that, in retrospect, had been unwise.

The moment the inverted spell had dropped below one-hundred percent efficiency, he had become incredibly, absurdly, cookie-tossingly ill. After evacuating his lunch, and subsequently evaporating his lunch with Purify, he decided that Essence Well was best left in its safe, normal operating region.

Purify.

As if I should have needed the reminder.

Purify.

Essence Well is best left untaunted, just like Happy Fun Ball.

Purify.

Oh, that’s a good one.

Winter.

Rain shivered as the chill washed over him, amplified by the Perception accolades. He did his best to ignore it, focusing on the much gentler currents of the second spell. They wove through Purify’s flows, guided by the matrix of Prismatic Intent. Winter was leaking horribly, the spell barely holding together. The second spell was always harder, and Prismatic Intent wasn’t doing much to help.

Nope. Not good enough.

Winter… Winter…. Winter….

After a dozen or so attempts, Rain stopped, releasing both spells. He’d gotten better at noticing his wooziness before he passed out, but there had still been the occasional incident.

Yes, training with two auras wasn’t strictly in line with Samson’s philosophy, but it was what had gotten him the experience point. Besides, he had a hunch.

