Grimoire in hand, she immediately set about summoning trees to settle her domain; however, once she was done with the familiar Lirasian Oaks, she began to summon Zulkora Floating Baobab trees in batches of twos and threes and sent them floating toward the perimeter of her domain.

“Gravity?” Azryet said.

“Yup,” Ali answered. Her tone was somewhat smug, if she were being honest with herself, but she decided it was appropriate.

“You plan on summoning that…”

“I always wanted to know if I could grant it additional domain magic spells,” Ali said. “I thought you might approve.”

“I do. And I suspect you will be pleasantly surprised,” Azryet said, chuckling so massively, her stomach wobbled in reaction.

Ali summoned several of her Deep Woods Ents and sent them out into the fray with orders to expand her domain by sprouting carpets of the highest-level earth-affinity mushrooms Basil had recovered from Zulkora, and as her domain spilled out, she decided she was ready.

Picking her spot, she created several boulders of gravity and earth affinity magicite to support her newest monster and then summoned it.

Obsidian Sandwyrm – Elemental Dragon – level 162 (Earth / Gravity)

She purposely made it the maximum level she could, and then immediately attached it to her still-growing domain, a maneuver she had grown exceptionally proficient in by now.

Domain Respawn applied to Obsidian Sandwyrm.Champion Domain Enhancement applied to Obsidian Sandwyrm.

To her surprise, she found Azryet was right, and she could indeed choose additional Domain Magic skills for her champion boss. It already came with robust endurance and strength enhancements, and the ability to summon Sand Vortices, so she doubled down on its strengths.

Elemental Storm (Gravity) applied.Rain of Ruin (Earth) applied.Zone of Destruction (Gravity) applied. Amplify Skill (Maw of the Sandwyrm) applied.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +5864.

“Oh, my goodness, that’s expensive!” Ali exclaimed. It was almost double the cost she was reserving to support her other champion boss, Maalgaroth. But it made sense; she had just applied a champion domain enhancement to something that was already a world boss in its own right. It had an unprecedented seven domain-class spells: the four she had just granted it from her domain attachment, and the three that it possessed innately: endurance and strength enhancements, and the ability to summon the Sand Vortex elementals.

Azryet’s laughter shook the rock under Ali’s feet as the gigantic Sandwyrm dove underground. “You never cease to impress,” he said.

Ali just grinned. As she watched, her new boss breached under a pack of demons, with a surge of gravity magic coming from its mouth that warped reality and bent light.

“You amplified that skill?” Azryet asked.

“Maw of the Sandwyrm,” Ali said, nodding. “It traps monsters with the gravity well, drawing them in, empowers its bite attack, and it’s also a healing skill if it’s used to consume rock or sand.”

As they watched, more and more demons were drawn into the gaping maw and sucked down into the dark, ravenous gullet. Then mana surged again, and a dozen Sand Vortices spawned as the monster began laying down dangerous gravity traps and summoned a heavy rain of boulders that came thundering down upon the demons.

“This is going better than I envisioned,” Azryet said. “Already, they have earned me twenty Authority. I believe Gromm has just completed his quest, and this should be sufficient to grant him the perfect path.”

“I’m glad,” Ali said, reveling in the sight of her now distant Obsidian Sandwyrm drawing on an extreme surge of mana. “Hide,” Ali whispered, but the simultaneous shouts and scrambling out of the way from the adventurers out in the chasm told her she had nothing to fear. Suddenly, an enormous sphere of space centered on the Sandwyrm simply folded in on itself, bending light so far that it seemed to turn inside out. There was a muffled whump, and then everything inverted, and all that was left in its wake was a massive crater filled with chunks of highly compressed Lithocite.

“That was… impressive,” Azryet said.

“Wow, the gravity Elemental Storm interacting with its earth affinity created earth affinity magicite?” Ali gasped. But it seemed that was not all, as several chunks of gravity magicite floated up out of the crater. Then sand billowed out from the wyrm as it dove again, and moments later, the crater was filled.

“You might want to claim your reward before your wyrm destroys it all,” Azyret said.

“My reward?” Ali said, glancing at him, and then out at the heaped corpses lying everywhere. “Oh, right!” With a gesture, she unleashed a wave of deconstruction that consumed every corpse in reach of her domain in a wave of erupting mana motes. Her Grimoire convulsed. Ali gasped at the deluge of information and runes that rushed into her mind as her vision dimmed ominously. Wow – bit off a bit much here…

The book thickened in a rush of conjured pages, and a storm of runes settled into the Grimoire. Notifications rang out as variants were inscribed, but then it paused on three notifications, waiting for her.

Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.

Immediately, Ali selected three free chapters, and her kobold, demon, and dragon imprints grew as the notifications continued to sound off.

“Get something you like?” Azryet asked, grinning wickedly.

“Ugh, maybe I should have taken it a bit slower.”

One thing was for sure: she wasn’t going to run out of interesting high-level kobolds, dragons, or demons any time soon. Hopefully, the headache would be worth it.

“This should be a safe spot,” Calen said, entering the same ice cavern outside of the dungeon that he had used as his camp when scouting. He finally released his Eclipse skill and the rest of his concealment magic, watching as Ali’s remaining Shadow Dragon revealed itself, still shadowy and indistinct even without stealth.

“This will work,” Ali said, the draconic syllables pronounced by the reptilian mouth still somehow conveying the sense that it was Ali who spoke. “I’m coming.”

Mana surged within the cave, and the Shadow Dragon vanished, and then suddenly, the cave was crammed with large, menacing trolls, with Ali appearing inside a golden bubble in the center. Calen found himself shoved up against the icy wall by uncomfortably placed knees and elbows.

“Err, maybe I should have brought smaller minions,” Ali said.

“Urk,” Calen managed, untangling himself from a troll finger that had somehow managed to find its way into his mouth. “Ptoui.”

With a little contortion and gymnastics, Ali managed to rearrange her trolls to free up a little space.

“That’s better,” Calen said, breathing without his ribs being crushed again.

“Give me a few moments to inscribe the locus, and then we can get Malika and Mato and start planning.”

“Not going to make a Gate?” Calen asked, a little surprised when she started inscribing a runic circle instead.

“I don’t want to risk alerting him by flooding the area with my domain mana,” Ali said, not interrupting the focus of her intricate mana inscriptions. “Besides, the Crypt of Kings’ domain seems hardened. It reminds me of the Demon God’s Lair in the Abyssal Realm. I’m certain I can cut it with my domain if I use a Gate, but it will take forever and most definitely trigger a dungeon rage.”

“I see.”

“Also, this way is one-way. Nobody can use a locus to get back to Myrin’s Keep,” Ali noted.

“Aah, that’s good,” Calen said, waiting patiently while Ali completed her runic circle. What she said sounded prudent – they most certainly didn’t want to alert the Blind Lich if they could help it, and dungeon rage was an almost dead giveaway.

A few moments later, Ali stood up, looking satisfied with her work. “There we go.”

“We should consult with Lyeneru,” Calen said. Everything they had discovered inside the Crypt of Kings told him they needed careful preparation. At least with Ali’s locus, they could return whenever they were ready.

“Right, let’s go home,” Ali said. “If you’re quick, you can even catch the tail end of the raid in the Abyssal Realm!”

“The what?” Calen said.

“Azryet asked for a raid group, and I made an Obsidian Sandwyrm champion.”

Calen just stared at her as she grinned back, and then she pulled out her Hearthstone and vanished.

“What craziness has she gotten up to this time?” Calen muttered, following a moment later with his own teleport home. “Making a Sandwyrm without me? The cheek of that Fae!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
