Their strike force’s port of exit was to be the fourth. Though in terms of the order of assault all four would open simultaneously. Zaessythra, Almyra and the Mage. Alongside himself, that was four Embodiers in this strike force. A mighty concentration of power, especially given how both Almyra and Kalmiron had Mantles.

Two Administrators’ Mantles in one strike group. From what he’d heard, Talasgan’s own strike force was composed of him and the Prophet. And given that the other two assault groups were the orcs and the dwarves respectively… the disparity in power was evident.

It was obvious that two of the four strike forces were meant to do the actual work. While the other half? Even if he was being optimistic, Orodan could see they’d been relegated to the role of cannon fodder.

Though perhaps if he fought hard enough they wouldn’t need to fill that role.

With determination in his eyes, he listened intently as Almyra laid out the specifics of their assault and how it fit into the overarching plan from Talasgan. Each assault group was to strike at a specific side of the black hole, with the aim being to capture the anchors, wrest control of them and begin using them to drive the black hole away from System space and towards enemy battle formations.

The anchors being capable of that function was something neither he nor the defenders of Glyphward knew. That, had been the work of Fenton Penny closely studying Zaessythra’s memories of Orodan’s first rampage against the Invaders.

Who knew she’d been watching so closely? As expected of the World-Queen of Vylrystia, taking every shred of information from many loops ago as planning.

Using this information, Talasgan had formed the overall plan of battle. To strike the black hole, capture the anchors swiftly and begin the process of steering the enemy’s siege weapon away from the System. And from there? Detonate it as far away as possible from the boundaries, ideally within enemy ranks.

The Invaders were not an entirely unified force. The sadistic Boundless One and its minions such as the moon devourers and seven tyrants were the bulk. But the Void Archons were mercenaries, alongide some more ancillary forces they had. Furthermore, according to Kalmiron, the black hole was incredibly expensive to prepare and maintain in such fashion. Just destroying it without it achieving its task would be a critical setback for the Invaders’ plans.

Which meant that the System’s fate depended upon this upcoming sallying strike.

Prior to their arrival, it was a hopeless thought. The Custodian was forever occupied keeping the Eldritch Boundless One’s energies contained, the Prophet had been a madman who could not be relied upon for anything and was as like to turn against the Administrators as to help them. Which left only the Mage and the Warrior to fight the Invaders.

And against all seven tyrants, one of whom was the Reject… not even the combination of Talasgan and Kalmiron could hope to succeed. Forced to remain perpetually on the defensive even before Orodan had ever become the time looper.

But now, with Orodan here, the Prophet restored and an extra Mantle in their hands wielded by Almyra… the System’s defenders stood a real fighting chance.

“That instrument of destruction draws nearer… will Talasgan not sound the signal to sally?” Kalmiron muttered.

Orodan stood ready upon what appeared to be a balcony of Glyphward, but it extended out for a hundred miles. Below them was the fleet of the Alastaian alliance. A mere dozen ships, mainly Blackworth, guarding a central flagship whose interior even Orodan could not peer into. Surrounding the balcony and out past a hundred miles, a glossy dark energy shield sealed the entire thing off from the outside. It was definitely empowered by System energy… lots of it. And from what Vision of Purity told him, it was an absurdly tough material; both his Time Mastery and Space Mastery were giving him the distinct feeling that it was heavily resistant to those too.

It wasn’t difficult to imagine that the film would open up or allow them passage when the time came. From their position on the fourth sally port, the assault groups of the other ports were also visible.

Kharadun Voidfortress and his mercenary dwarves were marshalled upon the cusp of the third port. Their voidfleets were ready. Most distinctive though, was the planet-sized flying mountain-fortress which floated in the deep void on the home side of the boundary. It was far too big to fit into a sally port. The fortress was manned by an impressive army of dwarves, firepower and defenses. And based off the feeling he was getting… there was more than one Embodier within that gigantic fortress. It would be a key instrument in drawing enemy attention and would likely present a serious threat to the Invaders’ black hole.

And on the second port, were the gathered forces of Azkar the War-Father and his orcs. A sea of red, green and ashen gray. A ferocious-looking frontline of large, imposing warriors in very heavy armor. Followed by rear-ranks of shamans, skirmishers and the like. They didn’t have much voidcraft, but what they did have couldn’t fit on the port itself due to size. Enormous beasts which ranged from hundreds of miles in size, to larger than Alastaia. The largest of them was the size of multiple star systems.

The slobbering thing whose tongue lolled out was shaped like a ball, but had an enormous mouth full of sharp teeth to go with its giant tongue. Structurally, it was entirely similar to the hungering moon devourers he’d seen beyond the boundaries… but it lacked that wicked rot and desperate hunger for all flesh. Rather… it seemed quite content; almost like a happy dog?

It was definitely an Embodier. It was one of the largest living things Orodan had ever seen in all his loops, and he’d fought a Living Crystal the size of a star system. This titanic thing was multiple times the size he recalled Ur-Vah’sahn being.

Good to know the other assault groups had more than one Embodier besides their faction leader. It gave Orodan a little more assurance that they weren’t just going out to die.

And finally, on the first port was Talasgan, the Prophet, the Master of Death and the Identifier alongside whatever smaller bands of combatants they were able to scrounge up. Their voidcraft were limited too. But appearances could be deceiving, and Orodan could immediately tell that most of the people on the balcony of the first sally port were either Transcendents or Embodiers. A concentration of quality. How these people had responded in time, Orodan did not know, but it was not unreasonable to think that there were plenty of experts loyal to the System who would be willing to respond to such a summons for such a critical assault.

Frankly, it made Orodan wonder again why Zaessythra and Almyra had committed so few of their forces. Even at full power, the armies of the Alastaian alliance would not be equivalent in numbers or average quality to these other assault groups. Barring their top end, they did not have too many Transcendents, let alone Embodiers.

Orodan would have to make up the difference himself.

Seconds passed as the black hole loomed closer.

The defenses of Glyphward began activating as well, presenting the notion that the defenders intended to remain inside and try to shoot it out from behind their defenses.

The rest of the Alastaian contingent were aboard the ships, leaving only Orodan, Zaessythra, Almyra and the Mage on the actual standing platform of the port. There was no anxious fidgeting here, nor any pre-battle nerves. Each person here was quite old and seasoned. Even Orodan, the youngest of them all, was likely a few thousand years old chronologically. They had, all of them, been in enough battles.

And yet, he couldn’t help but have a familiar bad feeling in his gut. He’d been in this position enough times before major battles.

A hand brushed his own, the fingers long and slender, yet warm and reassuring.

“It will not be how you are thinking,” she quietly spoke, as though reading him like an open book.

He smiled. “I thought you’re supposed to be the book here, not me.”

“You’ve never been difficult to read, Orodan. There are… things we have prepared for, but nothing will come of it. You’ve brought us all into the loops now, you’re alone no longer,” she continued. “We’ll fight, you’ll die or perhaps even win, and then we’ll be back in Ogdenborough before you know it. With plenty more skill levels to show for it no doubt.”

“Heh… you make it sound so simple like we’ve won already,” he lightly chuckled, his gaze then returned to the black hole above. “But perhaps you’re right. I’ve been in this same situation before a big battle so many times now that I’m conditioned to see it go wrong. I suppose I’m not alone anymore.”

Her fingers wrapped around his and gave them a brief squeeze before departing. Just in time too for the warmth of her hand had barely gone before a booming eruption of Glyphward Fortress’s central signal horn rang out. From what he’d heard, it was a titanic device which was sounded only in the most dire of circumstances.

Given the apocalypse threatening them all, the horn felt apt.

“Defenders of Glyphward! Calamity approaches from every direction! Boundary breached, Eldritch corruption spreading throughout our cosmos, Invaders assaulting multiple galaxies… these are dark times! Yet in times of darkness, the little light which remains must shine ever brighter. We are that light!”

Talasgan’s voice boomed out.

“Today we sally forth against the darkness of the horrible one. Our foe, sensing this moment of recent crisis, has brought its ultimate weapon to bear against the bounds of our home. Shall we allow this? I say nay!”

The words were standard fare, yet the feeling evoked within Orodan was not. That was certainly a skill.

“Not all of us shall return, but that is a fate I am willing to accept for even myself! For what is death compared to the eternal horror of failure at our foe’s hands? Should the great evil succeed it shall inflict unto us and our loved ones the very same fates you see reflected in those wretched things beyond! The role of guardian and steward of System space is entrusted not just to we Administrators, but to all of you! Let us show them our fury!”

Orodan’s soul certainly felt brighter and stronger. Whatever skill Talasgan used to rouse the assault groups, it worked. He could sense the power behind each group increase noticeably.

And with those final words uttered, the glossy film of energy surrounding each of the sally ports suddenly turned bright.

Almyra moved, conjuring twenty mirror clones of herself. “That’s our signal, pass through the barrier. Mage, might we trouble you to advance ahead of us and cast a barrier spell? You’re the most competent spellcaster among us.”

Kalmiron frowned, but the wizard’s pride had clearly been laid on the line, thus he moved forward and through.

Orodan, being the vanguard, was about to go ahead of him…

…when a hand grabbed his arm.

He turned a questioning look towards the source.

“Hold,” Zaessythra spoke quickly, urging him to remain. And at his look of confusion, elaborated. “We shall be… altering the plan slightly. Orodan, compress time now, quickly.”

He had no idea what was occurring but trusted her enough to act without question.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 101 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 102]

The aspect of Time Compression within the skill flared—combined skill still allowing isolated usage of its component skills—and time immediately sped up for Orodan to the point that anything that wasn’t him appeared to be moving roughly five-hundred times slower.

A quick flare of chronomancy pulled Zaessythra, Almyra and the ships of their fleet into this field as well.

“An impressive rate of compression… undetectable now only because the Administrators have gone on ahead and the fortress remains mostly unmanned,” Almyra praised. “It is a good thing we did not go around advertising your chronomantic abilities Orodan.”

Almyra stepped forward, staring at the barrier intently for several seconds.

Outside, Orodan could clearly see how everything was drastically slowed. Or rather, it was he and everything within his chronomantic field which was absurdly sped up. Ordinarily, self-amplifying chronomancy of this sort was easily detectable by enemy chronomancers or via specialized artifacts, enchanted items and wards meant to disallow free reign over the power of time in battle. But with the System barrier they were behind, one which oddly resisted time and space magic as well? It was a different matter.

Outside, the Mage hadn’t even noticed yet that the rest of his assault group was not accompanying him. The passage of time was five-hundred times slower. And even with the Administrator’s drastically faster reflexes, it would take some time to process the absence then react. Ample time for Orodan’s allies to do whatever they were intending on doing.

Even though he had no clue what it was.

“Might someone explain things now? A compression rate of five-hundred to one is time enough,” he spoke.

“The barrier has a tracing spell on it… very subtle, not standard spellwork either. Somebody wants to keep tabs on us,” Almyra noted, beginning to weave a spell between her hands. It was raw soul energy, likely something to deal with the very structure of the tracing spell itself. “And to answer your question, there is a traitor in this fortress who is likely to not have good intentions towards us.”

“Aye. The Master of Death told me as-”

