Grey-skinned, with organs and musculature quite different to any species Orodan knew. Its eyes were entirely blue with not a pupil in sight and the nose was barely existent, being only two slits. Floating in the void at just under seven feet tall, matching Orodan in height while only being a third slimmer in musculature, was the heavily armored spellcaster he had spotted earlier. The armor it wore was so absurdly wide that it made the alien being look like a battle golem.

This was possibly the most physically imposing and well-armored mage he had ever seen. And within it, suffusing its mind and soul, was a familiar sadistic pink-hued influence which Orodan was quite familiar with. He now realized what these maniacally happy beings were corrupted with. The very same energy.

That of the sadistic Boundless One.

He knew the Eldritch could corrupt someone without making them mindless. But the wicked sadistic Boundless beyond System space could as well? Was this a trait of all Boundless?

Upon stepping through the tear in space, this armored mage’s eyes furiously and tensely scanned the surroundings. The alien mage’s expression eased in intensity after confirming that none of the brainwashed individuals he’d knocked out were dead.

“I don’t go around executing hapless victims if that’s what you were concerned about. What have you done with them?” Orodan asked, pointing his sword at his opposite.

The alien being’s look was hostile, though it morphed into a brief flicker of confusion. Only then did Orodan realize neither he or it could understand one another through language alone. And this mage seemed to lack the soul sense that he had.

A series of low-pitched enunciations came forth from its mouth. The inside of which had teeth all around like that of a sandworm. Orodan consciously tuned out the sound and focused only on the emanations of soul energy accompanying them.

“The heralded one? You are competent… are you truly one of the anointed? I have never seen one of your kind. The outside one speaks of your kind sometimes.”

“The outside one?” Orodan questioned. This being was not of System space. So perhaps the outside one referred to the Reject? “Do you mean the Reject? That madman Xia?”

The alien mage still appeared as though he did not understand. And honestly, Orodan had no way of confirming whether it even was a he, for its anatomy underneath was entirely foreign despite having a bipedal, humanoid shape. In response, he gesticulated with both arms, mimimg dual swords, and only then did the Invader understand, giving a weird upturned shrug of the head which Orodan didn’t understand, but which the soul energy emanation informed him was meant to be a gesturing signalling yes, like a nod.

It spoke again. “You understand I, but I do not understand you. Does the abductor not teach you speech? Are you savage? Another crime committed by the abductor. Your fighting will stop here.”

The soul sense translator was jarring. He knew it was uttering different words, but via soul sense he could only glean the true meaning of each word even if linguistic variations had been used.

Still, no further words were necessary here. This was, based off power-level alone, a foe equal in strength to an Administrator. Likely one of the seven tyrants, especially if it knew the Reject personally. If Orodan could kill it here, the burden upon the other assault groups would be lessened. And so what if they couldn’t understand one another? Between the two of them, battle was the only language that need be spoken.

Orodan rushed forward with brutality, the Eidolon of Violence tearing the very distance between them. The bulk of the Invaders’ forces chasing after him were soon to catch up if he didn’t end this quick.

Which was when his assault met thin air.

The alien barely teleported away, eyes wide.

“Strong body, like a fierce void beast. You may know me as Vax’Tul’Qun, commander of our God’s forces. And I do not fight fair.”

Its foreign speech barely ended before the activation of a powerful device upon its neck flooded the area with dozens of ships. These were extremely heavy and bulky voidcraft carrying thousands of extremely heavily armored soldiers apiece. They were all similar in gear and physique to this Vax’Tul’Qun.

On the bright side, Orodan could clearly sense that these alien troops had been pulled away from another front near the black hole. On the not so bright side, nobody had mentioned these troops to him at all during the War Council and he was about to get bogged down in a fight with a new threat. But on the fantastic side… he would be having a good fight!

The first thing the soldiers did upon dropping down was attempt to rouse conscious the sacrificial hostages he’d knocked out earlier.

That wouldn’t do. Just because he wasn’t about to slaughter hapless non-combatants didn’t mean he was about to allow the enemy’s plan—whatever it was—to proceed unchecked.

A broom left his dimensional ring and soul energy began to emanate from it.

“Double Celestial! Scatter! Evacuate the mirrors! I shall attempt to slow it!”

Unfortunately for Vax’Tul’Qun, its warning and subsequent attempt to slow time for Orodan both failed. The broom flashed outwards, and immediately all one-thousand of the maniacally happy and glassy-eyed folk went limp, their consciousness knocked out in the mindscape. He would’ve purged the corruption too, but something powerful was anchoring it and what came next interrupted his concentration.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 194 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 195]

He felt something exceedingly strange and alien in each of those minds. Like something being reflected? What even was that?

The level gain came accompanied with that strange feeling of dread he’d had earlier with Incipience of Infinity, but stronger. How had he even gained a level from so minor an act?

He had little time to dwell upon the gain and instead shifted to combat. He could purge the corrupted hostages later. The alien infantry charged him.

Some approached in melee wielding dual-sides staves whose heads had scorching energy blades protruding. These had armor which was entirely black. Designated melee troops, rarer too. Only a few hundred approached him out of the thousands. He carved them apart like wheat from chaff, either Vax’Tul’Qun’s kind were miserable at close quarters martial combat, or these were disposable suicide troops meant to occupy him.

The other thousands of these blue-eyed soldiers were primarily ranged, wielding rifles.

Orodan had some knowledge of Gunsmithing, having dabbled in it to improve his understanding of Engineering, and he had to admit… it was quite the advanced model of rifle. No reloading after each shot, no requirement to chamber the next round like in a revolver. They were simply holding down the trigger and bolts of some substance which was a luminous combination of fire and lightning were streaming out one after another. The glowing bolts looked similar to what W78 and the combat units of the Unity would use. Plasma they had called it.

The bolts harmlessly spattered against him, his Fire and Lightning Resistance rendering the plasma utterly useless. And whatever physical force they imparted was of no use against his powerful form. This was the entire reason the Blackworth Collective never made such firearms. Firing too fast without empowering the shot produced a pitiful result.

Hells, Orodan would feel more threatened by the sharpshooters of the Collective than these bulky rifle troops. They might as well have been giving him a warm bath.

“Resistance skills! It possesses many forbidden powers of the abductor’s System! Deploy kinetic projectile weapons!”

Orodan had just finished massacring the last close-quarters warrior of theirs when a thunderous impact struck his chest.

The shot actually sent him hurling backwards, the heavy metal projectile burying a half-inch into his chest before a simple flex pushed it out and Genesis of Life made it as though the wound had never occurred. The real strategy revealed itself an instant later however, when another solid slug round hit him. And another.

And others after.

He looked up to see that it was not the soldiers aboard the voidcraft who were firing, but the craft themselves. The main guns upon them were unloading massive metal rounds at him. Each round was not too much of a threat… but when every ship was unloading the main guns and ancillary cannons at the same time?

It was one method of suppressing a martial warrior in the void where there was no solid ground to brace upon. Each impact sent him backwards further and further, despite him using spatiomancy to passively try and anchor himself in place. He didn’t have the specific skill for it, and Space Mastery alone could only get him so far.

Still, for him this was just training with extra steps.

Giant metal rounds fired from multiple voidcraft? It was no different to the old days where he’d started out dealing with the great arrows of a House Argon Adept archer.

Orodan allowed three more rounds to impact him, gaining a feel for the impact force, the timing, the projectile’s own mass and material properties…

…and then he moved.

His shield lashed outward. The heavy metal round caught perfectly at the right angle… and it went flying right back at the ship. The Perfect Parry aspect of Unassailable Fortress. Evasion would not be necessary. Orodan would receive each and every round and return them to sender.

Twenty more rounds struck, almost simultaneously. Yet the sword and shield wielded by one warrior returned them all unto their owners.

“Hull breach!”

“Mothercraft failing! Multiple comrades slain!”

“Incompetents! Scatter out and deploy weaponry from multiple angles of fire!” Came the frantic response of Vax’Tul’Qun.

A wise decision, for once the enemy voidcraft began forming a perimeter around him, reflecting each shot became exponentially harder. It was not that Orodan was slower than the projectiles. But rather, with so many hitting him from all sides at once, it was difficult to return them all.

Concurrently, the enemy tyrant began hurling gravity magic orbs his way, attempting to keep him further off-balance. Without any physical ground, what could he do against the power of gravity pulling him one way or another?

The two major problems were that he had only two arms and two legs, and no ground to stand upon. And if he retaliated with too much force, he risked killing the corrupted hostages the enemy had taken.

Of course he had various ways to get out of this bind, but to do so would’ve been to abandon the martial challenge before him. Shortcuts were no path to true strength. Thoughts of growing more arms and legs or using earth magic to create ground would’ve only sidestepped the matter and were not his way. Eidolon of Violence? Doable, but to rely upon a single catch-all skill without sharpening the foundational skills of his martial base was a surefire path to stagnation and complacency. After all, what use was mere violence when the medium of its infliction was not sharp?

No. The only way out of this fire would be straight through.

An Administrator-level opponent who refused to fight fairly and instead piled armies upon him while staying at range. A perilous situation, one he had little time for too. His allies needed him to prevail here so he could continue clearing the path for them. If he was too slow? They would be caught out in the open and butchered. And who even knew how the rest of the battle was going for the other assault groups? Orodan was too focused on this engagement to care about that.

The rounds struck him from multiple angles as the perimeter of the voidcraft surrounding him finalized. Worst of all, the enemy tyrant was not just a mage but also had some manner of command ability. Likely how it had stripped Orodan’s mental compulsion from its forces. The rounds striking him began to do some serious damage as the enemy tyrant empowered specialists whose amplification of each shot now reached the Embodiment-level.

Under such cataclysmic fire, Orodan’s mind went inwards as his body began moving on pure martial instinct alone.

What was unassailable fortress?

It was the fusion of his defensive prowess. His defensive bladework via Impregnable Bladewall, defensive shield work via Perfect Parry and defensive body movement via Evasiveness. A Legendary-rarity skill.

But thus far he’d only been using the sword and shield to parry and strike at projectiles to send them back.

Yet… a truly unassailable fortress was unassailable not just in itself, but in the area it safeguarded. What then, was the use of the evasiveness aspect of the skill? Ordinarily, he used it for moving out of harm’s way, or had a long time ago. His current style of combat left little room for dodging blows; it was not his way.

It was then that Orodan realized he’d been using Unassailable Fortress all wrong.

An unassailable fortress did not just guard itself. It guarded its surroundings. And the evasiveness aspect of it…

…could be used to step into a blow just as much as it could be used to step away from one.

[Unassailable Fortress 100 → Unassailable Fortress 110]

Orodan’s mind, body and the very zone around him became unassailable as he moved. Not to get away from the blows, but to get towards them.

He felt Vax’Tul’Qun’s shock as the next two seconds of the barrage consisting of thousands of metal shells…

…were all returned to their points of origin.

The crew aboard each of the voidcraft began crying out in terror and death as their ships were horribly damaged by their own barrage being returned unto them. The shots were empowered too, which meant they hit harder upon return.

