“A fool and a prop, or perhaps noble cannon fodder acting conspicuously to gauge whether anyone acts suspiciously,” she interjected, finishing the formation of the strange spell in her hands. “No Orodan, you do not know. In fact, we have kept it from you this entire time.”

Understandable, he was a terrible liar.

“Since we entered the fortress you mean?” he asked.

“No. Since the very first loop we arrived here, over eight-hundred loops ago,” she answered. “What? Did you think we weren’t there on the balcony of Glyphward, watching as you tore through the Invaders to get to the black hole the first time around? What you missed while you were fighting were the odd movements occurring within the fortress itself.”

“Odd movements? The traitor revealed themselves at that moment?” he asked.

“If it were that easy we would’ve pointed you at them already,” Zaessythra muttered. “No dramatic reveal I’m afraid. But the timing of the forces attacking you was incredibly suspicious, as was the absence of a number of individuals the very moment you sallied out.”

Almyra answered the natural follow-up question he had. “Those absent being the Master of Death and the Identifier.”

“A web of devilry and scheming… that pale shepherd of the dead is the one who warned me of treachery,” Orodan noted. “I doubt it’s him, or that giant eye.”

“Then we are of a mind. Now you understand our paranoia? This subtle spell upon the barrier all but proves there is foul play underfoot. As does the very conveniently timed advance of the black hole the moment you arrived at Glyphward, as though someone gave word to the Invaders,” Almyra elaborated.

She then finally let loose the magic which had been roiling in her hands all this time. It sailed a hundred miles, striking the glowing barrier.

Orodan’s eyebrows rose at the sight of her magic disrupting something very subtle in the still bright barrier. “Since when have you been capable of that? You used soul energy, but is that… spell breaking?”

Orodan was without a doubt the undisputed expert on soul energy as a substance itself within the Alastaian alliance. But when it came to actual application, a specialist using it for unfamiliar elements, chronomancy, spatiomancy and whatever else could still exceed him in understanding. This was one of those situations. Whatever Almyra was doing with soul energy, he did not entirely understand. Nor did his Vision of Purity manage to spot the subtle tracking spell which was allegedly laid into the barrier. Still, from the brief bits he could parse, it seemed to be a form of spell-breaking or counter-spell work Almyra was attempting.

Counterspelling, or spell-breaking, was an extremely difficult discipline. Even on Alastaia, before the loops and over the course of them when he’d acquired an education and learned of the world, the number of people capable of genuine counterspell work could be counted on three hands.

Orodan didn’t primarily fight via magic, thus he didn’t encounter spell disruption attempts too often. Even then the few times he had, such as when enemies in prior loops tried interfering with his chronomancy or spatiomancy were not counterspells or spell-breaking. Rather, those attempts had been his foes attempting to use their own chronomancy or spatiomancy to compete against him. Doomed attempts given how monstrously powerful he could make even a weak spell.

But, attempting to stop a spell, and actual counterspelling were two different things. Otherwise blocking magic with a shield could be called a counterspell and Orodan could go around calling himself the best spell-breaker in the universe.

No. True counterspelling required unraveling the very structure of the energy coming one’s way. Chronomancers could not stop spatiomancy, spatiomancers could not stop chronomancy, yet a true spell-breaker could stop any and all forms of structured energy, regardless of magic type or energy source. The only true example of genuine counterspelling he’d seen was in Kalmiron, the Mage. The Dispel skill the Administrator used was a true counterspell and could cause mana and soul energy based energy phenomenon to fall apart instantly.

And now it seemed his fellow time looper was attempting the same.

“One can only fight against someone so many times without picking up a few tricks,” she uttered, still facing the barrier.

It glimmered for a moment, and then, an almost imperceptible part of the magic within it came apart like a string being untied with a pull. This was a true counterspell, unraveling the very structure of the magic itself. And to do so without affecting the barrier overall…

“Damn… you’ve been training in secret,” Orodan honestly praised. “I could maybe clean the spell out of the barrier, but not without sounding whatever alarms are built-in. Trying to get revenge on the Mage for all those defeats?”

“Hmmph… hardly. I shall not be competing against him in that which he has devoted his entire life to,” she corrected. “But his method of spell-breaking is quite unique. Without the advantage of a time loop I doubt there are many who live to incorporate it after seeing it. Now then, come aboard Orodan, we shall be taking an alternate route.”

Orodan stepped aboard the forward leading ship of the Alastaian alliance’s fleet. Their number of voidcraft was pitiful, and he still couldn’t see what exactly was on the central flagship the fleet was guarding, but it would have to do. He trusted Zaessythra’s acumen for strategy, he trusted Almyra’s ability to devise multiple layers of plans.

And if all else failed? His sword arm and martial prowess were the one thing he could count on.

On-board, the voidcraft was crewed primarily by Blackworth Collective forces, all of whom looked quite veteran as though they’d been hand-picked for this mission. Even then they couldn’t help but stare at him as though they were seeing a ghost. Unsurprising given how infrequently the average looper had gotten to see him over the past eight-hundred loops where all he did was train, battle and repeat.

The crew were mostly sailors, meant to operate the ship and its guns, alongside an officer. Though there were two peak-Transcendent sharpshooters as well.

“Mister Wainwright, ser! It’s an honor to fight at your side.”

“We’ve got your back my lord. Not one o’ them foul void scum will get to yer’ six with us on the watch.”

Orodan gave the two women a nod and the standard salute of the Volarbury county militia, closed fist over heart. They might not have been from where he was, but a salute between warriors was something which crossed interplanar cultural boundaries.

The ship had a glowing three-dimensional map of the battlefield as well, alongside a distinct route meant for their assault group to take.

“We’re looping all the way around the rear?” he questioned, looking at the intended course. A course that would send them barreling right into the back ranks of the Invaders to strike at the black hole from behind.

Zaessythra began pacing around the projection and took on the task of clarifying the plan. The tactics were her work after all.

“There are two important factors in our plan. The first, we cannot trust any of our supposed allies until we’ve ferreted out just who the traitor is. Your endearingly predictable habit of sharing with everyone the fact that you are the time looper has undoubtedly made you a target. If the traitor is to strike at all… it shall be against you primarily,” she expounded, pacing as she did. “And the second… is opportunity. This sudden and rushed advance of the black hole did not occur the last time we entered this fortress. It only occurred this loop after your arrival… specifically, after your fight against Talasgan. Whatever the enemy saw, it concerned them, enough to rush the approach of their siege weapon significantly. Naturally, this has left their flanks full of several gaping holes as their rear forces are yet to catch up. To compensate they’ve loaded as many forces as they can up front, assuming the urgency of defending against such a rapid approach will cause the defenders to focus on the front.”

“Or they could have a trap ready at the rear, prepared to annihilate anyone who tries such a tactic. One of war’s many grim possibilities,” Almyra added pessimistically. “But… I suppose that’s preferable to being blindsided by an unknown threat from behind while we heroically charge forward in a straight line as the Administrators would have us do.”

Orodan agreed with that reasoning. “Better the knife we see than the dagger from behind.”

“And we have the almighty Orodan Wainwright with us,” a Collective officer piped up. “With Lord Wainwright on our side, victory is assured!”

Almyra shook her head and returned to her own preparations as the men and women of the crew cheered at those words, rejecting the somber atmosphere her words had created. A swift save by the quick-thinking officer, salvaging crew morale and preserving their nerves. Orodan forgot sometimes that his fellow looper had essentially been a paranoid recluse for tens of thousands of years before her loops ended and his began. Working from the shadows through a figurehead monarch of the Collective didn’t exactly foster good social acumen. He doubted King Alstatyn would word things as bluntly.

The crew—even the two Transcendent sharpshooters on-board—looked nervous. They were experienced veterans all, specifically selected to head this assault for their skills and mindset. Yet it was all too easy for him to sometimes forget that not everyone was Orodan Wainwright, eternally glad to do battle and suffer endless pain as nothing more than the casual price of strength.

They weren’t about to face some run-of-the-mill foe. Their enemies would be swarms of psionically-linked Void Archons, horrific moon devourers and worse. Frankly, Orodan felt as though he still hadn’t seen the full breadth of the enemy forces last time either, so who knew what else remained in store for them?

The odds were heavily stacked against these brave soldiers, and dwelling on it caused his shoulders to feel heavier. Yet he welcomed the weight gladly. Orodan would fight hard enough that none of his own would die today.

“Well? Are we done with the planning for our little act of rebellion?” he asked, rapping sword against shield. “I’m itching for another go at these invading pests.”

Zaessythra sighed. “If we wait just two minutes longer our route will be even clearer of foes as they focus upon the other assault groups.”

Orodan shook his head at this. “No. To allow others to spill blood while we wait in comfort would be the height of cowardice and dishonor. I will go now and begin clearing our path. It should make the approach safer for our ships.”

“I would rather you did not,” Zaessythra spoke, frustration in her tone. “Must you always lead in with that stubborn mentality of yours? Let the dwarves and orcs take their fair share, they are honorable warriors who you’ve rendered aid unto already. And the Warrior and Prophet are more than capable of handling themselves.”

“Perhaps there truly is a traitor among the defenders, mayhap there is not. But the warriors fighting out there will be in grave danger if we delay our entry any longer. To leave them to bear more of the enemy’s ire would stain our own honor,” Orodan argued in return, his mind dead set upon his course. “I shall go. Follow afterwards, your route will be less risky.”

Zaessythra looked displeased, her plan now askew.

“I do not agree with this recklessness. It is plain to see that you are one of the main threats to the enemy Orodan. The defenders know this, the enemy surely knows this given their sudden assault. Going out there alone will lead to you being targeted. And with what esoteric things even I cannot be certain.”

“And as we speak, the Invaders target those laying their lives on the line for the defense of System space. This discussion is over.”

Orodan had nothing else to say. As a warrior, when one had a line, one defended that line. Too many people had died for him already. Waiting in leisure while the soldiers of the other assault groups absorbed increased enemy pressure was unacceptable to him. The risk of a traitor or no, he would not allow the circumstances to shift his code of honor.

He stepped into the bright boundary separating System space and the greater cosmos outside.

His soul blazed with power as he exited, a casual side effect of very suddenly and abruptly transitioning from a five-hundred times faster chronomantic compression to standard time. Ordinarily the bleed-off was a little less dramatic, but the pure black boundary wall of System space behind him seemed quite good at blocking chronomancy as well as it did physical objects.

And with his soul blazing with that much power so abruptly… Orodan stood out like a burning beacon to absolutely everything on the battlefield the moment he entered.

On the other side of the boundary the black hole had an oppressive weight to it which couldn’t be felt from within the confines of Glyphward. And with it as a backdrop, the battle was in full swing.

Kharadun’s planet-sized mountain fortress was fighting off multiple world-sized moon devourers while the Embodier himself held off some nightmarish looking humanoid creatures which were the size of giant towers. Orodan hadn’t seen these before. They looked oddly similar to the moon devourers, but more evolved. As though the desperate and endless hunger of these world-shaped monstrosities had taken on a bipedal form. Stronger too. Embodiment-level at the least.

