“I’ll be moving out to assist with the other anchors,” Orodan interrupted.

“Time looper, even with just one anchor we can reverse course. You remaining here and helping steer the enemy’s siege weapon away would be of more tactical benefit to us than marching off into further danger. Your warrior’s soul is truly respectable, but we cannot compromise the plan.”

“No. You and your forces can remain. I shall go,” he spoke, decision final.

He did not like the fact that he still knew not where his own allies were. Where was the overseer shard? Where was the rest of the battle? The Reject had not even made an appearance yet either.

“Then I shall come with you. My loyal reavers shall remain behind here to defend the anchor in our stead.”

Orodan saw no issue with this, though felt that Azkar might get himself killed in the sort of fight Orodan and Xia would engage in.

He stepped put of the anchor structure and into the area within the black hole itself.

Naturally, even he would be crushed at this point of strength if he truly entered the center of a black hole. However, so would the Invaders who needed to traverse the thing. Thus there were spatial tunnels running through the heart of it, allowing safe passage.

The two of them traversed through these tunnels for a while, and Orodan had Vision of Purity up as he did, though the sheer interference of a black hole, which was like a solid block of impenetrable rock in his vision, made the skill useless for detection. There was simply too much interference to use purity as a metric of sight. His passive ability to sense souls however, he constantly searched with.

After a while, they came to an crossroads.

“Orodan Wainwright, I believe this way might yield results,” Azkar spoke, gesturing towards one direction.

Yet… that did not seem right. Yes, there were souls that way, Orodan’s soul sense could tell as much. But it seemed uniform and none of the souls were in any state of conflict. Either they would be walking into a group of allies who had won, or an enemy ambush. On the other hand, though the distance was far… Orodan could sense souls down another path.

And these souls in particular bore pink corruption.

The hostages that had eluded him earlier.

Wordlessly, he moved down that path, keeping his sword and shield drawn.

Azkar radiated concern from his soul as he followed. Orodan wasn’t concerned.

The interior of a black hole was a lot quieter than one would expect. The tunnel walls were made of a glossy film somewhat similar in look to what the boundaries of System space were composed of, illuminated only by the light of Orodan’s own soul.

“I fear we may be walking into an enemy ambush, Orodan Wainwright.”

“Good. Then we shall fight our way out like warriors, yes?” he replied and then gave the orc a sideways glance. “Besides, the same could be said of the path you suggested earlier.”

“Hmm, that is true,” Azkar replied.

The remainder of the walk continued on until they reached a giant chamber within the very center of the black hole. It was a most ominous location and Orodan felt his soul thrum strangely just being here.

Within, were the thousand corrupted hostages the enemy had managed to evacuate. They were still knocked unconscious, his Celestial skill was not so easily bypassed at the Embodiment-level. But the overseeing man watching over them did not seem to mind that at all.

A smaller crystal of the sadistic Boundless One was present in the room as well. But Orodan had dealt with its crystals before. They were completely pitiful compared to the real thing they were Avatar of. No, the real threat in the room was the hooded and robed man watching the knocked out hostages with a serene smile. A human by the looks of it.

Upon seeing Orodan, the man smiled.

A guttural speech left his mouth.

“The destined one… no… hold…”

In a grotesque display, the man tore out his own tongue and used the blood to write something upon his forehead. And he did this while maintaining eye contact with Orodan the entire time.

Orodan felt only the briefest stir of soul energy, and then…

“There we are… much better. My apologies, my lord, my destined saviour… our hero. Long have I awaited you.”

Orodan frowned. Hero? Saviour?

“You speak my tongue?”

“No… but for you I can. A costly ritual, one only you are worthy of.”

Azkar stiffened immediately.

“Orodan Wainwright. Do not let this wicked thing speak to you in your own tongue! It is the Apostle, one of the seven tyrants! Here, I shall strike it down where it-”

At the same time, another group entered the chamber from another side.

And Orodan had confirmation enough. His sword moved.

“Orodan! He is the traitor! Azkar is-”

However, Orodan’s sword was already buried to the hilt in the War-father’s throat. Just in time before the orc’s axe would’ve caught him in the back.

The orcish Embodier gurgled, eyes wide in shock and anger.

“H-how long….?”

“Since we reached the anchor,” Orodan answered. “I’ve never been good at reading through complicated schemes. But your Reavers’ wounds? That was the first part of the puzzle which didn’t add up. And from then on, you only deepened my suspicions with each moment.”

But what Orodan did not expect was for multiple groups of people to enter right as he finished executing the War-Father on the spot.

The first to enter was the group led by Talasgan the Warrior, the Prophet alongside. The second to enter was Vax’Tul’Qun and a massive force of the Invaders. And the third entering via dimensional pathway… was the Custodian?

The hammer and orb wielding Administrator, the one who kept the internal Eldritch at bay within System space… fell through the dimensional pathway and onto the ground.

Dead.

And over its corpse stepped the true threat.

Wielding two swords and with a manic smile upon his face. The very first time looper of them all. Formerly an Administrator, rejected and fallen from favor.

The seventh tyrant. The Reject. Xia.

“Why what an absolutely packed social event we have here! In the interest of making new friends I’ve decided to invite myself to this grand old ball. Who shall I dance with first? My most traitorous and cunning mountain of a former colleague here?” he asked, giving the Warrior a mad grin. He then turned to Orodan. “Or the almighty time looper who’s caused such chaos over here? Oh I’m getting giddy with excitement!”

“Xia! You… you killed him?!” Kalmiron demanded angrily, standing alongside Almyra and Zaessythra’s battlegroup.

“Of course I did! When the cat is gone the mice come out to play, hehehe! What did you think would happen when all of you so bravely charged out to face the big bad enemy Boundless like the glorious heroes you are? Did you forget about little old me? The same Xia who you lot happily threw into that freak’s cage? Well, the joke’s on you my old friends, the Eldritch makes me perfectly suited to taking a peek inside the bowels of System space,” the Reject replied while madly laughing. “And now… all that Eldritch is going to have a grand old time spreading everywhere!”

“You have done well, Xia,” the Apostle spoke, mouth still profusely bleeding from the removal of his tongue. “With the Custodian gone, the last barrier for our God’s entry has been removed. And now… we sacrifice the mirrors one by one to the Eldritch, that the two concepts may merge and two siblings may become one again.”

With that said, the Apostle smiled at Orodan, maintaining eye contact… as he stabbed the first unconscious hostage in the chest with a special dagger. One which had purplish-gray energies coursing through it. Eldritch.

Orodan grit his teeth as the innocent sacrifice howled in pain even while unconscious. Their body becoming a hotbed for the merger between Eldritch and the innate corruption of the sadistic Boundless.

No more.

He leapt over the heads of everyone, rushing in to kill this Apostle…

…only to have two swords meet him halfway while he was midair.

The two of them were above the ground. Orodan’s soul energy keeping him afloat while whatever cultivator technique Xia was using kept him astride. Above everyone else, the two were in a weapon deadlock.

“Oh… you’re strong! I’ve never felt a time looper be so strong! What do they feed you? Hahaha!”

“Out of my way,” Orodan warned once.

“A tempting offer, let me think about it. Hmm… no.”

No parlay necessary.

“Shields!” Zaessythra warned, knowing what was about to occur.

“Barrier engineers! Deploy def-”

An absolutely ferocious trade of melee combat erupted then and there.

Zaessythra, Almyra and the Administrators were forced to take cover lest the stray shockwaves injure them. Even Talasgan was forced to at least brace. The unfortunate forces of Vax’Tul’Qun didn’t fare too well however. A good portion of them were killed on the spot.

The Reject was absolutely manic, insane, crazed.

Orodan was absolutely rage-filled, violent, aggressive.

Both of them were pure melee martial specialists from different walks of life.

It was akin to two forces of nature colliding. Yet…

…slowly but surely, Orodan was coming out on top.

A knee shattered the Reject’s ribs and had him bent over Orodan’s striking limb. Yet, the madman was smiling even as he was folded in half

“I-incredible…! So that caged monster’s final gambit really did pay off… you really are as strong as they say…”

Orodan did not let up. The furious melee between the two of them continued. Concurrently, the battle below began in earnest.

Talasgan, Kalmiron, the Prophet and Orodan’s allies fought against the Vax’Tul’Qun and his overwhelmingly numerous force of Invaders. But without the forces of Kharadun Voidfortress and the orcs, the combat was looking to be a struggle. And now that Azkar had proven himself a traitor who knew when the orcs would come barreling down one of the entrances to join the enemy?

Still, amidst the clash of blows Orodan briefly wondered why Talasgan wasn’t handling matters down there? He’d taken out at least one problematic tyrant. And the Warrior was one of the few beings who even Orodan couldn’t confidently yet say he’d beat.

Regardless, all that was ancillary to his fight against Xia.

He was gaining the upper hand, yet killing the Reject would take time. And whenever he attempted to bypass Xia to strike at the Apostle, the mad Administrator simply got in his way once more.

“I see you’re getting angry… good, good! Have I given you no face? Am I courting death? Muahahaha!”

Angry? This was just his natural expression. Orodan was no impatient child who would succumb to a cheap taunt. He lacked patience when it came to the matter of whether to commit violence. But in the midst of a fight when lives were on the line, he knew there was no room for personal frivolity.

Over the next three seconds, which may as well have been an eternity given the speeds they were fighting at, Orodan finally had the Reject cornered.

A crushing overhead blow which locked both dual swords into defense and forced the madman’s guard to buckle was then followed by a Smite of Abrupt Deliverance launched right at Xia’s chest.

The fallen Administrator howled like a crazed lunatic as he flew downwards and struck the ground of the chamber right near the Apostle. Orodan wasted no time and was a few metres away from running the sickening cultist through when his sword ran through an unintended target’s chest instead.

“Heheheh… you sure are strong… I admit, you’re probably an even better natural warrior than that big lug, no wonder he made you fight me.”

Orodan had been halfway through pulling his sword out when the words gave him pause.

“What do you mean?”

“They don’t give out a title as pretentiuos as ‘The Warrior’ without the recipient being exceptionally cunning and devious too. You on the other hand, are straight as an arrow and denser than a rock my little Wainwrighting friend, but I’m afraid this is the end for you,” the Reject coughed out blood as he spoke. “Look at you, all brave and noble, selected for the time loop… feh! Think you’re some sort of hero do you? A chosen one? Old Xia here used to be all of that and more!”

Bolts of strange ethereal lightning began flowing out of his body, forcing Orodan backwards. Notably, his Lightning Resistance did nothing to stop his flesh from charring and blackening upon contact.

“You think I wasn’t the hero? The greatest cultivator of the old world before that freak kidnapped us all… not these useless bloody numbers, but real cultivation. And what did I get for my loyal service to the System and that monster? Disgrace, exile and torment! My wife and child dead despite its false promises to bring them back! And you, a freak, hand-crafted by my tormentor, are the symbol of every injustice I have suffered. You think you know power? No… let me show you what real power is,” the man gutturally spoke, his voice beginning to turn almost divine, as though multiple people were speaking through him. “Supreme Dao of the Heavens, hear me! Let your chosen son Xia, wield your strength once more!”

One moment Orodan was standing upon his own two feet. The next, he was buried in the wall of the gigantic chamber, the entirety of the black hole they were within shaking from the force.

He tried to get up, he did. But two dual swords impaled into his chest, keeping him pinned down. A familiar position.

“You have defied Heaven’s will, mortal. The tribulation has come to strike you down.”

Whatever spoke, that wasn’t the Reject.

