The perimeter of fire formed to shoot him from all angles was no longer relevant as he began evading right into the shots, sweeping dozens in a single motion perfectly.

This… this was a true unassailable fortress.

Vax’Tul’Qun’s neck device glowed once more, summoning another large contingent of enemy reinforcements. Not more of its own troops this time, but the hungry moon devourers he was familiar with. And leading them was an incredibly powerful Embodiment-level presence on the same level as the tyrant he had been fighting thus far.

“Moon mother, the mirrors have been evacuated, the Apostle has custody of them. But… this heralded one is strong. Even without a direct clash I can sense it is beyond me. It would be folly to test myself fairly against it. Will you render aid?”

Orodan cursed as he just now realized that the robed humans he had knocked out were now gone entirely. Had that been the entire point of pinning him down for a moment? It was apparent that he was no commander with sight of the bigger picture.

As for this newcomer… it was a strange being. Humanoid in shape, feminine in particular, yet looking as though it was made of white moon rock. Upon sight, it would not be unreasonable to assume someone had carved the sculpture of a woman from moon stone.

Yet that was where the similarities ended. The mundane eye could not see it, but he could. A very thin slit where the mouth would be, almost imperceptible. Had an endless maw inside. And the inside of that maw was larger than a dozen star systems put together. And similar to Vax’Tul’Qun, it too had that sadistic pink hue of power coursing through it.

The stout tower-sized things fighting Kharadun had been smaller than the standard moon devourer but far stronger. This thing took it even further, being only a head shorter than Orodan himself, but causing his alarm bells to ring as though he was facing an Administrator. Just being in its presence made him feel as though he was being eyed up as a meal.

Orodan felt an aura of hunger wash over him, not affecting him due to the strength of his soul but causing Vax’Tul’Qun to subtly drool and his soldiers to begin clutching their stomachs. Hells, some even began pulling out rations from their packs in an attempt to stave off the feeling.

“The enemy has already breached three anchors while the Exvathamar and the three weaker chosen struggle to defend the weapon without our aid. And here you are, asking for more aid yourself? Pitiful. You are the incompetent you label everyone else. You cannot manage a singular foe even with such numbers? You bring shame to yourself and fail our God. The lieutenants of the great abductor reap a savage toll upon the swarm and my children. We will be swift here or else you shall face reckoning.” Its soul emanations were cold and hungry. Vax’Tul’Qun had a measure of emotion within it which Orodan could vaguely relate to as a human. This thing did not.

“And the outsider? What does he do? With his aid…!”

“The outsider does as he pleases, consorting with the Apostle to arrange for our true goal. Do not expect his aid.” it spoke, its soul emanations getting the message across even if Orodan could not understand a whit of its horribly guttural language. It then looked at him most hungrily. “Now then… an anointed? Such a unique specimen… perhaps I shall eat it? Perhaps I shall let my children partake of the scraps once I am done. Such a delectable soul… how it blazes so…”

Vax’Tul’Qun did not look pleased by the rebuke or the news, but either the tyrant was diplomatic and maintained relations or this moon mother was his greater despite being on the same relative level of power. Still, Orodan thought it was good news, knowing that System forces were doing well elsewhere took a weight off his shoulder and vindicated his decision to rampage back here to clear a path. The more forces he drew unto himself, the easier everyone else’s task would be.

And so what if this thing had a maw larger than most mortals could comprehend? Orodan would turn this sculpture into rubble.

“Two tyrants for me? I’m almost offended you didn’t bring all seven,” he interjected, delivering the taunting triple rap of sword upon shield. “Moon mother is it? An interesting method of conflict resolution… where I come from, calling one’s mother to handle a fight for you is rather embarrassing.”

The armored mage didn’t understand him, but the moon mother seemed quite attuned to souls and certainly did. Her mouth split open in a grotesque attempt at a wide grin which exposed the black void within.

“It has correctly identified your incompetence, Vax’Tul’Qun. I rejoice in joy for it is not often a meal is both amusing and delicious. Come… my children shall receive not a single bite of you. You are mine.”

The heavily armored battlemage began empowering his troops and the additional moon devourers which had shown up, but all of that was irrelevant.

For now that there were no hostages around, Orodan had leeway to unleash his full power.

The moon mother was not some elegant combatant. It bullrushed him like an absolutely feral, unhinged terror, blazing through the void like a horror whose arrival was inevitable. He welcomed this and met it in the middle.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 101 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 103]

[Elemental Living Enchantment 74 → Elemental Living Enchantment 75]

[Draconic Fireball 107 → Draconic Fireball 108]

The battlemage and the rest of the enemy’s troops were blown away by the collateral shockwave of collision.

It was strong, but not as much as the Warrior. Orodan held the power advantage.

“Finally, a proper brawl!” he exclaimed as the two tied up and began spinning in the void in a chaotic ball of savagery.

It did not strike, instead opting to wrap around him with both its arms. And then…

…its maw opened and a long tongue slithered out. And where it touched, his face ceased existing.

Furthermore, it was not just the physical, but the non-material which its tongue affected too. His soul energy was devoured by its maw.

He reformed quickly enough, but absolutely none of his durability skills helped against whatever manner of consumption it was using. As though it was devouring existence itself. A terrifying foe.

One which made his blood boil with battle lust.

Orodan began exchanging blows while they were entangled, and immediately it became apparent that his raw savagery and berserk aggression in battle were too much for it. A few dozen punches, elbows and knees later, it immediately disentangled itself from him, several expansive cracks now visible upon its form.

Whatever it erased with its tongue, Orodan simply reformed. And whatever soul energy it consumed, he had an endless supply of.

“Brutish thing. Not even Talasgan dares to confront me too closely yet you would lay harm upon me? You reform flesh like water… and I sense no bottom to your soul… what are you? Vax’Tul’Qun, open fire upon it.”

The heavily armored battlemage commanded whatever was left of its forces to rain down heavy metal rounds, but Orodan would have none of it.

Instead of it rushing him, this time he rushed it, wrapping his arms around it in a tackle.

The moon mother hissed grotesquely, but he cared not. His tackle brought the two of them crashing right into the voidships of the other tyrant. And then… Orodan began producing large amounts of soul energy, causing his body to glow like a star.

The moon mother trembled, overcome with hunger, and its maw began absorbing soul energy into it like a sinkhole in a lakebed. However, its uncontrollable hunger had one other catastrophic effect… it drastically increased the suction power of its maw. Which Orodan now redirected by gripping its jaw and sweeping its head across the enemy fleet.

The souls of countless enemy soldiers were instantly devoured, leaving their bodies and flying right into the moon mother’s nearly bottomless maw. They dropped like puppets whose strings had been cut. Soul sight also told him that the souls were truly, genuinely, being obliterated once inside. A horrifying prospect, and making this thing one of the few entities he knew that could permanently destroy a soul unless the loops restored it.

“Contain yourself! Stop your hunger!”

Unfortunately Vax’Tul’Qun’s cries fell upon deaf ears for the hungering tyrant was far too enamored with absorbing Orodan’s bottomless well of soul energy, something he kept generating and gladly feeding it, causing it go further out of control into a state of pure feeding frenzy.

Ten seconds in, with a majority of the enemy reinforcements dead and the other tyrant looking on in horror, the moon mother seemed to realize what was occurring, but it was too late.

Orodan’s arms were now wrapped around its neck. The real threat it posed was endless consumption. A grave threat to anyone but him. But up close, when he had its neck in his grasp? There was only one outcome.

[Eidolon of Violence 143 → Eidolon of Violence 144]

Its head came off in a shower of dark, sickly yet oddly glowing ichor. Its statuesque body swelled further and further, the space inside the maw now rupturing outwards to occupy the material plane. And soon enough, it was but a giant moon devourer corpse the size of a dozen star systems floating in the void.

One down. Orodan pointed his sword at the other one.

“Screen my retreat!”

Vax’Tul’Qun loudly ordered, winking out of the area with a subtle usage of spatiomancy.

Coward. Orodan halfway considered pursuing but there was no telling whether his spatiomancy skill would hold up against the tyrant’s own, and chronomancy just didn’t seem to work the same way out here beyond the bounds of System space. There was no river of time.

Regardless, he had a plan to stick to and he could only hope the other assault groups were doing well in their advance thanks to the ire he’d drawn.

Vision of Purity scanned the area and he saw the battlegroup led by Azkar doing quite well. However having made his way to the rear ranks of the Invaders, he was now behind the black hole, and Vision of Purity couldn’t see through such a dense thing and out to the other side.

Most strangely, his allies were nowhere to be seen. Where had Zaessythra and Almyra gone? They were supposed to have been following and using the route they’d charted together, right?

In the absence of plans, the only course was to move forward. To that end, assisting the orcs and making entry alongside them seemed the logical move.

By the time he reached them, Azkar and his orcs had seemingly wiped out all opposition on their approach.

“Behold the mighty time looper approaches! In fear of him the enemy no longer encroaches!”

A rhythmic greeting by the larger-than-life leader of the orcs.

“Azkar. You and your lot left not a single foe for me? A shame,” Orodan lightly greeted.

The orc boisterously laughed.

“Ah but we saw how you slew one of the enemy’s tyrants and sent the other running. Truly, a display of valor any warrior should want to emulate. Why, soon enough I have no doubt you shall surpass Talasgan himself.”

The orc was laying it on a little thickly he felt, but a dire battle could make one’s inhibitions loosen and bonds of camaraderie form quicker.

“I slew most of those blue-eyed warriors and their ships. What force were you and yours engaging here?” Orodan asked. “Your assault group is farther out than I’d expect.”

A number of the orcs were wounded too, not wanting to make eye contact with him. Perhaps out of shame that they were wounded? He chalked it up to being an oddity of orcish culture. Still, a number of these warriors were quite roughed up. He saw all manner of magical wounds on them. Fire, lightning, ice, water and wind. Also alongside were bullet holes in some of them.

“We intercepted a fleet of enemy voidcraft meant to reinforce your fight farther back along the route, and during the struggle, we were separated from Talasgan and Kharadun’s groups. A shame, but we are fortunate to have encountered you and even more that you prevailed. Together, we can reclaim some of this momentum.”

Fair enough. Though the wound profile didn’t quite add up if Azkar had fought those bulky armored troops. They didn’t have any mages besides that tyrant commander of theirs. Perhaps there were more spellcasters among the enemy than Orodan had assumed.

“Very well. I shall breach the veil of this siege weapon. Follow me if it suits you.”

Orodan took point, traveling through the void approaching the enemy black hole. Their travel was slightly lengthened by the fact that the black hole was traveling away from them and toward the boundary of System space. Still, they suffered no attacks on their way which Azkar explained was due to the main enemy force now fighting within the black hole itself. Furthermore, Talasgan was quite powerful and was giving them much trouble on his end.

It was only once they approached an anchor directly that they glowed and countless moon devourers spewed forth. The swarm of these fell quickly enough to Orodan and the orcs working together. With the anchor’s defenders dead, their group was now free to enter.

Orodan passed through the protective veil of the black hole without issue. The orcs followed, though they used a specialized siege spell to punch a hole in it before entering. Unlike him, it would hurt them if they tried ramming through.

Inside, it was as he remembered. A structure which maintained a stable layer of space just beneath the surface of the black hole, essentially pressurizing it. A primer for a catastrophic explosion.

More importantly… there was no gigantic overseer crystal for this anchor. Odd.

“Huzzah! We have captured our objective! Now we-”

