Azkar and his orcs were just beginning the clash against the swarms of Void Archons too. Azkar’s Reavers were experienced in fighting the hivemind of six-armed spellcasters already. Among the assault groups, theirs was best suited to clashing against them once more.

And most prominent of all was the first assault group in a head-to-head against a majority of the Invaders’ forces. With six incredibly powerful presences converging upon them. Talasgan and the Prophet were fending them off alongside their elite assault group, but it seemed an uphill battle.

The Mage, who had gone just ahead of the barrier but had been separated due to Orodan’s Time Compression, looked at him with suspicion. For a spellcaster of his caliber, surely Kalmiron knew or at least suspected that something had occurred. But in the frenzy of such cataclysmic war, such things did not take precedence.

“Time looper, our allies are under significant pressure. Advance as point and I shall shield you as best I am… wait… where are you-”

His somewhat ostentatious and dazzling entrance had caused large parts of the enemy force to look right at him. Thus, his first move was a simple one.

To make them pay for looking.

[Eidolon of Violence 143 → Eidolon of Violence 144]

His sword tore free from its sheath and plunged point first into the very concept of sight for each and every Invader looking at him.

Horrific cries echoed out! Sound did not transmit across the void, but Orodan could hear the anguish coming off of each soul, and the warnings too.

“Celestial! The faithless have another Celestial!”

“It is the heralded one! Inform our leaders!”

“Prey which smells like a predator… avert your gaze, children.”

“The destined one arrives… glory to the ending of limits…”

He felt the meaning of the words echo in his soul. It was the first time he’d ever tried actively listening via his soul sense alone. Within the System, even in the void, any attempts at communication were all translated via the System itself. Be it the hissing of hydras, the strange energy-based frequencies of elementals or the stranger communications of fusion slimes. Even if sound itself didn’t exactly transfer in the void, among living beings, all modes of communication came from the soul. It was a natural part of life. Be it words, or hissing, or chittering or differing tones of energy, it all camed accompanied by subtle signals from the soul.

It begged the question of whether he could ever understand mere projections, inanimate recording contraptions if he did not know the language and he was outside System space. But that was besides the point when here and now he could glean the meaning behind the Invaders’ cries.

The words were not translated perfectly. Not like it would be by the System. He was all but certain that the actual sentences said in whatever language these attackers spoke had more linguistic depth and meaning. But the intent from the soul was what carried over and he heard it just fine.

Some words, such as Celestial, seemed almost universal. Proof that some things had existed before the System and would continue to exist in corners of the greater cosmos which had never heard of it. But others such as ‘heralded one’ or ‘leaders’ could’ve been any particular title or nominal position which his System knowledge rune just couldn’t translate.

Though… who was this destined one? And what was the promised ending of limits?

Questions which could wait, for there was an army of foes waiting for him. And while a good portion of their ranks were horribly disoriented and at least temporarily blinded… the rest who hadn’t looked at him or those of enough soul and mental strength to resist the conceptual attack now had him in their sights.

Soul energy scattered across the void of the battlefield as the flat of his blade struck the boss of his shield thrice.

“I, Orodan Wainwright, challenge all of you to a duel!”

[Eidolon of Violence 143 → Eidolon of Violence 144]

The Commandment of War aspect of his Eidolon flared with power. The sheer audacity in demanding an entire army duel him gaining him a level in the overarching Celestial skill.

Celestial skills were powerful but their users had limits. Orodan broke all standards of fairness by having what other Celestial skill-bearers did not, endless power and a strength of mind sufficient to survive direct contact with Boundless Ones.

The words were beyond nonsense. How could one challenge an entire army to a duel? By nature such a thing was one against one.. Yet Orodan cared not for logic or semantics. Whether they accepted or not, this duel would begin here and now.

Against all odds, in a feat of sheer impossibility… the entirety of the Invaders’ attention was upon him for a moment…

…and Orodan’s face held a feral grin of mad battle lust.

“It dares show such audacity?! Slay it! Ravage it! Sacrifice it to our benefactor!”

“Feed upon its life-flesh! Devour its very soul!”

“Resist! It is a Celestial concept directing your minds! Hold! All of you! Weak-minded incompetents!”

He felt a few souls among the enemy attempt resistance. The Eidolon of Violence was not omnipotent, and sufficient soul strength and mental fortitude could defend against the mental compulsion he demanded. But what good was that when the overwhelming majority of the enemy were now coming at him?

When these Invaders were already in the midst of an assault, naturally aggressive and seemed to already know of him as the ‘heralded one’… all it took was a slight nudge to enflame their desire for a fight. And Orodan welcomed all comers.

“Time looper… what madness are you orchestrating? The entire enemy force makes for us!” Kalmiron hissed near him. “We shall be overwhelmed in short order!”

Orodan paid him no mind. The enemy was focused almost entirely on him. “The only way out now is through. You may retreat back through the boundary or reunite with the rest of our strike group who have yet to come through.”

With this much ire heading his way, even he was not entirely certain of survival. Thus, striking first and with initiative while moving was the best course of action. After all, the other assault groups had a job to do, as did his own which needed their planned route to the black hole cleared.

The roiling heat of a Draconic Fireball coursed through his right arm, while the crackling energies of the Lightning Bolt raced through his left, the both of them causing a pleasant tingle but remaining mostly harmless due to his resistance skills. Both elements, he wove into enchantments within himself via Elemental Living Enchantment. The flame powered by soul energy, the lightning by mana.

In the past he’d primarily used fire to charge himself up for his most cataclysmic attacks since it was the only element he could charge with soul energy directly. But having access to some of the best mages of his galaxy and beyond as part of the time looper alliance meant that his teachers would suffer no shortcuts or missed opportunities.

Thus over the past eight-hundred loops while he’d died fighting the Mage he’d also trained his elemental skills further. And in doing so had learned, that even when powered by mana, certain elements were bettter at some enchantments than others.

Hence, the enchantments of speed and velocity in his flesh written in lightning. A furious swiftness coursed through him, one which only amplified the roiling fury of fire within him which empowered enchantments for power and explosiveness.

Orodan’s body almost moved faster than his own mind could perceive, and cataclysm ensued

[Draconic Fireball 106 → Draconic Fireball 107]

[Lightning Bolt 70 → Lightning Bolt 75]

The dual-elemental empowerment shot out in the form of mostly flame, which provided the raw power, and subtle specks of lightning. But it erupted horrifically quick.

A blinding flash of luminous power consumed a massive portion of the battlefield. Enough to destroy countless star systems. The energy even washed over the black hole, though did not affect it in the slightest.

Even with an enhanced mind it was difficult to count in the chaos of such a large battle in the void. But especially so when his body and the power he’d unleashed moved quicker than his reflexes could see. Still, he estimated at least twelve-thousand of the enemy had died. Mostly fodder, but a fair number of valuable Transcendent-level foes and even a few weaker Embodiers.

Of course, the Invaders had over two-hundred thousand combatants assembled here, so while a bad hit, it was hardly decisive when measured against their overall numbers. Moreover, such a large force was not without powerful defense and responders of its own. A particularly angry-looking spellcaster wearing armor so heavy he looked like a turtle, had blocked most of the cascading effect with a powerful barrier. An exceptionally powerful Embodier by the look of it, possibly an equal to the Mage.

This was definitely one of those few who’d managed to resist the taunting demand for a duel he’d forced via Eidolon of Violence. Large portions of the Invaders’ force were also beginning to come out of their crazed desire to fight him too, likely this armored spellcaster’s influence.

And with the effects of Eidolon of Violence fading, their attention began diverting towards the rest of the battle too. Which meant that the other assault groups would be threatened.

Thus, Orodan intended to give the enemy army reason to be concerned about him.

There were at least thirty-thousand Void Archons, and five-thousand moon devourers blocking his path to the back lines of the enemy through which his assault group needed traverse. A steep number for his allies to deal with, and killing them would take time even for him, given the Embodiers accompanying the swarm. Furthermore, the heavily armored spellcaster, likely one of the seven tyrants, was making way for him, which would see him pinned in place bearing a two-directional assault and his companions’ plan stalled.

Thus Orodan chose the one option which would have the guards of the approach and the enemy tyrant scrambling for him.

A direct entry into the attacking force’s rear ranks.

The spatial fold he cast was grossly overpowered, the endless energy of Incipience of Infinity flowing into it. Yet, immediately, he felt powerful resistance. So he pushed harder, funneling even more power into the skill as he always did.

[Genesis of Life 75 → Genesis of Life 77]

His soul energy caused his cells to die, yet at the same time his soul energy began transforming into life itself, birthing new cells at a rate his old Harmony of Vitality could never have matched. As though the life had always been there.

[Incipience of Infinity 185 → Incipience of Infinity 186]

This skill level gain came with an accompanying sense of wrongness. A feeling Orodan couldn’t quite put a finger on. As though an impending doom approached. It made no sense, nor did he have time to dwell on it.

The surge of power allowed him to push past whatever resistance was barring him.

“Too powerful! It breaks our grasp of space!”

“Intercept it immediately my children!”

“One step nearer to ascension and destiny…”

The words parsed by his soul sense went entirely ignored as he emerged among a group of robed individuals. Thousands of them in fact. Odd. He had never seen this part of the enemy force before.

They did not seem intent on fighting him either. Instead just staring at him with glassy eyes and manically happy smiles on their faces. They appeared human too. Yet they had a strange corruption underneath… one he found uncomfortably familiar. Not Eldritch. Just what was it? It was so very subtle…

What others considered eerie or frightening, Orodan routinely brushed off. But this? Even he found slightly disquieting.

He now had the attention of the entire enemy force. They were chasing him with utter fury. Whatever he had done by arriving at this part of their formation, they clearly did not want him to. Yet, in the distance, far behind him from where he’d cast the Spatial Fold to begin with, he saw Kalmiron attempting to delay their arrival to him.

Grudging respect formed in his heart at that. He had not asked the Mage to cover for him, but the Administrator was doing so anyhow despite the perilous situation Orodan had started. He could also see the ships of his own allies coming out the barrier, their path to the rear now vastly less populated with enemies. His plan to clear their course had been successful.

He could already sense enemy spatiomancy attempting to insert a quick reaction force. He needed to move quickly.

Yet… something about executing weird folk who were staring at him while remaining entirely harmless sat ill with his sense of honor. He wasn’t sure if these were even combatants, and Orodan had never been the type to indiscriminately slaughter support personnel. So instead of the sword… the shield and the fist began lashing out.

The rapping smash of wood on skull rang out as the first strange woman dropped. She never lost that disturbing smile on her face even as her eyes rolled back in unconsciousness. It almost reminded him of the victims of those memetic predators he had fought not too long ago.

Sound was audible here, which meant this section of the void had breathable air. Perhaps to keep these people alive? But why did they need to be kept alive in the first place? What even was this place? Some sort of ritual? Were these sacrifices? Even more imperative then that Orodan not kill them.

He moved quick, knocking out a hundred in less than a second on his way to the rear of the black hole before space utterly tore and a very angry responder stepped out.

