But Orodan refused to bow before anything. Despite the fact that it was a bad idea, that more skill levels would onbly bring him nearer to something truly bad… there were hostages being infected with Eldritch, howling in agony. This could not stand.

So he flared Incipience of Infinity to the maximum.

[Incipience of Infinity 186 → Incipience of Infinity 187]

A flash of a limitless white void flitted across his vision. The howling of the hostages intensified.

The feeling of dread and approaching doom within him grew greater. How had a skill level come so quick? Something was very wrong with this situation, with this place.

Still, the sheer power rolling off him seemed to push the cosmic lightning back and force Xia to step off him.

“You dare defy Heaven with cosmic power of your own, mortal?” the Reject’s booming cosmic voice rang out. Though it was no longer that madman. The now glowing blue eyes peered closer at him, as though examining his soul. “What a curious thing… can that concept truly exist in anything? What are you?”

Frankly, unless he called upon enough power to outright kill himself, Orodan wasn’t sure how he was meant to stand against this foe at all. Even now, he yet lived only because it was curious, not because he had meaningfully contested it. It was as though he stood before something akin to a Boundless One. The closest parallel he could draw was the sadistic Boundless One’s crystals, but those were almost infinitely weaker.

This was a truly powerful host, possessed by what appeared to be some form of grand… concept?

Was this what would become of him?

Mindless, stripped of autonomy and puppeteered by the concepts of Infinity and Cleanliness?

The Avatar of the Heavenly Dao—for this was Xia no longer—looked as though it had finished whatever internal delibration it had been making. Its eyes glowed brighter, the cosmic thunder erupting from its eyes.

“We have decided, abnormal mortal, that you are to be assimilated into the Dao of the Heavens. Do not resist lest you incur bad karma.”

Assimilated? That didn’t sound good.

“Try it, and see what happens,” Orodan spat.

The last few cosmic beings who had tried assimilating him had not fared very well. Though who knew how a concept would fare, complicated further by his own two which were nearing the peak of Embodiment.

Yet, before the Avatar of the Heavenly Dao could go any further…

…a knife found it in the back.

A knife wielded an Administrator. An Eldritch-corrupted one.

“No! What have you done? Argh! The rot is incompatible with the Dao of Heaven!”

“Orodan Wainwright, now is your chance!” the Prophet exclaimed. “Slay the Apostle. Your allies will aid you as well!

The Avatar of the Heavenly Dao was now writhing on the ground, and Orodan could see the blue eyes warring with grayish-purple. Immediately he could see what was occurring. Xia had always been corrupted, but had maintained a certain balance with it. But for the Prophet to come in and stab him with an infected dagger while in Avatar state… it must’ve been catastrophic for the governing concept which possessed the Reject’s body.

Was this what the Apostle planned to do between the Eldritch Boundless and the evil one beyond System space? Orodan’s eyes widened as he realized what the ritual was really for. This needed to be stopped. It was a dastardly plan to merge two Boundless by force.

And if the enemy Boundless managed to enter the bowels of System space via this merger… catastrophe would occur. Who knew if even the loops would be safe from its tampering?

Even the approach to that damned Apostle was now blocked by enemies. Those anomalies which he’d fought off a while back were among them, but of note was the crystal, gleaming with pink-hued power, an extension of the sadistic Boundless One. And as expected, Azkar’s Reavers were in league with the enemy, given the sudden surge of orcish warriors entering through the tunnel Orodan had come in from.

Kalmiron was helping his allies fend off the Invaders and the Prophet stood beside him combatting the enemies in his direct path to the Apostle.

A true carnage-filled battlefield.

“Orodan! A moment longer! We have something which should help!” Zaessythra shouted across the chamber, holding off the near unending tides of Invader troops.

He decided to trust her and instead focused on the foe before him.

“Anomalous thing… will you not join our union? With you… the limits will end permanently… an eternal union of Eldritch, Suffering and Infinity.”

Orodan had no interest in joining this wicked Boundless One’s sadistic union. There were no words which needed exchanging as he began fighting the anomalies and the crystal, with the Prophet aiding him.

The crystal struck him with pink beams, but he simply reciprocated and shattered it. It was no real threat. The anomalies too, he slew swiftly via Eidolon of Violence, surprising them with the versatility of his skill in their final moments.

And just as his allies looked to be getting overwhelmed… Almyra finished the spell she had been preparing.

The dimensional ring upon her finger expanded in size…

…and out came the small fleet his assault group came with which he hadn’t seen since. And with it, the flagship, now lacking any and all obscuration spells.

Within it… the ancient machine of Mount Castarian.

“They brought that?” Orodan muttered, incredulous.

And right away Almyra showed exactly why keeping the machine hidden had been the correct trump card. For a dimensional gateway between the machine’s core and Alastaia opened…

…and out came a charging green goblin wielding spear and shield.

“For Alastaia! For the Rising Spear tribe! For my teacher Orodan Wainwright!”

Following him came all of the alliance’s troops troops, brave fighters all. What they lacked in quality, they made up for with their sudden arrival and quantity.

It made Orodan’s heart clench to see a large number of them immediately slaughtered, but certain people immediately changed the tide of the fight.

The first being Fenton, accompanied by Clyburn. They brought out that same anti-memetic pillar which they’d been trialling for a while now.

Immediately, every information-based enemy on the field shrieked and began getting sucked inwards and into the pillar, being eradicated permanently.

But the second device was the more profound one.

It was… the pillar of purification? The same one he’d helped Fenton and Clyburn build upon Lonvoron!

It looked different though.

With the flick of a switch, Orodan understood how it differed.

Vax’Tul’Qun and the other tyrants on the field immediately fell to the ground and began writhing in pain. The sadistic corruption within… it was being purified!

Orodan had been too preoccupied in combat, pressured by powerful foes, to do so himself. But with this pillar things had turned immediately.

Even the crystal of the sadistic Boundless One began showing cracks in its exterior, shrieking in pain.

It didn’t seem to affect the Eldritch either, leaving Xia still twitching and dealing with the fallout of Eldritch clashing with the Heavenly Dao on a stage beyond his body.

“Our chance has come! Charge forth and strike, Orodan Wainwright!” the Prophet shouted. “I shall cover your- urk!”

Eleven feet of dark metal tore through the Prophet from behind. A follow-up cleave from the greatsword decapitated it.

Orodan did not in general like the zealot… but he had respected it. This… was unacceptable.

“Talasgan…” Orodan growled.

The true traitor it seemed…

…had been the Warrior all along.

“Come quietly, Orodan Wainwright. Your modification of the time loops has caused all this,” the Administrator declared.

“Cunning… having me fight everyone first before you try to take me on,” he spat in return, having lost all respect.

“I felt your strength when we clashed in Glyphward… but more importantly… your rate of growth. If I do not stop you now, we shall never be able to return to more peaceful times.”

“Peace? With Eldritch taint spreading everywhere? Even before I was made the time looper the System was no haven.”

“But it was a haven under our control. A control which you now threaten. Come peacefully, leave the Apostle be. Do not make me ask again. Even if the black hole explodes and the boundary is destroyed, we shall have more than enough time to reverse your changes and reset the loop… even without the Custodian helping.”

“No.”

“Then do not blame me for cutting your loop short!”

The greatsword descended at full power.

Orodan’s sword met it with his own might.

The clash sent everyone in the chamber reeling. All surrounding battles stopped as the deadliest melee in System history occurred before the eyes of all.

Talasgan was strong. He had been stronger even when they’d fought unarmed. But Orodan was the better natural and grew faster. Yet now, for the first time, the Warrior’s own Celestial skill came out.

Orodan intended to strike one way…

…only for the natural war within him to guide his blade right towards the greatsword.

Ten, twenty, thirty times this occurred repetitively.

“Tch! You force head-on trades… a beautiful skill,” he admitted grudgingly.

“And you…” Talasgan growled as the blades collided once more in a strength-for-strength contest. “Are the strongest warrior I have ever fought in my entire existence! Die already! Spare everyone a horrid fate!”

Logically, the Warrior was not unreasonable for doing what he did. Orodan had caused a lot of problems. Even now, logically, he truly should’ve ended the loop for himself.

But he had a feeling none of the Invaders present, especially the sadistic Boundless One, was about to allow him that option.

Still, this fight was taking precious time. And the Apostle, that eerie cult leader, had not at all changed in demeanor or loyalty despite being cleansed of the sadistic Boundless One’s taint via the pillar of purification.

A true zealot, even when entirely human.

“Stand down! Allow me to end this! Even your mightiest attack will no longer slay me in a single blow!” Orodan countered. “If I kill the Apostle, I ruin their plans on the spot!”

“No! That is what they want you to think! Do you not realize that this entire ritual is a mirror and amplifier for con-”

Talasgan was cut off by two dual-blades swinging for his neck.

“We had an agreement! You and yours were supposed to deliver him to me so that we could reverse this mad modification he has done to the time loops!” Talasgan roared.

“Tut tut tut! Your deal was with my orcish friend, not I! And how was I to know the little Wainwright would be so strong?” Xia maniacally retorted, sounding as though ten of him were speaking at once with the lingering power of the Cosmic Dao of the Heavens possessing him. He had returned to his own body, but did not look good in the slightest. “In the end… I just wanted to break your stupid little plan and hurt you. Just like you betrayed me and threw me to the abyss!

The Apostle stabbed the last hostage with Eldritch. And Orodan had seen enough.

With Xia occupying the Warrior, Orodan had a clean shot.

Soul energy blazed through his sword. The Apostle was entirely human and untainted now and thus required no cleansing.

“Do not! Orodan!”

His sword ran the tyrant through the heart.

And calamity began.

[Incipience of Infinity 187 → Incipience of Infinity 190]

What? What was…?

The sacrifices howled. Their minds blank mirrors for anything, any notion strong enough… any concept powerful enough. And Orodan fielded a very domineering concept within himself.

His body began blazing. Genesis of Life providing the perfect fuel for Infinity to rise without ending his life.

“Hahahah! Now enjoy! I hear the birth of a new Boundless One is quite the spectacle… ah…. to die with such entertainment!” Xia maniacally declared.

New Boundless One?

[Incipience of Infinity 190 → Incipience of Infinity 192]

Infinity’s eyes blazed with endless power.

Suffering demanded Infinity submit to it.

Infinity needed no master. Infinity immediately burned all traces of Suffering from the black sphere they were all within.

Infinity was the master of all, even the form it controlled.

Orodan’s eyes went from blazing white, to normal.

Orodan was his own master!

[Incipience of Infinity 192 → Incipience of Infinity 194]

Infinity’s body glowed with limitless might.

Infinity by nature demanded no bounds.

The glow from Orodan’s body subsided and his muscles flexed with a fighter’s hard-earned strength.

Orodan by nature placed bounds upon himself for discipline and ethos was what made a warrior!

[Incipience of Infinity 194 → Incipience of Infinity 196]

Infinity was endless, absolute!

Orodan was unyielding, resolute!

[Incipience of Infinity 196 → Incipience of Infinity 198]

Infinity was-

Orodan Wainwright would not break.

He would not.

He could not!

He reached into his own soul and began tearing Infinity’s throat out.

He couldn’t lose…

…not like this.

[Incipience of Infinity 198 → Incipience of Infinity 199]

Orodan roared, desperately fighting to retain himself.

In the end, he didn’t notice the salvation which came in the form a half-dragon stabbing him in the heart, a mage draping a Mantle over his head and a dimensional gateway leading to the bowels of the System where an Eldritch Boundless dealt the finishing blow.

#

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

Infinity was-

He bit his own tongue off.

Orodan was awake, alive and himself.

And for once, he allowed the half-dragon fist to collide with his jaw.

He wasn’t sure if he could be knocked out or even sleep anymore.

But he certainly wished and tried oh so desperately.
