“Can’t say I like the restless waitin’ before these big battles ser. Feels like me guts are bein’ flipped like fried fish on a hot pan.”

The lad was standing in place, yet Fenton looked as though he wanted anything but. Orodan pondered giving him an errand to run if only to allow the nervous young man to expend the anxious energy.

Not that an errand could’ve taken Fenton’s mind off battle with that titanic thing looming above them. The Invaders’ black hole drew nearer, and Glyphward Fortress was perfectly placed on that collision course.

Orodan spoke. “You’re not normally this twitchy before a fight. Aren’t you usually keeping occupied with whatever enchanting project will end up being of critical importance to these fights? Wouldn’t have won the battle of Alastaia without you.”

Fenton shrugged the honest praise off with a frantic shake of the head.

“That’s different ser… I don’t feel like doin’ any enchanting right now.”

[Vision of Purity 111 → Vision of Purity 112]

Orodan’s gaze turned away from the enemy black hole. Attempting to train his legendary-rarity vision skill through peering past the chaotic turbulence and defenses of that thing was effective, but for now the singular level would suffice. Instead, he gave Fenton a sideways glance, giving nothing away. Yet his eyes saw the soul clearly.

That had been a lie.

“Right… Fenton Penny, not feeling like doing any enchanting,” he slowly spoke. “Have you taken ill my disciple?”

“W-what? Perish the thought ser! I’m healthy as a newborn shark!” the prodigy of enchanting hastily defended. That much, Orodan ascertained was true. “Just clearin’ the mind on the eve of battle. Like yer’ doing right now, see!”

In a sense, his exercise could be seen in that lens. But really, Orodan had never needed to clear his mind before a fight. It was either time to fight, or he had time to get some last minute practice in for some skill or the other. It was a mentality Fenton himself shared.

Which was what made his disciple’s current behavior stick out like a loose nail.

“Who was it that told you to avoid enchanting?”

“N-nobody…? Nobody at all Mister Orodan,” the lad answered a bit too quickly. “Er… you know what? You’re right, maybe I am taking ill. Think Mister Gregory’s got some tonic for it? Ought to go ask him for some.”

With that, the young prodigy of enchanting beat a hasty exit. Words aside, just the body language alone was enough to convey that he had been hiding something. Much like his master, Fenton was a terrible liar.

His eyes remained on the retreating form of his disciple for a second more before they returned to the black hole. The youth was certainly acting squirrely, but Orodan wasn’t concerned.

“An odd young child, is he not?” It was a wispy voice from behind. The Master of Death. The Embodier responsible for ensuring the souls of the System’s fallen remained within allied hands. “Does the obvious secret he bears not cause you alarm, time looper?”

“A young man, not a child. A boy would not possess the grit to achieve all he has,” Orodan corrected. “And what secret could he bear that would cause me concern? I don’t go around demanding my disciples spill forth their affairs to me. If he wishes to speak of it, I am here. If not, it’s his business, not mine.”

“You are… trusting. Can you afford such things when treachery from within remains a threat?”

Orodan’s eyes narrowed.

“Thus far, the only talk of such betrayal has come from you. In the absence of any threat… attention falls upon he who would cry wolf. What are you trying to say?” Orodan bluntly questioned.

The pale Embodiment of Death stared at him a moment, as though assessing him then and there. Whatever calculus spun behind the pale being’s eyes must’ve come to a favorable end though, for the Master of Death’s eyes softened, and the Embodier’s posture turned slightly less guarded.

“In the absence of any better cause, it must be reasoned that the simplest explanation is the truest one. Perhaps you really are as direct and straightforward as you seem, Orodan Wainwright,” the Master of Death replied. “I would give counsel, that you might be better served taking after your compatriot who guises herself… but that would simply lead to me mistrusting you as I do her.”

“Her? How can you know that?” he asked, trying his best to remain decidedly neutral in tone.

“For you are a terrible liar and your poor ability in putting up an act gives me the confirmation I require. Yet another reason why I am certain tis’ not you who harbors notions of treachery,” the Embodier replied, causing him to look away like a thief caught red-handed. “Be at ease. Her secret is none of my concern. Smart of her even, for neither the Warrior nor the Mage have managed to uncover her identity. Unfortunately for her, very few living things have a complete lack of fear towards death. A natural thing which allows for certain details to be gleaned by those who have the sense for it.”

Be it preparing their weaponry and equipment, marshalling their forces or some meditation, the Administrators, Orodan’s allies and the other Embodiers all had gone off to make their last minute preparations for battle. Here and now, there was nobody else around.

“Such freedom from listening ears is a rarity in this fortress. Listen well then; inflaming the fires of suspicion within one who has come to aid us serves me no benefit. You question why I would stoke such mistrust within you? That is because Glyphward has ever been a strange place and the battles against the Invaders prior to the recent cataclysm were laden with minor acts of suspicion. Souls leaving my purview without explanation, enemies succeeding in their retreat after failed assaults against the boundary more often than not… enough to cause alarm in my mind,” the pale being spoke. “Yet… these suspicious patterns have heightened in their intensity since the numerous boundary breaches… and doubly so since your arrival.”

Since his arrival? Had this traitor gotten spooked by his sudden entrance?

“If it is your impact you question then you are right to do so. Whatever has been occurring here, has been going on for a long time. You, time looper, are the sudden wild beast set loose within the peaceful forest of these plans. Your assistance in the Crimson Sink in annihilating an invasion arm of the Void Archon swarm, it has made them quite… hurried in their pace. To do what exactly, I know not.”

“A deceptive web of trickery. Have you no suspects after all this time?” Orodan asked, frowning.

“I could name each of the inhabitants of Glyphward for they all have some measure of erroneous conduct to them. But be wary of-”

The fortress shook, and the ever-present dark sphere of the Invaders’ siege shifted closer.

“The hour approaches, Orodan Wainwright!” the loud voice of the War-Father boomed out. “Make for the fourth sally port! Pale one! Talasgan awaits at the first! We march!”

Orodan didn’t need to be told twice. He’d only been waiting all this time that the others he would be fighting alongside could make their preparations. Still, he couldn’t help but become suspicious towards this most opportune interruption. It begged the question of just who was overhearing the conversation and who would want him not knowing potential targets of suspicion.

The Master of Death considered it important that he know however. “Beware the eye which sees all, Orodan Wainwright. Of us all, the Identifier is the only one who spends large amounts of time beyond the bounds of System space.”

That giant floating eye? The one which was a rare variant of a Beholder? Orodan frowned.

He didn’t think so at all.

The time for battle had come, yet even as the Master of Death moved swiftly for the assembly point, Orodan couldn’t help but cast an assessing gaze upon the pale Embodier.

Was the Embodiment of Death in fact the traitor? But why attempt to induce such suspicion in Orodan? No… that would’ve been an entirely too foolish move for an actual traitor to make.

Politics wasn’t his forte. He and his compatriots had scarcely a moment to breathe upon their admission before the formal duel took place and the Invaders’ assault began in earnest. As a result, Orodan had found no moment to question either Zaessythra or Almyra about their thoughts on the matter. Either of them would’ve been far better suited to uncovering such treachery.

Added on top of that was Fenton’s odd attempt at lying to him.

Why would his disciple even do such a thing at all?

He shook his head, clearing his mind of the labyrinth of connections he was grasping at. These thoughts would serve him naught in battle. As he made for the fourth sally port of Glyphward, his eye remained on the approaching black hole, its trajectory aimed right for the boundary.

Orodan had seen the sheer destructive power it unleashed upon detonation. That was the real threat.

The sadistic Boundless One, its minions and the Invaders were its driver, but couldn’t breach the actual boundary until that siege weapon of theirs blew open the way. Given the number of strange anchors he’d seen within the black hole during his first sally out many loops ago, he doubted blowing open the boundary to System space was merely a matter of sufficient force.

His ability in Enchanting wasn’t enough to make heads or tails of the complexity of those things.

Teleporting within the fortress was difficult without some sort of special token the Administrators possessed. And while Orodan could’ve brute forced the matter, the black hole’s approach caused enough alarm; he felt it best not to cause any more himself. His stride brought him to the fourth sally port where his companions were waiting.

Zaessythra and Almyra were present, with the latter covered in her usual gamut of illusory magic and enchantments. His Vision of Purity had advanced leaps and bounds since the first time he’d met her… yet it was pointless now. He saw Fenton’s handiwork in some of the obscuration spells now surrounding her; a recent addition and enhancement surely. He doubted even the Identifier could see through it now.

Across from the two, heatedly arguing with them, was the Mage. And the Administrator didn’t look happy in the slightest.

“Is this the extent of your military power, guised one? I see less than two-thousand combat-capable beings aboard a mere dozen ships. A drop of water compared to the ocean of numbers our foes marshal against us. And this obscured ship at the center of your fleet formation… even I cannot peer within. Your mistrust earns you no favor here.”

“Speak not to us of mistrust when your every word has been laced with it,” Almyra icily retorted. “Are we to lay bare our deepest secrets at your behest? To strip our homeworlds bare of defenders all for the sake of aiding you? A spoiled child would express their dissatisfaction with a gift in a less entitled manner. If this is how the Administrators treat those who offer aid freely it is little wonder the System’s defense is in the state it is.”

Kalmiron looked as though he wanted to continue arguing, but it was clear that the Administrator had some sense of shame. The mighty spellcaster swallowed his words and nodded.

“Your words are… reasonable. I recant my words and their… incendiary nature,” the Mage responded. “It is not I, but Talasgan, who wishes to know what is within the central flagship your fleet surrounds. We have barely had time to concoct a plan of assault and your fleet’s composition is an unknown factor which our commander wishes to factor into his plan.”

“Our command is our own. We have come offering aid against our mutual enemies, any cooperation is towards that end alone. Do not misconstrue our aid as the swearing of fealty to Talasgan’s banner,” Almyra resolutely laid out and then turned to Orodan as he neared. “Orodan, the assault begins soon. Our forces are to sally out from the fourth port. Naturally, you shall be our vanguard, the tip of the spear.”

“And the other defenders of the System?” he asked.

“They shall be sallying out from their own respective ports towards different sections of the Invaders’ defensive formation. If all goes well… which it rarely ever does, we shall crack the enemy black hole open,” Almyra answered and then glanced at the Mage out the corner of her eye. “You asked what our flagship is for? It is to break open a hole in the enemy’s siege weapon without causing it to explode, that we might enter to counter-storm them.”

The Administrator still didn’t look as though he trusted any of them, but that answer had at the very least mollified him. Though, Orodan had no clue why they would need a flagship specifically to breach the enemy black hole. He’d broken in himself last time… Almyra had seen it herself.

Something wasn’t adding up He glanced at Zaessythra. “Where’s Fenton? Old Man Hannegan? Where are the rest of our people? I thought Talricto and Alagameth would want to be present for something like this.”

He was a warrior, not a leader; never had been. When he’d brought others into the loop it had quickly become apparent that Zaessythra, Alstatyn and Tegin Carrotfoot were actually suited to command.

“Occupied defending other breaches on the boundary wall,” she said, her tone implying that it was best not to question things further in the presence of the Mage. Neither she nor Almyra seemed to trust the inhabitants of this fortress at all.

“Very well…”

He didn’t question it any further.

