Overall, this god didn’t look very impressive, but more like some guy who had just stumbled out of some jungle adventure movie. Jake was about to question who he was when Artemis promptly gave him the answer as she bowed slightly.

“I greet the Seeker,” she said respectfully, her tone also containing a hint of confusion.

The newcomer god, seemingly only noticing the goddess now, turned toward her. “Ah, Artemis, wasn’t it? Made it to Godqueen, I see. Congratulations.”

“Thank you,” Artemis said with a nod. “May I know why the Seeker has arrived in the Pantheon of Life?”

The Seeker answered by pointing to the little cat-like B-grade still sitting on the couch, staring at everything happening. “Because of him.”

“Jasper?” the Shimmershroud Planeswarper asked, tilting his head in confusion.

“Yes, you,” the Seeker nodded casually. “Vilastromoz said you might be compatible with my Path and suggested I check you out to see if you’re a good fit for receiving a Blessing. Before I bother continuing, are you interested?”

Jasper glanced at Jake and Artemis before looking back at the god. “Blessing good?”

“It’s generally agreed upon that the granting of Blessings is indeed an advantageous arrangement for both Patron and the blessed, assuming their Paths are compatible. Seeing as you come recommended by Vilastromoz, I shall go by the base assumption that some level of compatibility exists between us.”

The Shimmershroud Planeswarper looked toward Jake for advice, and he quickly gave the little guy a nod. Seeing as Villy had been the one doing the suggesting, this should be a good thing.

“Okay!” Jasper also nodded to the god.

“Good,” the Seeker said. “While I do trust the judgment of the Malefic Viper, I would like to perform a small test myself before we reach an agreement. Would that be okay with you?”

Jasper tilted his head and thought it over for a second before nodding. “Jasper, okay!”

“Very well,” the Seeker said as he waved his hand, a cube appearing in it. “Escape from inside this as fast as you can. Ready?”

The newly evolved B-grade looked a bit unsure if he should agree as the god sweetened the deal.

“Part of escaping requires obtaining objects of power, all of which you are allowed to keep upon successfully getting out.”

“Ready!” Jasper agreed without needing further convincing.

“Be swift, then,” the Seeker said as a beam shot out of the cube and enveloped Jasper, absorbing him into the cube.

The Seeker nodded as he took a step forward and placed the cube on the coffee table before nonchalantly sitting down on a lounge chair as he took out a pipe and started smoking, Jake and Artemis looking at him all the while.

Completely unbothered, the god took a few puffs before acknowledging them. “Yes, can I help you two with anything?”
