re like streak of flame that illuminated the grand domed ceilings, four elegant domes that held dusty chandeliers of crystal and brass.In each of these rounded holes was a mess of bones and metal. Like a spider’s nest of a dozen young, the skeletons had meshed together before they suddenly dropped, balls of bone and metal aiming for their heads.“No horsing around where people can get hurt!” Rale ordered. He stabbed his trident into one of the balls and heaved. Cois merely pointed his staff as a torrent of blistering heat and flame knocked a second aside. Numb was punching the third one so fast that chips of bone and metal were flying off as it slowly collapsed.The last one bounced towards Devina but a red orb was slipped into it and Jack cackled as he yelled for everyone to take cover.The rolling ball of bone promptly exploded outwards. Ribs acted like shrapnel and skulls as cannon balls as they smashed into the stone pillars. The cover most of Delta’s monsters could reach was other skeletons, the floor or in Rale’s case, crouch low and grunt.The damn frog was too hardy for his own good!A few of the skeletons looked to have survived their initial ambush attempt. The clattering and magically held together bones walked forward at a slow, purposeful pace. They wore no clothes and had nothing on them besides short, bladed weapons. Delta wished their eyes glowed, but instead the empty skulls looked like the night.Blacker than shadows; that made it worse, somehow, than the lights or souls she expected to find shining there.The skeletons all seemed to have the unending urge to rattle their jaws like a rattlesnake shook its tail.“Spooky shites like ta freak you out but there’s real thinkers in there, don’t let the dead tropes fool ya. I’ve seen these arses play cards when I learned to sneak better,” Jack growled, both his hands holding on to red orbs.Devina flexed her fingers. Standing here was not doing her any favours. That was what Delta could feel coming off the Witch Doctor.“Foul beings spurned by nature, the grave calls!” she howled and from her hand, furious spirits of green nature rushed at the skeletons. They tried slashing at them, but Devina’s spirits did not fear iron like ghosts and demons did.They were of nature and they would bend to no one.The orbs invaded the bones and an empty pressing silence fought back. The power keeping these souls here easily fended off the spirits of Devina but the point was that she had caused them to come to a complete stop in the fight.Rale grabbed one skull and crushed it with his raw strength as Billy lodged a black arrow into the eye socket of another, the gutrot mushroom promptly exploded with violent pressure.Numb rushed forward. Delta covered her eyes as he began to snap limbs like twigs.The first wave had been pushed back and the skeletons faded to a murky black mist that was sucked back through the huge double doors as if being summoned.“Shut the door! More will be on their way and Hero up there better do her thing or we’ll be facing a two headed snake skeleton... or the horse with spider legs...or, or... you get the idea, they get creative!” Jack yelled. Rale’s shoulder bashed one side and the goblins threw themselves at the other side. The huge monstrous doors protested at being moved after so many years.From the dark corridor beyond, that smelled of pain and death, there came a rumbling of bone, something that squished and the wailing of the damned.Devina focused and more orbs of nature fired into the darkness, her aim wild.“Are you casting magical missiles at the darkness?!” Cois yelled. Delta wanted to chuckle at the absurdity of the fight while Devina felt like she was about to shoot the goblin next when the Screeching doors had finally shut and Rale slid his trident through the two large handles as a way to bar the door.Something extremely heavy smashed against the doors after a moment. The roar shook the room.“That doesn’t sound like a horse!” Billy screamed. Delta was going to guess elephant or some kind of dinosaur at the sound.She was distracted as a box appeared.

“So I don’t get a choice or can we vote on this-” Delta said then blinked as she now stood in the room her monsters had just cleared out. The door shook harder and harder as something tried to bash its way in.“-for a fair democracy,” Delta finished lamely.Her core pulsed bright orange and the room around began to shake as her Mana soaked into the stone.The door cracked as something that was really pissed off tried to claw its way in. A lion? A mutant bear skeleton?Delta had no idea but she narrowed her eyes as it nearly took Rale’s head off.“Don’t touch my family,” she growled.She pulled open the menu... and understood why the system had given her the monster choice it had.She smashed her fist on the purchase button.---Garvan was a simple cult man. He desired the end of all people, the resurrection of the Silent, and an end to all that was light and free.Really, he was quite simple in his wants as a skeleton that stabbed intruders. Still, this was the most fun he’s had in years! Besides, chasing the Kobold for the same outcome, day after day, it could get quite dull!So as the Four-Armed-Near skeleton attacked the entrance hall door, he rocked on the heels of his... well heels. He was just a skeleton, after all.The bear was his best attempt yet at a minion! They only had the same creature bones to fight over, he had won the extra arms in last weeks skull rolling game.His beast pounded and pounded the wood as it shattered faster than a skeleton’s happiness when they remembered they didn’t celebrate birthdays anymore... or even remember their birthdays.A hole finally formed and he looked to one of the dumber boneheads. He nodded for it to check. While they didn’t speak per se, they had learned to communicate with subtle pulses of the Silence’s power in them.“Well?” he demanded. Bonehead looked in and froze.“What… what is it?” he said slowly. Bonehead turned.“They have a cave troll,” came the shocking response. That was...What?A giant grey hand smashed through the fresh hole, a large thing that could easily match the armed bear, and dragged Bonehead inside, bones screeching in protest, the sound of crunching bone soon following.A face pushed itself to the hole.“Wotz dat? More crunchies? Ma? MA! CAN I EAT THEM?” the thing yelled.Garvan felt a chill in his bones as he swore he almost heard... a woman ordering him to not play with them too long.He turned and if he still had his favourite dress, he would have hiked it in panic as the door was swung forward and the beast stormed out after him.He had to warn the rest!He burst through the hallways, jaw chattering wildly.“TROLL! TROLL IN THE CASTLE!”
