Ling Qi studiously did not look at the withered arm Gu Xiulan held close to her side, wrapped in crimson linen and smelling faintly of smoke through her perfume. “I am not certain yet. I’ve received my pass to train with my mentor on the Outer Sect Mountain, so I think I’ll spend some time with her,” Ling Qi answered.

Although the cultivation sites which she had trained at during her time in the Outer Sect were, by Sect regulation, unavailable to her, Zeqing had apparently agreed to train Ling Qi at her home on the mountain peak, the Origin Temple of Winter’s Muse.

“You have a mentor in the Outer Sect? How does that work?” Shen Hu asked, sounding befuddled.

“She’s not a disciple. She’s the spirit that lives at the mountain peak,” Ling Qi explained.

Shen Hu blinked. Then, his eyes widened in recognition. “Oh, wow. No wonder that song you used on me in the preliminaries sounded familiar.”

“Yes, Qi certainly knows how to acquire… exotic resources,” Xiulan said, only a tiny edge of jealousy reaching her voice. “What of you, Sect Brother? Your plans?”

“Hmm. I’d like to explore, but I need to find people to fight if I am going to polish my arts,” he answered bluntly. “I got rusty fighting nothing but beasts last year.”

“I wouldn’t mind sparring with you, if you recall my offer,” Ling Qi reminded him, earning a smirk from Xiulan. “But I haven’t filed for permission yet.”

“Ah, right. We have to do that in the Inner Sect.” He grimaced. “It’s a pain, but if we have to.”

“You’ve gotten bold,” Xiulan sighed, looking at Ling Qi. “They grow up so fast.”

Ling Qi rolled her eyes. She hadn’t been that bad.

<Reaaaaaally now?> Sixiang drawled.

<Don’t you have poetry to listen to?> Ling Qi thought irritably, giving the spirit a mental swat. The last thing she needed was to get teased both externally and internally. Not letting her annoyance reach her face, Ling Qi gave Gu Xiulan a challenging look.

“Don’t feel left out, Xiulan. I’ve made sure to ask for permission to spar with you too,” she said sweetly, meeting the other girls gaze head-on.

“How forward!” Xiulan laughed, masking the sound behind her frilly sleeve. Xiulan really could pull off that high class laugh in a way that Ling Qi couldn’t. “I shall look forward to the challenge - if you believe you are up to it. Perhaps I might even join the two of you!”

Shen Hu was looking vaguely worried again, like a hunter observing a pair of dangerous beasts. “... Well, thanks, Sect Sister Ling,” he said awkwardly. “I should probably, uh, go meet more people though. See you later?”

“Yes, later.” Ling Qi sighed, ducking her head respectfully as the boy practically darted away into the crowd. She turned a gimlet eye back to XIulan then. “You went and scared him off,” she accused.

“Oh, I can tell his type, A taciturn warrior, his mind wholly focused upon the tides of battle,” she said with a smirk. “And weak to a mere flutter of eyelashes. Shy even, one could say. Best to break him of it. Quickly.”

“You just like watching people squirm,” Ling Qi said dryly. She took another sip of her all-but-forgotten cup and restrained another grimace at the sweetness of the orange liquid.

“There is nothing wrong in taking enjoyment out of favors done,” Xiulan replied with a sniff.

Ling Qi rolled her eyes, but now that they were left alone, she let her expression grow more serious. “Xiulan, are you doing well?” she asked in a low voice.

Her friend’s eyes flashed with affronted pride, but it faded quickly. “I am,” she replied bluntly. “My path is clear once again.”

“I’m glad,” Ling Qi replied. “Do you-”

<Time to get back to the stage,> Sixiang whispered. <Break’s over.>

Gu Xiulan followed her gaze to the stage and gestured dismissively. “Be off with you then. This is your glory, is it not?”

“I wouldn’t quite put it like that,” Ling Qi said dryly. “Tomorrow, Xiulan?”

“I will look forward to it, Qi,” her friend replied. Ling Qi offered a shallow bow of gratitude and turned away.

There was a performance to finish.
