“Um, mostly certain? I have a pretty good sense of direction, but there’s no windows on that wall. And yeah, Ice and Decay—I lost some gear before I managed to kill it.” The memory of her beloved blue-and-silver blindfold flitted through her mind.

The white-haired elf blinked in that exaggerated way people tended to when they were surprised, before she turned around and walked to the door. Instead of leaving, as Ranthia expected, she just opened the door and called out:

“Would someone grant me an act of kindness and fetch Bastalis from the Winter Arch?”

…Well, while she waited to find out what that was about…

“Can I ask you some questions?” Ranthia asked the [Healer].

“Of course, we need to make sure you know everything this handsome hopper needs!” The woman replied enthusiastically.

Guard #2—the more competent one—had been sent off to confirm the gorilla carcass for whatever reason, but Ranthia was mostly focused on trying to (somehow) learn everything that she needed to know to do right by Clover in a single conversation. The basics like food and bedding were just the beginning; Ranthia had more than a few questions about what the companion bond itself meant as well.

“The Academy still claims it’s inconclusive, but trust me, it’s important. And by giving her freedom, I don’t mean letting her do something dangerous. Just give her the space to find and pursue her own interests. Don’t just drag her into your own interests or leave her locked up alone. It might take time for her to show clear interest in anything—every bond works a bit differently—but be patient with her. She isn’t and she’ll never be an extension of yourself, so don’t let that Skill mislead you. Fostering her independence as she develops is crucial, even if she isn’t an elvenoid. Sure, most likely she’ll never approach your level of intelligence, but she might achieve enough depth to surprise you from time to time.”

Ranthia took a moment to absorb the [Healer]’s latest lesson. It wasn’t quite what she’d meant when she asked if there was anything she needed to do for Clover as she grew larger, but it was still solid advice. …Even if it reminded her uncomfortably of a healthy mindset for raising a child. She supposed she shouldn’t be surprised that there was significant overlap though—she was responsible for a smaller, more vulnerable life.

Would Avyna be amused or annoyed when they finally reunited?

“If I might interrupt? Bastalis has confirmed your kill and left the salvageable components with the Hunters. And given that you hope to level your bonded companion swiftly, I expect that you will want to meet with them. As you have multiple things to accomplish today, I would like to pry you away from [Healer] Litil. We still need to get your lodging sorted for however long you choose to remain here.” The white-haired elf was (shockingly) still present, though it seemed that Ranthia had worn out the woman’s patience.

“But I…” Ranthia hesitated.

“Relax, I’m not going anywhere. I’m usually here, and there’ll be a note on the door telling people where to find me if there’s an emergency. Miss Clover fell asleep some time ago anyway, and I’m sure she’d like to have a safe, quiet room to rest in.

“I’ll have one of my kids run the supplies you’ll need to your room a bit before dinner time. Like I said, we’ll provide the basics and any essential healing she might need. If you want anything fancy, get some gems and let me know or check the main store in town. But do remember what I told you about her dietary needs. She’ll tell you she wants to eat her weight in fruit and nothing but fruit. Don’t believe her.” The [Healer] waved her off with a few final words.

Right, everyone probably had better things to do than to humor her indefinitely.

“Thank you, sincerely.” Ranthia offered the woman a bow, before she walked over and attempted to gently pick Clover up without waking her. She wasn’t successful, but the bunny nuzzled into her arms drowsily.

She was still floored that the woman was willing to provide Clover’s food and supplies for free, but it was time to learn what the cost of living in the City of Arts would truly require. She had the gemstones that Avyna had left her, but she still didn’t have a good sense of how far they would take her.

Most of the buildings in the City of Arts were made of crystal, but the stone structure that sat between the two great trees was easily the most impressive building in town. It was almost half as tall as the (truly, absurdly) massive trees and towered over everything else in town. But it was almost hard to appreciate its splendor when it was sandwiched between two trees that Ranthia struggled to believe were real. The closer she got to them, the more the sheer scale of them left her in awe.

Her self-appointed guide left her to gawk at the scenery while she entered the central building. The first floor of it housed the city’s administrative personnel, but Ranthia wasn’t allowed to enter because the rest of the building was dedicated to the city’s children. Once pregnant, families moved into homes within and access to those that weren’t parents to an elf young enough to be “vulnerable” required a private assessment every eight years and was generally restricted to those that helped to teach or provide for the young. For outsiders that needed administrative assistance, like Ranthia, generally an appointment was requested from a different office. Or so the white-haired elf had explained while they walked over, at least.

And lucky her, the very same woman was allowed to enter the building. Not that Ranthia was even slightly surprised; it was kind of hard to miss just how deferential everyone seemed to be around her guide.

Mere moments later, the woman returned, accompanied by a skinny, scowling elf that was carrying a comically large book. He walked to a nearby podium and roughly slammed the book down onto it, before he plucked out a quill that had been hidden somewhere inside his unruly chestnut brown hair.

“Wood or crystal?” In lieu of a greeting, the man levied an impatient demand at her.

“I have no idea what that means.” Ranthia deadpanned her response, still gently rocking Clover in her arms.

He let out a long-suffering sigh, before he turned around and looked meaningfully at each tree.

“Our last non-elf wasn’t as slow witted.” The man clinched his otherwise nonverbal explanation with an insult given in the tone of voice most people would use to note a minor, easily corrected failing—like crumbs left on someone’s tunic.

“Wait, people live in those?!” Sure, she’d noticed the spiraling walkways and lights from each, but she hadn’t imagined anyone could live inside a still-living tree—let alone thousands of people. The tree’s crystalline counterpart was less surprising. “But that still doesn’t give me enough information. Aside from the obvious difference in materials, what’s different between each? And does the cost differ?”

“The rooms are identical in volume and similar in layout. Basic housing doesn’t cost anything and I’m not going to waste both of our time explaining how the fancier options work. You can read the City Codes yourself. Now, answer the question.” He almost had to grind the words out.

“If you select wood, I will authorize your inhabitation of a larger set. Instead of two rooms plus sanitation and shower, you could have four rooms, each larger than the basic option.” The white-haired elf spoke up.

“No. I don’t give a damn if you’re one of the Maestro. No one mandates where anyone lives. Section 12(a)(iii).” The man’s face turned red with undisguised fury as he turned his scowl on her.

“The homes come furnished, of course, but I could be convinced to help you acquire anything you might need. So long as you are reasonable with your requests. And I believe your little one would be happier in a wooden home.” In utter defiance of the man’s fury, the woman didn’t even hesitate to continue to pile on her bribes.

Before the man could erupt in fury, Ranthia stepped between them and raised a hand.

“I assume this is about my Aura?” It wasn’t exactly Pallos’ greatest mystery; it was hard to imagine that she was doing so much out of guilt.

“Yes.” It was still nice to get confirmation.

“Let me guess, your scars?” Ranthia knew there was probably a more polite way to ask, but she didn’t feel like wasting time dancing around the issue. Besides, the woman deserved a bit of rudeness after what happened outside the gate, especially since she was still acting out of selfishness.

“Curse breakers are atypical amongst elves. So long as we survive, we can outlast any curse. But the [Mage] that blasted me with cursed Sand was a mere step away from his ascension. I survived, yes, but it has been over eight hundred years and the curse remains. No [Healer] can treat any cut I sustain, and the itch remains in the back of my mind at all times.

“You represent a thin hope, I admit. But every curse breaker I have sought out has failed, and I lack the rapport to request any high-tier curse breakers that the Wardens or the Unchanging Council might employ. Given that your Aura is tied to your [Priestess] class—and as I suspect you wield a divine-granted class given your apparent stats—I am willing to invest and see if you may be of assistance over time. Naturally, I will not insist that you remain here should you choose to move on, just know that I will do what I can to make staying worthwhile.” The woman offered her explanation and rationale without a hint of shame.

…Which Ranthia could respect. Godsdamnit.

“Wood.” Ranthia made her choice.

Besides, the elf wasn’t wrong—Clover probably would prefer to live in a home of wood.

Once Ranthia made her decision, the angry man surprisingly didn’t have many other questions for her. He recorded her name and Clover’s, then she had to help him with the characters for ‘human’, and after that the man activated some enchantment and had her and Clover both touch a very specific point on a briefly exposed root from the tree.

Minutes later, Ranthia stepped into her new home. Each room was a bit smaller than either room from the tent she’d shared with Avyna had been, but the total space was a fair bit larger. Clover hopped alongside Ranthia for the first bit of exploration, before she wandered off on her own. A few minutes later, Ranthia found her sound asleep.

In the middle of Ranthia’s new bed.

The place was fully furnished, as promised. Sure, none of it was especially fancy—the furniture Avyna had chosen was much nicer—but it was well-made. There was even a window in each room—somehow, the rooms were nowhere near large enough to reach the sides of the tree anywhere past the first room. There was even a shower large enough for three or four people, alongside the other expected elven facilities.

“Just let me know if you need anything else. While I would love to continue to assist you with acclimating to our city, I should get back to my usual duties. You will find a copy of the city’s codes, rules, and structure on your largest table. As you are new to elven society, I will have the Library of History send you a copy of the current codes of the Tympestshard Council and the local rulings from the past one hundred and twenty-eight years or so. You may return the books to the Library of History as you finish them.

“I am not personally aware of the elf you seek, but you should check in with Mystos at his store that’s overtaken our Pink Pavillion to the north. If there are any other [Merchants] of note here, he may know of them. I have also written down where you can find the Hunters’ Lodge, and I shall leave that here. Do visit them when you can.” The white-haired elf called from the door.

She didn’t even wait for Ranthia to reply before she left. By the time Ranthia reached her door, there was no trace of the elf.

“She never even gave me her name.” Ranthia grumbled as she retrieved the sheet of paper and closed the door.

…She was mostly sure the woman never gave her name, at least.

There was a real temptation to just take the rest of the day to rest. She hadn’t slept at all the previous night, and she couldn’t claim she had ever rested well ever since the snowstorm hit. It was the first opportunity she’d had to truly just settle down peacefully since… gods, since Night summoned her to the culmination of the war.

But it was also already getting to be late afternoon and Ranthia was more than a little impatient to see if she could find word about Avyna’s whereabouts. And so, Ranthia shucked her backpack, set her abused bag of woven grass on a table, and checked on Clover (still sound asleep) one last time before she quietly made her exit.

Her own rest could wait for nightfall.
