Venitra. Why is Zel Shivertail sitting over there with one of the Lords of the Wall? And why are Klbkch the Slayer and Xrn the Small Queen sitting in the same room?
 
Klbkch the Slayer? Venitra twisted her head back and looked at the Antinium sitting at one of the tables. Surely that wasn’t—but if her master said so, it had to be. She gulped, and the steak went down smoothly. The rising trepidation in her soul did not.
“I…do not know?”
She stared at Ijvani. The skeleton sat up and pretended to be dabbing at her lips with a napkin. Her voice was very, very hesitant.
“Master, we were unaware of the Antinium’s presence until now. We did not think to inquire—”
 
They are staring at Ryoka Griffin, the very person you were about to kill. Both groups are staring at her. Why?
 
The two undead stared at each other in silence. Ijvani jerked her head towards Venitra. Venitra shook her head imperceptibly. She gestured at Ijvani with her fork. Ijvani froze and shook her head.
Venitra made a furious gesture. Ijvani sunk down lower. Her voice was a whisper in Venitra’s mind.
“We don’t know.”
There was silence. Both undead sank down at their table, ignoring the other Gnolls. At last, Az’kerash spoke in their minds, sounding weary, annoyed, and worst, resigned.
 
I suppose this is all that I can expect from you two. Perhaps my faith in you, Venitra, and you, Ijvani, was misplaced. Would Kerash have served me better, or Bea? I fail to comprehend…how you two can be so careless.
 
There was nothing worse in the world. Venitra hung her head low. She had to fight not to let the illusion of Regrika Blackpaw burst into tears. Imenet was having the same struggle. Az’kerash’s voice spoke in her head after a moment, clipped, and calculating.
 
Is this Ryoka Griffin aware of your natures? Do not lie. Ijvani.
 
“Yes, my master. We confronted her and questioned her. She has told no one anything of your nature. We were about to kill her when we were interrupted. We have told her that if she speaks, she will die—”
 
A poor threat in this room. Tell the Courier that you will not harm her or her friends at this time. Tell her that if she seeks a fight, there will be unnecessary death. Ensure that she does not call out. The odds are not in your favor, my creations.
 
Shock. Venitra and Ijvani exchanged glances, but Ijvani obediently began speaking to Ryoka. The Runner jerked and stared at them. Az’kerash’s voice began a murmur in Venitra’s mind.
 
A Courier with links to Drakes and Antinium both? No—her presence may have to do with the group of soldiers who infiltrated my castle. If they managed to follow her through my defenses—
 
She had no wish to interrupt her master’s thoughts or draw more ire towards herself, but Venitra had to correct him. She felt wrong doing it, but she spoke up out of duty.
“She is a Runner, master. A City Runner, not a Courier.”
 
A City Runner? You are sure?
 
There was shock in Az’kerash’s voice. Venitra sent a mental approximation of nodding, very worried. Another pause, and then Az’kerash spoke to both Ijvani and Venitra.
 
Will she take action, Venitra? No? Good. Now. Look around again. Ijvani, monitor Zel Shivertail and the other Drake. Venitra, inquire about the Antinium. Subtly. I wish to understand what is transpiring here.
 
Obediently, his servants did just that. Regrika Blackpaw suddenly became the center of the table as she inquired politely about the two Antinium. Imenet casually turned his seat so he could stare at the two Drakes out of the corner of his eye.
And across the room, Xrn and Klbkch were talking. They glanced over at Ryoka, and Xrn shook her head as she waved at Lyonette for service. Meanwhile, Zel and Ilvriss seemed to be arguing, and the Wall Lord kept standing up and being yanked down by the [General].
And they were all looking at Ryoka. The Runner wasn’t aware of this at first. She kept staring at Venitra and Ijvani. But she couldn’t ignore the others’attention for too long.
Thanks to the spell Ijvani had cast, they all could hear Ryoka as she looked around and spotted first Klbkch and Xrn, and then Zel and Ilvriss and noticed them staring. The Human girl seemed to speak to herself a lot.
Venitra, Ijvani, and Az’kerash all heard Ryoka’s muttered words as she realized that Klbkch, Xrn, Zel, Ilvriss, and the disguised pair of undead were all staring at her corner table in turns.
“Oh fuck me sideways.”
 
——
 
Some people might have called it funny. Three different groups, all intent on the same person, all at odds with each other, even if some of them didn’t know it. It was a classic Balerosian Standoff, and an impartial watcher might see the humor in it. The participants did not.
Ilvriss leaned over to Zel, hissing at him as he stared daggers at Klbkch and Xrn. He glanced over at Ryoka, at the Antinium, and gripped the handle of his sword tightly.
“Shivertail. Why are the two Prognugators here tonight? Is this some kind of Antinium trick?”
“Calm down, Ilvriss. I don’t know why they’re here either. They might have been watching us, or they have business with Ryoka as well.”
“Tonight? This is no coincidence! Either there’s a leak or we are being spied upon.”
“Funny, I thought we were trying to spy on them.”
“Don’t make light of this! We have to know what they want with Ryoka Griffin. Watch them, Shivertail.”
“I am.”
“If they make a move, we must be ready—”
“I know. Just keep calm. Keep…calm…”
 
——
 
A few tables away, the two Antinium sat and stared at Ryoka Griffin and the two Drakes. Xrn coughed gently.
“Klbkchhezeim, why are the two Drakes here today?”
“Ah. I trust you are referring to the presence of Zel Shivertail and Wall Lord Ilvriss? I am uncertain. Zel is generally present for dinners. Ilvriss is an unknown factor. I suppose it is simply an unfortunate coincidence.”
“I see. They are glaring at us, Klbkch.”
“Yes. I suppose we upset them.”
“Our aim is not to upset them. I’ll try waving at them and see if it calms them down.”
“Ah.”
“Hmm. They really didn’t like that.”
“No, they did not. Perhaps I should try, Xrn?”
“I believe that would be most entertaining, Klbkch. Wave at Shivertail. Or better yet, buy him a drink.”
 
——
 
The first group to go over to Ryoka was Zel and Ilvriss. The Wall Lord got up at last, too furious to be restrained by Zel any longer. He marched over to Ryoka and took a seat at her table, uninvited. Ryoka blinked at him.
Az’kerash and his creations watched. The Necromancer mused quietly, his words heard by them and no one else.
 
Zel Shivertail and Wall Lord Ilvriss. They were the two who fought outside my castle a month ago. They clashed with my disciple and now end up here? Why? This is curious.
 
They heard the entirety of the conversation between them. It started out with threats, and insults. Ilvriss leaned over the table, making Ryoka lean back.
“You will tell me what I need to know. No more excuses! I demand—”
Zel pulled the Wall Lord back and smiled at Ryoka.
“You have to understand our position, Ryoka. When a group of soldiers goes missing, especially elites—”
“Did you kill them or not? How did they die? How did Periss—”
Ilvriss pounded the table. Venitra could make no sense of it, but Az’kerash put the pieces together quickly.
 
Ah. The Drake and Gnolls that Kerash and Bea disposed of. It has attracted the Wall Lord’s attention. This is…unfortunate. Yet it seems that Ryoka has refused to tell either Drake anything, despite their pressuring her.
 
Indeed, the next image all three watchers saw was Ryoka offering a single finger in reply to Ilvriss.
“Runner’s code, asshole. I can’t tell you a thing, even if I wanted to! I’m sorry, but that’s how it is.”
Ilvriss nearly strangled her, but Zel held him back. He was trying to argue with Ryoka, but his words weren’t that effective while Ilvriss uttered threats and tried to grab Ryoka over the table. However, the City Runner clearly had more on her mind. She glanced over at Ijvani and Venitra.
“Look, I’m really, really not looking to discuss anything tonight. Maybe later. In fact, why don’t you uh, turn around and piss off? That’d be helpful. Thanks.”
The two undead watched Zel forcibly pull Ilvriss away. Az’kerash’s tone was exasperated.
 
And you decided that the best course of action was simply to kill her? Why?
 
Ijvani and Venitra shuffled in their seats without saying anything. They heard a sigh in their heads.
 
You fools. This is why I ordered you to assess the situation before making any decisions! If this Ryoka Griffin disappears, this Wall Lord is sure to take interest. As for Shivertail—you are fortunate that your incompetence prevented you from taking her life earlier.
 
“Yes master.”
“Yes master.”
 
We shall speak with Ryoka Griffin now. I wish to know why the Antinium are here. They concern me—greatly. I was under the impression that Liscor’s Hive had produced nothing of value save for its strategic placement. I want to know what the Small Queen intends. She is dangerous.
 
——
 
When Regrika Blackpaw walked over, Ryoka was prepared for the end. She was prepared for a fight, for threats, for anything and everything.
But she was not prepared for a smile. As Regrika sat down in front of Ryoka, she was smiling. She smiled and Ryoka stared. Perhaps it was just the illusion spell. But it was mimicking Venitra’s true expression, and for an instant, Ryoka saw nothing but simplicity in her smile. It was happy, guileless, and…innocent.
A child’s smile.
Ryoka had no idea why, until Regrika, or rather, Venitra, spoke.
“My master is here. He wishes to speak with you, Ryoka Griffin.”
Ryoka stared. She looked around and caught herself. She stared at Regrika.
“Here? In you?”
“I am watching and listening through my servant’s eyes, Ryoka Griffin. I am present. We have met before.”
The voice came from Regrika’s mouth, but it was neither the Gnoll’s voice, nor Venitra’s voice. It was male, educated, precise, and old. It was horrifically disturbing to see it come from the female Gnoll’s face. But it was Az’kerash’s voice.
The Necromancer’s.
Ryoka felt the floor open up. She saw Ivolethe flying towards her and tried to shoo her away. But the Frost Faerie alighted on Ryoka’s shoulder. She hissed and glared at Regrika. Ryoka saw the Gnoll’s eyes flick to her shoulder and frown, but oddly, the Necromancer didn’t seem to notice Ivolethe at all.
“Look straight at Ryoka Griffin, Venitra. Thank you. Now, Ryoka Griffin, I believe you know why my creations are here.”
“To kill me?”
“Perhaps. But not necessarily. They were sent with instructions to ascertain whether you had spoken of my existence to anyone else. They were not commanded to kill you outright. They have failed me and for that they will be…reprimanded.”
Something about the way he said it made Ryoka feel that Az’kerash wasn’t a very forgiving and nice master. Venitra certainly seemed frightened. The ears of the Gnoll sitting in front of Ryoka flattened, and her tail drooped.
“So I’m not going to die?”
That was all Ryoka could think to ask. She’d been prepared for death the instant she met Venitra. To suddenly hear that it was off the table was…disturbing. And relieving. She dared to hope, and because she was an idiot, she tried to take a gulp from her full mug for the first time that night.
With her left hand. The instant Ryoka tried to move it, she agitated the broken finger. Ryoka bent over the table, swearing, holding her left hand with the three fingers of her right hand. Why was her hand always getting injured? Oh, right. She’d shattered both her legs before too.
Her finger was swelling up horribly now. It was badly broken, and Ryoka was afraid to show it to anyone. Somehow, Az’kerash noticed it as Venitra stared at her. Maybe she’d told him, although Ryoka doubted it.
“What is the matter? Ah. Your finger. My servants are careless. Allow me to rectify the issue.”
Regrika raised her paw and pointed at Ryoka’s left hand through the table. Ryoka felt something shift in her hand and jerked. She stared as the bones in her pinkie rearranged themselves and snapped back into place.
It hurt like hell in those moments, but the sensations of her bones changing on her were more terrifying than the pain. And then it was all gone. Ryoka stared at her pinkie. It was still puffy and swollen, but it barely hurt now compared to before.
“A healing potion will correct the rest of the damage.”
Az’kerash’s voice was dismissive. Ryoka stared at him. She’d heard from Pisces himself that [Necromancers] couldn’t change around people’s bones unless they had direct physical contact. Apparently that didn’t apply to Az’kerash.
“I should say thanks. But your minion broke my finger to begin with. Does this mean you’ll leave me alone now?”
The look Venitra, or rather, Regrika gave Ryoka could have killed. Her big paws tightened on the table, but Az’kerash’s voice was cool.
“I am still determining the risk you pose. You claim to have kept my secret—”
“And I will. Totally. Runner’s Code and all that. I know what happens if I let anything slip.”
Ryoka raised her hands. Venitra growled at her.
“Do not interrupt my master!”
“Calm yourself, Venitra.”
Two voices, one body. Ryoka held still. Az’kerash’s next words were musing.
“Tell me, why did the Dragon choose you of all people? It seems odd that he would assign such a delivery to a mere City Runner.”
Ryoka gritted her teeth and forced a smile.
“He didn’t. He put up an open request and I took it because it paid well. Believe me, if I’d known it would have resulted in this, I wouldn’t have done it for all the gold in the world.”
“Hah. That is amusing. So much trouble over a Dragon’s whim.”
Regrika’s face didn’t change, but Az’kerash sounded like he was enjoying some dry humor. He paused.
“I understand both Wall Lord Ilvriss and Zel Shivertail are interested in you because of your delivery to me.”
“You killed Periss, his lieutenant. Or didn’t you notice?”
“They were disposed of by my creations. I had paid little attention until now. If the Wall Lord received the remains of his soldiers, would he be appeased?”
“Nope. Well, maybe. He wants to know why they died.”
“Ah. Inconvenient. However, it is a rectifiable situation. Hm. I have one more question for you, Ryoka Griffin. Why are there two of the Antinium in this inn?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“I’m good friends with Klbkch.”
“You are concealing the truth.”
“Get that from a truth spell? I’m not plotting against you, if that’s what you want to know.”
