Half of the Gnolls exclaimed and Krshia leapt to her feet as Mrsha’s head popped up next to Regrika. Lyonette rushed over, chagrin clear on her face, but Regrika only laughed. She peered at Mrsha’s white fur and stroked her head.
“Hrr. What a delightful child. Is she one of yours?”
Regrika looked around the table. The faces of the Gnolls froze over for a second and Erin coughed.
“Uh, that’s Mrsha, Miss Blackpaw. She’s—well, she’s part of the family at the inn, really. Her family was—uh—”
She trailed off, and Regrika took the hint. She smiled sadly down at Mrsha who hadn’t been listening to Erin’s words. Regrika offered Mrsha a bit of her steak and the Gnoll happily accepted it and sniffed at Regrika, smiling and wagging her tail.
Imenet took that opportunity to slide half of the contents of his plate onto the floor while no one was looking. As the conversation started back up, the topic of chess was brought up.
“Oh? You play the game? I was unaware that the game had spread so widely across the continent. When I learned of it I was intrigued, but there are few partners for me to play on my travels.”
This time Ryoka was sure that it was Az’kerash speaking through Imenet, not Ijvani. Erin grinned as she showed the Drake her magical chessboard and then her non-magical ones.
“You like to play? That’s great! I’m pretty good at the game myself. Want to play a game?”
“I should like that very much.”
There was no way for Ryoka to stop the game between Erin and Imenet, or rather, Az’kerash without upsetting the table or tossing a pot of soup over everyone. She considered that, but decided it was better to let them play. After all, what harm could it do?
The first game was slow. Imenet was white, Erin was black. They played a game through, attracting Olesm, Typhenous, Pisces, and Klbkch’s attention while everyone else wandered away. The audience wandered back when they heard Olesm screaming about how amazing it was.
“What a game!”
The Drake threw up his hands and danced about. Ryoka stared at the board. It had been…a damn good game. And it was even better because Erin had won. She grinned as she watched Imenet sit back, a look of amazement on his face. Across the table, Regrika’s jaw looked like it was about to hit the floor.
“Every move I made was optimal. And yet I was defeated.”
Az’kerash spoke quietly. Erin laughed and slapped Imenet on the back.
“You were great! How did you learn to play like that? It was a great match, like Olesm said. But the difference was that I had a different style.”
“Indeed. I have not encountered anything like it. You flanked my approach most spectacularly.”
Erin nodded and took on the lecturing tone of a hardcore fan of chess.
“It’s called the hypermodern play style. You had a really, really good control of the center at the start, but it was all pawns. But my strategy was all about controlling the center through indirect pieces, see? I keep telling Olesm it’s a really good style of play, but he’s stuck on pawns like Belgrade…”
Olesm turned bright red and Erin patted his shoulder. She turned and beamed at Imenet.
“Want to play another game?”
“I should enjoy that very much. Please.”
They began to play. Ryoka stood watching the game. To be honest, she didn’t watch the game so much as Regrika’s expression. The Gnoll, or rather, Venitra, was watching the game with something like horror in her eyes. Because Erin won. She played Imenet twice more, lost one game, won one—it didn’t matter that she didn’t win everything. When she beat Az’kerash, Ryoka saw part of Venitra failing to comprehend.
“That’s right. Your master isn’t flawless. Sucks, don’t it?”
Ryoka muttered to Regrika after the game was over. The Gnoll turned. There was pure fury in her eyes. She gripped Ryoka’s hand and squeezed. Just for a moment.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was having a good day. It seemed like a lot of days were good days recently, but today was excellent. She’d made a cake. She had important visitors, and she got to meet Xrn, who was really cool! And best of all—she got to play chess.
Why couldn’t all days be like this? Erin sighed as she pushed herself back from the game and shook Imenet’s hand. The purple-scaled Drake smiled at her, his grip soft and light.
“You are a true master of this game. I am honored to play you and intrigued. Where did you obtain this level of skill?”
“Practice! Years of practice?”
Erin laughed until she remembered that chess had only been invented recently. She coughed.
“I play all the time. I’d love to play you again sometime if you’re up for it.”
“I believe I am.”
The Drake smiled slightly and turned away. Erin beamed, and then noticed Ryoka heading for the doors.
“Hey Ryoka, are you going out?”
“I—I’m going for a run.”
Ryoka’s hands were shoved deep in her pockets. She stomped towards the doors quickly, seeming to shield her right side. Erin frowned.
“At night? It’s dangerous—”
“Yeah. I’ll be back in a bit. I’ll see you—later, Erin. Have a good night.”
She left. Erin sighed, but let her moody friend go. She turned and saw Regrika was smiling and dining with all the Gnolls who loved her so much. She frowned as she saw the Gnoll bite with relish into a bit of her beef casserole. Erin stopped Lyonette as she went about the tables. She, Drassi, and Ishkr had been on their feet all night and looked beat. Erin made a note to pay them extra for tonight.
“Hey Lyonette, Regrika and that Imenet guy like their food, right? Have they asked for anything changed or complained about the taste?”
Lyonette blinked at Erin and shook her head.
“No, they said they liked it. Why? Is something wrong?”
“It’s just a feeling. Eh, whatever.”
Erin shook off the odd sensation in her head and grinned.
“A Named Adventurer and a Gnoll party! We’re raking in the dough tonight!”
“Raking? I thought you kneaded dough. Or is that some advanced form of cooking I don’t know about?”
“No, it’s this expression see. I—you know what, forget it.”
Erin deflated slightly. She waved the comment off and then looked around. She spotted Brunkr sitting alone at a table and wandered over.
“Brunkr! Aren’t you going to go have fun with the others? This party’s about you, right?”
The Gnoll grinned down at Erin, looking slightly drunk and very happy.
“It is good of you to say, yes? But I know this is for my Aunt, and for Ryoka as much as anything. My class is wonderful, but it is not all of this party. And Regrika Blackpaw’s presence honors us far more than my class.”
“Yeah, but your class is still cool! [Knight]! Wow! How did you get it?”
Brunkr’s eyes flicked from Erin to something over her shoulder. He smiled.
“I cannot say. It is not my secret to give, yes?”
“Aw. Really? Well, maybe you could share it with Yvlon? She wants to be a [Knight] too, you know.”
“She does? Hrm.”
Brunkr glanced with interest over at Yvlon, who was sitting at a table and still talking about the Crelers they’d killed with the other Gold-rank adventurers. He smiled a bit.
“Perhaps I will talk with her or…others about such a thing. But my class was a gift, truly. I am unsure of what I will do with my new class, but perhaps such a life might be worth doing after all.”
Erin frowned.
“Do what? Be an adventurer? I hope you’re not going down into the dungeon!”
Brunkr shook his head instantly.
“Of course not. I am no fool, yes? I owe too much to you, my aunt, and…and to Lyonette to risk my life so easily. But when I see adventurers like Regrika or—or your friends, I remember that I too wish to become more than I am. The Horns of Hammerad—”
Erin’s eyes widened.
“Do you want to…?”
She glanced at her friends. Brunkr looked embarrassed and shook his head.
“I am no doubt rusty. And I have just recovered. A single level in a class is—”
“I could ask! I’m sure they’d be happy to have you!”
“No, no. I must practice first. There are other Gnolls I can join up with. I will—no, please Erin. This is not the time to talk of such things. I did not mean to bring it up. I wished to speak with you in private, if I am honest.”
“Me? About what?”
Brunkr paused. He rested his butt on the table where he and Erin were talking, and looked around her lively inn. His eyes lingered on Lyonette, and then on Mrsha as she curled up into a ball by the fireplace. A large bee crawled onto her head, fanning its wings by the flames.
“It is a strange thing, to believe you know someone and not know them at all.”
He looked at Erin, and nodded at her.
“You saved my arm.”
“Aw, that was—”
“Everything to me. I do not mistake it. You saved my arm, Erin Solstice. For that I cannot be more grateful. And I am more humbled, yes, to know how badly I misjudged you.”
Erin fell silent. She didn’t know what to say to that. She needed to say nothing, as it turned out. Brunkr stared at her, and then out a window at the snow, reflectively. He spoke quietly.
“I did not know you. I thought you were an enemy, a fool at first. I was consumed by an image of you that was wrong. Entirely wrong. When I realized how ignorant I was, I felt as though I had lost my legs, my balance, and was falling. The world changed for me. My arm—I am sorry for all I said when you first came to me. Yes. I am sorry, and grateful we met.”
He smiled at Erin, looking a bit embarrassed. Brunkr turned his head away quickly and Erin grinned in delight. Gnoll faces were too furry to see, but she was sure, absolutely sure that he was blushing.
“You’re so nice. Aw. You’re making me blush.”
“I just wished to say thank you, Erin. Thank you. It is not often enough that we give honest thanks for what is done, yes? I want to say that. So you know what I do from now is thanks to you.”
He reached out and offered Erin a hand. His right hand. She shook it and beamed at him.
“Want more cake?”
Brunkr paused. He glanced around the room and lowered his voice.
“You have more?”
She grinned and nodded. Brunkr’s tail began to wag and he followed her into the kitchen. It was just some extras, but he ate them with delight. Erin watched, happy and content.
A good day.
 
——
 
It seems this gathering has ended. Venitra, Ijvani, attend to my words.
 
The two undead had never been more relieved to hear their master’s words. They quickly bade farewell and left the inn. It was dark and close to midnight as the Gnolls and other partygoers finally began to leave. The two undead walked towards Liscor in the snow, listening to their master’s words.
 
Venitra, you have disappointed me. I ordered you not to harm Ryoka Griffin.
 
“Master, I only—”
 
Silence. You are failing me.
 
There could be no worse words. Venitra hung her head in silence. Ijvani waited, terrified she might hear the same.
 
And yet, it seems your failures have brought me an interesting conundrum and information about the rest of the world. For that alone, I will forgive you.
 
Both undead raised their heads hesitantly. They dared to hope. Az’kerash was silent, and then he spoke authoritatively, calmly.
 
Here are your instructions for now. Observe. Keep your true identities hidden. Do not harm Ryoka Griffin. That is an order, Venitra. And learn more about her relationship with the Antinium—as well as the Drakes. As for this inn, inquire about it and the magical door as well. I sensed it—it is an enchantment of peculiar power which does not belong in this place. Neither does that chessboard, but this Erin Solstice…ah. Inquire, that is all. I will contact you again tomorrow.
 
Both Venitra and Ijvani nodded. They felt Az’kerash’s presence in their minds, reassuring them, filling them, and then he was gone. In the bleak world that followed, both recalled their failures.
“He lost a game of chess. Twice.”
Venitra stopped in the snow. She turned to Ijvani and blurted out the thing both had been obsessing over for the entire night. Ijvani nodded.
“He beat the [Innkeeper] in the end, though.”
“But he lost. Our master. She—defeated him.”
“It was a game, Venitra.”
“Yes. And he lost it.”
Ijvani looked down at the ground. Venitra stared back towards the inn. She shook silently. Her master had lost a game. Her master.
Lost.
A.
Game.
And what had Ryoka Griffin said? He was not perfect? Something broke inside of Venitra. She stared at the Gnolls leaving the inn, laughing, talking. She stared at one as he left alone, bidding farewell to his aunt.
 
——
 
Brunkr was walking down the streets of Liscor, gently swaying, licking around his face for more of the sweet frosting he’d eaten, when he heard and smelled someone coming up behind him. He turned, and immediately bowed his head slightly. Regrika Blackpaw strode towards him.
She was his hero. Brunkr wondered if he should say something or just get out of the way, but it was Regrika who spoke to him.
“Do you have time to talk?”
“Of course!”
Brunkr’s ears perked up. He eagerly fell into step besides Regrika, wondering what she could want to talk about. She led him down a side path, down alleyways that were devoid of criminals, but still not places Brunkr would normally walk. He supposed Regrika feared no routes at all.
“I am told this party at the inn today was for you, young Brunkr. That is…good, yes? You must have had a good relationship with the innkeeper to have it there.”
The young Gnoll blushed. She knew about his class? He spoke up.
“Yes, Honored Regrika. We had it there because my Aunt, Krshia Silverfang, is a friend of the owner. I am…indebted to her as well.”
“Indeed?”
Regrika’s face was shadowed. The clouds were dark and the sky was dark, but it was warming, Brunkr felt. He nodded.
“She saved my arm, my life as a warrior. I owe her—and Lyonette much. I would help them in any way I could, yes.”
“She helped you. Then she cares for you. You are a person that matters to Erin Solstice.”
“I—hope so.”
Brunkr hesitated. He wished he could be someone like that. But Erin had so many friends. Many people helped her. He was just one. A small, nonentity compared to someone like Zel Shivertail, or even Relc. Krshia had told Brunkr about the famous Gecko and his prowess during war. Relc was a hero. Brunkr was just a child. But he wanted to be like Regrika.
“I would do much for Erin Solstice. I hope that in time she will regard me with a part of the esteem I hold for her.”
That was all he could manage after a few seconds of thought. Regrika nodded abruptly.
“That will do. Yes, that is…appropriate.”
She halted in the street in front of Brunkr. He paused uncertainly. Regrika turned to Brunkr and he backed up a step unconsciously. She was breathing heavily. Brunkr’s smile faded.
“Honored Regrika? Is everything alright?”
