This? This was the start of it all. Montressa and Valeterisa held their breaths as they watched the three noble families consider their offer. If they made this work, proved the system was enriching three small families—they had the market.
Only the Terras faction had this teleportation spell from Eldavin, and only Valeterisa among a few [Mages] was capable of casting it. Eldavin had his own Wistram teleportation network he was working on, but as a sign of goodwill, he had given Valeterisa Izril’s infrastructure if she could develop it. She was his staunchest ally among the Archmages, and this was either a reward or a bribe for her help.
Valeterisa watched as Alman whispered with his wife, and Ranga spoke to Andel. When they looked up, she knew what they would say. Mostly because she had cast [Bat’s Ears] on herself, but also because she saw the conviction and hope in their eyes.
“Archmage Valeterisa? We agree.”
 
——
 
The Adventurer’s Haven was crossing into the Bloodfields, into the south of Liscor. The crossing from North to South took place as guards and the Haven’s staff lined the edges of their floating home.
Warily. They were watching the Bloodfields, despite the cold, but it was inactive. Safe—as long as it was cold, the red Death Zone was safe.
Montressa and Valeterisa were celebrating as the crossing happened.
“We’re going to be rich! That is—you’re going to be rich, Archmage! I’m sorry.”
“I’m going to be rich! But I will pay you, Apprentice.”
“Really, Archmage?”
Valeterisa was ebullient. She felt excited and was reminded of every time she talked to Maviola El and the [Lady] convinced her to work on another artifact for House El.
Part of her wondered if this was going to fail too. No. No, how could it? The concept was flawless. Besides—she turned to Montressa.
“The costs in laying down the teleportation circles will be…painful, Apprentice. I have started a budget. We are at, um—30,000 gold pieces.”
 
Budget: 30,000 Gold Pieces. Kaalblade profits.
 
Montressa’s eyes widened.
“That’s a lot. Even adventurers would call that a lot.”
“I am due more from Deilan El once his sales finish. We will buy magicore and gemstones and lay down a spot for the teleportation to take place. But then we will need [Mages] to operate the spell and fuel the magic. On both ends.”
“There are good [Mages] in Invrisil. House Sanito…well, it’s not the hardest spell. They just have to fuel it, right, Archmage?”
Valeterisa nodded.
“Yes, and I have other spells I would like to implement. In time…if you help me, Apprentice, I will guarantee you some of the profits. Do you know any good [Mages]? I can do more than teleport. I have thought about opening a healer’s clinic. And there are more magics that Archmage Eldavin taught me.”
Montressa’s eyes went round, and she realized Valeterisa was referring to the magics she’d shown. [Restoration], among others.
“Are you trying to create a magical renaissance in Izril’s north, Archmage?”
“If I am not Fissival’s daughter—then I will offer my services here. For a fee. But I will need you to deal with the mundanities of…this. So. Teleportation and the rest. We must first operate the new network on both ends. We will have to teleport to each of the [Lord]’s lands—but I have placed a marker down in House Sanito, and we may fly to the others. But first—Invrisil.”
Montressa was nodding rapidly, and her eyes lit up.
“Happily, Archmage, I know just the [Mage] who might operate it. She’s my friend, remember her? Bezale?”
Archmage Valeterisa kept smiling—then she frowned.
“Who?”
“The—the Minotauress [Spellscribe], Archmage. Bezale of Maweil? Scriptels?”
“Who? Have I met her?”
Montressa sighed.
 
——
 
The sight of an excited Archmage and her apprentice hurrying through The Wandering Inn was so commonplace it was boring. These things happened.
Create a teleportation network? Pshaw. Come back when you had something original. Erin had been doing that for ages.
Oh, some people were excited. A Vampire sat up as a Minotaur bowed repeatedly to Valeterisa, and a Centaur poked his head out of the kitchen where he and his darling [Chef] were helping Erin make scones.
“Erin. Erin. You can’t put cement in the scones.”
“They’re gonna be super scones! Rock scones! Forget the Scaleguard Sandwich! We have to make food even tougher! Even harder to eat!”
“No! You’ll ruin the mixing bowl! Palt, help me—Palt?”
The Centaur edged out of the kitchen towards the [Mages], because he really was fascinated. Lady Ieka Imarris watched her aunt in an actual passion with delight—and all these things were well and good and boring. Because of the mundanity.
You know what wasn’t boring? What was new, fresh, and never generic and overdone?
Dragons.
Teriarch, the Lord of Flames, sat at a table with a young Drake lady. He looked like a somewhat rotund Human man with a white-grey beard and rosy cheeks, but also an older dignity about him at times.
She looked like an azure comet, scales flashing bright blue bordering on white to dark navy blue, and her mismatched eyes—and her wings—and the sparks that sometimes came out of her mouth—made her unique even among her old kind. An Oldblood Drake with heterochromia, just like him, eyes mismatched as well.
…They were the most obviously odd duo in the inn if you were looking right. And that included the Ant-man and Drake seeing who could eat more spaghetti in one sitting at the table next to theirs.
“Ah, it feels like a cycle, young one. A cycle.”
“What does, um—Master—? Elder—?”
He harrumphed gently.
“My name will do. We don’t stand on titles. You have much to learn. Among other things—how to fight. How to cast magic. But also how to be. Our culture. Did they really teach you none of it?”
She bit her lip, and a flash of annoyance crossed Wall Lady Rafaema’s face. She tried to ignore the sounds of snarfing next to her.
“Klb. Are noodles coming out my nothtrils?”
“Yes, Relc. I may soon expectorate mine.”
“Don’t do it on my plate. I’m winning.”
“Not…quite…”
This was not the moment she had envisioned where she and that great Brass Dragon would sit, trading words of wisdom. Instead, she was watching Klbkch the Slayer choking to death on a mouthful of red spaghetti.
Red, because of the spices Calescent had put in. And yet—Teriarch was here, and his eyes—focused on Valeterisa talking with the eager [Mages]—were nostalgic.
“Mage empires rise and fall. To me, this has that familiar tune to it. May it be done better this time. I saw that child lifting Fissival. With help, yes—but I believe her origin may be pure, may be righteous. But it is a cycle. Rihal was fourteen thousand years past, and it collapsed. What say you about all this?”
He turned—and Rafaema looked away from Relc trying to yank a spaghetti noodle out of his nostril. She gave Teriarch a guilty look.
He stared at her, then at the Drakes.
“—Perhaps this is the wrong venue. I can see you are distracted.”
“I’m not! I’ve noticed the—the circular nature of the Walled Cities. My Walled City. I saw the Antinium Wars begin, but we were back to fighting each other, fighting the Gnolls in a heartbeat. We had General Zel Shivertail, and we tossed him aside due to politics. I understand.”
She tried to focus, tried to make him understand how old she was and how ready she was to learn—especially because she wasn’t even an ‘adult’ as Dragons reckoned it.
She stared into heliotrope and cerulean, and her eyes were topaz and amethyst, like the color of lightning and the hue of the sky before the advent of the storm.
But his eyes were ancient. The color of magic. He blinked—and then nodded. He stretched—then turned his head.
“Perhaps, then, Rafaema—it is time I went for a walk. I have much to do, and I have been lazy. Will you…walk with me across Izril? I have a great charge, but I could use the company.”
He smiled—and no force in the world would have stopped her from springing to her feet. A Gnoll—a pair of Gnolls got up, Ferris and Lulv. But one look from her and Demsleth made them hesitate.
“Wall Lady Rafaema? Are you going somewhere?”
Lulv moved despite Ferris’ paw on his arm. He strode forwards; he couldn’t know what they had said because their words were cloaked by magic. But he saw Demsleth walking towards the door and wanted to follow.
“Lulv. Just wait here. I’m going alone.”
Rafaema hissed at him, but the [Spearmaster] was insistent. Demsleth? He raised his eyebrows, looking amused.
“Let him come if you wish. He can follow us anywhere he is capable.”
Rafaema bit her lip, but she didn’t dare protest or give orders as they filed out the door. Klbkch gave up as he coughed out noodles he was unable to physically cram down his windpipe. Relc raised his arms—and then began to hurl.
Lulv wrinkled his nose as he shoved past the spectators, and Mrsha tossed down her coins, and Numbtongue scooped up his winnings. Laughter from the kitchens, eager [Mages]—too many spices in the air. He shoved after Demsleth and Rafaema as they opened the door to the front of the inn. They were a step ahead of him, and the Gnoll growled as the door began to slam shut.
“Oh no you don’t.”
He seized the door, threw it open, and put a paw on Demsleth’s shoulder to demand a route and time to get his men. Lulv stumbled—and his paw went straight through the—
Illusion! He grabbed at Rafaema, and his paw went through her face. Horrified—he could smell them both—Lulv swung around.
“Rafaema? Rafaema!”
Ferris skidded into his back, and Lulv raced out, looking around wildly. It only occurred to him what was happening when he felt the slightest wind pressure on his fur from above. He howled at the sky, but by that point—
It was far too late.
 
——
 
Two Dragons cloaked by invisibility flew off as the angry Gnoll ran around, howling and searching for a trace of them. Rafaema was laughing in giddy delight.
“I’ve never—you tricked him! How did you do that?”
The Brass Dragon’s chuckle in his real form was far deeper and had a metallic ring to it.
“Smell, sound, and visual elements can fool many—but even a cat can see through that. Mimicking an aura and other elements is far harder. With experience—ah, but I feel that was slightly unkind.”
“Don’t. I’ve never gone anywhere without my bodyguards.”
The Lightning Dragon flew fast, and despite Teriarch’s slower wingbeats, they were moving at the same speed. They were flying at the speed of a hawk. Raefaema kept up easily to Teriarch’s pace. She could go faster, especially in a dive, but they were also gaining altitude fast.
The Dragon was there. He was real—even if only she could see him. His scales flowed like a copper river, and he was gigantic.
Three times her size. In motion, not the corpse she had found in the cave, he looked like something not meant to be in this era. In a world where half-Giants were rare—a Dragon was scarier than any other monster you could meet. More glorious.
Slightly fat. She tried not to focus on that part, but he seemed to have something of a gut, especially in the air. He also sounded out of breath despite them flying for about half a minute. She only had Cire to go off of, but he was smaller than she was and annoyingly thin no matter how much he ate.
“The—trick is simple. You keep your real body in an illusion. I find it is easier…to send fake bodies abroad. Then, if need be, I will fly to the location. I flew out of the High Passes and met you here. Nothing to it. It’s, er—a longer journey than I thought. Especially summiting a damn mountain.”
“Of course, T-Teriarch.”
One eye winked at her, and he smiled. Then he frowned.
“Wait a second, how did—dodge—”
He glanced down, and Rafaema twisted. Before they cleared the Floodplains, a single tiny object came streaking up at them. Both Dragons twisted—and here a difference revealed itself.
As the arrow twisted after them, Rafaema juked left with a flap of her wings. Much like a surprised bird in the air would flap left. She did it fast with a younger Dragon’s reflexes.
Teriarch? Teriarch folded his wings, snaprolled right, and unfurled them as he twisted around to face the direction the arrow had come from. It zoomed between both, and the other Dragon hovered.
Rafaema’s jaw dropped. You could do that in midair? Teriarch’s wings burned with a purple flame, negating gravity, and he stared down.
“It’s that annoying archer in the tower!”
“Who? Bird the Hunter? How did he spot us?”
“A Skill. Nevermind. Keep flying. It was only one arrow.”
Indeed, at their altitude, only a Skill-propelled arrow had a chance of coming at them. Either the archer had given up or they couldn’t launch another. Teriarch grumbled as he flew.
“I could have sworn he keeps noticing me despite the impossibility of it. Some mortals are like that. Surpassing of all expectations. That is a lesson to learn, Rafaema Manusara Coloseuvia. They will always surprise and surpass you.”
The Lightning Dragon winced and nodded at the same time. She bit her lip—then spoke.
“I hate that name.”
“Why?”
He gave her a blank look. His name was Teriarch, but he had given her his real name. Terrium Archelis Dorishe.
“They gave it to me. The Drakes. Rafaema Manusara? Coloseuvia is one of the names of the older Dragons.”
“Yes. A proud Lightning Dragon name. I was surprised they were so accurate. Manusara is…pointed. But it falls in line with how we name ourselves. Do you resent the City of War?”
She hesitated.
“I’m grateful. They raised me when they found me, and I think a lot of them do care about my wellbeing. But they’re not—Dragons. They have no idea what it’s like to be me, and the expectations—I’m glad I met you.”
Teriarch exhaled.
“I, myself, did not think I would meet young Dragons like you in my life. I knew some might live…but our species is bygone. That two Dragon eggs were hidden in the Walled Cities…no matter how hard I think, I cannot understand the logic of it.”
“Doesn’t it make sense?”
Here she was, flying with a living legend—the Dragonlord of Flame himself. Rafaema had dreamed of this. She had all the answers she could ever want, so she asked one she and Cire had long pondered. She just had to hear him speak them.
“It makes sense to hide us in the Walled Cities, though. Cire was in a secret place in the great tree; they found me deep in the citadel, in a hidden vault. The Dragonspeaker who found me thought it was timed to open hundreds, maybe thousands of years later. It kept us safe. Maybe our—our mothers and sires even timed our discoveries.”
“Perhaps.”
