Valeterisa nodded with a smile. And she looked so nostalgic and even fondly happy that Montressa realized she really was here today. She had begun sliding back since coming to the Haven, and Montressa had feared having all her needs cared for had begun to make Valeterisa lose focus.
Larracel seemed relieved too. She poked Valeterisa, and the Archmage jumped.
“Stop that.”
“I’m just testing you. Well, now you’ve caused a minor diplomatic incident, I will leave you in your capable apprentice’s hands. I know you have quite a lot of work to do.”
Valeterisa’s eyes slowly lifted, and they lit up as she remembered, to Montressa’s relief. She looked around, then smiled at Montressa.
“That’s right. We’re going to make money. Apprentice, what are we doing first?”
“Um—House Sanito, Archmage. And your niece, Lady Ieka, wants some of your time, and I had a few thoughts on your teleportation network project. I know a few good [Mages]. Oh, and today’s your day of [Arcane Discovery].”
“Excellent.”
Valeterisa beamed. Things were looking up.
 
——
 
Even in her absent-minded state, Archmage Valeterisa had a plan. And that plan was to become a better [Mage] and uncover spells lost to time. To surpass Zelkyr and to be worthy of becoming a great [Archmage] in truth.
That was her overall goal. Everything was therefore in service to that goal. And one of the things Valeterisa had realized was that to research magic, she needed gold.
Gold bought you ingredients for spells. Gold bought you materials for spellcasting, like gems. Gold bought you artifacts and spellbooks and wands.
Gold…was essential. She had often engaged in projects to gain more gold. She was no adventurer and had seen how dangerous that occupation was thanks to Larracel—so her methods had been largely peaceful.
She had traded on her spellcasting by enchanting artifacts, then had engaged in ventures like causing rainstorms or casting powerful spells for a fee.
But every [Mage] did that, so Valeterisa always hunted for the real income sources—preferably things she could do that would generate gold for her research for the rest of her life.
This had led to her partnership with the late Maviola El…and Valeterisa had collaborated on a number of projects, the latest of which had been the Kaalblades. Every single venture had been either a lukewarm success at best or a failure, though she had been paid.
Even so, by the time she’d vanished, she had owned a mansion and had poured a lot of her gold into the elaborate security system and traps. The windfall of the Kaalblades had replenished mostly empty coffers, but Valeterisa had been dreaming of the next big income source.
Fissival had been a let down. If they had bought her teleportation network and welcomed her into their arms, she would have solved her entire crisis of economy in one fell swoop. Their funding would have meant she could throw herself into magical studies—especially given their patents.
In lieu of that, Valeterisa had hatched a surprisingly ambitious plan. If Fissival would not have her…she would replace Fissival.
“Lord Alman Sanito. You have sent goods to Invrisil via The Wandering Inn, but regrettably, Miss Erin Solstice can no longer facilitate the transit of goods across Izril. There are roads, the Driver’s Guild, and other ways to transport goods, including even Couriers at a pinch. But Magnolia Reinhart has her tariffs. House Sanito is at the mercy of [Traders] and [Merchants] who take their cut of the profits for the destination. What if…you could sell to people who want Sanito’s goods without any of those costs?”
Montressa was giving them a pitch as Valeterisa put on her best ‘I am present’ smile. She felt it might be unnerving the Sanitos and two other noble [Lords] who were listening to the pitch, but Edere Sanito, a [Merchant]’s daughter in her own right, was listening intently.
“You mean via teleportation like Fissival. Archmage Valeterisa did teleport our goods straight to Invrisil.”
Lord Alman was nervous, but he ran a hand through the bags of soft wool that Montressa had set up as an example on the table in front of him.
House Sanito exported three main goods: wool, coal, and copper. They had a mine that produced both materials, one good for a number of metals or alloys, and the other good for heating and many purposes.
Everyone needed wool, and Sanito’s herds produced a lot. It was not magical, though, and some people liked cotton a lot more, despite the pain it was to process the stuff.
All this meant that House Sanito could sustain itself—but often was in danger of other economic forces. If the Terlands in the north had their Golems produce lots of cotton from their damn fields or copper was in high supply…or Magnolia Reinhart placed a tariff on the bulk goods, they suffered.
Part of the issue was simply logistics. House Sanito was, unfortunately, in competition with other groups. House Ulta could produce both lumber and charcoal for heating. As Sanito was along the eastern foothills that housed Ogres as well as a number of mines, their copper was sometimes worth less than they wanted.
It would be wonderful if we could sell to someone who really wanted what we have. Like, say, Riverfarm, who rather wanted copper, wool, and coal for various reasons.
“Sheared Sariants, Alman. Even if we could but sell to House Veltras directly, I’m sure they’d want our coal! I know for a fact that many of the families aren’t allowed to cut down more than a certain number of trees per year, and winters get cold!”
Edere remarked softly to Alman. Another [Lord], Lord Ranga, was nodding swiftly.
“The trading via The Wandering Inn’s portal door did my people very fine. Very fine. We were making gold over silvers on our steaks, and the restaurants and eateries of Invrisil were buying them up. Why, when I came to Liscor, I saw Drakes dining on our very cows!”
Ranga’s house owned a number of fine cattle who produced meat in high demand—but the issues of transportation often meant that he had to deal with [Merchants] capable of preserving the meat. He turned to the last [Lord], who grimaced.
“I don’t much like the idea of our goods going to Drakes. Your boy Mel wasn’t happy about it, Ranga.”
Lord Andel was reluctant, but Lord Ranga’s lips pursed only a second as Valeterisa’s patient ‘I am being friendly’ smile widened at his comment. Her lips hurt. She dearly wished to speed up the conversation, but Montressa had insisted she take the lead.
“You say that, Andel, but have you counted your profits? Mel has his feelings—but I saw how much gold we pulled in.”
Andel scratched at his chin.
“I have an [Abacus Counter] who does my trade sums. I meet with the man four times a year, and I hadn’t counted the last quarter’s change. Is it that profitable…?”
He looked doubtful, and Alman, Edere, and Ranga hurried to assure him that it would be very noticeable if he inquired.
The lack of the [Lord]’s acumen in economics was notable even to Valeterisa. She knew for a fact that Lady Ieka personally checked the sums going through House Imarris’ coffers. But then—perhaps Andel was not a counting man.
House Imarris had employed tutors in mathematics as well as magic for Ieka, but the two were often conflated as ‘mage knowledge’. Either someone like Edere married into the family or you learned to take over the family business like Lord Ranga.
This variance, incidentally, accounted for the reasons why you had [Ladies] as successful as Lady Magnolia Reinhart and [Lords] like…Andel. But Montressa was only too happy to explain.
“Lord Andel, your phosphate powder and the weftreeds that come from your lands are in high demand among [Alchemists] across the world. What if you sold those from your lands straight to Pallass, the City of Inventions?”
“Straight to Drakes? Gah. The thought of it—what do you mean, those are in high demand? We have [Smiths] who make excellent weapons!”
Andel looked annoyed by her examples. Montressa hesitated.
“Yes, Lord Andel…but they’re not what makes up your land’s profits, as I understand it.”
“Really? I heard my [Counter] telling me that our tax on the alchemical stuff does well—but more than good steel?”
“Andel, I vouch on my daughter’s hair that it’s making more than all your weapons combined.”
Edere broke in gently as the [Lord] looked more and more out of his depth. Montressa kept smiling, but she looked a bit perturbed. And it was here that Valeterisa, whose face had really begun to hurt, decided to break in.
“Lord Andel of House Ikis. If you sell directly to Pallass, even with their 6% income tax on incoming goods from Human lands, I have personally estimated that your house might make a profit no less than 168% of its current value—and that is a conservative estimate! You may find your profits are two hundred or three hundred percent higher!”
His stone-beige eyes were as blank as river stones as he stared at her. Then the [Lord] smiled.
“I—see, Archmage Valeterisa. That would be profitable. As much as a hundred and sixty-eight?”
He had no idea what she was talking about. Valeterisa’s own blank look of astonishment matched Andel’s.
Montressa snapped her fingers, and her eyes lit up. Valeterisa saw her turn—and the Secret Broker of Wistram had something Valeterisa lacked. Which was insight.
“Lord Andel. Let us put aside numbers for a second. Have you enjoyed your visit to Liscor?”
“Mildly. It’s been an honor to visit the Haven on its passage south, of course.”
“Have you had the time to visit…Esthelm, perchance? You know Master Pelt, one of the greatest [Smiths] in the world, works from there.”
Montressa slyly remarked, and Andel, Alman, and Ranga’s eyes all lit up. Edere sighed, but patiently. Andel nodded quickly and with far more familiarity.
“Master Pelt? I saw him working. The Dwarf’s as rude as I heard, but I saw his swords—I wanted to place an order, but he’s booked. And this was my chance to have a Pelt-crafted blade!”
He scowled hugely. Montressa’s smile widened.
“Well, consider this, Lord Andel. If we developed a teleportation network, you could visit Esthelm at your leisure. Master Pelt is infamously temperamental and busy, believe me, but consider—you are bound to have the chance to have your order fulfilled if you have constant access to him. You could have a blade forged by a master within a year’s time at most—and one for your trusted retainers and family.”
Andel’s eyes lit up. Now, he looked alive with curiosity—and Valeterisa was the one getting bored. But she watched Montressa with relief as Andel nodded.
“My father’s too old to but swing a sword, but if he had a Pelt-blade, he’d rouse himself for at least a few swings. Now there’s a good thought. So this teleportation thing would let me do this? Just like the door?”
“We’d do goods first, Lord Andel. To make sure the system is perfect. But you can send a sword via magic—all it requires is the cost of creation and, of course, an accord with your house to allow us to transit the goods.”
Valeterisa watched the faces of the [Lords]. She might not be the best at selling things, but she had survived Wistram.
They did not like the idea of the cost. But they were hungry enough to want to leap at this idea.
“A…fee…would doubtless be steep, Mage Montressa. House Sanito is not without its means, but hiring such a famous Archmage might be difficult.”
Edere spoke carefully as she glanced at Valeterisa. All three nobles were the ones who had protested Magnolia’s trade war with them. They were not well-to-do families.
Which was why they were the first clients. 
Montressa rested a hand on the wool Valeterisa had transported from House Sanito. It had actually been something of a trick. Valeterisa hadn’t performed a long-range teleport on the goods themselves. She had, instead, used the teleportation network to teleport herself and the goods all the way to Invrisil.
It was tiring and took her personal involvement, but it had arrived within half a day. If they could build a similar network that any [Mage] could operate…
Fissival was rich off its teleportation services. Valeterisa had a vision of that richness, but she needed a start. And so Montressa spoke very carefully.
“Archmage Valeterisa is not without means, Lady Edere. She would be willing to take on the cost of building this teleportation service and, indeed, offer it to your [Farmers], [Herders]—even the Merchant’s Guild and whoever wants to use it. Instead of an upfront deposit—would your house be willing to offer her certain rights?”
Edere’s eyes sharpened. Lord Alman looked relieved. Andel looked at Ranga, and the other [Lord] shrugged.
“That—may work. What would that entail?”
“A fee for teleportation—and in the case of trade goods, a small, tiny fee on any teleportation! We aim to make the costs of sending goods virtually only as expensive as the mana to power the spell. But if your Houses agree to this contract…”
Montressa fussed out a simple contract, which she passed around to the [Lords]. Edere produced some reading glasses, and Ranga squinted at the words, but Andel gave up after half a page. Montressa and Valeterisa watched with bated breaths.
The reason they were approaching these three houses was threefold. One—they were used to the teleportation with Erin Solstice and knew they had something to gain. Two—they needed the income and were likely to agree to this contract because it would enrich them.
And three—they were not Magnolia Reinhart. Edere was pursing her lips, but she was glancing at Ranga and Andel and Valeterisa.
If it was Magnolia Reinhart that Valeterisa approached with her Fissival-teleportation plan, the [Lady] of House Reinhart would have probably said, ‘what a splendid idea, Valeterisa! I certainly do not hold a grudge for any previous incidents where I tried to employ you or when you caused trouble on my lands. Let us work together!’
And then she would, in her competent way, organize a northern teleportation network. But she would not offer Valeterisa what the Archmage wanted—which was a lot of gold. She would probably run the entire network, make sure it was organized like a Mage’s Guild—or probably through the Mage’s Guild—and take a tidy sum or dictate the profits go mostly to the [Lords].
But Valeterisa wanted money. She wanted…1%. Less than 1%, even. Fissival did offer its teleportation services rather cheaply to each city. They took 2% of what every Drake settlement in their aegis bought and sold. But that was 2% of everything teleported. That sum alone made up much of the City of Incantion’s budget.
