“Bah, it’s a showpiece that will make even that damn undead ruler smile. Why are you bouncing on one wheel?”
Kevin grinned. This bicycle’s wheels would ‘stick’ to the ground, so he could balance it upright. He kicked one pedal, and the acceleration did knock him on his back.
“Whoa! Fuck. This thing is powerful! It’s more like a motorcycle than a bicycle.”
“It is enchanted with my best spells. I personally stress-tested it, and it has passed every City Runner I encountered. Even Runner Garia and Fals.”
Hedault looked exorbitantly proud of his creation. And why not? This was not one of the regular bicycles that Solar Cycles was offering. This was a high-end model, the result of all the magic Kevin and Hedault could brainstorm in to make a bicycle even more powerful than anything Earth could come up with.
“Even electric bikes don’t have that kind of kick. I didn’t damage the paint, did I?”
“It’s enchanted not to. Despite the odious gold.”
Hedault smirked as Kevin saw the finish had no issues. Even Valeterisa, passing by, nodded in appreciation of the spellcasting.
“Nine different enchantments on a single object with no magical overlap. Apprentice, this is good [Enchanter]’s work. We could hire him to make a teleportation circle. You there. Would you like to move to Esthelm? Or House Sanito? Or…”
“Archmage, Master Hedault has work, and he lives in Invrisil. The Mage’s Guildmaster here is waiting—”
Montressa dragged her master on as Kevin, ebullient, kept riding the bicycle around.
“This is so great. I want one as soon as we fulfill all the rush orders, Hedault. Although—the brakes are a bit weak. I think it’s because this is so much more powerful than we thought. It’s nothing on the brakes themselves. Can we add a spell that helps stop this thing?”
He demonstrated the issue, skidding several feet with sheer momentum even when he locked the tires. Hedault frowned.
“A deployable [Halt Momentum] spell triggered by the brakes that also affects the rider? That is not easy.”
“Well, let’s workshop the issue. But let me just take this for a spin—”
He had to see how fast this could go. Kevin took off down the street as Pelt, shaking his head, went back to work. He had no desire to zoom around like that—and in that sense, the Dwarf was far wiser than Selys and Hedault, who both wanted a turn.
The problem was that Esthelm, and Liscor, and most cities were not used to bikes, which were neither wagon nor pedestrian. Kevin realized the tighter streets were not as easy for him to navigate, and Esthelm, a city with walls, was not sprawling enough.
“I guess I need open ground. Damn—”
He braked, sighing, as he shot along the street. Once again, the bike skidded with the sheer momentum the wheels produced. Kevin shot forwards eight feet—
—And ran over Watch Captain Zevara’s tail.
It was really unfortunate. Kevin would have realized this far sooner if he were in Liscor rather than Esthelm, but bicycles would have a negative interaction with the Drake species as a whole.
Because their tails were long and dragged behind them—and a bicycle was the perfect object to come speeding along and smash someone’s tail.
Especially on her day off. Watch Captain Zevara’s shout of agony attracted everyone’s attention.
“My tail! Who ran over—you! A damn bicycle-thing? And you…I know you! You’re one of Erin Solstice’s guests! You’re under arrest for—you’re—”
She realized she was out of her jurisdiction, but the furious Drake holding an ice cream cone was not above making a citizen’s arrest. She had a dent in her tail!
“Ancestors! Zevara, I am so sorry—Kevin!”
Selys was horrified, and the Watch Captain’s furious tirade only increased as one of Esthelm’s guards came over. This wasn’t a jailable offense, but Kevin was issued the first bicycle-related fine in the history of this world.
The Esthelm [Guard] was very respectful of Zevara, but her heart wasn’t in the moment. After he had apologized profusely and turned over four silver coins, three of which went to her, she just swished her tail and glowered.
“Some day off.”
“Let me join you. You shouldn’t be wasting your day off. And Kevin will have to repair his brakes. Why didn’t you tell me you had time off?”
Selys glared at Kevin as he meekly fiddled with his bike, and Hedault muttered about experimenting with brake systems. Zevara brushed it off.
“I don’t need a parade, Selys. Dressing up and attending some restaurant in Invrisil or Pallass is the last thing I need. I was having a snack and looking around Esthelm. And—thinking. I might have more time off in the future, anyways.”
“Oh! Is the Watch large enough to let you have more days off? That would be good for your health. I never see you except on-duty.”
Zevara ignored that comment like any person married to their job. But she was oddly pensive today, and even the bicycle thing hadn’t lit a fire under her.
“I’m just—well, yes. Maybe I will have more time to myself. I wonder what I’ll do.”
Kevin and Selys looked at Zevara, interested. Hedault had taken Kevin’s bike for a turn, and Pelt cared exactly 0% about all of this, so he’d gone back to his forge.
“Er—something up, Watch Captain? Is everything all right with the law?”
Kevin wasn’t the chummiest with Relc and Zevara’s crew, but he respected her job. Zevara shrugged.
“Hm? Oh, we’re not in danger of being attacked by a foreign army, the dungeon’s safer with Facestealer allegedly ‘dead’, and Erin Solstice is a known variable. No, no. It’s actually that things are going so well—we’ve been upgraded. Liscor was always around a hundred thousand people, but we might be a third larger already, and we’re doing a census. But the writing’s up.”
“Wow, that’s growth.”
Liscor might be a third bigger already? Zevara nodded absently. She didn’t look pleased by the…added difficulties of more species? But the Watch was larger. She explained the reason at last.
“We’ve been upgraded by the Walled Cities. They tend to rule on this sort of thing. We could obviously do it ourselves, but Manus sent us a note just this morning. The Council will receive an appropriate stipend—and we are now able to appoint a Watch Commander and multiple Watch Captains. We’ll need at least two given the new size of the city and all the newcomers.”
Selys and Kevin’s mouths fell open. Watch Commander?
“This is great news, Zevara!”
“Mhm.”
It was Kevin who realized why the Drake was so pensive.
“That Watch Commander’s going to be you, right, um, Captain Zevara?”
Selys blinked. Zevara absently chewed on a stick of meat she’d bought from a vendor.
“I don’t know. The Council’s offered me the position, but I think I’ll turn it down. I don’t know if I’m Watch Commander material. I’ve had several blunders and—well, that’s why you’ve seen Watch Captain Venim about Liscor more. We’re thinking of offering him the position. I’ve earmarked Beilmark as a Watch Captain if things go through.”
“You can’t do that! Liscor’s first Watch Commander should be you, Zevara!”
Selys was outraged and began to talk Zevara out of it, but the Watch Captain was just muttering about ‘different specialties’. After all, a Watch Commander was almost never ‘on the ground’, and they were supervisorial. She didn’t know if she wanted that, but of course, if she was one of two or three Watch Captains that had rotations, she’d have less work.
Things changed. But if Liscor didn’t have Watch Captain Zevara leading the entire Watch…was nothing constant?
 
——
 
Lady Ieka would have dearly loved to know exactly how the bicycle was made and to steal Kevin and Hedault and all of Solar Cycles if she had time.
But amazingly, it wasn’t important to her right now. Lady Ieka Imarris was following her aunt around with great concern. Invisible, yes, but she was aware Valeterisa could see her. The Archmage of Izril was a far more talented spellcaster than her niece. Besides, she kept absently waving at Ieka and her bodyguards every few minutes.
“Lady Imarris? There’s a young woman spying on the Archmage.”
One of Ieka’s bodyguards, the all-female unit styled after Bethal’s Rose Knights, murmured. Ieka glanced at the young woman with pale skin and black hair impatiently.
“One of the inn’s many spies, no doubt. Let’s not cause a scene. Show me the dossier on this [Mage]? Esthelm’s Guildmaster, I think.”
She waited with growing impatience as one of her [Maids] fussed with a briefcase, nearly dropped half the files, and took six minutes to find the file. Six minutes. By that time, Valeterisa was already discussing buying a place to set up the teleportation network.
Ieka Imarris bit back a scathing comment as she snatched the report on the [Guildmaster]…which turned out to be little more than their name, a note saying they’d survived the Goblin Lord’s attack on Esthelm, and a guess at their level.
‘Likely over Level 20’.
She stared at the note. Likely over Level 20. That was the best intelligence she had on Esthelm’s [Guildmaster].
“I am sure…we can do better than this, Estvie?”
She turned to her [Head Maid], and the young woman blushed. She was twenty-three, had amazingly brilliant blonde-sapphire hair, and had been handpicked by Ieka to act as her assistant in all ways. She even knew [Power Strike] and had worked as a Bronze-rank adventurer for a year and a half.
And this was all splendid. Grand…Ieka’s bodyguards said nothing as Estvie curtsied slightly.
“I’ll amend our files on Esthelm very soon, Lady Ieka.”
“I meant in general—it’s fine. It’s fine.”
Ieka bit her lip. Here was the thing. Estvie was an exceptionally attractive young woman. Fashionable. She could manage the other [Maids] who worked for Ieka and followed the [Lady] of House Imarris around with minimal infighting, and could coordinate with the [Bodyguards], who were former [Mercenaries] and good women.
Ieka had an all-female staff. But she had to admit—Estvie may have risen to her current position because she was the best candidate Ieka had. Not because she was perfect for the job.
Ideally, Ieka had wanted her [Head Maid] to be at least a former Silver-rank adventurer, but not a lot of women wanted to be [Maids]—and had Estvie’s hair—and could do the job. It was a limited pool, and that was fine in a vacuum. The [Bodyguards] had just told Ieka, privately, that they would not be counting on Estvie for support in a battle. The sword the [Head Maid] carried was ornamental.
This would all be acceptable to Ieka—if not for the ghost that haunted her. Like a certain Dragon, she was plagued by a face. A woman. Tall, eyes sometimes flashing like a grey knife, hair cropped short, lithe, a professional who only changed out of her maid’s outfit for a killer’s dress.
Ressa—
No, wait. Ieka was haunted by Magnolia Reinhart. The [Lady] she could never seem to surpass, who had Ressa, a staff that was annoyingly competent, and a perfect information network—all things Ieka lacked.
Ressa did not haunt Ieka’s dreams. The [Lady]’s dreams involving Ressa were decidedly more pleasant. If Ieka could have hired Ressa, she would have. But no sum she had offered had ever made the [Head Maid] of the Reinharts even blink twice.
Alas. Ieka handed back the file and sighed as she watched it being fumbled back into the Endless Briefcase, a variation on a bag of holding that carried any number of documents and information. The trouble was—
Lady Ieka Imarris was not incompetent. She made…choices sometimes regarding her staff, and her personal affairs had a lot of fan-waving and sighing, but House Imarris was one of the more successful noble houses.
When Tyrion Veltras had called for allies against the Goblin Lord, she had been alongside Gralton and the [Emperor], Laken Godart, for ranking. She was no Magnolia—or that damned lucky Bethal—but she could elbow with the second-best of Izril.
What bothered Ieka was the lack of womanpower she sometimes faced—in that Magnolia Reinhart would happily poach any talent for her staff in a heartbeat. But her rivalry with Magnolia was ongoing. If Ieka was sometimes acutely aware of the failings of her staff…they did their best, and she knew their capabilities.
She was more worried about her aunt right now.
Ieka was aware that Valeterisa was scattered. She was acutely aware of it, being Valeterisa’s only family-member who could even get in contact with the Archmage of Izril. She loved Valeterisa for it; in Wistram and growing up, Valeterisa had been the one aunt who supported Ieka’s magical aspirations without question, if sometimes absently. She had helped Ieka take over House Imarris…
And Ieka had helped her aunt in her own ways. Sometimes it was smoothing over an incident or simply paying a fine for a book that never got returned. Making much of Valeterisa’s reputation was never hard—she was a genius at spellcraft.
But this latest project really did worry Ieka because it smacked of Maviola El. Ieka admired the former matriarch of the House of El, she really did—
But that woman had managed to fail at a lot of projects, the Kaalblades being the one exception. And she had talked Valeterisa into all of it. Maviola El was a passionate, engaging speaker with a vision. She just didn’t always deliver.
Ieka had heard the pitch that her aunt had made to Lord Alman, Lord Ranga, and Lord Andel. Lord Ranga was not a quiet man and had told his son all about it. She had grave concerns, not least because she was a bit worried about the scope of this project.
Ieka was no Andel, who could barely keep track of his finances and needed help just figuring out how much money he had. She had a basic test of competence she would use to assess a [Lord] or [Lady]’s ability to govern, which was as crucial as their ability to socialize or lead.
Test 1. Can you keep up with a receptionist in a Merchant’s Guild for a day?
If you couldn’t do that, you didn’t have any head for numbers. They had a lot of ledgers, but it was just noting down sums and making sure you could follow goods bought and sold. If a noble didn’t have a head for numbers on that basic level, that was a problem.
Test 2. Knowing when someone who smiles at you is lying.
Everyone smiled at a [Lady] when they wanted something. Take everyone at face value and you’d be tricked in a second. More than once, Ieka had tested a [Lord] or [Lady] and seen them completely ripped off by a [Merchant] claiming this brooch was ‘only sixty gold coins’ when it was worth less than two. It usually wasn’t even a good lie, just a basic Skill that relied on someone’s arrogance or assumption they were being told the truth.
