But he had to own, the night had its bumps. A servant spilled some wine on Toerika’s robes during a minor quake at the capital. He made a comment on Archmage Valeterisa that completely ruined the mood. But he noticed that despite her face going flat when Toerika heard Valeterisa’s name, or the spill on the dress, the Archmage of Moment was very forgiving of everything.
In fact, she seemed more enamored of him than he was of her from the somewhat lame encounters, which was flattering. But, er—things went most poorly that night.
He had heard a gentleman of some necessity might need an alchemical aid for marital (or unmarital but related) affairs, as it were. Bedtime pursuits. Pride meant that he had not availed himself of anything like this, but it had been some time since he’d found himself in lucky company.
It was quite a lot of fun. For twenty-one seconds. Then, as it sometimes happened, things were over far too quickly. And that, the poor [Duke] felt, had to be the biggest letdown of the night. Especially because he felt like he’d had all the limited fun.
He distinctly recalled seeing Toerika’s vague look of disappointment in the intimate bedchambers with the bed of glowing sheets—even the fabric had its own light. And yet—then she smiled, thanked him, and seemed genuinely fine.
He had known partners to act and pretend he had done better than he had, but even the best of them surely would have had a comment to make for that performance. The [Duke] was so ashamed he scuttled out of the estate anyways and refused to come out of his rooms for two days. But it hadn’t gone that poorly.
After all, Toerika quite remembered it differently. She spent the rest of the night after the Duke’s rather short and one-sided, one-time fun at work in her laboratory. She worked that night and the rest of the next day, and by the time he emerged from his rooms, she had sent him a little crystal which she claimed would ‘illuminate him’.
For as she recalled that night, it had been the most splendid conversation with an elegant suitor wherein no wine was spilled. After being thanked personally by King Othius IV, she had spent the rest of the evening being delighted whereupon in turn the performance by nightfall did not disappoint and lasted quite a long time and had a number of titillating twists and turns.
It was her talent. A talent that many people sometimes called upon her for. A wedding gone wrong, a mistake made—she didn’t ask questions. It was a dangerous game, and she had the habit of misremembering some occasions to even close friends.
For instance, her rivalry with Valeterisa had been the stuff of legends—only, Valeterisa didn’t remember any of it, despite both taking the same classes in memory magic by an older [Mage] of Wistram. And even the Archmage of Izril knew better than to call or prevail upon Toerika.
“Anything you say to her doesn’t matter. She remembers winning the argument. She’s very good at memory magic. She even knows a bit of time magic. Time lasts longer in her estates. She has a lot of time.”
A lot of time—but she had not the breadth of spellcasting ability Valeterisa possessed. That was the fact that had resulted in Toerika’s rivalry with Valeterisa. She could not remember things that she could not conceive of. Hence her grudge against Valeterisa and, to some extent, Eldavin, for taking her other motif. But the Archmage of Moment was no great politicker of Wistram, nor was she a warmage like Amerys.
 
——
 
Baleros, now, had [Mages] who were known to war. Even though Archmage Uenoix was no battlemage, both he and Magus Zalthia Werskiv, known as the ‘Firebringer’, one mage of three in the Tripartite Law company, were both graduates of Wistram.
Ironically, of the two, Zalthia was no Archmage, but she had been in Wistram before Valeterisa left. She had been younger than the Archmage of Izril but bullied Valeterisa several times before Valeterisa had struck out alone.
“I don’t like her.”
Valeterisa scowled over her pumpkin soup after the dramatic breakfast. The Haven was abuzz with chatter.
Fancy hats and glossy heads of hair swiveled to turn to the Archmage, sitting at a table with Larracel and Montressa. Barnethei was flitting back and forth, often blocking people from interrupting them. She was positioned so that everyone had a view of her on the deck above.
The heat shield that she had erected had drawn out all the guests into the now-warm deck. Flying familiars buzzed around overhead as the staff of the Haven circulated in their bright blue uniforms, matching the nobility of Izril for brightness of color.
Yet they were the hangers-on. Valeterisa sat there as Larra’s plain wand flicked, and a floating platform rose so that it was all on the same level as the deck.
They were floating past the Bloodfields, and the snow looked reddish in the distance—but there was no immediate movement. It was still a sight to draw half the eyes to it, that uneasy Death Zone.
Soon, the nobles would have to leave or be out of range of Erin’s door and, thus, Invrisil. But they were hanging on, and even the famous guests like Mihaela Godfrey were still here.
Savoring the Haven.
The flying platform that had risen, incidentally, was the gardens. A cow gently mooed as Ekirra stared at it from the railing. Cows who lived in the Haven had to be used to the change in altitude and not be afraid of heights. This one had lovely red fur, and even the milk it produced had the faintest ochre tinge to it. The milk tasted like chestnuts, for some reason, which gave the breed its name.
As a magical breed of cow, the Chestnut Heifer’s milk was in high demand among the Haven’s guests. And right now, the milk, which would go into bread, cups, and be a lovely literal cash cow product, was being stolen.
“Mihaela. Unless you’re putting on an apron, leave my cows alone.”
The Guildmistress had been milking a cow. She had stolen an entire bucket—she had an obsession with the milk, especially with coffee of late. Larra glared at her and pointed, and Mihaela picked up the bucket.
“The milk stays.”
Mihaela tried to run for it, but as she blurred off the dais and leapt down to one of the walkways towards the residential part of the Haven, her bucket came up—empty.
The faintly red milk was floating in a blob. Larracel levitated it over to a second bucket a familiar carried over and called out.
“If anyone would like a cup of Chestnut milk, the price is listed on the board! Valley, have a cup.”
She deliberately caused a rush to try the drink, and even gave out little ‘free cups’ to children like Ekirra, who greedily guzzled his. Mihaela’s glower could have split rocks, and Larra’s face was cool.
“Don’t bother Larra, Apprentice. Mihaela always butts heads, and Larra wins in her inn.”
Valeterisa gave Montressa some unnecessary advice. The [Apprentice] was very respectful of Larracel. The [Innkeeper]-[Wizard], funnily enough, seemed to rather like Montressa’s politeness.
“Montressa, have you tried Chestnut Milk? I doubt they have any in Wistram. Have a sip. Valley, you should treat your apprentice better.”
“You were never this nice to me.”
Valeterisa complained mildly, but two cups appeared as Larracel snapped her fingers, and Montressa savored the taste of the milk. Sweet, too! The [Innkeeper] snorted.
“You paid me nothing and ate my bread when my inn was just starting. I’ll put your apprentice’s food on your tab. Don’t scowl, Valley. You’re rich. Indulge this bright, respectful girl. I have had too many decades of wild children who don’t listen to me. Deni, you when you get magic in your head, Mihaela never stopped, and even Eld could be as stubborn as a rock when he made his mind up. I’ve been showing Montressa a few wand-forms.”
She flicked her wand for demonstration. Montressa hadn’t even known there were wand dueling styles or that how you held or used your wand could influence the nuances of a spell. You could point a wand straight and cast a spell on target, but Larracel had revealed to her that with some practice, you could spin a [Fireball] in an arc at a target like a spiral. It was all in the wrist.
Valeterisa, a student of these lessons, grumbled into her cup of milk.
“I wish you were at Wistram. Zalthia wouldn’t have dumped buckets of chalk dust on you.”
Montressa, who was taking notes on Valeterisa’s past thanks to the more talkative and focused Archmage, gulped.
“She, um—bullied you, Archmage? But you were a teacher then. She was at least eight years younger than you…”
“Sixteen. She was a bad student and aggressive. I don’t like her. Or Toerika. Or Uenoix. Why are you bringing up my past?”
Montressa traded looks with Larracel, and the [Innkeeper] of the Haven exhaled.
“Valley, give your apprentice something. She’s curious about her master. Why did you let a student bully you?”
“I was a teacher, and teaching was hard. They always make new graduates take some classes, and the students would pull pranks.”
Valeterisa grumbled. Montressa could just imagine the problem—a shyer, and still sometimes absent, Valeterisa trying to control a class of students? Even Pisces and Ceria might have been issues for her.
She felt bad for her master, which was strange. They had had—similar experiences in Wistram.
“Did you have any friends, Archmage Valeterisa? What about Archmage Uenoix?”
“Not him. He never shared his notes with me. He’s the Archmage of Ichor…or was. He works for Maelstrom’s Howling in some capacity.”
“Archmage of…he knows blood magic?”
Valeterisa’s scowl deepened.
“Apparently. He never shared it with me.”
Most of Valeterisa’s grudges and friendships apparently stemmed from who had enabled her pursuit of magic. She seemed to recall Archmage Feor more as a teacher than the Archmage he now was—and Viltach had also been around her age, if younger.
“Viltach was a good student. He helped make me one of my wands. I liked him. Archmage Feor’s advanced classes were fun. I recall he tried to make an entry test to get out of having to teach one year. It had forty pages, and it would automatically grade you every answer you made, so most students failed before page six. He had only five students. I was one of them.”
That sounded really familiar. Montressa had a sudden image of Illphres sealing off a classroom. She heard a snort and looked at Larracel. The former [Wizard] rolled her eyes as an Arcane Familiar floated over with a trio of cups of coffee for the group.
“I took a year-long course in Wistram to improve my Skills. I was never a full [Mage]…it seems nothing in the academy changes.”
“Not true. They got rid of the adventurer-courses. Not enough [Mages] with combat experience. They argued too much with adventurers like you, Larra.”
“Wonderful.”
The two older women were sitting around a table in the Haven with Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] was slowly coming down off the panic and guilt of failing to get Valeterisa to her appointment. The Archmage had claimed it was her fault for ‘turning off her thoughts’, but Montressa had been worried Valeterisa would snap at her.
She might have been about to, but Larracel had promptly scolded Valeterisa for relying on an apprentice. Larracel the Haven was a kind, terrifying woman to Montressa, and the younger [Mage] nervously dipped some bread in the pumpkin soup as she sipped on the coffee.
She knew magic and business and adventuring—she had done it all. She was reminiscing with Valeterisa sternly, for she was older than even the Archmage of Izril and had been a Gold-rank when Valeterisa was still a student.
“You must have had some friends, Valley. You would come back every winter bubbling with spells and ask me to check your homework and projects. Sometimes you’d be in tears, but half the time you were happy as a clam.”
“Clams don’t feel that happy. I had to do a project about [Sense Emotions] on them one time. They’re mostly content at best.”
Valeterisa mumbled back as she sipped at her coffee. Larracel’s hand twitched, and Valley leaned back. She thought for a long moment.
“I had friends. A friend. I had two. I wonder if they’re alive.”
“Maybe you should reach out to them?”
The woman frowned.
“I think they both sent me [Messages] when I was trapped in my mansion. Lots, and when I left. Oh. The latest one was today. Should I reply? But it’s been so long—”
She looked guilty, and Montressa tried not to make a face as Valeterisa glanced at her. Larracel had no such compunctions.
“If they’re still sending you [Messages]—Valley, answer them today or I will make you sleep under the wagons.”
“Fine. Apprentice Montressa, make sure I don’t forget.”
Valeterisa instantly turned to Montressa, but it was something. And she did remember Montressa’s name.
Some things had changed since Fissival for the better. Montressa’s levels and their relationship, for one. Montressa scribbled down the note on a floating spell that carried the magical words just above one wrist. Larracel eyed it approvingly.
“I can’t read that. Do you encrypt the words?”
To her, the words looked like gibberish, but Montressa could clearly read ‘by tonight: Archmage Valeterisa messages her two friends’ in bright gold lettering.
“Yes, Miss Larra. Archmage Valeterisa taught me how.”
“Eldavin taught me. Encryption of spells…he told me every Mage’s Guild and their [Messages] are far too open. Powerful [Mages] have probably been harvesting every correspondence sent publically and been stealing information for decades. He’s changing it, but slowly.”
Neither Larracel nor Montressa were surprised by this, but both inhaled sharply. Valeterisa glanced up.
“…Don’t mention that. It’ll cause a scandal.”
They were very lucky that Montressa always put up privacy wards as a force of habit from her Wistram days. Larracel’s exasperated exhalation sounded practiced.
“Valley—alright, who were your friends?”
“Um. Um…oh, they were in the Terras faction? I should have said hello. Maybe. I was busy learning about E—things. And chasing a boy around.”
She nibbled on her bread as Mons and Larra stared at her. Valeterisa clarified.
“He was sixteen or seventeen.”
She kept eating and then clarified again as the stares ramped up in intensity.
“I was trying to steal his sand golem. That’s what I meant. My two friends? It was Sa’la. She’s an [Herbalist]. And Telim. Oh! I remember! They had a nickname for him, too. The ‘Thief of Tables’.”
Montressa covered her mouth. She had heard that! It was a minor secret in Wistram, and Larracel laughed.
“I think I remember! Even I heard about him. Didn’t he use a bag of holding?”
