He had unpleasant suppositions as to why a single Dragon’s egg might be hidden in a Walled City. The very least that Teriarch might guess was that Rafaema’s parents had not been part of the decision.
There had been grave crimes committed by Dragons. And their descendants, the Drakes, had learned to copy from their Ancestors. Part of him longed to tell Rafaema that, but the knowledge and suspicions might break her.
He was burdened by knowledge of what might and what had been. The Dragon’s eyes clouded with cynicism and worry—then he glanced down, and his eyes, keener than any eagle’s, saw something.
“Oh.”
That cloud over his face passed. And he chuckled. Not in complete forgiveness—but he looked down, and Rafaema peered her head. She could see very little from as high up as they were; the Floodplains were a great basin and receding below them, white and snowy.
But if she looked down…she saw a tiny dot cutting across the Floodplains.
“That Gnoll is still running after you, Rafaema Manusara. It seems, at least, your city sent someone who cares.”
“Is that…Lulv?”
She peered down at the Gnoll racing as fast as he could across the snow. There was no way he’d catch them, especially once they rose too high for him to follow. How was he even seeing them, cloaked as they were? Smell? Or was he just guessing?
It made the Brass Dragon smile. Rafaema tossed her head, and her mane crackled with static.
“He’s annoying. Tactless. Makhir is almost as bad. One tracks me down, the other follows me around.”
“Gnolls. Not Drakes?”
“They—hope I’ll be kinder to their people once I take charge. I told you, it’s not what I want.”
She muttered, looking embarrassed. Teriarch glanced down and chose his words carefully as they flew higher, leaving the Gnoll behind. And he was still running.
“No. And they have such expectations. But perhaps, in your long childhood, Rafaema—such people made it worth it if they were true.”
To that, the girl had little to say. She just looked back, troubled, and muttered.
“He’s just annoying. He had better not run to Esthelm, or he’ll cause another diplomatic incident.”
She peeked sideways at Teriarch, wondering, perhaps, if he was grinning, but she couldn’t quite tell. His face was staring ahead, and if there was the tiniest smile…she saw his gaze seeking the sky ahead, plotting their route.
They were flying above the first layer of clouds now, and he seemed less weary—although Rafaema was still flapping hard. Then she realized flames were propelling Teriarch along. He only flapped his wings every half minute or so for the show of it.
Was this how Dragons flew?
“What’s so inconceivable about me being found in Manus, Teriarch?”
The Dragonlord hesitated a long moment. Then he muttered.
“I—cannot believe any Dragon after the Creler Wars—no, predating that. I cannot believe any Dragon born or who has lived since—since the exodus of our people from Izril would be that unkind. To leave two children alone, to be found parentless. If a nursery of the future were envisioned—and it has been done—it would be dozens or hundreds of eggs. Not two.”
Rafaema’s wings faltered a bit. She stared at Teriarch from the side.
“It’s been done before?”
“Oh, yes. And if it were some insurance for the future—and we have long since been past that as a species—I would have known. I did not. Perhaps it was the act of Dragons born after our communities fell to ruins. Naively hoping for a new generation to be born of one or two. Perhaps…”
His eyes flickered. He looked at Rafaema a second and then smiled.
“Well, I am glad to meet you and that Manus raised you with the best of their abilities. They have flaws, but here we are. A wonder in this era.”
Rafaema smiled back, but she felt the first lurch in her stomach since the daydream of meeting Teriarch as Demsleth and being in his company. Because she realized something in that exact moment.
For the first time—he had just lied to her. Or rather, not said something. It was something she had long since learned to spot from her caretakers. She craned her head around—then frowned.
“Wait, where are we going?”
“North. I hope to catch a powerful wind jet to carry us far. Perhaps as far as Izril’s coast? Ah, I’m tired—but I have a job to do. And you have questions you cannot ask easily even in the inn. Speak them, Rafaema.”
He smiled invitingly as he flapped his wings a few more times. She blinked at him—then burst out.
“Okay. What are we doing? If I’m going to be helping you on your great task, I might as well know. And should I send something to Lulv? He’ll never give up, and he and Ferris will be court-martialed for losing me.”
Teriarch blinked at her. He craned his neck backwards and snorted.
“Ah, Manus. Never change. I suppose you can save them by sending them a little [Message] to tell them not to worry.”
“I—do you have a [Message] scroll?”
“You can’t cast…? Or not encrypted spells?”
He looked puzzled, and Rafaema flushed. She could cast a number of spells, but [Message] wasn’t one she had learned, and she couldn’t write on her scroll while flying. Teriarch shrugged.
“I shall tell him you will be back by tonight.”
“Wh—tonight?”
The sound in her voice made him look back. The Dragonlord frowned at her, and the Lightning Dragon faltered, then had to flap to keep up.
“I’m going back to the inn? I thought I’d stay at your cave or accompany you?”
“You are still Manus’ ward.”
He spoke slowly. Rafaema’s mouth fell open. Teriarch clarified.
“It is your decision and Manus’, but I will not have a Walled City in arms and hunting for you.”
“But you’re not taking me with you? As an apprentice or—I thought I was going with you.”
Her voice sounded small and far away as the rushing of wind past them suddenly picked up in volume. Teriarch stared at her. Then—shook his head.
“I cannot raise…I will teach you what I can. But I will not make an enemy of the City of War lightly. And you are young. Too young.”
He abruptly turned his wings and angled down.
“Come—we are hunting for someone. I will have to detect them closer down. I also wanted to see what became of House Byres. An…acquaintance used to call it home.”
Rafaema followed, clumsily, and she heard him panting a bit as he descended. The magic that enveloped them was powerful, but—
He wasn’t taking her with him? She was still Manus’ ward?
The trouble was—dreams and reality were painful when they collided.
 
——
 
The effort of taking off and landing was far greater than that of just gliding or maintaining altitude. Thus, the wind blew heavily, almost like the panting of great lungs, as Ylawes Byres halted.
His face was grim. He still smelled of smoke—and it still hung over House Byres’ lands. But the most fundamental thing about him was his expression. It looked—uncomprehending.
The pain of watching his home burn, seeing the mines collapsed, the fields set ablaze was a kind of pain that was reflected in Lord Yitton’s face, in that of Shallel’s and Ysara’s.
It was loss, and the immediate grief and anger towards the figures who had burned his home was there. But most of all—it was the uncomprehending stare that stood out on the [Knight]’s features.
That marked him apart from his family as Laken Godart met him with a full company of Riverfarm’s folk. The [Emperor] had asked for the description from Gamel, who had learned how to talk of people’s faces.
Laken was patently uncomfortable outside of his realm, but he had arrived along with Gralton Radivaek, bearing as many supplies as he could afford.
“Your Majesty. You are overkind.”
After the introductions were done, a weary Yitton took charge of the food and tools. They were needed—House Byres was trying to rebuild, but they had also asked for more than objects.
“I have as many [Soldiers] as Wiskeria can spare. But I fear we never caught the people moving through my lands. I suspect they realized I was tracking them. They outpaced horses on foot.”
“[Assassins]? Is this the Circle of Thorns taking vengeance?”
“Why on House Byres?”
Yitton was weary as Shallel looked from face to face. Gralton sniffed the air and sneezed—and several dogs whined as they strained at the leashes.
“I’ve brought [Soldiers] too. Not as many—I’m watching my borders too. You caught none of the bastards? Not even a scrap for a bloodhound?”
“Nothing, sir. Thank you for coming. I can leave my family in good hands. I…I may trespass on the Unseen Empire’s hospitality briefly, Your Majesty.”
“You are headed south? To the inn?”
Laken was surprised as Ylawes bowed to him. It was the first thing the [Knight] had said. Ysara Byres, who had been standing apart from her family, but close enough, also bowed.
“I as well, Your Majesty. We have work to do. And I fear we can do little more here.”
“Ah. I see.”
He did. The turn of phrase might be ironic coming from him, but Laken had asked Gamel to describe the Byres family.
Ysara Byres, of all her family, was still apart. She stood in the ashes of her home, and the grief that Gamel described on her face was appropriate to her memories. But—
She was not with Shallel or Yitton. Her father would occasionally glance at her tattoos and her hair. Her mother, still pale and worn from everything, did not lean on her daughter. Ysara stood back, while Ylawes supported his parents, hands on their shoulders.
Her face was a [Merchant]’s, trained to be polite or to show appropriate feelings, but it was also telling that it looked that way. Distant.
If Laken Godart could have seen her face with his eyes, he would have confirmed the feeling he got from her tone and the way she interacted with her family. And that was that behind the grief of a girl watching her memories vanish, seeing the plight of the people who were not involved, and the shock of this destruction—
There was Ysara Byres’ calm…acceptance.
Good.
Good riddance.
She had found nothing here to bind her home. No reason to stay. Even with their manor in ash—she was somehow more lost than anyone else here. So the Silver Merchant turned away and said nothing more.
Ylawes had his own reasons for going. His head was heavy, his shoulders overburdened. Laken Godart realized the other factor that was pulling the two members of the family away. And that was coin.
House Byres had lost more than the manor and the mines. Laken was told that they had been collapsed inwards by a series of charges; digging out the silver mines would be less work than placing a new shaft. The farms were torched, and winter was upon them.
House Byres had never been the richest, despite the silver mines. Now? It was in such dire need that the only reason Archmage Valeterisa hadn’t lumped them with House Sanito and the others was that Yitton Byres was too far removed from Liscor. And they had even less to offer.
“Does he still look like that, Gamel?”
Once they had stood back, Laken asked Gamel to once again describe Ylawes’ face. The other [Knight], younger and lower-level than Ylawes Byres, agreed that Ylawes hadn’t changed markedly.
“His face is set just like that, Emperor Laken. Like Durene’s. Hurt and wrathful and…”
He searched for words.
“…If you’ll beg my pardon for how I describe him? I mean no disrespect.”
“Go on.”
Gamel spoke slowly, staring at Ylawes.
“—It looks like a good and faithful hound of Lord Gralton’s. As noble and brave a hunting dog as you could ask for, sire. Imagine that—then imagine if someone burned down his home and kicked him in the face. For no reason. That’s how he looks.”
“Ah. I can picture it now.”
The Captain of the Silver Swords was heading south. To find some way to supplement his family’s income. Laken Godart patted Gamel on the arm—then had a thought. He touched the arm again, and Gamel leaned over.
“Gamel.”
“Sire?”
“You describe Ylawes Byres’ face well. One question. You said he looked like he had been kicked ‘for no reason’. Does that mean he has no idea who did this? What about his family?”
Gamel was silent for a good measure before he responded.
“—At times it seems like they’re thinking of something, sire. But none of them want to give it a voice.”
“Hmm.”
The [Emperor] didn’t have facial cues like narrowing his eyes, but he would grimace faintly when he was suspicious. As luck had it—he did not need to think overlong.
For two things of note were happening here, if you were an impartial observer catching your breath and watching from a handy hilltop a quarter of a mile distant via magic.
The first was that someone came riding towards Gralton, Laken, and Yitton’s people. Well, half a dozen riders. And one person on foot. The last person was running, though he could ride if need be.
But running befitted a Runner, even a specialized one.
The flashiest Emergency Runner in Izril slowed, and he raised a gloved hand to wipe sweat from his brow despite the cold. Not that he was that cold: a crimson trench coat. Dark red leggings. A silver scarf like metal wrapped around his neck. Crossbow hanging at his side, rapier on the other side.
Delanay d’Artien spoke only one word as the [Emperor] and company turned to him. He did not greet anyone. He and the other members of his house, all of whom wore that unique style—red and white and silver—were marked by the emblem of their house. A crossbow, loaded with a peculiar kind of bolt. More like a peg of wood.
Delanay’s wake and the horse’s hooves left a black stain on the snow. Ash. They had investigated the burned manor before coming here. And Delanay’s conclusion was one he spoke into the air.
“Vampires.”
An accusation in scarlet. It had no merit, no basis—but the [Emperor]’s head snapped up, and Lady Rie, who had accompanied this group, turned slightly, then stood very still.
A flush ran across a man on horseback’s face, and he swung himself down.
“Delanay! Control yourself! Lord Yitton, Your—Your Majesty, Lord Gralton, my son is mad.”
Yitton looked up.
“Zore d’Artien. House Artien is welcome here. What—brings you here?”
“I had to see House Byres’ destruction myself. We have brought little; we rode the last five days to get here, Yitton, and I was already on the road. But I have a note to the Merchant’s Guild, and I hope you will avail yourself of all of it. I have ordered our stores broken open, and we will send what we can spare.”
Delanay’s father didn’t have that scarf, but he had the same style that had come from Noelictus where his family had first originated. But Delanay had no time for niceties.
