“I see. I believe we are quite set, niece. Thank you for the tea. I’msorryImissedeightbirthdays. Here is a present from me.”
She offered Ieka a box, and the [Lady] smiled.
“Aunt, you didn’t have to. Really. Is it a potion? A note to the Merchant’s Guild? A—oh.”
Her hands stopped as she opened the box. She had, Ieka had to own, low expectations. In the past, her aunt may have literally poured gold into a bag of holding. This time, Ieka slowly lifted a long wand out of a case. Its insides ran with liquid metal, carefully, carefully contained within.
“Mercury. An alchemical wand sealed within lattice crystal rated for a Level 40 spellcaster.”
“Aunt! It’s beautiful. Did you say Level 40? My wand isn’t this strong!”
It was probably the most powerful wand you could buy on the open market—assuming there were wands for sale on the open market of this quality. Valeterisa smiled absently.
“Did you make it?”
Ieka couldn’t understand where it had come from. Valeterisa shook her head.
“I…asked a fellow Archmage, Viltach, to craft it for me. I was worried since he lost his arm, but he seems to have managed.”
Or rather, Montressa, after a lot of pondering, had vouchsafed only this kind of gift would do. She had personally arranged the favor, and the look on Ieka’s face made even Valeterisa smile.
“It’s beautiful, Aunt. Thank you.”
The [Lady] hugged her aunt gently, and Valeterisa smiled. She kept smiling for the rest of the day as she introduced herself to people interested in her new services and mentioned the delivery with House Sanito at the end of the week. The execution made her sad when she heard of it. But even she could not just fly across Izril, had she even been inclined to do something.
 
——
 
As promised, Teriarch had returned Rafaema to the inn after a day of flying. There had been a tiny scene when she returned—her guardian, the [Spearmaster], had a lot to complain about.
He had brandished his spear at ‘Demsleth’, even, until he was reminded that Erin Solstice could ban him from the inn.
“Listen, pal. The only reason I’m letting you in is because I’m tired of spies and your [Soldiers] lurking around the grass. Plus, it’s funny watching Demsleth mess with you. But cause trouble and I’ll have Mrsha kick you out!”
An exasperated Rafaema had smoothed things over with a promise to return nightly, but she had to call on her Dragonspeaker to give Lulv marching orders. Teriarch had watched the one called Ferris and Lulv and her [Soldiers] and thought they did care.
Spells were a poor way to check on the validity of true emotion—but there was something funnier than offensive when Lulv asked quietly if Rafaema had been the subject of untoward advances in any way. When Rafaema figured out what he meant, she almost tossed him out a window. But a bad protector wouldn’t ask.
It was so entirely depressing what Manus wanted Rafaema to be—mother of an entire species—that Teriarch didn’t have the heart to bring that up to her. Though it was an inevitable conversation. He focused on his job. That was hard enough.
Demsleth didn’t stay overnight at The Wandering Inn, but he certainly indulged in its services enough to justify Erin’s goodwill towards him. Aside from talking to Ryoka, Rafaema, and Magnolia…
He had been in his cups that night, brooding over the failed Slime Master Culivan. Trying to figure out if he should send a [Message] or keep well enough alone.
He feared…he had not changed the man’s trajectory away from his wasteful experiments. If anything, he might have added to the danger. Culivan would now be looking for the word ‘seith’ in everything, and if he looked hard enough…
Maybe it was just as well. A jumpstart to inevitable progress? They needed building blocks, and short of finding a substitute or another material like Sage’s Grass, this was a natural progression. The [Alchemist] who visited the inn, Culivan, and any number of experts needed to rediscover what previous eras had found to advance to the next tier of accomplishment.
He decided not to try another interference point. Leave well enough alone and come back later in a month. He’d do a better job next time. There were a lot of next times. Besides, Rafaema was already bouncing to get to the next location.
 
——
 
When Teriarch picked her up the next day to continue hunting down people who had met with ghosts, he was noticeably slower in the air.
“Do your wings hurt, Lord Teriarch? We could take a break.”
“Nonsense. I’m quite fine.”
He was a bit snappish—but perhaps that was because they had visited three different spots and found no more people actually chosen by ghosts. One had claimed to have met a spirit—but a [Detect Truth] spell had established the lie at once.
They had better luck halfway through the day, though. Teriarch landed amidst a field of snow and flowers gently—and Demsleth strode into a village that cultivated dyes.
Flower dyes. They had, therefore, a beautiful field of flowers still blooming amidst the snow. It seemed someone had a Skill.
“[Fields: Permafrost Resistance] or [Untouched by Weather]. I wonder if the [Farmer] or whoever has the class is the target of the spell.”
Demsleth remarked as he strode up to a brightly decorated house, proof that the dyes and paints made from the flowers were good quality.
As it turned out—the [Gardener] who cultivated so many flowers was not the person chosen by a ghost. It was her son.
The boy was fifteen and not hard to find. Everyone in the village knew Horre’s name and what had happened. They were also highly suspicious of Demsleth and Rafaema—even when he explained he was simply here to listen and perhaps help.
“You won’t be the first to bother him. There’ve been fifteen [Merchants] so far—and eight adventurers and a bunch of shady folk. Thieves, no less. Some in broad daylight! They broke into Costere’s cottage, so any suspicious moves and we will have you out of the village, sir.”
Costere was a widow, and her son had grown up helping till the fields. There was something poetic about it that stirred Rafaema’s sense of stories.
A gardener’s son, strong and hale, in a simple village who one day was visited by a ghost. The boy had hair in three colors, which amused her greatly. Green, yellow, and blue in three stripes across his hair. It seemed it was a tradition in this village to dye anything since they had such access.
“I can’t sell you this sword, Mister Demsleth. If you’re here on behalf of anyone—even a famous Named-rank, I can’t. The man who gave it to me told me I had to carry it. I swore an oath.”
He looked—nervous. Nervous and less than happy for a boy who had the mark of stories on him. But perhaps that had to do with a boarded up window and the wary villagers.
“This place used to love travellers. Now, after he’s nearly been mugged twice—a sword from a ghost.”
“Can you tell me how it happened?”
Demsleth had won some warmth by offering some pipes and ash around to smoke as well as a cake that Rafaema suspected came straight from The Wandering Inn. Costere sat there, looking—anxious as Horre repeated the story with clear practice.
Four months ago, he had been in the fields when a stranger walked across the flowerbeds. Annoyed, Horre had shouted for the man to stop trampling the shoots—until he realized the stranger left no footprints in their wake.
A warrior pointed down, down into the dirt and told Horre something lay buried under his feet. A precious blade and his bones. If he was worthy to claim it. But the ghost demanded a vow.
“‘Forsake your farm and heritage. If you pick up this sword, you are now a warrior of a long legacy. Reclaimer, rebuilder of Giryal’s Champions. Mercenary company of old.’ So I promised him to do it. He told me he was going to ‘fight at the end of this world’. I dug up the sword, and here it is.”
Horre held up the blade, and Rafaema whistled. She stared at the weapon, and her training in Manus told her what it was. Not a longsword or a greatsword, which were classical and, you had to admit, sort of boring.
He had a falchion, a single-edged blade with a guard and slanted or curved tip to the edge. Even without oil or polishing more than the buffing of his sleeve, it gleamed in the cold winter air. But that wasn’t what made it special.
“Put the sword down, lad! It’s doing it again—”
Everyone in the village winced as the wind blew, and Rafaema’s earholes caught the shriek as the blade cut the air. It grew louder and louder and then suddenly silent—as if the blade were so sharp as to create a vortex of sound.
She thought she saw it too—the wind dividing in a long gash across the ground past Horre. And that was what happened when he held it up.
“Giryal’s Champions. I…don’t know that company. Yet that blade is fine, young man.”
“Fine enough for everyone to want it. We’re lucky House Quellae is the only noble with land near ours. Lord Pellmia didn’t demand it, but he’s already offered young Horre a position in his guard.”
“I can’t take it. I have to start a company.”
“And how?”
The question came from Costere, and while his mother, the [Gardener], sounded gentle, the boy hunched his shoulders.
He was fifteen…and looked almost full-grown for his age, over six foot two and broad-shouldered, but Rafaema had a terrible kinship with him. Horre spoke slowly and deliberately, trying not to glance at his mother’s expression.
“I don’t know. But I’ve made a promise. A vow. I levelled up. I am a [Mercenary Captain], and I should start somewhere. Perhaps it’s like an adventurer.”
“We’ll be going with you, Horre!”
Half the village lads and some of the girls were ready to start roving around already. But the older villagers looked—nervous.
“We don’t fear Horre would do poorly against a pack of monsters, Mister Demsleth. He’s chased off those thieves, and when one grabbed the sword and ran, it flew all the way back into his hand. But there are…folk who would do anything for a blade like that.”
“It’s not even a Relic. It’s decent but…ahem. I quite agree, Master Roisel. Do you have a plan?”
The villagers did not. Costere looked at Demsleth with a surprising amount of trust. But perhaps she sensed he was more than he seemed.
“Do you, Mister Demsleth?”
The old man made a show of stroking his beard. He spoke carefully.
“If I were young Horre, I would take my vow seriously. A class is a class. But perhaps I should take the view that one does not need to lead a company overnight. A promise is a promise, but the duration is important.”
Horre’s troubled head rose hopefully, and Costere smiled as her eyes lit up.
“Oh, I see!”
Teriarch hmmed. And Rafaema began to smile as he nodded.
“Mercenaries are not common on Izril. But there is surely one of Baleros—or perhaps Izril has the right one—who could teach Horre the job. Giryal’s Champions might not appear overnight, but with someone to teach him the blade and basics, Horre might well level.”
“It beats him cutting grass all day. He’s only gotten to Level 3 by practice—you speak wisdom, Mister Demsleth.”
Some of the other villagers were nodding. Demsleth was smiling wider, and Rafaema’s heart leapt—right until he kept speaking.
“Naturally, the first thing the lad should do is plant a fake story about the village he’s from. Someone always comes by to take the mother or village hostage when an artifact is about.”
“Huh?”
The smiling villagers hesitated. Horre’s expression grew worried.
“Take my mother hostage?”
Demsleth took a deep draft of the pipe and exhaled in a plume. He looked up at the sky.
“It’s already begun. I suggest you come up with a good name. Flowershome—let’s say it’s eighty miles south of here. You need to have a few convincing anecdotes to throw people off, and this village might consider changing its name. You can even register the name in the Merchant’s Guild.”
“I—we could try that. Have a whipround for the fee?”
Demsleth waved this off. He was frowning now. He produced ten gold coins and placed them on the ground. Costere frowned at them, and Horre blinked and his mouth fell open at the sight of the gold.
“Allow me. Consider it a donation to a young man’s talents. But let’s consider who you want to apprentice him to. A bad [Mercenary] might lead young Horre down the wrong path. He might find he is working with naught but [Brigands]—even if he is of good character. You want the upstanding sort of mercenary. One vetted properly. I suggest a proper lure for some former soldier-of-fortune who wants to do things again. Does anyone here have [Detect Intention]? [Greater Appraisal]? [Detect Guilt]?”
No one nodded. Demsleth puffed harder, frowning, then pulled something out of his bag of holding.
“Very well. Here is a scroll of [Detect Intention]. Brighter colors mean purer intention—I didn’t choose the gradient. It will work six times, and perhaps you had better weigh your options and interview all six before you choose, young man, but the quality of your company will also matter. Now, I don’t need to tell you that all sorts of attractive young women or men or both will be drawn to success. Childhood sweethearts—you don’t have any of them, do you?”
“A friend—do you mean someone I’d fall in love with?”
“A romantic interest. I suggest you get it out of your system. I am not suggesting now, but just be careful about the aforementioned hangers-on. Or love triangles. Speaking of which, it’s good that your sword returns to you. But what you are going to need if you start a mercenary company is the most essential thing for a roving warrior.”
“Courage?”
Someone finally broke into Demsleth’s deep thinking. The old man snorted. Rafaema raised a claw.
“Er, Demsleth, a word?”
“Not a word, nor courage. Did you just say ‘numbers’, young woman? Hah! I like that!”
He chuckled to one side, then reached into his bag of holding.
“No, it’s a lockbox. And I happen to, er, have one right here. Your coin needs to be backed, and every [Thief] is going to be after it. Now, some [Mercenaries] use magical contracts, but most are informal. I suggest you study [Pirates], young Horre, and see how they divide their shares of treasure up. It’s actually quite scientific—nothing kills a company more than accusations the division of spoils is not fair.”
Horre had grabbed a sheet of paper, and he looked like he was desperately taking notes. Costere’s smile had turned to concern, and the villagers were staring. Demsleth kept pulling objects out of his ‘bag of holding’.
“I think within a year we can get you to Level 20. Maybe even Level 30—”
“Level 30?”
