During this week, ten events occurred in the world. Most were mundane or not immediately consequential in the grand scheme of things. They were just—details. First steps that only made sense after the spinning ball of destiny was crashing downhill towards the pins of fate.
These ten occurrences were: a convening of ships at sea. An execution. A boxing match. An accusation in scarlet. A hiring of an employee. An assassination. A fine. A duel. A delivery service opening. And a crossing of borders.
As it so happened, two individuals would both interfere or witness or be tied to these events in some way, despite their occurrences across Izril and, in one case, overseas. These two individuals were, predictably, an Archmage and a Dragon.
 
——
 
The thing about getting older was that you never actually felt old. Your body and the face in the mirror might change, but at least, for her, the realization that she had white hair had come as a shock. She’d spent two months wondering if some magical accident had dyed her hair white and kept expecting to see the normal shade of blue return. Blue worked among brown…the results of magical heritage.
Valeterisa Imarris felt younger in the inn. The Haven made her forget she wasn’t ‘Valley’, a [Mage] who was newly-graduated from Wistram Academy or here on vacation during the winter and summer for the free bread.
It made her forget who she was—until someone stared at her stealing bread from baskets. But the smack on the hand was familiar.
“Archmage Valley, stop stealing bread from the free baskets.”
“I was hungry.”
Larracel looked older, too. Shorter, or perhaps it was because she didn’t have a pointed wizard’s hat or stride around with her team. She wore a servant’s outfit. But her warning scowl was the same.
Valeterisa reluctantly stopped stealing breadsticks out of the basket sitting on the table in front of the Gnoll family. A Gnoll boy was staring up at her, open-mouthed, and his parents looked nervous. Why?
 
Thought-Process #8 (Allegedly ‘Common’ Sense): It might be that stealing breadsticks is unwelcome at this moment.
Thought-Process #2-5 (Main Valeterisa): But I’m a fun young woman with an impish personality.
Thought-Process #8 (Allegedly ‘Common’ Sense): This is no longer true. You are 65 years old.
Thought-Process #22 (Miscellaneous): You have an obligation in 7 minutes. Don’t forget.
Thought-Process #1 (Life Support): Am I still breathing?
 
Valeterisa inhaled after a worryingly long pause. What came out of her mouth was not her internal stream of thoughts and the 22 different processes thanks to [Parallel Thoughts], her Skill that allowed her to divide up her intellect. It was simply the conclusion of all this background thought.
“I dislike being old, Larracel.”
The [Innkeeper] of the Adventurer’s Haven gave Valeterisa an unusually sympathetic look. Then she snagged Valeterisa’s ear before Thought-Process #9, Reflexes, could get Valeterisa’s head out of the way.
“Come with me. Where’s your apprentice? I have breakfast right here.”
“Do I have to pay for it?”
“Valeterisa, you are rich.”
“Oh. Yes. So I am. Could you waive the fee anyways? Your inn is expensive.”
In short order, Valeterisa was at a table under the morning’s sun, and she blinked at the snowy mountains around her and then shivered.
“I’m cold.”
It was winter. When had that happened? She stared up blankly at the clouds and the falling snow. Larracel, who was delivering a replacement basket of bread and some honey to the Gnoll family, turned and gave Valeterisa a suspicious look.
As if she didn’t believe Valeterisa had missed the onset of winter. Yet it felt to Valeterisa as if she’d woken up and the season had changed.
It reminded her of when Ryoka Griffin had woken her from her long imprisonment in her mind. And she had lost almost a decade.
That thought made all of Valeterisa’s other thoughts screech to a halt. And she decided in that moment she did not like her new organizational system.
“Thought-Processes. All halt. All halt.”
Twenty-two different thoughts all stopped running at the same time. Valeterisa blinked—
Then she was herself again. No longer running twenty-two ways at once—but focused. She looked up and realized she was cold because she was shivering. She wore the enchanted robes that marked her as Archmage of Izril. Someone had given them to her a long time ago, and she’d had ‘Archmage of Izril — Valeterisa Imarris’ embroidered on them because it helped when meeting new people.
She was aware, though, that the cloth was cold because heating spells were not in the fabric. And the temperature made her shiver. In fact, she was shaking so badly that her hand wouldn’t lift the spoon of hot soup—pumpkin with spices floating on top?—to her mouth.
She was back. Like Fissival, Valeterisa was focused.
Limited.
Part of her instantly disliked the feeling of being ‘present’ because some of these feelings were useless. Divided, she could do multiple things like handle [Messages] sent to her, work on magical spells, and more. But she had to admit—her Skill had its dangers.
Considerable dangers. She felt like she might have almost just fallen into the same trap as last time.
No more using that Skill—for now. Valeterisa looked around and focused on the people around her. Some were staring at her out of the corners of their eyes, at the Archmage of Izril. She blinked like an owl behind her spectacles as she stared right back and they pretended to be focused on their meal.
Then Valeterisa swiveled and heard Larracel speaking to the family she’d been stealing bread from.
“I’m so sorry for the trouble. Hello, young football player.”
Football? Did she know…? Valeterisa whispered a custom spell she’d implemented long ago.
“[Display Memories: Factoid].”
A variation on the [Recall Memory] spell. She might not deserve the class of [Archmage], but she was still a well-trained fundamentalist. She could alter spells, scribe them to scrolls, link spells, and convert mana between types.
All things any basic [Mage] of real Wistram would be able to do. But apparently, just being able to alter a spell at will from its basic functionality already put you at ‘high magus’ level. Which was stupid.
Anyways. The spell she’d altered popped up her own organized memories into a readable series of text over people’s heads. Anything she knew about them.
For instance, as Barnethei hurried past Larracel, she saw a popup.
 
Barnethei, age 17 age 34. Level 42 [Vice Innkeeper]. Most recent levelup—encounter with Erin Solstice, possibly Trials of Zeladona. A huge fan of eating oranges. Can be bribed with Balerosian oranges. No longer the case; he can buy his own. Crush on Chierice. She’s dead. Enamored with Mihaela? Taken sword-lessons from Eld, Deni. 
Wants to start his own inn. Can duplicate himself. 
 
More facts popped up the longer she stared, but her realization that so much had changed was…
Depressing.
This was why she disliked feeling this way. Valeterisa raised a finger.
“[Clear Emotion—]”
She hesitated. This felt like another trap. She wanted to do it, but she vividly recalled not casting the spell much while she visited Fissival.
That had resulted, however unpleasantly, in her first levels in eight years. In great achievement—and yes, considerable emotional damage.
But if you were going to put the possibility of levels and thus new spells and opportunity on a scale, Valeterisa would sacrifice almost anything for that. So—she didn’t cast the spell and felt unhappy.
Chierice the Gold-ish. A ‘Gold-rank’ adventurer. That was the joke. Her motif as a [Merchant]’s daughter had been to use cheap pyrite and gold paint to give herself an aesthetic. It had certainly earned her the name, and she had adventured, using the Haven as a base.
It had been fifteen years ago when she died. Who would remember her? Valeterisa distinctly recalled a younger man, new to working under Larracel, trying to flirt with her.
She looked around, and it didn’t feel that long ago. Then Valeterisa focused on the Gnolls. She didn’t know the older ones, but the younger one actually did have a memory text line.
 
Ekirra, Level ?? [Kicker]. 8 years old. Inquisitive. New class? Prone to stealing food with Mrsha.
 
Oh, so the boy was here for his first visit to the Haven. He was peering at her as Larracel smiled. Valeterisa shivered—then took a quiet bite of soup.
“Mm. I’m cold.”
She was cold. Drat. Barnethei had clearly been ordered to give her a coat, hence his approach. Although he was taking his time because everyone wanted to talk to the ‘Innkeeper of the Haven’.
This was the kind of understanding full-Valeterisa was afforded. Did it matter? No. Not really. Hence her often spooling off parts of her she didn’t need, like the processing of smell, into working on other spells.
Alas. History does teach me that [Parallel Thoughts] has been the end of better [Mages] than I. Lost in their intelligence. Maybe I’ll not use it for a while.
Which meant she was resigned to shivering. Valeterisa sighed and then had another thought worthy of an Archmage.
Wait a second. I’m no longer Valley, a girl-student of Wistram. Right? 
Right. I’m old.
But with age came certain privileges. Like, for instance…Valeterisa craned her head up and peered at the falling snow. It came out of a grey sky—the High Passes north of her, towering, but receding into the distance.
“Hmm. Where are we?”
She had no idea. Valeterisa liked the look of the snow—but not the cold. The Haven’s upper floor with the outdoor seating had a lot of people bundled up—or Gnolls with their handy fur—but they had put out several braziers in an attempt to beat the cold.
Valeterisa could do one better. She aimed a finger straight up, and Barnethei broke off talking with a young boy demanding to know why he couldn’t access the Pub of Best Moments. He strode over—too late.
“Archmage Valeterisa—”
“Let’s see. [Fixed Spell]. [Empowered Casting]. [Dome of Heat].”
It was just a Tier 3 spell. [Dome of Heat] normally had a radius of ten feet around you and about five feet over your head. Valeterisa pumped mana into it and realized two things.
Firstly—her magic felt more powerful than it used to. As if it were doing more with less.
[My Mana Runs Thick as Blood]. It felt—viscous. Like the difference between oil and water—a denser and thus more efficacious mana pool.
Second—as the [Dome of Heat] rose, a shimmering orange light cast by the glowing barrier that made the guests recoil and gasp—the air warmed up in a moment. From the biting cold, it became pleasant, even warm! It enveloped the entire upper floor of the inn, melting snow on the railing and making the little boy, Sammial Veltras, nearly leap out of his seat in shock.
It also had one side-effect Valeterisa’s more limited mind hadn’t come up with. Which was…if it was snowing and it was suddenly warm—the snow underwent a change.
It began raining. Drops splattered down, and the cries of awe became dismay. Valeterisa got a fat droplet in her eye. She pointed up again.
“Drat. [Dome of Air]!”
A second dome rose, catching the shower as it fell, and the water streamed away, rolling off the dome and onto the ground where it re-froze. The bulls pulling the floating inn below grunted in surprise, and some raised their heads to lick the water streaming down around them.
“There.”
Valeterisa went back, saw her soup was cold, and warmed it up with a touch. She smiled. Right up until someone smacked her on the back of the head.
“Valley. Are you trying to ruin my business?”
Larracel glared, and Valley hunched her shoulders.
“No. It was cold.”
“I had a coat for you. Barnethei. How many times have I told you to see to Valeterisa first?”
The scolding was familiar as the [Vice Innkeeper] hurried over, mortified, and he and Valeterisa were once again children in trouble. Then Valeterisa peered up at Larracel.
“I’m…I’m an Archmage of Wistram now, Larra. You can’t talk to me like that.”
Larracel eyed Valeterisa. She said nothing, but Valeterisa quickly put down her spoon and put her hands in her lap.
“—I’m very sorry, Larra. It won’t happen again.”
“See that it does not or I will confine you to your room. At least you anchored the spell to the inn.”
The bubble of warmth and umbrella were moving along with the inn so they wouldn’t lose them in a moment. Valeterisa peeked up and then stared around.
“Where are we?”
Larracel sighed, but the rolling hills and valleys…she pointed back tiredly.
“Past Liscor. There’s the city. We met The Wandering Inn yesterday. We’re headed to the Bloodfields next. A journey I don’t envy. Don’t you remember?”
“No. We passed the other inn? Why didn’t you tell me?”
Larracel’s head-slapping hand twitched. Barnethei just shook his head in amazement.
“Archmage Valeterisa, there was a party. You were there. Albeit reading a book.”
“I must have forgotten. [Recall Memories]. Ah. So there was.”
Now she vaguely recalled a party. Mostly a book she’d been reading. But the peripherals in her memory did indicate Larracel had been hosting thousands of Liscorians in her inn, speeches from the Council, and Erin Solstice’s own inn meeting this one.
“Oh. So that is why my apprentice hasn’t shown herself. She must be hungover.”
“Doubtless. Though I think she’s noticed you casting magic.”
Larracel’s voice was dry—and she pointed to a red-haired young woman running across the deck towards her. Montressa du Valeross’ face was pale with the fear of an [Apprentice]-[Aegiscaster] who suspected her master had, once again, caused a scene.
“Archmage Valeterisa! Master!”
“I only cast a warming spell, Montressa. Hello. I’m awake. I am not mad you were having fun yesterday. Also—I like the pumpkin soup.”
Valeterisa even managed a faint smile. Look at her. She was peopling so well today. She was, in fact, a person. Even Larracel managed an exasperated smile of fondness. Montressa was messy; she looked disheveled, and her hair resembled a squirrel’s nest in motion.
“Archmage! Not that! You’re late! I told you and told you—didn’t you set an alarm?”
Valeterisa paused with another spoon dipped in the pumpkin soup.
“Told me what? I turned off my parallel thoughts.”
It occurred to her that this might have had consequences. Montressa turned white—then she seized something out of her belt pouch and thrust it at Valeterisa. Then—and only then did Valeterisa realize a bunch of [Message] spells were piling up in her magical inbox. Larracel stared at the [Message] scroll.
“Oh no. Barnethei—where’s the scrying mirror?”
