“Who else but Vampires? Enough. I say enough hiding and dancing around what we suspect! First House Byres burns—are we to wait until they are around every corner? If the Circle of Thorns could live in shadows, why not our enemy? Ylawes, you saw them. How fast did they move? They struck under night and hit the silver mines. Who else but them?”
“Delanay! Silence or I shall have you gagged!”
His father barked, crimson-faced. Yitton accepted his apologies—but he did not look affronted. Ylawes…was busy saddling a horse as Delanay strode over.
“Ylawes, where are you going? I need to have your account of what happened!”
“I have to find enough gold or we’ll suffer the winter. We are buying food at cost, Delanay. I’ve put all the funds I can from the Silver Swords into it and borrowed against Dawil’s and Falene’s funds. Yvlon is away from a Merchant’s Guild, but she agreed to send gold, and I am asking Ysara to contribute, though she has not responded yet. If you want details, ask Father.”
Delanay seized Ylawes’ arm with a gloved hand.
“Are you mad? You must suspect them. This is not the time to chase gold—dig out those mines and find the armory! But they torched that too. We need silver. Every blade we can dig up and forge!”
Ylawes rounded on his old friend. He was angry—and Laken Godart, eavesdropping, heard his voice rise.
“You would rather have my people starve? They are penniless, some of them. Entire livelihoods went up in flames, Delanay! They torched warehouses full of all the food for winter…I spent enough for two artifacts on food, and it will not last more than two months.”
Delanay paused, and his blazing eyes faded slightly.
“That bad? I thought this [Emperor]—”
He glanced towards Laken, who pretended to stare ahead, smiling at the d’Artien folk. Ylawes growled a response as he continued saddling the horse.
“He’ll be why not all of them starve. But the coin! Farms, Delanay. They burned it all. This was coordinated. There were…at least a hundred. And they moved so fast.”
“Faster than anyone but someone Level 30 and over could move? By night? Fearless of anything but the fires they set and silver? Ylawes.”
“No one died. Even the servants were knocked unconscious or drugged and pulled outside.”
“Except your parents?”
Ylawes’ fingers creaked on the leather harness, and the horse shied away. But he forced himself to turn to Delanay.
“They were trying to recover as much as possible. They were not set up to be murdered…just our mansion burned down. That is a crime and an attack on House Byres…but that is not how the stories go of them, Delanay.”
“New enemies. New times. Did you test them in your hot springs? Your parents. The servants.”
“Delanay—!”
The Emergency Runner grabbed Ylawes’ arm with a crushing grip.
“Did. You. Test. Them?”
The [Knight] responded very quietly.
“I made sure there was silver in their presence. All of them, from servants to my parents.”
“Then we rule them out. Who’s the family you suspected?”
“Delanay, I shook hands with the father. Don’t start—”
“Give me their names, Ylawes. I won’t be quick, but I am going to find out who this is. Even if it wasn’t Vampires, someone burned your estates down. I will have my family’s help even if my father’s blind—and I will have more than them. A member of Izril’s nobility was attacked. You have support. Give me a clue.”
Delanay hissed as the Silver Swords prepared to mount up. Ylawes Byres looked at him as Dawil turned his head. Falene was biting her lip, and Vuliel Drae were trying not to look like they were obviously listening in.
Ironically, Rasktooth and Infinitypear, the most contentious duo, were almost overlooked in the light of House Byres’ burning. The two were very sad. The nice place they had heard stories about was all ash. But what was this about…
Vampires?
Delanay glanced at Rasktooth’s pointed grin and his red eyes. Almost. Almost…he listened as Ylawes muttered a name.
“Lischelle-Drakle. But mark me, Delanay. If you offend them—”
“I won’t appear on their doorstep. But I’ll ask. I heard a strange rumor, Ylawes. Byres’ name was being cursed up and down one village a [Merchant] came across one day. Practically screamed from the rooftops until they heard him listening. Go if you have to. But don’t go far.”
Delanay’s eyes were burning. He stood there with the aegis of a class dawning across him. It was not there yet. But if you saw patterns, it was there. Waiting for him to realize it once more. The calling of d’Artien and Byres.
[Vampire Hunter].
The hunt was beginning in the ashes of House Byres. Fools. If an unseen Dragon of old, older than even the Silver Dragon, could have spoken, he would have said that to Vampires.
Just like the older ones would have shouted and done all in their power to halt. If they could have prevented this.
Fools. You have begun a hunt. You could never kill them all. You should have hid. Like us.
They will never stop. Delanay’s brown hair had strands of silver crossing it. He looked, in part, more the heir to House Byres than Ylawes himself. And in his eyes burned a hatred that had lasted hundreds of years with no visible foe. A bright light in the darkness, searching.
There was more than just Delanay’s passion at work here, or his convictions that a long-lost foe was plotting against him. His bright stare was almost—relieved. Ylawes had known it of old, growing up with one of the families with ancient ties to Byres.
A frustration upon a boy that the age of his house’s glories, his purpose—was gone. Now, he sensed it. A long-lost glory and a purpose far beyond the empty causes he had pursued. A feud that had marked the bones of his family, oaths written in the dying hands of countless generations of his family.
That hatred was born out of blood in ages past. An ancient grudge. And that kind of hatred—
Never stopped.
 
——
 
It was wrong to say there was no morality in monsters who were people. They knew morality. It was a rare, rare person who had nothing at all for a guiding light.
But sometimes you hated something or someone so much that you did exactly what the little voice screamed at you not to do. And you did it because you knew it was more terrible. The reason didn’t matter.
If you were honest, you made no excuses. But it still took a special kind of hatred to smile while doing it.
Not to rage or scream or work yourself into a fury—but to tell a joke and chuckle and make it mundane. That was a level beyond what even casual monsters did. It spoke of practice.
That kind of monster stood in House Byres’ lands and listened to—coughing. Wet, phlegmy. This was the other thing happening in House Byres’ lands, albeit far from the border where the [Emperor] stood.
A mother ushered a wheezing boy back. He had a head cold, and she, with some vague sense of germ theory or politeness, kept him back from the guest.
“I’m terribly sorry, Merchant Estvallos. He caught sick just last night.”
“Not at all. Not at all, good Missus. You have a lovely family, Farmer Dolven.”
The [Farmer] was subdued as any man who had watched most of his home burning might be. But he managed a slight smile for two reasons: his farm on the borders of House Byres had been spared the worst. It was closer to House Veltras lands, and so the arsonists might have decided it was too far away.
His wheat fields were unscorched aside from some ash that had fallen. But he shook the beaming half-Elf’s hand. Bare-handed.
A half-Elf with swept back hair, dyed dark as the void and bare-chested, in robes lined by a red lining like blood, open to the cold air. He didn’t shiver, but he was friendly and probably had a magic ring. They stood just outside the farm where he could inspect the fallow fields—planted hurriedly with winter greens.
Only a few plants could grow in winter, but Dolven had planted all the seeds he could buy when he heard of Byres’ crisis. He had the silo of grain; Estvallos had inspected it just this morning.
Dolven had feared the half-Elf would make him an offer he would have to refuse to help Lord Yitton—but the half-Elf had just run his hands through the golden grain before standing and making an incredible offer.
“Wonderful grain. And you are charitable, Farmer Dolven. I salute you, Sah. And Missus—your son is quite wonderful. So I hope you will take this grain—and send it to all the folk of House Byres as soon as can be.”
“Merchant Estvallos, will you not meet Lord Yitton? You’ve paid for delivery—he should want to thank you himself for donating so much.”
The half-Elf had just bought the entire silo—but not for himself. He had asked Dolven to distribute it to House Byres.
It was an act of charity beyond the [Farmer]’s ability to keep dry-eyed. The half-Elf went over to shake Dolven’s son’s hand. The boy tried not to cough.
“And you are?”
“Tolei, Merchant Estvallos.”
“Young Tolei, I hope you get over your cold soon enough. A pleasure to meet you. And you, good Missus.”
He shook the boy’s hand and the mother’s with a huge smile on his face. Tolei’s mother smiled at him despite the oddities of Estvallos’ speaking.
He said ‘sah’ and ‘missus’ instead of…sir and miss. But he was very friendly. And that smile was so good as to almost be convincing.
Certainly, the farmhands who had come out to load grain and the local villagers wanting to applaud this half-Elf were fooled. They had lined up, and the [Mayor] was shaking his head.
“Those d’Artien folk just rode on past with nary a glance. Look, there’s another silver-haired bugger poking around, and a half-Elf is putting coin for House Byres. That’s honor.”
Indeed, Estvallos was shaking hand after hand with a huge smile and even went as far as to pat the loaded sacks of grain.
“Meet Lord Yitton? I wouldn’t want to take up his precious time. He should see to his people first.”
“He would want to meet you in person. His son’s there and one of his daughters. Only Lady Yvlon’s not here—it would be the least you deserve.”
Estvallos stopped and put a finger to his lips.
“Well…if you insist, why not? Maybe I shall go to Lord Yitton now and take his hand. Coincidence happens like that, but some things go faster than others, eh?”
An odd way of putting it, but Farmer Dolven was about to offer he introduce Estvallos to Yitton himself with the first delivery of grain when his son’s coughing started again. Only this time…the coughing didn’t stop after a few seconds.
It kept going and going. Dolven turned with casual alarm—then serious alarm as his wife bent over the boy.
“Tolei? Tolei, what’s wrong? Drink something.”
She tried to offer him water, but the boy’s face turned red, and the coughing grew deeper, hacking. Estvallos stood back as his parents stood around him.
“My—does anyone have a healing potion perhaps? A good one? Call for the [Healer]!”
He raised his voice, and the villagers looked about as the boy kept coughing. Estvallos stood there with the face of someone who didn’t know what to do. But privately, he hoped this wouldn’t derail Farmer Dolven’s departure.
He had a schedule to keep. And he smiled in relief as the limp Tolei stopped coughing at last and lay weak in his mother’s arms.
“I shouldn’t want to make you drive off like this, Farmer Dolven. Perhaps someone else can take the wagon?”
“No—no—I can make the trip. If only to talk to a [Healer]. He was alright this morning, Mela…”
His wife was checking on the boy’s temperature, which was already higher. Estvallos tapped Dolven on the shoulder.
“If I may, Sah. Is there a good [Healer] about? You may want to send for the very best. The absolute best, Sah.”
“You’re right. And you’ve paid me enough to—thank you, Merchant.”
The man tried to smile with a father’s concern. Then the [Mayor] pushed forwards.
“Dolven. You don’t have to drive the wagons. We’ll take someone else and send for a healer if one can be spared.”
“I’m fine, Father. Go see Lord Yitton.”
Tolei panted. The boy felt better after coughing. He tried to stand up tall to show he was fine. He had a silver sword—a painted piece of wood—just like Ylawes Byres and Yvlon Byres. He would be a [Knight] some day and serve House Byres.
The [Merchant] smiled as the [Farmer] dithered in front of his son’s bravery. And the flushed boy’s cheeks looked bright and vigorous in the cold. A mule began to sneeze. The loaded grain was ready to go, and the Dragon did nothing. If he had even noticed Tolveilouka’s disguise, he was miles and miles away.
“I may ride with you to Lord Yitton, Sah. Just tell me if I can help load some wheat. Would a gift be appropriate?”
Estvallos put his hand on his chin. The farmers and folk of the village, reminded of their task, got back to work. They broke up, and someone in the queue put their hand on Tolve’s shoulder.
Tolei saw the aforementioned man with silver hair smile at him. He stopped feeling the building need to cough and thought this man was nicer, even if d’Artiens were haughty. His hair was pure silver, anyways, not brown or blonde crossed with silver. It blew in the cold winter air as Merchant Estvallos blinked and his brows crossed.
Then the tip of the silver sword exploded straight through his chest as the man with silver hair rammed it straight through the half-Elf’s spine and through his ribcage. The blade came out red and bloody, and Tolei blinked at it.
“Huh?”
Estvallos’ mouth opened wide, and his eyes bulged. The second blade was shorter—a wicked dagger—and went halfway through his neck before he grabbed it.
Blade lodged in his neck, straight in his windpipe, blood running down his open robes, the half-Elf staggered and turned. Tolei’s father was standing there, stunned. The [Mayor]’s mouth was open in a shout not yet formed when a hand tried to yank the sword blade straight up through Tolveilouka’s spine.
It hurt. It shouldn’t have hurt like that. Magic artifacts hurt less. This burned worse than silver. This burned like—
“Gyaaaaiighl—”
The scream that came out of the ruined windpipe was followed by a red spray as Tolveilouka swung a hand wildly. But the sword that exited his spine ran him through twice more before he drew his sword.
“Who—”
A man with silver hair brought the longsword down towards Tolveilouka’s head. The undead creation of the Putrid One blocked it with a curved sword he had torn from his side.
He had never had to use it so far, but it was the blade he had borne before his long wait. A curved weapon; an elegant tachi sword looted from the lands of Drath. It had been enchanted by the Putrid One’s own hands and wounded Dragon scales.
