It clashed with that longsword made of silver. Brighter and tougher than mithril. Almost like—horn?
Then Tolveilouka kicked the other figure backwards. He ripped the silver dagger from his throat, tossed it aside, and watched it vanish.
A fake blade? What kind of fake blade hurts like—
The Humans were doing things they always did when the unbelievable happened. Scream, hide, stand there like animals—the little boy that Tolveilouka had just infected should have been on the ground with a fever.
But he was upright. His eyes wide as he stared at the silver-haired man. He had produced a second shortsword to go with the longsword, and Tolveilouka snarled as he lifted the tachi with its green blade, like a shade of flesh rotting that few seldom saw overhead.
“Who are you?”
The wounds in his chest and throat had already closed. His ambusher said nothing. But he advanced, and the two began to fight a duel. A duel within range of the Vale Forest, that great expanse of trees that stretched across the northwestern half of the continent. A place Tolveilouka had not yet troubled simply because the Village of the Dead lay far to the east. If he had earlier, he would have realized to his cost—
It still had a protector.
 
——
 
Pekona of Vuliel Drae had been feeling useless since coming north. In fact, she had quarreled long with Anith and had been considering resigning her part in the team.
She had already lost an arm. Now—after meeting Zeladona and being blessed by the greatest blade mistress, she had thought she needed to return to the blade. Perhaps to go home.
She felt bad for the people of House Byres, but a one-armed [Blade Dancer] was little use here. She was glad she stayed.
Forty three minutes had passed since a villager from House Byres’ border had sent a [Message] to Ylawes that two strangers had begun a duel in blood at a farmstead. Ylawes had agreed to pass by this way, but he had assumed the duel would be over, quite reasonably.
He had not expected it to still be going when he got there. Nor did the son of House Byres rush into the battle when he saw the two combatants.
The villagers clearly expected him to—but the [Knight] didn’t for the same reason Pekona stopped and her heart leapt.
“Oh dead gods. We’re outlevelled. Back up. Get everyone clear.”
Dawil took one look at the fighting and gave orders. Insill rubbed his eyes.
“I can’t—I can barely see them moving.”
The air hurt. It sounded like the ringing of bells but higher-pitched, and what remained of a snowy field was torn up, grass and dirt uncovered and flying with each step and cut. But for all that—
Pekona sat in the snow with her blade on her lap. She didn’t move as the Silver Swords debated what to do and her team milled about. If she died—she was fairly certain she wouldn’t be able to stop it.
And she had to see. What she saw, once her eyes adjusted to the different speed, was two men.
Only, neither was a man. One looked like a half-Elf with pale, even jaundiced features. His dyed black hair was revealing itself to be golden flax in color. He had a pale white robe on, pale like ivory, subtly different from the snow, lined with red, and was bare-chest as he whirled and stepped.
He had an extraordinarily long blade in one hand she recognized as a tachi, overlong compared to even a katana’s reach. In theory, it slowed you down dangerously—but he swung the sword so fast that the extra length was purely an advantage.
One-handed, almost like he too was missing an arm. But she realized that was due to how he fought. He would turn, spinning like a top, and lash out with a sandaled foot. Swing his sword, then dart in and throw a punch.
Like an ever-changing breeze of violence in a forest. Just like the half-Elves who had learned how to fight—he moved from form to form with a natural grace, combining them with that dancing, hand-to-hand martial art that would let him spin, even rotate around on one hand to surprise a foe.
Perfect for fighting in open spaces. In this field, against his opponent armed with blades, it seemed disadvantaged—but while she could make no sense of it, Pekona saw his hand lashing out, his foot kicking—
Trying to touch his opponent. Just touch…as if that would settle everything. She had the instinct that one touch would mean her end. And the wild attacks of the half-Elf that sometimes disregarded his safety were being countered by another strange style.
Longsword, shortsword—a man with silver hair, ostensibly Human, lunged under a wide slash that cleaved through the air overhead. He ducked down, lunged—then came up with both blades. Like the thrust of a lance or…a bull’s horns?
It came straight up and nearly impaled the half-Elf, who parried in mid-air, landed, and thrust the tachi out.
Tolveilouka tilted his neck left and nearly lost his head. He yelped as a blade pierced the place where his face had been—a charging stab so fast that it made his own attack seem lame by comparison. He stepped back—and the second blade tore a chunk out of his stomach.
His opponent had two blades. And unlike the half-Elf, Taletevirion did not leap or pirouette in the air. He advanced on his opponent, holding his longsword and shortsword by his side and executed another lancing thrust.
He never stopped! He was pressing in so fast that the half-Elf was constantly dodging backwards, only forcing the constant charge and lance-like thrusts off with punches and kicks. And half the time—a blade slashed across Tolveilouka’s face, and he snarled.
Blood splattered the ground and snow—his skin mended, but slower than it should have. Something in those blades was emitting a painful cleansing power that matched Tolveilouka’s dreadful regeneration. He could have been hit by a [Siege Fireball] and healed in a flash. But those blades…
“Die, you miserable pest!”
Tolveilouka lifted his sword overhead and brought it down. He stabbed the earth with the curved blade—and the field of plants rotted. The seeds in the ground sprouted upwards with foul pustules of rotten toadstools, yellow, sickly leaves, and the ground turned ominously pale, like sickness had invaded the earth.
A deadly plague upon even the earth! Tolveilouka smiled as the silver-haired man came to a halt. He had leapt out of range of the radius of the deadly attack, and the plagued ground was now Tolveilouka’s domain. The half-Elf would force him into it and—
The tip of the longsword kissed a rib before Tolveilouka twisted out of the way. It raked his ribs, and the Revenant saw two burning silver eyes staring at him. The shortsword came up—but Tolveilouka dodged back.
He’d jumped right into the putrefied land! He was dead! The half-Elf waited for the man to keel over—and he did not.
Taletevirion lifted the longsword to the sky and thrust the shortsword into the earth. Two-handed, he aimed the tip of the sword at Tolveilouka’s chest. And the shortsword—glowed—
The earth flashed, and the rotted plants turned to ash. Then withered and rebloomed. The earth turned brown—then green and grass and other plants, even flowers, bloomed underfoot.
“Nekhret’s bones!”
Tolveilouka’s oath was dismayed. He stepped back from the second thrust—then locked the tachi against the third stab of the longsword.
This time, his opponent made the mistake of trying to overpower Tolveilouka. The half-Elf’s arm bulged, and he threw his opponent back.
“Dead gods!”
“Tree rot!”
The adventures watching ducked and scattered. Falene Skystrall was right in the path of the man who flew like an arrow, launched by his opponent. He slid across the ground, and a shower of dirt knocked Infinitypear off his feet.
A furrow thirty feet long—and the Human halted, a foot in front of Falene. His teeth were clenched, and Falene heard a groan from the effort it had taken to halt himself. But then—he lifted his longsword as Tolveilouka set himself uneasily.
The Human touched the ground with one foot—and appeared where his shortsword had undone Tolveilouka’s rot. He lifted both blades—and performed a salute with them.
It looked almost like the hands of a clock, flashing as he lifted the shortsword upright and flicked the longsword left. A [Knight]’s salute? A [Duelist]’s en-garde.
But the smile was mocking. Taletevirion was bouncing on the balls of his feet. He dodged left, right, feinting as if he were about to spring in either direction, and Tolveilouka followed the movements, face patently uncertain.
Taletevirion’s stance lowered into a lunge, and the Revenant recoiled from the strike. But it never came. The other man halted, mid-lunge, straightened, and whirled one sword up. He saluted Tolveilouka this time, ostentatiously, with the silver shortsword.
And this time he sneered. He was taunting Tolveilouka! The half-Elf’s eyes bulged—then he raised his tachi with two hands, snarling—
The tip of that longsword nearly stabbed out his eyes. Taletevirion leapt into the gap caused by the Revenant’s fury. And he was advancing again! A thrust cleared the snow behind Tolveilouka for a dozen feet from the force of the wind alone as the Revenant deflected the shortsword’s followup—then Taletevirion kicked him into the wall of the barn. The Revenant emerged from the hole and splintered wood with a roar.
That was what Ylawes and the adventurers saw in the minute of fighting. The [Knight] saw part of the barn collapsing. Wood and beams were showering down, but the same blow that would have crushed his bones barely slowed Tolveilouka down as he came out, screaming curses in a language only Falene knew. The [Knight] shakily adjusted his shield and realized he was frozen in place. He turned his head and croaked at one of the watching villagers.
“Who are these two?”
“I don’t know, sir! One was a [Merchant]—so we thought—but the other ran him through and took half his head off, and he healed! Just like that!”
Ylawes’ head whirled, and a Runner who had come with him swore.
“Vamp—wait, that blade looks silver. And it’s broad daylight. How can he…?”
There were more monsters in this world than Delanay d’Artien could comprehend. But what was clear was…the young man lifted the crossbow, eyed the fighting, and lowered it.
If he shot a bolt at a target, neither one would be there by the time it reached its destination. They were both using…something.
Magic? The half-Elf leapt back, frustrated, and both he and his opponent seemed to realize they were stalemated. So they switched styles so fast only Pekona, Dawil, and Ylawes even saw it.
“Grandfathers’ beards!”
Dawil recognized the spell that carried the silver-haired man forwards. [Flash Step]. It had to be! He had seen Pisces fighting enough times to recognize the spell. Only this one seemed—faster. One step carried the silver-haired fighter eighteen feet in a blur—and suddenly he had a pair of long daggers, not swords, in hand.
And still, the half-Elf dodged. He leaned back under the blow and thrust an elbow out. Taletevirion stepped back half a foot with [Flash Step], just out of range, and the dagger thrust forwards as he stepped forwards.
Dodged again. Tolveilouka grinned as he pirouetted left. His longer sword came for Taletevirion’s neck, and the transformed Unicorn stepped forwards—
The sword flashed where his head had been as the spell carried him out of range. If he had tried to retreat, he would have killed himself on that blade.
But the half-Elf was not impressed. He had seen [Flash Step] used a hundred thousand times by [Fencers]. If you watched the feet, you could tell exactly where it was going. He flicked something out of his bag of holding, and Pekona stared.
“That’s a fan.”
Dasha observed in the silence. It was indeed the largest hand-fan that anyone had ever seen. Four feet long, and when it snapped open, the lacquered, blue fan had the faintest design like a river on it. Then Tolveilouka leapt.
He must have cleared twenty feet with one jump. Taletevirion waited for him to come down as the impossibly long leap carried Tolveilouka at him. But the Unicorn had side-stepped and was contemptuous of a foe in the air.
…right up until he saw the enchanted fan flick—and the undead half-Elf’s trajectory changed. His slash made Taletevirion duck—and that fan twisted up—
Tolveilouka came down, swinging his sword one-handed as he leapt, changing his course with the enchanted fan. From a wild dancer in the forests, he descended like some great bird, sword tracing a constant, chasing pattern as he tried to cut Taletevirion down. And he had all the mobility in the air he wanted; the fan could arrest his fall, send him hurtling down faster—
What did the Unicorn do in return? At this unfamiliar style—he began stomping his feet. As if they were hooves.
Stomp. Stomp. Stompstompstompstompstompstomp—
Tolveilouka sneered at the most disgraceful sight he’d seen yet—like a child stomping on the ground. Until he realized how fast the Unicorn was touching the ground. And the steps were growing lighter.
Like a tap dancer—only the Unicorn had earth instead of a stage. Each step could touch at any angle of his foot. A soft patter now.
Tep. Tepteptepteptepteptepteptep—
Then he came at the half-Elf, and Tolveilouka recalled too late. He’d seen this before. It was—
[Flash Steps]! The Unicorn was throwing out over ten steps a second. Each one changing his trajectory. Forwards—back—he accelerated.
If he and Tolveilouka had been going the same speed before, which would have matched Colth’s fastest movement, the acceleration of this spell and style passed the undead’s ability to keep up. Tolveilouka threw himself up into the air with a scream as a silver blur passed under him. When he landed—the Unicorn came for him.
From every angle! The other duelist stepped past Tolveilouka, into his back, and reversed with a backstep, sword trying to impale the undead.
Flicker. He vanished under Tolveilouka’s arm, and his feet executed a turn. Step left, turning, rotate backwards with a backstep, step forwards—and he had completely done a one-eighty even as the Revenant was whirling. And that blade was trying to run Tolveilouka all the way through as the fan barely interposed itself between Tolveilouka’s skin and the silver blade.
Taletevirion recoiled—stepped sideways, out of range of the counter slash, and circled. Stepstepstepstepstep—eight steps and he was lunging in on Tolveilouka’s right. He was moving too fast!
The Unicorn’s only defense was mobility. Instead of parrying a blow, Taletevirion ducked past it and came at you from the other side.
Tolveilouka’s mind whirled even as he desperately tried to keep the blades from impaling him. His thoughts were a wild snarl of sudden realization.
This mobility! This insane attack—as if he has only one blade to use and no shield! I’ve seen it before!
Unicorn.
