The undead half-Elf finally placed his opponent and swung his sword with a scream as the blur surrounded him. His fan kicked up a foul cloud of dust that made all the watchers shield their faces and try to flee. But before it could fall over them—the foul mist seemed to glimmer. Then it vanished.
Forty-three minutes. They had both tagged each other several times, but neither one bore so much as a scratch. Tolveilouka had known how he healed—but he had assumed his foe had some kind of enhanced regeneration or a Skill or potion.
Now he understood. He drew his blade back and waited. Those swords were the horn. The undead Revenant felt it burning, trying to unmake him as it pierced his chest. But he thrust that sword straight back as the daggers twisted into his chest. Taletevirion tried to withdraw them and dance back—but he was unprepared for Tolveilouka’s flesh to constrict around the blades.
Tolveilouka ran Taletevirion through one leg as the blades burned his chest. The ultimate putrefaction and purest cleansing force clashed—then the screaming half-Elf stumbled back and clawed at the wound in his chest.
It was seared black and wouldn’t close. Taletevirion stumbled—and a rotten wound spread over one leg—then halted.
Panting, both men looked at each other. Both seemed—shocked that they hadn’t killed the other.
“I’ve killed your kind before. You…do I know you? I’ve humbled the Silver Dragon.”
Tolveilouka spat. He felt—who was this Unicorn? He had been alive this long? Had their forest produced a blademaster? Tolveilouka had seen their haughty looks before, in every shape. Tossing head and braying challenges. Arrogance and magic. Immortal guardians of a forest.
But they always looked frightened when they realized their foe was as deadly as they were. They were clumsier off the charge. Yet he had never seen this snarl.
It was closer to fighting those Gnolls and the Beastfolk. A blazing mane of silver hair, and eyes that held no fear of death. His racing heartbeat felt like drums. The Unicorn refused to yield or back down, even knowing a single touch could turn his flesh to rot. What battlefield had made him? The arrogance of the Unicorns riding along with their allies—was a far cry from the sound Tolveilouka heard in their clash of blades.
Taletevirion was no triumphal ringing of horns in the forest and the galloping of a thousand hooves. He was a single breeze, and he howled out of his forest like a hurricane of his own, louder than his kindred.
I will kill you with this sword alone. He reminded Tolveilouka of a great foe. The Unicorn was panting as he spoke.
“Good thing I never learned from the Silver Dragon. Eat shit and die you plebh—”
Taletevirion puked. A stream of bile came out his mouth, and he wiped it away. Tolveilouka hesitated. That should have given him a tiny opening. But even when vomiting the contents of his stomach—the Unicorn had been waiting for him to attack. Not like his kind at all. 
But if the Revenant was made uneasy by this familiar-unfamiliar foe, Taletevirion was just as unsettled. He stared at the being of rot. Tolveilouka had been cut over two dozen times and yet—only the most significant wounds remained. He healed. Pain was pain, and the undead clearly felt pain from being stabbed. But the only thing Tolveilouka showed as Taletevirion stared through a hole in Tolveilouka’s chest was a bared, wild grin.
Stab me. Cut me. Burn me. Melt me to ash and I will emerge through it and tear your intestines from your flesh with my teeth. He hadn’t even revealed his real body. The Unicorn spat, trying to clear his mouth.
“What are you made of?”
“Love and loyalty. And flesh.”
The Revenant enjoyed the look of disgust on the Unicorn’s face. But he was concerned. He wasn’t healing from his primary wounds. The Unicorn had halted his plague mid-infection. Tolveilouka backed up.
“Let’s do this again. You have an audience.”
“Oh—”
Taletevirion glanced sideways, saw the watching adventurers and mortals, and hesitated. Tolveilouka whirled. He muttered.
“[Emergency Telep—aaaaaaaah!”
That horn rammed straight through his back! He screamed as the Unicorn stabbed him—and kept stabbing him! They were supposed to be honorab—
Tolveilouka vanished. He popped out of the air, and the burning pain in his back trying to unmake him turned to a lesser pain as he appeared in a safe spot he’d chosen miles distant.
“That damned Unicorn! When did that forest—I thought it was dying. I thought the Treants had left for the sea since my master went to sleep!”
One Unicorn was more dangerous than an entire squad of [Unicorn Knights], half-Elves on their stupid haughty steeds. He must be old for their kind. You didn’t get a horn that powerful after a hundred years. How old was he? A thousand years? Three thousand? And he fought like a duelist even in a Human form.
“I need minions to die for me. This is what that damn [Sword Legend] was for.”
Tolveilouka was very good with the sword, but this was the entire point of having an army of minions. He got up; he had chosen a glade where the Vale Forest began for his escape point.
That damn Unicorn healed the boy. Probably purified the grain too. How did he realize I was here? He must be able to sense the rot. This will make everything harder. If I could kill him…
Tolveilouka hobbled along as he tried to think. Then he halted.
Wait a second. Unicorn.
Forest.
Vale Forest.
The wind was blowing across his face. It blew like snow, through the trees—Tolveilouka looked up. He began running.
“[Teleport]. [Teleport]. You—”
He saw the Unicorn coming through the trees like a silver wind. The screaming undead ran for it. The teleportation spell meant to send him back to his master’s domain had to focus for such a long range. It took him four minutes to teleport hundreds of miles. Quite good in a battlefield; great spellcasters would struggle to match it.
The Unicorn ran him through four times before he managed to get out. Then Taletevirion keeled over and lay on the grass.
 
——
 
The two Dragons found the Unicorn lying on his side in a glade as butterflies flew around him. Aside from the green-brown wound on his leg, it looked picturesque. A Unicorn in repose.
His commentary took away from the moment.
“Shoo. Shoo, you stupid bugs. You’re not helping. I’ll eat you.”
“Taletevirion.”
“Look who’s here. Mister Uninvolved and the brat. Did you have fun watching?”
The Unicorn was covered in sweat. Rafaema gagged at the smell, but Teriarch just folded his wings.
“I was wondering why you were hiding around here. I didn’t realize there was a—pest.”
“Some pest. Did you see? I had him dead to rights.”
The Brass Dragon coughed into one wing.
“…It looked more like a stalemate to me. You’ve hurt him badly. But a few more wounds and you might not out-heal it.”
“Shut up. Get me a drink and something to eat.”
Silently, Teriarch muttered a few words and slapped the ground with his tail. A barrel dropped out of the sky from his hoard along with a pile of glowing red plants.
“Sage’s Grass?”
“That’ll do. What am I drinking?”
“Purified water.”
“Fuck you. That’s water. Give me something with bones in it. Rxlvn. I might be here a while.”
He knelt on his good legs, wincing, as he grabbed a mouthful of glowing grass and began to chew. Teriarch produced three more barrels and then spoke.
“—If I had joined in, I might have hit you both with Dragonfire. Besides, you were surrounded by mortals.”
“I know. I thought one hit from the horn would get him. Who made that one?”
“The Putrid One.”
“Argh. That’s your responsibility. I’m not supposed to fight things older than me.”
Taletevirion lay on his side, panting. He looked up at Teriarch and seemed about to snap something—then bit it back.
“—That girl would have jumped in there, and he’d have torn her apart. Fine. Teach her some tricks. But next time—I need you to be ready. Tell me his master’s dead.”
“Apparently.”
“Good. I’m gonna pass out now. I kept the forest safe, right?”
“I checked the grain and people. They were cured.”
“Good. Good—”
The Unicorn’s eyes rolled up in his head. He passed out on his back. The first time Rafaema had ever seen a horse do that. She looked at Teriarch, and the Brass Dragon conjured a blanket out of the air to push over his friend. Then he looked at her.
“—I might have slowed him down or been a hindrance. If we fought with our true forms, I’d have been more of an assistance. But he has been acclaimed by every duelist he’s ever crossed blades with. Yet that half-Elf matched him step for step. Those with levels will surpass us given time. Even if that one threw away his levels in the name of something else.”
He shook his head. Rafaema opened and closed her wings. She wanted to claim she could have helped—but at the very least—!
“You could have beaten that thing yourself, right?”
The Brass Dragon stared silently at the butterflies without agreeing or disagreeing. Then he turned.
“Come. My great task is to prepare this world for worse.”
 
——
 
Something was haunting the Dragonlord of Flame. It was a vision. No—it was a person.
That person was…Magnolia Reinhart. As he flew, trying not to visibly wince or pant, he was keenly aware of the younger Dragon easily keeping pace with him. She had to fly harder given her size, and she hadn’t even learned how to use magic in a conscious way to speed her flight.
But he was already flagging.
Have my wings still not healed from fighting that damn Wyrm? It had been months! Unfortunately, the burning of unused muscles was also adding to the aching pain of his body.
He was…tired. Being outside his cave so long had tired him out on his journey to Terandria. This was worse because he kept trying to move at the pace of a young Lightning Dragon.
“You can fly faster, Lord Teriarch. I can keep up.”
After nearly an hour of flying, Rafaema ventured this comment. She had clearly been mulling it over for nearly twenty minutes. Teriarch bit back a snappish comment as he tried to massage his wing muscles with a [Claw of Volke] spell. Where was his joint?
Aaah. A spectral, orange claw kneaded the muscles, and Teriarch winced, then barked a reply.
“I may be advanced in years, young one. But I must point out that we are different kinds of Dragons. Let’s not feather-hop our way to our destination, eh?”
“What does our nature have to do with things?”
She gave him such a puzzled look…he forgot she knew nothing.
“Manus really doesn’t differentiate between elements? Even in their Oldbloods it matters.”
“What matters? You mean my species? Cire’s an Earth Dragon, and I’m a Lightning Dragon. I know that.”
She looked incredibly nervous suddenly, as if this were a test. Perhaps it was his face. He wasn’t judging her. He was just—morose. The Dragon decided to explain.
How strange. Magnolia Reinhart seemed to be this world’s foremost Dragon expert. She had certainly known all the old Dragonlords, but then, she claimed he had told her most of what she knew and had studied tomes he’d given her himself.
She was…well, they had another meeting scheduled tonight. So Teriarch elaborated for Rafaema’s sake.
“To call all of Dragonkind one species is as great an error as to say…Wyrms and Wyverns are exactly like Dragons. It is rather like calling half-Elves, Humans, and, er, Dwarfs all the same species. Because our natures are so magical, each Weyr of Dragons—each element is unique and possesses qualities the others lack. Not just Dragonfire.”
She blinked at him. Her eyes lit up.
“So Cire and I are different? I thought it was just because we were decades apart and he…”
She had no frame of reference. Teriarch flew higher through a cloud and swore; it was charged. Probably a storm coming. The static was unpleasant, but Rafaema cut through the cloud gleefully, and sparks played off her azure scales.
“That is exactly what I mean. Your nature, Rafaema Manusara, is lightning. If you were born in another age, you would be called a ‘Lightning Dragon’ by non-Dragons. But I think you would probably belong to the Stormheight Dragons. Even among Lightning Dragons, there are differentiations. Your friend is curious to me as well. I wonder which type of Earth Dragon he is. You don’t spit storm clouds…does he spit earth?”
“What, like soil? No, he spits acid.”
“Ah. Marsh Dragons, probably.”
Teriarch tried to smile. Dead gods, he remembered some bad fights with Marsh Dragons. Insular bastards taking potshots at him as he flew over ‘their’ swamps. But he kept talking, feeling an odd satisfaction in telling someone this. It had not been—fun talking to Magnolia Reinhart. Oddly, after so long of her trying to talk to him, their first conversation of thirty minutes had mostly been her hurting his feelings.
She’d called him an old man. Really, now. Was this his previous relationship with her?
“Storm Dragons fly fast. They have boundless energy—more than any Dragon in the world. They fly fast, fight with whirlwinds or energy—”
Rafaema cut the air around him, flying excitedly as she listened, unable to stop from juking left and right in the air, like she was charged up from the inside. Her head craned towards him, and Teriarch sighed.
“—They have short attention spans in general—but they also burn out fast in a fight. If we flew at your pace, we’d be going faster, but rest every few hours.”
She seemed to accept this explanation. The Lightning Dragon ducked her head, flushing.
“These are only generalizations, right, Lord Teriarch? I might have had—issues with discipline in the past. But I know Dragonspeaker Luciva, and she breathes lightning. She’s hardly flighty.”
“They’re broad traits that hold true. Anyone can master their mind. But Oldbloods would follow after their ancestry.”
“What are…other Dragons like? Are there Water Dragons?”
“Do you mean Sea Dragons or Water-elemental Dragons?”
Her eyes shone with longing, and Teriarch relented. He hmmed.
“Patience would be a stereotype of them. A sea of it—then a wrath that does not abate. They tend to dry easily regardless of whether or not they breathe water. Most of the ones I knew carried surpluses of water onto land. As you must realize, we do better in our element. You would fight best in a storm; they would do far better in water. Your friend would probably enjoy fighting in a forest or marsh or anywhere with animals.”
“Cire mentioned that a bunch of animals followed his orders during the war with the Gnoll tribes.”
“He can wildspeak? That’s fascinating. Maybe he’s a Dragon of the forests then…how old is he? A hundred? I would call that talented.”
