Culivan bristled, but Demsleth lifted a finger. He licked his lips, hesitated—and glanced at Rafaema. She was watching him, and the old man hesitated.
“I am on a journey to meet folk like yourself, Master Culivan. I would like to help if I can.”
“If you have any—insight, I welcome it! Any way to replace the seithbone.”
Frustrated, the [Slime Master] rose. Demsleth followed him as he stalked around, discarding the failed experiments.
“Perhaps the seithbone is an unmitigable requirement of creation?”
“I don’t see how that helps!”
The man snapped back. Demsleth frowned.
“Yes, but if we assume it’s something missing—what unites all these slimes you have hitherto failed to create?”
He was trying to get the man’s attention, standing next to the failed Sage Slime. Culivan turned—and went over. He slapped a red label on the container.
“They’re expensive! And if I made but one, they’d be the kind of pets even a Gold-rank adventurer craves! And I’d have the city on my side.”
“Yes. But maybe they’re united by this lack of seithbone?”
“Surely. I don’t have the seith-whatever, I can’t make them. I have faithfully. Tried. To answer. Onell’s! Request!”
Culivan went back to kicking over the vats and spilling the slime jelly and mana crystals to the floor. Demsleth went to stop him.
“Master Culivan, think clearly for a moment. What is the component of seithbone that is missing here?”
“How would I know? I’m not an [Alchemist]! I’ve practically beggared myself to try this, and I don’t see a solution!”
The man rounded on Demsleth and snapped back. Some of the flying spit from his mouth hit Demsleth in the face, and the old man raised his voice.
“Well, throwing yourself at the issue for four months is clearly a failure! I have places to be, Master Culivan! Let me have a moment of your attention at full faculties!”
“You come into my home, demand my story then—what is this, a game of riddles? Speak plainly! I don’t breed slimes for a living!”
Rafaema looked between Demsleth and Culivan. The old man had been smiling at first, but the distracted [Slime Master] refusing to engage had clearly annoyed him. And he was looking towards the position of the sun through a window, hurried. The spit in his face made Demsleth scowl. Culivan jabbed Demsleth in the chest—and then got a finger that jabbed him so hard in his collarbone it nearly knocked him into a table.
“Well, perhaps you should consult with an expert! Maybe you don’t have enough magic to germinate a new slime! Maybe that’s what seith crystal is! Magic incarnate, fool! You need—”
Demsleth caught himself, and his eyes widened. But that was nothing compared to Culivan’s lolling head, which shot up suddenly.
“Not enough magic? You mean even the Sage’s Grass wasn’t enough? Is that what seith crystal is? But how much magic—how do you know that, stranger?”
He sat up. Demsleth suddenly backed up to the door.
“That’s just a guess.”
“No, no. That’s exactly it. What’s ‘seith crystal’? Where do I get it? Who are you? Are you—?”
“I can see you’re feeling better. Rafaema, I believe we’ve taken this [Slime Master]’s time up. Time to go.”
Demsleth was suddenly in full retreat. His rosy cheeks were red, and his eyes swiveled with alarm. He practically dashed to the door—and Culivan staggered after him.
“Wait! Wait, I need more details!”
Rafaema held the door open and then slammed it on the man’s foot. She and Demsleth hurried down the steps. By the time Culivan yanked the door open, they were running for it.
“That—didn’t quite work! Around the corner. Now—[Lesser Teleport]!”
Demsleth snapped his fingers as they rounded an alley. Culivan was running after them with his supporters and opponents in full pursuit. Rafaema heard a pop—
And she appeared outside the city. Demsleth vanished, and Teriarch fanned his wings.
“Damn. I don’t believe he’ll level from that.”
“You were trying to tell him what seith crystal was and teach him what he was missing? You were helping him—why?”
The Dragon exhaled tiredly. Rafaema could hear something of a furor in the city, and the Dragon spread his wings.
“There are hundreds, possibly thousands of children like this on Izril alone. I was hurrying the man to a conclusion inelegantly. I should have—nevermind. He has a clue, even if I’ve pushed him too far. Tact. Nuance. Let’s keep flying. I have heard more rumors. There is a woman with a dagger we must next find. Chosen by a hero of old. The city of Lanbasque has her.”
Rafaema’s eyes widened. The Dragon was already fanning his wings and cursing. He flew higher, and she followed easily. The Dragonlord was already leaving Onononno and the fuss he’d left behind. But he turned his head back slightly.
“Damn. That idiot might try to replace seith crystal just by pure magic alone. It might work, but there’s really no replacement. If he wastes another four months…”
He hissed, annoyed.
“It would be better if he went after the source of seith crystal. Maybe I should—”
He banked towards the city—then shook his head.
“I have fourteen more places to be. Onwards.”
Rafaema nearly slammed into him as he turned back around. She followed, backing up, as the Dragonlord flew onwards. And he was still majestic. Seith crystal? She saw all the knowledge in his eyes even [Archmages] had forgotten. Knowledge of relics and swords and her people.
This was all true. But why did it feel—
Off?
 
——
 
“This is Palt, the [Illusionist] I spoke to you about, Archmage. I think he would be perfect to lead any teleportation efforts in Liscor.”
“Oh. Hello. You’re a Centaur. Ullsinoi. I recognize the tattoo.”
Valeterisa peered at Palt’s right hindquarter, and he shifted uncomfortably. Bezale and Montressa both stared at the fur that looked completely normal there, and the Centaur coughed.
“Archmage, you are never to be underestimated. It’s an honor—and if I can help with your project in any way, say the word!”
“Oh. Good. Good…so you know how to write runecraft?”
“I passed all my classes in enchanting and runecraft with high marks. I might not be Beatrice, who went through her Master-level courses, but I can do anything you need. Er, within my humble capabilities, of course!”
The Centaur seemed very friendly. Valeterisa pursed her lips.
“I’d prefer a [Mage] who passed Master-level Enchanting. Do you have another, Montressa?”
She turned, and the [Aegiscaster] flushed.
“Archmage! Palt is probably the best [Mage] in Liscor. You’ll find no one who can do magic on Wistram’s level. Believe me—he can do the job, right, Palt?”
“Absolutely! If it’s just recreating a spell circle, I can do that. I would dearly love to learn this spell myself.”
Valeterisa tapped her lips, but she liked Montressa’s reassurances, so she shook Palt’s hand absently and offered him one of the designs.
“We need you to draw this. You’ll need a warehouse and gemstones of the right quality. 4% imperfections at most, and sieve the result through a purification spell. Melt them down and inscribe this circle; magicore would do, but the impurities will burn out in about six attempts. Then I will link both circles. After that, it is simply a matter of placing an object on one end and powering the spell with mana.”
She had to calibrate each open-ended spell circle to ‘pair’ with another. But if it worked, Palt would effectively be able to perform her [Long Range Teleport] all by himself just by powering the circle.
It required magical power on both ends of the two-way link, had an effective range of fifty miles, and the cost in mana would be high.
However—Valeterisa guessed Palt could activate the spell at least four times with his mana pool comfortably, and all he had to do was port the materials to the closest city.
Esthelm. Then it could jump to Celum—and leapfrog its way from Invrisil to House Sanito. She had a map and everything and had plotted out acceptable ranges for her new spell. The [Aegiscaster] turned to her friends.
“A network of spell circles teleporting with each other. It’ll be like a Mage’s Guild only—we’ll call it the Teleportation Guild or something, Palt!”
He winced at the name.
“Maybe a better name would do, Montressa. But it’s certainly ambitious. Imagine the ability to have something from Invrisil in…this will change the Merchant’s Guild and the Runner’s Guild forever! You’d better watch out for [Assassins]!”
He laughed nervously. Valeterisa threw back her head.
“Hahahaha! Ha.”
The Archmage looked around at Bezale, Palt, and Montressa’s faces.
“That was a funny joke. I was laughing.”
“Er—right, Archmage! And Bezale is an expert at writing spells. She has passed her Master-level courses, and she’s a [Spellscribe].”
“I’d be honored to manage Invrisil’s location for you, Archmage.”
“Oh. Your mana pool is a bit smaller than Palt’s…but you do seem competent. Hello. Pleasure to be working with you. We need more [Mages], Apprentice Montressa. Liscor and Invrisil are set, but there are eight locations between here and Invrisil. Three between Invrisil and House Sanito.”
Sanito’s house was their first testing ground, and they had promised to do a delivery of coal and copper—no less than four hundred pounds of the stuff, quite a lot for any regular [Merchant]—by the end of the week.
They had eight days, including today. Plenty of time, and Montressa had a list, which she proudly showed Valeterisa.
“I have the best [Mages] in every city and town waiting to meet you, Archmage. We’ll show each one the design and have them copy it out. All they need is an appropriate venue and maybe the materials, and then we’ll send a trial item across the network. Once that’s done—we’ll connect the other two houses. Happily, they’re very close by.”
And once that was done, a new trade route would go from Liscor all the way to the north. Over five hundred miles you could span in less than an hour! Valeterisa’s eyes lit up with the vision of it.
Fissival’s Teleportarium had competition! She beamed and nodded.
“Then you two will begin creating your magical circles. I will come by to inspect them—tomorrow?”
“We might need two days to work on it. Is this…a five-layered spell circle?”
Palt was whistling at the complicated [Long Range Teleport] spell. Montressa nodded.
“Don’t mess it up, Palt! The instructions are very clear—”
“Yes, yes. I’ll be nervous drawing this in, what, pure melted rubies? Expensive! At least Pallass gets gems from Salazsar. Plus, I know a Hobgoblin.”
Palt looked nervous, but Bezale was confident.
“Call me over if you have trouble, Palt. It’s a very elegant design. Would you mind if I copied this spell onto my scrolls, Archmage…?”
She looked slyly at Valeterisa, and the Archmage replied steadily.
“It will only work as a connector to another spell circle and requires calibration. But if you would like to copy this, go ahead.”
Part of her took some pleasure from seeing the Minotauress floundering. Keeping people from stealing her magic was always a consideration, and she knew Fissival would try.
“I will teach you the full spell. Later. For now, we must go to Esthelm and find the [Mage] there.”
“The Guildmaster will meet us at Erin’s door, Archmage. Palt, Bezale—the gang is back! Except for Ulinde, but maybe she can do Pallass if her team is there?”
Montressa was beaming, and Palt and Bezale were palpably excited. Valeterisa headed to the door, but a worried hand stopped her.
“Oh! Oh, one thing, Archmage—where am I putting this rune down?”
Palt was struck by a thought. He gestured at the inn.
“Miss Erin hasn’t agreed to this—and frankly, I think she needs most of the mana in her inn. I could ask Imani to let me put the rune down in Barehooves…”
“No, Palt. This is permanent, you donkey! Get a warehouse! You’ll be moving bulk items!”
Montressa threw up her hands, and he backed up, hands raised. He puffed on a cigar defensively.
“I was just asking! Okay, a warehouse. That’s Liscor’s new district then, for sure. I’m glad we have the space. Should I rent it? Buy it outright? I’ll need funds for that.”
“Hmm. Archmage, can we use our budget to buy a warehouse? Bezale will need the same thing.”
Montressa jotted down the expenses, and Valeterisa frowned.
“It will be necessary. Very well. How much do you two need?”
“Uh…if it’s just renting a lease for a year, the city will probably let me have it at eight hundred gold pieces? And that’s a big warehouse.”
Bezale raised a hand after thinking for a moment.
“Can I get—two thousand?”
“Two thousand?”
Montressa was aghast. Bezale crossed her arms.
“Space in Invrisil’s expensive. It’ll be the hardest city to buy a warehouse in.”
Valeterisa sighed, but she agreed after only a moment. She had her budget, and this entire project would pay off.
 
Budget: 27,200 gold.
 
It all worked out, and the two [Mages] needed nothing more. They hurried off, and Montressa led Valeterisa towards Esthelm to meet with the next [Mage] on their teleportation network. They’d have to use Valeterisa’s spells once they passed Celum, but this was it. And each [Mage] they talked to was eager and on-board.
After all, they were working with Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril, and rather to her embarrassed surprise—they seemed to hold her in some esteem. That alone made the somewhat boring task of introducing and explaining the project worth it.
 
——
 
The Archmage of Izril arrived in Esthelm just in time to witness a fine. Well, a certain Vampire skulking after her and taking copious notes on this entire grand endeavor witnessed it too.
As well as a [Lady] and her [Maids]—Ieka Imarris, not Magnolia Reinhart, who was sipping tea and watching a [Scrying] spell in her mansion rather than using an [Invisibility] spell on the ground.
So four different groups had a wonderful view of Kevin trialing one of his new, top-end Solar Bikes.
“It’s fast! It’s almost as light as a feather—and it’s got traction spells and gravity spells on the pedals!”
He was doing a wheelie with it, and he actually made the bicycle hop nearly four feet. Then he nearly wiped out. But the [Engineer] was laughing with delight, and Master Pelt, the Dwarf, and Hedault and Selys were all watching with approval.
Well, Selys and Pelt were approving. Hedault was still mad.
“You painted it.”
“The chrome finish looked terrible, Hedault. No one wants a stainless steel bike. This is one of the ones we have to send to Khelt first. See?”
The [Enchanter] glowered at the gold paint on the metal of the bike and the flashy spokes that glittered.
“It’s an affront to the effort I put in.”
