He pointed, and everyone turned to a scrying mirror set to one side for the audience’s enjoyment. It was tuned low so people could eat without being forced to watch, but Ekirra’s family and the Veltras family were both watching a broadcast.
A broadcast of…ships. Lots of them. They had a familiar sigil on them of a crown-like bastion wall rising out of rot and hovering over a cracked, broken wasteland. Like a chess piece, perhaps. A mark of strength, a wall.
The symbol of the Blighted Kingdom. Now…Valeterisa began to remember, and she felt a pit in her stomach. Especially when she heard the muted broadcast Barnethei turned up.
“—to mark the expedition of the Blighted Kingdom to the new lands of Izril! His Majesty, Othius IV will now give a speech in honor of the moment!”
Applause. The cheering crews of what seemed like no less than forty ships—not all warships, but many just as large. Many were massive cargo-ships that were used to ferry goods to Rhir—all preparing to set forth in a grand cavalcade.
Every species in the world was present—and numerous dignitaries were there in person. Not just them, though; the changing nature of the world meant that there were now world leaders ‘present’ via hanging mirrors that showed their faces.
King Fetohep of Khelt, for instance, sat, golden eyes flashing next to an image of the Bannermare and the leader of Maelstrom’s Howling floating in the air. Just getting an appearance in this grand moment had probably been the result of political relevancy and/or negotiations behind the scenes.
And of course, if you were naming world powers, you had to have Wistram, right? The Archmages of Wistram were all hovering in the air.
Even the Archmage of Chandrar, Amerys. She looked sardonically pleased to be included with old Verdan Blackwood, Viltach, who looked recovered from losing his arm—though his limbs were conspicuously out of sight in his frame—and Archmage Eldavin, front and center. Archmage Feor was to his left, looking semi-radiant with his silver hair glistening, the result of a superior illusion spell or actual alchemical makeup.
Every recognized Archmage in the world. Even the two who refused to return to Wistram—Archmage Uenoix of Baleros and Archmage Toerika of Terandria.
Seven Archmages. None really worthy of the name; it was a political title. But they hung in a kind of semi-circle, three on Eldavin’s left, three on his right. The symbolism was apparent; one stood above all and had control of Wistram.
Amerys, Viltach, Feor, Eldavin, Verdan, Uenoix, Toerika—and one blank mirror. The gilded letters beneath the hand-crafted mirror read…
Archmage Valeterisa of Izril. The one Archmage to represent the continent of Drakes had no image present. Valeterisa stared at her mirror. Larracel, Barnethei, and the horrified Montressa all gazed ahead without a word.
The broadcast was on a ten minute delay. So just before the applause winked out and Othius began to speak, Archmage Valeterisa did appear.
She, unlike the other Archmages sitting in their studies or rather impressively arrayed with illusory backgrounds, was sitting at a table with a breadstick in hand. A young boy—Ekirra—was turning his head from the mirror to Valeterisa. Barnethei, Larracel, and Montressa realized they were in frame and ran for it.
 
——
 
She was just a small part of the moment. Obviously. But still. They had to smile and look good, but illusion spells could cover a world of motion, and they were all at least capable of writing and reading [Messages] in their heads.
 
Toerika: Dead gods, the gall of it. She’s late! She’s just lucky none of the television [Commentators] noticed! Is she eating?
Feor: Valeterisa is one of Eldavin’s. I can almost hear the [Messages] he’s sending her. See her flinching?
Uenoix: She hasn’t changed since Wistram.
Viltach: At least she appeared. Worse still, she’ll get away with it. She is one of Eldavin’s allies.
Verdan: It’s disgraceful to her position, but at least the Blighted Kingdom is reasonable. Besides—she demonstrated that amazing feat at Fissival. So there is some providence here.
Toerika: It wasn’t that impressive. She had a Djinni and the entire city backing her up.
Viltach: …Is that an indication you could do that, Toerika?
Toerika: I know my capabilities full well, Viltach. Fissival was designed to fly. I don’t swing swords or try to haul a million pounds of stone into the air.
Feor: Unbecoming of you, Toerika.
Uenoix: How is the arm? I know several good prosthetics dealers in Baleros if you need an introduction.
Viltach: I shall build my own arm. I am recovering.
Amerys: Better make one that can fight for you, Viltach. I am coming for you and Feor.
Uenoix: Oh, Amerys. How did you find this message grouping?
Feor: Fortunes change, Amerys. Shall we be amicable in this moment at least?
Amerys: Very well. Let’s meet and have tea and discuss our past grievances like adults. Name a place. I’ll be waiting. If you go travelling abroad, keep an eye on the weather.
Toerika: You always were full of threats, Amerys.
Amerys: And you’re hiding in your estate again. The King of Destruction is back, Archmage Toerika. Will Terandrian’s kingdoms ask you to battle me? Let’s meet. If you wait long enough, I’ll come to you.
Uenoix: Well, Feor, Viltach, and Toerika have all fled. I suppose I shall greet Valeterisa privately since this conversation has ended. Congratulations on your escape, Amerys. Zalthia asked me to mention her to you if I got in contact with you first. Her company is quite the fan of the King of Destruction. They were also following Valeterisa’s return with interest.
Amerys: Thank you, Uenoix. How are the Centaurs?
Uenoix: The Titan’s stomping around. But—oh, wait. I think the Death of Magic is coming. This should be fun.
Amerys: 🙂
 
——
 
The launch of ships from Rhir’s shores to the new lands of Izril was symbolic.
The truth was that the Blighted Kingdom had sent a wave of ships already—the second wave was their public front. It was still important, and because it was televised and because it was Rhir—
The Death of Magic came calling.
Did you think she wouldn’t? Ships at sea were a huge target. The Blighted Kingdom had known she would make her move, or all three Deaths, and they were ready. The ships were six minutes at sea when the first meteors began raining down.
“The Death of Magic!”
Valeterisa was glued to the scrying orb. She watched in a kind of awe and envy, trying to catalog each spell as it rained down. The other guests were watching with far less academic interest—but Larracel could at least keep up on the magical front.
“[Meteor Swarm]? [Meteor Shower]? No—the diameter of each falling stone is at least thirty feet across! Actual dirt? No again—it’s a magical construction, but it must be [Meteor] the base spell being flung at range by the Death of Magic. And they are firing Death Arrows at her!”
It was a long-range war as four of the five walls of Rhir lit up, returning spells and arrows across the sea at a single woman trying to sink the ships as they activated barriers and sailed fast, trying to escape her.
A meteor cracked one of the warships’ barriers, but the truth was that the lightning bolts and other spells Silvenia was throwing were coming from miles away and there was plenty of time to dispel, counter, or just shield from them. By contrast, the famous traitor-[Archmage] had minutes at best.
“They’re unleashing one of the Blighted Kingdom’s great spells. The [Golden Rays of Rhir].”
Larracel whispered. She saw a ray of gold burn into the ocean after the Death of Magic, and she wondered if even the water was turned to gold. The cost to use that spell a moment would have bankrupted the Haven and all she had ever earned.
“A Skill. Not a spell. How is she surviving the effects? Perhaps she’s creating physical barriers, a clone spell—oh!”
The ‘oh’ was the Death of Magic’s parting gift. Her brief rain of spells had torn up the sea. Geysers from the falling meteorites turned into steam as a rainstorm of fire splashed over the magical barriers over each ship. The few lightning bolts that hit the barriers had glanced off, and the one warship with a cracked shield was already repairing. It seemed like the forty ships would make it out of Rhir’s harbors without trouble.
—Right up until one of the glowing barrier-stones in the lead-most ship began to glow too bright. It was bright green, protective jade-emerald, probably ten feet tall and shaped like an oval. The brilliant glow turned harsh—then white or ultraviolet if you were a species capable of seeing it. It whined and became a scream—
Then it exploded. The barrier around the ship didn’t dissipate, though. As the spell of protection failed, the barrier shimmered—then drew back in on itself. Just as it had expanded, it contracted. Unfortunately—that meant the solid wall of magic contracted around the ship—and people within.
 
——
 
Silvenia was laughing. She had to retreat before the Blighted Kingdom burned through her barriers—her skin was already burning from their attempts to turn her into gold.
But she had sullied Othius’ grand ceremony. One ship out of forty was gone—and she could have destroyed any one of the forty ships at sea.
She had chosen that one because she had sensed a number of clandestine classes in the holds. Not [Heroes].
The [Heroes] were not part of this cavalcade. Doubtless they’d be shipped under heavy guard rather than let her take a shot at them like this. Richard, Emily, and the lucky [Heroes] who would be allowed to join the New Lands expeditions were watching pale-faced from the harbor.
Only one of their number was at sea. The Blighted King had risked him…possibly because he was not going to the new lands.
Out of the forty ships, seven were bound for Baleros. A meager number, perhaps. But seven warships from the Blighted Kingdom was still a sizable force and a very handsome gesture in combating the Dyed Lands.
Why, they had even sent one of their champions. The [Clown] had been standing on deck the entire time Silvenia kept up her firefight with the ships.
Laughing. Laughing and laughing and waiting for her to choose his ship to sink. But she didn’t. She blew him a kiss—and thought that of all the things she could have done, not destroying Tom’s ship might be the better blow.
The [Clown] sailed for Baleros in the company of the Blighted Kingdom as one of the ships slowly sank beneath the waves.
 
——
 
The broadcast cut out for a minute, leaving only blackness. When it reappeared, the ship was gone. Valeterisa and Larracel looked at each other.
“It must have been compacted. That spell’s based on Drowned Folk magic. If it contracted back to its original size—”
An entire warship had just been compressed into a ten-foot sphere. Larracel was horrified. Valeterisa? Her eyes shone.
“Yes. I wonder how she did it! If I was only there—she must have been altering the spell at range. Miles away! Did she have an agent on board or was she capable of infiltrating a sealed magical network? A Skill? A…”
She beamed and beamed until she realized everyone else was staring at her—and she was still on the broadcast. Then she sat up guiltily.
“Ah, yes. The morality of it. Very sad.”
But the magic of it. Her eyes were so longing as they stared after the fleeing Death of Magic. There went a real [Archmage]. Everything she had aspired to be.
Every other Archmage, including Eldavin, glanced Valeterisa’s way. The Archmage of Memory himself was grimacing while the others rolled their eyes, covered them, or tried to pretend they didn’t know her.
She didn’t quite realize it—but in a sea of horrified faces, grim defiance from Rhirians, impassive calculation or analysis by world leaders like Fetohep—
Valeterisa was the only one wearing a pleasant parade-smile.
 
——
 
The blowback to Valeterisa’s reputation after the ships set sail was minor. There was disapproval, but it was mostly a public interest kind of thing.
And in fairness, she was insane. If you had a reputation for being upstanding, or even a good, caring Archmage like, say, Feor, the backlash would have been far worse.
Valeterisa hadn’t even been in public for more than a decade. Even before that—it was hard to accuse her of hypocrisy. Being insensitive? Careless to life? Tactless? Incapable of keeping time?
All very valid. But she had always been…like this.
Archmage Toerika was one of three Archmages of Terandria. Viltach and Feor were the ones who were well-known and often spent time at Wistram.
She…was more of the [Mage] who leaned on her reputation and used it to gain a position of comfortable wealth and opportunity in the nation she had chosen to support—which was her homeland. And yes, this was a standard Archmage move from the days before Zelkyr.
After all, what nation would turn down a helpful, powerful [Mage] who paid a decent amount of taxes and provided magical assistance from time to time? It did depend on the personality. But Toerika was Taimaguros’ Archmage of Moment.
She was also, to put a fine point on it, a contemporary of Valeterisa. As was Archmage Uenoix. They had all been students and graduates living in Wistram around the same time.
Toerika considered Valeterisa to be her rival and had been quite pleased by Valeterisa’s disappearance and presumed death. Valeterisa—sometimes remembered who Toerika was.
“Archmage Valeterisa, you have an Archmage Toerika who wishes to speak to you! Toerika of the Oreanius faction?”
“Who? Oh, yes. Toerika. I don’t want to speak to her. Ignore her [Messages].”
“But Archmage—”
“Nothing good comes of speaking to Toerika. Except for her.”
That was a sample conversation often repeated between Valeterisa and Montressa. And that had puzzled Montressa du Valeross greatly until she’d prevailed on her Pheislant friends to find out more about this reclusive Archmage.
In the doing, she’d uncovered some stories of Archmage Valeterisa’s past—from the woman herself—and about Archmage Uenoix’s specialty as well.
 
——
 
Archmage Toerika had a suitor come to call in the Taima-side of Taimaguros. It did not go well. She was a rather strange [Mage] and greeted him warmly despite three rather sub-par dates in his experience.
The [Duke] of one of Taima’s houses was rather impressed by the powerful light magic that was the hallmark of the Oreanius faction; mood lighting covered her estates and gave everything an appropriate glow.
