“If he throws himself into a war or two. He may die…but your [Mercenary] commander knows what battles to take. I suggest not opposing one of the Five Families and be very careful about lucrative contracts. Ah, but the boy’s only fifteen. He’ll have to have his moment when he stands up to authority—and then he’ll know if he’s leadership material. Oh! Socks!”
He almost bellowed it as he shoved a pile of objects forwards, and Horre nearly threw up.
“S-socks?”
“Countless warriors die of gangrene or infection on their feet! Enchanted socks. Let me just make a pair—of all the things I think I can leave you with, enchanted socks might save your life. I can’t stop a Creler or hold your hand, young Horre. I am just a traveller…but here.”
He produced two bright blue socks and handed them to Horre. And at this point, even Demsleth seemed to realize he had gone too far. He stepped back—and coughed.
“Er…I’m just thinking ahead. Forewarned is forearmed, after all.”
He looked around, and the village was silent. Rafaema was trying not to meet Demsleth’s eyes.
The Dragon had been on the right track. He really had. The feeling in the air when he had suggested that first part had been good. But now? Horre was still writing, trying to note down all the things Demsleth had talked about. And he seemed…
He seemed to suddenly get exactly what his promise to the ghost meant. His mother seemed happier about that because the boy with a quest suddenly was being told he might die with his feet rotting off before he ever got to the battlefield and that he should really adopt a share-based system for dividing treasure.
The Dragon hesitated, looked around, and backed up.
“I must go. I, um…I hope you take my words to heart. It’s not perfect, but—”
He backed up as Rafaema slowly got to her feet and edged off after him. The two hurried away as the village of flowers sat silent. Demsleth strode off into the distance, and no one really said a word.
Then…he stopped a hundred paces outside the village, turned, hurried back, and threw something on the ground.
“Encrypted [Message] scroll. It’s the death of anyone, really. And don’t forget a good banner! Do not make it racist or speciesist! It always comes back to bite you! Farewell!”
He ran off. Demsleth vanished when he was out of sight in the village. Rafaema transformed into a Dragon and flew off after the Dragonlord of Flame.
He…didn’t meet her eye for a long time. After a while, he muttered.
“It’s been a while since I did something like that. Prophecies and whatnot. [Heroes] are trickier, you know. Everyone goes for the farmhands. Next time, I’ll do better. One can overshare information, I suppose.”
“O-oh? Farmhands are boring?”
She managed weakly. Teriarch tried to chuckle as they rose into the air and flew south.
“It is a cliché. Dragons, ghosts, dying [Knights], damsels in dubious distress—they all have chosen champions throughout the eras. A lot—and I do mean perhaps a third—choose farmhands or rural folk. There’s a logic to it. You know…clean air, honest work? It makes one assume that leads to good character.”
“Does it?”
The Dragon paused. And his face grew sad and suddenly weary. He glanced back, and she realized Horre had been judged even as Demsleth overexplained his future.
“No. I imagine this ghost had little time to choose, especially given his blade was location-based. The character of a…a chosen hero is nigh impossible to ascertain. Some have styles. I myself have been accused by certain Unicorns of choosing certain types of people to place my trust in.”
“Like who?”
He coughed.
“Er—young women. Young men tend to get led astray. Some choose caregivers, you know. Orphans of war or those trying to tend to the lost. In my experience, that kind of hero can become jaded and bitter.”
Teriarch looked over his shoulder and sighed.
“I didn’t do that properly. It’s just—he doesn’t have twenty years to make a name for himself and fail and succeed. He might not even have ten. I’m…”
For a second, he seemed uncertain, guilty, and glanced at Rafaema—but before he could say what was on his mind, Rafaema heard him swear under his breath.
“Oh no. It’s begun.”
“What has?”
“The news. Hold on. Ah, no one’s covering it on the damned television. But they should—maybe it would stop—do you have access to Manus? Stop here a second.”
They flew onto a cliff. A bunch of mountain goats startled as two giant, invisible forms started talking, and they promptly ran for it. Rafaema’s stomach growled, but then she decided there was no point to even teasing the goats. What would she do, gulp down one wholesale without even removing the guts? Without washing or cooking it?
Gross.
“I could—query Manus via [Message] spell.”
“Do that. And ask them about the port city of Covieke.”
Covieke? It might be a Drake name, and Rafaema vaguely recognized it. She sent a hurried [Message] off with her scroll—it connected to Luciva herself. It was not the kind of thing she was supposed to use for casual [Messages], but this sounded urgent.
“Covieke is a port city of Drakes. I don’t know it—but I have been reading Drowned Folk [Messages]. They are abuzz with the name of the city. I fear…Nombernaught’s surfacing has led to a pattern resurfacing.”
Teriarch’s eyes were flickering as he read invisible [Messages]. He spat a plume of violet.
“Those fools. It seems Drowned Folk have been appearing in more cities.”
Rafaema had heard that too. In Invrisil, even, and across Izril, the Drowned Folk had begun to migrate around. They had ships—but they were a rare sight such that you might have only one in a city, like that Seborn.
Now, though, they were coming out of the depths of the sea. And it seemed—getting into trouble.
“Three Drowned Folk [Sailors]. No description. Love affair with a Landfolk Drake…flights of Tempest Dragons, it’s all so familiar. Did they even kill anyone?”
Teriarch’s voice rose. He was reading a story via [Messages]—but Rafaema got the full picture as Luciva made an inquiry and stated it simply.
 
Dragonspeaker: Covieke’s [Strategist] reports an altercation within the city. A Drowned Folk ship docked three weeks ago. At least one member of the crew engaged in a relationship with locals. A fiancée was allegedly convinced to ‘run off to sea’. I have four reports of disorderly conduct following the final incident involving the attempted abduction of a Drake citizen. Eighteen wounded, including members of the Watch and civilians. The local Council apprehended three Drowned Folk who did not flee to sea. Sentence: execution by hanging. What is your source of information, Rafaema?
Rafaema: Can you halt the execution?
Dragonspeaker: Covieke’s Council is under tremendous local pressure. How critical is this?
 
The Lightning Dragon didn’t know. It sounded like a huge skirmish had taken place if eighteen people were wounded. But Teriarch was peering over her shoulder.
“We have to stop it. Can you tell the Dragonspeaker to pressure Covieke?”
“Me? I—I can ask. But Manus tries not to lean on cities so explicitly. It’s a bad look, and this is a Zeres-aligned city.”
“Then go through Zeres.”
Teriarch’s eyes were blazing with alarm. He raised his voice as he fanned his wings, cursing.
“Lean on the Serpentine Matriarch or Patriarch as hard as you can! Tell the Dragonspeaker she does not want this to escalate. A love story? Three Drowned Folk do not need to hang for that. Damn the Drake laws! Come on, we might be able to fly there.”
“Fly there?”
They were in the north! But the Dragon was muttering an incantation, and Rafaema tried to write faster in her Drake form. She looked around, and Teriarch growled.
“Jump on my back if you need to write!”
She did, and he took off. The air twisted as he flew higher, cursing.
“I don’t have coordinates on Covieke! Zeres? I’ll set off every ward—I’ll have to do it from the Great Plains and hope I can fly—”
 
——
 
The feeling of teleporting across a continent almost made Rafaema throw up. It certainly made Teriarch swerve in the air, and he was gasping as they levelled out over the expansive great plains. They scared the hell out of a flock of geese before they vanished again.
“Tell the Dragonspeaker to stop the execution.”
“Luciva’s saying it’d be a really difficult thing to do, Teriarch. Do I—how important is it? She’s trying to talk to the local [Strategist].”
“Order her to get to the Council!”
“Order her?”
A moment of terror gripped Rafaema’s claw as her quill hovered over the [Message] scroll. Teriarch craned his head around as his wings beat. They were accelerating—flames sprouted from his wings, and he was angling himself south, along the coast. He flapped harder, panting in his voice.
“You—have to give her orders! This matters! Three lives matter! An entire species is coming to Izril, and if the first thing they encounter is wrath and rope—the Drowned Folk will follow Gnolls and Humans, and it can be stopped! Tell your Dragonsp—argh!”
She heard the snap of air before she felt Teriarch lurch. What she saw was his wings, trying to handle the pressures of extreme speed, give. A muscle failed, and the wind slammed the wing open. That overbalanced the Brass Dragon.
And he went down.
Tons of metallic Dragon fell out of the sky as his good wing flailed, trying to catch himself. He had magic—he slowed before he hit the ground.
Rafaema changed shape midway down and caught herself. She nearly slammed into the earth after him, and her own wings strained as she caught herself twenty feet off the ground.
“Teriarch! Lord Teriarch! Are you—”
He lay there on his side, having left a trench of dirt through the grass. A terrified Waisrabbit teleported away as Teriarch’s head slowly rose.
“My wings—can’t support that speed. I’m…”
He looked at her, then tried to heave himself up. Slowly, Teriarch got to his feet, but he winced as he unfurled his good wing. Then he stared ahead blankly. Rafaema gazed at his bleak face—then she realized the [Message] scroll was flashing. She unfurled it as she turned back into an Oldblood Drake.
“Oh.”
They were too late.
 
——
 
Covieke’s harbor was filled with jeering. Drakes shouting as they raised their claws into the air. Angry screams—louder than the seagulls screeching.
Part of the docks were still smoldering from the fighting. The others had made it.
Three Drowned Folk [Depth Sailors] stood on a platform on the docks, under nooses. A [Strategist] was arguing with the Council—but the Council was enmeshed in their town hall. They heard no arguments.
This was a port city. Justice was swift; the gallows were there for a reason. Troublemaking sailors and visitors saw the ultimate penalty. It was not always employed. Months could go by without it being used. But now, a crowd had gathered.
A Watch Captain stood by the gallows, keeping the crowds back with the [Guards] as he pondered his class. Watch Captain Zoreik had his orders. Crimes certainly had been committed.
Many Drakes were wounded, and a sovereign citizen of Covieke had almost been kidnapped to sea. These were facts—and it looked like one thing on his report.
Another, to see a Drowned Man, more a boy, with his face half-shrimp, claw bound up behind his back.
What a terrifying, un-Drake visage. How could anyone look at that and not see something as monstrous as a Selphid? Let alone fall in love enough to run from their engagement?
It had to be a seduction spell. Trickery. That was what the groom was shouting—or would be, if he wasn’t in a [Healer]’s care. Both families were here. And they were united as the [Executioner] waited.
A Drowned Man. More a boy. Zoreik heard him call out as the tide lapped at the docks. He shouted above the sentencing being read out. His voice was half-lost by the crowd. But his companions joined in.
Another Drowned Boy and a Drowned Girl. Visitors to the Drake city. They had quarreled at the docks, gone around town—and one of them had met a Drake and told her he could take her to sea. The crew had probably known it would come to grief—but young love was young love. When they came to swords, Drowned Folk had supported their own.
And the Drake city had passed down their sentence. The [Sailor] spoke to the crowd—but his eyes were on the sea. The sun was setting as a Dragon watched, as scrying spells captured his bloodied face. His wavering voice.
But the words he knew. The Drowned Man shouted to the crowd.
“Is this justice you’ll give us today, landfolk? Hear my words and listen well!”
His companions joined in as the voices rose—then fell quiet, listening.
 
“I took not a life while we stood on your land.
Nor pulled my rank or gave a single command.”
 
The Drowned [Sailors] looked at the Drake girl, her scales flashing pale like pearl. An Oldblood of the winds. He met her eyes as hers ran, her arms held by her minders.
 
“I ne’er made a promise I would not keep.
Nor did anything to make my shipmates weep.”
 
He took a breath as the noose around his neck hung there, filthy and black. The Watch Captain covered his eyes with a claw.
The boy was being watched. By the Drakes of this city. Even if Zoreik was too ashamed to look at him—a Dragonlord’s eyes burned as he roared at the sky.
But not just his. A crew at sea, barely out of the harbor, turned and saw three figures at the docks. They were drinking, with naught but seawater in their cups as they had left everything behind.
No one could make it. No other ships close by, and no one was listening.
So a dozen dozen [Captains] and their crews watched. Nombernaught was filled with that song, word for word. Drowned Folk gathered on decks of ships weighing anchor at sea, sailing under the surface.
Watching. Tears fell from half of a face. The other side’s tears belonged only to the sea. In this moment, Seborn Sailwinds whispered the same words as his father, Therrium. The Drowned Rogue watched the same sight as a Dragon and all his people.
Something only the sea knew. The [Rogue] listened, and he heard that voice continue. No beautiful singer, but it chilled his bones.
 
“If you call this justice on land, hear the plea of the surf!
Think long on your deeds before you lay me in the earth!
Law be—”
 
The click cut it all off as the [Executioner] threw a lever. Then there was naught but cheering, screams, gasps, and silence.
Yet the song continued on.
 
——
 
“Drake justice moves fast.”
That was all the Brass Dragon said. He picked himself up, shaking dirt off his scales, which still gleamed. They still gleamed like molten copper. But then he looked at her.
