Maybe growing up in the City of Growth did that for him. Rafaema’s head craned back towards him, then she flapped her wings harder.
“I…I’ve also shot a lightning bolt straight into the sky. I think my powers are increasing. I dueled a Wyvern Lord, trying to reach you.”
Teriarch was checking their location and trying to figure out where to go. He had a map…where had he picked up on the rumor? There. He angled downwards.
“That brat? Oh, I hope he didn’t give you any trouble. His entire Weyr in a fight could kill most adult Dragons. If you took them all on, that’s impressive. His own Dragonbreath falls short of a real Dragon, but he’s probably a prodigy. For a Wyvern. I would bet he’s eighty years old.”
Rafaema’s wingbeats faltered slightly.
“I—he’s only eighty?”
“Wyverns age faster. They’re less inherently magical and less powerful by and large. Wyvern Lords are their species blessed by growth. He probably found a highly magical food source and ate it for a decade or two in the High Passes. The Wyvern Queen that his Weyr had was a real danger, though. Here we are.”
The conversation had made him forget his aches. The Dragons landed, invisible, and Teriarch had never been gladder for Demsleth to reappear.
Although—the fake man still rubbed his shoulders with considerable pain as Rafaema transformed into her Drake form. He looked around and took a huge breath.
“This looks about right.”
“Where are we, Lord Ter—Demsleth?”
Only now did Rafaema seem curious about their destinations as opposed to the company. She peered around what looked like a busy city—then recoiled.
“Wait a second—this place is filled with monsters!”
She pointed, and an offended woman turned as an angry ‘monster’ bobbed up and down in the center of her hat.
She had one of those wide-brimmed hats with a curious bowl-like depression in the center. Not standard to fashion—but this city was as weird as Teriarch remembered. The center of her hat was for a slime, by the by. The slime was orange, had a little leaf and stem sticking out of its ‘head’, and bounced up and down angrily.
“Citrus Slime. Lower your voice, Rafaema. I’m terribly sorry, Miss. She’s new. Ooze on in peace.”
The Human woman gave Demsleth almost as affronted a look as Rafaema, and he suspected that expression had been lost to time. But she nodded.
“You’re forgiven. It’s all slimes under the bridge.”
She marched off in a huff, and Demsleth muttered to himself.
“Slimes under the bridge? What a stupid—this is Onononno, Rafaema. Or some variation of the name. The City of Slimes.”
“The—I thought Humans made that up. They live with those filthy things?”
Rafaema was horrified. But then, she probably associated slimes with the Sewer Slimes, Sludge Slimes, Mud Slimes, and other variants you could encounter in the wild. Teriarch suspected that Onononno employed a number in cleaning duties, but you wouldn’t see those base slimes in the street.
Oh no. Ohnononono. He pointed to someone taking their slime for a ‘walk’. It was hard to walk a slime, hence many having containers like the woman with the slime-hat. A leash would not do; a net would just make the slime ooze through it.
Still, you could train a slime to ‘hold’ onto a lead, and so a slime glowing with a deep blue light rolled past the bewildered Drake and the Human man as someone tipped a bowler hat.
“Good morning. New to Onononno? You should buy some of our products.”
“Returning visitor, myself. What slimes are in fashion this year?”
Demsleth peered at the slime, impressed. They must have kept this breed alive for ages. It was a Deepwater Slime, dense and so heavy it could sink through regular water. The man had jars of water as ‘snacks’. He offered one to Rafaema, and the Dragon gingerly poured the water on the slime, which absorbed it.
“It’s all fruit this year. Citrus Slimes. Lemondrop Slimes. Wine Slimes, even, and some children kept drinking from them.”
“You eat slimes?”
This time, Demsleth stepped on Rafaema’s foot.
“Slimes can produce goods, much like a cow. Slime Jelly only occurs when they’re happy and fed. They can be rather symbiotic.”
“Ah, someone who understands! [Alchemists] love us, and we have some fine [Chefs]. One went to Invrisil, in fact. Someday, everyone will be enjoying Slime Jelly.”
“I cannot wait to see the day. I’m just taking this young one around—”
Demsleth smiled at the man and forbade mentioning that Onononno’s boast of universal love had been in progress for hundreds of years. As far as he could tell—no one was rushing to join the fad.
However, the meeting with this slime-lover was fortuitous. Demsleth pretended to be going ahead, then swung around and stopped the man.
“I’m terribly sorry—but I did hear of one interesting thing. Perchance, did you hear the oddest thing happening, oh, during the war with the Meeting of Tribes? Some lucky or unlucky person accosted by a…”
He hesitated in an exaggerated sense and gave the man a rueful grin.
“…a ghost?”
Rafaema turned from staring at a patrolling Fur Slime with a [Guardswoman]. The [Slime Tamer] hesitated.
“You’re well informed. Slime Master Culivan has been raving about that for months. He’s put half the community against him—the other half is supporting his madness.”
“Do you know where I could find him?”
The reluctant man gave directions. Demsleth thanked him and set off for one of the districts that housed this city’s version of [Beast Tamers] and so on. But the class was also close to [Alchemist]—and as Rafaema caught up, she whispered to him.
“This city is so weird, Demsleth! It’s like a caricature of Human cities. Slimes instead of cats or dogs?”
“I imagine they would say the same thing of Yolden, Rafaema.”
“That’s not a regular Drake city!”
She bristled. He sighed.
“No? It was once the domain of Earth Dragons. Gravity Dragons, in fact. They might be more ‘Drake’ than most cities.”
Her mouth fell open. Then Rafaema had a terrible thought. As she followed him into a well-to-do district being protested by nearly a hundred slime-loving fans arguing with Master Culivan’s supporters, she whispered.
“Demsleth…are there Slime Dragons?”
He stopped and turned to her. Demsleth gave Rafaema a serious look.
“No.”
 
——
 
Slime Master Culivan was at the heart of controversy in Onononno. His heresy was deep—and it was because, depending on how you looked at it, he was killing slimes by the hundred.
Or rather, he was taking Slime Jelly, the byproduct of fat slimes and the basis for new slime development, and trying to ‘create’ a breed of slime.
That happened quite often. Depending on your Skills, you could essentially mix up a new slime. [Alchemists] who came to Onononno found they could parlay their Skills into new slimes.
Citrus Slimes, for instance, came from creating a slime purely from orange juice. Of course, you needed to add some gelatin, and the resultant slime might not be a survivable breed.
Citrus Slimes wouldn’t fare well in the wild. They might survive around orchards—but they were edible, and it was a pet-breed. Because they were citrus, they could only survive on a very select number of fruits.
Anyone who cared about slimes would be wary of making a slime that would suffer or not survive. It reminded Demsleth of Sariants, really. And Onononno was more passionate about the wellbeing of slimes.
However, this respected Slime Master had gone crazy about four months ago. When Demsleth managed to get into the house being protested—which had stains from the eggs and other produce hurled against the walls and windows—he found a muttering man tending to hundreds of slime incubation batches.
“No, no, it’s not working. They’re not germinating the mana stones. I’m doing it right. I have to be. Who are you? Who let you in—if you’re trying to protest, get out! Rouble, get them!”
An angry slime zapping the stone floor rolled towards Rafaema. It was a big one, four feet tall and filled with charged jelly. An Electric Slime. Rafaema stuck out one foot, and it swarmed her leg. It zapped her four times, and she glared at it.
The Slime, Rouble, let go of her leg after a second and, like a little dog suddenly meeting a Dire Wolf, hid behind a table.
“I’m a friend, Master Culivan. May I ask what you’re trying to create? You appear to be trying to make…a Mithril Slime. Oh. My.”
Demsleth’s eyes fell on the first failed slime. Jelly was crammed into a vat with a mana stone and a lot of mithril dust. Culivan strode over to the vat, stared down at it, and up at Demsleth.
“Yes. But it’s failed. It’s just—there’s no spark of life. Damn it. I have to discard this batch too.”
He slapped a label on it, a red one to mark the entire batch as useless. Then he scrubbed his face with his fingers.
He was a man with wavy, black hair, probably a fashionable trendsetter with his high collar and cape, reminiscent of a wizard in blue—if [Wizards] had any fashion aside from their hats. He probably took care with his appearance normally. He had a monocle enchanted with [Appraisal]—and even the hints of some makeup.
It was over a week old, he had rings under his eyes, and they were bloodshot to boot. He looked unwell, and Demsleth, ever sympathetic to a man needing sleep, looked around.
“Rafaema. Would you run and find us something to eat from a café? Have a seat, Master Culivan. I heard you had been visited by an…apparition. Would you tell me about it?”
The man wavered. Strangers just walking into your house were not generally welcome, even in friendly Onononno. Yet Demsleth’s words made him sag.
“You believe? You’ve come here to laugh at me or investigate.”
“No. I quite believe. In fact…I’m looking for men and women like you.”
The mismatched eyes flashed. Culivan’s head rose, and the keen eyes of the old man followed him. Demsleth gestured to a chair that Culivan swore hadn’t been there a second ago—he didn’t own chairs that looked like that. The rosewood chair with the padded seat was comfortable, though, and he sat. Perhaps he was dreaming.
“I…don’t believe it was real. I still do not—but I am compelled by a man in a vision. Some of my neighbors and friends call me mad. They say I’ve killed thousands of potential slimes, using all this Slime Jelly. But I swear the recipes work.”
Demsleth looked around the room. Hundreds of slimes were in the process of creation. All failed attempts. And they were all…far more exotic than even the Deepwater Slime he’d seen rolling about the city.
Magma Slime. The lava was boiling in an enchanted container. Sage Slime, sitting in Sage’s Water. Even a Blood Slime.
Or rather, the components of each. It was clear Culivan hadn’t managed to create a single Slime, and he looked wracked with guilt.
“Tell me what you saw.”
The [Slime Master] was pale.
“Don’t laugh at me. I have had enough of laughter. I saw the founder of my city. I swear it was him. It was when the Gnolls were under attack. When Ailendamus was battling the Dawn Concordat. On that day of days—as evening fell, a figure came to my shop. He entered through the door, and Rouble didn’t attack but screamed as I have never heard a slime scream. I came down, fearing I was being robbed, and saw him.”
Demsleth’s eyes burned. His heart hurt—Culivan accepted a cup of coffee and a biscuit Rafaema brought without seeming to realize he was eating.
“I have never been more afraid in my life. It was him—the same man who adorns our statues. Onell the Slime Hero. Or rather, most of him was. He looked as if someone or something had torn him apart.”
“Torn him apart?”
Rafaema shivered, and her neck spines rose much like hair. Culivan looked up.
“He had holes in his face. Wounds as if he had been savaged by some great beast—though he had no flesh. He was a ghost, and he—it was hard to understand. He claimed to have come from some great war in the lands of the dead. A war lost. He had fled six…somethings, then returned here and fought across Izril to find someone in his city. Me, it seemed.”
As Demsleth, Teriarch, understood it, Izril had been lost until the Seamwalkers appeared. Any ghost strong enough to reach this city would have had to fight here. At any rate, Culivan had listened.
“He told me to arm the city. Spoke recipes—his knowledge of how to create slimes. He was dying. I tried to hold him in my arms, but he charged me to create. Then he was gone. I have been trying for four months, four months to recreate what he said. I’ve had some success. Rouble was the size of a potion jar before I found out how to harness lightning. Even then, he was dangerous enough to jolt a Bronze-rank off their feet. How did you…?”
He stared at Rafaema. Demsleth leaned forwards.
“So you were told secrets by Onell. But it seems like they were incomplete.”
“He kept mentioning seithbone or ‘seith crystal’. I don’t know what it is. And no slimes will germinate without it. I have tried! If it was just that, I’d call him mad. But—he was right about how to feed a slime made of lightning.”
“How do you do it?”
Rafaema was patently curious. Even creating a slime charged with lightning spoke to Culivan’s previous talents. The man smiled wanly.
“I created Rouble out of a lake hit by a bolt of lightning. That was by chance. I didn’t think to build a giant rod of metal and wait for a storm! Onell told me to do that—now each time a cloud falls over Onononno, all the Charged Slimes gather around. There are eight, all almost as large as Rouble, in the city, and woe to any [Burglars] or [Thieves] or [Thugs] who go up against them. So I am not mad. I just—”
He looked haunted, and Demsleth leaned forwards.
“What do you fear, Master Culivan? Why are you making such dangerous slimes?”
The man sat there, swaying a bit in his stool, looking sick and tired—and terribly afraid. When his clear blue eyes rose, they met Demsleth’s cerulean and heliotrope ones.
“I was told worse is coming. I was told it by the hero of my city, who was real and dying and told me a day would come when his foes crossed over to the lands of the living. Why would I not believe that?”
Demsleth held the gaze as Rafaema looked between him and Culivan—sensing something that went beyond even her quest to know herself. And at last, Demsleth spoke.
“I think—that without this ‘seith crystal’ or ‘seithbone’, all you are doing is wasting a resource that is best used elsewhere, Master Culivan.”
“You’re right. But I can’t just stop, stranger. I have the support of my friends and the governor. Should I renounce what I saw?”
