But the third test of basic competence was one about organization, and it was one that Ieka feared her aunt was falling prey to. Most [Lords] or [Ladies] of an inquiring mind could solve it given the time and learned something from it. But Valeterisa…
Test 3. How do you turn water into wine?
She vividly recalled Lord Ranga laughing about it at a party when she revealed her three tests one time. That man hadn’t gotten the point at all.
She had learned this trick from Lord Pellmia, in fact. Ieka recalled, as a young woman, how she had toured Quellae’s orchards and vineyards and he had talked over the process.
Wine was free. All you had to do was water the right seeds.
Well, of course, that was oversimplification. First you found a spot that was fertile enough to grow grapes. You had to clear the land, make sure the pests were out, fence it off, hire workers or do the work yourself. Buy the right seeds, build trellises to support the vines as they grew, check them for pests, and keep away everything that wanted to eat the grapes. Process them after letting them dry, let the mixture ferment—experiment with the quality and so on.
But all Pellmia claimed you needed was water. Water was essential for the crops and workers. You couldn’t pull water out of nothing. You could, in time, pay the workers harvesting the grapes with the proceeds from the wine. You could use the grapes you grew to sow more vineyards. The system of making wine, in theory, paid for itself. Barrels came from wine sales. Wine came from the industry supporting itself.
Only the water was a stopgap. Even in dry Chandrar, he claimed that you could found a vineyard—but you had to have the water.
It was one of those thought-experiments that proved whether or not you could logic your way to understanding the process of making wine. Even Lord Ranga could follow that kind of thing; he could tell you how his [Herders] cared for the damn cattle in minute detail. A [Lord] or [Lady] who could do that could at least understand the industry they cared for.
But her aunt…when Ieka had floated the riddle to Valeterisa, the renowned Archmage of Izril, the genius who had lifted Fissival and spellcaster supreme, Valeterisa had thought about it for two seconds.
‘Cast a transfiguration spell, Ieka. Next riddle?’
Which was fair for a [Mage] to say. But even when Ieka had explained the premise, Valeterisa…had never quite bothered to figure out how wine was made. She was entirely uninterested in wine, which was fine for a spellcaster. Only this enterprise?
This wasn’t about magic alone. Ieka had grave concerns.
 
——
 
There were eight stops between Liscor and Invrisil. Adding in Bezale and Palt, that made ten. Three more to House Sanito meant thirteen teleportation spots to teleport the goods.
But Montressa had found thirteen [Mages]. Each one was enthusiastic, took Valeterisa’s blueprints for the spell circle…and her gold.
Quite a lot of it, in fact. Valeterisa had known she’d have to pay for a warehouse to teleport from. Some of the [Mages] had backups, though.
“I’ll use the basement of the Mage’s Guild, Archmage. It’s spacious enough. I’d only charge…let’s call it a hundred and fifty gold for the year? If we’re using this service as much as I think, it will be simple.”
The Esthelm [Guildmaster of Magic] had his solution. One town along the way had no free warehouse, so the [Mage] volunteered their house.
“We’ll just have to teleport through it. The room’s large enough to hold most shipments. We can pay for a warehouse later. But we do need to buy gemstones.”
Gemstones. Valeterisa hadn’t realized this, but few [Mages] besides Palt or Bezale had access to the right quality gemstones to lay down a proper spell circle. Most used magicore—so she had to give them what she had and buy all the stocks she could find. Pallass had enough gems from Salazsar, which exported a good amount of the world’s supply, but it was dear.
 
Cost of all the storage spots for the teleportation grid? 4,521 gold pieces.
Cost of the gemstones to write the spell circles? 1,775 gold pieces.
Budget: 20,904 gold pieces.
 
A third of the budget was used up, but that was fine. The teleportation network would be up, running, and in a few days, they’d send through a piece of copper ore to prove it was working, then port the rest. And once it was running, the network would pay for itself and need no further outlays of coin.
Valeterisa was tired after having to talk to so many people. She went to sleep that night, still excited by the vision of the Teleportarium 2.0. Goods were just the beginning. When she could transfer people—she’d convince Pallass to let her set up a network. It was a long way from here to Fissival, but if she wanted people she knew to ever visit her—
Connect Izril via magic. Much like the Crossroads of Izril quest. Part of Valeterisa wondered why Erin Solstice was so obsessed with that. Her magic could do it simpler.
 
——
 
The next morning, two problems occurred. Montressa found Valeterisa in the Haven and knocked on the door. The Archmage had been dozing as she waited for her morning cup of coffee.
Her apprentice delivered it. And fresh underwear and other things. Valeterisa was reading a book about the Lightning Thief in bed, and she heard a muted conversation from outside.
“—up early. Didn’t I see you two hours ago?”
“Oh—yes, Guildmistress Godfrey.”
“Mihaela. This project Valley is on about. Is it going to work?”
Montressa’s voice was nervous.
“I-I hope so! I’ve chosen good [Mages].”
“Running a network isn’t easy. Valley’s as coordinated as a frog in a slicked oil well wearing a suit of plate armor.”
Mihaela was always rude. Valeterisa huffed slightly as Montressa spoke up. The door was slightly ajar, which was why Larra’s privacy spells weren’t working.
“I am most assuredly going to help her to the best of my abilities, Guildmistress! I looked up each [Mage] via the local Mage’s Guilds, and they’re the best in each town. I know Bezale and Palt personally. I won’t let her down.”
“Mhm. Good. I’m getting to work. I have to torment a few upshot City Runners. Does she really make you buy underwear? Nevermind, don’t answer that.”
Mihaela tromped off just as Valeterisa closed her book, vaguely annoyed. But then there was a rap at the door, and Montressa was there, pushing into the room and waving a nervous hand.
“Archmage? Can you look over Bezale’s work? She’s stressing a bit that she’s messed something up. And—you have an angry [Merchant] waiting for you.”
“…How angry is angry?”
The leader of the Merchant’s Guild in Invrisil was very angry. And he had two [Bodyguards] and would have loved to summon Valeterisa into his office in Invrisil to scream at her.
But one did not summon Valeterisa anywhere. In fact, she ignored him so completely he had to find her on the streets of Invrisil as she followed Bezale to her spell circle in progress. The two [Bodyguards] mostly tried to hide behind the [Merchant] as he shouted.
“You are trying to destroy our trade, and we will not have it, Archmage! If you had approached us in good faith—the Driver’s Guild and Runner’s Guilds are both aware of what you are doing!”
“I have every right to do this. Thank you. [Silence].”
Valeterisa waved her wand. Montressa was aghast.
“Archmage, you can’t do that!”
“Oh, very well. [Dispel Magic].”
“This is assault on a citizen of Invrisil! You two, arrest her! Call the Watch!”
The incandescent [Merchant] didn’t get to arrest Valeterisa. The [Bodyguards] were not about to try. Both were over Level 30 and very competent and dangerous with their pointy sticks. But they were also fans of the news. They had seen her lift Fissival over her head.
“How did he find out about our project?”
Montressa grimaced when Valeterisa finally got out of range of the [Merchant] throwing a tantrum.
“I think someone informed him. Either one of our [Mages] or…someone sold the information. Information brokers are strong. Bezale, do you know who did it?”
The Minotauress ran a kind of information broker’s service along with her magical connections to Liscor. She grunted.
“It was the new broker in Invrisil. ‘Bloody Secrets’.”
“Who?”
“Some upshot seller of info from Reizmelt. She stays at the inn, Montressa. And don’t look at me about the name. I didn’t choose it. She did. It’s so pretentious.”
“How well is she doing?”
Bezale shrugged.
“Not as well as me. She’s new. She’s got a Steel Golem bodyguard, and she’s rich, but she’s new. She opened her business, ran off for months, and came back. You have to prove you’re something in Invrisil. Give her two years and maybe she’ll be more than a pest, but she did get the scoop on us. Here’s my spell circle, Archmage. Is it…?”
Valeterisa saw that Bezale had bought out a large warehouse to store goods in just as promised. It had a steel bolt lock, and the Minotauress had sealed the windows with basic wards. In the center of the room, which she had swept, she had begun to trace the spell circle in melted gemstone lines of magic.
“Hmm. You did three layers in one night. Good!”
Three out of five were done, and Valeterisa was happy. She could have done this herself, but it would have taken her four hours, and her back hurt for bending over so long. Montressa hurried around, peering at the circle.
“It’s very well done. A perfect copy. You didn’t have to worry, Bezale!”
The Minotauress exhaled in a rush.
“Good! It’s just the most complex thing I’ve done—I wanted to be sure. I am sorry, Archmage.”
“It’s fine. This is good. You’ll be done today, then. Perhaps we can teleport the goods from House Sanito today!”
The Archmage perked up, but Montressa raised a hand.
“If Bezale is only on three layers out of five by today—we need to wait at least another one. Thank you, Bezale—oh, your niece would like to talk.”
“Ieka?”
 
——
 
“Aunt Valeterisa, you’re going everywhere. Are you alright? You’re not being harassed by the Merchant’s Guild about your project, are you? I tried to put a lid on it, but they really don’t like your project, so they bought all the information up.”
Ieka was, as ever, surprising to Valeterisa. The Archmage had some tea with her niece in Ieka’s rooms in the Haven. She was always so…
“You are so informed, Ieka. How did you know about my project?”
“You talk, Aunt.”
Ieka sounded peeved, and Valeterisa blinked at her.
“But I use privacy spells.”
“Yes, but not perfectly. Are you…forgive me. Let’s start from the beginning. I’m glad you didn’t decide to work for the Drakes. I was inspired, seeing you at Fissival.”
The girl put down her cup and looked at Valeterisa, and she seemed so much older than Valeterisa remembered. She had grown up from the girl who would beg for Valeterisa to show her spells.
But the look hadn’t changed. Her eyes were bright violet, like distant stars, and when they looked at Valeterisa, they shone like the first time the [Mage] had cast [Illumination] in an empty field for her.
Valeterisa liked that look. But Ieka’s look of admiration was tinged with—anger.
“They never respected you. You shouldn’t have given them the time of day.”
“I grew up there, Ieka. I like Fissival. I still do. They do not like me.”
She didn’t want to talk about Fissival. Valeterisa peered at Ieka.
“Have you gotten engaged yet? Your mother sometimes asks me about your prospects.”
Ieka flushed.
“I’ve grown far past listening to my parents’ wishes in that regard, Aunt. You know how it is. I’m more concerned in—the new lands. Personnel. Have you any interest in going there?”
Valeterisa thought about it.
“I am interested in whatever is being found, but no. I don’t want to go ahead like Deniusth or Colth. Adventurers tend to die.”
“Even the Archmage of Izril?”
Valeterisa smiled at the comment, and Ieka turned red. But Valeterisa just thought for a second.
“—Colth can be scarier than I am. I helped them fight in the dungeon against Facestealer. I remembered why I don’t adventure. And Colth is not rushing to the new lands. Therefore it is too dangerous for me.”
“Even for you. Aunt…what is Eldavin like? Is he really that far above all the old Archmages in magic? You?”
“Yes. Most definitely.”
Her niece didn’t like that. She had some kind of odd pride about Valeterisa, but the Archmage explained how Eldavin had come to Wistram, and Ieka listened attentively. Her face was wistful and pained.
“It feels like there is always an insurmountable mountain of talent, Aunt. If you—I’ve seen you put your life into studying, and this Eldavin swoops in and teaches you all like students. For myself? I cannot get out of Magnolia Reinhart’s shadow.”
Valeterisa pursed her lips. This was a familiar conversation.
“She inherited one of the Five Families. It is not exactly fair to compare, Ieka. Besides, if Eldavin can take Wistram forwards, I will follow him. I only wish—”
She paused, and Ieka glanced up. Valeterisa’s lips moved.
I only wish he hadn’t changed.
Something about him had shifted—but she didn’t tell even her niece that. Lacking any other conversation points, Valeterisa leaned forwards.
“How have your magical studies gone?”
Ieka sighed, but fondly.
“I don’t have time to study magic as often as you, Aunt. Frankly, I’m surprised you even took the time to visit the Haven.”
“It has free bread. And Larra told me to come. I will wish to return to my mansion soon to research, but I have opportunities here such as the teleportation network.”
Ieka was fiddling with one of her rings.
“Yes, well, on that topic—are you quite certain you want to take on this entire affair yourself, Aunt? It is a great task, and I fear it will divide your attention.”
Valeterisa waved a hand as if trying to limply strike a moth.
“I considered offering it to Magnolia Reinhart or letting Eldavin do it. But the profit to be made is appealing. We have already mostly finished Invrisil’s magical circuit and will test the network tomorrow, probably.”
“That soon?”
Something in Ieka’s tone made Valeterisa glance up. She would have entirely missed it if her attention was divided and she only had one thought-process on ‘talk to niece’, but right now…
“You are skeptical? The magic is sound.”
“Your magic always is. But Aunt—people are not that reliable, in my experience. If you need a bit of help, you need only say the word. I am tied up in my affairs in the new lands—my people are at the furthest most Drake cities in the west, you know, although there are complications.”
“Magical?”
“No. Passports.”
Ieka grimaced, and Valeterisa’s interest waned.
