It hadn't taken much convincing for Denise to join the mini-exodus from the hospital. She knew that there was going to be a huge fallout from all of this, and she didn't want to get caught up in any of it. While Stella and Barbara were submitting their resignations, she took the few minutes she had alone to text Lucy. Even though Ren had told her that his relationships were none of her business, she couldn't in good conscience let Lucy stay in the dark about the situation.

*

Ren was on the examination table again. His head was clamped into a padded vise, and he could only look around with his eyes. He saw two people in scrubs looking at him.

“Are you sure we should do this?” A young man's voice asked. “He's not even under anesthetic.”

“Don't worry.” Ren's mother said. “My boy can take a lot of pain before he even starts to cry.”

“But still...” The young man said. “...this procedure...”

“Yes, it's invasive, but we need to set up the proper connections. How else are we supposed to get the proper readings?”

The young man sighed. “Can we at least cover his eyes? He's staring at me.”

Ren's mother laughed. “That's okay. He won't remember any of this anyways.” She pat Ren's shoulder. “You've become very good at blocking bad memories; haven't you, dear?”

Ren tried to nod his head in agreement, but it was clamped too tightly to move. He looked at the young man and watched as a sterilized electric screwdriver was passed to his mother. He heard it whirl a few times, then felt pressure on the top of his skull. His mother was right, though. This was nothing compared to some of the other experiments he went through. He felt the drill several times in various spots, and he ignored it as much as he could.

“Hand me the bone saw.” His mother said, and the electric device was loud in the practically silent room. Ren felt it jerk and pull on his skin and smiled as it dug into the bone.

Ha! It'll take more than that to make me cry! Ren thought, and closed his eyes as his mother continued to work.

*

Lucy's phone beeped at her, and she looked at it. “Denise?” She asked herself, then read the text about Ren. Her eyes widened at what Denise had written, and she put the phone away. She finished the blood work sample she had been working on, added it to the stack with the proper paperwork, then told the staff she had something to take care of. Lucy walked calmly to the elevator and went up to the floor Ren's room was on and went to the break room.

*

A few minutes later, Denise was surprised that Lucy hadn't messaged her back. I really thought she cared about Ren. She looked at her phone again, then put it away just as the door to the break room burst open.

“Tell me everything!” Lucy demanded to the startled Denise.

*

“Ugh.” Ren said as he opened his eyes. “What... ugh!” His arms were still secured to stop him from moving. He looked from side to side and realized he didn't know where he was. He started to panic and struggle against his bindings. “No! Nooo!”

“Ren!” Stella exclaimed. “It's okay!” She stood over him so he could see her clearly. Ren's eyes focused on her face, and he saw the relief there. He calmed down and looked at his arms.

“What... where am I?”

“You're in a temporary care facility.” Stella said. “When Elise found out what had happened, she got you out of the hospital as soon as she could.”

“She WHAT?!?” Ren shouted, and looked around again. He could see out the window, and there was a tree there. The window wasn't open; but he could see the leaves moving, and imagined the sound of rustling leaves.

“I don't know how she managed it, either.” Stella said. “Since you're a ward of the state, I thought that they got to decide where you'd be housed and taken care of.”

“Me, too.” Ren said.

Stella took out her cell phone and dialed. “Hi, Elise.” “Yes, he's awake.” “Okay.” She hung up and dialed again. “Hi, Barbara.” “Yes, he's awake.” “Uh huh.” She hung up and dialed again. “Hi, Denise.” “Yes, he's awake.” “Yes, it's a relief.” “Okay, bye.”

Ren looked at her with wide eyes, and she smiled.

“We all agreed that whoever was here when you woke up, they would tell the others right away.” Stella said. “No matter what time it was.”

Ren tried to look at his watch, and she put a hand on his arm.

“It's 6 p.m. on Tuesday.”

Ren looked at her in surprise. “I lost a whole day?” He asked. “What kind of pain pill did they give me?”

Stella had a worried look on her face. “I don't know how to tell you this, without it giving you a shock.” She said, and put a hand on the side of his face. “Please stay calm, okay?”

Ren took a deep breath and nodded.

“You didn't lose a day, Ren.” Stella said.

He looked at her like she was crazy. “But you just said it was Tuesday.”

Stella sighed. “It's actually next Tuesday.” She said. “You've been unconscious for a week.”

“Oh, god.” Ren said and closed his eyes. “A... a week. A whole week.” He opened his eyes and stared at Stella. “Do you realize what that means?”

“Whatever they dosed you with hit you hard.” She said.

“No, Stella.” Ren said. “You don't understand! I missed...” Tears sprang to his eyes. “I missed a month of game-time.” He looked at Stella beseechingly. “Nathalia... she... she hasn't seen me in a whole month!”

“Oh, Ren.” Stella said as leaned down to touch her forehead to his. She wiped his tears away, and let him cry it out. It took about 10 minutes for him to calm down, and when he did, he asked to have the IVs removed.

“We can't yet.” Stella said. “We've been flushing your system to make sure whatever it was they gave you, is out of your system completely.”

Ren sighed. “How much longer will it take?”

“Considering this is the first time you've been fully awake, probably another few days.”

“How... how am I supposed to use the bathroom?” He asked, just as he was hit with a huge urge to do so.

“The same way you've been going all week.” Stella said, and picked up what looked like a large squeeze bottle; but instead of a spout, it had a funnel like attachment. She folded down the blanket that covered him from the waist down, slid his pajama pants and underwear down, then gently placed him into the opening.

“Go ahead.”

Ren blinked wide eyes at her.

“What?” Stella asked.

“How... I mean...” Ren looked sheepish as he spoke. “It's not like I could ask when I had to go.”

“Oh.” Stella said. “The first few times it was a close call.” She grinned. “Surprisingly, you go like clockwork. Once we found out your schedule...”

“I... ah...” Ren looked around.

“I can close my eyes if that will help.” Stella suggested.

“Please.”

She closed her eyes and even turned her head, and Ren let loose the flood of fluids his body was so desperate to expel. His eyes widened as the level in the bottle rose steadily; and just as he became concerned that it was going to overflow, the stream trickled down to almost nothing and he relaxed.

“I'm done.” Ren said, Stella jigged him a couple of times, and set the bottle on the floor. She grabbed a baby wipe and cleaned him off, then another to clean her hands, and pulled his clothing back into place and covered him with the blanket again. Stella disappeared into the bathroom with the bottle and Ren heard the toilet flush. Water ran in the sink, then the sounds of the bottle being scrubbed, and Stella was back at his bedside with the clean bottle.

“No matter how many times you tell me that you'll do anything to take care of me, it still amazes me that you do.” Ren said, and Stella chuckled.

“It's just the body's normal function.” Stella said. “You know my views about that.”

Ren nodded. “I know.” He tried to lift a hand to her, but it was still secured because of the IV tubes. She saw what he was trying to do, and held his hand. “Thank you.”

“It's my job.” Stella said, and then it hit Ren where he was.

“Wait! How is it your job? We're not in the hospital!”

Stella smiled and squeezed his hand a little. “We resigned.”

“W-w-we?”

“Barbara, Denise, and I.” Stella said. “You need full time care, and we weren't going to let some stranger come in and take over our responsibility.”

“S-Stella!”

She let his hand go and ran it through his hair. “We've all grown quite fond of you.” She said. “Even just the thought of having someone else take care of you, bothered me too much to let it go.”

“But.. but...”

“You're wondering who's paying for it all?”

Ren nodded.

“Sid Tec footed the bill for the first few days; but once the law firm that took care of your case got involved, they were reimbursed for the full amount and now it's all being handled by the lawyers.”

“Wow.”

Stella nodded. “Uh huh. It's... well, it's all being blown open, Ren.”

“What do you mean?” He asked.

She sighed. “I'll let them explain.” She said, and walked over to the door to the room and opened it. “All right, he's awake.”

Ren heard several pairs of shoes clack down the hallway.

“He's not a hundred percent, so take it easy.” Stella admonished them. “He wants to know what's going on.”

Stella stepped back and several people came into the room. Three men and two women. Two of the men wore identical suits, haircuts, and blank expressions. If Ren had to guess who they were, it would be FBI. The third man had a clean cut suit, thin hair, and was pushing 50. A police badge hung on his belt, and one of the women had one hanging around her neck. She was quite pretty, in that girl-next-door kind of way; where if she had just a touch of makeup, she'd be drop-dead gorgeous. She also had brown curly hair down to her shoulders, and if he guessed from her standing next to Stella, she was only about 5 feet tall. Ren really liked the look on her face, though. She looked like she wouldn't take crap from anyone, and he smiled at her. She had a surprised look on her face for a moment, then smiled a tiny little bit. Ren moved on to the last woman, and didn't know what her profession was. Her appearance was as nondescript as anything Ren had ever seen.

“I'm Detective-” The man in the clean cut suit tried to say, and was cut off by one of the two men that had matching suits.

“I believe we have priority here.” One of them said. Ren blinked his eyes and stared at them. He honestly couldn't tell which one had moved their mouths to speak.

“Now listen here-”

“Quiet!” Stella said to their surprised faces. “This is not a pissing contest.”

Ren chuckled at her use of words, considering what he'd just done. I'd have won that contest. He thought, and Stella smiled.

“You will keep a civil tongue, or you will be out of here.” Stella said. “He's gone through enough, without having to deal with your jurisdiction problems.”

The detective turned to Stella. “Sorry, Ma'am. I was just going to introduce myself, and then I was rudely interrupted.”

“I wasn't being rude about it. I only interrupted.” One of them said.

Nope, I still can't tell who spoke. Ren thought in amazement.

Stella pointed a finger at the FBI agent who spoke.

“Sorry.”

The detective smiled. “Like I was saying.” He said. “I'm Detective Ramirez, and this is my partner, Officer Stonewall.”

Ren shifted his gaze to her. “That's a cool name.”

“Thanks.” She said in a cold voice. Ren's smile grew large as he realized she was trying to act tough because of all the men in the room that had more authority than she did; not to mention they were a lot bigger than her physically. Her eyes flicked across Ren's exposed skin and traced the receding bruises, and she tried not to shiver at how painful it looked. She almost succeeded, then turned to look at Stella.

“Does he have to remain uncovered like that?” Officer Stonewall asked her.

“Unfortunately.” Stella said. “We're still treating the severe bruising. Plus, we'd have to remove the IVs to put anything on him.”

Ren looked back at the two FBI agents.

“I'm Agent Smith, and this is Agent Smith.”

“You're joking!” Ren said.

“The FBI never jokes.” One of them said.

“You know, I've been watching you this whole time...” Ren said. “...and I still can't tell which one of you opens your mouth when you talk.”

Detective Ramirez grinned and Officer Stonewall laughed. Stella shook her head and the last woman didn't even bat an eyelash.

“It's a talent.” One of them said.

“It's amazing, is what it is.” Ren said.

“We're getting off-track.” The last woman said, with no inflection in her voice at all.

“Right.” One of the agents said. “To put it bluntly, we're investigating bank fraud.”

“Wh-what?!?” Ren said, surprised. “This isn't about the tarantula?”

The detective raised his hand slightly. “We'll get to that part later.”

Ren nodded and looked back at the FBI agents.

“Someone has been stealing your settlement. For years, apparently.” The agent said. “Thanks to Ms. Stanford's help, and her very willing accomplice that works at the bank; we've apprehended the bank manager and seized all of his financial records.”

“Oh, wow.”

“It gets better.” The other agent said. “We've been on this all week. One of the main benefactors of the scam was Doctor Hobbard.”

Ren's mouth fell open and his face drained of it's color. “No!” He looked at Stella, who nodded.

“There are quite a few others, but he's the only one we've found that was directly tied to you so far.” One agent said.

“What about Suzie?” Ren asked.

“Who?” The agent asked.

“She was his psychiatrist.” Stella said. “She isn't anymore.” She looked at Ren. “I haven't heard his version of the story yet, though.”

“She's been telling someone... she wouldn't say who... all about me and the experiments my parents did to me.”

“She WHAT?!?” Stella yelled.

“Yeah, I pretty much reacted the same way. I was going to file a restraining order against her because of it, but... then... I...”

Ren closed his eyes for a moment, and the darkness took him again.

*

“Dammit.” Detective Ramirez said. “I didn't even get a turn.”

“He's not a toy to be passed around!” Stella said.

“I didn't mean it like that.” Detective Ramirez said and held his hands up in surrender. “I meant about telling him about the spider.”

“What can you tell him about it?” Stella asked.

“Nothing.”

“Excuse me?”

“There's nothing. No sales receipt. No customs papers. No nothing. It's like it just appeared out of thin air and showed up on his doorstep.”

“Well, that's disappointing.” Stella said. “We had hoped there would be some way to track it.”

