“Both.” Ren said. “It got her out of here faster, but I am tired.” He looked at the VR headset that was on a rollaway table just like the one he had at the hospital. He closed his eyes and sighed.

“It's okay.” Elise said.

“No, it's not.” Ren said, opened his eyes and looked at her. “I've been out of the game for a month.” He shook his head. “I don't think Nathalia will ever forgive me for that.”

“Oh, I wouldn't worry about that.” Elise said.

“Why not?” Stella asked. “He hasn't been able to keep the store stocked, either.”

“The store!” Ren exclaimed. “I totally forgot about that!” He sighed again and let his head drop to the pillow. “Boy, I really messed things up for myself.”

“Ren, everything is fine.” Elise chuckled. “Your familiar... T1 wasn't it?”

Ren nodded and looked at her.

“He's been keeping the orders going, and Nathalia has been bringing them across through her portal.” Elise said, and leaned in close. “That was a smart move on your part.”

Ren sighed. “What about the restaurants?”

Elise laughed. “It's making more money than your store.”

“W-what?!?”

“That's why I told you not to worry.” Elise said. “Nathalia's been very busy, and she knows you're an Adventurer. She's going to be worried sick over how long you've been gone; but she'll forgive you, especially if you tell her what happened.”

“I can't tell her what I'm like out here.” Ren said.

“You don't have to.” Elise said. “Just explain that other Adventurers drugged you and held you captive.” She smiled. “Then see how long it takes for her to forgive you.”

“Can... can it really be that easy?” Ren said, his voice full of hope.

“I guarantee it.” Elise said. “I can also guarantee that your sentence of working in the mines was paused while you were out of the game.”

“Wh-WHAT?!?”

Elise ran a hand through his hair absently. “The game automatically pauses things like mandatory jobs and things if you're out of the game.” She said, then smiled. “You've been doing so well in the game that I keep forgetting your character didn't get a help guide.”

“Me, too.” Ren said. “I can look up some things; but, it's a complete blank when I look for stuff for me personally.”

Elise nodded. “I'll have one of the tech guys edit one of the basic guides for you.”

“Thanks, Elise.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elise said as she kept touching his hair. “It's no trouble.”

“Not just for that.” Ren said. “Thank you for everything that you've done.”

Elise opened her mouth to speak and Ren shook his head.

“Don't you dare say that it was no trouble.” He said, and smiled.

“Okay, then. I won't say it.” Elise laughed.

Ren looked at Stella. “Is there any chance I could have a sponge bath?” He asked. “I've been laying in these sweaty clothes for a while.”

“Of course.” Stella said. “I'll get everything ready, and be back in a few minutes.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and looked at Elise. “Um... ah...”

“Yes, Ren. I'll step out of the room while you get cleaned up.”

“Thank you.” Ren said.

“I'm tempted to get you to promise that you'll let me give you a sponge bath some day... or a regular bath... or a shower...” Elise grinned as Ren's face flushed red, then she stood up. “...but, I'd rather do this instead.” She leaned over him and gave him a gentle kiss on the lips. It only lasted for a brief moment, then Elise leaned back. “See you in a little while.”

Stella came back with a water basin, cloth, sponge, and soap, and Elise nodded to her and left the room. Ren stared at the closed door, and Stella chuckled.

“What's so funny?” He asked as he looked at her.

“I'd say you not knowing how to handle a pretty woman that just kissed you.” Stella said.

“But... but I don't know how to handle it.” Ren said. “I mean... I've only had one girlfriend, and she was my nurse first.” He sighed. “What the hell do I do?”Stella laughed as she put a big towel under Ren, and lathered up her hands. “You don't have to 'do' anything.” She looked at his arms. “This is going to hurt.”

“A lot.” Ren said and grit his teeth. “Go ahead.”

Stella gently rubbed his arms to get them clean, and kept well away from the IV needles. “Elise seems to be taking things slowly; so you only have to let her make the moves.” She moved on to his upper arms, and Ren winced. “Sorry.” She said, and moved on to his shoulders.

“What if I want to make a move?” Ren asked, as Stella rubbed lather over his chest.

“Do you?”

“I... don't know.” Ren said, and looked at his arms. “Well, it won't be for a while.”

Stella smiled. “You don't really need your arms to make a move.”

“Then what...”

“You can tell her how pretty she is, or how smart she is, or how nice her humongous boobs are.” Stella said and grinned.

Ren laughed and shook his head. “I can't believe you just said that.”

“Don't tell me you wouldn't enjoy getting your face mashed between them.” Stella said. “It's like every man's dream to use large boobs like pillows.”

“Okay, I won't tell you.” Ren said, and Stella tickled under his arms a little bit. “Do-don't.” He said and laughed. “My... my arms are tied.”

“Oho! You can't get away from my magic tickling fingers!” Stella said, and wiggled her fingers in front of his face.

“No, don't!” Ren said, and she stuck a single finger under each pit and wiggled them. Ren laughed, and she wiggled her fingers to make sure his underarms were clean, then she stopped.

“Hoo... hoo...” Ren took several breaths. “You could have used the cloth or the sponge!”

“Where's the fun in that?” Stella laughed as she dried her hands off, then moved the blanket out of the way and undressed his bottom half. She lathered him up and made sure she got every spot, from his waist to his toes. Stella used the basin and cloth to rinse and wipe him off, then used the towel to dry him.

“What color today?” She asked as she went to the closet.

“Blue.” Ren said, and Stella brought over the blue silk-like pajama pants, then went to the dresser and picked out the matching underwear.

“Are you going into the game?” Stella asked, and Ren nodded. She took out a foil packet from the rollaway table and stimulated him with her hand a little bit; just so she could apply the foil packet's contents easier. It was for his protection, after all. She slipped the underwear on him after that, then his pajama pants, and folded the blanket up and over him up to his waist.

“You're awesome.” Ren said, his voice full of amazement. “You know that, right?”

“Yep.” Stella said and grinned. “You can keep reminding me, though. It's always nice to hear.”

Ren laughed, and Stella went to the door of his room. Elise came in and they talked about what was going to happen, and what needed to happen.

“This really is only a temporary care facility.” Elise said. “We have to find somewhere to keep you permanently.”

“That's easy.” Ren said. “I'll buy a house.”

“Wh-what?” Stella asked, surprised.

“I wasn't going to stay in the hospital for the rest of my life.” Ren said. “I didn't think I'd be leaving it in such... ah... spectacular fashion.”

Stella snorted a laugh.

“I also figured I'd be a lot older when it happened; but, I'm at this point now. All I can do is move forward.”

“That's very mature of you.” Elise said.

“It's also realistic.” Ren said. “It'll have to be a half-decent size, though.”

“Why's that?”

“I really liked my bathroom at the hospital.” Ren said. “I doubt I can afford the same contractors that did it, though.”

“You didn't even look at the checks, did you?” Elise asked, and Ren shook his head. “You won't have to worry about anything for a long time, Ren.”

“That's good.” He said. “We can look at some properties tomorrow.”

“I have to work.” Elise said. “I'd like to be here; but, I took last week off to be here for you.”

“You... you were here all week?” Ren asked, surprised.

“Of course I was.” Elise said. “I had to make sure you were okay.”

Ren looked down at his hand, and Elise looked, too. He wiggled his fingers, and she smiled as she took his hand. Ren looked at Stella, and she put her fingers in her ears and turned around. He smiled and looked at Elise.

“I can't thank you enough for taking care of me.” Ren said. “I don't know why you like me so much, with you being such a beautiful woman, and me being... well, me.”

“You just answered yourself.” Elise smiled. “You're you, and that's all you can be.”

Ren glanced at Stella, and smiled. “My arms aren't available right now, so I can't hug you like I want; but, someone told me that I didn't need my arms to make a move on you.”

“Is that what this is?” Elise asked coyly, and squeezed his hand slightly.

“I have no idea.” Ren said. “I've never done anything like this before.”

“Then yes; telling me that I'm beautiful and holding my hand, counts as a move.” She said.

“Did it work?” Ren asked.

“You tell me.” Elise said as she bent over, and her flowing red hair fell over both of their heads and concealed them from sight. Ren's eyes widened as she kissed him like she had wanted to kiss him, ever since the first time they'd met.

Oh, my! Ren thought, as Elise's soft lips locked onto his.
