“There were dozens of fingerprints on the box.” He said. “None of them are in the system, except for two of the nurses.”

“Which two?”

“I... shouldn't really say.”

“I'm his personal care giver. I need to know if they show up here.” Stella said with a glare.

“One was the desk nurse.” He said after taking out a small notebook. “We interviewed her. She only touched the box to tape it back up.” He flipped a page. “The other was... here it is. Cheryl-”

“NO!” Stella exclaimed. “She wouldn't!”

“Wouldn't what?” Officer Stonewall asked. “Try to get revenge on the boy who got her fired?”

“He did not get her fired.” Stella said. “She did that all herself, by telling everyone who he was.” She sighed. “She violated his privacy rights. If it had only been to friends or family, she might have only gotten a fine; but, she said it on national television. The hospital board had to get rid of her, just to delay the lawsuits.”

“Uh huh.” Officer Stonewall said. “That's not reason enough to cause all of this?”

Stella looked at her, and didn't know what to say. Just then, the door to Ren's room opened and Elise Stanford came in.

“What is going on in here?” She asked heatedly, and everyone turned to her.

“We were just trying to let Mr. Haddon know the situation.”

“And did you do that?”

“Partly.”

“Then he lost consciousness again?”

“Yes.”

“Then why are you all still in here?” Elise asked them and looked at each person in turn. “Out. Now.”

They filed out of the room to take their places in the waiting room.

“They're going to stay here for as long as it takes, so they can question him.” Stella told her, and Elise sighed.

“I know.” She said. “I want them to help him; but I don't want him hurt more to do it.”

Stella put a hand on her arm. “He'll be fine. I think he's just exhausted.”

“Exhausted? He's been asleep for a week!”

Stella chuckled. “Mentally exhausted. I can only imagine the dreams he's been having.”

*

Ren was hanging upside down in a gravity workout machine. The one where you strap your feet in and it flips you upside down to let the blood rush to your head. He was told that if he shifted his weight, he would flip right-side up again; and his mother warned him that he was not to do that. Ren hung that way for what felt like hours, but was really only about 30 minutes.

“Okay, it's time.” His mother said and came into the room with a steel briefcase.

“No.” Ren said. “Nonono!”

“It's okay, sweetie.” She said. “This isn't what you think it is.”

Ren visibly relaxed, and she walked around behind him. He heard the case hit the table, and the clasps unlocking.

“Don't worry.” His mother said. “This will only pinch a little.”

“Mommy, NO!” Ren screamed as the large needle pierced the top of his neck and sent a searing pain into his brain.

*

“AhhhhHHHHH!!!” Ren screamed as he woke up, covered in sweat. His arms were still secured to the bed, and he went into full panic mode. “Nonononono!” He struggled hard against his bindings, and they dug into his arms. Pain lanced up his arms from the bruises running on the straps, and he struggled harder.

“Ren! REN!” Stella yelled into his face as she grabbed the sides of his head to stop him shaking it from side to side. He blinked his eyes a few times, then they focused on her.

“S-S-Stella?”

“It was just a dream, Ren.” Stella said, and let his head go. “Just a dream.”

“I think it was more of a nightmare.” Elise said, and smiled at Ren when he looked at her. She was sitting by his bedside, with her legs crossed and hands folded on her knee. She wore faded jeans and a man's dress shirt. Both were blue in color, and she uncrossed her legs to lean towards him.

“How are you?” She asked in a soft voice.

“That... that depends.” Ren said. “How long was I out this time?”

“It's only been an hour.” Elise said. She used a hand to move some of his damp hair out of the way, and gave him a light kiss on the forehead. “I'm really glad that you're awake.”

“M-m-me, too.” He stammered.

Elise smiled and sat back in the chair. “Do you feel up to talking to someone again?”

Ren sighed. “I guess so.”

She looked at Stella. “You said that the FBI already told him that Doctor Hobbard was one of the ones taking his money?”

Stella nodded.

“What about the link to one of the hospital board members?”

Stella shook her head. “They only said the one directly in contact with Ren.”

“That makes sense, I guess.” Elise said, and looked at Ren. “They can't find Doctor Hobbard.”

“Wh-what?”

“When I forced the hospital board to let me transfer you here, he suddenly disappeared.” Elise said, and sighed. “It never occurred to me that your actual physician was the one stealing from you.”

“But... but why?”

“They won't say.” Elise said. “It's still under 'investigation'.” She said, and made air quotes with her fingers. “They haven't tied it to any of the nurses or staff, though.”

“That's a relief.” Ren said.

“Not... really.” Elise hedged, and looked a little uneasy. “The lawsuits against the hospital, the board, and Doctor Hobbard, are probably going to bankrupt the hospital.”

“No!” Ren said. “Please, stop it!”

“I didn't know this would happen, Ren.” Elise said. “I only wanted to get you out of there.” She sighed again. “The rest... with the FBI, the police, the medical review board, the IRS...” She shook her head. “It's a royal mess.”

“What about the tarantula?” Ren asked.

“The police think... Cheryl had something to do with it.” Stella said.

“No way.”

“I know.” She said. “They think she wanted revenge on you for making her lose her job.”

“But, I didn't!” Ren said.

“We know you had nothing to do with it.” Elise said. “It was her own stupid fault.” She looked at Ren sadly. “That doesn't mean she wouldn't hold you responsible for it, though.”

“Did... did they arrest her?”

“Not really.” Detective Ramirez said from the doorway. The two women glared at him, and he shrugged. “I heard you talking, so I assumed he was awake.” He smiled. “Can we come in?”

They all looked at Ren, and he nodded. Detective Ramirez waved to his partner and they came into the room.

“We have her in protective custody.” Officer Stonewall said.

“What's that mean?” Ren asked.

“It means they can hold her for a long as they want, without charging her.” Elise said, and Detective Ramirez tapped the tip of his nose.

“Right now, she's our only real lead. If we charge her, she'll stop being helpful and won't tell us what we need to know.”

“Like what?” Stella asked.

“Like how she touched the box the spider came in, when she wasn't working at the hospital at the time.” Detective Ramirez said and grinned. “We've had a couple of avenues open for us with the information she's been providing.”

“And you can't tell us where they are leading.”

“It's still under investigation.” He said.

Ren glanced at Elise, and saw her crooked smile.

“I'd like to get your version of the story, Mr. Haddon.” Detective Ramirez said, and Ren told them everything that he remembered. They grilled him over the delivery man's appearance, how tall he was, the color of his eyes, and Ren shook his head for most of it.

“I remember signing for the package.” Ren said. “That was neat.”

“Why was that?” Officer Stonewall asked. Now that she wasn't trying to act tough in front of the FBI, she had lost the cold tone to her voice.

“It was one of those electronic pads and a plastic pen.” Ren said. “I mean, I've heard about them; but, that was the first time I've ever seen and used one.”

Detective Ramirez and Officer Stonewall looked at each other briefly, then back at Ren.

“Thank you for talking with us today.” Detective Ramirez said and held a hand out for Ren to shake.

“Sorry, I'm a little tied up at the moment.” Ren said, and the detective's face flushed red as he looked at Ren's bound arms. Officer Stonewall snorted a laugh, Stella covered up her smile, and Elise winked at Ren.

“Ahem... ah... yes, well...” Detective Ramirez said, flustered. He had no clue how to recover from his social blunder until Officer Stonewall saved him.

“Have a good day, Mr. Haddon.” She said, and nodded her head at him.

“I think I just did.” Ren said and grinned at her. She smiled a little bit and tugged on her partner's arm.

“Let's go, John.”

“Yes, good day.” He nodded to them and the pair left the room. When the door closed, they waited for a minute, then Elise, Ren and Stella burst out laughing.

“Oh, that was a good one, Ren!” Stella said a few seconds later. “I think he was about to have a stroke!”

Ren's laugh dropped to a chuckle. “I know! The look on his face!”

“I think you two are a bad influence.” Elise said as she calmed down. “Even Officer Stonewall enjoyed that.”

Ren grinned at her. “Did you notice how much nicer she was when the feds weren't in the room?”

Elise nodded. “She's got a big chip on her shoulder.”

“Should I get the FBI?” Stella asked.

“There's no need.” One of the agents said as he came in the room. “We are here.”

They proceeded to ask Ren a bunch of questions, a lot of which didn't have anything to do with what he thought were pertinent details. When they were done and went to leave the room, he spoke up.

“Before you go, what was with all the random questions?” Ren asked. “I'm just curious.”

“They're sanity checks.” One of them said. “We always ask random questions, so that you aren't concentrating too hard on the ones we want you to answer.”

They left the room and shut the door.

*

“You aren't supposed to tell him that.” Agent Smith said, once they were outside.

The other Agent Smith shrugged. “No one's ever asked us about it before.” He said. “I thought it deserved an answer.”

“You're not supposed to feel sorry for him.” The first one said. “We're working.”

“I don't feel sorry for him.” The agent smiled, completely breaking the characters they had created. “He just seems like a smart kid. He knew we were playing him a little.”

“Okay, I'll give you that.” The first one said as he got in the standard car issued to agents in the field. “Do you think he'll guess that other woman is CIA, and not an IRS agent?”

“I'd bet you 10 bucks he does.” The other said as they pulled out of the parking lot. “But it's not like we can ever confirm it.” He smiled again. “Either he does, and when we ask, he'll know we knew; or he doesn't and will find out when we ask, and he'll also know we knew.”

The first agent laughed as they took the corner and sped out of sight.

*

The woman the FBI agents were talking about sat beside Ren. Unlike the others, she insisted on sitting while she conducted her interview. Just like the FBI, she asked Ren a whole range of questions, and almost nothing that pertained to the IRS. After one particularly stupid question about which tax forms Ren fills out, he looked at her with his head tilted slightly to the side.

“How long have you worked for that other three letter agency that I won't name for security reasons?”

“Wh-what?” Surprise had pulled her out of character, and she looked at Stella and Elise quickly, then slipped back into character. “I don't know what you're talking about.” She said and tapped the little badge she had on her jacket. “I work for the IRS.”

“Uh huh.” Ren said and looked at Elise. “Elise, would you be so kind as to ask this delightful lady something only a real IRS agent would know?”

*

“Oh, crap!” The agent in the van said. “She's blown!”

“Not yet.” The tech guy said. “Let's hear the question first.”

*

Elise grinned. “I was supposed to file a normal 1040 last year, but I made a mistake and filed a 1040NR. I was late with the payment return, mainly because of the wrong initial form. Should I file an 8814 to correct the problem, or a 4868?”

*

“We're screwed!” The agent said.

“Nicole, don't answer!” The tech guy said. “Give me a minute to look it up!”

*

Nicole sat there in silence as the tech guy tried his best to find the answer.

“Oh, come on.” Elise said. “That was an easy one.” She shook her head. “Why would you even pretend? Is it a test for you? For your team?” She looked at the window and tried to see the parking lot. “Please tell me you don't have a panel van out there.”

*

“Yeah, we're blown.” The tech guy said as he looked up the information. “She's right. It was an easy question.” He sighed. “You wouldn't file either of those forms to correct it.” He said. “The first is a child income supplement form, and the second is a 6 month extension on payments.”

*

Nicole sighed. “Okay, fine.” She said. “I'm not with the IRS.”

“Why not just say so?” Ren asked. “It's not like I'd say no if you want to ask questions.”

“We're supposed to be covert.”

“You've had a week to prep.” Elise said. “It would have been smarter to get an actual IRS agent and put a wire on them.”

“The agent pulled out at the last minute.” Nicole said. “I had to fill in.” She looked at Ren. “How could you tell?”

Ren chuckled. “You used the same questioning technique as the FBI agents.”

“Well, damn.” She said and stood up. “I'll be going then.”

“Why?” Ren asked.

“If you know I'm not real, then...”

“Do you see anyone else in this room?” Ren asked her, and she shook her head. “Then only we know, right?”

“What are you saying?”

“Help us get to the bottom of this.” Ren said.

“If there's one thing that people fear more than the FBI...” Elise said and smiled. “...it's the IRS.”

“So, stop beating around the bush.” Stella said. “Ask the questions you want to ask.”

Nicole sat down, and grilled the three of them about everything that she could think of. Everything was recorded, so she wouldn't have to come back and have them repeat anything.

“I think that's everything.” Nicole said.

“Good.” Ren said, and yawned. “I need more sleep.”

“Thank you.” She said and stood up. “All of you.”

“Catch these people.” Stella said. “That will be thanks enough.”

Nicole nodded and left the room, then the facility. She climbed into the white paneled van that was standard issue for undercover missions, and it drove away.

*

“That was interesting.” Elise said. “So at least we know there's a couple of the three letter agencies looking into things.” She looked at Ren. “Was that yawn for show, or are you actually tired?”

