

The main major change Zac had introduced to the skill at D-grade was its gradual empowerment. Each time a wraith was destroyed, a stronger one would be reborn. While the skill lacked [Primal Edict]’s ability to adapt to the attacks and evolve into a natural counter, it was a linear growth seemingly without limit.

The bottleneck was that each rebirth cost exponentially more Miasma. By five or six cycles, Zac usually deactivated the skill to release a domain. Maintaining the skill beyond that was too costly to make sense, risking leaving him with nothing for emergencies and his other skills. That problem was gone now that he had a Peak D-grade Core and no Peak D-grade skills to exhaust his reserves.

Under the barrage of the lightning, the wraiths had all been reborn at least a dozen times each. Even Zac would have some trouble facing six of them at once. Adding Zac himself, the archer was woefully outmatched. He quickly realized his mistake, but it was already too late. His escape was blocked, and he was unceremoniously hacked to pieces.

Zac threw himself at the next rune on the magic circle. He could see the invaders on the other side readying themselves to push more people through despite the risk of further damaging the bridge. While worrying on its own, Zac was more wary of the muted eruptions going off in the distance. They were so sharp that Zac felt his soul being lacerated just sensing their presence. The mad swordsman was about to break free.

A message from Esmeralda confirmed Zac’s hunch, yet it also allowed him to relax. The next moment, a bedraggled Esmeralda stumbled out of a spatial pocket halfway to [Second Singularity]. She looked back fearfully before disappearing, hiding in another layer of space. A flower of corruption and bladelight rapidly grew where she appeared, until space shattered from a blinding red radiance.

A streak filled with Peak Intent illuminated the whole realm, and Zac saw his thoughts scatter before its sharpness. Thankfully, witnessing the hyper-condensed cones of corruption had inured him to some degree, and he retained enough of his wits to remember Esmeralda’s words. He rallied his Void Energy once more, prompting a scroll filled with lines to instantly appear behind him.

Zac had activated the last skill in his repertoire, [Desperation’s End], targeting the swordman the moment he appeared. Its executioner’s blade rose from below, cutting through bladelights and spatial instability to strike right at the center. However, a second red blade appeared at the nick of time to meet Zac’s skill head-on.

The underworld’s executioner’s blade was actually stopped by the monstrous blade of madness, and the added line on the scroll floating behind Zac’s began flickering to convey uncertainty. And yet, there was no worry in Zac’s eyes as he faced the swordman in the distance. The rune grasped by his left hand shattered. At the same time, more than fifty bridges connecting the timelines collapsed at once, courtesy of Esmeralda.

Together, it was enough to push the magic circle over the edge. The gateway collapsed, and the remaining bridges couldn’t uphold the connection on its own. They snapped like dry twigs, and yet another timeline was expelled from [Second Singularity]’s inner realm. The distant, furious roar rattling Zac’s may as well have been a trumpet announcing victory.

Zac sensed that facing the Swordsman would have been an opportunity to truly push his Inexorable Stance to its limits and possibly glimpse another clue to taking the next step. It wasn’t meant to be, nor would he ever know if the infiltrators had some way of turning the situation around. A small cone of corruption swallowed him just before he’d managed to exhaust [Desperation’s End].

The mad swordsman may have drawn from the Lost Era’s tainted well, but that didn’t make him immune to a concentrated blast approaching B-grade in intensity. He was erased body and soul before he could realize what just happened. Another name was added to the scroll of [Desperation’s End] before it faded fading.

The corrupted timeline’s invasion had reached its conclusion.
