permission. Report any sightings.The rope that only Renny could feel or see snapped as the woman walked on with her drunken haze.They all looked after her.“Delta be sad if she dies,” Hob reminded.“Delta be sad if Ruli destroys forest,” Gob agreed. Renny wondered when a Dungeon core’s feelings made them all actually consider chasing the mad woman into the forest. Waddles merely hopped down and casually walked after Ruli.That was troublesome.The duck had power and if it was interested in something... Renny dropped the spiders and urged the two goblins after the duck and the demon woman. He missed his tent.There was less hassle in his tent.Something scuttled above him and he mimed pulling a string.The tree shuddered as a unseen cannon ball tore its shadowy canopy apart and spider guts rained down on them. Renny’s patience was not unlimited and spiders really did not endear themselves to him.Half-spider women, yes, he had known a few in his circus when it was a thriving. Nice people, made the best sweaters for winter.Renny cheered up as he remembered his past fondly. He moved his hand over his shoulder and gripped the air and the guts and gore simply slid off his umbrella. Hob and Gob screamed and ran on ahead to avoid becoming drenched.Tsk, you blow a few spiders up and everyone loses their heads. Like that one spider that had been dead centre of his attack.If Delta were here would she have something to say about that?Something about going dead ahead. Renny smiled, his large ghoulish smile revealed as he picked up another spider leg for the journey. Best not to get famished when near people.Ruli shouted in joy in the distance. Renny didn’t hurry nor did he panic.He simply walked at a leisurely pace while listening exploding spiders.---Pic and Mila watched as Haldi entered the the city hall. The only light a candle on the round table.“Anything?” Mila asked without preamble.“Nope. They all ate the cheese, the leader chewed his for a little too. No reaction, Madam Ghu promised there was no deaths. They really are just plucky youngins looking for adventure,” Haldi confirmed. Pic rolled his teeth.“Don’t like this, but we all knew it was coming. Anyway, can wewe can put people off?” he wondered. Mila shook her head.“Idiots travelled to a place called Shit Valley when a dungeon appeared there. I mean, if that doesn’t put people off I don’t think there is anything we could do. We adapt, we’re good at that. It’ll be fine for the first few groups but we can’t test everyone that will comes. Sooner or later, one of them will slip by,” Mila drummed her fingers.“Well, let’s be fair, we hunted a fair bunch of them down. Still, Silence fuckers got good at hiding. Let them come, we’ll chew them up like nothing,” he growled. Haldi and Mila stared at him.“What?” he complained.“You said... Silence,” Mila said quietly. Pic paused then swallowed.“Well... how about that? I remember.” he said simply. Haldi looked away.“It’s coming. How are we supposed to plug that back up? How can we even reach it?” he puzzled. Mila stood.“Reaching is easy, that dungeon only has one way to go so far. The other... well, I’m rapidly running out of friends so let’s hold out on ideas until we have to burn that bridge. There’s more people here, more forgotten history…... criminals…... monsters... We collected them. We promised them this was coming. We didn’t have an army before and now? We have the most dysfunctional one ever. This won’t be like last time. Durence will...” Mila closed her eyes.Pic slammed his fist down and stood. His eyes were glinting.“Not only that, we have that Dungeon. Delta. She likes the kids, I bet she won’t sit back idly either,” he grinned, his teeth almost animal-like as he slid them into their proper place.“And we’re gonna have every Adventurer from here to wherever the hell Von came from on their way. The king can’t ignore that if anything happens. We’ve been waiting for this. Now, we just need to see what happens next. I bet Delta grows famous first. That should bring those combat junkies and Dungeon weirdos flocking,” Haldi mused.The candle burned brightly in all their eyes.“For Durence,” Mila said simply. The other two nodded.“Aye, for the people and our kids,” Pic added.“For a Dungeon that isn’t trying to kill us,” Haldi beamed.“Don’t remind me. The onely time we needed a violent dungeon making super weapons and we get some friendly thing,” Mila complained. Pic shrugged.“Yeah, but that means we get to ask Delta to make super weapons. Quiss said she’s fond of them mushrooms. Maybe we can start shipping in the banned kind? I know a man who might know some Death Swamp Druid. I bet he can ship us some Death Spores, or Giggling Caps,” Pic mused. Mila rolled her eyes.“Psh, Pic stop suggesting that weak crap. Get her the good stuff. White Fingers... maybe some Spirit Eaters. I think they appeared near some necromancer’s tower. Oh what was her name...” Mila grumbled.“‘Malicious The Dreadful’. I think her real name was Gina but I barely remember her,” Pic scoffed. Haldi grinned.“She had that great laugh that made skeletons shiver. I should send her a letter. Ask her to drop by for a visit for old times sake. We didn’t have a healer for a while, remember? She pitched in and called herself a ‘Healer Who is Late’. She was funny,” Haldi mused.“Isn’t she wanted in like every country?” Pic frowned. Mila snorted.“Name someone over the age of 30 in this town who isn’t. That is hardly impressive!” Mila dismissed and walked towards the door.“I’m going to go home and get my old- lady cane to whack shins with. I want to enjoy pissing people off when they come. I’ll bet you I can get a rep before you two old codgers,” Mila challenged as the other two followed.“I can’t believe the world forgot us... I feel let down,” Haldi sighed. Pic patted him on the shoulder.“I’m sure we’re still in some scary stories,” he comforted as the door closed.The candle burned brightly before putting itself out.---Kemy sat up in bed, eyes wide. She gripped her necklace and stumbled to the next room and shook Delem up.“WAKE UP! WAKE UP! I REMEMBER!” she shook him over and over. Delem blinked, keeping his sheet from slipping lower below his waist.“Are you sleep converting again? I told you, you need to stop trying to convert barn animals to your religion-” Delem sighed but Kemy gripped his face.“Haldi... cheese!” she heaved with panicked breaths.“Yes... it was good,” Delem frowned. Kemy swallowed hard.“Capital. 20 years ago! The castle was invaded by a cheese thing! The Mad Mage had the king at his mercy! Cheese, Haldi! Had cheese banned in the kingdom for 10 years!” Kemy fired these facts off quickly. Delem stood and Kemy was so upset she didn’t care if he was naked before he grabbed a pillow to cover himself.“Kemy, the Mad Mage of Cheese is gone. He vanished. He went away,” he soothed her.“His name was Haldi!” Kemy screamed through her teeth. Delem froze.“He makes cheese and has the name, doesn’t make him the mage,” he argued. There was a cough from the door and they both turned to see the shadow of Madam Ghu.“Problem, honored customers?” her voice was soft. They both stared.“Did we wake you?” Delem asked apologetically. The Madam shook her head.“I always listen for customers. May I help you tonight?” she repeated her request. Kemy frowned... her voice was... less gruff.“Is Haldi the man who nearly killed the King 20 years ago?” Delem inquired, maybe in hope of calming Kemy down.“No.”Kemy frowned and was about to apologise when Madam Ghu spoke up again.“He had no intention of killing that king. He was quite in control and merely wanted to leave a message. Haldi doesn’t kill too often these days, honored customers. His temperament is quite good!” Madam Ghu sounded amused.A minotaur could have charged past and Kemy wouldn't have noticed.“If that is all, honored customers,” she bowed and when she turned towards the light, Kemy saw the wrinkled face looked... smoother, as if the woman had shaved some 20 years off in the few hours since they had last seen her.“Forgive me, I left a window open and the fresh air got inside. I forgot how nice it was outside now. Dungeons do give lovely atmospheres,” Madam Ghu said airily as she left.Delem, still nude, looked to Kemy with wide eyes.“Wake everyone up!” he ordered.Kemy ran.This place wasn’t real. This town was hiding monsters!If this was the town... Kemy nearly fell at the next thought.What was the Dungeon like?!---Delta clapped and cheered as Bob wiggled to his own rhythm as his two crabs danced in synch. Bob wiggled and his high pitched screech warbled off key.Maestro tried to provide music but Bob was having too much fun dancing to his own beat.“Wonderful! People are going to love it when they see it!” Delta promised. She giggled as her Pygmy Mushrooms rode past on the giant Bees, using them like cowboys rode horses. It looked absolutely adorable.This place was so lovely, she hoped Ruli or someone nice came to see it.She paused as something caught her attention. She zoomed over and watched as something odd happened between the usually aggressive Blood Curdling Mushroom and the Starlight Mushroom.They both appeared to be trying to grow in the same spot... Delta felt unease as the two objects actually sparked as the mana around them was heating up.“Sys... what did you do?” she called aloud as the two mushrooms trembled. The space warped and the two were slapped together like the space had twisted their existence together. The cap grew very large quickly. The ground shuddered.Delta took a few steps back as the unnatural actions of Sys caused something to stand up.There was a long moment as the cap lifted up to show two glinting eyes, like two distant stars.“I wasn’t going to say anything but you really like them mushrooms,” Luna commented as she hiked up her dress to calmly walk onto the scene.Delta could… maybe… with some squinting, see how one would think that.The mushroom had not only been made of the two mushrooms but somehow Sys had slipped in some... more artistic choices of her own.The cap covered a small head with two large eyes. The hair was made of the deep black threads from the cap, the colour of the Blood Curdling. Its arms stretched out and it's skin, white and fluffy, was reminiscent of a large sweater. It was pretty short too, only coming up to about Delta’s waist.There was no mouth, beyond a slight indentation, but the new monster did have large eyes and a button nose.It took slow steps forward, its smallish ‘feet’ were flat things with no toes. It even had fingers that poked out from under the large fluffy sweater-like skin, barely visible.The box appeared overhead.

Delta looked at the box and for the first time in ages didn’t run away.She bent down and looked into the eyes. There was a calm blink as the Mushroom saw Delta.“Blood Star, I get it is a fusion of the Blood Curdling... and the Starlight, but that is really...not a cute name. Sys... what is this?” Delta said... almost amused.After Bob... The bees... Renny... the spiders... This thing was just not scary in the least.

Delta looked away as it sneezed. She giggled and petted it as best she could.“This thing is adorable! I actually like it, Sys!” she admitted. A bee wandered past and the Mushroom was startled as a stinger moved past it’s faceThe two starry eyes lit up like blood red orbs. Delta’s giggling died in her throat as the Mushroom blasted twin red lasers in random directions with a shriek.There was a pause before Delta looked back at the screen.

The Mushroom blinked a few times before it waddled towards Delta and gave her a hug, mostly just hugging air.“P...please... don’t....laser people,” Delta whispered, pleading.The feminine looking mushroom looked up and blinked. The star-like eyes now innocent.It was cute... Delta pursed her lips.“Maybe a little laser if they get nasty,” she amended.“Sys... give this one the name...,” she requested and thought about it. The little kid sibling to Maestro and Mr Mushy.“Call her, Missy.”Delta was running out of M names for these guys. Soon she would have to start making words up.Besides, calling her Peach was just too easy.
