It wasn’t the smartest thing to say, but he didn’t expect it to work. Sure enough, the nearest one swung the shortbow up; another had a sword. Relc leapt forwards.
Don’t kill them if you can. He swung the spear up, and hit the first [Robber] between the legs. He let go of the spear, and punched the sword-wielder in the face.
Broken nose; not dead. The second went down, but Relc realized he hadn’t hit a guy, but a female [Robber]. It still probably hurt like hell, but she was aiming the bow at him. So he shouted.
“[Relc Kick]!”
He snap-kicked her in the stomach and she went down. Relc whirled his spear, and jabbed with the butt of it—hard. A third robber was hesitating between running and fighting, astonished at how fast two of his buddies had gone down.
A spear—even the non-pointy end of it—hitting you in the ribs hard enough to crack them generally took the wind out of most people. If he’d used his spear-tip—well, Relc was pivoting to give him a patented [Relc Punch] when the second shortbow loosed.
He saw the arrow flash towards his neck and moved.
[Whirlwind Dodge]! Relc threw himself across the room, with a shout. He felt something graze his cheek, landed—got up. The [Robber]-[Archer] turned to track him, dropping an arrow, fumbling for another—
Relc threw a chair at them. The third [Robber] went down with a shout of pain; the other three ran, including the one who Relc had hit in the chest. The Senior Guardsman rose slowly, spear raised—waiting for the arrow if the chair hadn’t done the job.
The unconscious Drake with the bow was laid out, eyes rolled up. The other two were down. Relc breathed in; the first time since he’d seen the arrow coming his way.
The [Shopkeeper] and people inside stared at Relc as he looked around. The rest of the six-[Guard] squad were pursuing the others; two came in after Relc; the others were cutting off their escape-routes.
“Everything’s under control. Hi.”
He breathed at them. The civilians stared. Relc saw one of the [Guards] cover the fallen three; the other one pointed.
“We’ve got them! This way!”
He ran after the Drake…then, once he was out of the back of the shop, Relc stopped. He leaned against a wall and shuddered.
His breath came in bursts—for a few seconds. Then he calmed himself.
Nearly died. If that had been a [Piercing Shot] and hit him in the neck or eye—Relc saw dozens of other moments. However, he straightened. Three more.
He was catching up in moments, running with [Lightning Sprint]—when he heard the shout.
“Shortsword!”
Relc saw the three [Robbers] boxed in, one [Guard] plus Relc behind, the three [Guards] including a Senior Guardswoman ahead. They were all Gnolls and they saw the odds—not to mention Relc. One moment of hesitation and two of the [Robbers] surrendered. One tossed down the club they held and the other a crate of coin and goods.
The last was too slow. He had a shortsword. Relc heard the shout, saw the Gnoll hesitate. He feinted at one of the [Guards] who recoiled, and then seemed to gauge the odds. He wavered, looked at his buddies. Then the [Guard] from behind threw a net.
“[Snare Net]!”
A rare trick for a [Guard]. It worked, though. Down the Gnoll went, shortsword dropped like the amateur he was. Relc relaxed, watching the other two—
Then the squad of Drakes swarmed the downed Gnoll and began kicking and hitting him.
“Bastard nearly stuck me!”
The Drake who’d been feinted at put an entire body’s weight of force behind a kick. The other two Gnolls were shouting, but one of the [Guards] had an arrow trained on them. The Gnoll on the ground curled up. Relc saw the net-[Guard] kick them in the back and someone else jabbed the downed robber with their own spear, hard enough to break something.
The [Guards] vented their fear and adrenaline in a moment of violence—despite Relc being the only one to actually fight the downed [Robber]. Then…they kept going. It wasn’t one kick or two.
“Stop! He’s already given up—”
One of the Gnolls barked, but was taken to her knees by a kick from behind. Relc saw the Watch throwing the other two Gnolls down to manacle them. But the one on the ground—
“That’s enough. You’ve got him—just arrest him before you need a healing potion.”
The beating continued. Ten seconds, twenty…now the [Robbers] were shouting.
“He is going to die. Stop! That’s an order!”
The Gnoll was already unconscious. One of the [Guards] finally halted, boot-raised, and looked at the blood on it. He spat and then they bent to cuff the Gnoll and call for a prisoner-wagon—as if they needed it for him. The other [Robbers] were herded onto it, or dumped there if they were unconscious. Yet the Gnoll already swelling with bruises and broken bones never moved. Nor was a healing potion used.
Relc listened to his own voice, bellowing at the [Guards] to stop! Shouting at them, berating them for doing what would cost them their badges in Liscor.
He…stood there, as one of the patrol clapped him on the shoulder.
“Fastest entry I’ve ever seen! We never even caught up. Good job, Relc!”
“…Thanks.”
That was the first word Relc had said. The shouting, the admonitions to stop—had never made it out of his lips. He had been too afraid.
Routine? Senior Guardsman Relc stuck to routine. Never rocked the boat. The patrol applauded him, told the others how fast he’d been and wrote him up in the ledger afterwards. He went through his routine.
He hadn’t done a thing.
 
—-
 
The [Robber] did…not die. A healing potion saved his life, when the Watch’s [Healer] made the call that one was needed.
It did not change the fact that Relc had thought he was dead when they put him on the prisoner-wagon. Nor that he had done nothing. The Gnoll was a [Robber], a criminal and no one in the Watch would have shed a tear if he died. If Relc had stabbed him in stopping the armed robbery, defending his life, protecting someone—he wouldn’t have lost sleep over it.
He did not sleep that night, when he returned to his apartment. That was because there was a difference. Killing someone in battle was not the same as stomping them to death after they were down and out.
Relc kept seeing it. He kept hearing himself bellowing, seeing himself thrusting the other [Guards] back and restoring…law. And what would come next. No—it was just him doing his job! Yet Relc was certain what they’d say, how they’d react.
He hadn’t done a thing. In the past, Relc had forgotten to go to work. He’d fudged his working hours, stolen ink, and had his own list of ‘going too far’ in arresting criminals that Zevara had chewed him out for. He’d been drunk on duty, picked fights with other [Guards], and once accidentally burned the entire month’s ledger to ashes.
However, this night, for the first time, he was afraid to go to sleep. Afraid that when he slept, he’d hear a voice telling him his [Guardsman] class was gone.
Fear was not unusual for Relc Grasstongue. Fear was why he’d left the army. Yet he could run into danger. He’d charged into that robbery, ducked two—three—arrows that might have ended his life and he’d do it again.
However, he was more afraid of being the target of the Watch’s ire than confronting a Creler nest. Relc could stab his way out of one problem. The Watch being against you?
That was dangerous. That was what Relc was afraid of. He’d seen it happen. Lived it, like when he’d quit the army. And then he’d made tracks to Liscor. A lone dissenter in a city? There…were things that could happen, in bad Watches.
The [Robber] had lived. Relc still couldn’t sleep. Something was dawning on him. Something…terrible. A realization.
It came to him by midnight. A terrible voice whispered in his head, like Erin’s when she softly told him to leave. That was how he heard it. Relc opened his eyes.
He sat up slowly. Oh. So that was it. Relc sat there. When he spoke, it was to the silent, dark room, filled with shadows. The unfamiliar sounds of the city, the distant sounds of someone moving around in the room overhead. Thumping from another room to his left. Probably someone having sex or a dance party.
Unpleasant sounds, a cheap room—all things he could ignore. Had ignored. The voice did not tell him he had lost his class. It did not take anything from him. It just told him something he had begun to realize after Erin kicked him out, after the Golden Triangle mistake. Relc stared at his claws as he sat on his bed.
“I thought I was a great guy.”
That was all.
That was everything.
The big Drake sat there and didn’t know anymore. Not anything. Not one thing. It was suddenly all in question. Every single pillar in his life, everything routine was built on.
Was he a good person? Unclear. Unsure. He feared…he listened to the voice whisper in his head. Remembered the Gnoll being beaten to death as he watched.
He thought of Embria.
Had he done a good job as a father? …Probably not. What kind of kid ran away to join the army? Didn’t talk to her father for years? What had he given her besides a spear and a class where she’d die young, in battle?
Was Relc Grasstongue a good friend? A good [Guardsman]? A good [Soldier]? A good guest, even? Did he make good decisions?
Had he ever made one good decision?
The Drake had no answers. What did he have that was good? That was his alone, and not luck or more than him, like Embria? The inn? He hadn’t made the inn. His puzzles? His levels?
Relc’s bowed head and silent figure remained, as the shuffling above stopped, the thumping ceased and two voices rose—then a door slammed. As the entire city fell into near-silence and only a few souls were awake.
The quietest hour of the night. Just before dawn.
 
—-
 
It was in this hour, this moment when one was at their lowest when inspiration struck. When the soul rose. When…
Relc didn’t have a moment of clarity. He didn’t see the pieces fall into place, like a blacksmith’s puzzle. He just sat there and nothing got better.
Miracles were something for The Wandering Inn, and he wasn’t there. All Relc had was Relc. He had his day off; there was no routine today.
So dawn came. Light filled the room through the shutters and nothing was better, only that he was more tired. Noise resumed, and it was only distracting.
Relc had no idea anymore. Was he going to go to the Watch and overturn all the prejudices? Demand change? Did he dare to even stop his fellow [Guards] and incur their wrath?
He feared the answer. If he wasn’t a good guy, hadn’t made good decisions—what did he have now?
No home. No family beyond Embria. No possessions. Friends? One was gone, the other, dead…a few more distant friends like Beilmark and Jeiss.
What did he have? At last, the man moved. He muttered something.
“Let’s start from the beginning.”
That was all he had. Relc didn’t know anymore. So he sat down and started from the only place he knew.
Routine.
Slowly, Relc undid the strings on his boots, customized for a Drake’s claws; segmented so you put them on in three parts, and re-tied them.
He tied his boots. That was where you started. Some armies taught their [Soldiers] to make beds. That appealed to Relc, but Liscor’s army was always on the move, and often camped rather than expected any formal bed. So—the first thing they taught you was how to put on your boots.
Before anything else, boots. Sometimes you had to sleep in them, which sucked—unless you got raided at night. So, put on your boots right.
Each piece went on, secure, laced together. No frayed string—then you tied a knot that would last you all day; that wouldn’t slip or get loose, or let the string trip you up. Then you had your feet set. ‘If nothing else’, the [Sergeant] had once told Relc, ‘you can fight naked but in good boots.’ You could fight and dodge arrows and blades, but if you slipped—it was all over.
Relc smiled for a second as he looked at the knot. That was done. Thusly, Relc Grasstongue had on good boots. That was what he knew. The entirety of it.
Clothing came next, or ideally, before the boots if you weren’t ready for battle. Relc had never taken his clothes off from yesterday. Clothes…didn’t matter. Armor might matter, but his armor had changed. Armor did not define Relc.
Routine. The Drake thought about what he did. And he realized—there was something he’d been neglecting to do. Something that was ‘Relc’, if there was anything that was Relc. So he got up. His body creaked a bit as he walked to the door. Relc left his apartment.
A few Gnolls and Drakes gave him wary looks, but they recognized Relc as being a [Guard] and no one called out to him. They watched him, especially Gnolls, Relc realized, as one watches an unpredictable danger.
He couldn’t think of that right now. Relc was still trying to rebuild Relc with no false gaps, no imaginary pieces. So he counted the things he knew.
Blacksmith puzzles. He liked them. Relc walked down the steps of the apartment complex. There was a little plaza in a three-sided space; the complex could hold a lot of transitory people. All the rooms looked down into the center area. It was good enough.
Food. Relc was into food. He liked Embria. Treasured her. Wanted the best for her. But what did he have? Well, he had the [Carpenter] class. He had tried to garden. He enjoyed drinks, but that didn’t define him.
Love? He stared at the sky. He…had rather liked Embria’s mother.
“Oresha.”
However, they had been [Soldiers]. Young. Her getting pregnant hadn’t…been in Relc’s mind. It would have been rather like Ryoka Griffin getting pregnant—he hadn’t known her.
Family. That was Embria. Relc wasn’t skilled in fields outside of fighting. He didn’t have some amazing backup talent. He wasn’t building anything. Wasn’t dreaming of a project. The Drake stood in the courtyard, ignoring other people coming and going, occasionally glancing at the intimidating Drake. Walking wide of him, especially his enchanted spear.
His spear. One of his few possessions. His treasure. Now didn’t that suck? The Drake smiled bitterly. In the end, he had three things, he supposed.
Good boots. Embria. And this. He looked at the long spear, taller than he was by a bit. A killing weapon. A [Mage]-killer. A weapon to slay enemy officers if they wore armor or not.
Charge into enemy ranks. Alone. Run past [Soldiers]; dodge arrows. Strike them dead and run. 
At first it had been entire attack-groups. Then he had been an ‘elite’, sent in for missions like this when both sides were fighting.
When had it just been him, charging ahead of the rest? When had they begun calling him the ‘Gecko’? Put bounties on his head, begun targeting him?
