“The real instigator is that tribe—there are reports of them sending agents into a city and causing trouble. Watch out for that. Plains Gnolls will be checked at the gates and we have updated lists of known members of that tribe. However—there’s also a troublemaker stirring up chaos. Remember Sellme?”
The Watch groaned. Relc’s head rose. He nudged one of the others.
“Who?”
The [Guardswoman] whispered back.
“The [Painter]! They were in Salazsar, but they’ve come back this way. They often paint things about rich, corrupt idiots, but they attack the Watch too!”
“…painting of ‘Watch brutality’ in Vershe tripped off the riots. They might be in Cellidel for all I know. There’s a bounty—but if you see even a hint of them, call it in.”
Relc tilted his head, trying to imagine this famous painter…and failing completely. All he knew was that his job had gotten even less fun. Patrols being more vigilant happened to mean they were all focusing on Gnoll districts.
And as luck happened, Pos and Relc were put together. The Drake grinned at Relc.
“If there’s any luck out of this mess, it’ll be us catching Sellme in the act, right Relc? You can run down a [Painter].”
“Unless I slip on paint. How come no one’s got them so far?”
“Skills. I hear they even evaded a Wall Lord and Named Adventurer. I bet that’s how the painting did it too. Agitation-Skill. Damned riots…”
“Yeah. I’m sure it was all the painting.”
Pos glanced at Relc, but the Drake was straight-faced as they marched out of the Watch House. Relc had no routine. He just did his job. Which happened not to be arresting anyone that day. Some days were like that.
 
—-
 
In fact, the next day had no major arrests either. What did happen in between then, though, were two things.
Zevara sent back an approval of his request, but informed Relc that Watch Captain Terigrals had requested him to stay for the duration of the crisis in Cellidel.
Second—chaos came to the city. A Sellme painting had appeared on a wall, lampooning the Merchant’s Guild. It was apparently about the Prelons—the Merchant’s Guild enforced a heavy tax on the [Harvester]-[Farmers] in the local Grower’s Guild.
Thus, the painting was of fat [Merchant] Drakes counting gold as they sat on the shoulders of Drakes and Gnolls with baskets full of produce, who got only coppers.
Topical, accurate to public sentiment, and hugely embarrassing. It had appeared overnight in a crowded street, but no Watch patrol or civilian remembered seeing anyone painting there. Sellme had appeared and disappeared by the power of some Skill.
Well, the painting of the Merchant’s Guild was actually very popular, despite the guild trying to whitewash the walls within hours of it going up. It exposed a lot of resentment against the powerful, multi-city guild and the Merchant’s Guild was packed with angry people; Relc spent all day with Pos making sure no one hit a [Merchant]—all of them were hiding in their homes and the upshot was they promised to do…something.
Negotiations with the city’s Council and Grower’s Guild were underway by the end of the day.
However, it seemed Sellme’s very presence had a secondary effect. Which was that while he, she, they, or it had not painted a picture, the Watch and populace seemed to be expecting a painting.
About Gnolls. In fact, that very expectation seemed to be building unrest before the painting came out. The Watch was jumpy as they guarded the Merchant’s Guild. Relc, thinking on it, reflected he was right.
It wasn’t the painting. Even the idea was stirring something here. The idea, the Meeting of Tribes, the Woven Bladegrass attacks…the King of Destruction and Gnoll tribes there.
“We need you, Senior Guardsman Relc. I understand nostalgia—and I am prepared to send you back with commendations for your hard work. But give me—three weeks. Until that damned troublemaker is caught or taken out of the city. If you can get Sellme, I’ll give you every award we have on top of the bounty!”
That was Terigrals’ offer. Relc just saluted.
 
—-
 
In the meantime, Relc found himself with a growing audience of kids each day that passed. Vok was first, and then a bunch of Gnolls and some Drakes watched Relc in the cheap apartment complex.
By the second morning, Vok had found a stick. Relc called it a ‘stick’ despite Vok claiming it was a quarterstaff. Relc responded by taking the stick and demonstrating that you could snap a stick with your arms.
“You can’t do that with a spear. It’s not balanced; it’s not even long enough! Look—wait. Give me a second.”
Vok looked at the stick he’d bought, crestfallen. It had cost him nearly five copper! He looked up as Relc came down from his apartment with a second spear in his hands.
“What’s that?”
“Short spear. Cut down. See the difference? Here.”
Relc tossed the actual weapon at Vok. The young Gnoll caught it clumsily. Relc went back to practicing.
“Try to do a thrust like that. No—wait.”
The young man hesitated.
“What’s wrong?”
“Everything.”
The Drake sighed. Vok was breathing wrong, standing wrong, holding the spear wrong…he corrected the Gnoll and let him practice the most basic techniques. Trying to do a spear-dance was stupid if you couldn’t even do a basic thrust. And spears were beautiful because an amateur could learn it fast, and a master had far more to learn still.
The next day, he found eight Gnolls from various ages asking for lessons. Relc just shrugged.
 
—-
 
The second Sellme painting was of the Merchant’s Guild, again. This time spouting empty promises at the negotiating table while one ran out of the back with all the gold. Since it turned out the Merchant’s Guild was moving some of their assets out of Cellidel…
Sellme was interesting to Relc. They were a phenomenon, a wave. Where they went, chaos followed. He’d begun reading some Watch reports. They exposed corruption or brought to light issues in a city and riots or conflict followed in many cases.
Of course, they were the Watch’s worst nightmare. What good did riots do? All Sellme left, in Pos and Terigrals’ eyes at least, was dead bodies, countless thousands of gold coin’s worth of damage, and lingering unrest.
Relc thought Sellme was rather like Erin if she decided to paint. He couldn’t help but like that, despite having to stand guard-duty over the Merchant’s Guild all day, occasionally getting snacks courtesy of grateful staff, gossiping and joking with fellow [Guards]…wait, he loved that. Sellme was alright by him.
Nearly a week had gone by and Relc was relieved that Sellme had, as of yet, made this mostly an issue about greedy [Merchants]. It actually meant his job was all about them, and they were all-Drake.
Interestingly, the fourth painting Sellme did caused trouble. The [Painter] exposed the leader of one of the Guilds—Mason’s Guild—in no uncertain terms. A predator on younger, female Drakes; they painted the accusation on the Mason’s Guild wall itself.
Relc and the Watch never got to the Guildmaster in time. A mob got him first. The question of how Sellme knew—or if this was an unsubstantiated allegation—consumed the day, until previously-silent victims came forwards. Somehow, Sellme had gotten wind and delivered a justice of their own.
The Watch did not look good, of course. Relc sensed the increasing unease. If Sellme was running down Cellidel’s lists of faults…
It was interesting because to the [Senior Guardsman], it rang of guilt. Relc wondered if Klbkch would have been able to use [Detect Guilt] here. The Watch wouldn’t be this jumpy if they really thought all was well. Or maybe they just put it down to those crazy Gnolls.
In fact, it was Gnolls they were watching, convinced Sellme was one of them. They were cracking down hard on those coming in and out of the city.
However, as Relc had observed, it was Sellme’s fourth painting that had caused an actual death. The first had been the Merchant Guild, and the second.
The third made Relc think Sellme was almost certainly a Drake. It wasn’t just that it was ignored; it was deliberately not talked about.
A fresco on a longer section of walls at just over head-height, long and horizontal. It was a mirror of the actual street, complete with pedestrians, a store opening, and had very little of a theme at first.
Until you saw the two male Drakes holding hands and walking together with tails twined as well, and every other pedestrian on the street watching them and whispering—or pointing. Relc had seen it before it was erased.
No one talked about it. Not everything Sellme did was shouted, it seemed. However, if the [Painter] had been disappointed by the third painting, the fourth had drawn blood.
The city was waiting for the painting that came next. Gnolls were hungry for a voice. Tired of…well.
Routine.
 
—-
 
The end of the week and his happy [Merchant]-guarding duties behind him, Relc found he was teaching an entire class. For free!
Well, it was fun. It reminded him of Embria when she used to beg for lessons. He did it in the morning and before he slept, in the courtyard and a bunch of Gnolls and Drakes came, even some adults, to learn from an actual [Spearmaster].
Some didn’t have talent, patience, or any other quality. Some though—had a spark.
Not Vok. Ironically, he fell behind a talented Gnoll girl, barely older than Mrsha, who actually mastered a spear-flurry by her fourth day. That was pure talent. However, Relc cheered up the young Gnoll by telling him it was practice that equalized things. Practice; levels rewarded you.
Not everyone practiced; a lot liked to watch Relc’s incredible spear-dances. One of them, among others, came up one day and introduced themselves.
“You have amazing form, [Guardsman]. It’s a shame you use it in the Watch. A [Spearmaster] versus civilians isn’t very fair.”
Relc blinked at the young Drake man, older than Vok, but only a bit, with pale white scales.
“I don’t fight civilians. Just bad guys.”
“Are all the ‘bad guys’ you fight criminals? How many do you kill?”
Vok glanced at the Drake, who was a newcomer to the apartments. They had a strident attitude as they faced Relc. The Senior Guardsman put a claw in one earhole and scratched.
“Most of ‘em. I don’t usually have to kill many people, you know. I just punch them. You see, I have a Skill. It’s called [Relc Punch] and it’s the most powerful technique ever. See? [Relc Punch]!”
He did it to the little girl with talent and she recoiled, shrieking with laughter. The pale-scaled Drake blinked, but then almost smiled. He tilted his head, regarding Relc.
“…You’re not from Cellidel, are you?”
“Do I know you?”
Relc eyed the newcomer, and then shrugged.
“That’s right. I’m from Liscor. Ever heard of it?”
Of course, everyone started asking about the Antinium. Relc barely got to talk to the Drake that day, and he was late for work. However, the Drake kept coming back to watch.
His name was ‘Tesy’, which was presumably a nickname, but Relc only ever heard him talking with younger kids in the apartment area. He couldn’t have been more than eighteen or nineteen years old. A kid.
Vok was a kid. Strange though; Relc kept forgetting they were all younger than Embria by a bit. It seemed like she was always younger in his head—until he saw her.
Erin was barely older than Tesy, but she wasn’t a kid. Maybe it was how they carried themselves. Vok was more street-wise than Erin Solstice after a year of living in Liscor. The same with Tesy; he’d rented the apartment, had a job or so it seemed—all things that Relc imagined Erin might actually struggle with.
On the other tail…he couldn’t see either facing down a hostile crowd in the streets. Or leading an army. That was the difference, Relc supposed. Erin had been through a lot and sometimes you could tell. Usually she was friendly, relaxing, funnily weird and a kid in a lot of ways, even when she beat you like a drum while playing chess.
Then—something would pop up and the [Innkeeper] would give you a look that an old [Veteran] was capable of. Someone who had seen things you only joked about.
Well, Tesy had a mouth like Erin’s. Which was to say that he’d tell Relc off about being a [Guard], or loudly point out to people how the [Landlord] of the apartment was overcharging them because they could. Relc was exceptionally surprised no one had tried to punch Tesy, but the white-scaled Drake had the ability to duck trouble that most kids learned if they were like him.
The Senior Guardsman supposed that ‘Sellme’ would be nothing less than that. It was a bit of a coincidence he uncovered the famous [Painter]’s identity—but then again, not. Once you looked at Tesy, it was obvious.
Faint traces of paint on his white scales sometimes. The odor of paint—like an [Alchemist]’s—before he used a scent-masking deodorant. Comments about the very same issues Sellme talked about. Clearly gossiping with locals, never seen ‘working’, but disappearing for stretches of time.
Elementary, as Erin would say. Senior Guardsman Relc had uncovered a lot of mysteries in his time.
‘Where did I put the jar of pickles?’
‘Did Mrsha eat my cookies?’
‘Who is the Scalenight Strangler?’
Admittedly, that last one was his only real ‘case’. For all Relc loved puzzles, there was a difference between being able to pursue clues and put together motive and whatever else you did and fiddle with blacksmith puzzles.
Klbkch had solved that last one; a [Murderer] oh, five years back. Relc had helped by walking around with Klbkch, asking questions, and then helping run down the murderous Drake. Klbkch needed a partner willing to sit in alleyways for up to six hours straight as they staked out more possible locations.
As for how he’d figured it out, he’d used his secret Antinium techniques to pick up on ‘audio cues’ or something, done a lot of asking questions and essentially narrowed down the streets where the murderer had come from. Relc had walked next to him.
He had always been miffed he didn’t get the [Investigator] class. Or [Detective], which Erin had explained to him and Mrsha one time.
Detective Relc had uncovered the cookie-case all on his own, though. His investigation had revealed Mrsha had only stolen one cookie—after Bird walked off with half the jar to make bird bait. He’d also found the pickle jar.
Anyways, he uncovered Tesy being Sellme the [Painter] by accident. Although only Relc could have figured it out…
 
—-
 
It was a monster attack that Relc was called to solve. And by ‘called’, it was ‘called out of bed’ by the scream for a [Guard].
