On autopilot. He didn’t even need to really think, not consciously. He was so used to being a [Guard] that he just…guarded. Another joke that would have made Klbkch ask if Relc was going to do this all day. And Relc would have said…
“Something funny?”
Pos glanced at Relc. The [Senior Guardsman] blinked, schooled his features.
“Just uh, thinking of breakfast.”
“Huh. Must have been some breakfast.”
There it was. Pos seemed like a decent Drake. A bit uptight, and he kept calling Relc [Spearmaster], but he was fine to work with. He wasn’t Klb, though, Relc’s partner of…years. Dead gods, it was years, wasn’t it? It felt like yesterday when Relc was assigned an Antinium and told he might have to take Klbkch out if it came to it.
Relc thought of the past as he went about his day. And yes, he could do that too.
 
—-
 
A Senior Guard was superior to regular [Guards] in every way. They were essentially as high as you could get in the Watch’s hierarchy.
Oh, there were other jobs and it varied from city to city, like a [Watchman] who might be dedicated to a permanent position, [Trackers], [Investigators], [Outriders], etc. All of whom played unique roles, but you could still generalize them.
There were rookies, who knew nothing, got bossed about and assigned to bigger patrols, and had to train, regular [Guards] who took orders, patrolled, and you could lump up into huge groups when they had to fight big trouble…and Senior Guards.
Watch Captains directed their lot, and the Watch Commander, if there was one, breathed down the necks of the Watch Captains. [Watch Sergeants] also existed as a kind of discipline-trainer medium, but Senior Guards were the glue that held it all together.
More autonomous than regular [Guards]! Able to take on threats a normal patrol couldn’t! And—they had to be respected [Guards], who could liaison with the community. You weren’t just appointed your position. You had to have hundreds of people willing to vouch for you and experience.
No Senior Guard was under Level 20. So a patrol of two or four or six, the biggest traditional regular patrol, meant you had a good number of [Guards] with decent Skills, ready to crack heads and write down names if they had to. They usually got assigned entire districts to patrol, unlike lower-level [Guards], who had set routes. Senior Guards got independence—so long as they used it wisely.
What that meant was that Pos and Relc took it easier than regular [Guards]. Harsh, but true. They ambled out onto the street, able to chat, take a more leisurely route. Because if they spotted trouble, they’d be on it like dogs on a bone. If someone blew a whistle, or the bells rang for monsters, they got to be first-in-line to see what it was.
That was the tradeoff Relc liked. Peace and relaxation until you nearly died. Still, he automatically did what a Senior Guard was supposed to do.
Head on a swivel, never looking in one place too long. Walk at an easy pace. Earholes open; don’t walk in a straight line from street to street. Vary it up; stick near crowds. Say hi to people. In fact, that sometimes was the job.
“Morning, Miss. Anything new from out of city?”
Pos greeted a Drake [Shopkeeper], who was setting up. She glanced at him.
“Oh! Senior Guardsman—well, there’s a [Merchant] in, I think. Prices as high as Giants’ eyebrows, though! You wouldn’t believe.”
Pos nodded, studied some hairy fruits—Relc eyed them too.
“What are these?”
“Prelons?”
The Drake and Pos gave Relc a blank look. He’d been in the city for a month and recalled the local produce.
“Oh, right. Are they sweet or sour or…?”
“Sourish. But these are matured, so they lose a bit of it. Very nice.”
Relc’s stomach growled, and he recalled he’d ignored breakfast so he reached into his money pouch.
“How much for two?”
“Two coppers each, but I’ll do you a deal and make it three for both.”
“Deal!”
Relc happily took two of the largest, and, as the woman showed him how to disembowel one with a knife, split the thick fruit’s hide with his claws. Both Drakes, Pos, and the [Shopkeeper] were impressed.
“That’s some strength you’ve got there!”
Pos commented as Relc walked on, sniffing the pale-red fruit, somewhat similar to the red-brown shell with all the long hair. Relc shrugged.
“Skills. What, you need knives to open things? Everything splits if you squeeze it hard enough.”
“Huh. I guess you really are the expert from another city. Here I thought that was an exaggeration, for all you’re good on the training field.”
“What, you think I’m all talk? That hurts, Pez.”
“Pos. Well, why else would you be here?”
Relc paused, chewing the stringy but somewhat tasty fruit. Why else indeed?
[Guard] trades between cities weren’t unheard of, although for Liscor, it was understandably rare with the Bloodfields. Sometimes it was to help—or, Relc knew, to let a [Guard] escape a mistake they’d made.
That was what Terigrals had known. He’d heard about the Golden Triangle debacle and Relc’s involvement. When Relc had arrived via the wagon he’d hitched a ride to, the Watch Captain had put a claw on his shoulder in a grandfatherly, commanding-officer type of way. Like the older leaders in Liscor’s army.
“Heard about your bother in Liscor, Senior Guardsman Relc. Don’t you worry; we had our share of troubles with that damned scam. Lost nearly half a gold to it myself. Not your fault, and no one will hear it from me why you’re here. I’m glad Watch Captain Zevara reached out to me. We could use you for a few months until you can go back. Besides! [Guards] don’t abandon their own.”
It was the same kind of sentiment as in Liscor’s army. Once you were one of them, you didn’t get kicked out unless you broke all faith with your people.
Funny. Relc thought that Watch Captain Zevara would have taken his badge…if he hadn’t tried to give back the money, warn people off. Terigrals? Relc had pinned him as a team-Drake, like the army from the moment he’d said that. He was like the old Watch Captain, before Zevara.
Strange. Something felt…off. Relc recalled the old Watch Captain. Before Watch Captain Zevara had been Watch Captain Eresc. An older Drake in his twilight years, having served honorably in Liscor’s army before being granted a retirement and position in the Watch.
No one in Liscor had minded at the time. Liscor’s Council often took notes from the army…even if relationships had been become strained since the Second Antinium Wars.
There was a time before the Antinium had come to Liscor. It felt like another world, another life to Relc. Another era.
Back then, the army had visited the city more often. Not super-regularly, but parts of the army often came back to rest, amid fanfare and the general goodwill of the populace. It only followed that high-ranking officials would be friends of the army, or even former members. [Strategists] like Olesm would earn their first twenty levels in the city, and then be hired into the army.
In the same way, retired [Soldiers] and [Veterans] joined the Watch. At least, before the Antinium came and Liscor’s army refused to stay in the city with them around. Now, Embria never talked about retiring into the Watch. She was in the army, and no one came back to Liscor.
Liscor’s army was becoming somewhere you lived and died; older members stayed on, or only went back to Liscor to die. The Antinium were the reason. But in those days…
It meant Eresc had taken Relc in after he’d quit the army; the Drake hadn’t earned his ire for being dishonorably discharged. Relc resigning was a mixed thing in Eresc’s eyes. He understood why, if not condoned it. He hadn’t hurled food and mud at Relc as the Drake left his company.
His current company, 1st, and his old friends in 4th Company, Embria’s command now. They had heard Relc out, then booed him as he left the army. For quitting! For running away from the battlefields with Embria.
Because her mother was dead. Because he, Relc, didn’t want to die.
Why was he remembering it now? Relc watched the street as Pos stopped again to gossip with another assistant about the [Merchants]. That was Senior Guardsman’s walk-and-talk; you picked up hints. Trouble over some big order? You checked it out. Relc relaxed, standing, resting his weight on his spear.
He had a vague…sense…of the street behind him too. Like he was staring through water. It happened at the same time as he stared ahead and it had been distracting as heck until he’d gotten used to it.
[Eyes in the Back]. His latest Skill, purchased with a lot of his blood. Well, it meant Relc could be even lazier and do his job. He couldn’t see details, but anyone running in a hurry would be easy to spot.
Relc yawned and scratched at his side, between a gap in his metal armor. Why Eresc, though? Relc remembered him. Like Terigrals…uptight, ran a strict Watch, but so did Captain Z—Zevara.
But hadn’t he quit after…? Relc’s eyes opened wide. Oh, right. After they found out he had been ignoring someone killing Antinium Workers. Zevara, Senior Guardswoman Zevara, had reported it and Liscor’s Council had replaced him with her. He had hated the Antinium.
Relc stopped. He stared ahead and was in a mix of emotions. The past. It drifted onto him, prompted by…well, by learning Erin was dead. Only, it wasn’t the same past he remembered.
Absently, Relc looked at the Prelon in his hand, uneaten. He sighed. Then turned his head.
“[Thief]! Th—”
A Drake began to scream. Relc’s eyes, his actual eyes, focused on the running figure bursting from a shop, arms full of something. Oh? Food. Relc had ‘seen’ the motion with his Skill, but his eyes picked up on all the details.
The outraged Drake never got a chance to pursue the young Drake running full-tilt with arms full of dried meats, links of salami, sausage, etc. The [Butcher] was just emerging with the classic butcher’s knife—a terror to [Guards] who had to calm down an enraged [Butcher] in a street fight—when the Prelon bounced off the back of the [Thief].
No. Wait. The Prelon exploded as it hit the back of the [Thief] and the Drake girl screamed and pitched into the street. Relc had thrown it so hard that even the tough rind had split. The Drake sighed.
Now he’d missed breakfast twice.
 
—-
 
Routine. Here is how it happened. Relc walked over as the [Thief] rolled around and the [Butcher] stopped in shock. They might have tried to threaten the [Thief], but Relc blocked their cleaver; sometimes you got angry civilians who might kick or attack your criminal.
“Watch business! Everyone stand back! Just a [Thief] with some food.”
He bent down and picked up the burst Prelon as Pos ran over. Relc dusted off some of the good fruit and ate it. It was important to keep your strength up.
Oh—the arrest. Whatever. At this point, your classic [Thief], [Pickpocket], or so on, tried to run or gave up depending on how hard you hit them. This one might have gotten up and used a Skill to cartwheel into the crowd or something—but Relc’s foot was on her back. He just stood there, not even with all his weight, pinning her down.
“Shoplifter, eh?”
Pos squatted down to investigate the now-dirty meat and [Thief]. Relc chewed his fruit.
Next, you put them in manacles, or just marched them to the Watch House if they were this young. After that, you had your partner write the report and you went on your way. Relc doubted this girl would get a stay in the overnight cells or actual prison. She couldn’t have been more than twelve.
In this scenario, you walked to the parent’s house once you got it out of her, and talked with them, sometimes about the fine. Boring, annoying if they kicked up a fuss…sometimes lower-level [Guards] got the duty. Killed an hour sometimes. Two if the parents were criminals or did something stupid and you had to arrest them…
“Thank you for stopping her, Senior G—”
“Not at all. Just doing my job.”
Relc realized he’d preempted the [Butcher]. But the Drake nodded at him, respectfully eying the burst Prelon. Some others were murmuring. Relc waited for Pos to say ‘let’s get her to the Watch House’, or ‘something stupid and not-really-funny here’, like some of the [Guards] who thought you had to have a quip every time you arrested someone.
Klbkch never bothered. However, to Relc’s surprise, routine failed him. Pos stood up and was talking with the [Butcher]. Relc abandoned his inner thoughts of the past for a second to actually listen.
“She’s just a kid, Senior Guardsman. The meat’s not even that damaged. I’ll cut off the dirty parts; give it to the dog. It’s not even a silver’s worth of damage.”
“You’re sure? That’s generous of you, sir. I agree. Young miss, where’s your family?”
Relc blinked; lifted his foot. The Drake [Thief] glared up defiantly at Pos. The Senior Guard squatted down with a sigh.
“Come on, now. We’re not your enemies. You know it’s a crime to steal, don’t you? Or are you…hungry?”
He eyed the [Thief]. Relc slowly chewed a gritty piece of fruit and eyed her. She did look hungry.
Street kid. Means we have to worry about if she has parents, if they’re mistreating her, find them and/or arrange for her to go into Lism’s kid-thing. Wait, do they have that here?
He adjusted his routine to fit the new parameters. However, to his surprise, Cellidel did things differently. After a few minutes of talking, lecturing the girl and asking about her family, while she remained tight-lipped, staring at Relc and rubbing at her back, Pos stood up.
“Alright. If we catch you again…go on now.”
The [Thief] bolted. Relc nearly threw something at her. He turned to Pos. Admittedly, he had been zoning out for the last six minutes, but what was that about?
“You’re just letting her go?”
Pos grimaced.
“You saw her. I doubt a night in the Watch House’s cell will do her good. I’m not going to haul her to prison either. Are you?”
He went to eye Relc, but Relc was already eying him.
“Not me. Don’t we take her to the Watch House, figure out if she does have parents and send her to the orphanage or keep her in custody until then?”
The other Senior Guard blinked.
“We…have an orphanage. I think. Send one to…? Your city does that?”
They had for a while now. The only other option was to keep tossing the kids in cells or prison. Relc mentioned the way Liscor’s system worked and Pos shook his head.
“That sounds—interesting. We don’t have that. Mind you, any building would be full up. There are always street kids. Nice throw though; I doubt she’ll be running around, even if she is a [Thief].”
“Thanks.”
