Hi Dad,
Dear Father,
 
But of course, you could make out the faint charcoal marks. On the actual, neatly rolled-up parchment. A Mage’s Guild [Message] spell would have omitted all of that, and charged ten times what the Runner’s Guild did with their bulk letter deliveries.
Twenty times, maybe. Especially for so many words. When he read on, he saw she’d written the actual letter in ink, tracing over words. It was good handwriting. Neat, legible; the exact opposite of the kind of scribbling that got you in trouble each time you wrote in the Watch’s logbooks or made a report rather than your partner.
 
Embria, reporting in. Liscor’s been quiet these last few weeks. I know you might not believe it, but there have been only two major monster incidents; both from the dungeon and wildlife. 
Stray Wyvern preying on one of the farms and some kind of larval-bug creature that came out of the hole. The adult version, that is. Typically, the Watch and our 4th Company was pulled in to deal with them despite them bypassing the adventurers’ ‘security’. Turns out they tore apart three metal barriers to get to the surface.
Not a problem for either one. Aside from that, I hear the Watch is having to enforce more problems with civilians—young people. More and more are picking up crude ‘skateboards’ and they are a hazard, especially since they try to do tricks on them. I am informed that Pallass has it a thousand times worse.
 
It read somewhat like a report, and he grinned at the first sentence. Then he just read on. Waiting. Skimming down. Normally he’d read each word before laboring over a reply. This time…
 
…6th and 9th companies coming back and one more. I’m familiar with the 6th, and having so many [Soldiers] in Liscor means Hectval will think twice about an offensive. More and more civilians are enlisting into the Watch offensive, and the Watch Captain refuses to petition the army for training and ranks. Of course, I’m sure you know what they’d think about Antinium fighting under command. Strategically, it’s currently your infantry-bow mix, since Liscor doesn’t have the horses to field…
 
He’d thought the war with Hectval was strange, but the explanation about the Scalespeaker made sense on Hectval’s side. Liscor? Relc’s claws tightened.
 
…Liscor’s own [Actors], which I caught two of the [Lieutenants] actually in a tryout for. Wasn’t sure if I should enforce discipline, but if they had actually passed—I decided to ignore it. It’s off-duty, and mixing with civilians regular people is important. I hear they’re making an Actor’s Guild…
 
Nothing. Now he saw it.
 
…Humans in the city have doubled again. There are some fights for the Watch to deal with, unpleasantness—nothing the Watch Captain calls on…
…still checking for Shield Spiders, but our patrols find very few nests, almost all empty. If the city does approve mass-resettlement of farmsteads, we’ll be needed more than ever since the Watch doesn’t have outriders…
…new food all the time. I tried a bunch of rice-dishes; feels like Oteslia or Zeres and a Balerosian restaurant or something. I’d include a recipe, but unless your city gets shipments…
 
Nothing. Not one word. If you knew it was missing—he could see how she danced around one place. She might not visit that often, it was true. Not her.
Yet even with all the changes in Liscor, the last…four letters? Not one word.
The Wandering Inn. He blinked a few times and read the end of the letter.
 
Signing off. Thanks for the tip; I’ll look into the tassel-maker you mentioned if I go for decorations.
–Wing Com
–Embria
 
There it was. A very nice, long letter from a daughter to a father. A bit formal, but chock-full of details from home. She’d put effort into it. If you looked close, you could see how all the details were there to hide the gaping void.
“Why didn’t you tell me?”
Slowly, the Drake put the letter down on the low table and sat down. He ignored the bare apartment room, which had about as much as his old apartment rooms. Everything he needed to carry could fit in a bag of holding—or a large rucksack.
Actually, there was more furniture in this place he was leasing. He stared down at the parchment, watching it trying to re-curl into a roll. Four letters since the day she had mentioned Liscor going to war with Hectval.
Not once had she mentioned The Wandering Inn. Embria had not told her father Erin was dead.
Nor had anyone else. However, that implied there were other people sending Relc letters.
There were not. Maybe, the Drake entertained, if Klbkch had still been at his job, he would have sent one each week like clockwork. Aside from Klbkch, though, who would send Relc a letter?
Well. Erin Solstice, that’s who. He had thought she forgot and had tried not to let it bother him.
Now he knew.
Now, he knew.
Relc Grasstongue, Senior Guardsman, former [Sergeant] of Liscor’s army, and [Spearmaster], sat in the bare room, looking down at the letter. He didn’t touch breakfast—a two-day old scone, the last in the basket and some cheese developing a second layer.
He just sat there. Thinking of how it had happened. How it could have been stopped, if someone was there. Thinking of home, which was now different from how he imagined it. The poor kid, who would have to live with losing a parent again. He knew how that felt.
Relc’s huge arms were crossed, the scars on them and his scales illuminated by the steadily-growing light, as dawn turned to morning.
His stomach growled, but he didn’t bother eating. He didn’t rise to perform his normal training with the spear, or fiddle with the blacksmith puzzles he hadn’t solved.
Senior Guardsman Relc didn’t move until it was time to stand up. Exactly then, he did rise, in one motion. He reached for his spear, walked out the door, locked it, and went to work.
 
—-
 
Routine was what defined Relc’s life. He was a former [Soldier]; he followed orders of course, but what he had taken even more to heart was…routine.
As in, the day might come with surprises, but he knew how his day started and ended. Then, after he left the army, he knew how his job went. There were some things that always happened, such that while Relc was infamously bad with regulations, proper protocol, and memorizing new directives, he could tell when sewer-patrols were beginning before the Watch Captain started assigning groups and found himself other work to do, or was first in line to join up his weekly-break to the next-month’s rotation and create the legendary 5-day holiday (you could add one day off per month as needed).
Thus, despite being in a new Drake city, the comparably small city of Cellidel, which was smaller than the Liscor of today, Relc Grasstongue knew better than to look for the day-patrol listings on the side of the Watch House’s wall, right next to the armory.
Funny. Small changes kept throwing him off. In Liscor, they posted the patrols right by the door where the Senior Guard on desk-duty sat. That was so inquiring citizens could see who was going where. Relc supposed it didn’t matter too much, but all he saw in Cellidel were differences to Liscor, good and bad.
For instance, Cellidel was a proper Drake city—which meant far more Drakes than Gnolls, unlike Liscor, who had experienced their Gnoll-boom two decades back. No Humans whatsoever.
Thus, a more Drake Watch. In fact, Relc had counted the Gnoll [Guards]; all six of them. Even if he missed those on night-shifts or other Watch Houses, that was low.
He was in the main Watch House, which, like the one that had held Zevara, was also privy to the Watch Captain of the city. Nominally, it was for the best [Guards] and rookies, whereas experienced veterans took lead in other Watch Houses. However, Relc suspected his Senior Guardsman status was less of a reason than the Watch Captain wanting to keep an eye on him and see how he did the first few months.
For all that, the old Drake, Terigrals, was much like the Watch Captain before Zevara, and seemed happy to have a Level 30+ [Guard] of any class serving in his city. The other Drakes treated Relc somewhat warily as a newcomer, but a few were former soldiers for the city too and Relc had gotten in with them fairly easily, especially when he’d thumped a few with his spear to prove he’d earned his status.
One of them greeted Relc now.
“There’s our [Spearmaster]!”
Relc grinned and slapped the other Drake on the shoulder as the other [Guards] saw him walk in. It wasn’t hard to do that.
“Hey—you. How’s it going? Anything interesting happen while I was away? Monster attacks? [Bandits]? No? Mind if I take a nap?”
The other Drake didn’t miss Relc’s omission. He rolled his eyes as the others laughed.
“My name is Possel, Relc. Pos. Just…how many days has it been?”
The bigger Drake—he was probably the biggest one here, certainly the most muscular—grinned innocently.
“I’m trying! There are a lot of you.”
“We’ve been partnered eighteen times this month.”
“Right! Pas, my buddy!”
The other Drake made a slight hissing sound and shrugged off Relc’s arm, but his tail didn’t actually lash or curl up. Which was, of course, because that was how Relc acted with all of them. Of course he knew Pos’ name.
Relc kept smiling and joking with the others for three minutes, then was able to grab some armor and dress up. Then he was allowed to be ignored.
It was routine. The newcomer, especially the hotshot from another Watch House, was always the target. So the smart Drake played up not remembering faces, didn’t make enemies all at once, and waited for someone else to be the focus of the locker-room dynamics.
Not that there were exactly lockers; he’d just heard Erin using the phrase once. Relc sighed as he finished outfitting himself with his armor.
Cellidel vs Liscor. Interesting differences. In Liscor, you wore sturdy leather with chainmail underneath; the chainmail being optional for the Watch who did monster patrols or wanted some in case they tangled with criminals. It got hot, yeah, but it was solid, dependable—but a bit cheap.
Money was the thing. Like how a [Mage] could cast [Message] spells all day but charged you five copper a word. Outfitting even a few thousand [Guards] with chainmail was expensive, and so it wasn’t for everyone. They hadn’t really needed heavier armor, although with the dungeon, Embria had written that the Watch was looking into more serious armor and weaponry.
Cellidel on the other claw? They had a Watch who worked with their standing army. A much smaller army than Liscor’s roving mercenary army since it sustained itself on the city’s budget; so that meant a much better Watch.
“Aw. It’s got rust on it. How’d that happen? Anyone have a rust-removal tonic? Or just some steel wire? Oil?”
Relc poked at the padded metal armor he’d been issued when they realized he only had leather and chainmail. A Drake tossed a brush at him, looking exasperated.
“Because you keep storing it after it rains without wiping it down or maintaining it!”
“Well, I’m used to leather. Thanks.”
Relc amiably caught the brush and began scraping off rust. A nearby Drake winced at the sound as she put on her armor. Cellidel’s Watch got padded metal armor; more expensive, more protective. Heavier, though; they arrived a touch slower than Liscor’s Watch could thanks to it. It was a good tradeoff, though.
“Leather armor…Relc. You know leather gets mildew and mold and Creler-crap on it too, right? Do you do the exact same thing you do with our armor to your gear?”
“Er…I guess I’ve had a problem with that too.”
A groan from the Drake who’d asked. Relc just grinned, cleaned up his armor, and tossed the brush back with thanks. He put on his armor with commendable speed; there was even tail-armor for Cellidel’s Watch, another difference.
The Drakes stood around, metal flashing, talking, more male Drakes than female, but that wasn’t unusual. Relc listened to city-gossip, and he didn’t bother checking the patrol reports.
He knew what was coming next. It was the start of the month. Thus, when the Watch Captain, Terigrals, strode out of his ground-floor office and barked an order, Relc was lining up before some of the other [Guards], who’d been taken…off-guard.
If Klbkch had been there, Relc would have mentioned that joke and laughed until Zevara snapped at him.
Since Klbkch was gone, he was in a different city, and Erin was dead, Relc just stood to attention.
Routine. This was how a Watch started its month. This was how you kept corruption from spreading up the ranks, in part.
“Guardsman Possel. Do you swear that you have committed no crime against Cellidel’s citizens, broken no law of the city or of your class, and have not violated the integrity of your position as Senior Guardsman in any way?”
The Watch Captain held up a crystal. The first Drake in line barked a reply.
“Yes, Watch Captain!”
The stone glowed white. The Watch Captain nodded, walked ahead, waited until the stone turned clear, and began again.
“Guardswoman Gesa—”
Relc waited. When Terigrals walked up to him, he looked up, asked Relc the same thing.
“Yes, Watch Captain. I swear.”
Relc gave him a grin. The Watch Captain’s face stolidly watched the truth stone, and when it turned white, he smiled.
“Well then, get to work, Guardsman! You’re with Pos. Have you memorized the streets yet?”
“A few…”
Relc hazarded. Again, it was best to stretch how little you knew until you couldn’t get away with it any longer. That was how you avoided taking too much on. Terigrals still bought it; he thought of Relc as being from far, far away, as far as Fissival, despite Cellidel being only south of Pallass for a bit. Liscor was another world.
“Well then, with Senior Guardsman Pos.”
The other Drake groaned, but only in jest. Relc watched as the stone went down the line.
Twice it went grey, and the two Drakes gulped as the Watch Captain singled them out for questioning later. It was far from a perfect system, but it did catch the lowest-hanging fruit. Smart Watch Captains like Zevara did more than administer the truth stone.
“Damn, I forget they do the truth stone checks around now. If I’d walked out that door, I’d be ten minutes away and jogging back. Fine way to start the day. Good thing you took your time polishing your armor. Word to the wise: normally the Watch Captain gets on [Guards] who waste time when they’ve technically started their shift.”
Relc grinned and winked at Pos.
“I won’t forget next time.”
The Drake nodded. The two strolled out of the Watch House with the other patrols, as the night shift began to come in. Like that, Relc started each day as the last.
