They were done either way, but Relc thought that was what Cellidel lacked. Even so, they were back to routine in a heartbeat. He ambled on, sure that they were not going to find more ‘work’ this street. Once the Senior Guard moved, only the most daring (and clever) criminals decided they wanted to act concurrently. Which was actually smart because if Relc was arresting someone, he was distracted.
Back to daydreams and history. Yes, Relc remembered that scandal. Although at the time he’d been fed up with his partner, Klbkch. Only Relc had been considered strong enough to take care of Klbkch if he went rogue, so Zevara’s promotion hadn’t been on Relc’s mind apart from her shaking things up as she took over, disgruntled old [Guards] resigning, etc.
Eresc had ignored Liscor’s civilians attacking Antinium in those days. Right when they came into the city, a lot of people had been grateful—and a lot more had feared the Black Tide infesting their city, even as a deal from the Antinium wars.
Mind you, only Liscor would have even considered the option. However, Relc’s job back then had been to stop both Liscorians and Antinium from killing each other.
Not that a Worker ever fought back. So some got pelted with rubbish, or even killed in that case. But if they became Aberration—it was an entirely different story. Klbkch had hunted his own people down without exception, and Relc’s animosity towards him had turned to curiosity about who Klbkch was.
Despite that, the Slayer and the Gecko of Liscor hadn’t shared a full conversation for three years after they started working together.
Relc remembered all that. He often did when thinking of the past, usually laughing at how much he hadn’t liked Klbkch and how uptight Klbkch had been—and that was compared to Klbkch now!—and little else. Good memories.
Except suddenly, there was a hole in his memories. No—not a hole. The inverse. A bit of understanding, thought, that hadn’t been there in all his other recollections.
“…Funny. In those days there were a lot more Aberrations. Not that there were a lot. We had to stop mobs and people from hitting them, tossing stuff on them…”
Relc slowed, as Pos went to use a toilet. Cellidel had a sewer like Liscor’s and Relc had thus-far avoided sewer-patrol, although it seemed rookies were usually made to do that anyways. He thought.
Aberrations. It seemed like one had come up every two weeks. Usually, Klbkch had ‘sensed’ it and they sometimes stopped it before anyone but Workers died. Yet Relc recalled that as the city had grown used to the Antinium, the Aberration numbers had gone way down.
He’d always assumed it was the Antinium settling in. Now, though…part of Relc thought of Pawn and Erin and…well, Eresc hadn’t stopped civilians attacking Workers, had he? Zevara had. She’d arrested people and the Watch had been forced to protect Workers, much to the disgust of some.
Afterwards? Aberration numbers died down.
Was that a…what was the word Klbkch used? A correlation? Relc thought about it. He didn’t like what his brain suggested, so he smacked it. Even so, it told him that maybe the Workers became Aberration because some people beat them, attacked them on the job, threw things at them.
Pawn had been the first Worker to ever take a name that Relc had ever met. He’d been consumed with Klbkch dying at the time. But…he’d always thought it was a miracle, much like the funny little Worker himself. What if, though, it had just been because of the first person to ever feed an Antinium, teach one to play chess?
That was Erin. Extraordinary because she’d done what was now obvious at a time when it was not. Relc’s thoughts spiraled back to her.
By the time Pos got back to Relc, the past had changed. It shouldn’t have. The past was supposed to stay the same, but suddenly Relc saw it a different way.
Eresc hadn’t been the best Watch Captain. He was a military [Captain], not a [Watch Captain]. The difference? He hadn’t seen Antinium like people.
Zevara had been responsible for helping the Antinium integrate into Liscor and smooth tensions. She had also made him work harder, which he had resented.
Relc’s job in the old Watch was to laze about, show new [Guards] how to hold a spear, and hit anything that moved when the going got hot. Eresc had arranged it for him as a sort of amiable-retirement. Zevara had, on her first week, told Relc to his face he could either work harder or get out of the Watch.
He’d always resented that. Relc had never liked Captain Z as much as Eresc, because one was easier on him.
“But one sucked more.”
One hadn’t seen the Antinium as people, and Relc had agreed with him—right up until he hadn’t. He had resented Zevara because she took the Antinium’s side.
Like he hated Goblins. Right up until an [Innkeeper] kicked him out of her inn and drew a line in the sand.
Relc leaned on his spear and felt old. Part of him hated Goblins and always would. He had fought them, and they had killed his parents. Or so he had been told. Even so. One day, the only Human he respected, liked, had turned to him and told him to leave the lovely inn forever because of a Goblin.
He had been so angry at her. Until he realized how lonely he was without The Wandering Inn. When she’d let him back in, when the door to the garden had opened for him despite all the bad words between them—he’d been so happy.
Now. She was. Dead.
 
—-
 
The key to it was not talking about Erin. Not talking about Goblins or Antinium. Pos had asked a few times and Relc had laughed it off; Antinium? You barely saw them. We had one in the Watch. Total. Barely knew the guy’s name. Couldn’t pronounce it.
Routine. Relc clung to it. He went through the motions.
A Senior Guard didn’t run into crime often. In fact, they were often a deterrence to people who knew what their status meant. Relc stood behind Pos in one of their more-regular duties; sorting out arguments.
“—and then he pulled the wagon up in front of my business! It’s a damned restaurant and there’s no space on the street to even get in unless you kiss the wall!”
“I was there for five minutes, but he had the gall to order me to—”
Two angry Drakes over a space-disturbance. The most common dispute a [Guard] faced. Relc smiled and nodded, glassy-eyed. One Drake had light red scales; the other had summer green. One turned to the other.
“This is the fourth time! I am going to lodge a complaint at the blah blah angry angry threat! If you don’t threat, I’ll Senior Guardsman do something!”
“Oh yeah? Well I’m in the Transportation Guild and I blah blah your face blah insult, Senior Guardsman, take my side!”
Keep your face impervious, nod a few times and pretend to write things down. Don’t look at either one; don’t favor either one and look more and more angry until they get nervous. Relc had found that if you did that, you got away with not listening to anything until the voices stopped seven out of ten times.
Pos handled it. He turned his head to Relc a few times and the [Guard] nodded, scowling or smiling on cue. This was what Relc said:
“That’s right.”
“Disturbances.”
“Can’t have that.”
“Good day to you.”
Afterwards, Pos sighed as they walked away.
“Ancestors, I hate that kind of dispute. I want to just throttle them; you’re as cool as can be though, Relc. Is that [Spearmaster] training?”
“Absolutely.”
“Really? I wish I could manage angry idiots like that.”
Relc hadn’t actually paid attention to the last conversation either. He was still thinking of the inn. When…had he learned he was lonely?
When Klbkch died. When he found there was a friendly young woman who always had time to talk, and didn’t get noticeably bored or irritated with him.
When his daughter returned, bringing back old memories.
When the [Innkeeper] kicked him out.
And…when his partner died.
When he left his city because of his mistakes.
And then when learned his friend was dead too.
Even his wallowing had become routine. Relc going back in time, looking at his mistakes, thinking of Erin was routine. So he went about his routine and absent-mindedly went through his mental routine. Relc went back to Embria’s letter. She hadn’t told him. Maybe she’d thought it would crush him. Probably right. But she should have told him. Had they buried her? Drassi had said…
Should he write a letter back telling Embria he knew? Should he go back? He had to save up vacation days. Would it…did he want to?
“Relc! Hear that? It’s—”
 
—-
 
The Senior Guardsman found himself moving. He heard the shouts of pain, the impact of one fist into a face or body part, and ran.
Fight. Break it up, see who’s fighting. Mugging? Hit the muggers. Civilian dispute? More carefully hit people. Murder?
“This is the Watch! Everybody stop—”
Relc heard Pos shout, but he was slower in his armor. The Gecko of Liscor? He had run in armor across the battlefield to fight the enemy. His old spear was in his claws, the same one he’d used to kill countless enemy officers, [Mages]. A hit-and-run, high-level [Soldier] who took out targets and escaped.
For a [Guard], even a Senior Guard, Relc was the very definition of overkill. His mind snapped back to the real world for a second. He saw—
A street fight. Two Gnolls, probably only fifteen and seventeen, brawling with a group of Gnolls their age. Relc slowed as the Gnolls whirled.
What he saw was a stupid street fight, the kind you broke up unless someone had a knife or there was a gang, so he relaxed, went back on autopilot after surveying the scene, and lowered his spear.
What they saw was a huge Drake in armor with more muscle than any two of them combined charging at them with spear-raised. Their ears went flat, and the little group of youths bolted, shouting.
“Break it up. No fighting! Blah blah you are warned!”
Relc shouted after them. Routine. He went back to the two combatants who’d frozen, blood on their fur, and raised a finger.
“Fighting is bad…when you’re not paid to do it. Wait. When you’re not on the right side of the law. Fighting…okay, don’t punch each other in public. Got it? There we g—”
Pos skidded around the corner, saw the two Gnolls, and swore. Relc saw him sprint forwards, check one with his armored body, and grab the other with a club raised.
“You two are under arrest! Where are the others, Relc?”
The Drake snapped out of routine, looked at Pos, and stared at the Gnoll on the ground.
“Hey, they’re just fighting—”
“Another damn fight! In the street of all places! How many were there? You are under arrest. Relc, cover that one. Where are your manacles?”
Relc opened his mouth. He looked at the Gnoll on the ground as the other one growled a protest, backing away from Pos.
“We weren’t attacking anyone! We’re not in a gang!”
“We’ll find out about that under truth spell. Even if you’re not in a gang, you think you can just beat each other up like savages? You know the law! You’re just lucky a [Shopkeeper] didn’t call for us, or that would be a charge on top of—I said, don’t move!”
Pos raised the club. The Gnoll ducked backwards, clearly looking to run. All things considered, Relc would have blocked him. Instead, the Drake was bending over the older Gnoll that Pos had run into.
Just winded. He was looking at Relc, but not getting up.
“I’m not resisting.”
The [Spearmaster] gave him a blank look.
“I can see that. Pos. What are you doing?”
The Drake gave Relc a look.
“Where are your cuffs? Don’t tell me you lost them! Here!”
He fumbled for his iron manacles at his side and the younger Gnoll tried to run for it. Two things happened in that moment. Pos whirled, with the power of a Skill and swung the club.
Relc yanked it out of his claw. Pos missed and the Gnoll ran—straight into Relc’s arm. He bent over the immovable limb. Relc shoved him back and turned to face Pos.
“Relc!”
“Hold on. You stay there. You can sit up.”
Relc pointed to the two young males, who were both looking worried. They froze as Relc turned to Pos.
“You were about to lay him flat. What’s the problem? They’re kids. It’s an alley-fight. No one had a knife.”
“They’re brawling. You don’t think they’re a hazard?”
Pos was glowering at Relc. He hesitated as Relc, rather than get angry or retort, gave him the blankest look imaginable.
“…Let me get this straight. You want to haul these two to the Watch House, test them about being in a gang when I’m sure they’re not via truth spell, and then write a report and toss them in a cell or something? Or have to visit their parents?”
Pos opened his mouth. Relc stared at him. Then he offered Pos the club and looked at the Gnolls.
“Get out of here. Don’t punch each other. In public.”
The two Gnolls stared at him, as much surprised as Pos. Relc made a ‘shoo’ gesture with his claws and they ran for it. Pos inhaled, but one look at Relc again and he snatched his club back.
“…You really don’t like extra work, I guess?”
He gave Relc a side-long look. Relc just shrugged.
“You let that little [Thief] off with just a warning. I thought you’d appreciate less paperwork.”
“That’s…dif—okay.”
Pos hesitated, bit something off, and muttered. He was still breathing hard as Relc ambled out of the alleyway.
What was that about? Relc forgot about it and went back to routine. He caught Pos looking at him a few times, but when their one actual criminal of the entire patrol appeared, Relc was right there.
Marital stabbing. Which, lest it conjure the image of an angry wife stabbing a husband, was the reverse. Relc snatched the blade with his bare claw, and slapped the Drake. Then he hauled the Drake up and carried him to the Watch House.
Nothing interesting this time. Although Relc did think on the Gnoll-kids incident later. Terigrals had told him he was needed. The first two weeks, Relc had been busy. He must have helped bust at least three minor criminal gangs up. Cellidel had a minor crime-problem. Funny though. When he counted the other arrests over the last month…
Relc sat up in his bed before he fell asleep.
“—that’s a lot of Gnolls for a Drake city.”
He had a hard time getting to sleep. He had an uneasy feeling things weren’t going to routine.
 
—-
 
Routine wake up and stare at the letter instead of practicing.
Routine get to work, joke about, and get some other [Guard] on patrol. Drake.
Routine get back, check out.
A blur of routine. Then—Relc stared at the ledger as they signed in the [Rogue]. He had volunteered to write it in for once. He felt his heart sink.
The ledger wasn’t spaced exactly like Liscor’s, but it had the same kind of thing. Name, details, brief physical description, crime details…
