Species. Relc flipped through the ledger slowly, ignored by the rest of the Watch House. He went back down a month.
That was a lot of Gnolls for a Drake city.
The Drake [Spearmaster] felt an uneasy chill run down his scales as he quickly filled in the report. Like his reflections on the past, it seemed obvious now, but only when someone pointed it out to him.
Pos’ behavior during their patrol wasn’t unique. Relc supposed he hadn’t noticed his patrol-partners or squad being more hostile to Gnolls vs Drakes…but then, he hadn’t been paying attention.
Now he thought of it, Cellidel was a Drake city. Much higher Drake population vs Gnoll. Liscor had what was certainly Gnoll-heavy districts, like where they had apartments, and businesses that catered more towards Gnolls, but it was hard to find anywhere you didn’t see two—or now at least three—species mingling.
Cellidel? Drake streets and Gnoll streets.
The anxious pit in Relc’s stomach was a familiar one. Not recently familiar; it was like the day Erin had told him the Golden Triangle thing was fake. It was an older feeling than that, though.
The feeling he got before a bad battle. Where High Command sent someone to check on you, make sure you knew you had to get your target. The kind of day when every old [Soldier] double-checked their wills and pensions were in order.
One ledger wasn’t proof. Possel wasn’t proof by himself. There was, unfortunately, an easy way to check his suspicions. So as Relc stowed his gear and signed out for the day, he added a new part into his routine.
“I hate cleaning my gear.”
He grumbled as he actually added some oil to the metal and chainmail before putting it away. It had showered briefly and some of the other [Guards] grunted affirmatives, ignored Relc; one was all too keen to talk.
“Damn rain. The worst part is rookies who never maintain their gear. You know one got mold on their armor? It spread to half the Watch House I was in. We had to pay an [Alchemist] twice to get rid of it!”
It was one of those tired stories you heard about three dozen times each year. Relc nodded. Routine, routine. Then he added the bait.
“You know what’s worse? Fur. Sometimes you’re on patrol, and it gets on your armor. Wet fur especially.”
Across the room, Possel’s head rose. He eyed Relc, and a few Drakes chimed in.
“I swear to the Ancestors, sometimes it feels like I have it in my lungs after I patrol a street. Especially if all those Gnolls are shedding. Someone needs to grab a broom. And the smell on rainy days? It gets in my nostrils and I want to gag.”
“Mhm.”
Relc’s heart sank. Possel nodded though, and he glanced around, chiming in.
Ah. The fluttering feeling got worse.
His ability to pick up on clues was bad, Relc would admit. However, once someone pointed it out to him, he was far from ignorant. In fact, a Liscorian [Guard] like Tkrn or someone who’d grown up there all their life might be more oblivious—well, Tkrn wouldn’t be because he was a Gnoll.
Relc, though. He had been in Liscor’s army, which did have a large Gnoll population compared to many armies outside of Walled Cities. One of the things he learned as [Sergeant] had been which cities they were deployed to where it was fine to let your squad off to drink and have fun on their own—and which ones where you had them stick together. Especially the Gnolls.
The ‘fur in your armor’ line was actually something he’d heard a long time ago, when they’d been working side-by-side with another army in a joint defensive campaign. For numerous reasons it had been a bad job, but one of the reasons was that the mostly-Drake army had gotten into fights with Liscor’s forces for comments like that.
Fur in your armor. Relc had sometimes slept next to fellow [Soldiers] and he could count on one claw the number of times fur had ever bothered him. However, that trick was one of the ones you learned to gauge a crowd. Other telling comments were smell, comments about ‘savages’, or someone saying, ‘I hate those furbags’. That last one was really a big clue.
Relc finished his work in silence, stowed his armor, and turned. Possel tapped him on the shoulder.
“Some of the Senior Guards go to have a drink with a few regular [Guards] every few days. Want to join us, [Spearmaster]?”
The Senior Guardsman looked into Possel’s eyes, and saw a gauging look. Relc grinned.
“Sure. If I’m not buying…”
Possel groaned good-naturedly, but he visibly relaxed and some of the other Drakes re-introduced themselves. Relc called Possel, ‘Pause’, ‘Pauws’, and ‘Pas’ three times before he got it right.
 
—-
 
Routine. Relc went to have a drink. He told jokes, war stories, and didn’t blink when someone brought up the troublemakers.
“It’s the Meeting of Tribes thing. I heard they always get like this. Did you hear about that damn tribe that sacked a Drake city? Gave me nightmares.”
“Woven Bladegrass. We’re on the lookout for that lot. Anyways, there’s always crime, but now there are protests. And there’s always a Gnoll with a bow on their back. What about you, Relc? Ever have that kind of thing in Liscor?”
Relc hesitated, with a mouth full of walnuts. The other Drakes snorted as he tried to speak through it. When Relc did speak, he grinned at Possel.
“Liscor? Oh, sure, we have Gnoll troubles. But remember what I told you about Antinium? Ever heard of an…Aberration?”
The other Drakes leaned in, and Relc told the story. They gaped, or turned horrified and were so distracted they left him alone—in the sense that they pestered him about the bugs more than the Gnolls.
Relc could dodge in and out of a conversation. However, sitting there was illuminating. Gnoll problems? He went automatically through the drinking and talking and complaining, chipped in a silver coin, and left.
None of this was original, think-on-your-feet stuff. It, like all of Relc’s tactics, was routine. He’d learned the obvious; what you said and didn’t say in a group that leaned one way. It was easy if you knew the steps to follow along.
Strange. He kept thinking of Erin as he walked back to the empty apartment. Now, if that had been her inn and someone had said the same thing—only replaced Gnolls with Antinium or Goblins—she would have walked on over and argued. Even if it was a full squad of [Guards].
That was…extraordinarily hard to do. Also stupid, but it was very Erin. It took a certain kind of someone to harvest acid flies. If she had been there, she would have kicked up a fuss.
Relc thought of her. Then his thoughts shifted to someone else who occasionally crossed his mind. Another Human woman, albeit one he had known less long. If differently.
Ryoka Griffin. Relc smiled for a second. Then he sighed. He’d followed her run to the north. Good on her. Flying? He wondered if he could beat her in a race anymore. He almost hoped some days that the Street or City Runner who found him with the letters would be her…but that was nigh-impossible. It had only been one night.
He had liked her. She had been very complimentary too, about how fast he was. People didn’t appreciate that about Relc enough, in Relc’s opinion. However, mutual admiration aside—Relc thought more of how Ryoka would have interacted with that conversation. His guess? Bar fight.
Relc was not a master of fast, innovative thinking. However, he had seen all kinds of things and knew when not to shout what he really felt. Ryoka Griffin…was the exact opposite. She had no routine, no cover-jokes, no way to duck a bad conversation. She’d probably sit there and start talking and that was when someone threw the mug at your head. She and Erin would both get into trouble in minutes. Dangerous trouble, which might make them enemies of their co-workers.
But they would do it because it was right. Relc stopped, with the key in the lock. He ignored the other transitory Drakes and Gnolls glancing at him as they went to their own rooms in the cheap apartment complex. Ah, yes. He’d paid for a small place, despite being able to afford a bit more on a Senior Guardsman’s salary. Relc glanced around.
I don’t see many Gnolls living in the expensive streets either. Cellidel’s Watch had the opinion Gnolls caused more crime. They were certainly poorer on average than Drakes. Or maybe it was that the Watch didn’t patrol their streets as heavily, and…Relc didn’t like any of this.
He wanted to be back home. The Drake entered his apartment and sat down. Erin had offered him a room in her inn after his place burned down and he’d felt…
For a moment, Relc indulged in a dream. It was a dream he’d had now and then—okay, often. Before hearing about Erin, especially. He went back to it now as he lay on his back.
In his dream, he was staying in The Wandering Inn, and had a great breakfast each day. That little kid, Mrsha, was always making life fun by stealing his food, and he’d see something hilarious every day.
That was easy. Harder to imagine, but what Relc had carefully put into the dream were other…nice parts. Embria taking a room there, for instance. Not next to his! And they didn’t talk all the time, but he saw her before she got to work and they’d share breakfast. Stuff like that.
Klbkch was back, and they walked around Liscor, doing fun stuff like delivering Christmas presents as Santa-[Guards] like the good old days. Relc smiled and shifted, almost wanting to walk into that dream. He raised a fist and hit the air—punching an imaginary crook.
Then—the excess—was sometimes a certain City Runner—or was it Courier, now—sometimes dropped by the inn for a day or two, or a week. That was great too.
The perfect dream sat in front of Relc. The Drake closed his eyes. Because when he opened them, he would not see The Wandering Inn’s ceiling, and the comfy bed, but the cracked ceiling of the small apartment, and he would be lying on the floor.
When he opened his eyes, he would have to confront the clear prejudice about Gnolls in Cellidel’s Watch. The fact that Erin was gone. That he was in disgrace in his city’s eyes.
Relc closed his eyes tightly. He didn’t want to open them.
“Why does Cellidel have to be so damn stupid?”
He grumbled softly. If it were a routine?
This would all be so much easier.
 
—-
 
The next day, Relc thought about it. He did not practice with his spear, as much as he wanted to. The apartment was too small and he didn’t know it well enough to swing his spear around; if he put a hole in the wall, he’d be out far too much money.
Unfortunately, there was no entry in Relc’s vast array of routine-strategies for this. If he was in the army, it would be easy. You sometimes got hostile Drakes or Gnolls—and they either shaped up with tough…not-love, or they got out. If it was really bad, you sorted it at a ground-level with some ‘chats’ with other [Soldiers], or you went up.
The Watch was the same way, although Relc would probably just leave it to Captain Z. In Cellidel, he had no Captain Z, no superiors he knew or army to back him up…and no Erin.
Possel had not been a Drake alone. There had been eight other [Guards], six of them Senior Guards in his buddy-group and not one of them had blinked at the Gnoll-talk. To Relc’s understanding, that meant it was the Watch’s mentality. Six Senior Guards was a Watch House. If there were dissenting opinions, they were in the minority.
So what did you do? Well…talk to the Watch Captain. Only, that was what a snitch did and Relc was familiar with [Guard]-politics enough to know how a newcomer complaining went. More importantly? Terigrals might do something.
…But if he was a Watch Captain worth even a pinch of salt, he had to know how his Watch felt. If he let that talk go—then he didn’t care or he agreed.
“So what do I do? Go to the Council? Does Cellidel have a Council? Who else do you go to?”
Relc had no idea. Not one. Not a clue. This…this wasn’t routine. This wasn’t familiar waters. This was so far out at sea he could see Krakens eying him. Who could find a solution in this?
Erin Solstice, that’s who. The Human who’d fight an entire city over letting a Goblin in, or intervene in a riot to save some [Lords]. Who would bring war to the City of Adventurers and the Guild of Assassins for a friend.
Relc had always known she was crazy, amazing, and brave. Now he thought it was extraordinary how she did…something.
Because he had no idea what to do. He could ask Zevara for help? She was a Watch Captain in a different city. No jurisdiction. He could ask to be transferred out?
Relc considered it. That—was probably his move. Keep his head and tail down, not start anything, let them believe he was buddy-buddy—and put in an application and word with Zevara to get back to Liscor now. She’d understand. Wouldn’t she? Surely she would. He could send a letter via Embria—no, a [Message].
That was easy. Routine. Relc knew it was him ducking out, but he didn’t have a good answer and he was no Erin. So he took comfort in that idea; Terigrals would be upset, but Relc could claim he was homesick.
It was a great plan and Relc stuck to it, having wrestled with it for hours into the morning after bad sleep. He would routine through, put in his application, and all would be well.
Routine walk to the Watch House. Routine talk with the others. Routine start your day with a larger patrol. Routine—
“Shortsword!”
The shout came as the patrol intervened in what had been a robbery of a store. Someone screamed; someone else blew a whistle and in came the Watch.
This was when you had to be alert, and Relc was. [Robbers], [Bandits] taking a risk on a city, [Rogues]—all tried this. You could grab money or goods and run, but you were going to tangle with angry [Shopkeepers] or the Watch.
So this was when crime armed up. Relc had seen too many fellow [Guards] injured or killed by a crossbow bolt from a hidden weapon one of the [Rogues] was carrying—or a dagger. It was one of the reasons he and Klbkch had been prized, like Jeiss and Beilmark.
For this moment, you needed Senior Guards who could tangle with deadly weapons. So, when the squad of six hit the scene, Relc went in.
The group had nearly cleaned out the shop. They were halfway out the back door, but they knew the Watch was on their tails and so they were covering the front. Relc knew all of this.
He still crashed through the door anyways. He had to. He had [Iron Scales], [Thick Skin], and all the other Skills of his level. He was a [Spearmaster].
And he had been the Gecko of Liscor. The [Robbers] were waiting for a [Guard] to come through and two had shortbows. They were prepared—but not for the Drake to hit the door and go through it so fast that both shots went wide. Relc spotted six [Robbers]. Five Gnolls, one Drake. He shouted.
“Senior Guardsman! Put down your weapons or get hurt!”
