Even when they’d stopped the first bad riots, Relc had felt that the city wasn’t secure—just waiting until they left. Cellidel had the same atmosphere to it. He felt his scales crawling.
“Relc! Are you listening?”
“Hm?”
Pos was staring at Relc. The Senior Guardsman scratched at his head. Shrugged.
“…What am I supposed to say? ‘Am I on your side?’ Do you think I’m going to stab you in the back?”
“You might as well be doing that! Arming street-kids at that age? What do you think they’ll do if they learn how to use a spear?”
“Join the watch? Defend themselves? Practice?”
“Don’t be a damned idiot. Are you blind or what?”
Pos went to slap Relc’s shoulder. The other Drake swatted his claw down before Pos reached him. They stopped and stared at each other. Relc’s face was blank. Possel hesitated, and regrouped.
“Relc. I get that you’re from another city. But you’re a [Guard], a Senior Guardsman, and so am I. We have to be united. Watch Captain Terigrals helped you out, didn’t he?”
The [Spearmaster] blinked. Possel hurried on.
“I don’t know what it was—but there’s not many reasons a [Guard] comes from another city. We don’t abandon our own. I need you to work with me, got it? Just stop teaching them how to use a spear and—it’s done.”
He spread his claws. Relc stared at him. He was thinking hard.
It wasn’t about Pos. Or even Cellidel and Sellme’s role here. It was just Relc.
It would be so easy to slip into routine. One write-up, some tension, and he could get back to work. Skate on by until he got to go back to Liscor.
Unless Cellidel goes really bad. However, Relc was good at running away. He’d survive, no question, regardless of what happened.
He just wondered what Erin would say about it.
They kept walking after a short silence. Relc debated bringing up the Gnoll [Guards] in the Watch, or pointing out that the kids were not all criminals and some were twelve. He had a feeling what Possel would say in reply. Something like, ‘good Gnolls’, which implied there were bad ones—the ones not on ‘our side’.
The two walked into the heart of the problem. They didn’t go deep into streets brimming with hostility, but the Watch maintained a heavy presence today. Coincidentally, Relc saw a lot of Gnolls staring daggers at them as he marched down the street.
The Watch was waiting for something. So were the people. It just took one moment…and there were lots of moments when tensions were running high, when there was anger in the air.
The excuse came when Possel ordered a group of over ten to break up. Not all Gnolls, but either way, it was the ‘no large gatherings’ order. He snapped.
“Break it up! All of you, get moving!”
One of the Gnoll workers glowered at Possel, who had a hand on his club—not the sword he carried. He spat, narrowly missing Possel’s boot.
The Senior Guardsman went for his club. He raised it—and Relc yanked him back.
“Stop that.”
It was a moment. A simple tug, but it took a lot to do. It changed…well, just what happened next.
The crowd broke up, running, and the Gnoll in front of the [Guards] ran too. Possel whirled, red under his scales.
“Relc!”
“Possel.”
“What the hell was that! Did you see him spit on me?”
“I saw him spit on the ground. You nearly bashed his brains in.”
Possel stared at Relc. His voice was trembling.
“Weren’t you listening to what I said?”
“Nope. I’m bad at listening.”
The two Drakes looked at each other and Relc felt the invisible fissure open up. No going back now. He was trembling with nervous energy. He felt like he could see the future. The instant they got back to the Watch House…
No, they didn’t even have to wait for that. A whistle blew and both Senior Guards whirled. Without a word they ran.
Relc got there first, obviously. He saw a melee. More running people. The exact same scene with Possel had played out, only there was no Relc. A Gnoll was on the ground, getting kicked, and two more were flat out.
Including a white-scaled Drake. It looked like someone had clocked him so hard he’d just gone over. Relc saw a squad of six [Guards] blowing a whistle; the street was rumbling, but no one wanted to go up against six—no, eight—[Guards], all wearing armor and armed. Unless…
“Senior Guard. Stop.”
Relc snapped as one of the [Guards] drew back to kick the Gnoll on the ground again. The angry [Guard] glanced up as Possel skidded around the corner.
“Those bastards sprayed us with sewer water!”
He bellowed. All six were soaked to some degree and he’d gotten the worst of it. He drew back his leg to kick. Relc pointed.
“Stop it. Arrest them, but stop kicking them.”
The answer was a snarl. The boot came back, swung forwards—
Relc bent down, and lifted the foot up higher. The Drake went over onto his back with a crash of metal as he overbalanced.
“Relc!”
Possel and the other [Guards] stared at Relc. The Senior Guardsman was breathing hard, although not from the run. Here it was. Here it came.
“That’s enough. They’re under arrest for spraying sewer water on [Guards]. Do you really want to start a fight here? Look around!”
The more level-headed [Guards] looked around and saw the stares. Some of them, even Possel, realized Relc was right. A few more kicks and half the watchers might decide to stop it themselves.
“Call for a prisoner-wagon.”
One muttered. A [Guard] blew the short whistle-call and they all stood there. Staring at Relc. It was a long time before the wagon arrived, and it came with ten more [Guards].
Leave it there. Leave it there.
Relc wasn’t talking to himself. He was staring at the angriest [Guard], who was trying to wash…well, crap off him. He was so angry he couldn’t even hold the water flask without it shaking.
“We’ll load them up. Just calm down. We’ll clean up later.”
One of the [Guards] was trying to talk him down. Relc just watched as all three, including Tesy, were loaded onto the wagon. A few began to wake up. Including the [Painter].
He was like Erin after all. Because as the Drake opened his eyes and spat a bit of bloody saliva out, he looked straight at the [Guards], including the angriest one, and spoke.
“Serves you right. Full of crap on the outside, as much as the inside.”
It wasn’t even a great insult. True, it was hard to come up with that kind of thing when someone had just knocked you out—but one word would probably have been enough. One look.
The [Guard] threw down the water flask, strode over, and kicked Tesy in the stomach so hard he doubled up in the two [Guards]’s grasps. They shouted at him.
“Eisst—!”
Relc grabbed the Drake, Eisst, wrenched his arm up behind his back, and walked him into the wagon. Hard; the wood creaked. The dizzy [Guard] cried out; more like an exhalation. Relc spoke, deliberately looking past Eisst and into the air.
“You’re under arrest for violence against civilians.”
“Relc! Are you insane?”
“You saw him. We don’t kick prisoners. You…”
What was it Erin used to say? ‘You have the right to remain silent? Anything you something something?’ Relc just said what he normally said.
“—You’re in trouble, buddy. Don’t resist or I get to hit you. Since that’s resisting arrest. But if you don’t resist, then I can’t hit you.”
There was a distinction. It was slight, but it was the difference between kicking Tesy if he punched you—or if he was in manacles and helpless.
Eisst, winded, swore and went to kick Relc. The [Spearmaster] slammed him into the wagon again. This time the Drake’s armor cracked the wood.
The other [Guards] went silent. They looked at Possel, one of the three Senior guards on the scene, then the Senior Guardswoman leading the prisoner-wagon. They both stared at each other, then Relc.
Senior Guardsman Relc. The [Spearmaster]. The Gecko of Liscor. Who was tossing Eisst around like he weighed nothing, armor and all. The [Guard] was trying to rip free as Relc one-handed grabbed both his wrists together and fumbled for his manacles, sighing. He couldn’t budge.
Neither one stopped Relc. In dead silence, Relc finally got the manacles free, attached them to Eisst, and spun him around.
“Do you want to get into the wagon or is this going to be shackles on the legs too?”
The [Guard] was dizzy, and he had to know it was a bad idea. He still went for a knee to Relc’s groin. Which, to be fair, was entirely in Eisst’s limited character that Relc knew from this interaction.
Relc punched him. It wasn’t a [Relc Punch] and he didn’t shout. Tesy just saw him swing a fist, almost too fast to see. Eisst sagged and Relc sighed and tossed him into the wagon, between the three now-conscious prisoners.
The Watch was dead-silent. Relc nodded.
“Let’s get them back to the Watch House and write a report. I hate reports.”
He sighed. His heart was still beating…far too fast. He saw Possel hang back. He marched with the wagon as it rolled off. It was done.
It was done—he felt his [Dangersense] going off. No, his intuition. Relc’s mind was racing. He felt sweaty. However, now and then, to stifle the fear in his heart, he glanced at Tesy.
The stupid Drake even grinned like Erin.
 
—-
 
Watch Captain Terigrals heard Relc out in silence. The Watch House was dead silent as Relc booked the still-unconscious Eisst and gave a verbal report, then sat to write one down as well.
He knew he hadn’t stopped the unrest on the streets. Even if the entire city of Cellidel heard about the incident—so what?
Relc definitely hadn’t changed the Watch. He had just made himself the biggest target. He could have told you both things were going to occur. He had known it, the moment he’d grabbed Pos’ arm.
Nothing would change, save that Relc Grasstongue was now in trouble, not the amiably-ignored outsider. He was not Erin Solstice, who could change things, even in small ways.
So why had he done it? Relc supposed it was because you had to. Or he’d never be able to walk in The Wandering Inn again, whether Erin was alive or dead.
“Relc. We need to talk. My place, after we sign out. Sundown.”
Possel called to Relc as the Drake rose. Relc glanced up at him. He nodded. He didn’t go back onto the street; Terigrals had him hold the desk instead.
 
—-
 
“Are you sure, Possel? He is the Gecko. That’s what they called him.”
Possel shrugged.
“So? Do you want to be Eisst the next time he decides he doesn’t like how we do things? We’re about to have riots and he’s throwing his weight around. Besides.”
He glanced around. There were nine Senior Guards in his private home. Possel, unlike Relc, had bought his own place. The other [Guards] were still wearing armor. They looked at each other.
It wasn’t really a debate, either. They moved to the stairs, the other rooms of the house, as Possel stood in the living room. Relc was coming. Possel waited.
And waited.
The sun went down. The Drake stood there, growing more impatient by the second. When the door’s bell—the actual bell on a hook—finally rang, he snapped.
“Come in!”
 
—-
 
If he was being honest, Relc did take his time. He walked the city. He had a light dinner. He thought about the future, and what he had done today, asked himself what Erin would say.
…He had no idea what she would say. He wasn’t good at coming up with new things.
Relc was not super-imaginative. He didn’t come up with crazy new ideas like putting acid flies in cookies. So, when he did come to Possel’s home two hours past sundown, he was wearing plain clothes, obviously not carrying his spear.
“Pos!”
He finally greeted the other Drake with his name. Pos smiled.
“Relc. You’re a bit late. Come in.”
Relc shrugged through the doorway. He still looked huge without his armor. Bigger than Pos, but he was smiling.
“You wanted to talk about today? Bad stuff with the [Guards].”
“Exactly. But can I get you anything to drink first? We need to talk, Relc. It seems we don’t see eye-to-eye after all.”
The Drake [Spearmaster] grinned and rolled his arm, then the other, as Possel walked towards his pantry. The living room was nice. Sofa, even a few magical trinkets—a bachelor’s place. Ah, yeah. Possel had mentioned that.
“Well, I am taller than you. No drinks. I’m gonna be quick.”
Pos laughed. The others, unseen, waited, tensed. Relc saw Possel swing around.
“The thing is, Relc—we can’t have it continue like this. You understand? Eisst has a temper. He’s a good [Guard], but he’d never make Senior Guardsman. That’s fine; you were right to stop him from killing that Gnoll. Prisoners too. But it’s the way you do it. We’re the Watch.”
“Yup. We’re the Watch. I’m Relc. You’re Pos.”
The other Drake’s grin slipped.
“I’m being serious, Relc. I want you to be serious for once in your Ancestors-damned life. Can you do that?”
Relc Grasstongue didn’t look around. He massaged his right shoulder, and nodded.
“Sure. I’m glad you asked to talk, Pos. Because listen—I was going to ask too, but my place is too cramped. I’ve been thinking.”
All Relc knew was routine. All Relc had was this: good boots, knowledge of how to swing a spear, his friends, his blacksmith puzzles, and his daughter. He didn’t know how to fix any of this.
So he just did what he’d do. The Drake scratched at the scales on one arm.
“You don’t like Gnolls that much.”
“I’m fine with—”
Pos opened his mouth. Relc shushed him.
“No, no. Hold on. I get to talk because I’m Relc. Listen. You don’t like Gnolls. I can tell. I was in the army; I’ve been to more cities than you have. Way more. You told me you never left Cellidel.”
Possel blinked. Relc actually remembered a detail about his life? He saw Relc twist his neck. Left. Right. The Drake sighed.
“Liscor has tons of Gnolls. And Antinium. And Humans, these days. Well, I wasn’t cool with Antinium because they killed my friends, but one of them is my best buddy. Or was. Humans? I didn’t know ‘em, but they’re good too. I’m still not a fan of Goblins, but hey, they don’t like me much either. It’s a work in progress.”
“Goblins? What do you mean—”
Relc spoke over him, cheerfully raising his voice until Pos stopped.
“The thing is: I don’t know the other stuff. Like how you fix Cellidel. All I know is: Gnolls are fine. I was in the army. I had a Gnoll commanding officer. Gnoll buddies. Drake buddies. Sometimes we fought with Gnoll tribes. Sometimes alongside Gnoll tribes. Sometimes we had to work in cities like this. We pick up recruits from all over the place and sometimes they enlist, but they just don’t like Gnolls. Or we have to serve with another army that’s all-Drake.”
The Senior Guards were listening, confused at where he was going with this. Relc went on, and now he was looking at Pos. Grinning slightly.
