“The army’s not smart. I’m not smart. So when we have a problem, we fix it. I don’t know how to change the Watch, but I do know what we do to guys who can’t handle being around Gnolls. Or beat them up.”
“And…what’s that?”
Possel stared at Relc. The Drake began cracking his knuckles. He couldn’t be serious, could he? But he was. The Drake checked the door; it was still ajar so he shut it.
“Pos, buddy. This is a Liscor-army style lesson. If you pick up a sword, I’m going to hurt you.”
Pos laughed. It was incredulous. But it seemed as Relc walked forwards that he was getting bigger. The Gecko of Liscor glanced around. The house was so silent. He looked at Pos, who was waiting. Waiting for…
His eyes flickered as Relc grinned at him.
“Their [Dangersenses] are going off. And I’m not even carrying my spear. Now, here’s a Liscorian lesson. Don’t worry. It’ll be quick. I’ve gotta sleep since I have a shift in the morning. We can’t take all night.”
He raised a fist. Pos swung first, with a shout. Relc caught the fist and the smaller Drake looked up at him.
The other Senior Guards…watched.
They just watched.
 
—-
 
The next day, Relc hummed as he went to work. He entered the silent Watch House and noted Possel wasn’t there. He was off sick.
The thing about routine was that you could flip it. There was the routine of a [Guardsman] who kept his head down and didn’t rock the boat.
But what happened if the routine was ‘deal with this one [Guard] who we can’t handle’? Well, as it happened, Relc knew that too.
The first thing you did was teach him a lesson. Generally speaking, you sorted it out in private.
Unless of course, your [Dangersense] told you that even nine-on-one, you were in trouble. And you saw one Drake hit another across a room. And they knew you were there.
It was an illustrative lesson. None of the [Guards] looked at Relc. He paused by his armor locker and opened it.
What did you do if that first one failed? Well, routine told Relc a number of ways existed. He’d seen it in the army and his job.
The second way was hazing. Tricks, pranks, and so on. He opened his locker, pulled out his pristine armor, and detached the little note from it.
Touch my armor and I will break your arms.
Relc hummed as he dressed himself. It brought him back, doing things the Liscor-army way. He hadn’t changed anything. Not changed anyone’s minds, not changed the situation…just rearranged parts of a face. It was just something you did.
“Guards, fall in!”
The bark came from Terigrals’ office. Relc stood to attention and marched into a line as the Watch Captain came out. With a truth stone.
“Surprise inspection. Guardswoman Aiss, do you swear that you have committed no crimes under Cellidel law, broken no Watch regulations, taken no bribes, and have not compromised your oath as a [Guard]?”
Relc stood there, ignoring the sidelong looks and expectant, vengeful glares.
If you failed with both tactics, the last step was to go up. Well—second-to-last. He heard [Guards] swearing via the truth spell, and waited until Terigrals got to him.
The Watch Captain did not look happy, but he met Relc’s gaze squarely. Why did he look disappointed? The other [Guards] all watched, even the ones already cleared as he spoke.
“Guardsman Relc. Do you swear that you have committed no crimes under Cellidel law, broken no Watch regulations, taken no bribes, and have not compromised your oath as a [Guard]?”
“Yessir.”
The truth stone glowed…gray. A darker hue than not. Not a full lie, but—the exhalation in the Watch House could have blown out a window.
Terigrals nodded. He raised his voice.
“Senior Guardsman Relc, how many incidents, to your knowledge, exist of you breaking the law or failing to uphold your oath?”
Relc thought.
“…Two, Watch Captain.”
Terigrals blinked. The stone glowed white. The Watch Captain eyed him.
“Then explain both, Senior Guardsman.”
Relc nodded.
“I saw a [Guard] continue to attack a downed criminal and failed to stop them during the armed robbery last week, Watch Captain. I also failed to speak up when an innocent kid was arrested for owning a practice spear, and got beaten bloody because of it. Those are my failings, sir, and I will accept full punishment for both.”
The entire Watch stared at the stone in Terigrals’ claw. It didn’t change color. It glowed serenely white the entire time.
Terigrals stared at the Drake.
“Nothing else, Guardsman Relc? You have not violated the law in any other way?”
Relc thought about it.
“Nossir. My conscience is as clear as a glass of water. As smooth as a Human’s ass, sir.”
Laughter. Terigrals hesitated and looked at the stone, but while it dipped into grey with the glass of water and Human’s ass comment, it was only a bit. Relc was telling the truth.
As truth stones saw it, at least.
The Watch Captain looked at Relc Grasstongue. Relc met his gaze.
“Do you have anything else you’d like to talk to me about, Watch Captain T?”
He asked innocently. Terigrals met his gaze. Relc waited. The Watch waited, uncertain of what came next.
Routine, you old Drake. If Terigrals acknowledged Pos, it meant he also knew that nine Senior Guards had waited to ambush one of their own. And if he did—the Watch Captain hesitated.
The truth stone was glowing in his claw. Relc stared at it, then Terigrals. Say something. I dare you.
“No, Senior Guardsman Relc. That will be all.”
Terigrals hid the stone before it turned dark. Relc saw it, even so.
 
—-
 
The end. Hold for applause. An extra drink on the house and spaghetti! If Relc was telling a story to Erin, that’s what would happen next.
But here, he just marched out the door. The Watch did not fall on their knees and swear to never work with bias again. The truth stone did not come to life and start reflecting their lies in how they conducted themselves.
What did happen was that Relc left the Watch House alone. Somehow, Terigrals forgot to assign him a partner. No one else mentioned it.
What happened at the last, in the army, in the Watch, wherever, was that if all else failed, then out came the knives. Not actual knives, although Relc had slept with his back to the wall, like the old days. The last part of the anti-routine was this:
They left you alone.
Alone. Not just on the job, not just in talking, but alone alone. In battle, when you were shoulder-to-shoulder with your fellow [Soldiers], there was the gap. If you blew your whistle while you were in danger—no one came.
That was how you died. Yet Relc had known that plenty of times. That was what the Gecko of Liscor did. He charged ahead of the other [Soldiers], alone, into enemy ranks, fought, and escaped.
He could survive that. He could survive riots. His life hadn’t been in danger. Something else had been.
 
—-
 
When the first crowds gathered in defiance of the city’s ordinances, the Watch cracked down. There were counter-protests, which was really people angry at the angry people, ready to fight.
None of it was particularly unique in Cellidel, even with Sellme. This was the beginning. It was going to get worse. Citizens in Cellidel had weapons. The Watch had training and experience, even Skills designed to fight criminals.
However, when they stood in a line in the street, facing down an angry crowd ten times their size, a hundred, that was when the Watch was most terrified. They braced as stones came their way; if arrows flew, they would charge. For now it was changing; the citizens weren’t angry enough yet. Not yet, but it just took a spark.
The Watch might be that spark. They were nervous. Of course they wanted to do something, make an example of someone, disperse the crowd by force before it could get larger. It wouldn’t work, but they were nervous.
They saw how outnumbered they were. How, if it really came down to it, even the Gnoll population in the city, minority though they were, had the Watch outnumbered. What kind of [Guard] could face down so many angry enemies and handle it?
Well, that would be the Senior Guardsman who stopped down his street as a crowd came his way. No line of [Guards] here. They saw one [Guard], and started shouting. He turned to look at them.
The Gecko of Liscor. [Spearmaster]—
For a second they wavered. That one Drake was looking at them without fear. With eyes like an [Innkeeper], or a [Veteran] of larger wars. His grip tightened on his spear—
Then Relc blinked. He shook his head, lowered the weapon, and looked around.
“Hold on.”
He looked at the crowd, and then sidled over to something. The people saw him edge over to a terrified vendor trying to pack up their stall. Relc waved at him, tried to hold a conversation—gave up. He plunked down some copper, and took the cheap wooden bowl of noodles spiced hot. He began to slurp them down. Then he walked forwards.
“Hey, Senior Guardsman Relc here. Best [Guardsman] in Cellidel. Can I help you all? There’s some kind of law about gatherings, but I don’t see the point. So long as you don’t smash anything or anyone, we’re cool. Cool? These noodles are great, by the way.”
He looked around. Some of the people in the crowd laughed; others stared at him suspiciously.
“What are you going to do about the people murdering Gnolls? Didn’t you see the latest Sellme drawing?”
One of them shouted. Relc waved a fork back.
“If you mean whoever killed that guy a day ago—I’ll investigate. Where was it?”
The speaker went silent, confused, but the acquiescence didn’t fly. It was just a [Guard], trying to calm them down. The crowd rumbled. Then someone focused on Relc.
“Hold on. Look. That’s the Drake that’s teaching the spear.”
Some of the Gnolls recognized him. Relc nodded. He waited. The fact that they knew him was probably because his patrols had never ended that badly. Or he knew Vok. Or maybe Sellme’s latest painting had a strikingly similar Drake arresting another [Guard], who was trying to hit a bunch of downed civilians.
Even so, if they went for him, Relc was going to…run away. So fast they’d never catch up, even if there was a City Runner in the mix. If they didn’t, he’d look into that murder.
They didn’t attack him. It might have been the fact that Relc was eating from a bowl of noodles, or the way he talked to them, with a different city’s approach.
Maybe it was just the badge. It gleamed on his armored chest.
Senior Guardsman Relc, Liscor’s Watch.
The piece of metal had never looked so fitting. Never seemed so important before. But then, it fit Relc today more than other days. He had been a [Senior Guardsman] for a long time, but he’d been surprisingly low-level for the position.
Below Level 20, if you could believe it. Zevara and the previous Watch Captain had made an exception for a Level 30+ [Spearmaster]. However, Relc had leveled painfully slowly in the class, even if you took his other classes into account.
Today, the former Level 18 [Senior Guardsman] stood and talked, listening to the crowd and the way the city waited. It wouldn’t be long. He also doubted he could stop it. The Watch wasn’t changing. Relc wasn’t smart enough to change their routine. A single Relc fist could only punch one person at a time, as amazing as he was.
Nevertheless, the badge shone. With trust. Such that even those citizens of Cellidel, Gnolls and Drakes, who didn’t know Relc, saw it. It was a Skill only for a [Guard], who needed it.
[Wear My Integrity]. A capstone Skill, along with another for a [Guardsman of Trust].
But what it really meant was different. Relc had once told Erin Solstice that a Senior Guard was special because they couldn’t just get the job. They had to have enough people willing to vouch for them. Hundreds.
A [Guard] was not a [Soldier]. The badge meant trust. If you didn’t have that, you weren’t a [Guard]. With it, he could do his job. You didn’t run away, even if you were alone, because someone was counting on you.
Relc Grasstongue kept the peace alone, where it went badly on other streets. The next day, martial law was declared.
 
—-
 
It was going to get worse. Watch Captain Zevara kept glancing at the reports from Cellidel. She sat in her office, checking over Calruz’s work reports, the army’s growing needs, and every other aspect of her job.
Wing Commander Embria had been by again, to make a personal appeal. Watch Captain Zevara normally resented that, but she had let it all slide because she agreed.
Cellidel. Why had she sent him there? She’d thought it was just crime, but this? Riots between Gnolls and Drakes. She didn’t have to double-check Relc’s claims. She believed what she was reading.
So. Why then was this the letter that sat on her desk? Watch Captain Zevara had written back; she recalled the letter, verbatim.
 
To Senior Guardsman Relc,
Effective immediately, you are recalled to Liscor on my authority as Watch Captain of Liscor. Watch Captain Terigrals has approved the transfer and you may proceed with your own transportation, or arrangements via the Merchant’s Guild. 
–Zevara, Watch Captain
 
She wanted to add that any of Terigrals’ notes wouldn’t stick in his record. That she would have his badge if she could manage it, and that she wanted him back and his return was with honors as far as she saw it. He could give a full accounting then.
However. The letter sat on her desk, clumsily written—sent via City Runner days ago. That was then. He had to know what the city looked like, what the Watch was made of. Nevertheless.
 
Dear Watch Captain Zevara,
I, Relc Grasstongue, amazing Senior Guardsman, must respectfully decline to return to Liscor at this time. I believe Cellidel needs a Senior Guard who doesn’t have his tail up his ass. When it’s over, I’ll come back. I can help out here, a bit. Respectfully,
–Relc, [Guardsman of Trust]. (See? I leveled up!)
 
She smiled as she read it again. Was this really Relc? It couldn’t be. Then again—she sat back.
“I need a Street Runner to find Wing Commander Embria. Tell her it’s a personal matter. Correspondence.”
One of the [Guards] working desk-duty shouted back.
“Is it Relc? Is that idiot finally getting his tail back over here? We miss him!”
Zevara hesitated. Then she smiled.
“That’s Senior Guardsman Relc to you, Jeiss! No. He’s got an assignment to finish. We’ll hold his locker. Now. Get back to work!”
