Du Min Gyu sat motionless, his back hunched as he watched the joss sticks burn down slowly to nubs, the last moments before burning out always the most difficult, as if they suddenly began to burn slower as they reached the end of their life in a struggle to remain burning as long as possible. Even after living for so long, his impatience still troubled him, his greatest weakness as he was reminded time and time again.

Seven days of mourning, that was the standard duration of a funeral for those who could afford it. The direct family, husbands or wives and any children would remain beside the coffin, keeping the incense burning for the seven days, sleeping beside it in a symbol of solidarity, but any other mourners were free to come and go. Without any direct family present, he had decided to stay for the entire time on his own, only sleeping for a handful of hours while his slaves took over his duties each night, his tent set up beside the incense burner.

It had been a terrible mistake, well-meaning, but still a horrible decision. It was the middle of summer and still his breath turned to cold mist with every exhale, this land was a beautiful and heartless mistress intent on making him suffer for the pleasure of her sights, a hateful, vindictive bitch. It would have been better to not go through with this, the experience having tainted his memory of Kai, as now when he would think of the boy, he would first remember this mockery of a funeral. As much as Kai had meant to him, the boy was dead and were he present to see his Mentor shivering in the cold morning air, keeping watch over an empty patch of grass, he would likely die of laughter.

Standing up, he felt his knees creak as he shuffled forwards and accepted new joss sticks from Kyung, lighting them in a nearby brazier and placing them into the burner before returning to his seat. A terrible mistake. Settling back against his chair, he glanced over at Akanai, chuckling as she sat stiff backed in her stool. A small victory, it seemed she was too stubborn to bring her own chair, or simply didn't have one to bring. That was one glaring downside to the roosequins, for as mobile as they were, carrying a soldier in full armor was already the limit of their strength. Add on the increased amount of rations required to feed the creatures, there was very little that each Khishig could carry with them while traveling, requiring multiple supply mounts for each soldier, an expensive prospect.

Still, he wanted a few for his own personal use, far more comfortable than riding a horse and they seemed like rather affectionate creatures, one of them curling up around a new half-beast Khishig who had joined them today, getting her hair cut by Akanai's 'daughter', as if they were out of the city on a lark, and not in an armed camp of soldiers who were meant to hunt down Defiled warriors. An appalling lack of discipline, it seemed as if every single one of her soldiers sat idle in camp, joined by more than half of her Khishigs, the woman acting unconcerned about the safety of the Empire, allowing Defiled scum to run free as she slowly took her time dealing with them, so slowly that she had not left the camp since his arrival. Admittedly, if he were in her place he would have done the same. It was unpleasant work, not fit for true warriors, and it would have been foolish to leave him here unsupervised with how he had acted.

His provocation had begun simply to injure and humiliate her, never truly meaning to kill her, but her strength had surprised him, a more capable warrior than he would like to admit. Were he a gambler, he would offer conservative 60:40 odds in his favor, little better than a coin flip, a far more powerful opponent than he expected to find this far north. With Akanai here and if the rumors of Baatar and Gerel were not overstated, then these Khishigs were formidable indeed, with even the children displaying fearsome prowess with Akanai's daughter able to easily disperse his Killing Intent, an impressive display of control, especially for one so young.

Much of his time the past few days had been spent in self-reflection, wondering why he had acted so viciously over a slave, one of great value and high pedigree, but still a slave, not worth squabbling over. Despite that, he had simply given in to his sorrow and rage for the second time that day, Kai's death affecting him far worse than he thought possible. It was the damned pipe smoke, a blend of herbs meant to dull the pain of old age, but it also had the unfortunate effect of lowering his inhibitions, seemingly to the point of entertaining thoughts of murdering a Justicar, something that would have seen his entire lineage cleansed to nine generations, killing anyone with the barest hint of familial relation to him. It was only through Akanai's lie that he had escaped such a fate, and he was... grateful for her intervention. He had tried to go without the pipe, but after a single day his body had been wracked with shivering and he had succumbed to the heady smoke once again. Better that he had died in his prime than to be reduced to this pitiful state.

Feeling maudlin, he sat there listening to the children chat about boys and nonsense, barely paying attention to Kyung and his opponent as they endeavored to outperform the other, almost to the point of impractical, pretty movements. Hearing himself mentioned, he said a few words to rile up the little girl, smiling to himself as he watched Akanai's stony features twitch as she fought for control. He had found that the simplest way to agitate her was to speak to her daughter. There was no need to be outright hostile, any words said to the girl would displease Akanai, and he gave them sparingly, but still at least once a day. Grateful he may be, it was difficult to like the woman, a stern, unyielding attendant who sat ready to attack only an arm's length away while she ignored all his attempts at conversation through Sendings. He could not show deference before the soldiers or his slaves, and to speak out in apology would shame him far too much, yet she refused to give him any other avenue to save face.

Grumbling over his frustrations, he took solace in the fact that it would soon be over, his vigil over after today and able to set off in the morning. He planned to find Kai's former armed escorts and bring them home with him, not willing to return without them. Were he to do so, the entire trip would have been for nothing, and that simply could not be allowed. At the very least, he could put on a show of aiding in the defense of the north, perhaps kill a few Defiled while he was at it, relieving himself of some of this guilt he felt for having failed Kai.

Four hours later, the time passing slowly, he stood and lit the incense once again, moving towards the burner to place them down with as much reverence as he could muster under the circumstances. Pausing as he turned to shuffle back to his seat, his eyes narrowed as he noted the trails of smoke, drifting away in a small, thin stream, pulled to the left instead of floating up with the slight breeze. Curious. Gathering his chi, he reached out with his inner senses, feeling the wind move about him in tiny currents. Many believed that the wind moved about as a singular stream, a mass of air traveling from one destination to the next, but the truth was far from it. Every tiny change had an effect, whether it be from the wings of a butterfly or a bird, the tiniest of movements could have an impact on the wind, heightening in intensity as it built up slowly until it was a raging gale.

His senses directed him towards the daughter's friend, a deer girl, her prominent, sharp horns an obvious sign of her origins. Intrigued, he approached her slowly only to be intercepted by Akanai, who quickly darted in front of him, staring down at him as she protected the child. Waving her aside, he snorted as he circled around her with a single step, leaving himself wide open to an attack, but unconcerned. “I just want to take a look.” The words were Sent to Akanai and she appeared to hesitate before conceding, not bothering to continue their little match.

The deer-girl sat cross-legged, her palms folded in her lap as she meditated, her face calm and tranquil. Flicking a single finger, he sent a lash of chi to cut a small patch of grass, the cuttings floating up in the air and circling the girl lightly, falling aside with the barest of breezes, bringing a look of disbelief to his face. The girl was unconsciously manipulating the wind, albeit with very little force or control, but it was a spectacular first step as the blessings of the Divine Wind settled upon her. It was likely his match with Akanai that had inspired this and unsure whether to laugh or cry, he lamented his part in strengthening someone who could become his enemy, but still took great pride is seeing a young warrior blossom. Turning to Akanai, he raised an eyebrow and hinted that she should do something. A Spiritual Awakening was difficult to process without aid, especially for someone so young, but with proper nurturing, this child would undoubtedly grow into a true treasure. Two talented youths, the luck of the Akanai was near unbelievable.

After a few minutes of staring, his frustrations mounted as it became obvious that she would do nothing and he snorted in disdain. “Why?” As soon as the word left his mouth, he began cursing at himself for not making Kyung ask in his place, but there was no pill to cure regret. “You can not be so foolish as to leave this child unaided because of my presence?”

“In this instance, your presence has no impact on my actions.” Staring at him as she stood at ease, his breath came in nasal puffs as he struggled for control of his temper, his hands clenching and unclenching as he envisioned striking the arrogant woman down. Swallowing his rage, he continued to glare at her, wordlessly demanding an explanation. To be so callous with this youth was to throw away the future of the Empire, as today's talents were tomorrow's heroes.

After some time, the hateful woman finally spoke as she lazily shrugged. “I am not equipped to properly aid her, nor am I in command of anyone who is.” She gave him a knowing look. “The girl will have to succeed or fail on her own, as she has for her entire life.”

His rage washed away with that single sentence, and he shuffled back to his chair to ponder on her words. The girl Adujan was a talented youth rarely seen, one in tens of thousands, and Akanai dared to hint that he be the one to help her? Since the girl had not accepted him as her Mentor, he refused to expend effort so that Akanai could reap without sowing, and he saw no scenario where Akanai would allow him to take the girl as a slave without contest.

The day wore on as he watched the girl, only able to offer prayers and well wishes as she continued to meditate, the wind swirling around her lightly. Dinnertime arrived and he watched in eager anticipation as Akanai went to wake her, his hopes dashed upon the sight of her disappointed grimace, a clear sign of her inability to Awaken, the secrets that had been known to her fading away from memory.

Remaining in his chair, he silently contemplated his options while watching the girl stroll off, lamenting at her failure. The Divine Wind could be a fickle mistress, who knew how many more chances the girl would have?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The smell of crushed herbs and medicinal oils fill my nostrils as I rack my brain. “Uhh... the Laogong and the... Quchi acupoints?”

“Are you asking me, or telling me?” Tokta sits slumped in his chair, his voice muffled by the desk his face rests upon. It has been tough for him the last few days, riding out with the Sentinel's, in joint-command with Alsantset now that Akanai was babysitting Kai's crazy Mentor.

“...Telling?”

Lifting his head to shoot me a look of disapproval, he lets out a sigh. “Correct. Be more confident in yourself, boy. You are quick to memorize, and more importantly, you are able to make use of your knowledge. Finish up here and come with me.”

Putting aside the mortar and pestle, I stand up and follow him out of the tent and towards a secluded, rocky area. Unrolling a woven, bamboo mat, he gestures for me to lay down on it. “You've been pestering me to move your studies along, and your progress has suitably impressed me. Your technical knowledge is adequate, so today, you will begin your attempt at regenerating your arm. I say attempt because it is not only possible for you to fail, I expect that you will fail today. In fact, the best case scenario would be that nothing happens and we try again tomorrow.”

Well... That's not demoralizing at all. “Okay... so, what do I do?”

Yawning, he stretches out as he sits on the ground a short distance away. “Prepare. Meditate. Examine. Control your Chi, visualize, then regrow the arm. Simple to explain, difficult to do. Don't lose focus.” Laying back, he places his hands on his stomach and closes his eyes, falling asleep almost immediately. Tokta isn't exactly the most hands on teacher in the world, preferring to leave me to figure everything out on my own. Even the book he gave me was just full of information, but nothing about actually healing. Essentially, he gave me a book on numbers and wants me to figure out calculus. That's real helpful.

