Control will come with practice, so I guess it's a good time to try, with other me napping after our morning bout with motion sickness, unable to distract me. He's really only 'awake' for a few hours each day, which is fine by me. I've felt crowded out by him lately, almost resentful of his presence as I really do prefer solitude in all things, although having Adujan around isn't too terrible. Taking one last look at the orange-blue sky before I begin, I close my eyes and breathe, slowly reviewing the steps required, from the shapes of the bones, the location of muscles, orientation of tendons, time passing by as I prepare.

When I finally feel that I am ready, I slowly reach for Balance, letting my chi circle around my body slowly as the Energy of the Heavens welcomes me, a gentle, languid pool for me to relax in. I decided long ago to not wear the ring for this, allowing myself to work on control without having to worry about killing myself from taking too much Energy in.

Interestingly enough, as my chi flows through my body, it feels as if my arm is still there, the imagined sensations of cool air flowing over it, tickling the hairs on my arm as it rests next to me. Tokta calls it 'Phantom Sensation', something that is not truly well understood, but I'm guessing it's one reason why I can't modify my arm as I regenerate it, because it still exists in some metaphysical sense. Any deviation from what is there will apparently results in an explosive growth of tumors, an unpleasant thought. I'm drifting, I need to focus. Letting myself rest while I meditate, my mind empties itself of all but what is required and I wait, my chi circulating about my body while Heavenly Energy begins condensing into my core.

When the flow into my core slows almost to a stop, I let the Energy of the Heavens continue to wash through me, surrounding me in a tranquil state of suspension, and my mind turns to my arm, chopped off only five centimeters from the shoulder. That joint and the muscle connecting the stump are still in place, I only need to work outwards starting from the humerus. The deltoid muscles will need to be regrown and connected to what is still in place, a good first step. Moving my chi towards the arm, it sits there, doing nothing as it can find nothing to heal, no work that it can do, and my mind goes through the possible options.

Tentatively, I start with something familiar, repairing the bone, and I push my chi to begin working, blood rushing into the tissue surrounding the clean shorn bone, inflaming the area as it clots in predetermined pattern and preparing the way for a stable framework, each step carefully guided with the utmost attention. The clotted blood grows in size and is re-purposed into a soft, fibrous tissue, a tiny cap on the bone less than a millimeter in thickness as I repeat the process again and again, thickening and compressing, hardening the cap into bone and marrow.

Time has no meaning here, but it feels as if I've concentrated for hours, my mind already weary but there is still more to do. My throat burns from thirst as I move on to the next, unpleasant step: the endosteum and periosteum, the nerve rich membrane layers that line the inside and outside of my bones. Pain flares through me at the creation of new nerves, thousands of them in an area smaller than a drop of water, firing off for the first time as it signals at injury where there is none, and will continue to do so until they acclimate.

Falling out of Balance, my eyes snap open to the dim evening light as I jolt up, sweat running down my brow as my arm screams in agony. Short of breath, I check the stump for any visible change despite knowing that I won't see any. A water skin lays next to me and I greedily drink from it as I search the surroundings, Tokta still laying down where I last saw him, a blanket over him. There is a blanket over me as well, the almost-full moon moving its way through the night sky as Tokta snores away, indicating that I've been here for at least three hours already.

Great efforts for little gains, it would almost not be worth it until I remember that I'm growing a fucking arm. Of course it isn't easy. After a few breathing exercises, the pain subsides to a more manageable level, feeling as if there were a tiny, burning hot coin attached to the stump of my arm, a minor inconvenience. Shuddering at the memory of the pain of my newly grown arm, I take some time to convince myself that this is worth it, that I need to know this, and that I really need to thank Taduk the next time I see him. He regrew my arm and a foot in a matter of hours, the man deserves a hug.

How did he heal me so quickly? It cannot have been through micromanaging like I've done, because at this rate I'll have a new arm in a decade or so. If only I could have an arm just spring out fully formed from the stump, or at least speed this along somehow. Glancing at Tokta for a moment, my decision is made rather easily; since he was sleeping when I started, I might as well keep practicing until I pass out. After taking a few minutes to compose myself, I lay back down on the mat, my sweat-dampened shirt feeling cool against my skin, and I reach for Balance.

Picking up where I left off, I continue to pour my chi into my arm, moving from the bone, through the muscle, fat, and skin, a slow, arduous endeavor, my progress spiraling out from the tiny center until after an eternity, a thin cross-section of new arm has been regenerated, my stump now almost an entire millimeter longer. Internally inspecting my work, I cannot help but feel disheartened at the amount of effort required to do this, unable to glimpse a future in which this goes quickly. There has to be some trick that I am not seeing, some method that I can apply.

Thinking back, Taduk had worked on multiple areas at once, regrowing my liver and ribs at the same time, as well as patching up the holes in my chest all at the same time, the chi splitting into thousands of different sections to do a single purpose each. That isn't just a matter of practice or multitasking, there is simply no way he could have directed everything at once. There had to be some degree of autonomy, it seemed as if every tiny stream of chi knew exactly what to do. Is it possible for me to lay out a series of instructions for my chi in advance, and simply let it go to work?

Putting my theory to the test, I set to work trying to duplicate Taduk's efforts on a smaller scale, just trying to automate the process of growing a new cap on the bone, but no matter how I try, as soon as I stop focusing on a single process and move on, the first process halts in it's tracks. Exasperated, I decide to go all in and try something drastic, visualizing the entire cross-section that I am attempting to regenerate, holding the entire concept in my mind before directing all of my chi to realize the concept, make it a reality all at once. As I watch, the small disc of arm grows faster than before, the excruciating pain almost secondary to my elation, the sweet vindication of knowing that I am doing something right fills me with pride. Soon, another millimeter is added to my arm stump and going for broke, I escalate and try for a larger section, almost three millimeters thick this time.

The process continues as I congratulate myself on being amazing, hardly able to wait to shove my success in Tokta's face, his annoyed, disdainful attitude having gotten under my skin lately. I shouldn't gloat, nor should I really call myself a genius, but I wonder how he will -

My mouth rips open and a tortured scream bellows out from my lungs as a violent, intense pain explodes from my arm as if it was submerged in acid and set aflame. Staring at the stump of my arm in the moonlight, I watch in agonized horror as a fist sized lump of flesh and bone bursts from the skin, looking nothing like it is supposed to, growing before my eyes in a terrifying amalgamation of sinuous meat, my inhuman howl echoing through the night.

A heavy hand shoves me down and a weight holds me in place, Tokta's knee jammed against my chest. With a flash in the moonlight, the lump is severed from my arm yet still continues to grow as it twitches and flops in place. Tokta's hand covers my eyes and I hear his dry, nasal voice as I sink into sweet unconsciousness.

“Congratulations boy, your failure was far more spectacular than expected.”

Chapter Meme
