The costume was stupid. But Rhisveri felt like he had to wear it the third time. He shuffled forwards in the full-body puppet outfit. A blue sock hopping through the snow towards The Wandering Inn wasn’t the most menacing. However! It would show that stupid Antinium and that uppity [Princess].
He was hoping one or the other took a shot at him. He had cast the spell over the entire inn, and the Antinium and [Princess] were the only one who’d ever actually held it off, but a [Princess] could have annoying powers to shield groups. Rhisveri had an entire plan.
Gently beat them down, castigate them with a few one-liners he’d written up, grab the wand, point out, sarcastically, that if he had been a foe, they’d all be dead and that he was on Ryoka’s side, then get the wand to her.
Since Visophecin was out-of-contact, someone had to hold the Wind Runner’s hand for her. Not that he was helping! No, it was just that she’d never get anything done with the wand if he didn’t get it to her.
Besides, this was just…an amusing distraction. He wasn’t running away from his duties or House Shoel’s deals. Or Dionamella. Or Fithea…
Enough of this. Rhisveri kept hopping forward, waiting for that arrow. Then he’d dodge, leap onto the roof, and that Antinium would find out what happened when ‘Rhissy’ started throwing hands.
Rhisveri was so busy thinking about it that he almost didn’t realize there was a faint glow coming from the shuttered windows. Or that someone else was watching him with their mouth slightly open.
“I don’t think I’ve actually seen that in my entire life. Which is amazing, in hindsight.”
The sock puppet froze. It spun—and Tolveilouka leaned against one wall of The Wandering Inn. The half-Elf had a curved blade at his side, blood-red, and was bare-chested, pale-white robes.
Who the heck was—he was dangerous.
The Duke’s hands tore out of the sock puppet in an instant, pointing a glowing finger at the half-Elf as he conjured a magical blade into his hand. He was an adept fighter, even with this fake body.
“So, the [Princess] hired a bodyguard. Name yourself before I give you a light thrashing.”
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer just stared at the talking sock puppet with the muffled voice of Rhisveri coming from inside. He delicately rubbed at his eyeballs with two fingers.
“For the sake of your dignity, let alone mine, I suggest you hop away, sock-sorcerer. I have a little date with this inn.”
He grinned with all his teeth.
“And I hope they’re prepared.”
Who was this? Rhisveri, the Wyrm, was in no real danger since he was puppeting the Duke, but his warning bells were going off like crazy. Then he realized he was still in the costume and began to dismiss it—until he thought better. It was a good disguise, however silly.
“I have business with this…place as well. Don’t disrupt my activities inside, and I won’t interfere with yours.”
He sneered at the half-Elf. He needed to get that wand. If this fellow was here for a fight…
Wait, didn’t this inn have children in it? How irresponsible! Rhisveri didn’t care for mortals. But Ryoka Griffin did, and if she blubbered and died of dehydration from tears…
He groaned.
Okay. No playing games. Get in, get the wand, throw the children out the window—the snow would probably cushion their impacts. Get out. Have House Shoel find out who this half-Elf was.
Tolveilouka was just leaning against the wall, smiling. He hadn’t moved nor responded to Rhisveri’s generous offer.
“Well?”
The Duke snapped at him, and the half-Elf looked past him.
“I don’t negotiate with socks. Begone, you amusing little thing. I don’t even think you’re really here, are you? I’m no master-mage, but you remind me of all those Archmage cowards who used to strut around with fake bodies. As if you can’t hurt the real thing. So long as there’s a link—I found a way.”
Okay. Rhisveri really didn’t like that. The Wyrm snarled and began enchanting both his main body and his fake one.
“A battle here benefits neither of us. I have work to do. Begone.”
The half-Elf pushed himself up, and Rhisveri backed away a step, but Tolveilouka just fished in his robes and pulled something out.
“As it happens, I was invited.”
What? Duke Rhisveri stared at a bright yellow letter with a golden sunburst on it.
That’s the seal of Calanfer. And if I don’t miss my guess, that’s some kind of invitation Skill. Tolveilouka pulled the door of the inn open.
“It seems someone here has a backbone, even without that woman. Ready or not? Here I come.”
He strode inside, drawing his sword, and Duke Rhisveri hesitated. Oh—damn!
He charged in after Tolveilouka, ready for an attack from the half-Elf. But all he found when he entered The Wandering Inn was—
A door.
The front door was open, and Rhisveri knew the layout well after two entries. There should have been a long hallway leading to the left where the portal room was. But instead, there wasn’t. Behind the front door was a small space where Tolveilouka stood. And another door.
The [Portal Door]’s room was off to the left, but someone had walled off the corridor. And the new door—it was very new; Duke Rhisveri could smell the fresh varnish—had a sign on it.
Welcome to The Wandering Inn! If you’re here to travel, please stay within the inn! The main inn is closed to uninvited guests, and we are undergoing construction outside! If you have to poo, the outhouses are directly outside on the right.
A slightly more ominous line was scrawled below the friendly writing.
Don’t go past this door. You have been warned.
The wooden sign was hanging on a nail. Tolveilouka half-turned as Rhisveri stopped.
“Well, you’re a slow learner. I wonder what will happen? Tag along then, you silly sock. My sword tells me I won’t have much trouble with you. I wonder how many little [Necromancers] she’s lined up?”
Rhisveri didn’t say a word. Tolveilouka pulled the second door open. The half-Elf and Duke Rhisveri blinked.
There was…a third door beyond the second one. Another little room.
Hello! If you’re reading this and you’re a member of staff, please use the secret entrances to enter the inn! If you’re not, you’re stupid and you can’t read. Turn around! Bad things await!
Right, the secret entrances. Duke Rhisveri surreptitiously felt at the fake walls and tried to open them with a cantrip. It…didn’t work.
“Hm. Right here?”
Tolveilouka turned and kicked the wall where Rhisveri was, and the Duke swore and dodged. He was fast! The sound was tremendous—but muffled.
“Someone’s enchanted the walls. Not bad.”
It was barely dented by the impact. Rhisveri was sure he could get through the magic…in time, but Tolveilouka just turned back.
“This is amusing. I wonder wh—”
He pulled the door open, and his smile vanished. This time, Duke Rhisveri sniggered as the half-Elf’s eyes flashed.
There was…a fourth door. The Wyrm was down with this sort of humor.
Seriously! We mean it! We don’t take responsibility for horrific things that might happen to you if you keep coming! Are you a Creler? Crelers can’t read. If you’re something nasty that deserves to die, keep coming. Stupid.
Tolveilouka pulled the door open so hard it slammed against the wall. He strode forwards, and guess what?
Fifth door.
Okay! You asked for it!
This time, the half-Elf ripped the door off its hinges with one arm. Casually. Duke Rhisveri strode after him, finger raised with a [Disintegration Ray] spell. He assumed the doors were meant to warn him. Ryoka’s ally of convenience or not, the [Princess] couldn’t stop him with a few arrowslits. Her staff were passed out, and if she had a hundred [Knights]—
He and Tolveilouka found themselves in a long, long corridor. Far longer than the inn should have allowed. The half-Elf’s lip curled.
“Skills. Pathetic.”
He shot down the corridor towards the next door. Rhisveri followed more slowly. He’d knocked everyone out in the inn…or so he’d assumed. He hadn’t actually verified that. And his internal sense of danger didn’t like long corridors.
The arrowslits are gone. Someone’s boarded up the murderholes—what was going on? He didn’t want to let the half-Elf get ahead of him, so the Duke’s body strode ahead, confident he wouldn’t be harmed even by an attack that bypassed his shields. He only realized what was odd after the third second of being in this hallway.
Wait a second. The walls are fake. The walls are—
Then, along both sides of the hallway, someone pulled a string or moved some contraption—and the walls slid back and revealed what was truly set into this trapped corridor.
Magical runes of [Insanity].
They flared to life the instant they were revealed. Bright magic. Tier 5 spells! Not just one, either—hundreds—
Who made this? Who had the time and resource to—Duke Rhisveri threw up his hands, but the runes were burning their magic through his arms. Trying to affect his mind—
 
——
 
“Argh!”
Across the ocean, the Wyrm convulsed a second as the spells assailed him en-masse. However, his mind was not that of a mortal; his own eyes unfocused, and he began to bury the spells trying to disorient him. He took control of his mortal body and cast a counterspell.
 
——
 
“[Mind of the Tranquil Monk]!”
Panting, the Duke Rhisveri recovered. He stumbled and wondered if the half-Elf was going to go crazy. That had worked on the Wyrm! The half-Elf didn’t have a hope of—
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer was frozen in the corridor, bathed in the glow of the insanity spells. He was not immune to them, not fully. His eyes were wide, and there was a snarl on his face.
And both his eyes were open wide, straining. Both eyes—and an eye on his cheek. And forehead. And one staring out of his ear—
Duke Rhisveri recoiled as he saw eyeballs opening up all over the half-Elf’s body. They were pupilless, pale-white, and swiveled towards the attacking magic. They opened, blinking, and the half-Elf stared at every single Rune of Insanity assailing him at once.
What in the name of the Great Forests is he? Even the Wyrm was unnerved by the self-defense mechanism. Tolveilouka took in one huge breath, and his head twisted around on his shoulders a hundred and eighty degrees.
“Clever. Now I’m annoyed.”
The two were frozen by the unexpectedly powerful trap. They had both fought the effects off, though—
Light illuminated the two.
Tolveilouka spun his head back towards the far door leading to the common room. Rhisveri blinked. They should all be asleep! They should be—
An arrow pointed down the corridor straight at Tolveilouka’s heart. The half-Elf raised his sword, blinking in the light, and saw a Named-rank adventurer raise her famous bow.
Elia Arcsinger, the Named-rank adventurer, held her bow, fully drawn, hair shining in the light coming from the common room. For a second, she looked like that heroine Rhisveri had seen on the scrying orb.
Ambush. He sensed other people behind her, but the half-Elf didn’t loose. She just stood there as Tolveilouka recoiled, then set himself with a snarl.
She could have hit us while they pinned us down with the runes. Rhisveri realized the runes were angled on the walls, too. Such that if you were coming into the inn, you’d see them, but Elia was afforded a shot without worrying about the effects.
Slowly, the half-Elf lowered the bow as Tolveilouka and Rhisveri waited. She stepped sideways, and to both’s surprise, she held a hand out.
“Welcome to The Wandering Inn, guests. You’re both right on time.”
“Hm.”
Tolveilouka moved first. He strode forwards, and Rhisveri walked after him. What was going on? He saw Elia staring at him and realized he still resembled a giant, walking sock puppet.
—That was Named-ranks for you. She didn’t even blink. Rhisveri, for his part, did a double-take when he saw her.
Was she wearing a maid’s outfit? Then he saw a figure to his right and recognized a Vampire when he saw one.
Vaulont the Ash was on the other side of the door in a butler’s uniform, though he’d kept the mask. He was staring at the two of them, but holding his hand out like Elia.
Two high-level fighters. The [Princess] had bought a lot of muscle since he’d last been here. He could have taken them. With preparation. Duke Rhisveri had to admit, it was a good trap, but the [Princess] had shown her cards.
She’d never stop him. Nor the sneering half-Elf who looked around the empty common room.
“Where to now?”
“Down the hallway, over there. Can I get you something to drink first?”
A light illuminated someone behind the bar. Ishkr, the Gnoll, was polishing a mug with a very nervous Rufelt. Rhisveri and Tolveilouka stared. Then they pointed at a hallway on the far end of the common room to their right.
That doesn’t lead to any part of the inn that should exist, based on its structure from the outside. Rhisveri, as a Wyrm, had a very acute geosense, and he instantly spotted another place made out of a Skill. Tolveilouka just snarled.
“I received your mistress’ taunt, Gnoll. ‘I challenge you to appear tonight at my inn’. Here I stand. How many more little games?”
“Just one. Please, gentlemen. You two are the last to arrive. A drink? No? They’re all on the house.”
Ishkr put the mug down, and Tolveilouka stared. Then stormed down the corridor. Rhisveri followed slower.
What the heck was going on?
 
——
 
The hallway that led to the [World’s Eye Theatre] was dark, but there was a light coming from the far end. Not a bright one; when the two emerged into the vast, domed auditorium, they saw the light was due to a single spotlight from the eye of the glass dome overhead.
The rest of the dome allowed those below to see clear starlight above, and Tolveilouka halted as he saw what had been set up in the center. Rhisveri walked forwards as well, then came to a dead standstill.
It was an ambush, a trap, a scheme. Both had known it the instant they’d seen the second door inside the inn. But here was the thing about a Wyrm and an undead monster of yore.
Neither one cared. They were both supremely confident they could murder their way out of any situation. A challenge from a mere [Princess]?
They had to take it. And the [Princess] had known that too.
So, here was the question for all the gold in The Wandering Inn: how did you stop a Rhisveri or a Tolveilouka?
Yes, you could buy a Named-rank’s support. But five Elia Arcsingers, even ten?
These were the most dangerous beings in the world. How could you stop one, even with a hallway of Runes of Insanity? Even with a Vampire [Assassin]? Even if you hired Elosaith, got the Order of Solstice, and a Doombearer—how did you keep the inn safe?
It was the question that Lyonette had put to the Quarass of Germina. And that other old immortal had given her an idea. The twists were Lyonette’s.
