A [Princess] was murdering people with her bare hands. She was crushing heads to paste, choking out her enemies. When they screamed, ‘no, please, have mercy!’ She beat them down with a frying pan.
The bloody carnage was sickening. More red blood kept spattering the ground and the dresses of her victims—
“Mrsha! Don’t put blood on the clothing! It doesn’t wash out!”
Visma screeched as Mrsha daubed more blood onto the scene of doll carnage. The Drake lifted her dolls out of the blood splatters and worriedly patted at them. Then she used a Skill.
“[Good as Today]!”
Some blood marring one of her dolls, a Human with red hair, vanished, and the Drake girl turned a smirk on her other friends.
Kenva, Mrsha, Rittane, and a horrified Ekirra were all playing with Visma’s dolls. She’d brought them over while they waited for Lyonette to get back. They were, at this moment, outlining a scenario that Visma thought was the likeliest.
Nice Skill, Visma! Where did you get that?
Mrsha was excited, and Visma puffed out her chest.
“Two days ago. I got it from playing with my dolls! I’m a [Hobbyist Puppeteer]! Now I have four classes just like you, Mrsha! Mom didn’t make me a cake, though.”
She and Mrsha high-fived. Kenva looked on jealously while Ekirra, who had only three classes, scoffed.
“Too many classes is stupid.”
“Oh yeah? Look what’s happening to Duke Homeguy!”
Visma narrowed her eyes, and ‘Lyonette’ turned her bloody wrath on a Gnoll puppet. Ekirra whined.
“No! Not Duke Homeguy! He’s a war hero! Don’t! Visma! Vismaaaa—”
Mrsha watched as another doll was beheaded by the frying pan. Ekirra didn’t like playing with dolls. Partly because it was ‘for girls’, but mostly because Visma often enacted ‘real stuff’ like this. Sometimes, it was all politics and tea parties and infidelity. Sometimes, Crelers overran the tea party and murdered everyone.
It was very real. Kenva was a new member of the doll club, and Mrsha kept sneaking peeks at Rittane, seeing if she was into it.
Sammial and Hethon were not. Neither was Nanette, who just said that playing with dolls was something ‘other witches did, and I don’t want to be one of them’.
“D’you want to take over Lyonette, Rittane?”
Visma graciously offered the doll of destruction to Rittane, and the girl fidgeted. Ekirra whined.
“Do you like dolls, Rittane? We can have a snowball fight instead.”
Rittane’s head shot up.
“I—I like dolls. What if Miss Lyonette is in Liscor and—and she runs into a bunch of mean Drakes?”
“Like Selys? Yeah! Then they all try to stop her, but she grabs a knife and—Mrsha, where’s my knife? Put all the Drakes we have in a line!”
They were setting up another moment of horrible carnage, and Kenva covered her eyes eagerly with her claws, peeking through her fingers. But Mrsha saw Rittane edge away.
“I have to use the bathroom. One second!”
Mrsha was reattaching some doll heads when Rittane came dashing back. She had something behind her. A box.
“I—I have my dolls if you want to play with them?”
Aha. No-dolls Rittane was showing her true colors. Visma and Mrsha exchanged a look, and Mrsha slipped Visma a card.
Don’t be a snooty snoot about her dolls if they’re not as cool as yours, Visma.
The Drake scoffed.
“The old dolls are the best. I’m not a bad person. Put your dolls out here, Rittane! Do you have any Drakes? I’ll trade you some of mine later.”
She was being grandly nice, and Mrsha expected to see some potato-sack dolls, hand-carved, or just made of some old cloth with paint on them.
What she was not prepared for was to have Rittane open the box and speak.
“Arise, minions!”
A clawed hand rose from the edge of the box. Then—a Drake in miniature, seven inches tall, scales bone-white, pulled herself out of the box and walked onto the table where the children were playing.
Ekirra fell out of his seat in shock. Kenva’s mouth dropped open as she saw a sculpted Drake made out of ivory, with functional joints and all, walking on the table. There were tiny green flames in her eye sockets. And she was a Drake!
When you heard ‘bone doll Drake’, you’d assume someone had made a miniature skeleton of a Drake. Not so. This one had tiny carved scales. It looked like an actual Drake, only, the doll was moving! She even had a blood-red dress on!
Visma made a choking sound. Mrsha’s eyes popped as a pair of Humans, one with a huge executioner’s axe, also marched out of the box. A Gnoll, another Drake, a Minotaur—Kenva gasped.
“Rittane! Your dolls move? You’re a [Necromancer]?”
The girl was shyly blushing, stealing glances at Mrsha, clearly afraid of being censured. But Mrsha was agog with delight, and Rittane relaxed slightly.
“My mother carved them for me. They’re my training dolls. I’ll be allowed to make my own undead when I’m fourteen. I made this one.”
The more clumsy Human waddled forwards with a bad leg. It seemed like six dolls was Rittane’s limit. They lined up, and Rittane shyly turned to Visma.
“What if Miss Lyonette fights all of them?”
Instantly, one of Rittane’s dolls drew a sword as another swooned into the arms of a third. The fourth and fifth cowed and prostrated themselves in front of Visma’s doll.
Rittane’s face was so hopeful—Mrsha stared at Visma’s blank face. Then the Drake girl exploded.
“But that’s not fair! Your dolls are so much better than mine!”
She shook her inanimate doll at Rittane, alternating between outrage and delight.
“Make one of them Lyonette! Your dolls are amazing, Rittane. Is that ivory? I want ivory dolls! You can paint them! I want to be a [Necromancer]!”
Rittane brightened up in delight at once. Instantly, she called over some other Rheirgest children who’d been furtively watching, and they ran to get their training dolls, even the older ones.
Soon, they had a Lyonette with a squad of [Knights] ready to sack Liscor, filled with hapless victims. Visma and Rittane placed dolls in line for an executioner’s block with a miniature, real headsman’s axe, and at this point—
Mrsha felt compelled to defend her mother. It wasn’t gonna go like that. Right?
“Don’t worry, Mrsha. If she’s too evil, they can always execute her.”
The Gnoll girl’s mouth fell open. She began to wave her fists around, then gave up. At least Rittane was having fun. Mrsha sulked over to a second table where Ekirra was solemnly petting Apista. He looked up as he sipped from a cup of milk. Sammial was also there, and the [Lord] was hearing Ekirra out.
“Dolls are scary.”
Mrsha gave Ekirra a nod and sat with a huge sigh. She wondered if her mother was doing better than projections. She hadn’t heard anything explode—yet.
Things were probably going to be fine, right? Right? Sammial patted Ekirra on the shoulder.
“My mom could explode houses with her aura when she got angry. Mrsha’s mom doesn’t have one, right?”
The Gnoll girl began to sweat. She ordered a double-shot of milk, with whipped cream.
 
——
 
Liscor was her first destination. The [Princess] strolled through the crowds, ignoring the people eying the two golden [Knights].
It said something that in a city like Liscor, two Thronebearers merely stood out rather than being the talk of the town. It was a city of commerce. Industry.
Adventurers. There were a lot fewer since the New Lands had pulled so many, but teams like Bevussa’s Wings of Pallass could still be seen flying overhead today. On the ground, newer teams like the Pithfire Hounds were leading two dogs out of the city on a hunt for Shield Spider nests.
Lower-ranking adventurers in Invrisil, even, had begun to migrate to Liscor or Celum because it was cheaper to live here. And there was gold to be made in the dungeon or just from the mobility the door offered.
You had to have an adventurer. Lyonette looked ahead, stopping at a crosswalk where an experimental, hanging box of metal was flashing red at several [Drivers]. She looked at it, at the future.
And the past.
You had to have a grumpy [Marksman]. A half-Giant. But—she wiped her eyes as the light flashed green on her side and she continued walking.
They were all gone. Or shattered. Or on an adventure. At least, the ones the inn had known well. But it was Erin’s inn.
It deserved adventurers. She needed someone capable. A group—maybe not one she loved. But a few people for Ser Dalimont to turn to in an emergency and rely on.
Lyonette needed a team like—
 
——
 
Todi’s Elites were bored today, like every day for the last few months. Working security for Selys didn’t pay nearly as well as proper Gold-rank work. But it was reliable, and as he’d said to any number of other Gold-ranks, you could sit on your ass and have all the drinking money you wanted for months at a time.
It was a solid gig, but lately, his employer had been—a bit erratic. She’d begun asking him if other Adventurer’s Guilds had openings for Guildmasters, and then she began feuding with the inn. Well.
Loyalty mattered. Todi wondered how much loyalty he had; Selys paid well, and he liked her smart business approach. He was actually doing his job, inspecting the apartments for ne’er-do-wells, trouble, or any other problems this morning.
One of his jobs was to handle renter problems, at least, the kind an adventurer could handle. That meant he or the Watch got to break up fights between neighbors or domestic disputes.
Dead gods, but those were hard. If a family wasn’t holding it together, you got to be the emotional outlet. Todi was steeling himself for complaints when someone called out his name.
“Captain Todi! A word?”
He almost pretended he didn’t hear the voice until he recognized it. The [Princess]?
“Miss Marquin. Er, how d’you do? Any more trouble with the Antinium?”
Actually, Todi hoped for some. If one shut down the area for a few hours, he could just watch and talk with the Watch; Antinium seemed to resolve their own problems. However, Lyonette just pointed at him. She looked oddly intense this morning, and both her fancy [Knights] were behind her.
“No, Captain Todi. You’re the man I was looking for.”
“Me?”
Ah, she had to have a message for Selys. Todi didn’t look forwards to being the intermediary, but again, to his surprise, the [Princess] just studied him.
Captain Todi. She looked him up and down. And he felt—scrutinized. Naked. When he looked at her—Todi averted his eyes.
She hadn’t been at the inn during the Solstice, but he’d heard she’d survived an undead horde. He? He’d been in the city. They’d seen some undead, but they’d mostly been restoring order. He was no Halrac or the damn glorious Halfseekers. Heroes, the lot of them. They should have never kept going.
That was why they were dead. Todi knew he’d get over it in a few months. The memories would fade…but he felt like every time he added names and faces to that list of people he’d no longer see again, he grew a year closer to retirement.
Forget that. He gave Lyonette an unconvincing smile.
“What can Todi’s Elites do for you today, Miss Lyonette?”
“How many people do you have in your team, Captain Todi? I know it rotates.”
“Right now? Uh—eight. Four Gold-rankers, four Silver-ranks. All decent!”
Not a single one over Level 34. That was the hazard of being a team that relied on its equipment, tactics, and a single leader over, say, the Horns who never switched things up. Lyonette half-smiled.
“Are you still using your Wands of Fireball? And Scrolls of Lesser Teleportation?”
Yes, and they cost gold per shot. One of the reasons Todi was never as rich as he liked was that his team used artifacts liberally. It worked, but every time an idiot fireballed a Shield Spider nest by accident, he was down multiple gold coins.
“My team’s always well-equipped, and Miss Selys has kept us in good employment, Miss Lyonette. Don’t worry. Are you concerned about safety around here?”
Maybe she wanted to put some of those [Necromancers] in the apartment complex? Selys might go for it…she had looked a bit guilty about the entire situation at their last meeting.
It was amazing a man could be so wrong so often. But Lyonette just looked at Todi again with those piercing eyes.
“No, I’ve heard Selys’ apartments are some of the safest in the city. All thanks to one team. But it isn’t a team, is it? There’s no permanent members in it but you. Todi’s Elites is just…Captain Todi.”
Dead gods, when she said it like that—was she trying to hurt his feelings? Todi narrowed his eyes at Lyonette.
“I like to think I can keep a team running.”
“You can. And you do. You’re not the bravest man. But you fight well, or so Mrsha says, and you use tactics even the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings respect.”
Okay, it was hurt-Todi’s-feelings day. One of his teammates sniggered, and Todi hooked his thumbs in his belt loops.
“Miss Lyonette, if you’re just here to insult me—”
“No, Captain Todi, I’m doing the opposite.”
He paused suspiciously, and Lyonette nodded as if confirming something she’d been thinking of.
“Captain Todi. You can organize a group. Keep a ledger. You can turn disparate adventurers—whom we all know are lazy, unreliable, and uncoordinated—”
“Hey.”
She ignored the hurt look from one of the Gold-rankers.
“—into a competent team. If anything, you’re too cautious to be a Gold-rank adventurer.”
That made him flinch. He’d heard that before from Named-ranks. But what was he supposed to do, bet his life in a life-or-death gamble? He’d done that when he had to, but a smart man didn’t take those risks to begin with.
“I…appreciate the compliments. What’s all this in aid of?”
The [Princess] took a deep breath.
“I’m simply laying out my reasoning, Captain Todi. I don’t like you, if I’m honest.”
He flushed, and the sniggering grew louder, but the hair on Todi’s neck was rising. He just waited, and Lyonette studied him up and down.
“You’re not that pleasant to be around, you were rude to my friends—but you are good at your job. You’ve defended the inn at times.”
Not successfully. He remembered meeting horrors in the hallways and said nothing, and Lyonette went on.
“—Selys thinks you’re trustworthy. She doesn’t work with idiots. And I might get to like you. It would be easier if I didn’t, and I could just trust you. But either way…how much does Selys pay you each week, Captain Todi?”
“That’s between her and me.”
Why was she talking like this? Lyonette met Todi’s eyes, and he flinched.
