Gold coins, dropped from a dozen or more feet in the air, had some weight to them. They had actually taken chunks out of the old stone floor. When it was done, the panting Quarass had stomped back into frame.
“That is also something to consider. For now, I shall grant you a solution to your issues with your…intruders.”
She outlined a crazy idea that made the [Princess] laugh, then give the Quarass an incredulous look.
“That’s something Erin would come up with! Are you sure? I can actually think of two others I could invite…”
The Quarass flicked her fingers as people behind her began to gather up gold pieces.
“The idea itself can be molded as you see fit. The concept is something entirely Calanferian. If your mother doubts the idea, tell her it was something Queen Marquin did. You would do well to remember that for all she is thought of as a barbarian, she was the greatest [Diplomat] of all. She had no enemies.”
The Quarass paused.
“Save for Crelers.”
 
——
 
That was the first meeting. The second and third were just as productive, in a sense. The Emperor of Sands didn’t appear themself, but Diplomat Zaltha ushered Lyonette into her consulate building, little more than a converted apartment, and spread a contract on the table.
“I don’t have a <Quest> to, ah, offer at this time, [Diplomat] Zaltha. If Their Majesty waits, I should be able to complete the deal in…a week’s time?”
For the Emperor of Sands, Lyonette hoped it was only a <Rare Quest> that was needed. She knew a <Basic Quest> wouldn’t work here. Though it had on her second client.
The King of Minotaurs was only too happy to accept the same deal as the Quarass. Free gold with the only stipulation being she had to lend Lyonette the amount? Yelroan had said even a brain-dead [Trader] would take the deal.
That much gold worked for you. It would make more gold…just by the fact that you had it and could use it. Lyonette had already lined up meetings with other people she wanted to contact.
Qwera, the Golden Gnoll, obviously. But also Gnoll tribes—and maybe Valeterisa, though she struck Lyonette as a bad ‘borrower’, which was what Rose was calling them. The House of El was risky, but—
The Empire of Sands was different. They needed reliable shipping, and the Chemath Marble didn’t hurt either. After over a dozen meetings, Lyonette gratefully sipped from some grape juice, and she didn’t even look at the contract.
“Your Highness, we are gratified to host you in this humble abode once more. Their Majesty of Sands hopes for a gratifying response.”
Diplomat Zaltha was stressed. As one might be when your [Emperor] had countless gold pieces on the line. Lyonette gave her a brisk smile with zero stress on her side.
“I believe we can do business, Diplomat Zaltha. The Chemath Marble is a very heavy incentive. Though, of course, friendship with a nation that can keep trade flowing in these difficult times is even more valuable.”
The [Diplomat] chuckled weakly as a glowing stone on one earring flashed. She tilted her head, half-bowing apologetically, and Lyonette didn’t hear the voice, but Zaltha clearly did.
“Their Majesty of Sands…wishes to convey their respect for your foresight, Your Highness.”
The [Princess] kept her smile polished as she’d been taught, wondering if they had a way to see her. This next part might not be best for the Emperor of Sands to hear…but she was tired, so she went for it.
“I am honored to hear it! Though I did have one small concern regarding an arrangement between The Wandering Inn and the Empire of Sands. I hate to disturb Their Majesty with such trivialities—”
“N-not at all. Can we clarify any issue on shipping?”
Zaltha urgently waved at her servants to bring over quill, ink, ledgers to assure Lyonette about the trade deal. But Lyonette didn’t have a problem with that.
“My issue is…Admiral Seagrass.”
“Ah.”
Zaltha froze up, and the [Princess] saw Ushar and Dalimont both shift behind her. A calculated move, and she let some of her real emotions bleed onto her face.
“He is a new servant of the Empire of Sands, isn’t he?”
“A—recent member of our aristocracy, yes.”
Now, Zaltha was speaking very carefully as the earring flashed once or twice. Lyonette gave her a serious look.
“I am sure the Empire of Sands has very excellent reasons for giving him such titles. As I regard him, though, the man is a traitor to my nation. Not just my nation; all of Terandria abhors him as much as the Bloodtear Pirates. Working with such a man is—”
Appalling? Reprehensible? Politically damning? Lyonette didn’t fill in the blank. She just let Zaltha and the Emperor of Sands figure it out.
It was probably a sign of Zaltha’s weakness; she was a [Merchant] and viewed Seagrass as an undeniable asset through that lens. Any [Diplomat] like Nerul would never have brought him up initially.
Zaltha clearly realized her mistake because she went dead white, but the earring slowly flashed, and she ducked her head. Then responded.
“The Emperor of Sands understands your clear grievances, Princess Marquin. They assure you that Seagrass’ loyalty will not be a question; anything you desire shall come to you through storm or banditry or war at sea.”
A heavy commitment. Well, given the reputation the Empire of Sands wanted to cultivate, Lyonette was sure it was a matter of policy. She just bet that a turncoat like Seagrass would have a few ‘minders’ on his ship. However, that wasn’t her concern.
“My issue is less of—safety and more of principle, Diplomat Zaltha. I take the Emperor of Sands at their word! Naturally! But Seagrass…can it be arranged that his fleet does not touch a single piece of cargo bound for Izril? Some—amicable solution be found?”
In truth, she didn’t know what she wanted. She needed goods for The Wandering Inn. That man had sided with the [Pirates] and doomed so many. She was dangling the threat of the contract over their heads, and what Lyonette really wanted was some kind of punishment for him, but she didn’t want to say it outright.
The Emperor of Sands must have understood implicitly what she wanted, though. Because when the earring stopped flashing, Zaltha gave Lyonette a too-wide smile, and the [Princess] saw her lick her lips before speaking.
“The Emperor of Sands hears your clear grievances, Princess Marquin. In the name of this great contract, they offer you a hand.”
“Oh. Um. Thank you?”
Ushar’s breath caught, and Zaltha saw Lyonette didn’t understand.
“Right or left?”
The [Princess]’s heart fluttered in her chest.
“P-pardon?”
“Admiral Seagrass’ hand. Which would you like? He is right-handed. If it will assuage your desire for vengeance in any way—the Emperor of Sands cannot remove him at this time. But they are willing to—arrange matters.”
Diplomat Zaltha’s voice was breathless. Her eyes were wide, and her hands trembled slightly. Lyonette kept her body still as her heart began to pound faster.
Are they serious? 
Of course they were. That—that wasn’t what she’d anticipated at all. A hand? Seagrass would rebel twice! Unless they had such a hold on him that he’d rather lose a hand than—
He was no Stitch-man. Was it because the Emperor of Sands was one and they didn’t underst—
Lyonette glanced at Zaltha’s trembling lips. No. They definitely knew what they were offering.
Say yes.
Something cold inside her told her to accept. All the people who’d died. The [Soldiers], innocent colonists, [Sailors]—a hand was the least of what they deserved. But another part of her rebelled at the idea. She would not wield the sword, but she’d know she was the reason to lop off his hand. That wasn’t like Lyonette killing him while defending her family or friends or nation.
It was closer to torture. It was a kind of torture. Lyonette hesitated, and Dame Ushar broke in.
“Diplomat Zaltha, Her Highness does not wish to make a potential enemy of a servant of the Empire of Sands. Admiral Seagrass is a dangerous man. If such word should come back to him as to who requested such a deed…”
The stone didn’t even flash, and Diplomat Zaltha answered swiftly.
“The knowledge would be sealed to those present and the Emperor of Sands themselves, Your Highness. Accidents happen.”
Dead gods. There went her escape route. How badly did the Emperor of Sands want the gold? Or—how little did they value Seagrass after all? Or how confident were they that Seagrass would keep working for them after losing a limb?
“I—I don’t think I am minded to ply the Emperor of Sands with a request that drastic at this time, Diplomat Zaltha. I request a lesser punishment.”
Lyonette answered the only way she could after a moment. She tried to find an acceptable solution without, well, looking weak. Her mother would have probably taken the hand and sent it to the nations who’d lost the most.
The earring began to flash as the Emperor of Sands spoke, forestalling Lyonette offering a compromise. Zaltha relaxed slightly, and one of her servants dabbed at her forehead. She twitched a smile at Lyonette.
“The Emperor of Sands understands, Your Highness. Half-justice short of Seagrass’ head is a poor balm, in their own words.”
They were giving her an out, but Lyonette wasn’t fooled. They’d read and tested her, and she’d told them exactly how far she was willing to go. She exhaled as Zaltha’s lips moved. Now, she seemed to be reciting some of the words being spoken to her directly.
“—Admiral Seagrass’ position in the Empire of Sands will be kept secret. Yes, Your Majesty. They will faithfully serve Princess Lyonette for her contract. ‘If one enemy of House Marquin and The Wandering Inn will not suffice, then another will. The Empire of Sands shall give no ingress to any ship or Trader of Roshal for a month’s time.’ Will—that suffice?”
She squeaked at Lyonette, and the [Princess]’ mouth almost fell open. The Empire of Sands was in the northwest of Chandrar, wasn’t it? Roshal, on the western coast, was far further south, but the two had very close territories. The Empire of Sands controlled every friendly harbor for—
That wasn’t just inhibiting their ability to trade and collect slaves for a month. That was a hostile act between two powerful empires. It would set Roshal against the Empire of Sands. Yes, the Emperor of Sands could explain or smooth things over—
They knew about Erin. They also knew about the kidnapping. 
Lyonette couldn’t understand the Emperor of Sands’ mind. She glanced at Dalimont, and he subvocalized something for the first time in her ears via Ushar’s Skill.
“Your Highness, the Empire of Sands has ties with Roshal. This will not inhibit them, but it is a stringent blow. I cannot fathom the decisions at play here.”
“Nor I, Your Highness.”
Ushar spoke out loud after that brief warning.
“To be clear, this would also be an act solely of the Empire of Sands’ volition?”
“Of course, Dame Ushar. Will that satisfy Her Highness?”
Zaltha instantly nodded at her, and Lyonette felt a crawl down her back. She was about to say yes. Then she changed her mind.
“Six months.”
Zaltha froze.
“Six?”
Lyonette gave her a sweet smile. She couldn’t just let the Emperor of Sands walk over her at the negotiating table.
“A single month will not hinder Lailight Scintillation greatly, especially as their harbor is defunct. As messages go—six months is a great pound of flesh, like the hand of Admiral Seagrass would be, wouldn’t it? Or, cognizant as I am of the Empire of Sands’ time, would not a smaller rebuke towards Admiral Seagrass do? And a small favor recognized by Their Majesty suffice?”
That was the most expedient way to end this tricky conversation. She heard an approving sound from Ushar in her mind and relaxed slightly. Six months was a ridiculous amount of time if they had any actual trade dealings—
“The Emperor of Sands accepts. Six months and no Slaver of Roshal shall be offered sanctuary in their lands. If the deal is struck today, the proclamation shall be read across the Empire of Sands by nightfall.”
Zaltha spoke, her voice overly loud in the smaller room, her eyes wide. Then she looked like she was about to projectile vomit. Lyonette sat there, stunned.
Well.
She had just incited two major powers of Chandrar to come to odds. She saw Zaltha give her a sick smile.
“W-would Your Highness like to review the contract now?”
Please? Lyonette nodded. She sat there, uncertain as to why the Emperor of Sands had given away all that for her gold. Roshal was rich. The Emperor of Sands had just agreed to a deal that would cost them more gold in the long run than they made now.
Unless—her mind sparked suddenly.
Unless they had been intending to do something like this all along. You didn’t offer a deal this incredibly disadvantageous without a reason. Could it be something was impelling the Emperor of Sands to disavow their connection with Roshal? The only thing she could think of besides their kidnapping of Erin or Earthers was…
…ghosts…
“There are said to be four new, powerful Slave Lords of Roshal, Your Highness. It would appear not all nations of Chandrar regard this as a positive thing.”
Dalimont whispered in her ear. Either it was that or the Chemath Marble needing to be sold—Lyonette didn’t know. She barely glanced at the contract as it was put in front of her. For once, she wished she were a fly on the wall of Ielane’s chambers when Ushar communicated this to her mother. Then again—probably not. Flies died fast in Calanfer’s palace.
“The terms have been drawn up just as you indicated.”
Zaltha placed a scroll in front of Lyonette, and the [Princess] half-turned in her seat.
“Ushar, you looked over them?”
“Yes, Your Highness. But the amount—”
Lyonette glanced down the contract, her mind buzzing, an adrenaline rush in her veins. This was practically a triviality after the negotiations. The gold amount was just—gold. She had a lot of it.
She scrawled her name across the parchment, and Zaltha gave her a look as if Lyonette had turned into a Demon.
“Th—The Empire of Sands shall not forget this, Your Highness.”
“Nor I. As I said, if you wait for just a week’s time…”
Lyonette half rose, relieved she didn’t have to do the royal protocols with someone else. But Zaltha raised a finger as her earring glimmered. She backed away, bowing, and exited the room.
It only took her a minute to return, and when she did, her eyes were sparkling.
“No need for a…<Quest>, Your Highness.”
Lyonette’s brows rose, and the woman explained.
“The Emperor of Sands shall claim what is theirs, Lady Lyonette. Have no fear; they are very pleased by this transaction.”
“What does that—”
