“Right. This entire city’s crazy. We’ve been camped out by Albez for ages. We come back and Celum’s got Golems.”
Earlia laughed, but with delight rather than dismay. And as Lyonette recalled, her team had survived Facestealer, hadn’t they?
“Earlia, your team are mostly [Miners], right?”
“Former [Miners]. We survived two bad mining incidents, both with monsters, and got sick of working in bad conditions with no safety and said that if we’re going to watch out for cave-ins or bash in a Creler’s head, we might as well get paid properly for it. I’m…sorry we missed the Solstice.”
Her face fell, and Lyonette assured Earlia that it might have been better to miss it. She caught Earlia up on a few of the highlights, confirming what the Silver-rank Captain had heard about via the news, and then spoke.
“You know, Hexel is building the new inn right now.”
“Really? What’s he using to build it? Must be some fancy stone. Corundum ore? That stuff can make a steel pickaxe dull in seconds. Could we check it out?”
Earlia was powerfully interested, and Lyonette shrugged casually.
“Potentially Chemath Marble.”
Earlia choked on a cup of water.
“Chemath Marble? Get out. No one’s mining—unless they are? Those beetles are the most horrific things in existence! I might go up against a Creler nest instead!”
Lyonette reached out and patted Earlia’s hand.
“It’s all moving very fast. But I have a proposition for you, Captain Earlia. What is the quote for your, uh, Runes of Insanity? And all the traps from the dungeon?”
“Oh, that’s a huge fortune, Lyonette. Lemme find my balance sheets. Those Merchant Guild bastards keep trying to charge us fees for listing them on auction even though we’re storing them. Timgal, hey, Timgal. Go run upstairs and grab another copy of our inventory for Miss Lyonette!”
Captain Earlia began to dig around in a pack of her things next to her, and Lyonette took that moment to give Earlia a more full appraisal.
She’d forgotten what Earlia and her team looked like. They all wore armor, yes, plain steel that was well-made and tended to, augmented by padded cloth, because they were Silver-rankers. But they knew metal.
They were former [Miners]. So each one of them had forearms like iron. They weren’t as stocky and stout as you might expect; Earlia’s teammate walking upstairs was long and lanky, but he had a pickaxe he still used in a fight.
No, that wasn’t what made Gemhammer’s team somewhat unique. In her plainclothes, Earlia looked like, well, a realer adventurer than when she was in gear.
In armor, she might have been mistaken for a [Warrior]. Or, like Todi, for another of the many [Guard] or [Mercenary] classes holding that massive, scratched warhammer, face obscured by a huge helmet with a long noseguard. A [Soldier], even.
Out of armor, she looked younger. She had a huge, leather pack, rounded, which she’d been about to put on her back after breakfast. A massive buckle secured the main flap, but there were at least eight smaller sections on the backpack, each one secured, and a scroll case attached.
Earlia had flaxen hair, cropped to her neck, and a blue ornament like a feather secured amidst the locks. She would have been…5’11, and her hands were rough and calloused from work, but she looked less like a gristled, scarred veteran of the mines, rather than a work-experienced scholar.
The Silver-rank captain was festooned with gear. Lantern, magnifying glass, firestarter’s kit—she pulled them all out, flustered, then realized she was in the wrong pocket of her bags. She sorted everything back up, and Lyonette realized—Earlia was embarrassed because she didn’t have a Bag of Holding.
And yet, and yet. She had an entire rucksack of her gear and looked as though she could set off on an expedition in a heartbeat if you asked her to.
“I’m surprised you didn’t go to the New Lands, Captain Earlia.”
“Ah, well, we thought about it, but we had steady work with the traps. Plus, I don’t think we were nearly prepared enough! That sort of thing takes months to gear up for, you know? I can’t believe how many people rushed off. I’d have been getting soil samples and having a camping tent hand-sewn for me to deal with the local weather. Soak the fabric in an oil for the bugs and to make monsters think I wasn’t there, you know?”
Lyonette shot Todi a glance, and he gave Earlia a grudging nod; he was clearly trying to pretend he had come up with the same idea.
Miners. She would have experience with bushwacking and expedition survival. More than even most Gold-rank teams! Earlia finally found what she was looking for and snatched it out of a sheaf of organized documents with a relieved air.
Lyonette took the piece of paper, glanced at a few sums, and smiled. She made a show of scanning down it, and she did read it. But her attention was on the woman herself. She barely glanced at the bottom line before turning to Earlia. Her mind was made up.
“I’ll take it. Can you begin delivery by midmorning, or are the runes in need of special transport? Next, Captain Earlia…would your team be interested in a contract both guarding The Wandering Inn and potentially working on construction?”
“Hmm?”
Earlia wiggled a finger around in one ear. She gave Lyonette an uncomprehending stare, then grinned.
“Wait, you want to buy some of the traps? Really? How much?”
“I want all the traps. All the runes. I can pay up front as soon as we get to my inn. But I want your team. Captain Todi?”
“Oh, come on. Them? They’re—”
Captain Todi stood there, then eyed Earlia and folded his arms.
“Well, they’re strong. [Miners] can get [Enhanced Strength]. That’s…got potential.”
“Wait, wait. Hire our team? As guards?”
“Guards, minders for Mrsha and Nanette, anything else the inn needs. Will you at least think it over?”
Earlia kept blinking as she sat there, open-mouthed. She reached for a burger, then dropped it.
“This is going too fast. You want all the—it’ll cost you over forty th—”
She bit her tongue, and Timbor’s head swiveled from where he was innocently polishing a table. Dalimont casually blocked him as Lyonette gave the number a moment’s pause.
“I will take them. At whatever the market price is. I hope your team spends some of that on gear. If not, we can discuss that in our contract.”
“Which we have to sign with Captain Todi, Your Highness. Let’s not make promises before we do.”
Ushar murmured tactfully in Lyonette’s mind, and she stood up.
“Absolutely. We should hand the gold over for Captain Earlia’s traps before making other promises. That’s only good business practice. Captain Earlia, could I tempt you to at least walk with me to the inn? I promise free cake and drinks. You needn’t make any other arrangements, and I think Mrsha would be delighted to see you again. Plus, you haven’t even seen the theatre!”
“I—uh—let me just grab my samples, and—I can do that!”
Clearly worried she was dreaming, Earlia leapt to her feet, then gave Lyonette a wild grin. She dashed upstairs and came clattering down as Lyonette stood there.
Serene. Calm.
Her chair. Her posterior had never been in better condition.
Timbor was giving Lyonette the side-eye, but Earlia was laughing as she came back. Yes, she’d do. She strode over as Lyonette got up and Ushar picked up the chair. Todi muttered.
“This is crazy.”
“No, Captain Todi, this is called brunch at The Wandering Inn. Any objections if we head straight back, Captain Earlia? I have a meeting in Invrisil I wish to get to. Several.”
“I can wait as long as you want so long as that offer’s on the table! I missed the entire inn thing! Is the beach still there?”
They were striding out into the street as Lyonette debated going for the final team on her list. But the Pithfire Hounds only knew the Horns, so the connection wasn’t as strong.
Plus, they had dogs, and she had a feeling Reagen and Mrsha might not get along. Or that Mrsha would boss them around.
Lyonette was halfway towards the door when someone screamed her name.
“Lyonette!”
Selys. The Drake was striding towards her, scales flushed crimson. Lyonette whirled to face her as the [Heiress] pointed a claw at Todi. He hid behind Ushar.
“You can’t do this! Do you want a war? If you think—”
It was a [Flawless Attempt]. And a right hook. Selys went over so fast that Earlia was half-turning with a smile of recognition on her face. Lyonette shook out her hand.
“That’s for Rheirgest. Come on, let’s not waste time.”
She strode for the inn as Earlia pointed at Selys, then Lyonette. One of the [Princess]’ Thronebearers turned; Ser Dalimont put a hand out, then changed his mind. He blocked Dame Ushar instead.
“A [Princess] must fight their own battles, Ushar.”
Huh? What did—
Selys tackled Lyonette with a howl of fury, and the [Princess] realized she might have underestimated Tekshia and Zel’s relative. Lyonette threw Selys off her and raised a fist.
“I don’t have time f—”
She had never known Selys could execute a jump kick.
 
——
 
Mrsha was almost convinced nothing crazy would happen to Liscor after an hour or so of waiting. She was slurping from a bowl of noodles when the door opened.
“Miss Lyonette! See, I told you it would b—”
Nanette froze, and Mrsha saw Lyonette du Marquin come in. Or rather, be helped in.
The [Princess] had a gigantic black eye, scratches from giant claws on her arms, and her clothes were covered in snow. Captain Earlia and Captain Todi were escorting her in, Earlia looking stunned, Todi slightly respectful.
“What happened?”
Nanette asked in disbelief. Everyone rushed over, and Lyonette panted.
“I took her out. And I’ve got…traps. For the hallway. Someone get Hexel!”
Peggy looked delighted as she rushed over with a healing potion, and Lyonette applied one drop to her eye.
“Don’t waste the rest. In fact, go and buy any healing potion under a hundred gold pieces you can, Ishkr. Peggy, Earlia and Todi are guests for the day. Anything they want? They have. Mrsha, can you show Captain Earlia our new theatre? We’ll talk. Later.”
“Miss Lyonette? Everything alright?”
The villagers from Rheirgest were all staring, but Lyonette just gave them a wide smile that Mrsha vaguely recognized.
“Everything is perfect, Mister Dorkel. But if Headman Elosaith has time this evening, I have a separate arrangement I’d like to go over.”
“You’re hiring him?”
Todi blurted out, and Elosaith blinked from where he was enjoying hot noodles and sweating profusely. The [Princess] just stood up.
“This evening, if you please. I have…several more meetings to attend to. Ushar, the [Mayor] first, I think, then line the others up in order of importance and availability. Put the Quarass second if you can.”
Todi’s mouth opened wider.
“Huh?”
The [Princess] was already going for the door. But she paused.
“I almost forgot. Apista! To me!”
The bee buzzed over, and Lyonette turned and blew a kiss at her daughter. Her daughter was sitting there, open-mouthed, and Lyonette beamed.
“I’ll be back by dinner at the latest, Mrsha! Hopefully lunch, depending on if any of my appointments drag on and whom I have to murder. Make sure you eat something healthy! Dinner will be a feast.”
Then she was striding out the door, and Nerul called out after her.
“Miss Marquin? You wouldn’t need backup, would you? A cheering squad? An audience? No? Damn.”
He shook his head as the Thronebearers followed Lyonette. Ushar was adjusting her belt and checking her mace and shield as Dalimont put a hand on his sword hilt. Nerul sighed longingly.
“Damn. On a Marquin warpath and she still has proper diction. Whom. If I were a few decades younger, I’d be courting her.”
He fanned himself as he sat there, and Mrsha stared at Earlia, then Todi. Wait. Wait. Him? She stared at Todi and realized he could teach her how to kick someone in the underthings so hard they popped out their mouth!
It might be a glorious day.
And it was only getting started.
 
——
 
“Damn. I forgot about the school. And I still need to figure out our guests.”
Lyonette paused outside of the office as an affronted [Secretary] rose to her feet. The woman stared at the [Princess]’ scratches and torn clothing.
“Mayor Curle is not expecting you for another twenty-five—”
“I’m sure he won’t mind. Dalimont?”
The Thronebearer swung the door open. Mayor Curle was, in fact, taking a nap when the Thronebearer drew breath and bellowed.
“Presenting Her Highness, the 6th Princess of the Eternal Throne, Lyonette du Marquin of House Marquin of the Hundred Families!”
The man screamed, fell out of his chair, and was rising from the ground as Lyonette glided into the room.
“Wh-what is the meaning of this?”
Mayor Curle recognized the red-haired young woman from yesterday, of course, but something was different about her.
In fact, everything was different about her. She sucked the oxygen out of the room, and not in a good way. Her aura rammed straight into him like someone ramming a chair into his kneecaps, and Lyonette spoke brightly.
She had on her winter cloak, slightly torn clothing, and one cheek was bright red as if someone had slapped her across the face with a hand—or tail. And yet she had a jaunty hat on her head, and she beamed at him.
“I believe we have a meeting, Mayor Curle, regarding the Rheirgest villagers?”
“The what? The—nothing’s changed!”
“I would like to clarify Invrisil’s position, Mayor. And I am on the books. Thank you for having me.”
Now, Curle might not have been a [Mayor] of the highest level, but he did know this song and dance from serving Magnolia Reinhart for so long. He caught himself and took a breath.
She was trying to intimidate him, was she? She’d pay for that. He decided trying to force her out and make her come back later wasn’t a good idea. But there was more than one way to make her suffer.
“Of—of course. Secretary? Bring a chair for our guests.”
He meant the Stool of Torment, his private name for the specialty-commissioned, bottom-destroying stool. The [Secretary] brought it out and placed it between the two Thronebearers, who were standing like golden statues.
“Sit, Your Highness. Sit.”
The [Mayor] swung himself back into his chair, smiling nastily. He saw Lyonette eye the stool and knew even if her face was completely smooth, it would hurt. Magnolia Reinhart herself had taught him this trick.
“Ushar.”
She turned her head and spoke a name. Mayor Curle stared as the female [Knight] turned, bowed—then drew her mace.
“Wh—wh—”
The mayor saw the Thronebearer lift her weapon overhead. She wasn’t going to—this was murder! Of an official! He raised his hands as the male [Knight] drew his sword.
