He almost slipped on a patch of snow, and his shoulders hunched as the [Princess] went on.
“One week, to begin with. Free room and board. My inn is swarming with [Spies].”
“You want me to kill every single one of them?”
The voice was incredulous, and Lyonette waved a hand.
“No, no! I don’t even want their bones broken. That’s too extreme. Bruises aren’t even necessary—just keep them out.”
“…You want me to guard your inn?”
Vaulont the Ash was clearly unsure if he should be offended or amused by the offer. Lyonette countered swiftly.
“I realize that’s not your exact skillset, but having an [Assassin] lurking around would send a message.”
Especially if a [Spy] wondered if the message was a one-time warning. The man thought about it as Lyonette sweetened the deal.
“I’ll pay you very handsomely. Name your price, Master Vaulont. But I do expect you to not have any problems with my guests, especially the Goblins or Antinium. If there are monsters, or other threats, I will, of course, ask you to kill them. And your discretion you may also list as part of your fee.”
She waited, and the masked figure made a grunting sound.
“So I’m a replacement for Shriekblade. Or the other security around that inn I’ve heard of. That’s not an easy job all the time.”
“Well then. I asked for the best [Assassin] in Invrisil for a reason. Until she gets back—I should be delighted to trial you. If not, I will happily take a recommendation for another trustworthy candidate; outside of Invrisil, maybe?”
He started laughing, then. A dry chuckle, but after a moment, he turned.
“We’re not trustworthy. Most of the good Faces are all dead or…not willing to be employed by third parties. Say I accept. How are you sure you can trust an [Assassin] under your roof? I’d be sleeping nervously if I were you.”
Lyonette smiled back blandly.
“Master Vaulont. If you were a duplicitous, murderous killer I couldn’t trust—you’d be the third one this week. If you want to take your shot at the inn, do your best. Bring two armies next time. One never does the trick.”
She met those eyes again and wondered what Erin would say. Something charming that had this [Assassin] on her side, no doubt. But all Lyonette thought was that she’d monitor him, and even if he wasn’t completely trustworthy—introducing him to Demsleth or maybe asking Colfa and Himilt if they had any intelligence on him would be a useful way to put a check on any questions of Vaulont’s loyalty.
It was a calculated risk. Ielane would no doubt be running her own checks, and the main thing was that Vaulont probably wouldn’t murder her for hiring him for an easy job. They could part after one week, no hard feelings.
He broke the silence.
“I’ll want four thousand gold pieces up front. I don’t know the inn, and there are high-level [Spies] who’ll be tricky to deal with. It’s my reputation on the line. That covers any other threats.”
That was pretty cheap. Lyonette nodded at Ushar.
“How does eight sound, Master Vaulont?”
He paused.
“…Is that how a [Princess] haggles?”
She treated him to another beaming smile.
“No! I just have an event tonight that might require your presence. Can you show up after dinner? You may show up for dinner. The four thousand covers any fighting, and it may require more afterwards. Ideally, there will be none.”
He really didn’t like that. He shifted from foot to foot, but Lyonette wondered if the freelance assassination markets were fairly dry after all the Circle of Thorns business.
“Any fighting I do, I’ll bill you for. It’ll be expensive. I’ll charge my full rate on anything, even if I don’t kill them.”
“Splendid.”
Lyonette held out a hand. Vaulont stared at it as Dalimont sighed. Then he just nodded to her and touched her hand, briefly, with the tips of his gloves.
“You’re as odd as I’ve been told. What’s the dinner?”
“Hetwattle chicken tetrazzini casserole with Yellats. Roasted vegetables and buttermilk biscuits on the side. Cake for dessert.”
Vaulont the Ash paused.
“…I’ll be there with a contract.”
He stepped back and did an amazing vanishing trick into an alleyway, literally melding into the shadows. Lyonette raised her voice.
“I have a royal one!”
Then she was actually…done. In Invrisil, at least. Lyonette exhaled and coughed, and Ushar handed her a water flask.
“Very well done, Your Highness. Your mother may disapprove of your hiring choices, however.”
“Please. So long as I don’t get myself killed or Calanfer embarrassed, she’ll be fine.”
Ushar paused.
“She does worry, Your Highness. Mothers do.”
“Ielane?”
Lyonette laughed, and Dalimont gave Ushar a side-eye, but the Thronebearer just took the water flask back. Lyonette walked onwards.
“Oh, I just had a splendid idea for tonight. Can you contact Rufelt, Dalimont?”
“I shall head to Pallass forthwith.”
“Mm. Ask him if he has time to tutor me, actually. I assume he’d be good at the more casual bar-games, wouldn’t he? The Quarass offered to, but I’m leery about taking up her time. She gave me an hour of her time per week.”
“More than one might want, I would imagine, Your Highness. Be careful what you ask of her. Do you have a preference on what I should buy in regards to preparations? Drinks via Master Rufelt, of course. Cards? Dice?”
“Mm. Cards. I have a feeling it should be skill-based. Oh, and did those invitations work, Ushar?”
The female [Knight] checked a [Message] scroll.
“All-you-can-eat cake and an unlimited option on drinks seems to have gotten both…gentlemen…Your Highness.”
“How did you get a message to them? Isn’t Magnolia’s mansion closed?”
Ushar coughed into a fist.
“I believe Ishkr walked over to the mansion and attached a note to a bottle of Rxlvn he threw over the gate. He claims it works every time.”
“…That’s extremely disappointing, Ushar.”
Lyonette tried not to smile. They were meandering on their way back towards the gates, mostly because the Watch were now trying to keep crowds back from the [Mayor]’s office. She hoped there wouldn’t be a riot. Mayor Curle wasn’t that stupid, one hoped.
“Oh! The Adventurer’s Guild! Ushar, Dalimont. One last stop.”
Lyonette saw a new building and wavered, but she had to take a look inside. Wasn’t there some group of older adventurers that the Horns had met? A delightful, old group of [Mages], right?
She was about to pop in and see if she could convince another Gold-ranker team to work, even temporarily, with the inn when she saw someone leaving the Adventurer’s Guild alone. Lyonette stopped, and her brows drew together.
“No.”
Dalimont had been giving the evil eye to a [Pickpocket] behind them. When he turned, he blinked at a familiar half-Elf who strode out of the Guild and down the street. He saw the [Princess]’ head rotate to follow Elia Arcsinger. But Lyonette’s face had frozen over.
“No, absolutely not. Not her.”
“Your Highness?”
Neither Thronebearer had said anything. Lyonette half-turned. She seemed to be talking to herself.
“Erin would never.”
Ushar blinked, and her eyes widened slightly. Dalimont began rubbing at his chin.
“It’s your call, Your Highness.”
“Absolutely not. She killed several Goblins!”
“She’s cheap. And—”
“No, no, no!”
Lyonette’s voice rose, and heads turned towards the [Princess] as she stomped towards the Adventurer’s Guild. Halfway towards it, she switched directions, going after the half-Elf. Ushar was already pulling something out of her bag of holding and flipping through it.
“I requested an appraisal when the Order of Solstice was set against them. I should still have the file. She used to have one of the world’s most famous attack Skills.”
“Now it just lights her on fire.”
Lyonette tried to smile vindictively, but Ushar continued in a careful, level voice.
“She’s at least Level 40. Very skilled in archer tactics. Less—able, as we all saw, than her reputation suggests.”
“She’s a coward. A fake! How many requests has she failed?”
“…Less than you’d think, Your Highness. She actually has an above eighty percent clear rate.”
“Hah! That’s—”
“Above average for Gold-rankers. As you noted, she often sequesters help or reinforcements, but she gets the job done. There are no actual accounts of her breaking and running when lives were on the line.”
Dalimont had a thought and leaned forwards to whisper in Lyonette’s ear as he kicked the [Pickpocket] in the shins.
“Your Highness. Didn’t Bird complain she was in need of training with the bow?”
Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut.
“There is no way she’s better with a bow than Bird.”
She stomped forwards; Elia was walking at a swift pace, probably because she was not getting very friendly looks or comments from people who recognized her. And she was famous. Ser Dalimont let the comment go, and Lyonette muttered under her breath.
“How good could she be? Bird’s a natural.”
Ushar murmured.
“Half-Elven training, Your Highness. She studied in Avel, and she’s toured around the world. One imagines Bird might steal her techniques.”
Lyonette stared at Elia Arcsinger’s back as the half-Elf came to a stop in an outdoor market reserved for adventurers close to the guild. Lyonette’s eyes blazed, but she had had the same thought as Dalimont, Ushar…yet her face was set.
“She’s not worthy of it.”
The [Princess] heard her own voice, and her head turned as a few snowflakes drifted past her face. She blinked at them, as if she had only seen them for the first time, and held out a gloved hand.
Some snow fell onto her palm, and the [Princess] stared down at it. It seemed, then, as if she were four hundred miles and a year ago away. An angry [Princess] in the snow…
Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut.
“She’s not worthy.”
That decided her.
 
——
 
Elia Arcsinger was standing in one of the upscale stores at the market, ignoring the murmurs of people behind her. She had snow in her hair; a kid had thrown a piece at her and then run off.
That kid had been Grev.
The half-Elf was sorting through a very small number of amulets at the front counter. A [Jewelry Merchant] had brought them out, and the [Merchant]’s [Guards] were on high alert, because this was magical gear.
Artifacts. The best quality stuff you could get short of an auction. In fact, when Lyonette entered, one of them gave her a glare—before they saw the [Knights] and bowed her in. They’d have run off someone who didn’t look like they could afford anything inside in a moment.
“Miss, are you shopping for anything in particular? Earrings? Rings? Sorcerous Apparel is pleased to serve you, and our owner will be right with you.”
A [Shop Clerk] rushed forwards, and Lyonette murmured to her.
“I’d like to browse for a moment, please.”
She pretended to study some of the rings on display as she bookmarked this place for later. But all her attention was on Elia Arcsinger.
 
——
 
“This one. Are you sure the price can’t come down for it?”
“We do not negotiate on the price, Adventurer Arcsinger. Nor do we accept lines of credit.”
“It’s not the best artifact for this grade of enchantment.”
Elia was trying to haggle with the owner, and the [Merchant] wasn’t having it. She pointedly swept a bright red ruby amulet cut in a hexagonal pattern off her counter as her [Shop Clerk] hurried over and whispered excitedly in her ear.
The [Merchant] turned and peered at one of her new customers and brightened up. Brusquely, she turned to Elia.
“I believe that’s all, Adventurer Arcsinger. Please come back with the gold to purchase something. I cannot accept any more payments via the Merchant’s Guild.”
“That was my daughter. The money did reach you.”
“After two weeks. Adventurer Arcsinger, I have a business to run.”
Then she brushed by Elia, striding over to a client. Elia stood there for a second and put her head back. She spoke to the woman’s back, a trace of bitter irony in her voice.
“You know, Melda. When I stopped in here eleven years ago, you wanted to offer me your best amulet at the time for free. Now you’re Invrisil’s best [Jeweler]. Can’t you give me a hand? Once?”
Ten years. Not a long time for half-Elves, unless they lived in the real world. For Elia, and Melda, the time had changed so much. The woman now in her middle years froze, and her cheeks turned red.
Elia wearily gestured at a smaller tiger’s eye amulet.
“If you just gave me this one, I could pay it back in—”
“No, Elia. How many favors do you think it’s been?”
Melda strode forwards and poked a finger at Elia. Her guards shifted nervously; she was still arguing with a Named-ranker, but Elia frowned.
“I’ve never asked you for a single one.”
“Your daughter has. Your team has. How many times do I have to vouch for you among the Merchant’s Guild or cover for you with my friends? It didn’t use to be like this. Four years ago, I would have given you all these amulets. It’s only been ten years since you could have had a parade thrown every single day you were in Invrisil just for existing. Now what?”
The [Jeweler] stared up at Elia, and the half-Elf’s head lowered.
“Capoinelia? Again?”
“She called in all your favors before she headed north. You’re just lucky I told some of the other people I knew what she was doing or they’d be laying the blame at your feet.”
“I see. I’m sorry, Melda.”
The half-Elf exhaled. She put the tiger’s eye amulet down. The [Jeweler] stared at Elia angrily. Her eyes searched Elia’s face, and a grimace of pain filled her expression as she stared at something that made Elia avert her features.
“Why didn’t you just—? You’re her mother and the leader of Arcsinger’s Bows.”
Elia said nothing. She stared down at the ground, and Melda rubbed at her eyes impatiently.
“I have work to do. See yourself out, please?”
Melda turned and put on her best fake smile to greet a very important potential client, and Elia stood there a second. The very awkward [Shop Clerk] and some of the guards kept shooting glances at her. She was still the Named-rank adventurer who’d killed the Goblin King. A beautiful half-Elf.
With a wooden bow. Yet she still looked as if it were part of her body. She even seemed oddly more relaxed than when she had been celebrated in Invrisil. As if what she was afraid of had happened. She didn’t look like she was enjoying life right now. But that faint sense of relief…
That disgraced adventurer’s greatest crime had been revealed to the world. It was not that she was a craven, a murderer, or even a cheat or anything else like that.
It was simply that she wasn’t the legend she had presented herself as. Her team hadn’t been filled with adventurers worthy of the name and her title.
