That alone was enough for someone like Melda to be bitter about. But as Elia began to trail towards the door, she got a real look of animosity from someone.
A young woman with flare-red hair accompanied by two golden [Knights]. Elia stepped aside swiftly and recognized the Thronebearers of Calanfer, of all things. In Invrisil?
It…vaguely raised a memory, but she just retreated to the side, brushing at her hair, so as not to run into any of the displays.
“Thank you, Miss Melda. I am interested in…what’s this large ruby amulet here? It’s quite lovely.”
The young woman had a sword, but she was no adventurer or warrior. Elia’s head turned, and Melda looked guilty only for a second before hurrying around the counter.
“That would be an Amulet of Fire Resistance, Your Highness. My best work! You needn’t fear even standing in flames. I don’t know if it’s, um, as applicable to you as some of my other works, but it complements your hair very well, doesn’t it?”
Her [Shop Clerk] chimed in with agreements, and Lyonette held up the amulet. She glanced to the side, and Elia paused as those eyes found her.
“Fire Resistance. Oh. Of course. Your Skill. [Line-Ender’s…Heat]? Inferno? That might actually allow you to use it, right, Adventurer Arcsinger?”
The [Princess] turned, holding the amulet in hand.
“Then again, you might need an even better amulet than this one.”
“You have me at a disadvantage, Miss. Your Highness?”
Elia sketched a bow, unsure of why a foreign [Princess] would be in Invrisil. She assumed, at first, this was another former fan of hers. Most had this reaction; Lord Xitegen had been the best at merely disappointed. He’d even paid their team.
However, the [Princess]’ eyes flashed.
“You don’t remember me, Adventurer Elia?”
Remember…? Elia stared at the young woman again, and Elia vaguely recalled her. Mostly the two [Knights].
After a few seconds, it was clear that Elia didn’t really remember, and the young woman’s nostrils flared, but she smiled.
“My name is Lyonette du Marquin. Of House Marquin.”
“The Eternal Throne. Greetings, Your Highness. Forgive me for not remembering you. When did we last meet?”
“Oh, at Riverfarm. When I hired the Order of Solstice to stop your team.”
Elia froze in the midst of a full bow. Her eyes snapped upwards, and one of the [Knights] shifted. However, Elia just completed the bow.
“I see. Forgive me for interrupting your shopping.”
She began to retreat, but a second [Knight] was casually blocking the way, and Elia’s hand twitched towards her bow. A fight in here would be bad—she was not welcome in the city, and Melda was one of the last shopkeepers willing to even have her here.
But if this was for revenge…
“Your Highness! Adventurer Arcsinger was just leaving!”
Melda tried to get between Lyonette and Elia, but the [Princess] just walked forwards as one of her [Knights] blocked the woman.
“I have some business with Adventurer Arcsinger, Miss Melda. It won’t be long. Do you know where I currently work, Adventurer Arcsinger?”
This rang a bell, and Elia frowned.
“That inn which has Goblins. The one with the [Innkeeper] that let one of them go.”
She remembered that full well. Lyonette’s smile widened.
“The Wandering Inn. The very same. The Goblins in Riverfarm, the ones you killed with your Skill, are friends of the inn. You’re lucky you didn’t kill more. And that Lord Xitegen took care of you after—”
She paused. She clearly had a lot to say, but she had noticed the obvious. Elia grimaced, but she knew there was no hiding it.
On her cheeks, her hand, when she brushed at her hair—
Her skin had faint burn scars. From head to toe. They weren’t noticeable from a distance; the [Healers] that Lord Xitegen had hired had done a very good job. But the flames had been made from a Skill.
Her Skill, forever altered by the arrow Halrac Everam had shot. Lyonette fell silent. Her mouth worked.
“—I detest you. Not just for taking that contract. Goblins are not monsters.”
“I see.”
The [Princess] looked more outraged, but what did she expect? Elia tried to back up.
“If you’ll excuse me. I think neither one of us have more to gain from this exchange.”
“On the contrary. I think you’re down on your luck. I saw your daughter being thrown out of a restaurant. Penniless, is she?”
Gone for Terandria. The Merchant’s Guild had mostly settled Arcsinger’s Bows debts by selling off their gear. Elia felt a flash of something hot in her chest, but she kept trying to back up, now trying to shove the female [Knight] back.
“Yes, Arcsinger’s Bows has disbanded. As you can see, I don’t even have my bow. Are you satisfied?”
“No. You fought both Griffon Hunt and the Order of Solstice. All of them my friends. Zanze died because of—”
That was it. Elia was trying, but she snapped. She whirled faster than the [Knights] could react and pointed a finger at Lyonette. The [Princess] recoiled as Elia raised her voice.
“So did Toreel! Your friend died? My teammate for nearly a decade died as well! I was the one who burned! Believe me, it could have been worse. I could have killed that archer. I could have tried to kill them all, and I didn’t. I’m out of money, disgraced, and you can mock me. Is that enough?”
The [Princess] didn’t back down. Her [Knights] were tensed, and Melda and her guards moved back, but even Elia snapping didn’t faze…
Who was this? The [Princess]’ eyes narrowed.
“There is still a grudge, Elia Arcsinger. The Goblins as well. I won’t forgive you for it.”
“I’ll watch my back, then. I don’t intend to get anywhere near that place. Or your inn.”
Elia whirled back. She didn’t like the nervous feeling that stole over her at the [Princess]’ promised enmity. If she sent more of her [Knights] while Elia was on a mission—maybe she should head north or south?
However, the [Princess] wasn’t done. She herself strode around Elia and blocked her path.
“Wait. I didn’t come here solely to yell at you. As relieving as that might be—I should be content to let you wallow as you are. But you are still a Named-rank adventurer. Do you know anything that’s happened to The Wandering Inn of late?”
“I saw your [Innkeeper] stab the Prince of Erribathe. I’d wager you have more enemies than I do.”
Elia noted Lyonette’s wince with some satisfaction as Melda gasped. The [Princess] exhaled.
“Yes. Well, Erin is indeed gone, and the inn has suffered—damages. I’m actually in Invrisil in part to hire people for my inn. Adventurers. Other specialists. I am…willing to employ you.”
What? Elia almost reached up to rub her ears. That was not how she was expecting this confrontation to go. But the [Princess] just lifted the amulet in one hand.
“Miss Melda? I’m buying this. Dalimont, pay her.”
The [Knight] fumbled for his bag of holding and began placing bags marked ‘one thousand’ on the counter. Melda’s eyes popped, and Elia stared at Lyonette. The [Princess] dangled the amulet in one hand.
“The Wandering Inn is short on security personnel. Rich in, well, gold. Do I understand you have some substantive debts in the city?”
“They’re paid off.”
Mostly. No one wanted to send a [Debt Collector] after a Named-rank, and she was taking Silver-rank requests. She could handle killing monsters, even a pack, alone.
Lyonette caught Elia’s lie, and her eyes flashed triumphantly.
“I’ll cover them. And offer you a generous stipend. This is a signing bonus.”
She handed Elia the amulet, and the half-Elf lifted the Amulet of Fire Resistance disbelievingly.
This costs 3,150 gold. Yes, the woman was a [Princess], but she was working at an inn, and she could just purchase this with gold on hand?
All Elia’s debts? She stared at Lyonette.
“You want me to guard your inn?”
She’d heard of ludicrous contracts, but this? Then she remembered the rumors about the inn, and her stomach twisted into a knot. But Lyonette was counting on her fingers.
“Not alone. In fact, you’d have manifold duties. Part of them would be lookout. But I would also want you to escort my daughters around and teach an Antinium living in my inn. Bird the Hunter.”
“What?”
“Also, I have Goblins in my employ. They won’t be happy to see you. But they are also to be protected. If you can agree to that, I’ll pay you enough to begin setting you up with your old equipment. At the very least, I’ll buy an enchanted bow.”
She gave Elia’s current bow a dismissive stare. For a few seconds, Elia didn’t know what to say. This angry [Princess] wanted to hire her to teach an Antinium? Run security for her inn?
“I assume your inn gets attacked often if you need a Named-rank.”
The young woman’s glower became a look of apprehension.
“Not often. But when it happens—”
Elia recognized that, and her instincts kicked in. But Lyonette shook her head.
“You won’t be alone. I have a Gold-rank team and a Silver-rank team I intend to hire. In time, I hope to have at least one more Named-rank adventurer, and other Gold-rank level specialists.”
What kind of inn was this? Even Larracel’s Haven could only boast that number of adventurers as guests on special occasions. Lyonette scribbled on a piece of paper.
“This includes free room and board and covers all the costs of arrows and potions and whatnot. We do have healing potions left and a resident [Alchemist]. With all that considered, I could offer you…”
Five thousand gold pieces per month. Elia’s eyes popped at the number. That was about ten times what you paid even a Named-rank for casual guard duty. Her mind raced. It wouldn’t put her back on track to getting her old gear; adventurer gear was exorbitant. But she wouldn’t have to worry about expenses for a year, even if she worked at the inn for a month!
And if this woman covered her debts, Elia could start over. The half-Elf thought of all this, crossing her arms. Goblins in the inn? They’d be terrified of her. Antinium?
She could do it. Elia Arcsinger nodded to herself as the [Princess] stood there, eyes bright, chin raised. She was shorter than Elia by a good head, and the Named-rank adventurer looked down.
Then Elia shook her head.
“Thank you for the offer, Princess Lyonette. I refuse. Good day to you.”
“Bu—what?”
Lyonette sputtered, and Elia had the immense satisfaction of seeing the [Princess]’ face as she strode out into the street. She made a beeline back towards the Adventurer’s Guild, but the sound of running footfalls made her sigh.
“Wait! What do you think you’re doing?”
Elia swung around as Princess Lyonette caught up. The young woman was furious. But Elia was too; she just didn’t look it. She had a decade of practice hiding her feelings.
“I believe I gave you my answer.”
“I heard it. Why? You’re in debt. You need a paying job.”
“I do.”
The half-Elf was reluctant to say it in the street, but anyone could probably find that out. She fixed Lyonette with a hard stare.
“But I’m not going to grovel and work for someone who hates me as much as you. I am the woman who shot the Goblin King. Do you expect me to just work for your inn and smile at Goblins?”
She drew herself up slowly, wishing her shoulders didn’t ache. Her bow always felt heavier in her hands, but she drew it and saw the [Knights] tense. Elia put an arrow to the bow and saw the street duck away. She shot the arrow straight up at eighty percent of her strength, and the [Princess]’ eyes widened. Was she crazy? The arrow was going to land—
Elia drew the second arrow in an instant, put it to the bow, and aimed straight up. She waited a beat—then pulled at maximum strength.
Both arrows exploded in the air overhead as they collided, the first overtaking the second. Elia’s eyes searched the air, and she almost smiled as Lyonette’s mouth opened.
Where was…
Ah, there. The spiraling pieces of wood weren’t a hazard, but the two iron arrowheads had met and fused into a falling bit of metal. Elia drew a third arrow and fired it.
Ping. The arrowheads jumped and bounced as her third arrow hit them a dozen feet up, just over a trader’s stall. The two arrowheads rolled into a sewer grate, and Elia walked over and picked up the final arrow.
Damn. I just wasted two arrows on that trick.
It was still worth it to turn all those people in the street’s heads and get them to stop sneering at her. Elia whirled on her heel.
—The [Princess] was blocking her path.
“Now I really want to hire you. You are a high-level [Archer].”
“Not the one you want. Go hire another one.”
Elia tried to side-step Lyonette. The [Princess] side-stepped her side-step.
“Name your price.”
Elia was afraid to, both because it would give the [Princess] an idea and because she might have been tempted if the [Princess] agreed to a ludicrous sum.
“No.”
She kept her head up. She met the [Princess]’ gaze. She had her pride. It wasn’t much, but it was real. Realer than her title and reputation.
“I am the woman who killed the Goblin King. Call it a fluke or lucky shot, I did. Maybe I should have told everyone the truth, but no one believed me.”
No one but the Titan of Baleros. Elia lifted her bow.
“Even so, I did it. And that was never a lie. I wasn’t ready to fight Adult Crelers; I refused to go to war against the Demon King. I might not even be worthy of being a Named-rank. If they take away my title, I won’t fight it. But I am gifted with the bow. And I don’t need you to survive, or for you to pay for my debts or buy a fancy amulet for me. You can’t buy me, Princess. Good day.”
With that, she took two long strides and began heading towards the guild again.
Fancy words. I’m going to have to make turnip soup tonight. Her stomach growled, but she meant it.
She was determined not to rise to the bait or let the [Princess] get a word in edgewise. Nothing could be achieved by engaging with Lyonette but wasting her time. Even so—the [Princess] hit her with a question and reeled Elia back in.
“Why did you kill the Goblin King, Velan the Kind?”
Why? Elia tried to stop herself, but she swung herself back around and was striding for Lyonette.
Why?
In all her years, no one had ever asked her why. The half-Elf bent over and stared at the [Princess]. She was about to shout. Then she took the question seriously.
“Why did I enlist? Why did I leave my home? Why didn’t I run when he charged through Archmage spells at us?”
A nod. Elia blinked at Lyonette and began to take in more details about the young woman now.
Has she been in a fight? She was scratched all over, and she looked like she had a faint trace of bruising around her right eye. She looked—tired. Determined. Most [Princesses] that Elia had met just looked vaguely exhausted with social niceties or fending off courtships.
