“I’ll triple it. Take your team, Todi’s Elites, and guard my inn, Captain Todi. I don’t care if you have to switch out members. I don’t care if it’s just you—I want you, Todi, to be Head of Security for the inn. I will pay three times Selys’ price to you and cover your team’s costs and arm them better. But I need an adventurer. You’re the first.”
She pointed at him, and Todi calmly pulled something out of his belt pouch before he thought about it.
It was his Scroll of [Lesser Teleport]. His emergency lifeline. It was unconscious; when you saw a wagon rolling towards you loaded with explosive alchemy vials, you dodged.
“You want to hire me?”
He said it to buy time, and Lyonette’s eyes gleamed. Like that [Innkeeper], that madwoman.
“Yes, Captain Todi. You’re a competent man. You’d make a decent Thronebearer.”
Both of the Thronebearers winced, which hurt, but Todi lifted his hands with a smile.
“I’m sorry, Miss Lyonette. But I’m under contract.”
“I’ll buy out the severance clause.”
“—You don’t even know how much that—”
“Selys didn’t put more than two thousand gold on it, I’ll wager. I will buy it out, Todi. And I will give you the same amount as a signing bonus.”
The severance clause was actually only eight hundred gold pieces, but—Todi’s mouth worked. How much gold was she working with? Even so.
“I’d have to think it over.”
“No, you don’t. You know The Wandering Inn, Captain Todi. You know me.”
“Yeah. That’s where good adventurers go to die.”
The words slipped out of Todi’s mouth. Angrily. He couldn’t help it. Lyonette flinched, but she kept her eyes on him. Blue gaze unblinking.
“Yes, they do. Or they level up. The Horns of Hammerad were the first adventurer guests that Erin ever had. They went into the Crypts of Liscor, and almost all of them died. Then they formed again and became adventurers who were first into the Crossroads of Izril. Halrac was a good adventurer when he came here. He was a [Knight] when he died. You know it, Todi.”
Dead gods, but he did. Todi was trying not to visibly sweat or shake. His heart was pounding too fast.
You can’t do it. Selys will kill you. You’ll get murdered in a moment fighting Belavierr. Two Belavierrs. 
“I stood over Halrac Everam’s coffin last month, Miss Lyonette. Why—why do you think I’d take a job that killed him? He was tough as shit. A Gold-rank adventurer among the lot. Why me?”
She pointed at him, and he twitched as if she held a Wand of Lightning Bolts.
“Because you’re one of the last adventurers I know. Because you have been at the inn and defended it and didn’t run.”
“I’ll run if an army comes knocking! Let alone Facestealer! I’ll shit my britches and leave them on your inn floor!”
He retorted. He knew he sounded like a coward—he didn’t care. He wanted her to turn that spotlight gaze off him. The [Princess] just smiled.
“That’s fine.”
“It is?”
“If you take my daughters with you, it is, Captain Todi. And I think if they do arrive, those horrors, you will run like a sensible man. But I don’t think you’d go without my daughters. That’s the difference between a Gold-rank adventurer and a coward. I am asking you to do a hard job. An insane job. Come with me. Take my hand. Or you can guard a bunch of apartments and retire as you are.”
She held out a hand, and he tried to laugh it away.
“Are you promising level ups as part of my contract now? You can’t guarantee that.”
“My [Head Server] is a higher level than you are, Todi. I promise you an adventure, even if you never stray a mile from my inn.”
Oh, dead gods. Now he saw it. He should have known from the start. Those eyes. That smile. If she put a flaming hat on her head or just turned that hair to fire…
She had something like Erin Solstice’s smile on her face. But the [Innkeeper] was different. Her, Todi would have run screaming from her if she tried to recruit him. Because she was like a great wave sweeping over land. The glow of a flag at dawn—the kind of wild, all-or-nothing gaze that made you want to get up and follow her because it mattered.
Todi could ignore that gaze. Could claim, rightfully, that he had kinship to rats and he was no hero.
He knew what he looked like. To understand who Captain Todi was, in appearance to personality, you had to understand where he stood.
Captain Todi stood under the shadows of the new apartment complexes going up, tall buildings with sculpted balconies. Elegance; more than mass-produced concrete. Splashes of color from newly planted green walkways, a ramp leading into a courtyard with a well for the entire apartment complex to draw from.
It was no Invrisil, but it was good enough. That was Todi. He was a Gold-rank adventurer. He wore visibly enchanted leather armor with a sheen to it, similar to soap on water, and he could afford a cologne, spent the time to comb his hair, and put some alchemical goop on his skin to make it look better and deal with the acne that had plagued a younger man.
—But he was no Ylawes Byres, who looked like he had walked out of a storybook, that perfect [Knight]. Todi’s nose wasn’t shapely. It was rounded, like his belly, which an adventurer was allowed to have. No one could beat Todi in the 100-foot run for their life.
He was a stockier man with a few scars and muscle enough to take out anyone in a bar fight, but he wasn’t a freak of muscle like Calruz or covered in old injuries like Shriekblade. He didn’t have Halrac’s glower and stare, which did—had done—a lot for the rest of the man.
Dead gods, he predated Halrac by a good five years. The man had been a soldier when Todi was a Bronze-rank. But they’d gotten to Gold-rank at the same time. They were old, in the business. But he’d never had Halrac’s intensity, Yvlon’s determination, Saliss’ insanity…
He had qualities of these things. But the end result was that you could mistake Todi not for a Gold-rank adventurer, but an above-average [Mercenary] or [Guard Captain] running escort duties for merchant caravans.
Todi hated it.
He embraced it. He liked to hire at least one half-Elf or someone attractive for his team and make them introduce Todi’s Elites. When he was around someone he wanted to impress, he stood with perfect posture and used as much dignified language and etiquette as he studied—and he did study it!
When he was around other adventurers, he’d catch himself slumping. Leaning on people’s shoulders. Being the one who sought out younger, newer adventurers, giving out advice and trying to convince them to join his team. Like a toad. Todi the Toad, he knew they called him. He wasn’t jealous of newbies like Jewel the adventurer, who had the look, the fast advancement, the talent. Those were rookies.
He was jealous of the Horns of Hammerad or Jewel the [Knight]. The ones who kept going, passing him like brilliant shooting stars, leaving him only chasing after sparks in the gloom.
Of course, there was more to Todi than just his rank. When his back was up, like now, as he faced Lyonette, he looked like a puffed-up buffoon. Spluttering. Arguing in a loud, brash voice.
A toad with poison fangs. He had enchanted mithril chainmail hidden under cheaper, enchanted leather armor. It was light as a feather; he forgot he was wearing it sometimes.
Todi had more than a Wand of Fireballs. His shortsword had no ridge nor fuller to the blade; it was a long, oblong blade that had made more than one Ogre smirk. It was enchanted with Evercut.
The armor and blade he had bought over his entire lifetime of adventuring; real, truly valuable items. They were weapons he hid, never even used in most battles, because when you saw his tricks, those were all he had. And now?
Now, the toad, the rat, was facing down a real royal from Terandria. And he felt like she could see all those moments of glory he’d ever had.
Besting three Ogres in a battle by virtue of his sword. Letting them bleed out by prolonging the fight. Holding his ground against a nest of Crelers as a Silver-rank. Babies. But the Horns weren’t the only ones who’d ever done it.
I can’t do it twice. He’d used up all his luck on those moments, and he was terrified he was about to run a deficit. The man gave Lyonette a bleak look, searching for her imperfections. Everyone had them. That’s why he had liked Elia Arcsinger. And this woman had flaws, tons of them. Her inn was all flaw to work for.
But the [Princess] was different. Her deep, blue gaze was like someone staring into the future. At what she had seen. At what you could be. As if she had gone through that process and knew it could be done.
It was one thing to blow a horn of the world’s ending and call a rat to battle. The rat would hide under a rock. It was another to look at a rat and tell him he could be a champion.
Todi was laughing, he realized. Laughing and shaking his head.
“I’m not your man, Miss Lyonette. I will never be as good an adventurer as Halrac. I can’t beat Seborn with blades, and I’m not half as sharp as Ceria.”
“No. Maybe not. But you can be one of my people. Come now, Captain Todi. You have to choose your employers well. Selys merely has a fortune behind her. I have fortunes upon fortunes without end.”
Grinning, looking at his team and waiting for them to seem—
Their eyes were on him. Not a single one was—no, they appeared apprehensive or surprised, but they didn’t seem ready to laugh at the deal. Some of them seemed jealous.
What am I supposed to be? Some newbie like Jewel who gets beaten down by Erin in a wheelchair? Then—polished into a [Knight]?
It took all the effort in his body to shake his head. Her aura. She was definitely using it on him.
“My answer’s the same no matter what, Lyonette.”
He made a show of whirling around. Back straight—no, slouched. Scuffing away like the fool he was. Even if it ruined his reputation.
“Captain Todi. Fifteen thousand gold pieces upon signing to you.”
The [Princess] called at his back, and Todi stopped, foot raised. He squeezed his eyes shut.
“That’s not—”
“Thirty thousand. And I’ll buy you a crossbow from the House of El.”
He stared at the sky. Snow was falling down from it. Soon, they’d bury a man named Todi. When he turned, he tried to sneer. But he was afraid.
“If that’s how you negotiate, it seems like I could jack my price up even higher. Not exactly smart, Miss Lyonette.”
Her laughter was like a funeral song in his ears. Because she flashed him a grin with all her teeth now.
“Well then, you’d better raise your prices before we get ink to paper. I dread the haggling. Come on, Captain Todi.”
She gestured, and then he was walking towards her as his brain screamed at him that he’d be dead in the week. The month! But what was he supposed to say?
No to that opportunity?
No to the inn that Halrac and Moore and Ulinde thought was worth dying over?
No to that smile?
No to at least thirty thousand gold pieces on signup?
Curse you, Todi, you fool. You worthless rat. She had you dead to rights the moment you met her. She knew she could get you with money.
She just wanted to see if you were worth it. The Gold-rank adventurer beckoned, and his team glanced at each other and fell in. After a moment, Todi cleared his throat.
“Just so you know. I’d need a full staff, not those Goblins and Antinium you had with you. At least another group who can fight. And your corridor’s shit if all the enemies get past it.”
“We have Architect Hexel at the inn right now and a number of very interesting minions from Rheirgest. I’m sure he can redesign the defenses.”
“I’m no good with spies—”
“I assure you, we will be getting our best spycatcher back momentarily.”
“—Then if the staff or your kids hate me—”
“Mrsha seems rather taken. I, myself, could use a few lessons in dirty fighting.”
She rubbed at her forehead, and Todi gave up.
“Do I have a budget at least?”
She and the Thronebearers started laughing then, and because this was crazy—and so was he—he joined in. He called at Lyonette as he waved for someone to tell Selys the news.
“I don’t deserve this, you know. I’m not worthy even of those expectations.”
“Captain Todi?”
She swung on her heel and laughed at him, cloak flashing around her in the snow.
“No one is. Including me. We become worthy, if we’re lucky.”
 
——
 
Todi was the first. He was not the last. Lyonette had made inquiries and sought out another group she thought could fulfill multiple purposes.
She’d been told that their captain alternated between Invrisil and Liscor, but for the purposes of rent, she’d elected to live in Liscor.
She was having a late breakfast at The Drunken Gnoll, and Timbor Parithad himself pointed out Lyonette’s target.
“I don’t want any trouble today, Miss Lyonette. Not that I’m suggesting you’re about to start any—”
The [Innkeeper] got a puzzled look from her.
“Master Timbor, why would I start trouble?”
Timbor opened his mouth, then waved one hand all over his face. Lyonette didn’t get what that meant, so she just shook her head. Her quarry seemed just as shocked to see Lyonette, who had a welcome expression for a familiar face.
Even if they hadn’t been the most common guests—
“Lyonette! Captain Todi? What can I do for you? Hey, is this about Ceria? We don’t have her gold yet, but we’re looking for buyers!”
Captain Earlia of Gemhammer, a bluff woman with a huge warhammer leaning against the table, got up, and Lyonette blinked.
“It’s a delight to see you again, Captain Earlia! You’re just the woman I wanted to meet. No, Ceria doesn’t have anything to do with…what?”
“Oh, the sale of her dungeon stuff. The Runes of Insanity. From Albez. It took longer than we thought—always does. But we’ve got the whole damn lot on the market. A bunch of stuff from Liscor’s dungeon too.”
The runes from—the trap in the Dungeon of Albez! Now that Lyonette recalled, hadn’t Ceria indeed commissioned Gemhammer to break down the trap? Her eyes lit up, and an idea shot into her mind.
“Have you had much luck selling them?”
Earlia heaved a huge sigh, but pulled a chair out. She blinked as Ser Dalimont pulled Lyonette’s new, favorite, upholstered chair out of his Bag of Holding, and she sat in that instead.
“Not yet. Buyers’re scarce. All that New Lands hoopla means people are lean with their gold, even nobles and whatnot. No one likes dungeon stuff; they say the traps can be unpredictable, nevermind that my team’s deconstructed everything! If you see Ceria, let her know it’s fine—we’ll get a bite soon. There are already a few offers on individual runes, but I want to see what the going price is. Say, uh—did she really marry a [King]?”
“No.”
