Two. She wasn’t a royal bee in her new form! This was intolerable! Then Apista wondered how big a queen Scourgebee would be. She flew off to scare the daylights out of someone else with a happy buzz.
 
——
 
Lyonette had no idea what any of her new Skills did, but today was wonderful. Even Apista felt happy!
The Princess of Infinite Gold spread her arms and began to laugh. After a while, she noticed everyone was staring at her and stopped. Then she went about another day in The Wandering Inn.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail realized there was no real good way to pack a spear. It took her ages to remember that if you didn’t just resign yourself to having a pointy spear around you at all times, you could put an enchanted bag over one.
It made it look sort of stupid, but she didn’t want to accidentally cut herself on her grandmother’s spear.
It wasn’t the flaming one that Tekshia liked the most; it was one of her backup spears, the one she’d nicknamed Fisherfriend. Not a relic-class weapon by far; it was wicked and barbed, and Selys had always been nervous around it. Ever since she was a kid. She’d once caught herself on the barbs and—well—she was lucky she didn’t have scars.
The spear was jet black, and the shaft slowly turned bluer towards where the harpoon-like tip was.
Selys had no idea how to use it right. She’d have to take lessons, but it was hers.
Not as in ‘hers because she had renounced her class, sold the Heartflame Breastplate, and was [Guildmaster] of the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor’. More like hers—because she had convinced Besoid to sell it to her.
Tekshia had left the spear to him, but he didn’t exactly need it either, retired as he was, even though he could use it. Selys had made him an offer that had convinced him to part with it.
He was also, probably, guilty about how things had gone. Selys didn’t want to think about it. She tossed her belongings into the bag of holding.
“Rhata? Haldagaz? Woodchuck? Are any of you coming?”
The animals, Beavers and two rats, milled about. The two rats scurried over with adorable little travel bags somehow tied to Rhata’s tail, but the beavers were less certain.
“I’ll send for you. Someone will feed and care for you, but I’m going. Understand?”
The Fortress Beavers didn’t really get it. They made worried, whining sounds, and Selys bent down, scratched them, and sighed.
“I’m not sticking around this—this place.”
She whirled, yet her angry glance wasn’t meant for her mansion, but—the city.
Liscor.
Lyonette.
That inn. And the Council. And everyone else! They’d refused to do a thing as Lyonette took Todi, Selys’ adventurers. It didn’t matter if Selys could hire people to take over—it just proved everything Selys did here didn’t matter.
It was always about Erin’s inn, even when she wasn’t here. And the Adventurer’s Guild—
Selys stormed for the door and forgot her bag of holding. She came back for it as a carriage parked outside waited for her to get in.
“I’m leaving. I’m going to find those friends my grandmother talked about. She had real friends in the north and south. And when I come back, it’ll be as an Adventurer’s Guild [Guildmistress] and—”
Her voice trailed off. The beavers lined up as the two rats squeaked at her. Selys hesitated and stood there, face twisted with indecision. But when she looked back into her apartment, she saw an overturned mess of furniture. A pile of wine bottles—a broken Mage’s Picture of her and Erin—
“I’m going to make something of myself, Grandmother. My way.”
Selys picked up the spear and used it like a walking stick. She slowly left the apartment, turning, as if hoping someone would call out to her as she walked towards the waiting carriage.
Someone like an [Innkeeper] running down the street with problems and apologies. But she was on another continent. Or a bossy Gnoll—but she was in Council meetings.
The [Princess] was busy at her inn. The cute little Gnoll girl was playing with the witch and her new friends and getting ready for school. The [Necromancer] was in the company of the King of Destruction.
Selys Shivertail was alone. She stood there, bleakly, and then wondered how The Wandering Inn had ruined her life this much. She spun on her heel and got into the carriage.
“There’s more to the world than Liscor. I’m going to see it. I’ll be back.”
For vengeance or in triumph—or however she returned, she didn’t know. Only that she couldn’t stand to be here. The Drake sat in the carriage as it drove out of the city. Mile by mile, heading north instead of south. She should have used the door—but that would have meant entering the inn. So Selys just curled up in one of Wistram’s new, magical carriages.
She wondered how long it would be until they noticed she was gone.
