“Quarass, I am a fan.”
Nerul was bowing to the Quarass, who gave him a faint smile.
“Diplomat Nerul of Salazsar? You are known to us.”
He visibly puffed up at the table.
“That is an honor. A complete honor! I would love to ask you about some of the famous maneuvers you’ve pulled off. The inventor of Umbral Throne diplomacy herself!”
“Er. Yes.”
Fetohep, Ielane, even Eldavin and Teriarch turned in their seats abruptly and stared at the Quarass. None of them had known that. Nerul beamed at the ruler of Germina and leaned over.
“This is a fascinating game. Full of cheating, no doubt, with Skills and magic aplenty.”
“Not while I’m here.”
Eldavin calmly spoke, reaching for a cup and locking gazes with Teriarch.
“Nor with me.”
The Dragon growled, eyes alight with malice. Nerul chuckled.
“Ah, but the best cheating is just the sleight-of-hand stuff. I’m just here as another player for a clean, lovely game! I’d hate for someone to accidentally play another four-card hand because she forgot they’re hidden under a pillow.”
Every eye turned to the Quarass, and the girl gave Nerul a cute smile, acting entirely innocent.
“Why, [Diplomat], I’m just a child eager to learn this game. I am terribly influenced by my new form.”
“One imagines, one imagines…”
“Why don’t we all move to chairs, then?”
Teriarch gave the Quarass an evil look, and she rose from a pile of pillows that Lyonette had thought was a bit off to want to play in. Lyonette rubbed her hands as she watched.
Oh yes. Now it began.
 
——
 
The trick was not to try and beat the players. They were all damned good.
Fetohep had an unbelievable poker face. Valeterisa was a genius; the other immortals were cunning, excellent at reading faces, and Queen Ielane could act with the best of them.
Lyonette had to take a break to freshen up. She was sweating like a cow. She assumed cows sweat a lot; she actually had to change out of her clothing into a fresh dress.
“You is sweating like a Carn Wolf in the summer. Here, here!”
Peggy and a group of female staff surrounded Lyonette. They had damp cloths and sprays of perfume; Octavia offered Lyonette a drink, and the [Princess] gulped it down.
“How much gold are we down?”
Goldbody handed Peggy a towel, and then Lyonette was getting dressed again. Rosencrantz called out from behind a curtain.
“We are within Yelroan’s projections, Miss Lyonette.”
So I don’t want to know. The [Princess] was still sweating; it wasn’t the alcohol or the heat around the table. It was the stress.
“Calming tonic?”
Octavia handed her a vial, and Lyonette tossed it down. That helped—a bit.
“You got this.”
Lyonette took a few breaths, then went out, all smiles. Half the gamblers didn’t even notice the change in apparel.
They could do this.
Nerul was calm at his table; everyone else was on edge, especially as multiple wills collided around them. The [Diplomat] showed no visible signs of unease, and only Ishkr was as relaxed as Nerul. He was enjoying this, damn him.
Lyonette was, in some vague sense, but terror was mixing with her sense of excitement. It was working, mind you.
The trick was to play them against each other. Lyonette let the main table go on without her; Nerul played three games, and she came back to lose two more handily.
She had taken lessons from Rhaldon, Rose, and Rufelt about some of the card games, but she was out of her league. What Lyonette noticed was how the other players, well, played.
Valeterisa was probably the weakest by far. When she had lost all but one stick, she freaked out and began only using smaller denominations. She won her way back up to six sticks, got to eight, then alternated sitting out games and gambling with tiny sums of money. If she won, she took only a fraction out of the pot—Lyonette summoned Relc and offered the two of them a bottle of wine and the use of the Drathian Garden.
Get lost.
Taking out someone who would lower the tempo of the games mattered, and nursing the egos of the other players was important.
 
——
 
Fetohep, for instance, was actually too rich. He didn’t bat an eye after losing and was playing for the love of the game; Lyonette spun him into another table with lower-stake hands. He was only too content to chat with players not keen on betting huge sums.
“It has been a while since your visit, Adventurer Arcsinger. I trust your injuries have quite healed?”
“Yes, Your Majesty. Thank you.”
Elia played a card. The second table used regular gold coins, even silver. A sweating Gnoll girl with a mustache tossed down a card and instantly regretted it. Nanette was actually doing alarmingly well, as was a blind [Emperor] that Lyonette had sent for as a distraction.
“Adventurers are a delight upon nations. Or a curse. What would be your view upon their presence, Your Majesty of Riverfarm?”
Fetohep turned his head to Laken, and the younger man glanced up.
“Given how the last visit from Adventurer Arcsinger went, I rather regard their presence as unwanted, Your Majesty of Khelt. Without my express permission.”
“Indeed. I take the same approach. Do you cultivate much art in your empire, perchance, Emperor Laken?”
“Totems. Carved trinkets, mainly. The Unseen Empire deals in symbology, it seems. I have less of an appreciation for them—I prefer music.”
Laken passed a hand over his face and smiled. Gamel whispered in his ear as he fiddled with his cards. Fetohep leaned back.
“Naturally, naturally. I believe the phrase is…‘go fish’.”
 
——
 
Once she got rid of Fetohep and Valeterisa, the table really heated up. It was about rivalries, Lyonette realized, and there were a lot to go around.
Eldavin intensely disliked Teriarch. Teriarch felt the same, and both had enmities with Rhisveri and played aggressively, bidding him up even at the cost of their own hands at times. Actually, the entire table seemed to have it out for Rhisveri.
Queen Ielane should have been out from the start, having only four sticks to work with and no inclination to continue playing, but she played exceptionally conservatively until she thought she could win. She was on seventeen sticks and counting, and Lyonette was annoyed to realize Ielane really was good at gambling.
Taletevirion and Tolveilouka were another duo who hated each other. But here the, uh, balance of power wasn’t so fine.
“Psst. Teriarch. Lend me another ten sticks.”
The Unicorn reached for some, and Teriarch hissed at him.
“How are you out already?”
The Unicorn was drunk. And a bad gambler. He had an unusual lucky streak; for instance, he’d literally pulled a full house on the first try in poker. Mrsha had told Lyonette that he had some kind of luck powers.
However, lucky or not, Lyonette had let him slide because he was horrifically bad at the game. Tolveilouka had twenty-nine sticks, mostly due to Taletevirion. He was a good gambler, held his liquor well—
Lyonette strode over, voice sweet.
“Taletevirion, why don’t you have a seat in the audience? You’re looking rather tired. Ishkr? Bring him a bottle, would you?”
When the Unicorn saw Ishkr trotting out with a bottle—and Rosencrantz—and Peggy—each with a bottle on a tray, he decided he was done gambling and took all three bottles. He was worth the effort and cursing from Rufelt, who was making drinks to take him out.
After all—when it was down to Eldavin, Teriarch, Rhisveri, Ielane, Lyonette’s seat, the Quarass, and Tolveilouka, the real knives came out.
The Quarass was clearly determined to make money today. And she was probably the finest gambler, both in Skills, cheating, experience, and her ability to read her audience in the entire room.
Everyone lost gold sticks to her. She was social as well, playing them against each other.
“How long has it been since we had a meeting like this, Teriarch?”
“I can’t recall, Quarass. You are looking in rather good shape, though.”
“I can recall.”
Eldavin stared at Teriarch, and the Dragonlord’s eyes flashed. The Quarass merrily watched as they bid up her winning hand, then turned and innocently spoke to the side.
“You do have fine taste in clothing, Tolveilouka. From what area of Drath is this from?”
“The ship [Captain] never said. I suspect the Satoreni islands. You’ve…been to Drath? You sound like you’re old enough. But I don’t remember you.”
Tolveilouka stared suspiciously at the Quarass. She gave him an innocent look.
“Well, I have never heard of your master…? Is he a contemporary of the Immortal Tyrant, perchance? Some lesser figure at the time?”
A vein popped out in Tolveilouka’s temple. Rhisveri leaned over, scattering a few golden sticks into the pile. He had started out winning, and despite being back to where he’d started, he looked confident, pleased at besting the others and ‘beating’ Valeterisa, Taletevirion, and Fetohep.
“These names come and go. I’m sure you’ve heard of Ailendamus’ rapid rise to the forefront of Terandria, haven’t you, Quarass? Youth and innovation triumph over age and nostalgia every time.”
Everyone turned to look at him, and the Quarass frowned as she put a hand to her cheek.
“Yes, I am glad you could attend the game, Duke Rhisveri. I would have thought Ailendamus might need to husband its wealth, even as large as it is, due to the reparations from the war.”
“Reparations? What repar—we’ve paid nothing. The war is ongoing, and I resent the insinuation we’ve lost! Battles happen. Raise!”
It was actually a bit horrific. Lyonette had used a rotating group, including Nerul, herself, Rufelt, and Ishkr, to play the hands. They mostly lost, but they kept their losses small after her initial run of bad luck, and by the time two hours had passed, they had recovered half of their defeats.
At this point, Ielane, the Quarass, Eldavin, and Teriarch had emerged solidly as the ones getting ahead from where they’d begun. Tolveilouka was getting angrier and angrier as he fell behind. So was Rhisveri.
“You have to be cheating. Another Hydrablood!”
“It’s called natural talent, young man.”
Teriarch rifled the cards as Ishkr instantly produced the drinks. Rhisveri made an inarticulate growl.
“Don’t lecture me. If this wasn’t a civil game—”
“You’d what? Send your Viscount out to fight?”
Eldavin was leaning over his chair, and Rhisveri half got up.
“I don’t walk out to deal with pesky flies. I delegate.”
It was Tolveilouka who laughed derisively and made Rhisveri flush.
“The entire room is lucky I remember what style looks like. Don’t waggle your tongue in front of your betters.”
“Gentlemen, gentlemen! Let’s all have another drink on me. Another game? Give me one second to put my daughters to bed—I see that yawn, Miss Mrsha! Who’ll take my place? Oh—Yelroan?”
The Quarass’ head rose, as did Ielane’s, but the immortals didn’t notice. Rhisveri, Teriarch, Eldavin, and Tolveilouka just grunted or nodded as the Gnoll sat down, sunglasses on his face. Smiling.
There was a story that Rhaldon had told Lyonette. She hadn’t been sold on asking Yelroan, of all people, to gamble. But Rhaldon had explained to her that when you got down to it, a lot of games like these were all about numbers. And she had one of the world’s greatest experts at them in her inn.
Yelroan began to run the table. He did it slowly at first, getting a feel for the game, but he was counting cards in a way even the Quarass couldn’t—even if she knew the technique.
At around four hours in, Yelroan was up big, and tempers were starting to flare. He’d been accused of cheating more than once, but since no one could call him on it, the mood at the table grew ugly.
 
——
 
In the end, nerves took the [Mathematician] out before Lyonette judged he had exhausted the others’ patience. He was on his fifth ‘Octavia drink’ when the [Alchemist] pulled Lyonette aside.
“He’s had too many Calming Tonics, Lyonette. And he looks ready to throw up.”
He did, at that. Lyonette sent a round of drinks and food to the table and got Yelroan out of there. He collapsed ‘backstage’, in the common room.
“Sorry. Sorry. My stomach is in knots. I need the outhouse and—”
“You did great, Yelroan. Take a break. You’ve set me up for the finale.”
The [Princess] assured him, and Rosencrantz ripped open Yelroan’s tight-fitting suit so the Gnoll could breathe. The [Mathematician] panted as Octavia hurried over.
“Okay, you’re a bit over your potions limit for the calming tonics. Drink this neutralizer. Good news? You’re going to have the calmest poop in the world. Bad news? You’ll be hitting the restroom all night. Lyonette, you need one for the table?”
Lyonette rolled her shoulders and gazed around at her team. They were all stressed, but they’d survived thus far—she glanced back at Elia and Vaulont and wondered how those two were handling things.
“I’m good. I’ll finish things. Get Mrsha and Nanette to bed, and Yelroan, send over the contract as soon as you’re out of the restroom. Nerul needs to have it ready if you’re busy.”
“No fear. I’ll take the contract in the restroom. Just tell me when.”
Yelroan got up, and Lyonette passed by the staff, giving them high-fives or getting pats on the back.
 
——
 
Then Lyonette returned. She sat down as they went back to her best game: poker. Rhisveri brightened up at the return of a weaker player.
“Enjoying yourself, Tolveilouka? You’re looking mightily in debt there.”
The half-Elf had pulled golden sticks out of the bucket three times so far. Rhisveri? Five. They were probably both still liquid, but Rhisveri had a desperate look in his eyes, and he kept betting larger sums. The half-Elf didn’t dignify the Wyrm with a reply.
“I said, you’re looking a bit—”
“Shut. Up.”
A throbbing vein had appeared sometime on Tolveilouka’s temple, and another had appeared on another part of his face with increasing regularity through the night. He was on the edge—Lyonette stared at a three-of-a-kind.
“Very well, I can see we’re all getting tired. Let’s begin wrapping things up, shall we? All in.”
She pushed fourteen golden sticks into the center of the table, and the room went quiet. Ielane stared at her daughter; she had dropped the act after a few hours and begun chain-smoking.
Rhisveri folded after a second’s hesitation. Tolveilouka called. The Quarass called. Eldavin folded. Teriarch folded.
The Quarass had a straight. Tolveilouka had a pair and lost dreams. Lyonette hadn’t expected to lose. She blinked as everyone chuckled at her empty side of the table. Then, blank-faced, she reached into the bucket of golden sticks and placed twenty on her side.
The laughter—
Stopped.
 
——
 
