“If they’re within melee range, you can use your bow like a weapon if it’s sturdy enough. There are ways—without risking them slashing through your bow—to do it. Avelian close-combat tactics.”
Bird folded her arms, then struck an aggressive pose, refusing to draw her own bow.
“That seems very inefficient. Also, I do not like you. Lyonette says you are a good teacher, but she lies. How is a bow supposed to stop me if I do this? Bird at—whoa!”
The Antinium leapt at Elia, and the [Ranger] reacted instinctively. She whirled across Bird’s leap, clipping the Antinium with the edge of her bow, and drew the string back in one movement. After the flurry of snow subsided, Bird stared at the tip of an arrow pointing at her face. Elia was kneeling on Bird’s chest.
“Hm. This did not go how I anticipated.”
Elia got up after a second, and Bird rose. After dusting snow off her carapace, Bird drew her bow.
“I bet you do not know how to activate a [Dragonbreath Arrow]. It is very complicated, you see; it does not easily activate like other Skills—”
The half-Elf raised one eyebrow.
“Have you taken an arrow and tried blowing on it?”
Bird stopped. She stared at Elia. Then at her bow. Slowly, she took an arrow out of her quiver and huffed on it.
Instantly, crackling lightning burst along the arrow. Bird stared at the arrow, then blew with a curious whiffing sound, and the arrow sparked. Elia decided to back away from it as Bird looked around for something to shoot at.
“I still don’t like you. But I will allow you to teach me. Mrsha, Mrsha! Look what I made!”
Bird ran back into the inn, and Elia heard a shout of alarm from inside.
The half-Elf decided to keep walking around the inn. On patrol. If she recalled right—wasn’t Bird the archer who’d hit Wyverns in the eyes as they were attacking Pallass?
She might be a good archer. Self-taught, clearly; she doesn’t know any bow techniques. I can definitely teach her. But is she better than me?
Definitely not. The half-Elf was sure her archery skills were better. She’d had decades of practice. Only the masters in the old villages could beat her.
Still.
Goblins.
There was no getting around their existence. Even just seeing one and not being ready for it made Elia reach for an arrow. She had meant every word that she had said to Lyonette. She did not regret killing the Goblin King, even if she had so many unanswered questions about the moment that had changed her life forever.
Could she live in that new tower and just interact with the Antinium and non-Goblins? Could she justify that to herself, morally?
The half-Elf wandered through the snow until she realized, once again, someone was following her. She turned, and this time, she almost drew an arrow.
A Cave Goblin was following her. One of the ones from the inn. She didn’t know its name, but she recognized the greyer tint to its skin that Goblins sometimes had. They could adapt to different landscapes, like desert, caves—why, the ones in Terandria were especially hard to track down.
There were Goblins in Terandria; they just hid in places that still had fewer people, like Erribathe’s wildlands, or in spots no one would think of, like underground or in lairs.
What did this one want? Frankly, Elia was surprised they hadn’t tried to murder her in her sleep. Even after she’d collapsed into her bed, she’d made sure she’d barricaded the doors and windows.
The Cave Goblin wasn’t alone. Elia saw a Hobgoblin and several other Goblins peeking around the corner of the inn.
Peggy gave Elia a huge glower of distrust, and the look was returned in spades. Elia watched the small Goblin approach in the snow. And she realized he was holding something.
In one tiny claw, he held a little stick. Just a crude length of wood. Which was amazing in itself, because Liscor didn’t have that many trees.
But Sticks, the Cave Goblin, could find a way. There was something attached to the stick. Even Elia’s keen eyes had missed it for a second in the winter wonderland. For the piece of fabric was white.
It was a little white flag, she realized. The Cave Goblin waved it, stopped, and then advanced a few more steps.
To make sure she’d seen it.
“What do you want? Does the [Princess] want something?”
Elia called out, unwilling to let the Cave Goblin get closer. Her nerves told her that he might have a dagger. But he kept coming—so she backed away.
Sticks followed Elia for a good minute as she asked what he wanted. He had a determined, frightened look on his face.
So many Goblins she had killed looked like that. Little Goblins fighting when their Chieftains and Hobs had died.
Did a Goblin have a heart? Well, she had seen enough killed to say the answer was ‘yes’.
Did they speak? Could they think? Of course. They were deadly enemies. That was why the Goblin King had overrun Izril.
Did they feel? Were they people? Few people had ever asked her that. 
Did it matter? Elia Arcsinger finally snapped, drawing an arrow and loosing it into the snow.
“Stop following me!”
Sticks flinched. He cowered, one hand shielding his face, but then he looked up and saw the arrow buried in the snow. He checked himself, then waved the flag again.
“What is that?”
At last, the Cave Goblin spoke.
“This? This flag. Is white.”
He waved it in her face, and the half-Elf ground her teeth together.
“I know. I can see.”
“Is white flag. You know what it mean?”
The Cave Goblin came a step forwards, and Elia backed up. Then nearly slipped down the hill. Her new, unenchanted boots crunched in the snow, and she refused to give ground in the face of a Cave Goblin.
“Yes. Wait. Do you?”
Her incredulous eyes found Sticks, and the Cave Goblin held the little flag up proudly.
“Yes. It mean ‘no kill. I not fighting. I want peace’. I made this one myself. Is big flag better?”
“Is it…no. It doesn’t matter.”
Elia had once seen an enemy [General] surrender using a handkerchief. A blown handkerchief. She felt a strange feeling coming over her. A lightheadedness.
“Oh. Good.”
Sticks walked forwards, and when she lifted her bow, he flinched again. But then he looked her in the eyes.
He was terrified. Goblins always were of her, even when she wasn’t using her [Nemesis] Skills. But the little Goblin stood there.
“This flag. Does you respect it?”
“A white flag?”
He nodded.
“Yah.”
“It’s—a truce flag. An accord of war. I’d be a criminal if I didn’t.”
She meant ‘in a war’, but the little Goblin brightened up. He smiled with all his teeth, and she shuddered when she saw those rows of shark teeth. But then she saw him hold the flag up higher.
“Good. That bad Human not respect it. You…I has this.”
He waved it again, and Elia nodded.
“I see that.”
“Yah. Then I keep this. So you know.”
Sticks awkwardly stuck the white flag in his tunic, poking it through the fabric. He puffed his chest out, and Elia saw him slap it and wince.
“Ow. This my flag. You do bad things to Goblins, you break promise to flag. You shoot me first if you do. Got it?”
“What?”
He grew angrier and jutted his chest out at her, and she almost fell down the hill again. Sticks shouted at the startled Named-rank adventurer.
“I have this flag. You want more? I make more!”
Enraged, he pulled out what looked like a pillowcase he’d been cutting up and produced another stick. Elia stopped him.
“No, I don’t need another flag.”
The Cave Goblin let out a huge breath.
“Good. If you is not a monster, we is safe. You remember.”
He pointed at her, and it finally clicked. The Goblins. They were staring at Sticks and her. Wondering if she was going to draw that bow and shoot him dead.
Do you respect it? He met her eyes defiantly, then turned.
“I is going back to work. You is scary Kingkiller lady. Because Miss Lyonette says so, we give you a chance. Everyone gets one. Even poop-Tyrion.”
He whirled.
“You not get two. Chieftain Rags finds out if we all dead. Got it?”
The Cave Goblin pointed a trembling claw at her, and Elia responded.
“I’m not going to kill you.”
She didn’t want to, she realized. Even if Lord Xitegen appeared and vanished everyone at the inn forever and offered her a contract…they hadn’t murdered anyone. It was just a weird Goblin. One who had talked with her longer than most she had ever met in her life.
“Good.”
The Cave Goblin hunched his shoulders in a breeze of sudden cold. He had no outdoor clothing on; he’d clearly come out to make his point. He turned and began to walk quickly away from her, towards the inn.
The entire way, his shoulders were hunched, and the Goblins watched him and Elia. Waiting for the moment she drew that bow and proved them all right.
Elia did not.
She couldn’t have, even if he had mysteriously turned into the Goblin King or if someone had posted a million gold bounty on Sticks’ head.
For one crucial second, she would have hesitated. For, as the Cave Goblin waddled through the snow, Elia saw something sticking out of his waistband, strapped to his butt and fluttering in the wind.
A second flag. He’d stuck it down his pants just in case she forgot he had one on the front.
She almost laughed, then. But she didn’t. The half-Elf stood in the snow, afraid to laugh, because of what it might be if it came out. She stood there as Sticks high-fived the other Goblins and walked back into the inn.
She should have refused to stay another day. She should have taken the gold and run. Because she could have still quit yesterday.
Now?
If she left, Elia would have another question that would haunt her until she died. And this one…
This one might have an answer. 
The back of that little Goblin was so small. It was inconceivable that it could one day be the same as that of a Goblin King.
But perhaps he might. It could be any one of the Goblins here. Was the making of a Chieftain, or a Lord, in the Goblin called Sticks? What turned them into the killing monsters that ravaged Izril? Or was it a fluke, some cruel twist of fate that had nothing to do with who they were?
Elia stared at Sticks’ back. If he became that Goblin King, her arrow would find him before that tragedy could start again. But until the moment when she beheld that endless fury once more…she wanted to know why.
She had always wanted to know why.
The half-Elf realized she was trapped. She still hadn’t even seen that hill of statues. So she drew her bow and, frustrated, fighting something she couldn’t feel, she loosed an arrow straight up.
Accounting for the wind. An arrow flew upwards, perfectly vertical, proof of her mastery. Elia reached for a second arrow—and her first arrow exploded with a roar in the skies.
A crackling burst of electricity turned into a cloud overhead, and Elia flinched. She whirled—and Bird lowered her bow.
“I have seen that trick. That is easy. Making arrows go perfectly straight up is harder. Teach me that next.”
Elia blinked at him. Then, as so many visitors of the inn had done, she took a huge breath and exhaled. Inhaled again—rubbed at her eyes.
The world still continued to astound her afterwards.
 
——
 
Lyonette stopped looking out the windows when Elia beckoned Bird over and they began talking. All things considered, she thought hiring Elia might actually work. She’d been prepared to give the half-Elf the boot if things had gone wrong.
“Well, we’ll see how she and Tessa do together.”
There was so much to do. But for now, Lyonette walked over to where Rose was leaning on the bar. She was giving Shassa a while to think about her proposal.
Rose had control of another project. The Human girl was peeking at Shassa’s face with a huge grin as she waited for Lyonette.
“Ready for the [World’s Eye Theatre], Lyonette? Can I tell Adetr myself? He’ll freak out.”
“Just so long as you pass this to Honored Deskie.”
Lyonette passed Rose a note, and the young woman stared at it. Then she began to freak out.
“Whoa, whoa! Lyonette! You can’t do that! They’ll murder me! Chieftain Eska will murder me!”
“We’re going to reproduce that fabric, Rose. It only makes sense to—”
“You can’t offer to move her to Liscor! She has a tribe!”
“Silverfangs live in Liscor. Just tell her that I’ll offer her this much and if she has helpers—”
“They. Will. Kill. Me!”
Rose shook Lyonette’s shoulders, and the [Princess] gave Rose a happy smile. Mrsha beamed and held up a sign as her mother gave her a thumbs up.
9/10 mother. Needs more cake.
And for once, the [Princess] just laughed, turned, and pointed.
“Ishkr? Go and buy us a cake for dinner!”
Her daughter amended her score, and the staff cheered as Lyonette stood there. She leaned back on the counter, and there wasn’t much gold left in the garden. At all. But that was the thing about gold.
There was always more.
 
——
 
The [Box of Incontinuity] began to spit out more gold that morning, to make up for all that had been spent. Faster, the coins raining down.
Ping! Ping! Ping! Ping! Pingpingpingpingping—
The noise woke a very sleepy, and slightly inebriated, bee from her nest in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Apista stumbled out of her nest, blearily wiping her antennae against each other.
She’d had fun last night. Though…she’d been all uncomfortable in her nest this morning. As if she couldn’t get situated, despite it being plenty big enough. She buzzed her wings upwards, then wondered why her legs hurt.
…Wait a second…one, two, three, four, five—when did she have six legs? Her prosthetics were gone. And her wings—Apista tried to turn around.
Did she have four? She swooped around in alarm and nearly slammed into a tree. She was going way too fast! Also, also—why did she feel like a peon? Less…majestic than normal? And what was that buzzing sound?
It was so loud. The bee flew urgently towards Lyonette, and there was a shriek as Rose, taking the [Garden of Sanctuary] to the [World’s Eye Theatre], saw Apista buzzing towards her.
The bee had no idea what was going on until she flew over a pond and saw a gigantic bee, fur bright orange, stinger like the death of faces, flying through the air.
Aaah! Monster bee!
Apista dove for cover and hid. Until she realized the buzzing had stopped. She crawled to the pond, then stared at her new body in horror. After a second—she glowed and became her cute, lovable, royal self again.
The bee stared at her reflection. After another moment, she glowed and became a bee from the nightmares of entomologists, the likes of which had once swept over land and sea, burning nations.
Then she turned into her cute Ashfire self. Then into an Ashbringer Scourgebee.
Apista had two thoughts.
One…she could definitely now carry a bottle of wine off from behind the bar.
