The mace fell like a hammer, bashing in the head of its target. Ushar brought her mace down again and again, then kicked over her helpless victim. Ser Dalimont hacked down with his sword as well, smashing his shield into the defenseless, prone—
Chair?
Curle stared over the edge of his table. The Thronebearers were beating down the chair!
It was horrific furniture carnage. Once they’d bashed it into the floor, they began kicking it! Then one of them ripped a leg off—
They kept beating a hole into his carpet for a good minute as the [Secretary] opened the door, stared at the [Knights], and closed the door fast. Curle’s [Guards] did the same and stared at him, but he didn’t know what to say.
“My chair.”
One of the Thronebearers produced a broom, and Dame Ushar swept the splinters to the side. Ser Dalimont produced Lyonette’s chair, and the [Princess] sat down.
“Thank you, Dalimont.”
She looked down at Curle, and he began to shout at her. The Stool of Torment was a work of art! Custom-made! How dare sh—
Lyonette took off her hat. The largest bee that Curle had ever seen in his life fanned its wings. Then buzzed at his face.
“Dead gods! What is that thing?”
“What, Apista? She’s just my pet. Don’t mind her, Mayor. Now, I believe we were discussing the ban on Rheirgest’s people?”
A bee larger than his hand was buzzing around overhead, and she had a huge stinger! Curle ducked every time she passed overhead, and he nearly screamed when she settled on the back of his chair. He still managed to point a trembling finger at the [Princess].
“You—you can’t threaten me to change my mind! I am the [Mayor] of Invrisil! I have the backing of House Reinhart!”
Ushar swept the splintered remains out the door as Ser Dalimont leaned over to whisper loudly.
“That is an elected position, Your Highness.”
“Is that a threat?”
Curle hissed at her, and the [Princess] blinked.
“What? Oh, no, no. Dalimont was just informing me about the peculiarities of your class, Mayor. So fascinating to someone from a monarchy. So am I right in hearing that you refuse to let Rheirgest’s villagers through? I assure you, they won’t cause any harm, and we have a permit system for their undead we’re trialing in Liscor—”
“Get out of my office! I’ll have you arrested! Billed for my chair!”
Curle was howling, searching for something to throw at the gigantic bee or [Princess]. Lyonette just sighed.
“If you insist. Thank you for clarifying, though, Mayor Curle.”
She stood, making a show of dusting the snow clinging to her cloak onto his floor. He stared at her and sensed the trap.
“Wait, what?”
“A man must do what a man must do, isn’t that right, Ser Dalimont? We have to accept Mayor Curle’s words. Good day.”
The [Princess] strode towards the door. She paused at it dramatically as Curle felt his stomach do a flop. And on cue, she glanced at Dalimont.
“I say, it’s rather stuffy in here. Dalimont, could you give us a breath of fresh air? Mayor Curle looks rather red.”
He was about to burst a vein—but Dalimont instantly strode over and opened a window, letting in a freezing breath of fresh air. Apista buzzed out the window, and Curle heard the sounds of the city outside. People calling out, milling about, the clip-clop of horses, rolling wagons—
The sound of Dame Ushar’s voice.
“Hear ye, hear ye! By order of Mayor Curle, all access to The Wandering Inn and the [Portal Door] of Liscor has now been suspended! There will be no travel to and from Invrisil save for exclusive guests of The Wandering Inn!”
“What? Wh—”
Curle choked. He ran to the window and saw a [Knight] marching down the street.
“I didn’t say that! Lies! False!”
He shouted, but his voice was not nearly so operatic, and calls of dismay rose from below. He whirled to Lyonette.
“I gave no such order! We have a contract! I’ll penalize you for breaking it!”
She raised her brows, perplexed.
“But you banned the villagers of Rheirgest from Invrisil, [Mayor]. The villagers are my guests, and I have employed them as my workers pro tem. In fact, I intend to hire at least one as my personal security and spellcaster. Under my deal with Magnolia Reinhart, it very clearly states my guests and staff have access to your city. Your order has, regretfully, closed the contract. I shall issue you the penalty clauses later today. Good day.”
She was striding out the hallway as he chased after her.
“No, nono—you can’t do that! The nobility love travelling—”
The damn Thronebearer was still shouting.
“Please direct all inquiries to the [Mayor]’s office!”
Lyonette turned at the door, and there was already a crowd. She raised her voice.
“I’m truly sorry, Mayor, that you feel there’s no other way but to ban us. We’ll have the door deactivated as soon as I’ve finished my business in Invrisil. Have a splendid day.”
She blew him a kiss. Then Dalimont slammed the door on Curle’s foot.
 
——
 
The Merchant’s Guild of Invrisil was a short stop that really needn’t have taken any time. But Lyonette, while waiting for the Quarass to set up a speaking stone, decided she had time to pop in.
They matched her with the same [Merchant] Fahstrader again. Delightful! Only this time, he had a senior [Merchant] with him, who looked quite upset.
Especially when he saw her enter, flanked by her Thronebearers, and the senior [Merchant] shot to his feet.
“Your Highness! Welcome to the Merchant’s Guild!”
“Your High—”
Fahstrader rose and stared at her. Lyonette smiled.
“I don’t have long, Merchants—”
“Senior Merchant Tonget and Junior Merchant Fahstrader. Your Highness, I am deeply sorry for the inconvenience. We have had—uh—numerous complaints from fellow Merchants. Merchant Vells, Merchant Etola, the—the Merchant’s Guild of Khelt—”
Tonget was wiping at his brow. Lyonette just raised hers.
“I trust we can sort this issue out quickly?”
“Of course, Your Highness. Please, have a seat. Can I offer you any—”
They offered her a seat. Lyonette smiled briefly. She watched the two men react as Dalimont unsheathed his sword.
She shouldn’t enjoy this as much as she did. But if she was going to throw caution to the wind—
Well, she might as well enjoy it.
 
——
 
The Merchant’s Guild was only too happy to add Lyonette to a list of their exclusive clientele. Mandatory minimum gold investments? She had the full amount dumped on the table as they were assuring her they could waive it.
Lyonette was out of the guild in sixteen minutes; Ushar was timing her. She didn’t have time to waste on them.
The Quarass, the Empire of Sands, and the other nations interested in talking to her—
Yes.
Lyonette was not blind to her problems. For every person who had the foresight to seek her out, there were dozens who were still catching on. The smart ones were the Quarass and Emperor of Sands. She had enough gold to draw real danger down on her head.
Yelroan had done his best and staved off the immediate threat, but the reality of the gold itself couldn’t be easily wiped away like numbers.
She had…an idea. And the idea was what led her to sit and smile at a young girl with too-ancient eyes.
“Your Majesty of Ger.”
“Princess Lyonette du Marquin. We greet you. Or should I say, ‘I’? For it is my hope Germina and The Wandering Inn may cultivate…closer ties.”
“May I ask in what respect that occurs? You have certainly gained my attention, Quarass. May I ask clarity on that rather dramatic message you had recited to me?”
The child flicked her fingers out, amused.
“The knowledge of Royal Skills that exist, independent to their holders, is known to the older members of the Hundred Families. Many have forgotten. Many would prefer such knowledge lost. I am the multitude of lives, which includes royalty from Terandria. I offer my services as mentor, guide, and even teacher if you need it.”
Ushar shifted, looking uncomfortable. She didn’t like the Quarass. As Lyonette understood it, the being in front of her was one of the few people in the world who could lock horns with Ielane—and best her.
That made her dangerous. But Lyonette also knew the Quarass wanted something of her. The same thing they all did.
“Might I assume that this generous association with Germina would come with a small fee?”
“The Quarass of Germina cannot speak to all beings at once. A traditional remuneration is customary. In the past, visitors came to Germina, but we live in modern times.”
Lyonette smiled evenly.
“I see. May I then ask, with greatest humility, what amount would be appropriate?”
The Quarass’ lips curved upwards. She spoke a number. Ser Dalimont twitched, and the Quarass spoke smoothly.
“That would, of course, include information on your enemies and wisdom so…specific as to constitute a threat to your foes.”
“I have no foes, Quarass.”
“Really?”
Those painted eyebrows bounced upwards.
“Then I assume Selys Shivertail does not count? Nor Erribathe’s agents, two of whom used your [Portal Door] six times yesterday? Erin Solstice lacks for enemies who might seek you out as well?”
“Those are minor concerns, one supposes.”
The Quarass sighed and put a hand to her cheek.
“The Duke Rhisveri and Tolveilouka must be boon friends, then, and I am simply misinformed.”
She was good. Lyonette stirred and almost licked her lips.
“—I would assume the Quarass of Germina has an idea of how to, ah—mitigate the dangers of such beings?”
“This Quarass might. There are means, and I am surprised your mother, Her Majesty of Calanfer, did not communicate any. But then, perhaps it simply does not occur to her. Or perhaps this is a test?”
The Quarass closed one eye, lazily smiling at Lyonette, and the [Princess] made a show of feeling for her belt pouch.
“The friendship of Germina is not something one can buy. But perhaps goodwill—and the Quarass’ wisdom is appealing. I, in fact, would love to hear more, Quarass. Indeed…would you be open to a simple contract?”
She pulled something out of her bag of holding, just for show; the Quarass’ eyes flickered, and she gestured, and a [Message] scroll was brought over. She flicked her eyes down the page and blinked. Once.
“Intriguing. Your [Mathematician], Yelroan, conceived of this? He instituted similar ideas within the subtribes of Plain’s Eye. This is rather more ambitious. I accept. I shall send a Courier at once.”
Well, the girl moved as fast as a striking snake when she wanted to. She must have predicted Lyonette was going to take her offer; not hard. But the [Princess] wagered she’d surprised the Quarass with the second offer she’d made.
She hoped this next bit would actually catch the Quarass off-guard.
“Actually, Quarass, I would prefer to pay you now. If possible. I would hate for a Shield Kingdom of Germina to take my payment on trust, and Couriers can lose their burdens.”
Plus, Germina is known for assassinating anything it doesn’t like. The Quarass raised her brows.
“Magical teleportation, even by the Archmage of Izril or Wistram Academy, can also be subject to interception. However, if you are willing to incur their fees, I shall of course accept.”
“Teleportation!”
Lyonette laughed, and she was rewarded with the barest narrowing of the eyes. The Quarass doesn’t know! She didn’t think of it!
Lyonette grew a tad bit hysterical, then calmed herself. She smiled at the orb. She was no genius of classes, no ancient immortal, and certainly no Yelroan.
But she was probably the world’s second-greatest authority on something that did matter:
<Quests>.
She’d had an idea when Yelroan had vanished the gold in a conceptual sense. Lyonette had seen Erin assigning quests. Her eyes flashed.
“Quarass, I am about to post a <Rare Quest>. Would you be interested in accepting…”
 
<Rare Quest – Mentor the 6th Princess of Calanfer and Hold Onto My Gold!>
Limits: The Quarass of Germina.
Please agree to mentor Lyonette du Marquin with the wisdom of the Quarass, without ulterior motives to harm, endanger, or suborn her or anyone else connected to her! Goodwill is essential, and the Shield Kingdom of Germina is so trustworthy Lyonette du Marquin is willing to send even more gold!
Gold is, after all, so difficult for her to use. But if Germina agrees to borrow the gold and repay it whenever asked for, The Wandering Inn will accept a magical contract for the debt! Without interest!
Conditions: Both parties must agree to a magically-enforced contract witnessed by the Merchant’s Guild for both the mentorship of Lyonette du Marquin and the conditional lending of gold to Germina.
Quest Reward: 417,000 gold pieces to the Quarass of Germina for mentorship, 1,000,000 gold pieces for the purpose of the loan.
 
——
 
In the [Garden of Sanctuary]—Asgra was sweeping gold coins covered in blood into a pile, sighing. Silk sheets.
Silk. Was it even allowed, the Cave Goblin wondered. For her? Was it too much? Was someone going to come and beat her up for being too happy? She wanted silk sheets and fancy clothes and—
She put her claws to her cheeks, trying to hide the blush at the thought of dressing up like a fancy Human or Drake or Gnoll—when she felt a rumble. She looked down and yelped.
“Aaah!”
A pile of gold began to glow. Then, as the Cave Goblin leapt away, it vanished, and Asgra went rolling down the hill.
The much…smaller hill. She looked around, and the main hill was still there, but gold coins had vanished! Millions of—she looked around, then ran screaming over to Yelroan.
“Magic thief! Magic thief—”
But Yelroan was just laughing. Laughing and laughing with the hoarse sound of someone who had just seen someone take a fundamental of reality and twist it.
 
——
 
<Quests>.
Even the Quarass looked impressed. Lyonette was aglow with smugness.
“You will level from that. You may have destroyed the Runner’s Guild. Mm. Perhaps. There must be limits to this.”
The Quarass had mused for a while, then nodded.
“At least for now, you have revolutionized more than one idea. Let us negotiate the contract.”
And for some reason, she’d muttered under her breath.
“And I have the right class.”
It had taken nearly an hour, and Lyonette was certain the Quarass had thrashed her on the terms; she was sweating down her back when they were done. But as soon as they signed—gold coins had begun pouring down on the Quarass’ side.
“Quarass? It’s working! Q—”
The sight of the ruler of Ger taking cover under a sofa and then running, arms over her head, as a shower of gold coins dinged down, hitting [Assassins] who threw themselves in the way, was something that Lyonette wouldn’t forget.
