Then Lyonette felt something, multiple somethings, brush past her, as if dozens of hands were reaching across the world. She flinched; she had never felt that, even from another royal aura! Who was—
The [Emperor] of Sands reached across the world and spoke a Skill:
[Royal Transaction: Instantaneous Delivery, Instantaneous Reward].
Nothing happened to Lyonette. She untensed, stared at Zaltha after a moment, and then it was her turn to reach for a [Message] scroll that Dalimont handed to her.
 
Lyonette? Did you, um—buy something just now? Yelroan wants to know. There’s a lot of marble just outside the inn, and Hexel’s freaking out.
—Octavia
 
Lyonette stared at Diplomat Zaltha and saw the Stitch-woman’s lips curve upwards. That…wasn’t a <Quest>. That was just a Skill. A Skill that had just moved how many tons of marble—and gold?
What level were they? She stood up, and the [Diplomat] bowed.
“The Empire of Sands shall consider The Wandering Inn a great friend for this service, Your Highness.”
“Oh, no. Trade partners are welcome. And I, ah, have a list of goods we need—”
“I shall convey everything at once to our navy. But rest assured, we will not forget this boon.”
“Really, the terms of the contract are fine!”
Lyonette tried to beam at the woman, and it occurred to her, belatedly, that she might have wanted to do more research into some of the nations she’d partnered with. Or rather, this one. At least they were now against Roshal in no small way, and the more distractions the nation of slavers had, the better, right?
And Lyonette was walking away with an amazing trade deal. And Chemath Marble.
Ah.
She’d completely forgotten to ask what it did. But that wasn’t a problem.
…Right?
 
——
 
For a while, Lyonette du Marquin was soaring. Flying on wings of gold. She was changing the world, having rulers of nations come to her. And it felt wonderful.
Then, as she stepped out of Diplomat Zaltha’s apartment and glimpsed more snow falling down out of the sky, that rabid rush of energy in her veins began to drain away. She felt shaky, the nervous energy turning to exhaustion.
That was familiar too. Sometimes you felt like you could do anything and you were pushing past every limit and still finding more nervous adrenaline in your veins. But when it wore out?
“Your Highness, that’s the final meeting you had planned for today. There are a few others, but I would wager that our ‘pile’ problem in the garden is quite reduced. Well done!”
Dalimont was still looking spritely, delighted. He was glancing at her with respect, but Lyonette just walked forwards slowly. Her boots crunched in the snow.
“That’s good, Ser Dalimont. Truly. Eternal Throne, we still have to set up for tonight.”
“We could delay?”
Ushar had sensed the [Princess]’ sudden switch in moods first. She gave Lyonette a concerned once-over, and the [Princess] shook her head.
“No, no…we have to try. Set up a call with you-know-who, Ushar. I’ll take it in…”
It might even work. It was the Quarass’ idea, not hers. But if it did? Lyonette stood there.
“Dead gods. It’s all just Erin, not me.”
Why was she feeling so proud about all this? All the gold, all this craziness—it was still just an Erin Solstice event in the end. Not a Lyonette du Marquin original.
“Ah, but you spent all of the stuff, Your Highness. Not Miss Solstice. The way you dealt with those chairs—I’m composing a description for Thronebearer doctrine!”
That made her smile faintly.
“Thank you, Dalimont. I appreciate that. It’s just—I suppose I wonder if I’ll ever leave her shadow. Or, if she weren’t here, if I’d be able to help anyone.”
The [Princess] knew she sounded ridiculous complaining all of a sudden about this fortune. But it scared Lyonette. Dalimont and Ushar exchanged raised eyebrows, and Lyonette turned to them.
“What? What?”
 
——
 
Perhaps she didn’t know how she looked. She was still wearing a winter’s cloak, blue cloth given to her by Krshia for a Christmas gift. Business-like travelling clothes underneath, not suitable for meetings with royalty, let alone a [Princess]. But what sold her look were the scratches on her cheeks. Her hair was a slight mess, and not one of the Thronebearers had produced a comb.
Mostly because she looked like she’d just walked out of a fistfight—which she had—and up till now, those lapis lazuli eyes had practically been aglow. She had been smiling like the murals on Calanfer’s walls that Ushar had grown up with as a [Squire], ready to throw down with a [Mayor], the Emperor of Sands, or anyone else who came her way.
“Your Highness. You spoke with the Quarass of Germina. You met her eyes. The King of Minos? Impeccable courtesy, and you negotiated with both.”
“So?”
Another exchange of glances. Dalimont said the obvious part out loud.
“I rather doubt, with the exception of perhaps the 4th Princess of Calanfer, that any of your siblings could reliably be said to do the same.”
Lyonette gave Dalimont a puzzled look, and that was why she had changed. She laughed as she continued walking, softly amused. So old compared to even Vernoue in Ushar’s mind. Even Princesses Aielef or Shardele.
“Oh, please, Dalimont. Anyone can meet someone’s eyes. Erin would throw things at them if they got her mad.”
She looked ahead, and the wisps of vapor left Ushar’s mouth as she exhaled. Ah.
That explained the curious lack of self-confidence. Sometimes, the [Princess] still walked as if she were in the shadow of the inn. Ushar nudged Dalimont, and he nudged her back. Ushar scribbled on a Mrsha-card and held it up.
I’m out of compliments besides approbation. You do it.
Dalimont’s eyes crinkled up, and he cleared his throat.
“Lyonette. If I may. Our trained sycophancy aside, I do genuinely mean that you did something today that Erin Solstice herself could not.”
“How so?”
Lyonette turned an amused head as they walked past the [Mayor]’s office besieged by an angry crowd. They took a turn and headed down a familiar, seedier street as Dalimont spoke.
“Miss Solstice would never have had the idea to copy that particular metal to begin with. Or even if she had—she would be extremely reluctant to use it.”
“That’s true. If she really pushed herself, she might buy a new mug or something. But she’d give it away when it mattered.”
Dalimont, like a trained sophist, raised a finger.
“Ah, but she wouldn’t spend it on a new chair! She wouldn’t spend it, er, selfishly.”
“Thank you, Dalimont. I’m glad I can be more selfish than Erin.”
The [Princess]’ voice was wry, but she sounded a bit better. Her pace picked up, and Ushar kicked Dalimont in the shins. He raised his hands.
Alright, he’d messed that one up, but how was he supposed to articulate the difference? The difference was…selfishness was such an indiscriminate word. It was something else.
Crookfingers actually ducked back into her stall as she saw Lyonette approach, but the [Princess] just gave her a sweet smile.
“Crookfingers! I have two pieces of business for you today. How much for a note on the [Mayor]’s desk?”
“You’re mad. I’m working on the Healer! Now you want to threaten—? He has ties to the Reinharts and the gangs!”
“Well, tell the gangs that he’s bad for business. I’m excellent for business. I haven’t stopped a single one of your people going through. Put the word out. Now, I’ll expect a lovely note on his desk by morning. Be inventive. I’ll settle up later. The second is another person search. I could ask—oh, Bloody Secrets, but I’m doing you a favor.”
Crookfingers licked her lips, regaining some of her bravado.
“Bloody—she’s just some up-and-coming rookie! You came to the right place. Who is it this time?”
This street was devoted to transactions of an illicit nature, and Lyonette had caused such a fuss that Ushar and Dalimont knew they had some tails.
[Thieves] who were trying to suss out how wealthy Lyonette was—looking dismayed that their initial estimates had downgraded her from ‘you must rob her right now with a half-brick even if you die’ to ‘only ludicrously wealthy beyond your wildest dreams’.
However, there were also two Brothers pointedly cleaning their nails with knives, at least one Sister of Chell—and those were only the gangs that Ushar recognized. Actually, all the pedestrians on the street smoking, walking dogs, cleaning a window in the winter—were probably spies.
Todi would do his best, but they had to deal with the problem. So Lyonette gave Crookfingers a huge smile and raised her voice.
“I would like to find—and get in contact with—Invrisil’s best [Assassin].”
Once more, the woman behind the stall froze. The figures behind Lyonette, including a few [Spies]—glanced up slowly. A Drake writing in a notepad edged back a few steps.
“Uh. For what?”
“You mean, ‘what for’? My own business, Crookfingers. I’m quite willing to pay them.”
The woman behind the stall clearly warred with her conscience, if she had one. It might have just been self-preservation. She leaned over and hissed.
“Here’s some free information, Miss Marquin. Listen, you don’t mess around with them. The Assassin’s Guild is gone. Half are amateurs, the other half are rogue [Assassins]—”
“Are they trustworthy? Is the best [Assassin] in Invrisil someone who I can rely on?”
“Sure! Maybe? Don’t be so loud! You think they want to be named? If I introduce you and a deal goes south—”
“I would like to hire an [Assassin]. The best one.”
Lyonette raised her voice and leaned over the counter. She stared down Crookfingers.
“So long as they’re trustworthy. Or I’d have to kill them. And you.”
She beamed at Crookfingers, and the woman opened her own less-toothy mouth to stare at Dalimont. The Thronebearer didn’t have a chair to beat down, so he just waggled his eyebrows at the woman.
 
——
 
“You see, Erin would have just pulled her out of her stall and said something horrific. Like—‘I have only one frying pan and I blew up the Assassin’s Guild, so I’m all out of frying pans’. But clever, you know?”
Lyonette was trying to explain why she was still feeling so semi-useless today to Dalimont and Ushar as they walked away from the stall. Dalimont smiled.
“Ah, but she wouldn’t have hired an [Assassin].”
“True…I suppose she just can’t give a job interview.”
“Is that what this is?”
Ushar twisted, and her mace was halfway out of its sling as Dalimont jerked his sword out of his scabbard. But the figure wearing a black mask, covered in clothing that left no visible flesh save for an oddly elegant mask that only revealed red eyes—
“Oh my. You found us quickly.”
“Crookfingers and I go back. I also know Bloody Secrets.”
Ah. Vampire? The [Assassin] walked next to Lyonette, not so close; Dalimont had interposed himself between the two, his shield casually half-raised. But the [Assassin] had snuck up on them fast.
“May I inquire as to your name?”
She heard a chuckle, and the figure wove around a pile of horse manure frozen to the street. Lyonette blinked; his footwork carried him around the pile and back towards them like a breeze, as if a patch of colored wind were whirling towards them, until he stopped and became a person again.
In many ways, the Vampire looked like any assassin ever. In his case, he covered all his features in black cloth by taking a long length of black fabric and wrapping it around his arms and hands to complement his midnight clothing.
A mask like a bird of prey gave him a sinister or silly face, depending on whether he was walking down a sunlit alley trying to look cool or holding a dagger to your throat as he stood over your bed in the dead of night. The only part of him not covered was his hair. Like his mask, it was pale silver in color. Lyonette supposed style had to count for something.
However, save for the hair, he was the spitting impression of a generic [Assassin]. A reputation as much as the blades they carried. But this man was also…
A Vampire. It was not just in his eyes or what Lyonette assumed—sharp fangs, paler skin, and an aversion to sunlight, garlic, silver, and mockery about the faint accent some had.
It was a reserve he, Fierre, and Colfa had that struck you. An aloofness that translated to a brusqueness of words, a sense of distance between them, both literal and metaphorical. But most of all?
He was just walking down the street, dodging patches of ice and snow. He moved like a whisper, flitting around obstacles like a flowing shadow. Any high-level class with a bit of speed could do that, of course. But this man moved as though it were second-nature. The twitches of his head, the way he switched postures in milliseconds—
This assassin had been born with the reflexes those who’d hit Level 40 had only years of practice with. Lyonette nodded to herself.
Oh, he’s definitely good at his job.
“My title is Vaulont the Ash.”
“Is that an official title? Do [Assassins] have those?”
“I was a Face in the old Assassin’s Guild. Is that a problem?”
The hairs were rising on the back of Lyonette’s neck, but she was tired. She’d just met the Quarass, and he had a polite voice.
“Did you participate in that nastiness around Tyrion Veltras’ children or the war thereafter?”
“No. Nor the battle in Invrisil.”
“I see. Do you have a grudge against the inn?”
Vaulont shifted and rolled his shoulders up.
“If I did—let’s say I’ve squared any resentments against other things the [Innkeeper]’s done. I wouldn’t meet with you if I had any objections to a contract. Am I interviewing? I can tell Crookfingers to get the second-best [Assassin] in Invrisil if you want. But they were just one of the Ranks—low-grade [Assassins]. I’m the last independent in Invrisil.”
Now that was fascinating. What had Erin done? Also…Lyonette half-smiled.
“So you know you’re the best?”
“Crookfingers knows it too. Any more questions for me?”
“Just one. How trustworthy would you say you are, Master Vaulont?”
The figure tilted his head as if trying to figure out the question.
“I’m an [Assassin]. I don’t reveal clients or I become the next target. I don’t have loyalties after the job is done.”
“But you don’t betray your contract? Do you have a code of ethics?”
“I don’t kill children. And I don’t like contracts that say to kill everything in a building. If you’re asking if I’ll keep all your secrets and never tell anyone—depends on how dangerous I think you are. I am an [Assassin], Miss Marquin. Who do you want dead?”
The [Princess] saw that red glare turn on her, and maybe it was supposed to be disconcerting, but it vaguely reminded her of Numbtongue glowering at her over breakfast. She smiled back.
“No one you can kill.”
