The final act of the night was the terror of immortals. They’d all lost money on this game at times, or counted how much was actually being spent and bet lightly, trying to get ahead.
They were rich.
Oh, so rich. From Eldavin to Teriarch to Rhisveri, they’d learned to accumulate wealth, to grab it and hold on. Lyonette?
Lyonette put nineteen golden sticks into the pot on the second big hand she had and took it all. Whenever she got a hand that she and Yelroan had worked out to be ‘worth the risk’, she threw golden sticks into the pot.
That scared them. She didn’t care if she lost it. She hadn’t had ‘it’ long enough to freak out over losing ten golden sticks.
Lyonette had a box that spat out as many golden sticks as she needed. The aggressive gambling began to freak out the others.
Ielane was the first to step out, then the Quarass. Eldavin was next, having begun to lose gold he couldn’t afford. Lyonette’s pile of gold only grew after that; and now, it was only the players who had everything to lose.
Teriarch, Tolveilouka, Rhisveri. No, that wasn’t right. Teriarch was still pulling gold sticks into his pile now and then. The other two were in a spiral. They were in the hole or the well or whatever gambling term you wanted. The water was rising, and there were sea snakes in the well. And Creler eggs.
The mood was dark and dire. The rest of the audience—the children had gone to sleep—were watching the horror show as a glassy-eyed Wyrm reached into the bucket of golden sticks the eighth time.
“Running out of gold, Tolveilouka? I’m good for anything.”
Sweat was making Rhisveri’s brow drip. Tolveilouka was slumped in his seat, staring into the distance.
“It’s just metal. Who cares what comes and goes? But I’m getting sick of the other people at the table. The [Princess] is the most agreeable of the lot. The two of you? I’m adding you to my list of things to do.”
The Dragonlord of Flame’s eyes were glowing.
“What a splendid line of reasoning, Tolveilouka. Your master’s foes and killers, if any live. The Horns of Hammerad for the effrontery of their bravery. Myself for having a splendid cardsense?”
The half-Elf half-rose from his chair with an ugly expression on his face, but Rhisveri drained his cup.
“All in! Come on, you pathetic old-timers, show me what you’ve got!”
Tolveilouka took the round; Lyonette had folded. She winced as she saw the blood drain out of Rhisveri’s face. She couldn’t help but feel a tiny bit bad for him.
“Watch your tongue, Rhisveri. I like to have fun and threaten people. But you are truly, utterly upon my nerves.”
Tolveilouka’s voice was very calm as he shuffled. Too calm. Rhisveri reached for his cup, found just melted ice water and dregs, and tossed it at Tolveilouka.
“Talk is cheap, and all you do is pose, you—poser.”
Liquid splashed on Tolveilouka’s chest and face. He stopped shuffling. The theatre went quiet.
“Gentlemen? Outside.”
That was all Lyonette got out as Tolveilouka rose to his feet in a flash. Rhisveri surged upright, sneering.
“Fine by me.”
“I think that might solve some things.”
Teriarch rose, and the three of them headed for the stairs. Elia gestured, clearly wondering if she should—Lyonette shook her head warningly. However, someone had come back for a refill of her wine bottle, and the Archmage of Izril swooped down.
“Is this fisticuffs? I’ve heard that’s what happens outside of bars after you drink. I never did that when I was studying. Let me join in~”
Valeterisa floated after them, and Lyonette winced. She made a gesture, and Ishkr tried to grab Valeterisa. He slowed her down a bit, but she just flew out a window when he barred the common room door.
 
——
 
Rhisveri strode out of The Wandering Inn and waited, swaying a bit. Thanks to the sympathetic link, the Wyrm was experiencing drunkenness, but he was still enchanting himself.
“[Lion’s Strength], [Haste], [Fists of—]”
The following moments were fast as Teriarch emerged, fists ready for a brawl, and Valeterisa floated overhead and Ishkr tried to catch her with a net. Rhisveri turned and began to throw a punch as the door opened and the half-Elf stepped outside.
Tolveilouka grabbed Rhisveri as Teriarch began to stride forwards, fists raised, and cracked his head into the wall of the inn.
“You—”
The half-Elf kneed the Duke in the chest, then began dashing his head against the wall of the inn as Rhisveri flailed. Tolveilouka’s face was completely blank.
Rhisveri lunged with a swinging fist and ate a counter that made his Human body’s nose crunch. He tried to pivot—Tolveilouka had two legs tangled around one arm! Tolveilouka had the Duke down in a hold, and then he began punching the Wyrm in the head.
“St—d—”
Teriarch took one look at the violence ahead of him and hesitated. Valeterisa looked down, blanched, and instantly sobered.
“IquitthefightIapologize!”
She fled indoors. Rhisveri tried to react, but Tolveilouka punched an eye into its socket—and even with his magical body, the Wyrm couldn’t fight back. He tried to get up and ate a kick—
The half-Elf fought without hesitation, and after a while, a horrified Nanette put her hands over Mrsha’s eyes. They were watching from their window. The two children had taken a look, and the fight behind the inn never turned into a brawl. The horrific impacts of Tolveilouka taking out his temper on the Duke Rhisveri went on for a minute.
“I think he’s had enough.”
At last, Teriarch and Taletevirion managed to pry the half-Elf off the Duke. Tolveilouka turned and walked back indoors. Teriarch, wincing, stared down at the Duke Rhisveri…or what remained of him.
“At least it’s only his fake body. Come on, Taletevirion. You don’t need to heal that. I don’t even think you can.”
“Dead gods, he destroyed him. I haven’t seen a back alley fight that bad since—he didn’t have any sensations linked to his body, did he?”
“Don’t be stupid. He didn’t polymorph or do a simulacrum.”
The two hurried back inside. It took a long, long while before Duke Rhisveri got up.
 
——
 
Well. Lyonette reckoned she’d had the final gambit of the night in a literal sense. When Rhisveri finally did return to the inn, he didn’t look different. But he was very quiet and very sober.
“That was entertaining. Remind me again how this stops me from hanging around the inn?”
Tolveilouka and Rhisveri had lost a fortune in coin, and the tally Yelroan had kept told Lyonette that unless Tolveilouka was as rich as, well, the Quarass now was, he was going to have to sell off a lot of his master’s artifacts to make up for the cost.
Somehow, judging by how he lounged with a final cup in hand, she doubted he was in any hurry to settle his debts. Rhisveri, on the other hand…
“Germina is quite content to wait till the end of the week for the Merchant’s Guild to begin sending transactions.”
The Quarass was delighted as could be, and she smiled around. Her eyes said—if you don’t pay up, I will be sending [Assassins] to collect.
“The Wandering Inn will begin sending the gold immediately.”
The Duke stared at his tally as Yelroan presented it to him. He went a shade paler, and Teriarch closed his eyes when he saw the bill that Taletevirion had racked up. The Unicorn was already gone with five more bottles of wine for the road.
The suffering of the other players wasn’t Lyonette’s concern. She turned to Tolveilouka, and the half-Elf was smiling.
“Quite a lot of fun. It reminds me of the times before, when my Master and I did such things. Feel free to try and collect.”
He looked pointedly at the players he’d lost coin to. They all stopped, and Lyonette’s voice was sweetly surprised.
“Why, Master Tolveilouka! You don’t intend on honoring your word?”
“No.”
He laughed. Then pushed himself upwards.
“Why did you think I would? I’ll tell you what, put on another night like this and I’ll come by again. It might even earn you a bit more time. Especially if you send someone like that for me to teach a lesson to.”
Rhisveri’s eyes gleamed with fury a second, but he said nothing as he sat there. Lyonette would deal with the good Duke later. She leaned over the table as Yelroan wrote something down and signed it.
“Tolveilouka. Your welcomeness as a guest—a good guest—is something I may allow. But a threat to my inn? Unacceptable. I hereby bar you from appearing near my inn at any time in the future unless you are without malice or motive to harm me or anyone I am connected to in any way.”
The half-Elf stopped draining his cup of wine and set it down. He exhaled.
“My. You were doing so well. Am I to assume our lovely guests will stop me?”
He bared suddenly sharp teeth.
“They can only come after me after the fact. Now, why don’t you leave it at idle, useless threats? Or should I give you a small reminder that yon Teriarch was never good at keeping his mortal friends alive?”
He stepped towards Lyonette, casually reaching for her. Dalimont and Ushar were behind Lyonette, and Elia raised a bow as Vaulont tensed—but Lyonette held out a hand.
Tolveilouka’s fingers stretched for Lyonette—and stopped as a network of glittering, golden chains appeared in the air. Crisscrossing—snaring his hand. He blinked—yanked a hand—and Lyonette spoke.
“Master Tolveilouka. I believe you owe The Wandering Inn a substantive debt. As it so happens, I anticipated you wouldn’t be willing to cover your gambling. So I covered the full cost with our other players. Which means you currently owe me…well, I shan’t even like to say.”
“What’s this?”
The half-Elf tried to touch Lyonette again—and frowned as he pulled at his arm. The Quarass was smiling.
“I thought so. He predates Nerrhavia. He’s never seen a contract Skill before.”
The half-Elf looked up, and then he figured it out. His eyes flickered to the golden sticks, and Lyonette wondered how powerful millions of gold coins of debt could make a Skill. Even one far below his level.
“You can’t stop me fr—”
He was about to breathe something at Lyonette when his jaw locked up. The [Princess] smiled as the half-Elf’s eyes bulged.
“Unfortunately for you, Master Tolveilouka, I can, actually, force you to stay away.”
His pupils narrowed until they were tiny pinpricks of rage in his face. Tolveilouka tried to take a step and couldn’t. Then he frowned.
“—You’re not doing it. Who is—?”
“That would be me.”
The half-Elf slowly turned his head around, and there she was. Queen Ielane du Marquin was calmly smoking on her puffer stick. Lyonette gestured.
“I’m not the best with contracts. But my mother is. She has graciously decided to hold your debt for me.”
“Oh, so clever. A [Queen] and a contract. On me. You think you can hold me?”
Tolveilouka switched back from ire to amusement at once. Queen Ielane just raised one brow.
“I am a [Queen], and I have a lever made up of gold enough to bury you, stranger. Stay away from my daughter. A debtor has no business around a [Princess].”
His eyes flashed, and Tolveilouka began to grow, skin bulging. Lyonette shoved herself back from the table, heart pounding, and looked for the Quarass. She had said that even with a huge debt, this part might b—
The Quarass was gone. Wonderful! Lyonette saw Tolveilouka’s face mottle, turning to dead flesh, and everyone backed up as his voice grew deep.
“You think you can best me, little [Queen]? I’ve eaten rulers far greater than you.”
Queen Ielane said nothing. Teriarch watched, tensed, and Tolveilouka began to grow into another form—
And stopped. Like something was suppressing him. Forcing him to shrink. To remain a half-Elf. His eyes bulged. They filled with blood.
He and the Queen of Calanfer locked gazes and didn’t look away. The air began to vibrate. The golden sticks rattled off the table, and Queen Ielane slowly, and ostentatiously, blew a trail of smoke from her mouth.
Abruptly, Tolveilouka stopped growing. He was a half-Elf again, beautiful, laughing, spreading his hands.
“Well done! I haven’t been so thoroughly bested in ages. You win, you win!”
He slapped his chest, his thigh, and turned dramatically. Then glanced back at Lyonette.
“Tell your precious [Innkeeper] I’ll remember this, along with the rest of what she owes me. I have better things to do, anyways.”
He strode up the theatre, and Lyonette exhaled. Then she collapsed into a chair. Her mother just raised her brows.
“I suppose that was neatly played, Lyonette. Do send me my winnings soon. It was almost worth the time. And I shall remember what you owe me. Later.”
She vanished. Lyonette stared at the place she’d been, wondering if she’d replaced Tolveilouka with someone worse. But then she heard a sound.
Applause.
The Quarass, Fetohep, even Eldavin, Teriarch, and her staff were giving her a round of applause. The monarchs nodded at her, and Lyonette raised a weak hand to wave.
“Oh, please…”
She got up and took a bow. Then another and smiled. She did it. Did you see that? Erin would never have…and there was Rhisveri, still in a state of shock.
She did it. Erin couldn’t have done that.
Erin hated gambling.
 
——
 
Duke Rhisveri hadn’t had a night this bad since Fithea and Dionamella died.
So…he’d had a lot of practice recently. In a way, it was fine. Totally.
He deserved it. Playing a game, wasting his time—the Wyrm’s psychic damage from the beating his body had taken was only matched by the damage to his ego.
Let alone how he was going to explain the costs of all this to the others. Of course, he had his own funds, but he needed to use them for—
“Rhisveri, isn’t it?”
“That’s Duke Rhisveri to you. Peasant.”
He muttered. The card night was over. The staff were cleaning up or had just gone to bed.
A [Princess] sat down across from him, looking exhausted. She’d taken her tiara and cloak off, and she fanned herself.
“I never did ask what you intended to do with that wand.”
“Send it to Ryoka Griffin.”
“Truly?”
The Duke just stared at her, then glanced away. A mortal who bested me. He’d always laughed at the notions of Dragons losing like that, and here he was.
“Oh, just leave me alone. You can’t use a debtor’s Skill on me. I’ll pay.”
He winced at the thought. Ailendamus was not going to…
“I’ll cover it. We should have just enough gold.”
The Wyrm’s head rose slightly, and he gave the [Princess] an incredulous look.
“You’ll what?”
At the end of her night, at the end of her rope, Lyonette was yawning. She looked tired and terribly exhausted. Perhaps that was why she didn’t mince words with him.
“I will pay it. I don’t intend to make you miserable. That wasn’t actually the point of the night. It was only to stop that thing.”
