What the two beings saw in the center of the theatre, in that circular stage, under a pool of yellow light, was…
A table. With a ring of chairs around it. A young woman with red hair was sitting with long, white gloves on her hands and a dress of blue puddled around her. A circlet was in her hair, a Cloak of Balshadow around her shoulders. Two [Knights] stood behind her.
She was shuffling a deck of cards.
“What.”
Duke Rhisveri stared down at Lyonette du Marquin. Tolveilouka just exhaled.
“And now I murder her. She gets one point for novelty.”
He stood there cheerfully, sword resting on his shoulder. The [Princess] riffled the deck of cards expertly, using a [Flawless Attempt].
“Good evening, Duke, Tolveilouka. Would you care to sit anywhere? A drink? We have an excellent [Bartender] for the night.”
“Your Highness! You’re as arrogant as many I’ve met. Tell me why shouldn’t I just murder you for wasting my time? If you wanted to protect this little place—this was not how to do it.”
Tolveilouka strode down the stairs two at a time like a beaming gameshow host. All energy, style, and murderous hatred. Rhisveri hurried after him, wondering how many senses the [Princess] had taken leave of.
“I don’t believe I invited you to a duel, Mister Tolveilouka. I challenged you. To this.”
The cards splayed across the table. A magical deck. The half-Elf sneered and loomed over her as he came to a stop in the center of the theatre.
“You think I’d deign to play with you? This reminds me of the old Djinni game. Where fools try to win a game of chess or something against a Djinni. I always laugh when I watch the Djinnis rip their arms off. What’s stopping me from doing that right now?”
He leaned over, his mouth open in a smile revealing more and more teeth as his gums and lips pulled back impossibly far. Lyonette didn’t move.
“That would be—”
Duke Rhisveri began to speak when a figure suddenly stood. They had been hidden, invisible in a seat, but the old man shed the illusion spell as Tolveilouka whirled.
“That would be us. Come, come now, Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. What’s the harm in a small game between equals?”
Teriarch, Dragonlord of Flames, stood there, and Rhisveri choked on his words. A second figure stood up, cup of rum in hands. Taletevirion, silver-haired, flicked his gaze up the stairs.
“And me.”
Tolveilouka was full snarl now. His eyes flickered between the two.
“So she has you two on a leash, is that it?”
Neither immortal rose to the bait. Teriarch, wearing the old, august form of Demsleth, put a cigar in his mouth and lit it by tapping one end. He grinned with pointed teeth.
“Hardly. I simply received an invitation. I’m not the only one who accepted.”
“Oh. Um. Is this where I reveal myself?”
Another voice. A woman, a Human woman, floated down, looking vaguely uneasy, but Archmage Valeterisa joined the table. Lyonette du Marquin’s smile widened as Taletevirion turned. Then she gestured as the air flickered to her right.
“And as our second guest, aside from the inn’s regulars, may I present Her Majesty of Calanfer, ruler of the Eternal Throne, Queen Ielane du Marquin?”
A woman appeared in one of the chairs. Rhisveri had seen Queen Ielane of Calanfer numerous times via spying spells, on tour, or even in person. He thought he’d never seen the blank look of surprise on her face before.
It vanished after a few seconds, but Lyonette wasn’t done.
“Next, His Eternal Majesty has graciously agreed to spend some time with us. I present the ruler of Everlasting Khelt—King Fetohep!”
He walked into frame as her voice rose like an announcer, and the undead ruler of Khelt sat down, his robes shimmering around him. He lifted a cup in hand and sipped.
“A splendid introduction, Your Highness. Your Majesty of Calanfer.”
“Your Eminence of Khelt.”
Ielane breathed. She might have stopped as Lyonette, smiling like a madwoman, continued.
“And finally, our last guest among equals—the ruler of a Shield Kingdom, the Immortal Quarass, ruler of Germina!”
A girl appeared in the chair across from Lyonette, legs crossed, a look of amusement on her face. Her brows were raised, her eyes fixed on Tolveilouka.
“I am here at your request, Princess Lyonette du Marquin.”
“For what?”
Tolveilouka hadn’t flinched away from the other faces, but now his guard was up, and he was angry—but there was a spark of curiosity in his eyes. For answer, Lyonette picked something up.
It was a golden…stick. A thin bit of crude metal—poorly cast, but Rhisveri’s eyes locked onto it.
Pure gold. She tossed the stick down on the table.
“These are our…chips, I believe they’re called. I invited you all here to play cards. With your own funds, of course. I have had some rather rude guests here of late, and even my established ones grow rather uppity.”
She gave Teriarch and Taletevirion a pointed smile, and Valeterisa seemed hurt when the smile included her. Lyonette shuffled the cards again ostentatiously.
“Shall we? I apologize if you thought it was a challenge, Tolveilouka. I merely meant an amicable pastime. Between equals. With teeth. If you don’t wish to attend or, of course, if you can’t afford to participate, feel free to leave. You may stay and watch, of course. Drinks and snacks are on me, though I cannot provide the same to my other guests.”
That struck a nerve. Tolveilouka’s eyes lit up with a smile.
“You are insolent. Do you think I’m a pauper, perchance?”
He strode down the table and made a show of picking up one of the little golden sticks.
“How many gold pieces are you playing for?”
He pulled out coins and let golden ones shower over the table. Not just gold, Rhisveri saw.
Ones made of platinum, steel, even gemstones! Lyonette didn’t blink as Fetohep tsked quietly and the Quarass’ gaze sharpened. The [Princess] picked up a beautiful coin made out of mithril—then flicked it over her shoulder.
“Please, Tolveilouka. Individual coins? What are we, peons? The sticks are representative of larger sums, of course.”
“What sums?”
Demsleth was smiling as he drifted over to the table. Taletevirion was still staring up at Duke Rhisveri and checking his drink for some reason. Lyonette spoke as the Dragon sat down.
“One hundred thousand gold pieces.”
Ielane made a sound. The Quarass kept smiling, and Valeterisa twitched—but Fetohep of Khelt chuckled drily.
“Ah. Small stakes. Appropriate to begin the night with.”
The others were playing into it! Rhisveri was frozen on the stairs. He knew it was a trap, but then he saw Ishkr marching down with the tray of drinks, and as heads turned, Rhisveri tried to saunter down the stairs.
Teriarch noticed the final newcomer as Taletevirion walked over, nudged him, and pointed. He had doubtless sensed Duke Rhisveri already, and he murmured.
“Ah, and here comes Rhisveri. Good evening, friend. Hail. I thought you knew better than to meddle in—”
His eyes rose, and his mouth fell open. Rhisveri sneered back.
“Teriarch. If we’re going by names, I suppose you don’t mind me mentioning yours?”
Ielane’s eye snapped to Teriarch, but the Quarass just nodded at the Dragon as if confirming what she had suspected. Fetohep’s gaze narrowed at Duke Rhisveri, but even the Quarass stopped and rubbed at one eye.
What? What?
Oh—Rhisveri suddenly felt a prickle down his back, and Fetohep coughed into one fist.
“It is…an unusual attire for a [Duke], but I am informed the show is so popular, even my subjects enjoy the tales of The Windy Girl and Rhissy. Truly, modern fashion boggles the mind.”
He was still wearing his sock costume. Rhisveri nearly tripped and tumbled down the steps. He threw back the hood of his costume hurriedly.
It didn’t help. Teriarch and Taletevirion were staring at him, and he very clearly heard the Unicorn lean over and whisper.
“How badly did you say you hit him?”
“Not that badly. I swear! Maybe he thinks it’s fashionable? Do we have a word with—”
Rhisveri dismissed the costume in a hurry and tried to sit in a chair and lounge. His real body was blushing crimson along its entire length. Damn the [Princess]!
“Cards. Right. I suppose I have a moment. I was simply advertising the show. National pride and all that. A hundred thousand gold pieces? My, we are playing for chump change, aren’t we?”
He tried to sneer at her, and in response, Lyonette just beamed at him. She reached down, lifted a small metal bucket onto the table—and poured a pile of golden sticks down in front of her.
At least thirty. Teriarch stopped reaching for a cup and plate of fries. Ielane seemed to have stopped breathing. Even Rhisveri’s eyes bulged.
“I don’t believe we need to enforce anything with a contract at this moment. We’ll settle the amounts later. Do let me know if you’d like to back out.”
No one said a word for a second. Then someone began to laugh.
Tolveilouka. He sat back in his chair, looking from face to face, and his chuckle became him throwing his head back. When he stopped, he looked at Lyonette and grinned.
“Oh—very well. This should be fun. You think I can’t match this game?”
He reached for the bucket and scattered two dozen golden sticks onto his side of the table. Now pride was on the line. Teriarch was licking his lips nervously, and Rhisveri was suddenly, acutely aware of how much gold he had in Ailendamus’ treasury and his personal holdings.
Plenty! But each stick cost enough to arm legions of Hydra Knights! Was she mad? How did a [Princess] have this much money in the inn?
The [Princess] just lifted the deck in her hands and smiled.
“The Wandering Inn can cover all the costs of our players. Let’s play a variety of card games. I suggest ‘poker’ first. It’s very simple. Oh—our three remote players will have to use their own decks, but I’m sure we can ensure no cheating is done.”
Her eyes glittered, and Rhisveri, already casting a spell to let him see through the cards, felt the magic vanish as the Archmage of Izril lifted a hand. As did Teriarch.
“I would hate for someone to spoil the mood of the game, indeed, indeed.”
That old Dragon smiled so innocuously that Rhisveri knew he was about to cheat. Well, Rhisveri could sense anything that the Dragonlord did and call it out! He sat forwards, and a Gnoll placed something down. A basket of the golden sticks.
“Anything to drink, sir?”
“A Hydravenom Courser, on the rocks!”
“Bloodwine, no bones.”
Tolveilouka didn’t look at Ishkr. He was just eying Taletevirion as the Unicorn requested an entire bottle of Rxlvn.
“Anyone keen on not playing? Mother? How many sticks would you like?”
The [Princess] was throwing jabs out in every direction. She smirked at Queen Ielane of Calanfer, who was, incidentally, probably among the poorest of the players present.
Valeterisa and the Quarass had loans from the inn; the Quarass had fourteen sticks arranged in front of her. Valeterisa, seven, looking incredibly nervous. Taletevirion, after hissing with Teriarch, had taken out twenty, and the Brass Dragon was harrumphing as he demanded the same number, clearly covering the Unicorn’s costs.
Tolveilouka played with his sticks as Rhisveri took out thirty, just to match Lyonette. Fetohep had merely requested ten ‘to begin with’.
Queen Ielane?
Her face was back to a calm, even amused smile. She sighed and looked like she was dismayed, delighted, and even overwhelmed by such august guests.
And I thought I was related to snakes. Rhisveri glanced at Ielane as the Queen of Calanfer turned to her daughter.
“I do believe I would enjoy playing a few hands of this delightful game of…poker? If you will have me. I would so terribly hate to have to ask my husband to cover my silly costs at a casual game, though. I’m sure my daughter wouldn’t mind spotting me a few of her sticks, would she?”
Every eye turned to Lyonette. The [Princess]’ face went slack, then she grouchily flicked four sticks at her mother.
Then every head was turned towards a Gnoll with sunglasses, who dragged over a chalkboard and began to explain how the first game worked. And the world’s most devastating poker night—
Began.
 
——
 
Elia and Vaulont were just window dressing. They wore uniforms and watched as Lyonette gambled with rulers and immortal beings at a table, betting fortunes on each hand of cards.
This was her madness.
This was the [Princess]’ gambit, and even the Quarass hadn’t expected an invitation, much less for Teriarch or Taletevirion to show up.
Of course, they rolled up and played. Pride was on the line. Or they thought they could win. That was how they got you.
You know who wasn’t here?
The Titan of Baleros. And Magnolia Reinhart. Lyonette hadn’t forgotten about either. She had invited them, and both had bowed out.
Did you know why? Because both of them saw the trap and decided they wanted no part in it.
Of course, you had an ancient, undead Revenant, the last Wyrm, the Dragonlord of Flame, an Archmage, a Unicorn, and rulers of might and magic at the table.
The canny Quarass, the Eternal King of Khelt, Calanfer’s queen—
They thought they could win.
The fools. The house always won.
—Okay, Lyonette was down sixteen sticks of gold already, and she stood up to get some water.
They were really good at playing cards, it turned out. She stepped to the side, and Dame Ushar hurried over as Rhisveri crowed and swept more sticks of gold off the table.
To make things easier, they’d made a rule that you could put in little coins, which were worth ten thousand, or split a golden stick in half for a mere 50,000 coins. The Wyrm had already amassed a pile larger than the one he started with.
“Your Highness?”
Ushar made a show of blotting at Lyonette’s face, but the [Princess] wasn’t sweating that badly. She was making it seem to the others like she was panicking worse than she was, and she made a show of gulping down her water.
A touch of Calescent’s death-spice helped add to her flush. Lyonette murmured.
“Some of them may be cheating. I suspect the Quarass is with a Skill, but I can’t prove it. Do you mind making a call? Those two are destroying us.”
By ‘those two’ she meant Teriarch and Rhisveri. The two, Wyrm and Dragon, were either getting extremely lucky or they had a silent pact to cheat with magic. No one, including Valeterisa, was able to call them on it. Ushar smiled.
“At once, Your Highness. Whom?”
“Archmage Eldavin. Excuse me, guests! We have another player I believe is waiting to join. And I must step out for just one second—Nerul?”
The [Diplomat] slid over to the table like a shark in bloody waters. Teriarch froze as a half-Elf appeared—and the two gazed at each other and recoiled. Teriarch whirled to Lyonette, and she gave him an innocent look.
“Archmage, hello! Let me just summarize this delightful night—”
