This one had a sword, and she stood like she actually knew how to use it. Calluses on her hands—
Elia answered after a moment.
“He was going to slaughter the entire world. I saw it in his eyes. His Goblins were massacring armies, and the entire north of Izril was burning. I never regretted that. If you’ve met Goblins who talk and speak—well, so have I. I saw what they did eleven years ago. Bring him back from the dead and I’ll do it again.”
If I can. 
She was not that heroine. It really was a lucky shot when he was already dying, and for some reason, he stopped…
The [Princess] looked Elia up and down. Elia knew that she wasn’t impressive anymore in cheap, ill-fitting leather armor and with a plain bow. But—there was some strange knowing in Lyonette’s eyes.
A weary recognition that annoyed Elia until she tried to find the falsity in Lyonette and just saw another woman who had seen monsters far more dangerous than her.
And survived. That wasn’t surprising or new to Elia. She had met more Named-ranks and Gold-rankers with those eyes than she could count. That woman, Yvlon Byres, had had the expression that made Elia think she might become Named-rank.
In Lyonette du Marquin’s gaze was something else. Not the determination to face down the Goblin King, no. If Elia could do it, then she had met thousands with the same determination. They’d been around her and fought in the same war.
Rather, it was that weary apprehension, the nervous fear of someone who wondered if she’d be strong enough to protect anything the next time it happened. The desperate eyes of a mother, and she was so young.
Elia had seen those eyes in a mirror. She stopped, and the two recognized one another, loathe as either one was to admit it. Lyonette collapsed her hands together. She studied Elia, and her ire faded, as if looking at her for the first time. Then she spoke.
“My daughters are in danger. That’s why I need you to guard my inn, Elia Arcsinger. I could try to run away with them. But they’ll never leave. And I don’t think—even if I run back to my kingdom—that it would help. Someday, something terrible will come for us. I need to stay. Stay and level. But I am truly, utterly, exhaustedly tired of seeing my friends die. No more. Work for me and teach my silly little [Archer] how to shoot like that.”
She pointed at the sky where Elia’s arrows had flown. The half-Elf blinked down at Lyonette, and the [Princess] held out a hand. The half-Elf shook her head.
“You’ll never get them under the same roof as me. Your Goblins.”
“My Goblins will hate and fear you. But if they stay—they’ll surely level. If you can face the Goblin King, they can face you.”
Elia had never thought about herself like that. Nemesis of Goblins, but never that the ones who took arms against her had courage.
“I don’t trust Goblins. Or Antinium, for that matter.”
Elia hedged, and Lyonette just nodded.
“Then take a shot at the next Goblin King who emerges. Or the next Goblin Lord. Be my guest. But the ones I know can dodge.”
Just to confirm, one last time, Elia Arcsinger took a huge breath as she studied Lyonette. Not for money. Or even curiosity. Just because she had a damn daughter. Two, no less.
Elia knew what that was like, and she was as young as…
“I don’t like you. I’m positive you don’t like me. Of all the adventurers in Izril, why me?”
The [Princess] offered Elia a smile that was too old for her, as sad as the passing of time. Filled with memories.
“Well. You’re one of the few I can ask around me. The others are all pursuing things. Saliss. Colth. Eldertuin. You’re the lost one. And the cheap one. I got a second chance, once, and it saved my life. I became someone else. Someone I think is better. It’s the end of winter; even you might change.”
Lyonette glanced up at the skies, and they didn’t magically part to show blue skies, but she smiled at the snowflakes anyways. Then her eyes had a bit of water in them.
“Mostly, though? You’re an archer. The Wandering Inn always likes adventurers with bows. I’ve never met a bad one yet.”
“That’s your reason?”
Lyonette shrugged, and Elia laughed despite herself. She raked a hand through her hair. How long since she laughed? Was this a good idea?
“If you start tonight, I can offer casserole for dinner. And a chance to possibly die.”
The Named-rank adventurer stared at Lyonette with narrow eyes, and an [Assassin] tailing the [Princess] raised his head.
Gold. The reputation of the inn. The [Princess]’ own charming smile and offers. All these things were considerations.
The last was just pride. Elia Arcsinger grudgingly took that gloved hand and shook it once.
“Show me. I’ll take a contract for one night.”
The [Princess] just inclined her head, and Elia Arcsinger followed her down the street. That was how she came to a magic door and a crowd of protestors that the two golden [Knights] pushed through. She noticed an [Assassin] slip through the door and almost drew an arrow on him, but Lyonette told her that he was the latest hire before her.
That stumped the half-Elf so much that she followed the [Princess] into a crowded waiting room where people stared at her—and she stared at a group of undead skeletons walking past her with hammers and nails.
A Lamia was inspecting the walls of the long hallway that gave her shivers; she stared at arrowslits, and a little Goblin hiding behind the walls shrieked her name. The Lamia was too busy arguing with a group of adventurers holding a wrapped object in one hand to even pay attention.
They led her into the common room of the inn, and it was just an inn—except it had multiple species. A Goblin in the kitchen holding a bag of something and a knife with a dozen smaller Goblins behind him.
Elia almost drew her bow. A screaming Hobgoblin with a pegleg ran at her with a sword until Lyonette tackled her. A gang of kids stood on a staircase, and a white Gnoll girl that Elia vaguely recognized pointed at her in horror.
The Named-rank adventurer just stood there and saw a bunch of Antinium, horrifyingly different, lined up with a bunch of chairs they’d been arranging. One of them had an apron on that said ‘Hug the [Cook]’.
The half-Elf was rubbing her eyes when a Gnoll popped into existence behind the bar and did a double-take at her. Then he grinned and joined the huge argument Lyonette was having with the Goblins.
One of them shouted at Elia and threw a mug; Elia caught it. She waited as the [Princess] pointed at her, and then a female Antinium with an amazing metal bow buzzed down from the staircase and slammed into a table. The Antinium scrambled up, and Elia realized she’d instinctively offered it—her—a hand up.
Shouting. Fighting. Golden [Knights]. And the Order of Solstice. Elia flinched when she saw the [Knight] in azure armor, but he just tipped his helmet at her after a moment. The [Princess] was running to and fro, gesticulating, pointing at the [Assassin].
He was giving a tall woman with similar red eyes to his a very nervous look, and Colfa walked over and linked arms with Vaulont the Ash. Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle beamed at him, and Lyonette pointed at a trained killer—and Elia.
The angry Goblins and the two girls that must have been her daughters, a Gnoll girl and a witch, whispered to each other. At this point, Elia leaned forward and got confirmation that they were not biological daughters, because she would have had huge concerns given how old both were.
After a while, the Gnoll girl walked over and solemnly shook Vaulont’s hand, handed him a notecard of greeting, and offered him a slice of cake with a glass of warm milk. She gave Elia two digits and a glare.
The fighting continued, but the Goblins seemed to take it as a personal challenge. As the [Princess] ran about, talking about ‘the night plan’ for some reason, demanding her people find decks of cards, talking to a Gnoll with weird sunglasses—Goblins kept swaggering up to Elia before running away.
She recoiled from them each time one appeared, and she was worried that they’d attack, but the one with the pegleg, named Peggy, just jerked her head at Elia in a challenge.
“Soldier. You soldier. I am. Then someone cut foot off.”
It was the most accurate description of Elia that anyone had ever given. That was what she had been when she met the Goblin King in combat. The fact that a Goblin said it…
There was a Gold-rank Captain that Elia swore she’d met before. He seemed to think they’d met quite often. There was also a Silver-rank team who introduced themselves to her as Gemhammer. And a lot of [Necromancers].
Just…over a hundred. Every time Elia stared out the window, she saw them building in the snow, undead skeletons by the hundred. Of course, she’d visited nations with [Necromancers], but they were so scarce that she completely missed her face and just poured her mug of milk onto the face of a Gnoll girl giving her a sinister look next to her table.
Since the Gnoll girl had apparently put spices in the milk, that turned out to be a good thing. Then a young boy sat down at the table across from Elia and demanded she teach him how to shoot a bow. When she asked who he was, he introduced himself as a [Lord] of House Veltras.
A giant Ashfire Bee chased him off. At this point, Elia let the Gnoll named ‘Ishkr’ lead her onto the third floor of the inn and lay down in a bed for a second to check if she was having a fever dream from eating bad turnip soup.
She came downstairs after twenty minutes, feeling determined to roll with anything like a Named-rank should.
Grimalkin, the Sinew Magus of Pallass, Hedault, the famously reclusive [Enchanter], Salamani, the Mage Runner, and Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril, were sitting around a table with what Elia swore was a [Pirate] and another [Mage].
Elia went back upstairs. She heard the inn getting busier. She got up when she heard scuffling and saw the white Gnoll girl and a Cave Goblin were trying to open her window. They had a bucket of water. When they realized they’d been caught, they tried to run. The Cave Goblin leapt away, and the girl went tumbling down the roof.
Elia opened the window with a shout and saw a golden Thronebearer leap out a window and break the girl’s fall.
Elia closed the window.
The boy, Sammial, was back. She pushed him outside and closed the door. When she heard the lock being picked, she strode over to the door and yanked it open.
Saliss of Lights stood there, naked.
 
——
 
When Elia Arcsinger came downstairs, they were having dinner. And a [Princess] was dancing.
Her staff were angry, bemused, or amused.
There was a pile of Chemath Marble in the snow. New hires were looking around the inn, and ‘Captain Toad’ had his head in his hands. The inn was filled with merry villagers of Rheirgest, [Mages], and guests, like a Drake [Guardsman], the Councilmembers of Liscor, even an old Drake who just stared at Elia until she realized it was Chaldion of Pallass.
There was music playing. Someone had activated some song crystals from the Singer of Terandria, and a pair of Humans were teaching a skeleton with a fiddle more music.
Lyonette du Marquin was dancing in the center of the room. She had to be exhausted, but she swung a surprised Thronebearer, Ser Dalimont, into a waltz. She could dance. Elia watched, eating some spicy chicken casserole that tasted delicious—and saw the [Princess] switch partners.
Next, she danced with the Antinium, Rosencrantz, then the Gnoll with sunglasses, Yelroan, who blinded Elia with those flashy spectacles. Then even Peggy—before doing a dance with her daughter, Mrsha.
“Some inn.”
“It grows on you, Miss Elia.”
The Named-rank adventurer jumped at her table in the corner, and she saw the little witch girl, Nanette, smiling around the inn.
“Oh. You’re Lyonette’s other daughter?”
Nanette Weishart blinked at Elia, then sighed.
“Me? No. My mother is dead.”
Elia stopped eating. Nanette adjusted a non-witch’s hat on her head, a bowler, and looked at Lyonette.
“She’s trying. Lyonette’s not bad. 4/10. Compared to Witch Califor. That’s very good, you know. Also, Calescent put spices in your casserole.”
“Is that why it tastes so good?”
The witch opened her mouth, then suspiciously asked to try a bite of Elia’s dish. Her face turned bright red, and she ran off. Then Elia realized a Goblin had made her dinner.
Her mind exploded for the umpteenth time. But all the while—you had to give it to her.
She had an amazing poker face. Elia Arcsinger sat there until the excitement in the inn began to fade. She accepted a note from the girl, Mrsha.
I’m watching you. You better wash your butt.
Then the girl yawned, and people were filing outside, and the night grew deeper. Then—someone handed Elia a uniform to wear, and she found Lyonette to ask if she was being pranked again.
“No. You said you were just working for a night, right? Come now, Vaulont. You took the same offer. It’s just for a night. Keep the mask.”
Elia and the [Assassin] traded glances as the Lamia, Hexel, dashed to finish his work. A great anticipation ran through the inn, and she felt a tremor going up and down her spine she hadn’t felt in a long while. Her bravado from before, her incredulity that Lyonette could back up her claims, began to become riddled with doubts.
Then the final act of the night began, and Elia Arcsinger finally beheld The Wandering Inn.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was quiet just past midnight. All through the house—well, inn—not a person was stirring. Not even a mouse. Or bee.
The point was, no one was awake. The [Mass Slumber] spell took care of that, even the villagers of Rheirgest outside.
He was coming. He had arrived. The figure grinned to himself as he adjusted his hood. A walking sock puppet shuffled forwards, then cursed.
“This hood is hot. Is this the best the [Tailors] could do on short notice? Really?”
A giant, blue, bobbing sock with huge buttons for eyes, the ever-popular character Rhissy from the hit television show in Ailendamus—paused—and threw back the hood.
Duke Rhisveri, or rather, the artifice that the world knew as Rhisveri, fumbled with the ridiculous costume. Honestly. He felt like he should have just animated another cloth puppet. But the problem with the Rhissy puppet was that it had crucial weaknesses.
It was even weaker than ‘Duke Rhisveri’, who was rated as a Level 57 [Duke of Supreme Sorcery] in Ailendamus’ records. Using his actual puppet body let Rhisveri sense things, smell, and react even faster than usual.
More importantly—the good [Duke] had hands. He could open drawers. Rhissy had a lot of problems with doorknobs.
