She nodded at the chair where Tolveilouka had been. Ishkr was carefully pouring oil over it. He struck a match and stared at the two of them.
“Sorry. I’ll do this outside.”
“I’ll help.”
Demsleth levitated the chair up, and the final act of chair carnage for the day was mercifully done out of sight. Rhisveri stirred a bit.
“How in the world did you get a monster like that after your inn? I can see why he—wait, you lumped me in with him?”
He grew outraged. The [Princess] just sighed.
“You showed up at my inn dressed up as a giant sock.”
“Rhissy. He’s a beloved character. Children adore him.”
“Well, mine must be safe. I will do anything for that. If you really are here to help Ryoka—couldn’t you have just gotten her to vouch for you? Honestly. What did you expect me to do? I’m trying to keep my family safe. I don’t think I can after today. That Tolveilouka will be back. I don’t need…more enemies.”
Her voice was soft, intense, and the Wyrm looked at Lyonette. Strange. She looked so desperate. That was the expression he hadn’t recognized between the hospitality and all the bait of the night.
“You have nothing to fear from me. This inn…those inside it aren’t worth my ire.”
The Duke began, and the [Princess] slapped him.
It wasn’t a hard slap. But it was fast. She did it without blinking. Rhisveri rocked in his chair, and Teriarch and Ishkr turned to stare.
“You dare—?”
“Take it back. Or I’ll make you pay everything.”
“You—”
“Take it back. This is The Wandering Inn. I am Lyonette du Marquin. 6th Princess of Calanfer. You will respect this place and me. Or I will ruin you a thousand times worse than I did tonight.”
Her head was in her hands, propped up, and she was smiling. But the Wyrm stared at her and felt like he was getting a threat from Fithea.
“I…recant my words.”
“Thank you. I’ll pay your debts. Does Ailendamus have any interest in banking gold?”
The Wyrm’s mouth worked, and he ate a [Charming Smile] from the [Princess]. It was, a still- quietly-applauding Dame Ushar thought, a classic Ielane tactic. The Duke sat there, ego mushed into the ground, and Lyonette du Marquin chuckled to herself.
There. Dame Ushar stopped recording on the magic crystal she’d propped up on a chair. She wasn’t sure when she’d ever be allowed to show it, but Calanfer deserved a copy of this. For posterity.
At last, she thought the Queen of Calanfer had gotten a good look at her daughter.
 
——
 
Queen Ielane du Marquin waited until she was sure she wasn’t being viewed in the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“Reactivate the wards. Relay anything Ushar sends at once. Handkerchief.”
She spoke in order of necessity, and her staff, who had remained unseen, calculating the odds of her hands, taking notes, bustled into action. The last request took a hair longer than normal; one of Ielane’s handmaidens gasped.
“Your Majesty!”
Everyone turned, and hands dropped what they were holding. Ielane calmly dabbed at the blood.
“I may need a healing potion. Someone fetch a towel before I stain my dress.”
It was running from her nose, of course. But also her eyes and ears. She knew what it was.
Backlash. Holding that thing back…
The next thirty minutes were a flurry of activity. It took that long before the bleeding stopped, and Ielane checked the time.
5:12 AM. 
She was sitting in her undergarments, smoking, as a bath was drawn, smeared blood on her skin. Her entire body hurt, and she had a blinding headache. The puffer stick barely helped.
It was then that her most trusted helper among the Thronebearers appeared.
Dame Vensha. She had a cup of sherry, the only drink Ielane had had all night, and another tonic.
“For the blood loss. A troublesome night for a troublesome daughter, Your Majesty?”
Ielane was chain-smoking, running down the sticks into glowing ash. She drank first one vessel, then the other.
“Not especially, Vensha.”
The Thronebearer’s brows rose into her grey hairline, but Queen Ielane just sat there. Staring at an image in her head. A smiling, desperate [Princess] taunting immortals and other powers. Whirling in a spectacle she’d made, lying through her teeth and dancing them all along on a string.
Even her mother.
“Did I know she could gamble, Vensha? Did I know she could smile like that?”
The Thronebearer said nothing, and after a while, Ielane rose to have a bath. She lingered in it for a while and slept in that morning. It had been a long time since she’d taken a day off, but she informed her staff she was not to be disturbed for the entire day.
It had been a long time since she levelled, too.
She wondered what her daughter had gained.
 
——
 
[Princess of the Inn Level 36!]
[Skill – The Treasury of House Marquin obtained!]
[Skill – Enforce Pact: The Chessmaster’s Wrath obtained!]
[Skill – Dance of Blessings obtained!]
[Skill Change – Charming Smile → Enthralling Glance obtained!]
[Skill – Enthralling Glance obtained!]
[Bound Spell – Summon the Throne obtained!]
[Skill – Declare Foe: Bane (Furniture) obtained!]
[Skill – Apista: Form Change (Ashbringer Scourgebee) obtained!]
 
[Title – Gambler of Treasuries obtained!]
[Title Skill – The Gambler’s Dice granted!]
 
 
“Five levels in a night? Five—”
Lyonette fell out of her bed, arms and legs flailing. She kept shouting until Dame Ushar burst into the room, sword drawn. Then she did a backflip with [Flawless Attempt] as her daughters piled into the room to stare at her. Mrsha tried one too and landed on her face.
 
——
 
The next day, Lyonette du Marquin sat with a Drake over breakfast. Late breakfast, but Shassa Weaverweb was still delighted to have it.
“I wanted to have at least a few meals in The Wandering Inn before I left. You know, all my friends can’t believe I don’t come here more often.”
“We are something of a hazard. Fun and dangerous, Druid Shassa. I wanted to ask if you’d changed your mind about teaching here. My daughter loves you, and frankly, my other daughter could use some education.”
The Drake had expected this and sipped at some coffee apologetically. It had whipped cream in it! And syrup!
“You know, Lyonette. May I call you that? I see a huge future in Liscor. The school we have right now is small, but if we had more teachers, more classrooms, more lessons—you can teach horseback riding, farming, even skills like rock climbing. Oh, I know, many parents want their children to only take one class, but Oteslia’s always believed these things add to any class.”
“I think so too, Shassa. In fact—what if you had multiple teachers for multiple lessons? I have a list.”
Shassa peered at a list that Lyonette offered to her. She read from it.
“Oh my. Elia for archery? You don’t mean the—”
She turned and spotted a half-Elf chewing on a plate of red spaghetti filled with red flakes. Calescent was staring at her from the kitchen, a look of outrage and delight on his face. Then Shassa read down the list.
“Math. Yelroan. Sports, Joseph—who is ‘Garry’ for cooking?”
Lyonette explained, and Shassa gave her a wary smile.
“It would be an amazing education, I have no doubt. If you had people only devoting an hour or two for guest lectures…the problem is finding a good schoolhouse.”
“One can be bought. The Council might allocate a large building for one, and they have a budget. If you took over running it, you might be responsible for all of Liscor’s education. And you could advance a much greener city at the same time.”
The Drake [Druid] had to think.
“I see your point. But Lyonette, that’s all very hypothetical. I can foresee a lot of time fighting for a budget. I…I do like Liscor. But I am a Drake of Oteslia. Leaving a Walled City for this place? No offense.”
The [Princess] smiled, ducked her head, and pushed something over the table.
“None taken. Would this change your mind, if I offered this as part of your budget on top of whatever Liscor can pay?”
Shassa felt incredibly guilty as she saw Mrsha and Ekirra peeking out at her. She smiled politely at Lyonette.
“Thank you, Miss Marquin. But I—I—I—”
Her eyes focused on the number on the paper. Lyonette gave her a helpful smile.
“Note the comma. I’m willing to pay you a salary beyond anything a [Druid] makes in Oteslia.”
“Wh—b—”
Shassa began to stand, but Lyonette ushered her into a seat.
“Sit, please! Take your time. Could you see delaying your return just one day or two, Shassa? I am sure you have questions. Ishkr! Another latté with all the works, would you?”
 
——
 
It was hazing how the staff treated newcomers. All things considered, it was a lighter introduction than starting work and fighting Crelers on your first day.
—But there was some cruelty to throwing a new member of The Wandering Inn straight into the deep end of the pool.
Sometimes they deserved it. Or just needed to be reminded that being part of the inn was, well, not what they expected.
If you had someone like Vaulont join the inn, he needed to respect the staff a bit. After last night?
The Vampire Assassin was carefully consulting with Ishkr as the Gnoll delivered Shassa’s drink to her table.
“So. They’re mostly getting in through the windows?”
“They can unlock them. It’s either that or they just come through the main doors. The Thronebearers are doing their best, but they’re running out of ward spells.”
“There are windows that seal from the inside with clever levers. Most unlocker Skills only work on the principal mechanism. A doorstop can foil an [Assassin] when the deadbolt and magical lock fails.”
“I can ask Hexel about that.”
The Assassin warily nodded and made a tick on his list. Someone else keeping pace with them was Todi, who was nervously adjusting his belt.
“I reckon what this inn needs is firing holes. For when a monster’s chewing on the outside of it. Maybe even wall spells. First thing I want is a place that has line of sight on anything coming towards the inn. Fighting in that hell corridor is all very well, but I pity any bastards outside when the next Facestealer comes knocking.”
“Bird’s tower is going to be immensely fortified. How about that?”
Todi and Vaulont brightened up at that.
“I can see making that a base for now. Do we get free snacks? My team doesn’t function well without regular treats.”
“Right. How many, uh, menu items can be claimed in a single day?”
Vaulont had that on his notes, and Ishkr had wonderful news for the two of them.
 
——
 
They were on board. Captain Earlia had shown up this morning and was deep in talks with Hexel about his work on the inn. Todi’s team was on guard duty, but given the free food they were allowed to have, they all looked way happier than they’d been even guarding Selys’ properties.
Yes…they had all agreed to keep working here long term. Vaulont being the notable standout who’d been on the fence.
And Elia Arcsinger.
The half-Elf was here, today, having a spicy breakfast. Well, decently spiced.
She could have not been. Last night, the Gnoll, Yelroan, had come over and handed her a huge amount of gold, her payment for a single night of guard duty.
But what a terrifying night. She had met each and every one of the rulers who’d been present but never seen them in the same room at once.
And the others? The one called ‘Teriarch’? Taletevirion? Tolveilouka and Duke Rhisveri?
She had met the Duke, of course. Tolveilouka was unknown. The other two struck her as familiar. Hadn’t she met the old man after the Goblin King was slain? With Magnolia Reinhart…yes, back then. And she swore Taletevirion had sought her out at some point right after she’d killed the Goblin King, but she’d drunk more on that night than she could remember.
So it wasn’t like Lyonette had won her over by introducing her to people she hadn’t met. It was just—that Lyonette had summoned them. She had brought them into her inn, tricked some of them, and held her own.
It had changed her. You could almost see she’d gained new levels overnight. Elia wondered how many; they had to be substantive, and they affected her class and even her aura noticeably.
Fine. Lyonette could back up all her claims about the inn being a hotspot for trouble. She still didn’t like Elia, that was clear. The non-Goblins were civil and kept warning her the Goblins would, at the very least, pull pranks on her, including the chef.
Elia was still waiting for the prank. She didn’t know what the hell she was doing staying in an inn with Goblins.
—Oh. Right. She knew why.
 
[Nemesis of Goblins, Ranger of Renown Level 43!]
[Skill – Repositioning Leap (30 Feet) obtained!]
 
She’d leveled up. Last night.
After not leveling for years, she’d done it. Hit a new level.
Yes, you could argue that she’d been building towards a new one for ages with her work with her team, even if it was usually less-than-dangerous questing. But Elia couldn’t deny the obvious.
Standing there, pointing her bow at the two intruders, playing guard duty for the inn, ready to fight, sweating and keeping her face and back straight as possible—
That had levelled her up.
“If I stay at this inn for a month or two…”
After her breakfast was done, Elia patted her mouth with a napkin and went for a walk around the inn in the snow. Her breath was so spicy it nearly knocked a flying bee out of the air; Elia stared at the bee.
“A bee for a pet. And Goblins. But if I can level from this—”
It was like her dream job. Guard duty had a lot of downtime, and she could practice, get paid well, and level, all without putting her life on the line on Named-rank assignments. Even if the [Princess] demanded something more dangerous, Elia wouldn’t be the Named-rank adventurer everyone called on to save the day. Assuredly not; Lyonette didn’t trust her.
It didn’t hurt that part of her actual duties included, well, archery training. After her second lap around the inn, someone began following her. Elia stared at a female Antinium as tall as she was with green-yellow chitin and a silver bow.
“Is this part of my training?”
“…No.”
Bird the Hunter stopped, and Elia faced the lower-level archer. She stared at Bird. Bird stared back.
Communication was neither one’s forte. After a moment, Elia drew her bow and placed an arrow to it.
“I was told to teach you how to shoot arrows. What did you want to learn?”
Bird thought about the question.
“How do you stop someone who is very close to you? And annoyingly fast? I cannot hit them with my arrows. Also, please. I have [Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow], but I cannot figure out how to fire it.”
Elia blinked. But her mouth answered for her, because it was actually a straightforward question.
