“That doesn’t sound very fair.”

“I’ll make it up to you.”

“I want to hear about teleportation,” Viv immediately replied.

Sidjin seemed to close on himself.

“So does everyone, these days.”

“I’m an outlander. I was sent here against my will. I don’t even know if my friends are alive, I don’t even know what happened to my original body. I don’t know if I died. I don’t know what my parents are thinking. I want to hear about teleportation.”

Sidjin nodded slowly, his lone eye boring into Viv’s with singular focus.

“You will hear about teleportation.”

“Okay. So, here is what I saw.”

Viv recounted her tale, sometimes stopping to refill Sidjin’s glass. The mage stopped drinking after a while, apparently suitably buzzed. He asked questions about people besides Tweek, but Viv had not been introduced to the other leaders. He was pleased that they thrived.

“The jungles are much warmer than the Deadshield Woods, especially in winter. I’m glad to see they adapted,” he explained. “The merls are, well, their population can bounce back pretty fast. They just had so many dead. You cannot imagine the bloodbath the walls were. Day after day.”

“I’m sorry, it must have been hell. Speaking of, everyone thinks you’re dead!”

“I wish they’d been correct.”

He sighed deeply. His face was still flush with alcohol. He shrugged.

“I am sauced enough to talk about it, I guess. Never thought I’d share with someone I have just met.”

“We’ve been talking for half of the night already.”

“Half of my life should not be enough. This booze is deceptively strong. Ah, who cares? On the night of the ritual, I murdered the city’s quartermaster.”

“Ah.”

Viv wasn’t sure where this was headed. Given how it’d started, she thought it best to shut up and let the man spill. He obviously had a lot on his mind.

“Glastia’s standing policy was that the merls were expandable forces who would hold the line for as long as feasible. The council intended to milk them to the last drop, then quietly dispose of the survivors. The quartermaster was at the forefront of this policy. It was his cousin who cast a destruction spell on the segment of wall Siul defended. He was the leader of the merls, and my friend. I murdered the quartermaster and used a convoy of carriages to carry supplies to the lower city. I also picked the most corrupted guardhouse on the path and executed them to the last man. The ritual took place near the merl’s main habitation center, during the night. The guard found me at dawn while the last of the merls went through. The beastlings found the segment of walls undefended and poured through the opening. Hundreds of soldiers died over the following two weeks to stem the flow. I have the blood of my fellow citizens on my hands. The council knew this. They threw me to the scalehounds.”

His gaze grew distant.

“I expected to die by public execution, but I underestimated the city’s most powerful motivator.”

“Greed?”

“Pride. What do you know of teleportation technology?”

“I know it can be done and that it’s excessively difficult.”

“The last mage who could do so reliably was Celerin Crest, a member of Nero Oleander’s group. Have you heard of them?”

“No.”

“Oleander was a traveler like you, who disappeared in the Shadowlands decades ago. He might still be alive, for all we know.”

“Did he ever lead an expedition into the Deadlands?”

“Yes, he did. Right to the base of the Imperial Ziggurat, or so he claimed.”

“Damn.”

It was their teleportation circle Viv had found near the camp, back in Harrak during her first night here.

“Crest was a mage of great knowledge who specialized in helpful spells. Her teleportation was actually a skill. I was able to observe the spent circles in several locations as well as her notes, and divine a way to reproduce the skill using colorless mana. It is… very intensive, to say the least. But…”

“Sustainable?”

“Precisely. Not only could archmages cast it, it could also be enchanted on surfaces for normal mages to use. Theoretically…” he finished with a ghastly grin.

“But I overloaded the spell frame after closing the portal.”

“Only you had the knowledge.”

“They could not afford to kill me. It was my mistake. I destroyed the circle to prevent my countrymen from following the merl, not expecting to be spared for my terrible offenses. Only, I was, after a fashion. The noble families who had lost their children took their pound of flesh, then council agents retrieved my notes and demanded explanations. I provided them.”

He glared at Viv, perhaps expecting a comment. Viv kept silent.

“They have struggled to conceptualize space, a requirement to cast the spell. But we can discuss technicality later. They kept me alive because they could not understand the notes without my help. Then the project stalled. Other priorities took over, and I was forgotten.”

“Seriously?” Viv asked.

“You would be surprised how much is lost to administrative inertia.”

“Oh no this I can believe, but grudges?”

“One among many. My demise was no longer considered a priority until one of the youngest princes needed an extra mage for a… shall we say confidential mission of his. I was released after completing it.”

“Really?” Viv asked with some disbelief.

“Oh, it was nothing simple. The youngling tried to betray me but he changed his tune when I activated fragmentation runes on everyone else’s backpack.”

“It sounds like a messy affair.”

“I believe the proper term would be ‘chunky’ in this specific context. In any case, freedom was mine at last. I moved south and worked in secret. I spent most of my time and earnings to repair that wreck of a mortal coil I was left with. This, for example...”

He moved his glove hands.

“... mimics the effect of tendons, of which I was deprived.”

“I don’t know how you can not be filled with rage.”

“There wouldn’t be enough room for that much hatred in a single person’s soul.”

Viv frowned, suddenly remembering the world in which she was.

“I received whispered promises, if that is what you were wondering. From all three. I had to decline. My days of serving the undeserving are over.”

“Understandable. Any long term plans?”

“Trying to live in this body is a long-term plan. What about you? If I may ask.”

Viv decided to keep her offer for later, when the two of them wouldn’t be sloshed. She had regeneration, he had teleportation. They were made for each other. In theory.

It wouldn’t hurt to open up to him a little bit and increase their mutual trust. He seemed as desperate for social interaction as she had been during her first meeting with Varska, spilling everything in an emotional meltdown. Despite his aloof airs, she could tell he’d been through hell and back. His homeland was lost to him as well, perhaps forever. They had much in common.

So Viv began to talk with a sleepy returning Arthur on her lap. She didn’t share too much about Solfis’ ability or some of the less reputable things she had done, but she shared enough to get a few comments on magic. The man appeared… driven.

“You’ll have to demonstrate some of those instinctive spells tomorrow. There is much I can teach you about colorless mana as well. You must study it rigorously, as it will compensate for most of your weaknesses. Combat is merely one aspect of what a proficient caster can accomplish.”

His face turned red.

“I believe I have drunk enough for tonight, we can… owwww.”

Viv had to help Sidjin stand up and return to his cabin, for which he apologized profusely. He was… very light. Too light for a man his size, which made Viv concerned. The two had clicked. It was rare when it happened. And he had suffered, and was still suffering, and that was not fine. Unacceptable. Viv decided that she would help him. Mention it in the morning.

Morning turned out to be mid-morning, since the captain’s booze was a sneakier hitter than she had expected. She apologized to the man for the secrecy, though the canny merchant had not taken umbrage.

“I was more worried that you two would not get along,” he explained with a smile.

“You did take a risk,” Viv conceded.

“A minor one. The likelihood you knew each other was very low according to what I found out. And war casters who live long enough to deserve the title tend to have common sense, thus realizing starting a magical duel in the middle of the river might be unwise.”

“True. Speaking of, can I ask how you found out who I was or is it a guild thing?”

“Both. Losserec has some of the best spies in Param. As valued partners, we can request some, ah, reinsurance. If a ship is lost, the economy is weakened. If it is weakened, Losserec is weakened. You are well known to them.”

Viv thought she was lucky they had not decided to dispose of her, but remembered that Solfis was a major deterrent when it came to assassins. Of course, he was a poor bodyguard because of design limitations, but spies did not know that.

“So yes, it was surprising that you would request some privacy, but I do not begrudge you  my cabin this time. Mage business can take strange turns.”

“We’ll be sure not to exile you again. Oh, I assume casting aboard is not a problem?”

“So long as you do not endanger us or interfere with the crew, you can do as you wish,” the man replied.

As agreed with Sidjin, Viv and he regrouped on the deck in the morning, with the mage clearly excited by the thought of talking shop.

“Emulation leads to progress more surely than isolated studies. It is good to meet another passionate practitioner. Why don’t you show me what that black mana of yours can do?”“See that stone?” Viv asked, pointing a finger at the shore.

“Which o —”

Before he was done, Viv wordlessly cast a quick blast spell, the smallest artillery she could manage. It whipped out of her hand with the tell-tale hiss and lashed a car-sized boulder, leaving behind a clear cut.

Sowly, the upper half of the boulder slid forward and crashed on the mud below.

On the deck of ‘River Flower’, the crew froze in place.

Sidjin didn’t speak. He moved his gloved fingers in a complex pattern, then the air in front of him shimmered and grew opaque. Viv realized what was going on. The man had turned the air into a pair of lenses.

With transparent mana.

They moved in concert until Sidjin was satisfied. Viv wondered how good the lense was but she would have to get close to the man and he clearly valued his personal space. Sidjin hummed and turned to her.

“I wanted to see the damage from up close. The surface is so smooth it could have been done by a talented blademaster.  I have to say that I had never seen such localized destructive potential with a fast spell before. You must be quite deadly in direct confrontation from mage to mage, or to take down dangerous targets.”

“Yes.”

“But your utility must suffer.”

“And flexibility,” Viv admitted.

“How is your… colorless magic?” he asked.

“I can block sound, make simple shields, find the north… Hm.”

“What about fire?”

“You can make fire with colorless mana?”

“You can make anything with colorless mana, though it is usually terribly inefficient. Observe.”

Sidjin lifted an arm and a series of circles and glyphs appeared around it. They were almost transparent and felt more blockish and regular than her own, like computer Arial to her cursive. For all its apparent rigidity, the spell shot out a series of smoldering red marbles with vicious elegance. They landed on the nearest muddy beach. Each ball expanded and exploded with a loud bang, sending soil and torched stones in the air. A wave of hot air made the sails flutter. Sidjin had essentially carpet-bombed the place, leaving only dried out, smoldering craters.

“I would normally pair the spell with red mana for the sake of efficiency. This is merely a proof of concept. I dislike the term colorless and prefer the term arcane. Arcane magic is the most complex and versatile school there is. It is also the most underused.”

He leaned against the railing. The casual gesture led to the crew working again. The two casters had offered quite the distraction.

“Please do not take my words as the ramblings of an obsessed man. Attunement leads mages to understand a specific dye, and then they cast with the world, not against it. It is simply easier and more efficient to cast within a color one understands, and most casters are nothing if not pragmatic. Aspected mana is even more potent. Colorless mana, however, can do everything or reproduce near everything.”

He considered his next words in silence.

“I could expand on the limits both innate and forced by a lack of proper research, but it would take us the whole afternoon.”

“We can always talk about it over dinner,” Vuv suggested.

Sidjin blinked.

“Why yes, we can certainly do that.”

“Let’s drink less, though.”

Sidjin chuckled, then it turned into a full-belly laugh, and then into a cough, but he didn’t seem to mind.

“Ah, normalcy. A thoroughly underrated feeling.”

Viv could relate.

“Oh, by the way, do you believe instinctive casters could become proficient at colorless mana?”

“Can you not already use it?” Sidjin replied, but then he reconsidered her words.

“Hm, my apologies, I forget that you are very new at this. Instinctive casters do not just understand aspects naturally, but also runes. You, ah, resonate with them. Therefore, yes you can cast colorless spells as well as any mages. Or rather, you will with enough practice. Are you going to Helock to attend the academy?”

“Yes. You?”

