“I am going but not to attend, but to take back control of my research. I understand that someone wrote a thesis claiming to be, and I quote ‘on the verge of success’ of teleportation. Using my notes, no doubt.  I intend to set the record straight on top of getting as much medical help as possible. You should definitely take a minor in arcane magic. Or even a major, since I doubt there are more than a handful of caster with a better command of black mana. I would love to teach you.”

“And I’d love to learn. Regarding medical help, well, let’s talk in private.”

Sidjin was intrigued, but he didn’t protest. It took longer than usual for them to walk to her personal quarter and by then, he was clearly tired.

“It’s probably not well-known yet, but I designed a way to regrow limbs.”

“What?” the mage exclaimed. “How?”

“Using black mana aspected to change magically charged monster flesh, and a church healer.”

He opened and closed his mouth a few times.

“And it works?”

“Yes. It has worked many times.”

Sidjin looked shocked.

“Look, I’ll do it for you, so long as we get a couple of days and a priest. In return, I’d want you to teach me how to make a teleportation circle and use it. And if I can’t then maybe you could help?”

“Help with what? I do not believe I can send you home. It would require understanding how to cross boundaries between worlds!”

“Not that. My people…”

Viv stopped at that. When had she started to see the Harrakans as her people? They were, though. She felt responsible for them.

“My people need to reclaim more of the deadlands. Make way for new arrivals and expand, create a buffer to protect themselves against the next horde. So far, all of those who’ve wanted to fight back have always faced a major issue: the black mana saturation. It limits travel. But if we can teleport…”

“I understand the strategic advantage it would provide, believe me.”

“Not just the military aspect. We could do the most important thing: reclaim a real city, with walls already in place, ready to be repaired. We could cherry pick the best spots for colonization and carry troops from one city to another to hold off major attacks. It would be a complete game changer.”

Viv felt her leadership flare, the skill instinctively brought forward by her enthusiasm. She could have pulled it back if she wished, but Sidjin didn’t seem to mind. He also had social skills of his own, she felt.

“Look, if teleportation is set to develop soon, then pushing back the deadlands is not a bad way to start, even if it’s not the most lucrative pick.”

“And possibly one of the most dangerous,” Sidjin says. “But I have spent a lot of time helping civilisation stand against mindless savagery, and I do not intend to stop. You will cure me even if I do not manage to teach you?”“Yes,” Viv said, sensing Sidjin would value an open hand.

“In fact, we’ll do that first, as I said.”

“Then yes, I will teach you what I know.”
