David existed nowhere definite, between the physical and inner world. Niala was next to him, her presence the only certainty he had. Whispers of emotions were coming through their link, but they were muted somehow.

He did his best not to dwell on that. Even if what they were trying to do wasn't very clear, he at least knew that he needed to concentrate. He figured he'd catch something when the time was right.

Kind of like fishing.

Does that mean Niala is a fish?

..I ... not a ...sh!

He mentally frowned.

Niala? Are you here?

...hear...ou. How...his..w..ing...

He couldn't hear her voice; the idea of her words was showing up in his thoughts. With a mental trust, he tried chasing after the idea of her, but it slipped out of his mind's hands.

She really was like a fish!

I... not...fi...!

Smirking, he let that feeling pass, set out his line once more, and waited. The river's water burbled as it flowed past him.

River?

A blue sun cast its light, though there was no warmth.

Sun?

He squinted, looking down at the river. The sun was reflecting off of it, but the colour was wrong; violet instead of blue. He peered down closer until he could see the outline of his face, but that wasn't right either.

His reflection looked like it had cat ears.

Wait...

He reached out with a hand. The watery image did the same. His fingers touched the surface, but met resistance. He pushed further, past the digits that had risen to meet him, and the hand below the surface pierced upward in turn. Their fingers interlaced. He grasped, and pulled, and let himself be pulled.

He fell into the water, and out of the water. A familiar body collided with him, one that his arms hooked around and kept tight.

Niala looked up. “I'm not like a fish!”

He smiled at her. “I caught you out of the water.”

“From my side, you're the fish!”

“I don't mind being the fish that was caught.”

She blinked, ears wiggling, then grinned. “Ok. I caught you, little fishy!” she said, rubbing her face against him.

As his wife imprinted her scent on him, he looked around. They were standing between two river undersides. Up, a blue sun shone through. Below, a violet one. In this liminal space, the light was indigo.

“Kitten?”

She stopped and looked up. “Hmm?”

“Where do you think we are?”

Frowning, she looked around. “No idea. Maybe underneath the stream of our consciousness? We might be deep inside a meditative state. Or we're hallucinating. It's really interesting. Oh!” She sounded off, snapping her eyes to him.

“What is it?”

“Do you think we can... take some of this water back with us?”

He blinked. “I don't think it's actual water.”

“The things you did in your inner world with Leviathan didn't exist for real either, but you still brought them out as mana cores!”

“Yes, but, I had Leviathan with me.”

She narrowed her eyes, observing their surroundings once more. “I'll figure something out. What do we do now?”

“Hmm... I feed you mana, and you try weaving something?”

After a second, she nodded. “Ok, but what kind of story? What are we looking for?”

He scratched his head. “Your bird is pretty useful. What if we tried making one that we could hand off to someone?”

“Like a flying horse? Oh! Something big and powerful! A hippogriff? No! A griffin!” No! I know! A falcodrake!” She suggested, eyes sparkling.

He swore he could see a miniature starry sky in there... “If you can do a falcodrake, sure. Do you remember how we did it for Hope's Light?”

She nodded. “I took in your mana, and I slowly mixed it with mine, until the colours mixed, then I weaved it.”

Her features scrunched up. “No, that's not right... I didn't weave the mixed mana directly. I injected my weave into it. Yes, I'm sure of that!”

He smiled. “Alright, then... start when you want.”

She smiled back, her hand finding his and locking fingers together. She closed her eyes and let David's mana flow into her like a timid stream. Her own mana descended upon it, ravenous, but she stamped her will onto it, forcing it to prowl around like a circle of wolves.

Little by little, she allowed David's blue mana to seep into her own. The colours mixed, and a ball of indigo formed. Small at first, she gave it time, nurturing it, letting it grow. As it did, her own mana strained against her command. A hunger infiltrated her thoughts, one that she chased away, only for it to return. Beads of violet sweat formed around her face.

By the time the mixed mana had grown the size of a watermelon, her control started slipping. Before it unravelled, she pushed her weave in.

A simple story; a steadfast steed, in the image of a legendary falcodrake; a quadrupedal, feathered lizard with a draconic head and a long, colourful tail.

The mana rejected her weave. She frowned and pushed it once more. Her second attempt was spurned. The hungry wolves within her gnashed their teeth, licked their meal-to-be.

Her weave had to go in. She had to...

She had to offer it.

Her shoulders relaxed, and her frown turned into a smile. In the palm of her hand, her woven bundle that she held up to the indigo ball. A gift, a suggestion, not imposed.

Does it interest you? To be more than ephemeral mana? Do you want to be more, little one?

Tiny fingers touched her open hand, curious, uncertain. A small featureless child stood before her, its head turned in a way that it would be staring at her story if it had eyes.

“It's yours, if you want it. It won't hurt, and you'll be well-taken care of.”

Its head looked up at her, then back at the gift. It stood up on the tip of its tiny feet and reached out with both hands, grasping Niala's tale.

The mana being looked it over, turning it around, over and under, then nodded and squeezed it against its body.

A billion stars exploded within the small being, their energies flowing back and forth into new balls of light which collapsed and fed others. The chain reaction coalesced into a single survivor which grew, and grew, and-

Niala closed her eyes and focused on the object her physical body was holding in its hands. It was a wild guess, but if it was correct...

She strained her consciousness, pulling it taut, reaching for both ends at the same time. Her concentration wavered, bending, wobbling. She pulled further, just a little more. Just... a tiny... bit... farther!

The extremities connected. She let go. The link snapped back. The space between the forming falcodrake and the Mana core in her hands disappeared. The liminal space collapsed. David and Niala fell through nothing and landed on a rock.

She fought back the dizziness as her vision swam. A rough, solid hand was there, on her shoulder, steadying her. She turned her eyes and saw Jordo, his singular eye flashing concern.

Her voice was tired. “It's alright, Jordo, thanks,” she managed to say with a smile. A smile that grew as she looked down at the mana core in her hands. Its colour had changed, blue mixed with violet; indigo, still with a constellation held within, but at its centre, a singular light stood above all others.

A few seconds later, David stirred and leaned forward, slumping against her back. She held up until he found his senses.

He looked at the bright light that Niala was holding up. “Did it work?”

“We'll find out. Can you stand straight?”

“Hmm-hmm. I just like leaning against you. It's usually the inverse.”

She blinked, then blushed. “Trumpet! You can just- you can just tell me that! I really don't mind being the big spoon!”

He smiled and pulled his arms away, releasing Niala, who slid off the boulder and to her feet.

She took a few steps and looked at the infused mana core once more, reaching out to it by feel and instinct. Something within stirred, and she locked onto it.

It felt... warm, ready, but also somewhat incomplete. She knew what was missing, though. “David, we need a name.”

He scratched his chin. “A name... It's going to be a gift to a friend, right?”

She nodded.

“A loyal companion, always ready to help come high and low.” He added.

“Yes! A proud guardian, something that will be at their side!” She said, ears aimed his way.

They smiled and opened their mouth to speak at the same time.

“Buddy,” David said.

“Va-” She blinked. “B-Buddy?! It's not a dog!”

“I know, but it's still a good name. Buddy the falcodrake.”

“Nooo! It's-” She stopped as the core in her hand flashed and grew warm. With a resigned whine, she put it down on the ground and stepped back.

The magical sphere turned a solid, bright indigo, nearly to white. The light flowed upward and into the form of a four-legged, winged beast. Details resolved: scales, overlaid with thick feathers. A pair of large wings unfolded, and its beaked reptilian head shot up as it let out a rumbling screech.

The creature's glow faded, and an arcanae recreation of a falcrodrake stood before them, its body coloured from blues to violet. Its indigo eyes, bright with intelligence, stared down at them from its head two metres up.

David and Niala stood frozen for a moment, letting the sight before them register properly. She took a hesitant step forward, catching the falcodrake's focus. When it remained still, she came closer, hand forward, until she touched its body.

A light tingle greeted her fingertips before a soothing cool spread over her skin. Its body felt real, even alive. It would have been easy to mistake it for the real thing if it hadn't been for its glittering colours.

She looked up, finding its eyes waiting for her. “Hey... Buddy. Are you feeling ok?”

It lowered its beak and gently rubbed it against her cheek before pulling back and crouching down, folding its wings in and revealing an indigo saddle. She blinked as she spotted it.

Right, I did include the concept that it was a flying mount... a saddle makes sense. Well, since it's inviting me!

She looked back at David. “You, huh, want to go first?”

He smiled back. “No, go ahead, your tail is spinning.”

It wasn't! It was just... wagging energetically. She didn't bother arguing; no time for it.

Even crouched, Buddy's back was still over a metre from the ground. She hopped up and spun herself into the saddle, slipping her feet into the stirrups, and grabbing onto the handholds. She patted Buddy's massive neck. “Good to go. Take it easy, ok? It's just a tesssssssss-!”

She didn't get to finish her sentence as the arcane falcodrake flung itself forward, bounded once as it spread its wing and took flight in one powerful stroke.

David watched the scintillating beast carry his wife up into the late evening sky. A few seconds into the ride, he heard her whoop, holler, and laugh.

Buddy danced through the air, spinning, turning, diving and ascending with the grace of a career ballerina. Nobody would have believed it was a few minutes old.

But then, it wasn't really a living being.

The “test flight” lasted close to a quarter bell before the riding pair flew back down, the imposing beast landing a few meters away from David. A red-faced Niala with a face-splitting grin stepped off and tumbled forward into his arms.

He looked down at his giggling wife. “Looks like you had fun.”

She looked up. “David! You have no idea! It's amazing!”

“More than flying by yourself?”

“Yes! Buddy's in control! You don't know exactly when he's going to spin or bank!” She explained, ears straight.

He glanced at the Falcodrake, who was looking their way, waiting.

From this close, it was even more impressive. Its fanged beak was big enough to chomp right through a man's head, and the large talons at the end of its powerful legs were about the size of his hand.

Wild falcodrakes mostly lived in remote areas, at high elevation, and completely dominated whichever territory they laid claim to. Having seen what a replica looked like, David had no trouble believing what he'd read about them.

After Jodo congratulated them for their new, unprecedented creation, they spent some time working out Buddy's specifics, such as how to “retrieve” the core, and how to let the creature back out.

It turned out to be nothing complex: simply calling his name, or even just holding the core and thinking about it hard enough, brought him out. Once manifested, you outright asked him to go to sleep, and his form collapsed back into light and into the core.

It hit them on their way back, racing ahead of the setting sun, that they had created what was essentially artificial life. Marshalla was going to go wild when they introduced her to Buddy.

David couldn't wait.