“I haven't had anyone react to me like this in a while.” Apple purred, and Jamie blushed. “I've got nurse, librarian, police officer, school teacher, and school girl outfits on me.” She said. “What would you like to see?”

Jamie's eyes were wide, and she couldn't decide. “Wh-what w-were the c-choices again?”

“Nurse.” Tommy said, and Apple held a hand up in a stop motion.

“Quiet.” Apple said, sternly. “This is her dance.” She said. “No touching from you, or you, or you or you.” She said and pointed to each of the guys, then looked at Clint's date. “As long as it's in full sight of the one I'm dancing for, you can touch me as much as you want.”

“I can?” Clint's date asked, surprised.

“Uh huh.” Apple said and looked at Tommy's girlfriend. “I think someone is curious, and I want her to enjoy this as much as possible.”

“S-school t-teacher.” Jamie said, and Apple smiled.

“Good choice.” Apple said. “Give me a second.” She stepped out of the curtain, and a moment later, she stepped back through the curtain. She was 3 inches taller, had her reddish-blonde hair done up in a fancy hairdo, and wore a black business suit and a white blouse. She also wore glasses and a kind of stern expression.

“Well, young woman.” Teacher Apple said. “Have you finished your homework?”

“I...” Jamie tried to speak, but the woman's transformation was too distracting.

“It's a simple yes or no answer.” Teacher Apple said. “Don't tell me your dog ate it again.”

Jamie smiled at the old excuse. “I don't have a dog.” She said. “I did my homework.”

“That's so good to hear.” Teacher Apple said and started to sway her hips as low music came from above the booth. “I like students that complete their work on time.” She said, and pulled out the pin holding her hair in place and shook it out to make it flow over her shoulders. Jamie took in a sharp breath at how beautiful Apple became in that moment, and Apple smiled wickedly. “Now it's time for such a good student to receive her reward.”

The guys couldn't help themselves and stared at Apple as she did her special routine for Tommy's real life girlfriend, and at certain times, Clint's date reached out and touched her shoulder, or her arm, or her hip. During one of the dance moves, Apple carefully took the hand touching her, and pressed it against her breast instead. Jamie reacted to the sight and her hand jerked up, and Apple let the other woman's hand go and picked up Jamie's hand and put it on her other breast.

“Mmm.” Apple moaned. “Such good students.” She said and kept doing her routine. Both Tommy's real life girlfriend and Clint's date became bolder in their touches, and Apple used those opportunities to increase the intensity of her act and their participation. When Apple was finished and had removed all of her clothing, she was breathing heavily; of course, so was Tommy's girlfriend Jamie and Clint's date.

Clint, Hank, Tommy, and Dillon were flabbergasted about what had happened, since they didn't realize that other girls could get off from having a lap dance from another woman.

“Th-that... that was...” Jamie took a handful of silver coins out of her coin pouch. “You deserve this.” She said. “It's all I have.”

Apple chuckled and closed Jamie's hand over the money, and leaned in close to whisper in her ear. A moment later Apple stood up and equipped her fur bikini, then left through the curtain.

“Boy that was intense.” Hank said.

“I really need to use the bathroom.” Tommy's real life girlfriend said and stood up, then took the hand of Clint's date. “Come with me and give me a hand.”

“Um, sure.” Clint's date said and the two women left through the curtain.

“Isn't that always the way, man?” Tommy laughed. “Girls can never go to the bathroom alone.”

The other guys laughed, and it never crossed their minds that there were no actual toilets in the game.

“While we're waiting for them to come back, maybe we can get Jasmine to come over.” Tommy said and stood up to pull the curtain back. “She's always fun.”

“Go an' git her, then.” Clint said.

“Be right back.” Tommy said and left the private booth to look for his favorite dancer.
