She wasn’t quite sure what she’d been expecting from something called an “evolution.” An upgrade, certainly, and possibly a shift in her appearance. When she focused her eyes on herself, though, she found that not much had really changed. She still looked like a blob of flesh, though the flesh itself did feel both stronger and firmer than before. Easier to morph and manipulate. She stretched part of her body out like an arm and raised it over her, then reabsorbed one of her eyes and regrew it at the end of the pseudo limb. Like that, she was able to get a clear view of herself.

She hadn’t been wrong. Her body still looked similar to before, though on closer inspection, she looked a little less grey now. She moved the eye closer and realized that on top of the flesh, she now had what appeared to be actual skin.

That wasn’t the only change. Around the top of her body, two curling silver horns jutted out from her “head,” gleaming in the faint light of the chamber. They were asymmetrical, one of them curling upwards much like Fred’s while the other split like a branch, one end pointing to the sky while the other twisted down like a ram’s horns.

She moved around, and the horns stayed put. When she focused, she found she could adjust their shapes, could make them grow larger or smaller or even reabsorb them entirely. Their original appearance, though, felt the most “natural.” The easiest to maintain.

This, she suspected, was that [Keratin] trait she’d gotten. If her past life’s knowledge was to be believed, that should allow her to form skin, horns, nails, and hair. The name, though, seemed awfully specific to her past world. Maybe the system changed the names of skills and traits to better match your personal well of knowledge or something. That would also explain [Ossification]’s name. If she wasn’t a reincarnator, maybe [Keratin] would’ve been called [Grow Extra Shit] or something like that.

Either way, she doubted these traits and subtraits were an exact science. She didn’t have any trait for muscles, for example, but had been getting along just fine. She shrugged. She didn’t feel like analyzing the system’s trait definitions right now. It wouldn’t really affect anything, and it didn’t seem worth the effort to agonize over it.

As a test, Pyre attempted to grow some hair. She pictured a few strands sprouting from in between the horns, but nothing happened. She frowned and pulled up the description of [Keratin].

Trait: KeratinAllows user to form structures primarily composed of keratin.Subtraits (2/4): Horns, Skin

The description was far from the most detailed thing in the world, but Pyre was more interested in the fact that it already had two subtraits. Very nice of the system, she thought. She was willing to bet she’d need to get subtrait shards for growing hair and nails and whatever else was made of this stuff.

While she was looking at traits, she glanced at the description for [Vocalization] as well, which was pretty much what she’d expected. It let her actually talk out loud, though unlike the [Voice Projection] trait option she’d received earlier, this one specified that the voice had to originate from one of her mouths. It also had four subtrait slots, but unlike [Keratin], none of them were filled.

“Hey, Fred,” Pyre said to the giant corpse, and sure enough, a new voice filled the massive chamber. It was low and slightly rough, with a faint rumble to it, but it felt right to her. Yep, that was what she sounded like. That was her voice.

Her mouths curled up in smiles. There was something satisfying about talking out loud. She now understood why some people couldn’t shut the fuck up, but in her case, she had the actual excuse of not being able to talk for however long it had taken her to crawl out of the pit. Aka Fred’s stomach.

She did a little more experimenting, finding she could make her voice originate from either of her two mouths or from both at once for an extra-trippy effect. Once her curiosity was satisfied, she directed her attention back to her recent evolution. Pyre pulled up the description for her new title, but it didn’t give any stat bonuses. It was pretty generic, all things considered, but she supposed it was a nice achievement to have.

She tested out a few of her older abilities, growing some bones, absorbing then regrowing eyes and mouths. Everything felt a little easier, a little stronger than before. She felt pretty damn great, if she did say so herself. Pyre wondered what she could do now with [Flesh Sculpting], but the skill was still on cooldown. She’d have to test that one out later.

For now, she focused on her stat points, which still needed to be distributed. All 108 of them. Not too shabby, if she did say so herself.

The first thing she did was increase each stat by 10. That still left her with 58 points to work with, and it ensured she didn’t neglect anything. Wouldn’t want her stats to get too lopsided. Waves of warmth flowed through her as her body adjusted to the increases in stats. She grew larger again, but not by quite as much as she would’ve expected for a 10 point increase to constitution. It looked like there was some sort of size limit in place, which was probably a good thing, all things considered.

Pyre stared at her remaining points. Fuck it. She threw 28 into constitution, bringing it all the way up to a nice round 100. And yep, there was definitely some kind of cap that slowed the effects of constitution. She still grew bigger, though, and her flesh felt a whole lot tougher than before.

With the last 30 points, Pyre decided to put 15 in strength and 15 in magic resistance. Now that she’d chosen the sloth subspecies, she was fully committed to a more defensive fighting style. If she ever felt like her agility or intelligence were lagging behind too much, she’d bring them up, but so far she hadn’t had too much issue. She didn’t know what the “average” stat should be at her level, but she figured she was probably pretty far ahead of the curve, considering all those bonus points she’d gotten from her starter quest.

Points distributed, Pyre pulled up her full stat sheet just to give it another look now that she’d evolved.

Name: Pyre [Tier 1]Species: [Lesser Fiend (Sloth), Lvl 10]Class: NoneTitles: Reincarnator, Amnesia, Above-Average Sentience, Cold Blooded, First EvolutionStatsStrength: 75Agility: 45Constitution: 100Magic Resistance: 66Intelligence: 38Points: 0Traits: [Amorphous 3], [Flesh Eater 4], [Scent 3], [Eye Growth 2], [Ossification 2], [Sound Perception 2], [Keratin 1], [Vocalization 1]Skills [2/5]: [Basic Flesh Sculpting 1], [Basic Impact Absorption 1]Subtrait Shards: [Thermal Vision 1/3], [Species Scent 1/4], [Ligaments 1/6], [Skeleton 1/8]

Class, she noted, now simply said “None” instead of “Locked.” It sounded like she’d need to get a class to level 20 to complete the requirements for her second evolution, but the system hadn’t said a thing about how she was actually supposed to get a class in the first place.

She tried focusing on the text, tried imagining a selection screen appearing, but nothing showed up. Something else she’d need to figure out, along with what an “evolution crystal” was.

To do that, though, first thing was first. Pyre closed her stat screen and shifted, drawing in her pseudo arm and peering around the wide-open chamber. Nothing had changed since her evolution. It was still dull and lifeless, with only Fred’s massive corpse to keep her company. Up above, the light continued to beam down through the single gap in the ceiling. Pyre’s eyes narrowed.

First, she needed to figure out how to get out of here.
