Erin sighed and stood up. She walked over to her jars and heard a gasp. She whirled around and saw a small shape stand up and dart towards the alleyway entrance.
“Hey! You! Don’t move or I’ll shoot! I mean, throw!”
Grev froze mid-step, and Erin lowered the glass jar in her hands. She stared at the young boy.
“You! Hey, come here you little jerk!”
Slowly, the young boy turned and walked towards Erin. His face was nearly white and he was trembling.
“I didn’t mean to do it! They forced me to, I swear! They were gonna kill my sister if I didn’t, miss!”
“What? That’s so ter—why were they giving you money, then?”
Erin frowned at Grev. He turned a shade whiter.
“I—I—please don’t kill me!”
The young woman thought about everything for a second. She considered the day she’d had—most of which she’d slept through, Toren’s betrayal, her entrance to the city and near-death or horrible mugging and worse experience and Grev’s part in all of it. She nodded to herself and clenched her fist.
“Take this!”
Grev screamed. Erin punched him on the head, hard, but without using her full strength. He yelped, and tried to scramble away. Erin caught him by his dirty shirt and he screamed in fear as he tried to shield his face.
“Please—”
“I’m not going to hurt you any more.”
Grev’s face instantly brightened.
“You’re not?”
Erin tried to make her face scary. She stared at Grev, trying to look menacing.
“I won’t if you do something for me.”
“W-what?”
Erin pointed to the unconscious muggers. One of them was groaning, and she wondered if she should kick them or sit on them or something. At the very least she should pick up all the weapons they’d dropped.
“You’re going to get me the Watch, and I’m going to sit here.”
Grev nodded eagerly. Erin almost let him go, but she had a thought. He was probably just going to run away, wasn’t he? She looked at the jars on the ground and had an idea. Grev’s white face turned even most ghost-like as she lifted one of the dead bees and showed him it.
“You’re going to get the Watch, understand? If you don’t, I’m going to take this bee and shove it—”
Erin hesitated. She eyed the horrible dead bug and Grev’s pale face.
“—Somewhere horrible! Go! Run!”
He ran as if the bees were chasing him. Erin stared down at the bee. Now that she thought about it, they were really useful. Then one of the bees tried to crawl out of the jar and Erin slammed the lid shut, cutting off two of its legs.
“Oops. Sorry!”
 
—-
 
Fuzzylips looked like he was trying to tug his budding mustache off his face. He had an incredulous look on his face that Erin was unfairly beginning to associate with his character in general. It seemed to pop up any time she explained something.
“So, you took down three muggers – one of whom was a former Bronze-rank Adventurer – with your bare hands.”
Erin nodded. She watched with interest as the squad of guardsmen forced the groaning men up and subdued any protest with brisk, efficient blows to soft spots.
“But you don’t have any combat classes except ah, two levels in [Warrior].”
Grev was shaking in the street. One of the guardswomen had an eye on him, and he looked afraid as he stared at Erin. What were they going to do with him? She nodded vaguely.
“I’ve got some Skills, though.”
“I see. And you beat them all without any injuries?”
“Well, I had a few but the healing potion cleared them up.”
Fuzzylips cleared his throat again.
“I see. Well ah, Miss Solstice—”
“Call me Erin!”
She beamed at him. Fuzzylips turned a bit red.
“Um—Erin. Well, I’m sorry you had to meet the worst folk in our city so soon. But you’ve done everyone a service, taking these men down. I’d like to present you with their gear, although we will of course be confiscating their weapons and armor. But I can give you some coin and the items they had on them.”
He offered Erin a small pouch he’d added two silver coins and four copper ones to, and three bottles of what Erin assumed were healing potions. She eyed them, confused.
“So you’re giving me their stuff? Because I beat them up?”
Fuzzylips nodded. Erin thought about that.
“Okay.”
“Well then, we’ll let you be on your way. I believe I will escort you to the [Alchemist] myself, in case of other…attacks. As for you—”
He turned and Grev made a run for it. He got two steps before the woman in armor grabbed him and roughly dragged him back. His face was a mask of terror.
“We’ll see if your folks can pay the fine for your crimes. If not, it’ll be lashes, boy.”
“What?”
Erin spoke up as Grev went white and began to cry. Fuzzylips looked at her.
“Pardon, Miss Erin, but it’s the only way to deal with his kind.”
“I already hit him. Isn’t that enough punishment?”
She felt guilty saying that, but Fuzzylips hesitated.
“He deserves a whipping, Miss. There’s no telling how many folks he caused to get murdered or robbed.”
“Right. Well…um…well, what if I said I forgave him?”
Both guardspeople looked at Erin. She was staring at Grev. He was looking at her as if she was his last hope. He squeezed his eyes and more tears fell. She wasn’t sure if he had really learned his lesson, but she didn’t want him to be lashed.
“If you want to drop charges…”
Fuzzylips muttered with his companion and turned back to Erin.
“Are you sure? He’s just as guilty as those other men, mark my words.”
“Well, if he does it again I’ll shove a b—I won’t forgive him. How’s that?”
Erin crossed her arms and tried to look imposing. Fuzzylips and the guardswoman looked skeptical, but he nodded at last.
“Well, boy, looks like you’re getting off easy thanks to Miss Erin.”
Grev looked relieved, but he went pale again as Fuzzylips put his hand on his sword.
“Mark me, though. I know your face, and if we catch wind you’re thieving or committing any more crimes—it won’t be lashes next time. We’ll cast you out of the city. Understand?”
The boy’s face went pale again. He stuttered.
“Y-yes.”
“Then beat it.”
Grev fled, staring back once at Erin. She watched him go, and felt like she should wave. He was a bad kid, but he was still just a kid. Who’d tried to get her killed, true.
After a moment, Fuzzylips cleared his throat.
“Who might you be wanting to see, Miss Erin? I know three reputable [Alchemists] in the city—do you have a preference or name?”
Erin scratched her head.
“Uh, how about the one who’s most likely to buy a jar of bees? I mean, do they even need bees?”
“The stitch-girl might.”
The guardswoman muttered to Fuzzylips, and he made a face.
“That’s true. That loon’ll buy—you want Octavia, Mi—Erin.”
“Cool. Do you know the way?”
“I’ll take you there. It’s only a few minutes’ walk.”
“Really? Thank you!”
Erin began to walk with the man, and then she paused and turned back to the other guardsmen. She smiled at them, deliberately ignoring the way they were kicking the guy with the sword in the stomach.
“Thanks for all the help!”
The guardspeople looked up, surprised, and the man on the ground spat out some blood and said a word that was muffled as he received another kick. Everyone watched as Erin walked off with the guardsman. Then the members of the Celum’s City Watch gathered together for some discussion as the three muggers were hauled off.
“An [Innkeeper] took down three men in an ambush? Are you sure that’s what she said?”
“Positive. And she’s from Liscor? If that’s what the [Innkeepers] are like there, what kind of crime do they have in Drake cities?”
“The Wandering Inn? I still don’t get the joke.”
 
—-
 
It was a pleasant walk, not being mugged or horribly attacked while Fuzzylips led her down the city streets. They even made better time; the [Guardsman] wasn’t afraid to shout to make people move aside, and by the time they got to the small street with the boarded-up windows, they’d had quite a nice chat.
“So you guys have never been to Liscor? Really?”
Fuzzylips coughed as he stopped in front of the shop. Erin looked up and read the sign.
Stitchworks. Potions, tonics, herbs.
That was a cool name, Erin decided. She didn’t know how it applied to [Alchemy], but maybe alchemists made magical string? She’d have to ask.
The man next to her coughed, and Erin looked over and listened attentively. He was quite a nice guy once you got to know him, even if he was terrified of bugs and okay with hitting kids.
“I’m not much of a traveler, to tell the truth. And even merchants rarely go that far south. It’s not profitable, dealing with non-humans. I suppose ten years back we did more business, but that was before the Second Antinium War with the Necromancer and they opened their gates to those bugs.”
He shuddered. Fuzzylips—whose name was actually Wesle—had a deep hatred towards the Antinium shared by most humans. She made no comment, but smiled again as she looked at the [Alchemist]’s shop. Some horrible odor was wafting from the inside.
“Well, thanks for taking me here Fuzz—Wesle.”
He turned red again and furiously stroked his mustache.
“It was my pleasure, Miss Erin. And if you ever need help, I’m sure I’d be happy to help.”
Erin nodded and smiled again before she pushed open the door to the shop. She cautiously walked into the dark room, expecting a mad scientist’s laboratory.
She was not disappointed. There was a bit more utility and a bit less insanity in some of the glass devices sitting on counters – Ryoka would have recognized medieval versions of Bunsen burners and test tubes – but the glowing liquids on shelves, ingredients hanging from hooks and general dim lighting offset only by the magical glow of potions still made Erin want to pee a bit. With nerve and excitement.
The only thing missing was this ‘Octavia’, who Fuzzylips didn’t seem to like that much. He’d called her a skinflint and insane, which seemed harsh.
“Hello? Is anyone here?”
Erin cautiously stepped into the shop. It was eerily quiet. Where was the shopkeeper, the alchemist? Was she out? If so, why was the door unl—
A dark brown face and a braided ponytail appeared in Erin’s plane of vision. Octavia popped up from the counter holding a piece of plant matter in her hands. To Erin, it looked as if the girl had appeared out of nowhere.
“Welcome to Stitchworks!”
Erin screamed.
“Gyaaaaaaa—”
“Are those Ashfire Bees?”
Erin blinked and cut off mid-scream as the jar full of bees was lifted out of her hands. Octavia held up the jar, breathing on the glass and wiping it clean.
“Let’s see…soldier bees, and worker bees…all intact as well! And alive? How did you get—no, I can make use of these—”
Erin blinked a few times at the dark-skinned girl. Her mind was still playing catch-up trying to interpret what Octavia had just said. The other girl was speaking really fast.
“You said they’re Ashfire Bees? Why do people call them that?”
Octavia bustled around Erin and placed the jar on a big scale. She kept speaking as she did, and as Erin stared at her back and the shock of meeting her wore off, she noticed Octavia’s odd stitch-marks around each shoulder and her neck, accentuated by her sleeveless shirt.
“Hmm…let’s see. That’s not a bad quantity at all. And they’re large bees, too; intact. Yes, I can give you a great deal. Let’s say I give you five gold coins for the jar, and I’ll toss in two of my custom-made stamina potions. It’s a great deal and I’ll throw in a 15% discount on any purchases you make. What do you say? Plus, I can give you a great deal on the honey!”
Erin blinked at her. She raised a hand.
“Um. I don’t need potions.”
“Are you sure? If you’re not into stamina potions, why not a healing potion? Everyone needs a healing potion, even if you’ve got the safest job in the world. I tell you what—I’ve got some low-strength potions right here, perfect the occasional scrape or bruise. I’ll trade them to you—let’s say half-weight of this jar? You’ll make back the market value of your bees or even double or triple the worth with a little bit of legwork in the market, easy.”
Erin hesitated again. Part of her wanted to say ‘yes’, but she wasn’t even really sure what she’d been offered.
“That does sound good. But no thanks. Why are they called Ashfire Bees?”
“A tough customer, huh?”
Octavia didn’t seem to be fully engaging with Erin. She spoke even faster as she pulled some potions off the shelves.
“I’m not fully liquid in terms of finance, but how about some of my latest inventions? I call these pepper potions. A few drops in the eye and your enemies will go blind. They’re going to be a bestseller I can tell, and I’ll give you to them practically for free—I was using them to fill another order, but I can make more and for you I’ll add that to some mana and stamina potions—a full set. Even if you don’t need them, they’ll be worth a fortune, what do you say?”
“Y—”
Erin bit her tongue. She wanted those potions now. She could sell them at her inn! But right now, she needed money more badly. She cleared her throat awkwardly.
“I don’t really exercise. And I don’t fight, so uh. The bees? Why are they called that?”
“Bees?”
For the first time Octavia paused, she looked oddly at Erin.
“What about them? Do you want to do a trade? I’ll take a few specimens off your hands if you’re willing to trade. Or—”
Erin raised her voice and cut the other young woman off.
“The Ashfire Bees. Why are they called that?”
Again, Octavia blinked at Erin. Then she slapped her forehead.
“Bees! Of course. Well, the Ashfire Bees—lovely quality and perfectly undamaged except for those two, by the way, you must tell me what adventurer harvested them—are known for their ability to withstand heat, and the way they can even start fires when they gather together. Not so much in the winter, but when spring comes, watch out! They’ve burned down forests and they’re quite dangerous which makes them big targets for adventurers. Consequently I rarely see so many in one place, but as I’ve said I’m willing to make any trade you w—”
“Does their honey have any special effects?”
“Their honey?”
Octavia’s eyes widened as she saw the full jar Erin pulled out of her bag. It was gone before Erin could blink.
“Ashfire Bee honey? Well, it’s not the best of reagents, but I can see it acting as a potent base although of course it’s not confirmed since there’s really no reason to use that when it’s such an expensive—I suppose I could make you a good deal right here without you having to find a merchant. Name your price and I’ll make sure you get the best deal right here. In fact, let me find you a seat.”
