Mog breathed in, then huffed out. “If you can use your [Familiar]s to assist in clearing the list… If you can prove that you won’t go actually fight them. Then I can give you a copy.” She added, “These are uncommonly terrible monsters, you understand. They will kill you, most of them by just being near.”

“We will abide by your ruling.” Ramizi smiled, then schooled his face. He said, “Thank you.”

Maia spoke up, “Our [Familiar]s have run into the Toxic Hydra twice. We have tried to kill it once, but we were completely unsuccessful. We won’t be trying that again. Our voluntary report of that monster should be part of the packet you got, Archmage.”

Erick looked to Mog.

Mog said, “One of five, but still true.”

Maia spoke to everyone, saying, “So you see? We come to you when we know you will help. But in this specific case, with Messalina, the Headmaster forbade us from disclosing the full amount of our knowledge, but since the dragon is out of the cave: The Headmaster would like you to know that your reluctance to do what needs to be done has been noted.”

Silverite glared, saying, “You still should have come to us.”

Erick just looked around for a golden [Scry] orb, or whatever.

Maia saw Erick looking, and said, “He’s already [Cleanse]d himself of this situation." She looked to Silverite, saying, "The extent of his words just now are the last he will to do with any of you, regarding Messalina.”

“Good.” Silverite said, “He still should have told us.”

“Why?” Maia asked. “You’ve said yourself that you won’t do anything against her.”

“There’s nothing to be done, Mage Rokva.” Silverite said, “She is outside of Spur. She has not attacked the city. She is somewhere only Rozeta knows, and we are not imperialists! I have enough problems already. Chasing after the Headmaster’s vendetta is what you signed up for; not me, and certainly not Spur.”

Eduard said, “The Headmaster has no doubts that Messalina will escalate her monster creation if she cannot find the Cinnabar Hand and track down the people who killed her village.”

Silverite said, “If we find any members of the Cinnabar Hand in Spur, using conventional methods, we will execute them, then dump their corpses on the sands to the north in a suitably noticeable way. Messalina will take these corpses as gifts, and as an incentive to leave. If she does not, we might be having a very different conversation in a few weeks.” She added, “But I doubt we will find the Cinnabar Hand in Spur, anyway.” Silverite stood, saying, “I can tell you still have objections, but I have no time for them. We’re done here. Good luck on your hunt.” She added, “Please be on your way.”

Eduard stood up, starting, “Messalin—”

“Good night, Mage Rokva,” Silverite said.

Eduard went silent. He nodded. Ramizi and Maia stood up. Eduard led the way, as the other two followed him out of the Courthouse meeting room.

Ramizi turned at the door, looking at Erick, to say, “We’ll look for the Toxic Hydra. We have a rough idea of where it is, so it shouldn’t take us more than an hour to find it. We’ll come over when we have its location.”

Erick said, “Sounds good to me.”

- - - -

Everyone cleared out of the room, back to their own duties or lives, except for Zago, Erick, and Poi. Silverite was the last one of the others to leave. When she left the room, she looked to Erick and Zago, saying nothing, as she closed the door behind her.

Zago sat in her chair, with her hair pulled back in braids, and small gold rings on her small upturned horns. Her dress robe was almost white it was such a faint purple; much lighter than her violet skin. She did not look angry. She looked curious. And then she noticed Erick trying to figure her out.

With a small smile, Zago said, “I’m glad you made it back safely. I am not… mad, at you, for killing a Breach Demon. Is that what you think?”

Erick said, “With all due respect, I honestly don’t know.”

Zago lost her smile, as she nodded. “The Quiet War is messy and complicated. It’s hard to know what anyone on the other side is thinking.” She sighed. “But the incani of Spur are happy that a Breach Demon was not summoned. All out war has been avoided. Maybe there won’t be a retaliatory Converter Angel loosed in the lands of our extended families. But praying for that is like planning for rain in the Crystal Forest; a fool’s endeavor.” Zago added, “Though. Perhaps. Maybe Koyabez’s priests will see this one coming, too, and put blocks on the release of that inevitable tragedy, too.”

Erick listened; he heard what Zago was saying.

He answered her directly, “If it happens, I will… if I am able to help, I will.”

Zago sat with poise, a tiny smile on her lips, but a sadness in her eyes. “I’m sure I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

Erick nodded. He changed the subject. “So I was thinking of taking some formal magic classes.”

Zago flinched. She said, “Maybe… Coming to the Guildhouse… right now? This might be premature. I know I said that we’re happy that war will not come. But happy with that, and with you, are two different things.” She added, “I’m… Sorry. Erick. I just don’t want my young ones to be consumed with the fact that there is an archmage in their presence. At least not right now. In a month things should have settled.”

Erick smiled sadly, saying, “That’s okay. The Headmaster offered me classes once. I had considered to ask him, too. But with this new development… Did you know about Messalina?”

“I did not know she was here. It’s slightly terrifying, truthfully. She’s in several old stories.” Zago spoke with false reverence, “Messalina the Life Binder, the greatest necromancer of Nergal. Half of the greater monsters running around that jungle are attributed to her, though the actual number is likely much less. Flare Snakes were her creation. The original hydra was not, though she added dozens of varieties, and I think we can safely say, now, that the Toxic Hydra is her creation.” She added, “And if you can kill this toxic hydra, there are many more of those monsters that prowl the Kingdoms, that need to die. The Kingdoms would pay handsomely for this service, too.”

“Maybe.” Erick looked to the dark window, and the night sky outside, saying, “I won’t go there until I can defend myself, though. This hunter attack...”

“Yes. It looked quite bad.” Zago breathed, then looked away, then looked to Erick, saying, “You should go to Oceanside. The Headmaster will try to maneuver something out of you for your ‘temerity’, tonight. He doesn’t like being told ‘no’.” She smiled softly, adding, “But you did threaten to recreate a [Gate] network in this modern era. So maybe he’ll just want you to get going on that.”

Erick winced. “How big of a splash did that make?”

“Very large, and very wide. Anhelia has been thoroughly occupied as of late.” Zago chuckled. “Barely at her desk!” She said, “Though, if you do decide to go forward with this idea, you simply must get some proper help. Which, again, brings us to proper arcanaeum training. I am glad you are seeking this out. Your methods of spellwork are greatly successful, but there is much you simply cannot know, and cannot prepare against; at least as you are, right now.”

Erick nodded, then altered the subject. “Did Sizzi make her [Familiar], yet?”

Zago’s eyes lit up. “Yes!” She laughed. “She didn’t tell you? Oh that poor child. She must have lost her nerve.”

Erick smiled, asking, “She made one she likes? That’s great!”

Zago waved her hand through the air. “It took her a few days, but what are days of rapid progression compared to years of stagnation? She made this whole big production of it, too. A stone stage out in the Crystal Forest, carved in imagery and light. She got Anhelia to play the harp while I tapped away at a drums. I’m not very good at music, but all I had to do was keep a beat. When everything was set, we went out there at noon, and she sang at the sun.” Zago grinned, saying, “[Telepathy], [Scry], [Lightshape], and [Conjure Force Elemental]. [Summon Rokkel]. It’s a three meter tall fractal crash of light, and also a tiny bunny. Perfect [Familiar].” Zago said, “Thank you, Erick. Sizzi is thrilled.”

Erick smiled wide, saying, “I’m glad it worked.”

“I’m going to have to tease her about being unable to tell you, though.”

Erick laughed.
