“That is my feeling as well.” Silverite turned to Erick, adding, “But if you wish to help this Flare Couatl, then make your case, Erick.”

Jane turned to Silverite, saying, “What!”

“Erick.” Silverite said, “Your thoughts?”

Erick breathed in the twilight air. It was clean, and bright, now that the wyrms had been burned away. The moons hung in the sky, crescents on the horizon, as stars began to appear in the deeper purples of the eastern heavens. A cold wind blew from the north, like always.

He said, “I think we should reconvene with Ramizi, Maia, and Eduard, then continue this conversation.”

Silverite pursed her lips, then said, “Fair enough. But you and I are going to have a private conversation before all of that.”

- - - -

The journey back to Spur took minutes, once Erick got his Opheils on everyone and secured the loot.

Blip. Blip. Blip. Then one more, semi-complicated blip, for 9 people to split into two groups. Jane, Kiri, Rats, Teressa, and the loot, went home. Silverite, Hera, Felair, Poi, and Erick, blipped onto the steps of the Courthouse.

In a few more minutes, Erick stood alone in Silverite’s office, with the door shut.

Silverite leaned against the front of her desk. Erick waited for her to begin whatever it was she was doing.

She started, “I’m gonna be honest with you. We have approved necromancers in Spur. They’re not that bad of a people, when they employ their abilities correctly. In public, I say that I kill necromancers, because I do. Often and with extreme violence. But only because necromancers usually seek to conquer and enslave. I think I even know the necromancer that they’re looking for, now that I’ve seen that Flare Couatl up close. But this is not about her. It’s not about them. It’s about you.” Silverite asked, “Are you looking to become a necromancer?”

Erick stood there, and with complete honesty, said, “No. I am not. But the Flare Couatl is not an evil being that deserves to be put down. It’s not even a monster that deserves to be pitied! I don’t understand how any of you can talk like it needs to die. It is a good being, doing good work, saving people from murderers.”

Silverite looked at Erick. She said, “In this instance, with this necromancer, Poi was wrong about the Flare Couatl turning monstrous. That beast will stay out there, hunting hunters, killing killers, until the necromancer finds the Cinnabar Hand they are looking for.” She added, “If this is the necromancer I’m thinking of.”

She continued, “If I were you, I would kill the Toxic Hydra, ignore the necromancer’s request for a [Scan] spell to root out the Cinnabar Hand, and train every single day, using every tool at my disposal, to get better.” Silverite stressed, “Because the only time that Flare Couatl broke its normal speech, was when you spoke to it. And then it handed you a task. Make no mistake, Erick, this not-monster is undoubtedly still connected to its master, and this [Scan] spell is not a high priority for her. At least for right now. This does not mean that her request will remain a low priority.”

Erick listened, and he heard what Silverite was laying out. He understood what she was saying to him, deep down, but this understanding did not bring him comfort. It brought him pain. Because it meant—

Silverite said, “You are weak, Erick.”

Yup. He was. There was no arguing against that point.

Silverite said, “I say this with kindness, but I say it again: you are weak for your position. A real archmage would have killed those hunters the second they decided to attack.” She stressed, “Decided to attack, mind you. A real archmage would have seen those hunters plotting and positioning, throughout the entire day. Poi is about the best detector a non-archmage is capable of being. If it weren’t for him, you would have all died.”

Silence filled the room, weighing entirely on Erick.

Silverite said, “Leave this necromancer work to the professionals. Learn how to see the assassins and the hunters and the dangers coming. There’s magic for all of that, out there. And you seem to be pretty good at that sort of thing. So get better.”

Erick frowned, but there was a heavy truth to Silverite’s words. He could still imagine where his ear had been burned away. Erick steeled himself, and said, “You’re right.”

“I know.” Silverite said, “And it’s awful that I am.”

- - - -

Erick, Mog, Zago and Silverite, sat on one side of a long, heavy wood table, in a conference room of the Courthouse. Ramizi, Maia, and Eduard sat on the other side. Introductions and initial questions had already been exchanged, though Zago had said that she wished to speak to Erick afterwards; alone. Erick agreed. And then Poi gave his detailed report of the Flare Couatl, with telepathic imagery of the event, like it had been recorded with a camera, except the camera was Poi’s own eyes and ears.

Poi stood at the head of the table, ending his report with, “It vanished with a [Teleport].” He sat down.

Dozens of half-hidden emotions had already been thrown across room, as Poi’s testimony and imagery unfolded. No accusations, though; not yet. Ramizi had been mostly miffed and quiet. Maia, miffed and loud. Eduard, cold and calculating, his eyes furrowed, a slight frown upon his face. As for Erick’s side of the table, Mog just sat listening, while Zago and Silverite sat poised, ready to verbally attack, if needed.

Eduard started with, “You know our necromancer?”

Silverite said, “Yes. But to answer the question you really wanted to ask: we are not harboring her. And to throw our own accusations across the table: you know her, too. Or at least the Headmaster does. She never comes out of the jungle. Ever. She is a storm and she destroys by her very presence.” She scowled, saying, “And to level yet another bit of disgust— What the fuck were you thinking! Not telling us that she was here! We find this out, weeks after the fact, through no help by you, after she’s already infested the Crystal Forest with her monsters!”

Silverite’s words permeated the air, a damning accusation.

Maia and Ramizi’s demeanor shifted to professional. Eduard sat straighter.

Eduard spoke with authority, saying, “She has violated the agreement she constructed with the Headmaster three hundred years ago. She has left her jungle. Messalina has forfeited her life.”

Zago sharply inhaled, but kept outwardly calm.

“Thank you, for dropping the act.” Silverite asked, “Who wants to explain to the rest of the group?”

Erick just sat there, listening, as a silence filled the room.

Maia broke the silence, saying, “Messalina is also known as the Life Binder. She is an unparalleled necromancer. She has kept to her jungle, the village the Flare Couatl mentioned, for the last three hundred years. The story goes, that if you seek a fresh start, the Life Binder will give you that, in exchange for all that you are. What she actually does is she creates a monstrous body, then she puts a petitioner's soul into that body, in exchange for 25 years of service in protecting her village.” Maia said, “A month ago, a group of the Cinnabar Hand murdered that village.”

“We’re not sure how they managed to accomplish something which should have been impossible, or where they are right now.” Ramizi said, “But what we are sure of, is that the Cinnabar Hand has always had a presence in the Crystal Forest, and that Messalina knows this.” Ramizi looked to Erick, saying, “That the Flare Couatl actually asked you to create a Particle [Scan] spell, cinches it. She wants to eradicate the Cinnabar Hand, but even the highest tier [Scan] magic cannot uncover the vast distances and other bodies that the Cinnabar Hand utilizes to hide itself.”

Erick scoffed. “Really? No magic can do this? Surely someone would have invented this spell by now?” He turned to Zago and Silverite, asking, “Can we get Opal in on this? Isn’t she really good at detection?”

Silverite said, “If she wanted to be a part of this, she could. But she doesn’t. I can safely say, though, that this magic that [Scan]s even a small part of the world for specific people, no matter who they currently look like or what precautions they take, simply does not exist. If it ever did, then the hidden dragons of the world would murder anyone who had such a power.” She added, “Conversely, if one of those same hidden dragons had access to this spell, we would quickly find one more dragon in this world who could match the Headmaster for power, and threaten his position as Second.”

Erick said, “These ‘hidden dragons’ people keep mentioning haven’t gone after this Flare Couatl. Doesn’t that thing have dragon essence in it? Or…?”

Ramizi said, “An average dragon could not kill that Flare Couatl, so they leave it alone.”

“False.” Mog said, “That Flare Couatl was 30 meters long at last report.” She said, “I bet some dragons did try to kill it, and they failed.”

“Oh,” Erick said.

Ramizi amended, “Or that, yes. That could have happened, too.”

Zago said, “Don’t make this spell, Erick. You already have a large enough target on your back.”

Mog said, “Aye.”

Erick said, “I wasn’t… I won’t. But…” Erick paused. He said, “Tell me if I have something wrong, here. I want to help the Flare Couatl, now that I know it's not a monster, but instead someone who volunteered for a new body. The necromancer is not some murder-y necromancer, but someone out to kill people who kill others the world over. We should be helping this Messalina. And then when she’s gotten her revenge, she’ll go back to her jungle, and we’ll be less a few dozen Cinnabar Hand.” Erick added, “They steal people’s faces, right? With [Polymorph]? That means they have to eat the person’s heart and brain, to do that, yes?”

Eduard’s face went red as Erick spoke, but he held his tongue. Maia frowned. Ramizi just sat back, dispassionate. Mog sighed, while Zago was expressionless. Silverite just looked at him.

When Erick finished stating his piece, Silverite said, “I agree—”

Eduard erupted, “What the FUCK!”

“— but for none of the reasons you have stated, Erick.” Silverite turned to the Trio, continuing, “The Headmaster hates Messalina for personal reasons, and whatever he said to you three, is not the full truth. But this is not my truth to tell, so I will leave it at that. Messalina, for her part, is a hedonistic, power hungry cultist, who is the head of a cult all about her. When you get her angry, she is one of the most vicious women I have ever had the displeasure of knowing.”

Erick paled. Shit. He had made the wrong call.

Silverite continued, “But she is not evil. Her methods of ‘helping’ people are illegal in the vast majority of the world, but not where she lives. She treats her people with dignity, and respect, and gives new lives to those who would be dead otherwise. When their 25 years of servitude are over, she makes those that desire such a thing, new, young versions of their old bodies. Most of them choose to live the rest of their natural lives in that village, in a speck of paradise surrounded by some of the most dangerous jungles on Veird. The Messalina I know does not use mind control, despite history claiming otherwise; she just provides a wonderful life.”

Maybe… Erick... hadn’t made the wrong call?

Eduard said, “It sounds almost as though you approve of her and her actions.”

Silverite ignored Eduard’s taunt, saying, “Due to this new information, Spur will quietly start a Cinnabar Hunt. I don’t know what happened to cause the Toxic Hydra, but Erick will put that monster down, and then we will let the Flare Couatl hunt Hunters for as long as Messalina desires.”

Eduard practically growled out, “Messalina needs to die for her crimes against Civilization.”

“If you can find her, go ahead. It’s your funeral.” Silverite said, “You three are great additions to this town, and let’s not forget the magic you have invented because of what you have learned here.” She scoffed, “But not telling me that Messalina is outside the city? That is a major mark against you. We will protect you against Messalina if you should find and fail to kill her, because it is the duty of civilization to protect its people from the monsters outside the walls. But keep in mind that citizenship in Spur demands my constant approval.” She added, “Don’t make this situation here more difficult than it has to be.”

Eduard countered, “Messalina killed hundreds on her rampage to Eidolon. She tore apart a school. She murdered a church of people in the middle of worship. She performed acts of necromancy in the streets, ripping souls from bodies only to trap them into decaying earth and wood elementals, as punishment for imagined slights. Those people died multiple deaths, over and over again, until an old woman stood up to her. That old woman died, too.” Eduard seemed to cool, somewhat. He said, “And then Messalina came up here. So, since the three of us are already here, it falls to us to put this monster down.” Eduard said, “We could use your help.”

Silverite listened, then said, “I never said she didn’t deserve to die. I just said that Spur will not step into the fight when she’s killing killers. If that changes—”

Eduard interrupted, “The Toxic Hydra is killing all sorts. Messalina brought that here.”

“I’m going to kill the hydra.” Erick looked to the darkened windows of the conference room, saying, “I can do it tonight. I just need to find it. I’ve already got a list of terrible monsters that need killing, thanks to Mog. The Toxic Hydra is on that list.” He added, “I could actually use your help doing that, if you’re interested.”

Ramizi spoke up, “We are. We’re interested in the other targets on that list, too.”

Mog frowned, looking at the mages, saying, “None of those targets are safe for anyone except at a hundred kilometer range. If you [Teleport] near them, you will die. That is why Erick is cleared for them, and they’re not on the boards.” She added, “You’re not cleared to fight them, and I won’t clear you. If you attempt this, your adventuring license in Spur will be rescinded, at the very least.”

“We won’t fight them, then.” Ramizi said, “But allow us to help. Please.”

“Why?” Mog asked.

Silverite sighed, saying, “Answer the question, Mage Fieldsend, and then back to the topic, everyone.”

Ramizi glanced from Silverite to Mog, saying, “You likely have a Desert Rose on that list. I want its heart, and its seeds.”

