"No." Rose shook her head as Roland tried to stand. She held him down, planting a firm hand against his chest. "Knock it the fuck off," Rose growled. "If I see you strain yourself one more time, I'm going to choke you out myself."

Roland blinked, and Uva shared that response. She wasn't sure if he'd heard his wife's words accurately, but then something impossible happened. The Town Lord laughed. Uva didn't think he was capable of such emotion, with the sheer amount of misery radiating from him.

"Choke me out," Roland gasped. "Yes, I suppose you are my Rose. I suppose I am not dreaming. Who else would threaten me so sweetly…”

Rose smirked and lightly flicked him on the chin. Roland winced in pain. She whispered a muttered apology to him, but then flicked him again.

"Lady Van Erren," the Biomancer protested, eyes wide. "Please, Master Arrow is—”

“I know how he is," she snapped, cutting the Biomancer off through clenched teeth. A snarl escaped from the woman. "I know my husband. You don't need to explain this to me. I've patched him more times than I can count on the battlefield, and right now, this is what he needs." She poked him on the forehead, and Roland let out a slight gasp of incredulity. "A little bit more agitation, a little bit of frustration, and someone to smack him over the head every time he gets close to blacking out." She leaned in toward Roland. "You are not allowed to die when I just got back, Roland. Otherwise, I'm going to reach into whatever hell you plunged into, and I'm going to raise the worst fit you will ever experience in this life and all the lives to come."

Roland lifted a shaking hand, and he rested it on his wife’s extended arm. "I missed you," Roland choked out. "I missed you so much, across so many years, I've dreamed. I've dreamed..." And then he began to sag once more, and Rose did as she promised. She slapped him across the face, using the warmth of her palm to lead him back into the waking world.

Uva drew her attention away from the two after that. It felt like she was intruding on something private, something at once barely publicly appropriate, yet also too intimate for her to intrude on.

Something commanded her focus just then. Another hammer of Psychomantic force crashed against Uva’s external wards, and it was followed by a thin beam of Dynamancy. The second bounced off Uva's dense strands as easily as the first did. Once more, she was reminded of her power. Of the power I borrowed, she reminded herself.

"Ignore them," the Starhawk reminded her once more, "simply focus. We are almost…" The Ascendant trailed off, and a sudden surge of pressure hammered down on Uva from above. Her awareness screamed, and her instincts went haywire. She felt terrified for some reason, and she didn't know why.

Unwillingly, unwittingly, her head turned upward, and she stared through the ceiling, a ceiling that was thoroughly cracked, leaking divine mana. Through that ceiling, she saw them. Twelve divine presences, far above Blackedge. The other Ascendants and their Avatars were there.
