Thinking back on the experiences, something clicks in the back of my mind and it all makes sense. Opening my mouth to thank her again, the words freeze in my throat as I realize she’s already left and closed the door behind her. Too excited to rest, I wrap Mama Bun and Pong Pong in a blanket and place them off to the side to avoid a second trip into someone else’s Natal Palace before settling down to meditate. Pushing aside all doubts and uncertainties, I reach for Balance and step into the void, confident I’ve puzzled most of it out. As expected, Qing Qing’s hut is nowhere to be found, though Baledagh’s room is still there, floating in the emptiness of the void.

As much as I miss her and cherish our time together, Qing-Qing’s hut could never be a part of my Natal Palace. It’s not about strong emotional ties, but about emotional security, and I never felt safe in Qing-Qing’s home, because I was weak and vulnerable while stranded in the middle of nowhere. It’s all in the name: a Natal Palace, and a palace is nothing more than a fancy house. Dagen modelled his Natal Palace after the house he shared with his first family, while Bei’s was crafted in the image of her village home, and I picked the village in the mountains, all places where we felt safe and secure. That’s why I was so disillusioned by my Natal Palace, why I could never feel comfortable and at peace in there no matter how I tried, and stuck to training outside in the void. No matter how much I wish it were otherwise, the village isn’t home anymore, not after Sanshu and my near exile. Although I didn’t know it at the time, tearing it down was the right thing to do.

Story of my life, accidentally failing upwards.

There’s more to it than home. While I couldn’t see most of Yo Ling’s Natal Palace because of all the Spectres, I remember the ornate, golden throne he sat upon, so similar in function to Pong Pong’s coral bed. A central seat of power overlooking their domain, much like Baledagh’s room, my room, used to look out over the village, my home until it wasn’t home anymore.

Entering my seat of power, I see it exactly as I remember it, a simple, white room with windows on all sides and containing only a bed, a nightstand, an ornate ceiling, and its newest addition, a plain wooden goblet. Crawling into bed, I lay back and stare at the carved ceiling and all the depictions of heroics I once dreamed of, pretending they weren’t my dreams because they seemed too childish and silly to admit to. Not only that, but battle and bloodshed was so savage and barbaric, it offended my ‘modern’ sensibilities to derive joy from it, but this is who I am, whether I call myself Falling Rain or Baledagh. Hell, calling myself Baledagh would probably be closer to the truth, for it means warrior in the language of the Bekhai, and when you boil it down, that’s exactly what I am. Strip away all my titles and epithets and I’m left with Falling Rain, Warrior. That is who I am and the path I’ve chosen, and while it’s not who I’ve always been, and not exactly what I aspired to, it’s who I’ve become and it’s high time I accept it.

I am Falling Rain. I love peace, and I love fighting for peace. Contradictory? Maybe, but what can I say. I’m a complex guy.

Having rested long enough, I sit up and stride over to the window. The void stretches out in all directions, but it’s almost reassuring now. I see not empty nothingness, but limitless potential, a blank canvas or an empty page waiting to become what I will it, but I leave it untouched for now. There’s more to consider, for size is not everything. Pong Pong’s endless ocean and extensive coral mazes weren’t built merely for show, for they have a purpose. I believe the Natal Palace is also a defence against the Spectres, because I’ve seen it happen time and time again. Blobby built a wall of water to keep them out, and before that I locked them in a room to keep them from spreading, yet even then I almost succumbed to their false promises and whispered lies, because I wanted to.

It’s like the Monk said, the Defiled are not controlled by the Spectres, but rather allow the Spectres to control them. A distinction without a difference, or so I thought until now.

It explains how once I appeared and ruined the immersion, Dagen was wholly freed from Demon Vivek’s grasp, or why the Spectres tormented Bei even after she surrendered and tainted her memory of home, or how Yo Ling invited so many Spectres into his mind, tied his identity to the information they brought him, yet still kept hold of his sanity, tenuous though his grip may have been.

All of this was possible because each person is the master of their mind’s domain.

Even then, it’s not as simple as it sounds. The mind is a fickle thing, and what it wants and what is best for an individual are not always the same thing. Dagen wanted to see his wife and children again and spend the rest of his life with them, even if that life was a lie. After I pointed out the falsehoods, he still wanted to believe, because only by believing could he remain happy. With Bei, things were a little different. Even though she already surrendered and went full Demon, the Spectres continued tormenting her because she still could have cast them aside and retaken control. It wouldn’t have been easy, for it meant accepting responsibility for murdering and eating her father, but it was possible.

As for me? The Spectres offered not only strength without struggle, but they also promised me peace of mind. Never again would I need to question my decisions, because they would all be made for me. By surrendering my sense of self and ability to make decisions, I would be granted a twisted sense of freedom, and I was conflicted and desperate enough to almost accept it.

The Monk was right again. It is a man's own mind, not his enemy or foe, which lures him to evil ways.

Seriously, if it wasn’t for the whole vegetarian thing, I might be tempted to join. Either way, it wouldn’t hurt to pay the mysterious Abbot a visit and have a nice, long talk.

Leaving the void as it stands, I settle onto the bed to replenish my Chi and take a nap. I should discuss my findings with Baatar and Akanai and see what they think, but knowing my Mentor and Grand Mentor, they’ll scoff and say I’m overthinking things. I probably am, but who knows. Maybe I’m onto something, so I might as well see where it goes. Better to try and fail than to never try at all. Besides, truth be told, despite all my recent revelations, I’m still the same person who almost succumbed to the Spectres and not entirely confident in my judgment. The only difference is, now I know my weakness and can take steps to correct it.

Will it make a difference?

I fucking hope so, else all this suffering would be for nothing.

As usual, supposed answers only lead to more questions, and I still haven’t figured out how to get Water Chi to do something useful, or tested my theory on why Ping Ping sticks around, or cured my dissociative identity disorder. Now I have an even more pressing decision to make: What am I supposed to say to Yan?

‘Hello, I missed you and still love you, so won’t you please be my fourth wifey?’

...

No, that’s a terrible idea. It’d never work, not in a million years.

Right?

Chapter Meme
