The light tap-tap is not a knock I’d expect from a Death Corps soldier, so it’s no surprise to find Lin’s glowing smile waiting on the other side, still uplifting even when viewed through a crack in the door. “Hi hubby,” she exclaims, displaying the box in her dainty hands as she tries to peer around me and into my yurt. “I brought shrimp, so lemme in ya?” Leaning close, she whispers, “I wanna see the turtle please.”

Double checking to see Pong Pong still asleep in Mama Bun’s embrace, I hold a finger to my lips for silence and step aside just enough for my sweet wifey to slip in, intent on closing the door behind her the moment she’s through. Peering out one last time to make sure no one is watching, a hand appears out of thin air just in time to stop me from planting my face in Guard Leader’s moderate, yet inviting bosom. With a one handed grip, Guard Leader lifts me off the ground with ease and plants me back down at arm’s length before stepping into my yurt with a huff, as if it’s somehow my fault I didn’t see her hiding there.

It’s always disorienting when an Expert materializes out of nowhere. One second, you’re staring at nothing and the next, you’ve almost caught a face full of boob. Rubbing the future bruises left by her vice-like grip, my cheeks burn as I reflect on the past few seconds, because my brain tells me Guard Leader didn’t step out of the shadows or move faster than my eyes could register. According to my memories, the mysterious Expert was standing in plain view the entire time. I opened the door, saw Lin’s smile, scanned the surroundings without noticing my view was blocked by Guard Leader, and told myself the coast was clear without ever registering the veiled Expert’s presence. Even I’m not suicidal enough to motor boat Guard Leader against her will, so there must be a trick to it. Thinking out loud, I mutter, “It’s not invisibility, is it? You’re still visible, but somehow, you made me overlook your presence...”

Interrupting my introspection with a haughty sniff, Guard Leader chides, “If you’ve puzzled it out, then you know to be more careful from now on.” Rudely grabbing hold of Lin, Guard Leader pulls my wifey behind her and turns her ire to a different target. “So, this is the creature who attacked us.”

Following her line of sight, I find Pong Pong on the ground and ready to fight, his legs braced and mouth open in a mirror image of Ping Ping’s siege-mode. It’d almost be adorable if I didn’t know how much damage he can cause, so I quickly step in before the situation escalates. “It’s okay Pong Pong,” I whisper, keeping my voice light and happy. “There’s nothing to be afraid of, she won’t hurt you.” I hope. Without turning away from the angry turtle, I motion for Guard Leader to back down and pray she follows through. “You wanted shrimp right? Look what Lin brought.”

Thankfully, Pong Pong is intelligent enough to recognize the word and he raises his head in interest. A few minutes later, the three of us sit around my table and watch the little turtle enjoy his meal while the bun buns settle around us. It’s kind of petty, but it annoys me seeing how much the bun buns love Guard Leader, happy to flop at her feet and hop into her lap even though she rarely ever interacts with them. I worked hard to earn their trust, feeding, brushing, and cuddling them for many days before they felt safe in my presence, but not her. She never pets or plays with them, but they love her as much as they love me and it’s infuriating.

Et Tu Fluffy Bunnykins? You furry little long-eared traitor, how dare you burrow into her lap instead of mine?!

Kneeling behind me due to Guard Leader’s stubborn insistence, Lin peers over my shoulder at Pong Pong and giggles in girlish delight while cuddling the sleeping Mama Bun. “He’s so pretty hubby,” she says with a wistful sigh. “Do you think Pong Pong will let me pet him?”

“Best if you stayed far away, girl.” Sitting closer than I’d like, Guard Leader sips her tea before continuing. “Pretty it may be, but it’s still a dangerous wild creature, one more powerful than you can imagine. The only reason it’s so docile is because it’s exhausted and your fool of a betrothed promised it safety and comfort, promises he lacks the ability to keep. Hard to say how it will react when it learns the truth, but I for one refuse to endure its wrath.”

“I know, but still...” Puffing her cheeks, Lin grumbles, “What a mean old rat, hunting poor Pong Pong for weeks without rest so he can steal the Heavenly Water. I’m glad Daddy ruined their stupid boat, now those stupid Ascendants can’t hide their presence and harass the sweet little turtle without repercussions. If they try it again, Pong Pong will smash the silly rat to pieces, won’t you?”

Heart leaping in my chest, I gently admonish my sweet wifey, even though it breaks my heart to do so. “You should never talk about it, even in private. We’re safe now with your guard sitting beside us, but in different circumstances, a slip of the tongue could land us all in hot water.” Especially me.

Gnawing on my shoulder with an adorable growl, Lin crinkles her nose and pouts. “Meanie Rainy. Don’t look down on Lin-Lin, I know how to keep secrets, ya?”

Yea right. Mischievous as she is, my sweet wifey is an innocent and naive soul, ignorant to the harsh realities of the world, but it’s a part of her charm. “I know and I don’t mean to nag, but better safe than sorry. We can’t let anyone find out who or what Pong Pong really is, because doing so would invite disaster.” Honestly, I’m not sure why Taduk told Lin in the first place, we would’ve been better off letting her think he was just a normal turtle, but it’s too late now. Leaning back to give her a peck on the cheek, I add, “Your guard’s not wrong either, Pong Pong is ridiculously strong. You should see his Natal Palace, it’s enormous.”

Elbowing me sharply, Guard Leader asks, “You saw the creature’s Natal Palace? How?”

Dammit. And here i was just warning Lin about slips of the tongue. “Er... well... it’s a long story.”

Unsure how much Guard Leader or Lin knows, I explain the most obscure and confusing of my abilities. Lin nods along like she already knows, but Guard Leader recoils away once she learns the gist. “You are never to use this ability on myself,” she warns, her voice leaving no doubt what would happen if I did.

“Wouldn’t even if I could. It’s suicidal, I’m at the mercy of whoever owns the Natal Palace and easily destroyed with an errant thought. I don’t exactly understand the mechanics, but I’m in no rush to find out what happens if my Spiritual Body dies.” Gesturing at the gorging turtle, I add, “I’m not even sure why it happened. I’ve tried going into other people’s Natal Palaces before, but I’ve never done it on purpose, and it’s only happened a handful of times.” Dagen, Bei, then Yo Ling, and now Pong Pong, I’m not seeing a pattern. The first three were tied together by being Demon-adjacent, but now, with Pong Pong in the mix, this is no longer true. “Ah, no, stop!”

Startled by my yell, Pong Pong narrows his eyes in suspicion as he floats next to his food, his meal not even half-finished but already making his pooping face. Steeling my nerves, I gently pluck him out of the food box and place him in a nearby pan, already filled with water for just this purpose. “You’re a Divine Beast, don’t shit where you eat.”

Ignoring Lin-Lin’s giggles, I gently coax the turtle to relax with a terrible, made up pooping song and eventually he does his thing. Once finished, I lavish him with praise and offer a reward of dried fruit which he greedily devours with a smile. After making sure I have no more sweets, he scurries back to the food box and leaps in with a squeak of delight, paddling around the clean water as he devours yet another shrimp.

“He’s so fast and agile, hubby!”

“Strong too.” Strangely proud of his accomplishments, I brag, “Like I was saying, Pong Pong’s Natal Palace is so immense, I was like a grain of sand inside it, so tiny and insignificant I couldn’t even comprehend its grandeur until he shared it with me. It’s so beautiful and pristine, a perfect little underwater world full of vibrant colours and stunning constructs.”

“It’s his own little domain, ya?”

Ignoring Guard Leader’s huff, I twist around and pull Lin into my lap, though still remember to keep myself between her and Pong Pong. Guard Leader’s not the only one worried about Pong Pong’s temper, the little guy can be mean when he wants to. “Yes it was, and there he sat at the centre of it all, napping atop his very own coral throne. I should craft myself a Natal Throne too, assuming I figure out how to make things stick around.”

Her delight fading, Lin crooks her head in concern. “You’re having troubles with your Natal Palace? Isn’t that bad?”

Wow, twice in a row now. I blame exhaustion. “It’s no big deal,” I lie, smiling at Mama Bun’s sleeping face. “I err... I wanted to remodel my Natal Palace, but ran into a few minor snags after demolishing most of it. Live and learn, I suppose.”

“You demolished your Natal Palace?” Once again interrupting my alone time with Lin, Guard Leader’s tone is one of disbelief. “Why would you do something so foolish??”

Because depression, okay? Ignoring Guard Leader’s incredulity, I hug Lin close and watch Pong Pong eat. Sensing my need for comfort, Lin snuggles into the crook of my shoulder and waits, neither pestering me with questions or pressing me for answers. Minutes pass in easy silence and soon Pong Pong finishes his meal with gusto. After shooting me a glance, he makes his way over to the pan without prompting and does his business a second time, and is once again rewarded with a piece of fruit. Thank god he learns fast, because his metabolism works at light speed and I can’t be busying myself cleaning turtle poop receptacles all day.

Nice and dry after a brief tussle with his handkerchief, Pong Pong studies Lin for a full minute before dismissing her as a threat. From a standing position, he leaps off the table and lands neatly atop Mama Bun, a feat I find more impressive than defeating five peak Experts and sinking a Runic Barge. I mean, the little guy is like eight centimetres from tip to tail, so a thirty centimetre jump is pretty damn daunting, but he made it look easy. Crawling under Mama Bun’s paws, the tiny turtle lets loose with a massive yawn before retreating into the safety of his shell for yet another nap, thoroughly satisfied with the accommodations.

I should have business cards made: Falling Rain, professional pet pamperer extraordinaire.

Slipping out of my embrace, Lin pouts while handing Mama Bun and Pong Pong over, likely at Guard Leader’s silent prompting. Pinching my cheeks, Lin looks into my eyes with a mournful expression, a sight which breaks my heart in two. “Hubby, I don’t know what’s wrong and I know you don’t want to talk about it, but I’m here if you ever do, ya? Not just me either, Mi-Mi too, and Daddy, and... and everyone. You don’t have to face this alone.”

“I know,” I lie, taking her hand and kissing her fingers. “And thank you. It’s not a big deal, I’m just a worrier, is all. I can’t help it, but I’ll be fine, don’t you worry.”

Huh... That last part didn’t feel like a lie. I might have meant it. I will be fine. Not right this moment, and definitely not tomorrow, but eventually, in time, I will be okay. Someday.

Flashing her beautiful, toothy smile, Lin pinches my cheeks a little harder. “Good. You lay down for a nap now, you look exhausted.” Jumping to her feet before I can quietly ask her to join me, Lin skips away and calls over her shoulder, “We’ve been invited to a party tonight in honour of Yan-Yan’s grandpapa, so you gotta look your best, ya? Remember, only five, so no more okay?”

But... Lin, Mila, Luo-Luo, and Yan only makes four...

Finishing her tea while my wifey makes her escape, Guard Leader slowly stands up to leave, but her gaze lingers on my conflicted expression. After a long silence, she clears her throat and says, “I have little advice regarding your difficulties with your Natal Palace, for forming mine came as easily as breathing. I recall you were the same, so your understanding is similarly limited. Just remember what the girl said.”

Aww, that’s sweet, she’s trying to offer help. “Thank you,” I reply with a smile, presenting her a seated bow to show my sincerity. “I understand, my loved ones are here to help and will seek their advice as soon as possible. I’m working on a theory of my own, but -”

“No, not that.” So exasperated I can almost hear her rolling her eyes behind her veil, Guard Leader clarifies, “About the turtle being master of his own domain. His Natal Palace is an aquatic paradise, yes? He controls everything within it and could craft anything he so chooses, so why stick with what’s familiar? Think on it boy, and think on all the other Natal Palace’s you’ve seen. What commonalities do they share?”

