“Jirqym could tell us if he was here.” Beholo the healer said and looked at his wrist. “You know, I really miss that bracelet.” He chuckled. “I was supposed to give it back to him; but, Princess Diana's words infected me. I kept both the bracelet and the wand because she said he would refuse them if I tried to give them back.” He made a fist with that hand. “Having access to all that Mana was great.”

“Don't worry. You'll have it back by tomorrow afternoon.” Kenkoth said. “The items imbued with magic are always the first to be examined.”

“I'm going right to the medical building when I get them back.” Beholo said. “I'll be able to do so much with them!”

“So will we, assuming they can be copied.” Kenkoth said. “Imagine every field unit equipped with a Mana generating bracelet and a healing wand.”

“They would still need to be trained healers.” Beholo said. “Otherwise, they could cause more harm than good.”

“That's too bad.” Kenkoth said. “Imagine if everyone was able to just point a wand at someone and healed them instantly.”

“Ha ha! You would need some kind of massive Regeneration spell, or even the Legendary Potion of Full Restoration to do something like that.” Beholo laughed. “They would both cause excruciating pain, though.”

“Why is that?”

“Unless Regeneration or Regrowth is one of your body's natural abilities, it's not supposed to regrow things.” Beholo said. “It still hurts, but not as badly.”

“This is all very fascinating.” Tatya said sarcastically and looked out the window.

“That's because you're in such a bad mood.” Beholo said. “I'm sure he'll come to his senses tomorrow.”

“If you're talking about King Ren, I think he already did.” Kenkoth said. “You heard what he said.”

“I did, and it makes me wonder.” Beholo said.

“About what?”

“If we had been completely open with King Ren like Gremkor suggested, and told him more about what we were doing, would he have reacted the same way?”

“We'll never know.” Kenkoth said. “When I asked that, he said no.”

“Only because we had already misled him.” Beholo said. “He was fine with it before, and we did tell him we gathered things from different cultures to examine them.”

“Not the gifts, though.” Kenkoth said. “We didn't tell him that we do the same thing with everything we get, and that's why he was upset about it.”

“So were Yuwen and Dilseffa.” Tatya said and looked at the two men. “Especially Dilseffa.”

“I'm not sure why.” Kenkoth said. “It's not like they hadn't given up gifts during the other caravans we've been on.”

“King Ren said he had ordered them to wear them at all times.” Beholo said. “They had to defy their Inamorato to hand over the items he gave them.”

“There's never been an exception to the rules before.” Kenkoth said. “Why should it have been different this time?”

“We've never had Mistresses as part of the caravan before.” Tatya said. “This was...” She shook her head. “I can only hope they let me explain.”

“It's too bad we didn't have one of King Ren's devices so we could just show them.” Kenkoth said.

“That's brilliant!” Tatya said. “We can have Ren show them what happened!”

“You're assuming he would be willing to share it... and that's also assuming he has it to show.”

“Even if he only has what he's seen and heard this whole time, that should be enough to convince them.” Tatya said, her voice and emotions full of hope. “Before they convene in the morning, I'll make an impassioned plea to Ren for his cooperation.”

“He told us he wouldn't be as accommodating anymore, so good luck with whatever plea you try.” Beholo said. “Just make sure it's a good one.”

“It will be.” Tatya said and looked out the window. “I won't fail again.”
