She had been dreaming of this color for four months.

Not a color she could name, exactly -- it existed between amber and gold and the particular warm white of molten glass at the lip of the gather, the moment just before you press the shears and make it something. She had spent four months trying to mix it in the furnace and failing, coming close and not close enough, and the failing had not bothered her the way failures usually did because she knew, in the way you know weather from the body, that the color was real. It existed somewhere. She was going to find it.

She crossed the ridge in the early afternoon, following the road that had become a path that had become a thread of packed earth through long grass, and when she saw the opening she stopped.

Seven strides across. Perfectly round. Honey-colored stone -- not her color but adjacent to it, a cousin. And from within: light. Not the moss-green glow she'd been told to expect. Something warmer. Something that shifted.

She stood at the lip and felt the air rise against her face, warm and damp and carrying something she did not have language for. Her glassblower's instincts put language to it: heat from a working kiln, moisture from the gather, the particular aliveness of a space where something is being made.

She took out the leather roll and laid it open at the lip of the opening. The pontil. The jacks. The tweezers with the worn grip. She touched each one the way she always did before a session. Inventory and ritual both.

Then she went in.

The words came in the first chamber, the same way they had come for Edric and Maren before her, though she did not know their names. Three syllables rising from somewhere below language, a pressure in the chest, an opening: what do you want.

Lira did not hesitate. She had been walking toward the answer for four months.

"I want to see it."

It: the color. The thing in the dreams. The warm white gold between one thing and another. She had no larger agenda. She was not here for answers or justice or reunion. She was here for the color she had not yet been able to make, and the wanting of it was so specific and so genuine that the Maw, which was a fisherman, which had shown her exactly the right bait, felt something like satisfaction when the hook set.

The Designation came in a wave of heat she recognized bone-deep.

```stat-screen
  DESIGNATION ASSIGNED

  DESIGNATION: The Glazier
    Gift: Molten Sight — You see structural fault lines
    in any material: stone, bone, crystal, living flesh.
    Points of weakness glow the color of stress fractures
    in heated glass. Effect scales with Attunement.

    Cost: Fragile Hands — Each use of Molten Sight
    introduces hairline fractures into the bones of your
    hands. These do not heal inside the Maw. Sustained
    use will progress from fracture to fragmentation.

  You will see exactly how to survive.
  You will lack the hands to do it.

  Vitality ........... 14
  Resolve ............ 22
  Attunement ......... 19
  Fortune ............ 15

  You are Glazier #1.
  There is no survival data for this Designation.

  Note: Your desire was amplified, not invented.
        You already wanted this.
        We simply showed you where.
```

She read it twice. The last three lines she read three times.

The gift made sense to her immediately -- fault lines were what she had always seen, a professional seeing, the habit of looking at a vessel and knowing where it would fail. The cost made sense too, in the same merciless way. Give a glassblower the clearest vision and take away the hands. She understood the trade. She did not resent it. It was the kind of symmetry that came from an aesthetic intelligence, not a cruel one, and she felt something she would not have expected to feel standing in a warm stone passage reading her own death warrant:

Admiration.

She flexed her fingers. They felt the same. She could not see the fractures yet. She picked up her leather roll and went deeper.

---

The Gullet opened before her like a room she had never been in but immediately understood. A space designed by something that grasped volume, and curve, and the relationship between a ceiling and the things beneath it. The moss-light pulsed in its slow green rhythm. The ribbed walls expanded and contracted. She stopped in the entrance and just stood for a moment, reading the structure the way she read a kiln -- where the heat pooled, where the airflow moved, where the stresses concentrated.

She activated Molten Sight.

The chamber lit up.

Every fault line in every surface -- the hairline cracks that were not quite cracks yet, the pressure points where the stone carried more weight than it admitted, the places where the walls' rhythm had introduced microscopic damage across uncountable years -- glowed with a warm amber light. The pattern was extraordinary. Not random. Not chaotic. It was a map of every force the structure had ever absorbed, recorded in fracture, still visible to someone who knew how to look. The chamber was a document of its own history, written in stress and endurance.

She could feel the first fractures arriving in her hands. Hairline. She looked at them through her own Gift -- tiny glowing lines crossing the knuckles of her right hand, the bones of her left palm. She pressed her fingers together and felt nothing. Cosmetic. She had worse from the work.

She noticed the barley.

It took her a moment because it was impossible, and she spent time with impossible things before dismissing them. Barley, growing from stone. A garden in a dungeon, lit from below by the same amber light that pulsed from the walls. She walked to it and crouched and looked at the root system through Molten Sight -- and went still.

The roots were not finding cracks in the stone. They were following fault lines. The same fault lines she was seeing. Someone's Gift had given the roots a map, and the roots were using it.

She pressed her palm to the stone near the roots and felt warmth that was not the dungeon's warmth. Different temperature. More specific. She pulled her hand back and looked at the ground beside the roots and saw the fused remnant of a human form, incorporated into the floor. Molten Sight showed her the fault lines in the bones -- or where the fault lines would have been, because the bone and stone had merged so completely that the distinction was no longer meaningful.

She understood what she was looking at. She stood very still for a moment. Then she looked at the wall behind the body and read what was written there.

*Tell Maren I should have brought the water.*

And below it, more recently:

*Someone was here. I think I loved them.*

She did not know who Maren was. She did not know whose handwriting this was. She looked at the script for a long time -- it was pressed into the stone from within, shaped in what had clearly been a specific and personal hand, and then the second inscription was in a different hand entirely, quicker, sharper, and the difference between them was the difference between a man who had time to choose his words and a woman who was losing the ability to form them.

She set her leather roll down beside the mattock handle -- she noticed the branch now, the three pale leaves, the ash handle that had become something else -- and she thought: someone loved someone here, and the dungeon kept both of them. It kept him in the floor and it kept her in the wall and the love is the one thing it could not find a use for, so it left it here for anyone who comes after to find.

She picked up her roll and went deeper.

Behind her, the old dog's eyes tracked her passage. The barley had grown past his flanks now -- higher than when Maren had passed this way, higher than when he had first lain down -- and the green pressed warm against his shoulder, patient as geology. His breathing matched the dungeon's breathing. He watched her go the way he had watched the others go, the way he had learned to watch since the waiting became permanent: not judgment, not grief, just the long attendance of an animal who had learned that most things pass.

---

The Marrow Warrens were different from how she had imagined they might be.

She had not imagined them at all. She had no preconceptions about underground bone-white corridors because she had never thought about underground bone-white corridors. But she was a glassblower, and glassblowers know cooling -- the way heat leaves a form, the way a material changes as it gives up warmth -- and the Warrens had that quality. All the heat gone. All the moisture. A space that had finished becoming something and was now only what it was.

She activated Molten Sight carefully. Small activation. The fractures in her hands had spread from the knuckles to the mid-phalanges; she could see them glowing faintly when she looked.

```stat-screen
  ENTERING DEPTH 2: The Marrow Warrens

  Known hazards:    Labyrinth disorientation, bone parasites
  Deaths on Depth:  1
  Survival rate:    0%.

  Resolve +1 (Depth transition)

  Resonance detected: 1 prior entrant.
  Status: Deceased.
  Traces: present. Grief echo, near-permanent.
```

The bone walls lit up with their fault lines, and she stopped walking and just looked for a moment because the pattern here was entirely different from the Gullet. The Gullet's fault map was ancient and organic, the record of uncountable years. The Warrens' fault map was recent. Something had stressed these walls recently, and the stress pattern was wrong -- not architectural, not the weight of stone on stone. This was something that moved through the corridors with intention and emotion, pressing against the walls as it passed. Multiple passages showed the same signature. Someone had been here, touching as they walked, and the walls had recorded it.

And then she felt it.

Not heard. Felt, in the walls, through the fault-vision -- a warmth that was not geological. She pressed her palm to a wall near a dead end, and the wall pressed back.

Not physically. A quality in the stone. An accumulated something. The way a teacup holds the warmth of what was poured into it.

Someone had leaned against this wall in enormous grief and the wall had held it and held it still.

She stood with her palm against the bone for a long time. The fractures in her hand spread to her wrist. She did not care. The warmth in the wall was the warmest thing she had encountered since entering, and it was the grief of a stranger she would never know the name of, and it was beautiful the way all human things are beautiful to someone who looks at them with full attention.

A blue crystal was forming from the bone near the dead end. She could see its fault lines -- it had almost none, which meant it was dense and coherent and unlikely to shatter. She did not touch it. It was not hers to take.

She went deeper.

---

The passage to the third level was narrower than the ones above it. The walls sweat something viscous, faintly gold-red, and the temperature climbed. She was comfortable with temperature. She was comfortable with close spaces, with heat, with the particular intensity of a working furnace. The passage felt to her the way the blowing room felt: purposeful, pressurized, focused.

She activated Molten Sight to read the walls.

The fractures in her hands spread further. Mid-phalanges to the base knuckles. The bones of her palms showed hairline cracks at the junctions. She looked at her hands through the Gift and saw the map of their damage: not yet fragmentation, but the direction of travel was clear. She had a finite number of activations remaining.

She calculated, the way she always calculated -- how many gathers to the piece, how many pulls, how many heats -- and concluded she had perhaps six or seven more careful uses before the hands became a question she would have to answer.

The passage opened.

She had expected to be unprepared for it. She was unprepared for it.

```stat-screen
  ENTERING DEPTH 3: The Still Garden

  Known hazards:    Paralytic spore-flowers, crystal
                    dissolution pools, the Gorger of
                    the Still Garden
  Deaths on Depth:  0
  Survival rate:    No data.

  Resolve +1 (Depth transition)

  Resonance detected: 0 prior entrants on this Depth.
  You are the first.
```

The Still Garden was everything the color in her dreams had promised. Petrified trees, their bark replaced by crystal, branching into a ceiling that was not stone but a continuous phosphorescent sky -- not a ceiling pretending to be sky, but sky, contained, held, glowing with a sourceless light that was exactly the color she had been trying to make for four months. Not amber-gold. Not warm white. The thing between those things. The threshold color.

She stood in the entrance and could not move.

Not paralysis. Not the spore-flowers, whose soft puffing she could see at the periphery of the Garden, white clouds drifting from bell-shaped blooms. She was simply standing in the presence of something she had spent four months moving toward and the arrival was larger than she had expected arrival to feel.

The crystal trees were extraordinary. She activated Molten Sight -- felt the fractures spread to the webbing between her fingers, felt the first ghost of sensation that was not quite pain but was pointing at pain -- and the trees became something else entirely. Every fault line in every crystal formation glowing amber-warm, the Garden's stress history written in light, every branch a record of the forces that had shaped it. The petrified trees were the most complex fault-maps she had ever seen. She could spend years in this room and not finish reading them.

She took out the leather roll and laid it open on a crystal outcropping that the fault-vision showed her was structurally sound. She wanted to work. She wanted to make something that captured what she was seeing. She held the tweezers and thought about glass that held fault lines inside it intentionally -- fracture-glass, she called it to herself, a technique she had not tried yet -- and she took notes in the way glassblowers take notes, which is with the hands, which is with the weight and shape of what could be.

She was aware that she was in a place that killed people. She was aware that the Designation had told her she would see how to survive and lack the hands to do it. She was aware that something was in this space — the Ledger had flagged it, unmet by any entrant before her.

She was, she noted with no particular alarm, more interested in the light.

---

She found one of the crystal dissolution pools by nearly stepping into it. She pulled back and crouched and looked at it through Molten Sight. The pool had no fault lines at all -- it was too liquid, too constantly in motion. What she could see was the crystal shelf that overhung it, and the fault line in that shelf was enormous, running from the junction with the wall straight through to the edge, as obvious as a cracked windowpane. She did not step on the shelf.

The spore-flowers she navigated by reading the wind patterns in the crystal formations -- the fault lines indicated stress directions, and the stress directions indicated airflow, and the airflow carried the spores. She worked through the Garden methodically, mapping a path through it with the patience she brought to any technical problem. Her hands were hurting now. The fractures had reached her palms. She could feel them when she pressed her fingers together -- not pain exactly but a wrongness, a structural complaint from bone that was being asked to do something it no longer fully could.

She found the Gorger by sound first. A displacement of air. The shift in how the crystal trees refracted the phosphorescent light.

She looked at it. It looked at her.

The creature was made of crystal. Not wearing crystal, not covered in crystal -- made of it, regrown into something with appetite and territory and three prior kills already written into the tumblers of the Lock. It moved with the deliberate weight of something whose bones were quartz, whose hunger had organized itself around the particular prey the Garden offered. Its fault lines, when she activated Molten Sight, blazed like sunrise. She was the first person to have ever seen them.

She could see exactly where to strike.

One point, at the junction of the chest-crystal and the left shoulder plate, where three fault lines converged and the material was at its most compromised. A blow there with enough precision -- not power, precision, the kind of precision her hands had spent thirty years developing -- would split it along all three lines simultaneously. She had ended a firing kiln with a similar calculation once. Tap the right place at the right moment and the whole thing resolves.

She raised her right hand.

The calculation arrived with it, unbidden and precise: she had used the Gift six times. The fractures in her palm had reached the junctions. She could feel the bones the way you can sometimes feel a vessel going -- not breaking yet, but the integrity already spent, the material asking you not to ask more of it. A glassblower who ignores that feeling loses the piece and the tools both. Sometimes a hand.

She knew she could not land this strike. The bones that had spent thirty years learning exactly this kind of precision -- the finger on the fault, the controlled tap, the knowing where -- those bones were the problem now. She would swing and they would give before the force transferred. She had mapped this outcome six activations ago.

The ceiling was still that color. The light in the Still Garden had not changed. The petrified trees held their centuries of fault-lines like a language she had just learned to read, and she had read them, and she had walked through the spore-clouds by reading the airflow in the crystal, and she had stood at the dissolution pools and known which shelves to avoid, and she had been the first person in this room and it was everything the dreams had promised and more.

She had come here to see it. She had seen it. The seeing was complete.

The strike was just finishing the sentence.

The pain arrived when she committed to the motion -- not hairline fractures but the bones themselves announcing a structural language she had never heard from her own body. The sound a vessel makes when the heat differential exceeds what the glass can hold. She felt the fractures she had mapped in herself spreading under the demand. She watched through the Gift -- watched her own hand's fault lines blossoming, multiplying, reaching the critical density where fracture becomes fragmentation.

She understood she was seeing exactly what the Designation had promised she would see: the method, clear as a lesson, and the cost of implementing it.

She swung anyway.

Her hand shattered on contact.

Not metaphor. The bones of her right hand, already compromised to fragmentation threshold, could not transfer the force she asked of them. They gave instead. Her strike against the Gorger's fault point was nothing -- a falling thing, not a blow -- and the crystal monster registered it the way stone registers a thrown pebble.

She fell sideways. She did not cry out. There was no point and she was occupied with looking at the Garden's ceiling -- the phosphorescent sky, the threshold color, the light she had been trying to make for four months -- and she thought: I made it here. I saw it. It was real.

The Gorger was efficient. The Garden was quiet.

---

On a crystal surface near where she fell, words formed in the shape of her particular hand:

*It was beautiful. All of it. Even this.*

```stat-screen
  DEATH REPORT

  Entrant:         Lira (family name unknown)
  Designation:     Glazier #1
  Depth reached:   3 (The Still Garden)
  Time survived:   3 hours, 14 minutes
  Cause of death:  Gift cost (hand fragmentation).
                   Secondary: Crystal apex predator, The Still Garden

  Vitality at death:     0
  Resolve at death:      24 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3)
  Attunement at death:   25 (+6 from Gift usage)
  Fortune at death:      15

  Gift used:       6 times (Molten Sight)
  Monsters killed: 0
  Distance covered: 2.3 km

  Memory Crystals consumed: 0

  Note: Subject reached Depth 3. No prior entrant had
        reached Depth 3.
  Note: Subject identified the Gorger structural
        weakness. Subject could not exploit it.

  Harvest:
  - Death Inscription: 1
  - Memory Crystal: 1 (White — transcendence)
  - Floor Mutation: Fault-line visibility. Certain
    crystals in the Still Garden now show their stress
    fractures to unassisted vision. Partial echo of
    Molten Sight. Permanent.
  - Gift Absorption: Structural analysis acquired by
    the Maw.

  Kills registered: 0
  Crystal apex predator, The Still Garden: 1/3.
  [ Name threshold: 3 kills. Not yet reached. ]

  You are death #3.
  997 remain.
```

The white Memory Crystal formed near her right hand -- near the hand that had shattered, which was where the largest concentration of her final emotion had been. White for transcendence, for the specific quality of experience that exceeds its category: not joy, not awe, but the feeling you get when a piece comes out of the annealing oven and you hold it to the light and it is exactly what you were trying to make, when the material exceeded your imagination of it.

A future entrant who consumed this crystal would see what she saw in the last moment: the phosphorescent ceiling of the Still Garden, the threshold color she had spent four months searching for, the light that existed between amber and gold and warm white. They would have it for a moment -- that color, that particular color -- and then lose it, the way you lose a dream when you open your eyes.

The third tumbler turned.

In the Still Garden, the crystal predator moved through the trees, patient and unchanging, unaware it had been seen. Some of the crystals around Lira's death site now showed their stress fractures to unassisted vision -- pale lines under the surface, the ghost of a dead woman's gift left in the stone. They would be there for three hundred more deaths, these lines, and entrants who noticed them would sometimes see that they mapped exactly the safe path through the dissolution pools and the spore-fields, and sometimes this would save them, and none of them would know why the crystals showed their weakness there and not elsewhere.

The leather roll lay open on a crystal outcropping nearby. The pontil. The jacks. The tweezers with the worn grip. The Garden's phosphorescent light fell across them and they glowed with it, and they were beautiful, and no one came to collect them, and eventually the Garden incorporated them the way it incorporated everything -- slowly, with a patience larger than grief.

Death #3. 997 remain.
