The earth opened on the third day of planting.

Edric Voss heard it first -- a sound like a held breath releasing, like the ground itself sighing in a way that made his mare sidestep and the crows lift from the fence line in a single black sheet. He stood in the east field with barley seed in his pockets and dirt under his nails and he looked toward the ridge where the sound had come from and he thought: that is my land.

That was the shape of the thought. Not curiosity or wonder or dread. Possession. Thirty-two years he had worked this soil, turned it and fed it and cursed it and slept on it during the worst droughts when the house felt too large with only two. He knew every stone and root and drainage pattern from the creek to the property line and beyond. When the earth opened, his first instinct was the same as when he found the collapsed irrigation channel two springs ago: go see what happened, figure out what it will cost, fix it before the season turns.

He left the seed bag on the fence post. Walked back to the house for his mattock -- the good one, the one his father had rehandled twice before Edric rehandled it a third time, the ash shaft worn to a pale polish that fit his grip like something grown there. He filled his belt pouch with barley seed because he was halfway through the east field and did not intend to make two trips. He told Maren he was going to check the ridge and she said bring water and he said it was not far and she gave him the look that meant she knew he was wrong and loved him anyway.

It was not far.

The opening was seven strides across. Perfectly round, as if someone had pressed a vast thumb into the hillside. No rubble, no displaced earth, no broken roots dangling over the edge -- the soil simply stopped and smooth stone began, curving down and inward like the throat of a massive animal. The stone was the color of old honey and it was warm to the touch, warmer than the April air, warmer than stone had any right to be. Edric crouched at the lip and put his palm flat against it and felt, beneath the warmth, a pulse. Faint as a sleeping heartbeat. Steady.

He pulled his hand back and wiped it on his trousers.

The crows did not come near. The grass around the opening was undisturbed. A beetle walked to within a hand's width of the stone edge and turned back, and Edric watched it turn back, and some part of him understood what the beetle understood but did not have the beetle's sense to act on it.

Instead he leaned forward and looked down.

The curve of stone descended into soft light -- not sunlight, nothing so scattered. Pale green luminescence clung to the walls in patches, some kind of moss or lichen that gave off a faint steady glow. The stone beneath it glistened. Wet. The air rising from below smelled of copper and damp earth and something else beneath both, something living, animal, close. He could see perhaps thirty yards before the passage curved out of sight, the walls smooth and gently ribbed and slick with condensation, the floor wide enough for two men abreast.

Edric Voss was not a brave man. He was not a fool. He had a wife and a barley field half-sown and a mare that needed re-shoeing before market day. He had calluses that told the story of a careful life, and debts that told the story of two bad seasons, and a way of thinking about the world that started with the ground beneath his feet and worked up from there.

He went in because it was his land.

He brought the mattock because you never went into a hole without a tool, and he brought the seeds because they were in his pocket and he did not think to take them out.

The passage swallowed the daylight five steps in.

---

The stone was warm and wet beneath his boots. Not hot -- warm, the way a hearthstone holds heat hours after the fire dies, but slick with moisture that beaded on the ribbed walls and collected in the shallow grooves of the floor. The bioluminescent moss grew thicker as he descended, pale green constellations that pulsed faintly with a rhythm he could feel in his ears like a pressure change. He was inside a throat. The thought arrived unbidden but once it came he could not shake it. The ribbed walls expanded and contracted around him with each slow breath -- inhale, the passage widening a fraction, the air thinning; exhale, the walls pressing gently closer, the air thickening, a faint copper smell. A rhythm of perhaps six breaths per minute, slow and deep, like a large animal sleeping.

He counted his steps because that was the kind of man he was. He held the mattock across his body the way he carried it between fields, head forward, balanced on the fulcrum of his grip. At step eighty-seven the floor dipped into a shallow depression and the moisture that ran down the walls had collected there in a still pool, ankle-deep, faintly iridescent. He stepped around it. The liquid smelled of copper and something sharper, something that made the hair on his arms stand. At step one hundred and twelve the color of the stone shifted from honey-amber to a deeper gold. At step one hundred and forty the walls pressed closer for a span of ten strides, the ribbed stone contracting in a slow rhythm that left barely enough room for his shoulders. He turned sideways and shuffled through, the wet stone warm against his back, and when the passage widened again something small and pale skittered across the floor ahead of him -- too fast to see clearly, too many legs, gone into a crack before his next breath. He tightened his grip on the mattock and kept walking.

At step two hundred the light pulsing through the walls brightened enough to cast his shadow behind him, sharp and long. He looked back at that shadow and saw the entrance still visible as a pale disc behind and above him, and the sight of it steadied him. The way out was right there. He could turn around any time.

At step two hundred and forty the corridor opened into a chamber.

It was round, perhaps twenty paces across, with a domed ceiling twice the height of a man. The moss-light gave way here to something warmer -- an amber glow seeping from the stone itself, honeyed and steady, while condensation ran in slow rivulets down walls ridged like the interior of a shell. The floor was smooth and faintly damp, unblemished, and the air smelled of copper and wet stone and something else beneath both -- something living, animal, close. The breathing rhythm was stronger here. The walls visibly moved. A slow patient tide of stone, expanding and contracting, and Edric stood in the center of it and felt like a seed in a cupped palm.

Then the words came.

Not words. Not exactly. A pressure in his chest, behind his sternum, three syllables that he felt rather than heard, that arrived without sound the way hunger arrives or grief arrives -- not from outside but from some place deeper than his ears could reach: what do you want.

Edric Voss stood in the breathing chamber with his mattock in one hand and barley seed in his pocket and thirty-two years of turned earth in his history, and the question was not a question. It was a key fitting into a lock he had not known he carried. He felt the answer rise before he could shape it, pulled from somewhere beneath thought, beneath language, from the place where his hands knew the soil and his back knew the seasons and his whole body knew the single truth that had governed his life since before he could name it.

He wanted it to grow.

Not a thing. Not a wish. The answer was the marrow of him -- the part that pressed seed into dark earth and believed. The part that watched bare fields in March and felt, not hoped, felt the green waiting underneath. Faith. The bone-deep certainty that the dead ground was only sleeping and he could wake it.

The answer left him like an exhale. He felt it go.

For a long moment, nothing. Then the walls pulsed once, harder than before -- a single strong contraction, like a swallow -- and something settled into him the way soil settles after rain, filling spaces he had not known were empty.

Words appeared in his vision, pale and precise, as if written on the inside of his eyelids:

```stat-screen
  DESIGNATION ASSIGNED

  DESIGNATION: The Reaper
    Gift: Verdant Touch — Organic matter responds to your
    will. Touch accelerates growth, restores vitality,
    awakens dormant life. Effect scales with Attunement.
    Cost: Rooted — Stillness binds. Each minute spent
    motionless, root-fibers extend from your feet into the
    nearest surface. Fibers strengthen over time. After
    three minutes, removal causes tissue damage. After five
    minutes, removal is no longer possible without amputation.

  Irony: You will grow where you fall.

  Vitality ........... 34
  Resolve ............ 31
  Attunement ......... 5
  Fortune ............ 7

  You are Reaper #1.
  There is no survival data for this Designation.
  There is no survival data for this dungeon.
```

He read the words twice. He understood perhaps half of them. Designation and Gift were new vocabulary for an old man, and the numbers beside dotted lines meant nothing to a person who measured the world in bushels and rainfall. But Cost -- that word he knew. Cost was the language of two bad seasons and a lender's patience and the difference between what you owed and what the soil gave back. His eyes caught on *amputation* and his stomach tightened the way it did when the farrier's knife slipped near the quick. The line about root-fibers sounded like something from a disease pamphlet rather than anything real. And at the bottom, a word he did not pause on, because a farmer did not think in ironies: *You will grow where you fall.* It passed over him the way weather passes over stone. But Verdant Touch -- that part he understood, or felt he did, the way he felt a season turning before the almanac confirmed it.

He knelt and pressed his palm against the smooth stone floor.

Nothing happened for two heartbeats. Then three. Then the stone beneath his hand softened -- not crumbled, not broke, but yielded, like cold butter warming, and a green filament pushed up through the surface. Then another. Then a dozen, thin as spider silk, unfurling and reaching for the amber light. They grew faster than anything he had ever seen, faster than thought, curling around his fingers with a gentleness that made his throat close. In five seconds a small knot of green covered his hand. In ten seconds it had roots in the stone and tiny leaves the size of his thumbnail and it was growing, actually growing, reaching upward like it could feel the sun that was not there.

He pulled his hand back. The green stayed, rooted in the stone, a small shock of life in a place that had no business holding any.

Something shifted in his chest -- a loosening, like a knot untying itself, and the walls pulsed once in response. The breathing rhythm changed. Not faster, not slower -- closer. As if the distance between him and the stone had narrowed by some measure he could not name. He felt warmer. He felt known.

"Well," Edric said to the empty chamber. His voice sounded strange here -- flat, close, swallowed by the breathing walls. "Well."

He stood and his knees creaked and he noticed that his boots felt slightly stuck to the floor. He looked down. Hair-thin tendrils, pale and rootlike, extended from the soles of his boots into the stone. He had been kneeling for less than a minute. He pulled his feet free with a wet tearing sound and felt nothing -- the roots had not reached his skin, only bonded to the leather.

He started walking again.

---

The passage beyond the chamber narrowed and deepened. The color of the stone shifted from gold to a warm sienna, then darker, and the light in the walls dimmed to the color of banked coals. The breathing rhythm grew faster here -- four breaths a minute instead of six -- and the air was warmer, thick and close and humid, like standing in the doorway of a forge.

But it was not unpleasant. Not yet. The warmth wrapped around him like a blanket, and the air had a sweetness to it that reminded him of the greenhouse in high summer when the tomato vines were heavy and the whole space smelled of green heat and growing things. His muscles loosened. The ache in his lower back that had been his companion since the accident with the plow horse twelve years ago eased for the first time in memory. The passage was, despite everything, comfortable.

He touched the wall as he walked and felt it respond. Not growth this time -- the stone was not organic enough -- but a warmth that flowed into his fingers and up his arm, a pulse of something that might have been recognition. Each time he reached out, the connection deepened. The Maw knew he was there. He did not think those words but he felt their meaning in the way the walls seemed to lean toward him as he passed, in the way his own pulse had begun to match the breathing of the stone. He was becoming part of the rhythm. The Gift was a door that opened both ways.

At the next junction the passage split into three. Left descended sharply, the light dimming to near-darkness. Right climbed slightly, the air cooler, the stone paler. Center continued straight, the walls narrowing to barely shoulder-width, the light deepening to a color that was almost red.

Edric stopped.

He looked back. The entrance was still visible, impossibly far but unmistakable -- a pale coin of daylight, steady and patient, the way out. He could see it. He had been able to see it the entire time. It was right there. He told himself he was checking because a careful man checks. But careful men do not stand at junctions in breathing stone and weigh which darkness to walk into. He was telling himself a story about leaving and his feet were not turning around.

He looked at the three passages. The center one breathed faster than the others, a rapid shallow rhythm that he might have called eager if he were the kind of man who gave feelings to stone. The warmth coming from it was stronger. The smell of copper was stronger. Something in his chest -- not the voice, not the question, something else, something that felt like his Gift pulling at him the way water pulls downhill -- tugged him forward.

He chose the center passage. He chose it. No one made him. The entrance was right there and he walked away from it because the warmth felt like belonging and the pull felt like purpose and he wanted to see what would grow in the deeper dark.

The passage narrowed. His shoulders brushed the walls and the stone yielded against them, soft and damp as skin, and the breathing was his breathing now, matched, synchronized, his lungs filling when the walls drew back and emptying when they pressed close. The moss-light had given way entirely to a deep amber that darkened as he walked, turning the color of old blood. The air was hot.

He touched the wall and pressed his gift into it and the stone responded -- not with green growth but with something else. A ripple of movement ran through the surface, spreading from his hand in concentric rings like a stone dropped in still water. The wall shuddered. The stone softened. And from the place where his palm had been, a spray of pale tendrils erupted -- not plant tendrils but the Maw's own substance, the same rootlike fibers that grew from his boots when he stood still, but these were thicker, faster, and they reached for him with a blind groping intelligence that turned his stomach.

He pulled back. The tendrils retreated into the wall and the stone smoothed over them and everything was as it was.

His heart was beating fast now. The ache in his back had returned and brought friends -- his knees, his hips, the old break in his left wrist that predicted rain. The warmth that had been comforting was becoming oppressive. The air was thicker. Breathing required effort.

He looked back.

The entrance was still there. Still visible. A disc of pale light, impossibly small now, like a coin held at arm's length, but there. Still there.

He was not going back. He knew it with the same certainty he knew frost dates and soil depth. Somewhere between the first chamber and here the decision had been made without his permission, and looking at the entrance now was not reassurance but grief -- a man watching the door of a house he had already left.

The floor beneath him pulsed. A ripple of warmth traveled up through his boot soles and into the bones of his feet and he felt, for one perfect terrible moment, the entire dungeon -- not as architecture but as anatomy. A living thing, vast and old and hungry, and he was inside it, and it had felt his touch and it was turning its attention toward him the way a sleeper turns toward warmth.

He took a step. The sole of his left boot did not come cleanly. He looked down.

Root-fibers. Thicker now. He had been standing still for -- how long? A minute? Two? The chamber breathing had slowed and he had slowed with it and the roots had found him. They extended from his soles into the stone floor in a web of pale threads, each one thin as a hair but together forming a mat that gripped with the patience of something that had never needed to hurry.

He pulled his right foot free. Heard the small wet sound of fibers separating. Lifted his left foot and felt resistance -- real resistance, not the gentle tug of before but a pulling, an anchor, the stone holding on.

He pulled harder. His boot came free with a sound like tearing cloth and he stumbled forward two steps and kept walking, faster now, his breath loud in the narrowing passage, the red light pulsing in time with his heartbeat.

---

The passage opened again. A second chamber, smaller than the first, the ceiling low enough to brush with his fingertips. The walls here were the deep red of arterial blood and they were not merely warm -- they were hot, hot enough that the air shimmered faintly, hot enough that sweat ran freely down his face and neck and pooled in the hollow of his collarbone.

He should not be here.

The thought arrived with absolute clarity, the way a season's first frost arrives -- not gradually but all at once, undeniable, too late.

He should not be here. He had a wife. He had a field half-sown. He had a mare and debts and a life of ordinary particular ongoing things and he had walked away from all of them because a hole opened in his field and he wanted to see what was at the bottom and now he was in the red dark of a living thing's gut with roots growing from his feet every time he stopped and the entrance was still visible behind him, still right there, still reachable, and he was not reaching for it.

He stopped.

He should not have stopped.

The roots began immediately. Not the hair-thin tendrils of before -- these were cord-thick, pale as bone, and they drove into the stone floor with an urgency that the earlier growth had lacked. He felt them push through the leather of his boot soles and touch skin and the sensation was not painful but it was intimate in a way that made him want to scream. They were warm. They pulsed with the same rhythm as the walls. They were growing into him the way his own roots grew into soil, naturally, inevitably, as if this was what they had always been meant to do.

He moved. Stepped forward. The roots tore.

Pain -- bright and specific, in the arch of his left foot, a dozen small wounds opening at once as the fibers ripped free. He gasped and stumbled and looked down and saw blood and pale threads and new roots already growing from the torn stumps, growing faster than before, reaching for the floor with a blind determined hunger.

He walked. He had to walk. The Cost was clear now, clear in his body the way the Gift had been clear in his hands -- if he stopped, it would take him. The roots grew faster each time. The intervals shortened. He could feel the threshold approaching the way he felt a storm's edge, a pressure-change in the bones, a certainty that what was coming could not be avoided, only met.

The chamber had no exit except the way he had come.

He turned. Looked back down the red-lit passage toward the distant pale coin of daylight. The entrance. The way out. His field, his wife, his life. It was right there. It had been right there the entire time.

He took a step.

His foot did not come free.

He looked down. He had been standing still for -- seconds. Only seconds. But the roots were different now. Not threads. Not cords. Trunks. Pale woody shafts as thick as his thumb, driving deep into the stone, and where they met his skin they had not merely bonded but fused, the boundary between his flesh and the root-material dissolving as if they had always been one thing, as if the Cost had been waiting for this moment to show him what it truly meant.

He pulled. He strained. He dropped the mattock and gripped his own leg above the ankle and hauled with both hands and the roots flexed and held and something in his foot broke -- not the root, the bone -- and the pain was so vast and white that his vision went dark at the edges.

Fifteen seconds.

That was the window. He knew it the way he knew planting depth and soil acidity and the exact day in March when the frost line retreated far enough to risk early barley. Fifteen seconds where the roots were still young enough, where the fusion was still shallow enough, where if he had moved immediately instead of looking down, instead of stopping to understand what was happening to him, he could have torn free and run bleeding for the entrance and made it.

He did not move immediately. He was a man who understood things before he acted on them. It was what made him a good farmer. It was what killed him.

The roots climbed his ankles. His calves. They spread through the stone floor in a widening web, pale threads racing outward and downward, seeking purchase, building infrastructure. His legs locked. His knees fused. He felt the root-material push into the spaces between muscle fibers with a patience that was not cruel because cruelty requires intent and this was just growth. This was just what the roots did. They grew. He had asked for this. He had wanted it to grow.

Edric Voss sank to his knees in the red chamber as the roots took him, and the pain was enormous and then it was not, and the warmth was suffocating and then it was not, and the walls breathed around him and the light pulsed and he thought about the barley in his pocket and how stupid he had been, how profoundly stupid, to walk into a hole in the ground because he could not let his own land hold a mystery he had not solved.

He thought about Maren. The look she had given him. The water he had not taken.

The roots reached his waist.

He could not feel his legs. The stone floor around him was a garden now -- his gift, leaking from him in his dying, turning the Maw's stone into something it had never been. Green shoots pushed up through the web of pale roots. Barley. The seeds had spilled from his pouch when he fell, scattering across the root-webbed floor, and his gift was feeding them as it fed the roots, and they were growing, impossibly fast, green spears of barley rising from the stone in the red-amber light of a dungeon that had never held a living plant before this moment.

He watched them grow. He had that much time.

"It is growing," he said. To no one.

The roots reached his chest. His breathing slowed to match the chamber's rhythm, and then slowed further, and then the distinction between his breathing and the chamber's breathing ceased to exist. The warmth entered him completely. The red light filled his vision. His hands, flat on the stone floor, sent out roots of their own -- pale threads from his fingertips merging with the stone, and where they merged, green followed, tiny shoots and curling tendrils of impossible life spreading outward from his dying.

The barley was six inches tall when he stopped breathing.

---

In the red chamber, deep in the first passage of the Maw, a man's body settled into the stone floor. The roots had taken everything below the waist. His torso leaned slightly forward, chin on chest, hands flat, fingers splayed and fused with the floor. Around him, in a perfect circle, barley grew. Green and vigorous and utterly impossible, rising from the web of roots and stone, fed by a gift that outlasted the man who carried it.

His mattock lay where he had dropped it, three feet from his right hand. The ash handle was already sprouting. A single green leaf, pale and tentative, uncurling from the wood as if the dead timber remembered what it had been.

On the wall behind him, words appeared.

Not carved. Not written. Pressed into the stone from within, as if the wall itself had formed them, letter by letter, in the shape of his own hand, pressed into stone. The dying man's last coherent thought, extracted and preserved:

*Tell Maren I should have brought the water.*

The first Death Inscription. Cut into clean stone that had never held a mark before. It would be there when the next person came, and the next, and the next, and by then the words would be one among thousands, a single voice in a chorus of the dead, but now, in this moment, it was alone on the wall of a dungeon that was learning what it meant to kill.

Below the inscription, smaller, in the Ledger's flat clinical notation:

```stat-screen
  DEATH REPORT

  Entrant:         Edric Voss
  Designation:     Reaper #1
  Depth reached:   1 (The Gullet)
  Time survived:   1 hour, 14 minutes
  Cause of death:  Rooted (Cost manifestation)

  Vitality at death:     0 (root integration)
  Resolve at death:      31
  Attunement at death:   12 (+7 from Gift usage)
  Fortune at death:      7

  Gift used:       4 times
  Monsters killed: 0
  Distance covered: 0.3 km

  Note: The entrance was visible from the death site.

  Harvest:
  - Death Inscription: 1 (first recorded)
  - Memory Crystal: 1 (Gold — love)
  - Floor Mutation: Root integration. Organic growth now possible
    in Depth 1, Chamber 2. Classification: unprecedented.
  - Gift Absorption: Verdant Touch acquired by the Maw.

  You are death #1.
  999 remain.
```

No one read it.

In the breathing dark of the Maw, the first Memory Crystal formed at the site where Edric Voss's heart had stopped. It was gold -- the color of love, the Maw's selection unerring, reaching past the fear and the pain and the regret to find the strongest thing in him. It sat on the root-webbed floor among the growing barley, a small warm light in the red chamber, and it held inside it not his death but his life: Maren's face in the doorway, the morning light behind her, the look that meant she knew he was wrong and loved him anyway. The absolute ordinary perfection of a moment he had thrown away for a hole in the ground.

No one picked it up.

The dungeon breathed.

Above, on the ridge, the opening waited. The April sun moved across the sky. The mare stood in the paddock and watched the place where Edric had walked over the hill and did not come back. In the east field, the seed bag sat on the fence post where he had left it, and the crows settled back on the wire, and the beetles went about their business, and the day went on without him in the specific ordinary way that days go on when someone has been subtracted from them.

Maren came looking at sundown. She carried the water jug in both hands, the clay still cool from the cellar, and when she reached the ridge the last light was copper on the western fields and the shadow of the opening was a perfect dark circle in the grass. She stood at the lip and looked down into the honey-colored stone where the pale green moss-light began and called his name. The sound went down and did not come back. She called again. The evening wind stirred the grass around the opening and the air rising from below was warm and smelled of wet copper and she did not go in. She stood there until the light failed and the opening became indistinguishable from the night around it, and she called until her voice broke, and then she walked home across the dark fields with the water jug still full and sat at the table and the chair across from her was empty and the barley field was half-sown and that was the shape of the rest of her life.

Below, in the Maw, the barley grew.

In time, others came. They walked through the barley and did not know what it was or why it was there or that the body fused with the floor in the center of the small field had been a person with a wife and a half-sown barley field and a mattock with an ash handle his father had replaced twice.

They noticed the green. Everyone who came after noticed the green.

It became a landmark. Later entrants, those who survived long enough to compare notes with other survivors who had retreated before the lower depths took them, called it the green patch, or the farmer's field, or simply the garden. It marked the boundary between the entrance and the true dungeon. Before the green, you could still turn back. Past the green, the Maw had you.

No one remembered his name. The inscription on the wall -- *Tell Maren I should have brought the water* -- was read by hundreds and understood by none. It became a superstition. Touch the words for luck. Drink water before the green patch. An instruction from the dead, followed for the wrong reasons, by people who did not know who Maren was or why the water mattered.

The farmer did not know any of this. The farmer did not know that his death was the first of a thousand. That the roots he fed into the stone were the first brushstroke of a vast and terrible painting that would take a thousand lives to complete. That his Gift, absorbed by the Maw, would eventually manifest in the green-tinged traps of deeper floors where living vines grabbed ankles and fungal blooms released paralytic spores and the dungeon used his own gentle power to kill people who were nothing like him.

He had wanted it to grow. It grew.

The dungeon breathed, and in the breathing, the first tumbler of the Lock turned, and the mechanism that required exactly one thousand specific deaths to complete registered its first: a farmer, killed by his own stillness, in the opening chamber of a dungeon that had never killed before and would not stop killing for a very long time.

Death #1. 999 remain.
