Erick burst a laugh that drew some attention. “Spiders are better?”

“They are,” Jane said, nodding resolutely.

“Dogs are great, Jane, they— Ach.” Teressa began moving into position, to stand behind Erick. “They’re coming this way.”

Linxel led the slow, methodical charge toward Erick. His allied leaders followed his lead, the people of Pale Cow parting for their path. Soon, the tall man stood only two meters away. Erick had to look up to see his face, and he liked that. For a moment, he was unprofessional, but he quickly banished that feeling and tried to be simply personable.

Linxel said, “Greetings, Erick.”

Roodi and Fara added their own, “Greetings.”

“Greetings, Linxel. Roodi. Fara.” Erick asked, “What brings you all here tonight?”

“Aligned interests with Pale Cow which we hope will lead to friendship.” Linxel said, “And since you’re here, I hoped to speak to you, as well, but I will let the others go first.”

Not wasting any time, Roodi stepped forward, saying, “From what I understand, you are the one to thank for much of Pale Cow’s newfound spine, and also their newfound flexibility. Before, they didn’t have any true answers to any of our larger questions, and all decorum aside, Koori has been an utterly intractable witch.” The pale man turned to Koori, who did not look angry at all, saying, “I’m glad to see you come to your senses. Pale Cow and Blue Sky have been friends before, and I would see us be friends again. I would speak with you, if you are amenable.”

Koori said, “I am.”

Roodi said, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt. Good night.”

“Good night, Leader Roodi. A pleasure to meet you.”

Roodi paused a bit, examining Erick for a moment, looking for dishonesty. He found none, so he nodded, then walked off with Koori, speaking in hushed, halfway-angry tones at the woman as the two of them went to the tables full of drinks.

Fara’s dog huffed a bit as both the beast and his master spared a glance to watch Roodi and Koori walk away, then the two of them turned to Erick in unison. Fara’s voice was rough, but even, “You did a good service for us grass travelers, Archmage Flatt. Our dogs kept us free of face stealers and otherwise, but we couldn’t provide that sort of service to everyone, like you. Thanks for cleaning up our lands. But I heard you were here for a dragon, so if we catch wind of a dragon, you got some way to contact you? I’d prefer to not have one of those things around here, either.”

Erick was momentarily stunned, then he said, “Uh. I do not, actually.” He would have offered a telepathic contact, but Erick wouldn’t be here in grass traveler land for much longer. He said, “Send a message to Silverite at Spur, perhaps?” He looked to Poi for confirmation.

Poi said, “A standard [Telepathy] will reach the archmage, anywhere in the world; we will ensure it, but please do not abuse this function.”

“Easy, then. Understood.” Fara turned to Niyazo, saying, “Now you and I gotta talk.” Briefly, she said, “Nice meeting you, Archmage Flatt.”

“Nice meeting you, too,” Erick said.

As Fara and Niyazo walked away together, with Fara’s massive hound trundling alongside them, Teressa subvocalized toward the dog, ‘Nice meeting you, doggie!’

Erick grinned at that.

Linxel seemed to take that smile in another way, as he said, “And that leaves you for me. Would you care for a walk upon the plains?”

“Yes.” Erick’s grin remained as he said, “I was about to end the night here, so I’ll end the night with you, instead.” He told his people, “You can all head back to the yurt.”

Teressa happily said, “See you later, boss,” while Nirzir’s eyes shot wide as she said, “Real— Okay! Uh,” and Jane gave a tiny chuckle. Poi just nodded, and led the way back to the yurt.

- - - -

Under the bright, night sky, Erick silently walked beside Linxel, feeling butterflies in his stomach for the first time in a while. He was also feeling the stirring of something wanting for the first time in a while, too. Erick tried not to look at Linxel, to gauge the man’s reaction, to see if he felt the same, but he couldn’t help himself, for he had to keep aware of his surroundings, right? Right.

And yeah.

Linxel was experiencing the same sort of stirrings as Erick. Heart beating faster. Blood rushing to other places...

Erick distracted himself with a glance north. Clan Pale Cow’s party and all their people were half a kilometer away; little more than a bit of light on the horizon that melded into all the other lights, from all the other clans camped out in Ooloraptoor.

That quick look seemed to break some building tension, or perhaps Linxel was worried that Erick was going to run. Maybe Erick should run, but before he could, Linxel broke the silence of the night, “I am not good at this sort of thing, but if you are sticking around Ooloraptoor, I would court you. Romantically.”

For a long moment, Erick felt lighter than air, and then the rest of Linxel’s words came to him.

Crushed.

An apt description for his emotional state. It was an emotion that he shared with Linxel, though. Linxel looked ready to be crushed in turn, to be denied.

“I’m moving on as soon as I’m sure that I’ve left no enemies behind.” He looked up to Linxel. The man looked away. Erick said, “Otherwise, I would accept your courtship. Or at least I’d like to know you in a more relaxed setting.”

Linxel turned back. He said nothing.

So Erick said, “Believe me that I am interested. But I can’t stay here. People are scared and I have obligations in other directions.”

Linxel smiled softly, his voice cracking a little, “I had to take my [Strike], but I understand.”

“Would you like to visit Spur, sometime?” Erick said, “Or I might actually come back here, but not for a while. I can’t actually live here, for all my obligations are over there, but I might have [Gate] soon, so that could work.”

Linxel blinked a few times. “Oh. You aren’t just letting me down easy, are you.” A joyful chuckle came out of his throat. “Oh. I actually have a chance. Uh. I didn’t expect this.”

Erick smiled brightly. “Yeah. You have a, uh, large chance. You are… very attractive.”

“Uh. You too.”

Linxel went full mast under his robes. Erick was already there. Linxel leaned down. He tasted of want, and Erick found he enjoyed that a lot.

A [Sealed Privacy Ward] went up.
