Cool a small area, dealing physical damage per second. Creatures caught in the effect are slowed if they cannot become warm. Effect stacks. Lasts 10 minutes.

Eduard had invented that one, right alongside his sister Maia’s [Incandescent].

And since Erick was creating a new spell anyway, and for some symmetry, Erick channeled [Frozen Mist] and Aurify through an Ophiel hanging out high in the sky. Ice instantly formed on beating wings, then shed away like so much scattered frost. The air turned to winter, as a cold mist billowed away from Ophiel.

And Ophiel kinda liked it. He ducked and weaved into the air, trailing a chill all around him, scattering ice with every beat of his wings, and with every note of his violin song.

Frozen Mist Aura, instant, medium range, 1 mana per second + Variable

Cool a small area, dealing physical damage per second. Creatures caught in the effect are slowed if they cannot become warm. Effect can be modulated at will.

Erick let that aura lapse. It was dry ice making time! He combined the original [Frozen Mist] with—

He stopped.

Why not use [Mysticalshape] to make it work better? Well. Yeah. That was one of the Big Things he wanted to try using that spell for, wasn’t it; to make some Particle Magic without extraneous contaminants, like what happened when he used [Crystallize Diamond].

Erick smiled. Okay. Well. He had to make this one himself; he couldn’t make this spell through Ophiel as he sat there, on the porch of his yurt. So he excused himself from the screening area, saying, “I’m going to make a spell. Shouldn’t take too long.”

Nirzir instantly, and excitedly asked, “What spell! Can I watch?”

Jane just smiled as she watched Erick go.

“Of course.” Erick stepped off of the yurt and walked a bit away, saying, “It’ll be a spell that makes the material which can then be used to make carbonated drinks.”

“What’s ‘carbonated’?” Nirzir asked. “Something to do with making something have more carbon?”

“Exactly. The formula for this molecule is one carbon and two oxygen. I’m adding in [Mysticalshape] and [Frozen Mist] to see if I can make the spell operate without producing byproducts, and to make a solid material that can be transported later, in case I want to make a product with this spell at another time.”

Nirzir nodded, waiting for the magic. She asked no more questions.

Erick held a hand forward and channeled mana through his various spells. The Particle spells sounded of static, but [Mysticalshape] sounded like a possibility sliding into place, while [Frozen Mist] was the sound of a frozen morning, crackling with ice— Huh. That spell had gained some sound to it, too. Before, it was just another static sound.

Anyway.

Erick tuned the song a few different ways, trying to find the vibrations that turned cold possibility into a fizzy, harmless sensation. He didn’t find the correct combination right away, but knowing that CO2 condensed into a solid well below 0 degrees, he went for a deeper cast of [Frozen Mist], trying to make it cold enough for—

Yup!

That did it. That was the proper sound of a cold soda.

Smiling, Erick cast, twisting magics together, targeting the space above the corner of a stone platform.

Flowing streamers of misty white cold swirled out of the manasphere, condensing into a small teaspoon-sized pile that grew larger as moments piled up; like the falling of snow onto a specific part of the world. The yield was small, and the production was slow, but CO2 was precipitating out of the air, well enough.

Ah! To have this spell back on Earth— Actually. Having [Grow] would probably be a better solution to climate change than carbon sequestration. Erick always thought that was just pushing the problem forward, onto the next generation.

Anyway.

Erick threw a [Cleanse] on the pile, bursting white light across the space to check to see if there were any toxic byproducts. No thick air came up from the pile, though it was a bit hard to see through the cold, white swirls flowing through the space.

He’d throw another [Cleanse] over the whole thing once it was done.

A blue box appeared well before the crystallization was complete.

Harmless Frozen Particles, instant, close range, 250 mana

Cause particles of a specific type to condense in a small area. Lasts 10 minutes.

The name was a bit odd and the description was rather purposefully vague, but the spell was a success, though the product was slower forming than Erick had expected.

Nirzir asked, “Was that a success?”

“Yes. But I think I can adjust the yield by changing the local environment, as with any Particle Spell.”

Erick grabbed some nearby grasses with an Ophiel, brought those grasses into the dry ice spell, and had Ophiel [Incandescent Aura] the grass into particulate. Almost instantly, Erick knew he had harmed his new spell with the heat, for the whole freezing sphere of magic suddenly shrunk; probably due to the heating spell, which was rather perfectly aligned against the cold spell. Particle spells worked well against each other, after all. The grass still went up in flames, though, producing ash which was swept up by the white streamers of the cold spell, into the interior, where the yield of dry ice suddenly doubled, then tripled, like snow knocked down onto the ground.

Erick decided to let the spell run its course without any more interference, for it was working well enough on its own. The yield was growing faster than diamonds grew, so this was fine.

He said, “The next version of this spell is the aura, but that can come later.”

Nirzir asked, “What can you do with the snow, though? Er. It’s not snow, is it.”

Erick smiled. Nirzir was rather smart. And the pile of CO2 snow was about two handfuls large; this was more than enough to show her what dry ice could do. Erick canceled the rest of the spell then cast a [Cleanse] over the space. White streamers vanished back into the manasphere and thick air flexed, yet removed none of the particulate from the ground.

Success! Including [Mysticalshape] had worked wonders.

“You put it in a drink and you drink it!” Jane said, coming forward with a pitcher of lemon water that she had been working on while Erick made his spell. She handed the container off to her father. “It’s mostly sugar and the juice of half a lemon. It should function, but the recipe needs obvious work.”

With a sweep of hard light, Erick compacted most of the dry ice into a small block of solid white, about half the size of his fist, while he also took the pitcher from Jane. The ice went into the container, and instantly started bubbling. Nirzir craned her neck, eyeing the smoke pouring off of the bubbling lemonade.

“And that’s it!” Erick said. “All you have to do is let the dry ice fully dissolve into the drink, and that’s all it takes to make soda water.” He handed the container back to Jane, adding, “You should lightly close off the lid, though, to ensure the carbonation takes.”

Jane eagerly took the pitcher, giving a laugh as she wrapped it in shadows, saying, “You could have done this a year ago, dad.”

“A year ago, the Queen Daydropper had killed most of Odaali using what I assume is a variation of this spellwork, and [Grow].”

Jane winced. “… Ah. Yeah.”

Nirzir’s eyes shot wide. “It’s dead air!?”

“That’s what most people would call it, yes,” Erick said. “But it’s no more dangerous than any other magic out there.”

Nirzir instantly regained control of herself. “I— Yes. Of course. I was simply surprised. Pardon my temporary naivety. Would you mind if I cast a [Cleanse] upon the… bubbling water? To. Uh. To alleviate my own concerns?”

Erick smirked. “Go ahead.”

Nirzir did so. The white smoke coming out of the pitcher was unaffected. “… I see you are correct.”

“We’ll wait until it finishes bubbling, then we can try some,” Erick said. “Don’t ever drink dry ice. That might kill you.”

Nirzir stood straight. “Ah.”

Jane said, “Oh! It won’t kill you.”

“It could seriously hurt you, Jane,” Erick said. “… Though, with Health… I don’t know.”

Nirzir still looked unsure, but Jane was wholly ready for a soda. Soon enough, they returned to watching the debates, and this time they had another beverage option. Jane sipped her lemon soda, smiling gently as she watched Teressa sputter her drink to the side, spitting out the ‘nasty’ stuff that ‘stung’. Jane teased Teressa mercilessly over that, but Erick just smiled as he sipped his own drink. And yeah… It did sting a bit more than Erick remembered. Teressa declared all of the people of Earth ‘Obvious sadists’, which earned a large laugh from both Erick and Jane.

Poi emphatically declared that soda did not live up to the hype, but he drank it anyway.

The five of them continued to watch the debates, but none of what was said would likely impact any of them, except for maybe Nirzir.

… The debates were important. The world was changing, and the grass travelers were beset on all sides and from within, by pressures that would sweep over them if they did not solidify in the face of those pressures. But the debates weren’t important to Erick, except that he needed to make allies everywhere he went. Allies were important.

For someone, someday, would discover that he was a Wizard. And the Shades still had a heavy interest in him. And he had shadelings to watch over. And a Crystal Forest to clean up of crystal mimics. And there was still a Converter Angel out there, though Erick hadn’t seen any of the Angel’s soul modifications in a long while.

Erick had irrevocably changed the world in so many different ways, and he had a responsibility to see that the changes he caused were good ones, and that people weren’t coming after him for what he had done.

But the debates here weren’t that important for Erick, for he might be done with the grass travelers, especially if Ordoonarati had truly abandoned his need to assassinate Erick. Though what, exactly, had he done to stop the dragon from choosing violence? Could have been anything, really.

A lot happened past the edges of Erick’s sight.

- - - -

In a distant yurt, far away from Ooloraptoor, a man warmed himself by the firepit in the center of his home, enjoying the flames in the deepening night, though the light could have been brighter, and the warmth stronger. He was still cold, but he wanted to save on wood, so he simply grabbed a nearby blanket and layered it over the one already around his shoulders.

And he waited, his eyes locked on the flap of leather that served as a door. He had been waiting for hours. Green shadows swirled behind him; the firelight doing nothing against that ephemeral darkness. Rather than banish the shadows to the corners, the light seemed to deepen them. The cold seemed to deepen, too.

The flap of the yurt suddenly swung open, letting out the heat, letting out the light, letting in the intruder.

She was a woman, completely unlike the man, completely out of place in the rustic setting of the man’s humble yurt. Her armor was of thin red silk; diaphanous and flowing. Her strength was in her spine, and in the depths of her ruby eyes. Her weapons were her words, and she would likely draw more blood than the man tonight.

Red went on the offense, “You play a dangerous game.”

“We play the game well.”

“A bluff.” Red said, “You tried to kill him, but then you realized you were too weak so you switched tactics. Do not pretend you have tricked anyone into doing anything, for you are not nearly clever enough for that.”

The green shadows swirled, but the man’s face remained impassive.

One of Red’s perfectly shaped eyebrows rose, ever so slightly. “You didn’t respond to the goad. Something else is going on here. Enlighten us now, or face extinction.”

Another goad, meant to draw him out in a way that would expose something vital. If her threat was anything less than solid, then the man would have changed tactics, again; he would have gone on the offensive. But unlike Erick, Red gave no mercy. She would have to find the man first, but with the world of the grass travelers changing, many routines would change as well. He didn’t think he would mess up and accidentally expose himself to another unknown dragon, but that was what Integration risked. It was a risk that he had to take, though.

The man said, “All the usual opposition to Integration has vanished, either through purge or conversion or honest change. Erick won without really trying, so who are we to get in the way of his Worldly Path? We would have to be fools of the highest caliber to go up against his light.”

Red’s face became a mask. “Are you trying for Empire?”

“We are trying to remain alive in a changing world, and apparently, hiding among the itinerant masses is not good enough. So we will take refuge in the houses our people build.” He went on the offensive, saying, “Which brings us to this: My people are deciding that they need a centralized government, and they wish to be treated as equals by your people. Is this a problem for you? A single, allied city that is not under your direct control? One out of ten thousand?”

“Not at all.” Red’s mask broke in fractions, becoming something nicer and more sinister all at once. “Hopefully not in a hundred years, either, when your pitiful population has a hundred cities and finally gains some true numbers.”

The man felt the need to goad the woman about her own desires for Empire, but that would be a foolish [Strike] indeed. So he said, “Allied states are good to have. You might actually get one on your northern borders after all this time, as long as you leave us alone.”

Red’s mask fully broke as she smiled; a genuine threat and an expression of joy all in one. “You may keep your shitty cow-flecked land and demented ideas of government to yourself. All I need from your people is beef to feed our people. So don’t skimp on herding after you finally Integrate, or else we will need to have a second conversation, and you will not enjoy that.” She lost her smile and stared for a long moment; until she was satisfied that she had won.

And she had; after all these years, she had finally won.

The woman went to exit the yurt, grabbing the leather flap— She stopped. She turned back, her ruby eyes glinting in the firelight. “We probably aren’t coming for you when we roll over the rest of this shitty continent, so don’t give us a reason to reconsider that stance.”

And then she left.

The room grew colder again. The man threw another log on the fire. Warmth soon swirled around the cabin as the green shadows vanished, pulling back from the meeting.

