The man yawned. It was warmer now, and the sounds of the rest of his clan came to him; a comfort. It was getting late. Perhaps he should just go to bed, and yet— Oh. He must have dozed off a bit, there. He checked on the debates— They were still happening, but the man had lost interest. It was time for bed.

- - - -

Erick didn’t watch the whole debate. Mostly, he did everything else he had to do, and then he did more. When he ran out of monster kill requests, he went out and gathered more applications from the people waiting outside of his protected space.

But as the sun set, and the sky turned purple and gold, Erick returned to watch the debates, because Koori took the podium.

The eighth speaker from Blue Sky was nearing the end of the elder’s patience, so they went out in style, attacking a great deal of people by speaking of how Pale Cow’s orthodoxy was a problem. Every single idea that Pale Cow put forth was fundamentally flawed because they came from a place of willful ignorance about how the world truly worked. People used magic in the real world; they didn’t hide it like some shameful secret.

That much insult finally earned that speaker the elders’ ire; they got voted off.

The speaker from Pale Cow was already barely staying afloat, so they graciously left, which bought the rest of Pale Cow some goodwill. That was when Koori took the stand.

Koori said, “Many of you know me, or perhaps you know of my history with the depths of magic, and the dangers. For those of you who do not know, I will tell you.

“I have achieved tier 9 spellwork. I am an archmage by all conventional use of the word, though I would never call myself by such a title. I achieved this ranking many years ago, learning from a Speaker who I abandoned later, much to my shame. But back before I was orthodox, before I learned of what magic had done to my body, before the failures that led me to orthodoxy, I was an archmage.

“Everything I ever gained and lost was because of magic; because of [Cleanse].

“Four miscarriages, before I was finally graced with my daughter. I thought I was broken inside, but I was not; magic did that to me.” She paused. She continued, “A child, one year old. A sky tether yanked him out of his mother’s arms and my own misstarget erased both the monster, and the child.

“And then there was my brother. I was angry at him, once, and now I can never see him again.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. The audience was dead silent. Jane stopped chewing her snacks, and she wasn’t the only one.

“All of my failures are horrific, and I’m sure many of you have the same sorts of experience. If it were only I who failed to wield magic properly, if it were only I that made mistakes, then orthodoxy wouldn’t be so prevalent among our people.” Koori said, “Magic is deceptive in what it grants you. Those blue boxes hold power that no one should wield. They are unknowable boundaries that no one should push. And yet we use this power because we have this power, for the Darkness and the monsters are always out there, always threatening.

“Make no mistake. I do not think that anyone should openly wield the power that the Script grants us all, but I understand the need. I understand. That need is what drove me to learn magic in the first place.

“Pale Cow understands that most people use magic and that we will have to accept the open use of magic after Integration. Many of our people might even choose to go standard.” She said, “And I will be one of them.” The crowd gasped. “That is why I am on the stage today. My break from orthodoxy is an example of the commitment of Pale Cow to the prosperity of every single grass traveler, and as a show of solidarity, I will be participating in the standard Polite Battle after this debate, if it should get so far. Let us hope that it does not go that far, for power is dangerous, and not all of us are able to wield it so well as other archmages around here.” Koori said, “It is my hope that if we do Integrate, that we continue to have orthodoxy, but Pale Cow certainly understands that orthodoxy is not for everyone. Just as we would expect none of you to impose your beliefs on us, Pale Cow would never seek to impose upon you...”

Her speech moved on to the importance of having the freedom to choose one’s own beliefs, and of how an Integrated government should not impinge on those beliefs, in any direction.

The debate wore on till a few hours after sundown, with Pale Cow having lost 8 speakers, and Blue Sky having lost all 10. Pale Cow was declared the winner, and Blue Sky accepted their loss; there would be no battle over this debate.

Most people had stopped watching long before that, including all of Erick’s party, except for Erick himself. After Elder Teer gave a final exit speech, Erick shut off the [True Viewing Screen], and then he was on first watch.

- - - -

The next morning, Amasar showed up at the edge of the property bright and early. Erick let him in, and the man spoke quickly and professionally, stating that Clan Brown Dog had chosen to forgo a debate. Clan Pale Cow had won their three scheduled debates, which meant that Green Grass, Blue Sky, and Brown Dog would reach out and accept envoys from Songli. They would learn more of Integration, and of the greater political and economic realities of Nelboor. Amasar assured Erick that he was welcome to stay as long as he wished; Niyazo and Koori would have come to tell him this, but they are in talks with many other clans right now.

Erick thanked Amasar for his report.

His duty discharged, Amasar bowed, and said one more thing, “Clan Pale Cow is hosting a feast tonight to celebrate the win. We wish for you to be there. Will you attend?”

“Of course!”

Amasar bowed again, and then left.

Erick turned away, and smiled a little.

This particular chapter of the Integrator versus True Traveler conflict was over, and though Ordoonarati had threatened destruction if he lost, he had taken the loss. This all but proved that Ordoonarati had changed his mind. Perhaps Erick would accept the offer of a feast from clan Green Grass, from Linxel, too.

It might be nice to see that guy again, and in a better setting.

But first came steel making, motor construction, and all the other small jobs he had lined up for himself, along with one more: Dry ice production. Not for himself, but because Jane wished to try her hand at remaking some of her favorite sodas.

Halfway through the afternoon, and yet already done with most of the important tasks of the day, Jane had one more important thing for him to do: Taste testing various drinks. She had ten options lined up, and she had to have his opinion.

Erick felt a wonderful surge of happiness in his chest as he tasted the first one. “It’s good.”

Jane, with all her seriousness, asked, “But does it taste like it should? Or is this next one better?”

Erick laughed a little, then tried the second option. “This one is great, too.”

“Come on, dad. I want actual criticism.”

Erick shrugged, then tried number three. “Ah. This one is the best of them all.”

Jane couldn’t stop a small smile from creeping onto her face, but she got rid of it as fast as she could. She pretended to ignore her father, then asked Nirzir, “Which one did you like?”

Nirzir said, “I like number 6 the best.”

Jane frowned. “The berry-based one?”

Erick was already tasting number six. “Tastes like strawberries and blueberries. It’s pretty good, too!”

- - - -

Lanterns hung from ropes that had been strung between yurts, providing soft glows to the people that drank and ate and danced below. A band of seven men and women played instruments on a stage across the field from the cooking yurts, which held so many different types of food and in such quantities that the gatherings of Songli would be shamed. Erick even said as much to Niyazo. Niyazo’s head went back as he laughed loudly into the night, a boisterous sound, splashing his drink to the grassland underfoot. He wasn’t the only one having a good time.

It was a good night, filled with many speeches over possible futures, but thankfully they were kept small.

Erick debuted ‘Jane’s fizzy drink’, which earned him a great big frown from his daughter, but she couldn't fool him; she loved the attention. Some of the people loved her drinks, too, but most just loved the misty smoke coming off of the drinks.

Except…

It started with catching the frightened eyes of a young girl who saw the smoke coming off of Jane’s concoctions. In that moment, his perception shifted, slightly.

And as Erick looked around, he saw more and more scared eyes of the people of Clan Pale Cow, sparking in the firelight. Some people looked away as soon as they saw that Erick had seen them, or they tried to play off their terror as something else. But he caught the whispers. ‘The debate is over, he should be leaving now, right?’ and ‘What is that stuff coming out of the drinks?! I’m not drinking that.’ and ‘Archmages! tsk.’

Erick had overstayed his welcome, and Pale Cow was not as happy as they appeared to be.

As the old saying went, ‘Guests are like fish; they get old after three days.’ It had been many more than three days since Erick forced his way into Clan Pale Cow. The people here genuinely came to appreciate him, though, and he had done a lot of good for this community, but now they were wondering when he would leave. They were scared of what his presence signified.

Niyazo continued to be truly welcoming, though. He even asked if Erick would be willing to move to Clan Pale Cow permanently, and it was only half a joke; the other half was a true inquiry, for Pale Cow could do well with a second archmage among them.

As though hearing her name, Koori came over to Erick and Niyazo, carrying another drink in her hand to hand off to her husband. Then, she turned to Erick, genuinely saying, “Thank you, Erick.” Her words encompassed a lot more than a simple ‘thank you’, though.

Erick was feeling a bit melancholy, but he could act personable enough. He teased, “For what, exactly?”

Koori leveled a withering stare at him.

Niyazo playfully threw an arm around his wife, saying, “Come now, Koori! You’re in the searchlight now.”

With a heavy sigh, Koori reached up and took Niyazo’s free hand in hers, holding on tight, as she looked to Erick, saying, “The powerful can never show weakness, Erick, especially to other people in power. So I will say thank you, and leave it at that.”

“I accept your thanks, but your idea that the powerful can never show weakness is untrue.” Erick smiled, saying, “But not every archmage is the same.”

Koori stared for a moment, then she sipped her drink, saying nothing.

The night wore on.

Erick went back to the people that truly mattered to him, trying to recapture the celebration amongst all the falsity. He only found a more uncomfortable truth. He saw now that Jane did not love the attention upon her new drinks, for most people who tried them did not truly like them, either. More than once, Jane spoke a bit too loudly that ‘her father made the snow that went into the drinks’ and ‘I didn’t make it myself’. She said that so that people would like it, and they at least pretended to. Jane was not happy that her drinks weren’t more popular, though.

Teressa seemed to be doing fine while the children had been clamoring around her, asking for more stories, but by now the kids had been forced to go to bed by their parents. Now, Teressa was surrounded by horny men who kept trying to peek under her veils. It was a miracle that she hadn’t clobbered anyone yet.

Nirzir and Poi, though, were both divorced from the party. The people of Pale Cow had never truly warmed up to the Mind Mage, and though Nirzir had a working relationship with those at the cooking yurt, it seemed the older woman Cook, Waveni, was the only one who truly cared about the princess of Void Song.

Erick decided to end the night—

Ah. Looks like the night was not going to end there.

Erick’s heart fluttered uncomfortably as Linxel Green Grass walked into the party, coming in off of the Teleport Square set up outside. He wore a thick leather robe of greys and whites, obscuring much of the form of his body, but hinting at everything that lay beneath. Gold jewelry wrapped around the base of his black horns, glinting in the firelight. Niyazo and Koori were there to greet the tall man as he entered the party, but he looked around until he saw Erick. They locked eyes for a moment, both of them giving a tiny, unprompted grin, and then Linxel was able to focus on Niyazo and Koori, to accept their welcome into the gathering.

Beyond Linxel came leaders from other clans.

Clan Blue Sky’s Leader, Roodi, came in from Linxel’s left. The warlord was a pale man of average height, with a shaved head, and two tiny pale horns poking up from his forehead. The man scanned the welcoming party, and locked eyes with Erick from twenty meters away. He didn’t look happy, but he also looked like he wanted to talk.

Clan Brown Dog’s Leader Fara came in on Linxel’s right. She was a brown-skinned woman of no odd features, with thick braids gathered in a bun. Her right hand was half raised to her side, gently commanding a gigantic brown dog to stand down. The dog looked like a cross between a mastiff and a lion, and it obeyed Fara’s command with a perfect adherence. The dog’s eyes scanned the crowd with as much intelligence behind them as any other person, which was odd, because it seemed like a normal dog. It certainly wasn’t a monster.

Someone else seemed to enjoy the sight of the dogs, though.

At Erick’s side, Teressa giddily whispered, “It’s the dogs! The famous dogs!”

“What?” Jane asked.

“The wardogs of Nelboor!” All of Teressa’s previous tension seemed to leave her in that moment as she smiled brightly, under her veil. “I wondered if we would ever see them.”

Nirzir looked up at Teressa, weirded out, then she seemed to accept what she was seeing. “I suppose their story is a bit popular. But that story doesn’t come from these dogs; it comes from the wardog people of northwest Nelboor.”

Jane repeated, “What?”

“They breed dogs to fight monsters. Very respectable.” Teressa said, “Beastmasters back home use all kinds of beasts against the Forest, but only dogs have ever proven repeatedly viable. Dogs can join a community, and this fact sets them apart from many other Beastmaster options. Very loving creatures.” Teressa added, “Their sense of smell makes them great trackers, too; easy to sniff out nearby monsters.”

“Oh.” Jane looked at the large dog again, but this time she seemed to be appraising the animal. “I wouldn’t be comfortable being a dog.”

