It was already too late by the time the two realized it was a diversion. Three more gates had appeared around the templar at the same time. Alea’s chains burst forth from the beyond, and the templar was impaled before he could react. Two gates closed while one expanded, allowing Zac to pass right through. Two arrows impotently whizzed past a few hundred meters away, their target suddenly gone.

“Stop!”

[Death’s Duality] had already dug into the grievously wounded templar’s head by the time the roaring giant had turned around. Between Zac’s unpredictable movements, the deathly cowl of [Arbiter of the Abyss], and the rattling chains surrounding him, he perfectly played the part of a grim reaper descending on the mortal plane.

Zac wasn’t taking any chances when there was no Kill Energy to provide confirmation. He tore the templar into shreds, both body and soul, with a blitz of swings. With his left arm still inside the portal, it looked like he planned on escaping after the ambush. However, a second lightning bolt descended from the sky, followed by a fist the size of Zac’s whole upper body.

The lightning briefly immobilized him, and the brawler struck with such force that it resisted the redirecting force of [Arbiter of the Abyss]. It was like he’d managed to replicate the effect of an Inner World despite only being a Late Hegemon. A wall of Miasmic mist rose to block, yet the passive defenses of [Love’s Bond] couldn’t match up to that force.

Zac felt like he’d been hit by a train as he was forced out of the vortex, flying away until he slammed into a spatial barrier. Just when it looked like he was cornered, the magic circle surrounding the Peregrine Ocean heaved. With it, the silver waters already being overloaded with borrowed force triggered a sudden tide that swallowed two of the embattled invaders.

How could Zac have been planning to escape after taking down the Templar? He was Death, a wolf among sheep. His left hand had only remained inside the vortex because he was busy with something else; striking the magic circle with [Void Mountain] outside of the sight of the others. He’d just barely managed to exhaust another rune before he was interrupted.

The deadly surge of silver water became Zac’s helper. It didn’t just kill two unlucky Sealbearers tasked with guarding the dimensional gate, it unraveled the Shieldbearer’s spatial prison. Zac could naturally have escaped on his own, but not without exposing the unusual abilities of his void vortices. So far, they could still be mistaken for normal spatial gates.

As the barrier collapsed, Zac emerged in a gust of Miasma, leading four pygmy skeletons. A shimmering coffin appeared in the nick of time to intercept a third set of arrows. The golden arrow caused huge cracks to cover its surface, the hidden arrow made it crumble directly. One of the pygmies of [Profane Exponents] had fallen from a single exchange, but it freed up Zac to face the giant directly.

Six chains bound him down, each adding a suffocating layer through [Inexorable Subjugation]. Slowed and with his actions manipulated by [Arbiter of the Abyss], the man was nothing more than prey. He didn’t get the chance to unleash the terrifying power he’d gathered in his left fist before his whole arm was cut off. With a keening swish, his head shot into the air, cleanly severed by Zac’s follow-up swing.

Zac frowned upon feeling no feedback through [Fatehew]. He’d failed to strike the brawler’s soul. There was no time to worry about the mystery before Zac’s mind screamed with danger as the headless body rapidly expanded as corruption surged. A fell wind cast by a pygmy skeleton descended on the body, displacing its self-destructive force right atop the Shieldbearer.

The defender expertly blocked the self-destructive attack without missing a beat, and the giant was already conjuring another body through a surge of corrupted timeflow. Bad turned to worse as a deafening groan shook the whole realm. Two bands of [Eye of Desolation] had snapped out of nowhere.

Zac’s head swivelled, and he was shocked to find the supposedly struggling mage floating right above the Oblivion-filled eye. The fierce battle turned out to be a mirage that had tricked even his senses, while the real mastermind was hard at work dismantling Zac’s cage. Now, the three realms had been reduced to one, allowing the invaders to join forces directly.

A sigh escaped Zac’s lips as he rushed at the giant to finish the job. He had to give it to them; these people knew how to throw down.
