Kydyr’s wide eyes remained wide for a moment as his thoughts buzzed behind his suddenly-guarded expression. And then he relaxed. He frowned. He said, “While it is good to worry about strange coincidences when dealing with Fae Magic... Perhaps you need a fae to make [Gate]? The fae do tend to hide rather well on just the other side of Sight, and this would explain why no one has ever been able to complete the Worldly Path themselves. But…” Kydyr shook his head. “This language thing with your native tongue seems like pure coincidence to me, though since you are going after a Wizard, if you do pursue this line of magic then it might happen how you suggest. Wizards can do strange, impossible shit…” His voice trailed off as he thought. He said, “Whatever Wizardry you attempt to enact out of whatever Wizard you find is probably a conversation to have with many more people than I, but I would suggest staying away from trying to make ‘Word Magic’, or whatever you’re suggesting. That magic practically begs to be Forgotten. Imagine all the strangeness you could cause! And especially if you could apply this Wizardry to already-established spells. With enough shifts, I bet you could turn [Force Bolt] into [Ascension to Godhood], or some other nonsense.” He shook his head. “No. Don’t go looking for this magic.” He added, “But getting a Wizard to turn some Fae Magic into [Gate]? Now that… That I could see happening.” He summed it up, “I don’t agree with your circumstantial letter-replacement ideas. Your language was not magical. Ancient Script is magical. No; this won’t work.”

Erick took a metaphorical step back and reevaluated.

Word Magic seemed perfect for a Paradox Wizard, but, at the same time, Kydyr was right. Word Magic would likely get Banned and Forgotten as soon as it was created. Or, at least the rest of Veird would try to Ban it, and then they would try to erase Erick from existence, causing… A lot of bad things.

Erick decided that ‘Word Magic’ was probably a very bad idea.

And also, someone else had probably already made Word Magic, and it was already Banned. There was no way that some bookish Wizard wouldn’t have thought to make this magic before now.

Maybe Kydyr didn’t even know about that…

“It probably already got Banned, anyway,” Erick tested.

Kydyr shrugged. “Maybe. The Geodes are very fond of killing anything that has the potential to break the world.”

Erick nodded. Leaving aside its availability, ‘Word Magic’ was probably superfluous and very much too dangerous. Maybe all you actually needed to make a [Gate] was a Wizard to break the Script rules on Fae Magic, and then to make a true tunnel into a private world through ancient Fae spellwork.

Which would probably run directly against the Dimensional Ban, but…

Fae Magic obviously wasn’t Dimensional Magic; if it were, then no one could make Fae Spells.

… Whatever.

Erick moved on.

Making the three spells described on the chalkboard was easy enough; Erick just limited himself to stopping well before he reached perfection. Apparently, this was good enough to achieve perfect illusionwork, anyway.

Illusionary Force, instant, close range, 250 mana + Variable

Conjure a solid illusion of up to large size. Absorbs 500 damage before breaking. Lasts 1 hour.

Concealment, instant, close range, 500 mana

An object of up to medium size is made invisible to all but the truest of sight. Physical interaction can break the illusion. Lasts 1 hour. When cast on a person the spell lasts 10 minutes.

Intangibility, instant, close range, 250 mana

An object of up to medium size is made intangible. Extensive physical interaction can break the illusion. Lasts 1 hour. When cast on a person the spell lasts 1 minute.

When Erick was done with the last one, he said to Kydyr, “So that’s [Intangibility], too. Not [Intangible Object].”

Kydyr sighed, saying, “You should have stuck to [Conceal Object] and [Intangible Object].”

“I certainly could have made them worse than I did; yes.”

Kydyr leveled a gaze at Erick, saying, “Don’t use that spell yourself. The spell description doesn’t say this, but you effectively have 0 Health while intangible, and while this is fine for objects, it's deadly for people. It’s like you’re walking around in [Lightwalk] while the entire world has [Lightshape]; incredibly dangerous and I wish you would have left it alone.”

“[Intangibility] has fewer runes to it than [Intangible Object], though, so this is easier to enchant.”

“… Aye. I suppose that is true.” Kydyr dismissed the current chalkboards, then summoned more. These ones were full of runework instead of spellwork. The details in design, how the runes fit together, and how the connecting divots swirled and combined, were all different, too. All of them looked normal enough, though. Erick understood what each design did before Kydyr explained, but Kydyr explained anyway, saying, “The first one is a runic web that you will finish, and then cover —likely with stone— to only ever touch it in order to provide power for the runes. People will not notice this runic web if you do it right, though they will know it is there by the denial of certain spells, like [Stoneshape]. The second board shows a runic web which is also buried in a wall, but this one projects a fake runic web onto the surface of the wall, and also obscures the actual runes on that false web; for when you want people to know they are inside a runic web. The third is how we add breakers to the web to allow spellwork to flow between individual webs, but these breakers will shatter if unwanted magics are shoved into the web, thus preventing untoward spellwork from infecting your entire runic web. Much of these [Illusionary Force] runes can be replaced for [Illusionary Item] runes, depending on the robustness you desire from your system, and your constraints for mana.” Kydyr gestured to a meter-cubed block of platinum that hadn’t been there before now. “There’s our raw material.” He asked, “Any questions before we start?”

“You use [Illusionary Force] for the breaker-system on the boards.” Erick said, “But when you were remaking the breakers for this house, you used [Fairy Item] and another spell I suspect is [Fairy House].”

The man was an adequate teacher, but he was holding back a lot in his lessons, either due to security reasons, or because he didn’t think Erick could handle it, or for whatever other reason there could be.

Kydyr gave a little smile, saying, “You can work on fairy webs and all other obscure runic web creation on your own time, outside of my house. But, yes. You are correct. Much of the Illusionary spells are interchangeable with Fairy spells, though until you know what you’re doing and how Fae Magic interacts with the rest of the world and with other Fae Magic, you should refrain from using Elemental Fae. Fae Magic is simply unnecessary for most runic security.” He continued, “But setting aside Fae Magic, my assignment is not to get you fully versed in every single possible iteration of runic web security, but to teach you the basics, and how those basics all interact with each other. It takes a normal Runic-Class person about a year to achieve adequate runic web security, which includes anti-[Stoneshape] and a plethora of other spells, with each spell adding complexity and therefore difficulty. For you? Who already has a Class that is not Runic at all? Well… One day of proper runic web learning is not nearly enough, but it will have to be enough.”

“… Understood.”

Kydyr nodded, then flicked a finger toward the platinum cube. A bubble of white gold expanded from the top, rapidly becoming a wire-frame octahedron about a meter across. With another flick of the same finger, Kydyr gained a short, white talon. It looked like his dragon talon, but smaller. He said, “Since you already know some of the deeper truth then there’s no need to keep up all of my appearances.”

Erick took out the adamantium dagger he had in a holster at his hip, and then he got to work.

- - - -

Seven hours later, and after stopping for several breaks where Ophiel delivered food from Archmage’s Rest, Erick had made several runic webs of passing quality. The first was simply intangible and invisible; it sat in the open air like a part of the air itself. If Erick hadn’t have marked it with a lightward he would have lost track of the thing. The second web was doubled, with the original web hanging in the air on [Force Wall] holders, while an illusionary copy of itself hovered one meter to the left. The third had a false-image hovering next to its invisible and intangible self. The fourth had all of what the third contained, and a break-system, where the corruption of one half would not affect the other half. Five more runic webs were iterations on the themes of the fourth so that Kydyr was sure that Erick wasn’t just extremely lucky.

It was not luck to make these many rather perfect runic webs this fast…

Though Erick did privately admit to himself that there were a lot of New Stats backing him up.

Kydyr sat back on a chair, smiling slightly as he looked up at Erick’s many successes. “I kept waiting for you to fuck up. But… You didn’t. This is work fit for a ready-to-graduate apprentice. You take any of these last two to any runic web office in Stratagold and you would get approved for runic work—” He added, “If you were a wrought and already a part of the system. And you had a Runic Class.” He smiled wider, saying, “That’s how I got into this. That’s where I started with my magic. Illusions and a dream of protection from the Dark. You know?… This is nice. I…” He laughed. “You ruined me for other students, Erick.” He held up a bottle of what he called ‘fizzy water’, saying, “And this fizzy water is wonderful, too!”

Erick sat in his own chair, smiling lightly as he sipped his own soda. He had made their drinks from [Harmless Frozen Particles] and some berry beverages from Archmage’s Rest. He said, “I still have a lot of way to go, though.”

“Oh yes!” Kydyr said, “This is simply the start. You can put practically anything into a runic web as long as you know the proper runes for it, and how they all go together.” He took a mildly serious tone as he said, “Your Class is going to limit you a lot, but you should have unlocked the Class Ability Minor Shifting Runes for achieving this level of spellwork. That Class Ability is no Shifting Runes and it’s certainly no Greater Shifting Runes, but any Shifting Ability is better than none.”

“I heard some people put solid metal down into their runes because they don’t like Shifting Runes at all.”

Kydyr tilted his head back and forth a few times, weighing Erick’s words. “This makes security easier and prevents a lot of burnout, but it’s dead simple to re-etch runes into a material. It’s a lot harder to put solid runes into metal. Like. A lot. The only places that do that…” He frowned. He said, “I won’t say who works in solid runes, but I will tell you that solid runes are much better for durability than etched runes. I can’t help you with those, though.”

Erick nodded as he stared up at his runic webs, hanging in the air in front of him and Kydyr.

He realized he was hungry again, but not for food; he needed a meal of [Renew] in his Other Form. But as soon as he left here, Erick doubted he would ever see Kydyr ever again. So he asked, “Since your request was to kill the Librarian or for books that won’t be out in months: Do you have something else you wish for a trade? For these lessons?”

Kydyr went silent, and thoughtful. And then he asked, “Do you think your cavern with Yggdrasil will ever have a proper day/night cycle? Or is it just bright light all the time?”

Erick saw where this was going, and it was great! But he had to lay down some rules, and some expectations. “Yggdrasil will keep his home how he wants, but if you want, you can live nearby. There’s a nice waterfall at the entrance to the place and there’s lots of mist there, too, and shadows. I’ll be happy to have you—”

“No, no… No.” Kydyr waved Erick off, saying, “It was a flight of fancy. I know where I’m moving after you leave.”

Erick stressed, “If you want to live near Yggdrasil, I welcome you to set up a home in the cavern. I’m sorry for disturbing your house and outing you to the world, so the least I can do is make sure your next home is as secure as it can be.”

Kydyr breathed in, looking inordinately happy yet hiding almost all of it, then he said, “No… No. Thank you, but no. Breaking my house was… Not your fault. I made a mistake in the runic web. I think I overloaded it, and it hadn’t actually been tested against other Elemental Fae in… Years upon years.” He turned to Erick, and said, “Thanks for coming and providing me with a good student, but you should get going.”

… Unexpected.

Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about that.

But…

This was Kydyr’s decision? So. Sure?

It was time to get going, anyway. So.

Erick stood from his chair and bowed a bit, saying, “Thank you for the lessons, Kydyr.”

“Don’t you dare bow to me. Ha! Imagine. Savior of Light bowing— No.”

Erick straightened up, unsure.

“Thanks for killing Ar’Kendrithyst and everything else, Erick.” Kydyr strongly said, “And good luck with [Gate]! I’d tell you to stay away from the fae if you can help it… Though knowing you, and considering what you said about the Worldly Path, that might prove an impossibility.”

“I have a strong feeling that the Headmaster will ask me to go to Ar’Cosmos.” Erick said, “I just hope it won’t be some dragon killing expedition because I’m going to have to refuse that.”

Kydyr went silent and part of his emotional illusion vanished, ever so briefly, revealing a deep chasm of melancholy. And then he replaced his cover, repairing his mask of fake stoicism, saying, “Don’t feel bad about killing dragons, Erick. Most don’t deserve your mercy.”

“… Why not?”

Erick had asked with regard to all of dragonkind, but Kydyr’s warning and Erick’s words held more meaning than that. This was personal for Kydyr.

The kindly, tired owl shifter who was not what he appeared to be, said, “Because dragons have all done horrible things to innocent people.”

Erick had nothing to say to that.

He just spent one more moment looking at Kydyr, wondering…

And then he nodded, turned, and walked away, down the tile pathway to where moss grew over white stone. Erick continued beyond, to the edge of the mist. Ophiel twittered on one shoulder as Erick stepped past the edge of the house and cold mist engulfed them—

