With his senses unencumbered by illusions, and with Kydyr seemingly content to not instantly attack, Erick took in the magnificence of the dragon’s house and the dragon himself. Or rather, what was left of that magnificence after it was covered by a hoard of books. An obscene number of books filled every available space, most of them piled upon defunct organization systems like shelves and wooden boxes. The next room over was a dining room and kitchen space that was filled with books; tomes of all sorts layered upon the table and chair, and spilled out of the sinks. They piled in the cooling boxes, all of which looked as though they had not been used for their original purposes in a long time. Bedrooms were filled with books. The library —both the one on the first floor and the two on the second floor— were absolutely chock full from floor to ceiling, with absolutely no place to stand in any of them. Bathrooms had their plumbing pinched off so that water couldn’t come up from the cistern down below and ruin the literature.

This place was clearly meant for non-metal, fleshy-habitation, even though Kydyr was a bismuth wrought. With these few clues Erick understood that Kydyr had owned this house for a long, long time, but his transition to dragon was a rather recent occurrence. ‘Recent’, meaning sometime in the last few hundred years, or something like that.

Everything Erick saw hinted at a complete shut-in who was deeply incapable of interacting with the outside world like he had in the past. But Kydyr had always been a bit of a shut-in, focused on defense and avoiding battle, and interaction.

The walls of the mansion were a meter thick and unadorned, like the walls of a bunker, and lined with multitudes of runic webs, like a Faraday cage stuck inside concrete. The wardlights up above were utilitarian things, strung around the edges of the space and lighting up the center, but nothing more than that. The plumbing in the bathrooms and the kitchen, before it had been sealed off, went down into a sealed cistern where it looked like it could get recycled on the daily, but there was no water system for taking in more outside water. There were no windows. There wasn’t even a front door. If there had been a front door then it was long gone.

But all that just informed Erick who Kydyr was, now that the illusions were gone. Why had they broken, though? Because of a single conjured bird? It had to be, for that conjured bird lay tipped on its side, in a space filled with concentric circles of broken tile. At least two piles of books had been shoved to the side in the casting, which had also somehow broken the Faraday cage of runic webs located below the tile, and for three meters in every direction. It was a small break, but somehow that break had propagated across the entirety of the web. Many tangled nodes inside the web were gone, like the centimeter-thick platinum rods had somehow burned away without leaving residue, or melted platinum.

Erick had no idea how his spellwork had done that, but all signs pointed to this being his fault.

Dragon Kydyr certainly seemed to think so. The bismuth dragon curled tightly around one of the larger piles of books, bunching and stressing as his tail flicked at the ground, breaking more tiles. His white claws tore at the ground as he snarled.

Erick hadn’t known that wrought could be dragons, but there were many ways to explain what he was seeing. Dragon Essence was easily transferred and grown, as it almost had done inside Jane. The other answer was that Kydyr was a natural born dragon, though Erick suspected this was not the case. There were likely other answers, but Erick didn’t know them, and whatever the truth was would have to wait to be answered.

“What did you DO!” Dragon Kydyr shouted, heat and wind billowing out of his open maw with every angry word, flowing directly over Erick. His breath smelled like metal.

Erick gestured to the bird doll on the ground between them, saying, “I made the doll with feathers this time.” He glanced at the blue box that hovered in his field of view. “And I think I got the good version of the spell; [Fairy Item].”

Fairy Item, instant, medium range, 250 + Variable

Instantiate a non-magical item of up to medium size into reality. Unreal control. Lasts until you decide otherwise.

Kydyr jerked back, his body curling inward, sending books tumbling to the ground as his mouth did a jumble. He had ten different things he wanted to say and had no idea which was best, or what question he wanted to ask first.

In that confusion, Erick checked out his created item with a few Sights from his Ophiel. The bird looked completely non-magical; mundane in every way. Surprising, but not too surprising. He had gone deep into the mana to pull his magic out of it, and looking back on the previous day, when he'd met Aisha, her mention of Elemental Fae made a lot more sense.

Had he been trying for Elemental Fae? Not exactly. Not purposely.

But that’s what had happened.

Erick said to Kydyr, “Aisha just told me that Elemental Fae was a thing, too; one of the houses of Ar’Cosmos, even. I didn’t realize this was an option until halfway through the cast.” He frowned at Kydyr, and tried to lighten the mood, “You didn’t even think this was possible either, did you? Not telling me about this and then letting me go ahead and do it? That’s pretty reckless of you.”

Kydyr centered himself around a whole new plume of anger, saying, “Reckless! Of me!?”

“Yeah.” Erick said, “Spatial Magic comes with a bunch of warnings. What the shit was this, Kydyr? How did I break your runic web?”

Kydyr’s voice vibrated the house, “YOU’RE THE ONE USING FAE MAGIC! YOU SHOULD KNOW!”

Okay. Maybe this was too serious to make fun of.

Erick asked, “Fae Magic breaks things?”

Kydyr froze. Then he erupted again, “Gods Above! Get into the kitchen and stay there while I fix my web.” He advanced on Erick, saying, “MOVE.”

Erick stepped lively toward the kitchen with Ophiel fluttering to catch up.

Kydyr whipped his tail around and smashed it down onto the [Fairy Item] bird. The air clanged. The ground broke. The bird just expanded out on both sides of the tail, like a water balloon, and when Kydyr’s tail bounced upward, the bird bounced away. Kydyr scowled, then slapped the thing at the kitchen entrance, saying, “And take your blasted bird with you!”

Erick caught the bird and kept walking right on toward the kitchen.

Once inside the kitchen, where there was absolutely nowhere to sit and very little room to walk, he—

He almost cast [Fairy Item] again to conjure a chair. This seemed like a bad idea, though, considering what had just happened. He almost called out to Kydyr to ask if it was okay to use the spell again, but this too seemed like a bad idea. The dragon man was very angry. So Erick just stood there with his conjured bird in his hand, watching the master of the house fume and stomp.

Kydyr tore at the floor of the main room, expertly carving down to where the runic web lay, and no deeper. The problematic space extended from Erick’s casting point to three meters in every direction, with most of the runic web there completely obliterated. The problem was much larger than just that one area, though. Erick glanced around the whole of the house and saw breaks in the web here and there, at least one every three meters, and sometimes a lot more than that. At least a thousand breaks, all over the place, with smaller twistings here and there in the rest of the web. It might be an easier fix than expected, though, for the runes inside the metal were different from the usual complexity Erick saw in other places. Almost the whole web was inscribed with a simple repeating pattern of… Spells Erick didn’t know yet.

A few of the runic letters and orders were simple to understand, forming the spell [Concealment], if Erick was reading that right; it was a combination of what should form [Mystical Item] and the rather standard rune for [Invisibility], linked together with scratches in the platinum. Some other spell formed another large chunk of repeating runic letters upon the web, which seemed to be [Mystical Ward]… And some other combination of runic lines. Maybe it looped back into the runes for [Concealment]? Anyway, the runic web was complicated, and yet simple, and that meant that this wasn’t the whole system. There was something missing...

Ah.

The burned out parts. Erick suspected they were some sort of Fae Magic runes—

Kydyr shouted, “I need platinum! Erick! Go get me some! NOW.”

Erick called back, “You mean you don’t have [Duplicate] like all the other ancient wrought? I don’t want to call you a liar, Kydyr… But.”

“… Blast you.”

Kydyr conjured a small rainbow [Ward] and then he started copying bits of platinum inside that obviously-Restful space, making magical platinum to use in the web. With some [Telekinesis] or other such spells, Kydyr began magically laying down new lines of platinum, to repair the broken web. Once the web was whole, a white talon on his left hand lit with rainbow brilliance. Erick wondered why he had white talons while all the rest of him was rainbow bismuth. An affectation, perhaps—

“Dismiss that bird!” Kydyr leveled a glare toward the kitchen.

“Tell me why.”

“Fae Magic interferes with Fae Magic under the Script.”

Erick dismissed the bird. “Okay. We can continue the lesson when you’re less panicked.”

Kydyr started huffing with small laughter, talking about how yes, they would be continuing the lesson, just you wait, as he dipped his glowing-rainbow talon into the platinum, inscribing runes into the fresh metal. Despite, at his scale, resembling a human calligrapher working on a trail of rice grains, Kydyr’s talon swept through the runic web like he was a CNC milling machine; expertly, and with no wasted movement, even with the tight confines of the medium.

Just like Erick had guessed, Kydyr was inscribing some new rune that he hadn’t ever seen before, but from context clues, he expected it to be the rune for ‘Fae’ or maybe ‘Fairy’. The exact size of that rune matched the exact size of the smallest burned-out parts of the rest of the rest of the runic web, too, so that solved what had happened there.

Erick’s Fae spell had destroyed Kydyr’s Fae spell. Why, though? Was Erick’s spell more powerful than Kydyr’s? He didn’t believe so. There was something else happening there, and Erick hoped it wasn’t his Wizardry.

He’d find out, anyway.

Three minutes later, Kydyr had fixed most of the destruction Erick’s first cast of Fae Magic had caused. He cast a spell into the Fae runes—

The house blinked away and a sparse field of moss returned—

The book-filled house came back. The runic web sparked and broke.

“Blast it all!” Kydyr shouted, “Erick! Find me the largest breaks!”

Erick did so, taking less than a second to move two sunform Ophiel back into the house, and then ten more seconds to highlight with magenta lightwards where the largest breaks were inside the walls.

Kydyr raised his face, the whiskers beside his maw flicking out as he scowled at the air all around him. “Blast it all. That’s a lot. Dig down to the webs, Erick; prep the spaces.”

Easy enough to do. Sunform Ophiels began hammering into the walls, chipping away at thick stone to get to the broken webs underneath; despite the main function of the runic web being gone, it still had various Shaping protections, along with anti-[Scry] and other anti-detection spells. While he did that, Kydyr started moving around the house like a 20 meter long rainbow snake, prowling from magenta lightward to lightward, finding problems and filling them in with new platinum and a quick runic inscription.

Fifteen minutes later. Kydyr fixed the tenth break, adding in more Fae Magic to the runic web—

The house flickered invisible and the field of grassy moss returned, but Erick could already tell that some intrinsic part of the runic web was missing; his feet were firmly planted upon invisible stone, about a meter above the actual ground. He tapped the invisible floor with his foot, testing the [Concealment] spell; or at least he was pretty sure it was [Concealment]. The rest of the house was the same, with every single inanimate object invisible, yet not intangible. Erick moved his foot to the side and touched a stack of books. Some invisible thing fell over.

Kydyr was already aware of the problem, yet he was upstairs. His front half was inside a bedroom on the second floor, while his long body curled down the hallway. The bismuth dragon held there ‘midair’, mumbling to himself and looking like he had fucked up somewhere.

“Need some help?” Erick asked.

Kydyr shouted back at him, “NO. Stay there. Don’t knock over my books. I have a system!”

“Because there’s a system to the books,” Erick deadpanned.

“THERE IS!”

“I’m sorry for this,” Erick said, honestly. “I’ll make it up to you, as long as I actually caused this.”

Kydyr whipped his head toward Erick, scowling. But his scowl turned into a simple frown, and his hatred left him, like a weight too heavy to maintain. He turned back to the wall he had been working on and pressed a rainbow talon into the runic web, severing—

Suddenly, the house returned. Visual sight on Kydyr vanished, except for the tip of his tail still sticking out into the main room ahead. Erick still had him in his mana sense, though.

Kydyr moved toward the next break in the web.

Erick waited for the dragon to speak.

He had to wait a few minutes.

As Kydyr fixed a particularly large break, yet with 221 remaining, he said, “If I had thought you capable of Fae Magic I would have said something. This is my own damned fault. You’re on the Path, and—” He huffed. “Apparently Aisha spoke to you about Fae Magic right before you came here, but even that is just the crit to the [Strike]. Going after [Gate] means you probably know all about Ar’Cosmos, or at least you’ve been made aware of that location. And now you know of the Houses of Ar’Cosmos. Death, Carnage, and bah— Fae! Fucking Fae.” Kydyr huffed loudly, then went silent as he focused on repairing the runic webs that Erick had dug out.

Erick picked up the books he had knocked over and placed them back how they were.

Kydyr watched him as he did this; not overtly, but he had stopped working while Erick’s hands were on the books. After Erick removed his hands, Kydyr resumed his work.

Erick decided to get the sensitive questions out of the way, first. “Are you a born dragon, or were you poisoned by Dragon Essence and you couldn’t get rid of it?”

