“Neither.” Kydyr turned his head to stare at Erick through the walls, snipping, “Are you still human with a question mark? Or did you finally fall in some direction?”

“I fell in a direction.” Erick said, “Rozeta helped.”

Kydyr froze, staring heavily at nothing. And then he turned and went to the next runic break, moving like a snake weaving through the air even though his feet were firmly planted on the stone floor.

After fixing another two spots, Kydyr started on the third, saying, “I purposefully went and gained Dragon Essence in a failed bid by Stratagold to infiltrate Ar’Cosmos and take it down from the inside. We got most of the way, but… Fae Magic cast by a true fae inside their own place of power is almost as potent as Wizardry. Fae can’t do nearly as much as a Wizard, mind you, but they can do certain things very well, and one of those things is cruel and unusual punishment through illusions made real; Fae Magic. The Matriarch of House Fairy discovered us halfway through the plan and took great fun in dismantling our entire operation. She twisted our Dragon Essence, Sealing it, leaving us with these bodies, but weak to any other dragon. It’s a common punishment which almost always results in the afflicted dying, because the whole house goes on a Hunt when someone is Sealed.” Kydyr said, “I’m the only one of my team left, and only because I managed to make it back to Veird, proper, and Fae Magic breaks other Fae Magic here on Veird… This isn’t how Fae Magic works inside Ar’Cosmos. I had thought I had prepared well enough to counter her, but... All magic works differently in there, and there is no true preparation to be had against True Fae.”

Erick listened, and focused on one of the many things Kydyr had just revealed, asking, “The Script fully goes away inside Ar’Cosmos, yes?”

“Correct. Unless you can manually cast I would not brave that land, especially since you’ve touched upon Fae Magic. If you’re lucky you won’t meet the actual leader of House Fairy, but the current Matriarch, Illustrious Moon, is almost as dangerous. The actual leader pretends to be whoever she has to be to lure men to their deaths, but her name is… You can’t say her name, for she might hear. So I will lay down a clue, and you can guess. Her name is the name of the House she holds dear, and those three things in the sky that oppress with—” Kydyr stopped. “Ah…” He glanced around. “That was almost too much. I started rhyming there. Uh. Don’t— Hmmm.”

There was a lot to unpack in that bit of occurrence right there, too, from the fact that rhyming was a warning sign of attracting the attention of higher powers, to the fact that Kydyr called Hell, Celes, and the Silver Star straight up ‘oppressors’...

Erick picked out the important part, for now. Don’t say ‘Fairy Moon’. Lesson learned.

Kydyr continued, “The stronger you are, the easier it is to attract the attention of the fae, so don’t… Don’t do that.” Kydyr took a deep breath, then continued, “But you’ll likely have to go to Ar’Cosmos to finish [Gate]. Most people end up there somewhere near the end of their path, though they often hear about the place rather early.”

“Is there a way to detect when you’re exposed to Fae Magic?”

“Yes.” Kydyr said, “It’s rather simple, too. Don’t do it now, for I won’t have you testing my web yet, but when you’re outside, make a small bracelet or something and then wear it. If it breaks then you’ll know someone cast Fae Magic nearby. My runic web should have been able to withstand your spellwork, but the act of a stranger casting Fae Magic inside the web was… Apparently an unexpected vulnerability.”

Erick considered his new spell, then asked, “Is there a way to do this runic web thing without Fae Magic? I’m pretty sure I do not want to have this sort of catastrophe happen every time someone casts this specific kind of magic near my future Network.”

Kydyr frowned as he continued to enact repairs all around. “Keep the spell. I can teach you to safeguard against this particular problem…” He scowled. “This would be a lot more convincing if the evidence of my failure wasn’t all around.” On his way to the next break, he said, “What happened here is something I should have expected, and it ties deeply into what Illusion and Fae Magic— How all magic used to be, actually. I will explain the nuances between Illusion Magic and Fae Magic, and start at the beginning.

“Before the Script, certain magics were excellent against other certain magics, like using Water against Fire magics, or using Stone in pretty much all of your static, point defenses. Solid Stone Magic used to be as strong as adamantium is today. This is not the case anymore.

“Now, under the Script, all magic interacts with other magic based on pretty normal, balanced rules. The damage number listed inside the blue box of [Force Bolt] will produce a Bolt that takes off exactly that much ‘health’ from a [Force Wall], or from your own Health. Physical spells like your own Particle Magic act as physical damage, which is closer to using a sword against a defense, and is therefore, usually, stronger than using other types of magic. Physical things are not mana, so therefore they are not fully governed by the Script.

“Pre-Script, illusion-versus-viewer worked based on interaction and disbelief. This remains the same, mostly, but now all illusionwork under the Script usually has some sort of Health-number to represent the level of interaction an illusion can withstand. This is to say nothing of someone just looking at a poorly-made illusion and going ‘Yeah, that’s not real’; that can still happen if you make a shitty illusion. Back before the Script, though, you used to be able to simply disbelieve magic, and therefore it would not work on you. Illusion, in particular, was very weak to this sort of defense… From what I’ve read.

“Pre-Script, Elemental Fae stood above illusionwork as the pinnacle of false reality. It was simply the best way to fool others, and even other practitioners of Fae Magic, though it operated in arcane and sometimes odd directions; soft power rules like hospitality, for instance. It still does, actually, but not nearly as much as it used to. You could not simply disbelieve Fae Magic in the Old Cosmology. If you didn’t operate around its self-imposed rules, you quite often simply died. Or worse. Pre-Script, Fae Magic always won out over illusions, too. An illusionist going up against a fae was asking to be killed.

“Pre-Script, illusion-versus-illusion was a messy ordeal, with the higher mana-cost illusion always winning out over the lesser-cost illusion.

“These days, illusion-versus-illusion has none of that. Illusions have no special interactions with other illusions unless you count ‘casting the same spell over another spell’, which I do not count.

“But! Under the Script, Elemental Fae retains this ability to break lesser illusionwork. Elemental Fae always wins out over Elemental Illusion, breaking all lesser illusions it comes into contact with.

“Under the Script, Elemental Fae versus Elemental Fae has also been standardized, and that standardization broke the power of practically all the fae, all at once. When Fae Magic is exposed to other Fae Magic, the newest Fae spell always wins out over the older spell. BUT. It’s usually a one-per-one reaction.” Kydyr had fixed ten breaks in the web but kept right on going, speaking all the while. “This existing runework has thousands of Elemental Fae spells inside, so therefore, your spell should only have broken one instance of my runic web. My runic web should have been able to handle the single cast of your spell.” He sighed.

He continued, “But Fae Magic is fucked up, and it retains some of its otherworldly power even though its true power is long gone… So I don’t know what happened, exactly. If you should cast [Fairy Item] again this shouldn’t happen again, but I’m not repairing this a second time today. When I fix this we will be doing the rest of your lessons...” His voice filled with dread. “On the lawn outside.” Kydyr said, “Also, since you have a Fae spell that you can cast and attach to your wrist, you should keep this spell on you and active at all times. It will break all illusions cast on you, and when it breaks, you will know that someone else is casting Fae Magic nearby.”

All of that was very interesting, but Erick had to ask, “Why is the lawn bad?”

“Because that Flowery Murderess who I will not name and you will not either has been looking for me for a long time and I don’t take chances anymore. The lawn is protected, too, but not as much as the house. It should be fine.” Kydyr declared, “I’m going to teach you everything you need to know to make a runic web and you will protect me if that woman shows and then I will be able to survive long enough to escape and you will likely never see me again! Rozeta willing—” He flinched. He whispered, “Fuck. You’re on the Path. I shouldn’t have said that. Ignore that.” He spoke up, “Uh. I’ll see you tomorrow… No…” He went back to fixing breaks in the line, mumbling, “Is that any better? I don’t know if that’s better or not...”

Erick brought Kydyr back to the moment, asking, “How does [True Sight] interact with illusionwork?”

He already sort-of knew the answer; he hadn’t seen any of this reality all around him when the runic web was working. So obviously Kydyr’s illusions were better than average. Probably Fae Magic at work.

Erick already had a lot of experience with normal illusionwork, in the form of seeing through the [Invisibility] spells that monsters or people sometimes used. Terror Peaks soldiers tried to hide from Ophiel by conjuring tree branches to lay under, or to hide within conjured, hollow boulders. [True Sight] saw through all of those, showing all magical effects as magic by transforming Erick’s perception of those magical effects into barely-there glass shells. [True Sight] went a step further than that, too. When using [True Sight] in battle, almost all magic appeared as thin-glass facsimiles of itself. Sometimes, though, an enemy would use those larger, flashier attacks to hide a knife, or a dense Particle Spell, or some other sort of real danger inside the larger cover.

[True Sight] didn’t see through Erick’s own [Sealed Privacy Ward], though. In that case, all [True Sight] saw was a large, opaque white bubble.

Kydyr said, “[True Sight] cuts through 90% of all illusionwork like it isn’t even there, so this is a great spell to run almost all the time, if you can. Almost no one prepares against it, either, but for runic web purposes, you must be able to guard against this spell. The best way to block [True Sight] is with anti-[True Sight] runic webs, and spellwork specifically shifted to guard against that vulnerability. The second best way is to use Fae Magic, which is simply immune to [True Sight]. If you use Fae Magic too extensively, though, you might run into the few Fae Magic users out there and be totally fucked if they get the drop on you… But that’s true of almost every high-level encounter between competent people.” Kydyr moved to the next break in the web, as he said, “You need to have some amount of Fae Magic if you want to make a truly robust defense system… Which would be more impressive to say if you hadn’t broken my defense system… But this too, is a lesson; one I must take in myself when I go about retrofitting all of this web over the next few days. You must limit your use of Fae Magic, because it is very easy for another Fae user to break your stuff simply by casting their own.”

“… Again. Apologies.”

Kydyr sighed. “Not your fault. This is my fault. And it won’t happen again.” The man slithered to the other side of the house and began working on several larger nodes in the web, asking, “Any other overview questions? It’ll take ten more minutes to fix this.”

Erick did have at least one more. He started at the top, “What about using Elemental Illusion to work through a physical process faster? I’ve used [Mysticalshape] to make particles behave well to become the proper result I desired without making toxic byproducts. Is there some way to do that better? Or did I do that well?”

“Ah. Ohhh...” Kydyr inscribed a long series of runes as he said, “Sounds like you did that about as well as anyone could. Using Illusion to skip several steps and to arrive at a clean outcome of a natural process is a niche use of this magic, but only because magic usually doesn’t produce solid results. I suppose Particle Magic and Illusion Magic would have a lot of possible crossing points.” Kydyr said, “Good job.”

“Where does Fae Magic fit into this phenomenon?”

“It doesn’t. Fae Magic is generally better at doing illusionwork than Elemental Illusion, but it directly breaks down when exposed to other Fae Magic. Any particulate made with Elemental Fae would break down if exposed to the Fae Magic of another.” Kydyr said, “The only way to properly use Elemental Fae is to—” He frowned. “Is to soak an area in your particular Elemental Fae magic, and then when someone else uses Elemental Fae, your area will remain… Hmm. Stable.”

“Or at least it should,” Erick added.

“It should have!” Kydyr said, and then he sighed as he inscribed a rune and cast a spell into the metal—

The house flickered, then vanished completely. Erick dropped a centimeter as the floor fell out from under him, but he maintained his height with his sunform. Kydyr was already back to being a bismuth owl shifter who hung in the air like a man flying. The previous property reappeared, but the house was gone and the tree was missing. The landscaping was nonexistent, with nothing more than a short white wall denoting the outer edge of the property and a ground that was layered with moss. The small farm space was still there, though it would need some replanting.

Mists swirled beyond the property, like they usually did.

“Success!” Kydyr said, spinning around and looking at everything for a moment. He dropped to the ground, saying, “That’s that! Two choices, Erick. We can stay here and you can refrain from touching Elemental Fae, or we can move to somewhere else and work on some Fae Magic.”

“Is [Fairy Item] good enough to replicate this—” Erick touched the air around waist-height, where the floor had been, asking. “— concealment and intangibility? What’s the plan for the full suite of spells for a runic web?”

