Kydyr nodded, saying, “[Fairy House] is the primary spell that hides this house and makes it act as it does. [Fairy House] has certain protections against other Fae Magic which is why you shouldn’t have been able to break my house, but whatever. My Domain is not actually Fae-based, but it works well enough—” He paused. He said, “Perhaps your own Light Domain when combined with Fae Magic is what broke my Illusion Domain… Hmm.” Kydyr decided, “Whatever!” He added, “To get [Fairy House], you take [Fairy Item] or [Fairy Force] and add in [Concealment] and [Intangibility], depending on if you want a small, nice house, or a large, expansive but cheap-looking house. This [Fairy House] was made with [Fairy Item], and the actual name of the spell is [Fairy Cottage]. The other one would be [Fairy Mansion].

“If you want to work on Fae Magic we will be moving to a second location, but if you can refrain from this, then we can remain here and continue working as we should have before this interruption. So can you do that? Refrain from touching Elemental Fae?”

“… Probably?” Erick shrugged. He could simply leave out his Permanency spellwork and Elemental Fae would simply not happen.

Kydyr did not look convinced. He moved on, anyway, saying, “You also need to make [Illusionary Force]. With [Illusionary Force], [Concealment], and [Intangibility], you will be able to secure most every runic web you make. The combined spell there is [Illusionary Structure], but it is better to make your runic webs with the lesser spells, for if any of them break, then the whole thing won’t break. Stringing together the three spells into a working web will take us the rest of the day, though, so let’s make a pledge not to make any more Elemental Fae in the house, or we can go outside.”

The man acted calm, but he was terrified of going outside.

Erick chose to stay indoors, saying, “I won’t make a pledge, but I can certainly try not to break the house again.”

“… Fine.” Kydyr summoned himself a chair to the side, and sat down. He conjured a chalkboard with some helpful instructions and then read them out to Erick, “[Illusionary Force] is [Special Ward] plus [Force Wall] plus Mana Altering for Illusion, in addition to [Lightshape] and [Shadowshape]. Pretty much exactly what you went for with [Fairy Item], but not so deep. This spell will be the same basic cost as [Fairy Item], but it will start off Large Size and scale a lot easier. It should last an hour.

“[Conceal Object] is an upgrade to [Invisibility], but it only works on items. This is a necessary transformation of the original spell to make it last quite a lot longer than otherwise. This is the spell that makes items invisible to mana senses, but not [True Sight]. You have to dip into Fae Magic to make something invisible to [True Sight], so instead of going the hard way with deeper magic, you can just bury the runic web under stone, and add in some anti-[Stoneshape] and other protective spellwork to your runic webs.” Kydyr waved a hand. “We’ll go over all that later. [Conceal Object] requires [Invisibility] along with the Altering and Shaping Illusion trio. It’s still an expensive spell, but it should last for an hour per cast. Expect a cost of 500 mana.

“[Intangible Object] will likely require multiple attempts, but it is not necessary for you to make this spell today in order for us to proceed with the creation of a runic web, but it is absolutely necessary later on. This spell makes a target untouchable. This is the spell that makes it so that other people can’t interfere with your runic web. It is the baseline for a secure web, and it is [Force Wall] made Ethereal, as well as the usual illusionwork trio, shifted toward pulling a real object into untouchable, Ethereal Force. 250 mana is a good version; should last an hour.

“You can work on [Concealment] and [Intangibility] some other time if you wish for those spells, but I recommend you leave them alone. A lot of people die trying to make [Intangibility], in particular, and you can achieve the exact same functionality out of [Illusionwalk]— Which is something you should look into getting.” Kydyr said, “You need to get over your aversion to Shadow.

“Anyway.

“All of these spells should last at least an hour, but with a good runic web, these spells can be stretched out to last a full day. All the other spells in your runic web should also last at least that long. You’ll have to get a feel for how your runic webs functions on your own, though; I can’t help with that.

“Once you have those three spells we can proceed to actual runic web work.”

Erick nodded. Then he gathered Ophiel to his side—

Kydyr spoke up, “Are you sure you won’t break my house again?”

Erick paused. He had a thought. He let that thought out, asking, “Is there any real reason not to go full Fae Magic? Like. Yes. I heard your objections, that Fae Magic breaks Fae Magic, but you also say that if I stack my Fae spells deep enough, that they can’t be broken that easily.”

Kydyr frowned, then rattled off, “Everything Fae can do is more easily done with Illusion, and without Fae’s weird interactions with other Fae. Almost no place on or in Veird uses Fae, but everyone with any runic web anywhere likely has at least one Fae Magic breaker that will shatter when someone uses Fae Magic inside the runic web. Therefore, if you use Fae magic out there, you will be discovered as a Fae Magic user, and that will likely not go well for you.

“For there’s a reason that people put these Fae Magic breakers inside their webs, even though almost no one uses this power, and that is because the fae were —and remain!— terrible existences that should not be tested. There is at least one True Fae who makes herself known outside of Ar’Cosmos, and if you use her magic she’ll come to kill you for trying to usurp her power. Or maybe she’ll tease you for a while because you’re a man, and then she’ll kill you. She can be anywhere, and do anything, and the only way to know she’s watching is to have a single [Fairy Item] bracelet on your wrist and pay attention to see if it breaks. Don’t test the last True Fae left in existence. You will lose.”

Kydyr’s voice trailed away, swallowed by the mists all around.

Erick spoke softly, “All I’m hearing, Kydyr, is that there’s a murderer out there that comes when called, and that makes finding her particularly easy. I have half a mind to step out into the fog right now and call her down on me, and then end her.”

Kydyr’s eyes glinted with brief, shining hope. He breathed deep, and then the light in his eyes dimmed back to dull bismuth. Without heat or hatred, he breathed out, “You spoke earlier of the arrogance of wrought, but you have no idea of the depths of your own.”

Erick suddenly realized why Kydyr, the shut-in, was willing to step outside his house, when it was obvious he had never left this place in at least a century. He had wanted to step outside, because with Erick there, he could maybe call down Fairy Moon and they could kill her, together.

“You want to kill her together?” Erick asked, “Set up some traps and call her down?”

For a long, silent moment, Kydyr just sat there, staring off into nothing.

Then he turned to Erick. “No.”

… Unexpected. Kydyr knew what Erick had done recently, and what he was going to continue to do. So why say ‘no’? Erick wasn’t completely sure, but it felt like Kydyr was not hesitating because of the physical threat Fairy Moon represented. Kydyr was hesitating for a specific reason.

Had Erick missed—

Kydyr did not want to kill Fairy Moon. Even though she had killed his team. Even though he had been on a mission to infiltrate Ar’Cosmos and kill her. That was exactly it. Part of Kydyr wanted to kill Fairy Moon, but most of him did not… Because...

Why would a wrought not want to kill an existential threat to Veird?

The threat being ‘too large’ to safely handle was one thing; the wrought had long been engaged in a cold war with Ar’Kendrithyst and the Shades. But the situation with Fairy Moon had to be smaller, right? This was a single True Fae. One of the last left of maybe two, total, if what Aisha said was true.

Perhaps…? Would killing off the last fae erase Fae Magic from Veird? Had Kydyr been on a Forgotten Campaign mission to end Fairy Moon and Fae Magic from Veird?

No. A Forgotten Campaign would have ended Fairy Moon if that was what the gods decreed. Erick held no illusions about the strength of wrought society when leveraged against a single individual, no matter how powerful they might appear to be, or where they happened to be located.

All Erick really knew now that he didn’t know yesterday was that the wrought, or at least Kydyr and his team, had tried to infiltrate Ar’Cosmos and failed, and thus they were picked off one by one until only Kydyr was left. This meant that the wrought had been trying to end only Fairy Moon, and not also Ar’Cosmos.

But existential threats like Fairy Moon wouldn’t just be allowed to get away. So the wrought should have done more, right? Send more teams? That’s what they did with that Pirate Hullbreaker, though it was Oceanside that eventually got that particular Wizard.

Unless.

Unless the wrought had moved on to a policy of live-and-let-live while denying all existence.

So how had Fairy Moon managed that? Erick did not doubt that the woman killed people rather methodically and probably brutally, but if one could summon Fairy Moon by simply calling out her name then she was an ‘easy’ kill. Unless she wasn’t that easy to kill at all. Perhaps Kydyr was correct and Erick was rather arrogant for thinking it was easy to kill a fae.

But also, Fairy Moon lived inside Ar’Cosmos most of the time. She lived with dragons. She worked with dragons. Oh.

Erick learned two things at that moment.

The wrought had likely tried to end Ar’Cosmos long ago, at the beginning of the Script, but decided not to. In retrospect, this was obvious.

And one could hide among the dragons if they chose that path, for Fairy Moon had obviously chosen that path, except for when she was out here in the world, killing men. With enough strong allies, one would become too large to be attacked (Duh).

Erick hoped that he would have enough allies by the time [Renew] or his Wizardry was discovered. They had to be good allies, too, on the levels of an entire city of dragons… Which was an uncomfortable thought. Either dragons or Shades! The only two groups that could stand up to the wrought, and survive.

Erick almost felt like a Cultist of Melemizargo at that moment, wondering what sort of deed he would have to do to remain alive by this time next year.

Anyway.

That was only half of the story of Fairy Moon.

Erick had a pretty good guess of what else was going on, so he watched Kydyr’s entire self while he put his other thoughts into words, “You think you deserved what she did to you. You think that other people deserve what she does to them. You don’t believe she is evil at all.”

Kydyr went blank. No expression. No facial tics. He hid his reaction behind an illusion, for sure. And then he recognized that Erick had recognized what he had done. His ‘real’ face came back, and he looked distantly sad. He said, “Don’t make Fae Magic a part of your life, Erick. You will not like the outcome.”

Yeah.

Erick had crit the [Strike], exactly.

Kydyr spoke of how Fairy Moon was evil, toeing the party line, while inwardly thinking that he had deserved what he got. He was dealing with a cold war scenario; a soldier left in the lurch of a battle never finished. He couldn’t deal with life outside of his house, but who could blame him? Erick doubted he would be any better if he had to go through what he suspected Kydyr had gone through. What sort of war crimes had the man done in service to his people? Probably pretty bad ones.

Perhaps Erick misunderstood a few things here and there, but broadly, he thought himself correct.

Anyway. Magic:

Kydyr’s warnings about Fae Magic were likely well-established warnings that Erick should probably take to heart, and yet, if Fae Magic worked to instantiate Reality into reality, then perhaps it could go the other way, too. Perhaps, with proper Fae Magic, one could move from reality into Reality, and then back to reality, or, to put it another way, to allow one to [Gate] from one side of the world to the other.

Perhaps!

Erick already knew that he would be using [Fairy House] as a defensive living space in the future.

Something else about the whole situation stuck out, though. Something Erick couldn’t quite name, because it was an odd, circumstantial, situation; very much not anything anyone else could possibly imagine about Fae Magic, unless they were from Earth and knew English.

Erick decided to lay it out there, and see what Kydyr thought.

“We have stories about fae back on Earth,” Erick said, as he watched Kydyr. “Tricksters and rule-makers and breakers. Punishers of the unjust, but also needlessly cruel. The fae work on rules arcane to all understandings except for their own. Those arcane rules are what makes them dangerous, for those rules can exist along a myriad of non-standard societal constructs, for mostly, the fae live apart from people, in their own realms of immortal power. You call them fae or fairy, but we have hundreds of different names for all sorts of make-believe fae. Or, at least, I thought them simple stories until I came here, to Veird.”

Kydyr’s reaction told Erick that he was familiar with almost everything Erick was saying, though the finer details might not have gotten across. Mainly, the bismuth wrought didn’t understand where Erick was going with all this.

Erick explained, “Since what we’re doing here will eventually end up in a runic web, I feel I should say something specifically about language, and how it relates to fae, and to runes, and to magic.” He slipped some English into his otherwise Veirdly words, saying, “You call them fae or fairy. We call them <Fae> spelled <F> <A> <E>. You call Fate Magic like that, but we call it <Fate> magic. <F> <A> <T> <E>. It’s only one letter off. For Ecks and Ancient Script, they’re completely different words. <Arlioo> or <Zarritino>.” Kydyr’s eyes went wide as the rest of him went still, and Erick plunged forward, “Is Fae Magic related to Fate Magic? Or to [Gate]? ‘Gate’ is spelled ‘<G><A><T><E> in English; just one letter away from <Fate>.”

