And suddenly Erick stood upon the soft, mossy ground. Kydyr’s [Fairy House] home was somewhere far behind him, both intangible and concealed in the mists. Erick could have stepped backward and yet he would have remained outside Kydyr’s property. [Fairy House] was a great spell, and Kydyr’s runic web was well-made, combining a dozen different magics into one coherent, unbreakable obscuration. It was even immune to [Cascade Imaging], for Erick had checked with that spell, casting the Imaging on the other side of the cavern, searching for himself while he was inside this space. That map had given him zero results—

Out of the mists came Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye, rejoining Erick, to alight upon his other shoulder.

Time to go back.

- - - -

Erick sat upon a crook in Yggdrasil’s branches, staring out at the bright cavern all around. His stomach was full with a good meal from the food court in the embassy, while his Other Form’s core was similarly satiated by [Renew]. He felt good. And yet…

He was worried.

He sent an Ophiel to check on Kydyr—

Erick breathed out, ragged and painful, as he took in what he saw, absorbing a hundred small clues in less than a second. He moved through those clues slowly, though, to try and see if his initial impression could be wrong. Kydyr was rather great at illusions, after all.

It was an hour past sunset on the surface, but while Yggdrasil’s cavern was full of light all the time, Vibrant Falls was mostly dim. The deep mists at the lower levels, where Kydyr’s house had been, could have hidden the full truth, but, no. Erick was not that delusional. He was just trying to make excuses for what he saw.

The house was gone. All that remained was a crater nearly a kilometer across. This much was understandable, for Kydyr had said that he was moving. It was eminently feasible that he could blip his entire house to a new location.

Except.

Smaller craters dotted the rest of the land, like someone had sprinkled the mossy rock with beams of random disintegration, or, more actually, that someone had done something similar to what Erick had seen the Mirage Dragon do to the top of First Devouring Nightmare mountain. Some sort of [Illusion Breath], or, considering what Erick had heard earlier, [Fae Breath], had turned the land into swiss cheese.

The house took a full blast, but the nature of [Fae Breath] left clues among the broken ground. Damp books piled like snow drifts not too far from the blast site, tangled webs of platinum glittered in broken rock walls, rubble made of tiles lay like chips of white among the darkness. An open plumbing system spilled water into the bottom of the crater where even more books floated, or sunk. Mostly sunk. The ones with wooden covers floated, but barely.

Kydyr’s dragon head, resting atop a bed of broken books, had been locked inside a floating box of Force, hovering in the center of the crater.

Erick took a moment to compose himself, breathing, centering his mind. And then he sent a telepathic communication to Kromolok—

A woman’s voice responded, ‘Greetings, Archmage Flatt. What is the nature of the inquiry?’

‘Ah. I didn’t expect—’ Erick ignored that his telepathic signal had been intercepted, because of course it had —Poi did this very same thing for him all the time— and sent, ‘I believe that someone attacked and killed Archmage Kydyr. I am already on my way to Archmage’s Rest to inform them of what I see and I want Kromolok to be involved if he can.’

The woman’s tone turned fully calm, as she sent, ‘Understood. Raising priority of request. Raised. Inquisitor Kromolok has been informed. We are starting to move on our end. Someone will be there— Inquisitor Kromolok will be at Archmage’s rest in three minutes and he asks that you not get involved.’

Erick went still.

The woman continued, ‘If you wish to remain informed of the investigation then—’

‘No.’ Erick sent, ‘I am involved. Kydyr acted like I would never see him again but I didn’t think he meant it this way. He knew… He knew this was going to happen and I’m involved.’

‘… Understood. Inquisitor Kromolok will meet you at Archmage’s Rest. Thank you. Please do not attend the site on your own.’

Erick ended the call.
