“I'll be back as soon as I can.” Ren said and ran up the stairs. He took the nails out of the cabinet door and asked Teepo to get back in the ring. Teepo stayed quiet as he dissolved, and Ren waited for a moment, then stepped through the portal. He opened the cabinet on the other side and concentrated on his Fear Aura.

*

“Ohhh...” Elerlyth let the moan slip before she could stop herself. He's here. She put a hand on her abdomen. He's really here!

*

Ren heard a woman's voice, and went into the bedroom. He saw that Elerlyth's skin was a light ashen color, and he let his concern for her flow out. She drank it in eagerly, and smiled.

“I don't know how you did it...”

“I told you I'd come as fast as I could.” Ren said and grinned.

Elerlyth felt his amusement at making a pun, and she grinned, too. “We've only got an hour and 15 minutes left.”

“Plenty of time to screw your brains out.” He waggled his eyebrows up and down. Elerlyth laughed and stored her armor and bodysuit into inventory. Ren stored his clothing, but kept the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak on, so she could keep feeding on the Fear. He went to the bed and stood beside it, already ready for the encounter.

“It hit you harder this time, didn't it?” Ren asked, then ran his hands along her thighs and pulled her over to the edge of the bed. He let his admiration of her, and then sorrow for how she looked, flow into her.

“It did.” Elerlyth said and nodded. “I went three whole days and nights with nothing at all, and then it felt like a black hole was sucking me in.” She sighed. “I was tempted to log out just so I wouldn't feel it.”

Ren shook his head as he slipped himself inside of her. “You'd get it a lot worse when you logged back in.” He said, and Elerlyth caught her breath as he started to move. “When I fell that first time into that nearly bottomless pit and logged back in, it was almost too much to handle.” Ren thought a little about how he felt at that time, and she stopped breathing.

“Good god, Ren! That's how you felt?” Elerlyth asked, then she started breathing again.

“Some of it.” He smiled and kept moving.

“And I thought I felt bad with this ability... oh, a little to the... yeah, right there...” Elerlyth licked her lips. “I... I still have no idea why you taste so good.” She said, then put her hands on his shoulders and pulled herself up to look him in the eyes. “Thank you for getting to me so fast.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “I think you like how I taste so much because I'm both able, and willing to feed you. Plus, I don't suffer the same consequences as the others who've tried.”

Elerlyth nodded, and Ren went faster and her eyes widened.

“I had to use a set of magic hooves and a Potion of Giant Strength to get here.” Ren explained. “20 minutes to get here, and the trip back will take about 5 hours.”

“You used a what and a what?” Elerlyth asked surprised, then closed her eyes as Ren hit his stride.

Ren chuckled. “The hooves were for my mount, and I gave her the Potion of Giant Strength so she could hold my weight for such a long time.”

Elerlyth's breath went faster and faster, and so did Ren. She fed on his enjoyment that she was getting so much enjoyment from him, his worry that he almost missed this visit, and happiness that he'd made it in time.

“Close... so.... Ohhhhh!” Elerlyth wrapped her legs and arms around Ren, and they finished together. She let her own feelings go this time, and Ren saw them pass over her face as they stared at each other. She admired him for doing this for her, appreciation for how he'd worked so hard for her, and then gratitude for doing the impossible to get to her in so short a time. Ren let her feel how he liked that he didn't have to be gentle, didn't have to hold back, and didn't have to be careful if he didn't want to be. He then reciprocated the same emotions she had back to her; admiration, appreciation, and gratitude. Elerlyth drank it all down. She spent a few minutes drinking in the afterglow they shared as well, then she let him go and lay back on the bed.

“You're... you're... indescribable!” Elerlyth said. “You know that, right?”

“Indescribable is a description.” Ren chuckled as she snorted a laugh, and Elerlyth smacked his arm a few times. “Can I assume you're feeling better?”

“A lot better!” Elerlyth said. “You do good work.”

“That?” Ren said. “That was foreplay.” He grinned. “I've got you for almost another hour yet!”

“You cheeky little shit!” Elerlyth said and grinned herself as Ren dove for her chest.

Ren fed her his strong emotions for another hour, and then they both had to log out.

“I'll see you tonight.” Ren said. “That is, real life tonight. Or 2 days game-time.”

“You better be back here!” She chuckled. “This time was only a light snack.”

“I know.” Ren smiled. “I barely got started, and now it's over.”

She grinned as she shook her head. “I don't know who's getting more out of this. Me or you!”

“Neither.” Ren said and glanced down at himself. “Little Ren's got it the best.”

Elerlyth laughed and leaned over to give Little Ren a kiss, then leaned back and gave Ren a kiss. “Until the next time.”

“Bye, Elerlyth.” Ren said.

“Logout.” They said together.

********Ren took off the VR headset and Bonnie helped him put it on the rollaway table.

“Hi, Ren.”

“Good morning, Bonnie!” Ren said, a little excitedly. “It's nice to see you. How have you been?”

Bonnie stared at him with her eyes slightly widened, and Ren smiled.

“Sorry, I'm a little worked up.” He said.

Bonnie smiled crookedly. “I saw.” She said and motioned to the now blank television screen. “20 minutes of blue screen here is 80 minutes of 'activity' in there.”

Ren blushed a little and Bonnie chuckled.

“Stella explained it all to me the other day.” Bonnie said. “I'm not going to say anything about it, okay?”

“Thanks, Bonnie.” Ren said in relief, then changed the subject. “What's for breakfast?”

“Homemade porridge with raisins, and freshly squeezed orange juice.”

“That sounds great!” Ren said. “I like raisins.”

Bonnie looked at him quizzically. He usually complains when I make something extra like that. She thought. “I'll just go and get it ready.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and changed the channel on the television. When Bonnie left the room, he went into the bathroom and cleaned himself up after his blue screen activity.

*

Gloria was out of the recliner and getting breakfast herself. She was a little sick of ToasterTarts, but she had bought a ton of them when the bulk store had a huge sale. They also had icing the same color as her hair, bubblegum pink. It even had blue sparkles like her blue streaks.

That sure was great of him to get to me so quickly! Gloria thought, then remembered what he'd said he did to get to her. She frowned and went to her computer. She brought up the forum and info pages, and started looking for magic hooves. There were several different sets, but only one was for speed. Her eyes widened.

“It's a Legendary Item!” Gloria looked at the value and dropped her ToasterTart. “He... he...” She shook her head and looked up the Giant Strength potion. It was also a very rare item, and she looked at the value. “How could he... he wasted...” Gloria took a deep breath. “Good god!” She slumped back in her chair. “He... he used them for me!” She blinked her eyes really fast to stop the tears before they started.

*

Ren enjoyed a great breakfast and thanked Bonnie for it. He went to physical therapy, sweat a lot, then took a shower afterwards. After getting changed and climbing back into bed, Ren had a strange thought. He pulled the laptop closer and sent a quick message.

*

Gloria had calmed down and taken a shower. She got out of the bathroom just as her cell phone beeped, because it received a text message. She dried her hair with a towel and checked the phone.

“What kind of fool would text me so early in the morning?” Gloria asked, then read the message.

Samantha! I hope you have a great day crunching numbers and scraping knuckles. - Ren

Gloria shook her head and smiled. “A stupidly sweet fool, apparently.”

*

Ren put on the VR headset with a little help from Bonnie, and he relaxed in the bed.

“Flow Login Start.”

********
