The physical movement of mana traced the key mana signatures of the various species and civilizations that lived across Utelia. Moving it in those patterns reinforced that the mana was yours, and by matching your intent to the divine intent within your mana, you could persuade that intent that it was also yours.

Leo was pretty sure he knew which exercise worked best for him. It was the most complicated one of all. The mana in that pattern moved in complicated, self-intersecting weaves, exactly like a labyrinth, and it felt right. When he tried that exercise, he could feel something happening within his mana.

The problem was that it wouldn't move.

Or, more accurately, it would move, but only at mere fractions of an inch, and only when he shoved the full weight of his mind behind it. Leo hadn't made the comparison with trying to force a cliff into moving lightly. It felt very much like he was doing exactly that.

The strange thing was that he could make his mana move in any other pattern just fine! It was only when he tried this one that the resistance suddenly showed up, and he found himself locked in a battle of wills with his own mana. It was frustrating. Frustrating that he should have been at least getting started on his journey to archmage, and he'd been behind on just integrating his mana core for so long, and now he was—

"Leo," Cale said softly. "Are you alright?"

"I'm fine," Leo said, although his voice was hoarser than he'd expected. Had he been grunting? "It's just... harder than I expected."

"There's no shame in struggling to produce palewater," Cale said. "Like Akkau said, even geniuses take a year."

"We don't have a year," Leo half-snapped, though he tried to reign himself in a moment later. "I've already been holding us back. I can't keep falling behind!"

"You're not," Flia said.

"I am," Leo insisted. "You all had to wait for me to even integrate my core before we started on all this, and you've all got—"

"No," Flia said softly, "I'm saying you're not. We're all having the same trouble you are."

Leo paused. A part of him had just assumed that the others would breeze ahead as usual. They all had their own specialties, after all, and they didn't seem to struggle with new discoveries or talents or what-have-you. He was the most mortal, the most mundane in the group. Of course he would struggle more.

But no. Flia, Damien, and even Syphus all looked somewhat troubled, too.

"We can feel the intent," Damien said. "But we can't convert it, and that's supposed to be the easier step. We're thinking it's probably..."

He hesitated, clearly torn about what he was about to say, but Cale didn't have the same compunctions. The human sighed, and once again, just for a moment, Leo could see how old he really was.

"Yeah," he said. "It's probably because you're having to convert my intent. The good news is that you'll probably have a much easier time with darkwood... but first you'll have to figure out how to control my intent. Sorry, guys."

"It's not your fault," Flia said, shrugging. "Besides, it'll be nice to beat you in something."

Cale snorted. "That's the spirit," he said, grinning.

Leo didn't feel nearly as cheerful, though. Cale was good at hiding what he truly was—at playing pretend, at being mortal—but he wasn't.

And Leo was the most mortal of them all. Even if Flia, Damien, or Syphus were able to, he wasn't sure if he could.

"Leo?" Damien said softly. The dreadshade was always so damn perceptive. He placed a hand on Leo's arm, and Leo grunted, then shrugged it off.

"S'fine," he said. "I need some time to think. I'll see you all later."

With that, he trudged off, trying to ignore the stares he could feel burning into his back.

He would be fine. He just needed some time to think.
