I don’t remember much from my previous life, but somehow, I don’t think I’ve changed much.

Granted, I probably never killed anyone before my transmigration, or even killed an animal judging by how much I cried the first time Alsantset brought me hunting. Considering the sheer amount of paranoia and anxiety it takes to get my ass out of bed every morning, I was probably a lot lazier too, but otherwise, I’m probably a carbon copy of my past self. I love animals, make stupid jokes, have a short attention span, a penchant for monologues, and a healthy streak of perversion that is in no way abnormal.

What I lack however, in this life and I assume the last, is an appreciation for the arts, meaning Luo-Luo’s musical talents are completely wasted on me.

A pleasant tune filters in from the bathroom windows as she strums on her zither in the courtyard, but while my coma rebooted my receptors and let me feel Aura and Aura-related skills again, I still feel nothing when listening to her music. Don’t get me wrong, it sounds pretty and pleasant, but there’s no surge of emotions or swell of sensations to accompany it. By now, I’ve heard Luo-Luo’s ‘Rise to Glory’ at least a hundred times, and I still feel the same as I always have, that it’s a cool song that sounds technically demanding to play, but is just too boring with only one instrument. To my admittedly musically-ignorant self, the zither is just a horizontal guitar that is capable of carrying a song on it’s own, but I was never a huge fan of acoustical covers. Then again, I was probably never a huge fan of music to begin with, seeing as I never felt its absence in the eight years I spent on this world before Luo-Luo came into my life. It sounds mean to say this, but Luo-Luo’s music might as well be background noise to fill the silence, and while I appreciate the hard work and effort that goes into her playing, I don’t know enough about music to understand why everyone calls her an amazing musical talent.

It’s like going into a lecture on advanced quantum physics with nothing more than an elementary school education. You recognize the words and understand that the lecturer is speaking a language you understand, but you don’t know enough about the subject matter to judge if the speaker is brilliant, mediocre, or spewing gibberish. Maybe that’s why Luo-Luo’s music doesn’t work on everyone, because music is a very personal experience, and for me, music is simply something to listen to without caring too much about the content.

Seriously though... if music was all Jixing wanted Luo-Luo for, he could’ve just said so. I’m sure she would’ve been happy to play for him whenever her services were needed. Who knows, maybe the two of them would’ve hit it off after a few weeks of private performances and she would’ve realized she wanted a life with a real Imperial who treated her like the amazing woman she is, rather than stick with a short cripple who drowns her in paperwork and doesn’t appreciate her artistic talents.

...

The fact that this imagined scenario makes me irrationally jealous speaks to my character, and not in a favourable light. It’s not like I have any real claim to Luo-Luo, and I’m still not sure how I feel about marrying her. For the most part, she’s just there, a business partner and fixture in my life that I could not function without. Professionally, that is, though I will admit I don’t hate having a beautiful woman to admire while my wives are away at war. Luo-Luo’s not just a pretty face though, as her hard work and brilliant moves have single-handedly kept our business ventures afloat, and she also played a pivotal role in the creation and successful introduction of War Bonds. Without her, I would’ve never thought to dress up the War Bonds to look fancy and important, or gone to personally visit influential merchants, nobles, and officials to personally explain the concept beforehand. The War Bonds would’ve rolled out as single-page contracts and no one would’ve bought them besides my family, who to this day still don’t entirely understand what they represent even though I’ve explained it a thousand times. Granted, I originally envisioned them as a proper investment tool and it’s now become something entirely different, but Luo-Luo was the one who saw the potential of the idea and explained why everyone would be fighting to purchase them for face. The wealthiest nobles in the Empire all have their collections of War Bonds framed in glass and ‘modestly’ displayed, taking after Yuzhen who has her massive collection cluttering the walls of her office and meeting rooms.

In contrast, Akanai and Dad gave their War Bonds to me for ‘safekeeping’, but mostly because they didn’t really know what else to do with them.

Long story short, I owe Luo-Luo so very much, and while it sometimes feels like we don’t have a lot in common, I suspect she actually understands the ‘modern’ part of me better than anyone else. To most, my ideas are just odd little notions which make no sense whatsoever and are quickly forgotten, but Luo-Luo is the only one who bothers to ask questions and try to understand what I’m talking about. It’s nice to be taken seriously by someone, whereas Mila would just roll her eyes while Yan and Lin-Lin tend to humour me until the conversation grows boring. Not to throw shade at them or anything, because they all put up with more than any person should have to, but sometimes, I have trouble accepting this world as it is and I like having someone I can talk to about possibly turning my ‘strange’ notions into a reality.

A shame she instantly shut down my proposal to outlaw slavery. Not on moral grounds, but pragmatic ones, stating that slavery is so ingrained into the everyday workings of the Empire that everything would fall to pieces if I ever tried to force the issue. Apparently, almost everything everywhere is largely produced by slaves or includes the efforts of slaves in some vital way, whether it be renting slaves to help out on seasonal duties or making up a large percentage of the workforce in unskilled labour, the Empire would never financially recover from outlawing slavery without years, if not decades of preparations leading up to it.

Which again, makes me want to flip the board and leave Zhen Shi and the Emperor to duke it out so I can rebuild everything from the ground up, but keeping the status quo is indisputably the lesser of two evils. There’s no supporting a crazed massed murderer whose life’s ambition is to cause endless bloodshed and conflict to raise humanity’s strength as a whole, and the threat of civilians turning Defiled during periods of upheaval is still a very real concern. One could argue that the Empire contributes to all the pain and suffering experienced by millions of unfortunates in this world, but they’re the lesser of two evils. Even ignoring all their efforts to keep morale high and eliminate Defiled wherever they might be, they’re also not actively supporting an army of psychopathic cannibals urged on towards violence by weird ghostly beings created from the dark emotions of Martial Warriors.

Unless they are, and I just don’t know it, in which case we’re all royally screwed.

Taking a deep breath to calm my spiking nerves, I settle down in my bath chair and do as Xing Yong Wei suggested, seek solace and ease my troubled conscience. I find this not in the music of my devoted concubine or in the arms of my absent wives, but rather from a different feminine presence in my life, one who followed me into the baths for a bit of fun and games. Smiling from ear to ear, I giggle quietly as Ping Ping shakes her butt in sheer delight while I run a hard-bristled brush across her shell, thoroughly enjoying the tender care and none too shy to show it by radiating a warm and happy Aura. Like me, Ping Ping doesn’t seem too enthused by Luo-Luo’s music, and while this isn’t the usual sort of fun I have in the baths with Yan and Mila, this is soothing in a different sense. There’s something wildly fulfilling about bringing joy and happiness into someone else’s life, even if that someone else is an animal. Having pets is hard work, and even harder without a team of servants scrambling around to make sure all the floofs are properly tended to, but I can honestly say I have never experienced anything that is more rewarding. The simple act of brushing a pet brings me so much joy, I cannot for the life of me understand why other people don’t love animals as much as I do. Maybe things will change when I raise children of my own, but I doubt it. I spent a fair amount of time raising the twins, and as much as I love them, I still love floofs more, and I’m not only saying that because the twins are older now and no longer as adorable.

Okay, that has a lot to do with it, but whatever. I still love Tali and Tate to bits, but cute is justice!

After a thorough scrub and rinse, me and Ping Ping head into the bath for a nice soak and swim with a modicum of splashing. One caveat about the joys of pet companionship is that not all pets are equally rewarding. Ping Ping is a wonderful sweetheart who is almost overly attached, whereas Pong Pong is too cool to hang out now that he knows he can pop over to Taduk’s garden for three servings of shrimp every day while living in the quiet river by the farm. I get it, he’s a strong, independent turtle who don’t need no man, but I kinda wish he’d show more concern after seeing me fall into a coma, and maybe come visit every now and then. Then again, maybe he was spooked off by Ping Ping’s ascension and didn’t understand what happened to me, but I bet he’d have a grand old time splashing around the tub with Ping Ping. Still, I can’t really blame him if he enjoys living out in the wilds over cuddling up with Mama Bun every night, so I’ll have to find some time to visit the bamboo grove one of these days and check in on the little guy.

Not anytime soon though. There’s too much heat on me right now, with nobles, Imperials, and Defiled alike watching my every move, so even if I didn’t have the fate of the Empire resting on my shoulders, it’d be silly to take a few days off for a pleasure trip.

Sensing my melancholy, Ping Ping paddles over to gently headbutt me in the face, and it never fails to make me smile. Not because I particularly enjoy the act itself, but because of how she draws back to see the effects of her work. Though smarter than most animals and many people I’ve met, Ping Ping is still very much a turtle who operates on turtle logic, so it’s funny to try and figure out how she sees the world. I realized early on that she headbutts me because she’s seen me headbutt the bears, bunnies, and wildcats, so she thinks I enjoy the headbutts which is why she’s playing along. Simply said, she’s here to cheer me up, and it is sorely needed because I’m worried I’m losing my way.

Keeping my voice to barely above a whisper, I lean in close and stroke her cheeks while confiding in this sweet, amiable turtle. “I sentenced a lot of people to death today, and I’m not sure if they all deserved it. I should feel horrible, feel it gnawing away at my conscience and expect not to sleep well for days to come, but I know as soon as I get back to my room and finish work for the night, I’ll lay my head down, close my eyes, and be asleep in seconds. It’ll be this way because I’ll never have to see those villagers, those preachers, those possible innocents and consider the effect of my actions. I won’t have to hear them plead for mercy or watch them draw their last breath, because all I did was sign some papers and hand them off to someone else.” Blowing out sigh, I sink into the water and say, “It shouldn’t be this easy, but it is, and I’m afraid of what it’ll do to me in the long run. Will I one day just stop caring? Or worse, see my work as a bothersome distraction and pay less attention to it than I should? I won’t even know if I made the right decisions, and even though it bothers me now, I’ll probably forget about it in a few days and never think about them again. That’s not right. Things shouldn’t be this way, but I don’t see any alternative.”

In response, Ping Ping offers me another headbutt, but this time, I stroke her cheeks and keep my head pressed against hers, because I don’t want her to see me crying and think it’s all her fault.

A short cry later, I put aside my melancholic musings and go back to seeking solace. Though it is as elusive as ever, the warm water does wonders for the tension in my neck and shoulders and Ping Ping’s happy splashing and carefree squeaks are a balm for the soul. Staying in there until my fingers are all pruny, I eventually find it in me to get out and dry off before joining the rest of the household in the courtyard for more solace seeking. This is my favourite thing about courtyard manors, how the central, outdoor area becomes the communal living space. Mom and Akanai are relaxing with some tea on the veranda, while Grandpa Du and Song play with Kishi and Princess in the garden. Ever the sweetheart, Lin-Lin keeps Luo-Luo company while she plays, snuggling Aurie, Mama Bun, and Blackjack next to Sorya and Anrhi while the rest of the animals enjoy the music in captive silence. Still full of playful energy, Ping Ping zooms off to join Kishi in her game of fetch, utterly enamoured by the young quin who is more or less her size. As for me, I settle in next to my sweet wifey, who visibly brightens in my presence as she slips my arm around her shoulder and snuggles into my embrace. The only thing that could make this better is if the rest of my loved ones were here with us too, because as much as I enjoy my solitude, I’ve come to love these peaceful nights together even more.

