Not the worst idea, but I just think he’s insisted on this because he knew I would want everyone to have some. Growing Spiritual Soy Beans was a lot of work, and he wants me happy and healthy again before anything else. Warmed by his good intentions, I enjoy the sweet treat for what it is, and try not to feel too disappointed by the lack of magical happenings or orgasmic deliciousness. There’s just something missing, and I don’t know what, but you gotta hand it to those Imperial chefs. They sure know how to cook up some Spiritual Plants, assuming that’s what the Legate’s tofu pudding was made of.

Wait. Spiritual Plants.

Imperial Chefs.

“What’s the matter hubby?”

Peering at me in a mixture of curiosity and concern, Lin-Lin awaits my final verdict, so I smile mournfully and shake my head. “Nothing’s wrong. The tofu pudding was delicious, but still not the same.”

“Mmm, then what was that face you made?”

Frowning in exaggerated mockery of my expression, Lin-Lin puts on the ugliest scowl I’ve ever seen, complete with overly pursed lips and slumped shoulders. Squeezing her cheeks between thumb and forefinger, I scowl normally and say, “That is not how I look, and I did it because I’m an idiot.” Reiterating everything Xing Yong Wei told me about the Supreme Families and conclude, “I thought the Di family was all about farming, because they’re named for the Earth, but I just realized they probably specialize in growing Spiritual Plants and processing them for human consumption.”

The sympathetic glances from Luo-Luo, Lin-Lin, Sorya, and Anrhi wound me gravely, and once again, I’m reminded that I am a giant idiot. “Wait,” Lin-Lin says, scowling for real this time, and it’s adorable even though I’m still squeezing her cheeks. “Does that mean they have Divine Animals too? Makes sense, ya?”

“Oh, maybe.” Thinking it through, I shrug and say, “Well, we can’t rule out the possibility that they have another way to grow Spiritual Plants.” Or they specialize in cooking long pig, a la Defiled. There’s power in cannibalism, I know there is, but how and why? Maybe the Di family fertilizes their fields with dead Defiled or something. Ugh, I should’ve picked the Abbots brain more when he was around and asked him about how he raised three Spiritual Beasts. He wouldn’t say, but I think at least one of his animals formed a Spiritual Heart by eating Defiled, which further proves my suspicions.

So what is so special about the Defiled? Why don’t humans gain Spiritual Hearts from eating Spiritual Beasts? I ate the snakey snake who supplied the Spiritual Heart for Yan’s shield, but it didn’t taste any different from regular snake, nor did it make me any stronger. Unless it did and I just never noticed, much like the elixir I won from the ill-fated Society Contests. Seriously though, what the hell, world? Have some consistency. Why do Defiled get stronger from eating human corpses, and predators grow stronger from eating their prey, but regular old humans don’t get stronger from eating rice and beef?

So many questions and never any answers. Sometimes, I wish I could just turn my brain off and accept things for what they are, like I did as Baledagh. The questions were still unanswered, but he could use Chi and Heavenly Energy better than Brother could, because Brother had issues putting aside the unknowns, just like I do now. I’m beginning to understand Gerel’s concerns over my lack of faith, because I can finally see how it’s been affecting me all along. He accepts that his strength comes from the Mother Above, empowering him with purpose to defeat the Defiled, but I lack faith and question everything, which in turn limits what I can do. It’s Guiding all over again. I used it flawlessly for weeks before Mila pointed out what I was doing, and then it became a struggle to pick up Guiding again until I learned to trust my instincts and just throw my damn sword. I hate not knowing the answers, but I’m not smart enough to figure things out on my own.

Such is my curse, the curse of knowing just enough to know I don’t know shit.

Interrupted by another pinch to the cheek, Lin-Lin chastises me for dwelling on my thoughts again and drags me and Luo-Luo away to play with Aurie, Sarankho, and Jimjam. The night passes quickly and soon it becomes time to sleep, so I trundle over to pick up the sleeping red panda and cuddle his unconscious form. It feels wrong to do this without his consent, but he’s too adorable to resist, and Ping Ping doesn’t seem to mind as she ambles along behind us off back to my room. Once we’re all under the covers with Aurie splayed out over my legs, I stroke Ping Ping’s head and nuzzle her close, wondering if this is the night I pay another visit to her Natal Palace. I haven’t been back since waking from my coma, but I’m not sure if this is because I can’t do it anymore, or if she doesn’t have a Natal Palace, and without Pong Pong, it’s impossible to confirm. It’s possible Princess has a Natal Palace, but she refuses to leave Song’s side, and Kankin, Akanai’s old, surly quin, most certainly doesn’t, since I already tried napping with him during the trip over here and almost lost a hand in the process.

Then again, maybe Kankin does have a Natal Palace and I just wasn’t invited in. Who knows. Not me, that’s who, and I hate that there’s no one around to ask.

Contrary to my earlier expectations, sleep eludes me for some time as I ponder the Dao and my worldly problems, but eventually, the darkness comes to claim me. However, this is not the shadowy stillness of slumber, but the limitless nothingness of the void come to claim me. My heart surges as I open my ‘eyes’ to take in the Void around me, but the emptiness disappears and is replaced by a seamless, endless boundary of white. Realization settles in as I turn to face Zhen Shi, sitting high above me in his embroidered robes depicting all manner of atrocities in motion, like a sickening, living tapestry thrown about his form. What concerns me even more is that he’s sipping tea at a table exactly like the one Mom and Akanai sat at, with the details perfect right down to pattern on the ornate porcelain teacups and sweet, fragrant scent of the tea.

God dammit. I really need to figure out call blocking or something, because I do not want an eight-hundred year old mass murderer on speed dial in my head...

Chapter Meme
