Maybe it’s because I already have both, but I feel like it’s such a shame that so many people value wealth and fame so highly. You don’t need coin or recognition to be happy, just loving family and adorable floofs.

As the music plays, I consider the implications of Aura and my ability to Orate in times of passion and stress, which leads me on a long, circuitous mental journey exploring the Martial Path. I’ve been through it so many times, have pieced together so many clues, and I feel like I’ve been on the cusp of a pivotal realization for so long, but I just can’t figure out how all the pieces fit together so I can fix my shattered Core. A while back, I sat down with Dad and hammered out the details of a Core which I later added to my notes, but I’m still as lost as ever. Dad said, “The Core sits in the Void, but the Void is not the Core. The Void exists outside your Core, and your Core is what separates you from the Heavens beyond. Your Core is a barrier yes, but it does not only hold Chi, it also keeps your being, your mortality, and quite possibly your eternal soul, within.”

Which I took to mean my Core is formed from my soul, or perhaps even my soul in its entirety, which makes about as much sense as anything else to do with souls. Who knows what comprises a soul? My take is that a soul is the sum total of all our experiences, not just our memories, but everything else we’ve forgotten along the way, every smile, tear, grimace, and groan. All those experiences make up who we are and shape the person we become. I don’t remember most of my past life, but I still know who I am, deep down inside, and I believe it is the same for everyone else, even if they aren’t consciously aware of it. It’s a slippery slope to try and define a soul, since it’s mostly just a word we made up to explain the ineffable concept of life after death, so this is about as much thought as I’ve given it, and it seems right. The soul is who you are, simple as that, the very core of your being, and I don’t really need to know more.

This isn’t to say we as humans can never really change, but when we do change, our soul changes alongside us. This, more than anything, is what it means to be human, to have the ability to reflect upon our nature and improve or discard it. Unlike the wolf who only knows he must hunt the deer or the tiger who defends her mountain, we humans can reflect upon our actions and choose to be different. We can choose to become vegetarians like the Brotherhood, choose to indulge in bloodshed and violence like the Defiled, choose to play games in a time of crisis like the Legate, or choose to hold ourselves to a higher standard, like so many heroes of the Empire. That’s what it means to be human, to have the freedom and ability to choose, and while we might not always make the best choices, the very act of choosing to behave differently from what our instincts demand is what elevates us above most other animals out there.

How does this help me restore my Core? I don’t know, but it all fits in with what I realized while debating with Zhu Chanzui. Human concepts like justice, honour, and integrity are important because we humans hold ourselves to them, aspire to be better than the animals we were born as, and I think that’s why some animals turn into Ancestral Beasts, because they too aspire to something higher than being a slave to instinct and ingrained behaviour. That’s how I see it, and maybe it’s a little romanticized, but I think if Zhu Chanzui had been found and raised by the People, or at least better people than he was raised by, he would be a much different person today.

I’m still going to kill him, or at the very least, spit on his cold, dead corpse. To err is human; to forgive is divine, and I’m as human as can be.

Another point of interest in my notes is how everything revolves around Emotion. Grandpa Du and everyone else sort of glossed over that, but I keep coming back to it because it feels pivotal to my understanding. The prevailing theory is that Heavenly Energy is drawn to emotion, which is how both Defiled and Imperials can wield it through seemingly contrary means. The Defiled embrace emotion and lose themselves in its expression, while Imperials suppress and discard emotions to achieve Balance. Either way, I suspect this expression of emotion which draws Heavenly Energy into our Cores and binds it for our use. Inside our Cores, our souls, the Heavenly Energy has all the emotion it desires, because again, our souls are made up of the very fabric of our metaphysical being, which includes Emotion. Outside the Core, that emotion is consumed, thereby ‘freeing’ our Chi to become unbound Heavenly Energy once more, until it is once again drawn in by emotion.

Which explains why I could use Oration in Sinuji and again when Zhu Chanzui showed up at the Citadel, because in both cases, I was literally bursting with emotion. I’ve yet to succeed at Oration when actively trying it, but it comes out when I’m least expecting it which means there is still hope yet. Again, how does this help me fix my Core? No idea. Broken Blade Pichai said his Core fixed itself on its own, but his experience was incredibly different from mine. He was weakened, but never to the same extent that I was, where cotton clothes could turn my skin to road rash after a day of walking and petting floofs the wrong way would leave me with a bloody, pin-cushioned hand. It also took him the better part of a decade to get any usable function out of his Core and still ‘leaks’ Chi to this very day, whereas it’s been little over a year since I was crippled and I’m already using Chi without too much trouble, albeit in an incredibly limited function.

I’m doing something to help it along faster than Pichai did, but I have no idea what. Spiritual Tofu maybe? Or maybe it’s how we’re going about it. Believing himself a lost cause, he spent decades as a recluse away from the public eye, living off the land amongst commoners while searching for a new Path to follow, but in the end, it eventually led him back to the Martial Dao. Me? I’m here scrambling to not only stay alive, but also help the Empire survive this coming calamity, which is completely different from what Pichai was up to. To me, the Martial Path has never been a passion, but a means to an end, so perhaps I’m doing better than he did because I’m still treading the same Path as before, one I’ve no name for or really any words to describe. I’m just... trying to keep my head above water in a death world I don’t belong in, so I can only conclude that the Southern Living Legend was of no help whatsoever.

Which shouldn’t be surprising. When has anything ever been easy?

A plaintive ‘mwar’ snaps me out of my thoughts and I come back to reality to find Aurie resting his head in my lap, lying on his back in the grass while I stroke his chest. Now his sorrow-filled eyes stare at me in mournful question to ask why the scritches have stopped, all while holding his meaty paws up in the air where they were previously kneading at nothing. Only now do I notice the music has stopped and everyone is looking at me in worry, though Luo-Luo’s gaze is tinged with a hint of pique over having her performance all but ignored.

Pinching my cheek with two dainty fingers, Lin-Lin furrows her brow and says, “Bad Rainy. This is relaxation time. You’re not supposed to fret about work and stuff.”

“Sorry wifey.” Flashing a smile, I kiss her forehead and say, “A lot on the mind lately, and not much time left to ponder my personal health.”

“Ah!” Lighting up in delight, my wifey roughly drops Mama Bun into my lap and bolts off to her room, shouting, “Wait there!” Shrugging at no one in particular, I cuddle Mama Bun and quiet her stream of disgruntled grumbles, which are just too adorable not to love. Saddened by the lack of attention, Aurie seeks comfort from Luo-Luo, who welcomes him with open arms and a beautiful smile. By the time Lin-Lin returns, not even a minute later, my sweet, golden wildcat is purring up a storm as Luo-Luo’s fingers run through his long, shaggy fur. Carrying a lidded wooden lunch-box high above her head, Lin-Lin lightly plunks back down beside me with a cheery smile and says, “Here you go, Hubby. Spiritual Tofu Pudding version eighteen.”

I really wish she’d be more careful about what she says, since a careless word could spell disaster, but there’s no point warning her yet again. Giggling as she cracks the lunch-box open, she immediately snaps it shut again as Mama Bun goes from zero to a hundred in the blink of an eye and launches herself out of my embrace to beg Lin-Lin for a treat. A swarm of rabbits soon join her, all standing on their hind legs and emphatically shaking their front paws as if praying at high speeds, a gesture that was supposed to emulate a clasped salute in greeting, but is more akin to what beggars do when asking for alms.

Handing me the box, Lin-Lin distracts the begging bunnies with a bag of Spiritual Plant cuttings she takes out from her sleeve, handing a single generous piece to each rabbit. No doubt delivered to the Central Citadel by Cloud-Stepping Experts alongside the tofu pudding, I find it funny at how Taduk is so much more generous with them now that he has the ability to grow Spiritual Plants at will, but it’s not as easy as one might think. Taduk’s garden requires repeated infusions of Pong Pong’s poop for a Spiritual Plant to grow to maturity, or else the seeds will just sprout and remain like that until they die a little later due to lacking Heavenly Energy. Once the plant matures, it won’t die without further infusions of poop, but it also won’t continue to grow, which makes sense if you consider that the plants didn’t become Spiritual Plants by taking in Heavenly Energy naturally, but were instead nourished by Heavenly Energy in the form of poop.

Which is hilarious on so many levels. The power of creation, manifest in the form of poop. God, this world sometimes...

Banjo, Baloo, and Kishi also come over to investigate, and Ping Ping ambles along beside her, but while the bears and quin go crazy over their treats, the Divine Turtle takes her treat in her mouth and scurries away in search of her friend. Before moving out of range, I feel Ping Ping’s Aura pulse out in friendly inquiry, her way of broadcasting her intent, and soon enough, the grumpy red panda climbs down from his tree and accepts the sweet girl’s gift. While he eats, Ping Ping settles in to protect him from the voracious bunbuns, Deflecting them away once they finish their own treats and hop over to investigate, but it doesn’t take long for the Spiritual Plants to take effect. With enough yawns and stretches to send me into cuteness overload, the bunnies gather in a floof pile and fall asleep in the middle of the courtyard, except for Mama Bun who curls up in Lin-Lin’s lap and stares sweetly at my wifey in hopes of getting some more.

Finally free to enjoy my Heavenly dessert, I open the lunchbox and remove the secured travel bowl from inside, with the lid clamped on tight and a small glass container of golden-brown ginger-infused syrup strapped in next to it. Tofu pudding just looks like tofu in water, and the syrup is more water than syrup, but together, these two items represent the culmination of Taduk’s gardening work, with a little help from Charok to blend it all together since my sweet Teacher can barely light a campfire much less boil water on his own. Stomach grumbling at the sight of this delectable treat, I fondly recall my first taste of Spiritual Tofu Pudding, a mouth-watering delight which Shen ZhenWu brought back from the East and probably jump-started my whole healing process. A shame Taduk and Charok haven’t been able to replicate it yet, but here’s hoping eighteenth time’s the charm.

Ignoring the fact that these soybeans were grown in turtle shit, I dig in and savour the first bite. Unfortunately, I already knew it’d be a failure, because Mama Bun’s nose hasn’t even twitched in my direction, meaning something important and magical is being lost in the cooking process. Don’t get me wrong, the tofu pudding is a yummy treat, but no more delicious than any normal dessert, as opposed to the sublime Spiritual Tofu Pudding Shen ZhenWu treated me to. Still, I’m not too bummed about it since even if we never figure out how to make Spiritual Plants fit for human consumption without ruining their magical properties, I can always pop over to the closest Demon-riddled battle-field for a quick Succ if I’m ever feeling metaphysically peckish.

This does raise up a whole host of questions though, but they’ve mostly been sitting on the back-burner since I have more important things to think about. Why do humans not benefit from eating Spiritual Plants when it seems like rabbits and other herbivores clearly do? It also seems odd that the carnivores don’t care about the Spiritual Plants, which brings me back to what the Abbot spoke about when discussing Spiritual Beasts and the formation of Spiritual Hearts. I’m pretty sure the Defiled gain strength through cannibalism, and animals gain strength from eating other animals or Spiritual Plants. It doesn’t really explain how so many herbivores become Spiritual Beasts though, since I’d imagine Spiritual Plants are few and far between, or why humans don’t grow stronger from eating Spiritual Beasts, but not knowing things is hardly new. Either way, I finish off my bowl of tofu pudding without offering to share, not because I’m greedy, but because according to Taduk, I am his test subject and no one else can try it because he wants to keep the variables to a minimum.

