“Right!” said Foxbolt, her eyes going rounder. “Of course. I was just…spitballing. Not giving you permission to bring a flamethrower. Definitely not encouraging you to spend a million argold! Or any amount of money. Buying gear is something you shouldn’t consider for ages, and only then after consultations…”

“Instructor?”

“Ignore my rambling, Alden. I’ll stop wasting your time. One of the things I wanted to mention to you is your rank club. It’s having its gym time cut for the foreseeable future. Did you get the message from Instructor Plim?”

“No. But I haven’t been checking my messages today.” Too expensive to do that from Artona I.

“Then I’m sorry to be the bearer of bad news. Luna will do something fun for you all, knowing her. But it won’t involve gym time next quarter.”

The news wasn’t a shock.

“And it hasn’t been announced yet,” Foxbolt said, “but the class clubs are going to be making some changes, too. I thought I should tell you about it because we don’t have a Rabbit class club.”

“I am the Rabbit class club.”

She chuckled. “You are. I was going to suggest that you join Adjuster club as an honorary member. It makes sense for a lot of reasons, but also…I’m one of the advisors, and I know we’ll be handling our reduced hours in a way that won’t cut you out. And Max will be there!”

The other Adjusters in their class would be there, too. She was obviously trying to tell him he wouldn’t be a lonely B-rank if he came to hang out with them.

“Thanks. That sounds like a good opportunity for me.”

She picked up the tablet and looked at it again. “You’ve really made an amazing amount of progress since joining the program. I know it’s premature, but I’m excited thinking about what you might be able to do in seven years.”

“Seven years?”

“That’s about the time you’ll be getting your first job offers,” she said.

Alden blinked. “Right.”

Of course. Seven years. Job offers.

“I know it sounds like forever at your age,” said Foxbolt. “But you’ll be stepping out into the real world before you know it. And all the training you’ve done here will have paid off, and you’ll be surprised how strong you are compared to most problems you face, even if your rank doesn’t automatically make people sit up and take notice.

“What I’m saying is, I hope you aren’t feeling discouraged by the changes happening. Having your progress and effort rewarded with less opportunity while others get more based on rank is so unfair, but years from now, if you keep at it, you’re going to get where you want to be.”

Where do I want to be? he wondered as their meeting finished up and rejoined the others.

And what was the real world? And why couldn’t Leeter-zis have asked him to contemplate something simpler than home?

The rest of gym was almost as fun as the first half had been.

Ignacio let him hold a giant knife when he swapped teams. And Alden couldn’t find much worry in himself about the B-list club, or much anger at Winston, who rolled his eyes at him while running in at the head of the depressed group who’d had to miss the first hour of class.

Jupiter gave him one heck of a look when she got several meters away, and Alden watched her watching him, thinking he should probably be alarmed.

She could smell the paint and who knew what else on him. Not the scent of someone who’d been at school today for sure. Not the scent he had when he came straight over from Matadero either.

Asking the System to enhance her nose might not have been as weird as I thought. It’s practically a spy tool, and she’ll be able to track people like a bloodhound if that’s what she wants to do.

He was sure all of the normal school feelings would come back when he didn’t have spit paint on his face and a light coating of herbs and bone in his hair.

When he got back to the apartment, he finally showered, taking care not to wash off the ritual mark, just to be sure he wasn’t breaking Leeter-zis’s rules. Pink and red paint ran down his face toward the drain, and when he stepped out, only the coral hook around his eye remained.

Before he left, he tore a page from a notebook and folded a single paper star for their tree.
