The incompatible mana problem was rather basic and intrinsic to all known magic, after all; it had been around just as long as mana had been around. Trying to ‘solve it’ was sort of like how a very small community of people back on Earth continually tried to make perpetual motion machines, despite all known science saying such a thing was a literal impossibility. As that realization crossed Erick’s mind, he realized how insane it was that he had actually solved [Renew].

Erick said to the dragon man. “I have something to show you, and I need to keep it secret. It’s about [Renew], as you have already guessed.”

Redflame’s mirth turned to cautious interest. And then he recognized how serious Erick was; that brought Redflame up short. He narrowed an eye toward Fairy Moon, who simply nodded. Then he asked Erick, “How secret are we talking?”

“Of the highest order.” Erick said, “I’ll go into more details when we’re secure. Fairy Moon and Maid Maria can join us.”

Redflame pulled back a fraction, which for him was more like three meters. Bright red eyes bore into Erick, and Erick met that gaze unflinchingly. After a moment, Redflame asked, “Timeframe? I need to know if I should halt some construction in the experiment room, or if we only need to step away for twenty minutes.”

“Halt that construction.” Erick said, “This could take a while.”

“… Okay.” Redflame stood a bit straighter, which put him a good fifteen meters above Erick, then he turned to the experiment room. With a light voice, he said, “I’ll… just... halt everything? Sure.” He said to one of his people, who stood nearby, “Take them to the—” He turned toward Fairy Moon. “Go wherever. I’ll find you.”

Fairy Moon nodded, then turned to the side, saying, “This way, Erick.”

She opened a door in the middle of the air and then walked through. Maria followed quickly, and then Erick followed last.

The room was a comfortable space at the top of one of the many towers, and it was sized for orcols; not dragons. The ceiling was a dome, while large windows all around showed views of the other white stone towers, or of the deep, forest valley that surrounded all of the mountainous mansion. Furniture for bipedal people sat around the space, and Erick instantly picked one of the more comfortable chairs and sat down, holding the metal case in his lap. It felt way too heavy. He could have put it on the table in front of him, but that felt wrong. He would hold onto it, for now.

The room was meant for entertaining, though, and not strictly for brooding, and so there was a bar on one side. Fairy Moon took a chair beside Erick, around the table in the center of the room, while Maria went to the bar and began mixing drinks using the various alcohols on the shelves. There was apparently a small pantry behind the bar, too. Erick only found that out because Maria deposited a large tray of small sandwiches down on the table in the center, along with a large drink in a tall, crystal tumbler directly in front of Erick.

Maria said, “It’s not strong; mostly sugar water. If you want I can make you something stronger.”

Erick said, “Appreciated. I’ll… See how this goes, first.” He forced his voice to a joking tone, asking, “Maybe some coffee, if he has it back there?”

Maria perked up, her pink tail raising along with her shoulders in a minor surprise, but then she dropped back to professionalism. “Pardon, Archmage, I do not believe he has coffee here. I can go to the market and return with some, if you desire.”

“No no.” Erick said, “That’s fine— Some hot breakfast tea, then. Cream. Sugar.”

Maria nodded. “At once.”

And then she went to make tea. Erick’s thoughts occupied his mind for the next three minutes. By the time Maria set a cup of light brown tea down in front of him, he still hadn’t thought through every possible scenario. As he sipped, he considered—

The door opened and all thoughts fled.

A human-shaped Redflame stepped into the room, looking dignified in a short, red robe with dark trim. His clothes matched his dark complexion and his braided red beard, and braided red hair. He looked ready to take on the world and crush it into conformity, if needed. His expression both softened, and hardened, as he looked to Erick, and then to Fairy Moon. He turned right back to Erick.

“I will be securing the space,” Redflame said.

The door shut behind him. The world beyond the room vanished, the windows turning red, while the normal white lights of the room kept the atmosphere mostly cozy. Erick could not feel the Ophiel he had left back at Fairy Moon’s manor, or the Ophiel he had left outside of Redflame’s mansion, but that was expected.

Redflame relaxed a fraction.

“Hello again, Erick.” Redflame moved to the chair across from Erick with an easy grace, and sat down. His eyes glanced to the metal box in Erick’s lap, then he looked back up at Erick. “I can’t imagine that you would try a trick to prevent my creation of [Renew], since you want the spell, too. But was that a lie? You don’t actually want [Renew]? Perhaps my revelations of how much it would change dragon society have tempered your desires?”

His voice was easy, and light, but the feelings behind his words were disappointment, resentment, worry, and anger.

Erick was mostly just worried, though.

Redflame waited.

Erick started, “I’m going to say a few things, and each one might be a problem. Let me finish, before you speak, please.” Reluctantly, he moved aside the small sandwiches on the table and placed the metal case in the center.

Redflame nodded slowly; listening, waiting.

Erick decided that there was no need to tell a story. He just stated, “A few things. I’m a Wizard. I already made [Renew] while in the Core.” With a thought, the anti-Sight protections around the metal box vanished. “And these are prototypes that may or may not gradually erase a bloodline from a user, which will, in effect, allow a half-dragon to gradually rid themselves of their twisted Elemental Body.” Redflame was asking to pause, but Erick wasn’t done; he bulldozed through all interruptions, “I want to make Elemental Benevolence in order to prevent any more Sunderings from ever happening ever again, and I want to enter into a formal alliance with Ar’Cosmos mainly for my own protection against all the rest of the world when they find out I’m a Wizard, but also because all of your people could use some new spaces to live. I plan on making the Crystal Forest inhabitable. All of this is in addition to—”

“Wait. Wait. Wait.” Redflame had been mumbling those words ever since Erick dismissed the protections on the box. “Wait. Wait.”

“—In addition to opening up new worlds and restoring the fae to life, either as a matter of course, or as a side effect of simply opening up new worlds.”

And with that, Erick was done.

Redflame shook his head, blinking as he tried to think of something to say, his ruby eyes and hard face having gone through a gamut of emotions while Erick was speaking. Disbelief. Pure greed; perhaps the deepest emotion of them all, and accompanied by his red eyes turning into pools of rage with no outlet. This was then followed instantly by more disbelief. That was when he began asking Erick to wait. Erick did not wait, though. At the mention of Elemental Benevolence, Redflame turned almost meek. At the mention of alliances, he turned away, wanting Erick to stop talking, and to have never started in the first place.

And now he just sat there, worried. Lost.

The dragon found himself fast enough.

Redflame instantly asked Fairy Moon, “Truth?”

“Truth.” Fairy Moon said, “Unensorcelled, and unprompted. Erick wishes for welcome, and time is not on a single side of this space.”

Erick spoke up, “Slight correction: I wish for allies. Not a welcome into your world, but a friendly joining as we expand into new ones. No controlling, only cooperation.”

For a long moment, no one said anything. Fairy Moon just sat there; observing, judging. Erick waited. And Redflame digested Erick’s words and Fairy Moon’s confirmation of those words like one would digest a particularly large whale; with great difficulty, and piece by piece if at all.

A long while passed in silence.

Redflame stared.

Erick waited.

Suddenly, Redflame said, “I wish to know more of who you are, Erick. I have heard many stories, but I wish to hear from you. What are your goals? What does your perfect world look like?”

“… My perfect world?” Erick frowned a little, momentarily thinking the answer was difficult, but it wasn’t that difficult at all. “To have a nice house somewhere and to help people nearby. Probably go back to farming. I think I want to work with metals in enchanting, and in runic webs, and I want to do more esoteric enchanting, like using wood and stone and crystals. I’ll probably help prop up some sort of anti-Sundering thing for a while… Not sure how that is going to go. I’ll help with controlling monster populations… Though when I made [Renew], Rozeta said that her experiments with the rune I added to the Script were already showing promise in turning monsters less-insane. So maybe in 50 years we’ll get some of these ‘spirit beasts’ that the older accretion manuals mention, and fewer monsters.” Erick continued, “But my perfect world would be one where there is no war, and trade deals are hashed out in words and bargains, and people are free to move around as they wish, and live how they want, as long as their choices don’t interfere with the choices of others. I want my daughter to be happy. I want Yggdrasil and Ophiel to be happy. I want more hope and cooperation, and no war and no monsters. I want the wrought and you dragons and Kirginatharp and the Dragon Stalkers and the Angels and the Demons and all the rest to stop fighting. The main villains are dead or Blessed; it is time to move on to growth and reconciliation, no matter how painful it might be for all involved.”

Silence.

A moment passed, and then Redflame said, “High hopes, but… Perhaps…” His voice trailed off.

Erick waited.

Redflame said, “I am not sure where I am with what is happening, right now. I likely won’t be sure about any of this for a long while. But… But I know where I want to be, ideally. In my perfect happiness I teach at the arcanaeum, my students go on to make their best lives, while I go home and have a nice supper prepared by a good chef. I don’t want to be involved in war or danger, but I will do what I must, as I have done for a long time before the Sundering tore everything apart. I’ve spent 15,000 years as a teacher of various ways, and that is what I prefer. I have dabbled in civilization creation here and there, but primarily in the first 2,000 years of my life and now here in Ar’Cosmos…” Redflame paused. He said, “Everything that is currently happening with Ar’Cosmos and with Veird is something that I wish to mitigate in my life. I don’t want to be involved in a cramped little world anymore than necessary.

“Ar’Cosmos was an emergency response to an emergency situation, and it was never meant to last this long.

“I say these things so that you know that I am not a fighter. I run from fights. You don’t get to be my age through challenging the larger power of any time or place.” Redflame sighed a little, saying, “But… I feel you will have other allies, here in Ar’Cosmos, willing to take up your offer, directly. I… I can only provide you with somewhere to run to if the world should fall upon you like it has all the other Wizards to come before—” He nearly spat, “You’re a fucking Wizard… Of course. But how… But your Particle Magic works, even outside of yourself?” He seemed to lose something vital in his eyes, as though his understanding of the world had fundamentally altered in a way he did not comprehend. He said, “Ah. You’re… Deep Paradox. Your magic has been here long before you came to Veird. You already remade the world, and no one noticed… Huh.”

Erick had a lot of rapid thoughts about all of Redflame’s words, which, he supposed, was appropriate, considering what his own words had done to Redflame. Over 17,000 years old? That was hard to comprehend. That made him older than Melemizargo’s reign as God of Magic of the Old Cosmology. But Redflame’s sudden existential crisis and talking about ‘remaking the world’ was too much for Erick to let continue.

“Now wait just a second.” Erick said, “Particles are real. You were Grand Translated into my universe. My world is still out there somewhere in the universe and it’s made of particles just like all the rest of this New Cosmology, and the people there probably produce mana, too, though we don’t actually have magic… probably— The point is that I did not make Particle Magic; I just helped people understand what they were already looking at.”

Redflame was suddenly, deeply confused. “… So you’re… Not Paradox?”

“No; I’m Paradox. Pretty much 100%. Rozeta helped with that.” Erick added, “I’ve even met a version of myself in the Deep Paradox and survived.”

Redflame’s eyes went wide. Fairy Moon’s eyes went a little wide, too. Maria, who had been behind the bar counter like she was protecting herself from the conflict in the room, gasped loudly.

“Oh. Gods above.” Redflame said, “You’re a strong Paradox Wizard. Oh. Oh.” He stared, saying, “You actually could open up new worlds, then, and without Melemizargo’s help. Oh.”

Redflame was losing his hold on reality again.

So Erick reached over and opened up the metal container, trying to ground the old dragon as he said, “And here’s a pair of [Renew] rings that may or may not be able to erase an Elemental Body from a person. Well. That one erases all Elemental Bodies. This one replaces all Elemental Bodies with [Greater Lightwalk]. It is not a cure for the Dragon Curse, but it is a side step around the issue. It’s based on the ideas of bloodline suppression, and eventual removal. I know it’s not the solution you were looking for, but it might help your half-dragons become normal people who are able to live openly out on Veird.”

Redflame blinked.

Maria gasped again.

And then Redflame came back to himself.

