It needed to have been done today, too, and now, Redflame had to see them. To do that, though… Erick would out himself as a Wizard. ‘Reluctant’ was not a large enough word, he felt, to be able to encompass all of his current emotions surrounding the current scenario.

Whatever.

Erick had Ophiel [Metalshape] some iron into an octagonal box to hold both the rings, one in each half of the clamshell design. A few additions of cloth and clips secured the rings, while a single cast of [Sealed Privacy Ward] made for rather decent security, but which would only last an hour. Erick could [Renew] that magic to extend that duration, if he was surreptitious enough about it, but he likely would not be doing that. Ophiel would just have to cast the spell again if it was needed.

… Erick added a secondary cast of [Delirium Charm] upon the box that would last ten days. It would have to be good enough.

- - - -

Erick spent ten more minutes agonizing over what he was about to do, and then he put those thoughts behind him. There was no getting around what was coming. He just had to deal. In order to deal, though, he needed to prepare...

Erick sat down onto his accretion pillow and held his aura open, extending a thread from his core to the air above his palm, giving the coming ritual a place to deposit the result of his casting. Extending his aura like this was pretty normal for him, since getting a core. He didn’t actually have to do this for most of his smaller spells, but for his larger spells, the ritual of it all was necessary.

(There was a lot of nuance to that statement, and all of that nuance was about how people cast from their souls, but with a core which fully held Erick’s soul, every spell he cast should have burst out of his chest in gruesome ways. But that didn’t happen. He could still cast spells with the point of origin being his hands, for instance. The accretion manual writers of Ar’Cosmos had answered this question for Erick, though; Health and body-accretion acted as a soul for the purposes of spellcasting origins.)

And now, Erick finally had the base mana needed to cast some of his larger-cost spells, like [Summon Ophiel]. Having a few more Ophiel would go a long, long way to being prepared for a rainy day, or a bad time revealing secrets to Redflame! Ophiel couldn’t just summon more of himself, though, even here in Ar’Cosmos when the Script was so far away. Erick had already tried that.

There were multiple reasons for such a limitation, Erick guessed.

He supposed what was actually happening, besides an imposed limitation of the Script against Propagation magic (no summoned creatures could summon more of themselves) was Ophiel had his own mana, and his own regeneration, but he didn’t actually have mana, or regeneration. He had base values that were directly derived from Erick’s values, at the time of casting.

And since Ophiel had no actual base values, the ‘value’ of any Ophiel he cast would therefore be 0; an automatically failed spell. But all that seemed rather too nuanced to be the root cause of the problem.

Erick still figured that the Propagation Ban was what was really preventing Ophiel from summoning more Ophiel, though, even if Ophiel wasn’t like most other summons. Ophiel actually regenerated his own mana, after all, and that was new. Erick had done that. Had that been Wizardry?

Results inconclusive.

Erick had also helped other people to accomplish the same thing, so maybe… Maybe Ophiel wasn’t Wizardry? Maybe Ophiel truly was just a new type of summoned creature? Or maybe not.

Ophiel was not the only instance of Erick summoning a creature who already had mana. Yggdrasil was the same, sort of. With this other data point, and the fact that no one else had ever made a World Tree before, perhaps Erick had just uncovered a way of summoning that was mostly lost to others?

For a long moment, Erick felt self-conscious. Had any of his successes been his own? Or was his Wizardry the cause? Inferno Maw had openly disdained the Wizards who could no longer do magic once their ‘easy magic’ had been taken from them...

Whatever.

Erick cleared his mind, and focused on the [Summon Ophiel] spell inside of himself. He had never really cast like this, or even gone ‘soul searching’ like this, but this was part of the process and he could probably figure it out if he kept at it enough.

With eyes closed, Erick focused inward, trying to find something which he had only ever seen once, and back when he was in the middle of a lot of pain from that Soul Spear attack. Ophiel’s ‘node’ had been a windy, chiming—

Oh.

Right. It was easier than that, wasn’t it?

Erick hummed a tune of [Summon Ophiel] and his light-filled aura vibrated with the magic.

He opened his eyes, and watched as he filled his aura with a cast of [Summon Ophiel], while simultaneously realizing he had fucked up. Mana rushed out of his core like a breach in a dam, for he was trying to cast like he always had; a single spell every second, no matter the mana cost. Usually his mana costs were only in the double digits, anyway, thanks to Intelligence.

Less than a second had passed since he had started, but it was too late to stop the flow.

Everything fell apart as a small crack traced across his core. Mana gushed out of the mana veins of his arm in an uncontrolled burst; following the line from where he was trying to cast, to his core. Erick winced. Ophiel cooed nearby, twittering in concerned flutes. Erick just waved him off, saying that he was fine, and he was. Mostly. He had no Status to display his loss, but he felt like around 750 mana had been lost to the air. The crack in his core was more phantom than reality, too, for as Erick gazed inward, he tried looking for the fracture and found nothing. Either he had healed that fast, or… Erick wasn’t sure.

All he knew was that he had drawn too deep and his core did not like that.

Erick breathed deep, and centered himself again. This time, he went slower. Ophiel’s original spell cost 1505 mana, so Erick plotted out a four second cast time to be on the safe side. He extended a pseudopod of light-filled aura out from his hand. He focused, and then restarted the ritual. The center of that light container filled with the image of Ophiel, which then filled in with solidness, manifesting over the course of four seconds. Wings, eyes, flutes and violins, the sounds of birds and the sound of the wind.

And then the ritual was done.

Erick released his aura and Ophiel popped into the world, blinking and tweeting and already reorienting himself to his new position. The Ophiel on the headboard bounced and trilled as the second Ophiel took his place on the balcony outside, happily dancing and flopping around in the sun, positioning himself to the next most important vantage point nearby.

This was good. Erick smiled. He had trained the little guy well.

There were some small issues, of course, for this latest Ophiel only had around 3000 Mana and 6000 Mana Regen per hour while at Rest. The original Ophiel had around 13,000 Mana, and 60,000 Regen, for he had been cast with Erick’s Normal Form’s powers. This was fine, though. This was still an expansion of Erick’s capabilities, and a large expansion at that.

Piece by piece, he was getting his power back.

For his next Ophiel, Erick attempted to make use of his newfound understanding of Elemental Mystical.

His first try got him an Ophiel for only 950 Mana. Erick barely understood how he had done that, but it certainly felt like it had only taken 950 Mana to cast a 1505 Mana summon. Now he was bottomed out, though, so, perhaps… This was good enough, for now?

It was.

Erick got up, grabbed the clamshell ring case, and headed downstairs.

Fairy Moon and Maid Maria were waiting for him in the dining room. Both of them had been doing some paperwork, but they stepped away from that work when they saw Erick. Both of them stared at the iron luggage in his left hand, and while Fairy Moon soon moved her gaze toward Erick, Maria’s vibrant pink eyes were locked upon the octagonal box. She knew what was inside the [Ward]ed box, and she wanted it, though she was afraid at the same time. Erick had no idea what that was about, exactly, but he would likely find out soon enough, for Fairy Moon and Maria both wore nice clothes. They were both ready to head over to Redflame for an unscheduled visit, just like Erick was. Tomorrow, Redflame would attempt [Renew], so Erick needed to lay out everything to the old dragon, today.

An hour from now, or possibly less.

Erick still wasn’t sure if he was ready, but like that ever mattered. He had questions to ask, though.

… But as silence stretched, he wasn’t sure how to ask his questions.

Fairy Moon and Maria just waited. Maria seemed to need the extra moments to gather herself, anyway. It took her a full minute to pry her eyes off of the ring case, but she finally looked to Erick, and then she realized what she had been doing. She was embarrassed for her break in decorum, but it was a small embarrassment, easily overlooked.

There was a lot going through Erick’s mind, after all. Mainly, Erick had not entered into a covenant with Fairy Moon last night, and he hoped that his hesitation had not been a mistake.

Fairy Moon waited patiently for him to speak.

Erick breathed in, then said, “I want this to work out in everyone’s favor, but this desire includes my own fate. Can I count on you to be on my side, Fairy Moon? Or will you give me up to the dragons when they demand my sacrifice?”

Fairy Moon spoke, “I will protect your purposes and person as though they were my own, as long as your desired destiny drives you to seek the stars.”

Caveats upon caveats.

Not good.

But probably as close to ‘good’ as Erick could get.

Erick added one specific clause, though, demanding, “No more mind fuckery.”

Fairy Moon drew herself up, and then said, “If my magics will save your purpose and your person without causing undue duress, I will not leave any option off the table.”

“… Make sure it’s your last option, then.”

“I will make it near the last, but if the solution to a Sundering is to slave you for a single sentence, then I will do what I must do,” Fairy Moon said, without remorse.

Erick frowned. “I don’t want to regret helping you and yours, Fairy Moon. I need you to understand that.”

“I understand utterly.” Fairy Moon said, “I sense the Sight of Fickle Fate before us, and will ensure that each of us come out of this with much more than what we went in.”

Erick took a deep breath and dialed down his paranoia. He said, “Then let us be off, and see what becomes of this new world order.” He hefted the metal case, adding, “If these things even work.”

Fairy Moon turned and walked toward a closed door that instantly opened, revealing a forest path beyond. Erick followed, and soon enough, Maria hurried along. Yggdrasil hung out on Erick’s left shoulder, while one of Ophiel sat upon his right. Fairy Moon briefly looked at the second Ophiel, who rapidly followed behind, catching up with Erick on the forest path.

- - - -

The third Ophiel remained behind, in Erick’s room. He had a bit of trouble sending his sight through that Ophiel, but with his latest understanding of the true nature of Clarity and Elemental Mystical, he was able to spend more of his own mana, since he could also regenerate that mana with some manual Meditation.

He could see through that Ophiel’s eyes, if he needed to.

Hopefully he wouldn’t need to.

- - - -

The forest walk was uneventful, and even relaxing.

And then Erick spotted Redflame’s white castle through a break in the canopy. He steeled himself, gripping the metal case tight. He recast the various anti-Sight spells upon his ‘gift’, so that the rings weren’t revealed prematurely. Two minutes later Fairy Moon’s winding path through the forest brought them to the grey stone door at the base of the cliff.

A knock upon that door turned it white, like the castle above, and then it opened.

- - - -

Redflame slipped out of the doors to a warehouse-like room, into the hallway, seeming like a tunnel of red water flowing out of a break in a dam. He laughed a little, happy to see his unexpected guests, as he curled up to stand tall in front of Erick, Fairy Moon, and Maria. His massive draconic body was of appropriate size to the hallway.

Erick felt tiny, because he was, comparatively. Redflame didn’t seem to care about that, though. Everyone was tiny compared to him, even the larger orcol-sized half-dragons and dragonkin who walked around his castle. The joy on his draconic face was no different than the joy that had been on his human face, though, or all the other times Erick had seen the man.

“Erick! It is good to see you, but —ah ha!— you’re here early!” Redflame chuckled, saying, “The experiment won’t happen till tomorrow and I’ve needed absolutely all of that time to get it right. Our talk helped to clear up some of my own misconceptions, and I feel my chances of success are in the high 70s! Maybe even 85%! Ah ha!”

Fairy Moon stood to the side. Maid Maria stood with her.

Right now, it was just Erick and his little metal case, standing before Redflame, who towered overhead by ten meters. A deep redness flickered out of his mouth when the massive dragon talked, illuminating his fangs from behind in a way that was not that dissimilar from when Melemizargo spoke.

Except red, instead of white, of course.

Erick nodded, then said, “It is good to see you too, Redflame.”

Redflame gestured to the open archways beyond, where he had just come from, asking, “Care to see the progress? I was not expecting this today, but I am happy you are here. Perhaps you have some other insights you would like to share?”

Erick glanced past the large doors.

The room beyond was like an aircraft hanger, or maybe like a forensics hanger where various alphabetic governmental bodies dissected downed aircrafts to find the reason for the crash. Metal arches and machinery and tables of all sorts dotted the room, like scattered car parts, while various larger runic workings hung from the ceiling.

Redflame’s eyes glanced to the metal case hanging from Erick’s left hand then back to Erick, as he lightly teased, “Or perhaps you have some of your own [Renew] work in that un-Sightable box you wish to share, hmm?”

Erick recognized the curiosity in Redflame’s deep, red eyes. He imagined that curiosity turning to hate, or perhaps to jealousy, or perhaps to bare greed… Greed was perhaps the most reasonable outcome. The man hadn’t even tried that hard to solve this [Renew] problem until Erick, off his recent win in Ar’Kendrithyst and then his world tour and Worldly Path, made public his own desire to solve the incompatible mana problem.

