The sun cast light into Erick’s room at a slight angle. It was almost noon. Tomorrow, Redflame would attempt to make [Renew]; spending a million or more mana in order to create something that Rozeta had already explicitly said that she was never going to allow to be Remade. Erick wasn’t sure if such a restriction worked here in Ar’Cosmos, but he bet it would. Fairy Moon had even confirmed over breakfast that Rozeta’s restriction would likely hold.

There was a still small chance that Redflame could actually succeed, but that chance was measured in the single digit percentage points.

And so, in order for peace to have a chance, Erick had decided that Ar’Cosmos could not be made overly vulnerable due to the loss of Redflame’s minor mana fortune. Ar’Cosmos was actually the weakest ‘most powerful force’ on Veird at the moment, if only because of their lack of land, and now that the Shades were gone and the stability of Glaquin shattered, the dragons might be next on the chopping block.

But the dragons represented a possibility to Erick. A possibility for him to attain stability and power and protection. He knew that, under the current situation, he would not get anything like that from Kirginatharp, or from the Wrought, because as soon as they found out he was a Wizard then they would have to try to capture or kill him. Erick’s only other options besides Ar’Cosmos were the remnant Shades, and Melemizargo, and that seemed like the absolute last resort.

And so, Erick went back to the accretion books from Illustrious and the enchanting books from Inferno Maw. He needed to change the game. He needed to add a new variable. And he already had a good idea. He could try to use Redflame’s [Renew]-based theory on curing the Dragon Curse, and make that cure himself.

… And he had.

It was, for sure, not the solution that the powers of Ar’Cosmos had wanted. But the people trapped here with half-mutated Curses and half-dragon bodies might appreciate what Erick had done.

If this actually worked.

The idea had come to him in a flash of insight when reading about how one could create a second core, thus advancing to Third Foundation, and thus increasing one’s mana-per-second cap to 1000, and also how one could abandon one’s core entirely, without dying due to catastrophic loss of soul and Dragon Essence. A catastrophic shift of Dragon Essence, either with gaining a new core or trying to abandon their old, usually killed most half-dragons that tried for it. This is where wyrms came from.

The soul both created and was created by one’s core, after all. That’s just how it worked. To break the core was to severely harm the person and usually kill them, but dragons had been creating and discarding cores for forever. They knew how to discard a core. Gaining a second core or abandoning an old one were both integral parts of attempting to accrete one’s way out of half-dragon status.

Gaining a new core or discarding an old core did not fix the muddled Dragon Essence problem which caused half dragons to exist, though. Now that was a complicated problem. But attaining such a transformation of one’s soul boded well for future attempts at fully embracing Elemental Fae, Death, or Carnage.

Actually removing all the Dragon Essence one had was a theorized way to ‘step around’ all these problems. But there again was another problem. For minor cases of Dragon Essence poisoning, one could recover from the removal of such Dragon Essence. Jane had experienced this, herself. She only consumed a small bit of Dragon Essence, though, and the removal of that had put her in a hospital at Oceanside under a medically-induced coma for a month.

Dragon Essence was… Complicated.

And not just because of the Blood Curse imbued into Dragon Essence itself, way back at the start of the Script. That Curse caused all dragons who saw and recognized another dragon to instantly attack the other dragon. According to what Erick had read outside of Ar’Cosmos, and even here recently, what the Curse did was turn the territorial instincts of a dragon up to 15 on a scale of 1 to 10. Dragon Essence demanded victors rise to the top and losers pay homage. Before the Curse, the winners rose to the top in their society while the losers paid homage to the winners. Nothing else would happen. Under the Curse, though, the losers just died, because winners took the Dragon Essence they won directly out of the losers, and such a loss was catastrophic to the soul.

Dragon Essence, when it touched a soul, was like a comprehensive Blessing, Curse, and transformation all rolled into one. A soul touched by Dragon Essence was forever changed. It was like taking the bones of a person and replacing them with adamantium, and then gifting that person the ability to thrive under such a change. But the removal of the Dragon Essence was the removal of those bones. Such removals left a person without any structure to support their souls, and thus they collapsed into wyrms.

The only way dragon society had ever survived the horror of ‘removing’ the Dragon Curse was with Paradoxing/Creationing their Dragon Essence into one of the approved and experimentally proven ‘safe essences’.

Or by living in Ar’Cosmos, where Dragon Essence wasn’t affected by the Curse. Here, in this fae-blessed land, dragons could live without the Curse driving them to kill each other on sight. Here, in this fae-cursed land, was the only place dragons could ever meet each other without going to war.

Erick wanted to change that for so many different reasons, but also because it was the right thing to do. No one should be trapped in a tiny world like Ar’Cosmos, or anywhere else for that matter.

But also, releasing such powerful beings like dragons into the world at large…

Could be dangerous.

… Would be dangerous.

Rozeta had explicitly said that Veird could not handle a true flight of dragons, whatever that meant.

And so, with the ideas of ‘core formation’ at the same time as ‘core purification’, which would then lead to ‘core removal’, and through using runic inscriptions to enact a [Renew]-based effect…

Completing the initial designs had taken Erick about an hour.

And now, his latest enchanting project sat on his desk, waiting for him to continue. He had started with a square-shaped line of platinum a meter long, and then he had added two small angles to the ends. Then, he bent the whole thing into a circle, ensuring that the angles matched and that the whole thing was stable, and solid. It wasn’t a perfect ring due to a gap between those angles, but it was the shape it had to be; the rune for [Renew], but weighty and thin.

The metal rune was fully chalked up and ready for inscriptions. Erick had stopped there, because while getting this far was easy, and the next part would either work or it wouldn’t, he was still stuck on ‘should’, or ‘shouldn’t’. He was probably going to, even despite his reservations, just because Redflame would know by tomorrow that Renew had already been made, and all the other implications thereof. Adding to that the fact that this sort of magic was going to get out, anyway, because that was Erick’s whole goal in making [Renew] in the first place, and…

Erick was hesitating. He knew that. And yet...

Erick breathed deep as he circled back on his decision for the tenth time.

He was pretty sure that this thing was going to work. And that it was going to work really well. The effect was simple, once you ignored all the intricacies of soul surgery and shit like that, which, to be fair, should not be ignored. But then again Erick was doing Wizardry here, and Paradox Wizardry at that.

This thing…

When Erick finally made it.

This thing would first [Identify] the bloodline of the person using it, and then suppress that bloodline through the methods outlined in the manuals Erick had read, and then the actual effect would begin. Through constant use, this runic device should replace a person’s bloodlines with clean, untainted mana. It would fully remove all Elemental Body influences, and replace those influences with stable, baseline mana that coincided with the user’s original mana. It would remove the Dragon Curse by removing the Elemental Dragon Body from a person, turning them into whatever body they happened to be at that time.

There were nuances to using it properly, of course, like one needed to [Polymorph] into whatever Familiar Form they wanted to be before they used this device. Otherwise they’d just end up existing in whatever Familiar Form they were when they used it. Erick wasn’t fully sure, but he was pretty sure that this thing would erase all Elemental Body spells from a person, since that was the idea behind the whole thing, after all.

This device was most decidedly not what Redflame or the dragons of Ar’Cosmos wanted, for they wanted to make dragons out of half-dragons; not humans/incani/whatever out of half-dragons. But this idea had come to Erick and it had lodged in his brain as the best possible option.

Maybe.

But…

Erick could already tell that this design could be modified. With a certain kind of addition —perhaps replacing some of the [Cleanse] runes Erick had used here and there— one could gain any type of Elemental Body they wanted.

This could easily be transformed into some sort of dragon-maker.

And now that Erick was here, staring at his project, he was unsure —yet again— if he wanted to proceed.

Erick breathed deep, and whispered to himself, “I guess I started off making rings that cleaned away curses… Only fair that I’m here now, I suppose. And that I made another ring.”

[Renew]’s rune was very much a ring; Erick had not missed that when Rozeta had shown him [Renew] for the first time.

There was something poetic about that…

Which is likely why Erick finally decided that he had to do this, for it was going to be done anyway, and he might as well be the one to cure the Dragon Curse. Let other people be blamed for transforming his good will into horrors. Halting progress just because it led to dangers was not the right way to live.

Dangers could be solved, anyway, once they were known.

… That did it.

Erick picked up his black carving knife and started cutting into the platinum, imbuing each word with power.

It took him nearly 3000 mana and half an hour to finish the inscriptions. The ring of square-sided platinum was now absolutely covered with sharp runes and powerful meaning. Sweat dripped from his brow as he leaned back in his chair, holding the ring in his hands. He set it down…

And then he began working on a second ring.

This one was designed differently; specifically with regard to the ‘replacement’ function of the original. Instead of fully cleaning out a bloodline, it would replace all possible bloodlines of a person with the imbued bloodline. This, then, was something closer to what the dragons actually wanted.

It probably wouldn’t work with the already-Paradoxed House-approved bloodlines of Ar’Cosmos. Elemental Fae, Death, and Carnage seemed like they were too mutated to be put into a ‘Cleansing Renew’ ring.

For this second ring, Erick imbued it with his light-aspected bloodline, since it was the only option he had on hand.

It was just a prototype, though, for a true ‘bloodline replacer’ would likely need to use some Elemental Essence of some sort… But maybe not? Essence armor was designed to get used up, and soak into the soul of a person. This thing would never get ‘used up’. It would just string mana through its various runes, transforming into a bloodline, and then that bloodline would go into a person, and gradually reinforce itself through continued use of the ring.

With two rings now sitting in front of him, Erick hoped he had done the right thing. Both of them were prototypes in idea and execution, so they might not even work, but if they did...

He needed to test them. Erick did not use the Eraser, which is what he just now decided to call the first ring. But as he looked at the second one… He decided to call that one the Replacer, and to use that one, to see if it worked at all. Theoretically, there shouldn’t be any change to his core or himself at all, and it should feel like he was simply [Renew]ing himself; generally pleasant, and relaxing.

Erick grabbed the second one in both hands, held it in front of himself, and soaked it with his aura. Instantly, the white-gold metal began to shine with an inner light. The runes etched into the sides began to glow iridescent white.

Slowly, he channeled [Renew] into the ring—

White mana flowed through the ring like trickles of rain, pitter pattering inside the platinum, streaming around like a lazy river, until it hit the gap in the ring. Light welled within that gap, and a droplet of iridescent white mana gathered—

Like a tiny river splitting in half, barely flowing at all, one drop of white light fell into the other arrow, back into the ring. A second drop of light fell sideways, aimed directly at Erick’s chest like the ring was the sky and Erick was the ground. The magic went right through his shirt and his flesh and struck his core, directly, soaking in without resistance.

The contact was like a relaxing massage, or the touch of a loved one on the scalp.

Erick cut the flow. Light dimmed. The ring dulled, though the platinum was shinier than before, but barely; Erick had enough Perception to tell that much. It was very, very lightly enchanted.

And it had worked.

At its most basic level, which was to accept mana and turn it into liquid-soul-healing magic, it had worked. The effect was rather relaxing, too, which was exactly the same feeling Erick got when he had [Renew]ed himself to keep his core stable. Before Erick had been dragged to Ar’Cosmos he had felt that cycling and [Renew]ing and eating rads were the only ways to heal a broken core, but now he knew that proper accretion could do the same…

For a long moment, Erick just sat there, wondering what he had done.

“Well,” Erick said, mostly to himself, but also to Ophiel and Yggdrasil who had watched him this whole time. “It might be able to cure a dragon of their Curse. Or it might really, really fuck the user up. I have no idea.” He frowned a little, as he looked at the world-shifter in his hands. “Human trials are next… eh?”

Erick stared at the Replacer in his hands. He glanced over to the Eraser, then back to the Replacer.

… He could try clearing out his bloodline, and then getting it back?

“Nope!” Erick decided rather emphatically, “Not doing that.”

But this was as good as Erick could do in a day.

