“Right! Right.” Redflame looked to the rings, finally, and then spoke as though Erick had invented a perpetual motion machine, “So you’ve invented bloodline removal; a theoretical magic that has never existed, either, and one way to fix the Dragon Curse… Interesting. Interesting.” Redflame was doubtful, and it showed in the heavy lines of his face. “Not what I would have done with it, but it’s… It’s probably the safer impossibility to make possible—” The man went silent, and decided to skip past all of that other stuff, saying, “So this is the… Rune for [Renew]? Or is there some other reason for this strange design?”

“That’s the rune for [Renew]; yes.”

“Okay. So.” Redflame said, “This is a weapon for you to use against every threat you face. If this design works, then you can simply use the Script to help you make this into a Blessing, or a Curse, or whatever, and then you can cast that Blessing onto dragons. Or anyone, actually. You can strip or grant an Elemental Body to anyone in the world. Even if this design does not work, you should be able to create a magic that will work.”

Erick froze.

He did not consider that option.

“Uh.”

Redflame barreled on ahead, “It likely won’t work with the well-Paradoxed Dragon/other Essences of the houses of Ar’Cosmos, but… Maybe it will? What it will allow, though, is for all of our half-dragons to become whole people again, and to leave or visit Ar’Cosmos as they want. I suppose… I suppose it is time for Ar’Cosmos to change, then. Or maybe not! With [Renew], we’ll finally be able to expand the walls of Ar’Cosmos and create a true bastion of safety from all threats... So… So this is…” Redflame seemed to regain something vital. He blinked a bit as he mumbled half to himself, and half to anyone who would listen, “Ah. So this is perfect for us. Yes. I can see why you want to be allies. I can see why… Yes. Well. If it were up to me, we would be allies, but Illustrious and Inferno Maw and Bright Smile will have to be made aware of all that… Of everything here. I just make the [Gate Space]; Erick; I got out of politics a long time ago. Though, personally, I have decided to be on your side for this, since you already have a proven track record… Which will likely come into question once your nature as a Wizard is revealed— Which is why you have decided to ally with people you barely know… And why you’re helping us… But I suppose ‘helping people’ is what you do, anyway...” He stared at the rings of platinum in their case. “This is big. This is…”

His voice trailed off.

Erick waited, again.

Redflame whispered, “This is big, and the heads of the houses need to know.”

Erick said, “Illustrious already knows about me, but no one else does. I wish to keep the truth as silent as I can, or at least until a year passes and [Renew] comes out in the Open Script. If you want, you can take credit for that today, but that would be a lie and it would be found out eventually. I have not spoken to Inferno Maw about anything. I have heard Bright Smile is a danger to me.”

Redflame continued to stare at the rings. One was brighter silver than the other. He was trying to understand the writing, but all the runic inscriptions were in English, so he likely wasn’t getting anywhere. He had heard Erick’s concerns, but he was heavily distracted.

Erick repeated, “I heard Bright Smile is a danger.”

“What?” Redflame glanced at Erick, then turned back to the rings. “Oh. Yes. Bright Smile is a danger to most people. Or rather… No… I will stand up to her on this. You say Illustrious knows— Of course she knows. Fairy Moon wouldn’t let her remain out of the room on this matter. I’m surprised— Which number am I, to be let in on this secret? Fourth? No. Somewhere down the line. The Shades likely all know, don’t they… Whatever. And no: I will not accept credit for your creation of [Renew]. Such a lie would be seen through rather instantly, even if you made… Made a basic [Renew] artifact?” He asked, “Are all the tiny runes necessary?”

“[Renew] is the basic shape; all the runes carved into the [Renew]s are to shape the effect.” Erick said, “You could likely carve [Renew] yourself into a runic web and that would be good enough— There would be a large loss of efficiency without having the spell yourself, of course. But efficiency is just efficiency.”

“… No. I won’t be doing that, either. No lies; only Truth going forward. Now is the time to plan for what comes next, and that includes talking to all the heads of house.” Redflame said, “Bright Smile wishes for control, and ever since House Carnage passed to her she had enacted good reforms, but she is extremely harsh on criminals. She is all for martial control. But… I am glad you have come to me, Erick. We may not know each other, but I hope that this changes in the coming years and decades. These gifts here are already more than I could ever repay you for, but I can try. If you ever grow desirous of immortality— Ah. Wait. I was going to offer you that before… But you’re a Wizard.” Redflame nodded to himself, then said, “You’ll get there on your own if you ever truly desire such a thing. But! If you need some help getting there, or if we get this Dragon Essence Curse fixed, then perhaps you will think of becoming a dragon? The benefits of [Greater Dragon Body] are rather great. If you desire a different path, then I am sure I can help you cast one of those annoyingly difficult Blood spells. [The Rite of Ancient Blood]? You should probably be able to pull that one off.”

As Redflame spoke out possible ways that Erick and Ar’Cosmos could come to terms, Erick felt a great relief, like a flood of warmth had escaped his heart and filled up his entire body. Erick sighed, a happy sound, then said, “Appreciated, Redflame. I’ll take you up on that offer if ever it’s needed.”

Redflame scrunched his face a little, trying to understand why Erick didn’t instantly jump on the offer of immortality. “Your hesitation around immortality is an odd one; it stems from too much time spent among the wrought, I think. You shouldn’t let their thoughts cloud your own. Just because mortals live and die does not make getting to know them automatically painful.”

Erick smiled at that. “Would that I could make everyone immortal.”

Redflame barked a laugh, then said, “A difficult proposition! Probably not attainable or desirable in all but the most nuanced and narcissistic of societies. Death is relief for many and a reset for all involved, for life is vastly unfair to everyone. Immortality isn’t for all, though. Afterlives aren’t so bad… Theoretically, anyway. I have never been, but the phantoms I’ve seen seem to enjoy it… Sometimes.”

With a soft smile, Erick said, “My own belief system has a hard time meshing with the idea that afterlives are real, so perhaps that is why I see immortality as a good thing.”

“Oh? I seem to have misread— Yes. Immortality can be a good thing. I am glad to know that you will think about my offer, but you also bring up a good point that our base understandings of each other are rather distant.” Redflame asked, almost disbelieving, “Did you not have gods on Earth? Churches? Afterlives are a common conceit so I never imagined that some people would not believe in such existences.”

“I’ve no idea about gods. We had theology, but if you’re asking if we prayed, and if the gods answered in any meaningful way? Well. People prayed, but the only ones who answered were the priests of gods, or people like me, who went out and helped those who asked.”

Redflame looked at Erick for a long, short moment, then he blinked a bit and decided to leave that discussion for another time. He went back to the previous thoughts, saying, “So you already made [Renew]. And it works?”

“In all the ways I tested it; Yes.” Erick said, “These rings are an extrapolation of that effect. They should target the Elemental Body inside a person to gradually, and safely replace it with nothing, or with [Greater Lightwalk]. The Light Ring might work better than the Null Ring, but I honestly have no idea. They’re prototypes.”

“Yes. The rings…” Redflame’s greed spiked as he glanced to the rings, but he visibly held himself back. He tore his eyes away from them, and asked Erick, “Let us leave untested prototypes for another day. I desire to see if [Renew] actually works. Would you be amenable to [Renew]ing some spellwork for me?”

“Sure.”

Redflame almost went onto his experiment, but his eyes caught upon the small pink and green gem on Erick’s necklace. He had been trying and failing to not look at Fairy Moon’s gem this whole time. Erick mostly ignored the glances the man gave toward his chest, too.

But apparently they were going to talk about that.

“Before we get there…” Redflame asked, “Did you ask for all those accretion books because… You’re already there?”

“Yes. Already at Second Foundation and using Elemental Mystical to cheat casting costs, too.” To get the conversation back on track, Erick said, “I’m sort of surprised that Elemental Mystical was never brought up in your [Renew] work. Or anywhere, really, in any of the illusionwork I ever saw before now.”

Redflame seemed to regain even more of his senses as Erick spoke, pulling himself further away from his greed, as though he was finally understanding that the usual world order was not going to happen like it usually happened. Redflame’s reaction was a similar reaction to Illustrious’s, back when she had seen Erick’s core and knew his truth. Redflame was more tempered than the head of House Fae, though, perhaps because all of his answers to the Dragon Curse problem were right in front of him, anyway.

In that moment, though, Erick knew that dragons wanted Wizards for more than solving the Dragon Curse.

Which was news to him.

Redflame managed to speak as though he was fine, saying, “Elemental Mystical isn’t useful for [Renew] because [Renew] is real— How I would have created it would have made it real, anyway, and I am glad to hear that how you made it is also free of Elemental Mystical. Elemental Mystical is like dragging a paintbrush through the world and the mana decides to turn that color, but the mana hasn’t really altered at all; you’ve just gotten paint everywhere. Even Mana Altering through the Script isn’t truly good enough to make [Renew], though Mana Altering has been ‘good enough’ for a long while.” He held up a hand, and cast a small spell, producing a basketball-sized sphere full of dots of light, laid out in a grid-like pattern. “This is meant to degrade in a known way. Can you [Renew] this, please?”

Even as Erick watched, the grid-like dots of the wardlight began to fade and fall to the bottom of the sphere, like snow falling in a snowglobe. Erick extended his light-filled aura to the edge of the spell, and began channeling [Renew] into the sphere. Almost instantly, the dots began to float back into position.

And just like that, Redflame’s world tumbled around, again.

Redflame let out a long exhale of breath as he half-crumpled forward, whispering, “It’s really [Renew]. Oh gods.” He lifted his head, and tears were falling down his face. He smiled, and laughed, and sighed, and for a full twenty seconds he didn’t bother to cover his teeth, showing off his unexpected joy in all its small glory as he stared at the [Renew]ed snowglobe spell. Then he looked to Erick, and said, “This changes everything.”

With deep solemnity, Erick said, “Yes, it does.”

Redflame stared at Erick for a moment as he recognized that Erick already knew. He gave a small nod, and dismissed his snowy lightward. His attention turned back to the rings, asking, “May I have these?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “Though I hold no responsibility for how you use them. If something untoward should happen, I warn you now that Rozeta will likely fall upon you like a vengeful god, and I will likely need to assist her with keeping the world stable.” He added, “I don’t think anything bad will come of [Renew], but… I want this to work out for everyone, Redflame.”

Erick didn’t want to say those words, but he had felt the need to make plain the worst possible outcome of a mishandled [Renew], and so he spoke that need. He hoped that Redflame would take the warning to heart, and not as a threat.

Redflame stared a moment longer at the rings, a thousand thoughts flitting through his mind. Then he looked to Erick. “Your warning is heard, and appreciated. One never quite knows what sort of magic will need a Forgotten Campaign enacted against it… For a long time, we thought that your Particle Magic would need to be Forgotten.” He said, “I admit: you being a Wizard made me feel that Particle Magic was about to be Forgotten, too. But… If Particles are truly the way this cosmology works, then they can’t do that to Particle Magic. It would be like Forgetting about Light, or Shadow.”

Erick nodded. “The first time I was taken before the gods to have my magic judged, Rozeta spoke of how there was no easy way to Ban Particle Magic, for it was the underlying nature of reality itself.”

Redflame gave a tiny nod, saying, “That is what we’ve heard before…”

And then he went silent, in contemplation.

He was worried about a changing world, and his place in it.

After a moment, Erick said, “On to other business:” He said to Fairy Moon, “I still don’t believe that I, alone, should decide how Elemental Benevolence happens, or even what it does to actually prevent a Sundering. More people need to be involved in that creation, as well. I would like for many people to get together and decide how Elemental Benevolence should work, and then I will make it happen.”

Redflame’s eyes went wide, as the depth of the conversation in front of him shifted, revealing new depths that he knew were there, but which he had been ignoring. Erick sort of felt bad for the guy; all of this was getting dumped on him at once. But then again, Redflame was surely old enough and powerful enough and experienced enough to come to terms with all of this turmoil. He seemed to be doing well, anyway.

He seemed to be very willing to be allies, too, which was fantastic.

Fairy Moon, however, was as enigmatic as ever. She stared at Erick, her pink and green eyes burning brightly, as she commanded, “Tell me true what you wish-think-trust Benevolence to be.”

Erick wasn’t sure why she was suddenly so serious.

But… Her demand was easy enough to answer, wasn’t it?

