Ameliah snapped her bow back up. Conjure, nock, draw, ignite, loose. The arrows bent around Tallheart before swerving back, seeking their target. The remaining Hababa and the unknown monster were both visible now, thanks to the crackling halo of electricity that surrounded the latter. The newcomer was fishlike, sleek and predatory, with several short spines extending from its fins and two longer ones near its mouth like enormous whiskers. Lightning trailed constantly from the tips of those, discharging through the Hababa and against the walls of the passage. The fish hovered impossibly in the air, seeming almost leisurely in the pursuit of its prey.

That changed as the first of Ameliah’s arrows struck. The explosion sent the fish careening into the tunnel wall, though it recovered quickly, spurting forward. The Hababa’s lead vanished in an instant, and there was another massive boom and flash. The Hababa howled as it died, falling smoking and twitching to the ground.

“Second Hababa down,” Rain said. “Nice work, Ameliah, that was fast. Warding for Arcane at fifty percent.”

There was no visual effect to tell Ameliah that the spell had gone up around her, nor could she spare the attention to worry about it.

Conjure, nock, draw, ignite, loose.

Tallheart had reached the monstrous fish. Next to him, it seemed to be at least the size of a donkey, though it was hovering a good half-meter off the tunnel floor. Lightning skittered from its spines to Tallheart’s armor, trailing after him as he slid beneath the enormous creature to come to a stop behind it.

Good. Ameliah picked up her pace further, the target now unobstructed.

“Ah!” Rain exclaimed beside her, clearly having dropped Aura Focus. Ameliah didn’t even spare him a glance.

Conjure, nock, draw, ignite, loose. Arrow after arrow slammed into the monster’s scaled hide, now identifiable as a level twenty-four Sparkscale Hunter Drone. Tallheart had grabbed it by one of its whiskers and was hammering at its side ineffectually. If not for what her eyes were telling her, she’d have marked the sound as him working at his anvil. The fish’s silvery scales had to be as hard as anything. Her shots also seemed to be having little effect, judging by its health, which, while it was dropping, was only doing so slowly.

“Tallheart!” Rain shouted, taking a step past her.

“Stay!” Ameliah shouted, not breaking her rhythm to speak, though it took all her concentration. Conjure, nock, draw, ignite, loose.

“But—!” Rain protested, stopping after only a few more steps to point down the tunnel.

Ameliah ignored him, feeling the charge in the air sharpen. There was another brilliant flash, and Tallheart screamed in pain as he was blasted away.

“No!” Rain cried, stiffening and lowering his arms to his sides. He fell silent, and Ameliah saw what he was doing as the ambient lightning that was continuing to strike Tallheart met a translucent purple barrier. Arcane Ward, boosted with Aura Focus, no doubt. It was questionable whether the cervidian would have been in range without it.

Tightening her jaw until she felt it creak, Ameliah increased her speed, nearing the theoretical limit of one shot per second. To do that, she had to start igniting the conjured arrows before she even freed them fully from the quiver. Fire burned in her mind, searing with the effort required to activate the three separate skills practically on top of one another.

She’d lost count of how many projectiles she’d loosed. The system was telling her that the monster’s health was dropping steadily now, each hit dealing more damage than the last, but she wasn’t sure if she’d be able to kill it before it overpowered Rain’s aura and fried Tallheart where he stood. Its concentrated lightning, much stronger than the field that constantly crackled from its whiskers, had torn through the Hababas like they were wet paper. Tallheart’s armor was certainly better than hers and Rain’s, but it was hard to envision it standing up to more than a handful of strikes. Ameliah’s blood was running cold, despite the fire burning through her mind.

Tallheart screamed. Tallheart.

Having regained his footing, Tallheart lunged back for the fish, bringing his hammer down right between its eyes. The force of the strike sent it smashing into the floor hard enough to shatter deepstone, but it slipped away from his attempted followup, drifting backward toward her unnaturally fast. Arrow after arrow slammed into it, each explosive impact making it twitch in pain, but it didn’t shift its focus away from Tallheart.

The electric scent in the air sharpened.

No.

The flash was yet again blinding, and as it faded, Ameliah saw Rain collapse, his helmet striking the ground with a heavy, metallic thump.

“Rain!” she cried, though she didn’t remove her eyes from the monster as she took a determined step forward.

Conjure, nock, draw, ignite, loose. Not stopping, she added the step to her pattern. Conjure, nock, draw, ignite, loose, step.

Tallheart, having been shielded somewhat by Rain’s spell, managed to catch up to the retreating fish and grab onto one of its whiskers again. Its health was quite low now—low enough for him to shatter the appendage with a hammer strike to its base. The fish reeled backward, trying to escape, but there was nowhere it could hide from their furious, flanking assault. One, two, three more arrows struck, each explosion sending larger and larger spurts of blood and charred scales into the air. Tallheart’s hammer fell again, and the system chimed, informing her of their victory.

Ameliah paid it no mind, dropping her bow and diving for Rain, who she’d stopped to stand over protectively.

Healing Word!

Pressing her hand against his back, she cursed, finding herself unable to force the magic through his armor before it was twisted away from her by the metal. Flipping him over, she raised his visor, then pressed her hand against his face, much as she’d done not an hour before with significantly less urgency.

Healing Word!

His soul still fought her as she tried to force the healing into his unconscious body, but she was able to force it through. They’d already discussed this scenario, the topic having come up while they’d been discussing the damage he’d sustained. Rain had explicitly told her that he’d want her to try and revive him, having concluded that the risk of further harm was low.

Healing Word! Healing Word! Damn it, this isn’t working. He doesn’t need health, he needs—

On a stroke of inspiration, Ameliah grabbed Rain’s shield, lifting it so she could access the line of potion bottles strapped to its back. Most were red and green, but there were a pair of blue ones at the end, wedged in like an afterthought. She grabbed one, fighting with the cork before lifting her visor to use her teeth. Tilting Rain’s head back, she poured it down his throat, hoping that he’d reflexively swallow. Depending on how severely he’d overdrawn, his body might not retain the reflex.

Stirring weakly, Rain spluttered, then swallowed.

Yes!

Uncorking the second bottle, Ameliah poured it into his mouth as well, then placed her hand over it until he swallowed again. She didn’t stop there, however.

Overhealth might not be what he needs, but it won’t hurt.

Again, she had to fight to push the spells through his unconscious defenses.

Healing Word! Healing Word! I should have kept the metamagic! Damn it! Healing—

Rain jerked, then groaned. Ameliah felt the resistance to her magic vanish. She took her hand away, relief crashing over her. It didn’t last long, however. Rain wasn’t the only one she needed to check on. Tallheart. She looked up, then gasped.

“How is he?” Tallheart rumbled from directly beside her. His armor was spattered with a silvery liquid, likely the monster’s blood, but there was none of it on his unhelmeted face. Nor, for that matter, any sign of distress.

“Owww…” Rain groaned groggily, scrunching up his eyes.

Ameliah looked away from Tallheart, then moved back, giving Rain space to sit up.

“You should not have attempted to block that bolt,” Tallheart said, shaking his head slowly. “I would have survived.”

“It damaged…you…” Rain said thickly. “I felt it with…linksight. Couldn’t risk—”

“Hmph,” Tallheart said, crouching down to peer into Rain’s eyes. “My armor is strong, but even it does not have perfect mana conversion. I do not have the skill, remember.” He snorted. “I felt a slight tingle. It surprised me. That was all.”

“Liar,” Rain said. “Your health went down enough for me to feel it. That’s at least five percent.”

Tallheart snorted. “That ability is not fair. You are spoiling my image. Regardless, it would have taken four more strikes before my armor would have been in danger of saturation. Pain is nothing. I will recover.”

Ameliah sighed, pressing her hand against Tallheart’s shoulder. She started healing him, firing off Healing Word after Healing Word as fast as she could form the spells in her mind.

Rain flopped weakly, trying to sit up, then stopping to press a hand against his head. He grit his teeth, then shook his head and levered himself up fully, hissing through his teeth. “Yes. Pain is nothing.”

Ameliah sighed again. “Men.” She released Tallheart’s shoulder, returning it to Rain’s and triggering another Healing Word before he could stop her.

Rain jerked, then grabbed her hand. “It’s fine,” he said, pushing at her forearm until she allowed him to dislodge it. “I don’t need that. Healing won’t help with this. I’m just out of mana.” He coughed, waving her away. “I could use Winter, but if I regen too fast, I’ll just pass out again because of my soul. I think I might anyway. I’m already feeling tired.” He paused. “Wait, I have some potions on my…” He licked his lips, only now seeming to recognize the flavor that had to be lingering in his mouth. “Oh.”

Tallheart snorted, turning away. “Before you fall asleep, scan for GranCrysts. Also, do not use Purify. I will not have you dissolving our prize before you realize what it is. Though perhaps you could not do so, given its nature.”

“I…what?” Rain asked, looking up.

“The scales,” Tallheart said, stooping, then holding one up. The fire from the forgotten torch glinted off the metallic object, elongated and sharply pointed like a dagger.

Ameliah blinked. Metal? So that’s why my Fire Arrows didn’t do so much at first. It was just the physical damage getting through.

Tallheart looked down at the scale, and when he spoke, he sounded pleased. “This one is mostly silver and iron, but over twenty percent is valis. There is some atantum as well, and traces of both rykir and adamant.”

Ameliah inhaled sharply. Atantum? How much atantum? She looked at the gory remains of the fish, its metallic blood splattered all across the tunnel. There were dozens of scales. Hundreds.

“I told you, monsters are a good source of resources,” Tallheart said, chuckling to himself as he tossed the scale in the direction of his mobile forge. It clattered sharply to the ground. Belatedly, Ameliah realized that some of the heaviness had drained out of the air with the fish’s death. It wasn’t gone, but it was certainly less noticeable.

Tallheart rumbled, then gestured to Rain. “Scan quickly. If another of these arrives to investigate, we will have to retreat.”

“I—“ Rain’s mouth worked, fishlike itself. After a moment, he seemed to recover. He closed his eyes, then spoke. “The coast is clear for now. No monsters. Checking for GranCrysts.” He shook his head briefly. “Crysts.” Another shake. “Tel. Gran—“ he stopped, then pointed directly at the fish. “GranTel. Three of them.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart said. “Arcane GranCrysts would have been better, but I will take what I am given.”

“Three GranTel…” Ameliah said, trailing off. She shook her head. “I guess we’re deep enough for that, but that much valis is insane. And atantum…”

“Mmm…” Tallheart rumbled happily. “Armored monsters are not uncommon, but those that incorporate metal so completely into their defenses are rare.” He gestured toward the fish. “Only twice did Lilly and I find biomes populated with such.”

He smiled, then. Actually smiled. Fully. The expression looked almost alien on his stony face. “I suspect this one will outdo them both. Did either of you notice the creature’s name?”

“Drone…” Ameliah said in realization, her eyes going wide.

“Indeed,” Tallheart said, turning away and squelching through the metallic blood toward the monstrous corpse. “There will be more. Many more. Perhaps these Sparkscales are more like insects than they are fish. Hmm. Or perhaps they are both. There may be a hive. Or a queen.”

“Holy shit,” Rain said.

“It is indeed an opportunity,” Tallheart said, stooping and beginning to tear scales from the corpse.

“No…well yes, but…” Rain motioned to Ameliah, accepting her help as she pulled him to his feet. He used her for support, staring at the carnage. “One of those almost killed us! It was hunting Hababas, for crying out loud! Who knows how many it killed before we came along!” He looked over at Ameliah, his face close to hers as he was still leaning heavily on her shoulder. “Last night… Remember I told you I sensed three at once, moving together? If those were these things…” Rain swallowed heavily. “We really don’t want to be down here after dusk.”

“You are correct,” Tallheart said. “We should return to the cave above, if only temporarily.” He held up a scale, tilting it this way and that. His forearms were now completely coated in the fish’s blood, dripping steadily to the ground. “Soon enough, we will be the hunters,” he said, lowering the scale, then reaching for more. “Hmm. Perhaps farmers would be more appropriate. Or miners.” He paused, then rapped his knuckles against the corpse, sending a metallic ring echoing through the tunnel. “Miners of fish.”

There was a pause, and then, for some reason, Rain burst into uncontrollable laughter. He almost fell before Ameliah caught him, wrapping him in an awkward hug.

“Did I say something amusing?” Tallheart asked, looking up from his gristly harvest.

“I have no idea,” Ameliah said helplessly as Rain quaked against her. After a moment, she found herself chuckling too. Her nerves felt loose, giddy as the tension of the battle drained away. “Do you think we should ask him to explain?” she asked, patting Rain absently on the back as she fought to maintain her footing. Tallheart had left bloody footprints, making the stone quite slick.

“No,” Tallheart said with a snort, returning to his gathering. “That would be unwise.”
