“I saw him doing that yesterday,” he continued with some difficulty. He paused to push the shield’s other strap further up his forearm. “And then again this morning. His left gauntlet is the one that’s busted. Do you think he’s in pain? Maybe that’s why he’s so…” Rain paused, then shrugged.

“Maybe,” Ameliah signed back. That could be part of it, I guess. Quickly, she lowered her hands as Tallheart turned again to look at them. “Sorry,” she said, searching for a quick excuse. “Rain was just asking—“

“It does hurt,” Tallheart said, raising his hand and making a fist before letting it fall back to his side. “Do not concern yourselves.”

“I thought you didn’t know hand code,” Ameliah said lamely, then blinked. “Wait, how did you even see what we were signing with your back to us?”

Tallheart grunted, then tapped the wire frame holding the glowing lenses with his index finger before turning away again.

“And he wonders why I ask him so many questions,” Rain said. “Now I’m trying to decide whether he means those glasses have just a rear-view mirror, or a built-in translation function too.”

“Do not be ridiculous,” Tallheart said without looking back.

“Come on, Tallheart, talk to us,” Ameliah said. “What’s bothering you?”

“Nothing is bothering me,” Tallheart said. “Now come. We are not here to share our feelings.” Without waiting for a response, he hopped off the ledge, plummeting into the depths below.

“Well, we tried,” Rain said with a sigh. He paused as the clang of Tallheart’s impact reverberated up the shaft, then continued. “Mind helping me down? I’d like to avoid using Force Ward.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said, pursing her lips as she continued thinking about Tallheart. She slipped her bow over her shoulder, then stepped forward to wrap Rain in a hug. It was a bit awkward, what with the torch, their armor, his shield, her bow, and the pack and canteens. She’d gotten good enough with Airwalk that her armored boots didn’t impede her at least; however, with a second person, all of their supplies, and two complete sets of adamant armor, she found herself struggling. The skill didn’t specify a weight limit, but reason did impose a cap on how far she could push it.

Somehow, she managed to get Rain down without dropping him and with only a minimum of jostling. Once her feet were firmly planted on stone once more, she looked around for Tallheart, spotting him watching them with his arms crossed from the mouth of the main tunnel.

“Check your soul,” Tallheart said, narrowing his eyes at Rain. “Do not linger.”

“Right,” Rain said, looking around, then passing Ameliah the torch before picking a spot over by one wall. He sat quickly, then closed his eyes.

Ameliah moved over to Tallheart, readying her bow and peering down the tunnel. “What do you think is down here, anyway?”

“I have told you many times that I do not know,” Tallheart said flatly. He turned, looking down the tunnel. “Stay on guard.”

Ameliah frowned. “Come on, Tallheart. Rain would have warned us if there was anything around. Tell me what’s bothering you.”

Tallheart shook his head slowly, not looking back at her. Ameliah almost decided to try again before she stopped herself, moving over to the other edge of the tunnel. She gently set down the torch, then drew an arrow, readying herself in case anything came. It was only after she’d completely given up on Tallheart answering that he turned his head to look at her.

“I have never seen two Arcane biomes that were the same,” he said, his voice barely a whisper.

Ameliah nodded slowly, thinking. She looked back at the tunnel as she replied. “So it’s the unknown? You’re afraid there’s something down here that we can’t handle? That’s what has you on edge?”

“It is not helping,” Tallheart said. He shook his head, and the silence once more began to stretch.

Ameliah stared at the darkness, thinking. “It was Arcane, wasn’t it?” she eventually asked.

Tallheart looked over. “What?”

Ameliah hesitated. “The lair that… The lair where you lost Lilly. It was Arcane, wasn’t it?”

Tallheart snorted. “No. We were not so foolish as that.”

Ameliah grimaced, looking down at her feet. “Oh. Of course not. I just thought… Sorry. I shouldn’t have brought that up.”

“It is fine,” Tallheart said. After a moment, he heaved a deep sigh, turning to face her. “There is nothing specific that is bothering me. I have merely been…hmm…dwelling.” He grunted, looking away. “As I have said many times, this is not the place. I do not wish to speak. Set aside your human stubbornness and leave me be.”

“Human stubbornness?” Ameliah asked, raising an eyebrow at him behind her helmet. “You’re the stubbornest person here.”

Before Tallheart could reply, Rain stirred.

“What did I miss?” he asked, sitting up.

“Nothing,” Ameliah said, glancing at Tallheart as she replied. “That was fast.”

“Tallheart said not to linger,” Rain said, oblivious to her tone.

Ameliah shook her head, trading one set of concerns for another. “How’s your soul?”

“Fine, I think,” Rain said. “The essence barometers are definitely working. The pressure outside the Bastion has gone up a little bit.” He gestured around. “The Depth Gauge said max here last time. With the calibration I did in the tunnel yesterday, I get 21. I’m not saying that’s what it really is, but if it’s more, it’s not a lot more.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled in acknowledgment.

Rain nodded. “I just wish I could read my sensors without having to get in there. I’d have to get the system working for that, I think.” He sighed. “I have some ideas, but nothing quick. I also checked on my paling. The chaos that’s seeping in isn’t hot anymore. It feels…Arcane. I really don’t have a word for the sensation. It’s like…concentrated oddness.”

“No, you are concentrated oddness,” Tallheart said, surprising them both. Rain began to laugh, and Tallheart rumbled at him in irritation. “Keep your voice down.”

“Sorry, sorry,” Rain said, waving him away. “Nice one, Tallheart.”

“How about the tear?” Ameliah asked, her concern for Rain mixing with her amusement. At least Tallheart’s not in too bad of a mood to make jokes. Maybe I’m reading too much into it.

Rain shook his head. “I don’t have an avatar over there. I’m planning to make a proper outpost once we get to a rank 24 zone. It will be easier without the wind trying to blow me out the whole time.”

“Right,” Ameliah said. “So, you feel good enough to continue?”

“Yeah,” Rain said, stooping to pick up the torch. “I should be fine.”

“Good,” Tallheart said, uncrossing his arms and turning to face the dark tunnel. “With me.” He pointed to the ground beside him. “Ameliah, here. Rain, follow.”

“You got it,” Rain said, adjusting his pack. “In the rear, with the gear.” His light tone said it was a joke of some kind, but Ameliah didn’t get it. There was nothing funny in his statement. It was simply the formation they’d discussed.

The torch cast their shadows far down the tunnel as they set off, Ameliah’s silhouette seeming to dance beside Tallheart’s as the flames flickered behind them. They moved quickly, not making more noise than they needed to, but not trying especially hard to mask the sound of their footsteps either. Ameliah was actually hoping for something to come, even if it was something horrible, like a Dunch.

She shivered. Okay, maybe not a Dunch.

After almost a half-hour, they were rolling along at a pace that would have been unsustainable for unawakened. The air had thickened well past the point it had on their previous excursion, now feeling almost like oily smoke against her skin. The tunnels had widened as well, becoming a maze-like network rather than a single path. They’d started leaving metal markers again, not wanting to lose the way back. As he’d guided them generally downward, Rain had kept up a running commentary on the shape of the tunnels and the continuing lack of monsters, his voice echoing strangely in the Arcane air. Occasionally, he’d give them an update on what he was feeling, such as the growing syrupiness, or the lack of issues with his soul.

Having a support class along was amazingly useful, and Rain was proving it here. While he constantly complained about feeling unable to help in combat, this was where he showed his worth. For once, he even seemed willing to acknowledge his contribution. The constant drip of information he was feeding them reminded her of the one time she’d gone delving with a genuine, professional team. That excursion still left a bitter taste in her mouth, but the reason for that had nothing to do with the Diviner.

The squirrelly man had guided his team unerringly through the poison-choked valley outside Brightside. Then, he’d led them lower, far lower than she’d ever have dared to go without high-level support, easily finding the hidden, undiscovered lair that she and…Lerith…had been seeking for more than half a year. The same lair whose promise had lured her father to his death many years before that. The same lair where she’d raised her cap to its current level, and the same lair whose accolade had been stolen from her.

I should have killed him. Ameliah tightened her fists. I would have been doing the world a favor.

“Hey, stop for a second,” Rain said suddenly, his urgent tone jarring Ameliah out of her dark contemplation. Slowing her jog, she looked over her shoulder, then came to a complete stop, watching as Rain struggled to relieve himself of his burdens. The tunnel was wide and straight here, perhaps broad enough for two carriages to pass without getting in each other’s way.

“What are you doing?” Tallheart asked, stopping as well. In the heavy air, his voice was a rich thrum, deep and echoing.

“Just a second,” Rain said, struggling to free one of the canteens from the Deepcat-hide jacket. It came free with a grunt. “Look,” Rain said, holding up the now-naked metal canteen, shaped like a large wheel of cheese with a metal-capped neck. Immediately, Ameliah noticed why Rain had bothered to remove the protective fur. The sides of the canteen were visibly bowed inward. It hadn’t been like that before.

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

“It’s pressure,” Rain said, reaching for the cap. He twisted it, and there was a hiss of rushing air, then a metallic ping as the sides snapped back to their original shape. “The air isn’t just…arcane…it’s actually thicker,” Rain said, tightening the cap again. “As in, physically. And by a lot.” He held up the canteen, then shook it, the sound of sloshing water echoing down the tunnel. “This one was only two-thirds full. Water isn’t compressible, so it was just the air that was getting squeezed down. The pressure here’s got to be insane. How many times have your ears popped? I know I stopped counting.”

Ameliah tilted her head, fingering the bow slung over her shoulder as she took a heavy breath, focusing on the way the air seemed to slither in and then out of her lungs. She’d never played around with Water Breathing, but she imagined that this would be exactly what it felt like.

“Hmph,” Tallheart said. He stooped, lifting the Deepcat hide, then straightened, only to drop it. It seemed to fall significantly slower than it should have, more like a bedsheet catching the air than the thick pelt that it was.

“What the hell….s. Hells,” Rain said, lifting the hide and dropping it again. “Tallheart, have you ever seen anything this strange before?”

“No,” Tallheart said, sounding unconcerned. “I have encountered many stranger things than this.”

“What—?” Rain began, but cut himself off, raising a hand in a closed fist. “Contact.” He pointed down the tunnel in the direction they’d been going. “Three signals. Moving fast, just around the bend. We’ve got about…twenty seconds.”

Ameliah had turned sharply the moment Rain had raised his hand. Unlimbering her bow, she conjured and nocked a Firebolt Arrow; then, as she had the time, she began Chanting. The familiar syllables came to her tongue easily, built upon what she remembered of the invented language her father had used for the same purpose. She felt them weaving together, enhancing the framework of the spell. Fortunately, Fire Arrow wasn’t very complex, but even so, without any metamagic to shorten the invocation, it was several seconds before the arrowhead burst into flames.

Rain was muttering as well, his words coming in clipped sentences, coinciding with what had to be pulses of Detection. “One is out in front of the others. All three are monsters. Two are known types. Hababas, including the one in the front. Still coming. Ten seconds.”

Ameliah didn’t need his narration to know that. The thick air in the tunnel was now blowing toward them in a fierce wind, carrying with it the smell of thunder and making the flames cloaking her arrow gutter and dance. Crackling Arcane lightning had appeared in the darkness ahead, and by its white light, she recognized the outline of the lead Hababa as it barreled toward them.

She drew, loosing the instant she felt Seeker Shot accept the target. The flaming missile hurtled down the tunnel, cutting through the heavy air, swerving slightly as her skill compensated for the powerful fire magic surrounding the arrowhead. It struck the Hababa in the chest, exploding in a cloud of flame that bathed the tunnel in red-orange light.

Ameliah didn’t wait for the impact. She was already loosing her next shot, the arrow blazing with the buff of Fire Arrow, though less vigorously without the benefit of Chanting. The arrow flew, but before it struck, a blinding flash of white light seared through the slit of her visor, accompanied by a thunderous boom that she felt deep in her chest.

Promptly, the system informed her that her target was dead.

And that she hadn’t been the primary contributor.

“The lead Hababa just vanished,” Rain said, his voice calm, yet urgent. The lack of reaction to the detonation told Ameliah that he was completely submerged in Aura Focus. “The other two signals stopped. No, scratch that, here they come again.”

“Run, or fight?” Ameliah asked, glancing at Tallheart.

“Fight,” Tallheart said. “I am going.” His helmet appeared soundlessly, and he leapt, soaring forward diagonally into the air. Sparks flew as his armored antlers scraped along the ceiling at the top of his arc before he landed, then jumped again.

