“I don’t think SAL has just one head,” Alden replied. “And if Corin did that, everyone would be really impressed with him for finally getting an infamous supervillain to reveal themselves.”

He ended their call shortly after that, and looked over at his learning cushion. It was in the corner, on top of his patched and repaired suitcase.

He had a science lecture he should watch. But it had been so long since he’d gotten to study his spell book. And if he was going to try his new piece of jewelry for the first time…

He carried the learning cushion into the bathroom, then spent too long debating whether it was all right to put it on the floor or not.

Is a bathroom disrespectful to the cushion? It’s a pristine bathroom. I don’t think anyone but me has used it in the past several decades.

He ended up leaving the cushion on his bed, but he did take the earring Olorn-art’h had given him out of the hidden pocket. Then he went into the bathroom again and shut the door behind him.

One extra layer of privacy. If someone opened the main door without knocking, he would hear them from in here and have time to hide the evidence.

He sat down on the cool tile below the towel rack and requested his books from storage.

Whan-tel’s Art: Conducting Power Through the Hands

He turned the pages, reading it a little differently than he had the last time he’d opened it. When his eyes paused on the crushing spell, he thought about how good it was for destroying a door knob. And if he’d chosen to use the flying triangle dagger, what might have happened in the greenhouse?

Something better? Something worse?

Was there a spell in here that would have saved me if the bridge fell? Or that would have helped me get away with Zeridee faster?

The book wasn’t full of extremely powerful stuff, but having options was a kind of power, too. When Lute came back, he’d ask if they could have another wordchain lesson. He wanted to learn something to enhance his strength and his speed.

As for auriad spells, I’ve got the square punch and the flying triangle. Crushing. The popsicle maker.

Still to be learned, among others, there was a close-range cutting spell. A voice throwing spell. One for levitating small things. A spell that drew heat toward a targeted area. One that was basically an adjustable flashlight. And the summoning spell Alden had been looking forward to at the end of the book.

Flashlight, he decided after a while. That one’s next.

Sure, he had a tiny fire starter. But setting fires wasn’t always safe or feasible, and seeing was nearly always something you wanted to do. Plus there were strength requirements to consider.

The book didn’t specify how much most of its spells would strain the caster’s authority. Alden thought it was probably supposed to be obvious from context and experience that he didn’t have. But he was hazarding a guess that this one might not be that draining. It didn’t seem like making light should be hard in the same way the crusher was.

The description mentioned that he should keep in mind the fact that this spell relied on “the memory of light in the place where you cast it.”

I assume it’s going to be easier to cast outdoors and in rooms that are usually brightly lit. So it would have worked well on Friday night or on Thegund during the dark days.

He’d learn this one and never have to worry about fumbling around in the dark again, unless he ended up in some underground chamber light had never touched.

One day I’ll learn those giant light spells Esh-erdi and Lind-otta used to make everything bright when they were rescuing me. This one will be my starting spot.

It was still early. He would spend an hour practicing the auriad shapes and then he’d head back to the cafeteria.

He stood up, earring in hand. Watching himself in the mirror over the sink, he touched the thin tip of the pale clay spiral to his earlobe.

“That’s strange enough for sure.”

As soon as the tip touched flesh, before he’d applied any pressure, his ear pierced itself in what he assumed was the exact spot Olorn-art’h had chosen. A single drop of blood beaded there, and the earring absorbed it.

Blood sacrifice to the knowledge spiral. Wonder if Gorgon would approve.

He pressed it through, then examined himself. “I don’t think I’m an earring person.”

He sat back down and opened the book to the spell he’d chosen. His auriad slipped down his arm and into his hand.

******

The first drawing of a pair of hands wrapped in string caught Alden’s eyes in a way it never had before. He leaned closer.

Whoever drew this did such an amazing job. The way the auriad is twisted there…and that little loop around the tips of the pinkie fingers! I can tell just from the image that I’m going to need to control the way the auriad sticks right there if I want to be perfect.

And he did want to be perfect. He’d been hungry to learn a new spell anyway, and now that he’d picked one, he could just sit here and enjoy himself and learn.

Alden was slightly obsessed with his auriad and the way casting made him feel. The coolness of being able to make magic happen all by himself, no System-given talents involved, was unfading. So he’d never had to force himself to study this material. It was already a treat.

But with the earring, he was suddenly getting a best-scene-of-your-new-favorite-movie dopamine high just from reading the first lines.

The logograms—the freaking logograms—were so interesting. The way the author had spaced them indicated where the mind should pause and digest concepts, of course. But although Alden had been aware that spacing could be used artfully, he’d never had the inclination to appreciate it before.

Now he did, and he found himself studying harder, desperate to memorize the logograms and grasp their meanings as fully as possible so that he could appreciate the beauty of this instructor’s teaching style.

When he finally turned the page, he felt an actual rush of excitement.

And then on the next page.

And the next.

It felt like he hadn’t been at it for long at all when Boe texted him. He’d sent a picture of a roll loaded with turkey and stuffing.

[Happy Thanksgiving,] said the message. [This is dessert. It should finalize my food coma.]

He went to Jeremy’s, Alden thought, emerging from his study haze. They’re having a pretty early lunch, aren’t they?

[Good job,] he replied.

He smiled and started to go back to his book, before suddenly realizing that it was less likely Jeremy’s family was having a Thanksgiving brunch and more likely…

He checked the time

“Shit! Really?!”

It was after noon. He’d been studying for more than five hours. Alden scrambled to his feet, almost stumbling because he’d been sitting still for so long that his butt had gone numb.

Stuart’s mom doesn’t play around when she makes a study aide.

Maybe you weren’t supposed to use them for things you didn’t have trouble focusing on to begin with? If Boe hadn’t interrupted, Alden would have happily sat on the bathroom floor until midnight.

He pulled out the earring and took a look at it. “You’re amazing. I will keep feeding you my blood. But maybe not without setting an alarm first.”

Olorn-art’h probably deserves a thank you note, he decided a few minutes later. That’s what you do after you use a gift someone gave you for the first time and find out that it’s even better that you realized.

He had left his room, and now he was walking through the empty hallways of an empty hospital, in a giant cube that had been built for some dark day that hadn’t yet come. But he couldn’t focus on the uncanniness of Matadero when he felt like he’d been enlightened.

He remembered everything he’d read, every finger position he’d eagerly tweaked to match the drawings, every logogram and its definition.

It wasn’t like he suddenly had photographic recall. Instead, it was the kind of remembering that came because you found the subject inescapably interesting and you couldn’t not remember.

Forget Thanksgiving. Forget school. I want to go lie in front of the toilet and absorb knowledge.

And he actually had forgotten school. He’d had tentative plans to make his succotash early so that he could attend Artonan Conversation class, even though he didn’t have to anymore. Kelly the grad student seemed like she’d be fun, and he wanted to see how she taught the class.

So much for that.

When he made it to the cafeteria, he found it empty except for Kabir, who was sitting at a table mounded with dishes and trays. The chef was just drinking a cup of coffee and staring blankly at the mess.

Alden wondered where his helpers had gone.

“Couldn’t bring yourself to serve wizards on paper plates?” he asked as he approached.

“I’m having some regrets,” Kabir said woodenly.

“Want me to do the dishes?”

“I’m seriously thinking of throwing them into the sea and then buying all new ones for second meal tonight.”

He’s burned out.

Alden stood by a stack of plates. The one on top was covered in what looked like honey. Actually…

He targeted the chef. “Do you mind if I take this plate?”

Kabir gave him an agreeable-looking wave.

Just the plate, thought Alden, focusing on the white ceramic. Only the plate.

He picked it up, preserved it, and flipped it over. The honey and crumbs dropped off and hit the plate that was next on the stack.

Alden unpreserved, sniffed the plate, then ran a finger over it.

“Yep,” he said. “Clean and dry. Not sanitized probably, but I don’t think that’s a problem for the wizards.”

Kabir was staring at the plate.

“I can’t promise my skill will hold out for all of this,” said Alden. It wasn’t like preserving a dish was difficult, but this was going to be a lot more on-off-on than normal. And he was assuming the kitchen was full as well. “But I’m almost positive it will.”

Kabir took the plate from him, looking touched. “You’re a good person.”

“Not really,” said Alden. “I’m greedy and want you to let me have a burner on the stove and some ingredients. I’m going to make succotash for a Thanksgiving supper I’m going to in a few hours.”

“Of course,” said Kabir. “You can…Thanksgiving?”

“Yes.”

Kabir shook his head. “No. Thanksgiving is on Thursday. Today is Wednesday.”

“It’s definitely Thursday.”

Kabir shook his head again. “It can’t be.”

Alden grinned at him. “You were enjoying a lot of…magical assistance… earlier this week. So it’s fine if you lost track of time.”

“It can’t be Thanksgiving, though,” said Kabir stubbornly. “Because Thanksgiving is basically a harvest festival. And Artonans love harvest festivals. And when they find out one is going on, they will research it and tell each other about it and get excited. And when I serve them pre-made sandwiches—”

“Nothing wrong with a good sandwich.”

“They’ll say ‘Is this the appetizer? Where is the traditional dead bird, Kabir? Where is the pig with the apple in its mouth—”

“That’s not even a Thanksgiving thing, is it? And I really don’t think they’ll be that unreasonable. Most of them seem excited just to be on Earth, and they’ve been eager to eat anything you put in front of them so far.”

“Kabir, where are the bowls of your croutons?” the chef continued. “When is the cranberry sauce with orange zest coming!?”

He was rising from the table, his eyes gaining a wildness Alden had last seen on that first meeting, when he’d had a spell set up to watch the elevator for demons.

“You’re right!” Alden said quickly. “It’s not Thanksgiving. My bad. I was confused.”

“System, what day of the week is it?” called Kabir.

Oh well.

“No worries,” said Alden, as he watched a man’s spirit crumble. “I can help with the dishes.”

******
