“Trying to sleeeeep.” There’s no pique in her tone, only mournful appeal, the poor girl so exhausted she doesn’t even realize she’s made it into my Natal Palace. Even as the thought strikes me, she lifts her head from the pillow to reveal half-lidded eyes below a brow furrowed in thought. “Is that a doggy?” The shoe drops as she comes face to face with Buddy, and excitement sweeps her lethargy away, her smile emanating sheer delight at finally meeting my best fried. “Buddy! Hi! You’re so cuteeeeee!” A woman after my own heart, she cups my dog’s cheeks and showers his head in kisses before wrapping her arms around him, so enamoured by my sweet dog and his adorably goofy expression that it takes several minutes for her to refocus her attention on her surroundings. “So this is your Natal Palace, ya?”

And here it is. The moment I’ve always dreaded. Seating in my king-sized bed and wrapped in sheets of the softest cotton, my sweet wifey scans the room from atop my Natal Throne and takes in everything there is to see. The glowing PC with spinning RGB fans and all the peripherals one would expect. The cluttered bookshelf bearing titles in a language she’s never seen, arranged next to toys, comics, and all manner of clutter like Lego spaceships and spindles of CDs. The superhero movie posters plastered across my ceiling and the steady white light illuminating it all. Lin-Lin’s eyes stop on each and every one of these never-before-seen curiosities and I watch with bated breath as the gears turn in her head, dreading her eventual realization that all is not right. How will she react? With confused discomfort? Horror and denial? Anger and disgust?

Here it comes. Something catches her attention outside the window. Her back straightens and eyes go wide, her muscles tensing as she draws in a deep breath. Her head turns and gaze matches mine, and in it I see...

Joy? Glee? Excitement? Anticipation?

“Hubby!” Pointing outside the window, Lin-Lin exclaims, “It’s home! We’re home! And we’re so high up!”

“Um... yea.”

“How are we so high up? Is this room in a big tree? Is there a balcony we can stand on to feel the breeze?”

“...Yea, there’s a balcony.” Confused by her lack of reaction towards all the unfamiliar things, I slip out of bed fully clothed and conjure up a robe for her to wear before leading her out into the condo proper. The couch, TV, fridge, stove, and all the other modern amenities continue to go unremarked as Lin-Lin takes my hand and skips alongside me with a train of animals hot on her heels. Opening the sliding glass balcony door, I study her expression as she comes face to face with the screen mesh which most surely must raise some questions, but she is wholly enraptured by the sprawling horizon laid out before her. The moment her path is no longer obstructed, she steps out onto the tiny, concrete balcony and props herself up on the banister, lifting herself up until her dainty feet dangle off the ground so she can lean over and see more.

“Wah!” Her exclamation is filled with unmitigated delight, and she leans her head back to flash me a grin. “It’s an entire building, hubby! How’d you build it so tall? The village is so pretty from all the way up here. Look, look, you can see your house, and Nai-Nai’s house on the peak, and my house all the way over there! And that lake! Is that the Azure Sea? How’d you fit it in without changing where everything else is? I mean, the village is laid out a little differently, but it just looks right from all the way up here, ya?”

“Um... good question.” Taking a good look at our surroundings, I glance back into the condo at all the oddities Lin-Lin ignored, and against my better judgment ask, “Is that... all you have to ask? Don’t you have any other questions?”

Sensing my trepidation, Lin-Lin follows my gaze and asks, “You mean about all those shiny things? Nope.”

“...Why not?”

Hopping down from the banister, Lin-Lin turns to face me and squishes my cheeks, holding my head in place to see her beaming smile. “Because you’ve never mentioned any of them before, so there must be a reason, but since you don’t wanna talk about it, I won’t ask.” After pulling me in for a long, lingering kiss, she releases her hold on my head and spreads her arms wide for an embrace, one I happily provide. “You do the same for me, which is why you’re the best, ya?”

Releasing a breath I didn’t know I’d been holding, I revel in the moment and feel so many of my worries melting away. I’m not the only one with secrets, as it’s clear she knew about her dad and Hua Lie being Ancestral Beasts, and I’ve never held it against her, nor have I bothered her about the other secrets she keeps, so why am I so surprised when she offers me the same space? Actually, I don’t think I’m surprised at all, just relieved things worked out as expected, which is probably why I was able to invite her here in the first place. I always knew that if anyone could accept me for who I am, it’d be Lin-Lin, and it's gratifying to know I was right, like a weight has been lifted off my shoulders and off my chest. Granted, there’s a good chance I’m not giving the rest of my loved ones enough credit, as they love me just as much as Lin-Lin does, but the difference is that my wifey has always been a little different and out there, a special girl with a special way of going about things, which is why I can accept her reaction. Everyone else is more grounded and normal, and the normal thing to do when learning my deepest, darkest secret would be to recoil in horror away from the stranger I’d become.

“Hubby?” Resting her chin on my chest, Lin-Lin hits me with big, teary doe eyes and asks, “Can you take me Cloud-Stepping around your Natal Palace?”

Be still my beating heart. How can one person be so god-damned adorable? “I can do better.” Putting aside all my questions regarding how she made it in here and the mechanics behind it, I gather her up in my arms and conjure Mama Bun’s flying inflatable raft next to the balcony before resizing it so that we can all fit. After loading everyone in, I use it to bring us up to the roof and smile as Lin-Lin shoots me a quizzical glance after I jump off, unsure why we’re stopping here instead of zipping around through the air. Silently promising her an even bigger surprise, I close my eyes and focus on the image I drew a few weeks back, one I mailed off and have yet to hear back about, but that’s neither here nor there. At the sound of Lin-Lin’s girlish squeal of excitement, I open my eyes and see the hang-glider I’d envisioned and materialized, bearing a white triangular sail dyed with blue accents and an undercarriage with space enough for the floofs and honorary floofs to lay down on either side of the control bar. After getting everyone into place, I grab the bar with Lin-Lin and match her grin as we lift the hang glider and get a running start off of the condominium roof, both of us screaming as we leap off into the great nothingness and sail away through the air. Within seconds, my sweet wifey has already figured out the controls and has us zipping through the air while I lay back and enjoy the ride. I thought I’d have to magic up the hang glider to fly like Mama Bun’s raft, but evidently, the high winds within the upper atmosphere of my Natal Palace are enough to keep us afloat, though I cannot discount Lin-Lin’s intuitive grasp of aerial navigation, which is quite literally breathtaking to behold.

Though at first it seems like sheer luck, I soon discover a method to her madness while she brings us up and around on invisible currents of air. Turning us this way and that, she gives life to our glider as we swoop and swerve about in search of rising warm air to lift us ever higher into the sky, all so she can turn the nose downward and send us plummeting down towards the sea at a breakneck pace. Then once we’ve descended far enough, she pulls up and brings us away from the water in search of those rising currents so that we might ascend and descend once again. I have no idea how she’s finding the right currents because even I can’t tell the difference in the moment and would have to mentally step away and check the computer to find out. I’m sure I could find something on there to give me a real time tracker of the wind, air pressure, and such, but Lin-Lin just has a knack for feeling out where to go. It’s a blend of instinct, intuition, and just general intelligence, growing bolder and more confident as she becomes familiar with the hang glider and figures out how to make it truly fly.

She’s an amazing woman, my sweet wifey here, a genius to match Mila and Yan both.

The animals all have a grand old time coming along with us for the ride, especially Ping Ping who cannot Cloud-Step on her own, squeaking with glee and tapping her legs as she lays flat in the undercarriage and cranes her neck out to stare at the ground below. Mama Bun and Buddy sit on either side of Lin-Lin and me with their noses to the wind, sniffing out all the different scents to take it all in, while Pong Pong is more amused by our reactions than anything else, shifting his gaze to watch us all in turn and enjoy our company on this trip. Judging by his Aura, it seems he thinks it’s funny how we’re so excited despite moving so slowly, but he’s kind enough to let us have our fun without interruption.

That’s a lot of emotional maturity for a turtle, especially one who has yet to learn how to swim upstream while pooping so as not to get covered in his own filth, but then again, maybe I’m putting too much thought into his reaction. That being said, his delight only grows when Lin-Lin finally deigns to set us down in the sea, her maniacal cackle echoing as we all swim away from the sinking glider which was not at all designed for aquatic landings. After settling a soggy Mama Bun into her properly-sized raft, I retaliate against my impish wifey’s wicked prank by controlling the waves to come and sweep us all away. So begins the great water wars of the evening, and we spend hours splashing and playing around as I show her all the ins and outs of my Natal Palace, including all the nifty features like wave pools, riptide roller coasters, tidal surfing, and more. All too soon however, it comes time for us to leave and get back to sleep, else we might sleep through the next day and night, which would only needlessly worry everyone given my penchant for falling into comas.

To wind down the play session, I bring everyone away to continue our tour, though things are a little different now that I have a guest who understands everything I say. Breaking out the puppercinos for the floofs, I stop Lin-Lin from trying one and conjure up a waffle cone of blue-berry ice-cream yogourt for her instead, which she accepts with gusto while still eyeing the puppercinos with curious interest. “It’s just sweetened whipped cream,” I tell her, to which she responds with a shy smile at having been seen through. “I can make some for you later after we wake up, but I can’t make ice-cream without ice, which means it’ll have to wait until we get back home.”

“That’s a promise then.” Wrapping her arm around mine, she settles in beside me as we stroll by the seaside, uttering a small sigh as we transition from the docks to the village replica proper. “I miss home. I’ve never been away for so long before, ya? I hope everyone is doing well. They’re gonna be so surprised when they see you again. You look so different now.” Peering up at my face while enjoying her ice-cream, she licks her lips with a frown and flicks my nose. “Ah. This is wrong though. Your eyes are the wrong colour, your head is shaped different, and your face should be younger and more handsome. Fix it please.” A moment of focus is all it takes to shift my features to match my physical body, though I doubt the change will last. My mental self-image is just too different from the Falling Rain everyone else sees, though I suppose that’s changed as well if Lin-Lin took this long to notice. “That’s better,” she declares, beaming at me with joy, and any underlying worry about questions or reservations flies out the window as she moves on. “Your Natal Palace is really amazing, hubby. So much fun to be had with all these yummy treats, not to mention how much thought you put into everything. I see why they love coming here.”

They meaning the floofs, who are happily exploring alongside us, even Pong Pong who follows them around like a concerned older brother. “Thanks,” I reply, unsure how to respond to her praise as I’m not used to receiving any. “I mean, it’s mostly just a copy of the village with a bunch of water in the middle. I’m not even sure if the sea is an accurate recreation of the Azure Sea or just something I hand-waved into existence.”

“What about the currents? You didn’t put those in on purpose?”

“Mm some, but generally only the ones for all the rides.” Seeing Lin-Lin’s brows furrow in confusion, I explain, “The log on rails and the riptide river that carried us around? Those rides.”

“Oh, the water currents.” Shaking her head, she raises her waffle cone to point at the sky and says, “I was talking about air currents.”

“What about them?” Glancing up even though I know I can’t see the air moving, I shrug and say, “They exist. That’s about the full extent of thought I’ve put into them.”

“Then how come they’re so real?” I have no idea what Lin-Lin is talking about, and I suppose it shows on my face. “The hang glider,” she adds, as if that’s supposed to explain everything, but I am still completely lost. “You felt it right?”

“Felt what?”

