Though the two terms are often used interchangeably, there’s a marked difference between having sex and making love, a discovery I only arrived at in recent months.

Sex is great. It’s fun, feels amazing, and at the end of the day, orgasms are just awesome, but when all is said and done, that’s all there is to sex. You get together, get off, and get gone, maybe right away or maybe the next morning depending on the circumstances, until it comes time to have sex again. Regardless of whether your partner is a complete stranger or a close and intimate sweetheart, the act of sex is largely about pleasure. Some people are selfish and seek only to sate themselves, others are generous and focus their efforts on ensuring their partner enjoys themselves, while most fall somewhere in between, but at the end of the day, sex is about fulfilling a primal urge designed to help propagate the human race. When the sex is over and done with, hopefully all you’re left with is a sense of satisfaction and pleasant memories of the act. Unless, yanno, you’re having sex for the express purpose of getting pregnant, or Heaven forbid chasing after one of those generally unintended consequences like a burning sensation when you pee.

Different strokes for different folks, and while I cannot say I will not judge, so long as all parties involved are happily consenting, informed adults, you’ll get no grief from me.

Now it sounds cheesy and corny to even think this, but as I lay beside my wife and look deep into Mei Lin’s eyes, I know that we have made love tonight, even if I can’t entirely describe the difference. This wasn’t so on my wedding nights with Mila and Yan, but that’s not to say things are better or worse. Both times were a magical experience wherein we consummated our marriage and expressed our love and lust for one another in a physical manner, and I will forever cherish the memories of those nights. There's nothing inherently wrong or inferior about what we did, but while we shared and took part in an expression of love, I had sex with Mila and Yan respectively on our wedding nights. Lots of sex. Great sex, phenomenal sex, but I am positive that we did not make love on those first nights or even in the days and weeks shortly thereafter.

Don’t get me wrong, I love Mila and Yan, loved them both long before I married them, and they love me as well, but on our wedding night, we were still strangers in so very many ways. How could we not be, as we had not revealed so very much of ourselves to one another? As time passed by and we settled into our new and unfamiliar roles, we loved and learned until we were ready to make love for the first time, and it elevated our relationship to new and wondrous heights. The difference was like night and day, because while our sexcapades were always fun and exciting, making love was a whole different experience, one I am grateful to have shared with not one, not two, but three women now, and my love for them continues to grow by the second.

Now, this isn’t a whole spiel to say sex is hedonistic, meaningless and, empty, because that’s not true. You can find intimacy and fulfillment in sex, because even long married and loving couples will sometimes have sex rather than make love, while it isn’t impossible for strangers to make love the first time they get together. I don’t buy into the moral hierarchy in which sex is only valuable when performed between two loving individuals for the express purpose of baby making, but there is no denying that there is a difference between having sex and making love. The distinction between the two acts is not one of action or motivation, but of connection and emotion, because making love involves a level of intimacy that goes beyond the physical. Though there are unpleasant exceptions to the rule, sex in and of itself is already an intimate act, but making love takes everything a step further. You can have sex without love, but making love is more than just sex because it is a process that involves the body, mind, and soul, as opposed to only one or both of the first two. When two people make love, there is an amalgamation of needs, desires, and intentions until both parties become one in every sense of the word. You move beyond seeking pleasure and gratification, beyond deep feelings and fond affections, and together, take part in a profound act of care and connection filled with a sense of familiarity and affinity that is difficult to describe.

It took time to develop this intimate rapport with Mila and Yan, time in which we learned our preferences and tested our boundaries, but with Lin-Lin, there was no need to learn anything because she is utterly guileless. She has her secrets, but she never goes to any great effort to hide them, and she acts on her whims and desires without thinking twice, which makes it easy to read her. As for me, though I have more layers than an onion and secrets aplenty, I’ve never felt the need to hide who I really am from Lin-Lin and pretend to be someone I’m not. Though she is not privy to my secrets, she knows me even better than I know her, and our mutual understanding allows us to express our innermost desires without uttering a single word.

It’s so strange to look back on my thoughts now and laugh at how silly my concerns were. In the days leading up to the wedding, I mourned the coming loss of Lin-Lin’s innocence while simultaneously eagerly awaiting the moment in which I would take it. The duality of man, a concept I have struggled with more than most. I worried I would scare her, disappoint her, hurt her, or worse, and imagined all manner of nightmarish scenarios playing out in my mind time and time again, but when the moment finally arrived, all those worries melted away when faced with her beautiful smile, so full of love and trust. For so many years, she has been the calming presence standing by my side, her curious, carefree attitude a much needed balm for my abused soul. Somewhere along the way, I lost track of the time and now she is a woman grown, one who has long since held the key to my heart in the palm of her dainty hand.

And so, after a long and mostly uneventful day of parades, receptions, ceremonies, and banquets, with plenty of laughter and tears shared with family and friends, the wedding finally came to an end and I was left with my sweet wifey. As I carried her over the threshold into our bedroom and set her down upon the bed, I gazed deep into her eyes as she stroked my cheek, and I knew I loved this woman with all my heart. We smiled, we kissed, we laughed, and we loved, a progress so natural we simply fell into our roles as husband and wife. There were no rushed movements or nervous pauses to mar the experience, as we wholly committed to expressing our love for one another on this most special of nights.

The first of many yet to come, though as I lay here breathless and see the glint in her beautiful brown eyes, I can tell my sweet wife is not yet ready to call it quits for tonight, and I am more than happy to rise to the occasion.

Several more times in fact, for long hours until I am faint-headed from repeated exertion, but my fun-loving wifey is not yet sated. Short of breath and cheek pressed against my shoulder, her eyes sparkle at the discovery of this enjoyable new experience and her appetite is still ravenous for more. Though she is lacking in stamina, my boundless libido has finally met its match in Lin-Lin, a thought which sparks my competitive nature much to my rival’s amusement. Our fingers entwine, our bodies embrace, and we make love once more until we are both truly sated and spent, our tired bodies panting heavily in sync as we bask in marital bliss.

Biting my shoulder softly, her eyes twinkle as she gazes up into mine, her aggressive affection conveying her disgruntled admission of frustration over her lacking endurance as well as a silent promise to pick this up later after she’s had a good rest. Tonight has thoroughly shattered my sweet wifey’s image of wholesome innocence and replaced it with one of a sensual woman wholly comfortable with her sexuality, and I love her all the more for it. Gathering her lithe body up in my arms, I cradle her close and wrap her in a clean blanket I left folded on the nightstand before carrying her away to freshen up. Uttering a soft sigh as I run a cool, wet cloth over her face, she closes her eyes and accepts my ministrations without resistance, and though I would much rather take my time to appreciate the experience, I work quickly as I can so that we can head back to bed and sleep the sleep of the dead.

Still carrying her in my arms, I Conceal us both and head over to open the door and let the floofs in. While Aurie, Mama Bun, and Ping Ping are quick to trot in with Blackjack, Pong Pong, and Guai-Guai respectively, Jimjam and the bears are slower to react, as they are all fast asleep and snoring without a care in the world. Well, not entirely true considering they were all pressed up against the door, likely unhappy over being left out in the hallway instead of being invited into the room, but such is life. I should have a second bedroom attached to mine, a bigger one with a bigger bed for only sleeping, so when me and my wives are done with the happy fun times, we can just migrate over and fall asleep with the floofs without so much of a hassle. The things we do for our pets, but only because we love them, and it soon proves well worth the effort as I lay down with Lin-Lin in my arms, Mama Bun, Pong Pong, and Blackjack stretched out across my chest, Ping Ping pressed against my flank, Aurie laid out over my legs, and two warm, fuzzy bears nestled up on either side, their chins pressed against the top of my head in a blatant attempt to steal my pillow. Though Jimjam doesn’t care to snuggle, he gives everyone a few good nuzzles before circling around to sleep on the other side of Baloo, laying out in the opposite direction with his cheek pressed up against Aurie’s by my feet.

“This is just the best,” I whisper, and my wifey giggles at the sound of my hoarse voice, for these are the first words I’ve uttered since carrying her into the bedroom so many hours ago. The moon must already be on its way down by now, though not quite yet ready to sink into the horizon, which means we might end up sleeping through the entire day and waking up to resume our recreational activities, but honestly, I don’t mind. There’s nothing planned for tomorrow anyways, and Luo-Luo can handle anything that crops up, so I might as well take the day off and catch up on rest, though I fear I might soon be trapped in a cycle of lust and exhaustion.

Sensing my thoughts and Aura, Lin-Lin bites me again, this time with a little more force, a reprimand for my naughty thoughts and a reaffirmation of her promise to pick this up where we left off. Though I am thoroughly exhausted, I stay awake long enough to hear her drift off to sleep and bask in the sound of her adorably quavering breaths, so light and dainty it hardly seems fair to even call it a snore. Then the sweet embrace of sleep plucks me from the waking world and time stalls for a second that stretches on into eternity, the blissful oblivion of undisturbed slumber here to wick away my weary fatigue.

Once my mind decides it has rested enough, it sends out the call before retreating to my Natal Palace, where I emerge from the covers of my bed to find Ping Ping, Pong Pong, and Mama Bun already playing with Buddy on the ground. Pausing their game of tag, they all clamber onto the bed to come greet me while I try and make sense of the situation, my thoughts still muddled and tired from having just ‘woken’ up. How long have they been here? Did they just arrive, or have they been playing since I fell asleep? I know none of them mean me any harm and I have Buddy to make sure no one gets out of hand, but at the end of the day, they’re all still animals who might well do something harmful without meaning to. What if they accidentally take control of my body and make me do something embarrassing? The thought of Pong Pong controlling me like a puppet in order to procure more shrimp sets me to laughing uncontrollably, even though I doubt he would ever consciously make the decision to do so. On the other hand, Mama Bun would most definitely have no qualms about borrowing my body, especially if it meant getting some Spiritual Plants in the process, a thieving bun who lacks a thorough understanding of morals and boundaries.

“Mm, too early hubby.” Uttering a small groan from beneath the blankets beside me, my sleepy wifey burrows her face into the pillow to escape from Buddy’s enthusiastic sniffing, his tail wagging so hard his entire butt is swinging back and forth with it. “If you’re gonna play with the floofs, then bring them outside please.”

“Sorry wifey,” I reply, braving a heavy tail lashing as I lift Buddy away and speaking up to be heard over his exciting yips and barks. “I’ll leave you here to... sleep...”

Wait. What?

“Wifey? What are you doing here?”

