“You know...the air currents.” Unable to give a better explanation, Lin-Lin stops to take a few aggressive bites of frozen yogourt and carefully consider how to give voice to her thoughts. “We were in the glider, and I could feel the air moving, so I just followed it to where I wanted to go. It all made sense, like out in the real world, ya?” Pulling my arm to direct me to sit in the grass, my sweet wifey plonks herself in my lap and leans back to gaze at the clouds in the sky, gesturing at them in a broad and unspecific manner. “That’s not all either. The air gets colder as you move over the sea and it warms back up over land, which is exactly how it’s supposed to work. As we got higher, it got harder to breathe, even though we’re not really breathing, which is just amazing. The clouds move too, slowly drifting towards whatever direction the dominant wind is pulling, while the horizon stretches out in every direction without end. The sun is warm on my skin, and even though I never saw it rise or fall, it was mid-morning when we started playing and now it’s getting ready to set. I bet you could even make it rain and everything would happen the right way. You made the sky in your Natal Palace hubby, with almost everything that comes with it, and it’s so genuine I’m almost not sure if this is real or just a dream.”

I honestly have no idea how I did any of the things that she just mentioned, aside from the never setting sun which I just sorta locked in place because I like it better when the sun sits about a hand-span over the horizon. Truth be told, I didn’t even know I had air currents in my Natal Palace, much less ones that adhered to the laws of physics, though I vaguely remember having worked on cloud movements and shadow casting in the beta version of my Natal Palace. Seeing my confusion, Lin-Lin shakes her head before sinking into my arms with a sleepy little smile. “If this is a dream,” she says, sighing softly as she nuzzles up against me, “Then you better be careful when you come wake me, ya? I finally married my Rainy and made him my hubby, so I’ll be really mad if this whole day didn’t actually happen.”

“It’s real.” Carefully hugging her for fear of squeezing too tight, I contain the urge to crush her into my chest so that she can never leave. Cute aggression is all too real and I need to be oh so careful with my wifey, who I absolutely adore and cannot live without. “Besides, if it wasn’t real, telling me to be careful won’t do a thing since I’d just be a figment of your imagination.”

“Shush.” Sticking her tongue out with a smile, she lounges in my embrace while I snuggle her close, both of us luxuriating in the warmth and comfort of each others company while staring up at the sky and out at familiar surroundings. “I’m so happy you brought me here hubby. When I was younger, I always imagined us getting married back home, ya? In the courtyard of our new house, which changed every time I thought about it, but it was our house, not a borrowed one in a fortress so far from home. I wanted a big tree in the courtyard, like the ones you find in the forests outside Shen Huo, with a ladder to climb up to a little shack on one of the bigger branches, where we’d sit and have tea in the afternoon. That’s where we’d have the tea ceremony every time, even if everything else was different.”

“Sorry for failing to live up to expectations and for making our wedding so political. Not the best way to start off our happily married life together.” Truth be told, aside from the time spent receiving gifts and eating, I was almost always out and about doing something or the other all day, leaving her to her own devices for the most part. My wifey is a sweet and simple woman who cares little for wealth or luxury, and though she likes dressing up, changing into seven different outfits in one day could not have been fun.

“Don’t be silly hubby. I never told you about the big tree in our courtyard, so how could you have known? Besides, this makes up for it, ya? We didn’t get married here, but it’s everything I ever wanted, even the big tree house high up in the sky. Can we keep this a secret though? From everyone, ya?”

“You being here? Erm... sure?”

“I don’t want Mi-Mi and Yan-Yan to get jealous is all.” Though somewhat true, it’s not the whole truth, but I would much rather not have to explain why Lin-Lin can make it into my Natal Palace when no other humans can, mostly because I don’t really have a good answer. It would break my heart and theirs as well if I had to admit I didn’t trust Mila and Yan enough to let them into my innermost sanctum, my mental man-cave where I go to be alone and ponder the past, present, and future.

Sure I spend a lot of time playing with the floofs here, but that’s just an added bonus.

“Good. Also, before we wake up, I have something to say, hubby.” Reaching up to poke me in the cheek, Lin-Lin pouts in full force and my heart threatens to explode in my chest. “You shouldn’t have spent so much time playing with that stinky Yong-Jin today. You were too nice and let him lead you by the nose right up until the end, when you smashed the log out from under his feet. That’s how you should’ve done it from the start hubby, overwhelm him with strength and show everyone why you’re the best.”

“To be fair, Yong-Jin isn’t exactly weak, though I’m pretty sure he had multiple Runic objects helping him focus his Chi skills, like that bangle of yours that helps with Lightening.” Maybe that’s why Shen ZhenWu has been in hiding all this time, so he can avoid giving me more wedding gifts. Stingy jerk. It’s just a Runic bracer, how expensive can it be? “I’ll admit I could’ve been more careful to avoid stepping into their trap, but I was caught well and good before I even realized it.”

“That’s not the problem hubby. You were up against an old fogey who even Luo-Luo can’t figure out, so of course you took the bait, even though you didn’t hafta be so enthusiastic about it. The problem isn’t that you fell for their trap, but how you handled it afterwards.” Raising her dainty little fist, my sweet wifey scowls and says, “If you just kicked Yong Jin’s stinky butt right from the start, then he would’ve had no choice but to slink away with his tail between his legs. Instead, you took it easy and let things play out because you thought you’d win anyways and wanted to see what they had planned. You can’t do that hubby, because it encourages everyone else to keep trying, and next time you might not be so lucky.”

She’s not entirely wrong, and there’s something particularly endearing about her ruthless and bloodthirsty ways. Though no Warrior herself, Lin-Lin has lived her whole life immersed in the Martial culture and seen all manner of people trying to take advantage of her father, so she knows exactly what she’s talking about. That being said, I do take issue with one part of her statement, namely that tiny little bit at the end. “Lucky? I beat Yong-Jin fair and square, and only humiliated him when he pushed me too far.”

“That’s the problem hubby. You waited too long to show your fangs, and people will wonder why. I know and you know it’s because you were being nice, but who knows what everyone else will think?” Poking me in the leg with a steely finger, Lin-Lin grumbles, “The next time someone stupid challenges you, you beat them silly without giving them a chance to recover okay? Don’t let them off so easily either, you should’ve taken one of Yong Jin’s arms or legs as the price of admission. Or better yet, chopped off that dumb man-bun which he loves so much. You’re my hubby now, so you need to show everyone that your time and efforts are too valuable to be wasted on those smelly stupid heads.”

“Oh? Now that we’re married, it seems like you’re ready to show your fangs.” Laughing as her cheeks turn a deep shade of red, I hug her tight and add, “Well, not like they were very well hidden to begin with. Don’t you worry, I always knew they were there and still love you, fangs and all.” After thinking over her words for a bit, I add, “You’re right though. I was too lenient with Yong Jin, which played right into their hands. I don’t think he was ever meant to beat me, just... diminish my reputation a bit. If he didn’t push his luck too far at the end there, then I would’ve walked away and left the whole Citadel believing that Yong Jin wasn’t too too far behind me in terms of Martial Strength. I never went all out, but he came close to throwing me into the water more than once, which he never could have accomplished against someone like Dad or Nian Zu.”

“He wouldn’t have been able to do it to you either, not if you were serious from the start.”

“Yea, and that’s the problem. I wasn’t serious, and almost made everyone think I’m weaker than I really am. Half of my newfangled popularity is because I’m so strong, so it could have really set me back in terms of reputation if I left things as they were after our little game.” Shrugging, I sigh and give thanks to my ability to fail upwards time and time again. I almost made a major blunder today, but then I lost my temper and threw a little tantrum, so now it looks like I was toying with Yong-Jin the whole time. “Oh wow... I knew I was lucky, but I didn’t even realize how lucky until just now.” At Lin-Lin’s silent prompting, I explain, “I might’ve actually lost against Yong-Jin if I hadn’t figured out Domain Plating while getting changed for the reception.” Compressing my Domain against my body and forming a Shroud around me (which is what I now know as the proper term for the Exo-Suit I envisioned), I narrate the chain of events that took place withing my changing room just before I set out to accept Shuai Jiao’s gift. “So yea. If it wasn’t for Domain Plating and my Shroud of Reinforcement, Yong-Jin might well have thrown me into the water and embarrassed me in front of the crowd.”

“And it would’ve served you right.” Giggling at my feigned outrage, she cleverly pivots back to the topic of Domain Plating and asks, “So how come you weren’t able to Plate your clothes and armour? Seems really, really weird, ya?”

Being the terrible actress that she is, it’s clear my wifey is trying to direct me to an answer she already knows, which again leads me back to questions regarding her secrets, but if she’s not ready to tell me, then I’ll just wait until she is. Thinking the question over, I stick with what I think is the correct answer. “Because the clothes are not a part of me. I can merge my Domain with my physical body because they’re two parts of the same puzzle, but my clothes are pieces from a different set, and therefore incompatible.”

“Maybe.” Which means close, but no cigar. I wish she could just tell me the answer, but it could do me more harm than good if I don’t agree with her reasoning and insisting on hearing it will only make her clam up and claim ignorance. Still staring up at the sky, Lin-Lin asks, “The Domain is a part of you yea, and your clothes are not, but that doesn’t mean it’s impossible to Domain Plate your clothes. You just hafta figure out the right process, yea?”

“True.” She’s not saying I’m entirely wrong, only partially so regarding the whole incompatible bit. “It’d just be really difficult probably, involving something silly like becoming One with the Clothes.” Chuckling at the absurdity of so many ones, I stop mid laugh when it dawns on me that that’s probably the actual answer. So long as I become one with the clothes and make it a part of me, then I should theoretically be able to Domain Plate it. I’ve seen it in action before too, like with Mahakala’s spade, the Abbot’s fish drum, Guan Suo’s pipe, and probably Shuai Jiao’s stinky robes which he never changes.

And...

...Nothing. Nope. Just forget it and move on. It doesn’t matter anyways.

“What is it hubby?”

“Nothing,” I lie, nuzzling my sweet wifey to remind myself I love her more than life itself and I shouldn’t be jealous of other people’s skills. “I just had a weird thought, but it wasn’t important.”

“Oh.” Nuzzling me back, Lin-Lin stretches her arms and lets loose with the daintiest of yawns before settling back into my arms. “Anyways, you should probably forget about Domain Plating clothes. You never cared about ruining your outfits before, so why go to all that effort now? Instead, I think you should think about other things you could Domain Plate.”

“Like what?” Even as I ask the question, the answer comes to me as I turn towards my Natal Sea, and I could almost kick myself for not seeing it sooner. This is the answer I’ve been looking for all along, the key to utilizing my Blessing of Water effectively. I can conjure up Water Chi that behaves just like water, which is less than useful in a fight, but what if I Domain Plated that Water Chi to make it harder than steel or razor sharp?

Water Bullets, Water Shields, Water Swords, and Water Tentacles, so many possibilities lie before me, but all that can wait until later. I have at least an entire month to practice before my army is ready to sail west, so I can spare a few days to relax and enjoy my honeymoon with my sweet wifey. Life is good, so I should take the time to appreciate it while I can. That’s the whole point of struggling through all these trials and tribulations, to enjoy the good times while they last.

A lesson I learned far too late in life, but one I will make sure never to forget.

Chapter Meme

- Volume 39 end -
