“They should be treated the way a person would treat any other living creature, shouldn’t they? An equally dangerous one.” Alden took a breath. “They can feel pain, they can struggle for their lives, and they can be afraid. Some of them. I know they’re not all the same. But if it’s like that, and you treat them like something less…real…because of the chaos…that’s not right.”

“You’ve asked me a question that’s best answered by yourself,” Rel-art’h said after a moment. “I have killed few demons. My skill is for communication and assisting others. I have felt empathy for the things I’ve killed. Others who kill more sometimes protect themselves by feeling less. I understand them, too.”

I see. It’s personal and situational. “That makes sense.”

“Call if you want anything.”

Alden waited until the knight was on the stairs again before he climbed over the fencing and took his seat on the ground. Approaching would make the mother bokabv nervous, but Rel-art’h had said the calf was curious and would eventually come over to see a newcomer on its own if they weren’t too loud and active.

With grass higher than his head, Alden couldn’t see much. He waited, listening to the soft bleating noise the mother was making, almost like she was muttering to her baby, and the occasional thump of the heavy animal taking a step.

The night smelled like grass and funky herdcreature. Alden waited almost half an hour for acknowledgment, but he had a lot on his mind, and it didn’t feel so long. And the acknowledgment, when it came, was brilliant.

A baby bokabv barreled out of the grass right in front of him, waving its snout like, “Wow! Company!” It smashed into him clumsily, then retreated like he was a scary monster who’d somehow forced it to fall all over him. It returned a minute later, only a tiny bit less excited than it had been on its first approach and ran back and forth in front of him, glowing blue with fresh slobber from its mother. It had generously wiped some of that on Alden’s chest when it hit him.

The little animal seemed to be about forty pounds of leg, snout, and enthusiasm. It ran at Alden again and then away before coming back, like it wanted him to play chase.

“I’m not going to do that,” he said, laughing. “Maybe there will be friends for you when you meet your herd tomorrow.”

The calf stopped and stared at him for a few seconds, as if the sound of his voice needed thinking about, and then it went right back to being thrilled it was alive.

Eventually, the mother bokabv came over to see what was occupying her calf, and since Alden had been instructed not to distress her in any way, he held perfectly still while she got him back for dodging her tongue on his last visit.

“You have a real baby now. Lick him. Look at him! He needs yo—yuck. Okay. Okay, this is fine. It’s probably…you have an unlimited supply of drool, don’t you?”

She left him alone when the calf came over for a drink, and he made a slow escape back over the fence.

“You two aren’t ever going to end up like that thing in my dreams,” he said after watching them for a while longer. “You’re not allowed to. You only get to be normal, happy bokabvs. Because I said so.”

He found the red star in the sky.

Because I want it. Because I feel like screaming it at the universe until the universe listens.

Maybe it wasn’t strange that wizards could do magic. Maybe it was strange that everyone else couldn’t.

Right now, Alden almost believed he could cast protection over these two simple, peaceful lives just by flinging his authority at reality and demanding that it be so.

He headed for the stairs instead, still hauling his suitcase. When he reached the school, the students had all gone in for the night, but Stuart was popping out of the door of the summonarium like he was in a hurry to get somewhere.

He halted at the sight of Alden, and his mouth opened.

“I’ve been visiting the bokabvs,” Alden said, when Stuart failed to speak.

“I would have known that even if no one told me.”

“Is it because my hair is sticking straight up and glowing?”

“That’s one reason.”

“Do you want to see them, too? The baby’s very glad to be here. It’s nice.”

******

******

Later, in the cottage that looked out over the stream full of zansees, Alden lathered his hair and rinsed it five times before it finally stopped feeling slimy.

When he got out of the bathroom, Stuart was sitting on the floor by the table, ready for their midnight snack.

“I thought I’d never get that stuff out of my hair. Sorry it took so long.” Alden plopped down onto the cushion across the table from him.

“I want this yellow thing first.”

“That’s pineapple salsa. And you may taste everything in whatever order you like. Let me name them all for you.” Alden plucked a corn chip out of the separate bag they were stored in. “Tortilla chip.”

“Tortilla chip,” said Stuart.

“It’s salty and crunchy.” Alden pointed the chip at the meal prep container in front of them. “Pineapple salsa. Guacamole. Beans—don’t send one through the walls with your spell. They’re smoky and spicy. I don’t know if you like spicy. And this is nacho cheese, but it’s not really cheese. She makes it out of a bunch of different things. And this beautiful sweet bread over here is our cinnamon roll.”

“Cinnamon roll.” Stuart leaned over it. “It smells good.”

“It is good. It is.”

Alden’s mouth was watering. Stuart was watching the tortilla chip with great interest.

“I brought enough for us to do this twice,” Alden said. “Once tonight and once in the morning.”

He grinned. “If we damage the pleasure centers in our brain, like someone once suggested eating too much Cook of the Moment food might do to me… it’s fine. Because we’re both going to see Healer Yenu tomorrow. She can just repair us.”

Stuart returned his smile. “That’s a good plan.”

“Isn’t it? Come on. Let’s eat.”

******
