A three-mast ship soared through the sky overhead, bearing down on the Infinite Constellation School. It drew up to the upper peak, and Aquari waved her hand to let it past the barrier. Blue shimmered as it slid through and onto the upper peak. A man stood at its railing, prim and proper, the image of a mage. He wore black academic robes with long, wide sleeves that draped heavily over his shoulders, and a small black cap on his head, tassel and all. White gloves clad his hands, and he bore a book in one arm. A small group of students stood around him, perhaps four of them, all told. At the helm, a rather more raggedy, adventurer-looking mage handled the wheel, and even from this far, Rhys could sense that she was the one who empowered the boat. It wasn’t purely empowered through her strength; there was some secondary source of mana that supported her own power. Nonetheless, it was her power that directed the ship’s advance.

The ship lowered down to just above the highest buildings. On the deck of the ship, the man waved his hand. Blue mana swirled from his hand and surrounded him and the students behind him. He and his students lifted off the surface of the boat and hovered down to the ground. They landed gently, without so much as a bump.

The second they touched down, the woman at the helm spun the wheel, and her mana rushed through the ship. The ship turned about, far nimbler than its huge size would imply, and it flew off, leaving the groups behind.

Flicking an imaginary piece of lint off his robes, the man stepped forward. With a fake smile, he offered Aquari his hand. “Aquari. How good to see you again. I see your school is cleaned up! I’m impressed, truly.”

“Ernesto,” Aquari replied. She took his hand and gripped it tight, murder in her eyes. The two of them clutched hands for a long time, neither releasing, both of them almost clawing into the other’s flesh. Two fake smiles beamed forth.

Rhys swallowed. I’m glad I did my research. If I was getting these vibes from their meeting with no preparation, I might have just hoofed it for the forest directly.
