One of the infected beasts attempted to charge past her, which forced Ranthia to tap [Sustained Chaos] to throw her right knife—fully imbued with her Skills—into the spine at the base of its skull as it thundered past. The kill notification confirmed that beast and parasite were both killed in the moment of impact—even if the body was still in motion.

Her right bracer crumbled into sand and replaced her knife, just barely in time to intercept the rusty sword that another ogre tried to stab into her. There was no time for her to wrestle with [Adamant Commander] to retrieve the knife from the dense tissue of the resilient dinosaur, which meant she was down a bracer. Ranthia altered her dance to compensate and focused on sending out more images.

She needed to shift to a fresh body before she accumulated too many injuries, but the enemy were aggressive enough that her images were being shattered almost as fast as she could replace them.

It truly was damned annoying to face enemies that were familiar with her and were fully prepared to capitalize on her weaknesses. But it wasn’t the first time she had dealt with it and it wouldn’t be the last.

“Brindelt, Vargrath, on me! We got this lot, Grace!” One of the dwarves yelled as he prepared to charge in her direction.

“Thanks Rumsund!” Ranthia called back.

Even she could learn names after so many years. The legionaries were constantly cycled around the war, but the dwarves tended to stick around for a long time before they moved on. Especially since Remera was something of a favored posting to them, between the presence of a legendary [Battlemaster], the honor of protecting an aged [Healer], and Avyna’s increasingly famous shop.

As the trio of dwarves slammed into the shimagu’s defensive line—and broke through it—Ranthia finally managed to complete [Reflections of Reality]’s glacial activation and shifted to a fresh image that could properly threaten the shimagu [Mages]. One of the Brilliance [Mages] tried, he really did. The other fled—and was cut down by the defenders on the wall almost immediately, in spite of his host’s relatively high speed stat—but the first one stood his ground and tried to repel Ranthia with his Skills.

[Void Edge] tore through his solidified light and the beams he launched at her failed to pierce deep enough to stop her. He even tried to throw a punch at the end, but he brought a fist to a knife fight. One knife sliced through his fist, while her other found the ogre’s heart. Which usually was suboptimal, but…

[*ding!* You have slain an ogre [Town Guardian] (Gravity, level 487), [Firm Fists] (Mountain, level 461)!]

…As Ranthia hoped, the parasite went ballistic and expended its mana in a frantic short-range burst of Brilliance. It was trivial for her to dance away from the attack, but it also stymied the Lightning [Mage]’s ability to attack her now that the taller ogre was out of the way. Even better, it forced the final ogre to take a single, fatal step back.

A sharpened rock erased both his head and his neck with explosive—and messy—force.

[*ding!* Your allies have slain an ogre [He Who Denies the Storm Its Due] (Lightning, level 542), [Untroubled by the Winds] (Wind, level 516), [Inconducive] (Mountain, level 109)//a shimagu [Future Elite] (Ooze, level 559), [Shimagu Mage] (Lightning, level 555), [All-Consuming Shield] (Dark, level 63)!]

“Nice shot, Lithy!” Ranthia called out, waving to the [Mage] in question. Lithy was rapidly becoming one of Ranthia’s favorite people who had wall duty, and not just because they had a casual bit of fun together a couple of times—with Avyna’s blessing, of course. What was more important was that the woman had swift and decisive judgment, with an impressive ability to size up a situation and act. Ranthia had no doubts that the woman would end up an officer sooner rather than later.

With the wall defenders able to focus on the shimagu’s second flank, Ranthia shifted to a fresh image and joined the trio of dwarves in culling the first. The shimagu’s attack was thwarted and the situation promised to be resolved soon, but Ranthia still intended to do everything that she could to hurry it along.

Anyone that threatened Remera and its people would be culled without mercy.

War could be exceptionally stupid. Atop Remera’s wall, Ranthia stared out at a sea of tents and (at some point, perhaps) combatants that all but surrounded Remera. One of the largest shimagu armies to date had come to take their base, yet they moved slowly enough that—against all odds—the newly formed 27th Legion had arrived first, at the base commander’s request for reinforcements. They were joined by two “charges” worth of centaurs (because gods forbid anyone used actual numbers instead of cutesy words) and a small Coalition force of minotaurs, dwarves, and gnolls.

Yet neither army seemed to quite know what to do about the presence of the other, which had resulted in Pallos’ most idiotic stalemate. For three days, the two armies had faced each other from afar, trading the occasional ineffectual ranged attack and otherwise standing their ground. It was such a non-event that Remera’s gates opened multiple times per day to let visitors from their allies come and go.

Ranthia just sighed and shook her head, before she activated [Reflections of Reality] and—after a brief wait—returned to the image that she had left next to Avyna.

“<No change, my love?>” Avyna asked the very instant Ranthia’s perception shifted.

Ranthia still wasn’t sure how Avyna had gotten so good at noticing almost the very instant Ranthia entered an image. Her [System Perception] Skill was an active one, like the basic forms of [Identify] were, and it seemed unlikely that Avyna just stood there spamming the Skill nonstop until it returned Ranthia’s values. Avyna claimed that it was just a difference in presence and changes to her micromovements, but Ranthia was still confident that [Submind] kept her images moving exactly the same as she did. In the end, so long as the ability remained unique to the love of her life, she didn’t mind. …Much.

“<Nothing. The base commander told me there’s a Sentinel somewhere among the 27th, but whoever it is, they still haven’t approached me. …Which probably confirms that it isn’t anyone I know.>” Ranthia proved unable to keep the bitterness—or the grumble—out of her words.

Honestly, she had come to mildly regret never attending a Sentinel meeting back when they were in Coalition City. Night had given her permission to skip them and focus her efforts on her recovery, but she was starting to feel extremely isolated from her peers. Even when she sent reports or letters to Sentinel Night, the man never bothered to send a response.

Not that she doubted he was still out there; somehow, she wasn’t worried about the vampire falling. Gods and goddesses, she could easily imagine him surviving even if they lost the war and Remus fell. Not that the war seemed to ever have any indication of ending, nor did her grasp of the situation seem to suggest that the tides of conflict were favoring the shimagu.

Still, the ongoing stalemate—and not just the situation she was in, but the war itself—weighed on her. And sometimes, when her weariness with it all accrued, Avyna’s lingering recommendation to leave became tempting. But for better or worse, the fact remained that Ranthia was self-aware enough to know that she’d be haunted by regrets for a very long time if she did, and no [Mind Healer] could change that.

Avyna began to speak—something about having patience—but Ranthia’s attention was pulled away. [Combat Awareness] twinged. It wasn’t loud or desperate, but it was an unmistakable warning.

With her perception at its limits, Ranthia found the cause: a wooden spike that was travelling through the air at speed. She had just enough time to find a rhythm and start her dance. She started to form her knives, but the process needed more time than she had. Instead, she took the blow with her bracer and let [Rhythmic Grace]—and whatever influence [True Grace] had to offer—guide her movements so the attack deflected harmlessly into Remera’s inner wall.

But there was no time for her to obsess about an attack from within her own base. Two more wooden spikes were inbound. Her knives were ready before they arrived. The first had to be erased with [Void Edge]—thank Xaoc, they weren’t too large—but the second she was able to safely evade. Except, a heartbeat later, [Combat Awareness] went off again, and Ranthia was forced to use her bracer again to deflect the two tiny wooden spikes that launched from the one that passed her by!

“Hah! Good ta see ye ain’t gone soft on me over tha years, lassie!” A distantly familiar voice shouted.

As the legionaries in the vicinity began to—finally—react to attacks going off in their midst, a dwarf boldly stepped around a nearby tent. Her greying beard and hair were striped with forest green dye and she was clad in wooden armor. Even her left arm seemed to, bizarrely, be made entirely out of wood.

It had been a long, long time but Ranthia recognized the styling of the beard and the green dye—at least after a few heartbeats of time.

“Rigira!?” Ranthia wore her shock openly.

Rigira. The woman that trained Ranthia’s defenses and combat intuition back in the Ranger Academy. And there she stood, touched by the passage of decades, but whole—mostly whole—and healthy.

Laughing her ass off.

“Oh! Avyna—<Gemheart, put the bow away>—this is Rigira. I’ve mentioned her before; she was one of the ones who helped me train the foundation for my combat style. Rigira, this is Avyna. We’re pledged to one another.” Ranthia didn’t even try to hide her excitement as she introduced the women to one another

Avyna offered a polite smile to accompany her cold, unamused glare. The bow that had been in her hands disappeared, and she stepped forward to link her arm with Ranthia’s again. But the elf made zero effort to rein in the glare that she continually sent the dwarf’s way.

About then the legionaries seemed to collectively decide it wasn’t their problem to deal with, and the immediate vicinity rapidly became quieter as everyone sought someplace else to be that was less likely to become embroiled in conflicts that were far above their paygrade.

“Whelp, I see yer another that just couldn’ resist ta charms of those horned jerks. Still, ye look happy and ye look good!” Rigira approached and offered her non-wooden hand.

Ranthia eagerly grasped it and shook her mentor’s hand—Rigira was a bit too stocky to properly grasp her wrist. Once Ranthia released the limb, Rigira offered it to Avyna. Avyna only offered her a blatantly frosty smile and made no move to take it.

“Look, ahm sorry fer shootin’ at yer partner, but I needed tah make sure she ain’t gone soft!” Rigira seemed to finally sense the mood and connect the dots, so she made her case to Avyna.

Avyna only offered a deluge of frostiness in return.

“…I apologize.” Rigira finally caved to the awkward, lingering silence and bowed while she offered a surprisingly sincere apology.

“Apology accepted. Would you care to join us? I am certain that my beloved would enjoy being able to catch up with you.” Avyna finally offered the dwarf a genuine smile while she made her offer.

Ranthia sighed with relief while Rigira enthusiastically accepted.

Back in their home, Avyna brewed a pot of herbal tea that Ranthia didn’t recognize the scent of. Rigira seemed to greatly enjoy it, but Ranthia just felt like it tasted entirely too… ambiguously plant-y. While they drank, Rigira explained that she had arrived as part of a team of dwarven engineers—representatives from the group that had invented Remera’s grand siege weapon that had proven its value time and time again. Apparently, in light of the threat posed by the ongoing war, the dwarves had agreed to install two more of the gigantic weapons on Remera’s walls.

And Rigira chose to duck out of a meeting after hours of dwarves and a few men arguing in circles about where to place the new weapons—Remera’s lack of a central tower that could have provided omnidirectional coverage continued to be a mistake—and seek out Ranthia.

It was great to see Rigira, and Ranthia was glad that she worked for some sort of group of dwarven inventors, but there was one detail, an offhand mention really, that Ranthia just couldn’t get her head around.

“Dimlit. Dimlit is one of your top people. We cannot be thinking of the same kid.” Ranthia shook her head yet again.

“Ha! E’s an adult now. Gotta still rein ‘im in from time to time, but he has… vision. It’s ta real deal.” Rigira answered with an amused smirk that practically advertised that the woman had mentioned him on purpose.

“…Is he still trying to make those horrendous flying suits?” Ranthia had to know, as much as she didn’t want to know.

“Hah! Oh ancestors, ah nearly pissed meself laughin’ when ah heard it was you that he suckered into testin’ those death traps… twice!” Rigira jiggled and wheezed hard enough that tea sloshed from her cup.

“Yeah, yeah, laugh it up. They would have been amazing if they worked.” Ranthia groused as she watched Rigira give in to cackling.

“Lass ah’ll let ye in on a researcher’s secret. If someone comes up with an idea that can’t be replicated by a single Skill for most classes? It ain’t gonna work.” Rigira explained, at least once she recovered enough to offer a serious response.

