Ranthia chose to resist the urge to point out that there (presumably) were classes that could fly, at least to some extent, off a single Skill. The System enabled so much, and Avyna was living proof that broad functionality could be compressed into a single Skill! Yet she was also disinclined to argue. She wanted to enjoy her reunion with her mentor—the last one she had left. Tatius and Pupius were gone, as was the Guildmaster that had accepted her. Fausteo had almost certainly embraced White Dove after so many years and Hunting was lost on the Night of the Second Sun. Rigira gave her so much, and Ranthia fully intended to take the opportunity to properly thank the woman for her time and effort.

Plus, she had to convince the dwarf to share the story of how she lost her arm—the curiosity was killing her. The wooden limb seemed surprisingly functional, but it was undeniably the injury that had taken her away from a life of combat. And knowing Rigira, it was probably a hell of a story.

Alas, the other possibility was that it was a grisly non-event. Just another terrible moment on the field of battle, easily prevented had any number of factors gone in a better direction. Rigira had been part of a dwarven combat unit ambushed by one of the shimagu tunneling teams. She lost her arm in the initial skirmish and was forced to use her Skills to create a field replacement to help the rest of the survivors get through to safety.

“Decided it ‘ad enough utility tah keep it. ‘Sides, I ain’t one to bug a [Healer] selfishly.” Rigira concluded her terse summary of the tale, before she asked if Ranthia had anything stronger than tea.

After several days of uncertainty, the shimagu army just… left. The 27th Legion left a detachment with Remera when they departed a few days later, just in case it was some sort of bizarre feint. Rigira and her team remained for the bulk of the season while the new weaponry was constructed, tested, and calibrated. And then, angrily grousing that she didn’t want any fanfare or exaggerated farewells, Rigira left.

…Which left Ranthia wondering if another familiar face had left her life, never to be seen again. She had so few connections to the living, at least beyond Remera’s walls. It’d even been years since Tertia last wrote to her—a culmination of escalating prices to send messages into the warzone, a catastrophic loss when a vessel carrying quite a bit of cargo that Tertia’s business had guaranteed sank during a freak storm, and the increasingly blatant lack of privacy as scrolls were opened and redacted by the Legions.

Something had happened, somewhere, that the Legion didn’t want to spread. Ranthia had no idea what it was, when it happened, or even if anything had truly changed—but the fact that some of Tertia’s final scrolls had arrived with sections burned out of them still left Ranthia furious. Not that Night had bothered to respond to her complaints.

Feeling morose, Ranthia sought out the book her [Mind Healer] had gifted her and started to compose a message to the elf. At least messages to and from Coalition City were still cheap—and, as far as she knew, the Legions’ spies remained oblivious to the encoding that those messages used.

Less than five days after Ranthia’s 67th birthday, a new shimagu twin arrived. He didn’t even attempt to hide the fact that he possessed more than three elements; he played his hand immediately when they clashed. He was an orc with a speedster’s build, wielding two strange, curved swords to great effect. But her dexterity helped to bridge the advantage his greater speed granted him.

Some of the troops that had previously served up north recognized the twin; he’d been a thorn in that region for years. But after their first clash—which gave her the first level she’d gotten in [She who Dances with Chaos] in nearly three years—the twin ceased trying to best her in battle. Instead, he came at her without warning in an attempt to catch her off-guard, then consistently retreated after a few probing strikes.

By the time spring ceded to summer, he stopped making appearances around Remera.

With summer settling in and the shimagu less active in the region, Ranthia was thankful for a day to relax and enjoy the company of the woman that she loved. They had cooked breakfast together, then made love and as the day came to an end, Ranthia was basking in the afterglow while they cuddled. She had her face buried in Avyna’s hair and was relishing the delicate scent that she associated with Avyna while she tried to recover.

“<My love…?>” Avyna spoke into comfortable silence, but her quiet voice was strangely… hesitant.

“<Is something wrong? I’m not hurting you or anything?>” Ranthia immediately asked, concerned, even as she eased up on just how tightly she’d been holding her partner.

“<I am fine, my love. But I… I have been thinking.>” Avyna’s tone almost seemed… shy.

It was strange enough that Ranthia gently encouraged the elf to roll over so she could properly face her. Avyna resisted briefly, before she seemed to think better of it and turned in Ranthia’s arms.

“<I’m always thinking about you.>” Ranthia couldn’t have stopped the affectionate smile that spread across her face if she tried, so she let the flirty line loose while she kissed her way across Avyna’s cheek, down toward her chin. She wasn’t sure what Avyna was thinking about, but she knew it sounded serious. And she knew that she truly wasn’t in the mood to be serious, not just yet.

Avyna wiggled delightfully against her and made more than a few little sounds of approval, but after a few minutes of playful affection, she placed a finger on Ranthia’s forehead and gently stopped her. Ranthia pouted, but Avyna assumed her merchant’s mask—as though she was preparing for a harsh negotiation—and spoke before Ranthia could act.

“<My love, I want you to be honest with me. Of the contract that serves as the foundation for our romance, is there any clause that you would change, if you were freely permitted to?>” The words were proffered in an unreadable tone, one that was just as enigmatic as Avyna’s businesslike mien.

And all Ranthia could do was to freeze as the panic set in. Far from the cozy afterglow she had been relishing, Ranthia found herself on fraught ground—and she had no idea why. She knew Avyna well, this was no test—it was something far more serious.

Faced with such uncertainty, she had no idea how to even begin to respond!
