Though Winter was over, snow still clung to the shadowed spaces of the Forest, as cold winds filtered through the evergreen trees all around. The air smelled of spices and cooking, while the sounds of laughter and merriment and the Forest city carried far and wide.

Erick set his party down a bit further outside of the city than most, in one of the lesser-used [Teleport]-cleared areas, the one that Teressa had plotted before they embarked on this journey. As they appeared in an empty grove, Erick appreciated her nod toward keeping a low profile. He also appreciated that the festive atmosphere of the Triumph of Light was active even this far away from Treehome. Lightward sculptures rounded every tree with reds, golds, greens, and whites, casting warm colors into the cool air, to welcome visitors to the ancestral home of the Orcols.

A few guards in maybe-wood armor with maybe-wood weapons stood near the trees ahead, or sat inside a small desk area, to watch as people came in and out of the [Teleport] zone, but right now, they only had eyes for Erick’s group. They saw, and then dismissed the human man who ‘blipped’ everyone in, instead glancing toward Teressa; the only orcol in the group. Teressa stepped forward with a bright smile on her face, ready to lead the way down the stone road ahead. She got three steps to the guards and almost greeted them, before another person blipped into the clearing, directly in the path leading toward the city.

Syllea Wyrmrest, Archmage of Treehome and of the Wyrmrest tribes, stepped onto the ground next to the guards, along with her longtime friend, Bayth, the heavily muscular woman who had come to Spur alongside Syllea not too long ago. The guards glanced at the two women who didn’t blip into the proper center of the [Teleport] zone, ready to issue a citation, but all of them did double-takes as they realized who had stepped into their midst. Erick felt a pang of recognition as he watched the guards give Syllea the same look that the guards back home gave him.

Teressa stopped dead in her tracks, and stepped to the side, letting Erick come forward. Erick didn’t get a chance to come forward, though, before Syllea greeted them before they had been there for even three seconds.

Syllea whipped her hands down and out, exclaiming, “Erick! I heard you killed all the Shades?!” She laughed a little, perhaps nervously, perhaps with true joy, as she said, “What the hell happened!”

The guards turned Erick’s way. Their already large eyes went wider as recognition passed between all of them.

Erick stepped forward, and happily said, “I would love to talk about all of that, and also, maybe, about turning the Crystal Forest back into a real forest, too. But I’m ready for a vacation. I heard Teressa booked a nice hotel?”

Syllea smiled. “One of the best. Let’s get you situated.”

Jane grabbed Erick’s bags off of the ground, as well as her own, telling him with her eyes that he should talk to the archmage. Their party rapidly reorganized, with all of them lined up behind Erick, with only Poi and him free of holding any bags. Erick appreciated that everyone was willing to work together.

He left the bags to them as he walked forward to walk with Syllea, saying, “I didn’t expect you to show up this soon. I’m glad, though.”

“Of course I came this fast! It is only proper, after all.”

Erick stepped forward, down a wide, stone path that carved through the greenery ahead, with Syllea at his side, Bayth leading the way, and everyone else following. Everything around them was decked out with light and color, and the trees themselves were massive things, with at least ten meters of space between the forest floor and the start of the canopy. Erick felt small, and not only because Syllea was nearly three meters tall, and Bayth was just a bit taller, but because he could tell that this forest had eyes, watching him from the manasphere with great interest.

Erick had gotten into the habit, long ago, of automatically popping all of the [Scry] eyes that tried to view him. But the eyes in this Forest were only partially the [Scry] kind. The more concerning ones were the knots of magic inside the trees that looked like eyes. The very Forest itself was watching them.

Which was fine and all, Erick supposed. This was the territory of the Arbors.

And then something happened which Erick had to stop. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye, which had been keeping up with Erick all the way here, popped. Erick had seen who had done it; Syllea.

Syllea didn’t even know what she had done, for popping [Scry] eyes was likely rather automatic for her, too, so she spoke as though nothing had happened, continuing to say, “It’s not every year that there’s a true Fire of the Age, and then that Fire goes and burns away the main order of Melemizargo’s Clergy.”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye came back. Syllea popped it again, instantly.

Erick was ready to talk to Syllea about Shadow’s feast, but first, there was a problem he had to fix. He said, “Ah. Don’t pop that one, please.”

Syllea raised an eyebrow. “Ah? What?”

He pointed to the air. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye appeared where he pointed. “That one. That’s my own tree [Familiar].”

Syllea looked to the [Scry] eye, then asked Erick, “You have a tree [Familiar], too?” She frowned, but then wiped that expression away.

Erick said, “Yup. For about four days, now. He’s growing rather well.”

“Four days, and already exploring the world with [Scry]?” She said to Erick, “That’s rather fast, you know. Tree [Familiar]s aren’t like other [Familiar]s. They grow really fast. Four days to [Scry]ing means four months to maturity.”

“I know the dangers.” Erick said, “I think he’ll be good, though. And he was [Scry]ing on day 2.”

Syllea inhaled; a small gasp. “… Very well.”

“It’s a special circumstance, though.” Erick said, “I have time to help him learn how to deal with people.” He smiled, as he spoke to the [Scry] eye, “You’re stuck with me for a while, big guy.”

Faint waves of emotional acceptance and a small, childish joy, seemed to come through his connection with Yggdrasil. Erick smiled again.

Syllea looked perplexed, but she got over it, maybe. She spoke to the [Scry] eye, saying, “Apologies for popping your [Scry] eye…?” She glanced to Erick.

Erick supplied, “Yggdrasil.”

Syllea nodded, then said to the [Scry] eye, “Apologies, Yggdrasil. I hope you enjoy the sights of Treehome. If you wish to learn how to be a proper Arbor, then you might communicate with any of the Arbors of this place. They might like to talk to you, too. They are rather chatty, once you get to know them.”

“Are they now?” Erick said, “I heard they were rather silent.”

“To most people they are as silent as the Forest. But for you, who is apparently raising a tree [Familiar]? They would be very chatty with you.” Syllea said, “Honestly… I would have thought someone would have told me that you had a tree [Familiar], and I could have avoided this social blunder.” She added, “I want to spend a night talking to you, so if you have room in your schedule, please try to fit me in.”

Erick almost spoke openly about Teressa, and being here for her as his primary reason for coming to Treehome, but he shut that down. He could be in Treehome for several reasons, actually. He said, “There’s a few events I’ve come to participate in, but nothing too strenuous. Physically, anyway. I’m hoping for something of a proper vacation.”

“If anyone deserves it, it’s you.”

The trees all around them were slightly larger now than they had been before, with wider spaces between each rising trunk. In the distance, squat wooden buildings appeared between the trees; the start of civilization. The scents of a busy market, with food stalls and spices, wafted on the cold air.

Syllea said, “I am glad to have been able to greet you as you arrive, but I am rather busy at the moment. Everyone likes staying at the Holy O’kabil, or at least all my guests always say they love it. But before I head off: Would you accept an invitation to dinner, tonight?”

“I will gladly accept an invitation. Where?”

Syllea smiled, showing her lower fangs. “I have a standing reservation at Overloot, but I hardly ever go. Will you join me there tonight, at 7?” She glanced backward, adding, “Everyone else can come too, of course.”

“Sounds great to me.” Erick said, “We’ll be there.”

“Excellent!” At the edge of the road, just before the buildings started, Syllea stopped. She looked down at Erick with a smile, but only because she was much taller than him. “We will see you there!” She glanced to Bayth, then seeing her friend nod, she turned back toward Erick. “See you later.”

The two orcol women vanished in a blip of thick air; there and gone.

Erick breathed in the cold, Forest air, or rather, the cold, Treehome air. It was more damp than he was used to, having been in Spur for a lot of the past year, but the cool, crisp air reminded him of being back on Earth during the Spring thaw… you know, aside from all the really tall green people in the market and streets ahead. It was a small market, though, which was rather normal for being this far from the center sprawl of the city.

Treehome was a gathering place of tribes and Arbors, with solid city centers with tall buildings and much of that metropolis look, but out here, at the edge, was where the transient orcol tribes gathered like hangers-on, setting up temporary markets and temporary homes on cleared ground. They were still under the watchful eyes of the Arbors of the city all the way out here, but this was neutral territory where anyone could stay, for a time.

Erick had heard a little about how the Wyrmrest Tribes operated, but he was sure he had not heard the full story, so as they walked forward, Erick asked Teressa, “How does everything work, here?”

Teressa seemed to have a perpetual smile on her face, but at that moment, it grew larger. She walked next to Erick, and nodded toward the streets ahead, saying, “About 75% of Wyrmrest Tribes are migratory.”

They walked down wide, stone streets, under tall canopies, toward a land of solid buildings just out of sight, while the campgrounds all around them gained more and more people as they strode deeper into Treehome. Kids, the size of full-grown adults of any other race, played with swords and spears in mock battles, while older parents or tribe members oversaw those fights. Mothers and fathers cooked lunch, aunts and uncles set up temporary wooden buildings, while grannies and grandpas sold goods on carpets near the street. Every campground held one tribe, though in some cases a specific tribe sprawled across two campgrounds. Children laughed. Babies cried. Some woman yelled at some man. A lot of people worked on the lights around their campgrounds, placing red, or white, or gold, or green lights here and there, in decorative arrangements, adding to the ones already strung up in the public spaces. Some people eyed Erick and his people, but Erick waved, and they waved back, friendly. It wasn’t often that people actually waved back at strangers! This was nice. Erick suddenly felt a lot better about everything.

Teressa continued, “Any recognized tribe can come and claim an outer territory, but they’re all heavily encouraged not to stay for more than three months.”

“Do you have to pay to stay? What about water and stuff?”

“The Arbors of Treehome provide water to every campground in the form of a small watertree that grows whenever a tribe moves in.” She scoffed, “There’s no fees.” Teressa playfully chided, “Twenty years ago, I would have wondered why anyone would think there would be fees to stay at Treehome— Anyway: the goal of most tribes is to use their temporary time at Treehome to meet up with other tribes for trading or hunting or any number of things. A lot of marriage arrangements come out of chance meetings in these campgrounds. A lot of new friends are made, too.

“Celebration Hunts is a big thing, where people post Hunts at the various gathering spots in these campgrounds, or inside the cities themselves. We’ll see a lot of those during Triumph. A few of the more magically inclined, but not yet established tribes, have the goal of adding another Arbor to Treehome, to expand the home of our people, and to become one of the 25% who don’t move with the seasons. It’s those people who control the permanent structures of Treehome.”

“That’s a big discrepancy.”

Teressa mocked a frown at Erick, then said, “It’s really not some high-versus-low class thing that you’re thinking of. Every non-orcol always thinks that. Everyone is wrong.”

Kiri spoke up, “Treehome is considered one of the best places to live in the world. Just can’t live here if you don’t belong to one of the Arbor tribes.”

“And that is correct!” Teressa said with a laugh. “Oh, green gods, I haven’t been here in… In way too long.” In the Triumph lights all around, Teressa’s blond hair shimmered, as her emerald eyes glittered. She smiled all over again, saying, “And we get to stay at The Holy O’kabil! That’s Arbor O’kabil!”

Erick blinked. “We get to stay with an Arbor?”

“Yup!” Teressa lifted her arm, pointing forward. “You can almost see her through the outer trees, now.”

The canopy ahead was dense, but not complete. Beyond some of the holes in the greenery, there was even more greenery, but it was only after a few more steps that Erick could tell that that extra layer of green was much, much higher than the canopy all around. With a pressure of intent to the Ophiel on his shoulder, Erick had eyes in the sky.

“Oh.” Erick said, “She’s a big girl, isn’t she.”

