"Your generosity truly knows no bounds," Tiberius said with relief as he straightened his back. The defensive formation was one of the most expensive things the Pavilion was equipped with, and by the look of things outside, it was about to blow itself up trying to resist a Monarch Realm's entrance. Thankfully, the silver crackling abruptly stopped, and the fog began to fade. "It looks like the formation was powered down in time," he said, his gaze continuing to linger beyond the window with curiosity. He had never laid eyes on a Monarch Realm monster before and was curious what Stella's supposed sister looked like.

The fog was pushed aside by a gale, and he soon laid eyes on an ethereal white-furred deer trotting through the air.

"Are you able to open the window to let her in?" Stella asked.

"I can." Tiberius walked over and undid some latches. Swinging the large window open, he was surprised by the size of the deer as she got closer. Around three to four times the size of a regular deer that he would find in the forest, the majestic creature came to a pause before the window, unable to fit through.

The gale around the deer collapsed inwards into an intense ball of storm Qi, which disappeared a moment later, revealing that the deer had morphed into the appearance of a woman. Her antlers still curved from her brow like an empress's crown, and long, snow-white hair flowed around pointed ears tucked flat against her head. Her fur had transformed into a long, thick coat covering everything except her calves and feet. As she stepped through the window, silver sparks crackled across her skin as the office's far weaker personal defensive array briefly tried and failed to stop her. The moment she passed the threshold of the window, the room was flooded with her aura.

Unlike what he had expected, it was like a pleasant breeze that carried an ancient feeling with it.

Tiberius met the woman's gaze and wasn't instantly captivated by her perfectly crafted beauty, but rather by her eyes. They were calm and unbothered, as if nothing in this world could faze her, but more importantly, they were a deep, vibrant pink—the same as Stella's.

"I see," was all he muttered as they broke eye contact. They really were siblings.

The woman paid him no more interest and instead scanned the room until her gaze landed on Stella. "Sister, I heard you called?"

"Zeph!" Stella said, rising from her seat. Despite being slightly taller, it was unmistakable that the deer woman carried far more command over the room's attention. "Sorry to call you here so suddenly, but I was hoping you would take Jasmine and me far west, to the Frozen Star Sect, to visit Janus."

"Janus... I haven't seen that brother of mine in a long time," Zephyrine said, seemingly somewhat amused by the idea. "I've also not visited the grave of Ilyzathar in centuries."

"Ilyzathar?" Stella asked, and Tiberius was also curious.

"Yeah, the ice dragon that lay to rest there."

Stella tilted her head. "How do you two know each other?"

"It's a long story, but..." the deer woman paused, "I was the one to kill Ilyzathar, and I also know where her child is hiding."
