“Harder than Vivian said,” she admitted, biting her lip against the pride in her heart and angrily blinking away the bitter tears of defeat. But even if he was her rival, and even if it meant losing to him, she could not simply let him take his team in there without a proper warning.

“We nearly died.”

Ali let her point of view drop from her Kobold warrior raid boss and rubbed the back of her neck.

“How did it go?” Calen asked.

“Both groups failed badly, but nobody died, thankfully.” That had been her biggest worry – she hadn’t been even the slightest bit concerned that she might be reducing their experience by supervising the fight and intending to save them if it went wrong.

“That hard?”

“Yes.” It seemed she had a lot to learn about boss design and group strategy. With Calen’s help, she had made her first boss, and whether she considered it luck or the opposite, she had created something extraordinarily effective – at least for its level.

“I see.”

“The boss taunted Braden off the rogue, and it ran wild, almost killing their healer and mage. Aiden’s group simply couldn’t keep up with the healing and had to run.”

“Yes, that group has a weakness in healing – their only healer is Havok, who is also their tank. I wanted to talk with Aiden about that.”

“I forgot to mention I put the Brine Oozes in the sewer channel – both groups were surprised in the middle of the fight. None of them figured out how to handle the mage. It seems that the increased damage from the domain enhancement is something they aren’t equipped to handle.” Ali sighed. Her first boss was a dismal failure – at least for the purpose of helping the guild grow. It’s too strong.

“Give them time,” Calen answered. “Remember our first try at the Skeletal Wyvern?”

“Don’t remind me,” she answered. It had been an epic rout – worse even than the two she had just witnessed from the novices. Without escape potions, she would have died there.

Vivian sat on the couch in the guild hall, calmly surveying the devastation and defeat that filled the room. Some of them were shouting, some were crying, and some others stared blankly at the walls as if considering their own mortality for the very first time.

“But she’s a guild member! Why would she make an impossible boss for us? Is she trying to get us killed?” Nicholas yelled. He was bickering with Aiden, and although Aiden was defending Aliandra, he lacked his usual energy and poise, seeming to be deflated.

It’s time to put on the pressure. Vivian had been waiting for this moment for a while now, unsatisfied with the commitment to excellence that was required to be a successful adventurer from many of the guild members. When Aliandra had come in a panic to warn her about the new raid boss, she had realized that it would be the catalyst that brought things to a head. She was just glad nobody had died in the lesson, although by the snippets of their accounts, it had been a close call for many.

“Perhaps you’re just not good enough,” Vivian declared, cutting through the angry voices, and leaving a wake of shocked silence across the entire guild hall. She could guess who would stay and who would give up, but there were a couple that teetered on the edge. How they chose would change the course of the guild for the next couple of months for certain. I can’t compromise. I know where that path leads. After all, without consistent quality, a single weak member could take out a team of even the most experienced adventurers in the blink of an eye. She had seen it before. She had lived it. Going easy on them now would be the same as killing them herself.

“What the fuck?” Nicholas said, turning on her. “That boss is impossible!”

“If you had followed the instructions, listened to your teammates, and paid attention, you might have won,” Vivian answered, keeping her voice calm – aloof.

“Fuck you. You can take your provisional membership and shove it up your ass, I’m done with you morons,” he yelled, and stormed out of the guild, throwing his ring at Mieriel on the way out.

“Anyone else?” Vivian asked, her voice sounding loud in the shocked silence.

“I’m sorry, it’s too much for me. I… I don’t want to be Fireballed again. I nearly died,” Blair said, getting up and walking out. She at least handed in her ring politely before she left.

She was followed shortly after by both provisional members of Aiden’s team.

So much for recruitment, Vivian thought, pressing her lips together. Every single provisional member had now abandoned the guild and she was back to square one, if not worse, depending on what followed.

“What about you?” Vivian asked, turning to hold Willow’s teary-eyed gaze. “You done too?” Willow was one of the two that she was most worried about. The girl had great instincts, but something had happened down there that caused her to be an emotional wreck, and Vivian was not quite sure what it was.

“I’m not leaving my friends in the lurch. If you think I’m too weak, you will have to kick me out yourself,” Willow sniffed, but her tear-stained face was nonetheless reddening with anger.

So, the bickering got personal, Vivian thought. She was already familiar with Willow’s class and her inability to find a good beast companion to unlock the full power of her abilities. Willow was doing the right thing by waiting to find something strong, a good fit, but someone must have called her out on it, and it had struck a nerve. The pressure of being the weakest link. Unfortunately, she needed to be sure.

“If you’re too weak, you will bring your friends down with you. What can you bring to the team?” Vivian asked, never letting her voice deviate from her calm rational delivery, not able to give even an ounce of softness to acknowledge the tears and frustration.

“I… I know I don’t have my beast yet, but… I can see the poison traps. I learned I can kite the Fire Mage… But what’s the point? We don’t have enough people anymore…” she sniffed and wiped her eyes. “Are you going to throw me out?”

Huh, interesting… that’s a pass, Vivian thought, a little surprised. She had expected Willow to cave and walk out, but there seemed to be some resilience to the girl, the way she bent under pressure but didn’t snap in a way that seemed reminiscent of her name.

“No, I won’t kick you out,” Vivian said. “And it seems we have the perfect number of people.”

There were a few surprised noises throughout the room before she continued.

“Now that they’ve left, we’ll reform you all into a single group,” she said. This was where her last challenge lay. If Teagan could accept it, they would continue, but without her, the group would fail. They simply didn’t have enough healing otherwise.

“You will form a raid group of ten, under the leadership of Aiden,” she announced, keeping an eye on Teagan as she absorbed the news.

“May I ask why him and not me?” she said, her voice struggling with emotional strain.

“Yes, he is better suited to the leadership role for this fight. You were too hasty, driven by your competitiveness, and you took on the fight without proper preparation.”

“I’m sorry,” she said. “I shouldn’t have taken the risk with their lives. I understand and I hope I can still be a member even if you don’t want me to lead.”

“Don’t get the wrong idea, Teagan. You have good skills and the potential to be a great group leader. Today was a lesson, not a demotion, you’re still the leader of your team. For this fight – just this raid – Aiden is the better choice. If you continue to learn and keep improving, it will be you who is the better choice for some fights.”

“Ok,” Teagan said, her eyes downcast and her arms wrapped tightly around her chest.

“Now tell me what you learned from that fight, and we’ll formulate a proper strategy.” Vivian already knew what the boss configuration was from her meeting with Aliandra, but the process was as important as the fight itself, and they all needed to experience it for themselves.

“The warrior and the rogue hit a lot harder than the trash Kobolds in the sewers,” Teagan muttered, still seeming somewhat deflated by her decision, but perhaps encouraged by the feedback. “More than twice as hard. It took all my healing just to keep Braden alive.”

“The warrior has a Taunt, I lost the rogue,” Braden said.

“Seriously?” Aiden gasped.

“I can map the poison traps,” Willow added, still looking upset, but making an effort to contribute positively.

“There are Ooze adds in the water,” Seth said. “Two of them. I think they’re linked to the boss.”

“The rogue is very good at slipping into the shadows if you are even slightly distracted,” Kaitlyn added. “Probably need someone with high perception to mark him at all times.”

So, some of them have actually been paying attention, Vivian thought, listening to the list of abilities and observations each of them had made while the fight had been collapsing around them. With that, the entire group shifted their focus to what they had learned, sharing observations and beginning to formulate a plan. Vivian sat back and listened, only offering input and guidance when they seemed about to make a serious mistake.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
