“Oh! I'm sorry, Lisa.” Stella said and walked over to her and put a hand on her shoulder. “You know what I'm like when I get locked onto an interesting medical question.”

Lisa looked at Elise. “I know the answer to Stella's question; but, I don't want to say anything because I might get a warning.”

“What question?”

“Can I choose succubus as a race if I make a character?” Stella asked.

Elise blinked her eyes for several moments. “You want to what?”

“Be a succubus... or part succubus... or even a class that could give me that as a natural form.” Stella said. “I'm just curious about it.”

Elise looked at Lisa and back at Stella. “Well, since they aren't intended for combat, there's not really a class you can choose that will let you have succubus as a race.”

“I hear a huge 'but' there.” Stella smiled.

Elise sighed. “You can... claim a succubi lineage during character creation.”

“So, not a direct family member, but several generations back.” Stella said, and Elise nodded.

“It's considered a huge drawback, though. You'll be... well...”

“What?”

“Highly desirable.” Elise said. “You'll be under constant male advances.”

“You're kidding.” Stella said.

“I wish I was.” Elise said. “It's like...”

“...a Princess Charming title.” Lisa said. “Just like with Ren and his Prince Charming title, you won't have any say over who's affected or how much they are affected by it.”

“That's... I mean...”

“Since you're already pretty hot, nearly every man that sees you is going to want to be near you.” Lisa said, and her face turned red. “Most women, too.”

“Wow.” Stella said.

“So, don't do this lightly.” Elise said.

“What about the wings and tail?” Stella asked.

“It will take about 50 levels for you to unlock your full form.” Lisa said. “You have a limited polymorph disguise ability that gets more powerful as you pass each level.”

“It doesn't matter what class I take?”

“Your combat skills will be lower than everyone else's, so no. If you take the classes with low combat skill, however; you will essentially have none until you start leveling up.” Elise said.

“Okay.” Stella said and gave Lisa's shoulder a squeeze. “Thank you for the information. Both of you.”

“I'd say, 'anytime', but that would be a complete lie.” Lisa said, and Stella laughed.

“We're going to climb into bed and cuddle.” Elise said. “What about you?”

“I...”

“You said you were thinking about staying anyway.” Lisa said.

“I definitely need a shower.” Stella stood up.

Elise went to the closet and grabbed another t-shirt, then tossed it to her. “We'll watch him until Barbara comes in.”

Stella nodded and went to the bathroom to get a shower. Elise climbed onto the bed next to Ren and Lisa climbed onto the bed and laid down beside Elise.

“Ren really liked the makeup job you did on me.” Lisa said, and Elise touched the side of her clean face.

“What did he notice first?”

“That the mascara didn't run when I cried.” Lisa said, and Elise laughed.

“That figures! All that work and he only noticed the obvious!” Elise said, and Lisa laughed.

“I'm sure he noticed it all, he just...”

“I saw the hallway footage when you came out of the elevator.” Elise said and stroked her face again. “He definitely noticed you.”

Lisa's face turned deep red. “He... he said I was beautiful.”

“That's because you are.” Elise said, and Lisa looked at her with wide eyes. “Ren doesn't lie, remember?”

Lisa caught her breath at the intense look Elise gave her. Elise put an arm around her and pulled her in close, then kissed the top of her head.

“He loves you very much.” Elise said and hugged her.

“He loves you very much, too.” Lisa said and hugged her back. They both fell silent and held each other as they waited for Stella and Denise to finish their showers and for Barbara to start her shift.
