He smiled and nodded. “Yeah, Enar told me. Shall we go get that part over with? I think so long as we stay within the tree, we won’t be limited by its placement.”

She almost hitched. She hadn’t even considered that.

-We did.-

Thank you.

-Of course.-

They had been granted a large wall, near a wide thoroughfare in a middle tier of Makinaven. Specifically, it would be near one of the upper, primary markets for the citizens of this city.

It took them less than an hour to meander their way to the spot, during which Alat coordinated with Lyn and the others inside Ironhold so that they’d be ready for the opening of the gates.

Tala’s adjunct was the first out when Tala opened the portal between Irondale’s city center and the outskirts of one of Makinaven’s markets.

Lyn strode forth, taking in a deep breath and stretching. “Ahh, smell that tree-filled air. It’s like being in a carpenter's shop and a garden in one.” She scratched Terry’s head, eliciting a contented squawk. “Good to see you, Terry.”

Tala grinned and gave her friend a big hug, but once she had her in the embrace, she gave a little extra squeeze. “A thousand more citizens, Lyn? Really?”

The woman squirmed slightly, but when she couldn’t easily pull free, she chuckled. “Well, we have the infrastructure for it. We also have a few leaving, but overall, we are growing quite a bit. The applications for citizenship are at an all-time high, and there were at least that many who merited a spot.”

Tala let her go, pulling back with a sigh.

Rane and Lyn exchanged a quick hug too before the woman turned back to Tala. “Do you want me to pare it down?”

Tala sighed again. “No, no. If you think they will be net gains for Ironhold, then I suppose it’s good to have them. Plus, they’re already here. It would be rather cruel to turn them away after they came here at our say-so to meet us.”

Lyn nodded decisively. “That is considerate of you, and yes, they will be a boon, without question.” A twinkle entered her eyes, then. “And if they aren’t, we’ll kick them back out.”

Rane and Tala chuckled at that. She glanced at him, and he shrugged. “It’s a bit harsh, but it makes sense. We do want to help, but we aren’t going to carry around dead weight.”

She nodded, a smile growing. “Harsh, but true.”

Lyn cleared her throat. “I think you lovebirds have had enough time alone. Now, it’s Lyn time.”

They both turned to regard her, one eyebrow lifting on each face.

Terry trilled, clearly excited for ‘Lyn time.’

Lyn regarded the couple in turn. “What?”

Tala huffed a laugh. “Lyn time? Really?”

“Yes. It’s time for you two to spend the rest of the day showing me this city.”

“Don’t you have paperwork to do?” There were already wagons flowing out of Ironhold, and some people making their way inside as well.

Lyn shook her head. “Nope. I’ve delegated. I want to see a tree city.”

That brought another laugh, and the four turned to go do just that. “Very well.”
