A cage with a cloth barrier was being carried up towards them by [Soldiers], grunting at the weight. The Raskghar began to squirm, but Jelaqua just tightened her grip. And here was another face who looked woken from her sleep.
“Shirka.”
“Ivirith, that’s the third time I owe you tonight. Though it wasn’t 2nd Army that lost the Raskghar. Blame the facility. I told them they were too smart.”
General Shirka appeared as annoyed as Jelaqua felt. She crossed her arms as Agent Zemize strode over to her.
“General, we have this well in hand. You are giving away—”
“They’ve seen the Raskghar. What are you going to do, wipe their memories? One’s a Gold-rank adventurer and the other’s our Watch Captain. You can’t do it, and I’d want answers.”
Wipe our memories? Qissa stared at Shirka as the 2nd Army’s [General] inspected the Raskghar.
“This is the one that ate the Gnolls’ hearts. Jelaqua, can you get her up and in the cage? The lads and I can do it if you need help.”
“I’m fine. C’mon, you, up. If you want to be smart and try something, I’ve got a lot of rage against Nokha I can vent right now.”
The Raskghar didn’t fight. Instead, she whimpered.
“No, no hurt! I killed no one. Be nice, be gentle! No punishment!”
She went meekly back into the cage, and none of the women watching her believed the act for a second. Shirka exhaled.
“Okay. Agent, clean up this mess. Jelaqua, do you want to walk and talk?”
The Selphid stared blearily around the night street. The air was shimmering around her and Maughin’s house—probably spells to hide what was going on, but there were Watch officers and Eyes of Pallass everywhere. She glared at Shirka.
“What’s there to talk about? You’ve got secret Raskghar you’re training to use in combat?”
Shirka nodded. Zemize strode back over.
“The exact use of the Raskghar has not been determined, and the use of auxiliary forces in Walled City operations is completely legal under—”
“Shut up, we’re talking.”
Jelaqua glared at her. Then she turned back to Shirka.
“This would be a terrible special unit for 2nd Army.”
“On that, we agree. All of the idiots working on them keep talking about training them to military standards. What standards? If they marched and carried spears in formation, I’d trust them less. I’d rather have rabid warhounds.”
“Hmpf. Well, you’re smart. I’m going to sleep.”
Jelaqua stomped back towards her house. Zemize faltered.
“Don’t you want to know…?”
“I know everything! Tell your High Command they’re dumb as rocks! Chaldion would have known better!”
Jelaqua slammed the door. After a moment, General Shirka leaned over to Zemize.
“Chaldion wanted the Raskghar to begin with. But this isn’t their use case, Agent. Not my army. And frankly, a Raskghar that can break out of an underground facility and make it to the 8th Floor with the Watch and your Eyes of Pallass on alert?”
She eyed the Raskghar in the cage.
“I don’t think I want to know what the Grand Strategist was planning on using them for.”
So saying, the [General] whirled on her heel and marched off. Qissa eyed Zemize and strode off before she could be given orders. The Eye of Pallass stood there until she heard a strange sound from the cage.
The Raskghar giggled like a hyena. The Eye of Pallass scowled at it.
“Shut up.”
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith’s day did not get much better from there—at least, not at first. She was bleary and tired in the morning and thinking about special units in war.
Very common, actually. Chandrarian War Elephants, hyenas, monsters unleashed in battle like Hydras—you could even argue Griffins and Wyverns were just that.
They were very effective if used right; an expensive idiocy if not, and doubtless Pallass was checking to see if this was a worthwhile initiative. It was the kind of thing a nation did, Jelaqua knew.
She just…felt like it was Baleros all over. Baleros had tons of this kind of thing. Lizardfolk Death Battallions, War Hydras, War Walkers…and Selphids, her people, often got formed into such groups.
Niers Astoragon himself used Selphids not as expendable bands, but as the vanguards of his army. Which made them…better? They still died. She didn’t feel bad for the Raskghar; they were monsters who ate Gnolls and wanted to eat Mrsha.
But she didn’t like cages. Not when what was inside them could talk, and even without speech, she had never really liked menageries.
Not. Her. Problem.
She snapped her toothbrush, and that sort of began her day. Maughin was all cheer.
“I have to get to Master Pelt’s to work on those forge plans! He admitted, you know, that it’s a task and a half! And he wants to use my forge when it’s done!”
“That’s nice, dear. Charge him for it.”
“Charge him? I could never—!”
She sighed. Maughin still held that old Dwarf in too much esteem. Jelaqua rose.
“I’m going to the inn. I’ll be back tonight. We might have to fend for ourselves, okay?”
He assured her he’d find dinner, and she strode out and nearly ran into his younger sister.
Street Runner Linteca had a message for Jelaqua and a question.
“What happened here last night, Miss Jelaqua? Your neighbors say there was a commotion. Nothing wrong with my brother, I trust?”
“Classified.”
Jelaqua snapped back and was glad to see Linteca’s face grow slack. She snatched the missive from the young woman. Then brightened.
“Oh. A new body’s available.”
Linteca grimaced and wiped her hands as Jelaqua grew distracted with a Selphid’s business. Maughin came out of his home and blinked.
“Linteca? Ah, good morning. How is Mother…?”
Jelaqua let them natter on as she changed course. Her body broker had a new corpse to sell, and he’d offered the first choice to Jelaqua, as the richest Selphid in the city. You didn’t turn down a fresh corpse. She’d been hoping to spice things up in the bedroom with Maughin, and there was nothing like a new body for that.
 
——
 
There were about, oh, two hundred Selphids in Pallass by Jelaqua’s estimation. Which sounded like a lot until you realized how many millions of people were in Pallass; they were a drop in a bucket.
Even so, these Selphids all needed dead bodies, and while many people died in a city like Pallass each week, very few of them, or their families, wanted to sell their bodies in most cases.
Thus, a ‘body broker’, whose job it was to delicately negotiate for the deceased’s corpses, tended to appear in most cities. They handled the, uh, difficult explanations and took a fee to get the body to their clients, who were Selphids.
Obviously they tried to find fresh bodies in good condition, especially high-level ones or ones with good features, both literal and internal.
You could get a lot of bastards in that line of work. Jelaqua’s contact in Pallass seemed on the level, but he had that kind of lack-of-care when it came to the dead that came from too much time with them. She knew it well and tried to fight against it.
“Ciorg. Who’s passed?”
The Human man—he was a Selphid too—was rubbing his hands together as she came into the mortuary where he stored bodies. He had a gel on them she recognized; it was one of the Selphid preservatives that kept a body fresh when in use or storage.
“Got a real fresh one for you, Jelaqua. Right off the slab. Lucky find too; they weren’t five minutes in their apartment before someone glimpsed through the window. Natural causes, not, y’know, self-inflicted.”
“Show some respect, would you?”
Jelaqua glowered at him, and Ciorg put up his hands.
“Sorry, sorry. Just excited. I’ve got [Reverse Decay: Fifteen Minutes], so this is the freshest body I’ve had all year. Now, there’s a few downsides, but those nerve endings are going to be pristine.”
She rubbed at her face. This was where Jelaqua understood the existential horror that came to other species when they realized what Selphids did. She grumbled.
“Sorry, it’s been a bad night. Monster in my house.”
“Ouch. Well, you can make up for it with a new vessel. I did a quick check—didn’t touch anything, of course. Every nerve ending is intact. And they’re female, just like you like. Now, this isn’t a combat body, and, uh, looks aren’t everything, okay?”
It probably meant there was a visible wound or something. Jelaqua walked over to the sheet covering the body.
“If they’re badly wounded, I’ll need an illusion or it’ll freak Maughin out. Just wh—”
When she pulled the cloth back, Jelaqua recoiled. She froze up, and Ciorg raised his hands.
“Now, Jelaqua, it’s not the plague, just a condition they get. You ever heard of a—Scorchling? ‘Course you have. It’s fine now that they’re dead, but—”
It wasn’t Anama. But for one moment, the girl’s face had superimposed itself over the Drake woman lying there. Jelaqua began breathing again, and she saw that the scales that had fallen off the Drake’s body were only on her left side.
Scorch marks, tiny ones, and terrible burns on her flesh. Must be lightning-element. She seemed to be in her forties. Jelaqua whispered.
“How’d she die?”
“Heart stopped. Pretty common with them, I’m told. Amazing she made it this long. Like I said, looks aren’t everything, but the condition—”
Jelaqua stopped listening. She just bent over the dead Drake woman and gazed down at her face. Ciorg was no [Mortician]; he didn’t prepare the dead for burial and adjust their features to be peaceful. A desperate scowl was crossing this Drake’s face, and it looked like she had been struggling. Fighting to stay alive.
The Selphid’s head bowed.
“I’m sorry. Damn it. I’m so sorry.”
She looked up, but—of course—
Ciorg didn’t even know her name.
 
——
 
Kevin Hall was having a terrible day. Just the worst. He couldn’t fathom how it got worse than this.
First, he hadn’t been able to sleep after healing up from last night’s, well, last night and that morning’s fight-for-his-life. Because of the itching.
All the skin he’d healed with that potion from the burns had itched like thunder because, and he’d never known this, the dead skin had gotten trapped with the fresh stuff! It happened with burns, and he’d tried in vain to undo the terrible itch until he’d gone to get help. A very bleary Octavia had had to walk him through a secondary healing where his body ejected the dead skin cells.
That was gross and cost him most of his sleep, even with Erin’s [Twofold Rest]. Then Lyonette had begun badgering him about where he’d been and why he and Rhaldon were sneaking around, nearly catching on to his plans. Even if Mrsha didn’t snitch, she was too perceptive.
And then—he’d stubbed his toe when he was walking down to breakfast. So hard it cracked until there was blood.
Oh, and over breakfast he’d gotten a letter from Dwarfhalls Rest saying they weren’t interested in custom metalwork jobs. Kevin had asked why and gotten a two-word reply from their Forgemaster.
‘Ball bearings.’
Fuck, he’d forgotten that Pelt had had him unload the worst jobs on the Dwarves! They probably thought it was another way to give them shit work! And he couldn’t just entrust this job to any [Smith]; no one could forge on the level of Pelt or Maughin!
Kevin was trying to rationalize using a drop, just a drop, of healing potion on his toe. He knew they had lots. Rhaldon appeared just as weary as he slumped into the inn. Though he seemed to have been genuinely productive. He was a smart guy; Kevin blinked as he produced three bottles, each with a different substance inside.
“I have three different prototype fuels, Kevin. If you can sort the engineering side, even if it’s just your shop—”
Kevin slapped a hand over Rhaldon’s mouth and hissed.
“Dude, I told you, quiet!”
This was his project. Well, Rhaldon’s, but Kevin had had the same idea. He didn’t need to make this a thing in the inn; he motioned Rhaldon aside as Lyonette emerged, wincing, and seated herself at the table. Her daughters helped her sit, and Rhaldon stared at Lyonette.
“What’s wrong with her?”
“Cracked soul. C’mon, I’ll tell you later.”
“Cracked what?”
 
——
 
Rhaldon was shaking his head as they walked through the rains outside of the inn. It was, ironically, pretty safe as places went. Only the Antinium working on the new inn and Rheirgest’s [Necromancers] were around. Since no one knew where the inn was…no one came here.
Kevin had borrowed Erin’s sun umbrella, and it was awesome to stand under the sun as rain poured over the umbrella’s top. Lyonette had told him she’d gut him like a fish if he damaged or lost it, but a magical item had to be used, right?
Rhaldon broke the silence with his idea he’d come up with along with the fuel samples.
“Wooden prototypes.”
Kevin glanced at him, and Rhaldon elaborated.
“I understand this should be private and we’re having troubles with the [Smiths]. If Solar Cycles’ [Mechanics] can’t do what we need, then we make it out of wood. I’ve seen working wooden engines. Can’t we use Riverfarm’s [Carvers] and [Carpenters]?”
It wasn’t a bad idea, and Kevin mulled it over a few steps before shaking his head.
“No. Two reasons. One, none of my Skills work on wood. Second, it’s Riverfarm.”
“What’s wrong with Riverfarm? I was told that ‘Emperor Laken’ was one of us. I haven’t met him. Is, ah—is he as pretentious as the name indicates?”
“No…well, he’s certainly got an ego. I haven’t hung out with him much either. I just don’t trust him like I trust Erin and her people. This has to stay in-house, Rhaldon. It’s not going to be something the Unseen Empire can use, or Pallass.”
“That makes it so much harder, Kevin. Don’t we have to partner with some power eventually?”
Rhaldon’s comment made Kevin smile. He turned and pointed back at Liscor, barely visible in the rains.
“That’s the thing, Rhaldon. Erin had to do that. She worked with Ullsinoi, and Liscor and Pallass pushed her around, and she hated it, but she did it. Yeah, we could trust Laken. But you know, Ryoka trusted him with trebuchet designs. A few months later, Tyrion Veltras showed up at Liscor with a bunch of trebuchets from Laken’s place and nearly sieged the city.”
“Oh. Shit. Sorry, I didn’t know about that. Did he take the city?”
The [Chemist] turned pale; he didn’t know that lore. Kevin gave him an easy smile.
“No, they didn’t. But it cost a lot of lives. I wasn’t there either, by the way. All I’m saying is…Erin paid a huge price to get us here. We don’t need other powers. She’s the power, and I’m backing her.”
He led Rhaldon over the bridges, and the [Chemist] glanced at him.
“So I suppose the nobles of Izril are out? If we really need experts, Lord Calidus would help. He’s…eccentric, but genius.”
