Jelaqua had missed Melika’s charity fundraiser.
For children. Not just any children. The banner the two Garuda were taking down said:
Charity Fundraiser — Pallass’ Most Needy Require Your Support!
And it had a cute little Drake being held in two furry arms—the Drake girl had a scar on her face in the illustration.
At this point, Jelaqua thought about turning and just running away. Maybe it would be easier to say she’d gotten the wrong day entirely; it looked like they were packing up.
A Gold-rank Adventurer cannot run. A Gold-rank Adventurer cannot run…
She squared her shoulders as she marched towards the empty auditorium that Melika had rented. A bunch of workers were inside, taking down decorations and tables. One of the staff looked up and, when she heard Jelaqua’s name, glowered.
“Lady Melika has already retired, Adventurer Ivirith! She was quite disappointed when you didn’t show up. I believe she might be walking the children back to their homes.”
“Oh, so it was for children with families?”
“Some are cared for, but require medical assistance or other help. Others are at the orphanages. Plural.”
Jelaqua was trying to turn invisible. All her good mood from earlier—she’d been eating pizza when Melika had been putting on a concert from the sounds of it!
“S-so I missed music and festivities?”
“Plenty of Pallass’ wealthiest were donors as well as common citizens, yes. There was even music. Charitable giving.”
The Drake looked pointedly at the donation box that Jelaqua shovelled gold coins into. The Selphid drooped.
“I don’t suppose I could apologize to Melika in person, could I?”
“Perhaps. You might also cheer the children up. They were excited to meet a Gold-rank adventurer.”
The Selphid was looking for another Hag Queen to fight. She muttered to the floor.
“Gee, I really made their day. Right after I kicked a cat off the 9th Floor too.”
Everyone in earshot turned to stare at her. The Selphid raised her hands hurriedly.
“That was a joke. Dark humor. I’m going, I am so sorry—which way is she?”
She received curt directions to the places that Melika was most likely to be and took off. Pallass had orphanages, apparently, and on her very fast run the way there, Jelaqua was rehearsing an apology.
She’d brought backup, of course. The Selphid hadn’t managed to drag Kevin with her, but he and Rinli had gifted her with a new prototype kid-sized bicycle with training wheels and two regular ones just to get out of having to come with her. And she’d run back to the inn and snatched up a bunch of pizzas in the vain hope that’d count for something.
All of that to say that when Jelaqua arrived at the first orphanage and stared at the rather colorful walls and the children and young adults gathered around the familiar, beautiful Garuda, she did stop for a good minute to see if the Wyverns were attacking again. She’d really have liked that.
 
——
 
Melika Blackwing seemed upset. Like a woman personally let down by her heroine, perhaps. Her colorful plumage was drooping along with her head, and she was nodding down at the crowd of children also bereft of heroism, hope, and trust in Gold-rank adventurers in general and Selphids specifically.
…Or, no, maybe Jelaqua was reading into it. Certainly, as she drew near the orphanage, her apprehensions were missed on several levels. Firstly, the orphanage appeared…nice.
Even now, Jelaqua had an image of Baleros in her soul, and back home, well, Selphid children didn’t really get abandoned except in times of extreme duress—they’d just die given how unique their biology was. And Centaurs tended to value their children such that any colt or filly left abandoned would find a home in no time.
Lizardfolk and Dullahans, though, did have more prolific individuals—Lizardfolk especially. Leaving children on doorsteps or in public spaces, or just in baskets you put into a river—that stayed with Jelaqua. She was picturing a run-down building with overworked [Caretakers] trying to manage a horde of children in ragged clothing.
…This orphanage had colors. It was like a bunch of fractal, geometric shapes, a huge red triangle, a blue square, all stuck over a plain white stucco building with two floors and a generous courtyard. Jelaqua saw several of the windows were open, airing laundry from lines, and the entire place seemed well-kept; in fact, a dozen members of staff—Drakes wearing neck-spine bonnets and a uniform—were all gathered outside.
Pallass had the money to at least make its public services decent, and the fact that the children gathered around Melika seemed to be energetic and wearing serviceable, if perhaps second-hand clothing, was a very good sign. No malnutrition. No signs of bruises or broken bones—at least ones left untreated; she saw one Gnoll boy had an arm in a sling—no more injuries than you’d get in a crowd of rambunctious kids at any rate. High marks from Jelaqua.
No, it was the older kids, who went from their late teens into fully young adult twenties, that seemed far worse-for-wear. There were, Jelaqua realized, two groups around the upset Garuda. Children from the orphanage and an older contingent.
The older ones were giving Melika grief as Jelaqua drew forwards cautiously.
“—gold in our claws or what?”
“It doesn’t work like that, Anamariss. You know that. It was a wonderful turnout—”
A Drake girl of around eighteen or so was poking Melika in the chest; the Garuda wore a bright toga, and the Drake girl…at first, Jelaqua thought she was wearing an all-black tunic before she blinked.
No, the tunic was a different color; the ash coming off her scales was turning it practically black. Jelaqua felt a shivering in her body as she recognized the girl at once.
Sootling. Or Scorchling, the more common term for Oldbloods, but Jelaqua had heard the names used interchangeably. Both fit here. A Drake name for someone with the Oldblood abilities who couldn’t control their body’s natural functions. It took multiple forms, so ‘Sootling’ was a misnomer, but the most common version was just like what Jelaqua was seeing.
The girl, Anamariss, was afflicted by heat, probably a flame-based Oldblood breath that was so hot it was turning her scales to ash. Due to some bad luck, her skin and organs could handle her internal heat—or she’d have died before being born—but her scales hadn’t been given the same treatment. As Jelaqua drew closer, she saw telltale splotches of what seemed like gel on the girl’s body, especially around her armpits and joints.
Burns. So she wasn’t even able to withstand her own heat. She winced as she went to poke Melika again, but some of the other children were blocking her. She shoved at a pinkish Garuda girl a few years younger than her. An eighteen-year old Garuda—who had virtually no feathers on her body. She appeared almost alien without them.
Another condition of birth. Anamariss snapped.
“My name’s Anama. I don’t care how big the turnout is! You’re still not fixing the real problems! Everyone in our street can’t get water because the well’s got mold in it!”
“Still? I’ll talk to [Landlord] Inmal first thing tomorrow.”
“He’s not going to do anything. I don’t want a delivery of food and crap, just give me the gold and I’ll find my own place!”
Melika was trying to smile as a few murmurs of agreement rose from the other young adults. The children looked very upset as they stared at her, and Melika patted one Gnoll girl on the head.
“Anama, can’t we discuss this inside? I can’t give you the gold; that’s against our rules. And you know the Health and Safety Act—”
“Crelers take that stupid junk and you! You’re not helping us at all, you’re just paying for us to die in those stinking holes where no one has to look at us!”
The Drake girl shouted. At this, Melika’s visible skin around her beak paled, and her head drooped further. The Garuda girl without feathers shoved Anamariss back.
“If you don’t want help, get lost, Anama! Go get your gang to fix everything! Melika raised tons of gold for us!”
That drew the Scorchling girl’s wrath to the Garuda defending Melika. She shoved the other, hard.
“Go suck her husband off, Ophala. He’s never going to take you into his fancy mansion either way. Melika doesn’t have to worry about bad wells, does she? Or d’you think we’re doing good?”
Well, this was unpleasant. The two young women began to go at it as Melika shouted and tried to get them apart; Ophala was pecking and scratching at Anama, who actually got the worst of it as she swung and swore; her skin was very vulnerable without scales, and she was missing two fingers on her right hand. Jelaqua moved a few children back in the crowd as they stared at the fighting and her. Then Anama drew in a breath.
“No! No fire!”
Melika shrieked. She tried to close Anama’s mouth as the flames began to rise in the Drake’s gorge. Ophala flinched, and Jelaqua grabbed the Scorchling girl’s shoulder and tossed her.
It was a gentle toss, more like a lob without snapping the girl’s limbs around from the force. You had to practice it. The girl went flying back and actually landed on her feet before flames roared out of her mouth—her nostrils—the burst of flames blooming up around her, and Jelaqua winced.
That was no controlled Dragonbreath. It seemed more like Anama had released flames out of every orifice she had—even her earholes. The flames burst up around her, and she shouted in pain, then she was clawing at her burning clothing.
“Anama!”
Melika ran over, and two of the caretakers dashed forwards too.
“You’re burning up. Tonic of Chill—do we have any Flame Balm?”
“Right here.”
Now the girl was overheating. She gulped the tonic that Melika passed to her and yanked out a salve herself from her belt pouches, which had survived her self-immolation. Melika pulled out a towel too for modesty’s sake—when the girl had stopped smoking, the tonic reducing her internal temperature, she just coughed for a good half a minute. Then gasped.
“Who the hell—?”
That was when everyone turned, and Jelaqua Ivirith lifted a hand with a guilty smile. She nodded to Melika.
“Hey, I’m so sorry I was late. You know us Gold-rankers. Heh. Ha ha…always showing up at the last moment.”
She paused, flushing deeper orange, and bowed her head to Melika.
“Please let me make it up. I’ve got some food and something to share—”
Then she glanced at Anama, and her nerves and embarrassment turned to coolness. Jelaqua gave the girl a bright smile.
“—And if you flame off again, kid, I’ll hit you instead of tossing you. You nearly burnt all those kids and yourself up. Do it twice and no tonic will save your insides.”
She spoke with authority. It wasn’t hard to see how overheated the kid was, even with the tonic. She had no temperature regulation like Zevara or Keldrass; her body wouldn’t vent the heat fast enough. She’d cook her insides unless someone managed to chill her quickly enough. And without magic, the only way Jelaqua knew to do that was to slice her stomach or other vitals open and let the heat vent.
Anama was gasping as she fanned at her face.
“I know that. Who’re you?”
“This is Jelaqua Ivirith, the Gold-rank Captain of the Halfseekers I was telling you all about. Jelaqua, this is—these are the children and young people that our organization works with. Uplifting Wings, the charity, and this is Anama—”
“Hey there.”
Jelaqua stuck out a hand, then withdrew it as the Drake spat smoke and ash at it.
“Anama! Jelaqua, I’m very sorry; Anama is one of our young adults—we need to get our [Healer] to look at you. When’s the last time you let out Dragonbreath, Anama?”
“Fuck off. I don’t need help. I’m off.”
The Scorchling was staggering away from the crowd. Melika hurried after her.
“You’re hurt! I insist—”
“Let go—”
A swipe from Anama’s right hand. Melika flinched, and Jelaqua caught the arm. Very gently, and she put the Drake girl in a choke hold under one arm. Squeezed.
“Captain Ivirith, don’t—”
“I’ve got her, don’t worry. C’mon, kid, you’re hurt. Just say ‘no’ if you don’t want help. No?”
The flailing from under her made Jelaqua grin. She had a gentle arm over Anama’s windpipe, and it didn’t allow the girl to breathe flames, even if she wanted to. Jelaqua casually strongarmed the girl back towards the orphanage and nodded at Melika. The Garuda woman’s beak opened as the children and young people parted to make way for her. Jelaqua passed by Ophala, and the featherless Garuda girl’s beak was gaping in astonishment. She turned to some of the other people her age, mostly Drakes, though there were a few Gnolls and Dullahans mixed in.
“Whoa. Who is she?”
 
——
 
Melika Blackwing had an office in the orphanage. She was, in fact, its founder and chairwoman.
“I took over this particular site, and our charity knows all the orphanages in Pallass. Until the age of fifteen, all children in our facilities receive medical treatment, education in Pallass’ apprenticeships unless they need at-home tutoring, counselling, care, and everything else.”
“And after that? Why fifteen?”
Jelaqua Ivirith was gazing out a window at the children in the courtyard. They were taking turns riding the bicycles she’d gotten from Kevin, young and old. And eating the pizza.
Jelaqua and Melika were in the office talking. After Jelaqua had dumped the semi-asphyxiated Anama at the [Healer]’s, Melika had invited her up here. The Garuda was very flustered; Jelaqua less so. It would have been reversed except for the incident just now. Instead, Jelaqua suddenly saw Melika in a new light.
The Garuda woman was sorting through her files.
“I’m sorry, I need to look up the residence of Landlord Inmal. He should have cleared that well. Fifteen? It’s when children legally become young adults under Pallassian law. They’re taxed at that age. In practice, they’ll be with their family, but…”
“If they have no parents, you can’t keep them in the orphanage. Did I hear you give them support? That’s good.”
Melika nodded.
“We try to find them jobs, and we have apartments we can subsidize the rent on. We deliver food, medicine, and other supplies each week. But as you can tell, it’s never enough.”
“Hence the fundraisers. I’m real sorry about missing it. There’s no good excuse. I hope I didn’t ruin things by missing it?”
Jelaqua shoved her hands into her pockets, and Melika shook her head.
“I didn’t base it all around you, Captain Ivirith, I just wanted you to be there for the children. Thank you for the—pizza?—and the bicycles. They’re having so much fun down there.”
“You can keep ‘em, I think I can arrange that.”
