Grimalkin turned as a more-dressed [Lady] came striding into the gymnasium. Lady Pryde had her bag on her head and her tracksuit for decency’s sake; Grimalkin swished his bathrobe around himself more for the same. She sounded disappointed as she sighed.
“So Captain Ivirith isn’t beating a teenage girl to death with her bare hands?”
“No, she is. Just in service of counterlevelling.”
“Oh, excellent. My father used to do that with my brothers. He never could do it with me.”
It was funny how the three of them spoke. They were not ignorant to the voices around them, demanding clarification, asking what that meant, telling Jelaqua she was under arrest and to step away from the girl—but the three spoke in a world of their own.
As if they were the only ones that mattered, which was not Magus Grimalkin’s opinion at all. It was just that they understood this. Communication was only the most efficient between them, a regrettable truth.
Jelaqua faced down her audience without regret, only a guilt he could see in her eyes and smile. Hitting a girl with Sootling Syndrome hard enough to counterlevel her and need six potions…
That was a Gold-rank adventurer for you. He murmured.
“Was it necessary? You could surely effect the same with a week’s training.”
“Maybe, but she’s a kid. Plus, she’s a [Thug]. I doubt I could motivate her to give me a glass of water. I’m surprised you don’t do the same, Grimalkin. This is the most efficient thing, and there is only one cure for being a Sootling in this world. It’s crazy, but here it is.”
A [Mage] in the crowd with red hair went ‘oh’ and began to write a report for her master. Grimalkin exhaled. He agreed, actually. This was the most efficient; it was just that he’d calculated the trauma and culture it brought on would lead to deaths and injury to an extent he could not rationalize mass-producing. Plus, without healing potions or similar aids, it was highly infeasible. But the truth was the truth.
“Levels.”
 
——
 
On Earth, Jelaqua wondered what you would do. She knew the things she would do, but one of the keys, the foundation of her world, was levels.
Levels, the reward for suffering or hard work. Without them…would people try as hard? They were the ultimate balancer, but they did not bring equality to people. A Scorchling lived a far harder life than Melika, or even Jelaqua, but they didn’t hit Level 30 automatically or even Level 20. Or even Level 10, sometimes.
Jelaqua had no idea how the calculation worked. But she did know this. If someone stood up and threw hands with a Level 38 [Warrior] who was coming at them with all the force she had—and they threw a punch with all the desperation they had left—that was worth at least two levels unless they were over Level 20.
Try. She sat there as Grimalkin gave a more lengthy explanation to his audience, and Melika flapped into the ring. She shielded Anama from Jelaqua as the Selphid gently checked the girl’s vitals.
“She’s healed.”
“Stay away from her, Jelaqua! Officer, I’m filing a complaint! Officer—”
The [Guardswoman] gazed at Jelaqua. What was she going to do, move the Selphid? An entire class of students hadn’t been able to keep hold of her. And Jelaqua was waiting, waiting…
Now.
When Anama gasped and sat up, a plume of heat and sparks shooting from her mouth, the Selphid saw it. Barely, a faint steadiness to her movements, less of a flinch from her own heat—
Level 10 was not very high, but for a [Thug] class, and whatever levels she’d gotten in [Survivor], it was still a capstone.
Funny thing about levels when it came to Sootlings. They didn’t come for free or even easily. But when you levelled as someone who needed something, like the ability to survive your own heat, your own body—the voice always gave you what you needed.
If you hit a capstone. Not everything; it was never perfect, but Jelaqua nodded.
“[Lesser Fire Resistance]. Or was it…[Body: Regulate Temperature]?”
Melika turned to her, and Anama felt at herself. She flinched away from Jelaqua, then gasped.
“[Fireproof Scales]. You—you—”
“Oooh. Nice. It won’t keep you from baking, but you’ll get a new coat of ‘em. Congrats! You’ve got scales now! Want a potion?”
Then again, it had probably regrown her scales decently under the ash; once she washed, she’d keep her scales. Or maybe they’d have to properly regrow now that they wouldn’t turn to ash? Jelaqua was interested.
“Stay back! Magus, help me! She’s assaulted one of my wards—my charity, even if she is an adult—Captain, you’ve gone far too far!”
Jelaqua blinked and remembered Melika was there. Aw, darn. She was so upset. The Selphid wondered if she’d lost a friend forever. She stretched.
“I’ve gone far enough with Anama. Hitting Level 20 is going to be harder, kid. Might have to do [Survivor] there, but it’s tricky. Hey, anyone else?”
She turned to her audience, especially the Sootlings, who blinked at her as the Selphid gestured around.
“C’mon. If you’re over 15, hop in this ring and it’ll hurt. More than anything you’ve ever felt, but it works. Don’t worry about our audience. They can’t stop me.”
She smiled gently at them but wasn’t surprised when none of them ran forwards. They had to see Anama getting better—and Melika was shouting at them to get away.
The [Socialite] whirled her wrath on Grimalkin as Jelaqua sighed and stripped off her gloves.
“Magus, why didn’t you stop her? Anama, you need a [Healer] and—and I wish to file a complaint, officer! All your apprentices here and no one did something?”
She shrieked at the students, who appeared abashed, but the Sinew Magus lifted a finger.
“With great respect, Lady Melika, and as a [Magus] granted permission for such spells by Pallass, please, [Calm] for a second. Don’t begrudge my students.”
Melika blinked as he gestured at Jelaqua, who was stretching her back and sighing. The Sinew Magus spoke in his lecturing tone of voice to his class.
“I see I have erred in my assumptions regarding this boxing ring that Lady Pryde’s subject informed her of. Its utility is unquestionable. However, Selphids and perhaps Dullahans and other species…no, Selphids will not benefit the same way nor be equal opponents. With padded gloves, in a ring? I would not go up against Miss Ivirith, Lady Melika. Nor would I put any money on anyone else in this room being able to stop her.”
Everyone turned to Jelaqua, and they studied her. A Selphid in a dead body—impossible to concuss. Impossible to stop, even if you hit her as hard as you could with a padded glove. Able to Rampage…now, Melika gave Jelaqua an appropriate look, and Grimalkin felt bad for the Selphid as she grinned ruefully.
After a moment, though, his pontifications and his grand theorems on the state of the world were surprised, as they always were, by her. Lady Pryde Ulta glanced at Grimalkin, then picked up a pair of training gloves strewn on the ground.
“An interesting statement, Grimalkin. I find myself compelled to test it. Selphid, stay in the ring.”
She rose, the paper bag with eyeholes on her head gleaming faintly purple as Jelaqua Ivirith turned. Grimalkin felt his heart surge with disbelief and affection at the very stupid move as Lady Pryde slammed her gloves together.
 
——
 
Eight minutes later, Grimalkin put a cold compress on Lady Pryde’s stomach. The [Lady of Pride]’s ego barrier was completely blown out, and so her voice was very soft and much less confident—for various reasons.
“That…might have been a mistake.”
“Yes, but I quite admired it.”
He kissed her hand as some of the Drakes watching turned away, but his eyes were only for her. Jelaqua Ivirith just smiled as she flipped the busted gloves onto a hook and strolled out of his gymnasium.
They arrested her, of course, but Grimalkin put in a good word for Jelaqua, and she walked free rather fast—after he and Lady Pryde had a personal moment. Wonderful term, that.
 
——
 
Maughin met Jelaqua outside of the Watch House, deeply disturbed. A few Dullahans were watching her, but Jelaqua felt calm. Good. And free, a fact that surprised him greatly.
“Jelaqua, I was informed you’d been arrested—”
“Detained for questioning. Melika lodged a complaint, but I sorted it out.”
“Wh—how? What happened?”
“I beat a kid up until she counterlevelled and capstoned. C’mon, I’ll walk with you. You didn’t take time out of your day, did you?”
She gave him an abbreviated tale as Maughin’s mouth opened and closed, but she was carrying his head, then, and they were on the move.
“We’re almost finished drafting our plan, and we have the support of Senator Errif, who wishes to combat the Wistram-focus. The Engineering Guild has work! We owe it to, er, Lord Werdin Blackwing.”
“Ooh. I feel bad about that now. Had to be done. I’ll be busy tomorrow too, Maughy. Don’t worry; I know what I’m doing.”
He knew she did, but the [Smith] kept staring back at the Watch House.
“I don’t understand. You did attack the girl despite her asking you not to? With witnesses? How did you walk out of there without an arrest? Unless she dropped them?”
“Nope. It was all Melika. I walked out because it was Watch Captain Qissa in there.”
He stared blankly at her, and Jelaqua elaborated.
“From last night? I also mentioned Zemize.”
“Oh. Oh. Is that…?”
“That’s Gold-rankers for you. Plus, we’re on her floor. I checked the day list.”
She winked at him. The [Smith] was entirely taken aback, and he gazed at Jelaqua as she speed-walked them back to their home.
The flames of glory were still blazing there, perhaps even higher than before. The Selphid lingered, gazing into them; they were the only things she had eyes for. The stares of other Dullahans, even the censure of the Watch and Melika…when Maughin turned the door, she blinked at him.
He was sooty from a day of work, and he’d had to jog to keep up with her. Maughin rumbled as his gleaming mithril-alloy armor moved with his body, and he bent down so his head was at a level with hers.
“Jelaqua, I fear you’re harming your reputation in Pallass. I understand, of course, but I’m concerned. That girl you fought…”
The Selphid avoided looking at him and brushed at her hair.
“Eh, I feel worst about Melika. But don’t worry, Maughin. I feel great. When are you putting your proposal before Senator Errif? Tomorrow? Perfect. I’ve gotta write a letter, and I think I can whip up dinner…I think Melika’s too freaked out right now, and Anama’s going to have to process her levels, so leftovers and snuggles it is! I’ve got a new body…though I don’t think that’s one for intimacy. What else? Uh—uh, Ishkr. He likes to watch this kind of stuff. And I’d better—no, I can start at the bakery and then—”
She was speaking faster and faster. Lost in a world of her own. Something haunting her, perhaps—until Maughin clapped his hands together. The armored fingers made a sound like the clash of metal, and the Selphid jumped.
She had a hand on her flail when she saw Maughin moving into the kitchen. Jelaqua blinked, then rushed after him.
“Wait, Maughy, sorry, I forgot dinner! I’ll cook! I have [Swift Errand]; it won’t take me a minute to—”
“Jelaqua Ivirith, sit.”
He pointed a finger at her, and she froze. Maughin’s voice was impassive, like Dullahans got when they were angry or upset. Fear replaced her racing mind. Was she upsetting him? She’d made them look bad in front of so many. She began to panic—then worried as the panic died down.
She had to do this. But she feared what that meant for…
The Dullahan stopped inspecting their rune-cooled fridge and nodded.
“We have ingredients for dinner.”
“I’ll just—”
“Sit. I will make the food.”
She sat, but that was a kind of agony as Maughin moved around the kitchen, laying out the ingredients he needed like he was at his forge, consulting his mother’s cookbook, setting a pot to boil.
“Maughin, I know it sounds and looks bad, but I—”
“No, Jelaqua. Please. One step at a time.”
He was chopping vegetables and glanced up at her. She hesitated.
“If you’re mad at me, please don’t go silent. Let’s talk—”
“I’m not angry, Jelaqua.”
“Then let me—”
“It’s my turn to cook. You are clearly busy.”
Jelaqua laughed.
“Me? Busy? I just went out and did a few things. You were at the forge—”
“And now we are equally busy. Thus, it is my turn. I have enjoyed doing few chores while you were unoccupied. That moment has changed. You will sit, please. I insist. I am no [Husband]. But perhaps it is my turn to earn the class.”
That surprised Jelaqua so much she remained seated, mouth open.
“Maughy. What’s…?”
He carefully put the green bell peppers into a bowl and then looked up at her.
“I cannot follow the chain of events that led you to the Watch House, nor your plans for tomorrow without seeing the steps, Jelaqua. Please, lay them out for me.”
They…weren’t fighting about her actions today? Jelaqua was confused. Maughin didn’t even bring up the Watch House. Just—
Oh. He was waiting, going through the steps of his recipe like he would the stages of forging metal. Like that—he cleared his throat.
“You do have a plan, don’t you? Have you written it down?”
“Me? Bah, I’ve got it here—hey!”
He’d found a piece of chalk and handed it to her along with a little slate blackboard he used for taking notes, then washed his hands and went back to cooking.
“I’m not as gifted as you are, Jelaqua. But as your husband, I must ask that you lay it out for me. We are a team of sorts. Not your Halfseekers. I would never claim to be them. But if I do not know the plan, how can I support you?”
He gazed at her, and she sat on their couch and realized he really hadn’t known anything of what was going on until he heard about the fight and arrest.
But he wasn’t bringing that up. He was…trusting her. And just asking her to spell it out for him so he could back her. Her hand trembled on the piece of chalk, and her body’s throat was dry.
“I…I’m sorry I didn’t tell you about my plan, Maughin. I was worried you’d stop me or freak out—”
He smiled as he began to mince some beef up.
“I did not marry a Gold-ranked adventurer because I thought it would be a quiet life, Jelaqua. I have been waiting to see what you would do next. If I wanted a wife who only cooked, cleaned, and listened to my woes, I would have married my mother’s many, many candidates. I fell in love with you because I wanted to forge you armor that would not break the next time you faced a monster.”
His smile slipped.
“I failed.”
“M-Maughin. No, you didn’t—”
He shook his head as he continued to work, head sitting on the counter, looking at her.
