“Calidus? It rings a bell, but I dunno why. Last name?”
“Calidus Reinhart. He’s the smartest guy I’ve ever met. Between him and Zeomtoril, that [Polymath]—”
Kevin held up his hands urgently.
“Whoa, whoa. Reinhart? The only one I trust is Magnolia and only to make tea. I’d never share anything with him, Rhaldon.”
That felt like a generalization, and it annoyed the [Chemist] a bit; Kevin didn’t even know Calidus. But he was willing to agree that on principle, Calidus and Zeomtoril weren’t exactly high on the trust scale. Certainly, Calidus talked about his family like vipers…Rhaldon exhaled.
“So we’re without manufacturing?”
“I didn’t say that. No [Smith] north or south of here is gonna leap to help us without being overpaid or told what we’re working on. No…normal [Smiths], at any rate. I think we’ve gotta get more interesting. I’m just thinking how to get Rinli on board with this and how to move back and forth without being spotted. The door’s no good unless Liska can make a secret entrance…and spies can watch her. Plus, you might freak.”
“…About what?”
Kevin turned and gave Rhaldon a huge smile.
“Goblins. There’s one group who I’d trust with this and who can metalwork…just not at scale, maybe.”
“Goblins? As in the ones who fought 2nd Army?”
“Yep. That’s why I’m not sure. You and Rinli—let me tell you about Goblins, Rhaldon. You a fan of racism?”
Rhaldon gestured at his face.
“What do you think? I did also see the Goblin King and that Goblin Lord, though. Not exactly reassuring. She blew up a [King] and his entire palace. They’re still mourning and broadcasting the devastation in Terandria.”
“Aha. See, that makes them look a tiny bit bad. So let me tell you about the Goblins I know…”
 
——
 
When in doubt, Goblins. That was Kevin’s fallback plan, but it had a number of flaws. Including the fact that getting to Goblinhome, especially if it moved, was difficult.
Well, that and convincing Rhaldon to talk to them. The [Chemist] was highly sympathetic to the idea not all Goblins were monsters. But he was also allergic to putting himself in the crosshairs, which was also fair given Goblinhome’s publicity right now. And Kevin knew Rinli was on the level and knew about the inn, but an entire tribe of Rags’ people might be hard for her, let alone the others.
But if not Goblins, then who?
The two were walking some of the wooden bridges connecting the inn to the other hills. You could in theory get back to Liscor, but it was a maze of bridges from here, and Kevin knew sometimes they sank or got unmoored. He just took Rhaldon westwards towards a hill set along the mountains.
Rheirgest was ivory and stone. It looked cool as hell from afar, like some underworld village rising in the rains, and Rhaldon shivered.
“I forgot there were so many [Necromancers] here.”
Kevin was about to assure him they were chill when the young man added.
“I’m not into spooky stuff, but they have an amazing sense of style.”
The [Engineer] smiled.
“Rhaldon, it’s great to talk with someone else from Earth. Everyone else just gets scared. Want to visit real quick? They’re all kinds of friendly. Just don’t scream if a skeleton walks out to serve drinks, okay?”
“No promises.”
 
——
 
By the time they were walking around Rheirgest, something was bothering Rhaldon. He kept glancing around as Kevin tried to come up with ideas.
“Okay, Goblins are our first choice. Let’s say Rags shoots us down or we can’t make it work. Long-shot solutions. Either the Steelfur tribe in the Great Plains or Fetohep. Fetohep seems busy, but he’s got a kingdom. And the Steelfur Tribe is all trustworthy and knows about Earth. Rose has an in with them. You might have to travel back and forth, but…those are our best shots.”
“I’m…interested in going to the Meeting of Tribes. It’s a long route, and I’ve only done it once, but Termin says Drake lands are safer than the north in many ways, if I have the papers. I could apply for a passport today. Khelt is harder, of course. Are you suggesting we go to Chandrar?”
It was great that Rhaldon was on board with this. Kevin scratched his head, debating that himself as Rhaldon cast around. Being in the same continent as the King of Destruction…
I can’t stay at Erin’s inn forever. Maybe it was an idea? He had more for the future, but all that just to work on one of his plans seemed like too much. Damn. He felt like he was missing something or forgetting it!
The houses of bones all had that sort of, uh, ‘evil empire’ or ‘graverisen village’ appearance to them, but they were individually very unique. Some didn’t have much decoration, but the [Necromancers] could add little skulls to the houses or even carve screaming faces on the doormats—also made of little bones strung together—as they pleased.
Even Pisces didn’t have their fine manipulation owing to his self-taught knowledge. In fact, the Rheirgest villagers had adapted quite well to their new homes.
Rittane’s father, Dorkel, was drinking some coffee as he stared out of his porch at the rains and the floodwaters of Liscor. He nodded to another man who’d emerged from his house. This is how their conversation went as the two young Earthers stopped to listen:
“Likenost.”
“Dorkel. Morning.”
“It’s raining again.”
“Yup. Like yesterday. And every day for the last three months.”
The two [Necromancers] stared at the Floodplains. After a moment, one swatted at a glowing Acidfly buzzing near them.
“I wonder what we’ll do next year when there’s no construction work.”
“Fish, probably.”
“Yep.”
The two [Necromancers] gazed across the Floodplains of Liscor with the eyes of men contemplating a future in which you sat with a hook and line and occasionally pulled at it for twelve hours each day. Then Dorkel’s eyes brightened.
“I’ve been working on my latest fishing-undead. Here, take a look. I’m hoping to catch way more fish today.”
He snapped his fingers, and a skeleton strode out of his house. It was normal-sized, at least in theory, but he’d elongated its legs and blown out its ribcage as if it had been the most barrel-chested man in the world. Then—Dorkel had torn out the ribs and replaced them with dangling lines of skeletal hooks. The fishing-skeleton walked down towards the water and began to fire the hooks, where they sank; it could pull each line back in individually with clever little spools he’d worked into the back of its frame.
Likenost smiled.
“Good look, Dorkel. Is each one individually spooled? I can imagine you’ll catch a lot, but I’m after bigger game. Observe!”
He opened his doors, and a shark with four arms and legs crawled out. The skeleton of a huge fish had been given limbs to crawl towards the water, and Likenost pointed out the huge harpoon in its mouth.
“I present to you the Shark That Walks, version 3.5! It goes into the water and shoots whatever it wants.”
“Oh, I applaud! But it looks like it might be in danger of being attacked?”
“Always a hazard, I admit, but the repair costs in mana are worth it when it reels in a big fish. The only thing it can’t do are the Lurkersnatch ones or Rock Crabs; not enough torque.”
“Hmm. What if you put an anchor on it? Maybe with a bone-chain tail so it can anchor, then pull in…”
“Dorkel, you’re a genius. Do you have time for this? You’re not working, are you?”
“Nope, just the wife. And what she doesn’t know won’t kill her…”
They were hurrying down to the water past Kevin and Rhaldon as the two young men stared at the horrors of bones—and engineering. Kevin’s mouth was slightly open as he turned to Rhaldon.
“They’re so spooky, but it looks like fun, doesn’t it? I get the heebie-jeebies sometimes, but they are good people.”
Rhaldon was more impressed anyone could use the words ‘heebie-jeebies’ without turning into a Scooby Doo character. He nodded at Dorkel and Likenost.
“They can manipulate that bone without a problem, can’t they? And I’ve seen them doing fine work; I was there when they helped prototype the bone bicycles.”
“Oh, yeah. They are good at that. Have you seen Elosaith’s home? He does intricately fine work. He’s even got a clock he said he made out of bone for fun. Little gears and everything. Some of them are weirdos, though. Like Ama. I’m pretty sure one of the women has a bone ‘husband’…”
Kevin was rambling about the [Necromancers] when he finally caught onto what Rhaldon was thinking. He stopped, then blinked.
“Wait…no. Rhaldon, that would be crazy. That’s like an Erin-level idea, and I mean that in the most complimentary way.”
Rhaldon was smiling hesitantly. It was crazy. Structurally, it’d never hold up back on Earth…would it? He actually didn’t know. Steel was so much more superior, but if you had the time and energy, you could maybe make one that worked?
And structurally didn’t even count when you had magic here. He spoke out loud, thinking.
“It was never feasible back on Earth, but that’s simply because there’s no reason to work with a material like bone when metal or even wood is infinitely simpler—and easier to acquire. But why not? In fact, do we even need an engine?”
“What?”
“Do we need an engine? Or are we wrongheaded in how we’re thinking, Kevin? Think about it. Can an undead creation produce the same effect as an engine?”
“Dude. Dude…Pisces has his undead chariot. But you’re saying create an undead engine?”
Rhaldon spread his hands as his mind suddenly lit up, and he felt like a fool.
“The entire process of an engine is to convert fuel into movement. Is it even that efficient compared to, say, converting mana into movement? Is it possible to…of course it is! We have Golems and undead who walk around. A necromancy-powered engine doesn’t necessarily need pistons or the same cylinders. All it needs to do is move the vehicle. Am I wrong in my speculation?”
Kevin raised a finger, thinking hard.
“Bone’s still not as strong as metal! And it’s harder to enchant. Only pure metals take enchantments well. Anything else and it reduces. But—I know bones can get super tough depending on if it’s a magical creature. And some of the [Necromancers] can work on things in real-time. Look!”
They saw Dorkel and Likenost adjusting their skeletons with ease. Rhaldon whispered back.
“And they have a good understanding of how things work. They’re practically [Engineers]—of bone.”
“Dude. Are we doing this? Are we making…a Death Racer?”
Rhaldon scratched at his head.
“I was going to say a Bone Car. Undead Chariot? Animated Vehicle?”
They looked at each other and chorused.
“Skelecar!”
Then they ran down the hill towards Dorkel and Likenost. The two [Necromancers] jumped, and Dorkel searched around for his wife. But when they heard what Kevin and Rhaldon had to say…Dorkel rose with great dignity and put his hands behind his back.
“So you’re saying you have some kind of engineering problem much like the world-famous bicycles that we would have to make out of bone?”
“That requires multiple forms, possibly in a competitive spirit wherein the best and most efficient one would be crowned champion?”
Likenost added, stroking his chin. Kevin put his hands together somberly, like a priest giving a benediction.
“Plus, we’ll pay you in gold. And, uh, we do it in the inn with free drinks and food?”
The two men thought about it, and then looked around furtively. Dorkel leaned over.
“Me and my wife do fine work. With Likenost, we could be exclusive on this job—”
The other man was nodding rapidly. Right up until a window flew open and another [Necromancer] wearing a bone mask pointed dramatically.
“Not without me! They’re doing something interesting! Elosaith! Elosaaaaaiith—”
Then every [Necromancer] in Rheirgest was appearing to get a piece of the project. Master Elosaith himself poked his head out of his bone-mansion, beaming.
“Ah, good. I was beginning to get bored.”
Kevin gulped as he fumbled at his side for a speaking stone.
“Rinli? Hey, yeah, uh—we’re going to need a second shop. A big one. Can you come over, please? We just found our manufacturing. Yeah—no, no, no Goblins today. You don’t need a gift basket. Wait, you had a gift basket? Bring that with you. Tell me, Rinli. How…do you feel about skeletons?”
 
——
 
When Jelaqua Ivirith slumped into The Wandering Inn, she found no Kevin or Rhaldon. When she was directed to Rheirgest, she found the two young men talking excitedly in the rain with about fifty [Necromancers] who were practically founding a new warehouse on the spot.
“Factory! Fac-to-ry! And it’s secret. Top secret, got it? Good thing no one comes here. I want this all under wraps! No one says a word, and uh, we make this village even more unappealing!”
“So we scatter poop on the ground or something?”
A skeptical [Necromancer] asked. Kevin waved his hands.
“No, just more undead! More decorations! Heads on pikes! Anything so no one comes here but us. And anti-scrying spells, the works! Top secret—oh, hey, Jelaqua.”
Kevin was shouting as Rhaldon just stared at a three-dimensional replica of his sketches rising before his eyes.
“Oh my…you can just make it?”
An old grandmother was grinning as she flicked her fingers over the ivory shaping itself to her will.
“Sure can, sonny! Even put on some decorative spikes and death’s heads, just to make it look better.”
“Maybe don’t do that on the engine block, but when it comes to the chassis, you can go nuts. Can you make it move?”
“You mean animate it? Kid, I could make your great granddad dance a 5-step!”
Jelaqua stopped as Kevin turned to her.
“Jelaqua, look! We’re making the cars! This is going to be crazy! Necromancy meets industry! Necro-engineering! Necroneering!”
“Terrible name. Hey, Kevin, so…looks like you don’t need Pelt? You good?”
“Better than good! Listen, with the [Necromancers], we can prototype everything! Plus they’re [Mages] so they can do a lot of enchanting with their bones that Hedault can’t because he’s one guy—”
Jelaqua cut Kevin off as he began to spell out exactly how phenomenal and world-changing this was. And she was sure it would be.
“Great, great. And you’re not murdering yourself fighting monsters solo, yet?”
Kevin hesitated. Jelaqua was rather distracted; she kept glancing back at the inn and at her feet.
“No…actually, I’d love those lessons, but Elosaith says I can fight their undead any time I want. For, uh, free.”
“Always love to see a kid bare-knuckle one of our skeletons. You last five rounds, we buy you drinks!”
The old grandmother cheerfully spoke up. Jelaqua slapped Kevin on the back. He fell on his face from the impact.
“Ow.”
