“Great. Oops, sorry about that Kevin. I’m just gonna…hey, how’d you heal yourself from those blast burns? Do you have any spare potions at Solar Cycles?”
“Uh…spare potions? Jelaqua, oh, right, you don’t know. We have tons. You want some, go ask Dalimont. Super secret, but yeah, we could hook you up.”
“Really, tons? Perfect. Right. I’ll just go there and…you sure you’re okay?”
Jelaqua turned back as Kevin picked himself up. He nodded.
“You sure you’re okay, Jelaqua?”
She pointed blankly at her face.
“Who, me? Never better. I’ve got nothing to do anyways. Except this one thing. Be right back…”
She walked off, and Kevin stared at her. Rhaldon glanced up from talking with the [Necromancers].
“Jelaqua’s off. Is this another Solstice event, Kevin? Octavia claims you can predict them, but I’m jumpy.”
Kevin massaged at his shoulder. She’d nearly dislocated it again.
“Dude…I think it is. An Ivirith event. Wait, that’s terrible. Whatever. We’d better put in a warning with Lyonette back at the inn. Did you see her face?”
“Um. It was normal?”
“Yeah. She never not grins or smiles. It’s freaking me the fuck out.”
Kevin hopped down to hurry after Jelaqua, then turned. He stared at the village, which was still growing, and scratched at his head.
“Y’know what’d be awesome? If we’re making cars, we should also do forklifts.”
“That’s just a bigger skeleton, Kevin.”
It was true; the [Necromancers] were all interested in Kevin and Rhaldon’s proposals, especially if it meant new, fun work, but the old granny did cock an eye at them.
“What’s this new stuff do that our undead can’t, lads? If it’s speed you want, well, they used to chase you down and bounty you for riding a carriage down the road with undead horses, but that Pisces fellow is bringing it back in style. Makes me wish I were young again! What’s this ‘car’ got that an undead horse doesn’t?”
Kevin scratched at his chin.
“The ability to hit a hundred miles per hour in, like, ten seconds? The ability to carry dozens and dozens of people at once?”
The old woman grinned and spat.
“Pshaw! A good [Necromancer] can do both! I’ve seen both. So let me ask you again, what’s the value?”
To that, Kevin just smiled as Rhaldon hesitated, and the [Mechanic] brushed at his hair.
“The value is that only a Level 60 [Necromancer] can probably make those undead. But we’re from Earth. We’ve got no levels. So we know how to build things better. The difference is that even a Level 20 [Necromancer] can build what we want.”
“With a lot of engineering and prototyping.”
Rhaldon muttered, but the villagers were eyeing each other. And the old woman was laughing.
“I wanted to make a Bone Giant before I died! Sign me up, boys! Show me a vision of death I ain’t ever dreamed of before!”
Her eyes glowed green as she leaned on a staff of bones which clicked, like a second spine rooting in the ground. Rhaldon swallowed, and Kevin grinned like a man watching something move into motion. He whispered.
“Okay. My turn, Erin. It’s a Kevin Hall moment. A Hallmark—fuck.”
He gave up and decided to run after Jelaqua.
 
——
 
It turned out the inn had tons of healing potions. Another world. Jelaqua didn’t even blink as Ser Dalimont handed her several.
“Of course for you we can procure some. Do you need six, perhaps? Between you and Maughin…”
“Forty, thanks.”
The Thronebearer hesitated.
“But you’re not adventuring…?”
The question dangled in the air, and Jelaqua absently opened her bag of holding.
“Nope. Forty will do. I might need sixty—how many do you have?”
“Quite a lot, but forty would be—”
“A great start. Thanks.”
She watched him pouring the healing potions into the bag of holding. It occurred to Ser Dalimont, of course, that he could ask questions or refuse. He peered at Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers of Izril, and filled her bag. She looked so absent.
Lost in thought.
 
——
 
“Excuse me, can I ask what the Health and Safety Act is?”
Jelaqua Ivirith stopped at a booth in Pallass’ heart on the 6th Floor, where the Assembly of Crafts and a number of helpful booths existed. Like a [Scribe], who looked up from where they normally took complaints or requests from citizens and forwarded them to the right senators.
“The, uh, Health and Safety Act, Miss?”
“Yeah, you know, just what it says.”
The Drake stared down at his ink-spattered hand and scrubbed absently at the dots.
“…Which one, Miss?”
Damn. That was the thing about gathering intelligence. Sometimes you didn’t know what kind of monster it was, and when you just said ‘magical bird’, the person with the bestiary eyed you as if you were stupid.
Still, Jelaqua Ivirith was a patient woman. She smiled.
“One that pertains to laws about housing for, uh, Scorchlings?”
“Miss, there are hundreds of Health and Safety Acts on the record.”
“Oh, I’m just searching for ones that are active and would prevent me from switching residences if I wanted to. Can you dig it up for me?”
The [Scribe] glanced at the queue behind Jelaqua. It wasn’t long, but he coughed.
“Miss—”
“Captain Ivirith, Gold-rank Adventurer.”
“Oh, um, Captain, is this a matter that pertains to adventuring? Because if it’s not…”
“No, it is.”
The [Scribe] hesitated.
“It—it is?”
Jelaqua smiled faintly, and she leaned on the counter.
“I’m Jelaqua Ivirith of the Halfseekers of Izril. We have Scorchlings on our team, now and then, and if there’s a Health and Safety Act that pertains to obtaining residency in Pallass, I have to know. Otherwise, I’ll just go ahead with what I was planning and let them know I was approved by Scribe…is that Jilins or Jillin?”
She made a show of reading his badge. The [Scribe] rolled back in his chair and gave her his best smile.
“Let me just get my supervisor, Captain Jelaqua. I’m sure we can look this up—”
 
——
 
Health and Safety Act KM 344. They’d copied out the entire thing for her, but the summary that Jelaqua had gotten from the helpful [Scribe] and his manager was more simple than the wordy little piece.
It was a provision about nine hundred years old—so barely any time at all—that restricted housing for ‘persons suffering from magical or medical ailment in nature that is disruptive to the Public Order or Decency’. With those two latter terms capitalized.
The long and short of it was that without a full form approved by the district [Senator] of your area, you were not allowed to just live in any residence—and the same went for anyone who wanted to rent to you.
Getting said form filled out was not easy either. The two Drakes had no idea how you’d actually go about submitting it, but they did know the intake fee and wait times for such things to get past a [Senator]’s busy desk.
Well, that answered her questions. It was also, incidentally, a stupid law. Just the kind of thing the Assembly of Crafts might pass to rid certain districts of undesirable sights…Jelaqua was reading up on the law in a history book from the library.
Oh, it was passed in a flurry of laws that all but prohibited Scorchlings from military service? When, in fact, there were laws six thousand years on the book that almost did the opposite and had granted Sootling-only zones on the 5th Floor that had been erased as part of the legislation nine hundred years ago.
But six thousand years ago…that was Creler Wars legislation. Stamped in blood.
“Huh. Someone back then understood what Sootlings are.”
Jelaqua closed the book she was reading. She had arrived at her destination anyways.
Just as she’d thought, the Uplifting Wings orphanage was a hangout spot for older ‘graduates’. The moment she walked into the courtyard, Jelaqua was challenged—a good sign. But the staff member recognized her.
“Oh, Captain Ivirith! Lady Melika would love to speak to you—I, ah, would you wait in her office?”
They looked rather flustered, and Jelaqua peered at the group of young people who were all staring at her like she had horns growing out of her head. She waved at Ophala and got one back—the Drake girl she was peering at was trying to pretend she wasn’t there.
“Sure thing. Hey, Anama, good to see you’re alive! Keeping out of trouble? No fights?”
The girl jumped as Jelaqua shouted, and the staff member tried to rush her inside.
“Captain, if you’ll just come this way…”
 
——
 
Melika Blackwing flew down in a flurry and appeared slightly off-kilter after last night. She might have cured the hangover, but the wild night remained—and she hadn’t even seen the Raskghar.
“Captain Ivirith, I’m so glad to see you’re well. I am very glad you and General Shirka were there, and that you were, um—uh—discreet? Thank you for not involving the Watch, and I did enjoy our talks.”
“Captain Ivirith? What are we, strangers, Melika? I was just coming by to ask some questions, you know? I was thinking after our talk, and I’d like to know some things.”
The Garuda nodded, trying to smile, but she was fiddling with a quill. Then she burst out with it.
“Uh—Captain Ivirith, I’d be delighted to answer questions! However, just so we are clear, ahem, very clear…I must formally withdraw my standing invitation to you to come as a guest to the orphanage. I am very, very sorry for what happened last night. Rest assured, it will not happen again! And I hope you will let the matter rest? Especially regarding Anama?”
She gave Jelaqua a pleading expression. The Selphid was smiling, not with her infectious grin, but a calmer smile, almost absent.
“She came and told you about my chat, huh? Her gang would have done something to her if I hadn’t stepped in. Chopped her up, maybe. There used to be [Alchemists] that took Oldblood Drake organs. They are reagents.”
“T-they are? I’ve never heard of that. How horrific!”
Melika went pale. Jelaqua shrugged, gazing out the window.
“They all vanished about twelve years back. At least, in Izril. Anama looks colder now. Though she’s still picking fights.”
The Drake girl was pushing around some of the younger Scorchlings, clearly mad—until she glanced up, saw Jelaqua, and flinched. Melika took a breath.
“Captain, can I answer your pressing questions? Then I’d be delighted to talk later? I think everything has been settled and there’s no need to go any further, grateful and sorry as we all are. Please?”
She gave the Selphid another pleading look. Jelaqua swivelled her attention to Melika.
“I can do that. I only came to get intelligence. Ophala’s the good girl around here, right? Helps out?”
“Ophala? Yes, of course! She’s wonderful, and she even gives some coin back to the orphanage and the others, though I keep telling her to save it for herself.”
“Aha, she runs with…Merry and Consillir, right?”
“That’s right. They’re the best of friends. Why are you asking…?”
The Selphid stared at the ceiling.
“Hmm. I can’t tell what kind of gang they’re part of. Which is weird. I’d assume they’d have some kind of sign, but normally it’s a tattoo or even a brand. Might be where I can’t see it. Do you know which one?”
“Captain Ivirith! Jelaqua! Ophala, in a gang? She’s a brilliant young [Tailor]!”
Melika was astonished, then outraged! She stood up, feathers ruffling, and Jelaqua sniffed.
“Dyes. And scars.”
“What?”
“Tanning dye smells strong. Even if it was just leatherworking, you’d expect someone without feathers to have needle scars on their hands. Even the best [Tailors] get them as they level. Nevermind that, it was sort of an aside. Who does your potions? You know, the stuff that mitigates all the Sootlings’ conditions?”
The Garuda woman was having trouble following the thread of Jelaqua’s questions, but that was okay, Jelaqua was doing just fine. She clacked her beak open and closed a few times as she sat back down.
“I don’t know where you got that misapprehension around Ophala, but I assure you, she’s never had a single incident with the Watch! It’s a record at the orphanage!”
“Not once, not ever? People love calling the Watch on anyone who looks wrong. How’d she dodge that all her life?”
Melika frowned and began to appear uncertain, but Jelaqua pressed her.
“Who does your potions?”
“This is confidential—oh, fine! Alchemist Xif provides the most important potions. Now and then, Alchemist Saliss comes by to provide the most elusive tonics. He is a very generous donor, though his cousin, Onieva, drops everything off. We can’t have nudity here! Aside from that, we mostly purchase what we need, though it is difficult…there are precious few specialists in Oldblood conditions, even in Pallass! We had a dedicated expert, but he passed away last year.”
“Really? Who?”
Melika rubbed at one eye as she glanced at Jelaqua suspiciously.
“Mage Isceil from Wistram Academy. He came through one of Pallass’ orphanages—so did General Shirka, come to that. Which is private, and I shouldn’t be telling you—! Why do you want to know, Jelaqua?”
Isceil. Where did she know that name? Jelaqua closed her eyes, and it came to her. Curry to the face. Ah, of course.
Damn, it was a small world after all. She nodded to herself.
“And he was the best and only Oldblood specialist in Pallass?”
“Fissival is where he lived, but he always came through here on his way south. And yes, he was one of the only ones who isn’t training young nobility in how to use their Dragonbreath and who doesn’t charge extortionate fees! Amplifying Dragonbreath or flight time is the focus, not mitigation.”
She stopped and visibly had to catch herself. This entire time, Melika had been avoiding looking at Jelaqua. She ground her beak together unhappily, then looked directly at the Selphid.
“Jelaqua, please, you’re putting me in a hard situation. I must formally ask you to stay away from Uplifting Wings and the children. I appreciate what you did for the children, but—this was not the way to handle it.”
No response. Melika clenched one claw around a quill and then went on abruptly.
“And—I have to believe you knew about that ambush last night! At the time, I was unsure how it happened, but in hindsight, it seems obvious you were prepared. Couldn’t you have called the Watch or simply…avoided them? This could all have been smoothed over! Instead, you put half a dozen children in the [Healer]’s! I know what Anama did, but did you have to threaten her?”
Jelaqua had been staring at the ceiling while Melika grew angrier and angrier. She blinked, then looked Melika in the eyes.
“I didn’t threaten her.”
“You didn’t? But she said—”
“I told her if she had tried to mug you I’d have put her on the floor. Oh, and not to badmouth my team.”
