“If she talked to you for five minutes, I doubt you’d give that impression. You’re not all fancy feathers. Surviving in Baleros as a non-native species and making a trip to a foreign continent isn’t easy. You’re not as innocent as some of your peers.”
For instance, Jelaqua had noticed Melika did have a dagger on the inside of a thigh. Melika waved the compliment off.
“I’m not you, Captain Ivirith. I—I know Salkis is running with a dangerous crowd. She hints sometimes…”
“So? Show her you’ve got some claws as well. Kids think they’re the only brave, rebellious, and original people in the world. They think age means we lost all that, not that we survived.”
Jelaqua Ivirith grinned, and Melika wore a delighted smile, then shook her head.
“No…Jelaqua, for such an upstanding Gold-rank Captain, you speak like a [Rebel]! That’s not the model I need to be, Jelaqua. To fit into Drake society, to get ahead, I have to be, the kids have to be exceptional. It’s possible! Ophala is a wonderful example, and I just wish Anama and the others would make an effort. I know it’s hard, but I did it.”
She was frustrated and actually slapped the bar with a hand before wincing.
“Ow. They just don’t ever put any effort in and give up. I wish I had more support. With a bit more actual care and attention, they’d all become wonderful people, I know it!”
Her eyes were filled with a beautiful conviction. One not reflected in Jelaqua Ivirith’s gaze, which was lit by her internal body and some lamps on the tables. Mirn silently served them both another drink as Jelaqua met his eyes, then drained her cup.
“It’s hard to make yourself into a perfect statue when you start out looking like they do. Everything and everyone tells them they’re flawed and worthless. They try to climb up, and someone steps on their fingers, Melika. You can’t blame them.”
“Captain Jelaqua—!”
Melika bristled, then went quiet. She drank from a straw in her drink before muttering.
“I know that. I know how little Pallass cares. Every time I run a concert, everyone fills me with hope and donations and sends me little [Messages] about the children they met and how much they’re glad I’m doing what I’m doing. In a week, they’ve all but forgotten. If I suggest a fundraiser before a year has passed, someone asks me if I’m pushing this too hard. People who abandon Scorchling children the moment they’re born without even going to a [Healer]’s, or just leave them in an alleyway—”
She leaned over the bar, staring down at the floor for a long moment. Then, Jelaqua thought, forced herself to relax, to smile ruefully.
“We do what we can, Jelaqua. Causing a fuss works when it is to a good cause, in the right way. Just lashing out earns you nothing but trouble. Take Werdin for example. I’m a credit to the Blackwing name with him, and he sees how much value I bring to our relationship. Along with personal attraction, of course. But we must prove ourselves. The first real generation of Uplifting Wings is struggling, but once we can show people how good they can be…then it’ll get better.”
The Selphid nodded and wondered how long Melika had been working as director of Uplifting Wings. It was probably something you could look into. What she said spoke to parts of Jelaqua; she could imagine Melika giving the same speech to her coworkers and staff. What the Selphid said, as she toasted Melika, was:
“It’s a beautiful dream, Melika. I hope it happens, I do. I don’t have the patience to fight wars like that. I’m an adventurer.”
“Oh, Jelaqua. Please. We’ve known real wars in Baleros. This is just my—work.”
“If you say so. But I can see a woman fighting. Hey Mirn, about that tab?”
 
——
 
They were walking back out of the bar and it was late. Not a lot of people on the 4th Floor—there was definitely some crime, so Jelaqua told Melika she’d better fly.
“Not much crime if you just flap up. C’mon.”
“Nooo. I’ll crash. Walk with me, please?”
Jelaqua sighed. She had to walk the unsteady Garuda upwards. She should have called someone to get Melika—her assistant or someone—but this was probably safer. For Melika. Jelaqua kept an eye over her shoulder, hoping she could get this next part out of the way…
Ah, perfect. She had to walk them in a circle by the orphanage twice, but the tail finally picked them up. They must have missed the bar. Then Jelaqua led them towards the grand stairwell. They were passing down some open streets when the gang finally showed up in a clatter of boots.
“Hey, Selphid, drop your coin pouch. And freeze!”
They were slightly out of breath from running, and young. Mid-twenties. Drakes and two Gnolls. No familiar faces—Jelaqua turned from the trash can she’d been closing.
“Oh no. A mugging!”
She had a grin on her face. Then she made a fist as they spread out; there were about a dozen of them, most with knives. One lit theirs with a bit of oil, and Jelaqua snorted.
“Listen, kids. I may be drunk, but I’m a Gold-ranker. Retired, but you lot put away your knives or I’ll trash all of you.”
Her rank made several visibly hesitate. They stared over her shoulder as Jelaqua strolled forwards, rolling up her sleeves. The leader, a burly Drake, barked.
“Drop your coins or we’ll cut you up! We’re the Flameblades, right?”
“And what’re you going to do about it if I don’t, beansprout? I eat Crelers for breakfast. C’mon, if you’re doing this, let’s—argh!”
The club hit the back of Jelaqua Ivirith’s head, and she staggered as the [Rogue] sneaking up behind her hit her with all their strength. That was the signal; the gang charged her and began to kick and punch at the Selphid.
“You—wait—the pain—help!”
Gold-ranker or not, Jelaqua only managed a few swings before they clubbed her to the ground. She kept writhing around as they stomped on her, before going slack. The panting gang kept punching and beating her before their leader called out.
“Alright, stop, stop—don’t kill her, idiots! Someone get her coin pouch! See if she’s got any gear on her.”
“Gold-rank gear? Wait…she’s got no bag of holding. Just some gold.”
“Damn. She must’ve given most of it away to the damn charity. Fuck—okay. Let’s go then!”
The Flameblades were visibly crestfallen, and a few went to kick the unconscious Selphid lying on the street. They were tossing coins to each other and searching around for witnesses when someone cursed.
“Ivirith?”
“Who the h—”
That was the last thing the gang leader said before a foot took him out of reality for a while. The rest of the Flameblades were still staring at their leader flying when General Shirka leg-swept another. She punched them into the floor as their feet left the ground and hit a third gang member like a wagon.
They never had a chance. The 2nd Army’s [General] didn’t need weapons or armor; she’d been trained by Saliss of Lights, and she stomped through the entire group so fast that the trash can lid barely had time to lift.
“Oh, General Shirka! Thank goodness! Help, help! Someone call the Watch! And a [Healer]! Jelaqua, are you alive?”
Melika Blackwing had been hiding in the trash can and poked a disheveled head out. Shirka jumped as the gang lay on the ground, unconscious or groaning in agony. The [General] strode over.
“How the hell did they jump Ivirith? She wasn’t that drunk—”
“One of them hit her from behind! Oh, oh, it was terrible! She made me hide here, and then—I—I have her bag of holding!”
“Excellent. Up you get, come on. I’ll grab Ivirith—we’re getting out of here before reinforcements show. I don’t want you or her in danger. We’ll summon the Watch.”
Shirka yanked Melika out of the trash can, then picked up Jelaqua. She and Melika raced away from the fight scene as the unconscious Flameblades littered the ground. Shirka had good instincts…though the Flameblades were probably only twelve strong. She clearly knew how to behave on the street, but hadn’t much actual practice. A lifetime of soldiering did that to you.
Melika had even worse instincts. She went flapping drunkenly along, shouting.
“Watch! Watch, help! There’s been a mugging! Call a [Healer]! Oh, Ancestors, is she alive?”
Shirka was feeling at Jelaqua’s head with a frown.
“She should be. Selphids can’t be hurt from exterior damage that badly—unless she was just that drunk? Jelaqua, can you hear—”
The Selphid’s head rose, and she pushed herself out of Shirka’s arm so fast the [General] recoiled. The Selphid landed nimbly and glowered.
“I’m fine. And I’d have been more fine if you hadn’t beaten that gang down! Now I’ve gotta deal with that. Melika, stop screaming.”
“Wh—”
Both Drake and Garuda recoiled as Jelaqua cricked her neck and glowered. General Shirka glanced back the way she’d come.
“A feint? But why?”
“Think about it—well, I guess you didn’t realize what was going on. Not your fault. Thanks, Shirka. Melika, I told you I’d be fine. That’s a Pallassian gang? Wow, they’re soft. They didn’t even break my skull.”
Jelaqua had been worked over and on the losing end of fights in the street more than once. Being in a dead body meant you didn’t suffer the loss as badly—even if they knew you were a Selphid, most people didn’t have the guts to stomp until your head was fully caved in. But damage was damage. She grimaced.
“I’m still going to need a new body, though. Damn, I liked this one. Okay, General, can you take Melika back to her mansion? I just need my bag of holding—thanks Melika—and I’ll be fine.”
“But wh—Jelaqua, I thought they had you!”
Melika was wide-eyed and still shaking. Shirka, on the other hand, was glancing from Jelaqua to the street and putting together the chain of events. She nodded.
“Apologies about that.”
“Eh, like I said, you couldn’t have known. I have to go. They’re just playing dead, and if they think the Watch is coming…see you two later! Melika, good drinks! Let’s do it again sometime!”
“Er—um—thank you?”
They watched Jelaqua race off, and Melika flapped there a few moments until she crashed onto the ground. Shirka helped her up. The Garuda gestured.
“What was that?”
The [General] rubbed at her chin.
“At a guess? Street politics. You wouldn’t happen to know who wanted Adventurer Ivirith beat down, would you? Someone that Jelaqua didn’t want to…stymie or endanger?”
Melika stared blankly at Shirka, aghast at the very notion of having underworld ties. Then her eyes widened.
“Maybe—oh no!”
 
——
 
Anama was waiting back at the Flameblade’s hideout, peeling a filched orange for her boyfriend. She was antsy, and when she heard the clatter of feet, she jumped up.
“Hey, did you get—”
The sight of the beaten-up gang limping in made her go silent with shock. Then the [Gang Leader], Mortton, stumbled in.
“Mort! What happened?”
“What happened? We got the Gold-rank, no problem, but then a damn [General] showed up! And there was no gold, artifacts, or the bicycles!”
He hissed at her, and she backed up as the wrath of the Flameblades turned on her.
“Hey! What [General]? I didn’t know about that? Thill was on scout duty!”
She pointed at the Gnoll who’d been tailing Jelaqua all night. The Gnoll had a bruise from being thumped for losing the Selphid once; she protested.
“I’m not the one who said she was an easy mark! We did this for you!”
“I knew she was bad luck!”
Another member exclaimed. They spat, furious and hurt, badly in two cases where Shirka had broken ribs with ease. Mort was just looking around at his gang, who wouldn’t be able to act for a while. He rounded on Anama, an easy target.
“You cost us big, Anama. There’s no healing potions, and your intel was screwy. I did this as a favor to you. How’re you gonna make it up?”
“Hey! You said you’d help because she choked me out! Mort, c’mon. We’re a couple…”
Anama tried to put a clawed hand on his chest, but he slapped it down. Then cursed; she was still so hot it was like touching an iron.
“We should have gotten that stupid Garuda noble! But no, you don’t think she’s worth it! We can’t get the coin pouches going to the charity you were bragging about, you can’t find any keys to the mansion—”
He began jabbing Anama in the chest, and she flinched.
“Mort, that hurts! Stop it!”
She backed up as the Flameblades clustered up, venting both their fury and grudges built up. Thill, who until Anama had been Mort’s girlfriend, whispered.
“I told you she was just using you, boss! She can’t fight, she leaves a trail—”
“I flamed off that gang yesterday for you! Don’t pin this all on me! I’m sorry, okay? Mort, c’mon—”
He was making quick calculations in his head. The Drake cast around, then hissed.
“Someone get the door. This is a bad score, right? What happens when someone makes a bad score?”
A silence fell, and every eye turned to Anama. Thill finished the sentence.
“They pay for it.”
“Wait, wait—”
The Scorchling was backing up now, and someone went for the door. Her eyes were wide.
“Mort? Mort, please—”
The door closed, letting no sound out of their hideout in one of the unused buildings marked for demolition, and then terrible things would ensue. What, exactly, depended on how much of a bastard Mort would be.
“See, this is why I hate kids. You’re almost old enough to be full monsters, but I can never tell. Do you work her over and leave her in the street? Tie her up, sell her to a [Slaver]? Force her to work in a brothel? Something darker? And all this because Shirka couldn’t help but be a hero.”
The door halted a millimeter before closing, and the Selphid shoved it open—and the Drake behind it—as she strolled in. Again, the Flameblades saw the surreal image of someone flying through the air until they crashed onto the ground and lay there.
“Wh—oh shit.”
The nearest Drake was the [Rogue] who’d hit her. He went for his daggers. Good instincts, but Jelaqua wasn’t letting him sneak up on her this time. She kicked him in the groin. He made a high-pitched sound and fell over.
“How’d she find—”
Gnoll with a club. Jelaqua kicked him in the balls, and he doubled over and curled up.
“Get out! Get—”
The third Flameblade was a female Drake, but in Jelaqua’s experience, if you kicked anyone that hard in the groin, they tended to lie down. Which this Drake did, whimpering.
“We beat you down! We did!”
Mort drew a flaming dagger as he backed up, eyes wide. Anama was frozen as Jelaqua Ivirith walked into their hideout. Her skull was dented in, and one of her eyes was unfocused; gashes on her body from their boots and blades showed eerily bloodless skin, but a faint orange glow came from her eyes.
