“No, we couldn’t do that. They’d fight. Maybe the one for children, but all the young folk will argue over who gets the two bicycles. And they’re not necessarily safe to keep, especially if those are Solar Cycles originals. Dead gods, how did you get them?”
“I knew the previous owner and I’m friends with the store people.”
And that meant wherever they were, they might have the bicycles stolen. Jelaqua nodded to herself. This was all very familiar. She leaned over the desk as Melika found the paper she needed.
“Free water’s probably something you have to have in Pallass. The reason you don’t just call the Watch on this [Landlord]?”
“That would—complicate matters. He’s one of the few people who can or will rent to us. There’s a provision in Pallassian law that makes finding new places hard…”
“…and if you piss him off he’ll just evict the kids. Plus, from the sounds of it, more’n one is running with a gang. Are they flash, blade, or just low-score?”
“What? What do those words mean, Captain?”
The Garuda [Socialite] blinked at Jelaqua. She fumbled with the paper, jotting down a note. Then rang a bell at her desk.
“Journe? Can you make an appointment with Landlord Inmal? Thank you.”
She had a Garuda [Assistant] who took the note. Journe was dressed like a [Butler]. Jelaqua eyed his long uniform which covered his wing-arms, a very odd rarity for Garuda. Then she jerked a thumb at the Drake girl striding into the courtyard and grabbing one of the bicycles.
“Sorry, street terms. You pick them up. Flash means the gang’s all about showing off. Big heists, jewels, and lots of bragging. Some actual substance, but they’d probably steal skateboards or do things like paint a wall or attack a [Guard]. Thieving too, mostly. Blade’s the opposite. They’re the ones mugging and actually stabbing people. Low-score means they’re not really much of anything, just a bunch of low-levels not worth categorizing.”
The Garuda woman fidgeted, clearly uncomfortable.
“I—I don’t know. I don’t think Anama’s running with that dangerous a crowd. Though Ophala thinks she’s in a nest of crime. They don’t get along, and they’re both leaders in their own way. Ophala was here since she was two, and Anama came from another city at…I want to say eight? Both have been here since I took over.”
The Selphid nodded, glancing around the neat little office. Melika shifted, peering at her with more discomfort than yesterday.
“Excuse me, Captain Ivirith, let me thank you properly for the help. I’m sure if you’d care to go down and show the kids something—safely; one of your Skills, maybe?—it would make their day. I’d hate to tax you more than that. This is all I wanted.”
“Oh, I don’t mind. It’s the least I can do. You’re a far better woman than I thought, Melika.”
The Selphid smiled, and Melika blushed.
“What makes you say that? I’m hardly—”
“You’re hiring them, aren’t you? At least some. Journe must not have his wingfeathers, so he can’t fly.”
“How do you—?”
“Garuda would never cover up their wings like that unless that was the case. Poor kid, Ophala. It must make getting jobs real hard. How much time do you spend on this?”
“Well, if I’m not preparing for an event—a few days out of the week. It runs without me, I’m just finances and some managerial stuff. But it’s just not enough once they leave…please forgive Anama.”
Jelaqua shrugged, eying the girl as she tried to wheel the bicycle out of the courtyard. One of the staff deftly stopped her.
“She’s a little shit, but sure.”
“Captain Ivirith! She’s just troubled—”
“Nah. She knew what she was doing with that flame breath stunt. She’d have baked you and everyone around her. And she would have killed herself if she did it twice. She’s used her flames in the last few days; she’s too hot.”
Melika hesitated, half-risen from her desk. She peered at the girl, then turned to Jelaqua.
“I thought she was running too hot, but how can you…? Oh.”
Jelaqua nodded.
“I’ve partied with…seven Scorchlings over the duration of the Halfseekers. You probably remember Halassia Evergleam the best; she was our [Mage] along with Moore. Noticing the signs gets to be second nature. How many of the kids here are Scorchling or have another problem like Ophala?”
Now, Melika was hesitating. She clicked her beak a few times.
“…More than half. More than two-thirds, I’d guess. That is, usually, the commonality between children left with us. We do look for good families, but mostly, those that are adopted are, um—”
“Not Scorchlings. Drakes think it’s bad luck. Not many Garuda would take in that kid without feathers, either. Gnolls…white fur? But mostly the same. That kid’s blind.”
It was the same story from Baleros despite this being a far better place for them. Jelaqua sighed and leaned on the windowsill as Melika nodded.
“It’s far from ideal. And as you say, some children are in need of dire medical attention. A lot of the gold goes to buying supplies and treatments for them. I actually have hopes Wistram will have more medicines and enchantments in that area. They’re teasing alchemical formulas on par with their magic.”
“Hey now, that would be good. I reckon I can donate more gold too.”
“That’s so generous of you, Captain. But you don’t need to—”
Jelaqua didn’t have more gold in her bag of holding, so she just wrote a note she could stamp with a personal seal; Gold-rankers carried such things for big purchases. She hesitated, bit her lip, then added another zero.
“Here. This is the kind of place Halassia would have loved to see. She never grew up in Pallass; she could have used this.”
“Oh my, Jelaqua—! Thank you.”
The Selphid smiled and waved it away, and Melika rose to hug her.
“Nah, don’t worry about it. C’mon, you can introduce me to the children.”
And she meant what she’d said. She could never have started something like this. Seeing the [Socialite] going down to the courtyard and playing with the children with clear familiarity put her in a different light. It embarrassed Jelaqua, really. She’d thought of Melika as being just a well-intentioned noblewoman, but she had a good heart and the actions to back it.
Well, the Selphid did her best. It was easy to produce her Demas Metal flail and give it a few swings while everyone watched from a very safe distance, or to regale the kids with a few tales about fighting monsters.
The children were agog by her; that was simple, and Jelaqua let one of the Gnoll boys feel her face and giggle, but her attention was on the older crowd.
“Miss Ivirith, I’m very sorry you had to see that disgraceful display with Anama. I’m Ophala, a [Tailor] in training, and very pleased to meet you!”
The featherless Garuda girl came over to shake Jelaqua’s hand, and the Selphid peered at her. Ophala was fairly nimble on the ground; without feathers, she’d be lighter than even other Garuda, who were pound-for-pound the 3rd-lightest species in the world, behind Fraerlings and Selphids, and that really wasn’t a fair metric.
She wore clothing with fake feathers embroidered or stuck onto the clothing to hide the featherlessness, but her head still looked disconcertingly small and, if you wanted to be blunt, somewhat like a chicken’s plucked head. She blushed, but Jelaqua just grinned at her.
“Not a fan of that other kid? You’re quick on your feet.”
“I used to, um, work as a Street Runner! And this is Merry and Consillir—”
Oh, it was familiar. Jelaqua couldn’t remember how many times she’d seen a half-Gnoll in Izril. And she’d been here for decades—normally, you got half-Gnoll, half-Humans who ranged from furry-ish people to Gnolls with slightly different facial features. Half-Drake, half-Gnoll?
Fertility spell that didn’t work as intended. He had patchy scales on his arms, and the Gnoll kid had buds like neck spines on his neck and a more Drake-like bone structure and face. It was offputting just from the sense that you were used to Drake norms.
Consillir was a Dullahan kid who wore no armor, and his visible skin was roughened from exposure to the elements. Probably he couldn’t separate his limbs or neck; another ‘failing’ in the eyes of Dullahans and which made wearing armor non-stop as hard for him as it would be for [Knights]; he’d be in danger of getting gangrene or other bacterial infections from being inside the armor all the time.
Jelaqua grinned as she shook hands with the shy lot, chatting.
“Most’ve your friends are Drakes, right? Scorchlings?”
They all hesitated at the name, but Ophala nodded.
“That’s most of us, yes, Captain. See Ninssa there? She’s water-element. Which means—”
“Ah, damn. Dehydrates herself?”
She appeared rather desiccated, and Ophala blinked. The girl was blowing little bubbles of water for some of the children and getting scolded.
“That’s right! How d’you know that?”
“Halassia Evergleam was a former teammate of mine. She was a Scorchling too, and I used to run with a Drake called Bilth—he was also water-element. Between him and Seborn, we used to take so much drinking water we’d just load up a barrel for our provisions when we went on an adventure. Do you all get along or fight?”
“Mostly, we’re good, yes? Just not Anama and her gang.”
Merry growled. He flicked out a forked tongue, and Jelaqua nodded.
“That’s good. I’d hate to see what four Scorchlings could do if they started breathing.”
“Oh! You know about combined Dragonbreath? We blew up an apartment one time. That’s why we’re stuck with Coincutter Inmal.”
Consillir spoke up, and Ophala tried to shush him. She gave Jelaqua a too-wide smile.
“That was an accident. It never happens regularly…um, so do Gold-rankers meet a lot of famous people like the Players of Celum, Captain Ivirith?”
Jelaqua laughed softly and went for the bait. She showed them a few autographed cards from all the Players as they gasped over them and remembered how silly Wesle and Jasi had been back in the day. Then Jelaqua asked a few more questions.
“So, Miss Melika’s a good manager?”
Ophala’s face lit up as she gazed towards the Garuda giving one of the children a low-level flight across the ground.
“She’s the best! I want to work for her, but—I’ve got a good job. But she comes here all the time, and we can come by.”
Merry muttered.
“So long as we’re not Anama. Everyone likes Melika. She just can’t fix everything.”
Then he glanced at the other young people. They nudged each other until Ophala burst out.
“You’d better watch out, Captain Ivirith! Anama’s evil. She’s got a gang she runs with. The Flameblades. They might get revenge for you tossing her around.”
Jelaqua was shocked.
“Little old me? I barely touched her.”
“Well, she’s sleeping with their boss—”
Ophala kicked Merry, who seemed to be something of a loudmouth. Jelaqua snorted.
“Yeah, that’d do it. I’ve never heard of the ‘Flameblades’, but I’m new to Pallass. What’re they, flash, low-score? Or actual blades?”
Again, she saw that blank expression on most faces, but Ophala answered easily.
“No, they’re actual blades, but more low-score’n—uh, well, they’re not that big. They mostly just hold people up for coins in their bags of holding, but they might be a problem!”
She fidgeted, and Jelaqua smiled faintly. She winked at Ophala.
“Thanks for the warning, Miss Ophala. Hey, do any of you want to see what Demas Metal does? Give me a bit of water and I’ll show you a trick, though no one’s touching the flail—it’ll cut your fingers off. I keep losing ‘em when I forget, and unlike me, none of you are sewing them back on…okay, except for you, Stitch-kid. You can hold it. What’s your name?”
 
——
 
Jelaqua spent two more hours with the kids before it was getting dark, and Melika announced it was time to wash up for supper. She thanked Jelaqua again.
“This was wonderful, Captain Ivirith. Please don’t feel poorly about missing the event—spending this much time with the children is more than they wanted, and the young people were delighted to meet you.”
Jelaqua stowed the bikes in her bag of holding as she smiled, genuinely pleased.
“I’m glad. Would it be bad if I came by now and then? This really is…something important. I know I didn’t do anything other than impress you as a kid, but I feel proud of you. Sorry.”
She saw the Garuda blush.
“That means…a lot coming from one of my heroines, Captain Ivirith. It’s what I can do. And yes, any time! They’d love to see you.”
Jelaqua glanced at the young folk filing out of the courtyard and waving. Most seemed headed in the same direction. She guessed they probably had a few communities they’d go to. She saw a Drake stepping back into the street as her head turned and nodded.
“No problem.”
“Would you have time to have dinner? Werdin knows I’m out—I’d love to host you at my estate unless your husband is waiting for you? My [Chef] could prepare something.”
“Nah, nah…better to do this kind of thing on the streets. I could do a bar.”
Jelaqua murmured, and Melika blinked.
“What thing?”
“Hm? Oh, I’d love to! But why don’t we find a place nearby and catch a drink or two?”
“I…would love to. I don’t know any establishments around here, though.”
The orphanage was on the 4th Floor, which wasn’t exactly as prosperous as a place Melika would frequent. But Jelaqua just glanced around and pointed.
“There’s always a bar, Melika. C’mon, I’ll buy.”
 
——
 
Booze and adventuring ran together like adventuring and blood. Or adventuring and holes in your socks. Or adventuring and lice. Or…
“Jelaqua, that’s horrible! There has to be some fun in adventuring! Or why would anyone bother?”
Jelaqua had found a bar in record time. She had a nose for noise and a bit of fun. They were sitting together at a bar, sipping some bad drinks. Really bad, no flavor or anything Rufelt could do to them. Just two liquids mixed together with, if you were lucky, a third or a bit of fruit stuck on the glass.
It was amazing how bad someone without Skills could be, and if this Drake slinging drinks had the [Bartender] class, Jelaqua would eat the shitty plywood bar they were sitting at.
This was a hole in the ground, literally—a cellar renovated to be an eating and drinking place. Jelaqua had only found it because Melika had noticed a bunch of people with her class. The bouncer at the doors had given them a lot of trouble until Jelaqua pulled her retired Gold-rank card.
She’d been worried the burly Drake woman wanted a fight, but she’d left the two alone after that. All the clientele were drinking or partying together. Good atmosphere, shitty drinks.
