“It is improper for me to take even an ounce of your grief with my foolish thoughts. But it is right that I, as your husband, ask you what you’re doing and support you. A [Smith] prides himself on his craft, but also those who are worthy of it. In you, I found someone who exceeded the limits of my craft.”
He shook his head as she sat there.
“My mother and father asked me, the day before we wed, if I had been tricked by you. As if it were not the other way around. Forgive them, Jelaqua, if they earn it. But please, tell me your plans. How else will I smile when I see them realized?”
He gave her that shy expression then, of someone gazing at a valuable ingot of metal—the most valuable thing he’d ever laid eyes on. The one thing he could not forge nor would ever sell. And she remembered why she’d liked him.
The Selphid blushed pure orange as she fumbled her chalk pencil.
“You—you big softy! You could scold me or, I dunno, paddle my rear or something! I did get arrested!”
“I do not mix the bedroom with the kitchen.”
That drew a full laugh from Jelaqua. She smiled, then, like the mysterious Gold-ranker he had been charmed by, someone who had gone far beyond the limits of his imagination and yet seemed to find him a worthy adventure.
Then, as he waited for food to cook, he sat, and she sat on his lap and began to write down her plans. Maughin listened, his body getting up to work, making her lay it out like the steps of a forge. Nodding along, and she smiled as she felt the ideas in her head crystalizing as well.
A relief to a fear she’d kept inside of her. That he was unwilling to tolerate her actions or, worse, they might get bored of each other. Instead, she realized he’d just been waiting, that patient, sneaking Dullahan.
 
[Loving Wife Level 14!]
[Skill – Lover: Buffed Boots, Buffed Speed Obtained!]
 
[Dutiful Husband Class Obtained!]
[Dutiful Husband Level 3!]
[Skill – Lover: Perfect-fit Armor Obtained!]
[Synergy Skill – Lover’s Embrace: Rhythm of Steel Obtained!]
[Skill – Locate Lover Obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Resistance: Bludgeoning Obtained!]
 
They both woke up, exclaimed, and hugged in the night before going back to sleep. They had a big day ahead of them.
Privately, though…that last one was a bit of a relief to Maughin. Jelaqua really didn’t know her own strength.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith visited her least favorite place in the entire world. Her second-least favorite being probably the Demon Lands in Rhir or something.
Steelforged Loaves, the bakery run by Maughin’s parents, was already serving early-morning customers, and Mordol was in the back. Milden shot Jelaqua a warning look when she came in, but it was the blank-faced woman with her head in a basket who made eye-contact with Jelaqua.
Vhiren, Maughin’s mother, made no gesture of greeting or acknowledgement, which was a slap in the face. But Jelaqua’s body was dead, and she’d punched out Lady Pryde yesterday. She could take a hit, and today, she was all business.
“Good morning, Miss Vhiren! No bread for me today. Well, maybe a croissant. Have you seen Landlord Inmal?”
The woman pulled a warm croissant out of the trays on display and spoke flatly.
“We have heard about last night, Adventurer Ivirith. Who is this [Landlord]? It is not appropriate that you should think you can find any Dullahan in this store because it is run by other Dullahans.”
“Oh, that’s me. Racist as Innkeeper Erin. Don’t worry, I only beat up Scorchlings and kids who’re dying and neglected. Someone’s got to.”
Jelaqua’s voice was too loud and cheerful in the bakery. The other Dullahans were studiously ignoring them, but she bet their ears would be a-waggling if they were half-Elves or Goblins. Vhiren refused Jelaqua’s coins stiffly.
“You are family.”
“Thank you so much.”
Jelaqua bowed to Vhiren and turned, polite as could be. The [Baker] hesitated and then called out when Jelaqua was halfway toward the door.
“Out of curiosity, if we did run into him—why are you looking for Landlord Inmal?”
Jelaqua pivoted, a smile on her face.
“Oh, that’s personal. He knows what he did. I’ll find him one way or another. Good thing it wasn’t here. Walls look fragile. Not termites, just—unenchanted. Plus, you’re family.”
As ominous statements went, that one made all the Dullahans actually turn. Vhiren’s mouth stayed open, and then her daughter, Linteca, poked her head out of the back where she was getting breakfast. All the Dullahans began to whisper.
Who was this Inmal and why was Jelaqua searching for him? After a moment, Vhiren sent her daughter out of her shop to ask a question from someone else she knew in the community.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith hummed as she strolled across Pallass. Along the way, she ran into people, because it was such a lovely day.
“Captain Ivirith, we’re from the Landlord’s Guild. Were you by any chance looking for a certain member of ours? I hope we can resolve anything agreeably…?”
“Just looking for a word. Don’t worry, it’s between us. He knows what he did.”
“I, uh, I remind you that all tenants are securely locked within their contracts, adjudicated by our Guild! And that the Watch is involved in any serious altercations—”
“Thank you! I’m not worried. I’m best friends with Watch Captain Qissa, General Shirka, Secret Agent Zemize—and the inn. The Wandering Inn.”
Such pleasant conversations.
“Jelaqua Ivirith, you’re pushing your luck. Invoking my name is not wise, and you’re a wise woman. What are you doing?”
“You tell me, Zemize. Papers, please.”
“…Your knowledge of certain events does not guarantee you immunity from Pallass’ laws.”
“I’m well aware. Catch me breaking any? Aside from yesterday, I’m not breaking any laws today.”
“If you cause trouble, well-intentioned or not—”
“Maybe I wouldn’t have to if you were good at your job. Whoops! Messed up your clothing there. You were saying, Agent?”
And then, of course the classic—
“Hey, Jelaqua.”
“Ishkr! You rogue, what are you doing, shopping?”
“Nope. Kevin and Grimalkin called in. They said you were ‘up to something’, and Lyonette sent me to investigate. Are you?”
“Sure am.”
“Heh. Need backup?”
“You know…could you get Silveran for me? You could watch if you want. I’m just headed to see my darling husband, Maughin!”
And then they were all in Senator Errif’s office! The Gnoll was one of Pallass’ major players in the Assembly of Crafts, and with a flourish, he produced a stamp.
“I am pleased, very pleased to approve this forge for the 9th Floor! And the expansion of the Smithing District to enable such a momentous project. I trust it will be soundproofed, and the Engineer’s Guild will spring into action! Spring into it, I say! That will show these Wistram-loving fools.”
He beamed as Maughin smiled and glanced at Ishkr, and all the [Aides] clearly wondered who he was. But the [Smith] proffered the contract for Errif to sign, and the Gnoll stamped it with a flourish. Then he blinked at the second piece of parchment.
“This one too, thanks Errif!”
“Oh, of course. Damn, there’s always two pieces of—wait a second, this isn’t the forge paperwork.”
Jelaqua beamed at the [Senator] over the table.
“Nope! Actually, I’m not sure whose district it is. But while we’re here—”
Maughin and everyone else in the room turned to Jelaqua. Ishkr was just grinning as the [Senator] fished out some spectacles and read.
“Hold on. This is a housing permit for…that’s not my district. I can’t approve this! And why are you—?”
Jelaqua leaned back in her chair.
“Whose district would this be? Let’s get it signed, Errif. It’s not a difficult permit.”
“No, but—this is highly irregular, Miss Ivirith. You should go through the proper channels for this. Why don’t I forward it to our system and—”
The Selphid’s voice grew louder as she sat in her chair.
“What? You don’t want to help the neglected children of Uplifting Wings? Senator, how could you!”
He blinked and protested.
“Miss Ivirith, don’t be upset. I respect your rank, of course, but—er, well, it’s just that I’d approve this, of course! It’s just a permit, but these things have to go in order!”
“So you won’t sign this paperwork for the orphans of the charity, Uplifting Wings? The one you gave money to just the other day?”
Amazingly, her voice got louder though her tone didn’t actually increase in intensity. It must be a Selphid trick; Errif glanced out his open office door.
“Miss Ivirith, I can see you’re upset, but this—”
“It’s just a housing permit for the poor children of Pallass without homes, Senator Errif. For Uplifting Wings—”
One of the [Aides], with excellent political instincts, was trying to close the door to Errif’s office. But wouldn’t you know it—Ishkr’s foot was in the way.
Amazing how that happened. She winked at him as he grinned. No wonder he was Erin’s best employee.
And it was also amazing how Errif could get tired of explaining at increasing volumes why this simple paperwork he’d be happy to sign, and had no problem with on paper, suddenly was able to get to the right desk, and a very surprised [Senator] reviewed and stamped it in no time. Jelaqua paid a fee, and that was that.
Paperwork and bureaucracy? So easy to do, so efficient! She thanked both [Senators], who had fingers in their ears and a mild case of deafness. They glared at her as Maughin tried to shove her outside.
He was scolding her loudly, of course, as he pushed her outside. Highly scandalized…Maughin only stopped and gave her a wink after they were outside. Then he kissed her and wished her good luck. After begging her publicly to not kill any [Landlords].
Now why would people think she was doing that?
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith stood outside Landlord Inmal’s personal residence.
Menacingly.
Well, that’s what he claimed when the Watch officer came by. She explained she was just politely waiting for a business opportunity and hadn’t known if he’d be in. If you couldn’t wait to talk to someone, what a world they lived in, eh?
The Dullahan wasn’t even that old. He was twenty years younger than she was and glared at her as the Watch officer stood by as a witness for their polite street discussion.
“I don’t know what you claim I’ve done to you, but if this is some tactic to threaten me, I have witnesses!”
“Landlord, I’d never threaten you! I am looking to buy one of your apartments at a reasonable rate—”
“Aha! The answer is no! You can’t threaten me!”
The Gold-rank adventurer nodded, keeping her smile on her face.
“Indeed I cannot. Well, that’s that, then. Good day to you! Officer, as you can see, I am now leaving, and I do not need to speak to this fine Dullahan again. You can accompany me to my next building if you’d like. I have another very simple business deal to partake in, and the buyer is already agreed.”
Inmal felt triumphant right until he heard the rest of what she was saying and squinted at her.
“What buyer?”
“None of your business.”
“I know what you’re trying to do—steal the Sootlings! You can’t rent to them! Even if I sold to you, I’m the only [Landlord] on the 5th that has a permit!”
“Well, one of two now.”
She showed him her permit, and he paled.
“You think you can steal my tenants?”
“Not at all. We’re just going to compete like friendly owners of real estate. I’m sure you’ll win them over with your long-term relationship and appeal, but I might get one or two, and that’s business, isn’t it?”
The Dullahan’s mouth worked. He turned to the Watch officer.
“This is a threat! She’s pressuring me!”
“With a Skill, sir? I don’t see one active. Legally, I’d have to check, but I think this is above-board.”
The officer was admiring the shiny bike that a Gnoll had parked as he listened to this meeting. Ishkr rang the bell as Jelaqua turned back to Inmal.
“There’s nothing to worry about, [Landlord]. There is no threat I could make aside from honest competition. You’ve done nothing wrong—unless you were failing to upkeep your property in accordance with Pallassian Housing Law Edict 31 on the subject of working sanitation and well access. But someone would have filed a complaint about that! And you wouldn’t be in trouble unless you hadn’t fixed the well for over two months. But who wouldn’t file a complaint with the Watch until now?”
She had to lean on his shoulder as she laughed about that. Then Jelaqua patted the suddenly very-still Dullahan on the shoulder.
“They’d have to be terrified of the consequences not to! Funny thing about crimes. They don’t go away if you wait. Well, some actually do, but socially it’s a bad look. And the funny thing about consequences is that you should fear them—until they go away.”
She smiled and turned to the Watch officer.
“Alright, I’m ready to buy that new apartment complex. Unless [Landlord] Inmal has something to say?”
She turned, and at this point, she rather suspected he wished she’d punched him.
 
——
 
Being a [Landlord] sucked, anyways. Jelaqua didn’t need the class, but she stamped the paperwork and then slapped her forehead.
“You didn’t actually bring Silveran here, Ishkr? Because that would be a real Erin move, and we’re not having that today, are we?”
He smiled and chuckled as Jelaqua grabbed a bunch of tools he’d thoughtfully brought over.
“Not at all. Silveran does hire other employees. How does a Human and Gnoll duo sound? Both over Level 30.”
“Dead gods. Level 30 [Cleaners]? What is Silveran cleaning over there?”
“Everything.”
The duo wearing Silveran’s Cleaners uniforms were waiting for Jelaqua when she met them at the apartment complex. The Selphid shook their hands. Male and female—she had to ask.
“How’d you level that fast?”
“Well, we were both Level 20 when Silveran scouted us. It was join him or be swept over by the broom of change.”
“The mop of modernity.”
“The brush of Antinium working too damn hard to keep up with! Plus, he guarantees us a good hourly wage. We serve three cities now, and Pallass is a good test ground, he says. Mind if we take notes on how hard it is?”
“Sure thing! And I owe Silveran a big tip; let me just talk to the tenants. We’ll avoid anyone inside until we have word—you know how to clear a well?”
The [Cleaners] nodded.
“We have a lot of classes that synergize with our main one. You’re in luck; Minty Mithy here is a [Plumbing Cleaner]. Amazing how often you have to unclog piping in a house. I’m a [Pest Cleaner].”
“Awfully broad class, [Cleaner].”
“As broad as the horizons Silveran intends to polish clean with the, uh…Mithy?”
“The dustrag of the future?”
“Ooh, I like that.”
