“For some big gang? That’s a risky job, and she seems quick. She laced you twice when you two were fighting. Who’s she report to?”
Jelaqua didn’t turn her head as Anama sat on the stairs that were going to be demolished and rebuilt tomorrow apparently. Gold and her name had power. Anama wanted it. She hated Jelaqua; she had never disliked anyone more. She had never wanted the Selphid’s abilities more. Even more than wanting to breathe without coughing…
The Scorchling coughed now, and Jelaqua glanced at her.
“Shame you didn’t get better lungs or heat control.”
“I—I wanted scales.”
“Ah, want. Careful. You should want to be better rather than look better at Level 20. If you hit it. You could just sit here and find another group to run with. Melika takes care of you kids well. Maybe…too well.”
Jelaqua put a foot on the repaired well’s cover, and Anama glared.
“Are you being sarcastic? You did more’n she could. How’s she doing too well?”
The Selphid tilted her head.
“I’m here a day, kid. Who knows, I might have a kid, lose interest, be gone tomorrow. She’s been with you since you were kids. Time matters. Now I’m doing speeches again. What I meant was—when life is hard, you level. So maybe without her, more of you would be dead or worse, but a few of you’d have levelled. That’s the damn thing about how levels work.”
She sighed, and Anama coughed.
“So why aren’t you making our lives hell? Free toilets instead of the shared ones sounds easier.”
“Shitting in a bucket instead of a toilet never levelled anyone up, Anama. Except that one time…that’s a rumor. I guess I’m soft. Besides, some things would be better if you had them, right?”
The young woman coughed again.
“A tub would be…nice. One that fills with cold water instead of having to go to a bathhouse and pay for it?”
Her voice filled with longing at the idea, and Jelaqua glanced at her, and her face grew shadowed.
“Yeah. Imagine that in Pallass of all places. You’ll get one.”
Then they were quiet. Anama rubbed her chest. She forced the words out after a lot of tries, and they were halting because she was afraid. Afraid to ask and be answered.
“Can you—can you really make me better?”
Jelaqua turned her head.
“I can level you up. The number of my friends who hit Level 30 are six out of eight. That’s a good record. The number of my friends who hit Level 40…? Zero. Well, one, but I don’t think he counts.”
She laughed ruefully. Anama didn’t know what she meant, but she drank in the words like cooling rain.
“I’m only a Gold-ranker, Anama. You think that’s big because you’ve never seen the top. I’m a mean old Selphid. Not Melika. She’s kindness all the way down, like a cake. I’m filled with beartraps. But I can do what’s needed. At the very least, I know what you all need. And it’s to stop acting like you quit Uplifting Wings once you get too old. You’re a team. You grew up together, damn it! You support each other and fight and die together.”
She turned her head.
“Well, that’s all I know from Baleros. Funny thing is, Melika’s from there too. She’s awfully kind for someone from the Continent of War.”
Anama sat there, excited and afraid of this woman who was contemplating her new future. Because she felt like she was going to sign up on the piece of paper Jelaqua had tacked up, even though Melika said she could stay at the orphanage or anywhere else.
Death or glory. And death was coming for Anama; Jelaqua Ivirith had never lied about that, and Melika did. The Selphid knew death, and Anama’s scales were cool and not flaking for the first time in her life. So she croaked a secret.
“Ophala ‘n Merry and Consillir all run in the same gang. I dunno how they get money, but they work for someone important.”
“Oh? That’s bad.”
“Maybe. But maybe you know her? She’s that Drake who follows you around sometimes. The one with the badge?”
Jelaqua stiffened and swore under her breath.
“Zemize. No wonder she knows what I’m doing. Damn it. First the Raskghar, now this. I thought Pallass was going to be boring! It’s only a Walled City, I said—ah, well.”
She let out a huge sigh and stretched. Anama heard her back pop, and the Selphid turned in the darkness of Pallass. Her smile caught the light as she chuckled.
“I was getting bored in my retirement.”
 
——
 
That night, Jelaqua Ivirith didn’t go to sleep in great expectations of anything, but it seemed something else did have plans for her. For as ever, she heard that voice.
 
[Steelforged Whirlwind Level 39…?]
 
It felt a bit…off. Jelaqua Ivirith shifted as she lay next to Maughin, not really awake. And she would have said, if she were fully awake, that the level didn’t track.
She’d done no real combat. But what else did she have? Only [Loving Wife], and that made no sense. Of course, you could give another class.
 
[Landlord Class Ob…!]
 
No, she wouldn’t take that, would she? The slumbering Jelaqua grimaced, and the voice trailed off.
Like it was thinking. Unravelling a little knot of Jelaqua’s actions. Because they were odd, weren’t they? Once again, she’d done something different. Something new…but they sort of fit with who she was as well. Just not her current, consolidated class.
Perhaps:
 
[Steelforged Whirlwind Level 38.]
[Subclass: Mercenary Level 25!]
[Skill – Beat Them Into…]
 
Again, the voice trailed off. Thoughtfully, and Jelaqua Ivirith slumbered, trusting and waiting. Until at last the voice came back, satisfied.
 
[Class Separation: Mercenary Reassigned.]
[Class Change: Mercenary → Company Commander Obtained!]
[Company Commander Level 26!]
[Skill – Gruelling Taskmistress Obtained!]
[Skill – Company: Check Condition Obtained!]
[Skill – Motivating Presence Obtained!]
[Skill – Company: Bonds of Fellowship Obtained!]
 
Then Jelaqua Ivirith opened her eyes and blinked at the ceiling.
“Class separation?”
She’d never heard of that. Next to her, Maughin’s body rolled over in his sleep. And what was that?
[Commander]? She’d been a [Mercenary], someone who could lead a squad, but a company? That was a huge promotion. But why…?
“Oh. I guess I was sort of thinking about it like that. Kids and soldiers. Someone needs to…yeah.”
The Selphid was staring at her hands. She saw Maughin open one sleepy eye.
“Jelaqua? Is it Raskghar again?”
“No; go to sleep, silly.”
He dropped off at once. Jelaqua would tell him in the morning, but she realized…yes. That was the right answer. That was how she was thinking.
Company. The [Company Commander] lay back in her bed and wondered if she’d ever hit Level 40. But eternally levelling in other classes.
A company. The idea bloomed in her head, the same thing that the voice had latched onto, and then Jelaqua saw it, like one of Maughin’s armor diagrams. An idea blooming in the darkness.
“Yeah. Why not?”
She didn’t know orphanages. She didn’t—couldn’t be Melika, trying to work within the law. All she knew was adventuring and her home. She knew how a company lived and worked. The Selphid rubbed at her chin. She wasn’t even the first to come to Izril. Perorn Fleethoof was the first.
Hers was just the second. A mercenary company like no other. The Selphid laughed to herself. Leading children.
Someone had to. She rolled over in her bed and was asleep in seconds, like the experienced campaigner she was. She had a busy day tomorrow and every day after that.
At last, she was back to work.
