“Captain Ivirith, that’s a threat! You fought a gang! There were a dozen ways to avoid it coming to the worst outcome and it seems to me you ignored them all!”
Now Melika was angry. She half-rose, and Jelaqua sat up a bit. She fixed Melika with a stern look of her own.
“I didn’t threaten Anama, Melika. Threats never work. ‘Specially not on kids. Same with running them off or even having the Watch arrest them. They were a gang ready to beat me down and mug me on Anama’s say-so. Or you. Did Anama even tell you what I saved her from? She might not know—but I do. Should I let them run around in their little fantasy, thinking they can jump a Gold-ranker, or just let a gang keep operating?”
Melika hesitated, suddenly on the back-wing and not sure how that had happened.
“No, but the Watch—”
“The Watch is a wonderful tool in some cities. I don’t trust ‘em. Your kid was making stupid mistakes. You said so last night.”
“So the answer is violence?”
Melika’s voice rose, and Jelaqua raised her brows as the door opened and the assistant looked in uncertainly. The Garuda blushed, but Jelaqua just stood up.
“Talking didn’t seem to work for however many years you’ve tried it. Just an observation. Right, thanks for the info. Back to Liscor. Montressa.”
She saluted Melika with two fingers. The Garuda lady waited for an explanation, her mouth open. Jelaqua Ivirith just strode out the door. Melika nearly shouted at her back. Then she turned to her assistant as he stared at her.
“Who’s Montressa?”
 
——
 
It was very simple, really. All she was doing was gathering the bits and pieces she hadn’t picked up on. Seeing how the terrain lay. It wasn’t anything big. She promised.
“I don’t have a lot of time, and I’m not overcommitting. I’m just asking normal questions. You know? It’s not that hard, and it’s no time out of my day. Really, it’s about supply and demand. Turns out the inn has lots of healing potions. That’s always useful. And why not ask about a specialist, you know?”
Jelaqua explained herself to Valeterisa and Montressa. The two were staring at each other over a three-dimensional magical diagram of an academy in their rooms. After a moment, Valeterisa whispered.
“Apprentice, did I miss the opening to this conversation?”
“No, Master.”
“Ah, good. I worried I had erased those memories by accident.”
Then the Archmage of Izril put on her best customer-smile for Jelaqua.
“Hello, Miss Ivirith, I am a very busy Archmage of Izril who is normally not disturbed by anyone due to my rank. I am hard at work on Miss Lyonette’s detoxification spells and containment ones, so if this is about that…”
“Isceil.”
Montressa blinked as Jelaqua spoke the Drake’s name. The Selphid put her hands in her pockets and gazed at Montressa.
“Isceil, right? D’you know if he left any of his potions or recipes for dealing with Oldblood ailments? Scorchlings specifically, but there’s all kinds. Anything would do.”
The name kicked Montressa like one of Rhaldon’s horses. She sat down.
“Isceil? Why are you…”
“There’s some Scorchlings at the orphanage where he used to go to volunteer. Without him, I think they’re not as well-supplied. Even Xif and Saliss wouldn’t necessarily be brewing specialist medicine for them.”
Both Valeterisa and Montressa knew what Scorchlings were, which spoke to their experience both in Drake society and as [Mages]. Valeterisa covered her mouth with a hand.
“Oh. I anticipate something cripplingly sad. Just like Relc said, you can see it. Lalalalalala—apprentice, I leave this to you. I shall be back in fifteen minutes. Lalalalalala—”
She flew out a window, which you had to admire. Valeterisa was quickly becoming a regular of the inn. Jelaqua nodded to her with a smile.
“Okay, how about it?”
Montressa was less composed. She wiped at her eyes.
“I’m—oh, that’s painful. Maybe I need Mrsha’s [Healer] they’re looking for too. Potions? His supplies? We gave all that to his family, Jelaqua. I’m sorry. I didn’t keep his textbooks, and all his spells for Oldblood phenomena would be somewhere in Fissival. Why? Is someone badly sick?”
She seemed worried, then relieved as Jelaqua shook her head.
“Nah, just asking if there was some convenient medicine or…something. It’s worth a shot in Erin’s inn, right? Damn. Valeterisa wouldn’t know about some way to cure Scorchling afflictions, would she?”
The [Apprentice] cast around.
“I could ask. [Locate Master]—Master, come inside! Jelaqua has a question, and you’re getting wet!”
She cracked open the window, and Valeterisa ducked down from where she was hovering just under the window’s ledge. When the Archmage came inside, she confirmed that no, she had no special cure.
“Even [Restoration] is, um, unfeasible. Very ironically and sadly given the plans for Tenbault—I mean, um…not-Tenbault. I did research the ailments when I was in Fissival, but they are all specialized and unique. No common magical cause or root method of curation.”
Jelaqua smiled and came out of her focused state for a second.
“What led you to study Scorchling maladies?”
The Archmage of Izril glanced around and hesitated.
“I was, um, dating.”
“Ah.”
Valeterisa had the same attitude a lot of Drakes raised in Drake society did—which was that Scorchlings were Drakes hit with terrible luck. Instead of the positives, you got the negatives, and it was uncomfortable, not something you talked about. Hopefully not something you had to see. Reactions ranged from sympathy to disgust. Even in the ‘best’ cases, the people who saw Scorchlings were surprised and dismayed by the poor individuals.
And that, of course…hurt. Jelaqua Ivirith pushed herself up with a sigh.
“Thank you for your time, you two. I guess that you can’t ask for pure miracles. And you two are the best.”
Montressa and Valeterisa glanced at each other, and both were thinking two names: Demsleth and Taletevirion. Montressa coughed into her fist.
“If, uh, if you wait, we could see about more magical consultation, Jelaqua?”
The Selphid waved it off.
“No, no. I’m searching for something like what Kevin’s doing. Mass cures, not miracles for one. Miracles run out real fast, see? Healing potions used to be as many as you could buy. I know which one I’d trust.”
She produced a little vial glowing bright red and twirled it on a finger. The Selphid heaved a sigh.
“I was just checking, because you know, Solsticisms. It’s fine, thanks. There’s only one way I know of to treat Sootlings, and it works! Just takes longer than magic.”
She twiddled her fingers, and the two [Mages] nodded. Valeterisa put a finger to her temple with a frown, but Jelaqua was striding off in moments. Now, where was the best place…? They could do it wherever, but hadn’t Grimalkin said he had something new? That’d work!
“What do you think that was about, Master? Jelaqua never acts like that normally.”
Montressa frowned at Jelaqua’s back. Her instincts as a Secret Broker were tingling. Archmage Valeterisa’s eyes narrowed.
“I do not know. There is no treatment for Scorchling Syndrome. Not one in modern history and certainly not broadly applicable across the condition. Apprentice! Investigate!”
She clapped her hands. Montressa eyed her. After a moment, Valeterisa coughed.
“Please?”
 
——
 
The Last Light of Baleros! Jelaqua was walking down from the 8th Floor when she snapped her fingers. That was a great option!
But she doubted that the Last Light knew Drakes if she was based in Baleros, and besides, Jelaqua could always write a letter. She’d do it tonight. She was almost down to the 4th Floor when she slapped her forehead.
“I’ll forget my own head next. Apartment!”
 
——
 
Landlord Inmal’s apartment was not hard to find. Jelaqua had no idea where it was, and they didn’t exactly write their names on the buildings—in most cases—but the Landlord’s Guild in Pallass had a directory.
“Oh, you don’t want to live there, Miss!”
The horrified [Receptionist] assured Jelaqua. They were standing in the bare-bones entry section where people could queue up to issue complaints or find housing—past the [Receptionists] working the desks, there was a guard and the guild proper. Jelaqua could just see a carpet down a posh corridor into a lounge as she stepped back.
“Don’t worry, I’m just checking it out. Bad neighborhood?”
The Gnoll woman looked around and then whispered.
“No, not the worst, but—it’s more of the folk living there? I doubt you could pay the same price, either! I could find you far better accommodations for cheaper.”
Ah, that made sense on two levels. Jelaqua waved at the dismayed woman and walked off.
 
——
 
Ironically, the Dullahans’ apartment block was on the very same floor that Scorchlings had once lost their designated zones for. 5th Floor—just not in the center, but on the very ‘edges’ near the place where Pallass’ walls rose. Corner-sections were never well-liked because they were the most enclosed and cramped-feeling. Also, no elevators ran in these areas, just staircases, so traffic was harder. They were subsequently the lowest-income.
Landlord Inmal’s place wasn’t a dump. There were two narrow concrete blocks of small apartments overlooking an entry courtyard barred by a simple fence—easily jumpable, and Jelaqua noticed the lock was a plain padlock she could snap with two fingers.
But there was fresher paint on the building, someone had polished the number—295 Brasswing Way—and Jelaqua suspected Melika and her charity ensured there were things like the hedges that grew along one wall. But the stairs leading up to the individual units had cracks in them that were probably foundation-deep, and the entire place had the air of somewhere that wasn’t kept up, just maintained until it could no longer be inhabited.
Liscor had had places like that too. Much of it was being reconstructed, but it was familiar to Jelaqua; a lot of her team had lived in places like this. Visiting family for good—or the final bad news—conjured to mind this sort of spot.
The well in the central courtyard was a hand-pump well, which spoke to Pallass’ nature as City of Inventions. But the water didn’t run. One sniff as she pried open the top of the rusted well with a squeal of disused metal made Jelaqua grimace.
“Mold. Could be fine…”
She took an experimental nibble, and her Selphid body analyzed it.
“Well, it’s not going to kill you, but it’s not what I’d let grow. Probably just as well the tap’s dry.”
Without it, the kids would have to go a lot further for water for their cooking and washwater—and that was a lot worse than private plumbing, which you’d get in more modern buildings. Jelaqua saw a few of the wooden shutters open and faces peek down at her. She waved, and they closed—yep.
Kids, mostly. Twenties or younger. She bet that if you got older you might find a place to settle down and move out or move to another city, another floor.
If you made it.
No guesses where Anama lived; the shutters were scorched, and Jelaqua bet that if there were fire alarm spells, they had to be disabled. Captain Zevara was a functional Oldblood, for all of her breathing problems and choking on her own breath. Scorchlings with heat breath problems sometimes just breathed smoke nonstop.
None of this depressed Jelaqua unduly or surprised her. She’d seen worse. Quite a lot worse. She strolled up to one of the windows and knocked.
“Heya, Jelaqua Ivirith, Gold-rank Captain. I know Melika.”
“Y-you do? No one here owes money!”
A nervous voice from within. Jelaqua smiled at the shutters.
“Nah, I’m not that sort. Do you get any [Debt Collectors] coming by? Gangs? Fellows or gals who’re creeping, watching, anything of that sort?”
There was a silence from within. Then the voice grew suspicious.
“Are you the Watch?”
“Who, me? I can’t even watch the scrying orb. I’m asking on behalf of a friend.”
“Which friend?”
“Me.”
The silence grew more confused as the person within weighed the odds of answering truthfully with the consequences before replying.
“The only gang that comes around here is Anama’s. Sometimes we get…people, but it’s fine. Safe. Please, go away? This is a private residence.”
Jelaqua slapped the shutters cheerfully, and someone gasped.
“Not so long as that fence is busted. Get many [Thieves]?”
“Who’s got anything to steal?”
The voice followed her as she walked off. Jelaqua nodded to herself.
“Right then. I think I have my plan of action. First stop? Where would I be if I was some Drake who’d just lost her gang and needed a place to hide out from the big, scary Selphid?”
She tilted her head.
 
——
 
Uplifting Wings orphanage went quiet when Jelaqua Ivirith appeared this time. A member of staff started.
“Captain, I’m so sorry, but Melika isn’t here right now. We’re going to have to ask you to leave—most of the children are at school, and we’re cleaning.”
Jelaqua cheerfully gave the Drake a thumbs-up.
“Oh, no problem! I’m just here to get one of your kids. The ones with lots of free time, including Miss Ophala. Hey! How’s the tailoring going?”
The Garuda jumped, and the small group hanging around the courtyard gave Jelaqua that uncertain stare. It intensified as she crossed onto the grass—it was the stare of someone reminding you that you were doing something socially unacceptable if not, possibly, illegal.
Gold-rank Adventurers got [Immunity: Social Awkwardness] as a default. Or at least [Greater Resistance]. Jelaqua saw the young Garuda jump and wave a gloved hand at her.
“Um, hello, Miss Ivirith—I was just—I think you’re not supposed to be here?”
Jelaqua seized her hand and admired the gloves.
“Lovely stitching on these! Nevermind, I take it back; that’s professional gear right there.”
She winked at the Garuda, whose face went from uncertainty to a mask, then let go. Jelaqua reached out and put her arm around someone.
“And here’s the girl I needed to see. Anama!”
To her credit, the Drake didn’t flinch or cry out when Jelaqua nabbed her. Bravery was something that grew in the light and with other people.
“I’m not scared of you! I haven’t done anything—get off!”
She tried to push Jelaqua’s arms away, and the Selphid walked her towards the gates.
“Miss Ivirith, I’m going to have to call our security—”
She ignored the Drake lady.
“None of the Flameblades give you grief? No threats, no bad looks?”
Everyone listened as Anama hesitated.
“N-no! I don’t even know where they are, and I didn’t search for them, alright? Now leave me alone, please?”
Her voice cracked on that note, and Jelaqua felt at her forehead. Anama tried to bite her hand, but the Selphid just yanked it back.
