Dead gods, even the Yellats slathered with ketchup were burnt. Melika didn’t seem to mind. Her eyes were shining, and she didn’t appear to be acting up her enjoyment of hearing Jelaqua’s stories. She was with her idol, and the [Socialite] made you feel like you were a [Hero] when she hung on your words.
Her one annoying trait was that she giggled a lot when drunk. Which Jelaqua assumed some people might like, but it kept getting in the way of her stories.
“Well, I can eat ‘em. Lice, that is. Don’t gag, I know some Garuda—okay, okay, bad for when we’re eating. Listen, sometimes it’s just fine and you’re dry and mostly clean even when fighting. But the real adventuring, the stuff that makes you a true adventurer, not some ponce who’ll only slay monsters, is going out there and sloshing through a bog and hunting a wounded monster for three days in the pouring rain. Then, afterwards, making sure to find the nest, clear it, and fight off three dozen zombies in the muck and haul their bodies back for burial.”
Even some of the other patrons were listening to her. Melika sipped at her drink, shaking her head.
“How is that worth it?”
“The adrenaline, of course! Even Selphids feel that. The feeling of life-or-death, then the euphoria when you win? Drugs don’t feel that way. When you’ve beaten down an Armored Crawler with your bare hands and you just fall flat on your back, close your eyes, and level up? That’s what kept me going. Well, that and having a team and doing good things, but that’s why I fought the monsters.”
The Selphid smiled as she clenched a fist. She sipped from her drink; she was on her second, Melika her fifth. The [Socialite] had a far better head for alcohol than Jelaqua; the Selphid suspected a Skill. Jelaqua could drink like a normal person despite being a Selphid because she could choose to metabolize the alcohol or not. But only her high levels as a [Warrior] gave her any constitution—a single beer could down some Selphids not used to alcohol purely because of their low body mass.
“Hey, barkeep! Give me another of these horrible drinks. What’s the one that looks like someone shat in my glass?”
Melika choked as the Drake moved down the bar, away from a conversation with a young Human woman with a hood pulled over her head. He sighed.
“That’s an Engineer Oil. The olive’s supposed to be a nut.”
“What’s the base?”
“Uh…Firebreath Whiskey? And a cloud of brown in it. And an olive.”
“Whose, the [Engineer]’s?”
A few of the patrons spat their drinks out, laughing, and the Drake rolled his eyes.
“No, a nut, you know, nuts and bolts? The stuff they use in the Engineer’s Guild. I can make a different drink.”
“No, I like it. Give me another, with bones.”
“We’ve got no ice. You okay without?”
Jelaqua nodded and slapped some coins down, then leaned over to Melika.
“This is a terrible bar. Sorry for taking you to it. I’ve got business after this.”
“No, this is a delight, Jelaqua. I just hope we’re okay? I’m sure we are in your presence. But that fellow at the door was glaring daggers at you!”
Melika smiled hesitantly, but she had that attitude of someone who was rich and unused to such situations keenly aware of their net value. Which made everyone else eye them like prey…Jelaqua snorted.
“No one’s going to mug you here. Wrong vibe. Relax. Also, it was a woman at the door.”
“What? I could have sworn it was a he—”
“Selphid. You don’t fool these eyes. ‘Sides…I feel like I know some of the people here. Hmm.”
The bartender came back with another horrible Engineer’s Oil in claw, and Jelaqua squinted at him.
“Hey, barkeep, have we met?”
“Don’t think so.”
He wavered for a moment before blandly turning away. Jelaqua squinted at him.
“Wait a second…yeah, we have! At the inn! You were at the beach party with that other Drake…uh, Onieva. Mirn, right?”
She had a great memory for faces and names. The Drake hesitated as voices died down, then swung around.
“Oh, right. I think I remember you. Captain Ivirith. From the inn. One of the heroes from the Winter Solstice. Good sorts.”
He seemed to say it too loudly. Jelaqua glanced around as people went back to murmuring. Ah…well, that was funny.
“Oops, must have walked into your place by accident. We’re just here for drinks. This is Melika, a friend of mine.”
She slung an arm around Melika, who giggled again, and Mirn raised his brows. He met her eyes, then snorted.
“Here? This is the worst bar in Pallass for drinks and food. You have terrible luck!”
“That’s right! Mirn, can’t you get better food? What about the basement at…?”
Half the guests chorused, and he glared and threw a dishrag.
“Not every day’s fancy free, idiots! Shut up. You get one fancy night a month unless we figure out a better system! Keep it down!”
Jelaqua glanced at Melika, but the [Socialite] was busy; she had something in her claws. Everyone leapt out of the way as the Magic Picture scroll activated—she took a picture of herself and Jelaqua, then showed the Selphid the image.
“I couldn’t resist. May I keep this, Captain?”
“Nice angle.”
“It’s this new fad! Wistram is selling something that takes Magic Pictures. They call it a ‘camera’, and they said this is a ‘self image’, a ‘selfie’.”
Jelaqua snorted.
“What will they think of next? Seriously, is that something that’s going to catch on? Rose?”
She fished her olive out of her drink and pinged it across the bar. The young woman with the hood jerked, and the olive hit her in the head so hard it exploded.
“Ow! Jelaqua! What the hell?”
“Sorry. Get over here and say hi. Keeping out of trouble, yeah?”
Rose came over, wiping at olive gunk, and introduced herself to Melika. The Garuda blinked and sobered up slightly.
“Oh my. Oh, my dear…you have the most intense charm-Skills I’ve seen. Are you related to my class? I’m a [Socialite]—I hope you’re careful, or you might get in trouble if you turn up that charm at an event. It’s borderline criminal.”
Rose jumped as the Garuda shook her hand. She blushed, and Jelaqua eyed her. The Selphid had thought Rose was looking good recently…
“I, uh, it’s new.”
“Well, be careful—someone might notice that. How do you and Miss Ivirith know each other?”
“We’re friends from The Wandering Inn.”
“My! That famous place? I almost went once, since Salkis talks it up so, but it’s so dangerous.”
Melika shivered, and Jelaqua tilted her head.
“Salkis. Salkis…how do I know that name?”
“She’s that bitch that Numbtongue is seeing. Drake, black scales. How do you know her, Melika?”
Rose offered, and Melika narrowed her eyes.
“Salkis is my step-daughter.”
The young Human woman hesitated. She inched back as Jelaqua covered a laugh.
“Oh. Oh…right, well, it’s nice meeting you. I’ll just go over here now. She’s still a bitch.”
She retreated with Mirn, and Melika glowered until Jelaqua muttered to her.
“Don’t mind Rose—she’s decent. I’d take you to the inn on a quiet day. You’d get a kick out of the garden.”
“I’d love that. And I’m not that upset. I know Salkis is…difficult. I’m actually glad that Numbtongue fellow is dating her.”
It was Jelaqua’s turn to be astonished.
“You, uh, you’ve met him?”
“In disguise, but yes. I’m not blind, Jelaqua, and I, well, I remember the Halfseekers, and I’ve heard of the inn. Frankly, he’s better than some of the young men I’ve seen her with.”
That said more about Salkis than it did about Numbtongue, the Selphid suspected. Melika began talking over her woes with her stepdaughter, who didn’t really see her as a parent. Jelaqua was willing to listen, though her experience with children was nonexistent unless you counted Gold-rankers; in which case, she was an expert.
However, a commotion at the doors made everyone turn and go silent. Jelaqua peeked up as someone whispered.
“Heads up! Trouble—”
Everyone went quiet, and Mirn glanced towards a back door. Jelaqua was about to tell Melika to keep her head down—they weren’t in danger—when a figure came striding into the bar. She made a beeline for the counter, brushing her cloak back.
“I’m here for a drink. Nothing more. Every bar has to serve all guests, regardless of species. Isn’t that right…barkeep?”
There was an edge to the militant voice as the figure placed coins on the counter, and Mirn nodded, hand under the bar.
“Sure is. We just don’t let rabble inside. Have a seat. What can I get you?”
“Firebreath Whiskey. Frosted.”
“We’re out of ice. Here.”
The Drake grunted as they grabbed a plain, colorless drink and took one sip. From their grimace as they turned in their seat, it was bad stuff. Everyone was silent until Mirn coughed. He seemed to sniff the air for a second, then sighed.
“…Well, I think it’s good. What, you all want an invitation to talk?”
That coded signal let the voices resume, if carefully. Some of the dancers halted and went back to their seats, but Mirn’s word reassured the rest…though many kept glancing at the door.
“That [Doorwoman] isn’t earning her pay tonight. Sorry for being part of the trouble.”
Jelaqua commented to Mirn. He scowled.
“He’s not a [Doordrake]. Who the hell has that class? Aside from that one kid in Liscor.”
“You’d be surprised. Sorry, it feels like we’re Solsticing up this place. I blame Rose.”
“Hey! What did I do?”
The young woman protested, and Jelaqua shrugged as she took a sip from her cup. Then she scooted her chair over to the newcomer.
“I dunno, it’s just a really small city. Isn’t it, Shirka?”
General Shirka jumped as she pivoted.
“Jelaqua Ivirith? How the hell—?”
Melika gasped.
“General? Is that you? Oh my word! I’m hardly presentable—good evening!”
Shirka’s identity made Mirn stiffen up, and even more people turned to look at them, but Jelaqua was all smiles.
“What brings you here, Shirka? You’re scaring folks. Wander in by accident?”
“No. And I’m not looking for trouble. I’m just…observing. Are you a—a regular of this kind of establishment?”
The [General] almost sounded hopeful, but the Selphid just winked at a confused Melika and the others.
“Nah. But Selphids are welcome pretty much anywhere but respectable society so long as we’ve got enough gold. Don’t let me keep you, though you’re going to clear out every bar you come to if you barge in like that.”
She nodded to Shirka and the people who were indeed leaving. Shirka grunted.
“How am I supposed to come in?”
“By invitation. Jelaqua, are you vouching for 2nd Army’s [General]?”
Mirn threw down a dishrag. Jelaqua shrugged.
“If I did, would you take it? General Shirka and I only know each other in passing. Just don’t ruin your night over it. If she were coming to settle a score, I bet she’d be here with eight squads of [Soldiers].”
The Drake nodded.
“True. I don’t do personal reconnaissance. Good way to get headshot. Gears of Pallass, I’m just listening. Peaceably.”
She held up a clawed hand, and Mirn spat on the floor.
“Well, if this is a free-for-all, why don’t we invite the entire city in next? Fine. Rose, hand me that mop, would you?”
What a strange night. Jelaqua returned to her drinks as Melika whispered to her, trying to understand why Shirka was here. If Jelaqua understood the nature of this bar, Shirka’s curiosity was fascinating, both to her and to Mirn and Rose.
Not her business. Just like Kevin and Rhaldon—damn, she had to get back to that! But she wasn’t backing Kevin to the end. She was just…nosy. Bored.
She could be allowed to have fun with Melika, give Shirka a bit of a claw, and play with kids, right? Jelaqua had nothing better to do. Not even help Lord Moore. She was retired.
Retired…she stared into her drink and sighed.
“Damn. I just don’t have enough to do.”
 
——
 
Well, the drinking with Melika was fun. The bar warmed up after it was clear the newcomers were just there to drink the swill. In fact, everyone gave Mirn a hard time about his drinks, from Shirka to Jelaqua.
The [General] herself was so annoyed she actually grabbed the bottles and mixed up drinks better than he could.
“Weren’t you friends with Saliss at one point? Former Alchecorps, right? How can you not mix a drink?”
“You want to see me throw it at you? I’m good at that—damn it, why is this better?”
Whereupon Shirka was appointed temporary bartender for the night. Jelaqua only had two more drinks. She had a timetable to keep, but Melika seemed to have a hole in one of her…wait, she only had sandals.
Well, a hole somewhere because she put down drinks like they were water. Not that she wasn’t soused; she got chattier as the night progressed, and she was interesting when you got to talking with her.
“Everyone thinks I’m from Chandrar or native-born to Pallass. There’s no one I can talk to about home, Jelaqua.”
“How long did you live in Baleros, then?”
Melika counted on her claws.
“Oh, until fourteen or so? I’m not actually that sure. I bought a ticket for Izril with all the gold I’d saved—there’s just not the same prospects in Baleros for, well, engagements.”
“Ah, you were planning on marrying into wealth even then?”
The [Socialite] glanced at Jelaqua swiftly, perhaps to see if the Selphid was mocking her, but Jelaqua was cool as the cucumber floating in her drink. Melika nodded.
“Yes, well, I was attractive and good at catching people’s eyes. But Baleros—you either marry a [Mercenary Captain] or try to work your way into the Great Companies, and Niers Astoragon’s wasn’t one of the four back then. So it felt like I’d have to work my way into another culture.”
“Dullahans, who have problems with outsiders, Lizardfolk and the Nagas—pretty tricky, and they were bad before Niers took them out—Gazers—hah!—or Centaurs. Of the lot, you’d do okay with Maelstrom’s Howling, but that would mean they’d want kids. Centaur kids.”
Melika shuddered.
“I’ve heard it can be done, but that was pretty much my train of logic. So I bought a ticket. Chandrar was out; I’m just another Garuda there and, worse, an outsider. Terandria I thought about, but I felt like I lacked the social graces, and if I’m the lone Garuda…then I heard about Pallass. And its Garuda population.”
“Ah, so that’s how you met Werdin.”
Melika stirred her drink with a claw.
“It wasn’t easy. But I did have a good run of things until we tied the knot. I didn’t expect…Salkis. I’ve tried to connect with her, truly, but I can’t blame her for seeing me as a gemsnatching hoard-wife.”
