They were a riot. Plus, with Ishkr around, their classes were even more powerful. It still didn’t quite explain how they’d levelled as fast as active-duty adventurers, though. However, Jelaqua heard Ishkr talking to them.
“I’m Ishkr, from the inn. If you two ever wanted to come by for a meal, consider yourselves on the guest list.”
“Oh. Ohhh! The inn! I can’t believe I forgot where it was! Handy trick, that. Silveran remembered, but the rest of us—so you’re Ishkr. I gotta say, I wanted to meet you. We think we level fast, but you…you’re a legend in the service industry.”
“I’m not that special. I’m just levelling to survive at the inn. May I ask how you two breached Level 30 in a year?”
Simon, or rather, ‘Scourge Simon’ as he was known, laughed easily.
“Hard work. You haven’t seen Silveran’s Cleaners taking on the Hard Jobs, have you?”
“I can’t say I have. We’ve had his cleaners in the inn before, and Silveran himself does a lot of cleanup after disasters…what kind of ‘hard jobs’ are these?”
“The ones no [Cleaner] did or was called on, my friend. That’s the Silveran way. Not just painstaking deep cleans or getting the best in the business—he does that. If you can’t keep up with an Antinium Worker who loves, loves to clean, you can find another business. We don’t cut corners, and he’s charging a high price.”
“Really? Most Antinium don’t know to do that. Then again, most sell to each other…”
Minty Mithy was unpacking an enchanted broom.
“Silveran’s kind as a puppy. It’s when he gets the mustache that he negotiates like a [Merchant]. Hard Jobs are where he made a name for himself. We go in and we clean out, well…bad spots. The kind where you’d rather toss a [Fireball] than touch anything.”
Simon had lost his smile.
“Hard spots, hard situations. Not just someone passing and leaving all the things they hoarded. There’s more to it than just wiping water away. You have conversations with people. Rough ones, but Silveran took the lead. He cleans a spot and comes back sometimes to make sure it stays cleaned. That’s a Hard Job. Not like we take them on all the time. To be honest, I’m glad this doesn’t sound as hard as some.”
Now, Ishkr was nodding. Simon scratched at his head, remembering.
“We’ve gone into Esthelm’s sewers when Bronze-ranks refused because of the smell and blockages. I remember what a third of the staff said, don’t you, Mithy? ‘That’s not a [Cleaner]’s job!’ To which Silveran said they could stay behind. He was levelling. Cue him beating down a Toileteater Pig with a broom.”
Ah, there it was. Jelaqua grinned as she finished getting the rusted cover off the well. A man after her own heart, Silveran. In any class, you could coast along, do the safe, responsible thing. And that would level you, but they all knew the truth.
When you fought, you levelled. And you fought hard, dirty, fast, and desperate—so the [Cleaners] were ready to rumble with Pallass’ finest. Jelaqua thought Pallass’ cleaning companies wouldn’t know what hit them.
“Alright, speaking of cleaning, well’s ready to be cleared. Mind if I hop down first?”
She had the vague idea this might be a monster, and the Raskghar weighed on her mind. The two [Cleaners] were only too happy to help her into the harness to be lowered down, but first, all four spent a good moment to admire the well.
Wells in Pallass were actually elegant things. Because the City of Inventions was a pyramid design. Each floor overlapped on the one below, so the visible space shrank the further down you got. Citizens living on the 1st Floor would be under the other floors almost everywhere they walked; hence the City of Innovation’s emphasis on lighting and greenery to keep people from developing cabin fever.
Because of that curious design, there was no possibility of a straight well running from top floor down, was there? So how did you get water at all that high up?
Piping. And the huge system of water that was pumped upwards by Pallass’ machinery. So this well connected directly to a cistern for the district, then floor…Jelaqua Ivirith found the problem as they lowered her into the well.
“Yep! Here’s a clog! Gross!”
“I’ll vaporize it with my [Cleaning Blast]! That’s a real Skill! The water will taste pretty minty for like a week afterwards—that’s a sign it’s clean! But we’ll scrub down the mold and make sure the cistern’s clean if we can get access!”
Mithy shouted down the well. Jelaqua hollered back.
“I think as a landlord I have access! Ishkr, can you figure that out? I’m going to check for any monsters! Probably no rats, but if there’s a slime, I’ll punch it!”
Even Water Slimes could germinate in the cleanest of places, and Jelaqua did in fact find one to punch. She tossed the mana core up at Minty Mithy as they pulled her up, and by now, there were faces poking out of the apartment windows.
Ishkr and Scourge Simon had introduced themselves as repairspeople, which had made the tenants brighten up, but when the Selphid came out of the well, they froze.
They recognized Jelaqua.
“Oh no, it’s her again! Someone call Melika!”
“Landlord Inmal is going to flip out! And raise rent! He does it when he’s mad—”
“I heard she was going to murder him!”
Jelaqua strolled over and waved at them.
“Hoya, kids! Don’t worry about the old guy; he’s fine. I’m your new landlady! I don’t have the class, but we’re fixing the well up! And if you let Scourge Simon in, he’ll clean your rooms up in a second!”
The man gave the younger people a huge smile that belied his terrifying name in the [Cleaners]’ world. He had amazing dimples.
The tenants of the apartment complex stared as there was a rumble from below, then Minty came up the well, laughing as water began to pour from the spigot.
“One shot, one clean! Okay, scrubbing brush—no one drink from it until I’m done!”
“You bought the apartments? But why…?”
A confused Merry was rubbing at his eyes as he came out of his apartments, probably because he worked a night-shift job. He turned and flinched; there was a clang as Ishkr took the gate off by the hinges.
“Our gate!”
“Don’t worry about it, kids. That gate isn’t worth spit. I could bust it down with the lock in five seconds, and any [Thief] will just jump the fence. We’ve got a better one from a [Smith] my husband knows. And wards. Now, you’ll need one of these…”
She handed Merry a little glowing stone, then another.
“This one lets you in at the gate, or an alarm sounds. This one you press if you’re in trouble. Anyone with a keyed stone hears it and knows where you are. Plus, it’s loud as shit, so the Watch usually comes running.”
He blinked at the stones. Then stared at Jelaqua.
“Why’re you doing this? Melika already makes sure we get food and medicine.”
“She does a lot. I’m just some busybody adventurer. What’s your level in [Rogue], lad?”
She threw an arm around his shoulders, and Merry hesitated.
“Only 14, but—how’d you—?”
“Most classes start as [Rogue]. Or [Thief]. For you, hitting a higher level isn’t as vital as it is for Anama, but there’s ways to hit Level 20 easy. They just require suffering. You’re below anyone who needs levelling, but just hit me up. I knew a Drowned Man who was the best [Rogue] I ever met. Off and on land. I hope he’s doing well. Oh, and if you’re working for a gang that does some seedy shit, knock it off and quit before they vanish. I will evict anyone who’s selling something dangerous or committing terrible crimes. If you need work, that’s different.”
The Selphid stretched her back out, and it cracked as the half-Gnoll [Rogue] blinked at her. She cast around the apartment complex and thought it needed…something. A flag. You always needed flags. Adventurer teams didn’t have them in Izril, and that was a shame. The ones in Baleros had amazing flags. But this was no team. It was something else.
 
——
 
Melika Blackwing was a bad flier. Pallass didn’t exactly strain your wing muscles, so when she flapped on in, ducking the ceiling, Jelaqua was already giving a lecture to her tenants.
“Alright, if you want to hit Level 10 in any combat class, it’s you and me. It might take more than one try because now you’re aiming for it, but believe me, you’ll need potions. If you want more than that? There are Silver-rank quests that Celum, Esthelm, Liscor—well, Liscor’s underwater, so not there—and Pallass offer. That’s not easier. In fact, it’s harder because you could get hurt and die. Especially because you’ll pull your weight. Choice is yours. But I’ll train anyone who wants it, not even for levels. Self-defense? You name it. If you want a job, I’m less good at that, but there’s [Smiths] who need a hand, and I’ve got contacts in Liscor.”
Melika listened, open-mouthed, as Ishkr waved.
“I’m Ishkr. I’m just here to watch.”
He wore a mysterious smile, and something in Melika told her that he—she should impress him. Her [Socialite] class had never steered her wrong before, but for once, she ignored the instincts.
“Jelaqua Ivirith! What are you doing? This is unacceptable! You can’t—how did you buy—? Inmal never took the offers I made with my charity, and the [Senator]’s office kept saying that the paperwork wasn’t one they were familiar with!”
Jelaqua Ivirith turned, and she smiled at the Garuda as water came out of a pump. Then she turned and called out.
“Don’t get too complacent with that well! How much is plumbing? Damn, I’d better check my account. I am gonna have to charge rent. I wonder if that’s how they all turn into bastards.”
She sighed as Minty Mithy offered to do the work—if Silveran’s Cleaners got their permit for Pallass. Melika just gazed around for Anama.
The Drake was peeking out of her rooms at Jelaqua, not coming down. The Selphid waved up at her and commented to Melika.
“She might never be at ease with me. I won’t actually come by that often if I bother them; you can run this place if it makes you feel better. Most of the Halfseekers can’t level someone.”
“You—you’re insane, Jelaqua. And a bully! You strongarmed Inmal into selling and the Watch—! How could you hit her like that?”
Melika was trembling. She had no read on the Selphid, who she believed was the kindest, most heroic Gold-ranker she knew. And who her class had told her was genuine! Even now, Jelaqua Ivirith seemed gentle, but her smile was hard.
“Because if Anama hits Level 30, she’ll live past 40 years. If she hits Level 40, she’ll make it to her seventies. Level 50? I think at that point any negative a Scorchling has vanishes.”
The Garuda tried a different tack; she seemed to be sliding off Jelaqua’s wall of insanity.
“You want to send them on adventuring missions? As Silver-rank adventurers? Are you mad?”
“They’re not adventurers, but I was. I’m not turning them into ones unless they want to be. But the Scorchlings can fight. In fact, it’s the best class for them because [Warriors] get the toughest. And they’ll be good at it.”
“They’re children. None of them have left Pallass’ walls except for excursions!”
Melika shrieked at Jelaqua, and the Selphid rubbed at one ear.
“Maybe they should have. Fresh air is good for your lungs. They’re Scorchlings, Melika. If it’s in their wings, their gravity’s shifted. If they’re afflicted by breath, it’s always powerful, even if it hurts them. I’ve known Sootlings, Scorchlings, whatever you want to call them before, and they can fight.”
“They don’t have to. This is Pallass, not—not Baleros! You can’t keep them safe, you said yourself!”
Melika saw horrors, and Jelaqua Ivirith’s eyes were cold now.
“No. I can’t even save my own team. But I can give them those levels. Their choice.”
“You didn’t give Anama a choice!”
The Selphid shrugged.
“No, but that’s because I had the chance. If I could, I’d lock each one of ‘em in a ring with me and damn me for it. I’m the best Halfseeker for this. Moore could never do it. Most of the Halfseekers couldn’t or didn’t have the control. Even Seborn’s too soft for all he talks hard. It was just me and Garen, if they even let him in the city.”
Her head turned to Melika as the Garuda panted.
“You’re insane. I’ll get the Watch to keep you from the orphanage! You—you can’t be their [Landlady]!”
Jelaqua looked sad, then. She turned to Melika, hands in her pockets.
“I’m sorry, I really am. You did such a great job with what you had, and here I am barging in…it’s what I do. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer. I smash things and break what I don’t like. Everyone thinks it’s because I’m related to the inn. Well, it’s not. Erin’s just one of us.”
She jerked a thumb at her chest now, and her eyes were blazing with that pink flame. It felt, then, like she was the only person in the plaza that was real. Like she were sucking the color and vividness from everyone else around her. Only her—and the Gnoll behind her, who sat like a witness to such things. Like he was meant to be there.
“Boring Gold-rankers go around slaying monsters or being famous for finding treasure. The real ones change things. The Silver Swords saved more lives than you or I will ever know. Griffon Hunt? They’ve stopped Griffin attacks across Izril for places that needed it for two decades. That Griffin migration would have killed thousands. Damn shame about Typhenous’ mistake. Damn shame. We make mistakes, but we never back down from fights.”
The Garuda [Socialite] said nothing as Jelaqua smiled and glanced around at the young people.
“No fighting in the ranks, kids. Squabble and bicker and tease, but you’re all on the same side, got it? That’s how it works. When one of you calls for help, everyone comes running. Alright, enough speeches! Who needs a hand first?”
She turned away, glancing at Melika as if wondering if they were enemies now. The Garuda woman didn’t know. How was she supposed to fight Captain Jelaqua Ivirith? A Gold-rank adventurer?
 
——
 
Jelaqua stood there in the plaza, giving advice, instructions, directions, to the people who came and went. Rarely, gold. Usually for contractors.
“I don’t give handouts. I’m not rich enough, and it doesn’t help. If you want to sign up for adventuring duty, you need to train. Hey, Ophala, who’s your gang?”
She was giving the featherless Garuda a hard time. Ophala ducked into the stairwell, appearing hunted, and Jelaqua sighed. Then she stood as a shadow crept down, mixing with the inky blackness that appeared when the night-lights sprang to life from the ceiling overhead.
“She doesn’t gang. She’s too goody-goody and wants to impress Melika for that. I think she’s a [Lookout].”
