Selphid. Bodysnatcher of Baleros. Jelaqua smiled as she beckoned.
“Kid, you could have left your girlfriend alone and you still have the coins you took from me. Does love mean nothing? Sorry, Anama. He’s not a keeper.”
She glanced at the Scorchling, and Mort lunged. Jelaqua blocked the blade with her hand; it went through, and she closed her fist. Wrenched the dagger out of his grip and plucked it out.
The color drained from the Drake’s face as he scrambled back, and Jelaqua eyed it.
“Cheap enchantment. Doesn’t even cauterize my wounds. Next time, remember this, Mort.”
She stepped forwards in a blur and pivoted to his side. He twisted, and she threw a punch.
“Any other Gold-ranker will kill you. Just. Like. This.”
 
——
 
Anama had been in street fights and even helped mug a few flatfoots. She’d seen some big gang fights only as a spectator. But she’d never seen someone hit someone and just…fold them up.
Mort wasn’t moving. Was he even breathing? He lay there, all tangled up, mouth open, eyes wide, and he might be dead.
They all might be dead. Not a single Flameblade was on their feet. The young Drake woman was shaking so bad that when Jelaqua turned, she tried to run.
Anama slammed into a table and some chairs, tripped, fell, and got up.
“No, nononono, please, I’m sorry! Don’t—”
She began screaming as Jelaqua grabbed her tail and hauled her back from the door. Anama shielded her face, and Jelaqua hoisted her up.
“Alright, let’s go.”
She hung Anama under one arm like a piece of luggage and kicked the hideout door off its hinges, then strode into the street. The Selphid was yawning.
“Which way d’you live? Probably that way. You know what? I’m too tired.”
She walked down a street and then dropped Anama. The Drake girl covered her face.
“Please, please don’t—I’m not gonna heal!”
More burn marks from her skin. Jelaqua Ivirith stared at her, then felt at her head.
“Yep, you’re too hot. Told you. Go back home and get in a bath. Cold as you can. If the well’s not working, go to a bathhouse. Even if they don’t like it, they have ones for the elderly that get scrubbed for dead scales, and Gnolls are hairy. Soak for at least twenty minutes. Oh, and don’t come back here and try to make up with this lot. They should grow a brain if I haven’t knocked it out of them, but you showing your face is a surefire way to get hurt.”
She fished in her bag of holding, and Anama stared at her. After a moment, Jelaqua placed something on the Drake’s forehead. The girl flinched, then stared as a few silver coins bounced onto the ground.
“You’re not going to—?”
The Selphid stood with her back to the moon, eyes still faintly shining. It was impossible to read her face as she spoke.
“I don’t hit idiot kids.”
Anama stared back at the Flameblade’s destroyed headquarters. Jelaqua glanced at it.
“They graduated. You’re young, stupid, and if it were any other Gold-ranker, any other active Gold-ranker, half that gang would be dead. Go home and soak. If you had mugged Melika or she’d talked about being robbed, I’d have graduated you too. That gang’s got nothing for you, kid. They’re not a family. Family doesn’t throw you out the moment something bad happens.”
She turned on her heel and began to walk towards the grand staircases, shaking her head. Anama sat there, realizing she was being lectured, not beaten down for her mistakes. She grabbed the silver coins, then clenched her claw over them.
“What would you know about what I’ve been through? You or Melika? You’re both rich and—”
The Selphid was half a street away, and at this point, Anama really should have known how fast she could move. Because Jelaqua turned and was lifting Anama up by the shirt in less than a second. Now her eyes narrowed, and she growled.
“I’m a Halfseeker of Izril. Call me and my team privileged and I will feed you that word. You think Melika’s life is easy?”
She held Anama up as the Scorchling girl gasped. Jelaqua stared up at the cracked moon and whole one.
“Well, maybe it is. I doubt it; I think she worked to marry some Drake who I’m not convinced knows she can think. But she’s still the one trying to help you. Don’t beat down her because life’s raining on you. She’s not your enemy. And stop trying to make me one. Bath.”
She dropped Anama. The Drake girl landed on her butt and sat there, too afraid to say anything until Jelaqua Ivirith was out of sight. Only then did Anama stop holding the coins in her hands; she’d begin to deform them if she kept holding onto them with her burning hands.
She tried not to, she did, because it would hurt and it was embarrassing and she was too old for them. But then the girl sobbed for a bit.
When a Scorchling wept, they cried steam.
Jelaqua Ivirith kicked every rock and piece of trash between here and her home on the 8th Floor.
 
——
 
Amazingly, the party at her house was still going when Jelaqua got back. When she walked in all messy, everyone turned.
“Jelaqua!”
Maughin started, but she lifted her hands.
“I know it looks bad. Gang jumped me and Melika. My body’s busted up, but I’m fine.”
“Are they alive?”
She smiled as Felkhr relaxed. She went to hug Maughin and nodded at Grimalkin.
“They’re fine. Just beat down.”
“I’m sorry your body was damaged. Is it something the Watch is handling?”
“Eh, they’re kids. I just worked them over and left. I don’t believe in the Watch arresting too many kids.”
He opened his mouth, then nodded. Lady Pryde Ulta was sniffing behind her bag as she sat on a couch.
“Yet another reason why Ulta lands are superior. Any wayward child we mind and look after. Unruly youths are a community’s problem.”
“Yeah, I’m sure they love that. Kevin and Rhaldon didn’t come back?”
“Oh, they did. I needed more crab! But they all left to argue about them damn engine-things. We’re playing Archmage’s Gambit. You in, Selphid?”
Pelt was at a table with some [Smiths] playing cards. Jelaqua waved a hand.
“I need to change bodies.”
“You’re sure you’re alright, Jelaqua?”
Maughin was all concern, but she just hugged him.
“I’m fine, Maughy. You know me. Tougher’n a Swamp Hydra.”
“I just can’t believe they touched you. How many were there? Thirty? Were they high-level?”
She picked up his head and whispered to him as she went to the basement where she kept her bodies in storage.
“I did it on purpose. I’ll tell you later. Everything going well here?”
“Oh, yes. We have a plan and proposal for the [Senators]. We’re just, um, drinking…”
He wore that guilty look of a husband having a night with the lads—and a few lasses—while the wife was out. Jelaqua Ivirith grinned.
“Without me? I’ll be out for some cards in no time! And I’d love a decent drink. I’ve been having pigpiss all night!”
So she went and had fun until they were seeing everyone staggering out of the house. Grimalkin and Pryde went out together, and he turned at the door.
“Ah, remember, I have a new initiative in my Training Gymnasium—a boxing ring. You’re all welcome to come by, and I would love the data.”
“Ooh! Another thing from the inn?”
Jelaqua grinned as she unsteadily cleaned the tables. Pryde thrust out her chest.
“From my lands, actually. We have a promising young man who’s revolutionized our programs. A [Professional Weightlifter], no less! Which puts us on parity with Pallass itself, Grimalkin. You have one, we have one.”
Grimalkin met Jelaqua’s eyes, and he nodded as the Selphid blinked. He smiled at Pryde with that strange expression of someone finding themselves falling uncontrollably in love. Jelaqua had seen it in a mirror a lot.
“I would never assume I was in a superior position to you, Pryde.”
That completely flummoxed the [Lady] of House Ulta, and she stood there for a few seconds before clearing her throat.
“Oh. Well then. Very good. To sleep!”
The door closed, and Jelaqua commented to Maughin.
“They’re so cute they make me sick. Okay, how was your day? Did you drink out our entire cabinet? Eh, I’ll buy more tomorrow.”
“I’m sorry, it was such a relief after all the stress…what happened? I thought you were going to the charity event you were late to. How did that turn into drinking?”
She caught him up as they cleaned up and went to bed, and Maughin was fairly aghast by a gang attacking her in the streets, even when she told him they were kids. He was from an upstanding family, she supposed.
“It’s fine, Maughy. I’ll just check on Melika in the morning…and Kevin…sleep well! We’re gonna be busy.”
She rolled over in bed as he put his head in the separate basket filled with pillows, and they slept. But Jelaqua didn’t immediately go to sleep.
In the darkness, she stared at the ceiling. And her lecture to Anama was sour in her mouth.
Easy for me to talk down to her when she’s probably unable to get most jobs. Kid’s living in an apartment without water…what was that about some act? Melika’s doing her best, but she and Anama have to know…
Scorchlings don’t make it to thirty most of the time. She’s a classic case. What would Halassia say? Damn it, Halassia…I could have used you. Instead you had to fight Garen—!
The orphanage looks good. Melika seems honest. But the older kids don’t have anyone. Ophala, right? She and Anama—
Why was Shirka at the Turnscale bar? Argh, I hope they’re safe.
None of my business. I’m just here. I hope Kevin’s not doing something stupid.
You can’t fix Anama’s problems like that. I know. I know, damn it. A bag of gold wouldn’t do a thing, and beating down that gang just means she’s alone now. It’s not my area. Melika can handle things.
Lots to do. Nothing to do.
Tons of stuff to keep her busy, nothing that made her…Jelaqua tossed and turned in bed, then remembered she hadn’t had sex with Maughin. Two nights in a row! She’d lose a level in her [Wife] class!
She was smiling about that and finally yawning as she went to sleep…Jelaqua Ivirith began to snooze without the voice that gave her levels, but that was fine. She was no [Drunkard], and that was the only class you could conceivable say she’d earned real experience in tonight.
 
——
 
—Jelaqua awoke and lay in bed as there was a clank and rustling in the night. Not sounds you ever wanted to hear when you were sure no one else was in the house but you…because now you were definitely unsure you were alone.
Maughin had heard it too. His eyes were open as his body fumbled around, and he whispered.
“Jelaqua? Did you hear…?”
The Gold-ranker listened.
“Sounds like a racoon in the kitchen. Be right back, I’ll just throw it out.”
Blearily, she rolled out of bed and walked out of the bedroom while adjusting her nightgown. Maughin was less confident, but the thing about being a Gold-rank [Warrior] was that you had little fear of what went bump in the night unless it was a loud damn bump.
She tip-toed to the kitchen without Seborn’s stealth, but silent enough for any Level 20 [Rogue], and realized the sounds and growling was too loud for your average raccoon. Jelaqua peered inside and saw a shape moving in the darkness, pulling out cabinets, eating whatever it could find—
 
——
 
Maughin heard the shout from Jelaqua then a howl and the sounds of fighting.
“Jelaqua? Jelaqua!”
He had to fumble his head onto his body and charged out of their bedrooms, armor clattering, holding a lamp as a weapon. He found Jelaqua in the kitchen, kneeling on something that thrashed and whined. Maughin froze as the huge, familiar shape heaved and collapsed, and Jelaqua panted.
“Maughin, dear? Call the Watch. We’ve got Raskghar.”
She was pinning one of them under one arm as he froze and stared at the bodies she sometimes wore for work. The Raskghar whined in pain as Jelaqua jerked her head towards the door.
“Now? And tell them to get me General Shirka.”
 
——
 
It was, in fact, Agent Zemize who appeared. The Drake marched past the Watch officers and flashed her badge to Watch Captain Qissa.
“Eyes of Pallass. Move the officers away, Watch Captain. We’ll have them all debriefed, and this is secret, top-level clearance only. We have a cage already on the way.”
“Curtains, I hope? I need to see your papers, Agent.”
Zemize faltered, then cursed and fumbled for her identification papers as Jelaqua glared at everyone. She was still sitting on the Raskghar, who’d given up trying to get away. After five long minutes of Qissa reading the papers in front of a visibly off-kilter Zemize, she handed them back.
“If I can ask—”
“No questions! Adventurer Ivirith, you’re also sworn to secrecy along with the other matters. It’s fortuitous you were the one to intercept this problem. Anyone else and this might have become a far larger issue. You have the city’s gratitude.”
Zemize pulled rank at last and nodded at Jelaqua. She was doing her best serious-agent attitude, and the Selphid wasn’t having it.
“Is that the only one or did more get out?”
“Classified, Adventurer. Rest assured, the situation is under control.”
“Really? It’s under control? Is that the only Raskghar or are there more? Because if there are more, and there’s not a plague of ‘Vorpal Rats’, then I’ll hunt them down myself. Answer my questions or I’ll use this Raskghar to beat you to death.”
Zemize, Qissa, and the Raskghar all eyed Jelaqua with considerable worry. The Eye of Pallass realized that the half-naked, very annoyed Selphid was not the person to try to pull rank on right now. She coughed.
“…That’s the only one. It broke confinement, and we’ve been searching for it since. I don’t know how it evaded us so long. They have—had tracking stones. I don’t get how it removed the one on it. Maybe it went dead?”
Jelaqua grunted; she’d had time to assess the condition of the Raskghar she was pinning. It was far healthier than the ones Pallass had taken—and it was the same damn group, she was sure! It still couldn’t overpower her, but it was closer than she wanted; only her superior leverage gave her the definitive edge.
“If it’s this wound on its neck, it looks like she ripped it out. Or someone else did for her. This is one of the smart ones. Small wonder she knew how to keep quiet. Though she seems to have gotten too hungry to keep hiding. Not a lot to eat if Pallass’ sewers are kept mostly rat-free.”
Zemize faltered. She eyed the Raskghar, and Jelaqua pointed down.
“She’s listening to us. Right?”
The Raskghar growled as she glared down and then, to everyone’s shock, rumbled.
“Yes. Not kill. Not kill…”
“It can talk?”
Qissa had a hand on her sword, and Zemize put a finger to her earhole.
“I want the Watch moved back. This is all private—there’s the cage now.”
