“You’re a lot cooler. Good.”
“I have icerune cloth, idiot. Let go. Hey, help—”
“Icepacks are only local for burns. You took a bath or you’d be too hot. Shame you don’t have one in your apartment.”
“I’ve got everything I need! Shower’n all! Where are you trying to take me? I’ll yell for the Watch! You can’t prove I did anything to you!”
Jelaqua Ivirith grinned at Anama as she halted.
“I’m not kidnapping you! I’m just coming by to work on your Oldblood heat problems. I know Melika’s worried, but I swear on my team, dead and alive—it’s just to make you stop heating up so much.”
Hope was a pernicious thing. As nervous as Anama was, and all the staff were with their concerns, when Jelaqua said that, Ophala, Merry, Consillir, and every young person and kid in earshot turned. Especially the other Scorchlings.
“Y-you what?”
Anama’s eyes widened, and Jelaqua gestured to herself. She smiled, and that faint glow of glory shone in her orange eyes. She spoke slowly.
“I am Captain of the Halfseekers of Izril. I bet Melika never knew, but we’ve had seven Scorchlings in our team. Half died fighting monsters. The other half? Retired. Three are still alive, and all of my teammates were over thirty years old. Achevv, he’d be pushing fifty now. Dead gods!”
She rolled her eyes, sighing. Anama was gazing at her, and Jelaqua knew she understood the numbers. Scorchlings were lucky to hit thirty years old…
The Selphid spoke nothing but the truth.
“We have a secret way to mitigate most Scorchling problems. Heck, even some other conditions. I guarantee it works. Might take me a few tries, but I’m offering it since I’ve got nothing but free time in my retirement. Want to try? You can always back out.”
She rested a hand on the girl’s shoulder, which was feverish in any normal person. Anama licked her lips and hesitated. The staff were whispering, and one was probably already sending a Street Runner to Melika, but the kids gazed at Jelaqua, hoping for a miracle.
She didn’t have one. But she did have a treatment. After a moment, Anama snarled.
“If this is a trick, I’ll burn you like—like—!”
“Like a Scorchling. C’mon, kid. I know just the place.”
 
——
 
Grimalkin’s Gymnasium actually had a signboard now. Well, it was technically Magus Grimalkin’s Training Gymnasium, but no one was calling it that.
A huge workout area and what looked like a pool was being built, and Jelaqua read a flyer that said House Ulta was making the exact same thing. Why a pool?
Well, why a boxing ring? She’d seen plenty of places where [Fistfighters] hung out, little sacred circles of rope where blood and guts were put on the line, but this had much thicker ropes and a padded mat.
She supposed to stop you from getting hurt. And the padded gloves were nice. Yeah, she could see the value.
“Why’re we here? We’re not allowed in here!”
Most people weren’t, but Jelaqua Ivirith knew Grimalkin, and the [Apprentice] at the door waved her in without asking for a ‘pass’. Dead gods, everything was changing too fast.
Jelaqua was an old creature. She glanced around as she saw the kids following her and getting stopped by the surprised [Apprentice].
“They’re with me. They can watch if they want to. This is a good spot. We need somewhere semi-private. And Grimalkin’s got good equipment and space.”
Anama was frowning at the Selphid.
“You’re teaching me an exercise? What, breathing? I know how to do that! I’ve had everyone from [Oldblood Trainers] to some old man come in and lecture us about breathing.”
Jelaqua shook her head.
“Breathing won’t help. Especially not you. Your problem is your body’s heat. You can’t regulate it; I suppose you could breathe the heat out or exhale enough Dragonbreath to stop generating it, but I don’t know how to teach that.”
“That’s what he said. But I can’t breathe like that.”
The young Scorchling woman muttered. She gazed around as Jelaqua glanced at the boxing ring. She supposed Grimalkin was still teaching how it worked; without him, it was lying empty, though she saw plenty of red padded gloves and even headgear and padding hanging up on fresh racks.
“The ring will do. C’mon up. I’ll use the gloves; you don’t need ‘em. Headgear might be nice.”
The girl was getting more suspicious by the second, but she had come this far, and sunk cost was another thing that murdered adventurers along with hope. She snatched a headpiece for Drakes and hesitated before putting it on.
“I’ll just burn it up. You paying for that?”
“It’s all enchanted against heat, but—do you know what you’re doing, Adventurer Ivirith? Magus Grimalkin did say he had an invitation to you, but he’ll be back in fifteen minutes…”
The [Apprentice] at the desk was wavering, and Jelaqua winked at him.
“Don’t worry, I have no idea how this works, but I know what I’m doing.”
“Er, that’s not reassuring—”
She was already hopping into the ring, and Anama climbed up. She looked silly in her headgear, and a few titters from the younger people made her flush.
“Either tell me what I’m learning or stop yanking me around! I’m going home if this doesn’t pay off!”
Jelaqua turned to face her, mashing her fists into her gloves. They really were nice. The Selphid smiled at Anama.
“Don’t worry, it’ll work. Might take a few tries, but I reckon you’ve only got the patience for the one. Just one, no, two questions and we’ll get started. Firstly, what’s your highest-level combat class? My guess is…[Ganger]. [Thug]? [Fighter]? You’re not over Level 10, I know that for a fact.”
The young woman turned red.
“Why d’you care?”
“I’ve got to know. Come on, which is it?”
The Gold-rank adventurer was pressing down on Anama now. She wasn’t that tall in her Human body, but she seemed to fill the ring however big it was. The Drake was heating up in the headgear, and she gasped a reply. If this helped…
“[T-Thug]. Level 6, alright? It’s not serious. You’re allowed to have that class, and it’s not a crime!”
Jelaqua Ivirith laughed softly.
“Yeah, I’ve heard that one before. The Watch still puts you on a list, you know.”
“They do? Well, what’s yours?”
The Selphid smiled.
“[Steelforged Whirlwind], Level 38. I know, I know. Pretty low. I’m a Level 13 [Loving Wife], though. Turns out protecting your man gets you levels.”
Anama’s jaw dropped. Jelaqua’s lesser class was double hers, and it didn’t surprise Jelaqua.
The only way you get classes normally is either by profession or hobby. A kid like her has trouble finding any job. But even in a gang, she can’t level hard. She’ll injure herself in a fight, and she’s vulnerable—and Scorchlings heal slower because they’re already fighting their bodies.
“You’re probably a higher-level [Survivor], though. Lower than 20, probably. And if you have a class like [Breather], or what was Halassia’s…? [Spewer]? It’s not high.”
She was guessing all three of Anama’s classes. The Drake was glaring now.
“Well, if you’re so smart, fix it! Fix me! C’mon!”
“Okay, I’ll try. Last question—I know you overheat and you’re getting heat sores. You don’t have fragile bones, do you? My guess is not, but I need to check. Problems breathing when you choke on smoke—that’s fine. Any organ problems? Aside from just your stomach or vitals overloading and malfunctioning.”
Anama shook her head, eyes now locked on Jelaqua as the Selphid hopped up and down.
“No. What’re you…what am I doing? Stretching? Learning a move or something?”
The Selphid smiled as she mashed the gloves together, and it made a great slamming sound.
“Nope! Here’s the plan. I hit you as hard as I can. There’s no way out of the ring except through me. Land a punch and you get to go. But I am going to hit you like good old Mort. Unless you fight. C’mon, [Thug].”
She beckoned, and Anama’s eyes went wide. That sneaking suspicion she’d had? The tiny little voice that said, ‘maybe this is a trap to get back at you?’ It was obviously a lie because they were in public and Melika would call the Watch and she could have done it yesterday…
Turns out that voice was right. She smiled, trying to deny it, and backed up.
“That’s not funny. Back off! We’ve got witness—”
She went for the ropes, and Jelaqua blurred around her. Anama recoiled.
“Stop it! I said I’m s—”
Jelaqua didn’t hear the rest. She swung a fist, hard as she could, and knew she’d chosen the good gloves, the ones with the most softness and magic in them.
She figured she broke two of the girl’s ribs.
Anama folded up with a cry, and there was an exclamation of horror from the watchers. But she didn’t fully fall; Jelaqua was holding her up.
“Remember, you’ve got to hit me.”
Possibly the words only reached Anama after the punches landed. Jelaqua leapt back from the cross of punches and circled. She lunged in, and Anama ducked, face white. She screeched as her broken ribs struggled with her burnt skin.
“Stop! Help, help, she’s crazy!”
“C’mon, kid. Throw a punch.”
Punching a leg didn’t usually hurt given how thick the leg bone was and the odd angle, but Jelaqua was a Level 38 [Warrior] in a Selphid’s body. Anama stumbled, and then she did take a wild swing at Jelaqua.
“I d—”
The Selphid countered, moved behind Anama, and hit her in the back. The Drake girl turned, and her arm locked with Jelaqua’s as both punched—the Selphid’s arm swept hers back, and she hit the mat. Anama lay there, making a faint sound, and Jelaqua thought she’d broken her tail landing on it.
“Potion.”
She poured one over Anama. It showered onto the Drake and mat as someone shouted.
“Adventurer Ivirith, stop! What are you—”
The [Apprentice] stared at the costly potion being used on Anama. Even for broken bones—! Anama gasped as her ribs snapped back into place. She hadn’t ever been hurt that bad before—at least, not in a fight. She began to sit up and flinched.
“You’ve got five seconds before I hit you when you’re down. And then you’ll bounce. C’mon, I have a lot of potions, and you don’t have all day. Four, three…”
She rose and screamed and tried to swing at Jelaqua. The Selphid’s hands blurred, and the girl dropped. Now, someone was shouting at her to stop.
“Captain, don’t hit her! She’s sorry!”
Ophala was wide-eyed as she cupped her hands to her beak. Some of the other young folk were shouting too—some for the Watch. Jelaqua turned; the [Apprentice] was getting into the ring.
“This is untoward. I’m putting a stop to—”
Her punch popped the Drake off the ring and onto the floor. He rolled as he fell and didn’t crack his tail, a sign he was Grimalkin’s apprentice. Jelaqua turned.
“Told you. C’mon. Swing faster.”
Anama was drooling a bit of blood, and she didn’t say anything this time. A baseline instinct had kicked in where your mouth shut up and you moved to survive because you knew there was no talking your way out of this.
It was the correct instinct, but it was still too slow. Jelaqua’s fists were a blur as she crossed the ring. This time, Anama’s body hit the ropes, and the [Apprentice] who’d thought he just had boring gymnasium desk duty saw the Selphid perform the first off-the-ropes punch in the world’s history as Anama came back towards him.
He knew fighting. She was not pulling her punches like the Sinew Magus did. She wasn’t going for a vital where she could kill the girl, and she poured another potion as the Scorchling sagged, but this—
This time, the [Apprentice] tried a spell and drew his wand as he empowered his legs to jump into the ring. Jelaqua kicked him so fast he didn’t see it coming. When he aimed a wand at her, she hit him with an empty potion vial so hard his head snapped back into the floor.
The [Apprentice] made a judgement call. He whirled and ran, shouting for the Sinew Magus and his peers. It wasn’t far to get them. It took only four minutes, in fact, for Grimalkin to emerge from his mansion where he and Lady Pryde had been busy planning gymnasiums.
Four minutes was a long time.
 
——
 
When Magus Grimalkin burst into the gymnasium in only his robes, he saw nearly a dozen of his apprentices trying to hold Jelaqua Ivirith back. Far more on the floor or trying to climb into the ring, but the Selphid had already halted.
“Good punch, kid.”
A Drake girl dropped onto the mat. Not slumped, not collapsed. Just dropped. Grimalkin pointed.
“[Air Cushion]—”
Jelaqua caught Anama’s head and shook off her other boxing glove. It was partly exploded from the force. Grimalkin noted it as he saw a larger amount of visitors than normal. Young people—Scorchlings? He blinked at Ophala and her friends and several members of staff—and a [Guardswoman] from Pallass’ Watch.
“Ivirith! What—”
She waved at him and knelt.
“Hmm. She’s out. Won’t be long now. I think that was four levels. Hey, Grimalkin, sorry I had to rough up your apprentices.”
He stared at the panting apprentices. This was a new group of his students, so they weren’t as strong as Ferkr or his graduates, but they’d built plenty of muscle under his new programs—from their dazed expressions, she’d kept moving with all their weight and strength trying to hold her.
I must show them what high-level means. Not just strength, but this.
The Sinew Magus had lesser instincts, ones that did not hesitate to tell him to put her in a binding spell or shout or demand answers. His analytical mind told him he had the answers. So he observed.
He noted Anama’s condition, the startlement of the others, Jelaqua Ivirith’s empty vials and the stains on the mat. The Selphid herself and her team…and his mind snapped to a conclusion like it had regarding Erin Solstice’s nature.
This time, he hoped he was right.
“Counterlevelling? There must be a more merciful way to do it.”
The horrified staff and Melika herself, who’d burst into the gymnasium, pale-faced, turned. His apprentices glanced up, and Jelaqua Ivirith smiled. A dead woman smiling at him with that strange being inside who knew more of the body than he did.
“Doesn’t work as well if they know what’s coming. It barely works if I avoid hitting them hard as I can. But you can pee hard enough to level under Level 10. I saw it happen once.”
“That’s most likely apocryphal and down to some other event.”
“Nope. Kidney stone. I’ll tell you the full story sometime.”
“Ah, I withdraw my objections. Pryde, it’s not what it seems. No emergency, well, at least none that requires physical intervention.”
