Tala arrived at the arena where she and Rane used to train with the other Archons, and instead of entering the combat area, Tala made her way up to an observation deck, looking down on what was happening below.

It was a sight to see.

Rane was fighting Master Cazor, and the experienced Mage Hunter was actually on the backfoot.

Rane was practically bouncing off of the stone walls, sandy floor, and wire-mesh ceiling to avoid the sweeping rivers of iron.

It was most clear on the sand and with the wire mesh, but Rane wasn’t putting any pressure on that which he launched from.

He’s getting better every day.

He even somehow managed to redirect off of the very iron he was avoiding, though Tala had seen Master Cazor grab onto Rane with the clouds of particles in bouts in the past.

Force flickered and flashed throughout the dizzying acrobatics, blowing apart clusters of iron, sending plumes of sand to distract and disrupt, and even landing blows on hastily raised defenses, causing Master Cazor to struggle to maintain any semblance of control in the arena.

Rust me, he’s gotten better.

-Yeah; that he has.-

She continued to watch what was obviously a forgone conclusion. Regardless, both men continued fighting until the end.

When it came, it came quick.

Rane redirected off of the ceiling, spearing straight toward Master Cazor with Force held before him like the tip of a lance.

Master Cazor tried to sweep Rane from the air, but Rane pulled out something new.

From his leather loop, Rane drew forth a handful of magically powerful magnets, throwing them out to spread around himself.

There had to be further magics involved, because while they weren’t drawn to each other at all—in fact they even seemed to repulse one another—they obviously completely changed the magnetic landscape of the battlefield.

Master Cazor saw and corrected like the expert that he was, but the moment’s delay and reprieve was all that Rane needed.

He stopped, his sword resting against Master Cazor’s shoulder in a pull-cut that would have forced the Mage Hunter to move toward Rane in order to mitigate the damage.

Taking the blow would have thrown the smaller man into Rane’s embrace, where it would have been a quick end to the fight as well.

Master Cazor laughed, the iron in the air freezing in place, then dropping to coat the sand in beautiful, swirling patterns of dark gray on tan. “Well fought, Master Rane.”

Rane grinned in return, “And you, Master Cazor. I think if I didn’t have the ceiling, I’d have lost long ago.”

The other man waved that off, “Some battlefields favor me, some favor others. I would be a poor opponent if I complained after such a well-earned victory on your part. Besides, having so much iron readily available in the sand has to be taken into account. If anything, I gained more from this arena than you did.”

“I disagree, but thank you.”

“I have to ask, though, did you specifically get magical items to counter me?”

Rane shrugged, his smile widening, “Among others, yes.”

“Are they monopoles?”

“That’s right.”

The man shook his head. “Magic is amazing. They must have been expensive.”

“Somewhat. They were actually harvests off of a truly fascinating metal elemental. There were two of them, found in near proximity to one another, and each had more than a hundred monopoles.”

“The other halves in those within the other?”

“Exactly.”

“Huh, not necessary, but an interesting way for them to have been formed.”

“That’s what I thought.” Rane nodded in agreement.

Then, in the brief lull in their post-fight conversation, both men turned to look up at Tala.

She waved, smiling in return.

Master Cazor’s lip curled in wry amusement, “See anything you like?”

She chuckled, “I’d love to fight you both, but that’d be a bit unfair.”

Rane nodded seriously, and Master Cazor grimaced, “We don’t have enough Fused friends to even the odds against a Refined, battle-hardened Defender, let alone you.”

She laughed happily at the obvious compliment, “Well, thank you, but it could still be fun…”

He laughed. “True enough.” He looked to his previous opponent. “What do you say?”

Rane didn’t look to Master Cazor, instead meeting Tala’s gaze with one of determination, “I’m always game for a round.”

-You’re not very nice sometimes, Tala.-

I’m not going to humiliate them. Besides, I’ve been working on controlling my iron despite competing forces. If anyone can test that properly, it’s Master Cazor.

-True, and Rane?-

He’s always enjoyable to spar with. Even when he isn’t a ‘true’ opponent, he’s good enough to press me to be better.

-And he seems to be hunting for ways to counter you as well.-

Tala’s smile grew as she dropped down into the sandy pit. Let’s see how well he’s done, then.
