Situ Jia Zian, a mortal amongst men.

A fitting epithet for an unremarkable warrior like himself, for how could someone who grew up with every advantage, yet failed to distinguish himself, ever be considered a dragon? Despite being blessed with costly elixirs, lavish equipment, the finest teachers, and a multitude of sparring partners to call upon whenever he desired, Zian’s strength was middling at best; Capable enough not to embarrass himself, yet too inadequate to stand out from his peers and rivals. Once, his name featured prominently in every bar-room conversation regarding the prominent young talents of the Empire, but now, he would count himself lucky to be mentioned in a positive light. Gone were the days when he stood at the forefront of his peers, having been surpassed by the likes of Yong-Jin, Tam Taewoong, Quyen Dienne, and other respected young warriors, but one name needled Zian like no other.

Oddly enough, the name wasn’t ‘Falling Rain’, as Zian had long since made peace with the Bekhai warrior’s bizarre brilliance, meteoric progress, and strangely inconsistent strength. Being surpassed by the publicly acknowledged Number One Talent in the Empire was nothing to be ashamed of, especially since Zian could still hold his own against Rain, but to be surpassed by someone he’d never considered a rival, this was a blow to Zian’s pride which he had difficulty recovering from. Born only a few months apart in feuding clans, Zian and BoShui were no strangers to being compared, but for the first twenty five years of his life, Zian had been the superior one. Where he’d been the Rising Dragon of the Situ Clan, BoShui was the Paper Tiger of the Han Clan, but his improvement over the past two years was nothing short of astounding.

As they rode side by side through the earthen corridors of Fort Sinuji, Zian could hardly recognize his old adversary despite having seen him several times over the past few days. Gone was the willowy young idiot brimming with arrogance despite his lack of virtues, and in his place was a brawny young soldier with broad shoulders, robust chest, and legs powerful enough to squeeze the life out of the warhorse beneath him. A thick and meticulously groomed moustache sat on his upper lip, while a finger-length goatee graced his chin, facial hair which added years to his youthful demeanour and gave him the weighty presence of a seasoned veteran. Looking valiant in his red-plumed helm and dark-steel plate armour, bearing the likeness of tigers on his pauldrons in place of the customary ‘Han’ and ‘Heaven and Earth’ insignia, BoShui rode with Zian to their Society meeting in full battle-dress, equipped with all four Spiritual Weapons and accompanied by eight Experts to boot, twice the number Jing Fei’s reports claimed he had. Granted, BoShui’s Spiritual Weapons consisted of gauntlets and greaves which couldn’t be quickly drawn, and his relationship with the Han Clan was far more hostile than Zian’s, but ‘ready for battle’ was entirely the wrong message to send when attending a peaceful gathering among Society allies.

Then again, considering his clenched jaw and quarter smile, perhaps it was precisely the message BoShui meant to convey, exuding a cold fury and quiet confidence which reminded Zian of Falling Rain at his best.

In contrast, Zian wore his finest blue robes bearing both clan and society insignia, with only Jukai, Jing Fei, and her four handmaidens to escort him. Initially, he balked at bringing the handmaidens, but his beloved concubine insisted they come along to sell his image as a spoiled, silk-pants has-been, but now, he regretted not bringing his Experts too. Did BoShui know something Zian had missed? Impossible, Jing Fei’s spies constantly fed her information regarding Society actions and she heard whispers of this ‘impromptu’ meeting three days past, the day after the camp was attacked by Wraiths.

The meeting would best be described as a reaction to the Defiled escalation, for estranged or not, it would be a devastating loss of face for the Society if their Clan Heirs were murdered by Wraiths. Thus, today was presumably a negotiation to either bring errant talents back into the Society’s fold and present a united front, or remove the weakness once and for all. Though Zian had his misgivings, if Rang Min made a tolerable offer of peace before Society witnesses, then Zian would have no choice but to accept. Backroom deals were one thing, but today’s meeting was out in the open, witnessed by the other sects and clans. Rang Min would be bound to uphold the terms of an agreement while Zian could not afford to turn down an offer made in good faith. If the Situ Patriarch were to renege on a deal or if Zian were to refuse out of stubborn wilfulness, then the witnesses would turn on the offending party as one, for appearances of honour and face must be kept.

Though Zian was certain Rang Min would not directly move against him, his confidence was founded on the premise that the other Sects and Clans would restrict the Situ Patriarch. Even though everyone of importance knew Rang Min meant to ruin Zian and elevate Gulong in his place, if he were to act against a talented junior of his clan for his own son, then the other factions would make the Situ Patriarch’s nepotism known across the Empire. Or they would, unless they all agreed that Zian’s death would serve the Society better, which they might if he insisted on remaining antagonistic to his Clan in the face of an acceptable treaty. The same went for BoShui since their circumstances were eerily similar, but from the looks of things, he had already made his decision and was intent on clashing with his Clan Patriarch and father, Han BoDing.

Yes... very much like Rain indeed. Poorly thought out and bordering on suicidal, but still worthy of respect, if only for the sheer audacity required to pull it off.

The meeting was to take place inside the fort proper, and though limited to Society adherents, Zian felt safer knowing Colonel Hongji was nearby, no doubt keeping a close eye on the proceedings. Though woefully deficient in strength, reputation, and backing, the good Colonel had proven himself as a soldier first, a commander willing to stand up to dragons and tigers alike for the warriors beneath him. Regarding matters of better billets, cushier postings, or preferred treatment, Chen Hongji cared nothing for faction or reputation and put his soldiers to work wherever he saw fit. That said, he seemed to have a soft spot for Rain, though why he cared for Bekhai flattery but not any other variety, it was difficult to say. Perhaps Nian Zu or Baatar had offered him a position, or Rain beat the snot out of some brat Hongji had a grudge against, or maybe the Colonel was truly a fan of the Number One Talent in the Empire, but whatever the reason, Zian prayed the good Colonel’s goodwill extended to Rain’s allies as well.

Perhaps he should’ve spoken to Rain about this before heading out, but he seemed to always be busy soaking in his bathtub these days, and Zian would be damned if he visited Rain there again...

As he emerged from the earthen maze of Fort Sinuji’s walls, the first thing Zian saw was the Society’s pavilion tent, an ostentatious, silken affair sporting a multitude of clan and sect pennants in every colour of the rainbow, as if afraid onlookers would forget their individual affiliations. To be fair, considering how often factions were merged, split, added, or removed, even Zian would have trouble naming every clan and sect in the Society, so as silly as it all seemed, perhaps the pennants and insignia served a useful purpose. Riding shoulder to shoulder with BoShui, they entered the pavilion together as a show of solidarity, something they had discussed beforehand but Zian now had second doubts. If BoShui refused to negotiate in good faith, then he faced removal from Clan, Society, and soon after, life itself. Could Zian afford to join him? On the other hand, could he put aside his enmity and work alongside the men responsible for his father’s death?

He could, but he wouldn’t. With the decision before him, Zian knew this now. Perhaps today, he would finally have his wish and announce himself as Lu Jia Zian, son of Lu An Jing and last of his house.

After leaving their horses with an army stable-hand, they walked the rest of the way to the pavilion. Zian imagined they made for a striking sight, BoShui ready for battle and surrounded by scowling soldiers, while he strode along with Jing Fei on his arm and four more beauties at his side. In hindsight, it wasn’t a terrible decision to only bring Jukai to protect him, because if the Society meant to keep Zian here against his will, then they wouldn’t kill his Mentor, and if they intended to kill him, then it would make no difference even if he’d brought his entire retinue. Still, he’d be safer with a few more Experts by his side, even though he hated himself for thinking this way. Gone were the days of the fearless and arrogant Situ Jia Zian, for he was but an ignorant child who knew nothing of the ugliness in the world. Lu Jia Zian, however, knew all too well about the danger he was headed into and how woefully unequipped he was to deal with them.

Stifling a chuckle, he laughed at his craven thoughts and steeled his resolve, as his choice had already been made and it was too late to reconsider.

Stepping into the shade of the pavilion, Zian followed Jing Fei’s lead and had her wash his feet while BoShui smiled and waited at the side. This farce wasn’t solely meant to antagonize the gathered Society adherents, but also to give them both time to surreptitiously study the crowd and gather their bearings. Idly scanning the crowd as Jing Fei sensuously scrubbed his soles, Zian smiled at possible allies, greeted those he deemed important, acknowledged those he recognized, and intentionally snubbed several would-be rivals and their cronies. The leading figures had yet to arrive since they would lose face if seen waiting for a junior, but as this meeting was open to all adherents, the factions who intended to take part were already represented in the audience. The Arahant and Baiji Sects were here in force, both factions in decline after clashing with the Bekhai, yet still not weak enough to disregard. In contrast, the OuYang Clan was on the rise and had arrived in full force, with five young talents present yet none the match for the deceased heir, OuYang Yu Jin, slain by Falling Rain in the duels at the Wall. Sang Ryong was also here, along with a cadre of his Seven Star Sect disciples, but where he once fawned over Zian to Sanshu and back, his fellow Warrant Officer now did his best to pretend Zian didn’t exist.

Orders from above no doubt, for in the event of a divide between the Situ Clan and Zian, it was much safer to cling to the trunk rather than a mere branch. No great loss there. Zian couldn’t stand the boorish brute.

Though their leaders were off pretending not to wait, the Situ and Han clan had members standing in a clump, alongside representatives of their auxiliary factions. Zian recognized BoShui’s half-brother standing at the forefront, though for the life of him couldn’t remember the young man’s name. He might not have even recognized his face if not for the striking resemblance to BoShui, looking more like the buffoon in Zian’s memory than the stalwart ally standing beside him. Also there were Situ Chiang and Situ Shirong, both orphaned by the Bekhai long before Zian first heard Falling Rain’s name. The two unfortunate young men had been taken in by Rang Min, and judging by the fervent hatred they directed towards Zian, they took issue with him for being friends with Rain. Were they really too blind to see that their fathers died because of Clan and Society? Greed and hubris drove them to attack, while the Bekhai merely defended themselves.

Putting his clansmen out of mind, Zian continued studying the crowd, but there were no other notable guests to mention. More telling were the conspicuous absences, the most prominent of which was the Harmonious Unity Sect, one of the three figureheads of the Society alongside the Situ and Han Clans. Also missing were the Lin Clan, White Lotus Sect, and all of their respective allies, which meant more than a third of the Society was left unrepresented, a fact which alarmed Zian enough to inform Jing Fei through Sending.

Looking regal as she knelt at his feet, Jing Fei patted him dry with a towel and Sent, “Worry not, dear husband. There are still enough factions present to guarantee our safety.”

“You don’t understand,” Zian replied, doing his best to stay calm while watching the exits. “The missing factions have representatives here in Sinuji, so the only reason they would all abstain is because they disagree with what the majority has decided. Their absence is a show of civic disobedience, which means much considering the purpose of this meeting is to present a united front.”

Skilled as she was with politics, there were certain facets of the Society one would never understand unless born to it. Clan or Sect above all else, but Society was a close second, and only after both were things like family and friends ranked. Even if two factions were embroiled in a blood feud, they would put aside all enmity if their conflict became detrimental to the Society as a whole. This was the mentality taught to them from young, so even if brother turned against brother or husband against wife, it was always in service to faction and Society. Even the famed black sheep Nian Zu never bared his fangs at the Society, and the only adherent in living history with the nerve to strike back was Shing Du Yi.

And what a decisive blow it was, a warning letter to the entire province written in the blood of his clansman. Truly a man worthy of admiration.

