When his feet were clearly dry and they could delay no longer, Zian slipped back into his shoes, indicated for Jukai to remain behind, and stood beside BoShui. With Jing Fei beside him, he marched in lockstep with his friend to the centre of the venue as the ‘guests of honour’. Three seats awaited them, two simplistic wooden chairs on either side of an ornate throne carved from a block of green jade, all of them facing three wooden thrones, marked with Situ, OuYang, and Han insignia in turn. Seated in the central position, it seemed like the OuYang Clan would be the mediators for this gathering, an odd choice, but one Zian could accept.

As for the jade throne, who it was meant for or why they deserved such an honour, Zian couldn’t say, though he wouldn’t put it past the elders to place it there just to separate him from BoShui. Idly toying with the idea of sitting on the jade throne, he decided it would be best not to set himself above his friend and took the seat across from the Situ throne, smiling as Jing Fei settled into his lap. Though Sendings would undoubtedly be noticed by the gathered Peak Experts, most would attribute it to Jukai or BoShui’s guards offering advice from afar, and unless directly questioned, no one would know for certain that Zian and BoShui could already Send without contact.

Glancing to the right, Zian locked eyes with his friend and nodded once, both of them prepared to see this through together. Oddly enough, throughout the entire journey here, Zian never once thought about what to do if BoShui betrayed him. It seemed he trusted his old adversary more than he trusted his clansmen, an eye opening revelation if there ever was one.

Minutes passed in hushed silence until the architects behind this meeting finally arrived, pretending as if they hadn’t been waiting while Concealed in the shadows. Elders, Guardians, Arhats, and whatnot took their places in the crowd, and though their titles differed, they all served a similar purpose amongst the various factions, so Zian paid them little mind. Instead, it was the three presiding officials who caught his eye. Situ Rang Min, OuYang YuSheng, and Han BoDing took their seats before Zian and BoShui, three patriarchs from arguably the three most powerful Clans. Their presence in Sinuji cast a dark shadow over these proceedings, because for them to arrive so quickly meant they raced across the skies to be here, a dangerous venture considering each of them had no shortage of enemies, both in and outside the Society. If they were willing to risk their lives to be here, then things were more serious than Zian thought.

Rather than begin with the arrival of the Patriarchs, the crowd settled in to wait. So the jade throne wasn’t merely a prop, but what sort of personage could warrant such a throne, much less could afford to keep three patriarchs waiting? No matter, so long as they sat along the same line as Zian and BoShui, then they could be considered something of an ally, or at the very least, not an enemy. The pause gave Zian time to think and discuss matters with BoShui and Jing Fei, but their conclusions were less than useful. The presence of three patriarchs might be why the Harmonious Unity Sect and fellow dissenters refused to participate, because without their faction leaders present, then they would be helpless to speak out against a line up of senior officials.

Why the OuYang Patriarch though? Rang Min and BoDing risking their lives to be here made sense since Zian and BoShui were their successors, but YuSheng had no stake in all this...

Long minutes passed until YuSheng cleared his throat and offered an apologetic shrug to the crowd. “Though our last guest has yet to arrive, let us commence this meeting of the Society of Heaven and Earth.” A ruddy-faced grandfatherly type, he seemed friendly enough, though Zian suspected he was probably the most devious out of them all. Enjoying his moment in the sun, he raised his arms and intoned, “Join hands and we shall close the proceedings to outsiders.” Zian felt nothing, but he knew the various Experts would be setting barriers against eavesdropping, yet another skill Jukai refused to explain until he was further along the Martial Path, a most frustrating teaching method.

Nodding in approval, YuSheng flicked his sleeves and settled back in his chair with a sigh. “Now, we have gathered to discuss a matter of grave importance. We, the Society of Heaven and Earth, have survived where other factions have failed, because we have always stood united. Situ Jia Zian, Han BoShui, you have been called here today because even though your defiance has been tolerated in the past, but it is time you both returned to the fold. Dragons must roam free if they are to soar into the Heavens, but even the mightiest dragon must have a nest to return to. Our offer is simple: both of you will renounce your titles of Young Patriarch, and in return, your Clans will make every effort to see you married into a position of power within another faction of your choosing. Better to be the head of a dog than the tail of a phoenix, so even though you won’t be Patriarch of your respective Clans, it isn’t out of the question for you both to lead a different clan or sect.”

Truth be told, these were far more favourable and enticing terms than Zian expected, which meant there had to be a catch. “And what, pray tell, do you expect in return?”

“Audacious brat!” Rang Min roared, wagging an accusatory finger at Zian. “Three patriarchs sit before you and offer peace, but still you play games?” Shaking his head, he sighed for the crowd’s benefit, playing the victim in this ridiculous farce. “I should have taken you away from your mother earlier, the lass has poisoned you against Clan and Society.” A none-too-subtle reminder of how Zian didn’t grow up at the Society headquarters like most of his peers had, painting him as an outsider to make his excommunication that much more palatable.

To distract from Zian, BoShui spoke up, sitting at the edge of his seat with fists clenched and eyes tight. “I refuse.”

Well, that was that. Poorly played, but BoShui did always take after his uncle when it came to politics.

The crowd burst into outrage, but fell silent at BoDing’s raised hand. “I urge you to reconsider,” he said, his deep voice rumbling in his chest. A bear of a man, Zian could see where BoShui’s transformation would eventually take him. “You, my prodigal son, my chosen successor, have shamed your Clan and Society enough for a hundred lifetimes by becoming the guard dog of a tribal savage. How many of your fellow adherents have suffered at the hands of the Bekhai? How many have lost brothers, sisters, fathers, or mothers? Yet you, you sit at Falling Rain’s feet and shit where he tells you to, an utter disgrace. Were it not my love of your mother and the advice of my peers, I would kill you where you sit right now.”

Teeth bared in a feral grin, BoShui replied, “No need to pretend. You suffer my existence not out of love for my mother, but fear of your brother.” Ignoring his father’s infuriated stammers, BoShui faced his brother and declared, “I am Han BoShui, Young Patriarch of the Han Clan by virtue of superior strength and skill. If you believe otherwise, then come face me in single combat, BoSha. Be warned: Uncle BoHai lacked the resolve to kill our father, but I never liked you much, brother.”

Right, BoSha was his name. BoShui for water, BoSha for sand, BoDing had terrible naming sense to label his children after elements in the hopes they’d secure a Blessing. Not so uncommon in the Empire, but Mother forbid they receive a blessing which didn’t fit their name...

“Enough of this nonsense.” Startled by the voice, Zian turned to his right and found a woman seated on the jade throne, having arrived without notice sometime during the discussion.

He wasn’t the only one surprised by her presence, for even the three Patriarchs were caught off guard. Silence hung in the air for all of a second until YuSheng finally found his voice. “Little sister,” he said, putting on a fawning expression which ill-suited his face. “I’m so glad you could find the time -”

“Yes, and I have precious little to waste.” Not caring for her older brother and Clan Patriarch’s face, the woman sniffed and gave a dismissive wave, inadvertently (or not) showing off her abundance of jewellery, with multiple jewel-studded rings on each finger and an assortment of bangles gracing her wrist. An odd contrast considering her plain, unadorned robes and clean, but dishevelled hair, not overtly untidy like Rain or Mila, but less than professionally cared for, which seemed odd for a woman of wealth.

And then the pieces fell together and Zian bolted to his feet to greet her, almost throwing Jing Fei aside in his haste. “Little Zian greets Aunty Yuhuan. Had this one known Aunty was in Sinuji, he would have greeted Aunty sooner.” With a pricey gift no less, for this was the legendary Tyrant, OuYang Yuhuan, the talented and wilful younger sister of OuYang YuSheng who ran away from her arranged marriage to become one of the north’s most notorious bandits. A plague upon wealthy merchants and nobles alike, the Tyrant plundered multiple fortunes to fund her study of runes, studies which paid off when she emerged as the foremost Runic Craftsman in the North.

Granted, she earned the title by killing the previous holder, mostly to plunder his wealth, but regardless of how she secured her position, none could deny OuYang Yuhuan was unmatched in the North.

“Tch.” The Tyrant was less than pleased and waved him aside. “Had I wanted you to learn of my presence, then you would have known.” As the crowd clamoured to greet her, she glared them into silence and submission. “No need to greet me one by one, I’m far too busy to craft you anything. Now let’s get this meaningless discussion over and done with, some of us have important work to attend to and don’t have all day to spend quarrelling and quibbling over nonsense. What do you want?”

Truly a Tyrant, trampling over all in her path.

Zian quickly took his seat lest he upset the heavily-armed Runic Craftsman. Though he’d met her once, when she came in to make sure the breastplate fit properly before she inscribed it, he spent most of their time together staring at his feet, properly terrified by Mother’s high-strung demeanour and his unexpected arousal. Until then, Zian thought Mother the most powerful woman in the world, but the Tyrant trampled all over that notion, a brusque, heavy-handed Expert who excelled at her craft and had the backing to keep herself free of Society intrigue. Mother called in every favour she had to get Yuhuan to visit, and paid dearly to have her craft a Runic Breastplate, a nigh impenetrable barrier now worn by Li Song, who despite her lofty status, was still little more than Falling Rain’s slave girl.

...There were days when Zian found it difficult to call Rain ‘friend’.

Nodding like a chicken pecking grains, YuSheng quickly rehashed his speech about dragons and nests, but Yuhuan cut him off once more again. “Why now?” she asked, not caring to hear her brother’s offer. “Why here?”

The three Patriarchs traded glances in silence until Yuhuan audibly growled, at which point YuSheng stammered, “We have been tasked with the removal of a certain young warrior, and we require aid from the three of you to do so.”

...This was about Rain? The Tyrant came to the same conclusion and snorted in disbelief, a most unladylike sound, but one which made Zian uncomfortably bothered. “You intend to assassinate Falling Rain? Fools and imbeciles the lot of you. Putting aside his Imperial Title, powerful backers, and the Bekhai’s hidden strength, if you move against him, then I will stand to defend him.”

“...But why?” YuSheng cried, so flustered he lost all sense of propriety.

“I’ve entered into an agreement with him, my protection in exchange for goods and services. What’s more, my partner would be most displeased to learn of your intentions, so listen carefully brother, because I will only warn you this once: leave Falling Rain and the Bekhai alone, lest you bring destruction down upon yourself.”

“Have you forgotten your nephew, my son? He died at the hands of that runt, and now you protect him?”

Slamming her palm against her throne, she reduced the carved jade arm to dust and rubble. “Yu Jin’s death was a tragedy, but one of the Society’s making. Greed killed my nephew, greed and pride, because the Society must always come first, no matter the cost.” Yuhuan’s voice broke, but it returned soon after filled with fire and steel. “Leave Falling Rain alone.”

Ever the politician, Rang Min took this opportunity to speak up. “Rest assured, lady Yuhuan, we have assurances from our backer-”

“Idiots!” Her patience at its end, Yuhuan came to her feet and hissed, “Short of a direct order from the Emperor himself, you will not lay a finger on Falling Rain or the Bekhai. Fail to heed my warning, and you shall face my wrath, provided there are enough of you remaining to bother. Think it through. Why would anyone in power bother using you to kill him? They will make cats-paws of you all, while you gladly slip the noose about your own necks.” Glancing to either side of her, Yuhuan sniffed and said, “I grow weary of fools and politics. Come now, I’ll bring you two boys back to camp. If your fellow adherents think things through, then perhaps they’ll realize the benefit in keeping two of their best and brightest by Falling Rain’s side.”

