We spent about a week (subjectively) inside the dungeon before returning to the outside world. Each of us managed to gain a level, bringing us all to level 203.

Our progression was a lot slower than it had been before, but it wasn’t unexpected. We’d been warned beforehand that reaching the next evolution would take a lot longer than the first one had.

In fact, it would probably take us two decades to reach level 400 unless we focused a lot more of our efforts toward progression. With Mike and Cora planning to start a family soon, it would probably take longer.

Knowing that we would likely have to split the party once Cora became pregnant was a bit sad, but I wanted my friends to be happy. Besides, it wasn’t like we couldn’t still spend time together.

I pulled up my status and eyed my list of skills. None had seen any real improvement since my evolution.

***

Name: Emie NeohimTitles: Ascender (hidden), Contender (hidden)Level: 203Evolution: First

Core Skills: Demesne (Epic)Temporal Aura (Unique/Rare)Restorative Healing (Epic)Lightning Bolt (Epic)

Skill Slots (16/19):Dimensional Anchor (Epic)Teleportation (Epic)Herbalism (Uncommon)Repulsion Aura (Rare)Telekinesis (Rare)Identify (Uncommon)Enchanting (Rare)Ice Blade (Rare)Eruption (Uncommon)Shrapnel (Uncommon)Cooking (Uncommon)Minor Illusion (Common)Gust (Common)Void Strike (Common)Beast Companion (Common)Portal (Uncommon)

***

I was going to have to start focusing on one or two skills per delve again if I wanted to make progress. Coming up with creative ways to use skills was always one of the best ways to push a skill to the next grade.

That was one of the reasons I was glad that the new Healers had arrived, since it would hopefully let me do more than focus on regrowing limbs and the occasional organ.

“Healer Emie, thanks for coming by,” Healer Seraphine said, pulling me from my status screen.

“It’s no problem. I came as soon as I finished cleaning up from the delve,” I told her as I stood from the bench I’d been waiting on outside of her office.

I’d gotten the message that she wanted to meet with me as soon as I’d left the dungeon. Dungeons were really the only places that the higher-end communicators didn’t work.

Well, that wasn’t totally true. I could communicate with Stephen just fine. We just couldn’t send or receive messages or calls with the outside while within the dungeon.

“Come on in. I wanted to run something by you,” Seraphine said, closing the door behind me after I stepped inside. “So, I’m sure you know about the new Healers from Bloom, correct?”

“Yes. I was actually the one who brought them here.”

Seraphine seemed to go blank for a moment before breaking into a wide grin. “That’s right. I forget sometimes that you’re a Porter as well. In any case, I’m not sure how much you know about how the Healers in Bloom are trained.”

“Not really anything,” I admitted.

“That’s fine. Well, to summarize, those interested in becoming Healers don’t just delve and hope to acquire a healing skill or purchase one outright like most Healers,” Seraphine explained. “Instead, they go to an academy that teaches them the basics of healing, as well as how to tap into any nature-based skill to create their own healing skill.”

My eyes widened. Such academies had been fairly common back before demonic incursions began, but they were far less common in modern times. I hadn’t been aware that Bloom was home to such an establishment.

“The training usually begins before a child gains access to the system or after the first evolution, but the academy in Bloom does things a little differently,” Seraphine continued. “They actually provide classes to potential healers during their time at the Dungeon Complex. There are all sorts of rules and constraints, but the program has proven effective in producing capable Healers.”

“And I’m guessing you’re hoping to establish something similar here?”

It was the only thing that really made sense, given the conversation.

“You would be correct. However, this dungeon doesn’t provide ample nature-based skills for use in creating healing skills. It does, however, produce quite the number of time-based skills. And I thought since you’re the dungeon’s Originator, you’re probably the one most qualified to teach people how to adapt those skills into healing skills.”

I froze for a second at her words before shaking off my surprise and casually asking, “What makes you think I’m the Originator?”

“It’s not a secret,” Seraphine said with a smile. “That’s not to say it’s necessarily common knowledge, but those who are in positions of importance are well aware of your status.”

Deciding not to deny or affirm her statement, I said, “Unfortunately, I plan to start traveling soon. With new Healers capable of regrowing limbs, I figured I wouldn’t be as needed and have already made other plans. I will still be in Sorenguard often, though not often enough to make any long-term commitments.”

The Head Cleric Healer’s expression dropped. It was clear she was disappointed by my response.

“Is there anything I can do to change your mind? Even having you provide an occasional class on time-based healing would be valuable to so many future Healers.”

After giving it a bit of thought, I replied, “How about I write up a guidebook? I’ve got a bit of experience with primers, so I’m pretty confident that I can prepare something that would work. Then maybe we can schedule an occasional discussion for those who’ve got questions, and I can spend a few hours every so often helping out that way. It would also allow me to improve the guidebook until my direct assistance is no longer needed.”

It really wouldn’t be my first time writing such a guide. I’d written at least three of them in my life. It was actually closer to six or seven if I included the inheritances I’d left behind for each of my affinities.

Of course, most of the work had been done by my AI Interface Assistant, and I no longer had access to the databases of my old realm. But I felt pretty confident I could come up with something that would work.

“A guidebook would certainly be appreciated, especially if you’re willing to occasionally answer questions,” Seraphine responded, looking a lot more upbeat. “How fast do you think you could produce something like that?”

I shook my head. With everything else I had going on, I had no idea how long it would take.

“I don’t know. I can start working on it right away if you’d rather I focus on that instead of working shifts at the hospital.”

I could tell that she wanted me to do both, but unless I wanted to give up every scrap of free time that I had, it simply wasn’t feasible. Something had to give.

And while it might seem odd to admit, healing provided the lowest hourly compensation out of all of my endeavors.

I felt a little bad thinking of it that way since healing was a noble profession. But the hospital didn’t need me nearly as much now. People weren’t going to die or suffer without me there.

Furthermore, it wasn’t my place or responsibility to carry the burden of an entire city’s health. I’d help out while I was here and try to set them up for success after I left, but I wasn’t going to burn myself out trying to do more than that.

“I’d honestly rather you do both, but I know that isn’t realistic with how much you have going on,” Seraphine admitted with a sigh. “Unfortunately, I cannot compensate you for the guidebook the same way that I can direct healing, so if you’re in need of funds, it might be better to stick with working shifts instead.

“Having said that, once the guidebook is finished and reviewed, I’ll be able to offer you compensation and ongoing royalties based on use and student feedback.”

Since I was comfortable financially given my other three primary sources of income (Enchanting, working as a Porter, and delving), I opted to start work on the guidebook right away. I also asked Seraphine to remove me from the schedule for the foreseeable future.

I’d come by and work a shift if the mood struck, much like I’d done prior to my evolution. And since I hadn’t really been on a set schedule for long, it wasn’t like my absence would make much of a difference.

“You’re not working at the hospital anymore?” Stephen asked when I summarized what had happened during the meeting.

“No. And I actually feel a little relieved,” I admitted.

I’d been surprised to realize just how relieved I felt when I walked out of the hospital. The idea of writing yet another primer was strangely appealing, but doing it on top of everything else I had going on would have been too much.

By stepping away from direct healing and letting others handle things, I’d relieved a pressure that I hadn’t even realized I’d put upon myself.

I’d only really started healing at the medical facility to practice my skill, anyway. It wasn’t like healing was some great calling for me.

Sure, I liked helping others to be made whole, but I wasn’t really a Healer. I hadn’t been a Healer since I’d left Earth for the first time. Even then, I’d never truly embraced the role.

“Really? I thought you enjoyed healing people.”

“I do, but it also felt like a chain holding me in place. I want to explore and enjoy life, and slaving away in a hospital healing people all day isn’t really fulfilling that desire,” I replied. “I honestly didn’t even realize how much it was weighing me down until I saw an option to step away.”

“Well, as long as you are happy,” Stephen said. “Do you want any help with the guidebook? I don’t have the same background that you have with it, but I’d be happy to provide whatever feedback I can if it would help.”

“Sure. Having an alpha reader would be nice. It probably won’t take me all that long since I don’t plan to incorporate the medical aspects of time-based healing. Instead, I’ll just focus on the concept and how to apply it in general where healing is concerned. They’ll have to cover medical knowledge separately since I don’t have access to the same resources that I once had.”

I knew enough to do what I needed to, but not enough to really teach others how to do what I do. It was one of the downsides of having all my healing-related skills and spells combine into a single skill.

“Are you going to start on it right away, or would you rather explore a new city with me?” Stephen asked with a mischievous grin.

“Well, it is our day off,” I said innocently. “It wouldn’t be right to spend it working. But weren’t we going to wait until Mike and Cora could join us?”

“Honestly, I’d rather we spend the day alone. Just us.”

His statement was punctuated by the sound of a pair of young asolades climbing up the side of the couch. Their little claws undoubtedly left small holes in the upholstery as they chased each other around the living room.

“Yes. I’m sure Aerie and Lana wouldn’t mind getting out after spending so much time alone during the delve.”

They’d mostly stayed confined to the garden while we were busy, and instead of putting them in stasis, I’d set time to run at half-speed, keeping it roughly on par with the outside world.

The small asolade home Stephen had picked up had been a huge hit with the kits, but it was clear they preferred spending time with us rather than staying at home alone.

“I have just the place in mind,” Stephen said.