After the ruckus that Niala's revelation caused, David managed to get the meeting back on track. The group seemed more invested in the issue at hand, for some reason.

“As I've said, we're out of herbs, and the main problem is that we can't go out and buy much, because people don't stock them. Niala?” He turned to his girlfriend.

She dipped her head. “Right, because four out of the five herbs have limited use outside of niche potions. I came up with this specific mix because it's what I found in the garden. And! Before you ask, I did try to recreate the drink with other herbs!” There was a hint of annoyance in her last sentence.

David knew why. He had been there when his girlfriend had tried, and failed, repeatedly, to recreate the Old Woman using other mixes. While all of her attempts had technically the same effects, they were all missing something.

He still knew she'd try again, because his Niala wasn't a quitter. He was also looking forward to those sessions, because he got to learn new ways to curse at potions and herbs each time. As well, comforting his little mad kitten after the failed attempts usually involved a lot of very intimate snuggling, and that was so very enjoyable.

When he snapped out of his reverie, he found that Niala had picked up on his emotions through their link and was staring at him with a slight blush.

They quickly looked away from each other, as Niala cleared her throat and continued.

“So, as I was saying, people just don't stock these herbs in large quantities. We will have a steady supply coming in from the fai-from the farms that we contracted, but that won't be before a season or two.”

She sighed. “Until then, we're stuck with the little we can purchase or grow in our greenhouse, which is barely enough for my resident addict.” She said, pointing at David with her head.

Karline furrowed her brow. “You mean you're not, huh, addicted, Niala?”

The catkin blinked, one ear flopping down. “Huh. No, I'm not, though I did drink it once...” She said, looking at David.

He rubbed his chin. “I think it's because you never acquired the taste. Remember, when you tasted it? You spit it out and then added some other herbs. You never tasted it twice.”

She stared at him. “...That can't be right. Why would taking two sips do anything that a single one wouldn't?” She scratched her head, her eyes unfocusing. She began mumbling theories to herself on how this could be.

He eyed her before returning his attention to the others. “Either way, this is the situation. Any suggestions?”

Anaakendi suggested travelling south to find herbs in the milder climates, but David estimated that it would both take too long and that, from what Niala had told him, some of the herbs only grew in the northern lands.

Linzy suggested just coming up with a drink that tasted similar and had near-enough effects. She said she could market it as the Winter Woman, a seasonal version of the drink, made with winter herbs. Maybe add some festive spices to it, turn it into a celebratory drink for the Renewal holidays.

David shook his head. He had no issue with the idea of creating a similar drink, but the Old Woman's reputation needed to remain pure.

Some other suggestions were brought up by Leandro and Jordo, but nothing that truly addressed the problem.

Until Karline, face scrunched, motioned for David's attention.

“What about that underground place we found? The greenhouse we found was massive, and the plants would probably grow out in the correct biome anyway.” She suggested.

David's eyes widened in realization. “That's it! The underground preserve! Karline, you're a genius.”

The young woman registered the slightest of blushes under David's intense stare and compliment.

Jordo nodded before speaking. “Ms. Karline is correct, Sir. The Living Vault, what you call the preserve, would most certainly have samples of all known plants growing within its confines. And even if it does not, I'm quite certain they would have the cellular imprint of the desired plants on record.” His eye flashed. “We would only need to find a working recombinator and a supply of polymatter, and we could produce viable samples.”

David looked at Jordo, who looked rather pleased with himself, before looking at the others. “That is the path forward, then.”

Karline spoke up. “I know it's a great idea, but there was that thing in there. What if there are more?”

“The Fel? It should be fine, I have this, now.” David said, patting the sword at his belt.

The courier woman raised an eyebrow. “You had a sword last time, too, but you still ran away.”

“That sword wasn't Heartsong.”

“Heartsong? You named your sword?”

“We named our sword, Niala and I.” He explained with a slight edge in his tone.

Karline pushed against the back of her chair. “Ah, right, of course.” She looked at Leandro, puzzled, but the veteran shook his head. A story for another time.

With a short-term solution found and the Living Vault being only a few days of travel away, they began preparations.

The same five people would go. Leandro wanted to be there in case they did encounter a Fel, wanting a rematch to make up for what he saw as a poor personal performance last time. Anaakendi, for her part, was intrigued by this so-called “Living Vault” and wanted to see it. Jordo was Jordo, and would accompany his masters.

Karline would be staying in town once again. While she was somewhat interested in going back, David and Niala had asked her to help Linzy, as she had last time. It was true, but she and Linzy also didn't know about Niala being a weaver, and the fewer people that knew, the better.

David promised he'd bring back a few baubles as souvenirs, which placated the courier woman.

Niala got to work on another set of God-grade potions to bring, while Leandro gave David some more intensive swordsmanship lessons, now that he had a “proper sword”, as the large man had said.

And then, on the day before they had planned to depart, visitors arrived in town.

A messenger interrupted David and Niala during their breakfast, sent by Mayor Caleb, and informed them that a military detachment had announced their arrival in town by way of an advanced patrol.

A large enough area of flat ground had been requested, and the Mayor had no choice but to offer them the old abandoned market road where Leandro and David had been training.

When asked on who exactly the military men were, the messenger had replied, with some awe in his voice, that it was a unit of Azure Guards.

David and Niala had looked at each other, both very aware of each other's sinking feeling that this was going to be trouble.

Mayor Caleb looked at his guests: David, Niala and Leandro. They all sported rather serious expressions, David most of all.

The dogkin steepled his fingers over his desk. “When Carole told me you urgently wanted to see me, I had assumed it was to ask why there were Azure Guards en route to this town. Was I correct?”

Their nods confirmed what he suspected.

“And from your hard stares, I am guessing you want to know if I reported the Fel sighting to the Wardenfels or the Royal family?”

David and Leandro dipped their heads.

Caleb sighed. “Well, I have not. I did send a ciphered note to my main sponsor about it. Such sightings need to be reported, after all, but I had specifically mentioned that it was under control.”

The mayor leaned into his chair. “And, before you ask, this was long before your latest adventure. It was a report on the first sighting that you and Ms. Karline had.” He explained.

David grimaced. “I guess my family's spies are as efficient as ever, then.”

Caleb nodded. “It would appear so. I apologize, it was not my intention to cause you trouble, especially not after your services to this town.”

Leandro hooked his hands at his belt, his features softening. “No need for apologies. You were only doing your duties.”

David continued. “But it is problematic. I'm certain they'll want to investigate the area where the Fel was seen. Did you mention the vault in your report?”

Caleb shook his head. “No, I only mentioned it was to the north. I did not include any names or otherwise.”

Niala's ears wiggled. “That's good then, right? We can just lie about where we found the Fel, send them on a wild chase. Oh! We could send them to the repository? Without Gerat there, it's probably mostly inert.” She looked at David and Leandro, finding furrowed brows.

“No good?” She asked.

Leandro sighed. “It would be dangerous to lie to them. The Wardenfels have magictechs that can detect the presence of Fel in a local area. If they brought some with them, and I would assume they did, being here to investigate a Fel sighting, then...”

David finished for him. “Then they wouldn't find any trace, and be a lot more enthusiastic in asking us questions after that.” He turned his head to the knight.

“Leandro, I'd like to know. There hasn't been a public sighting of a Fel for hundreds of years, but that's not true, is it?”

The large man let his gaze linger on David before looking at the mayor, who dipped his head. He returned his attention to the courier, sighing before answering. “There are regular reports of Fel, or rather, corrupted, on the fringes of the kingdom. The last actual Fel was seen about fifty years ago, and only infrequently before that.”

He straightened a bit. “The Azure Guards have become quite proficient at catching corrupted before they evolve.”

David levelled his gaze. “That means they are suppressing that knowledge, keeping the general population from hearing about it.”

“They are. The Royal family judged it best, and, as I've said, the Azure Guards are doing a good job of it.” Leandro confirmed.

David looked at Niala, a silent understanding passing between them.

She looked at Caleb. “We need to get to the vault and retrieve a large amount of herbs. Do you think you can hold off the Azure Guards from leaving for a few days?”

The mayor quirked an eyebrow. “I am certain that I could, but why? What herbs are so important that you would risk yourselves further?”

Niala sighed, slumping, her ears drooping. “Because of the Old Woman.”

Caleb blinked. “The... old woman?”

David nodded. “Yes. If the supply of Old Women is interrupted, there is a high risk of riots in the streets.”

“I... fail to understand.” The dogkin said.

David tilted his head. Their link alarmed Niala to David's thoughts, as she snapped her head toward him. “No, not him as well!”

Her boyfriend turned his head toward her. “But, Niala, if he acquires the taste, he'll understand.”

“Stop initiating people into the Old Woman cult!”

“You know it's inevitable. If it's not with me, it will be someone else. All the adventurers have acquired the taste, and it's spreading through the residents now. I heard even Castello has acquired the taste.”

Caleb cleared his throat, grabbing everyone's attention. His eyes had hardened. “What is this about a cult spreading through my town?” He asked, his tone dangerously flat.

David and Niala stared at each other. After a few seconds, the catkin groaned and covered her face with her hands. A victorious David looked up at the mayor.

“Do you have a pot to boil some water with?” He asked, fishing out two small herb packets.

Half a bell later, with the Mayor having acquired the taste, and informed of the “cult” spreading in town, he gave the group his blessing, on condition that David leave him with enough herb packets to last him until their return.

He would find a reason to hold back the troops from venturing out for a few days at least, but suggested they leave right away. He would ask Ma-Ke-Lo to have the gate guards log them as having left through the south gate, and to not log them back on their return.

In agreement, the trio left Caleb's office, walking back to the town hall's entrance.

A few steps away, the door swung open, and a regal-looking, younger version of David stepped through, flanked by a valet and followed by two bodyguards, all sporting the Wardenfel house emblem.

Both groups stopped, their respective leaders freezing, as they stared at each other.

“David,” The noble said.

“Isaac,” David replied.

Niala stared between the two of them, and, sensing her boyfriend's growing dread, she took a step forward, furtively grabbing onto his shirt.

She felt it in their link; a calming warmth, her message clearly understood: I'm here with you.