The mask stared back at her. Jessica tilted her head slightly, watching it in the mirror. Physically, it didn’t feel much different from the last one. It sat on her face about the same. Her old mask had no teeth with a gummy but menacing smile. Her new mask looked ready to snarl and bite. But not like an uncontrollable animal. There was focus in its eyes.

“So you’ve chosen,” the mask maker said as Jessica walked out of the room, Iris following close at her heels.

Jessica nodded.

“Give me your old mask,” the mask maker said, reaching out for it, and Jessica handed it over to her. Jessica almost asked what she’d do with it, but an Elva memory surfaced before she accidentally said something she should have easily known the answer to. It would be burned.

In the case of a dead warrior, their masks would sometimes be passed on to a relative. Like if a brother wanted to wear their fallen brother’s mask, or a son their father’s, to carry on for him, and keep him in the fight. That wasn’t uncommon. If nobody wanted to inherit a mask, it would be burned ceremoniously for the fallen, and on other occasions—such as when the changing of the mask had meaning—a celebration might be held, and it would be burned then.

“Elva, let’s go meet with your…” her aunt began, but trailed off as they exited the mask maker’s home. Jessica followed her gaze upward, and her heart sank. Valrok had returned. His dragon descended in the distance, disappearing into the Bloody Peaks.

Her aunt’s goofy, grinning mask looked down at her. “Ah—I was going to say to meet with your hunting party, but this is even better. We will tell your father of your next hunt. I imagine he’ll want to plan a celebration upon your return, and we’ll do a burning ceremony to dispose of your old mask.”

"Sure," Jessica said, though she didn't much care for any of that. She supposed the hunting trip would have its purpose, though. Iris was right about one thing, and that's that they had to get stronger.

However, Jessica had a thought.

"I think I'd prefer to hunt alone with Iris."

Her aunt seemed to think this over momentarily as they crossed the bridge. "You could not face the Redmaw Peaks alone with Iris. Drake wolves are too dangerous. If you were to be cornered by a full pack, it would end badly for you very quickly."

"Then I could do a different hunt. The forest where Iris and I were left still has worthy prey."

“Prey?” Her aunt looked over her shoulder, and Jessica flinched. That’s how Iris would refer to their kills. But then her aunt laughed. “Ha. Prey. I like it. That is a strong mentality, Elva.” She nodded to herself as she focused forward again, muttering, “A quiet strength… but true…”

"So, can we simply go to the forest, then?"

“No. Perhaps another time, but you should have spoken up sooner. It would be an insult to your party to back out now.”

"It didn't really feel like I had a choice either way," Jessica grumbled.

Her aunt shrugged. “You’re right. I would have insisted. It will be good for you to experience hunting in a party. There will be plenty of chances to go on your own hunts, but you must forge your place within the tribe just as well as you forge your own strength. I think your aloof nature is getting its own kind of respect, but if you refuse to ever fight alongside your tribesmen, different kinds of whispers will begin to emerge. It is bad enough you sleep on your own private plateau, but I believe it can be forgiven considering Iris. Most will accept your unique bond with her, and your peculiarities will give great rise to your legend.”

Jessica exhaled. She liked her aunt Helga. She was one of the few anchors Jessica had when she first arrived in this world, inside Elva’s body, before she had grown closer to Iris. But at the same time… her aunt had assumed a certain level of control. Jessica understood her aunt’s intentions. She was grooming her as a political piece within the tribe. Jessica’s own desires played second to that, and she couldn’t help but begin to feel some resentment for it.

With Iris, at least… it was different. The half promise she had made with the Hell Hound. That was something she had chosen, and something she felt she had a voice to alter. If she could, she’d like to alter Iris’s path away from pure vengeance. Her desire for blood, not as a hunt, but as retribution. Her desire for power, to dominate, and to stand atop all else. Jessica hoped she could remind Iris that her family was more important.

What the Hell Hound clearly considered unnegotiable, however…

They descended down the slope toward the dragon’s lair, where Valrok was just jumping down from its back.

...was him.

"Brother! You've returned," her aunt said as she moved forward to greet him. "What had taken so long?"

However, Valrok looked right past his sister. At first, Jessica thought he was looking at her. But no, the hollows of his mask were focused on Iris.

"I found the Hell Hounds," Valrok said.

Jessica's heart sank at that. What did it mean?

She looked down at Iris, feeling an intense desire to crouch down and make sure she was okay. But Iris was smart. She knew better to react, because as a monster, she should have no clue of Valrok's words.

"You found them?" her aunt questioned. "But I don't see them with you. You should have at the very least brought back the heads as proof."

Jessica felt fury rise up in her chest. How could she say something so heartless? But more importantly... if Iris's sisters had been killed...

"Fool, sister," Valrok said.

"Pardon?"

He pointed down at Iris. "Would you have this one reminded of her old pack? I left their bodies to the woods."

“I... will kill him!” Iris snarled inside Jessica’s head.

But Iris didn't make a sound. She didn't show her fangs. She merely sat down on her haunches, though her white eyes stared up at Valrok, remaining hateful but not vicious.

"You... You killed them?” Jessica gasped.

“Of course. They were too wild.”

“Y-You didn't have to do that!" Jessica said, fist tensing.

"Why not, daughter?" Valrok continued to stare at Iris, then began to kneel down. Bringing his eyes closer and closer to her. "Beasts that can't be tamed have only to be put down."

"Leave her alone!" Jessica said, stepping forward.

“Jessica! Quiet!” Iris roared inside her head.

Jessica froze as Valrok’s mask turned to look up at her. She felt like she had to say something. She hated him so much in that moment. She had wanted to reunite Iris with her family. It was the other side of her half promise. Not the half Iris had her agree to, but the half Jessica had made to herself.

“We will kill him. Jessica,” Iris said inside her head. “Don’t throw away what we have built for this one moment. Will you destroy my progress towards my revenge because you can't control yourself?”

"Daughter. You have a new mask." He rose back up to his feet, towering over her, looking down at her with approval.

Her aunt answered for her. "The mask maker agreed it would be appropriate, brother. I have prepared a team for a Drakewolf hunt. She leaves tomorrow morning. After, if all goes well, a celebration and mask burning ceremony seems perfect."

“Drake wolves?” Valrok’s attention turned to his sister. “Is she ready for that?”

"You'd be proud to see how she's carried herself since your departure, brother,” Her aunt—no, Helga—said. Jessica wouldn’t think of her as her aunt anymore. Not if she cared so little about Valrok killing Iris’s family! “She has clearly grown beyond the usual battle classes. Her peers honor and tell tales of her."

Jessica felt warm tears sliding down her cheeks, tears nobody could see behind the mask. She just hoped they wouldn't roll down to her chin. She did her best to stop them, and to breathe through it, to not show it in her body.

Like she was watching from the bushes as she stalked prey, waiting for Iris’s order. Like she was anything other than a girl standing in front of the man who had just admitted to slaughtering her friend’s family.

Helga clasped her hands together. “So you approve of the hunt, brother?”

He turned his attention to her once again. “Of course. It’s an excellent plan. I’ll announce the two remaining Hell Hounds were killed as well.”

He then placed a heavy hand on Jessica’s shoulder. “You make me proud, daughter.”

Her fingernails dug into her palms. “Thank you… father…”

The words came out steady, with no tremor in them. Fresh tears didn’t leak. Somehow, she had managed to hold back her emotions. She just focused on the pain of her own nails digging into her palm.

“I’d like to go train with Iris now,” she added as steadily as she could.

Valrok nodded. “Yes. Prepare for your hunt with her. If I don’t see you off in the morning, then I look forward to your return, daughter.”

Jessica nodded and then turned away, Iris following at her heels. But just as they were making it up the slope.

“Daughter.”

She froze. “Yes, Father?” she asked without turning around.

“After your hunt, I wish to spar. Against you and Iris.”

“Brother,” Helga let out a chuffed laugh. “You know that’s hardly a fair match. Her growth has been impressive, yes, but she’s surely seasons away from surviving more than a single exchange with you.”

Valrok then turned his attention to Helga once again. “I won’t use a weapon, nor wear armor. And I’ll have potions ready for them in case I go too far.”

Helga folded her arms. “Well… if you use bare fists, and hold back…” she sighed. “I still just don’t see much point, brother.”

“There is much point. For one, to show her the kind of strength she ought to strive for. But there is something else…” He rose his voice, addressing Jessica. “I’ve seen how you and Iris fight. You have the Wyrmscar Legacy. I’ve only seen my mother—your grandmother—fight with it before, but this was long ago.” He walked up behind Jessica and put a hand on her shoulder. “She died many years before your birth, Elva. I’ve not told you much about her, but perhaps I will someday. However, when I watched you and Iris fight, when you faced your challengers, I saw something familiar. A unique bond. I now want to see it firsthand, how you fight together. I can think of no better way to judge it than to stand against it myself.”

His hand remained on her shoulder. Heavy. Jessica didn’t move.

“I’ll hold back,” he added. “But not so much that it becomes meaningless. I want to see how you move together. Where you hesitate. Where you commit. But most of all, I want to see whether you think as one…” His voice lowered to a rumble. “Or merely pretend to.”

Jessica’s throat tightened.

“I understand,” she said, the mix of both anger and fear gripping her heart. But she forced herself to remain steady.

Valrok gave a low hum of approval. “Good. Then we are agreed.” His hand finally lifted from her shoulder. “Go. Prepare for your hunt. After you return, we will duel. So grow well, daughter.”

With a final nod, Jessica continued up the slope, Iris right at her side.

Step after step, they walked together. Over a bridge, across the crowded central plateau where many of their tribe acknowledged them with a nod or a pounded fist to the chest. Some pointed approvingly from a distance. Jessica walked quickly; she didn’t want to have to stop to talk to anyone. Not now.

When they finally made it across the bridge to her own plateau, where her tent sat in the middle, a sob finally shook through her body. She let herself fall, but she wasn’t sure if her knees or her fist hit the ground first. “I-Iris… I’m sorry,” she sobbed. “I’m so sorry.”

The Hell Hound looked back. Those white eyes glowed against her dark fur, completely unreadable.

“I’d already mourned my sisters once,” Iris said. Her voice was cold. She padded ahead, walking to the far end of the plateau.

Jessica blinked through her tears. She watched Iris through the eyes of her new mask. The Hell Hound sat on her haunches at the very edge of the plateau, looking out over the drop. The wind tugged faintly at her fur.

Jessica’s heart hurt, and she knew Iris’s did too. But she knew she had no right to break down when Iris was the one who was truly feeling the loss. Iris, who was always so stoic and sure of her direction. But Iris, who had—even with a wolfy mouth—practically smiled upon news her sisters were still alive. Who had a new kind of light in her speech, and her expression as she talked about them.

Now those who had brought that light to Iris’s dark tone were dead.

Jessica swallowed hard, dragging in a shaky breath as she forced herself to stand. Her legs felt weak, but she managed it. She took off her mask and wiped tears onto a dirty sleeve as she came up behind Iris. Her tears had dried up, though her eyes still burned and her head still pounded. She felt a heaviness in her, no longer thinking to cry with Iris or hold her.

“Iris…” Jessica said.

The Hell Hound didn’t respond.

“About my promise…” She gulped. “It’s not a half-promise anymore.”

The Hell Hound turned enough to reveal a single glowing white eye.

“I said I’d help you get your revenge. But my heart wasn’t in it. I wanted to find another way or… I wanted—I thought I wanted—to save you from it…” She let out a breath. “It was a half promise. Because I’d have preferred to show you another way…”

She looked down at her new mask, the predator mask, as the wind blew against her face, batting her hair, cooling her warm tears.

“I’m sorry,” Jessica whispered. “I’m sorry that’s how I was thinking. Like I had a right to decide what you should want.” Her throat tightened, and she swallowed. “I’m not going to do that anymore. I’m not going to try to change your path. If you want revenge… then I’m with you…”

“So you wish to help me…? To kill?”

Jessica nodded. “I’m not making any more half promises. Not after… not after the way he talked about it.” She looked up from the mask, locking her gaze with Iris. “I’ll help you kill him. I promise. Fully.”

Her white eyes narrowed. “And after?”

“I don’t know. But we’ll keep becoming stronger. Whatever that means. So we can take back whatever is left to take back.”

Iris returned her gaze off the plateau, to the endless world below them, shrouded by a sea of clouds now turning red with the setting sun. “Thank you, Jessica. This is… a good promise…”

Jessica closed the last few steps between them and sat down at Iris’s side. She crossed her legs under herself and returned the mask to her face. Through its eyes, she watched the clouds alongside Iris—and let the thought settle that maybe the predator mask could suit her after all.

You have deepened your bond with Hell Hound Iris

Your bond with Hell Hound "Iris" has risen to level 4!
