She preferred short but noblewomen kept their hair long as a display of privilege. Laborers didn’t have the time to take care of long hair. They could also get in the way of physical work. So Viv wore them that way because it was expected of royalty, which she technically was.

How much was this world shaping her? What was left of the earth Viv?

“Your thoughts, darling?” Sidjin asked by her side.

He bumped against her shoulder and she leaned against him. He was a strong presence, reliable. He knew pain more than anyone else as well.

“Just wondering how much of me is still me.”

“Oh you mean you have changed? Congratulations on being alive.”

“Tsk. You know what I mean. I’m even doing politics.”

“As you should since you are a politician. If your concern relates to morality, don’t worry, we shall keep an eye on you. Not just me, but your friends as well. Even Solfis will stop you if you slip up.”

//Pure evil is counter-productive.

“See? You are supported by a great many people.”

“That is not, ah, it does not matter. I suppose I changed to help people so, in the end, I can live with that.”

//If it helps, your Majesty, I made some changes to myself as well.

Viv blinked. She remembered him absorbing the memories of other units back in the old capital. Solfis was a gestalt as much as he was himself.

//But my core programming has not changed.

“I see what you’re getting at. Don’t worry, The funerals just… make me doubt a little. Farren was one of the few original pillars of Kazar still alive. We’ve had… so many losses since then. Mayor Ganimatalo. Varska. The guard captain. Now Farren… An entire generation of leaders, gone.”

//The march of fate requires… sacrifices.

“You… think I made it happen?”

//No.

//Individual decisions still depend on those who take them.

//You will merely… be in the trajectory.

//Lancer would have attacked no matter what.

//He started selling the Kazaran lands before you were even on Nyil.

//I checked.

//Because I was curious.

“Then what do you mean by sacrifice?”

//Just that.

//When history is made in Nyil, it is written with the blood of the people who touch it.

//You may grieve, but tomorrow, you will fight to the best of your abilities and forget those doubts.

//You will keep our people alive.

“Yes. You can count on me.”

//And I will fight to keep you alive too.

***

The Harrakan column climbed down the slope in silence. The air was fresh and earthy for now, the rays of dawn coming from the desert barely warming the early morning air. Behind them, the crumbs of the Paramese alliance arrayed themselves on top of a small hill in preparation for the day. Viv’s army would leave them behind then climb back up north towards the nearby pine forest huddled between two sheer mountains. Zero Five appeared by her shield array.

“Enemy troops. Humans. They look weak.”

“We’ll dispose of them then return.”

Ban looked back but an order spoken through their communicators kept him going. They wouldn’t have cavalry this time since Rollo had stayed with the rest, which meant that if the enemy disengaged fast, they wouldn’t really have a way to run them down. What should she do? Besides hiring a dedicated tactician so she could focus on magic.

“Ugh.”

//We will be there soon.

Viv did her best not to look right towards the rolling hills where the Nemeti hid. She could see some of the markswomen casting concerned glances towards the impending threat. Viv was worried as well. All her instincts screamed that she was leaving a fortified position before an imminent attack, that she was going to be cut off. Her mind rejected the possibility of portals as an escape. Her self-control allowed her to keep a perfect composure for the others but there were still too many unknowns, too many doubts. She didn’t like it.

Slowly, the column moved into the forest. Viv decided it was time. She used her communicator,

“Zero-Five? Where are they?”

“Two thousand paces to the north. I will guide you.”

“Very well.”

Switching to full frequency, she addressed all the leaders.

“The enemy is over a league away. We will now deploy in a loose line to catch them. The Children and Bitter Hearts will form the rear guard. The Temple Guard will hold the right wing. Reports say the enemy is weak and disheartened but you will not lower your guard. A cornered enemy is at its most dangerous.”

There were a few acknowledgements. The army deployed as Ban directed them, and Viv used the opportunity to climb a small hillock to create a gate. She resisted the urge to activate it just to see if it worked. It did. She could feel the connection. It was fine.

“Contact. Three hundred paces,” a voice said.

“Halt.”

The army came to a stop just as Viv returned to her array. This was it. Fighting in the forest wouldn’t be optimal but as she climbed in her seat, she realized it would be necessary.

“Forward.”

The Harrakan army moved slowly forward across the line. Sergeants made sure to keep the formation mostly stable despite the many trees and boulders blocking their advance. This was an old pine forest, with thin trunks and beds of dry needles that smelled heavily of sap. No low growth blocked her sight and the same was true for the enemy as well. Panicked shouts soon echoed ahead. Without prompt, the army accelerated. Lak-Tak, Viv’s pilot, carefully maneuvered to avoid running into trees. Soon, they were out with heavies properly arrayed in front of them.

In the heart of the forest was a narrow but long clearing cleft in two by a brook. It was mostly dry but some clear water still sluggishly down a slope and along that brook, a mob had formed a, well, a camp, she guessed. Mostly, people had collapsed where they were into a disorganized line.

“Is that the dangerous foes we’re supposed to fear?” a cocky sister whispered to her neighbor close enough for Viv to hear it. Her neighbor slapped her shoulder then made Emeric’s warding sign against bad fortune, a sentiment Viv shared.

They were certainly a pitiful sight. Some of the more robust were Hallurian guards and slingers but there were also emaciated men with pale, slightly bluish skin and light eyes, the first instance of a shade different than brown Viv had come across here. She inspected a few.

[Sorelian skirmisher]

[City Guard of Pranth]

Those names meant nothing to her which could imply only one thing. Those were survivors from human cities from beyond the isthmus.

The Nemeti had certainly come a long way.

The most interesting part was that Viv couldn’t see any of the true Nemeti, the insectile lizards. The thralls really were without surveillance. There had to be a reason why they were so confident their humans wouldn’t escape.

As the heavies finally stopped, the distance between them and the nearest enemy was so close there wouldn’t even be time for them to charge. Viv searched for a danger, like a hidden caster, but there seemed to be none she could see. The entire group was barely a thousand strong and they were so exhausted, a full quarter didn’t even rise to face their deaths. Some shook and seated, perhaps weak enough to be sick which rarely happened to adults on Param. Their equipment was a mismatched assortment of half-broken gear she wouldn’t even give to bandits. She could have handled them with a handful of… no. She could have handled them alone.

Viv thought about Farren. She knew what he would have asked her to do. Those people were already lost.

It felt like repeating his mistake but…

No, it would be honoring his memory and the strength of his conviction. He may be gone, but she didn’t need outside action to remember what it meant to act humanely.

But she would do it her way.

Viv raised through the air and anchored herself slightly above ground in plain sight of the horrified thralls. Elevation let her notice that a more solid kernel of resistance was anchored around a pair, a Hallurian ‘Speaker for the Trade’ and an eastern soldier. Even then, whatever resolve they still had was quickly crumbling.

Viv deployed the full extent of her aura and smothered them. There were individual tokens of resistance but those collapsed almost immediately. Her soul turned cold and practical as a side effect of the skill, the icy disdain seeping into her heart to alter her outlook ever so slightly. She would give them a chance, and then they would take it, or they would die.

“You,” she said in Hallurian, pointing at the pair. “Surrender or perish."

A sound enchantment carried her words across the clearing, echoing in the brook and amid the trees. The men cowered, but then, something incredible happened. The emotion spreading through the clearing was not despair, or terror, or grim fury as she expected. What she got was relief. Relief and a bright, pure, intense hope.

It was inexplicable.

In an instant, the situation was reversed. A feedback smashed against intimidation and turned it against her in a double bond she could not quite explain. The temptation to stop was strong but her instincts were silent. Somehow, the situation felt right. Or better than the alternative. She wasn’t sure.

The pair of men pushed their way across the prostrating mass of pitiful soldiers, faces twisted with the creepy smile of the devoted fanatics.

“Hold your fire,” she ordered.

The sisters tsked and lowered their crossbows. It was pointless to waste ammo on those dregs anyway, Viv thought.

The men approached just as the wind shifted and brought the horrendous scent of unwashed bodies. They fell to her knees not far from the unmoving wall of heavies.

“Mistress,” the Hallurian said. “Mistress, your words… we can hear them.”

What the hell?

“Explain,” she demanded.

The man licked his cracked lips. His long, filthy hair bobbed as he spoke with a broken voice.

“The masters took our will. I don’t know how to explain… I just don’t know. We cannot, we could not say no as soon as we said yes. The Nemeti. They defeated us and then we were… defeated.”

Viv deactivated her anchors as she moved closer.

“How so? Is that fate magic?”

“Magic, yes, from their priest. The priests told us they were chosen of fate and we were not and then, it was true. But not you, mistress. You spoke and I could choose that it was true! You are outside their spells! How could it be?”

That was a surprise. And even a little suspicious. After what the Hallurian prisoners had said, she expected the thralls to fight to the last.

“Perhaps they haven’t cast their magic on me yet?”

“No, mistress. We had to fight our own people alongside foreigners,” the Hallurian said. “We had no choice. It was just how things were.”

Viv didn’t comment on the use of a Hallurian slur for strangers though her glare made the man whimper. His companion turned and spoke excitedly in a tongue she’d never heard before, a flowing one with few gutturals. Viv waited patiently for him to finish.

Far behind them, drums rolled over the plains. A shift spread across the Harrakans. It had begun.

They were on a timer.

“Mistress. My friend asks if you could have someone else order us. He says that if someone else can do it, then the chains may have been broken.”

“Sure thing. Ban, give them an order.”

The old bearded bastard strode ahead with absolute confidence. He pointed at the nearest thrall. Viv was confident the laborer he’d picked didn’t speak a word of Harrakan, Enorian, or other continental tongue. It didn’t matter.

“You,” Ban said, pointing at him, then the ground.

“Get. On. Your. Fucking. Knees. NOW!”

Viv had never seen someone happier to collapse. The poor sod even hit the head with his forehead in a gesture of complete abandon. The really creepy thing was the expression of utter felicity on the others. The fanatical intensity irked Viv, who had been to church before. That sort of faith could be dangerous.

Nevertheless, the gesture was confirmation of what the Speaker for Trade thought. He whooped once before regaining his composure.

“Mistress. It is as I believed. You broke the chains of fate! We are at your mercy.”

He bowed as well, followed by all those who were not already prone. Supplication spread like a wildfire across the pitiful mob until all Viv could see was a collection of bent back and dirty necks.

That could only lead to one thing.

“Fuck, Eikart is gonna be so mad.”

“Are we taking them prisoners, milady?” Ban asked.

“Looks like it. Ugh, and there is no time. Get me Lorn on the double.”

“If I may, Your Majesty, we might also want to detach Mother, the Bitter Hearts captain. She has a way with lost lambs.”

“Sure.”

It took less than a minute for Lorn and the guards to come, along with a portly, wizened woman with a radiant smile that seemed to cover her whole face. Meanwhile, the thrall commander waited at a distance.

“Here is what we’re going to do,” Viv said. “I’ll activate the portal. You get the prisoners through there and in a separate camp away from ours. Just let them pile on somewhere while we’re away. They will surrender all their weapons, up to their damn knives, before they cross over. They will comply with every order. Those who resist will be slaughtered. And get Eikart’s spymaster to ask them a few questions.”

Lorn nodded.

“If I may, we will need medical support. Our own won’t be enough. We could request some of Eikart’s healers.”

Viv shook her head.

“They will refuse and besides, we’ll need them fresh for our soldiers. Do what you can but if they die, they die. Our own people get priority.”

She gave him a pointed look to see if he would challenge her on that.

“Maybe that’s what Farren needed. Practicality,” Lorn said with resigned bitterness.

