“You are bringing a thousand Hallurians into our camp? Are you completely insane? This is a ploy by those treacherous savages!”

Duke Eikart was livid.

Viv sighed as she leaned back into her seat. Farren was already missed. He would have had some pointed comments that only worked from the position of moral superiority, one she didn’t have on account of her reputation. Totally undeserved, that.

“I’m sure Empress Viv has things under control?” Duke Falstag said with hesitation.

“It’s simple,” Viv replied. “They surrendered, so I took them prisoners—”

“They lie! They’re Hallurians!”

“I took them prisoners,” Viv continued through gritted teeth, “just like Neriad demands and just as I committed to when I accepted him as the patron god of New Harrak.”

“Your oaths will cost us our victory.”

“Those are mushroom farmers and tunnel diggers, not shock troops! Most of them barely have combat skills. They will not be a problem.”

“Can you guarantee it?”

“Yes, I can.”

Eikart huffed, which pissed Viv off. She knew that his land was being attacked and that he was under a tremendous amount of pressure, so being a little bit of a twat was to be expected.

“You are overconfident,” Eikart grumbled.

Despite all her sympathy, Viv still had to put some boundaries. Slowly, she placed both hands on the table. She deployed her anchors, which reminded Eikart of what she was. He peered into the void of her sclera, and he remembered.

“I am me. And they will not be a problem,” she stated.

Solfis and Zero Five shifted at her sides. They were the most… physically intimidating members of her retinue, and a subtle reminder that they were under her control.

“We may be able to transfer them tonight,” Jaratalassi said, breaking the stalemate.

The general smiled affably like the sly dog he was. His presence dispersed the tension with a simple and acceptable proposal. Viv’s gates would allow them to be transferred to a distant city where they could not sabotage the troops.

“Very well… but my subordinate will go with them to inspect them… just to make sure there are no issues. If the witch gate is destroyed…”

“Then I will rebuild it,” Viv replied.

“It may be so. A thousand mouths to feed will strain our supplies as well… We do not want Hallurians in Baran. They do not belong.”

“They have agreed to follow me to Harrak as my… underlings,” Rakan said.

The mage moved forward. With his staff, he looked very mage-y. A proper caster and all. Perhaps that was the only reason why the dukes tolerated the interruption of someone they must see as an inferior.

“I merely ask that they are let through.”

“Do as you wish if it can get them off my back.”

Viv imagined Lady Azar’s expression when a thousand submissive farmers with no belongings would flood the land right before harvest and smiled. Not her problem, or at least not yet. Hey, the old woman always said she came to Harrak as a challenge. There, a proper one, provided not even by Viv herself. Enjoy.

“If we are done with the matter of the prisoners, I would like to address our plan for tomorrow,” Jaratalassi said.

Everyone gathered around the table where a detailed map of the surrounding area waited, dotted by little figurines representing different groups.

“Our scouts report that the enemy has made camp ten leagues away from our positions. They certainly know we are here, therefore we should expect an attack tomorrow. Cloud Skull’s men report a mix of footmen and soldiers mounted, and I fear this is the truth, large bipedal lizards. Some report larger specimens…”

“Those are the ruler and priest castes,” Rakan said.

Jaratalassi looked on curiously. Viv had never seen Rakan so smug and aggravated. He was clearly angered by the words of Duke Eikart about people who were technically his compatriots. She frowned and remembered then, that he was from a family of laborers and hunters.

He had more in common with the prisoners than he did with the Baranese and it showed.

“I have spoken with the community leaders — those are the equivalent of ‘village heads’ in charge of enforcing production quotas. They had much to say about our common foes.”

Even Eikart listened with begrudging attention. She felt a hint of pride at seeing how much Rakan had grown since they had met, from a shy outcast to a confident expert. She exchanged a glance with Sidjin and they smiled.

That smile didn’t last long.

“The enemy is a species that calls themselves the Empire of Dawn or the Nemeti, which means Chosen of Fate. They claim to weave the threads of destiny through their priests, and given some of the rumors, it might be true. They are separated into four castes. At the bottom are the laborers who are subservient and about the size of a human child. They do not fight. The few present will not pose a threat to us. The second caste is, I’m sorry to say, the females. They are said to be more feral than the rest and spawn dozens of creatures at once. The third caste is made of warriors. Those are the ones we will fight.”

“What else did the prisoners say?” Jaratalassi asked, enraptured.

“They said that the warriors move very slowly, then very quickly, then slowly again. Warriors are taller than most humans and they have scales, feathers too. They… look a little like snakes, or lizards, but bipedal and with a short snout. They use few armors but a wide variety of weapons of stone and metal. The last caste is the leaders. Their priests act as war mages, according to the rumors.”

“Those laborers know a lot.”

“They heard the whispers from the warborn. One of them served the faceless before their demise.”

“Is there more to say? About their numbers?”

Rakan shook his head.

“Nothing reliable. The problem is that laborers and warborn only gather in large numbers on very rare occasions while administration is handled by highborn women, which means that… most of the people we have here don’t know how to count above one hundred, if that.”

“Well, that certainly limits their scouting abilities.”

“What they say is that the Empire of Dawn attacked with a massive army, yet despite that, they still suffered heavy losses at first. After that though, they seemed to have rolled over Halluria with minimum difficulties.”

The statement was received with consternation.

“How is that possible? Should it not be the contrary?” Duke Falstag asked.

“That is… counterintuitive,” Jaratalassi conceded.

Viv agreed. Logic would be that after a few decisive engagements, a large nation would collapse quickly if their elite military were to fall, but that was without accounting for Halluria’s peculiar political system.

“The warlords should have united after the initial attacks against them succeeded. What happened?” Jaratalassi asked.

“I don’t know and they don’t seem to know either. The servant who worked in the warlord’s tent said they were desperate. That they could not win. There were many talks of hopeless last stands instead of an organized defense.”

“They were already defeated? That sounds preposterous. It could just be the novelty of being invaded?”

“It might also be due to their methods,” Rakan continued. “You see, once they find a hostile new city, they always operate in the same way. They encircle it, then they attack with overwhelming force. They do not stop to regroup or plan. They just keep attacking until they break through, and when they do, they slaughter all who resist and many who do not.

“Those who surrender and survive become thralls, allowed to keep their weapons but bound to perish shielding the Nemeti from arrows or ambushes.”

“Wait, and those do not revolt?”

“Apparently not. They say those who are defeated are crushed for good.”

“This sounds… so outlandish.”

“Then the victors eat the dead, both theirs and that of their enemies. They… they say they butcher humans and dry the meat to eat on the trail…”

“May the light gods shine upon us, is this true?” Falstag said.

“The little intelligence we have seems to agree. That certainly solves the food problem,” Jaratalassi commented.

“One last thing. The Empire of Dawn does not interrogate their prisoners. They follow fate to their next target. They spread over a large area until they find a place that resists them and then.. they gather again.”

“So we…”

“Yes. We are next on the list.”

“And those troops outside that already outnumber us…”

“Are just one of their vanguards. There should be more. They have not had the chance to replenish their numbers after taking Halluria so, at least, we will stand a better chance.”

“This idea of fate is certainly concerning. And you say they have priests?”

“Yes, war priests who also serve the role of casters, though they do not appear to have mages per se. The laborers do not know what they worship, only that it is not one of our gods.”

Viv hesitated. Jaratalassi caught her expression while the others discussed in low voices.

“Viviane? Something to add?”

“Well. Fate mana exists.”

Silence spread among the assembly. Cloud Skull made a strange, warding sign with his fingers. He seemed worried.

“Pardon?” Eikart’s head mage said.

“Fate magic exists. Dragons can touch it though we humans cannot even perceive it. It is the domain of… distant causality. I find it hard to explain.”

“What would you know about dragon magic?” the mage half-scoffed.

Someone muttered in his ear and he fell silent.

“Arthur told me that fate magic was fickle and extremely difficult to properly employ because it worked on… large-scale events. To use it perfectly requires an understanding of all the ins and outs, something not even the gods can manage. If the Nemeti do have access to fate magic, they might influence events to favor them in ways we cannot even anticipate. We are going to need those reinforcements sooner rather than later.”

“I have already sent a courier asking them to come as soon as they are ready, and not to wait to group up. I am confident we can hold this pass,” Jaratalassi said.

Viv thought that they’d better or there would be nothing left between them and the evacuation gate. She didn’t have the time to improve the network.

The discussions continued for a little while. Jaratalassi determined the best way to defend the pass while the fortifications were still being built. It was decided to leave the pass a little to occupy the top of a hill that overlooked the surrounding area. That way, the Paramese Alliance could make full use of their ranged troops which the Nemeti seemed to have few of. They could still retreat towards the pass to allow their line to contract if there were any issues. The cavalry would be held in reserve in preparation for a counter attack, in case they needed to buy some time. As they left, Viv informed Jaratalassi of the bad news.

“I didn’t have the time to set up the second gate.”

“That’s fine. As a matter of fact, Cloud Skull reports that a group of human thralls is moving towards the forest. Tomorrow morning, I would like you to engage and destroy them then build a gate. If you are cut off before you can return, use the gate to regroup.”

“Won’t that warn the enemies?”

“I’d rather you escape and burn our contingency rather than lose the entire Harrakan army. And I fear that tomorrow is our only window, if the Hallurian laborers are to be believed. After that, attacks on our positions will be relentless. You do not have to agree, of course. It is a dangerous gamble.”

Viv faced Jaratalassi as the man sat there, waiting for her judgment. She considered leaving it to luck before realizing that it was just one of the general’s many ploys. Just as he let people bicker to get it out of their system, he also left generals some leeway with how they operated.

Jaratalassi gave her an encouraging smile. He was as much a politician as he was a war leader. That was probably a necessity for him.

“Sure, I’ll do it.”

“Hmm. I expected more hesitation. You’re rather confident.”

“I am confident that you won’t send me to my death. Just, please, treat the lives of my people with utmost care. Because I trust you and I am counting on you.”

“I understand. You are here, Viv, at my request. I will get as many of your folks back alive as I can.”

“Alright. Well, I should head back. We have funerals to attend to.”

“Yes,” Jaratalassi replied.

He took a swig of his flask. Viv kept quiet.

“Never gets easier.”

***

The night was cold here, comfortably so after the sweltering heat of the desert. Viv took in the scent of pine burning, the embers floating up to the distant sky. Some of the Temple Guards were singing a sad dirge somewhere to the side.

Viv peered at her helmet. The light of funeral pyres reflected on the smooth surface of the embedded crown, one that she still had to grow into. Farren was… not her responsibility? Or was he? She still hadn’t decided. There was a siren call to drop everything in the pursuit of power, to push everyone away until she could no longer be hurt and her magical power grew so much she could destroy any threats but, of course, that was a trap. The black mana running through her veins whispered promises of destruction on those who opposed her, a sweet lie. There were always more threats, always more people to protect. The truth was that she would lose people until her time came to be lost in turn. To refuse that fact was to refuse her humanity. She needed her humanity, or she would turn into something much worse than Elunath.

A gust caught her hair. It was long now, longer than ever before. They reached her shoulders.

