Viv immediately felt sorry for the guard. She’d succeeded where he had failed but it had been luck. That’s just how things were on Nyil, apparently.

“If I may,” the Hallurian Speaker said in perfect Enorian.

He’d been waiting at a polite distance until this treacherous revelation that he could understand everything they said.

“Could have told us,” Viv said in a low tone.

“I apologize. I should have explained. My path is that of a linguist, hence how I became the leader of our sorry troop. Do not be alarmed. I will work with your guard captain. We will never be a nuisance to you, Mistress. You have freed us!”

The way some of the prisoners looked like her like the sun rose out of her ass certainly put weight to his words. Viv didn’t like it one bit though.

“Very well. Zero Five?”

The shadows coalesced into a bald, axe-wielding murderer.

“If any of them try anything, kill them.”

“It will be done.”

“Alright, we have wasted enough time. You lot form up, I will bring our army back to allied lines.”

“Not through the portal?” Ban asked.

Viv shook her head.

“The aperture is rather small. It would take us too much time to filter through there and then walk back to the pass. We’ll only do it if we are really cut off.”

“Understood.”

“Mistress, one last thing?” the Speaker said with eagerness.

“What is it?”

“No matter what, you cannot lose, Mistress. If you lose once then it is close to over. Even one such as you who ignores fate may not resist if the Nemeti defeat you once. Do not be beaten. Please.”

“Not planning on it.”

Viv looked on as the Harrakan reformed on a background of confused mutterings. They almost sounded disappointed. Meanwhile, Captain Mother took control of hundreds of fighters in only a few moments.

“Alright people, now be a dear and form a column three abreast! Three! One, two, three! Yes, well done. There’s good lads.”

Viv activated the gate out of sight of her men, then stayed long enough to make sure there were no issues. The less people knew about the gate the better, even though the Nemeti didn’t seem inclined on interrogating prisoners. After climbing back on her array, she used her communicator to bring Sidjin up to speed.

“What do you think?” she eventually asked.

“I have two explanations for you. The first is that you’re an outlander. your fate was never to be born on Nyil. You were brought here by divine act, hence why fate magic is disturbed by your presence. The second possibility I see is… are you secure?”

Viv set up a sound barrier.

“I am now.”

“The second possibility is that the spark of luck is an instinctive use of fate magic.”

“That would make a lot of sense. Humans may not cast fate spells but that doesn’t mean we can’t interact with it instinctively.”

“Like monsters have innate abilities, yes. No matter what, the fact it works might give us an edge.”

“We shall see.”

***

Viv heard the din of battle long before they exited the forest. She had the array tank roll forward ahead of the formation so she was one of the first to crest the edge of the incline overlooking the battlefield.

To her right, the mountains extended high while in front, the hill leading to the pass was still held by her allies. That was as far as it went for good news.

To the left, the Nemeti covered the hills in their thousands, crashing against the kernel of resistance in unceasing waves. The descriptions the prisoners gave them didn’t do them justice. They were thin and muscular, scales and colorful feathers adorning their unclothed bodies. Their faces were saurian in appearance though the skull possessed a chitinous, insectile quality. They wielded shields as well as blunt weapons and spears which they used with grace. The constant drums Viv had been hearing were a song of sorts, and the Nemeti moved according to its beats. As she watched, a unit advanced slowly towards the bracing troops of Duke Falstag, then at the last moment, they sprinted forward with amazing speed, crashing into the grim infantrymen with extreme violence. Another group disengaged from Cloud Skull’s southerners leaving the southern barbarians battered and bloodied. That relentless dance of patience and aggression covered the whole battlefield. Entire Nemeti units waiting patiently at the edge of the melee for their turn to engage. And that was just the warrior caste. The rulers stood behind.

As Viv watched, a group of three tall Nemeti sang around a strange contraption, the unholy child of a catapult and an antenna. The weapon roared and a fiery, screaming projectile arched across the sky. Some of Eikart’s mages managed to intercept it but the debris still fell among their archers, killing some of them. Behind that was another group of rulers with crimson feather and sparkly armor among an indistinct shape in a cloak while just below Viv, the enemy cavalry was pressing Eikart’s spearmen. And by cavalry, Viv meant bipedal lizards mounted on what she could only describe as velociraptors on steroids. The tactics they used were the same. Charge, disengage, charge again, and the Baranese were getting trounced. Bodies flew with each impact, some of them in pieces.

The drums kept rolling. They saturated Viv’s ears with their oppressive drone.

She could summarize the current situation of the Paramese alliance in two words, one of which was quite rude.

“Well, shit,” she said as Ban joined her side.

“Your Majesty, it appears our side is about to be overwhelmed.”

Viv could tell they were about to break. A part of her wanted to lead her people back to the portal but she couldn’t. Not because it wasn’t feasible, but because of the implication.

First, she could not be defeated by the Nemeti. Running away felt dangerously close to that.

Second, there was only one reason why Jaratalassi hadn’t ordered his men to retreat back to the pass just yet.

He was waiting for her.

“Yes, that gives us exactly one tactical option, Ban.”

“So it would seem.”

“Then make ready.”

“Aye, your Majesty. Immediately. WEDGE FORMATION. PREPARE TO CHARGE!”

The cry echoed across the line. Viv ignored the chatter in her communicator. Instead, she linked to the casters.

“Sidjin, we’re going to need some wide area spells here.”

“What a coincidence, I happen to be versed in them.”

“Lana?”

“I will cover the Children of the Scales on the left flank. If we could have some elevation, Rakan?”

“I will raise them for our marksmen then run disruption.”

“Perfect,” Viv finished, “then good luck.”

There was no time for speeches. Some of the Nemeti had already spotted the tight ranks of heavies cresting the edge under the call of war horns. Viv had her array move to the front due to the slope and checked if everyone was ready. They were practically bristling.

“Finally, a real battle,” the chatty sister said.

Viv amplified her voice with a spell. She raised an Excalibur over her head. Then, she spread her anchors and screamed.

“Send those bastards back to where they came. Harrak Eternal! CHAAAARGE!”

The army roared, Lak-Tak pulled the lever and the array tank rushed down the slope at the speed of a decent car. The heavies fell behind and as she turned, she could see a wall of steel wielding a forest of spears, the tips of quarrels visible behind loaded with the promise of violence. White pennants held high spoke of pride and effort. Wind caressed her face in a moment of exhilaration, the weightless feeling of building momentum. Below, the Nemeti turned to her and pointed. It was difficult to read their expressions but if she had to make a bet, she would say they looked shocked. Nevertheless, the tank was going quite fast and she had to admit the Nemeti riders looked even bigger as she approached. They were half again as high as she was with the array under her butt.

Big fuckers.

“Right, let’s slow this down.”

Viv pulled the brake level. There was a nasty, unpleasant clang.

She looked at the piece of broken lever still held in her hand.

“Please tell me this is a fucking joke. NOUS!”

“We. Will slow down. Organically,” her yries driver clicked.

“Lak-Tak? What do you mean, organically. LAK-TAK?”

The owl-like being pulled another lever and spikes rose from the armored front of the tank, facing forward and upward.

“Use. Cushions.”

Viv grabbed the leather belt she’d insisted on having and strapped herself in. They were very close now, close enough to see the powerful legs of the raptor mounts in painful detail. The riders turned to her and charged with screeches, spears aimed forward. She was confident in her shield but she didn’t like the threat of inertia. It was always the same issue with cars. Going fast never killed anyone. It was abruptly becoming stationary.

Lak-Tak pushed the speed lever as fast as it would go. He ululated a defiant war cry instants before impact. Viv brought up her shield, protected her neck, and prayed to the god of illegal battlefield racing.

The array collided with the charging raptors.

Now, Viv knew Nyil was a world of magic where miracles were commonplace. It was also a world ruled by more or less the same laws as earth and it was safe to say that the shield array tank weighed around six tons. Six tons of enchanted, reinforced steel except, apparently, the fucking brake lever. Those six tons speeding down the slope met one ton of saurian flesh around the heights of their knees with the good old adage of kinetic energy is half of mass times squared velocity. One of the raptors tried to stomp the tank. It didn’t work very well. Viv knew this because a bloody, severed toe remained lodged in the cage around the habitacle.

The Nemeti had a tank accident.

The sound of cracking bones and bruising flesh covered even the rumbling call of the drums, yet they still failed to mask Lak-Tak’s insane cackles. Viv unfastened the belt with a pained wince when they finally slowed down. Had to hurry. She climbed out, facing herself face to snout with one of the creatures clinging to the metal structure with furious desperation. Around her, all that was left was carnage. The thin line of cavalry who had tried to stop her was crushed and the rest had retreated to a respectful distance. She could see the white of the eyes of the Baranese spearmen locked in a desperate struggle. The clinging Nemeti was picked by Solfis by means of a hand through the torso. Deploying in all his nightmarish glory, the golem emerged from behind the tank like the world’s most undesirable stowaway.

//AH.

//NEW SKULLS.

//YOU ALWAYS BRING ME TO THE MOST INTERESTING PLACES, YOUR MAJESTY.

“My pleasure,” Viv replied as she touched the spell array.

The scenery around Viv was surreal. The Hundreds of Nemeti just turned to watch her in utter shock while she activated the shield, hesitant to cast offensive hexes lest she wake them up from their surprise, and then with a collective, deafening shriek, they threw themselves in her direction. Viv faced a mass of scales, claws, and blades but she was not worried. The voice of Ban and the trampling sound of human boots served as a sufficient warning.

“For the black tide!”

The Harrakans crashed into the enemy force, and in Viv’s view, the bared fangs were replaced by the armored back of her people.

It was time to do what she did best.

***

Duke Eikart watched the wave of black-clad infantry smash the Nemeti flank aside. Those that did not perish on spears were trampled and finished off by screaming harridans wearing skull makeup who fell on them with long knives and a grudge. The rightmost group linked up with his beleaguered men while the center bit into the enemy formation like a blade, rending the foes before they could regroup.

A forbidden emotion filled his chest, one he had not dared experience since the beginning of the defense. Hope.

“Can they really do it?” he asked his spymaster. “Are they really heavies? Those at the tip.”

The man used his advanced inspection skill. His eyes widened.

[Path: third to fourth step, elite infantry.]

[Gear: full runic set.]

[Morale: unbreakable]

“No sir, those are not heavies.”

“Ah.”

“Those are Black Guards, Your Grace, the Emperor’s finest. The rest are Harrakan heavies.”

“Palace guards? I… I thought the art was lost.”

“It’s the golem,” Jaratalassi said as he approached. The tired general frowned. For some reason, it looked like the enemy was attacking the Harrakan center with furious zeal.

“But you are missing the point. When I told you I would not have agreed to fight without the outlander, I was not referring to her infantry. You see, every decade, a genius war mage changes the battlefield by their mere presence to the extent that strategies are built around or against them.”

Below, a black cloud swallowed the initial Nemeti charge with a low hiss like an angry kettle. It left nothing behind it but scoured sand and silence. Blood spilled the earth when a large vortex opened on the right flank, the transparent construct soon stained with enough blood to reveal the jagged teeth of a massive grinder. Meanwhile, towers rose from the ground under the feet of crossbow wielders who barely paused, lining shot after shot over the heads of their line holders. The beleaguered alliance rallied while the drums grew frantic.

“Harrak currently has three of them. Now, Duke, I will lead the cavalry for a sortie as it will soon be needed. Would you care to join?”
