“If it was me, I'd be snuggled into one of the front leg holes of the cloak.” Ren said and turned around to face her. “It provides a lot of protection, and there's less tendency to get crushed by anything.”

“So, you're kind of stuck wearing the cloak from now on.” Elerlyth said and ran her fingers through his beard.

“Not really.” Ren said. “I could just leave it on me, or I might just make a nice pack for it. Although, I haven't thought about the logistics much.”

“How are you going to get it through the portal?” She asked.

“It will reappear on my hand, just like it did when I stepped through the last portal.” Ren said. “Can you give me your armor bodysuit?”

Elerlyth handed it to him and he repaired it, then handed it back. “Thanks.” She said and equipped it, so that it replaced her old outfit. “That's much better.” She said, and ran her hands over the surface of the fabric, from her waist down to her thighs. She felt Ren's reaction to the movement, and she reversed her hands and dragged them across her abdomen, splayed her fingers, and ended the movement at her breasts. When her hands stopped moving, so did his eyes.

“By the gods, you're sexy.” Ren said, and she felt his desire. The web design and peekaboo cutouts of the bodysuit accentuated her skin nicely. She smiled and cupped her breasts.

“Didn't you get enough of this dark skin from the queen?” Elerlyth asked, and the tips of her breasts made large bumps in the fabric without any prompting.

Ren shook his head. “I got away with feeding her once, and it was only oral on her for a few minutes.”

“No way.” Elerlyth said. “She let you go after only that?”

“Well...” Ren grinned at her. “She did say she wanted to keep me; but, she didn't want to break her word to you and take your main food source.”

“I'm glad.” She said, leaned down, and gave him a gentle kiss. Since their feelings were being shared, it started an emotional loop as they made out. Each felt the desire of the other, and as they made out, several people passed through the Aura and gave Elerlyth an additional boost. She broke the kiss a few minutes later, because she couldn't take much more. Her entire body was filled with a kind of euphoric feeling, and she wanted Ren so badly, it almost hurt.

“We can't.” Ren said, and she felt his deep regret.

“You need to get back to the Dwarven Kingdom before you can log out.” Elerlyth said, and sighed.

“Yeah.” Ren said. “Hand me your armor.”

She handed her armor over, he quickly repaired it, and gave it back to her.

“I'd tell you to not leave here without me, but the last thing I want to do is tell you how to play the game.”

“Damn right.” Elerlyth said, and he laughed.

“But before I go...” Ren walked into the living room and opened the cabinet to the portal. “I did make a bet with you.”

Elerlyth held her breath as Ren equipped his full set of armor, and took out both his hammerpick and gold shield.

“How do I look?” Ren asked her, but she could feel his playfulness.

“Like a dork.” She said. “Hurry up and dazzle me!”

“I hope anyone passing by can forgive me for this.” Ren said, and made the Connection between his hammerpick and shield, and the shield and his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak. “I can only stay like this for an instant, Elerlyth.” He said, and Teepo dissolved into the ring.

Elerlyth nodded, and Ren activated both enchantments and pumped them through his Aura and into their shared one. She gasped as she was gripped by utter terror, and reveled in the sensation. She froze in place, but not from fear. It was nearly pure joy she felt as Ren activated his Controlled Berserk Rage and his eyes went blood red. The cloak billowed out slightly as he moved, and it looked just like it did on the book cover.

“OH GOD!” Elerlyth yelled, Ren laughed as he felt her orgasm, then he jumped through the portal.
