Putting his axe and shield away, Dastan readied his crossbow and made his way forward, all the while flirting with the idea of putting a bolt through XinYue’s chest and claiming it as an accident before rebuking himself for a fool. With the Enemy standing before them, this was hardly the time for infighting. Keeping his finger off the trigger until his crossbow was pointed at the Enemy, he loosed his first bolt at the oncoming Defiled and didn’t bother to watch while reloading. With so many targets to choose from, he could hardly miss unless he tried, and even if he didn’t score a clean kill, better to fight a wounded warrior than a healthy one.

Dastan’s people were the only ones carrying crossbows, for each and every one of them were low-born and proud of it. So what if the crossbow was a peasant’s weapon? They were all peasants and held no delusions of grandeur, so they would be fools to pass up one of the only advantages they had. In the space of thirty seconds, their twenty five crossbows fired three or four times each and claimed at least one kill per crossbow, which wasn’t much in the grand scheme of things, but still twenty five less Defiled to kill in melee combat and many more wounded. What did it matter if the Enemy died by bolt or by blade? Dead was dead, and only an idiot noble would quibble over the details.

Even though he refused to arm his people with crossbows, at least XinYue was willing to let Dastan’s people use them. A shame, really. He’d been ready to rage at the fat man for being a stubborn, wilfully ignorant fool, but how was he supposed to relieve all his suppressed resentment if his replacement was actually a reasonable and competent commander?

“Hold fire! Crossbows hold, lances forward. Charge!” Already several meters ahead, XinYue led from the front with his maul held high, glimmering in the afternoon sun as he waved it about like it was made of paper despite being over a meter long with a handle thicker than Dastan’s wrist. The lances followed on his heels and the rest behind, forming a loose triangle as they charged the Enemy without uttering a word. Not that it would have mattered if they screamed their lungs out, for the thunder of hooves drowned out all else as Dastan fumbled with crossbow, shield, and axe while simultaneously struggling to keep up. His weapons in hand, Dastan reached for Balance and merged with his Natal Soul moments before the front lines crashed into the Enemy. Ready to spill blood, he made to veer off and find someone to kill, but XinYue’s voice cut through the din of battle. “Stay close!” he shouted, so clear it sounded like he was standing directly beside Dastan. “Follow! Into the teeth of the Enemy! Victory or Death!”

Growling beneath his breath, Dastan closed the gap to keep within a horse-length of the soldier in front of him. Stranded in the middle of his soldiers, he sat surrounded by allies in every direction while the chaos of battle raged unseen in the distance, leaving him with nothing to do except follow orders to ‘stay close’. Seconds passed by and he looked down to see his horse trample over pulverized corpses while they sank deeper and deeper into the mass of Defiled, the same mistake Dastan made during their first patrol. Truly a man with more courage than sense, one who was going to get them all killed thanks to his idiotic -

Without warning, the surroundings changed and Dastan realized they were free of the battle, though still galloping at full speed. Slowing after a few hundred meters, XinYue set their pace at an easy walk, still moving away from the battle behind them but on a wide circle around. Straightening in his saddle, Dastan turned around and finally understood what XinYue had done, and his appreciation for the man’s skills shot up a few notches. Rather than charging in a straight line, XinYue had led them on an easy curve, cutting a bloody swathe through the thin, blockading line of Defiled and across the rear of their beleaguered allied forces. Not only did their passing cavalry ease the pressure on their allies, the Enemy force which had gathered to intercept them was now bloodied, reeling, and out of position to reengage since XinYue was now leading his cavalry to the opposite side of the battlefield. Unwilling to leave the heavy cavalry free to pick and choose their targets, the Enemy had no choice but to splinter off another third of their numbers to meet the second charge, relieving even more pressure from their allies while the Enemy manoeuvred to meet them.

A simple concept in theory, but not so easy to keep one’s head in the heat of battle. A single moment of hesitation might have seen the entire unit bogged down and surrounded, but the results spoke for themselves.

“Wounded to the centre,” XinYue commanded, and Dastan immediately gave way, edging through his people to stand on the right flank. “Fresh warriors to the sides. No crossbows. Follow close and wait for my command.”

The seconds slowly ticked by and Dastan brimmed with impatience, thinking they were to hit the Defiled before they could form up. Loose infantry were like paper in the face of a proper charge, but XinYue continued at their slow, almost lazy pace around the edge of the battlefield, presumably to give the horses time to rest and cool down. Again, Dastan found himself disagreeing with his new commander, for while they lacked stamina compared to Acasian Trotters, Guonei Chargers were bred for battle, his own mount barely panting despite the exertion. They should spread out, perhaps two or three lines deep to maximize impact and charge in. The Defiled would scatter before them and they could withdraw and regroup for another charge, then another, until no Enemy was left standing on the battlefield.

One minute became two, then three, but still XinYue did not order the charge. From his new position, Dastan had an unobstructed view of the battle, and it pained him to see the Imperial forces being ground away by the surging Defiled. Dastan didn’t even know the name of the allied commander they’d come to rescue, for even the bannermen had abandoned their standards to add their blades to the defence efforts. How much longer could the poor bastards hold out? They were clearly on their last legs, so why was XinYue still twiddling his thumbs? Perhaps the commander was a rival and he intended to watch them die, the initial attack only made so he could honestly claim he made an attempt. Dastan wouldn’t put it past him, for nobles were a -

The familiar twang of arrows sounded and the boss’s bunny banner appeared on the other side of the battlefield, surrounded by a horde of voracious quins. Deceptively fast on the charge, the roosequins closed the gap in a matter of heartbeats and tore into the vulnerable backside of the Defiled, wreaking havoc with fang and fury.

“Victory or Death!” For the second time, XinYue waited too long before ordering the charge, already well ahead of the pack. As he watched the others racing to catch up, Dastan realized XinYue had delayed his orders for good reason. In their scramble to support their heroic leader, the lancers naturally closed in and formed a loose wedge without need for drills or preparation, which he supposed was the formation XinYue desired. The cavalry were a spearhead and he was its tip, penetrating deep into the flesh of the Enemy while the edge parted flesh and bone, with each subsequent rider adding to the mass and momentum of their charge.

The last vestiges of resentment melted away as Dastan accepted his inferiority, for even if XinYue was an undeserving Major, he was still the superior choice for commander by far. Giving himself over completely to his Natal Soul, Dastan threw away the shackles of leadership and hacked and cleaved to his heart’s content, following XinYue’s orders without a shred of hesitation.

Why should it matter whose orders he followed? In the end, they all served under Falling Rain, and it was he who would reap the rewards.

Chapter Meme
