Malika fed a little mana to her body tattoo and activated Spirit Walk, causing the massive troll berserker and all the surrounding ruins to shift to dull gray. As soon as she arrived, she allowed her Spirit Walk skill to drop, leaving herself in the strange flickering landscape of this realm that was at once so close to the real world and yet so unnaturally different.

Various surges of mana and stamina flared up beside her as her companions joined her: Calen using his Realm Walker, Val’korr using his own Spirit Walk skill, and Rezan somehow teleporting here with his soul magic. Even Mato appeared the moment Val’korr cursed him.

“This is where it happened,” she said.

“I see that,” Rezan said, immediately studying the surroundings. “This is going to be challenging, whoever did this is good at hiding their mana.”

“Let us consult with the spirit beasts,” Val’korr said, and an intricate but strangely familiar spell surged through him, and a beacon dropped to the ground.

A beacon that Malika recognized from fighting Kir’vella. In moments, a huge wolf slunk out from behind a gray building, glowing an ethereal blue, and as it approached, she found that she could see the rocks and rubble hazily through its semi-transparent body.

It was fascinating to see the ancient witch doctor and Mato ‘talk’ with the spirit beasts, more and more of them appearing, drawn to the call of his beacon.

“I need to perform a divination,” Val’korr said. “It will take some time.” When Rezan waved his hand, he sat down among the spirit beasts and began chanting, pulling out some strange ritual effects.

“While he does his mumbo jumbo, let’s look around,” Rezan said, drawing a scowl from the wizened Troll – but he didn’t comment. Then, the four of them began to search for any clue that would lead them to the strange dungeon that had captured Ali.

Hang on Ali. At least she had been able to tell Tol’brekk to let her know help was on its way.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
