She grinned as Erin turned red. Mrsha rolled down the side of the hill in disgust.
“No thank you. Can you just show me the fire, please?”
“Certainly. Watch.”
Maviola concentrated and the golden flame turned into a ball of fire. She drew her arm back and threw it.
Golden flames arced through the air. Erin yelped.
“No! Don’t set my garden on fire—”
The flames landed, burned. But consumed nothing. Erin stopped. Maviola looked at her.
“Glory burns nothing. It’s fleeting.”
“Your glory doesn’t burn anything. But mine does!”
The [Lady] frowned, crossing her arms in vexation.
“Hm. This is harder than I thought. Our fires are clearly different. But at least—I can show you a few things. You can throw your fire. Also—do this.”
She set herself on fire. White flames burst from her body and Mrsha scrambled backwards. Then she crawled up the hill and tried to touch Maviola.
“No, Mrsha. Don’t. Shoo! Shoo! Go play with the beavers.”
Erin tried to urge Mrsha away. The Gnoll looked up at her. But this was more fun! Maviola smiled.
“Here.”
She offered a bit of the white fire of kindness to Mrsha. The Gnoll gleefully took it and watched as it licked over her paw. Erin protested.
“Hey! That’s—”
“It won’t burn her. See?”
Mrsha tried to wipe the fire onto the grass. It burned very slowly and went out after a few seconds. Maviola looked at Erin.
“I’ve never thought to make lanterns out of my fire. But you’ve seen me give [Archers] fire. You can even coat weapons in the fire if you want. That’s due to your Skill. But auras? They’re a bit different. Watch.”
She pointed. A patch of innocent grass burst into flame. Real fire. Erin and Mrsha jumped.
“Stop setting stuff on fire!”
Erin ran over to stomp on it with her shoes. Maviola shrugged.
“It’s my aura. You may have noticed a motif with me.”
“Yeah! You’re pretty hot stuff!”
Erin stomped and Mrsha waved her wand; the grass regrew. Both glared at Maviola. Lady Firestarter smirked.
“My nature is flame. I have yet to figure out yours. But you need to work on your aura, Erin. I was able to manipulate you for a few moments. We’ll practice using both flame and aura.”
“I…sure. I’ve learned from Lyonette, but it’s just not something I can figure out. Do you think you can teach me?”
Erin scratched her head. Lyonette whispered indignantly to Numbtongue.
“I was teaching her!”
The [Lady] cast an amused glance towards the doorway.
“I’m sure Lyonette’s done her best. But she’s a [Princess]. I doubt she had much training at her age; normally she’d be much older by the time she developed her powers. She’s a prodigy.”
Lyonette blushed as Maviola waved at her. Numbtongue nudged her. Erin blinked.
“She is?”
“Oh yes. Monarchs don’t need to hone their auras. This is a Skill of—well, [Ladies] and [Knights] primarily. Only [Ladies] need to train. And the Flowers of Izril developed their abilities more than anyone else. In antiquity, the Order of Seasons actually learned from our class.”
Maviola motioned Erin to sit down as Mrsha began to scribble notes on her drawing-paper. She was copying Grimalkin.
“You see—[Kings] are rather good at being forceful themselves. You’ve seen the King of Destruction?”
“That jerk? Yeah, once or twice.”
Erin waved a hand. Maviola laughed.
“He’s more intimidating in real life. I met him when he was a boy—before the world called him the ‘King of Destruction’. Back when people still invited him to gatherings and thought they could use him in political games. He was forceful of will enough then to resist even the most cunning of [Lords] and [Ladies]. And all untrained! That’s what I mean. He has no fine control, but when he says ‘kneel’, he can force an army to bend their knees.”
“That sounds…bad.”
Erin glanced at Mrsha. The Gnoll nodded. Definitely sounded bad. Although Rufelt liked Flos. So did Mrsha. He was nice to Gnolls. Even white Gnolls. Maviola shrugged.
“It’s an example. Lyonette, by her class, is stronger than both of us naturally. No wonder she’s a poor teacher.”
“Hey!”
Both ignored that. Maviola gestured.
“It’s not just about concentration. There’s elegance in how you use your aura. See? I manifest fire.”
She made a ball of real, hot fire appear in her hands. Mrsha oohed and applauded. Maviola tossed it at her. Mrsha ran away, squealing, but the fire vanished before it touched her.
“Stop bullying Mrsha.”
Erin scowled at Maviola. The grandmother of a [Lady] laughed.
“Children should be careful. I hear this one’s unruly. Aren’t you?”
She stared at Mrsha, peeking around Erin’s back. Mrsha made a face. Maviola pointed.
“Sit down and be good, child.”
Mrsha hesitated, and then scooted over and sat. Erin narrowed her eyes.
“You used your aura on her.”
“Say I did.”
“That’s mean.”
The [Lady] sighed.
“Perhaps it is. But you do it too. Or do you think all of those spontaneous parties just ‘happened’? You’re using your aura without thinking of it. My goal is to train that.”
“How? Lyonette’s taught—”
Maviola rolled her eyes.
“Like this.”
She reached out and grabbed Erin’s hands. The [Innkeeper] started and Maviola closed her eyes.
“I’m going to shove you. This is a high-level technique. [Ladies] use with their Skills. [Deft Hand], usually. You should concentrate to stop me.”
“Concentrate? Stop wh—”
Erin felt a push. She tried to bl—
Mrsha saw Erin backflip off the hill and go flying as if someone’s invisible hand had swatted her. She and Maviola stared as Erin went flying and rolling down the hill. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Maviola winked at her.
“That’s proper training.”
“Aaah! You jerk!”
Erin came charging up the hill. Maviola raised a hand.
“[Deft Hand]—”
“Oh no. St—”
Erin went flying again. Mrsha stared as she tumbled back down the hill. She got up and waved at Maviola. Do me, do me! The [Lady] laughed.
Lyonette went stomping up the hill to stop Mrsha-swatting. She looked huffily at Maviola.
“Maviola, I don’t know if this is the best way to train Erin—”
“I think it’s the way she learns. See?”
Erin went charging up the hill. She pointed.
“Aha! Gravity!”
Maviola and Lyonette staggered. The air pushed down on them. Maviola gritted her teeth.
“Cute. But I told you to block—”
This time Erin went stumbling backwards. Lyonette did too, but less far. Maviola glanced at her.
“You’re already more powerful than I, Lyonette. At least in station. Don’t worry. I’m here to help. Truly.”
“It’s very sudden. Erin shouldn’t have told you about her…home. I trust you’ll keep it secret?”
Lyonette pursed her lips. She liked Maviola. But Erin had given away far too much. Lyonette knew Maviola was another runaway from her house, but she was a [Lady] of Izril. Maviola smiled deeper.
“To my very grave. Lyonette du Marquin.”
The [Princess] hesitated.
“I’d like to believe that. But I don’t know who you are. There’s only one Maviola and that’s from the House of El. But she’s old; the House’s matriarch.”
“And retired. I stepped down two weeks ago.”
Lyonette blinked. Then her eyes went round. She looked at Maviola.
“No. That’s—”
The [Lady] swatted with her hand. Lyonette and Erin went somersaulting down the hill past Mrsha. The old [Lady] saw Mrsha peeking up at her with more respect as curses echoed from behind her. She winked at Mrsha.
“Behave. Now, what’s your little secret, you brave firefly?”
Mrsha scooted closer on her bum and showed Maviola her wand. Erin lay on the grass as Lyonette’s head of red hair slowly rose. Both glared up at the top of the hill.
That was lesson one.
 
—-
 
“You did well. In time, no [Lady] will be able to force you to bow within twenty levels. They can still shove, but it’s just a matter of being aware of it. Three-versus-one? Well, Magnolia would still probably have pushed past you even in your inn. But the trick with auras is to force them to break their rules.”
A while later, Maviola was lecturing the tousle-haired younger women. Both glowered at her, nursing bruises from being tossed down the hill.
“How? Magnolia even bullied Xrn! And Klbkch!”
“Only because they weren’t willing to attack. [Ladies] are unmatched in society. That’s why we’re [Ladies]. I’m suited for combat, but even I can’t stand with [Warriors]. If the Antinium had attacked—at least one of them would have died. Why do you think Wuvren was last to retreat? They would have broken the etiquette of the moment and all their little tricks would have ended.”
“So if Magnolia tries to influence me…”
“Kick her. Or head-butt her. That usually works. But watch out for Ressa. She was trained as an [Assassin]. Now, let’s move onto more lessons. I’m tired. I’ll keep teaching you to use your aura for a few more days. Practice makes perfect.”
Maviola yawned delicately, as if she hadn’t just flicked both girls off the hill. They’d managed to avoid being thrown in the last ten minutes of the hour-long practice, but only just. Mrsha was sitting on Maviola’s lap, having her hair combed. The [Lady] enjoyed it so much she’d groomed three beavers who were napping around her.
Erin decided she didn’t like Maviola that much. She was sort of pushy! But then—the woman smiled and Erin was reminded of the life she’d lived.
“Okay. What next?”
The [Lady] clapped her hands. Mrsha and the beavers started into wakefulness.
“Logistics!”
“Say what now?”
Erin’s face fell. Maviola grabbed her arm.
“You’re a beautifully talented young woman. But I’ve noticed you’re about as good at tackling numbers and matters of the like as this young Gnoll here. Have you even budgeted your inn? Do you know how much you’ll owe in taxes?”
“Well—we have a [Tax Collector]. He’s sort of a jerk, but he did them. And Lyonette calculates our income! Why do I have to do it? Delegation, that’s important too!”
Erin protested. Maviola stared at her.
“So you didn’t double-check the [Tax Collector]’s numbers? You have no one overseeing Lyonette’s work? Have you even tried to get better deals on say, food?”
“No. We go through Krshia—”
“Where’s your budget sheets? Your incomes and expenses?”
“Um. Lyonette?”
The [Princess] looked worried as Maviola ushered them into the inn. In short order, she produced sheets of paper. But they were just Lyonette’s notes. They weren’t dated. They had no organizational system tracking each day of the month in neat rows, like food expenses—just a total sum Lyonette roughly calculated. Maviola gave Erin a look.
“In your world, is there no such thing as bookkeeping?”
Erin blushed. Maviola looked at Lyonette.
“At least Miss Lyonette has the excuse of never having to manage a budget. [Princesses] don’t. But you’re an [Innkeeper].”
“But I never was good at math—”
“Then learn. Give me a quill. Little Mrsha, come here. You can learn this too. This is how you calculate your income.”
In short order, Maviola had drawn up a spreadsheet with neat columns and rows. Each date would have an entry and the expenses would go down on this side, and the incomes…Erin and Lyonette looked at each other.
“That’s so easy!”
“I can’t believe you don’t know how to do this. Well, I have practice. This way you can track more than just expenses. Do you know how to haggle?”
“Uh…maybe?”
“Who provides your milk? Have you shopped around for a better deal?”
“There’s this [Rancher] Gnoll…but look, we have a good relationship with him! I don’t think we need to be mean.”
Maviola rolled her eyes.
“And if he’s taking advantage of you?”
“Well, I don’t think he is. Anyways, a good deal is where everyone wins, right?”
“Hah! Wait, are you serious? Okay. How much did you pay for milk last week?”
 
—-
 
Lesson two sucked. But it did point out a few things to Erin. Namely that she could save money and that doing basic budgets wasn’t hard. It was just entering stuff into a spreadsheet. Even so—she didn’t like it.
“Money is important. My House survives on being able to balance our budget. You may have money coming in, but you can always save more. It’s quite clear to me that you’re overpaying for any number of vegetables. You buy from Liscor’s markets.”
“Yeah. So?”
“Buy from Celum. They have larger farms. Liscor is agriculturally poor, hence the price increase. On the other hand, milk is cheaper than Celum’s markets. Thank you, Drassi, was it?”
“Yes, Miss Maviola.”
The panting Drake had run into Celum to get tallies on the market prices, as well as Esthelm and Invrisil’s prices. Maviola snapped her fingers.
“Quill.”
Mrsha handed one to her. The [Lady] showed Erin a tally.
“However—these are the prices from Pallass. Produce is just as cheap. That’s because of Oteslia. I’d encourage you to still buy from Celum because you have [Farmers] like this Wailant you can make relationships with. Plus, transport from Pallass takes mana from your door. But do that and you’ll save gold per week.”
“Wow.”
Lyonette’s eyes were shining. She was staring at Maviola like a hero of the fiscal report. The woman tapped her fingers on the table.
“Well…you don’t need to worry that much about money. It’s refreshing not to see so much debt.”
“Does House El have money problems?”
Erin saw both Lyonette and Maviola wince. The [Lady] blushed as she twiddled the quill in her fingers.
“I’ve done my best. But we’re historically bad at managing our money. We have large projects; the last one put us more into debt. Money goes in, money goes out. I’m good at saving money, not spending it. Which is why I won’t tell you how to spend your gold. But I will tell you that you have enough to spend. So—what projects do you have in mind?”
Erin and Lyonette looked at each other.
“Projects?”
Maviola looked sternly at them.
“Money is meant to be used. You have to grow it, not keep it locked away under your bed.”
“I knew that. That’s why it’s buried in the garden.”
The [Innkeeper] was pleased to see Maviola close her eyes for a second in actual pain. To be fair—she’d done that on purpose. Not that she didn’t appreciate Maviola’s help. But she was being bossy. Sort of like—Lyonette. Or Erin herself.
“Please tell me you have plans for the inn? Renovating it is good! But do you have any other designs?”
“Bird wants a ballista.”
Lyonette and Maviola looked at Erin. She shrugged.
“Well, he does. But that’s not on my list. I guess…enchantments? But we never got around to it. It was too expensive and then we couldn’t find an [Enchanter]. Uh—this was back before the magic door.”
“I see. And you want enchantments?”
