Zevara smiled. Wearily. Sadly. She looked at Relc, whom she had relied on for so long without thinking about him. Her annoying, but invincible Senior Guardsman. Like Klbkch. Only—now both were gone. She shook her head.
“Senior Guardsman Relc. You are no longer a member of Liscor’s Watch. But as it happens—your rank would make you a Senior Guardsman of Cellidel. If you choose to go. The choice is yours, but I’d hate to lose a Senior Guardsman. Especially since you’d return as one.”
The Drake’s jaw opened. Zevara saluted him as she stood. Then she held out a claw.
“Good luck, Senior Guardsman. I hope you will take your new posting. It won’t be forever. It was—the best I could do.”
He hesitated. And the Drake slowly extended his claw and shook Zevara’s hand.
“I’m sorry for the trouble, Watch Captain. I’ll let you know tonight.”
“Don’t be. It wasn’t your fault. For once.”
He almost smiled at that. And then the Drake saluted. Zevara saw him turn. And the whisper ran through the Watch House. Through Liscor. The Gecko was leaving, one way or the other. She sat down and put her head in her claws.
Everything was changing.
 
—-
 
It started with a conversation over breakfast. A lesson, really.
A blue-scaled Drake munched on some exceptionally crispy bacon. Also—bread—also toasted with a bit of cheese. Even the cheese seemed burnt.
But that was a motif. A calling card. And Maviola El wasn’t actually that good at cooking. She’d never really bothered to learn. That she was trying now was a sign of…something.
Affection, probably. She was eating the same and the two were crowded around a little table.
“Donkeys.”
“Donkeys?”
She nodded. They were going over a complex logistical paper, breaking down expenses. Maviola tapped the paper and her notes.
“In your theory, you’ve got an army you’re marching. You need donkeys. All you’ve accounted for is—potions, salaries, ammunition, equipment upkeep—not donkeys.”
“Why do I need to account for that?”
Olesm stared warily at the parchment. Maviola sighed.
“Donkeys are better for labor. They’re pack animals. Or do you want to grab a bunch of horses which might not be suited for pulling wagons? Mules are also good.”
“I…I’m sure I’d account for it in the moment.”
The Drake defended himself. He was a [Strategist], Maviola, a [Lady]. But she was lecturing him.
“Well, if you didn’t you’d be scrambling. Which is why we’re going over it now. This is the ideal ratio of wagons-to-soldiers. And these are good numbers to hold by for how much you should be willing to spend to buy new supplies on the march.”
She pulled up a second chart, listing everything from the prices of oil to healing potions. Olesm’s eyes bulged.
“Wait. Our instruction at Manus never accounted for that—”
“Because ­Manus expects you to defend a city. I’m giving you a fuller education. These are the kind of numbers a [General] or [Strategist] leading an actual army needs to know. Pay attention.”
“I am, I am! Hold on. Does that say ‘birth control’?”
Maviola rolled her eyes as she speared a bit of burnt bacon. She’d done her best with a skillet, but she had a tendency to overheat the cooking fire.
“Mixed-gender armies always run into the issue. Especially new [Soldiers]. They have sex—they get pregnant. Have at least a few potions to deal with complications.”
“I never—is this really a problem I’m going to run into? Maviola, please. I’m Liscor’s [Strategist]. Having to deal with a pregnant [Soldier] isn’t something I’m going to run into.”
The Human [Lady] nodded agreeably.
“True. As Liscor’s [Strategist] you might not. But are you going to be a [Strategist] forever?”
“Well, I—”
“And if you have a pregnant [Soldier] barging into your tent at midnight, do you want to have a solution for the problem or be completely blindsided?”
The blue Drake opened and closed his mouth.
“…Have a solution?”
“There you are, then. Eat your eggs. Here.”
She put the eggs on a fork. Olesm sniffed.
“I can eat them—”
“Open your mouth.”
He did, to object, and she poked the fork into his mouth. Maviola laughed at Olesm’s outraged expression.
“Sorry; force of habit. I had to feed too many annoying little children when I was growing up. Products of people who don’t account for accidental babies.”
The Drake chewed and swallowed.
“How many children did you grow up with?”
“More than you’d be happy to know about. None myself, incidentally. I never had time for it. I regret that.”
Wistfully, Maviola glanced out the window. The city was waking up. The protests about The Golden Triangle had woken both of them up in bed. But—however alien a Drake city might have been, she was surprised how much at home the little apartment felt.
Olesm looked at Maviola as he shoveled more burnt breakfast into his mouth. He thoughtfully eyed the young woman. And forbade asking why twenty-something was too late for children.
Maviola was—different. And even an idiot would have picked up on the little clues she kept dropping. Olesm didn’t know the entire thing, but he suspected something.
At last, the [Lady] looked at him. And when she smiled—the Drake felt as though she were smiling just for him. Maviola was Lady Firestarter. Flame and passion. Her power—her appeal was that when she looked at you, you felt like you were the only thing in the world. She was brilliant; she was teaching him any number of new tactics as well as logistics and things even his lessons in Manus had never covered.
And also, a mystery. Maviola sighed as she looked out the window.
“…Nearly two weeks now. It’s passed so quickly.”
“I’m glad to have you. I mean—I’m very grateful for your help. And the rest. I think this has been great. The best time in my life.”
The Drake interjected quickly. Maviola smiled. Her eyes flicked to his face and she shook her head. Her black-and-orange hair moved in the dawn’s light.
“Olesm. I told you. I love you, as much as I’ve loved anyone. But it won’t last. I have to leave soon.”
“Don’t say that.”
The Drake reached out. Maviola hesitated, but she let him grasp her hand. The Drake held on tight.
“You’re—the best thing that’s happened to me all year. In the last decade. Don’t say you have to go.”
“The truth is the truth.”
Her voice was calm. And when she looked at him again—he felt like a child speaking to an adult. And he hadn’t felt like that way in years. But Maviola was old. Her eyes flickered like fire. But old fire, raging one last time before the darkness closed in. Gently, she put her other hand on his, clasping his claw.
“Olesm. I mean to give you fire. Me meeting you was fate. I want to believe I was sent here to help you learn to…burn. You were a faded ember when I found you. All I did was light your fire.”
“You did that. First the Council and the newspaper—it’s a huge success! Drassi actually got scouted to work for Pallass! And the money coming in from the newspaper is big. Why then—do you have to go?”
Her eyes were sad.
“Sometimes that is just the way it is. I wish I had met you long ago. I wish I hadn’t waited. I wish…”
She trailed off. Olesm tightened his grip and Maviola looked at him. The Drake took a shuddering breath. He hadn’t planned on it today. But she sounded like—
“Listen. It doesn’t have to be that way. I don’t care how sick you are. I’m—I’m resourceful. I know that doesn’t sound like much, but Erin’s my friend. If we need to get you to the Healer of Tenbault or—Saliss of Lights visits Erin’s inn. However ill you are, we can fight it.”
Maviola’s eyes widened. Then she put her head back and laughed. Olesm paused. He had been so sure he was right. But Maviola just laughed until she cried, and wiped the tears from her eyes.
“You’re too beautiful, Olesm Swifttail.”
That was all she said. And she kissed him on the cheek. Then Maviola shook her head and stood.
“I won’t go today. Or tomorrow. But soon. Let’s just make the most of today, alright?”
“Okay. But please don’t go.”
The Drake stood up, feeling helpless. He saw the young woman turn her head to the open window. And for a moment, she hesitated. Then fire laughed and embraced him.
“I have so much to do. So much I want to do, now. I’ll try. But I make no promises.”
She whispered. Then the young [Lady] took Olesm’s arm and spun him around. Her laughter filled the apartment.
“Come on. You have so much left to learn! Combat—[Mages]—let’s study for a few hours. Then you have to go to work.”
“And you? Are you going to work with Hexel…?”
Olesm looked at Maviola, whom he had hired to help him with his duties. She had been helping manage the [Architect] Lamia, but Maviola shook her head.
“Your Councilman—Elirr?—is far better at it than I. He and Hexel get along better, always.”
“Really?”
“Believe me. I know how people work. I can see it. Today, I think it’s time I met Erin Solstice. I have something to teach her as well.”
The [Strategist] caught his breath.
“What’s that? I mean—Erin? Why her?”
Maviola winked.
“She has a lot of potential. Just like you. I see that too.”
And she looked at him like he was the sun. The Drake held onto Maviola. He didn’t want to let her go.
 
—-
 
It started with an upset [Lady]. And weak tea.
Magnolia Reinhart sipped from the weak cup of tea. It was bitter—lacking sugar. She made a polite face. Anyone who knew Magnolia Reinhart knew that she drank tea with more sugar than water. But sugar was in short supply, and even the demands of etiquette hadn’t conjured sugar out of the sky.
But then—that was also the fault of the mousey-haired [Lady] who was sitting opposite Magnolia. The [Lady] Reinhart coughed.
“Ressa, perhaps a bit of sweetener from the coach…?”
Her words were almost preempted by the sugar cubes dumped unceremoniously into her cup. Ressa, the [Maid] waiting attendance on the two was far more polite with Lady Edere Sanito’s cup.
“Milady?”
“Oh, yes please.”
The Lady Sanito was all too eager for Ressa to lace the sugar cube in her cup with a sugar tong—Ressa even stirred the cup with a silver spoon. Magnolia did her cup herself. She briskly stirred and sipped the much sweeter liquid with a sigh.
“That’s better.”
“I’m—I’m so dreadfully sorry, Lady—um, Magnolia. But sugar has been so dreadfully dear of late–”
“Hence the reason I’m here. Not to worry, Edere. And let us use first names! We’re both [Ladies], after all.”
Magnolia reached out and placed her hand on Sanito’s leg. The woman jumped, but flushed with the compliment. It was a cozy setting and Magnolia was being uncharacteristically familiar and intimate. Welcoming, even.
The Sanito House was not rich. It wasn’t as destitute as House Byres, say, at the mercy of [Merchants], but its funds were limited, unlike Magnolia Reinhart, who had a personal contract with Stormlord Seagrass to get her sugar on time.
Of late, it had suffered. House Sanito had sent reinforcements to Lord Tyrion Veltras—not without cost—and it had been affected by another economic event.
A [Trade War]. Even now, Sanito’s household was conspicuously devoid of certain number of goods. Iron for the forges wasn’t coming down the trade roads. Good preservatives like salt, oranges from past Walchaís lands—and sugar were also out of stock.
Not that it meant the lands were starving. But the pinch was widely felt. So widely in fact—that Magnolia Reinhart was here, sipping tea in a quiet little conference with Lady Edere without Lord Alman Sanito’s knowledge.
She had received the black flower of shame from House Sanito a few months ago. An occasion that the nobles had had cause to regret.
“I—it’s good to taste a bit of sweet, Magnolia. And this dreadful [Trade War] hurts both houses, doesn’t it?”
Lady Sanito was incapable of conjuring sugar out of the air at a wave of her hand. She had mousey hair. She was not ugly by any means. Far from it; she had charmed Lord Sanito with her beauty and he had married her, a commoner, and made her a [Lady].
Of course, Edere hadn’t been exactly a [Farmhand] but a [Merchant]’s daughter. And the marriage had been good for House Sanito. But she was just a bit too low-level. Lacking in ambition, say. Magnolia tapped a finger against her teacup.
She was also less than subtle. All well and good. She smiled.
“The [Trade War] is a bit of a nuisance. But I haven’t found myself unduly discomforted, Lady Edere. Ah, but Invrisil is fed from all roads. Ressa, more sugar.”
She thrust her cup out. The [Maid] gave her a glare, but she dutifully put more cubes of sugar in the teacup. Lady Edere stared as the [Lady] happily drank the sugar-slurry. Magnolia was overdoing it, but then again—it was working.
“I—I—quite, Magnolia. But it’s such a dreadful thing—can’t we put this unpleasantness behind us?”
“Mm. Perhaps. But being called a coward, even if it is in flower-language, does grate, doesn’t it?”
Magnolia’s eyes sparkled as she drained her cup. Edere paled.
“Alman was advised to do that, Magnolia. It wasn’t his idea—”
She broke off as Magnolia raised one finger. The [Lady], in her shocking pink dress, smiled with an edge.
“I’m sure he was. But that doesn’t change the fact that he knew what he was sending me. Edere, I’m quite aware you wouldn’t have countenanced such an insult. Much less that you hadn’t been at the Sacrifice of Roses. But I was there, you see. And Alman—excuse me, Lord Alman—was not. Perfectly understandable; he was far from First Landing so it wasn’t an act of cowardice. But it grates, you see?”
“I do, Magnolia. But—”
But House Sanito is tired of bleeding gold over a petty insult and a political argument we were never too invested in.
Magnolia read the unspoken language in the [Lady]’s posture and nodded. She glanced out the window.
A tall half-Elf with inhuman—indeed, quite inhuman—features was grumpily feeding a dog scraps as Reynold stood at attention. Teriarch was bored, but he had come along with her. She had better hurry this up. Magnolia sighed.
“Let’s not beat around the bush, Edere. An insult was made. And my [Trade War] affects dozens of noble houses. Sanito has been hard-hit. I am aware. But I will not lift my [Trade War] for another month. The other noble houses may lose countless thousands of gold in profits, but that is the cost of war with me.”
Edere paled. Already the [Blacksmiths], [Bakers]—any number of professions were screaming for salt, sugar, ore, and all the other things Magnolia’s Skill was making twice or three times as expensive. Another month of that?
“Can’t we—come to some arrangement, Magnolia?”
“Well—that would be acceptable.”
