Maviola saw Erin and Lyonette exchange a glance and then they began speaking over each other.
“Okay, the stone ovens are great, but I hear you can make them magic. I’d love not to have to light them each time—”
“I want a tracking spell on Mrsha—”
“—someone to look at the door—”
“—light spells at night—”
“—something nice instead of the poo smell in the outhouses—”
“—noise-cancelling spells in the bedrooms. Just for privacy’s sake—”
The [Lady] leaned back in the face of the eager voices. She stared at them.
“Then hire an [Enchanter].”
“From where?”
Both looked at her. Maviola opened and closed her mouth.
“Invrisil? Pallass? Set up an appointment and hire them.”
“How?”
Erin’s mystified look made Maviola snap. She stood up.
“Follow me. Do you just not know how to schedule appointments? We’re going to Invrisil. No, not you. Or you. I don’t have time for trouble and you two would both bring it.”
She poked Mrsha and Numbtongue as the two followed. Both looked hurt. Lyonette stood up, flustered.
“I’ll stay with Mrsha, Erin. Are you going to go now?”
“It will take fifteen minutes. Come on.”
“Wait! But—wh—I’m not ready!”
Erin found her arm in Maviola’s. The [Lady] dragged her towards the magic door. Erin fought to get free, but Maviola just linked her arm tighter.
“Come on. You have to learn some basic skills.”
“Okay, stop pulling me!”
Blushing, Erin pulled away from Maviola. The [Lady] eyed her.
“Don’t be so formal. Incidentally, you need to fall in love sometime. It’s a wonderful feeling.”
“Excuse me! That’s personal!”
Maviola sighed.
“Youth is wasted on you. Do you not like Drakes or Gnolls? Or perhaps…”
“I’m fine! Geez! Everyone’s so personal!”
In a huff, Erin stalked past Maviola. And then they were in Invrisil. The [Lady] followed. It took her a bit of will to resist paying the silver tax, but Magnolia wasn’t the only [Lady] with authority. Besides, Maviola didn’t have that much coin anymore.
“I couldn’t help but notice that in your memories, you never seem interested in all the fine fellows around you. Especially that young [Necromancer].”
“Pisces? Ew.”
“What about the Courier?”
“Hawk? He has a fluffy tail, but that’s it.”
“Hm. The Goblin? No, you weren’t attached to him either. But I know I recalled…”
“Stop it! Where are we going?”
The two arguing young women stopped as they left the inn and abruptly—heard a lot of noise. Both halted in the street in time to see the protest.
People were marching and shouting, angry faces lighting up the street. Erin backed up into Maviola. The [Lady] stared.
“What is this?”
They turned to the [Bouncer] at the door. Redit was standing there; hand on his club, but trying to be unobtrusive as possible.
“The Golden Triangle, Misses. They’re protesting. Demanding the Mage’s Guild and [Mayor] give them their money back. Haven’t you heard of the protests?”
Erin looked at Maviola.
“There was a riot two days ago. It’s still going on?”
“In Liscor it’s protests too. How bad was it?”
Maviola had been with Olesm the night the news broke. Several buildings had been half-burned. Redit grimaced.
“Nothing bad happened around here, Misses. We took care of trouble. But the Mage’s Guild was under siege until the Watch broke it up. Lots of fighting. They’re still angry.”
“That’s terrible. Those poor people. I told Relc he was an idiot…”
Erin’s face fell. Maviola was nodding, but she glanced at Erin.
“Relc? Your friend was in The Golden Triangle? Come on, we’ll walk past the protest.”
“That’s not wise—”
Redit objected, but Maviola walked through the crowd. So did Erin. The crowd was chanting, angry people ready for a fight. Redit tensed to go after them—but to his surprise, he saw people walking around Maviola and Erin as if they weren’t there.
[Crowd Control]. Maviola looked at Erin.
“You’re using your aura.”
“I know. I just didn’t realize it until now.”
Erin frowned. It was both her Skill and her aura. She felt like she could feel the—flow of the crowd. It would be hard—almost impossible to make them calm. On the other hand, it would be terrifyingly easy to get them to turn into another riot. Maviola glanced at her.
“Lots of smoldering embers here. You feel it too? That’s another use of your aura. Igniting them.”
“I have a Skill that does that.”
“Well, you can make it stronger. But let’s not experiment with this lot. What was the problem with this Relc? Have I met him?”
“Maybe? He’s the big Drake with the spear.”
“Ah, him. So what did he do…?”
As they walked through the streets of Invrisil, leaving the protest behind, Erin explained Relc’s objectionable behavior to Maviola. Even now she grew angry thinking about it.
“He didn’t even get what he was doing was wrong! Until Ryoka and I explained it.”
Maviola gave her a strange look.
“Of course not. Why would he? No one knew. Only someone from your world would have. Why are you so angry at him for not seeing through a cunning trick?”
“I—but he was wrong.”
“But he didn’t know.”
Erin bit her lip and fell silent. Maviola shook her head.
“You’re rather stubborn. And opinionated, Erin Solstice. Rather like me. It’s a disturbing parallel. I wish you weren’t so much my clone. Well—we vary in some ways.”
“I’m your clone? Waitaminute. Hey! I’m not that stubborn! I just have convictions!”
Erin protested and hurried after Maviola. They arrived at their destination after some light bickering. Maviola pushed into the busy guild, which had a double line of Human [Guards], arguing with Erin.
“All I’m saying is that giving is part of negotiations. You refuse to compromise at times. I saw that.”
“I’m flexible!”
“Yes…of course you are…excuse me! A message to Master Hedault, please! He’s still working in Invrisil, isn’t he?”
The [Scribe] at the front desk glanced up at Maviola. He wasn’t having a good day and his tone was rather brusque.
“Yes, Miss. He is. But I’d advise you to go to the Runner’s Guild for any messages.”
“But he is a member of the Mage’s Guild, isn’t he? You have a direct way to contact him. Street Runner messages tend to get lumped together or ignored depending on how important the client is, Erin.”
Maviola half-spoke to Erin. The [Scribe] sighed.
“We do not just deliver messages for our members, Miss…?”
“El. Lady El.”
The [Scribe] dropped his quill. Heads turned across the Mage’s Guild. Maviola stood there, in her casual clothing as the [Scribe] blinked at her.
“L-Lady El? Of the…”
“That’s right. Of the House of El. Need you a truth spell or will you take me at my word?”
Maviola drew herself up. Erin narrowed her eyes. A touch of her aura. But it was mostly the way she held herself. The [Lady] looked at the [Scribe] as he stammered.
“Of course not, Lady El—how can I serve you? Deepest apologies. Did you say Master Hedault?”
“Yes. Inform Master Hedault that I would like my friend to use his services. Miss Erin Solstice of The Wandering Inn. She has a connection as well through the Horns of Hammerad, isn’t that right, Erin?”
“Uh, yes. Hi. I’m Erin.”
The young woman waved at the [Scribe]. He wrote frantically.
“Very good, Lady El. I will have it delivered forthwith. Master Hedault may not reply—he is a peculiar personage—”
“He will for me. House El is acquainted with him and he knows that. Moreover, Miss Solstice owns the magical door. I’m sure you’ve heard of it? Master Hedault will see Miss Solstice soon—have the message sent to Liscor’s Mage’s Guild and then to The Wandering Inn. They will know where it is.”
“Absolutely, Lady El.”
“Good. For your time.”
Maviola put several silvers on the counter. The [Scribe] bowed and she swept out. Erin nearly forgot to follow her.
“Whoa! That was—”
That was like her! But Erin didn’t say that. Maviola had done it in a different way; Erin would have just dropped names. Maviola glanced at Erin.
“You always have to use names to get ahead or you’d be waiting forever, Erin. And that’s how you schedule an appointment. By the end of the week, you’ll get to see Master Hedault. Sooner, I should think. Don’t worry about the payment; if there is any, it will go to House El. They owe me that much. Although—do you have a gold coin?”
“Um. Yes. Do I give it to the [Scribe]?”
Erin dug one out. Maviola blinked at her.
“Scribe? No, I tipped him. This is for me. Tuition fee and for the tip I gave.”
She took the gold coin. Erin blinked at it.
“But you gave him five silver.”
“Mhm. And?”
The two walked on. The [Scribe] frantically worked away as the others murmured. House El. But they weren’t surprised to see a [Lady] here. After all, this was Invrisil. That she was without bodyguards? Well, the young nobles did that too.
But the [Scribe] did notice something as he took the tip and did not charge House El for the minor message. A little note, sent to the Mage’s Guilds. They were looking for…his head jerked up. He stared at Maviola’s black and orange hair. Slowly, his hands froze on the message.
“Setil? What’s wrong? Is she not of House El?”
One of the other [Scribe Mages] whispered to him. Setil jumped. The [Scribe] looked at his co-worker. He shook his head.
“No. Get a City Runner to deliver it to Master Hedault. Mark it as priority from the House of El. I—I need to send a [Message].”
“To whom?”
“The House of El. That’s their runaway. They have a bounty for sightings of her.”
 
—-
 
Maviola and Erin walked through Invrisil, but they weren’t the only people moving through the city. Nor even the only important people on business here.
They were coming. The [Guards] on the gates let the procession of [Riders] through without checking any of them. They stood to attention as nearly three-dozen [Lords] and retainers rode through the city. Each was a local noble. House Terr, House Phi’Deran, House Sanito…
Lord Alman Sanito was riding stiffly with the other [Lords]. Lord Ranga of House Owe was riding with his son. The [Lord] snapped as his son checked his sword.
“Sword away, Mel!”
The young [Lordling], seventeen years of age and hot-blooded, flushed.
“But father—”
“We are not barbarians. Apologies, Lord Alman, you were saying?”
“Are you certain this is wise, Ranga? I still have reservations.”
Lord Alman was nervous. He hadn’t told his wife about this; he had excused it as a ride to settle his nerves. But the other [Lord] just nodded.
“This intolerable [Trade War] has lasted too long, Alman. We’ll all be out of gold in another two weeks. Reinhart must relent.”
Neither man referenced the fact that this was due to the black flowers they’d sent her. They’d had cause to regret that. It had been politically expedient at the time. But…Alman shifted in his saddle.
“We’re like to run into her security.”
“And will they attack us? I don’t think so. Reinhart may be…a Reinhart…but even she’s not that mad. We’ll demand an audience.”
Lord Alman glanced about at the other [Lords]. Some looked as nervous as him, but a few were more hotheaded than he would have cared to see.
“And if we don’t get it?”
“We insist.”
Lord Ranga’s son checked his blade again. It was an…ill-conceived plan. Lord Alman reflected on Magnolia Reinhart. She had been tempered by time, but everyone knew how she’d come to power. Moreover, she might not rule the Assassin’s Guild at this moment, but in the past her family had been known to make their opponents disappear. Or be found in gruesome ways.
Still—they were desperate. And the [Lords] considered this the best option. They were wrong for a few reasons.
Firstly—Magnolia Reinhart’s security tended to be varied. Some had quite a lot of restraint and respect for nobility. Others—did not.
Second—Magnolia Reinhart was unlikely to be impressed even by this group of nobles.
And third? She wasn’t even at her mansion. She was excusing herself from her meeting with Lady Edere at this moment.
But none of that mattered because the [Lords] were set. And as they rode through the city, one of them saw the protests. They halted as the crowds of protesters saw the [Lords].
“Justice! Give us back our money!”
One of them screamed at the [Lords]. A son unsheathed his sword—but the retainers looked nervously at the thousands of very upset people.
“I say, what’s this all about?”
A tall man shouted uncertainly. One of his retainers muttered in his ear.
“Milord, the Golden Triangle—”
Several of the [Lords], including Alman, blanched with fury. They’d lost gold to that too. Another blow they couldn’t handle with their depleted treasuries. The [Lords] muttered.
“We have our issues with the Golden Triangle! Make way! The Lords of Izril have a complaint to settle with Magnolia Reinhart regarding this [Trade War]!”
Lord Ranga bellowed. The angry mob didn’t really budge. He hesitated. Then Lord Ranga’s expression lit up. He turned to Alman.
“I have a better idea to force Magnolia’s hand. Lord Alman—listen—”
“Ranga—”
The other man began uneasily, but it was too late. Ranga shouted.
“Utter your grievances to Lady Reinhart! She is your [Lady]! She should have protected you! Demand your money from her, people of Invrisil!”
The crowd listened. They began to boil. Some people nodded; the other [Lords] lent their voices and even Skills to Ranga.
“Justice from Reinhart! March with us!”
The crowd’s energy began to pick up. Lord Alman gulped. Indeed, as Erin had noted—
It just took one spark. Unfortunately, as bad ideas went—
This one wasn’t much better.
 
—-
 
Erin and Maviola noticed the shouting as they were headed back to The Wandering Inn but neither took notice of it at first. They were talking.
“So—so what do I do with this Hedault guy?”
“You tell him what you want and he tells you how much it costs. Try to be polite. There’s nothing to it, Erin. Have you never hired a contractor? A [Mercenary]?”
“Um. No. My parents hired the plumber and painter and stuff.”
Maviola sighed.
“Children. It’s very simple. Why are you so reluctant to do these things?”
“I dunno. I try not to rock the boat. See, it’s been peaceful of late.”
“Not everything you do will turn out into some huge event.”
“Aha, see—you don’t know me that well. I could make a cup of water explode. Probably.”
“So could I. I think you’re just lazy, Erin.”
“Lazy? Hey now—that’s fair, but—”
The two were enjoying each other’s company. In a way. Erin felt too close to Maviola after staring into her memory flames if that made sense. She barely knew the woman and even Maviola seemed uneasy by the shared memories.
