“You saw Fulviolo. My brother.”
“…Yeah. He died, right?”
“To Goblins. And I killed Antinium. To me, they were The Black Tide. You must understand—I’ve looked at them like that all my life. This is new to me.”
“You should talk to Numbtongue. He’s a swell guy.”
Maviola half-smiled.
“I may. But I don’t know if I’ll stay in Liscor much longer. Long enough to teach you and Olesm, Erin. But I want my ending to be bright. I may ride upon the Antinium Hives. To see them.”
Erin halted in the street.
“Don’t talk about dying.”
“Why not? I’ve lived over ninety years, Erin. You see me now bright and glowing. But I made my peace. Life isn’t meant to be forever. I—still believe that.”
Maviola’s eyes grew troubled for a second. She shivered. Erin bit her tongue.
“But what about Olesm? You’ll break his heart. Why did you like him, anyways?”
“There was much to love. He needed me. And in a way—I needed him. Can’t I fall in love?”
The [Lady] laughed as she looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] was troubled.
“How…how do you do that? Fall in love? It’s so hard for me.”
“Ah.”
Maviola halted in the street. She looked back at Erin. Sympathetically. The admission had come out of Erin by accident. She blushed.
“I just meant—”
“You poor burning child. Come here.”
Maviola hugged Erin. It was embarrassing. Erin tried to pull away, but Maviola tried to hug her. People were staring. Erin flushed; it was hard to remember Maviola was so old if you looked at her. Young, radiant, beautiful—Erin envied her confidence.
The two jostled on the street, Maviola laughing, Erin ducking away. And Invrisil was abuzz. A crowd was marching through the streets, now turned against Magnolia Reinhart. At the same time—
“Lady Macbeth is being performed tonight! Tomorrow—Elisial featuring Jasi and Wesle of The Players of Celum!”
A boy-[Crier] distracted Erin and Maviola. The [Lady] looked up, sighed.
“Dead gods. But that’s something else you made, isn’t it?”
The two looked at a huge poster of Jasi, with some of the cast, drawn in noble poses on a wall as the [Crier] sold tickets. To a show three weeks later, actually.
“Tickets are sold out for tomorrow, Miss! And three weeks on! You’ll want these, though! They’re going up in price! You can resell ‘em too! Some of the profits to go to rebuilding Celum!”
The [Crier] addressed Erin and Maviola, trying to make another sale. Both were amused and he didn’t know why. He watched them trail away as they regarded the posters.
“You know, I have a private booth. Jasi keeps telling me I should go, but I don’t want the attention.”
“Can I go? I’d love to see a play. I saw them perform once. But this is so new.”
Maviola’s voice was wistful. Erin looked at her.
“Why not? I’ll ask ‘em!”
“See, they are an asset. And you don’t really leverage them? Ask for a cut of their profits? I would argue they owe you some.”
“But—but that’s so mean…”
“Mean? Erin, you have to think about money like…”
The two were arguing again. They passed by a bunch of women riding horses. And Maviola heard a voice.
“There, you see? I told you that this was the newest thing. Magnolia told me all about it. I didn’t get a chance to watch last time. But we have tickets for tomorrow’s play.”
“Milady Bethal, why tomorrow?”
A group of women was riding with the [Lady] and her escort of shockingly pink [Knights]. Bethal Walchaís laughed.
“I hear the Drake is the best [Actor]. We’ll stay the night. Magnolia might put us up. Do you think so, Thomast?”
The man riding next to her sighed.
“We are dropping in unannounced. With company.”
“Bah. It’s only a few of my friends.”
Bethal turned to the other women riding with them. They were to Bethal what a [King]’s court was—just smaller. Riding friends, commoners or the very fringes of nobility. Bethal turned her head.
“Now, onto the [Seamstress]! I want to see what those styles of clothing Magnolia had were. We’ll take the north by storm!”
The others clapped their hands and laughed. The Knights of the Petal and Thomast patiently accompanied the procession on their outing. And Maviola stared at Bethal’s back.
“Maviola? Maviola, what’s wrong?”
Erin prodded her. Lady Firestarter jumped.
“Oh—I just thought of something to do. Will you excuse me for a second, Erin?”
“For what?”
“Just a second…”
Maviola strode off. Erin saw her march to the nearest building. A shop. She began speaking with the owner. Erin stared at the [Lady] riding horseback. Did Erin know her?
…No. But she looked rather fun, urging her stoic husband into the conversation, laughing—Erin smiled. She turned as Maviola reappeared, panting, with a bucket in her hands. Erin sniffed, recoiled.
“What is that?”
“Animal waste. That was a [Beast Tamer]’s shop. Rather lucky, right?”
“Lucky…? Hey, what are you doing with—”
Erin saw Maviola hurry off, clearing a way with the stench from the liquid bucket alone. Bethal Walchaís didn’t notice. And Erin realized—too late that Maviola and her were rather alike.
Different in some ways. For instance—Lady Firestarter had been known in her youth to be rather vindictive. Maviola stopped behind Bethal as one of the Rose Knights blocked her path.
“Excuse me, young woman—”
Sir Kerrig began and gagged at the stench. Maviola smiled at him.
“Ignition.”
The air ignited. Ser Kerrig reached for his battleaxe as his horse reared, spooked by the fire Maviola conjured around her. The [Lady] stepped forwards as Bethal and the others turned, alarmed by the sudden heat.
She tossed the bucket.
Erin saw the bucket and filthy brown contents go flying. She saw a blur—Thomast, the [Chevalier] blocked Bethal, leaping from his horse. Nevertheless—he was fast, but not fast enough in his surprise. Most of the bucket hit him square in the chest. But a few spatters of…well…stuff hit his wife. Bethal Walchaís blinked down at the stinking excrement on her dress. Her escort shouted in horror. Maviola waved at Bethal.
“Thank you, Bethal Walchaís!”
She blew a kiss. Bethal stared at Maviola.
“Maviola El?”
The young lady ran for it. The [Knights] were cursing, hesitating as they looked at their [Lady]. Bethal touched some of the brown filth, recoiled. She looked at her covered husband. Her dress.
“Thomast?”
“Yes?”
He wiped filth from his face. Bethal smiled and pointed at Maviola’s back.
“Kill. Her.”
Erin stared as Maviola ran at her. She was so horrified the [Lady]’s shouts didn’t register at first. Then she heard—
“Run, you idiot!”
Maviola, laughing, raced past Erin as the Rose Knights charged after her, leaping from their saddles. Thomast himself stayed with Bethal despite her shouting bloody murder. Erin ran.
“You maniac! Why did you do that?”
“Vengeance!”
Maviola retorted. They scrambled through the street as the [Knights] shouted. Erin ran—but the Rose Knights were fast. Trained warriors, they barreled down the street.
“Stop. By order of Lady Walchaís!”
“This wasn’t my fault this time! It wasn’t my fault this time!”
Erin shouted. Maviola was just laughing. She raced between two people on horseback, startling the horses. Erin ducked left. She saw Ser Kerrig running at her, turned—
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
She threw a punch. Ser Kerrig’s eyes widened. He halted—and blocked her punch with a grunt.
“Ow!”
Erin’s fist hit his gauntlet. Both recoiled at the impact. The [Knight] stared at her. Erin threw up her hands. She turned around and ran screaming.
“Aaaaah! Aaaaaaaah! Maviola, I hate you!”
The [Lady] was laughing. She conjured fire and threw it at the [Knights]. Nothing dangerous; but enough to make them and the onlookers scatter. Erin made it five more steps before someone grabbed her shoulder.
“Miss—”
She whirled and booted Ser Kerrig in the groin. All that happened was that Erin’s foot hurt; his enchanted codpiece refused to budge. Even so, the [Knight] winced from the mere act.
“Excuse me, Miss—”
He expertly pulled her arm up and Erin yelped. She tried to stomp on his foot, then backwards head-butt him. The [Knight] ignored all of it, blocking her head with a hand. Erin struggled, but ahead of her she saw Maviola running for the inn.
She never made it. Lady Bethal herself rode down on Maviola and Erin heard an impact. As she was hauled forwards, she saw Maviola lying on the ground. Bethal had knocked her flat. Not hard, but enough to leave the [Lady] breathless.
“I have the other one, Lady Walchaís.”
“Maviola El. We meet again. Thomast, give me your rapier.”
“No, Bethal.”
The furious [Lady of Thorns] stood over Maviola as the [Lady Firestarter] looked up. Maviola gasped after regaining her breath.
“You—deserved it. You petty [Thief].”
“You stole from me first! Thomast—go get more filth. I’ll make Maviola eat it. Her and her—who’s this?”
Bethal looked blankly at Erin. Ser Kerrig shrugged.
“An accomplice, Lady Bethal? I don’t believe she participated.”
“I’m innocent! Hey! That hurts!”
Bethal cast a dismissive glance at Erin.
“Let her go then. Thomast—make it a huge bucket.”
“No, Bethal.”
“Thomast—”
The arguing couple and Maviola being restrained by two [Knights] was interrupted by Erin. Free of Ser Kerrig’s hold, she did the only expedient thing: she ran into the Player’s Retreat, the inn, and disappeared. Bethal glanced at Maviola.
“Much loyalty you inspire.”
“She’s a friend. Hello, Bethal.”
“I have a mind to make you eat the leavings of my horse, Maviola. I was content with pranking you, but this—and poor Thomast? We will have a reckoning.”
Bethal’s eyes flashed as she pointed down at Maviola. Thomast sighed.
“Bethal, leave it alone. Lady El surely deserves her payback. You inconvenienced her for several days.”
“Thomast! You should be on my side! You’re covered in—in—excrement!”
The [Lady] stomped a foot as she dismounted. One of her attendants was calling for a cleansing charm. Thomast shrugged as someone waved a wand over his clothes and most of the filth just—fell away. It still stank, though.
“It washes off, dear.”
“Nonsense. I demand—”
The door to the inn swung back open. Bethal, the Knights of the Petal, and Thomast turned and saw—a small army in the doorway.
Erin had made Redit drag the magical door so it overlapped with the actual doorway. So what the [Lady] and her attendants saw was about two dozen guests of the inn and staff aiming the emergency crossbows at them. Erin had a frying pan and a knife in the other hand. She pointed the knife at them.
“Stick ‘em up! Let go of Maviola!”
The street froze. The Rose Knights reached for their weapons, putting themselves between the inn and Bethal at once. Thomast drew his rapier so fast Erin didn’t see it.
Maviola began to laugh. Bethal glanced at the inn in shock—then at Maviola. Slowly, she stepped back, and the [Knights] holding Maviola let go. Maviola turned.
“I believe I’ll leave it at that, Bethal.”
Smugly, she walked through the doorway. Erin stared at Maviola as the [Lady] winked at her.
“Well done, Erin. Thank you for—”
Erin donked her on the head with the pan. Hard. That was roughly the sound the pan made. Maviola staggered. Bethal blinked.
“You jerk!”
“That hurt!”
Maviola glowered. Erin put her knife away—and Maviola kicked her back. Erin got up, outraged.
“You threw poo! You’re a maniac!”
“That was justice! How dare you—”
“Leg hook!”
Erin pulled Maviola’s left leg up. The [Lady]’s eyes went wide and she fell over. Erin pointed.
“Mrsha! Get her!”
The Gnoll leapt on Maviola, hirsute, her fur making her look like some miniature white mammoth. Maviola shouted, trying not to hurt Mrsha as she pummeled Erin. The [Innkeeper] folded her arms—until she heard the laughter.
Lady Bethal Walchaís was laughing. Behind her [Knights], who were watching the comedy with eyes on the crossbows, the [Lady] was laughing. She guffawed at Maviola as the [Lady Firestarter] finally tossed Mrsha off her.
Bethal doubled over and then looked at Thomast as crossbows were lowered and everyone relaxed. Lyonette looked appalled. Ser Kerrig and the other [Knights] looked extremely wary. Thomast just blinked. Bethal looked at Erin and then at Thomast.
“I like you! I say, do you have anything to wash a dress with?”
Erin looked at Bethal. She glanced at Maviola. Then she fell down as Maviola kicked her legs in.
 
—-
 
The [Lady] was in a good mood. After a quick change from her saddlebags, she sat in The Wandering Inn. And all was forgiven.
Between her and Erin, at least. The [Knights] were not happy. But the crossbows hadn’t even been loaded, a fact Thomast had pointed out. Now, they stood around in the inn.
And Bethal Walchaís had met the legendary [Innkeeper] with the magic door. She clapped her hands with delight as Mrsha offered her a towel.
“What a wonderful Gnoll-child! Hello! What’s your name?”
“She’s Mrsha. She can’t talk. Say hi to the nice [Lady], Mrsha.”
Mrsha signaled ‘hi, nice to meet you.’ Bethal’s eyes widened at the sign language.
“Hello? Was that hello? How terrible! Was it an accident?”
“No, Mrsha was always like this. She said—‘hi, nice to meet you.’ See—she makes words with her hands.”
“Ingenious. Thomast—look!”
“I see her, Bethal. Hello, Miss Mrsha.”
The [Chevalier] bowed slightly. Mrsha sniffed at him. The man looked around.
“We came through the door! During the game of soccer. But I had no idea you owned it. Maviola, you’re staying here?”
“Not here.”
Maviola was glowering at Erin. The two had kept kicking each other until Lyonette had separated them. Erin shook a fist around Mrsha. Maviola was crazy! Nothing like her. Who threw poo? Well, Bird. But he didn’t count.
“Amazing. And this is actually the origin of the Players of Celum?”
“Yup. We actually have another theatre group. See?”
Erin pointed down the [Grand Theatre]. The Players of Liscor were rehearsing A Doll’s House, completely inoculated to the madness of the inn. Lady Bethal looked around, eyes shining.
“What a splendid inn. An inn at a crossroads, thanks to the magical door! And we’re actually at Liscor? That’s hundreds of miles!”
“Well, it is a magic door. It’s nothing special.”
Erin puffed out her chest, slightly proud of the [Lady]’s wonder. Maviola whispered in Erin’s ear.
“So a magical door that teleports you four hundred miles is nothing special, but Potions of Youth don’t exist, hm?”
The [Innkeeper] scowled at Maviola’s good point. She saw Bethal Walchaís staring around.
“Sorry. For the crossbows. They were unloaded. I just wanted to scare you. I thought you were gonna beat Maviola up.”
