The man let out a startled yelp as his crablike flight sent him bumping into the back wall of the alley, which seemed to be a dead end. “A—Adventurer! I— Wait, I…”

The man paused, then looked down and gasped, panicking again as he scrambled at his stomach with frantic hands. His fingers found a thin hole in his tunic, then froze in wonder.

Rain grimaced. Clearly, the man had been stabbed in the gut, but the only remaining evidence of it was the sliced fabric. It was a long moment before he looked back up, and it took longer still for him to speak. “I died. I’m dead, aren’t I? This is a dream.”

“You aren’t dead,” Rain said, having waited patiently. He took a careful step into the alley and was relieved when the man didn’t immediately cry out in fear. Instead, he squeezed his eyes shut, his lips moving.

Counting?

Reaching three, the man opened his eyes. “You’re still there…”

Rain smiled and extended a hand, “Here, let me help you up.”

“Stay—Stay back!” the man shouted, pressing himself against the wall and kicking with his legs to keep Rain away from him.

“Easy,” Rain said, retracting the hand. “We’re here to help.”

“Adventurers don’t help,” the man muttered, glaring at Rain suspiciously for a long moment before he began patting at his trousers. “Especially ones that look like you. What’s with the helmet? Afraid to show your face?” He let his hands fall with a defeated sigh, having inverted his pockets and found them empty. “Shit.”

“Robbed, clearly,” Jamus observed. “And left to die.”

“Salted fish guts!” the man spluttered, only now seeming to spot Jamus standing there. He pressed himself against the wall again. “Where’d you come from?! Gods, you’re orange!”

Rain grinned, holding up the empty potion bottle. “Take a minute and think. If we wanted to hurt you, we wouldn’t have fed you a potion. We just want to help and to ask what happened to the city. We just came in from a mission on the flats, and we were a bit surprised to see the damage, to say the least.”

Every word, true.

The man blinked, then licked his lips. He blinked again. “I—“

Whatever he had been going to say was cut off by a booming shout from back in the square.

“COME OUT AND FACE DEATH, ADAMANT BASTARDS!”

Rain whirled. Out in the light of the square stood a man in full plate, more like Carten’s than his own. Unlike Carten, this man’s armor was painted garishly in red and yellow. He held a surprisingly-normal-sized longsword in a two-handed grip over his head. He had no helmet, with only a stubbly beard to protect his wide-jawed face. That marked him as an idiot. The silver Guild plate dangling from around his neck, however, marked him as something else entirely.

Hurriedly, Rain stepped forward before the man could shout again, placing himself in front of Nails, who’d lingered at the mouth of the alley. He let the empty potion bottle fall from his grip, spreading his palms to show that he was unarmed. “Hello, we’re—“

“Awwww, shit,” the man interrupted with a resigned sigh as he let his sword fall from its guard. “Just a pack of bronzies.” He turned, muttering loudly to himself as he began walking away. “I thought when I saw…never mind. Fuck.”

Rain shared a glance with Jamus. Jamus shrugged. Rain then looked at Nails briefly before loudly clearing his throat. “Um, excuse me.”

The silverplate ignored him, still walking away and muttering, swishing his naked sword around at invisible targets as he worked out what was quite clearly a number of issues.

“Hey!” Rain shouted, and the man stopped at last, turning to face him.

“What?” he demanded. “No, before you ask, I won’t train you.”

“Why did you think we might be Adamants?” Rain asked, cutting straight to the question he needed answered the most.

“What kind of a dumbass question is that?” The silverplate asked, sheathing his sword with contemptuous force. “’Cause there’s fuckin’ Adamants around, bird skull. I wouldn’t be out hunting em otherwise, would I? No, I don’t know where specifically, and if I did, I wouldn’t bloody tell you. Not that you’d have a chance at stealing a bounty from me. You’d just get yourselves killed, like as not.” He jabbed a thumb at his chest. “You find out where one’s hiding, you come find me, got it?”

“And you are…?” Jamus asked.

The man recoiled as if slapped. He huffed in offended disbelief, not once, but three times, each exclamation more vigorous than the last. “Unbelievable!” he finally said, turning and marching away.

Rain reached out, grasping at the air. “Wait, I just have one more qu—“

“Fuck off!” The man roared, then vanished behind a building as he left the square.

Rain let his arm fall and turned back to his companions. He opened his mouth to say something, then paused. The formerly-injured man was still there. He’d gotten to his feet but was still trapped in the alley behind Jamus and Nails.

Seeing that he had Rain’s attention, the man cleared his throat. “Thanks for saving me, I guess. Not to be ungrateful, but can I go, or…?”

Rain just stared.

What the HELLS is wrong with this town?
