At dusk, the Met’s entrance was a theatre with its limestone face floodlit gold against the dark. The banners for Kiritani’s Cats hung four storeys tall between the columns, his own sparse pen-and-cardstock lines blown up to a scale that made the pen strokes textured. For the pre-opening private gala, there was no red carpet, no barricades, no photographers held back by velvet rope—just a discreet line of black cars pulling up to the Fifth Avenue steps one at a time, a handful of security in dark suits checking names off an iPad instead of a clipboard, and the enormous bronze doors standing open, spilling warm light and the low murmur of the well-to-do.

Mirabelle steered her up the steps with a hand at the small of her back, in case she tripped over her new heels.

At the threshold, she held Eppie’s hand and told her to look up.

Eppie did as told, and came face to face with the enormous banners of Kiritani’s Cats, Kimi, Tanaka, Kana, age-old residents of Central Park, which no doubt visitors would begin to recognise.

“You can’t see it from here, but there’s a cat shelter now, near the old water pumps,” Mirabelle squeezed her hand. “We have a veterinarian on call, but in reality, the shelter has more volunteers than we can handle. After the exhibition, the cats are likely to become local celebrities. If the adoption program goes well, Central Park might have to import cats for its rodent problems.”

Was that for me? Or did Mirabelle feel touched enough to commit herself? Eppie squeezed back, and the two of them entered the lobby, flanked by vetted photographers from the news rags, becoming momentarily bathed in quicksilver.

Vaughan found her immediately. It was hard not to, when Mirabelle stood over six feet and became the centre of attention the moment she entered.

Her not-patron was being orbited by a cluster of grey-suited men who all seemed to be negotiating for their piece of the pie, while playing coy, cool, and aloof, as men in positions of power often did in front of money. Vaughan was radiant in an angular way, as one might if one wielded not only social and political influence, but billions to her name. She wore Balenciaga in a singular shade of plum, and the smile she gave Eppie was wholly different to the smile she gave the men.

Mirabelle joined the circle first, calling the men by their first names, singling out one or two by their last names, so that their cheeks bloomed.

“Gentlemen,” Vaughan presented Eppie as if she were her best in show. “Ma Dauphine.”

“Your daughter?” a Texan-sounding gentleman looked scandalised. “I thought…”

Mirabelle pulled the man aside with a polite cough.

Eppie dropped into a small, deliberately theatrical curtsy. She knew what she looked like, and she knew how to make grown men in expensive suits sigh for not having daughters.

“Our princess curtsies well,” someone of influence and power said, sounding delighted.

“Affable little thing,” said another, nodding appreciatively. “You know, Clara’s married. God, what I would give to go back to those days… I guess I can wait for a granddaughter.”

“Is she up for adoption?” A grey-haired gent raised a hand in the style of an auction house.

They collectively laughed. Eppie laughed with them, studying their faces. She recognised about two of them. They had been with Vaughan when she gave her speech near the Temple of Dendur, the day she brought news of Kiritani. So these were people who had believed in Vaughan. Eppie took note of their names. Perhaps, in the future, one good turn deserves another.

“Don’t be deceived by her yonder innocent face,” Vaughan laughed, winking at Eppie. “She is a hellion, come to reap wrongs. And she writes songs with far more confidence than your speechwriters.”

The men laughed, now more self-conscious than before.

Then, in front of her donors, Juliana Vaughan bent and kissed Eppie's forehead, quick and dry, then returned to her circle. “Go. Enjoy yourself,” she commanded Eppie. “I have donors to bore.”

Eppie left, glad that Curon had delivered her message. After all, aside from congratulating Kiritani Sensei, her chief objective for the night was someone else.
