Last cave, she thought as the tunnel let her exit into the bottom of a wide pool. To her surprise, no more monsters appeared to challenge her, and when she surfaced, she found herself in a wide-open cave. Several pools of still, clear water nestled haphazardly among the stalagmites and uneven boulders. She clambered up out of the pool and looked around, coughing water up out of her lungs and then enjoying breathing real air for a change – albeit cool and dank air, thick with a harsh mineral odor and surprising hints of petrichor. The ground was rocky and wet, but the cavern seemed still and silent.

The most striking feature was a single pool at the far end of the cave which glowed with a deep blue light and filled with the presence of a strong ambient mana. It illuminated the cave with mystical shimmering light, like an enchanted grotto.

That must be it.

Ali retrieved one of her empty vials and picked her way over to the glowing pool. Dipping her hand into the clear water, she filled the vial and identified it.

Mana-Purified Water

She quickly filled her remaining vials and stored them, completing her first objective. The reagent did not have a level; presumably, it would unlock its potency through some alchemical process.

Now, where do you come from?

Ali was sure that everybody using the dungeon would stop here, having reached the end, and found the treasure. Even the map stopped here. She, however, was after something greater. Ali focused on her mana sight, trying to resolve what she was seeing. It seemed the water had an intrinsically high mana density, which was partly the cause of the glowing light. But, after a few minutes of peering into the pool, searching the bottom and sides for clues, she began to notice something curious.

The domain mana is stronger down there. She had been studying the mana circulating within the water and almost failed to notice the density of the dungeon’s domain increased toward the bottom of the magical pool.

Following the trail her curiosity had revealed, she dove into the pool and swam down towards the bottom. The underwater silence was interrupted by the splash of her Goblin Shaman leaping in to protect her. Looking specifically for the domain mana now, she found that it manifested unevenly – denser off to the side near a huge slab of jutting rock. Only when she reached the rock, did she notice a narrow opening tucked right underneath. It was barely big enough for her body to fit through, but any Human or Dwarf would have gotten stuck. Even the Kobolds were going to struggle. She eyed her Goblin shaman dubiously.

“Come,” she called, deciding to proceed with just her slimes. Flanked by her minions, she entered the extremely narrow tunnel half swimming and half dragging herself through it. The water-worn rock walls pressed in close. Her slimes simply pressed their way in and around her with no concept of personal space, making the already narrow tunnel claustrophobically tight. But after several tight bends and turns, Ali learned she could just let them pull her along and finally, she found herself surfacing in a small pool of glowing water in a relatively tiny cave on the other side. Dotted throughout the shallow glowing pool, she could see mushrooms sprouting from the rocks and gravel underwater.

Ha! Magic mushrooms. Her curiosity piqued, she Identified them at once.

Psathyrella – Mushroom – level 17 (Water)

The tiny mushrooms had slender stalks and circular caps. They were a creamy white color with dark gills, and on top of the cap, she saw tiny bubbles glowing a bluish-white color with water affinity mana.

I never imagined a mushroom that could grow underwater! The water affinity mana rippled off the mushrooms, infusing the glowing water all around her in long, sedate pulsations. It was as if the mushrooms were breathing water and mana. This was definitely what she had come for.

But I’m not done yet, she thought, noticing the elusive flicker of blue mana disappearing behind a rock at the back of the cave. It would not do to leave something as dangerous as a dungeon behind, and she had no desire to allow Volle to continue to exploit this one at the expense of the townsfolk and all those people whom they had denied access to lifesaving potions. In her mind, they had lost the right to be the custodians of such a precious resource. I just hope I don’t need a healer for this.

She held her magic at the ready and studied the cave as she climbed out of the pool. It was rather tiny, no more than the size of a large dining room. The far wall seemed to be made of a smooth, polished black stone that glistened with moisture. Strewn across the floor, she found curious bits of driftwood, shells, shiny rocks, and even several old, discarded adventuring items. Rusted swords, daggers, snapped arrows, even something that might have once been a pan. It all lay haphazardly about among the stalagmites and boulders, like a child’s room after boisterous playtime.

Ali traced a careful path through the debris, flanked by her oozes, with one of her barriers summoned and ready in front of her. Whatever lurked behind the rock had ceased running, and she knew it was there by the pulsing blue mana it was emitting, even though it was concealed behind a boulder.

With the utmost caution, Ali rounded the boulder, magic, and barrier at the ready. But what she saw brought her up short. Visually, there was nothing there except another boulder. A nondescript gray rock with a soft aura of blue mana pulsing all around it.

Mimic Slime – Anomalous Ooze – level 24 (Water)

“Found you,” Ali whispered. It was a remarkable creature, perfectly camouflaged against the jagged ground. If she didn’t have mana sight, Ali was certain she would never have even seen it. She summoned her mana and stretched out her arm to release her Arcane Bolts.

“Don’t… kill…”
