“Then we’re dealing with someone who wasn’t on the verge of transforming, either someone who was altered by the catastrophe, someone who could turn into a lich, or a very talented necromancer with a knowledge of golemics. We’re not looking for the average court animal, but someone incredibly focused with the will to remain mostly sane throughout the years. Someone of incredible mental fortitude. If we can’t proceed by elimination, then let’s make some assumptions. Who would be the most strong-willed individual capable of the feat you’ve seen, who was also a woman and possibly focused on the arcane?

//The most likely answer would be…

The golem hesitated then, which gave Viv a sense of dread. Solfis never hesitated.

//The Empress.

//Ilarea the Second, a powerful state woman and archmage.

//She was young and with child when the disaster hit.

“Fuck.”

The empress.

Was she tall as hell like her husband? More importantly…

“Solfis.”

//Yes.

“Yes, as in you anticipated my question?”

//Yes, I would have to obey her if she gave me a direct order.

//Depending on her nature.

“So if she’s somehow turned part elemental…”

//Yes.

That was unfortunate seeing as Solfis was one of Viv’s only allies capable of surviving the mana concentration around the epicenter, especially if that mana concentration had increased. If her enemy could take control of Solfis though…

Solfis was designed to kill entities like her. She was certain she couldn’t beat him in single combat. And he was so damn fast too…

“It’s alright. We need to defeat the horde first anyway, so let’s focus on that.”

***

It was the fateful day before the fateful night, and everyone had been given the afternoon to relax and recover. Good food, fruits, klod and company flooded the plain before Sinur’s Gate in preparation for the long battle to come. Regiments scattered to mingle with friends and strangers under the loose supervision of sergeants. Some wrestled, or gambled. Others sang, or smoked since alcohol was forbidden for now. Even the northerners of the Sisters of Enttiku mixed with the rest in this calm before the storm. Meanwhile, the veterans gathered to speak of friends lost and battles yet to come. There were few of them or so they said, because the deadlands were the last Great Crisis.

Five years before, back when the Black Witch had  just been a piddling mercenary learning the trade in Kazar, the continent was under constant threat. Only the incursions from the marshy south had been stopped thanks to Baran’s decision to burn every wildling village within fifty leagues of their border. The Enorian civil war was rising from seething embers. Beastlings stalked the north while Halurians were gathering for yet one more invasion, and in the corpse of Harrak, cursed necromancers consorted with the dead.

But then the Black Witch had come and where she went, things got solved. Not always smoothly, and not always nicely either, but they certainly got done. Enoria was united once again after the prince drank gold and the king drank poison. The Halurians had not just been beaten, but eaten as well apparently, and the reptile things that had caused their demise had been stopped decisively. The northern beastlings were wiped out to the last after a cataclysmic offensive. Only the deadlands remained untamed, the Last Crisis, the ultimate test of mankind’s tenacity, and mankind was back for the second round. After all, there was a lot of money and land to grab from those desiccated hands. And all of that was, once again, thanks to the Black Witch, her pylons, and her authority. What had started as a city was now a budding, resurrected nation eager to claim their legacy with fire, mana, faith, and arms, a well-oiled machine that consumed immigrants and yries steel to produce fortified villages yielding high-quality crops, although water was a growing issue. The Harrakans in the valley spoke a dead language better than many scholars with pride. And now they were going to face it, that Last Crisis, and it would go the way of the others. The gods were with them, their priests moving around the crowds with blessings and wise words. Sometimes, the most adept of scouts pointed at the distant shape of a dragon flying to where they’d gathered.

Despite the prospect of the battle to come, the mood was rather relaxed. This lasted until sundown. Braziers and lights lit up the valley in a field of blue and red. More food was served while kava was made available to everyone. Many soldiers indulged as it was a rarer drink than klod, normally only available to the wealthy. Its exciting properties were well known.

“Maybe one day they’ll let us have blue honey before battle,” one of the younger recruits dreamed.

“We’re supposed to fight, not trip balls watching mountain-sized tentacles reaching for the moon,” another reproached.

For now, the substance was only authorized for yries since they didn’t stand at the front, though there were rumors of distant drug cartels in less-than-friendly nations. The yries warriors’ only task was to lob arcs of fiery liquid between allied formations which was obviously much safer, and didn’t need so clear a mind.

“They can’t fight well unless they’re off their tits and not thinking about violence” was the common wisdom spread around the many campfires. “Except for Ser Warcrime. That one’s a complete lunatic.”

An hour later, the call came for everyone to return to their lines. Men and women of the Paramese alliance put on their armor and checked their weapons one last time. They were not in formation yet because the battle was still hours away, and yet a skeletal bird here, a fast mummified wolf there sped towards their lines, intercepted by enthusiastic hadals who had made a game of it. Sometimes, gazes would aim north towards the horizon. It was very dark at night there, and there wasn’t much to see for now, but a certain presence made even the distant abyss that much more threatening. Conversations grew subdued while the wisest of them took the opportunity for a quick nap. More followed the various elites while they visited the disparate groups. Far above, near the upper path that led to the city, the strategists discussed.

Midnight came. By then, a steady stream of fast movers were continually intercepted, to the point that even the most stalwart of soldiers couldn’t help but listen to the snarls of the creatures, quickly silenced, but still hounding their ears and their instincts.

Horns blew. First one, then a full orchestra of them representing the many nations come to defend the lands of the living. The voice of General Jaratalassi covered the plain, fueled by a powerful enchantment.

“In formation!”

***

The Baranese ambassador watched the dark plain in front of him light up, awakened by thunderous war drums. Blue lights and red torches doubled, tripled, multiplied in front of the army until it was like looking at a field of flowers in the midday sun. Regiments coalesced in seconds from relaxing mobs to tight ranks, the back lines holding lanterns so that their brothers and sisters could fight. The entire plain was covered in dense lines of armored humans standing at the edge of suspicious patches of dry ground. The steel blotches of yries mechanical contraptions dotted the land next to bulbous canisters of unknown purpose. The ambassador frowned. He was no military expert, but this was definitely an unusual formation. Facing mindless enemies certainly involved some specific tactics, he imagined, though the two strategists had remained rather vague about them. Or rather, they kept bickering like an old couple talking in their annoying jargon.

“Defense in depth requires fresh troops. We won’t have them if you spread us so far, old man,” the young Harrakan would say.

“I was killing Halurians before your precious outlander and her fancy terms were but a shiver in her dad’s ballsack, boy. We need to grind them down, so we need to start large.”

And so on. The ambassador spared a glance towards the useless mages Baran had sent, who were now waiting in disciplined groups at the back. The fallen prince had three of them publicly flogged to obtain that result. Sometimes, the ambassador wished he had ‘flogging the uppity nobles’ in his list of options.

He would have to make a formal complaint later, of course, but he still envied the prince for his decisiveness. It was annoying how supreme arcane power let one get away with eccentricities.

Just as the army finished getting in position, powerful elites joined the fray. Blade masters and mages walked to head the formation, possibly to take down the most dangerous foes. The girl was first and foremost among them. She and her ‘daughter’ landed in front of the army where the lights were the densest. It was strange, seeing a dragon walking so casually amongst humans.

The girl’s voice rang out, fed by the same enchantments that had spread the general’s instructions throughout the plain. She spoke in Harrakan. It used to be a dead language, but no longer.

His mentor used to say that that language was culture. He hoped the man had been wrong.

“My people, hear me. Battle is upon us once again, and I too can see the mass of bodies headed our way. They blot the plain with their numbers. There sure is a lot of the fuckers.”

A few laughs and jeers broke the attentive silence.

“You know the undead, our old enemies. You know the revenants with their resilience and rotten armor, the puppet masters who give them frenzy. You know of the acid of the gut spillers and the hunger of the crawlers. You know of the menagerie of beasts that come with them. Many of the witchpacts present here wear face paint bearing the visages of those very beasts. The rumors are also true. At the back of this horde, there are necrarchs, the bane of the old capital.”

Consternated whispers came. Did she not know that a leader ought to avoid bad news?

“But despite all of this, despite knowing how many there are and how dangerous some of them can be, I will not take a step back. Sinur’s Gate will hold, and they will die here, at our feet, because isn’t there something they and the thing who’ve sent them have forgotten? Hmm?”

Grim yeas and ayes emerged from the Harrakans who didn’t seem fazed in the slightest.

“THIS IS OUR LAND.”

The roar that came after was deafening. It emerged from thousands upon thousands of throats. Spear butts drummed the ground while the ululating cries of the witchpacts rose as a high-pitched warning.

“They cannot have it back! This is Harrak. It is here we’ve sweated, trained, seeded, harvested, bled, died, fought, and won. This is our Harrak. We have taken it, and they cannot have it back. This land is ours. We will obliterate anything and anyone that thinks it can be taken from us. We will send them all to the waiting arms of Enttiku, one fucking limb at a time. Harrak is ours. They will not have it back!”

The din was deafening. Even the foreign fighters joined now, eager to be part of something so powerful and the ambassador understood why.

When war hosts gathered, the speech of his king reminded people they were all Baranese and not merely subjects of one of the dukes. The empress had no need for this. Her people already believed. She only made the speech to remind them they were strong.

Gods protect him and Baran from believers. They were the worst.

“Wield fire. Wield steel. Stand shoulder to shoulder with your brothers and sisters and fight until your arms fall off. And if in the dead of night, surrounded by smoke, lost, you find yourself doubting, if you believe you are alone, then just look up. Look up to the cloudy skies, and you will see me.”

The dragon roared then. standing on her hind legs with wings spread. By Maranor, that thing was big. Her deep cry a call like no other. A thought like an angry hiss touched his mind.

You will see us.

“And when tomorrow the sun touches this forsaken place, only we will be standing. For the alliance, for mankind, and for ourselves. Harrak Eternal!”

“Harrak Eternal!”

“The gods are with us!”

The allied lines roared their defiance against the incoming threat. The ambassador would have preferred to think of it as a triumph of mankind, but the witch couldn’t help but bring strange species into the mix. Now though, all those people stood resolute. The ambassador had to admit it, looking at ten thousand soldiers arrayed in perfect formation, that the empress had managed an impressive thing. Shame they’d have to kill her some day.

It took only a couple more minutes before elusive shapes returned from the lit field. The hadal freaks were retreating. Soon after, the first waves of puppeteered revenants and beasts hit the front of the formation where the most heavily armored harrakans waited for them. The humans stood their ground. As the undead fell, priests blessed the remains which disappeared in puffs of divine mana. Soon after, the first large group of creatures advanced on the living lines like a wave, their presence a dark splotch on the background of lights and torches. The larger ones kept falling, so the ambassador leaned towards one of his aides.

“Are they using some sort of magic to kill those bear things I see?”

“No sir, those are slain by blessed projectiles. Javelins, quarrels, stones. Those sort of things. The light gods are out in strength tonight.”

And so they were. Golden light, green light, and a deeper purple one sparked with comforting regularity. Truly, the eyes of the high ones were upon them. Even the red of Maranor could be seen, though the Goddess of Order ought not to like that hellion very much.

