Even though it was night, the ambassador could see the battlefield very clearly from his vantage point. The first thing that disrupted his vision were sudden plumes of soil rising in the air alongside flying limbs.

“What is it? Some sort of spell? From those machines?” he asked.

“Perhaps…”

It ought to be a spell. Nothing else could spread this much destruction. The witch certainly had a lot of that to throw around, given how regularly things were blowing up. He reminded himself to make sure the spy found out where this was all coming from later. Perhaps she had found an old cache of potent cores. In any case, the yries machines kept launching those as if their mana could not end. It was a sobering fact. More sobering was when the lower machines spat long tongues of fire towards the largest masses. The horrid stench of burning flesh reached his delicate nostrils. He covered them with his perfumed handkerchief.

Once the line of undead grew so thick it spread across almost the entire line, Jaratalassi gave the signal. Covered trenches opened like maws, devouring hundreds upon hundreds of packed undead into their depths.

“Alright boys,” Jaratalassi said. “And girls, dammit. Light them up.”

Dozens of torches, quarrels, spells, and the ambassador was rather sure he’d seen a bottle of liquor with a lit piece of cloth, all those fell into the pits to the tar spread at the bottom. Like a rift opened to the earth’s blood, a deep line of fire scarred the plain at the middle, cut here and there to create chokepoints. Above though, a great cloud of undead had gathered, and the ambassador flinched when they approached only for great gouts of flame to torch entire flocks in seconds. Distant roars covered even the sounds of battle.

“It appears the dragons will not suffer to share the skies,” he idly remarked.

Dragons and humans fighting side by side, well under and above in any case. Now he had seen everything. True to her word, the empress was at the head of the formation, cutting deep slashes in the mass of corpses with every large spell. It wouldn’t be nearly enough to win the battle, but at least now only a trickle of fliers were making it through to fall on their archers and those crossbow-wielding madwomen. It was then that the mages made their move.

“Now!” the fallen prince commanded.

With surprising speed considering they were a bunch of bottom-of-the-barrel fools, idiots, and disgraced dimwits, the mage squads cast bubble-like spells that returned a cacophony of loud ‘woomph’s to the ambassador’s already abused ears.

“That would do nothing against a shield,” his assistant noted.

And it would probably do little against high vitality humans, but the ambassador had to admit that it shattered the brittle bones of the undead ranks with impressive efficacy. You could always count on mage to find creative new ways to destroy things.

By then, most of the footmen had taken shelter beyond the second line while those occupying the chokepoints fell back at a more sedate pace. Still, it appeared one group of soldiers was already surrounded. The ambassador shook his head. Great operations could not be accomplished without sacrifice.

Suddenly, one burst, then two bursts of life mana redirected the attention of the horde. The trapped regiment used the opening to run to safety. The ambassador knew of life beacons, of course. It was certainly a competent use to give the men a well-deserved breather. The two strategists didn’t seem to agree, however.

“What the fuck did I tell you? You wait until I give the signal!” Jaratalassi screamed at his junior.

“And they get eaten alive in the meanwhile?”

“You young prick, did they get eaten? Or did we waste a beacon? They don’t grow on fucking trees, you donkey.”

“Oh very well, next time I shall ask in case you lose your tongue. You know, the one you could wag to tell me you’ve noticed?”

“I will punch your nose all the way down to your pancreas.”

“Gentlemen,” a voice said. “The gods are watching, and our people are now safe. Please desist.”

It was that strange albino giant with white locs flowing down his back. He must have been convincing because the strategists returned their attention to the battle. The undead mass covered the first trench, drowning the fires with sheer mass though an untold number roasted for this. They smashed against the second line and, predictably, a second rift opened under their feet.

“Burn them!” Jaratalassi ordered, and a torrent of embers fell over the collapsing bodies. Enough of them found the pitch to turn the entire line into yet another bleeding wound on the face of the plain.

“How many more are left?” he asked his assistant.

“Five or six, depending on how you count.”

The first line had been smothered after countless revenants had died in it. He could no longer see past it because of the thick curtain of smoke rising beyond the reach of even the most potent magical light. Perhaps it would be enough, and perhaps not.

Suddenly, a large white shape emerged from hiding. It was intercepted by a squad of golden warriors of Enttiku in a hurricane of blades. One of the golden forms fell, struck down with a vicious blow. Necrarch. He shivered, and made a warding sign. To his side, Strategist Sahin was now directing elites towards a strong point. Another nercrach emerged from the smoke. It was intercepted by a black beam that turned it to dust in seconds.

The Harrakans roared as their empress took off again. It seemed the dragons and Sidjin’s spells were keeping the fliers at bay, for now.

He still wondered if he was going to die here.

***

Champion’s leadership: expert 3

Well it certainly paid to be at the front so long as one didn’t die horribly. Viv surveyed the metric fuckton of undead flesh descending on her people with some concern. Around her, the undead birds died in droves to fire and spells, but there were so many of them that they had only made a dent for now.

“How about a Storm of Zamaheer to clear some of that while we’re not too busy?” she asked.

You cast the spell, mother.

I will keep those things off your wings.

“Thanks.”

The mana resisted her, disputed by her enemy, but she was strong enough to gain ascendancy. Gritting her teeth, Viv ignored the screeches and blasts around her to get to work.

***

Sidjin directed another air bubble towards a group of birds. There were very few reaching their lines though scattered ones still flew here and there, and his paramour was going to be regrowing eyeballs for a month. Suddenly, the temperature dropped and black snowflakes descended from on high, disappearing behind the smoke to destroy farther undead.

“We’re no longer needed here,” he told Rakan. “Let the newcomers deal with the few flying creatures that break through the dragons. We need to do something about that first line.”

“What about it?” the young man yelled from a different circle.

“It’s extinguished. Too many bodies, not enough air. I got an idea on how we can get the flames going again, and solve our visibility problem all in one.”

“Will it take less than three hours and a peer review?”

“Haha, you little fuck. Come on over here, I need help with the circle.”

***

Gods dammit she needed a lot more of those, but now necrarchs were showing up with concerning regularity.

“Wait, what’s that?”

A darker shade manifested in her vision, a massive shape of flesh melding together in unholy union to form a sigil the size of a house. Viv tried to fly towards it but the many fliers around her slammed against her shields like a solid wall to hold her back.

“Dammit.”

Mother.

Watch out!

Dragon fire lit up the night sky. A torrent of flames drowned the construct and all that surrounded them. The smug voice of Stormrider rang in Viv’s mind, only to tell her that she was slow and wingless.

“Yeah yeah.”

With the sigil destroyed, the undead seemed to lose what little cohesion they had, but soon more gathered to form yet another sigil. The dragons were now fleeting dark shapes in a hurricane of fire and flesh as they chased after each sigil. Arthur was out there flying around with her kin. Viv was, indeed, slow. It wasn’t a matter of being a dragon. It was a matter of not being a proper half elemental.

At least, not yet.

“It’s only been five years since I landed in this place. Maybe I should cut myself some slack.”

But the screams of the wounded reminded her that she had no room to rest. If only she could get into the elemental form both Elunath and the Blue Lady could take on so easily. What was wrong with her? Did she really need introspection? She didn’t like introspection.

Viv flew down to her troops. They were doing well so far, though the core of the horde was upon them. She searched for the necrarchs, finding them one after the other. She yoinked them from above until they died and their sweet power flooded her conduits. As time went by, she grew stronger, her spells more potent and her reserves always improving to the point she felt she could just cast for days. Just as well since running out meant dying. There were just… so many of them and she wished she could do more. If only she could wrest the black mana away from her. Then the horde would just be an inefficient mass and the necrarchs would fight each other, or return to richer places. But she wasn’t. She, the supposed genius black caster, was powerless to stop something hundreds of leagues away.

What was a true elemental form anyway? Was she supposed to give up or to gain control? How the fuck did it work? Was she still not understanding the black? The shape eluded her now, in the middle of battle when she needed it the most. Viv flew between two struggling formations of Mountain Lords to disintegrate a particularly thick group of gut spillers. It was chaos down there, though the line was still cohesive. Smoke from the Liberators, smoke from spells, smoke from the pits, smoke from burning stacks of corpses and a hundred torches still active and the constant screams and snarls painted an image of pandemonium. The visibility was utter shit to the point she felt enchanted bolts ping against her shields.

“Hey!” she exclaimed.

“Fuck! Sorry!” distant voices said.

Despite all the lights they’d prepared, nobody could see shit, and yet… Viv felt a light touch on her skin. A light wind. It came from the mage squads who had turned away from dealing with the fliers now that the dragons were getting the king’s share of their attention. The wind took off, blowing smoke back towards the undead in thin streams of gray smog. The breeze picked up speed and power until every flag snapped north.

A pale white light fell on the battlefield. Viv looked up to see the eternal cover of clouds momentarily pushed back so that Nyil’s two moons now shone on the battlefield, courtesy of the boys’ improvisation skills. She saw Solar slice through the head of a large necrarch some distance away while another creeped up on him. She took off.

Right, now wasn’t the time to lament about the shit she hadn’t managed to do yet. Everyone was still alive because she’d said to stockpile shells and pitch for those fuckers to burn, and if she didn’t have the perfect tool for the job, she hadn’t forgot she still had the one that had served her well so far: pugnacious violence.

Willpower: 47

“Thanks Nous, I knew you’d be there for me.”

It’s not me. It’s Nyil and your own efforts.

Go get them tiger.

“You’re next!” Viv roared to give herself courage, and then she meteored herself into the nearest necrarch’s face.
