Everyone present was given a copy of Marshalla and Kevin's initial findings on detecting mana corruption. Niala then insisted everyone stay for lunch, although nobody had even considered saying no.

You did not pass up on Niala's cooking. This was a truth slowly finding its way into the town's collective wisdom, even if most people had never tasted her food.

Such was the power of her meals.

Throughout lunch, Niala tried several times to steer the conversation toward Angeline and Isaac's closeness, only for her sister to sabotage her attempts at every turn.

She even had the nerve to smirk at her, letting Niala know that it wasn't a coincidence.

After lunch, with everyone gone, Mashalla said that she had more to tell them, but in private this time.

They cleared out their living room and settled down, with Kevin crawling her way back up onto David's shoulder.

Marshalla began with how Kevin's thesis topic, the mana jellies, was possibly the answer to their current difficulties with Niala cleaning and closing the leaks in David's pathways.

In simple terms, she explained that the jellies were artificially created pathways, suspended in a neutral solution. These pathways were simple constructs that served to impart a specific resonance to any mana fed into them.

Kevin told them that the jellies' various reaction to being infused with mana was essentially a mimicry of the natural mana found in the world. The jellies that flew away, for example, were aligned with avian creatures.

Marshalla couldn't help but gush about how revolutionary the whole topic was, at least for the state of manalogy on this side of the weldtree. According to Kevin, her project had been considered an achievement due to its complexity, but only as an offshoot of already existing methodologies.

Whatever the case was, the Abassaran woman said that they could use the jelly as a sort of connecting medium. They only needed to tune its pathways to the resonance of the leftover fel pathways, and they would automatically connect.

Niala would then simply have to place her hand over the jelly on David's body and 'eat up'.

Niala was ecstatic, asking how soon they could slather David with jelly so she could run her hands all over him.

David sighed, Mashalla blinked, and Kevin looked up at the catkin with a sleepy smile.

Niala looked at each one in turn, ears lopsided.

David swore he could hear one of Linzy's cackling giggles, just as his wife hid her face behind her hands, her brain finally catching up to her mouth.

Other topics were broached, such as the potential for coupling mana hearts to their fairy counterparts.

While neither of the academics was an expert in magitech, they could tell that there was real potential. The 'Mundaneworld' mana hearts were, comparatively, brutish designs. Designed to work with unprocessed ambient mana, they could be likened to grinding jaws which took in raw materials and powered through the conversion process, resulting in a mana that was like sandy pond water. Accordingly, the rest of their world's manatech was designed to work with this level of mana refining. Their systems were tough, versatile, and had very high theoretical throughput. On the other hand, they were also physically bigger and were relatively inefficient.

The fairy's mana reactors were instead high-efficiency turbines with extensive filtering, allowing nothing but the purest of mana to be processed into smooth, water-like power. Without the need to account for minute impurities, fairy systems were smaller, lighter, and much more efficient. They, however, had limited output due to the purification process and were more susceptible to impurities, requiring more maintenance.

The idea was to use mana hearts to pre-process the mana, using the filtering part of the mana reactors to remove the resulting minute impurities, before feeding everything back into a mana-heart tuned solely for mana refining and compression.

The resulting system would be bulky and limited to larger vehicles, but Marshalla was certain that its mana output would be at least one order of magnitude higher than the current beast mana hearts. Kevin agreed that it might also be two to three times as much as the best mana reactors.

This all meant that, for Niala's side-project of having an airship built for Sabi, the Radiant Archive's consciousness, it would solve the mana supply problem of having to power the thousands of enchantments required.

At Niala's request, Totori agreed to contract some mana reactor engineers to come over and work with Cornelius' design team. They would, the fairy said, bring along the improved mana collector designs at the same time that she was waiting on the final procurement contracts to be signed.

Niala wondered how high her father would jump from excitement once he got his hands on all those designs and numbers.

Probably high enough to dent the ceiling.

ISAAC'S LIVING QUARTERS

As soon as he closed the door to his private chambers, Angeline hooked herself around his arm, giving him a wide, satisfied grin.

He looked at her blank-faced. “Remind me again why you want to keep our relationship a secret? You were practically sitting on me. Your sister seemed awfully interested in us.”

She answered with a twinkle in her eyes. “Of course she was! She's very perceptive of the people around her! It was so fun to deflect her questions!”

He rolled his eyes as he made his way over to the couch. “Ah, there is the reason; tormenting your sibling. I should have known.”

She let go of his arm as he sat down, only to deposit her rump on his lap and throw her arms around his neck.

He stared at her. “Since we've... confessed to each other, you have been very affectionate.”

She fluttered her eyelids. “Do you dislike it, lord Isaac? Would you prefer I keep my distance from you?” She asked with mock hurt.

“...No, I do not dislike it. I'm simply surprised.”

She smiled and leaned into him, nuzzling her face against the side of his head. “Well, that's good, because I hadn't intended to let go.”

He quirked an eyebrow and turned his head to glance at her. He had gotten the clear impression she'd meant it the same way a dog won't release its grip on a juicy steak.

The smile he saw on her face confirmed that he'd gotten the right idea. She nibbled on his ear, just to prove her point.

He let her.

It wasn't... unenjoyable.

He ignored the heat going up his neck and cleared his throat. “How long do you want to keep the charade up?”

She stopped chewing his lobe and let out a warm breath before pulling back a bit. “Oh, not long. I'm just waiting for the Majectic's grand hall to confirm the date.”

“What date?”

She grinned. “The date I've asked to reserve it.”

He was afraid to keep digging, but he had to. Honour demanded it. “...what did you reserve it for?”

“Why, dear Isaac, for our wedding, of course.” She said innocently.

He let his head fall back over the couch's backrest. “Angeline, I haven't even officially proposed to you yet. My father still needs to accept. Your father... well, no, your father will accept, from what I've seen of him.”

He frowned and shook his head. “That's beside the point! What I'm saying is that you are skipping steps!”

She purred and nuzzled his neck. “Oh, don't worry, my dear Isaac. I'm not intending to skip the steps. I'm simply planning them. You ought to be familiar with the concept, no? Don't you do the same with the various work sites? Plan the different phases well in advance?”

“Civil works are not the same as marriage, woman!”

She began pressing her teeth against his neck. “Of course it is, my dear. We both already know what the end result is to be, just like your projects. We know the steps we have to go through. We have lists of materials we need and what sort of individuals we must hire. We, you and I, are building something together.”

She went lower down his neck, gently biting along, down toward his collar.

He let out an irritated breath as she kept tasting him. “Are you planning on one day eating me, and this is your practice?”

He heard her giggle. “Do you want me to stop?” She whispered.

“....no.”

“Good boy.” She said.

A shiver ran down his spine.

Totori left the next day, going back to the fairlands to finish acquiring the equipment and technology Niala and David wanted. She asked David to let her know when he was healthy enough to go to the CLASI, and bade them farewell and good health.

Kevin stayed behind, working with Marshalla to develop the specialized jelly Niala would need to heal David. It took two full weeks and a few failed attempts, but they eventually got a working sample and set about creating a large enough batch to cover the area where the Fel had grasped David.

Niala was a little disappointed to learn that, no, David did not need to have his entire body slathered. The point of contact had been localized, after all.

David whispered to Niala that if she really wanted, he didn't mind having her cover him with regular jelly.

He grinned when her face went Niala-red instantly.

His grin faltered when, instead of denying it, she glanced at him furtively.

For weeks now, David had been consigned to total bed rest, only able to hobble to the bathroom using crutches and to go sit in the living room to get a change of scenery.

Niala had mostly stuck to him, leaving his side only when absolutely necessary. She took her meals with him upstairs, read books alongside him, snuggled in a way that didn't put pressure on him, and otherwise took care of everything.

She'd even shooed Jordo away when he offered to take care of the laundry, saying she was using a special blend of soaps that wouldn't irritate David's skin, and that only she knew the correct proportions.

David suspected that was a bit of a lie, but he didn't argue.

Who wouldn't enjoy having their lovely wife treat them like a king?

Eventually, however, he did start feeling guilty and made the terrible decision of trying to wash himself.

Niala had not been happy.

And that was why, when the prototype jelly was finally ready, so was he. He wanted to get these leaks closed and be able to drink up one of Niala's gods-grade potions that would fix all of his injuries, and, hopefully, even regrow his eye.

Marshalla brought the beaker, and Niala carefully slathered the rosy jelly over David's neck and shoulders. They waited as the jelly began absorbing David's leaking mana and responding to it.

With a mana-reading wand, Marshalla confirmed that it was working; the localized ambient mana around David was lessening. If they waited too long, the jelly would saturate and “activate” and do whatever it is this particular resonance dictated.

Neither Marshalla nor Kevin were willing to find out what a fel-aligned resonance would mean for a mana jelly.

The scholar nodded at Niala, who put her hand over the jelly, extending her pathways and “feeding”.

Her face scrunched up, the feeling weird and unpleasant, like eating a fruit covered in tasteless slime, but she endured silently. To help David, she would do much worse than something merely unpleasant.

Marshalla continued measuring the mana leakage, using various instruments to direct Niala to increase or decrease her rate of absorption, trying to neither completely devour the jelly nor let it fill up too much.

It was touch and go for several bells, but eventually, even David could feel the difference. Like a pneumatic wheel slowly being reinflated, the pressure inside his mana pathways slowly increased, filling the slack he hadn't been aware was present.

And then, nearly half a day later, it was done. Niala drained the jelly fully until she began “tasting” David's mana. She stopped, they removed the viscous substance, and held their breath as Marshalla ran probes and rods over David.

She smiled and looked up from her instruments. “I can't detect any leakage anymore. I think it worked.”

Niala's lips broke into joy as she flung herself at David's neck, rubbing her face into his neck while a few tears escaped her eyes.

The scholar let the catkin have her moment before looking up at David and passing him a grounded mana-rod. “As a final test, please channel as much mana as you can into the rod. Start low, increase slowly over time. Stop if I tell you to.”

David nodded and willed his mana into the rod.

Little by little, as Marshalla motioned for him to keep going, he increased the flow.

Kevin was the first one to react. Her head slowly snapped up, staring at the grounding rod.

Marshalla noticed, but before she could say anything, something caught her attention. She stared at David's neck, where the fel had sunk its aetheric fangs, and where the leaks should have been healed.

There, faintly, wispy blue filaments of mana were floating toward the rod.

Everybody stared in silence.

Marshalla looked up at David. “Are you feeling any discomfort? Pain? Wrongness? Anything?”

He looked away from the rod and met her gaze, shaking his head. “Nothing. This feels... normal.”

She asked him to hold the mana output steady while she ran more tests. For all that she could tell, this was David's mana, except it was expressing itself visually.

Mana, once it left a physical body, leaked back through the aetheric barrier and into the mana sea. It did not become visible except when highly concentrated, and David's total mana output right now was nowhere near that level.

Marshalla gripped her bubbling excitement and sent it to detention in the corner of her mind. She had a puzzle to solve first.

She asked David to increase his flow. As he did, the mana strands became more visible. Her instruments confirmed that each stream's total amount of mana was still far from reaching the concentration needed to do what they were doing.

And, to compound the mystery, the strands were flowing toward the mana rod, instead of dispersing radially from David's neck. like his leaks did previously.

On a wild hunch, Marshalla asked David to stop, took away the rod and stepped toward the window, depositing the rod on the sill. She stepped back and looked at him. “Please aim your hand at the rod, and just... will your mana forward.

He lifted an eyebrow, but complied, holding his hand out and attempting to push his mana out toward it.

And his eyes widened, along with everybody else's, as mana strands extended from his neck and shoulder toward the rod while swirling around, creating a sort of woven tube of translucent blue energy.

The strands touched the rod, a connection formed, and within the woven tube, a beam of blue mana sprang from David's hand.

The rod's attached meter confirmed that it was draining a charge.

Marshalla couldn't contain her maniacal smile anymore.

The first known display of controlled extra-body mana expression.

And she would be writing that paper.

Forget being synonymous with the field. She was going to be made the saint of manalogy!

Now, what this meant for David, and what he could do with it, she didn't know yet, exactly. She only knew that, whatever it was, she wanted to be there.

Because it was going to be amazing.