Fear the virtuous monsters. Fear those cruel and brutal, who act in service of evil, yet temper their behaviors with discipline and virtue. Corrupt monsters driven by lust, wrath, and thirst, by the baser instincts that reign over a being, are easily betrayed, lured out of position, and slain at the behest of a wiser foe.

But a virtuous monster will not be met with the same fate. For they hold their own leash, they govern themselves, and for all the darkness spread by their actions, there is a light within themselves, a light contrasted against the dark. For their minds are high, their hearts are true, and though they might enact things beyond all considerations of ethics, something deeper yet guides them. A code, perhaps not to the decency of the world or those around them, but a code toward mastery and horizons higher.

For even the most vicious of demons can take pride in a well-constructed hell shaped by their own hands…

—Legend-Philosopher Melaia Kelhaus

444

Virtuous Monsters

Their Necromancy spell was pre-shaped to be a concentrated blast. The outer layer of corpses marked the boundary of the explosion, preventing it from expanding wider. This aspect of the spell wasn’t added to contain the collateral damage, but rather to condense the effects on the specified targets.

There was little more to be said about the Deathless' resilience. A targeted Necromancy detonation, even this extreme, would leave his soul scalded, but do little more than that. Such was the assessment provided by Maria’s elite Necromancers, and the mercenaries she'd hired from the Necrotechs concurred. With how Gate Piety used the Deathless as a bomb themselves, striking him with their own Necromantic spells to devastate Compact in their preemptive assault, it was indication enough of what to expect.

As such, the true target was the auxiliaries, and the user of the Dreaming Storm—Legend Uva Mettabon, the other half of the equation guarding Gate Piety. If they could remove her, or even incapacitate her for a time, the offense could push all the way to the Gate itself, and the battles would become pitched rather than an even struggle in the field. The logistical and shaping capabilities of Gate Piety could not be underestimated, and it was more than the Deathless that tilted things in their favor.

Furthermore, there was the Demigod himself, Paragon Adam Arrow—the object of Lord Scorn's ire. If he could be resolved, then the invaders might be able to regain their Awareness and intelligence advantage. So long as his glaring star loomed overhead, everything and everyone below was at risk of being branded by his treacherous senses.

Maria watched through the projection of the Diviner’s table in front of her as the corrosive blast climbed high, consuming Gate Piety’s defenders in a screen of sickly green mana. The same glow settled over her marble-pale skin, her white wisps of hair flowing through the air like a gossamer shawl. A pregnant tension built within the combat intelligence center of Vulketh as Pathbearers commanding the invasion force waited to witness their triumph.

A low laugh slipped out from Belalu as he looked on with his gleaming bright eyes. His body was a mess of intermingling glass shards, the geometries that made up his person fracturing and parting with every passing intersection. He was more jigsaw puzzle than person, but in this moment he maintained a consistent form, anchoring himself in this dimension to savor the moment he thought his fifth son avenged.

Maria wasn’t quite so optimistic.

“I have to admit, Legend Corcusa, I wondered to myself what would make a Bloodline Progenitor of the First Blood embrace and christen some Umbral slave as her desired disciple. A few other Lords of Law judge your ascent as a mistake of lust, but I know Grandmother Ophereus, and she has no taste for girls, not physically. But your mind... You have all my compliments today, dear. Your mind is a devious fucking little thing.” Lord Belalu’s voice was like a thousand nails sliding down the face of a chalkboard, projected into your brainstem. Anyone beneath Master-Tier in Toughness in his presence would go deaf in an instant, and he enjoyed inflicting such harm.

Maria didn't respond, didn't even make eye contact. She saw no point in feeding this glutton of depravity. As far as she was concerned, Lord Belalu of Compact was a non-factor, because his armies were not here. His elite Pathbearers fled and broke at the first sign of trouble, choosing to let others die in their stead. In the end, he was a banker playing at being a warrior and strategist, and was simply present to avenge a personal slight.

A live projection of the battle was cast over dimensions to them from the perspective of a Scout, and Belalu, Scorn, Maria, and a number of Vultegs studied the unfolding scenes from their densely veiled bunker deep under the mana-infused sea of liquid metal making up Vulketh’s oceans. Shadows and Dimensionality shrouded Maria's person, but she wouldn't go undetected for long. Sooner or later, the Gate Lord would spread his Awareness wide, and everything would be revealed. No secrets would hide beneath the light, but by that point she would either be engaging once more or evacuated, depending on the outcome.

“Fourteen fucking million of my Fingerlings dead,” Lord Scorn spat with derision. “Let's hope your little sacrifice play worked, bloodsucker, because fourteen million dead fucking Vultegs is a pretty hefty fee for one cocksucking Demigod.” His visage wasn't manifested, but the waves of his mind and divine aura seeped into the dark ambiance of the intelligence center via his Avatar. Maria didn't bother learning the name of this Vulteg. She was a tall specimen, her head tentacles ridged with Chronomancy-infused jewelry. Likely a time mage of some kind, but soon to be spent and wasted, just like all the others.

Scorn was similarly insufferable compared to Compact's Lords of Law when it came to strategy or personality, but his manpower was ample, and the magic he wielded was immense. His understanding of Biomancy, Pyromancy, Geomancy, and Dimensionality was practically unparalleled. The resources he provided toward this conflict left Maria with no complaints. For all the bio-forged horrors the First Blood could craft, there were thrice their number in Vultegs who yearned to die for their god.

But above even all this, Scorn's true worth resided within his Divinity and his Domain of Isolation.

With it, no one could breach his personal dimension unless he willed it, and for this conflict he specially did so, seeking to return the wounds Adam Arrow and the thieves who stole Gate Theborn had dealt to his ego ten times over. It was thanks to this Domain that the invasion could continue on at all. For every High-Tier Pathbearer who survived from the first two offensives was deemed unusable, their souls burned and turned traitor by Adam’s immolating Awareness.

But every boon he brought came with a drawback in the form of Lord Scorn himself. The god wasn't just miserable to be around—he was an active detriment to any situation that didn't relate to magic, wards, or hiding away and soaking in the dark. His only advice on the battlefield, and the main reason why the Vultegs lost the second offensive altogether, was that he liked to perform a strategy called "charge, charge, and charge some more!" His idea of tactics and planning was simply to amass more people and throw them at the enemy.

It wasn't that Maria didn't understand why he thought like this. How could he not develop such bad habits after creating a world like Vulketh, a world that now hid the High-Tier, commanding Pathbearers leading the offensive? The Vultegs were expendable, down to the last one. There were untold billions of them, constantly hatching from the rivers of burning magic circulating across their planet. They fought and butchered one another for the favor of their patron god. Despite their full sapience, they were more resource than people, as they were volunteered to outside forces like Compact, the First Blood, and Outer Dimensions Beyond in exchange for favors and protections, with everything gained flowing upward toward Lord Scorn himself.

Those same flaws existed within the culture and society he created. The Vultegs refused to respect or heed anyone who wasn't Lord Scorn or a direct commanding officer of his legions. Every last one of the tentacle-faced creatures needed to be bullied into compliance and refused to listen to reason. Worse yet, the peer commanders Maria had to work alongside barely regarded her as sapient in return. Most of them jockeyed for position with each other, abandoning their own forces on the battlefield if only to disgrace a hated rival, even at the cost of ruining an entire operation.

The First Blood had its problems. Maria knew them better than anyone else on Integrated Earth, but even considering them, your standard vampire was practically a generous, communal, and selfless saint compared to the average Vulteg soldier.

Maria kept to her silence and observed the fading Necromancy spell. She didn't speak when there was nothing of substance to provide. Silence was also her weapon against the two fools she was subservient to, and it was subservience that defined her position. Though she was named Field Marshal to the alliance, that was subject to change at any given time depending on the whims and fancies of Scorn and Belalu.

Furthermore, there were two reasons why the First Blood volunteered her to begin with: the stated reason was her intellect and strategic acumen. The unstated part related to her expendability and alienation. Maria Corcusa should never have been embraced. It was done on a whim because of the appreciation of a madwoman. That madwoman was considerably powerful and stood as the single greatest Social expert in all the Abyss, but she was a single woman nonetheless; one Legend against many was an insurmountable problem of arithmetic when it came to politics.

All that placed Maria in a precarious position, but that was the tale of her life. She shouldn't be here. She shouldn't have survived. She shouldn't have been embraced. She shouldn't have made it to Legend. Yet still, she persevered. And she would continue to persevere against the Deathless, the Paragon, the Seeker, and the rest of Gate Piety. She would seize and claim that vaunted, Unique mana core for the glory of her people. With that, and a few favors from Scorn and Belalu, she might just be capable of challenging one of the First-Generation Elders and finally assuming and securing an unassailable place amongst the Eldest.

And after that happened, she would see certain reforms put into action, and certain Bloodlines severed at their source.

“Spell ending: Mana Concentration—Wait, there's something happening!” The scout's telepathic message carried with it a note of alarm.

“The fuck’s this?” Scorn snarled, his voice shaking the room.

Belalu leaned in, his previous prideful expression lost, and the cohesive nature of his body thrown into disarray. He was a mess of sliding shrapnel once more, a mess of shards piercing and passing through one another. Maria remained stone in expression, in emotion, in focus.

Before her, the psionically projected screen of corrosion cleared over the Diviner’s table—and then began to swirl like a hurricane as it turned and twisted, revealing glimpses of a colossal palm born of incandescent clouds at its core…

***

Shiv didn't dive Backstage. Instead, he sent out a telepathic call through the Dreaming Storm before the blast engulfed them. Adam didn't need any further information.

He already knew what needed to follow. He activated Mind Shaped by Total War, and just as with Commander's Foresight, time was brought to a standstill in the perception of those connected to Adam. Everything froze: the rising swell of corrosive mana, the gliding fortress forged of psionic lightning and eldritch imbuements, the writhing bodies of the reawakened dead, and the four Vultegs who sacrificed themselves to serve as a synchronous spark for the spell.

That moment of stasis granted them the time to take stock of the situation and gauge just how fucked they were.

Necromancy was the lore of what was lost more than death, and on the battlefield, there was a whole lot to be lost. The dead, for one, represented entire lifetimes that could have been and were no more. It didn't matter if someone was a human, an automaton, an elf, a goblin, or a blood horror. Everyone had a history, short or long as they might've been. Everyone had a future, cut short, potential lost. That was the biggest thing. It was a weaponized narrative, anti-tension turned to a bomb. And with a few million dead scattered all around, Gate Piety's defenders were practically standing on one hell of a bomb waiting to go off.

One hell of a bomb about to set off another exponential explosion when lost potential greeted a vessel of ever-escalating strife in the form of the Deathless.

“Well, Valor warned me that this might happen.” Adam's tone was dry and annoyed, but utterly devoid of fear otherwise. His mind was a particular variety of sour: an emotional flavoring one adopted when faced with an inconvenient problem rather than an inscrutable puzzle. “Oh, and good job not tearing yourself out of context, Shiv.”

“Don't mention it. So what's the call on this? Because I’m about a quarter second away from being the bigger bang that follows the first.”

