His focus ran hard as he spoke. He surveyed the battlefield through Adam’s perspective, zoomed in on the four offending sacrifices. Four lengths of Necromantic steel, imbued with the same corrosion that was now spreading across the body, spilling and carpeting the ground. Each blade shared a similar hilt, but also a symmetrical spell. A cylindrical pattern snaked its way out from the end of the blade to its very tip, and they moved in tandem with one another. This was more than synchronicity. This was four spells twinned to act as one, and each of the sacrifices held a corner that marked a boundary line. The blast was to be concentrated inside them.

Shiv's magical theory was not so advanced that he could deduce anything beyond that, but he knew enough to separate directional shapings from the rest. Mana was a living thing, spawned from stories, and because it was alive, it could be guided, commanded, imposed upon. Just so, the opposite could be true as well. A rebuttal existed for every spell, a break—an asymmetry to breach the pattern.

Such was why it was called a spell, because you spelled things out for the magic. It worked upon the fulfillment of specific conditions.

Friction turned to flame, heat drawn out from a body, giving in to the cold. Entropy manifested as a crushing coldness, depriving one of speed, of passion, of all things that burned.

Yet there was a benefit to unfocused casting as well. This was the magic Shiv was familiar with. The rawness of an untuned mana channeled forth as a fist. Complexity came with higher design, but also fragility. That was the cost of spells. Rules, when broken, caused a catastrophic collapse, and unexpressed magic was just that: unexpressed frequency of flashing color fading into the backdrop of reality. Such was also why Magi favored knowledge above power, because an idiot with an overwhelming supply of mana was just a walking bomb for a weak but clever mage to set off.

Case in point: Shiv himself.

“Any chance you can counter the spell?” Shiv asked. Adam regarded the battlefield from a bird's-eye perspective. He was running numbers now, calculating the time it would take for everyone to be engulfed in the corrosion. Uva would suffer severe burns, possibly even the destruction of her Legendary Skill, though that was uncertain. That being said, she wasn't going to soak the damage directly. That would be a Deathless thing to do.

A major benefit to the Dreaming Storm was flexibility. The fortress she manifested, with its massive columns and portcullises, its battlements, its moving walls and trenches, could be stuffed into a single room, trapped in a series of memories, pulled back into the tree flashing above, and then into her mind thereafter. All that mass and material were bridged from one place to another by a single Psychomancer in a fraction of a second.

The question was how fast could she react? There was a penalty at play here. She had more than just herself to worry about. The terrorspawn could be expended, but the Polymagi, Tallowine, and the other Pathbearers manning her walls? All of them had a mass that weighed upon her memory if she drew them in. Yes, she could create a pathway, but they wouldn't be able to react in time, not nearly fast enough. The high-tiers had the reflexes, but armies weren't made up of Heroes and Legends.

And Gate Piety didn't waste lives. They weren't vampires. They weren't Vultegs, and they most certainly weren't Compact.

“I can shift the architecture of my fortress. Press everyone together.” Uva's suggestion was helpful, but more a delaying action than the full solution. “I might be able to survive a powerful blast if it's held at bay.”

“Yeah, but then you'll be crippled until I can heal you,” Shiv said. “If you lose your Psychomancy, they might as well march straight over to our gateway, because there's no way we're going to be able to hold the wilderness without you. My guess is they planned this. My guess is this blast is as much for you as it is for me. They might miss me, but if they burn you, then everyone they teleported away will be coming back around for a second offensive. That's gonna be a pitched battle right at our front door.”

“Yes,” Adam agreed, his mind and voice distracted as he toyed with possibilities and solutions. His mind was a roaring sea of information, but it expressed itself in neat lines, rushing forward in torrents of ordered detail. Shiv's mind was far different: he was a sea—primal, undistilled, with moments of genius manifesting like sudden storms on the horizon, but also vulnerable to foolish mistakes, as a ship might capsize against the very same storm.

The two of them were expressions of magic: one a complex spell with countless pieces and detailed shapings meant to create a delicate outcome. The other was simple and intuitive, but even a hammer could be used with dexterity.

“The spell is beyond my ability to counter,” Adam declared.

“Beyond mine as well,” the Culturist added. “We have little time and no true Necromancers of our own in the field. With Valor's absence, I dare say we lack any means of countermanding this magic directly.”

Adam hummed. “But we're not without options…” His attention slashed away from the budding Necromancy, away from the bodies charged with corrosive mana, over to the scintillating flame that had singed so many of them, casting them into the jaws of death. Shiv's Unique Pyromancy was a special power, one that could burn almost anything and make food from solid matter and magical light. The same effect it inflicted upon other mana fields could be replicated against Necromancy. But though the nihilistic flame was an ocean of mana in its own right, it was still a smaller body of metaphorical water compared to the losses fueling the impending eruption.

That didn't mean the Nihilist was useless. It just meant it couldn't hold back the greater tide all on its own. Again, another delaying action, but stack one delay in front of another and you had time. With time, you had options.

“Uva, when we resume real-time, I need you to shrink your Dreaming Storm as much as you can, as small as you can without hurting anyone. Pack them in tight if you have to.” Adam hesitated for a second as Uva helped him crunch the numbers—maybe a half second of time bought. “Shiv, I need you to use your flame on the necromancy. Burn away what you can, delay as long as you can, and—your Red Rider's hand, could it potentially let you parry the necromancy?”

Shiv laughed. “Hells yeah, it can. But if I'm reading the spell right—and I might not be—the blast is going to be coming from everywhere. Every single body is gonna go off like a bomb, projecting all that corrosive essence upward. This means that they're all going to be feeding off each other, magnifying each other, magnetized to each other, but also separate from each other. Right?”

“You're right,” Adam confirmed. “You won't be able to parry everything. It's impossible, and we might have to risk your Shapeless Tides. Your Magical Resistance should be able to hold the necromancy back for a few seconds, but after that…”

“Boom,” Shiv grunted. “Great big flash of light and maybe not much after for a lot of us. Too risky.”

A low chuckle escaped Adam. Shiv recognized that laugh. It was the one Adam let out when he reveled in his own genius. “Some risk, but maybe not as much as you think. If we do this right, we have well over a second of time. That's going to be enough for me to manifest my Domain. We run this defense in layers: the nihilist serving as the first to blunt. Shiv and his Magical Resistance underneath Uva's Dreaming Storm—the Dreaming Storm itself, for as short a time as possible, before my palm manifests and prevents any and all violence from transpiring.”

“And you’re certain the Domain can hold back the Necromancy?”

“Nothing has been held back. Destruction and violence are simply rendered impossible.” Though the power sounded awesome, there was a haunting quality to its truth as Adam spoke these words into existence. The Domain was a divine power, but it seemed greater than even that sometimes. An absolute effect imprinted over the world, in defiance of the System's will, even in defiance of Adam's own nature. It seemed he was but a conduit, a bridge for something far, far older. Something boundless in hate as much as in hunger and desire, something so far beyond and above humanity that simply rigging it to a mortal form was akin to embedding an insect in the long-dead brain matter of a man to serve as a final, desperate pilot. “It will work. Of this I have no doubt. No doubt…”

Both Uva and Shiv shared a haunted thought, and Adam pretended to be deaf, blind, dumb, and careless. They all worried, but what else was there to do? When surrounded by a sea of enemies, what right warrior could abandon the most potent of their tools?

“I can help apply my own means of persuasion as well.” The Culturist slid into the conversation like a blade sinking into a sheath. “There should be some number of necromancers among the rest of the renegades. None as remarkable as Valor, but all sufficient to aid in this stalling action.”

“Alright, so we've got a ghost of a plan in place. Anyone else have any better ideas that might set me off to go bomb? Anyone?” Shiv's message went unaddressed; the Dreaming Storm synchronized his thoughts with the rest of the force, but the problem remained: without Valor's presence, they had no dedicated Necromancers. “Alright, desperate, risky maneuver it is.”

“It won't be desperate or risky if we just do this thing right,” Adam shot back.

A snort hissed out from Shiv. “How often do we do things just right, Adam? Shit always goes off the rails by the end, you know that.”

“Well, let yourself be motivated by everyone else's survival, because if you do this wrong, they won't live long enough to regret my choice. But you will.”

“The fuck, man? How are you dumping all this pressure on me? I'm not the one who came up with this plan.”

“No, but you are the one I'm ordering to play the role of a big spoon. Don’t let me down, Shiv.”

“You know something, Adam? You're turning into more of a god every day. You decide to shit, and someone else has to wipe.” But past the jests, there was nothing else for it: time to see if they could pull this off. “Let’s hope this one’s dry.”

“We believe in you, Insul!” Tequila cheered across the storm. “Don’t explode and kill us.”

“Do my best,” Shiv grunted. The blasé nature of his own reply took him out of the situation for an instant. A few months ago, the weight of so many lives would have flooded his insides with pressure. Now, it was like the sensation of wind passing over his skin—there, but disregarded.

“Does a fish always notice the waters it dwells within?” the Harbinger asked.

The skill’s question was rhetorical, but Shiv didn’t just skip past. “This isn’t water, though. It’s consequence. We are what we experience. We are what we do. If that’s the truth, what are we going to become if mass death and warfare is just another breath that leaves us?”

“Eventually? An apex predator.” The Harbinger’s answer was chambered like a bullet in anticipation of this question. One couldn’t outflank the personification of their own instincts and intellect. “You cannot unmake an environment you do not completely dominate.”

“So it goes,” Shiv conceded. “Alright. On three?”

“Three,” Uva began.

“Two,” Adam followed.

“Go,” Shiv signaled.

The stasis came to an end. Time resumed its oppressive march. Chains of spreading necromancy coursed through the bodies scattered across the battlefield like an arterial network; such a thing was no mistake—the System hungered for symbolism and significance, and the lore of loss expressing itself as a living system was a vulgar statement unto itself.

But Shiv didn’t have the time to consider the philosophical implications or savor the moment. His nihilistic flames plunged down, spreading wide and flat until it became a curved shield against the impending blast. The scintillating pyromancy carpeted itself over as many bodies as it could, but its spark came from a fuel of thousands in struggle against millions dead.

Nihilist: It doesn’t matter. Do what you can. Or don’t. The outcome is inevitable for most of them; you’re just delaying their final fate.

“Shut up and fry,” Shiv snapped back. His Harbinger reached into its reservoir of time and drew forth spark after spark as a sequence of scintillating detonations engulfed the world. His pyromancy raged. Flame greeted flame in a defiant frenzy against the withering end.

Thin slices of Necromancy sizzled and peeled away as a unique conflagration ate away at the attunement of loss. A tenth of a second passed. Uva and Adam were in motion. The Dreaming Storm shrank behind Shiv’s strike team—the psionic fortress burst apart as branches of lightning were retracted into the kaleidoscopic tree looming like a frozen meteor in the air. Only a single tower remained—tens of thousands of essential Pathbearers condensed within a hundred-meter edifice that exchanged breadth for height as its creator scrambled to create an exit from the battlefield using thought and memory in place of brick or mortar.

A Shard of Exalted Flame splashed down behind Shiv. Adam combusted into shape thereafter.

Not fast enough.

