The scintillation of the Nihilist burned bright, but not long. It masked its inevitable defeat down to the last instant as the corrosion tore through the parting embers of pyromancy—only to crash into the second line of defense: Shiv himself. The Deathless tensed and prayed as his smasher cupped the bottom of the dreaming fortress with his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things. The Red Rider’s Hand was pointed straight down like a pike braced against incoming cavalry.

It responded with a roar of pleasure.

The right hand of strife drank in the potential ruin and corrosion the Necromancy was to inflict and rippled with crushing power. Shiv’s vectors frayed and dissolved as it gloved the hand—his Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides turned shredded with soul damage as a result.

But despite the pain and the depth of harm, his Magical Resistance held, and he parried every beam of Necromancy bursting up from the proximal corpses like a chain of geysers. A few million dead contended against the severed limb of the Challenger. In the end, it wasn’t even a struggle.

Return to Sender activated. The Necromancy spiked up, crashed into the fist, and was driven straight back down. It wasn't just flattened. Instead, the mana itself dissipated, bursting apart into volatile smears of corrosion. The single remaining tower bounced as it was buffeted by the impact, but otherwise remained unharmed before the calamity.

But more ruin was set to come. Shiv's deflection only affected the corpses beneath the tower—and there were far more dead all around. Though the mana beneath the tower was suppressed, it still drew the other beams of necromancy in like a gravity well. A confluence of bending streams crisscrossed around the tower—only to splash apart against Shiv’s expanding Garden. Its shape went from a bowl to a cage, folding around the Dreaming Storm’s localized constructs.

Shiv’s other bodies and skill-armors injected their own tides into the Garden to deny the corrosion just a moment longer.

Inertial Overdrive 433 > 436

Two seconds into the havoc, the Paragon finally finished materializing. He must’ve gone far—fired himself across the distance in an attempt to do something to the enemy backline. A gush of vapors exploded out of him; the Lord of Gate Piety reached high and pulled with trembling hands—

Calling a piece of a primordial heaven down upon them. The Zone of Absolute Dominion struck and scalded Shiv. Its essence was absolute in Heroism and Tyranny. The former nourished him, while the latter loathed his very existence, for he was a vessel of ever-growing struggle, and hence stood anathema to Peace. The Red Rider’s Hand spasmed and peeled apart; Shiv’s flesh and soul tore and bled, painting the air with crimson bright vitality. Even so, it was better than getting set off by Necromancy.

Sometimes, the only choice one could make was between two wounds. If that was the case, being a sacrifice upon peace’s altar in spite of the System made pain a pittance of a price to bear.

The misted palm expressed by Adam’s divine will swallowed Shiv’s garden and Uva’s last tower at once. The layered defenses overlapped and shifted as a higher power seized them—but also spared them of force and harm. The erosive caress of the necromancy was not only denied, but rebuffed; the power of loss retreated away from the zone in vast pockets of emptiness as the threads of sickening green changed into a whirlpool around the palm, the rules of its spell clashing against the usurpation of existential laws.

Time limped on in staggered increments. Shiv watched as the lore of the lost was denied—indifferent to his own suffering. His skin and flesh came sloughing off his body, and his skills rattled and cracked deep within. Any other Pathbearer would have shot past the precipice of madness.

Shiv failed to notice, for pain had long since fallen beneath his regard.

Before the Favored Three of Gate Piety, a trap capable of devouring an entire army of Heroes and lesser Legends became just that as well: a nuisance to solve, and then to place beneath notice.

The invaders set their pieces up, took their swing, and were found wanting. Even with a scheme in place, so many lives were wasted, and so many more were left to spend.

“Any casualties?”

“Ranger Munny lost his hat,” Mortar declared. “Terribly tragic, really.”

“Eighty percent losses amongst Terrorspawn; all essential personnel preserved,” Uva sighed. “I suggest we shift to a more aggressive offensive once they begin their second charge; we don’t have the numbers to hold territory anymore. We should strike and move to avoid the same entrapment.”

“You think they’re going to come in for a second charge?” Shiv asked.

“They preserved their Burned Ones and teleported their backline elites away for a reason,” Adam answered. “There’s going to be a second push. Shiv? Your status?”

Shiv felt his faces melting off his skull. “Eh. Some moderate skill damage across the board. Leviathan’s cracked the most. Your Divinity is ruining my skincare too. All that moisturizing for nothing. Just give me a chance to snatch and drain a couple of vamps, and I’ll be all better.”

“You know, sometimes it’s hard to think of us as the good guys with everything the Deathless does to people—and then I remember our enemies are literal monsters and demons who enslave children and drink blood. Or was that the other way around?” Hero-Diviner Captain-Magi Jane Ircanos of the “Idiot” 14th Poly-Magi Regiment snickered at her own words. “Round two it is, friends. Idiots! Shape spells! Support and enchant the Deathless. Let’s give them something to really run from.”

***

“FUCKFUCKFUCKFUCKFUCKFUUUCK!”

Blood poured down Maria's right ear as Scorn howled curse after curse like a spoiled Fourth Elder cut off from another sip. Her expression stayed stone; she hadn't expected this, but then again, she never expected anything. She did the best she could and took things as they came.

The same quality did not exist within Lord Scorn, who seemed a centimeter away from the mother of all mental breakdowns. “FUCKING CUNT FUCKER BITCH FUCK CUNT BITCHFUCKCUNTCUNTCUNTCUNT FUCK BITCH! WHAT WAS THE POINT OF ALL THAT IF IT DIDN’T DO ANYTHING!?”

“But… how?” Belalu asked, more flabbergasted than enraged. “What is that?”

He was talking about the misty hand that had manifested to guard the Dreaming Storm and the Deathless—the often-rumored manifestation of the Gate Lord’s Domain.

“Another uncovered problem we need to solve,” Maria answered. “I suspect we’re facing a Domain of Protection. And it works on Necromancy as well.” The information was useful, but the issues it presented were troublesome. Each of the Favored Three was monstrous individually, but together, as a single force? “We don’t have the numbers nor force required to take this gate right now.”

Her acknowledgement was so casual Belalu nodded reactively—before he froze and turned his face of trembling glass shards toward her. “I must have misheard, Legend-Assassin.”

She ignored him and sent a psionic command to the commanders of the third offensive. “This is Field Marshall Maria Corcusa. All forces: Retreat and hold action at field-base three. Skirmishers and saboteurs as well. Execute.”

“YOU’RE FUCKING SURRENDERING? TO—TO THAT FUCK! THAT BOW-FUCKING CUNT!” Scorn’s shout hit Maria so hard her nose broke and her left eye burst. Still, she refused to betray herself—not to fear, not to pain.

“No,” she replied, her injuries regenerating in moments—bones clicking back into shape piece by piece and a new eyeball sprouting like a budding flower. “Not surrendering, but we require a recalibration of strategy. Direct assaults are not enough; we haven’t even breached the gateway yet. The mana core itself will be another problem once we get inside. But they have weaknesses—they lack the manpower to fully guard against us, and the conditions within the Gate itself are as volatile as any battlefield according to our sources. We surprised them here today—we need to surprise, escalate, and collapse them internally before the next offensive.”

Maria took a gamble and turned away from Scorn’s Avatar and Belalu. She didn’t mean any insult, but not feeding and comforting the egos of powerful Pathbearers was often misunderstood as an offense all the same. But if she engaged with them and allowed them to push blame and stew in their own misery, her fate would be sealed regardless. “Lord Scorn—I beg your allowance to depart from your dimension. It is time I seek out a potential solution for our problem and create better conditions for our next attempt.”

“Potentially—don’t fucking show me your back, you corpse-sucking whore! Stop and explain yourself! What fucking solution? What next attempt? What are you trying to pull here?”

The air around her went black. A fist formed of mystical gravity clenched her tight and drove the breath out of her body. She didn’t gasp or tense; predators and abusers fed off feedback. She was a stone. Just a stone. Until the moment it was time to see things done. As she was made to face the higher powers in the room, she regarded Belalu and Scorn with a brief nod. “Apologies. I forgot to explain myself in my haste. The orcs, my Lords. The orcs are the solution. The Challenger is the wedge I drive into the Gate Lord’s defense.”

Belalu’s shattered form shivered for a moment before he burst out laughing, the noise wretched enough to almost break Maria's facade. “You—no, this is… The orcs aren’t any kind of solution, Field Marshall. They’re just bad business. I don’t know what new madness was born in the back of your mind, but mixing grayskins in with our troops—who need to be reconstituted again—is just going to end with a massacre. The orcs can’t be trusted, especially with so many of them in league with Adam Arrow. I don’t know what kind of Holy War the Challenger is running, but if one of mine is spotted on the side of the enemy—”

“You are right. The orcs are not to be trusted, but they can be used. And I don’t intend to mix them in with our forces. Instead, I wish to share what we learned about Gate Piety’s behavior in the field and potential weaknesses with the Challenger to see if they can help us solve our problem without any more lives lost on our part.”

Both Scorn and Belalu went silent—and the silence was a sign she had them.

“We can muster even more resources,” she began. “More lives. More High-Tier Pathbearers. Drown them with our own Legends. Scour their lands with Pyromancy and plagues. Eventually, we will be able to overwhelm them. But that does not solve our problem. The Favored Three will gain levels from those battles—the Deathless himself almost certainly will not be defeated permanently, and if we seek to continue this grinding struggle of attrition, they will collapse the mana core and flee into the embrace of the Yellowstone Empire. And we have already spent far too much on this endeavor for the returns to be worthwhile. Even if we take the Quest rewards into account.”

“ADAM FUCKING ARROW IS NOT BETTER THAN ME!” Scorn roared, and his Chronomancer Avatar burst apart into a splatter of gore—even her Legendary-Tier body unable to sustain his wrath.

A furious flame was kindled in the pit of Maria’s stomach. Waste. So much fucking waste. Another Legend lost—thrown away with nothing gained. How did you ever become a god, Scorn? How could the System ever think you worthy of such a privilege?

A smear of shapeless flesh remained where the Vulteg once stood, but more offensive was how Scorn’s presence never faded. He didn’t even need to waste her at all; he was fully capable of manifesting as himself in his own realm. But no. He hid in his tower; he refused to face the light or even his own people in person.

He wasn’t even a proper tyrant in the end, just a coward with a crown.

“He is not,” Maria lied through her teeth. “And he is not worth any more of your anger and effort. I will see this done. We have done enough here today. There is another side to this equation, and I will see them applied. Personally. As an act of redemption for failing to bring us victory. I will seek out the Challenger alone. I will see the orcs unleashed between the cracks and gaps we discovered. And I will see the scales balanced in the end.”

And both of you cut out of the glory as I turn the orcs on you in turn, she added in the confines of her mind.

Belalu and Scorn hesitated once more—but the atmosphere was broken as the former began to laugh. “Why not? Why bloody not? Let the girl try. If she dies, well… The First Blood can’t possibly shame itself in this affair anymore than it already has, yes? But if she succeeds—”

“I will,” Maria said through her teeth.

Belalu began to come into shape for the first time, and she saw him for the man he was rather than the enchanted mess of glass that hid his appearance. Like a pane of glass shattering in reverse, the gleaming pieces came together and promptly transmutated into flesh, revealing a towering elf with a sunlit mane of hair and an alloyed griffon fused into his flesh as a set of living armor. “If she succeeds, then we’ll have our rewards regardless. Let her take another swing, Scorn. What’s the loss? Not ours, right?”

“Yeah,” Scorn grumbled after a second. “Not fucking ours.”

Maria was stone—but it took so much effort not to smirk back at them. Little do you know. Little do you fools know.

***

But what Lords Scorn and Belalu missed, Valor saw. He saw Legend-Assassin Maria Corcusa for what she was. He saw, and knew what needed to be done.

