His Aura washed over her and he wished he could share his love with her, let her feel how much she meant to him and how her mere presence could light up his life. If only he could share his knowledge of Panacea with her, or better yet, fix her injuries for her, but such a feat was beyond him. He couldn’t even Heal the cattle using Panacea, and Mother knows he’d tried, but all his efforts ever earned him was a suspicious glare from the bovine in question, a surly, shaggy bull named Arby. However, Rustram’s desperation knew no bounds, so as he traded blows with the spike-faced Demon, he directed his Chi to produce Panacea within Sai Chou’s body, while simultaneously labouring to share his feelings through Aura.

Because as much as he didn’t want to admit it, there was a good chance there was nothing he could do to save her. As her Aura rose up to meet his, he imagined he felt her love washing over him and feared this was her last farewell, but he could not spare a moment to turn around. Oh how he yearned to take her hand and look deep into her clear, beautiful eyes, but all he could do was radiate his Aura and hope his love and efforts were somehow bearing fruit.

A Spiritual gun barked and the Demon reeled back, affording Rustram an opening to drive his rapier deep into its chest. The blade pierced through the chitinous plates with ease, and Rustram let loose with a scream of frustration as he worked his blade in a ponderous flourish whilst still embedded in the creature’s flesh, dodging and slipping its attempts to strike him from almost point-blank range. Finally, the Demon’s arms dropped at its sides and Rustram booted its carcass away, wholly uncaring of the Ichor eating through his armour and flesh so long as it didn’t come in contact with his lady love. Fear and panic was all he knew as he threw himself down at her side, too afraid to touch her with his Ichor covered hands yet desperate to know if she still lived.

Her eyes were always his favourite thing about her, those clear, beautiful eyes, hiding so much pain and sorrow even on the best of days. There they were, looking back up at him, and for a moment, he couldn’t tell if she was dead or alive.

Then she blinked, and he felt her Aura seep into his, mingling together in warm, unconditional love.

“I felt it,” she whispered, reaching up to touch his cheek. “Your love. I feel the same for you, beloved.”

“I know,” he replied, leaning into her touch. “I know.” There were no words to express his joy as she closed her eyes and slept, and he knelt there, not understanding how he was Healing her wounds and warding off death, but uncaring so long as it worked.

Because she was his lady love, his reason for drawing breath, the person who made him whole. So long as she was alive, nothing else mattered. Nothing.

Chapter Meme
