Resisting the urge to personally question the Colonel’s reasoning through Sending, Rustram grit his teeth and growled. “Send orders to Ravil and Siyar. Escort duty. They’re to come in tight while the Protectorate open fire on the Defiled as soon as they come in range. I don’t want anyone slowing down to loose one extra arrow, volley and go is the game tonight, volley and go.” The crossbows were too unwieldy to reload on the move, and the Protectorate would move faster without the two escorting units, but Rustram refused to leave anything to chance where Sai Chou was involved. Though it’d been some time since they fought on open ground, Rustram and the Legate had plenty of time to come up with drills and tactics to increase the retinue’s efficiency, and now Rustram was finally putting their training to good use.

It always amazed him how skilled archers could loose an arrow aimed at the sky and kill a Warrior almost a kilometre away. Sai Chou tried to explain the trick to him, keeping track of landmarks as you passed in order to gauge distances more accurately or checking cloud movement to adjust for wind speeds, but it all went straight over his head. Regardless of the calculations involved, seeing Sai Chou bend her bow back never failed to put a smile on his face, and not just because he liked the way she looked while arching her back. The arrows came alive with a hiss and he tracked their flight off into the distance, his smile stretching into a grin as the foremost ranks of Chosen stumbled and faltered beneath the storm of arrows.

Well... storm was something of a misnomer, since they numbered less than three-hundred in total, even after recruiting archers from village huntsmen and the like. Archery was rarely practised outside of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, and it was a skill which took at least a decade to pick up and a lifetime to master. Without crossbows or catapults lending their weight to the storm, the majority of Chosen emerged unscathed thanks to mundane armour and inborn toughness as they chased after the withdrawing Imperial forces with alarming alacrity. Proximity only spurred the Chosen on and Rustram could see his troops beginning to falter, not because they were growing tired, but because they were concerned about dying to a spear in the back.

They had to turn and fight. It was now or never.

“Orders from Colonel Kang Bing: Hold this position. Slaughter the Chosen.”

“Acknowledged.”

Rustram was already issuing his own orders before Silva finished speaking, abandoning protocol because he didn’t have the time. It was a sight to behold as Tam Taewoong’s retinue turned as one, joined by Wang Bao’s killers who led the charge against the hated Chosen. Though Rustram couldn’t stand the man personally, there was no denying Wang Bao’s frightening prowess as he closed in with the Enemy and sent three Chosen flying with a swipe of his malefic battle-axe. Even Tam Taewoong didn’t inspire the same courage or terror as the former Butcher Bay Bandit, a fearsome destroyer on the battlefield whose name was sure to soon become known. Mentor once considered finding Wang Bao a Mentor, but after seeing his frightening progress along the Martial Path, she merely shook her head and declare, “That one is a killer born. War and conflict are his Mentors, and anyone else would only get in his way.”

Not to be outdone, Tam Taewoong also made his presence known on the battlefield, in almost the same manner. With every strike, the Benevolent Asura sent Chosen flying into the air or crashing into their comrades behind them, an unstoppable force of fists and feet as he smashed through the opposition. It was easy to see where Wang Bao and Tam Taewoong’s units were at all times, because they were deepest into the enemy, taking pressure off the units around them and blunting the Defiled offensive.

Just enough so that when Ravil and Siyar’s units of crossbowmen unleashed their first volley, their bolts fell down upon a thick cluster of Chosen, rather than the scattered lines of the pursuing vanguard. Then the miniature catapults barked as they unleashed their payload, and the Chosen died in droves, for what the smaller weapons of war lacked in range and power, they more than made up for with accuracy. Mounted atop iron-framed wagons, the miniature catapults were perfectly positioned to launch their stones over the heads of the soldiers in the second row to crash into the Chosen rushing to occupy the empty squares between the units of the first row. Having been loosed from a lower vantage point, the arc of the stones meant they struck the Chosen almost head on rather than raining down from above, and a single body was not enough to stop their powerful force. Seeing the catapults blow holes in the Enemy lines and turn armoured Defiled into a spray of bloody mist, Rustram once again marvelled at the Legate’s brilliance and forethought, devising this flimsy looking battle formation for the express purpose of allowing the miniature catapults to fire into battle.

That said, the Legate never stopped complaining about how it would be so much better if his ‘cannons’ were ready and working, and Rustram could hardly imagine a weapon capable of doing more damage than what he was currently witnessing.

All too soon, the carnage was over as Rustram’s soldiers cleaned up the Northern flank. The Legate’s Death Corps were still hard at work with halberd and catapult, but only because they’d moved on to support the southern flank. However, just as Rustram expected, Ken-Shibu’s crescent moon formation had fallen into disarray during the retreat, and now their battle-lines had become more of a battle blob. Judging the angle too risky to launch stones into, he ordered Ravil, Siyar, and the Protectorate into the gaps of the second row, where their ranged weapons could fire freely into the Defiled rear without risking friendly fire.

There was something off about the chaotic disarray in Ken-Shibu’s lines, but Rustram couldn’t identify it until he hopped onto a catapult wagon for a better view. Where before the prongs of the crescent moon pointed west, now the formation had almost flipped upon itself, with the convex edge engaging the Chosen while the concave side... did... something. If Rustram didn’t know any better, he would say they were sweeping dirt aside, but why they would do this in the middle of battle was beyond his comprehension.

“Orders from Colonel Kang Bing: Dispatch ten-thousand soldiers to support the southern flank.”

“Acknowledged.”

Despite his easy reply, Rustram again believed this action to be a mistake. To support the southern flank, his troops had to swing around the centre and come up behind the Chosen, leaving their flanks exposed and unsupported. Still, orders were orders, so he followed through while keeping an eye on the horizon. There was still a trickle of Chosen streaming out across the plains, but he could already make out the beginnings of an orderly formation assembling just outside the castle as the Enemy commander exerted his control over his deranged berserkers. Hoping to make quick work of this so he could order his troops back into formation, he dispatched the row to take on this risky task, since they were already in fighting form from the initial clash. Positioning his second row to move up should the situation demand it, he sought Balance and stood stock still while watching the Enemy movements.

Their intention to pursue was clear as day, but what Rustram wanted to know was how the Enemy overran the Castle so quickly. Despite the withdrawal, Brigadier Hongji had a full complement of soldiers defending the outer wall, and while they had no irregulars providing ranged support from the inner wall, the walls should have held for hours more unless the Enemy Peak Experts and Demons were in play again. That was the only answer, this or Hongji’s escape plan went horribly awry, but Rustram couldn’t imagine a world in which the meticulous and adaptable Brigadier could blunder so terribly.

A rumbling sounded from the southern flank, and as Rustram whipped his head around to see what it was, he could hardly believe his eyes. While Ken-Shibu’s mixed retinue of Central soldiers and Death Corps held the Chosen back, the soldiers behind him had cleared out an entire swathe of dirt and grass to reveal a massive, underground crevasse. No, not a crevasse, unless nature had carved perfectly hewn stone stairs down into the darkness, but the opening of an escape tunnel which stretched back to Castle JiangHu, with Imperial soldiers streaming out from the tunnel to form up in ranks behind Ken-Shibu’s forces. As Rustram followed the tunnel’s expected path back west, he found the source of the rumbling about halfway between the castle and their current position. A divot in the dirt marked where the tunnel had once stood, now collapsed beneath Mother knows how many tonnes of dirt, stone, and grass. Even as he watched, another large section collapsed, and then a few breaths later, another. How foolish of Rustram to think Hongji would try the same plan twice, for the canny commander had plenty of tricks up his sleeves. Small wonder they left the castle intact, as now the Enemy would have to wonder if there were any more hidden tunnels the Imperials might use to retake it.

As the Chosen numbers dwindled and the fighting died down, Rustram puffed up with pride at his countrymen's accomplishments.

Turning to check on the Chosen movements, he paused to catch Sai Chou’s eye and share his joy, but the expression on her face gave him pause.

Fear.

Time slowed as he turned west once more, just in time to spot the oncoming wave of Demons about to crash into his lines. “Demon Slayers!” he shouted, knowing he lacked the authority to command them and that they might already be too late. “To me!” There was more he had to do, more he should say, but all he could do was deploy his Aura as he watched his beloved Sai Chou. Her fear gave way to stubborn determination, and his heart skipped a beat as she dropped her precious bow to take up the axe, charging forward to meet her Demonic foe with a snarl, a dark, lanky bastard of a Demon with spikes protruding from every surface imaginable. His feet encased in lead, Rustram surged forward to lend his blade to the cause, but a lifetime of distance stretched out between him and his lady love. Sai Chou’s axe caught the Demon’s first attack, but the spiky, spindly creature’s lean frame belied its strength as the blow sent her staggering. At the same time, a Protectorate Warrior threw himself at the Demon in an effort to help, but a spiked fist pulped the poor man’s head and sent his corpse careening to the dirt. Two other Warriors met the same fate in a lightning-fast flurry of blows, and then the Demon’s attention was upon defenceless Sai Chou again, still yet to recover from the first exchange.

An inhuman howl sounded as the Demon’s fist impacted with her midsection. His beloved’s body bent double and a spiked fist emerged from her spine, and only then did Rustram realize the scream was coming from him.

Time resumed as he appeared in front of the Demon, his rapier lancing out to pierce through its eye. Reeling back at the unexpected damage, the creature retaliated with a left jab which flowed seamlessly into a right straight, but Rustram slipped his head to avoid the first and pivoted aside from the second. A chopping left descended from above, aimed at his head, but he Deflected it aside with a flick of his rapier and cut the Demon’s throat on his backswing. Unperturbed by the gush of Ichor rushing down its neck and chest, the Demon shifted into a duellist’s stance which showed it respected him as a foe, but Rustram could not care less. There was only empty rage and cold desperation driving him on, as he fought to kill the Demon and get his lady love to a Healer. He could feel her, lying there in the dirt behind his feet, and so long as he still drew breath, this Demon would not move past him.

His focus razor sharp, Rustram sensed the attacks coming before his eyes registered movements, and he gave himself over to the battle. A barrage of fists was met with a storm of steel, but since even Sai Chou couldn’t meet the attack head on, he could only parry and Deflect them aside and attack on the riposte. At least he could hurt it, his rapier leaving deep furrows in its stony, chitinous skin and slicing off spikes protruding from its body. Barely five seconds had passed and they’d already exchanged blows at least thirty times, its fists moving faster than his eyes could follow and his rapier intercepting each attack with unerring accuracy, but Rustram felt neither pride nor joy, because he knew his beloved was dying behind him.

That punch had gone clean through her abdomen and spine, so even if she was still conscious, Sai Chou didn’t know how to use Panacea to stop the bleeding and extend her life.

Desperation growing as he fought with all his might, he felt panic sinking in. He’d taken an Oath never to share it, else he’d have taught her to use Panacea, but what he failed to do was ask the Legate or Mentor for permission. Oh what a fool Rustram had been, thinking he didn’t want to impose, but Falling Rain was a kind man, and despite her rough edges, Mentor was the same. They would have gladly taught her if she offered to make the same oaths, and the Legate wouldn’t have even wanted that much, but no, Rustram was worried about asking for too much, but how could this be?

Sai Chou was his everything, and he would do anything to save her. Anything.

