Despite having had ample warning of what was to come, Rustram’s stomach still twisted into knots when the order to withdraw went out two hours before dawn.

Passing along the orders to his sub-commanders, Rustram was met with the grim acceptance he’d come to expect from these stalwart veteran warriors. Though the boss – no, the Legate – made it clear Rustram was not to share his plan with anyone else, a good soldier could infer a commander’s plans simply from the arrangements being made beforehand. Not only did Rustram have the wagons inspected and non-essential gear stored away over the last few days, but he also ran his soldiers through exit drills to ensure everyone knew what to do when it came time to leave. If that wasn’t enough to clue them in, then the fact that so many other units in the castle were going through similar drills should’ve revealed there was something afoot to all but the most oblivious of soldiers.

Say what you will about their general inability to adhere to decorum or protocol, the Warriors of Falling Rain’s retinue were far from oblivious. In fact, going by battlefield experience alone, they might well be among the most veteran companies within the Empire. Though the infantry had a startling lack of Demon Slayers and Peak Experts, they were good, solid soldiers who’d been through hell and back on the front lines, yet were still eager to return for more. While there were only a few stand-out talents like Dastan, Sahb, Ulfsaar, and Wang Bao, Rustram was willing to bet that the Empire would soon learn the names of many more burgeoning heroes among the Legate’s retinue, heroes like Siyar, Ravil, Ral, Chey, Jorani, Lang Yi, and many more. It went without saying that his beloved Sai Chou deserved more recognition than she had, being an Expert of phenomenal skill and courage, but since she spent most of her time on the battlefield unleashing volleys of arrows with her Protectorate, her contributions were largely overlooked.

But not for long. With more and more Warriors seeing the effectiveness of ranged weaponry first hand, there would soon come a time when Sai Chou’s archery skills were given the respect and admiration she deserved. At Lady Sumila’s wedding, Rustram watched his beloved Sai Chou line up twelve horse-shoes along a fence, only to loose an arrow which went clean through without knocking a single horse-shoe down to strike a coin swinging on a piece of string at the other end. Even Major Alsantset had been impressed by the feat, though she replicated it easily on her first try, and Lady Mei Lin upped the ante by adding more horse-shoes and staggering them so they weren’t all evenly lined up, resulting in an arrangement even she couldn’t thread an arrow through. At the end of the day, it wasn’t a soldier who took home the title of best archer, but the Legate’s Brother-in-Law Charok who claimed the prize, a purse of coins he dutifully handed over to his wife, Major Alsantset, who then used it buy multiple rounds of drinks for all the contestants.

The Bekhai were an odd bunch, aloof and unsociable when interacting with strangers, but their attitudes became warm and welcoming once Rustram and the Legate’s retinue were accepted as members of the Khishigs. Mentor had a part in this, teaching Rustram the intricacies of their command structure and social network, but it surprised him to learn that until recently, Falling Rain was just as much of an outcast as Rustram or any of the other, non-Bekhai members of his retinue. This made perfect sense considering the Legate’s troubled past, as few communities would welcome a former slave with open arms, especially a beaten, tortured one like Falling Rain had been. It wasn’t due to a lack of empathy, but rather because the risk of Defilement was far too high for most communities to stomach.

To think, the soft-spoken, kindhearted, generous Falling Rain had once been a slave, and was now Legate of the Outer Provinces, the highest ranking Official in all the lands save the East. What a time to be alive...

With his pleasant memories soon interrupted by flashbacks of the desperate retreat from Sinuji, Rustram set to inspecting his retinue unit by unit while praying the Legate’s preparations were enough, because he did not want a repeat of his earlier experience. There were many more Imperial Demon Slayers and Peak Experts here in Castle JiangHu, so if things grew desperate enough that Rustram had to hold off the Enemy Demons again, then he wasn’t sure if he had the skills necessary to survive this second time around. Despite all the tales of his accomplishments and the accolades he’d received since, he didn’t believe he deserved his new rank of Major, for he was sorely lacking in personal strength. Yes, it was true he fended off more than one Demon during the hectic, extended escape from Sinuji, but in his eyes, he hadn’t defeated a Demon so much as he survived the encounters. At no point were his foes ever in danger from him during their duels, whereas even the slightest misstep would have seen Rustram killed outright. Duelling with a Demon was a game with margins so thin, even Bulat couldn’t spin the odds to make them look good, so Rustram had no desire to go at it again.

It frustrated him to no end seeing his rapier glance off his Demonic foe’s hide time and time again, but while he understood why it happened, he didn’t much like not knowing how to pierce through a Demon’s Innate Defences. There was no helping it though, since he had yet to Form his Natal Palace, much less achieve the next milestone along the Martial Path which was supposedly vital to do battle against Demons. As such, he put aside all thoughts of being the carp who leaped through the Dragon Gate and focused on his tasks at hand, doing what he could do instead of focusing on what he could not. The battlefield was a place where snakes and dragons intermingle, so Rustram would do well not to forget that he was not yet a dragon and only barely a snake.

The sun was barely peeking over the horizon when he finally declared the retinue ready to withdraw, which was well within the time-frame Brigadier Hongji had provided. As such, Rustram was given the order to set out and guard the northern flank, marching between the likes of Lu Jia Zian and Tam Taewoong. It was always nice working with competent Officers, but Rustram was nervous to have his name spoken alongside these two rising Dragons, and doubly so when the Brigadier’s aide informed him he was to hold operational command. Despite holding the rank of Major attached to the Imperial Defence Force, Rustram had now been granted the authority over any and all Officers deployed on the Northern Flank, a job which should have gone to a Lieutenant Colonel at the very least. Granted, they were probably all being kept in reserve as Demon Slayer squads, but why Rustram was chosen over everyone else, he could only guess. He assumed it had to do with the Legate’s bestowal of rank, which made him all the more fool for having overlooked his talented wife for this distinguished assignment.

Putting aside his internal panic and innumerable complaints, Rustram led his soldiers out to the rear walls where ropes aplenty were already in place to aid in their descent. This left the gates free for the cumbersome wagons carrying all their supplies, and he wasted no time ordering Wang Bao to lead the first group down, if only so he didn’t have to spend any more time with the stiff-backed, straight-laced soldier. Before the first group even made it down to the ground, however, the clamour of battle erupted from the west and Rustram turned to investigate, only to realize there was nothing to see besides the backs of the soldiers manning the inner wall. No doubt the Enemy had Scryed out Hongji’s intentions and were now hellbent on taking Castle JiangHu before too many soldiers escaped, and Rustram offered a prayer to those brave warriors holding the outer wall against all odds, with special focus on Brigadier Hongji and Lady Yan.

But only a short prayer, as time was of the essence. When Rustram turned to order his troops to double time, they’d already sensed his urgency and were all but running down the ropes in their haste to deploy. Good. The sooner they were in place, the sooner he could familiarize himself with the units under his command and rearrange the deployment to best take advantage of their strengths and minimize their weaknesses. It would only be infantry, as any and all cavalry were already out in the field, so there wasn’t much he could do with mismatched units of Imperial Officers. Lately, Rustram was enamoured by the Legate’s ‘wild’ idea that soldiers should not be assigned by faction or affiliation, but rather based on the weapons they carried. Imagine a unit of Spiritual Spear wielding Martial Warriors deployed to guard the flank against cavalry, supporting a unit of shield bearing warriors to hold the centre, while keeping a unit of dual-wielding skirmishers in reserve to hammer at weak points in the enemy line. Cavalry lancers, heavily-armoured hammers, wall-clearing axemen, the beauty of specialization just made too much sense not to fall in love with, but sadly, Martial Warriors would not easily fall in line. If a Warrior’s choice of weapon dictated where he served in battle, then newer, aspiring Warriors would no doubt pick the most ‘popular’ option, rather than what suited them best as they should. Even now, there was a preponderance of swords and spears within the Imperial Army, solely because they were the most efficient weapons in terms of manufacture and training costs. The sad truth of the matter was that most Martial Warriors would never own a Spiritual Weapon, due to the exorbitant costs which went into manufacturing one, though the Legate lucked out by stumbling across Yo Ling’s Spiritual Stone mine.

Which made the Bekhai’s inclination towards the longbow that much more sensible. The weapon took a lifetime to master, but it was a deadly tool in the hands of a competent marksmen, one that could more than make up for the lack of a personal Spiritual Weapon in most battlefield encounters. Only Demons could wholly negate the threat of stinging arrows, as even a Divinity would die if caught unawares, or so he assumed.

Taking one last look at the turbulent western front, Rustram burned the memory into his mind in tribute of the soldiers and irregulars selling their lives to buy their comrades more time. No doubt the Legate or Brigadier Hongji had some plan in place to safely extract the rearguard, but even the best laid plans could go awry. All he could do was play his part and hope for the best, so he set forth to do just that. Ignoring the knotted ropes, Rustram marched up to the edge of the wall, steeled his nerves, checked to see if the bottom was clear, and jumped. Lightening for all he was worth, he kept one hand pressed against the wall to slow his descent ever-so-slightly, though he was still dropping faster than he cared to. Rather than heed his panicked instincts and bracing for impact, he forced himself to relax and kept his knees bent ever so slightly. As the ground rushed up to meet him, he pushed off against the wall as hard as he could while simultaneously Deflecting from both feet, which resulted in a cloud of dust spraying up from under his boots while he quickly but casually bounded across the packed dirt ground with a noticeable spring in his step.

From an outsider’s perspective, it appeared as though Rustram took one step off the wall and continued walking as soon as his feet reached the ground. This was a favoured technique of Mentor’s husband, the Bloody-Fanged Wolf Baatar, allowing him to Cloud-Step into the thick of battle as quickly as possible. The memory was engraved in Rustram’s mind, the valiant Lieutenant General dropping from the skies over Sinuji with a thundering crash and bloodcurdling howl of fury and bloodlust, striking fear into the hearts of friend and foe alike. Unlike Mentor’s husband, Rustram’s descent was much slower and less impressive, more of a controlled fall in which it appeared as if gravity’s hold on him was lessened. Judging by how his landing kicked up a small puff of dust rather than an eruption of dirt and stone, he still had a long ways to go before catching up to the half-wolf hero, assuming he even could.

The flashy descent was something of a waste of Chi, especially since Rustram could have easily just climbed down the ropes, but Mentor taught him to take every opportunity he had to train. Where talent was lacking, hard work must take up the slack. Wasting Chi now was better than wasting Chi later, because so long as he only had to focus on giving orders and moving soldiers into formation, Rustram could still hold onto Balance and replenish his spent reserves, a skill he picked up in yet another of Mentor’s gruelling endurance training sessions. A merciless taskmaster, she was always pushing him towards improvement and instilling him with a drive he didn’t know he had, for which he would forever be grateful. Granted, there were times he wished she would ease up just a little, like when she made him drag a fully-loaded, wheel-less wagon back and forth across a muddy field until it dried, and refusing to let up even after he vomited thrice.

It was his fault really. Rustram always knew he was lacking talent, but Mentor showed him that talent wasn’t everything along the Martial Path, because hard work and painstaking efforts would be rewarded as well.

