A lesson many a Martial Warrior needed to learn, but they were a prideful bunch, though not without reason. Even now, Rustram had to work hard not to bask in all the attention and approval emanating from the Warriors around him, which was difficult because it was human nature to enjoy admiration and seek out validation from others. Looking at it from a different perspective, by the simple virtue of becoming a Martial Warrior, you were already a step above most of humanity, a wolf among sheep if you will. Many saw this as ‘good enough’ and were halfhearted in their Martial pursuits, because it took tremendous discipline to put in the hard work required of the Martial Path when you were already considered an elite of the human race. In the same way not all craftsmen took pride in their work, not all Martial Warriors cared to pursue the pinnacle of the Martial Path, seeing it as a career rather than a passion, one many didn’t choose no less. This, in Rustram’s opinion, was the number one thing holding most Martial Warriors back, their lack of passion in the Martial Path, for many were quick to lament their own failings and do absolutely nothing to improve them.

Take Silva, Rustram’s good friend and military aide. A lazy scoundrel of a man, he only took the job because it got him away from the front lines, but Rustram was not so kind as to let Silva slack. In addition to his regular duties, Silva also had to attend his regular training with the rest of the soldiers, as well as his personal training to learn how to Send. Two months passed without progress, and when Rustram was considering having Silva busted back into the ranks, he sought out Bulat for advice who said, “Silva? A right lazy bastard, he is. Ban him from alcohol til’ he learns how t’ ask fer it through Sending. That’ll motivate him to learn right and proper.”

Eight days later, Silva Sent his first request, which was great news, but several months had passed since then and he was only a little better than when he started. Passion and motivation, the former clerk lacked both, and it showed in his lacking Martial progress. Viyan and Birca were the same, but to be fair, Pran and Saluk worked harder than any and still were only marginally stronger than average. Such was the way of the world, however, and much as he’d like to, there was no way to change Silva unless he wanted to change. That said, he only slacked when it came to personal matters, and never cut corners when it came to his job, else Rustram would have long since been rid of him. “The retinue is almost in formation,” Silva began, eschewing a salute as he flipped through a sheaf of documents. “I figured ye’d wanna know ‘bout troop compositions, so I talked to the other officers’ aides and got the skinny.” Rattling off a long list of figures, he gave a brief but detailed report of the other retinues, and Rustram set to work arranging his troops.

In the end, he settled on what the Legate called a checker-board formation, with Tam Taewoong and Lu Jia Zian’s retinues broken up into eight, individual thousand-man units, and joined by Wang Bao and Bulat also commanding a thousand men each. Every unit was arranged in individual square formations along a loose line at the rear of the marching formation, with plenty of space between each unit to create alternating ‘squares’ of troops and empty space. Behind them, Rustram arranged a second row of thousand man units in the same general arrangement, only offset by a single ‘square’ so that the units in the second row occupied the area behind the empty ‘squares’ in the first row. The third row was where he and his archers, crossbowmen, and catapults stood all clumped together, while his reserves were stationed ready on either side in their own little squares.

Not the simplest formation to arrange, but it afforded Rustram the flexibility and adaptability he would need to defend the northern flank since he wasn’t sure which angle the Enemy would attack from. The most likely direction was the west, of course, which was why he had his strongest, most coordinated troops positioned there, but if the Defiled cavalry came in from the North or even the East, then his soldiers could easily shift to meet them. This arrangement also offered plenty of flexibility on the march so that the entire division wasn’t all moving at the speed of their slowest soldier, but still keeping together in a fairly tight-knit formation. What’s more, this afforded Rustram the ability to manoeuvre his soldiers around the battlefield with ease in order to support, reinforce, or even replace different individual units mid-battle without sowing too much chaos or confusion among his own troops.

The downside was that a concentrated cavalry charge could easily punch through a single unit and be on the archers in a flash, not to mention the fact that his Peak Experts were more spread out than he’d like. Still, so long as he kept on his toes and his under-officers obeyed orders, Rustram was confident this was the best formation for his purposes. He would’ve been even more confidence if he’d had time to call a meeting with all his Officers, but getting everyone into proper formation took longer than expected since the soldiers were naturally inclined to stand closer together. When his troops were finally ready, the bulk of Castle JiangHu’s forces were already on the field and Brigadier Hongji gave the order to set out at double speed.

As before, the brave Brigadier had taken personal command of the rear guard and placed Colonel Du Kang Bing in command of the overall retreat, which told Rustram two things. One, was that Hongji intended to find success with the same tactic he used in Sinuji, holding back the Enemy with a small, but elite group of Peak Experts, and two, that the good Brigadier had enough Peak Experts to choose from and could spare the heroic Du Kang Bing who’d been gravely injured during their first withdrawal and was still not yet wholly recovered.

On top of matters as always, Silva passed along relevant Sendings for Rustram’s perusal as they marched away from the fortress, and put together, the reports painted a grim portrait of events. The Legate’s carriage was moving with the main bulk of troops, lingering towards the rear so that his Death Corps were poised to bear the brunt of the Enemy assault, while the southern flank was being held by Ishin Ken-Shibu and a smattering of no-name Central dandies. While the Legate’s Death Corps had also adopted a checker-board formation, the southern flank was stretched out in a barely-recognizable crescent-moon formation, with the prongs of the moon pointed towards the west. This would be fine if they were holding a defensive position, but on the march, it was too easy for the soldiers at the prongs of each moon to lag behind, turning the crescent moon into a single packed mass of bodies leaking a trail of lingering soldiers behind it.

The strength of the half-moon formation was in manipulating the surface area of soldiers in combat at any one time and pushing through the Enemy offensive to blunt their momentum, but it would take far more coordination than what the Central soldiers were exhibiting to pull it off during a march. Perhaps the Death Corps could manage it, but Rustram was unable to name a second group, so he quietly had Silva Send word to the Legate and see if he wanted to intervene. The reply came back negative, as the Legate said to watch and wait, so there was nothing to be done except keep moving.

Minutes passed by in agonizing lethargy as the army marched towards the Citadel at a brisk, but steady pace, and Rustram took to inspecting his lines. There was no real need for it, except to distract himself from the disheartening fact that he had yet to spot smoke on the horizon, which would herald the rearguard’s retreat and Imperial soldiers descending from the eastern wall to join him. More minutes ticked by and the walls shrank in the distance, until Rustram finally spotted movement on the battlements. Fate was a cruel mistress however, as his hopes were dashed by the telltale yellow brigantine armour of the Chosen streaming down the Eastern Wall without a care for safety.

Which meant they’d already slaughtered or subdued any and all Imperial Warriors inside the castle walls. Rest well in the warm embrace of the Mother, Brigadier Chen Hongji, and may fate have mercy on those who killed Du Min Yan, for they would find none from Falling Rain.

Now was not the time for rage or despair, so Rustram put aside all emotion to study his foe. Where his speedy descent was the result of countless hours of careful practice and carefully timed Chi skills, the Chosen relied solely on strength of limb to weather the fall, though not all emerged unscathed. Even from this distance, he could make out Chosen breaking ankles and landing atop other Chosen in their haste to pursue the retreating Imperials, their rabid mannerisms wholly at odds with their neat and orderly appearances. The Legate was right to make no distinction between the Defiled and the Chosen, for in the end, they were truly cut from the same cloth. How strange that a suit of armour and the ability to march in lockstep was all that was needed to mistake crazed killers as disciplined soldiers, though there were some who might argue that again, no distinction was needed.

A soldier’s job was to kill, and there was bloody work to be done.

Keeping his tone calm and quiet, he said, “Sending to Colonel Kang Bing. Major Rustram requesting permission to engage.” With luck, there would still be Imperial forces trying to make their way out of the castle, but they’d never get away with so many Chosen already on the field.

There was a brief pause as Silva relayed the request, but Rustram was already ordering his ranged contingents into formation. Siyar and Ravil had their Martial Warriors wielding crossbows on the north and south flanks respectively, while Sai Chou and her Protectorate were marching with Rustram. Beaming with a smile which made his heart swoon, his beloved winked in acknowledgement of her orders and Sent, “Yes Ser, Major Ser. Might I also say, Ser, that ye looked mighty pretty comin’ down from the wall back there. Might think about gettin’ yerself a cape, Ser, so it kin flutter in th’ wind as ye come down, Ser. Maybe some of them poofy pants too, the mighty fine silk ones with the frills, tho Ser’ll wanna make sure he ties the cuffs down tight, else yer pants might billow out and rip if ye fall too quickly, Ser.”

Doing his best to ignore the breach in protocol and keep his cheeks from turning scarlet, Rustram looked away from his lady love as she yammered on about how exposing himself to the Defiled might actually give them pause. This teasing was just her way of dealing with nerves, because despite her accomplishments in archery and the Martial Dao, Sai Chou was only two years older than Rustram, marking her as a stand-out talent and capable Martial Warrior unlike him. However, she was also never formally trained as a soldier, and while she saw her fair share of action defending the Guardian Turtle around Ping Yao, dealing with poachers and mercenaries was a far cry from battling with the Defiled, and the Chosen were even worse. While she had since blossomed into a formidable veteran of war, as the only unmounted archer unit in the retinue, Sai Chou and the Protectorate had precious little chances to meet the Defiled in close combat, and the prospect still rattled her nerves something fierce.

She was such an enigma, his rough, woodsy woman, brave as a lion, strong as an ox, and beautiful as the sun was bright, yet still too shy to wear a dress unless the occasion demanded it. There was a time when Rustram thought to tame her, but now he saw that there was no need, for her wild nature was part and parcel of her beauty and allure. He loved her as she was, and he eagerly awaited the day when he convinced her to take him as her husband, but to do this, he had to ensure they both survived this coming conflict.

“Colonel Kang Bing’s response: Permission denied.”

“Excellent. Send orders to – wait, denied?”

“Aye Major Mister Rustram.” Offering a halfhearted shrug, Silva added, “No explanation. Orders are to continue marching east at double speed.”

It was the wrong move, in Rustram’s opinion, especially in light of the southern flank’s state of disarray. The Chosen vanguard needed to be quickly dealt with before they picked up momentum and drew even more Defiled away from their bloody, gruesome games. No doubt there were many an Imperial Warrior screaming beneath the blades of their Chosen tormentors, but Rustram could do nothing to save them and could only work to ensure their deaths were not in vain. Should the Chosen catch up and bog down the Imperial retreat long enough, then those captured soldiers would still die, and the withdrawing forces would join them soon after. The Chosen were difficult enough to kill while manning the walls of Castle JiangHu, and Rustram was not looking forward to finding out first-hand how difficult they were to kill on open ground.

