Tait nodded and showed Ren how to knead the dough properly. Once it was done, Tait cut it up into small portions, rolled the portions into a ball, and put them on a big baking tray. Ren helped with this and the tray was nearly filled by the time they ran out of dough to add. Tait took the tray and put it into the oven behind the table.

“They cook fast, because the oven is so hot.” Tait said as he lifted a huge bowl onto the table. “If you time it right, you can get a mix done just as the rolls are ready to come out.”

Ren nodded and watched as Tait put in all the ingredients he needed to make the dough. He sifted everything together, then added in water slowly, kneading between each pour. The mixture became dough eventually and Tait dumped it onto the flour covered table. Tait turned around and took out the freshly baked rolls and smiled. They were a nice golden brown on the top.

“Grab the brush and bowl.” Tait said and pointed.

Ren picked up the bowl and nearly spilled the liquid butter inside. “Oops... I almost made a mess.” He said, carefully dipped the brush into the butter, and handed the brush to Tait, who quickly brushed the liquid butter over the tops of the rolls and the smell filled the kitchen. Ren put the bowl back where it was and Tait told him to start kneading the dough. Ren dipped his hands in the flour and started to knead. Ren was pretty strong, so he kneaded really fast.

“How many times do you have to do it?” Ren asked Tait, who just stood there and stared at how easily Ren was kneading.

“Um... just until it's mixed together well. Usually 5 to 10 minutes, depending on how big of a batch you're making.” Tait said, surprised.

“I've never done this before. Is it mixed up yet?” Ren asked, and Tait nodded. Ren got another popup.

Notice!

You have learned a new recipe: Baked Bread Rolls

Only 2 minutes! Tait thought. He did it in 2 minutes! Tait put another tray on the table and they both made rolls. They did this several more times and Ren started to get the hang of when the mixture was actually done.

This is fun! Ren thought, getting into the grove of mix, knead, roll and bake.

Tait stood back and watched as Ren took over and did everything. By the fourth batch of doing it alone, Ren had to wait for the last tray of rolls to come out of the oven before he could put in the next one.

“I think that's enough rolls for today.” Donna said and took one to taste. It was one of the rolls Ren had made alone. She chewed it for a minute, swallowed, then nodded.

“Yes!” Ren said. “Thanks for showing me how to make rolls!” He said to Tait, who stood there with a blank expression on his face.

What is with this guy? Tait thought as Ren walked away. He looks like he actually enjoyed that!

“What's next?” Ren asked, enthusiastically.

Donna smiled and took Ren into a quick one arm hug and let him go. “I can see why Donan likes you.” She said and took Ren around the kitchen, showing him all the different things that they made in the run of a day. Ren did everything Donna asked him to, and once he started actually cooking things, he got a popup.

Notice!

You have unlocked a skill: Cooking Level 1 (Beginner 0%)

This skill will allow you to cook basic meals for consumption. Food restores Health and maintains Vitality.

Higher skill levels will allow better quality dishes to be made and potentially offer special bonuses.

When night rolled around, Teepo had explored every nook and cranny he could find. By the time evening supper had been served in the mansion, Ren had participated in more different tasks than he'd ever done in a single day before. He cooked several things on the stove, baked in the oven, made pastries, helped decorate a cake, and so many little things that he leveled up Cooking twice. Ren helped clean up the place and then put away all the ingredients to be used for the next day. It took a lot more time for the prep work to be done than it did for making the actual food, but Ren didn't mind that at all. Once everyone had left for the night, Donna led Ren back to her office.

“You did a great job today, Ren.”

Ren grinned. “It was fun! I don't remember the last time I learned so much in so short a time.”

Donna smiled. “Well, would you like to learn more?”

“I would!” Ren said, but then his face went from enthusiastic to blank. “Um... I've got a couple of things being delivered tomorrow at my building, and a friend is stopping in sometime during the day...” Ren said.

“I see.” Donna said.

“I'll come by as soon as I can tomorrow.” Ren said. “I don't have anything planned for the rest of the week, until the mirror and anvil are delivered.”

Donna's eyes widened at all of Ren's exceptions.

“I'll be all yours for 4 days, between tomorrow and the end of the week. All day, every day.” Ren said. “I'd really like to learn everything I can.”

Donna thought about it for a few minutes. “All right. If you can get here early enough tomorrow, and stay for 4 straight days... I'll teach you.”

New Quest!

You have promised to learn everything you can from Donna in a short period of time. The sooner you get started, the more you will learn.

Difficulty: B

Rewards: ????

Ren hopped out of the chair and reached over to shake Donna's hand. “Thank you!” Ren said. “You won't regret this.” He turned around and opened the office door.

“Wait.” Donna said, and Ren looked back at her. “I asked around, and no one knows where the things in the bathrooms came from. Everyone says that they've just always been there.”

Ren nodded. “Thanks for letting me know. See you tomorrow.” He said, left the office, and equipped his cloak. Teepo hopped into the hood and Ren exited the mansion through the front door. I hope Clint comes over early tomorrow. Ren thought as he walked home. I don't think Donna is someone you should keep waiting for too long.

Ren arrived at his building and let himself in. “Hi, Ruck.”

Ruck waved, then raised it's hands up in a 'what's going on' gesture.

Ren chuckled. “Sorry, I got caught up learning how to cook some things and was gone longer than I thought I'd be.”

Ruck did the 'thumbs up' gesture and Ren smiled. “I'll be going back for a few days; starting late tomorrow.”

Ruck dropped it's hands and looked forlorn, if that was possible for a backpack. Ren walked over to it. “Hey, don't worry.” Ren said and pat it on the head. “I'm really going to need your help soon.”

“Why's that?” Teepo asked.

“I'll be heading to the dwarf city next week, I don't know how long I'll be gone, and I'll need someone to help carry my stuff.” Ren said.

Ruck gave the 'okay' signal. “Thanks, Ruck.” Ren smiled. “Goodnight.”

Ren walked over to the paving stone entrance to Teepo's place and leaned over. Teepo hopped off and crawled out of sight.

Goodnight, Teepo.

“Goodnight, Ren. See you in the morning.”

Ren went upstairs and into the apartment. He shut the door and went into the bedroom. Lucy's phantom form lay there on the bed and Ren crawled into bed next to her, laying on his side.

“Hey, guess what?” Ren asked Lucy's phantom form. “We're spending our first night together in my apartment.” He said and rolled onto his back, tucking his hands behind his head. “It's too bad you have no idea that it's happening.”

Ren smiled and closed his eyes. “Goodnight, Lucy.”
