Xoat easily said, “I’m not going to force you into anything, Erick, and I certainly won’t fight you. You will win any confrontation between us. I would be an easy person for you to kill.” Xoat said, “But then I would come back, because I am very, very good at coming back. That’s why I have to do all these machinations in order to actually die.” He shrugged. “After I came back, I would simply ignore you and do some adjustments to Nothanganathor and give him the whole crown. Honestly, that would be the easiest thing to do. You’ve already ascended to Benevolence and made your own power. He’s mostly Dark in his soul. He never managed to become a fae, in truth. You could go die in the Dark if you wanted, and make a whole universe out of just yourself, though he likely wouldn’t want you, since you haven’t seen enough or been big enough to make sense of everything that is the Dark.”

Erick realized something. “I was never there for all that time in the Old Cosmology. It was you, the whole time. I never traveled into the past. I just accepted Nothanganathor’s existence into myself, and you retroactively became me, and I gained your memories.”

Xoat nodded. “Like a remembrance of the past, but different; I remembered myself a little differently through the lens of ‘you’.” He shrugged. “That’s just a mortal’s way of interpreting events, though. You could easily decide that you set up a plan 20,000 years in the making and you followed through with that plan, and you would still be correct. Wizard Wars are like that,” Erick said, alongside Xoat.

The moment separated.

Xoat smiled, chuckling.

Erick felt adrift. He had been speaking with Xoat, as Xoat, and then the moment had ended. But he knew a lot more about himself in that moment. He felt calm.

Nothanganathor almost said something—

Both Erick and Xoat obliterated Nothanganathor at the same time.

Both of them brought him back at the same time, too.

Erick said to Xoat, “Sorry you woke up.”

“I’ll be back asleep soon enough. You really don’t want to be a god?”

“How about... Instead of the God of Magic being the main god in your universe, you make a God of Benevolence the head god? As long as I can still be myself, I’ll become that god.” Erick added, “But honestly, I would like to not be that powerful. I like being me. I don’t even like time walking that much, except it’s a power that was necessary in so many different ways. I’ll just live a normal, one-directional life… But that’s probably impossible, isn’t it.”

“Many things are possible for the gods we crown, in the universe we leave behind.” Xoat smiled. “We don’t like being that powerful either, Erick. We get it. That’s why we don’t stick around in the Dark like that Fractal Fairy does in her own universe. She’s young, though, so that’s normal for her. I’m simply too old for this shit anymore… And I like the idea of a God of Anti-Sundering being in charge. I like that. But it’s not enough for you. It’s not enough to make a true Mantle. You need a source of actual power.”

A moment passed.

Erick had an idea.

From the look of it, Xoat might have had the same idea.

Erick voiced, “We need to do something with that Dragon Curse we usurped, and with the Malevolence that we absorbed when we accepted Nothanganathor’s rage into ourselves. How about we twist the Dragon Curse away from Dragons, and simply make it a multitargetable power, able to be used against the users of any Element we disapprove? For a start, we would target Malevolence, and make all the users of that power fight others, thus diminishing the power of that magic in this and every other universe. It would be a bloodbath of universal proportion, in beautiful accordance with what Malevolence has already done, and Malevolence would kill itself,” Xoat said.

Erick paused.

… Had Erick said that?

Or had Xoat?

Xoat nodded. “I like that idea.”

Erick was suddenly unsure. “That would kill… So many people would die. The people of Margleknot who use Malevolence to control corruption alone… It’s too many people. And the collateral damage! Most users aren’t that bad! Most—”

“Aren’t that bad?” Xoat laughed, and it was not a kind laugh. “Malevolence woke me up, Erick, and every single Red user is another potential bomb waiting to Sunder this universe, or any other. I saw what Nothanganathor did out there with his copies of people. You saw what he did, too. He stole faces and put bombs into people and he could do it again. Anyone with a proper Infinite Sign of Power and too much cleverness could do the same.”

He was right about that.

Still, though, Erick didn’t want to damn so many people to murdering those they knew…

“There has to be another way,” Erick said.

“Come up with one,” Xoat said. “It doesn’t even have to be a particularly good answer, but it does have to be one that solves the problem.”

Erick thought.

Erick came up with an answer.

Erick declared, “I accept the Malevolence I took from my True Opposite and the Dragon Curse from the same source, and I twist them into Benevolence. What once caused all Dragons to turn against each other so that none may rise, now becomes a Decree of Unwelcome, which isn’t dragon-aligned at all. The first target is Malevolence Itself. Let the powers deemed Unwelcome by the God of Benevolence simply start failing, turned in upon themselves, to become lesser in that turning. People will fight, but not with that which is Unwelcome. Let a Benevolent Erasure be the Fate decreed against all Unwelcome strength,” Xoat intoned.

Erick felt the world Open.

Erick felt the attention of the Dark before he got its true attention.

Beyond the white platform lay the True Dark, filled with tendrils of life and death alike. Black skeletal hands, razors of thread, mouths full of teeth, talons and metal, tentacles with hooks, all caressed Xoat’s shoulders and arms, and their touch was soft. They held Xoat’s hand now and then, like a friend checking up on a friend.

When the Dark had come for Nothanganathor it tore him apart as many as a thousand times or more, before putting him back together exactly as he had been. The man hadn’t had time to scream, but he had time to feel every injury for a year before the breaking was actually done. Erick imagined that reconstruction was just as painful.

Which was probably the point.

Xoat had wanted Nothanganathor to feel the pain of coming back together, to know what he had done in the Sundering

And now the Darkness came for Erick.

The Black Dark shifted, eyes and maws moving, repositioning, focus changing. Eyelids moved into view, lifting and opening and shining Absolute Black upon Erick. There was no light in those eyes at all. The only light here was because of Xoat.

The Dark reached for Erick in ten million ways; questioning, claiming.

Erick reached for The Dark; accepting, changing.

Infinity broke and came back together.

Erick Became.

- - - -

“Not a bad way to start off your first Prime Godhood, my carving knife,” I said, as I watched Erick accept his Mantle.

This was acceptable.

Erick’s ascension was rather flashy due to the nature of restructuring a lot of things in the background and his Mantle was full of holes, for now, but Erick would be filling those holes himself in the coming however-long.

Erick moved on, vanishing. Ascending.

Since he had time magics I assumed he would come back to this moment in time, or somewhere close by, which was good. I wouldn’t have to wait overlong for my carving knife to hone himself.

I felt good about this. Really good.

Ahhh…

Yes.

This was the right choice.

With gentle fondness, I looked up to the Dark, and smiled, asking, “What should we do with Nothanganathor?”

As always, and in a way I couldn’t quite understand while I was just one person, the Dark gave too many answers. A claw snapped an arm off. An eye closed. A metal arm wrapped into a fleshy arm and puppeted that flesh. They were all adequate answers. Any would suffice, so I picked the one I liked.

I asked Nothanganathor, “Did you like being the God of Magic for a time?”

Nothanganathor glared hatred. This time I did not interrupt him as he yelled, “Give it back! I won the battle!”

He was surprised that he was able to speak at all, but once he found he could, he kept talking.

I allowed it.

“The Dark should give me the crown! By ancient rite I deserve it! I tricked my way into power, and have thus earned that power. I had won!”

“Yup. You did win. I crowned you. And then I killed you! Isn’t a universe built upon the whims of the powerful just the best!” I said smiling, sarcastic.

Nothanganathor was speechless.

I added, “That last part was sarcasm, by the way. Everything else was truly told.”

Nothanganathor pleaded, “I would give you everything you ever wanted so that I could make the Painted Cosmology and all other places better through my actions. You saw my plans. Erick is barely a hundred years old! He’s too young to be a Prime God!”

Ah, the problem of age.

Oftentimes being older doesn’t make one smarter at all. It just makes one more entrenched.

I did not respond to Nothanganthor’s words. Instead, I used the Sign of Power I had taken from Nothanganathor and pulled Ara out of containment, into this transitional space. The woman, Nothanganathor’s love, was little more than painted colors and shaped clouds of memory, held together by nothing more than Elemental Dream and Love.

She started disintegrating immediately.

Nothanganathor panicked just as fast, reaching, yelling, “Don’t—!”

I solidified Ara. “She’s not going to break while I am here.”

Nothanganathor calmed.

I waited.

He asked, “What do you want?”

“I will recreate your wife, Ara. You two will meet for a moment. And then you both die, Sundered. That is the deal I am offering you. That is your reward for all your efforts at power. Everything else will be removed. All that will remain of your entire story is how much you loved what could have been, and that you chose to pursue what you loved wrongly.”

Nothanganathor stared at his wife.

A long, long time passed, and no time passed at all. Nothanganathor tried to escape many times. He failed. He screamed. He begged. He pleaded. He spoke of his deeds, both terrible and beautiful. He was an emperor, a creator, a pioneer. He was a unifier of universes. He was a speaker between realities. He was ancient and powerful. And yet, none of that mattered. Not here. Not at his End.

Perhaps, in some ways, he grew as a person as he explained who he was. He had ascended to True Wizard not too long ago, solidifying himself as himself. Now, he was now ripping at himself to find out who he Simply Was. But as he kept tearing, he found himself lesser and lesser. The foundation was rotten, built upon lies and the forcing of power, and in removing the rotten boards, Nothanganathor discovered he Simply Wasn’t.

Perhaps, if he kept going, he would have found something acceptable about himself at his core. There was a lot there.

Some of it was good.

But his voice was hoarse as he said, “I wasn’t good enough, was I?”

“Aside from the Sundering, you would have made a fantastic God of Magic. You plotted out a major coup against your mother and gave yourself the opportunity to succeed, where before you had nothing. You even allowed Melemizargo to have a fair fight against you, because you knew if you didn’t, then you never would have been worthy of the Mantle. Even today, with what you did against Erick, you followed that same pattern, crafting someone worthy of fighting against you, because you knew if you didn’t, then you never would have been accepted by the Dark. Even the Sundering itself was forgivable, in the grand sense that nothing matters at all except what people make matter,” I said, “But the Sundering was not forgivable because of your thefts. Just like Melemizargo did when he stole your Dark Mark at the end of that tournament and cursed you to Obscurity, you stole the Marks of an entire universe instead of allowing them to fade into the Dark, as is our right. No one is allowed to strip the chance to ascend from anyone else, Nothanganathor. No one.”

Nothanganathor was silent, and then he asked, “How else could I have won, if not for that?”

“Build up Erick and then let him have it, and ask him for forgiveness. He even offered it to you. That would have worked, and you were very close to that solution. I’m sure I could come up with a few other ways if I cared to think about them.”

Another timeless moment passed as Nothanganathor contemplated.

Nothanganathor asked, “Would he have actually forgiven me? Would I have ascended to God of Magic afterward? Since he refrained from taking up that Mantle?”

“In a theoretical world, yeah. That could have happened. Melemizargo certainly isn’t the God of Magic anymore. It was probably wrong to put so much power into that Mantle, anyway, so it wouldn’t have been the Mantle you wanted. Erick will probably be changing that Mantle.”

“… So forgiveness wins out, in the end.”

“Of a sort, yes. Erick and I are rather aligned on that particular position. You and I are also aligned on your position. Sometimes I’m more like him, and sometimes I’m like you. This time, I’m more like him.”

Silence.

Eventually Nothanganathor looked to his pastel-painted wife, Ara, and softly said, “I wish to have Ara back, and then let her go on wherever she can.”

I nodded.

Nothanganathor watched, enthralled, as I painted Ara back to life with my own flesh. It did not take long. I simply had to fill in the parts that were missing with everything that she had been, and who she could become. Who was Ara? She was a witch, a mother, an avenger, a poisoner, a world leader, a wife, dead and never-buried and made Never Was, and then, she was alive. She was Ara, Alive Again.

I was particularly happy with her brilliant red hair.

Ara stood on the white platform, looking around at everything, and then she looked at Nothanganathor.

Nothanganathor stared at her, like he was seeing his last sunrise.

“Nhatuan?” Ara asked quietly, “What is going on?”

Nothanganathor smiled softly, painfully. “I succeeded, and then I failed in every way possible. When you get out of here, tell everyone that you always hated me and that you never willingly took part in anything I wanted. Make up all the lies you can, and please survive.”

Ara stilled, breathing softly. She was a smart one. She did not know everything, but she figured out enough, and fast. She declared, “No. I’m following you. Wherever you go we go together, even if it’s to the End.”

Nothanganathor sobbed once. “Please survive, Ara. You don’t—”

