A plan made over 10,000 years was easily unraveled when a plan began twice that long ago.

Really, though, the bigger plan had begun at the start of Our Painted Cosmology, back in the very creation of it all, and in my joining of the Dark. Nothanganathor didn’t recognize the 20,000 years plan, but he certainly knew of the truly ancient plan, which is why he was so wary of me.

He was right to be wary.

For those that truly knew of me, of Xoat, they had likely heard of me through my family, which still existed out there, which killed everyone that tried to put me back together. They knew my wishes to remain in the Dark. They knew that if I ever came back together I was going to be quite a handful.

Nothanganathor was very right to be wary.

- - - -

I became more Erick in the coming years, when versions of him began Ascending to True Wizard, and Nothanganathor began catching them in his Wizard trap, to eat them. I easily accepted those fragments of myself, into myself.

Nothanganathor spoke to me at around 10,000 dead Ericks, “He’s your plot against me, isn’t he.”

“He is your True Opposite in every way, so it is right for you to be wary. But I did not create him. I am merely here, observing.” I looked upon the wayward child-of-my-soul. “Erick’s trial will be the lathe that makes you a God of Magic, in whatever form that might take.”

Nothanganathor turned away from me and focused on the Ascending Ericks, mumbling, “For the greatness of all, and especially me.”

I watched Erick reach Margleknot.

I saw him come back.

I saw the battles, and the fish-trick kick to Earth, and the return.

And then I saw ten million side realities, captured in Red crystal and floating on the edges of the Red Ocean, that had floated out there for a long while, discharged out of the Sign of Power, like the shedding of great weights, to fall upon Fenrir. Civilizations frozen in time began to unfreeze and lay across the new land and I watched billions die, again, both in the initial fall and the apocalypses that followed as people found themselves set down in environments completely alien to them.

It was tiring to see so much pain.

I do not like pain.

But...

Soon.

Soon, I would not need to witness anything like this, hopefully ever again, but more realistically for just a long while.

I would return to my myriad, smaller lives.

I would fall into the Dark again.

My wonderful Dark.

I missed him, so.

The genuine version of this novel can be found on another site. Support the author by reading it there.

- - - -

Erick screamed as oppression crushed him from every angle and I felt a phantom recollection of that pain. Erick felt no up, or down, or light, or dark, and I remembered that feeling.

All was Red.

Nothanganathor had moved out of his Sign of Power to deal with Erick directly, and since I had never tried to break out, now was the perfect time for my own plans.

I attempted to move against my Red chains, upon the pillar holding me steady in Nothanganathor’s Sign of Power. I moved... Uh. Hmm. I could not move. Apparently, I had misstepped somewhere, because they were stronger than I thought they were. I should have been able to break them. And now that I moved against them so much, ah, yes, alarms in the Chains; an automatic tightening system. When had those been added?

Hmm.

“… Oh bother.”

And then Mixixofatat stepped into the Sign of Power, like the wishmaster that he was.

Ah!

That was right, wasn’t it.

I had requested a Wish from him when I was Erick. Ah. Yes.

Of course.

Mixixofatat bowed, as was customary. “I greet you, Demiurge Prince Xoat. A Wish has been crafted and will now be implemented. If, in your Benevolence, you find my Wish satisfactory, then I pray that I find my End as good as you found yours.”

Mixixofatat loosened my chains while my captor was busy.

The Wishmaster departed without another word, and I was free.

I would have liked to think that I could have done that myself, but that would have alerted Nothanganathor, or something similarly unwelcome. He had done a lot to those chains, not the least of which was using chains that were crafted from mythologies across many universes.

But a good Wish, fully expended, was sufficient to break them without breaking them.

I stepped out of the chains, and the chains whipped back to the pillar and held there.

Nothanganathor carved deeper into Erick, taunting, “The only reward for good work is more work, so become the ultimate workhorse for the Dark, Erick.”

Meanwhile, I stood before the Sign of Power, poised to take it for myself.

Nothanganathor released a pulse of Red that annihilated every Valkyrie within half of the solar system and obliterated half of Erick’s body.

Inside the Sign of Power, those Valkyries joined the Red Ocean that swirled around the center, where I stood in the maelstrom.

Erick knew pain.

I watched Erick’s first painful real death right alongside a satisfied Nothanganathor.

And then I, and my rapidly-becoming-unhappy host, watched as Erick’s death became something transformative, instead of merely obliterative. Erick twisted Red into his body, accepting it for what it was; an expression of hatred for an unjust universe.

I remembered how I, as Erick, had felt in that death, oh so long ago. In that moment, Erick hadn’t seen Nothanganathor as his enemy. Not really. Erick had no real enemies; only people he hadn’t turned better by his presence yet. In that way, he and I were alike.

Erick truly was the inheritor of my soul, but he likely didn’t see it that way, because how could he? I was all powerful, and he was me, and I did not want to be all-powerful either. But I was all powerful, most of the time. And so, the rest of Erick’s plan flowed to fruition, through me.

I grabbed the Sign of Power, claiming it and all its attendant treasures as my own by right of primacy.

Nothanganathor realized what had happened inside of him a moment too late, screaming out his own disapproval into the uncaring void.

I consumed Nothanganathor completely.

And then I had an internal debate.

- - - -

Erick was lost in the Dark. Everything was black and twisted and screaming and ten trillion people talking all at once. But it was also comfortable. It was warm.

Sometimes the Dark was understandable.

Erick watched his arm lift and send out White Lightning into the Old Cosmology, and he knew that everyone that saw it had the chance to live. It was the only reason that Veird had survived at all. That small act made his heart flutter, his breath calm, and in that moment, he realized he had a heart and breath. The next moment, the Dark was back and Erick forgot his body and his purposes in life.

Occasionally he saw people that he cared about appear in Red crystals, sitting outside of himself, and then the Dark flowed back together—

Light.

Burning, revealing, creating.

The ground appeared. The Dark pulled back like ten trillion black arms and legs and fingers and mouths and eyes retreating, to give space to the meeting of the minds happening right here, and right now.

Erick stood upon a white platform in the dark.

Nothanganathor, as a person, stood on the platform with him, a simple ten meters over there.

Everywhere else was dark claws and hands and arms and tentacles, reaching, twisting, folding upon one another, but staying outside of this direct space—

And then there was a boy who was a girl who was a demiurge.

He appeared, stepping out of black limbs like he was simply stepping out of a curtain of veils. Those limbs were ravenous and raging everywhere except for around the boy. Around him, they were soft, and gentle, and they wrapped him in veils of black.

The boy took primacy in the space, and spoke softly, “Hello, my distant selves, who claimed my power and made it their own.”

Nothanganathor launched off of the ground like a mortal, moving with a rage in his eyes as he attacked the child—

Nothanganathor was pulped by ten trillion grabbing Dark tendrils.

Red sprayed everywhere as Nothanganathor died.

The child said, “I have wanted to do that for a long time. I think I get that from you, Erick, and from everyone else he killed in his Sundering. It was quite rude of him to do all that.”

The child blinked at the red gore covering the platform, and Nothanganathor reassembled. The man fell onto his ass and he stayed there, bewildered.

The child exploded him again, and then put him back together. Again, and again.

Each tearing took a year and a day to complete.

Each assembly took another year.

But for Erick, every death and recreation happened in a flashing instant again and again, as the child tore Nothanganathor apart a few more times.

Nothanganathor reappeared in blinks, crying out for mercy each time.

“No—”

“Sto—”

“Ple—!”

“I beg—!”

The child kept killing him. “Oh yes. You need to be the God of Magic to fulfill some Fate, don’t you? Here you go.”

Nothanganathor was the God of Magic, just like that. Wrapped in Black and radiant as a sun—

The child killed him again, taking back the Darkness that he had given out.

Nothanganathor died many more times.

The unrepentant killer of a universe started crying—

“Stop,” Erick said, softly.

The child smiled at Erick, and Nothanganathor came back together. This time Nothanganathor did not perish. He simply sat there, bloodless and waiting for more pain. The guy was terrified. Erick saw the hurt in Nothanganathor’s eyes as the man recovered from his years of dying, and the torture of having his power given and then taken away.

Nothanganathor recovered fast.

Too fast.

In a terrible sort of way, Erick saw the hate and the plotting in Nothanganathor’s eyes, and he knew that Nothanganathor would never stop hurting others to put himself back on top. Erick had known for a long time that Nothanganathor would never stop...

“And yet,” the child said, continuing Erick’s thoughts for him, for the child had been him until recently. “You still call for peace and love and forgiveness of one’s enemies. Even enemies who will never stop.” He smiled a little bit. “Do you know who I am, Erick?”

“I’m pretty sure, yeah. The First Wizard.”

“I’m just Xoat. Or The Prince. Or Erick, if you want to get really recursive about it.”

“I was you,” Erick said, wondering how that worked.

“I was you,” Xoat said, giggling softly, and not wondering about anything, for he was beyond that mortal confusion.

Nothanganathor opened his mouth—

Nothanganathor exploded into red gore that came right back together. Nothanganathor did not try to speak again.

Xoat ignored Nothanganathor and said to Erick, “I will tell you a tale. No one else will tell you this tale except my parents and my sister, but they’ll tell it wrong, depending on who they are at the moment. I’ve told them what I want to be many times, but they never really believed me, for why would the Most Living among them all want to become Not That? I’ve given my reasons enough, though, and you can probably figure out the unsaid parts.

“I wished to be lesser so that I could be more.

“I became a universe with my best friend the Dark.

“We created Our Painted Cosmology together.”

Xoat lifted up a hand and a big tendril of Black twisted out of the wall of the same, coiling around Xoat’s arm and his waist, spreading ink everywhere. Xoat giggled and let go and the Black pulled away, though the ink stains remained, becoming more of a dress; more flowing veils upon Xoat’s childlike body.

“We’re really good friends. Not sure if you caught that when I was you.

“Anyway.

“This Sundering has happened 3 times before.

“The first 3 were all rather fast events.

“In the very first version of Our Painted Cosmology I put myself into my paintings and my sister needed help to make her own universe, to feel like she was involved, so I let her take my painting and put it into the Darkness. This was when the Dark tore me apart to say hello.

“I wanted this.

“You might too if you ever live ten trillion years and you want to do something new. I didn’t want a memory death, so I opted for a sundering. Sundering didn’t use to mean the uncreation of a universe, you know. But I suppose it means its exact opposite these days, which is fine.

“You can do the same to yourself if you ever want. Just jump into the nearest soul blender of your choice and whatever happens, happens. I chose the Dark, but there are others out there.

“Anyway, there was the First Cosmology. That lasted about a thousand years and it wasn’t great, because I did it wrong that time, and Mom and Dad and Sister were trying to put me back together, to save me. They un-Sundered me.

“I jumped into the Dark again myself, the next time. That seemed to make a better universe; actively choosing it instead of letting it be done to me by an unwitting accomplice.

“Attempt 2 went better, but was still a failure. Shadow and the others put me back together because they still couldn’t let go, and then I went and tried a third time.

“Attempt 3 worked out very well. That is what became Our Painted Cosmology. The one you know about, and the one that you witnessed through the memories of me. That time my family helped in every way they could, and so, the Third Cosmology lasted for a few million years, or something like that.

“And now, here we are, in the birthing of Attempt 4.” Xoat said, “I care very much that this is done as correctly as possible, Erick, so you will be the tool I use to carve myself asunder.

“Become my God of Magic.”

Nothanganathor made the tiniest noise of despair.

That noise earned him another obliteration and reconstitution.

Erick had a lot of thoughts that boiled down fast.

Erick asked, “What if I don’t want it?”

“Then I make a God out of Nothanganathor and parts of you.” Xoat said, “The person I create will be the perfect Forever King, using Benevolence and Malevolence in proper measure. He will mostly be made out of you. Maybe I just take all of you right now and use you whole-cloth, with no adjustments at all. You already took in those bits of Malevolence earlier that would make this version of you a great ruler.” Xoat shrugged. “But you are a fae, and so whatever drops of yourself which remain after your Sundering will be reborn in the Benevolence you created.” He added, “If you actively choose this, though, then Benevolence will become the new flavor of the Dark. I imagine you or my family will put down Stone, Water, Fire, Air, Light, and Shadow again, with Benevolence as the 7th Primary Element, along with Dark making 8 big Elements. Malevolence can go away.”

Erick whispered, “… And if I fight you? Choose a third path?”

Erick wasn’t sure about his chances against a demiurge, and especially not in this space, in this wherever/whatever/whenever.

