Slaver’s Den didn’t seem capable of stopping the new cascaders at all. They saw the glowing white orbs, of course; those brilliant cascaders were impossible to miss. But when they approached those orbs with any sort of power at all, the orbs popped. Erick was pretty sure that someone would eventually come up with some ways to attack through those ‘scry orbs’ or block them well, but that was true of all Scry Magic; there was no be-all-end-all solution to the ever-evolving arms race of Scry versus anti-Scry magic.

For now, it worked well.

And now Erick was going to make the Absolute Grand Violence war magic he had originally set out to make.

… He thought of Solomon again.

And then Erick dove into his soul and copied [Infinite Imaging]. With eyes half-lidded and his soul holding onto the copy of [Infinite Imaging], Erick spoke as he adjusted the power inside of him,

“With incantations, weave the base,

“A canvas for all spells to trace.

“Through solidity of magic streams,

“Here holds a power; frightful schemes.”

The copy of [Infinite Imaging] shifted inside of Erick, becoming something simpler, but only vaguely, like turning a computer into a monomolecular wire. The new spell held a promise of endings in a way few of Erick’s spells ever did, because this was the spell that Erick had told himself he would never make. This was a spell that was, perhaps, worse than attaching [Luminous Beam] to [Cascade Imaging], because he could attach any spell to this one.

Erick pulled out of his soul and summoned the new spell to the forefront of his mind.

Words appeared.

Spellsurge Weave, instant + time, special range, 500/10 mana/resons per weaver + Special Cost

Conjure a weaver that will build up an image of a greater surrounding area over the course of a minute, or less. Resulting map lasts until dismissed. Recasting Spellsurge Weave on the same location will create more weavers that will network together to make the image clearer faster, to scan from multiple directions, and to extend the range of this spellwork.

All weavers linked to the same image work together.

If you designate a target, then the image might show them.

Each Spellsurge Weave image is a magic completely unto itself, made at the time of casting, for each main cast of Spellsurge Weave will accept 1 imbued spell from the caster that must be a spell that exists within the caster’s soul. Freeform magic is not accepted. Targets of that imbued spell can be changed by casting Spellsurge Weave again, but the imbued spell cannot be changed once imbued.

Spellsurge Weave will support the imbued spell as it is able, acting as a Node Network for that supported spellwork.

Erick breathed out as he read over [Spellsurge Weave]. The words said a lot, but the actual spell would do so much more than what it said it would do.

As just one not-fully-intended consequence of this magic, Erick could see that he had solved the problem of needing to [Reincarnation] people himself. He could hook up [Reincarnation] to this magic and let the weave work its magic to reset people to a younger age. Maybe he might need to make a few different versions of [Reincarnation] + [Spellsurge Weave] to account for different types of [Reincarnation]s, like one Weave for ‘male human of X variety’, and then another for a human woman… And then all the rest?

That would be a pain in the ass, for sure.

… But not that bad, actually. If that’s the way it worked, then that’s how it worked, and people could just get thrown into temporary bodies to start.

… Or maybe he could make the magic take the person and settle them down to ‘just past puberty’, or something like that. Erick imagined it would be truly difficult for magic to target ages like that, but a massive biological change like ‘the end of puberty’ was an easy target, comparatively.

If he really wanted to go the easy route, he could do two reincarnators and make one male dragon and the other female dragon. Or male protean and female protean. That would remove the necessity for giving people specific bodies at all; just make them all immortal shapeshifters and be done with it—

Oh!

He could make one reincarnator make a male version of his own protean body, and then a female protean version of someone else, and if he ran millions of people through both versions then maybe he could walk around looking like himself and people wouldn’t recognize him as himself. They’d just go ‘Look at that! Another dude who used the House Benevolence reincarnator for male.’

… Whatever the case, this Weave would be wonderful for all the good things it could do… theoretically. Erick would experiment with it for a little while and find out how it all worked, exactly, but it should work exactly as expected; both better and not-quite-as-good as possible. It wasn’t sapient, after all; It was a machine of spellwork with certain inputs and certain outputs.

But that’d come later.

For now, it was time to make the magic that would get Lord Dakka on his side.

Erick focused.

There was no practice for this one. There did not need to be. For when Erick finally put together all the parts on paper, he knew that this was going to work, and that was going to work too well. There was no way around that. There was no stopping that.

To steer away from this course of action was to invite inevitable disaster, for this spell was going to be what he used to fight Nothanganathor, and so much more.

This, then, was the birth of a terrible angel.

Erick intoned,

“By Bloody war, I chant this verse

“Of creatures fierce, in Death immersed.

“With Carnage claws they will disperse

“in battlefields; soul will be hearsed.

“Fallen flesh becomes conscript!

“The warmachine is crop-full crypt.

“A soldier’s style! A Vile hive!

“Spread Siphon wings! Exalted shrive.”

Erick shifted his aura through an array of spellworks as he spoke, a spark of Benevolence in the air before him transforming into a drop of red Blood. Grey Death flowed through that redness, and then the drop of power flashed deeper into Carnage crimson. The hovering spell turned as faceted as a ruby, becoming a red diamond sphere that flickered black and brilliant white-gold at the same time, like the sphere was reflecting and refracting light from two different, invisible sources.

Inside Erick, the spell came together as a Benevolence crystal in his soul.

As for the spell itself, Erick held the red crystal ball in his aura.

It was dangerous.

It was impotent, at the moment.

It tried to Siphon some power from him, but it was too weak to drain more than a few points of Mana, Health, and Psyche per second from his body. Erick heavily inspected it for a full minute, watching as it tried to eat his power. He was looking for signs of infection of himself, and also for signs of a soul. There was nothing there, though. No infection. No soul.

Which was good.

He had not made a [Familiar]. He had made a spell which should have enough Necromantic tricks to make a fully functioning ‘zealot zombie horde’, as Shadow had said.

The spell description certainly seemed like it had worked.

Blood of the Valkyrie, instant, medium range, 50,000 mana

Infect a target until death and then watch the birth of a glorious Valkyrie! Behold, a plowshare of supreme violence that begets more of both. Fly and siphon and harvest and infect without mercy. Exalt in vile war to gather the souls of all, constraining them with Vile Exalted power, to bring them to the Apparent King so that they might live new, better lives, free of war of all kinds.

Erick put absolutely no power into his voice, to test if this worked, as he spoke to the red crystal blood, “I have no need of you at this moment. You can stop now.”

The red crystal stopped Siphoning Erick, and then it burbled as if sighing in sleep.

The spell disintegrated into broken mana.

Erick breathed out, “That worked.”

Shadow was there, standing to the side. She looked at Erick, and said, “Propagation magic always has a way of getting out of hand. That one might not have a soul right now, but it will be gathering lots of them. It will gain sapience eventually. I give it 40 years of use or 50 billion lives touched, whichever comes first.”

“That short, eh?” Erick rhetorically asked, settling himself for what was to come. He stepped into the air. “I’m going to do some experiments with [Spellsurge Weave] and then move on to one of Querkooda’s plans. What are you up to?”

“Checking on you.”

Erick froze slightly. He thawed fast enough. “… Oh?”

Shadow said, “Ultimately, what is going to happen here in Slaver’s Den is a good outcome for all the rest of the universe, for cutting a cancer at the source always makes the body healthier. The problems from this happening will be in how you have hurt yourself to make this happen. You’re not used to what you’re about to do. I don’t want you to become used to that sort of horror. It’s not good for the House, or for you.”

Erick smiled softly. “It’s not that bad, Shadow. I appreciate your worry, though.”

Shadow looked at Erick, and then she nodded. She moved on, saying, “We’ve been contacted by some liches that wish to be not liches anymore. Would you be willing to reincarnate them?”

Erick’s eyebrows went up. “The ones from Wraithborne?”

“Correct. Kakalakot of the Slavehold, Odarimisu of the Depths, and Witch Aragathara. I told them to wait until you were done with your projects, and since you’re done, here we are.”

“I’ll…” Erick decided, “Yes. In an hour. I’ll be ready for them.”

Shadow nodded, then said, “I’ll let the liches know you’ll see them soon, over on the downspire side of the city. If you ever want the Book of Beings and Non-Beings back for a different working, let me know.”

“Sure.”

Shadow vanished.

No time for rest.

Erick set up a few [Spellsurge Weave]s to test out some imbued spellworks.

It wasn’t long before he understood how Weaves functioned. Erick would press both of the ‘buttons’ for [Spellsurge Weave] and another spell in his soul at the same time, and the Weave would come up as normal, with that other spell imbued into the working. From there, Erick cast another Weave into the main Imaging to designate a target, and then, once the spell had a target, it would move the cascading weaver closer to the target in order to enact the imbued spell as soon as it could, the very moment it got within range.

Erick cast a Weave and a [Fire Bolt] at the same time, making a blank map, and then he cast a Weave again while designating a stone pillar in the distance as the target. The weaver blinked through the sky, reappearing a long-range distance away from the stone pillar, and then it released its Bolt payload.

Just one Bolt.

And then the spell went inactive.

Erick had to [Renew] into the imaging to make the weaver spit out more Bolts, but as soon as he did that, a veritable stream of Bolts flowed out of the weaver to impact the stone pillar. The spell stopped long before its wealth of mana ended, though, because the stone pillar could not keep up against the damage, and so the weaver no longer detected the stone pillar as the stone pillar.

Erick went out and conjured another stone pillar. The very moment there was another pillar in range the weaver moved to get into range of the new pillar and then it started unloading Bolts until it ran out of power.

A bit more experimenting had twenty pillars scattered across the land, and Erick feeding [Renew] into the image that was the base control of the attached weaver.

What happened next was odd, but it was also acceptable.

Erick fed power into the image, and the weaver went around to shoot one Bolt at one pillar, and then it moved to the next pillar closest to it, or maybe at random, and then it released another Bolt at the second target. The weaver went on to the next pillar and the next, doing the same thing, until it wrapped all the way around to the first pillar again, to continue Bolting pillars. Once it was done with one circuit, though, it did not do the same circuit a second time. Instead, it went around a different way, Bolting each pillar in turn until the weaver finished a whole different circuit, whereupon it started again. The third circuit was different from the first two.

“I’m not too sure what that’s about, but it’s fine?”

The weaver moved pretty darn fast.

When Erick conjured a second weaver into the same spellwork, the two of them began working in sync to Bolt all 20 pillars and then restart the process, going through mana and the whole route a whole lot faster than when it was just one weaver. There was still travel time, though, so the Bolts did not flow. Not yet.

Erick conjured 18 more weavers, and now each pillar had one weaver Bolting it with streams of [Fire Bolt]s, like ribbons of fire trailing from each cascading white orb to each solid tan stone below. When the first stone pillar became ‘not stone pillar’ according to the image, that weaver began weaving a route among all the other pillars, Bolting once, and then moving on. The remaining weavers continued to stream Bolts.

As more and more weavers ‘killed’ their targets, then the rest of the weavers began to move around to attack what was left.

Very soon, Erick had 20 weavers hanging out in the sky, doing nothing, for all the targets were dead.

Erick did a few more experiments with different magics just to make sure he was seeing what he was seeing.

Spells with durations, like beam spells, chained themselves so that the end of one spell was the start of the next. The weavers didn’t just cast a hundred beam spells from one weaver all at once. Instant spells got chained.

Spells that cast stationary objects here or there, like [Ward] spells, cast the spell where Erick wanted it cast, and then, when Erick damaged the [Ward], the nearest weaver [Renew]ed the spellwork. In that case, the weaver acted as a part of a node network, keeping the [Ward]s solid.

For his next experiment, Erick set out 4 lightwards that would naturally decay from white through the spectrum of red to blue, before finally popping at the end of their power. Each lightward would decay at different rates. For those lightwards, Erick set up the [Spellsurge Weave] with [Renew], and had the weavers keep the lightwards functioning. That worked pretty well. The weavers kept the 4 lightwards at ‘white’ until the mana Erick had put into the Weave began to run low, and then the Weave kept the lightwards going as best it could, eventually putting all of its power into the constantly-failing lightward until the system was drained dry. And then the lightwards popped one after the other, due to a lack of power into the Weave.

