The weavers, meanwhile, simply watched that decay… Or rather they ‘hung out’... And yet that wasn’t a wholly correct way to describe their behavior either. Erick tried not to ascribe too much intelligence to them for they had no soul; just orders.

“… I wonder if the tech side of Margleknot has artificial general intelligence that could help with this?”

A question to be answered another day.

Erick had some liches to visit.

- - - -

Kakalakot of the Slavehold, Odarimisu of the Depths, and Witch Aragathara.

They were the three liches of Wraithborne that Erick had tentatively agreed to [Reincarnation], though he had never actually followed up on any of that. He was busy. He expected them to show up when they wanted, which was pretty much what had happened.

And now they were nearby.

Erick only saw Kakalakot of the Slavehold standing before him, though… or at least that’s who Erick assumed this was, since the other two were both many kilometers away and much more easily recognizable as who they were. The witch, far over that way, was an old woman trapped in a cauldron that was filled with murky black liquid. When the liquid cleared now and again, it revealed the witch below the surface. The other guy, far over that way, was a sphere of floating blue waters with an eye far below the surface; that screamed ‘of the depths’ to Erick.

And so, by process of elimination, this guy was Kakalakot of the Slavehold, though that much was kinda hard to tell. There was a man dressed in black clothes hovering inside of a bright orange crystal that anyone could have mistaken for a coffin, while also mistaking the guy inside the coffin as dead. A little skeletal lizard held on top of that crystal, though, and that little skeletal being was an easy match for some of the larger powers that Erick had seen in this world, and back on Veird. It radiated power and control.

Erick set down in front of the ancient lich, asking, “And you’re Kakalokot?”

The lizard spoke with a man’s voice, “Yes, good Wizard Flatt of Benevolence. Please ask your questions and demand your prices in a quick manner, but know that I have already given away everything of true value. I am risking true death to be here at this hour, away from my true wards, and so are those other Great Evils who are here, but we are all dying anyway. If you deny us then we will throw our whole weight behind Slaver’s Den and attempt to end whatever you have going on here.”

Casual threats.

… Eh!

To be expected, anyway.

Erick did not hold it against him.

“Okay, sure.” Erick asked, “ ‘Of the Slavehold’, yes? What sort of intel can you give me over this land of slavery?”

“Lots.” The little lizard skeleton cast a bunch of light into the air, to the side, creating a map of Slaver’s Den. And then he added some glows. “Those glows are the last known locations of the Slave Systems I set up here thousands of years ago. They have probably been moved. You must take those out to erase many of the Contracts out there. The backlash of ending those Contracts in this way would be the deaths of those people, but at least they wouldn’t be sundered. There’s probably a billion people attached to those Contracts. Those places are going to use these hostages against you when you move on them. I have explained all of this and more to Shadow.”

“… Okay. Good to know!” Erick felt a bit angry that they really were going to use slaves as hostages and warriors against him— He banished that emotion. “Wanna join the House and make up for all the wrong that you’ve done?”

“No. I wish to leave and be reborn in some better land, far, far away. Make of me whatever you want. I care not for details. That will be my penance.”

Erick nodded. “What are you escaping?”

“Corruption unending. I touched too deep into the depths of broken universes to ply my magic into power that once raised me above all my peers, but corruption has a way of eating at you even when you think you’ve beaten it. Heed this small warning that you probably already know, Wizard of Benevolence: do not go to corruption for salvation. It turns rights into wrongs and health into death. It does everything you could ever possibly want, and then it extracts everything from you in turn.”

… Erick nodded. “Your warning is appreciated.”

And then he struck the ancient lich with a reson-empowered [Reincarnation], lightning flashing out of the sky—

- -

Erick stood in front of a man in the foyer of a black-marble mansion fit for any emperor in any grand world. The man had orange hair and orange eyes, and he smiled as he looked down at his hands.

Kakalakot softly said, “I can move my hands again…” He paused. He looked to Erick. “We’re in the middle of it now, then. I can see why Wraithborne is eager to extend to you their hands instead of their fists. I can’t feel anything of who I used to be at all, and yet I know I am here. All the power is gone, but I… I am here. All that remains…” He looked up, and then all around. “… Is me.”

Erick smiled a little at that. “Got any big requests for the next life?”

Looking at his castle, Kakalokot said, “A path to power that will result in eternity, and not in an eternal self-prison.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. “I don’t really know what happens to you past this moment in time, but you still have your memories, and your future will be much more Benevolent. What comes next is up to you.”

“I look forward to it.”

- -

—Lightning dissipated from a broken orange crystal to vanish into Elsewhere, vaguely taking the shapes of non-euclidean branches as it soaked into those branches of Margleknot, and left this world behind.

Shadow stepped to Erick’s side. “We have received a great deal of data from Kakalakot’s estate, as well as 4.7 billion resons. It’s more than he promised, but less than we knew he had. We’ll work on the intel in the next few hours after I have a chance to go over all of it and check for traps. I don’t expect there to be any traps.”

Erick nodded. “Good to know.”

Shadow vanished.

Erick moved on.

- - - -

The witch in the cauldron, Aragathara, rested at the bottom of her own soup, little bubbles escaping from her closed lips to rise to the surface, to say, “I’ll be real honest real fast, because I cannot stay away from my anti-corruption wards for long. I know everything there is to know about Nothanganathor and Malevolence because I helped him make all that. I am a former companion of his. I know how he killed Margleknot’s person in the Painted Cosmology. I am dying. I am betraying him by helping you. Let me help you, so that I might help myself.” She added, “I am also one of the original Witches of Wraithborne. Witch Agatha is my sister. She is Morbion’s right-hand woman. I wish to be promised to Creator Shadow in whatever form you desire me to be, and to work with her however she wishes. I filled out paperwork.” Some of the bubbles popped, becoming some of Erick’s reincarnation papers. They floated for a moment and Erick read them in a flashing instant. “You need not follow the paperwork.”

So that was huge.

Erick let his paranoia run wild for a moment, to see what he could see. The paperwork was fine; no problems there. She just wanted to be herself but young and kinda dainty. The witch in the cauldron didn’t look dainty at all; she just looked old and tired.

As for her desires to work with Shadow and her history with Wraithborne...

That all seemed like a desire to integrate into the House and then work from the inside to undermine the House for Wraithborne, or something like that.

… And yet, on the other hand, she knew way too much for Erick to ever not agree to her requests.

Erick rapidly decided, “Sure. You can be promised to Shadow. I’m sure she’ll have you swear some specific oaths. You will be answering questions about Nothanganathor and Malevolence to both of us, though.”

Bubbles burbled to the surface of the cauldron, “I readily agree.”

Erick said, “Bring down your wards.”

Suddenly, the water in the cauldron vanished, exposing the corpse inside. Aragathara started screaming softly as her flesh began to melt—

[Reincarnation] set her to rights, though.

The cauldron evaporated as soon as the world turned to a fractal splash, filled with thousands of… all rather good futures, actually. Erick saw Aragathara as a mother, a grandmother, a teacher of students, a lover of books and a caretaker of babies. She was also a tempest queen of destruction and wrath, but mostly she was a woman of small pleasures and small powers.

Erick picked for her a future of small powers and growing things and a love for community, and gave her the body she wanted.

Shadow appeared at the end of the spell, saying, “Hit her with another [Reincarnation].”

… Erick did exactly that, and the fractal splashes of futures looked… more or less the same?

Erick looked to Shadow. “Expecting subterfuge?”

“Yes, and no.” Shadow said, “Yes; I always expect liars and cheaters. No; I did not expect it of her. But she worked with Nothanganathor and Malevolence, so if anyone was capable of evading a reset then it was her.” She said, “Wake her.”

Erick passed a [Benevolent Cleanse] across the woman and Aragathara blinked. She opened her eyes as she lay there on the bare ground, and then she looked to Erick, and Shadow. She sat up, closed her eyes, and looked inward.

Aragathara smiled, opening her eyes again as she said, “The corruption is finally gone.” She got to her knees and bowed to Erick, and Shadow, saying, “I pledge my life and my fate to House Benevolence and its just rulers, and to Shadow the Creator.”

Shadow said, “I accept your life and your fate on behalf of the House. You’re with me, now.”

And then Shadow waved her hand and shadows rose from the ground, swallowing her and Witch Aragathara in a crash of darkness, before falling back down to vanish beneath the bottom of every pebble and the undersides of every ridge in the rock. Shadow had moved on with her new person.

Erick moved on, too.

- - - -

Erick looked at the floating pool of water that held Odarimisu of the Depths, deep within that dark water. The guy was an eyeball that vanished in those dark waters when he closed his eye, but otherwise he was just an eye.

The water vibrated to allow for speech, “Greetings. I have not been able to leave my Depths more than this right here for the last few thousand years due to the corruption I have drowned in for so long. I would like to leave this cursed existence. Make of me what you will. I have not filled out paperwork at all.”

Erick paused his judgment of Odarimisu’s ‘demand’, because his Lightning Path was angling backward, hard. Something was happening over on the other side of House Benevolence. Erick said, “One moment. I need to check on—”

“Please I need to leave this horror of my existence. I don’t care what I become. I need to move on!”

Erick zapped him with a reson-empowered [Reincarnation]—

- -

“A big fish in a big ocean,” said the glowing goldfish floating in front of Erick, in the air.

“… Sure!”

- -

The water holding the goldfish collapsed, and Erick zapped away to see what was up with the lands on the other side of the House—

Some sort of giant beam made of green-black light fell out of the sky like the advancing finger of a god, moving fast, the world exploding around its advance. Clouds vanished in the sky, expanding outward under the kilometer-wide beam.

Erick threw a lot of Annihilation at the beam as he also expanded to full dragon size, turning on his Mana Siphon to full blast, extending his aura out kilometers in every direction. The green-black beam broke apart on that Annihilation and then fell into Erick’s power and Siphon. It did not get past him, and Erick was kinda surprised at that.

Erick watched as his Status started shooting up by tens of thousands of Mana, Health, Psyche, and even resons, every second. Still, the beam came on, and Erick turned up the Siphon, moving deeper into the black beam, soaking it up, transforming it into his own power.

Erick remained there for a full two minutes, sucking up the power, while nuclear bombs dropped on the other side of the city.

He almost panicked.

But Shadow was there, flying through the sky, swallowing each nuclear warhead with absolute Darkness.

Half an hour and four more all-out attacks later, one of which was an underground surge of olympic-pool-sized blood oozes, the attacks stopped.

Shadow reconvened with Erick in the underground cavern, the two of them in their human-shaped forms, for now. She asked, “Time for the counterattacks?”

“I’m thinking about it,” Erick said, thinking of what could have happened if he or Shadow had been a little less strong, or a little less quick. He missed Ophiel again, and not just because he loved Ophiel. He said to Shadow, “You were great today, Shadow. I appreciate it. I ask for your advice, now. Should I make the Valkyries sapient? Was it the right thing to make them simple tools? Or was it a cruelty? Or did you want them for House Benevolence’s defense? Or for your own use? Is that why you gave me that Book of Beings and Non-Beings to use?”

Shadow floated regally in the dark of the cavern, and in the bright backlights of the many spotlights overhead. She said, “You made what will eventually become a people and I wanted you to make them well. That is what that was. That is what this is. Neither you or I have the power or possibility to raise a child right now, but I would not hesitate to call the Valkyries mine if that is how it would work out.” She smiled a little. “I imagine that how the spell actually works is not at all how you think it will, anyway, but that isn’t the real issue. The fact is that there’s no way you’re getting a positive outcome with the Fae Enclave against Nothanganathor without capitulating to either Lord Dakka or Lord Eldraki, and I am 100% certain that you committing absolute war against a people will be easier for you, mentally, than whatever shifting trick that Eldraki would have you perform in order to gain his vote. So unless you’re willing to give up ‘a single mote of your mana’, which could be taken any sorts of ways, then you’re doing a Grand War, and that’s that.”

Erick sighed a little. “It’s all rather simple, isn’t it.”

“It’s not simple at all, but it could be, and yet, it won’t, because that’s not who you are,” Shadow said, “They’re trying to get you to compromise yourself in some fundamental way, and you are, but not really.”

Erick sighed a little bit more.

Shadow nodded.

Erick floated there for a moment longer.

And then he flashed away.

- - - -

