Erick spent half an hour on an otherwise desolate part of House Benevolence’s grounds, near the edge, setting up a [Reincarnation] [Spellsurge Weave] ‘machine’. The space for the machine was about a kilometer in from the edges of two white-knife-wall pieces that Erick had lit red with giant pillars of light. The actual defensive wall between those two red edges was relaxed; shieldwork and otherwise pulled in, like a dimple, to allow people and valkyries and such to come inside the big dome some.

That was where the imager for the ‘[Reincarnation Weaver]’ floated, with a white circle on the ground next to that space. That white circle was just a detection area made with a few different spellworks that would turn that white circle to pale red, then orange, then all the way through the rainbow until it arrived at blue, which was the trigger for the weaver to [Reincarnation] the single person standing inside the space. Erick did it that way so that the [Reincarnation] wouldn’t accidentally trigger. It would take 20 seconds to trigger.

It only took a minute to actually set up the various magics, but then it took 29 more minutes of troubleshooting for Erick to discover that yes, he could ‘simply’ set the Weave to turn ‘the person who steps into this blue area into themselves, but past puberty’ and ‘Make them a benevolent, good-ish person’.

It had not been simple at all to make that happen.

He had needed to do some sapient experimentation to make that work. Conveniently, some raiders weren’t too far away and they were trying to set up bombs, so those guys made for some rather ethically-sourced material.

Those guys were already back in their drop ship and leaving, seeming remorseful and happier. They were already talking about leaving behind everything and starting new, now that their Contracts were gone.

And now Erick had a ‘machine’ that turned people young and gave them a randomly-chosen ‘good future’. So far, from Erick’s short experiments, that ‘random goodness’ usually defaulted to ‘have passion in a positive, productive pursuit + kids + long life’, but the system would need to be watched for aberrations anyway.

And so, Erick got Ta’Kamoil and a few nascent Soul Mages to watch over the place, while he also set up a very large expansion to House Benevolence. Four more apartment buildings, three more mess halls, some other lands… It was good enough. Erick was distracted, anyway. This was it. This was his first use of ‘real’ Propagation Magic. It wasn’t based on corruption, but instead on a whole bunch of interconnected magical systems.

Soon enough, valkyries were going to drop off their captured soul-cargo to this red dimple in the side of House Benevolence’s lands, to make new people out of those souls. From there, Ta’Kamoil and others would pull people out of the machine and set them on their way into the House, into housing and otherwise. The slaves would become ex-slaves, and Erick foresaw that whole event being a whole bunch of trauma, but it was workable trauma; solvable problems. The slavers would become better people, but they would need to go through a different housing system, of course; keeping the slavers with the formerly-enslaved was just asking for killing all around.

Erick went over the ‘machine’ once more.

He spoke of his fears to Ta’Kamoil.

He spoke of instructions to Lanzoil.

He had Querkooda and all of the House go to high alert.

Shadow was already talking with Witch Aragathara of the true defenses of Slaver’s Den and otherwise, but she got ready to defend the land, too.

And then Erick moved on.

To war.
