“I’m not mad at you Temperance. I’m just worried about this weapon, and what it’s going to do. There was an accident on the practice field a few days ago. A private had one of his legs blown clean off. What if there’s a larger accident? What if General Kempenny captures one of the weapons? I just… I feel like the harm outweighs the benefit.”

Temperance squeezed her eyes shut. “You nearly died. I want this war to end. I’m trying to end it. I just want to end it.”

“I know.” Piety sighed. She couldn’t think of anything to say that didn’t sound like an accusation.

“We can destroy it when we’re done,” Temperance said in a small voice that begged forgiveness.

“Destroy it how?” Piety tried to keep the demand out of her tone, but even to her the question sounded harsh.

“I’m the only one who knows the formula for the powder,” Temperance explained.

Piety could only blink, nonplussed. She had thought that, at least, Commander Byron would know how to make the powder.

“Mother Simmons suggested that it would be safer if only one person knew it, there are all kinds of spies in camp.”

“Commander Byron?” Piety asked.

“I tried to explain it to him and he said he didn’t care how it worked, just so long as it worked. So, you and I, we could destroy it when the war’s over.”

Piety shook her head. “You’re not going to be able to convince Commander Byron that he should just give up the most powerful weapon ever created.”

Temperance winced. Piety considered apologizing, but softening the blow wouldn’t change anything.

“I don’t have to,” Temperance returned. “All I have to do is refuse to make any more powder. I don’t care what they do to me; when this is over, I’ll never make the powder again.”

“What about the other people in your laboratory? Haven’t any of them seen you make it? What about Elijah back at the High Temple?”

Temperance frowned at Elijah’s name, but stuck to the subject. “No. None of them. Mother Simmons insists I’m the only one in the room when I mix the powder.”

Piety considered, and her thoughts gravitated to the ways someone might forcefully extract the knowledge from her Temperance’s mind.

“A strong and skilled telepath could go into your mind and take the information. I’m pretty sure I could do it. If you fought, it would hurt you.”

“I don’t care.”

“I do.”

“Well then, you’ll just have to protect me.” Temperance slipped out of bed and stood.

Still kneeling at the side of Temperance’s bed, Piety said, “I thought you didn’t have to go work for a couple more hours.”

Temperance dug out a relatively clean dress from the small trunk. Both girls had grown since their arrival at Pinefort, but whereas Piety had sprouted, Temperance was short and curvy. They could no longer share clothes.

“I’m going with you,” Temperance explained.

“Oh. Why?”

“You’re going to talk to Father Vytal. He’s the only other person in camp who might understand my decision.”

• • •

Father Vytal had been afforded an actual room, though a small one. Piety knocked firmly at his door, then opened it and went in. She knew, via mental conversation, that the cleric was alone and had breakfast waiting for them.

The two small folding chairs stood empty and Father Vytal had pulled the end table to the bed, so he could sit there and the girls could have the chairs.

“Sisters,” he greeted them.

Piety blushed. “Stop that,” she told him at the same time that Temperance said, “I’ll never get used to that.”

Father Vytal smiled. “Turnabout is fair play.” And he bowed to them from his sitting position. He regarded Temperance. “Piety said you wanted to talk to me?” He gestured for them to take the chairs.

Piety sat carefully. The hard seated chairs had the tendency to fold under the person who sat upon them if they didn’t balance their weight properly. She took the teapot and poured tea for herself and for Temperance. Temperance still stood by the door, indecisive after Father Vytal’s question. She added sugar to her own tea, but none to Temperance’s. Temperance liked the bitterness.

“Temperance, come sit,” Father Vytal encouraged.

Temperance did as he asked and took up the tea Piety offered her. After blowing on the tea several times and a careful sip, she set the teacup down and looked at him.

“I’ve done something terrible.”

Father Vytal raised an eyebrow and Piety could only smile.

“The fire-arms,” she said, “The demons.”

“Ah.” Father Vytal took a sip of his own tea but neither agreed nor disagreed.

Temperance cleared her throat. “Well,” she went on, “As it turns out, I’m the only one who knows how to make the powder. Piety thinks Commander Byron won’t want to give up such a powerful weapon, but I’ve decided that once the war is over, I won’t make any more.”

Father Vytal set his tea down carefully. “How can it be that you’re the only one to know how to make the powder?” he asked.

Temperance explained about Mother Simmons’s suggestion and Commander Byron’s simple expectations.

“And I was hoping,” she continued, “that you’d support me in my decision. And protect me. Piety says that a telepath could take the information.”

Father Vytal nodded. “One sufficiently strong could, yes. And you’re right, Commander Byron won’t be pleased with your decision. But if I may make a suggestion?”

Temperance nodded.

“You’ll be safer if you can’t remember how to make it.”

Temperance looked confused. “I don’t know how to forget.”

“I could take the information from you, remove it.” He nodded at Piety. “She could do it too.”

Temperance bit her lip and looked down at her hands.

“It’s not a decision you need to make now,” Father Vytal said, “But I think you’ve made the right decision, not to let this weapon remain in the world. I have seen its effects in the field.”

“Is it terrible?” Temperance asked, looking at Father Vytal.

“It is.”

Temperance wept, and they let her. Piety offered her comfort with a hand on her shoulder. When she was done, Temperance looked up. “Thank you for talking to me this morning, Father. I know you’ve probably got something important to do.” She stood.

“It’s quite all right, Sister.”

Temperance made an impatient sound and wiped tears from her eyes. “You don’t have to call me that.”

Father Vytal stood and hugged her. “If you don’t have to report for duty yet, you could keep us company while I talk to Piety about our mission.”

“We have a mission?” Piety asked at the same time Temperance asked, “Is it going to be dangerous?”

“Yes,” he said, in answer to both. “I have been asked to undertake a rescue. A woman who has been advising General Kempenny wants to defect. She’s in a small town called Upton Port, on the coast. But I don’t know how long she’ll be there.”

“How long will it take us to get there?” Piety asked.

“Six days on horse.”

“Is she important enough that she’ll be followed?”

Father Vytal nodded. “I believe she is. My source tells me she’s only been advising the general a fortnight, but the general is not a fool, she is a student of history, and will understand the significance of a woman with purple eyes.”

Piety blinked for a long time. Since Father Vytal had left Temperance and her at the High Temple, Piety had just sort of stopped thinking about the purple-eyed woman. She hadn’t even dreamed about those eyes. But with the mention of her, Piety was hit with a rush of excitement.

It was Temperance who said, “The purple-eyed woman? Are you sure?” She looked at Piety and put a hand on her shoulder.

Father Vytal smiled. “No, I’m not. But then again, I’ve never been sure about any lead in my quest to find her. It’s never stopped me.

“Commander Byron has cleared me to recruit whoever I need. The commander, too, is a student of history. He’s not convinced she’s the purple-eyed woman of legend, but neither does he want Kempenny to have her. Commander Byron believes between liberating this advisor and deploying the new weapons, the war will soon be over.”

Temperance looked away and sighed. “He’s been saying that for a while now.”

Father Vytal put a hand on her shoulder. “I’m not blaming you, Temperance. The council has been trying to create this weapon for nearly a decade.”

Temperance looked up. “What?”

Father Vytal raised an eyebrow. “They didn’t tell you?” But he didn’t wait for a response. “Of course they didn’t.” He cleared his throat and steepled his fingers.

“An old inventor cleric by the name of Raymond stumbled upon an explosive compound while trying to improve plant soil. He considered the compound a failure, but some in the church saw the potential for a weapon and tried to get him to reproduce the compound. He never managed it.” Father Vytal shrugged.

“I know about him,” Temperance said. “He invented matches and promised the people of Artio a better way to conduct mining operations.”

Father Vytal nodded. “That’s him. I wonder if, perhaps, he didn’t want to recreate the powder when he heard what they intended for it. Either way, someone in the church saw your genius, Temperance, as a way to get the weapon they wanted.”

“They used me,” Temperance said, “like a rake or a hammer. I was just a tool.”

It was Father Vytal’s turn to sigh. “I am sorry. Marcus Radden is my friend and I had thought, with his ascension to High Cleric, pursuit of weapons would be a pursuit the church would abandon.”

“No,” said Temperance, but in a distracted sort of way, like she was thinking about something else. “It’s not your fault, Father. This is my burden.”

Father Vytal nodded but said no more.

Piety let the silence stretch for several moments before she returned to the topic that had so excited her. “Father Vytal, the purple-eyed woman?”

“Yes,” he said, “of course. I have a pair of horses being readied and supplies packed as we speak. I take it you want to come with me?”

Piety nodded.

“Wait,” said Temperance, “a pair of horses? I’m going too, aren’t I?”

Father Vytal smiled. “Well, it’s going to be dangerous. I remembered you telling Jack that you didn’t like danger.”

Temperance stood up and gave Father Vytal a stern look. “I’m not letting Piety go without me.”

Father Vytal bowed from where he sat. “Yes, Sister.”

Temperance blushed.

“The horses we’ll be taking are some of the army’s best runners. They can carry two girls without flagging, I assure you.”

“Oh,” said Temperance. “Good.”

Father Vytal looked down at his cup of tea and swallowed it in a gulp. “Well then,” he said, “shall we be off?”

• • •

When they rode out of Pinefort, Father Vytal leading the way, Temperance sitting behind Piety, Piety took a deep breath and felt her shoulders stretch, her spine pop. She felt all the responsibilities of the military camp roll off her shoulders. There was a part of her that felt bad, that told her she was abandoning those at Pinefort who needed her: Commander Byron who relied on her far-reaching telepathy, Father Christoph who relied on her healing power, but a greater part of her looked ahead to the rescue mission, and the woman with purple eyes.
