Summer trundled on, and for the better part of two months, Piety lay in bed, convalescing. Her left collarbone had been crushed and the muscles in her shoulder and down her chest had been shredded. Fortunately, the healers at Pinefort, including a frantic Father Vytal, had worked their power upon her before the damage would have been irreparable Even so, to conserve the power of the healers, her body had to do most of the healing itself, and a set of ragged scars ran from her left shoulder to her sternum.

Piety was forbidden from healing her body herself for fear she’d overexert herself. She didn’t argue to avoid worrying Father Vytal and Temperance.

Piety spent most of her convalescence in the healing ward, allowed to get up and walk only on a limited schedule. And despite the wounded who continued to cycle through the healing ward, some leaving for home, some going back to the war, and some taking their final rest, Piety was not allowed to work as a healer. In fact, she’d been forbidden by Father Christoph from accessing her powers at all.

Piety didn’t tell him, or anyone, about the cosmos appearing in her mind. She remembered Father Vytal telling her about the dangers of piercing the veil between her mind and the Divine beyond. It had not destroyed her, but it had nearly swallowed her. She wasn’t sure the cosmos she’d fallen into was God, but it was all and nothing, everything of creation and the vast emptiness, and such dichotomous contradiction was sometimes how the Scriptures depicted God.

Piety whiled away many of the hours by going to the room in her mind, allowing the healers to think she was resting. No new books appeared upon the bookshelf, but Piety was content with rereading old favorites and often took down the red, leather-bound copy of the Scriptures. She played solitary with the playing cards. She lost three games of chess.

Temperance visited her as often as her duties allowed. They talked about a variety of things, most of them mundane, but more and more, they talked about the clay spheres filled with exploding powder and how that powder might win the war against Kempenny.

“They’ve already used them in the field,” Temperance enthused. “I’ve read some of the reports. They’re calling them thunder spheres. They say they’ve been able to spook horses and distract soldiers. In one battle, they used them to destroy enemy supplies.” Temperance’s face was lit with excitement. “In fact, I’ve been talking with Mother Simmons and we think that if we could get some of the blacksmiths to make some thunder spheres out of iron, and with a fuse, like with the fire blossoms, they could be an actual weapon.”

Piety frowned but Temperance didn’t see. An exploding metal ball, and the wounds it would create, was a disturbing thought.

“Oh, I’ve got something to show you,” Temperance said. She produced a folded piece of parchment from her pocket and smoothed it out against her lap. There were sketches of a long tube and a small, concentrated explosion that would propel an arrowhead along the tube. There were lines and arcs and notes in Temperance’s shorthand.

“What’s this?” Piety picked up the drawing.

“Another weapon. This one would allow our soldiers to fire arrowheads from much further away than a bow. I don’t know if it’ll work, but if it does, our soldiers could attack the enemy without being attacked in return.”

Piety set the parchment face down on her blanket-covered lap. “The enemy are people too.”

Temperance’s enthusiasm drifted away, a puff of smoke from a pinched candle. She took the parchment from Piety, folded it, and tucked it into a small pocket on her dress.

“What do you mean?”

“We’re healers. I use my power and you mix medicines. We’re not soldiers. You’re not a weapon smith.”

“This is a war, Piety. People get hurt, people die, and there’s no way to avoid it. Have you heard that the diplomats Mother Talitha sent out were sent back without their hands? Kempenny, whichever one she is, will not stop. So we have to stop her.” Temperance tapped her pocket and the parchment crinkled. “This will stop her.”

• • •

In early autumn, Piety was finally allowed to leave the healing ward. Father Christoph and Father Vytal weren’t satisfied with her healing progress, but the war had escalated, and more and more soldiers were coming back from the fighting. The larger healing ward in town had started to overflow and Commander Byron had commandeered a nearby warehouse to house the injured and recovering.

Because she was allowed to leave the ward and walk around on her own and sleep in her own bed, Piety was present when Temperance finally unveiled her new weapon for the commanders at Pinefort. She’d been working closely with Mother Simmons and the chief blacksmith, an appropriately large man named Brand. Temperance had kept the details of her project secret from Piety, and Piety hadn’t asked. Father Vytal was away on an assignment. Piety couldn’t help but wonder what he would think.

Sitting on a wooden folding chair brought by a servant, left arm in a tight sling, Piety waited along with high-ranking military and church officers. Her stomach roiled nervously. They’d been directed to an empty field outside town that had once grown crops. Temperance stood a ways off, fiddling with something in a wooden box, which stood on top of another wooden box. Brand stood nearby and moved as Temperance directed. Brand wasn’t as certain in his movements as Elijah had been, his thick-fingered hands used to heavier work, but Piety noted he was just as enthusiastic.

On a wood and metal stand was secured something that looked like a long bell, made of thick, heavy, dark metal. At the other end of the field were several straw and cloth mannequins propped upon wooden stakes. Temperance spent a lot of time with a length of marked wood and asking Brand to move the heavy metal object. Eventually, Temperance raised her hands for silence and the commanders acquiesced.

For several moments, Temperance tried to speak. “Ladies and gentlemen,” she said, then paused. “Uh… as you know… as you may or may not know… that is…” Temperance licked her lips nervously and looked around the crowd until her gaze rested on Piety. Her eyes were wide and her breathing was fast.

Despite her trepidation, Piety smiled. “Just show us,” she whispered.

Temperance nodded frantically.

“Uh… well… Watch this.”

She withdrew a long pole on the end of which was a slowly smoking punk. Carefully, she lowered the smoldering end to the stick of the long bell-like cylinder. A small, brief tongue of flame licked along the curved surface of the cylinder before a hollow pop echoed across the field. The pole in both hands, Temperance backed away quickly.

The resulting explosion rocked the cylinder off its supports, knocked Temperance to the ground, and drew exclamations and oaths from the gathered council members. On the other side of the field, the cluster of straw and cloth dummies was obliterated, the straw scattered, the stakes splintered. Bits of cloth and straw fluttered about in the breeze.

Piety’s chest pounded with a buzzing ring; her skin tingled and head throbbed and she felt she was about to throw up. She couldn’t tear her gaze from the destruction. She tried not to imagine those straw constructs as flesh and bone and blood.

Sound returned slowly and she realized the commanders around her were talking excitedly. They were exclaiming over the power of this new weapon and what it would mean for the war.

“With just one of these, we could turn the war around,” Commander Byron said. “With a platoon, victory is ours within the week.”

Piety tried to stand, but she was woozy and her knees wouldn’t hold her. A servant offered her a water skin and she drank deeply.

“Please, help me stand,” she said.

“Are you sure, Sister?”

Piety nodded, but even that made her dizzy.

Taking a breath to dispel the dizziness, Piety took an unsteady step and had to stop. The servant, Onora was her name, put a hand on her arm.

“Are you ill, Sister? Perhaps you should sit?”

“No, no, I’m fine,” Piety said. She took a step forward that ended with her face down on the ground.

• • •

She dreamed of the ocean, storm-tossed and grey. She dreamed that she stood above it, her feet washed in water and brine while overhead, the storm had broken, tossing rain and wind with wild abandon. And on the cliffs above the ocean, the black and white pawns slaughtered each other with ferocity, efficiency, and abandon. Drenched in rain and lightning, the conflict raged.

And she, unable to watch, fled to the clouds where she pierced the veil and found herself beyond, in the cosmos, the everything and the nothing, and she knew she was a step from witnessing God. The energy of the all and naught filled her

• • •

Though she felt fine, Piety was confined to bed for a week. Onora was assigned to make sure she stayed there. When Piety tried to leave the confines of her bed, Onora threatened to fetch Father Christoph or Mother Talitha. When that didn’t work, she threatened to fetch Sister Sunday.

But though she was made to stay in bed, the happenings of Pinefort managed to reach her ears via Onora. The most talked about of rumors was the new weapons designed by Temperance Sunday, Sister of the Church of Khulanty. Some said the sister would create a weapon that could destroy enemy camps from miles away. Some said she would end the war.

Every blacksmith and foundry in Pinefort set to work making the new weapons: metal tubes, metal balls, hollow spheres; all scrap metal that could be found was melted down to be reshaped into a weapon. Horses went unshod and abandoned buildings were scavenged for hinges and window clasps. Temperance no longer mixed medicines, but rather experimented with and perfected the powder, collaborating with Commander Byron’s officers to design the most efficient weapon they could.

Though Piety was not allowed to leave the curtain-walled space she and Temperance shared, Piety didn’t see much of her friend. Temperance spent a lot of time in her laboratory and, as reported by Onora, oftentimes slept there.

When the end of the week came, Piety tried to visit Temperance in her lab but was turned away by a pair of scarlet clad church soldiers.

“Sorry, Sister,” apologized one of the young men. “Sister Sunday said she’s not to be disturbed.”

By the time Piety went back to work in the healing ward, autumn had cooled the air and turned the leaves. In the healing ward, she worked shoulder to shoulder with Father Vytal, and though the surroundings were horrific, she felt better for being by his side. Often they would take breaks together, walking from the healing ward to a nearby field galley where they were given tea in chipped ceramic cups and bread that wasn’t too stale.

Autumn passed quickly. As the red and gold leaves shed themselves from the aspen trees interspersed amongst the pine, Piety found she had become pensive.

“I don’t like it here.”

She sat next to Father Vytal on a bench in the courtyard where Piety had fought with Frederick Vahramp. She watched the steam from her mug of tea swirl in the cool autumn morning.

“It feels futile,” she continued. “I mean, I’m honored to help injured soldiers, but we’re just sending them right back out there to get injured again. And we’re no closer to capturing General Kempenny. What the hell are we doing here, father?”

Father Vytal chuckled, catching Piety off guard. She looked at her mentor, confused, and he took a sip of tea.

“I’m sorry. It’s not funny.” His expression turned tired and sober again. “War is futile. I think I’ve mentioned it before.”

Piety sighed and nodded and went back to her tea.

“I suppose it’ll snow soon.”

Father Vytal nodded. “I suppose it will.”

• • •

Piety, sitting on the stool she and Temperance shared, stretched her left arm in front of her so that it was parallel to the ground and swung it slowly toward her back, stretching the muscles under the scars across her shoulder and chest. The scars had faded, but would never go away. She kept her breathing even though the tight muscles tried to pull a groan from her throat. Even months later, nearly half a year, the wound ached.

“Want some ointment for that?” Temperance asked.

Piety turned on the stool to look at Temperance. She lay on her back on the lower bunk, looking up at Piety. Last night had been one of the few nights Temperance had slept in their shared space instead of her laboratory. Her fingers were stained black and she smelled of acrid smoke.

“I thought you were sleeping,” Piety said.

Temperance shrugged. “Are you going somewhere?”

Piety stood and stretched. “Father Vytal wants to see me this morning.”

“Was there a message?”

Piety nodded and tapped her head.

“Oh,” said Temperance. She hunched her shoulders and pulled the blanket to her chin. “Is it important?”

“Isn’t it always?” Piety stretched again, restraining a grunt of pain.

“I’ve got some ointment. I mixed it yesterday. It’d ease the pain.”

Piety sighed. “That’s all right, Temperance, I’ve gotten used to it.”

“Are you angry at me?”

Piety frowned. Piety hadn’t really thought about how she felt in the last few months and Temperance’s frank question made her realize why. The demonstration of the powder weapons, the fire-arms as the commanders had taken to calling them, disturbed her.

Eventually, Piety said, “I’m not mad at you, no.”

“Then what’s wrong? You almost never talk to me.”

“You’re almost never here.”

“Neither are you. We’re both busy.”

Piety didn’t answer, but Temperance was quick to fill the silence.

“It’s the demon, isn’t it?” Temperance asked.

That startled Piety. The demon was an awesome beast from the Scriptures, like angels and dragons and undead. Many demons had been slain by the heroes of old. Piety spent a moment, trying to understand why an ancient beast from the Scriptures would have upset Temperance.

“It’s what the soldiers are calling it,” Temperance said. “I overheard some of them while they were bringing in supplies.”

“Demon,” Piety whispered. “Appropriate.”

“You are,” Temperance said, “you’re mad at me. Demon is a terrible name. I just wanted to end the war, and now they’re saying I’ve created some kind of terrible beast.” Sobs stood at the edge of Temperance’s voice.

Piety shifted from her stool to kneel at the side of Temperance’s bunk.

