She still remembered the tense and unsettling feeling of appearing in the capital for the first time, a sprawling underground city crawling with green eyed machines ready to kill her. By now it was entirely transformed. Bustling streets, magical lights, merchants shouting, and drunken fights escalating into battles of magic, only to be interrupted by Guardians or guards. She saw Dark Ones in the form of wisps and insect like beings mingling at restaurant tables with humans, dwarves, and Mava alike. She even saw an elf running across the rooftops.

Ilea wondered if he was a Cerithil Hunter, or if he belonged to one of the Domains. She was still the Monarch of Verleyna and thus the ruler of the Sky Domain. Nelras Ithom and her own actions in the Sunlight Wastes as well had left more of an impression than she had intended, diplomatic relations with the wastes continuing to expand. The Fire Wastes were more difficult to deal with apparently, despite the direct involvement of the Faransire but she was sure at least some of them would be curious to at least see the other species and settlements throughout the continent.

To think even seeing an elf running through the streets would’ve caused a mass panic just a year ago. Isalthar and Feyrair did a lot of work.

The Hunters had helped where they could, clearing void populations or helping out with their magic, and they all wielded powerful magic.

Feyrair as acting Monarch even had teleportation gates added to Verleyna, encouraging other species to visit and meet the elves, surely for the benefit of either. Ilea still assumed it would take a generation or two for either humans or elves to move on from their past but the common enemy of Ker Velor and the common suffering from the Extraction pushed them closer together. At least for now.

She landed in one of the streets and picked a random restaurant that seemed nice. Her title and the marks seen through Identify turned heads and ended conversations but she simply got a seat and reinforced it with a lot of ash and glass. “I’m just here to eat,” she said with a smile, the waitstaff talking to each other before one of them approached.

A few mages walked up to her table as well, one of them asking if they could join her, offering to invite her for dinner.

“Sure, been a while since I had company,” Ilea said and smiled at the waitress. “One entire menu, if that’s possible.”

The young human woman opened her mouth before she shut it. She nodded. “Yes o… of course, Lilith, ma’am, lady, I mean… yes. We’ll be right there.”

“There’s no rush,” Ilea said, turning to look at one of the mages. They seemed hesitant, taking awkward glances at each other as people in the street stopped to look what the noise was about. Ilea identified one of them.

[Arcane Mage – lvl 135]

“I remember an arcane mage from an expedition below Dawntree. Trained my resistance with his help,” she said and smiled. “Staying in Iz? Or just temporary?”

“I… I plan to stay, actually. There are gates leading to the upper tunnels below Karth, a few Taleen ruins. We’re helping to clear and restore it,” the mage said.

“I fix the buildings, Reyne here adds crystal to the caverns for light. With enough time we’ll have another small town ready for people to move into,” another one of them spoke, an earth mage of a similar level.

Ilea listened to them talk, noticing that more people had joined but others were leaving too, moving on with whatever they were doing or returning to their own conversations. For once, she felt comfortable with the attention she was getting. She supposed that slaying a dragon warranted at least some recognition, though she planned to find something a little more quiet once Felicia was done with her work.

She leaned back, her ash and black glass spreading behind her to support not only her chair but the wall and entire Taleen structure. Looking up, she could see the warmth of magical lamps, a fireplace adding heat to the establishment, tapestries and even a colorful mural adding life to the ancient stone building.

Knowing that even Iz could flourish once more with so much life made her feel a little more at ease with the state of this realm. She breathed in a deep breath when the first mugs of ale arrived at their table.

I suppose I really was due for a break.
