"If you ever have to fight perspective magic, the best thing you can do is to keep your eyes closed and use your mana sense," Cale said after a moment. "Of course, perspective mages know this, so the more alternate senses you have, the better. Anything they can't take advantage of is good. Otherwise, you have to be really careful where you look.

"Glasswing fairies are still in the lower tier of perspective-based dangers, really. Their wings usually depict mouths and faces? Stuff like that. It's only horrifying the first few times a face rushes out of them and tries to eat you, and after that it's mostly fine." Cale shrugged. "Though it was pretty bad the first time. One of the reasons I keep a barrier up at all times! You only need to get eaten by a magically conjured face once to decide not to repeat the experience.

He paused contemplatively. "I guess that technically wasn't the only time I got eaten by a magically conjured face..."

Then Cale trailed off, noticing the expressions of his apprentices. "What? You asked," he said, snickering. "Like I said, it's not too bad once you know what to expect. The real danger is with full perspective mages. They can create a horizontal pit that make you fall into the painting if you so much as glance in its direction, along with all sorts of weird stuff like that. And they're full of tricks to make you look the direction they want you to. I know what you're doing, by the way."

"I don't know what you're talking about," Damien denied immediately.

Cale rolled his eyes. "Sure you don't," he said, smirking. "But thank you anyway. For the hypothetical thing you're not doing."

"You're hypothetically welcome. Um. For the thing I'm definitely not doing."

Yeah, he was definitely going to stay on Utelia as long as he could. Even if it did keep throwing these curveballs at him. Cale suppressed his shudder as they finally began to pass into the shadow of the tree.

"Is that a door?" Flia muttered, squinting at the base of its trunk. "Huh. Don't think I've ever seen one of those before. You think that's where the mage's soul is?"

"Eh. It's a narratively significant tree," Cale said with a shrug. "Pocket realms are even more beholden to karmic backlash than any of the Great Realms. The soul wouldn't be able to hide anywhere else. The realm itself is kind of weird, but that's probably just because of where the Aspect Cascade is."

"On top of the desert?" Flia asked, frowning. Cale waved a hand dismissively.

"Sort of," he said. "The place feels familiar. I wouldn't worry about it, it's actually helping us a little. Imagine if we ended up in a place with more butterflies. We would've had our hands full even getting here."

He hesitated. "But it's probably best we get this over with sooner rather than later. You know, just in case."

The presentation of the tree was majestic, even if Cale was doing his best to avoid thinking about it. The inside of it, on the other hand, was less tree and more violent soulstorm. All six of them stared awestruck at the soul fragments—now visible and glowing white but torn at the edges, like a wounded and macabre jigsaw puzzle—whirling around each other like a miniature hurricane.

Every so often, they would snap together as if attempting to meld, only for a flash of light and crackle of soul-lightning to blast them apart again.

Or something. Soul-lightning wasn't actually a real term; Cale had made it up. But the soul fragments were basically creating a miniature storm and the sound it made certainly matched that of lightning, so it felt accurate enough. The reality of it probably had more to do with the failed merge releasing a burst of energy.

"They can't remember who they are," Flia said softly, her voice pained.

Cale glanced at her, his gaze suddenly sharp. "You can feel why this is happening?"

"I can." Flia's voice trembled slightly, but she took a step forward regardless, stopping before she reached the edge of the barrier. There, she took a deep breath. "I think I know what to do. Can you let it inside the barrier?"

"Just be careful," Cale said, his voice softening. He expanded the barrier, pushing it out until the soulstorm as a whole was included within the overlap.

As he expected, the glowing pieces of the mage's soul flew through his barrier like it wasn't even there. They were anchored to Utelia, not to the pocket realm. Even more importantly, as the source, it didn't seem to bring over the violent storms of the Aspect Cascade through the overlap.

This close, he could feel the nature of the sacrificed mage's soul. Cale almost held his breath as the whole of it entered his senses, but he needn't have worried; nothing about it seemed familiar.

He let out a sigh of relief. Conflicted relief, but relief. He had been starting to wonder, with the strangeness of the pocket realm and all the other oddities... but it was better not to hope for such things, and besides, he would have no idea what to do if this was actually someone he knew.

Cale watched as Flia knelt before the storm and conjured her [Water Sphere]. Now that she had a Spark of her own, there was a distinctly different feel to her magic—she hadn't lost her ability to connect with the Abyss, but she had gained something. The beginnings of her very own Law, a Spark she could use to connect with those she considered lost or left behind.

Whoever this mage was, they surely qualified. Whoever this mage had been before this, they had been reduced to nothing more than someone whose mistakes created a ruinous disaster, and their pain used to fuel a weapon.

Cale could feel Flia reaching out, trying to connect with what remained of the mage's mind. His apprentices, he noticed, had all come up to her to offer their support.

He smiled to himself. He really had found the best apprentices.

The Red Knight flew through the Golden Sands.

It did not have any thoughts about its mission, for it was commanded not to think. Nor did it need to. The only thing that was required of it was that it follow any instruction given to it, and today, its instructions were to investigate the fortress in the Golden Sands and proceed as necessary.

It had taken some time for it to actually find the fortress, strangely enough. Teleporting to the desert was a simple thing, but the Aspect Cascade scrambled its senses and made it difficult for it to find what was ostensibly a second storm roaming about the place. For a while, it simply rocketed in a simple grid-based search pattern, tapping into the Observers' scrying spells to locate where this second storm might be.

It found itself... lagging behind, somehow, which was strange. Apparently, this fortress was capable of moving far more quickly than it had anticipated. That fact was filed quickly under its "investigate the fortress" task.

When it finally caught up with the fortress, the storm around it had already faded. The Red Knight did not know what to do with this, but it had been commanded to investigate or destroy. It walked into the fortress and looked around, finding nothing except a trace of magic that appeared to lead into the nearby Aspect Cascade.

Which, now that it thought about it, appeared to have grown in power.

For the first time, the Red Knight felt a glimmer of curiosity. It sensed that several mages had been here. Had they willingly walked into the Cascade? That was a death sentence for virtually any being of magic.

Would following them into the storm be considered a part of its investigations? It had technically already fulfilled its duties, but it also had been told that nothing should interfere with the Red Hunters' plans. If by some impossible feat these mages survived the Cascade, they might be able to disturb it.

It was faced with a conundrum. If it simply destroyed the fortress and left, it would have completed its orders. But it was curious. Why and how had mages entered the Aspect Cascade, and why was it growing in strength?

Also, was it allowed to be curious? It had been commanded not to think. The Red Knight struggled with this for a moment, then decided that curiosity was a feeling, not a thought. It was allowed to have feelings, and it already had to be able to make decisions in order to carry out its orders. That meant it could decide to follow because it was curious.

The Red Knight was very good at following orders.

It was also very good at surviving. The Aspect Cascade might be able to destroy and unmake any being of magic, but the Red Knight was more than that. It was immutable. Inviolable. A constant in this and all other Realms, though the Red Knight thought there might be a term it was forgetting. What were such constants called?

The Commander had referred to it that way once. Those were among the first words it could remember directed toward it, though it was having trouble recalling...

Ah, yes. It remembered now.

Broken, broken, broken, the Commander had said, a mad gleam in his eyes. A broken shell of a Law! You will do. You will do perfectly.
