Empathizing some, I crossed my arms, "Man, I can't imagine what it's like having your comrades thrown away like that then having to honor them after the fact...over and over and over again. It must be hard."

The Overseer leaned back in his stone chair, peering at me, "It's strange that I'm discussing all of this with you. I shouldn't disclose my doubts like this at all, most of all with a usurper. Perhaps your obstinance is why I've decided to do so. You, of all people, wouldn't report my words to any higher-ups. You also understand some of my past, so perhaps your judgment will be tempered by mercy."

I wrinkled my brow, "I didn't think there were members higher up than you?"

"You've much to learn still. There are forces higher than Schema nested in the cosmos. He simply keeps them covered, and they choose to play along, remaining hidden. When you meet Baldowah, you will come to understand that."

I spoke with confidence, "I've seen Old Ones more than once. They are overwhelming in many ways, but for the most part, they are limited. Maybe not where they come from, but here, in this dimension, they can only do so much. That means I just have to understand their limitations and work around them. Old Ones aren't so bad if you do that."

The Overseer steepled his large hands, "Yes, but understand that you don't have access to what their limitations are. It is akin to cutting wires to a bomb. You never know when your actions will inadvertently cause it to explode."

I narrowed my eyes, "I'll make sure to watch my step then."

"I mean no offense with my statements. They are simply realities for you. If anything, I am simply warning you because you remind me of myself. I was in a similar position to yours when I became an Overseer. Schema offered me a deal, and at the time, I couldn't refuse. I took on this duty. In time, I completed my task of killing Yawm and avenging my species."

The Overseer pushed his fingertips together using more force, "And now that my revenge is over, my species is still left shackled, but now I am bound along with them. The shackles are simply harder to see."

It was a strange metaphor, but I shrugged, "It sounds more like your growing cynical. I get that. You're in a precarious position, so you're not in the best state of mind. It might be a good idea to take a step back and breathe."

The Overseer leaned towards me, his voice rising, "Before I turned into this, I became a Breaker to kill Yawm. After many years of hunting and searching, I cornered that monster. He trounced me in combat and gave me mercy. Do you know why?"

I dwelled back, thinking of the intimidating figure,

"I don't know. He probably thought you were useful."

"That is correct. Yawm's mercy acted as a message to my kind. He howled that he was above us, both in ability and character. That message stayed with me until his death, keeping me in stasis until you killed him. It was as if I was frozen in time, my goals single-minded and my paths narrowed. When he died, my perspective reopened, and new possibilities came to light."

The Overseer tapped his neck, "But this will never allow me to escape my previous decision. I will work for Schema until time ends or death, whichever comes first. There was a time I dreaded that eternity of servitude, but hearing of a fallen Overseer, it makes me fear my mortality once more and for the first time in ages. Perhaps I should appreciate that fear. It shows I am still alive."

I furrowed my brow, "Maybe one day you'll get out of that suit. You never know."

"It is as much a part of me as that armor is of you."

I lifted a hand, slicing my wrist with a heated blade of my armor. Silver, reflective blood leaked out as I smirked,

"You sure about that?"

The blood coiled back around my wrist, healing my wound. The Overseer let out a shallow laugh, "Perhaps not."

A peaceful silence passed over us before the Overseer raised a hand to me,

"What of your new status as Sovereign? Have you began planning out any political moves?"

I shook my head, "No. I'm trying to make the most of this next week before I go to fight Plazia."

"You should keep your new council position in mind when doing so. You could meet many people who rule many worlds. They would be similar in stature to Obolis, or far greater if they are ancients within the system. Some have lived for thousands of years, growing the entire time."

A chill ran up my spine at the thought of ancient rulers. I lifted an eyebrow, my curiosity rising, "How would I size up against them?"

The Overseer scoffed, "You're a big fish in a small pond." He leaned forward, "However, that council isn't an ocean. It's more akin to a large lake, one with sharks ready to bite. If it were up to them, they would swallow you whole as a hearty meal, but you won't need to hide for long before you exceed them, given the trajectory of your growth. It's what comes after your rise that I find interesting."

He leaned back, "Schema didn't name you the Harbinger of Cataclysm without reason."

Thinking of all the possibilities on my plate, a growing sense of unease passed over me. I raised my eyebrows, "Do you have any advice? For me, that is. It's not often I get to talk to anyone that understands my position and isn't trying to take advantage of me." I pointed at him, "At least I don't think you are."

The Overseer tilted his head, "You want consultation from me? One of Schema's dogs, hmm?"

"You're more like a guard or assistant. Besides, dogs are awesome. Anyway, I need some perspective. Considering the places you've been as an Overseer, you're offering plenty of that."

The Overseer dwelled over my words and mulled them over in his head. Finalizing his thoughts, he stated, "Then listen well. I'd recommend three courses of action." He raised a large finger, "The first is to treat your allies well and use their full potential. You can give those around you an enormous boost in their aptitudes. Wasting that is like throwing gold into a dark well without a bottom. To see that come to pass, it would be a shame."

"Note taken. What else?"

"You must learn primordial mana. Given your unique situation, that energy will serve you best over the long term."

He was telling me something I already knew, but I pushed down the urge to be a smartass,

"Alright. Done."

"And lastly, know your worth. Many will wish to tie you down from here on out and use your abilities for their own benefit. In terms of combat, you will be unique in the future. Don't give those tools to someone else. Let them be your own, and use them as you see fit."

"Now that sounds like my kind of advice."

The Overseer peered off, "Good. Keep those reflections in mind moving forward, and you shouldn't be in too conflicted a position."

A blip popped up in his red status, causing the Overseer to stand up, "Your future aside, I must leave. There are many I must help, and time is finite." He stared at me, "For most of us."

I pulled myself up, "Ok, well, I got some advice for you too before you head out."

The Overseer leaned forward, "Ah, surprising. I will listen."

"There was a point when I was forced to fight Yawm, and there was no way of defeating him in front of me. It was hopeless, but I managed to make the best of a bad situation. Of course, I made mistakes, and my situation isn't perfect, but I'm in a better place than I was then. Knowing what you've done and been through, I know you can do the same. Hold onto this idea, and you'll make chances where there are none."

"Chances where there are none...Hm, that's true. That arises from hope, a powerful emotion, and it's pulled me through many a dark time already. It may do that once more." He lifted a hand, "I'll try to heed your words if you heed mine."

I reached out a hand, "Then it's a deal."

The Overseer gave my hand a firm shake before peering up at the colony, "Good luck with your siege of this planet. You shall need it, should Lehesion arrive." The Overseer raised a fist, "We will do our best to keep him busy in the meantime."

I grinned, "Good. Keep fighting."

The Overseer picked up the Sentinel's armor and spear before heading out. He stepped through the veil, leaving a lingering weight behind him. One could imagine that weight manifested from the severe conversation or perhaps from the Overseer's harrowing report of the war front. For me, that wasn't quite the case. Those factors left their impacts, but another reason pressed down like anvils on my feet.

As the Overseer left, I waited for a few minutes with cold sweat dripping down my brow. Not real sweat but the metaphorical kind. At the same time, I kept my breaths measured, not expecting my circumstances to play out so well. After fifteen onerous minutes, wild excitement raced up my chest.

The Overseer had made a mistake.

I floated myself over towards Alpha's memorial, hovering above the action.  I scanned the ground for remnants of my battle with the twisted Sentinel. I found chunks of glass, rubble, and debris scattered about, but none of that mattered. Minutes passed, and I wondered if I'd misremembered. As I began to doubt myself, I found a violet shard sticking out from a pile of rubble.

Perfect.

I darted over, wrapping my hand around the humming, heated blade. It still sizzled with arcane energies, the intricacies hidden within its depths unknown to me. Pulling it close to my eyes, ancient incantations of the cipher sprawled over the surface of the spear shard. This was the fragment that snapped during my battle with the twisted Sentinel.

I'd thought about taking a piece from a Sentinel before, but uncovering their secrets would've only resulted in being exiled. With my new Sovereign class, that wasn't the case any longer. I could research forbidden tech until my heart was content.

And that forbidden tech started here, with my own dimensional slicer.
