“What are you doing?” The driver asked as she watched Ren.

“Seeing what goes into making a cart.” Ren said and then got the plans when he examined how the pony was attached.

“I thought you were checking for damage or something.” The driver asked.

“I was doing that, too.” Ren said and smiled. “Thank you for your help today.”

“You're welcome.” She said.

Ren waved as she drove up the road to the workshop, he assumed to pick up passengers. He turned towards House Neram and saw the once blank side was completely covered in details. Ren looked at the wall, and saw that it's details were different from the work that was done to the front. He walked over to where Barnar had set up his workspace and saw that the work crew was packing everything up.

“Ren!” Barnar said and came over to him. “What do you think?”

“I think you went as far overboard as I thought you would.” Ren said and laughed.

Barnar clapped Ren on the shoulder. “You knew I was going to have fun, didn't you?”

“With a canvas this size?” Ren said and waved to the 200 foot length of the front wall. “I'd be disappointed if you didn't have fun with it... and it's 3 other sides.”

“Ha ha!” Barnar said and let Ren's shoulder go. “I enjoyed it almost as much as I enjoyed spending time with the Lady of the House.” He said and grinned. “I envy you, my friend.”

“You don't have to envy me too much.” Ren smiled. “3 years isn't that long to wait.”

Barnar put out a hand for Ren to shake. “No, it isn't.” He said as Ren shook his hand. “I hope I'll see you again soon.”

“Definitely.” Ren said. “You still owe me a lesson or two.”

Barnar chuckled. “You know the basics well enough. The real expertise comes from practice, my friend.”

“It sure does.” Ren said and grinned. “So, what do I owe you for the work?”

Barnar shook his head. “We agreed that I'd let you pay for the workers and for the materials.”

“I know, but Barnar...” Ren looked back at the battlements. “...this turned out to be a lot more than either of us envisioned.”

“That doesn't matter.” Barnar smiled. “A deal is a deal.”

“Okay, my friend.” Ren said. “Can I at least give you a bonus for finishing early?”

“Well...” Barnar hedged. “...everyone did work a lot harder for you than they have for anyone else.”

Ren pulled out a platinum coin and handed it to Barnar. “A 5 gold bonus for everyone.”

“Ren...”

“It's not even 2 days pay.” Ren said, and smiled as Barnar took it. “I'd say to tell them to have fun, but I think that'll happen anyways.”

Barnar smiled. “I can guarantee it.” He said. “Take care of yourself, Ren.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I will, Barnar.”

Barnar walked over to one of the carts that were being loaded and helped the workers finish. He climbed up into it, and all the workers waved as they drove away. Ren waved to them, and when they were far enough away, he turned towards the gate to the house and walked over to it. Wohrum was standing guard this time.

“Welcome home, your highness.”

“Thanks, Wohrum.”

Ren went to walk by, and Wohrum coughed. “Yes, Wohrum?”

“Sir, I'd like to know how I can pay you back.”

“For what?”

“Sir, you gave me the 200 gold for the work penalty when I left House Lodur.”

“And?”

“That's a lot of debt.” He said and sighed. “It's about a year at the mines.”

“House Lodur's mines.”

Wohrum nodded slightly.

“I told Lady Neram that I won't have anyone go into debt to move here.” Ren said. “You don't owe me anything.”

“But sir...”

“The money shouldn't have to be paid in the first place.” Ren said and frowned. “Making someone work for that long, for free, is horrible.”

Wohrum's eyes widened at the disgust in Ren's voice.

“I hope you're taking your pay, at least.”

“I haven't been paid yet, sir. It hasn't been a full week.”

“Sorry, Wohrum.” Ren said and gave him a platinum coin. “Here's 10 weeks pay.”

Wohrum stared at the coin. “But, sir...”

“Dammit, I keep forgetting.” Ren said and handed him a coin pouch. “Equip that and put the coin in it.”

Wohrum equipped the pouch, put the coin in it, and Ren nodded slightly.

“Now you can take out anything you need.” Ren said. “While I'm at it, and before I forget, where's Golir?”

“In the tent with his wife, sir.” Wohrum said.

“You won't be living in the tent after tomorrow.” Ren said. “Your house should be done by then.”

“M-m-my house, sir?” Wohrum asked.

Ren snorted a laugh. “You didn't think I'd let you stay in a tent, did you?”

Wohrum smiled. “The thought had crossed my mind, sir.”

Ren chuckled. “I've spent a few nights in a tent. It's fine for visits, but nothing beats the comforts of a good bed.”

Wohrum nodded.

“I hope you won't mind staying by yourself tonight.” Ren said and walked around the side of House Neram's battlement wall to where the tent had been set up. He wasn't sure where they got the poles, but it didn't really matter at this point. Ren walked over to the tent and stopped at the flap. How am I supposed to... He sighed.

“Knock. Knock.” Ren said, and then heard some movement. A minute later, the flap opened and Golir's wife was there.

“Y-your highness.” She stammered.

“I'm sorry for bothering you, but your house is ready.”

“M-m-my HOUSE?!?”

“I told you yesterday I'd try to have a crew sent out.”

“But... but...”

“What's going- Sir!” Golir said when he saw Ren was at the flap.

“I was just telling your wife that her house was done.”

“H-h-her HOUSE?”

Ren chuckled. “If you'd like to come with me?”

“Of course, sir.” Golir said. “Elean, gather our things.”

“That won't be necessary.” Ren said. “Step out, please.”

The couple stepped out of the tent and Ren walked around and pulled up the 6 spikes holding it down. He selected it and stored it in inventory.

“By the gods!” Elean exclaimed.

Ren smiled. “It's just a couple of miles down the road.” He said and started walking. Golir took his wife's hand and they followed a short distance behind, far enough back to talk freely without Ren hearing them.

*

“I thought the statue was a figure of speech or something.” Elean said to her husband.

Golir shook his head. “No, it's really true.” He said. “Wohrum told me his highness almost died doing it.”

She was quiet for a moment. “Why did he even do it?”

Golir smiled. “The way I heard it, he did it just to see if he could.”

“Wow.” Elean said. “That's... an amazingly stupid reason.”

*

The couple was back kind of far, but Ren's hearing was quite exceptional and he had heard every word, and so had Teepo.

“A-amazingly s-stupid!” Teepo was chittering in laughter, and Ren clamped his own mouth shut to try and not laugh himself. Ren led the couple down the main road to the new housing area. The road into the housing area was marked, but nothing was dug up. He stopped walking and waited for Golir and Elean to catch up.

“There's no actual road yet.” Ren said. “I'm having paving stones delivered, starting tomorrow.” He walked along the marked road and over to the rectangle. The house was clearly visible, and both the front and back yards were marked as well. Ren stepped up to the dwelling and got a popup.

New Dwelling!

As the land owner, you now have a permanent structure built on your land.

Notice!

You have yet to assign an occupant to this dwelling. Do you wish to assign an occupant now?

“Yes.” Ren said and a virtual keyboard appeared in front of him.

Please enter the names and / or Player IDs now.

Ren asked them to spell their names and he entered them into the system. He got another popup that asked for confirmation.

“Yes.” Ren said and a small key appeared around Golir's and Elean's necks. They grabbed them and held on tight.

“It's true! It's our house!” Elean said and gave her husband a kiss. She broke it a moment later and turned to Ren. “Sir... I... thank you so much.” She took out the 40 gold that Ren had given her and Ren took it.

“No, thank you.” Ren said. “You reminded me that I wanted to do this.”

“Sir, I don't know how I can repay you.” Golir said. “My wife has been wanting a house of her own since she was a little girl.”

“You gave up your lives somewhere else and moved here. That's payment enough.” Ren said. “Oh, that reminds me.” He said and gave Golir a coin pouch, and then a platinum coin. “Here's 10 weeks pay.”

“10 weeks!” Golir exclaimed. “I've only been here 2 days!”

“You're not thinking about leaving already, are you?” Ren asked.

“No, sir.” Golir said and looked at his wife. “Not at all.”

“I don't know if they have furniture or anything inside.” Ren said. “After you go in and look, let me know.”

“You aren't coming in?” Elean asked.

Ren shook his head. “Not for your first time entering your house.” He looked at Golir. “That's something special between a husband and wife.”

“Right!” Golir said and turned to his wife, and took her hand.

Ren stepped away to give them some space.

“Walls do not a home make; Caring is what is needed.” Golir said.

“A roof does not cover us; Devotion is our shelter.” Elean responded.

“A house alone is nothing; Love brings us together.” Golir said.

“I will dwell here; and build a home with you.” They said together, then walked over to the door. Golir opened it and Elean stepped inside. He followed her inside and shut the door.

Ren got to work and made a bed, just as comfy as the one he still carried, a table and 4 chairs, a couch, and 2 comfy chairs. He made covers for everything, but left them white, as he didn't know what colors Elean would like. When he was done, Ren stored everything and then took out the tent. He put the tent on the lawn, and only had to wait a couple more minutes for the front door to open. They came back outside, and Elean's hair was a little messed up and Golir had a smile on his face.

“I take it the 'kiss in every room' ritual was successful?” Ren asked, then tried his best not to grin as Elean blushed and Golir looked proud of himself.

“Yes, a... a kiss...” Elean looked at her husband like she'd never seen him before. “...in every room.”

Golir grinned and preened a little.

Ren chuckled. “Was there furniture inside?”

He shook his head. “It was as bare as old Mother Hubbard's cupboard.” He said. “Elean, can you get our things from inside the tent?”

“Sure.” She said and went into the tent.

“I'd like to give you a house-warming gift.” Ren said.

“Sir, you've given us so much already...”

Ren waved his comment away. “It's just something I whipped together while you two were... busy.”

Elean came out of the tent carrying blankets and pillows, and had another blush on her face. Ren looked away to save her some embarrassment, and walked to the house.

“Can you show me inside?” Ren asked.

“Of course, sir.” Golir said, and opened the door for him. “The main room.” Ren dropped off the couch and 2 comfy chairs. “The kitchen.” Golir said, and Ren dropped off the table and 4 chairs. “One bedroom.”

“Is this your room?” Ren asked, and Golir shook his head.

“It's the next door.” Golir opened the door and Ren dropped off the comfy bed. Elean's eyes had widened each time she came in the house with their meager possessions, and saw yet another piece of furniture. When Ren was done, she stared at him.

“You... made all of that... just now?” She asked.

Ren smiled. “I would have made end tables, but I ran out of time.”

Elean's mouth dropped open and Ren chuckled.

“I hope you enjoy your first night in your own home together.” Ren said and bowed slightly to them both. “Goodnight.” Ren left the house, stored the tent, and ran over to House Neram. He dropped it off back where it was, nodded slightly to Wohrum, and closed the gate behind him to lock it. Ren went inside and had a great supper of boar and potatoes. He told Nathalia and her mother about Golir and Elean's first time in the house. After a lot of speculation and good cheer, the meal ended and Ren took some food out to Princess. He went back inside and told Nathalia that he had Adventurer's business to take care of, and would be gone for a little while. Ren kissed her goodnight and went into the old bedroom.

I'll see you when I get back, Teepo.

“Bye, Ren.”

“Logout.”

********

Ren had breakfast and did his therapy session, took a shower and climbed back into bed.

“I'll see you at lunch, Denise.” Ren said and put on the VR headset.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up in the bed and Nathalia was there. He took off his armor and cloak, and climbed in under the blanket with her. She stirred a little bit, but she stopped moving as he spooned in behind her and hugged her around the waist. She grabbed his arms tightly, and Ren drifted off to sleep.
