The ruins of the Mercurial Court was the perfect hunting ground. The same couldn't be said about the Fuxi Halls outside. While the sprawling mountain range undoubtedly held countless treasures, including precious Void Treasures, those were not his for the taking. Getting a helping hand in form of a magical tree didn’t mean the Supremacies would sit by as he turned the Hollow Court on its head.

During his previous breakthrough, he’d managed to mostly focus his plunder on the Centurion Lighthouse, only snatching a few treasures from the Ensolus Ruins. With his body in a decent state and his Heart Cultivation significantly enhanced, Zac believed he should be able to exclusively target the Mercurial Court for sustenance.

The Void needed no further prodding to extend its hungry tendrils. And as they went further from Zac’s hideout, so did his perception expand. The ancient, faltering arrays proved utterly helpless before the Void. One treasure after another was dragged into a Void Vortex. The vortices closed, leaving no sign of their passing.

With Zac awake and in control this time, he avoided targeting ruins that gave off a forbidding aura. Still, stealing everything from hidden treasures to whole sections made from spiritual materials was impossible without leaving a mark. The outside world rumbled as ruins collapsed and malfunctioning arrays lashed out at random.

Zac was ready to escape at moment’s notice, but he was safe for now. He’d intentionally avoided the surrounding buildings in his hunt for sustenance. Now, their sturdy formations acted as his Dao Guardians as Zac sacked the neighborhood.

Zac felt as though he’d become a copy of the tree on the other side. His physical body was only a fraction of the root system that stretched through the seams of reality. The tendrils reached farther and farther in its insatiable search for sustenance. Zac was soon covering an area greater than his island back home.

With the Mercurial Court as his feeding ground, Zac felt himself rapidly approaching the tipping point. His mind grew fuzzy as desperate hunger transitioned into satiated satisfaction. The rumbles outside continued unabated, though Zac hazily noted a different tone in the mix. The unmistakable roar of thunderclouds had joined the cacophony.

Wait, why was there thunder? The Heavens had retreated after the tangerines split, and his Bloodlines had never triggered tribulations before. There was no one to provide an answer, and the world faded to black.
