Relc eyed Erin, clearly waiting for the catch. But Erin was focusing. She paused as Relc relaxed again.
“I’ll get you the egg. You want two?”
“Th-three? So I can brag and then share one with the guys. Or Beilmark, I dunno. Senior Guard pairings are all over the place this week.”
“Sure. Lyonette? Price me three eggs! And can I get a pan with water so I can boil ‘em?”
“Got it.”
Lyonette left the boiling to Erin since she’d used her [Flawless Attempt] for the moment. Relc rubbed his hands together.
“You’re the best, Erin. Have I said that recently?”
“Go on. Actually, I was hoping you could take a message for me. You’re on duty, right?”
“In…three hours.”
Relc craned his neck, staring out the window. Erin nodded.
“Perfect. Then—could you tell Klbkch I’d like to have a talk when he’s on duty next?”
Relc halted and frowned suddenly.
“Klb? Huh. Might be tricky.”
The young woman had feared that might be the case. She eyed Relc.
“Why’s that?”
He frowned and, abruptly, lost his appetite. He ate more slowly as he spoke around his mouthful.
“Klb’s investigating, uh, a criminal in Liscor, Erin. There was a bad situation with two of our Senior Guards. Watch Captain Z’s literally spitting fire and Klb and some of our smart Senior guards are investigating.”
Erin hadn’t heard of this. But then, she really hadn’t spent much time in Liscor even after coming back from the inn. She leaned over.
“What happened?”
He glanced surreptitiously at Mrsha. He motioned Erin over and spoke in a normal tone of voice. Interestingly, that was how you avoided accidental eavesdropping; Gnolls were more likely to pick up on a sudden whisper in a conversation rather than a normal flow of words.
“Two of the newest Senior Guards who were following this Gnoll—some big shot named Bearclaw? They got…”
Relc drew a finger across his throat. Erin’s eyes grew round.
“Really? Someone called Bearclaw…is Klbkch alright?”
“Oh, sure. You think they’d get him? He’d probably have gotten Bearclaw first if she tried, even if she’d jumped him with a gang. But the two others were…new. We haven’t found the bodies. Klb’s one of the people investigating.”
The young woman absorbed it all. She’d had no idea.
“Not you, Relc?”
The Drake gave Erin a sidelong grin.
“That’s right. Klb’s been busy with her case. Not me. I’m not subtle enough. But when we drag her in, I’m gonna be there. I’ll probably see him tomorrow, though. What do you want me to say? He’s sort of in a bad mood, though. Has been all week since the Bird thing.”
He might not have actually heard about the events last night, then. Erin felt her stomach twist, but she just nodded. All the more reason to ask.
“Well, when you see him next, can you tell him I’d like to chat?”
“Sure. About what?”
“…Things.”
The Senior Guardsman gave Erin a knowing look, but he just nodded as he reached for his glass of blue fruit juice.
“Sure thing. I’ll tell him. Oh—and when you make all three eggs, can you write something on the third one? Like ‘you’re an idiot?’ So I can hand it to Beilmark or whoever I’m partnered with and then they see it and—”
Erin put her hands on her hips.
“Don’t push your luck, buddy.”
 
——
 
After the morning lunch rush abated and Relc walked off with three of the eggs, Erin looked around and called out.
“Mrsha, can you come over here?”
The Gnoll cub obediently trotted over from where she was playing with her crimson, magical rolling ball. She looked up at Erin as the door to the Garden of Sanctuary appeared.
“I just want to show you something real quick, Mrsha. Through here.”
Erin opened the door. She led Mrsha through the door. And right next to the doorway, was the arid section of the Garden of Sanctuary. Erin could make the door open anywhere around the dome and the entrance/exit anywhere in her inn.
In the long, yellow grass, under the shade of the acacia tree was a little box, buried in the soil. But not covered. It had a simple lid, and there was a smaller, tiny little box next to it. That one was made of metal, and the latch was secured. Erin saw Mrsha blink at both camouflaged objects.
“This isn’t the vault. But I wanted you to know it’s here. This is the emergency stash, okay?”
Mrsha nodded as Erin bent and opened both chests.
“An invisibility potion, a speed potion, healing potions, tripvine bags—these ones explode. See how the crate is secured? Do not play games. Understand? Never. Play. Games. And don’t use them! They’re only for emergencies. Let someone else use them, but if you get hurt or…”
Erin trailed off. She didn’t need to tell Mrsha what might happen. The Gnoll looked up at Erin. The young woman gave her a reassuring hug.
“Just stay in the Garden, okay, Mrsha? Even if it looks bad. We can take care of ourselves, but we have to know you’re safe. This is only for emergencies. But better to be prepared, right?”
Right.
The little Gnoll signed back. Erin didn’t know what had happened yesterday—Mrsha had vanished with Bird—but she’d been rather chastened since. Erin suspected, but she decided not to ask. Bird had told her he’d made a terrible mistake. And Erin had talked with him.
That was that. And this was that. Erin let Mrsha scamper back into her inn after their little talk. It was enough that Mrsha knew it was there.
Contingencies.
 
——
 
Erin relaxed in her room and played the magical chess game with her partner. She had a little chat; nothing consequential this time. Her opponent was apparently ‘brd’ and ‘hv mch wrk’ today. Erin could sympathize.
“Okay, next?”
The young woman stood up. She didn’t like this part. It felt like leaning too much into the paranoid…dark thoughts. But she had a definite reason to be worried. So she took a breath.
“Okay, one, two, three…”
She began counting as she took the kitchen knife from her belt. The gleaming edge that Pelt had forged, and Lorent further refined, gleamed. Erin turned.
“Door.”
The door to the Garden of Sanctuary was open and she stepped through. Then turned—
“Door.”
The door was open again. But it was not connected to her room. Erin walked through into the kitchen and saw a figure. She’d known who it was before she even saw him.
Palt was making crepes; he really was taken with Erin’s cooking and adding stuff like a bit of drizzled chocolate and whipped cream was a treat. Of course, he was also a huge fan of his Balerosian dishes—Erin had to admit his curry was actually tasty, unlike the curry she’d made to attack the [Mages].
Six seconds. And Erin had known where Palt was, even appeared right behind him in the kitchen along an empty wall. She stood there silently as Palt turned, and stowed her knife.
The Centaur was humming to himself as he flipped a crepe. He turned, spotted her, shouted.
“Aah! Erin, don’t do that to me! Mrsha’s bad enough with that damn Garden! I don’t need two [Panic] spells on my tail!”
The [Illusionist] clutched at his chest. For someone in the Ullsinoi faction and a huge horse-man, he was very sensitive to scares. Mrsha loved Palt for that reason, although Erin had told her not to get near his hooves.
But then, Centaurs were apparently prone to frights, like horses. And Erin supposed being around a faction of Wistram’s worst tricksters and pranksters did things to your psyche. She waved at him, smiling.
“What? I walked in ages ago. You didn’t hear me. Nice crepes.”
“What? Oh—well, I get absorbed in my cooking. Thank you. One of your guests ordered it, and I decided to make some for myself. That’s alright, isn’t it?”
Palt blushed. Erin waved an airy hand.
“What? Sure! Like I said, thanks for helping out. Uh, I think your crepes are burning.”
“Horseflies!”
Well, that worked.
“Fire, next.”
Erin mumbled to herself as Palt salvaged his crepes. The Centaur turned, sucking on a burned finger.
“Excuse me?”
“I think that stove’s a bit hot. It’s still running on fire; I should really pay for those heating runes.”
She gave him a cheerful smile. The Centaur nodded.
“True, but that’s no excuse on my side. Speaking of which, I know you’re extremely busy, but if I could borrow you for just a minute, Erin?”
He looked ready to plead, but Erin nodded. She had been expecting this too.
“Sure thing.”
The Centaur looked surprised, but he trotted into the common room hurriedly after Erin.
“Maybe in a private room? It is about the sensitive issues.”
“Right.”
 
——
 
The Centaur ate from his slightly burned crepes in one of the private rooms. Well, the last one left; the other two were now used as Octavia’s storage and the lifting room. There was a neat little table in here and chairs, and Erin waited as he tapped his fingers together.
“Well, Erin. About yesterday. I uh, know you don’t like these questions, but the Elusive Lot got wind of the broadcast Magus Grimalkin put out. I know, I know, spying, but it’s an open secret with these kind of things. Er, and since it doesn’t seem to be a huge imposition and you’ve told Magus Grimalkin—”
“You want to know about the weight training.”
Palt paused.
“We’d like to compensate you. Obviously, I don’t have anything planned, but as I said, we’re making this an exchange, Erin. And favor’s the real currency with a lot of these—”
“Fine.”
Erin pretended to sigh, but only mildly. She eyed Palt as he paused.
“You’ll do it?”
“Yep. Okay, you win. Lifting. I’ll give you the details. But it’s just…I dunno, muscle stuff. Does your faction really want that?”
Palt gave Erin a long look.
“Erin, you heard Magus Grimalkin. This is valuable information. Yes, absolutely. Anything you can tell us specifically about it we’ll take, even if it’s already being disseminated.”
Fair enough. Erin had, in fact, already done the calculation of risks in telling Palt. And she’d concluded that if none of the Earthers in Wistram Academy knew more than she did about strength training, it would be a strange thing indeed. So she nodded.
“Sure. It might take a while since I’m not an expert…and I never really did it, but let me tell you everything. Which you’re not going to tell anyone but the Elusive Lot, right?”
“Lips sealed. If it gets out, it’s through them, but I’m not mentioning anything to Magus Grimalkin.”
Palt instantly nodded, tracing a line across his face that shimmered in the air. Erin scratched at her head.
“Okay. Aside from what Grimalkin told you, let me tell you about…protein shakes. Which are the most disgusting things in the world. Also—eating raw eggs. Um…punching bags. Hydration?”
The Centaur had produced a series of notes and he was transcribing with a magical quill that seemed to be recording Erin’s words automatically as he added notes. He looked up.
“I think I know hydration. But go on.”
“You drink water to live. No water is bad for the muscles and brain and stuff.”
“…Yes. I think we have that.”
“Also, if you drink too much water you’ll die.”
The [Illusionist] paused, a second quill in hand.
“Say what now?”
 
——
 
Half an hour of questions and answers later, Erin felt more tired than this morning. And she’d just gotten started. But she was knocking things off her list left and right. Serious Erin needed coffee, or something stronger than tea, but she got work done.
Of course, Erin was still winging her order of events. And as it happened, one of the items on her list decided to bump itself up the queue. Erin saw a duo sitting at one of her tables, and sighed.
“Uh oh. They’re back again.”
Palt peered over Erin’s shoulder and spotted Beza and Montressa. The two [Mages] instantly turned as they saw Erin and Palt coming out of the private room. They gave the Centaur a dirty look and Erin some rather false smiles.
“Are they coming every day for the same reason you are, Palt?”
Erin frowned a bit, inconspicuously nodding towards Montressa and Beza. The Centaur paused. He absently reached for a puffer, and then checked the motion. Instead, he produced a dark, black round lump and began to chew it. It looked like gum. Mixed with nicotine.
“Don’t worry about Montressa and Beza, Erin. They have orders, just like I do. For now, their factions want them here. I’m sure they’re not planning on anything radical. My faction has you claimed, so to speak. Not in any possessive way! But we’ll fight tooth-and-hoof to keep anyone from…doing anything. If you wanted to, you could ban them…”
He clearly didn’t want that too much. Nor did Erin. She regarded the two [Mages]. They weren’t something she knew the answer to. But…she had a sudden, really, horribly mean thought. The kind of mean thought that you should really get a slap on the back of the head for. But also, a smart thought.
The young woman took a deep breath, then glanced at Palt. She nodded covertly at Palt.
“I’m gonna investigate. Back me up.”
She wandered over to the two [Mages]. And, with as much subterfuge in her voice as Mrsha hiding a cookie behind her back, she nodded at the two [Mages].
“Hey, you two. How’s things?”
“Pretty well, actually. Good morning, Erin.”
Montressa smiled at Erin. The young woman was as always dressed in her robes, but she lacked the magical staff or floating brass orb. She was also either better at acting or more genuinely relaxed than her companion.
Bezale or Beza, the Minotauress [Spellscribe], bared her teeth at Erin like she had a toothache. Montressa went on as Erin pulled out a chair.
“We were hoping to speak to you actually, if you’re not busy?”
“No, go on. I mean, I’m just puttering around. Doing stuff, y’know? But I have time. Did you see the Grimalkin lifting thing yesterday?”
“Beza actually did a lot of lifting. I passed on it.”
Montressa gestured at her friend. Beza wore a sour expression.
“I came in eighth place. Eighth. Disgraceful.”
“Sounds pretty good to me?”
The [Spellscribe] turned a face full of wrath Erin’s way. Montressa kicked Beza under the table and went on smoothly.
“The broadcast was actually really…interesting. It caused a bit of a stir at the academy, actually. You—wouldn’t happen to be free to chat about your home, would you? I could offer you compensation if—”
“I don’t think Erin needs to speak with your factions, Montressa. Good morning, by the way.”
“Palt.”
Beza folded her arms, much like another Minotaur that Erin had known.
“And what would Erin get from sharing her valuable information with you two? Just asking.”
Palt gave the two of them a smirk. Montressa’s left eyelid began to twitch. She sighed, and gave up the pretense. She looked straight at Erin.
