He nodded slowly.
“You look the same. And different. I have heard much about you.”
“From who?”
“The Watch Captain. She visits me, sometimes. And Ceria used to.”
“She left. With Pisces. After…”
“I know.”
“Right. You were there. At the inn. You went in first.”
Erin felt a bit silly. But her head was crowded. And only the trivial words, the trite sentences came out. Calruz nodded again.
“I did not find my death there.”
“So this is what you do now?”
The Minotaur didn’t smile. He replied levelly, his blue eyes meeting Erin’s. She searched again for the madness, but she saw only tired grief. Sorrow.
“It was offered to me. It is better than the cell. Better than I deserve. It would be justice, to execute me. To let me rot away. I would rather death than confinement. But it is not my decision.”
His voice was loud enough that the crowd could hear. They stirred. Erin looked up at him.
“She still thinks you’re innocent.”
“Yes. And I…sometimes believe her.”
For a moment, Calruz smiled. And Erin saw a flicker in his eyes. Then his cracked lips sagged. He looked down at her.
“Ceria told me she was leaving. I wish her the best. And you. I am sorry.”
He began to walk past Erin, slowly, step by step as the chains dragged. Erin looked at him.
“For what?”
The Minotaur paused. The [Honorbound Prisoner] looked back.
“Everything.”
The word struck Erin. Her history with Calruz unfolded before her. Him and his team, teaching her to punch, Skinner, the Raskghar, Mrsha, the rituals—all of it. In one long moment, she saw Calruz turn away. Erin looked at his back. And she remembered a Minotaur striding into the Crypt of Liscor. Back straight and proud.
“Don’t you dare.”
He turned. Erin stood behind him. She looked at Calruz. Angry.
“Don’t you dare apologize like that and just walk away.”
“I’m sorry.”
The Minotaur bowed his head. Erin was shaking. Not with anger, or sadness, or any one thing. She touched her chest. She faced Calruz, a short young woman speaking to a bowed, scarred Minotaur who turned as if afraid of what he might see in her eyes. Erin’s voice was unwavering; still.
“You killed good people. You did horrible things. I saw it. Don’t you dare apologize like that.”
“I know. I cannot.”
The Minotaur murmured. Erin went on.
“And don’t you dare apologize for the rest. Not for everything.”
He looked up. Erin stared around the quiet crowd.
“I saw you. I saw you charge into the inn. Alone. With hundreds of Crelers inside. I knew a Minotaur who taught me how to punch. Who led the best team of adventurers I ever met! Don’t you dare apologize for him. For the one who taught me—this! [Minotaur Punch]!”
Erin’s fist flashed through the air. It stopped, and she pointed at Calruz’ chest.
“And don’t you dare hide. The Calruz I knew wouldn’t walk like that. He’d take the burdens on his shoulders.”
“I’m trying. But how can I atone for what I’ve done? How, in a thousand years?”
He whispered. He met Erin’s eyes, lost and sad and…searching. Erin Solstice stared at him.
“I don’t know. But I know this. I remember Calruz the Adventurer. Calruz, the mad thing in the dungeon, leader of the Raskghar. Calruz the [Prisoner]. Calruz of Hammerad, this is what I think of you.”
The [Innkeeper] slowly reached for her chest. She looked at Calruz. The one-armed Minotaur, who had lost everything. His honor, his team. His mind. And he was not one thing, like the emotions in her chest were not.
He was a monster. A brave adventurer. A remorseful prisoner. A distant figure, charging into the inn alone. All these things and more.
Could you forgive someone like that? Could she? Erin Solstice reached into her chest and pulled out the answer. She cupped it in her hands.
Fire, like her memories.
A small flame blossomed between Erin’s hands. A tiny, but painfully bright light. Calruz tried to shield his eyes. But he couldn’t. He looked and was captivated.
“What is that?”
The young woman stared at the fire. It burned. And it had what seemed a mild heat. But…terribly warm. The kind that could keep you warm in the face of the coldest winds.
It burned, with an [Innkeeper]’s regrets. Her sorrows. And yes, even some hate. Anger. But it was also made of something else.
Glory. All she remembered of Calruz, all she respected and loved about him. Everything he had been. And the shadow he had become. But the glory, the memory of it did not, could not be consumed by the bad. The fire was mercy and redemption. Forgiveness, all she could give.
But—glory. And that word was not bravery or courage alone. It was good and bad. And it burned, with the brilliant white center that seared the eyes, turning lighter, from white to pink and red.
The fuchsia edges of the flame melted with darker edges, like the very blood that had been spilled. Erin held it up, and the crowd looked at her. The Minotaur’s eyes reflected the glow. And he and Erin saw in it all he had been.
Slowly, his back straightened. Erin Solstice looked into Calruz’s eyes and blinked away tears. He did not weep. But he stood taller, taller. Until he looked around.
The crowd of people looked at Erin’s fire. It did not captivate all of them. Some spat and turned away. Others hurled insults, fleeing the painful light. And still more looked at Calruz. At Erin, as she held the flame up.
“This. Don’t forget this. Ever.”
That was all she said. The Minotaur nodded. Erin’s hands cupped the flames. The shadows seemed long, despite the daylight streaming up. People moved around her pointing, staring. But Erin’s heart held that brief sight of glory.
And then she threw the fire up, out of her hands. It burned for just a second in the air and then vanished. For it was a fleeting thing. Erin looked at Calruz. Then she turned and walked away.
 
——
 
She did not say anything more. She did not watch, as the Minotaur kept walking. Erin Solstice sat and talked with Selys. In time, she began to feel normal. But her Drake friend stared at her as if Erin had horns growing out of her head. Or something else.
The young woman found Beza and Montressa standing in the inn, helping with the production of Frozen. They looked wan, tired from the other fire, but determined to be helpful. Erin tilted her head at them.
“Palt, Montressa, Beza, can we talk?”
The Wistram [Mages] turned to her, two of them looking apprehensive. Erin motioned them around the table. Then she sat.
“I was thinking about the future. Um…you know the inn’s growing, right? Well, we’ve nearly finished the second floor and I was thinking. We have three new rooms which opened upstairs. Since you three are always around here, I was thinking of offering you all a place to stay. If you can get up the stairs, Palt?”
Palt nearly choked on his gum. Montressa stammered.
“W—you want us, Erin? To stay at your inn?”
“If you want to. Pay, obviously. It’s not too expensive, and you get free breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Um, unless you get more than one plate.”
“But why us? You have every right to bear a grudge. Why change your mind?”
Beza folded her arms. She watched Erin, and the young woman wanted to know all about Minos, suddenly. About how their King judged honor. But she just shrugged.
“Why not? I don’t mind. You two were sort of jerks, but you also helped fight the Crelers. I’m not telling you stuff just like that, or joining your factions, but you can stay, if you want to.”
She paused.
“You fought the Crelers. That doesn’t balance you out because that’s not how it works, but it matters.”
She looked from face to face, meeting each eye squarely. And then Erin smiled, mischievously.
“Besides, someone has to balance Palt. Or his faction has too much power around here and he’s the only person from Wistram telling me what’s what. What if I want to negotiate or undercut him somehow?”
The gum caught in Palt’s throat. He choked and Beza slapped him on the back. Erin eyed the saliva and gum on the table. Then she looked up.
She smiled, and winked. And all three Wistram [Mages] gave Erin the look everyone gave her when they saw behind the curtain for a second.
“Think about it.”
And that was all. Erin got up as Palt stared at her. She wandered over to Lyonette.
“Hey, it’ll probably be a full house tonight. Get ready. I’m going to bring it down.”
The [Princess] cocked an eyebrow at Erin.
“What are you planning?”
“I’m going to use my other Skill.”
Erin met Lyonette’s gaze. Slowly, the [Princess] nodded. Erin spent the rest of the time relaxing, chatting with Saliss and Octavia who’d come back through raving about isolating one single component in their potion. Xif, who had a present for Erin. Relc showed up, with Beilmark, smug as could be.
And they came. All the others. As if they knew something was up. Perhaps they’d heard about Calruz. Or perhaps Erin had summoned them. Olesm and Selys, Krshia and Elirr, the latter muttering about Wyvern bites.
Even Embria and the 4th Company. Although they were just here to work out. Erin saw how Embria sat with her command, laughing and glancing at Relc as he sat and had a poke-fight with Mrsha. And Erin waited.
“Miss Solstice? [Message] for you.”
Erin received one last surprise that night. A Drake Street Runner arrived with a little letter. Erin blinked, and unfurled it.
It was a [Message], as you got from the Mage’s Guild all the time. Erin’s fingers froze when she saw who had sent it.
 
Dear Erin,
I’m sorry I haven’t written you. I’m so sorry about how I left. And I’m afraid I’m not sending you good news. Well, it’s a burden. There are some…people coming towards your inn. People like me. I didn’t know where else to send them. And I hope you can do for them what you did for me.
I’m rambling. Hey, can I pay for—never mind. It’s sort of hard to say, Erin. I’m uh, dictating this out loud, if you didn’t know. I just wanted to say that I’m sorry. Not just to you. To Mrsha. I let her down.
I should have stayed. But I make such a mess of things. I couldn’t even face my mistakes. I want to change. I have to. Until I do, I’m afraid I’ll end up killing you or ruining your life. But I will come back.
I promise. I will come back, no matter what. But not yet. When I come back, I need to be different.
There’s nothing else I can say. I’m sorry I haven’t returned. I’m sending gold, for Mrsha, and anything else you need. Please tell her that…I wish I could have helped her. I wish I was worthy of it. But I’m not.
Sincerely,
–Ryoka Griffin
 
Erin read the letter twice, slowing down as she noticed what looked like the transcribing [Mage] having real difficulty with Ryoka’s dictation. She stared as the Street Runner waited.
“Oh. A seal. And a tip. Here.”
The [Innkeeper] pushed a seal, a silver coin, and a chocolate chip cookie into the Drake boy’s claws. He blinked at all three and then bowed.
“Thanks, Miss!”
Erin slowly sat down at a table. She read the letter a third time, and stopped halfway through.
“This is the worst letter I’ve ever read.”
It really was. But it was also Ryoka. And Erin thought—it was something. To get a letter from Ryoka that read like this. It was her. Infuriating and sincere and sad at the same time.
…It also pissed Erin off. She stood up and glared at the letter.
“Who’s coming? What do you mean? Lyonette!”
Erin threw up her arms and stormed into the kitchen. The [Princess] was trying to flawlessly make an order for Saliss.
“I’m busy, Erin—”
She stopped as Erin thrust the letter into her face.
“Read.”
Lyonette did. She read the letter, swore with the kind of filthy language she’d banned in Mrsha’s presence, and read on. She looked up at Erin with much the same look.
“What is she thinking?”
“I don’t know. But she sent the [Message]. There’s no return address.”
The [Innkeeper] had cooled down. Now, she looked at the letter Lyonette was threatening to shred like a valuable thing.
“Don’t wreck it. Mrsha needs to read this. It’s good practice for her letters, anyways.”
The [Princess]’s lips compressed. Her eyes flashed.
“I don’t know that she needs to see this.”
“She absolutely needs to see it. If she wants to.”
Erin shook her head. She looked at the letter. Then she whirled.
“I’m going into Liscor. Be back in a second.”
She stormed out of the inn.
 
——
 
“I’m sorry, Miss. But it was sent with an anonymity clause. We’re not allowed to share the details.”
The [Scribe] at the desk was unhappy, but he shook his head as Erin stood at his counter.
“You don’t know where it came from?”
“No, Miss. We’re not allowed to divulge confidential information.”
Erin paused. She narrowed her eyes.
“…Do you not know, or are you not allowed to tell me? Because it sounds like you could find out?”
The [Scribe]’s eyes flickered. Erin leaned over the counter.
“Do you know who I am?”
“Miss—”
“I’m insane, you know. They say I can spit blood and that I have a Hobgoblin [Bouncer].”
“Miss, if you threaten me, I’ll call the Watch.”
“Threaten you?”
Erin smiled, spreading her arms wide. Like Wailant. And like the [Pirate], she suddenly leaned in.
“Magus Grimalkin stays at my inn. Also, Krshia’s a great friend. And Selys. And uh—I know Olesm. Tell me where it came from. I know you can buy information from the Mage’s Guild. They’re as leaky as a sponge if you squeeze. Tell me. How much? Ten silver? A gold piece?”
She began slapping money on the counter. The [Scribe] raised his claws.
“Miss, please—”
“Do you want to be depressed? I can do depressing fire too!”
Erin was ready to cause a riot. But as it happened, it didn’t occur. The [Scribe] was looking for the bell to summon the Watch when someone slid past Erin.
“Excuse me, Erin. Ahem. May I have a word?”
Montressa du Valeross walked over to the desk. The [Mage] leaned over and tapped on the counter.
“A word with your Guildmistress? My name is Montressa du Valeross. I’m a Wistram Mage.”
The [Scribe] froze. He looked at Montressa. So did Erin.
“Get him.”
The [Aegiscaster] smiled at Erin. And the [Scribe] wilted.
A few minutes later, Montressa handed Erin a small slip of paper. Erin unfolded it wordlessly.
“That’s all we got. Did you want more?”
“Nah. I just needed to know.”
“Who was it?”
Montressa looked at Erin. The young woman raised her brows.
“A friend.”
The [Aegiscaster] hesitated. And Erin could see the little magical gears spinning in Montressa’s head. So the young woman tugged her out of the Mage’s Guild.
“You know, Palt’s told me all about factions. And how you’re supposed to report stuff. And you’re smart.”
“Thank you for saying that.”
Erin nodded. She looked at Montressa.
“Don’t report that.”
“Erin—”
