The young woman held up a finger.
“Palt keeps telling me about trust. Secrets for secrets, right? That’s how Wistram works? Don’t report that. And I’ll tell you about weights. And other things. Give me a reason to trust you. And I will.”
She waited. It was a gamble. The [Aegiscaster] eyed Erin. And then she nodded slowly.
“Done. Would you like me to swear it on a truth spell?”
“Yes please.”
Erin waited. Montressa did. And the [Innkeeper] smiled.
“Now, do me another favor. I need you to send two [Messages].”
“To whom?”
“Falene Skystrall of the Silver Swords. And Ceria Springwalker or Pisces Jealnet of the Horns of Hammerad.”
Montressa froze. She looked at Erin as the young woman explained.
“They were both going to learn the spell. It’s silly, not knowing it. Either one works. You can send it directly, right? So the Mage’s Guild won’t listen in or Wistram?”
Slowly, the young [Mage] nodded. She put a finger to her brow.
“What do I say?”
“Tell them—tell them this. Ryoka is in Reizmelt. That’s some place north of Invrisil a good ways. Tell them she’s there. Tell them to find her.”
“And then?”
Erin Solstice paused. She looked up at the fading light in the sky.
“When they find her, tell her to come back home.”
She left it at that. Montressa concentrated. A reply came back almost instantly.
“The Silver Swords acknowledge. They said they’ll stop by on their way north.”
Then she paused. Her expression grew blank. But Erin watched the emotions flickering in her eyes. Montressa’s mouth moved, and she sent more than Erin’s message, Erin was sure. But all she did was produce a bit of parchment and write on it. When she was done, she bowed slightly, and walked away without a word.
Erin read the reply. It was neat, but she instantly recognized Ceria’s tone.
 
Sorry we’re delayed, Erin. Had some incidents with Ksmvr. Also, took a contract along the way fighting wildmagic Stone Golems. Like Snow Golems, only stone. Will absolutely find her. Nearly at Invrisil. See you then,
–Ceria
 
Erin stood in the fading light. She smiled, and tucked the note away.
“Good.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t over. That night, the inn was full. Erin Solstice waited until people were drinking, and the Players of Celum had put on one performance. And then she strode into the center of the room.
“Excuse me everyone! Can I have your attention? Can I have your attention?”
At first they didn’t hear her. So Erin shouted louder. She saw Zevara wincing, glaring with some of the [Guards] who’d dragged her here for a night out. Or perhaps it was her instinct too. Erin waved her arms.
Everyone watched her. From Saliss and Octavia to Zevara, Olesm, Relc, Mrsha—so many faces. Montressa was drinking with Palt and Beza in one corner. Erin inhaled.
“Tonight’s a special night.”
“Why’s that?”
Relc shouted from his seat with Mrsha. Erin shot him a look and smiled.
“Because I said so.”
There was a murmur of laughter. Erin waved for silence. She put her hands behind her back as her chest burned.
Her head was light. The young woman walked in front of one of the fireplaces. And her voice was loud.
“I saw someone today. A Minotaur. Not Beza, sorry. The Minotaur. Calruz.”
The room went as silent as if Erin had doused it.
“I don’t know what you think of him. I know what he did. I saw it. But I also saw what he did before that. Calruz and the Horns of Hammerad were the first adventurers ever to visit my inn, did you know? Before it was destroyed. The first time.”
There was a laugh, and then silence. Erin went on, her voice trembling, but it stopped as she went on.
“The Horns of Hammerad. They went into the Crypt and…well, you know the rest. But they reformed. They beat Albez, and found treasure! Including the magic door!”
“Hurray for that!”
Saliss shouted. Erin smiled. He was watching her knowingly. Perhaps he knew what she had in the cupped hands behind her back.
“And then the Horns came back here. They fought the moths. They fought the Raskghar. They brought down a monster. Calruz. And when I saw him the second time, he was mad. Insane. But then I saw him in prison. And I wasn’t sure if he was mad, or if something had happened down there. Maybe it was him. Maybe it was something else. I don’t know. But when the Crelers attacked the inn, the Horns of Hammerad killed the Adult Creler. They brought it down. And brave people died.”
She looked around. Some adventurers were in the inn. Bevussa, Keldrass—and some who’d fought there. The Ensoldier Shields and Walt glanced up.
“They fought and won. But a lot of people died. [Mages], adventurers. The Horns were one of the groups. But they fought. All of them. Calruz was the first one into the inn.”
“What’s your point?”
That question came from the front. Erin searched the crowd, saw an angry face.
“Just this. It happened. All those things. The good and the bad. And tonight, we’re going to remember that. I don’t know if you’ve heard, but I’ve got a little Skill. So—tonight—I’m remembering that. And this is what I remember.”
Erin took her hands from around her back. And there it was.
A pink glow. The color of glory and mercy and forgiveness and redemption and triumph and sorrow.
It was such a tiny thing. Erin stared at it. Happiness to her was purple. And sadness blue. Was happiness that close to sadness? Did it work like that? Why was glory pink?
But it wasn’t gold. The white, painful light in the center made people shade their eyes. It was such a tiny flame. Most in the inn couldn’t see it. The little fuchsia flame wavered as if it might go out at any second. So Erin stepped back—
And she cast it into the fireplace.
The merry orange flames changed color in an instant. The bright, harsh, warm glow lit up the inn. Her guests cried out in astonishment. And Erin saw the light grow.
So did the shadows. The light of the magic fire of glory had a strange effect. For all it shone and was even painful to look at, it lengthened the shadows as much as it cast light. So it was bright as day and dark as night.
“Glory.”
The young woman stood with her back to the fire. She caught some on her fingertips. Catching it without being burned.
She didn’t know she could do that. But she was acting on instinct, now. There was a thundering in her chest, a burning in her veins. And the fire shot from fireplace to fireplace.
Now the inn was basked in the light. And it was not gentle. It was warm. But not all looked at it with fond memory.
Some flinched away from the burning light. They fled it, leaving. But most stayed. It was beautiful to many.
Frightening to others. Watch Captain Zevara was one. She flinched away, staring with fear at the bright, shadowed glow. Zevara whispered a word.
“Skinner.”
The young woman turned. Her eyes shone as she held the magenta flame. Slowly, she walked over to the bar. And Zevara beheld in her Skinner. She remembered the rotting thing.
The sight of a tribe of Goblins standing over its corpse. An inn that stood. The Workers who stood with the Black Tide as they crushed the undead and saved her city.
Both things at once. One might outweigh the other at times, but neither was complete alone. That was what glory was, to Erin.
And it called her. Her eyes scanned across the bar.
“Pour me a drink, Drassi. Something that burns.”
The Drake [Bartender] stared at Erin. Slowly, she filled a tumbler with Firebreath Whiskey. Erin looked at it.
“No. Not right.”
Her mind was shimmering. Something was calling to her. She looked at the glass, at the fire in her hands. She was missing something. Drassi looked past her and whispered.
“Erin.”
The young woman looked down. A little furry paw reached up. And Erin saw a little faerie flower.
Saliss and Xif stared. The entire room stared as Erin took the flower out of Mrsha’s grasp. And the little Gnoll looked up, waiting. Erin contemplated the flower. Her fire.
And she performed her magic. She squeezed a few drops of nectar into the drink and mixed it. Then—she set the flower in the glass. And the pink fire consumed it.
The magenta flame burned across the glass, turning the liquid inside into a shimmering glow. The Faerie Flower burned to ash in a second, and Erin stared at the cup.
It was complete. It held…something. Erin lifted the flaming shot glass and pivoted. Rufelt watched from a seat where he sat with his wife, and the [Bartender] smiled.
“So. Does anyone want a drink?”
The room was silent. Everyone stared at the fiery glass. Octavia looked around.
“No way I’m doing it.”
The guests looked at each other. Wailant half-rose, and so did Palt, Saliss, Xif—
But Relc was first. He strode past Grimalkin who was cribbing notes like a maddrake, and walked over to the bar. The Drake squared his shoulders.
“Mind if I have it?”
Erin handed him the glass wordlessly. He looked at the cup and at Erin. He knew what it held. He had taken the bitter draught of memories before.
He raised the glass to his lips and drained it in one go. The room watched in silence. The Senior Guardsman smacked his mouth and then paused. He looked past Erin. At something she couldn’t see.
“Relc?”
Erin’s heart was pounding. She looked at her old friend, one of the oldest in this world. And she didn’t know what he saw as he turned. Relc held the glass. He stared at it, and at Erin.
Then he hurled it to the floor. The glass shattered, and Erin jumped. The Drake [Sergeant] looked around. And then he leapt onto the bar. He planted his feet on it, and grabbed a second glass and the bottle Drassi had pulled out.
“A toast! To the damned 4th Company of the army! New and old! Raise your mugs, you ugly bastards!”
He shouted across the room. There were tears in his eyes. Embria started at her table, and 4th Company gaped at Relc.
The Gecko of Liscor. They never spoke to him. Hadn’t acknowledged him until Pallass. The former [Sergeant] and [Spearmaster]. But tonight, Relc roared.
“Pour one out, you worthless fleshbags!”
He poured a shot and drank. All the [Soldiers] of 4th Company shot to their feet, not just Embria. They raised their drinks. And they shouted.
“4th Company! The Skywalker’s Company! 4th!”
“And the Gecko of Liscor!”
Embria raised her drink. Erin heard them roar. She watched Relc and then saw him turn to her.
“Skywalker?”
“We run on [Light Bridges]. What?”
The young woman paused.
“Is it good?”
Relc looked at Erin and the fire she held. He raised a glass to his old company, and his daughter. He stared, at that elusive, oft-painful fire. But wonderful, too. And he nodded.
“The best.”
 
——
 
The drinks burned bright as Erin served them. She didn’t have to, or rather, she wasn’t alone. Drassi and Rufelt were helping her.
The faerie flowers were a bitter poison. And they were poison. A memory so real and painful you could die in it. But when the fire burned, you drank it. And you didn’t see a vision that snatched you into a world of what might have been, or vivid and real memory.
The drink made you remember the best and worst of it. All at once. And that—was not nostalgia. It was not for everyone. But it was glorious.
People were toasting and shouting. The inn was in an uproar. Erin had never seen it like this. She had seen it panicked, confused, happy and sad. But this was chaos. Pandemonium.
“It’s almost like a real inn.”
Rufelt eyed Erin. He slipped as he slid a shot glass across the table, and it flicked, spinning, going to hit the floor.
A hand caught it. Erin saw a dark, slim Antinium inspect the fiery drink.
Klbkch. Her breath caught. The Antinium seemed—unhappy. So deeply so, Erin could feel it. But this wasn’t the night. She couldn’t help him now. She had to—
The Revalantor, Klbkch the Slayer, raised the glass. He stood in a moment made for him, as people like Saliss and Grimalkin turned. Chaldion looked up. Olesm froze, and Zevara tensed.
Klbkchhezeim of the Free Antinium stared around the room. He looked at Pawn and Bird and Belgrade and the others who were here against his orders. At Erin. But he did not say anything to them.
It was not the moment. The Antinium simply lifted his glass. He opened his mandibles.
“To the Centenium of the True Antinium. To the Antinium of Rhir!”
He drank. And then he hurled the glass to the floor, as Relc had done. The Slayer walked back into the crowd. And no one stopped him. It made the eyes of some burn with more than sadness, but his was not the only toast. He had the right.
“Attention, attention everyone! Shut up!”
Erin climbed onto a table. She kicked someone’s spaghetti out of the way. Erin waved her arms. She had a mug in one hand, filled with alcohol, not the burning magic drink. Everyone faced her as Erin shouted.
“I have only one thing to say tonight! This is my inn! And you’re all my guests! You’ve seen it destroyed, rebuilt! You’ve seen monsters—and heroes!”
She shouted to the roaring crowd. And Erin felt more like an [Innkeeper] than she had before. People shouted, someone screamed about their spaghetti, and Erin shouted louder as the drinks and food flowed.
“Just remember this! This is The Wandering Inn! And we’ve seen good people and jerks come through here! Legends and monsters! But we remember the good ones now! Raise a cup to them all! They’ll be back again, someday!”
People began to thrust their tankards and cups up, but they paused. Erin looked around. And in the sudden lull, she nodded.
“The good and the bad. But that’s okay. Because this inn’s open. And I believe that if you can do terrible things, you can also redeem yourself.”
Her words carried across the bar. And Erin gazed about. She looked past Beza, Montressa, and Palt, past Relc, Olesm, Klbkch, standing silent, watching, past Lyonette and everyone in the inn who looked at her and listened and remembered. Out, through one of the windows at the distant city. And further still.
“No matter how far you go, no matter where you go or who you become—you can always come back here. That’s a promise. I might hit you with a pan, but this inn welcomes you all. Because it has only one rule. Which is?”
She waited. Her guests murmured. And then a Drake jumped onto his chair. The Senior Guardsman raised his mug and met Erin’s eyes. He nodded, and then bellowed. And he was not alone.
Relc shouted it with Saliss, and the [Mages], and Lyonette and Numbtongue and everyone who’d ever been stopped and had the sign above the bar pointed out to them. Who’d ever looked up and read the words, or seen the little sign by the door. They shouted it.
“No killing Goblins!”
Erin laughed. She lifted her tankard and drank it down in one go, to cheers from around the inn. Then Erin got down from the table.
“Nice speech. Also, that would be more impressive if I didn’t know you were immune to it.”
