Erin casually shielded Lyonette from the glow. It only worked if you looked at it. Then she pulled something out of the oven. Lyonette stared.
Erin had put a…tray in the oven. With little sections in it. Erin cracked the tray gently on the counter. And she held something out to Lyonette. Just frozen water.
“…Wanna ice cube?”
 
——
 
Later that day, Erin was smiling. She was out of the inn, but she had discovered free cooling. Also—free ice cream. Also, free ice.
Wasn’t that the dream of every hotel-goer? Free ice? Ice cubes for days! Without having to prod lazy half-Elves for it! And Erin had begun thinking of more things too.
Fun things. Now that she wasn’t stressing about the list, it was back to doing, well, good things. Erin had discovered that the fire had something of an odd effect. If you stared at it, well, it made you sad. But you could be near it and not be affected too much by the emotion, just the fire’s temperature. So she had invented…
“Tada!”
Erin waved a little wooden lantern at Selys. The Drake blinked at Erin.
“Why?”
The two were walking through Liscor. It was a sunny summer’s day. And the young woman was a bit miffed that Selys wasn’t as impressed as she was.
“It’s my fire Skill, Selys! Look, I can only make the sad one and just a tiny one right now. But it burns if I feed it, and it’s hot outside. So…this.”
She had a lantern and the depressing blue flame was inside it. It was a unique lantern that Erin had made with a bit of work and her [Advanced Crafting] Skill—along with Lyonette’s [Flawless Attempt].
There was an opening in the top, and a shutter you could open and close. But the shutter was closed at the moment so the fire wasn’t visible. But it did burn. And as a result, cold air was wafting out of the lantern.
“See? Nice and cool.”
Erin expected Selys to be blown away. With just a bit of coal or wood, the lantern would emit cool air as the flame burned! She’d had to line the insides with metal to keep the wood from catching, but it was free air conditioning! Another dream from her world! Selys just shook her head.
“I could have bought you a cooling stone, Erin. Or you could yourself. They’re not that expensive.”
Erin paused. Somehow, her friend managed to literally suck all the enjoyment out of Erin’s invention in three sentences. She mock-glared at Selys.
“But this is free. And very cool. Plus, I can open the shutter and depress people. Free depression! Get your free depression here!”
She waved the lantern around at the passersby, ignoring the looks she got. Erin laughed. She was feeling silly and free. Truly so. The young woman saw Selys roll her eyes. But the [Heiress] was smiling.
“Come on, let me show you the construction. And stop making people depressed. There are laws about it in Liscor, too, you know.”
“I’m not depressing anyone! I mean—unless they ask.”
The two young women walked towards the western gates. And Erin saw that something strange was afoot. Because rather than lead into an old stone road heading to one of the few villages on the hills, the city did not end at the western gate. She walked onto freshly-paved cobblestones. Erin’s eyes widened.
“Whoa.”
A street ran ahead of her. And then—more buildings. Fresh, new. Erin stared up at an apartment, tastefully designed in the Drake style with smooth stone and wide balconies. It was one of many buildings you might find in Liscor’s residential districts.
But it was…new. Erin’s eyes slowly swept across the ground, and she saw a city being built.
Gone were the rolling hills and valleys. Someone had pounded the earth flat, filling in places, smoothing others, creating a stable foundation. People had begun laying cobblestones around cement. In places, rope and pegs clearly marked where buildings would go, and people were hard at work already.
Teams of black-bodied Workers were heaving huge quarried blocks of stone towards waiting stonecutters. Erin saw Drakes and Gnolls wheelbarrowing bricks to another spot. The young woman’s eyes widened as she saw a team pulling up a wooden frame.
“No way.”
It was so…organized! Whoever had laid out this new part of the city, they’d done it so well that even Erin could see where everything would go. And more than half a dozen buildings were already up! In fact, Erin could see a tenant Gnoll idly combing her hair on a balcony as dozens of Workers trooped past, carrying beams of wood on their shoulders.
“I don’t believe it! This is incredible!”
“It’s been in construction for a while. Have you really not visited?”
Selys looked pleased as Erin stared about. The young woman shook her head.
“No. You know I don’t go into Liscor that much. And the Inn’s on the opposite side of…wow! This is incredible!”
“Don’t get too excited. This is just a residential district. The Council’s building it first, but the rest of the expansion will make Liscor a third again as big. But the Council wants it done by sections. Let me show you the area I bought. This way—and watch out for the construction teams. Not all are employed by the city and quality varies. I paid for Antinium Workers, by the by.”
Indeed, as Selys walked Erin down the road, the two were wearing helmets. Steel—the [Guards] at the gate had made them put it on. Regular civilians weren’t allowed beyond certain points as well; some buildings were going up and they were going to be tall. A dropped brick or hammer could kill from even a short drop.
“No, no, no! You idiots! That’s not part of the design! Don’t assume the Antinium are making the same things we are! Clear it away! You’re way off your designated zone!”
A Drake [Foreman] was berating a group of [Builders] as Erin walked past. She had her own blueprints of the city, and where her group could build. Apparently, much of the city had been designed, but the individual plots of land were up for sale and design within their confines. Selys shook her head as the [Builders] swore and began to uproot their hard labor. Erin was still just amazed.
“This is so cool. I can’t wait until this [Architect] arrives. What’s taking them?”
“Apparently they’re coming all the way from Baleros. It’s a long sea-voyage, even with a fast ship, plus they’ll have to travel inland. But they already sent the designs, and part of what they’ve done is already finished, see?”
The roads were indeed neatly laid out already, to allow wagons and pedestrians to pass by in the most efficient system possible. Selys was pointing out her section, swarming with Workers, where she was planning on some nice apartments and warehouses, all to rent. It was along the edge of the residential district.
“There’s the temporary wall. Amazing, right? The Watch don’t like it, but the Antinium put it up in a single day. . And I wouldn’t try getting over it.”
There was a short, ten-foot-high outer wall that was protecting the buildings. It was made of stone and dirt and looked primitive, but it would stop your casual monster from appearing. [Guards] were patrolling around the walled section of the city in numbers, so Erin assumed it was fairly safe.
“Wow. So you’re building apartments?”
Selys nodded proudly.
“Nice ones. I’ll pay for quality and charge a decent rent. It’ll take me a while to get my money back, but when I do it’ll be steady income. No cutting corners and paying for it later. I’m not managing it myself, of course; I’ll hire someone to do the job.”
It was a new world to Erin. Selys was moving up. Then again, Erin could hire people too, but not build entire districts from scratch. She stared at Selys, at a loss for words. Selys was making the choices Erin had agonized over of her own volition. She wanted to do this.
“You know, my inn’s nearly finished with the second floors. I can start renting rooms out now.”
“Huh. Who’s your clientele going to be?”
Selys looked sideways at Erin. Another adult question. The young woman shrugged, but she was relieved she could talk with Selys about it. Why hadn’t she done that before?
“My staff. Temile, some of the players. Actual guests, you know, who might be travelling? Lyonette wants a stable. For horses.”
“Inns have stables, Erin. Generally.”
The young woman threw her hands up.
“No one told me! The inn didn’t when I found it! Although Lyonette said it probably just rotted away.”
“Anyone else in particular? I mean, will you specialize? Peslas has rich guests. But knowing you…”
Erin paused.
“Well, I’ll probably offer Palt a room too. And…well, other people.”
The [Heiress] looked sideways at Erin. She hummed.
“Interesting. Well, if you want, we can look around, but the Workers are busy and I don’t want to disturb them. Please don’t make them riot or anything. We can go have a drink somewhere if you want, catch up. Wishdrinks? They’ll let us in and it’s a nice place. You can ask for a private room.”
Erin mock-glared.
“Hey! I don’t always do that. Sure. This helmet is making my head sweat. Tell me about what being rich is like!”
“And you can tell me about your fire. And why Mrsha keeps losing her ball every time she comes to play. Does she hate it? I can get her a new one if she doesn’t like it…”
The two were walking back through the city under construction when they heard a shout. The stream of people moving back and forth faltered. Selys looked ahead and Erin saw a group of [Guards]. Selys wavered.
“Oh. It’s him. Erin—”
She looked at Erin. The young woman stared back.
“Who?”
“I forgot. You really didn’t hear when you were on vacation—look, stay calm—”
Erin saw him. A tall, brown-furred form. A bowed head. A pair of horns. She froze.
The one-armed Minotaur was walking slowly. A group of people were following the pocket of [Guards]. Some were shouting. Others hurling insults. The [Guards] snapped. Erin heard one shouting.
“No stones! That is a fine! Make way! Watch Captain’s orders! Miss, I will arrest you if you throw that!”
“What—”
Erin stared. She wasn’t ready. She hadn’t prepared for him. She hadn’t expected it. Selys spoke in a low tone.
“You didn’t know? He’s been doing this the last three weeks. Well—normally they take him out at night. There was a near riot the first time. No one said anything?”
“No. I was in Pallass with the Wyverns. And then—they let him out?”
“For certain tasks.”
The young women listened. The [Lieutenant] was snapping at a furious Gnoll woman pointing at the Minotaur. She was shouting.
“Why hasn’t he been executed? Why is that thing allowed to walk around?”
“Watch Captain’s orders, Ma’am—until the prisoner is found definitively guilty—”
“I like your Watch Captain! But she’s mad in this! Mad! He killed Gnolls! Doesn’t that matter? Why are you protecting him?”
The Drake [Lieutenant] flushed. And—Erin saw with a start, it was only Drakes on the guard detail. And a pair of Humans. New recruits?
“Doing my job, Miss. And this is not a relaxing job. This is punishment detail for the prisoner. Culling a nest of Shield Spiders. Hauling stones—he’s under guard, Miss. But he’ll be clearing Hollowstone Deceivers. He volunteered for it, too. Jumps into nests of spiders alone. No weapons. We don’t even use healing potions. He gets hurt; a [Healer] stitches him up. If he dies…”
“He’s not good enough for thread. Do you hear me? You monster? Look at me!”
The Minotaur’s head never moved. He walked forwards as the others hurled insults at his back. Erin saw him. Scarred, thinner. Without the crazed crimson light in his eyes.
And without the pride, that fearless smile, and his team of adventurers. This was neither Minotaur. But it was him.
Calruz.
“We should go. Please don’t start anything, Erin.”
Selys looked worried. As if she thought Erin would fly into a rage like the crowd—mostly Gnolls—who were following Calruz. But Erin wasn’t angry. She…stared at him.
The Minotaur never looked right or left. He let them shout at him. Even seemed to welcome it. He didn’t flinch as a rock bounced off his shoulder.
“Who threw that? I will arrest you!”
The Drake roared. But the thrower was nowhere to be seen. Erin saw Calruz twitch as another rock hit him. Hard. But he kept walking.
“Erin…”
The young woman clutched at her chest. It was…burning. With so many emotions she couldn’t count them. One was anger. Fury. She remembered Mrsha, the days of fear. Remembered so clearly she could have been back there, deciding to kill the Raskghar.
Anger. Fear. The two emotions were burning in her chest. Selys saw the young woman clutching at her chest, trying to hold something in. But Erin didn’t want either emotion. They were reactions.
But something else was burning. Erin looked up. And she saw Calruz stop.
He had seen her. The Minotaur had not halted for anyone else. But he saw the young woman and halted. The [Guards] froze, swinging their weapons up.
Calruz’s remaining arm was secured to his neck by a strange steel collar—he couldn’t be cuffed normally. And he had magical shackles around his legs, limiting his motion. But the Watch stared at him, as warily as could be. They kept their distance.
“Erin—”
She was neither angry nor afraid. Those were just emotions. Erin could have snatched at them. Could have conjured fire in that brief moment. She was certain. But she didn’t want to share that fire.
“I’ll be back. I’m not going to…”
Erin Solstice trailed off as she walked forwards. Selys moved to stop her, and then halted.
The crowd had seen Erin. Some were murmuring. They knew her. The crazy Human. And they knew her role too. They backed away.
“Miss—I have orders. No one is to go near the prisoner.”
The [Lieutenant] licked his lips as Erin approached. He was new to his role; he had never met her. But he knew of her. Erin looked at him.
“I want to talk with him. I’m owed that.”
The Drake opened his mouth. He looked at the other [Guards]. Then he slowly backed up.
“Don’t get close. Back up! Form a ring, [Guardsmen]!”
Erin ignored him. She walked forwards, slowly. And stood in front of the Minotaur.
If you were cruel, you might even laugh. Calruz was thinner from his days in captivity. His muscle was still heavy, but the cell and his diet had worn at him. He looked older by a decade. And his hand was awkwardly bound to the neck-collar. But Erin didn’t laugh. She couldn’t ever.
“Erin Solstice. We meet again.”
He was the first one to speak. Erin started. Calruz’ voice was quiet. Low. But his voice silenced the crowd.
The Minotaur didn’t sound like a monster. He sounded like…a person. Tired. But he enunciated each word with care, with a disused voice. Quietly, he looked down at Erin. And she nodded.
“Hi, Calruz. We met once, in prison. Do you remember?”
