“I know we’ve been trouble, Erin. But I can make you an offer Palt can’t. We could, at this moment, connect you with some of your friends from home. Let you two talk.”
Erin blinked. For a second she stopped breathing. Palt’s snort of outrage brought her back.
“And how many people would be listening and recording the conversation?”
“We’d swear to privacy if you wanted it.”
Montressa looked like she’d rather stab Palt than the cinnamon bun she’d been served. The Centaur rolled his eyes.
“Absolutely. Just let the two speak in perfect privacy—then ask the other person from Erin’s…home what was said.”
The young woman exhaled slowly. She had nothing to say to that. She looked rather hopelessly at Erin.
“They would like to speak with you, Erin…what do you think?”
The Centaur was certainly against it. He was actually whispering to Erin—she glanced back and saw his lips weren’t moving. But his voice was speaking audibly in her right ear.
“I really wouldn’t. They’re just going to ask questions they want the answer to. Some of the Earthers are joining up with the factions. We can arrange a conversation. It’ll take a while, but…”
Erin tuned him out. She had already come up with her answer after the moment of surprise. She smiled at Beza and Montressa.
“Hey, um, that’s flattering, but I’m gonna pass, okay? I’m really busy, you know, making a gym, hot tubs…”
She excused herself, and Montressa let her go without too much more argument. Erin walked through the Garden of Sanctuary to find Mrsha and see if she wanted to go plant blue fruit seeds. Montressa stared enviously at the door to the garden—she wasn’t allowed in.
Palt was, but he could only walk through, not summon the door. The Centaur chewed on his tobacco gum or whatever it was as Erin paused and swung the door closed. She left it open a crack, then sat down and listened.
“Thanks, Palt.”
The [Aegiscaster]’s tone was acidic. Also, hurt. Erin heard a screech of chairs being moved—Palt would be kneeling on the floor, chairs not being a thing Centaurs used.
“Look, I’m just doing my job. Try to understand Erin’s perspective. She does not need to be involved in a power play, especially with an Archmage’s faction. You know what will happen if they get nasty, especially the Libertarians.”
“Well, what about some damned friendship? We came here together. This is you stabbing us in the back.”
“Hah. Good one, Montressa. I prefer to think this was a stab from the front. That you walked into. We knew we were going to duke it out over the Earthers.”
The [Illusionist] was snappish, which was another tone Erin never heard. At least Beza’s voice was the same tone—that was to say, grumpy Minotaur.
“Do you need to completely turn on your friends, Palt?”
“Don’t give me that, Beza. Both your factions have Earthers. This is my big shot. You have to understand what that’s like.”
“We do. But we’re in boiling water right now, Palt. We need something. Or…can we talk? Negotiate, just between us.”
A silence. Mrsha rolled around the grass and went down the steep hill, giggling silently. Erin wondered if they could import butterflies. Then again…caterpillars were actually really gross. Bees were nice, but they were stinging jerks. And after the Ashfire Bees…
Were there any bugs that were cute up close as well as far away? Besides Bird with a hat, that was. He was…fishing in the pond? Did they have fish now? Erin suspected Numbtongue.
“I suppose we can. I don’t want to pull a [Bloodmage] on you two. Let’s talk. Tonight? The inn?”
“I hate that Drake. Peslas. He has a real problem with Humans.”
“You think it’s bad? I’m a Minotaur and the only other one this city knows is a convicted murderer and teamslayer.”
“We’ll talk in my room. Tonight. After dinner? I’m here all day.”
“I bet you are.”
Pause, clopping hooves. Erin tensed, waiting for them to come for the door, but Palt was going somewhere else. She relaxed.
“What an ass. I thought of him as a friend.”
Beza growled. Montressa made a soft, sighing sound.
“It’s his big break, Beza. Tell me you wouldn’t do the same thing?”
“I…what are we going to do? The [Innkeeper] doesn’t trust us.”
The conversation grew silent as Erin made the door disappear. She paused.
“Darned right.”
She sighed. It would be so much easier to relax and just distrust Montressa. And Beza. And Palt for good measure. It would be so much easier, if she hadn’t met this sniffing [Necromancer] from Wistram. Who turned out to be not-a-jerk. Even heroic at times.
Even so. Erin leaned back against the wall. This was only, uh, Palt-level intrigue. If that. Time to get really nasty.
Mrsha raced over as she saw a glow from where Erin was sitting. Her eyes went round as Erin closed her eyes. She stared—but Erin shooed her away.
“Go on, Mrsha. I’m going to do a bad thing. And don’t look. You’ll get all sad.”
 
——
 
Beza and Montressa were discussing Palt and talking lightly when they saw Erin wandering around the inn again. She was laughing, talking with Drassi, and the group of [Actors] who’d come in like they did every morning.
The Players of Celum were expanded, ready to roll, and indeed, some only had to roll out of bed to be ready for work. Temile had gotten up around lunch time, bleary-eyed and yawning. The [Actors] worked late into the night and slept in or conducted a lot of their non-dramatic business in the mornings.
Montressa and Bezale were well aware they weren’t welcome in the inn, if Erin’s muted reaction and Palt hadn’t been enough of a clue. They’d been civil, at least. But the two had a reputation.
Not undeserved. The Wistram team had caused a mess when they first arrived and Montressa would readily admit that. And they were not getting a lot of friendly looks.
But then—no one was stopping to throw their drinks in the two’s faces, so there was also that. The Wistram [Mages] had caused trouble, yes. They’d fought the Horns in the Bloodfields. But Isceil had died battling the Crelers, and people remembered that too. So their reception was mixed between frosty tolerance and muted distrust.
It would have been easier for the two to relax with the [Actors] taking the attention of the theatre-loving crowd, which was the usual crowd at this time of day. A Drake [Veteran] with a severed tail, some apprentices on their days off, some hopeful [Actors] or just people who wanted to enjoy and not partake…
Unfortunately, the Players of Celum were not performing a literary classic that would last across the ages. Or at least, not one that had stood the test of time yet. They were doing Frozen, and Bezale winced as the lead [Actress], a Gnoll playing the [Ice Queen] with a wand, began to sing.
“Ugh. I cannot stand the singing. Montressa, hit me with a [Deafening] spell. Better yet, let’s go somewhere else.”
She hated catchy songs. The Minotauress looked at Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] shook her head.
“We can’t leave, Beza. We’ll miss…whatever crazy thing is happening next. I’ll deafen you if you want.”
Bezale was seriously considering it when Erin walked over.
“Hey you two. Enjoying the music? We’re gonna audition some of the [Actors] today. You can join in if you want. It’s fun for everyone!”
Indeed, there were some kids volunteering to be part-time child [Actors], an apprenticeship much like many in the city—only they’d be in key parts of the play.
Beza blanched.
“Will they be…singing…all day?”
She indicated the performers. Erin blinked.
“…Yes? I mean, these are just auditions. Then they’ll practice, oh, and do a performance tonight…”
The Minotauress looked like she was about to cast [Deafness] and [Blindness] on herself. Erin noticed. She paused and bit her lip.
“We have a private room too. If you’d like to drink there.”
Montressa and Beza looked at each other. Montressa silently weighed the odds of Beza literally charging the stage after the tenth run-through of a catchy pop song and nodded.
“That would be great, Erin.”
Beza looked at her. Montressa whispered as she stood up.
“We can always hear anything happening.”
 
——
 
The same private room that Erin and Palt had used was comfortable. Montressa and Beza sat down. Erin lit a candle, put it on a table, and then offered the two refills of their drinks and snacks. The two [Mages] accepted gratefully. Out of the common room, they felt better, relaxed.
The singing had been grating on Montressa’s nerves too, which was odd because she had enjoyed the play the first four times. Maybe the fifth was when you got tired of it? But she liked pop songs.
The two waited as Ishkr came in and served them, then they relaxed. Montressa stared around the room and sighed.
“Nice place. Look, she’s even got colored candles now. And private rooms…that garden we can’t enter…it’s different than when we first came here.”
“Yes. Shame it’s all to Palt’s credit.”
Beza leaned one arm heavily on the table. She sighed. Both [Mages] drank fairly liberally. Day-drinking was a Wistram student’s hobby—well, for some of them. They partied hard, studied hard, and since neither [Mage] thought they’d be working much today, they were going for the former.
Also, they were both feeling down. Their encounter with Palt had just hammered home the situation they were in. Down a party member—no, three. But one was dead and the other two had left. In hot water with their factions…Montressa levitated the pitcher over and filled Beza’s cup, then her own again.
“Cheers.”
Beza didn’t return the gesture. She drank, and then looked at her friend.
“What are we doing here, Montressa?”
“Our jobs.”
“You think Palt will give us more than scraps to give to our factions?”
Montressa shrugged.
“Doubt it. But we’ll get something. And soon, Archmage Naili will send us another person to check up on. Maybe ‘L’, or that [Emperor]. Or ‘batman’.”
“Huh. And you’ll do it? Really?”
The Minotauress looked at Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] grimaced.
“What are we supposed to do? Go back to the academy?”
“Maybe.”
Montressa du Valeross paused. She looked up at Beza.
“You’re thinking of it. I don’t blame you. Beza, if you want to go, don’t let me stop you. I’ve made a mess of things.”
The Minotauress snorted. She scooted her chair in.
“Don’t be ridiculous. If you’re staying, I’m staying. I don’t walk off on my team. Much less friends. If you wanted to go on after the Horns of Hammerad, I’d be right behind you, never mind what my faction says.”
She pointed a finger at Montressa. But the young woman didn’t jump at the suggestion like she would have a while back.
“I don’t think that’s necessary, Beza. I…I’m done with that. I’ll have to answer to Beatrice when we get back, but I’m done.”
The [Spellscribe] looked at the young woman’s face. She eyed her cup of ale, tossed it down, and poured herself another cup.
“Do you want to…discuss it?”
She waited, but Montressa didn’t reply instantly. Beza sipped and spoke, curtly.
“It would be simple if we were in my homeland. In Minos, we believe in one virtue above all others. Honor. We’d execute someone like that, or rather, pass judgment first. Our King would decide the matter. We don’t revisit sentences. Once punished, the matter rests. Forever.”
Montressa stirred.
“Yeah. I know, Beza. Honor…”
She sounded tired, as much as anyone who’d heard a Minotaur lecturing about honor. Beza waved a big palm.
“Hear me out. I know I talk about honor, but I don’t know if you understand what I mean. It is more than what other cultures think of it. For you it’s something stiff, cumbersome. But to us, honor is more than that. It’s…a way of life. Duty, conduct, and it is its own reward. Minotaurs strive to improve themselves, to contribute in a meaningful way. And yes, to be examples to the world.”
She tapped herself on the breast. Montressa nodded. Beza went on.
“It’s a simple system. Those above us judge those below. But those with honor also make their own judgments. Each one of Minos acts by our conscience; we allow no corruption from above or below.”
“What about sideways? Sorry, sorry. But how does that system work, Beza? Everyone’s honorable? Is your King the most honorable Minotaur of all?”
Montressa raised her hands as Beza glowered. The Minotauress drank.
“Absolutely. Our King is a wise leader. She is a paragon of honor, and all respect her because she exemplifies our virtue.”
The young woman paused. Beza had made a grammatical error.
“Your King? But you said she.”
“So?”
“Beza, Kings are male.”
The Minotauress snorted.
“King is a title. Queen implies that gender matters.”
“But king is masculine. The word, I mean.”
The two looked at each other, frowning as if they were debating some minutiae of magical theory in class. The Minotauress sighed gustily.
“King is what other nations respect. Queen makes Humans ask who the king is, or if she is married. We have a Minotaur King, and that is all other species need to know about her.”
“Oh. I’ve never been to Minos. I didn’t know.”
“Because we don’t need to talk about it. Not like Humans who always have to tell us who they serve.”
Beza nodded wisely and somewhat arrogantly. Montressa gave her a dour look.
“So Minos is wonderful. I get it. Honor above all else.”
“You don’t understand. I’m just saying that it’s better to have a system like that. Clear-cut. No backtracking on rules, no negotiating sentences…if the rest of the world were like home, it would be easier. Well—I suppose that’s what my ancestors thought. We were not always on the Archipelago, you know. Once, we had lands elsewhere. Until the Era of Conquest. For that, we were exiled to the Isle of Minos, condemned to face our ancient foes.”
“Beza, you’ve told me this a thousand times…”
The young woman sighed. When Beza got drunk, she lectured people on honor and her home. The Minotauress waved an urgent hand.
“I’m not saying it’s perfect! Just—nearly.”
“Oh yeah? You have your ancient foes. Goblins. Explain that one to me.”
The Minotauress paused. She took another drink. Glumly, Montressa did the same.
“You don’t understand. You’d have to see them. Well—I never have. Up close. But I’ve seen the results. They are not like the Goblins on the continent. Your Goblin Lords…you had one come through here. We know what power they possess. Even after thousands of years, we can’t wipe them out from their damned island.”
“Not for lack of trying?”
