Lyonette helped Erin onto the floor; glass shards had been swept, but Mrsha was sitting on a table, much to her delight. Erin wobbled as she went to put the mug down and missed. The world was suddenly…tilted.
“What was that?”
The [Princess] blinked. And Erin moved forwards. People she knew called out to her. She paused by a table.
“Give me another drink! Also, I’m getting hungry again! Let’s get something to eat!”
Then she sat down. Erin wasn’t using her Skill. For once…she was drunk. And laughing. And then there was another round. Erin took it, and sipped this time, but she did drink.
She drank, and realized it wasn’t actually a bad thing to be drunk. She’d just never tried it that often because she’d been so busy and she’d always thought it sucked. So she’d always kept her Skill on. But it was sort of fun, especially with people laughing and talking with her.
Who would have thought?
 
——
 
The end. Or rather, the end of the night did come. It was probably into dawn, but the people left. Some were actually passed out on the floor, and Erin thought Numbtongue and Bird had collapsed somewhere in the Garden of Sanctuary.
Klbkch had left, and Grimalkin, and so many others, in various stages of inebriation. Tomorrow, they’d be dealt with. For a moment, Erin sat in a chair.
She was drunk. She had been very drunk, but time had downgraded her to merely intoxicated. And she was pleasantly so. The [Innkeeper] was happy.
It was a good night. Not a perfect one. But you never got those. She remembered, that was all. And the pink flames shed their glow one last time.
Erin reached for a drink. A mug. And it held not liquor, but chocolate. Warm, sweet chocolate. The young woman loved it dark. She sipped from her mug, and the rich taste made Erin smile. Then she paused.
“Hm. I need more chocolate.”
She should have probably said something special for a night like this. But that was all she got. Then, Erin yawned, and put her head down on the table. She smiled as she went to sleep.
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 41!]
[Skill – Inn: Twofold Rest obtained!]
