Insular and haughty, the wrought never allowed strangers in their home geodes. They had even sent Erick an invitation to their embassy that was situated outside of their major city, Stratagold; they would not have allowed him inside.

So.

Was there some gods-damned immortal asshole on the other side of these guardians, watching this happen, wondering how far Erick could go against this blockade? Wondering if their own stolen power could stack up to the creator of said power? Probably so.

Erick spoke, and his Domain spoke with him, “I’m going to break your toys now.”

He turned off his [Undertow Star] and let his [Physical Domain] expand, all around, brushing up against everything. He kept it strong against the guardians in front, but he did not press forward; he did not attempt to break them yet and they were not able to break him, for he flowed with their stolen light, swallowing their brightness and turning it to nothing. His Domain expanded in every other direction, though, vibrating hard as it brushed up against the larger monsters who stupidly remained nearby, sending them into an unexpected panic.

They did not fight Erick’s encroachment; they fled.

Amplify filled all of Erick’s aura, the entire thing, except for a small portion around himself that he kept safe with Normalize. Ophiel flocked to this inner protection, keeping their sunforms strong and solid around Erick as Erick turned his Domain to Harmony.

Twenty one, then twenty three [Luminous Beam]s vanished into swallowing, chiming power. Soon, the spells of the guardians were but tracer rounds in a tunnel full of thunder. Back and forth, power built.

White light flickered magenta, as though not fully willing to start; not without more time, and more pressure. But every roar, every screech, every rockfall and breaking body added to the noise, and the noise only grew. White light flexed, breaking molecular bonds, creating plasma in spurts and fits until suddenly turning all of Erick’s [Physical Domain] from white to magenta in a single flashing moment.

Rocks broke from the ground, shattering into sand that floated in the sky. Boulders lifted from the breaking cavern and became rocks that shattered further into sand.

Erick could barely see, but he could still see well enough as his Domain shattered the world right out from underneath himself and the guardians—

And the guardians held. Stone reassembled under them. Their Domain pressed against Erick’s, but the guardians did not physically move against him. They did not put real pressure on him, and that preserved distance would be their undoing—

The guardians switched tactics. They began to move forward. Every single guardian took a single step into the tunnel, pressing against every nearby monster, but mostly against Erick’s Domain like an inexorable glacier grinding down the world underneath its power. The [Luminous Beam]s did not stop; they came on even stronger. Closer.

Erick rapidly attempted an experiment he hadn’t tried before. He had four Ophiel drop their [Greater Lightwalk]s and turn on their [Physical Domain] alongside him. Power flooded out into the cavern, shoving back against the encroaching guardians like five extra hands to hold back a thousand; it was not enough.

On the other side of the cavern, a trio of opportunistic monsters launched spells at the guardians; fire, lightning, wind. They didn’t work together, but their power struck the guardians; burning, singeing, cutting. Tiny, barely-there wounds appeared across all of the white guardians. The guardians stopped advancing because of them; they stilled, and solidified their power instead of trying to break Erick.

It would have to be enough. Erick focused his power with his Ophiels, attempting a cooperative cast for the first time. This was probably the wrong time to try this experiment, but Erick knew all the theory. He only needed to put that theory into practice—

Blood poured out of Erick from every orifice and one Ophiel popped as he tried to organize the harmony. He did not stop. He had another Ophiel take over for the popped one and—

It clicked.

Suddenly, in the middle of a maelstrom of flashing, breaking sound, sky, and cavern, Erick linked with his Ophiel, and his Ophiel linked with him in a way they never had before.

It was simple, once he figured it out.

Pure physical power washed outward like a wave of magenta light, blasting into the lands, breaking the world, striking the guardians—

The guardians were an inviolable wall of power, but Erick and his Ophiel smashed into the wall, and that ultimate defense began to chip. Here and there, Erick gained ground. Cracks appeared across the skins of the guardians. Silver blood flowed from sudden wounds. Eyes burst—

Erick broke the wall.

And the wall, once so solid, became wet paper.

Magenta light blasted outward from him and his Ophiel.

The ground fully dropped out from under him, ripping away into sand and then into nothing. Breaking harmony crashed all the way up into the other side of the cavern as magenta power tore in every direction, but mainly forward, evaporating the cloudwall. Power pressed backward into the monsters in the cavern and Kill Notifications spread across Erick’s sight; seen and then ignored.

Erick felt the world through his expanded [Physical Domain], and he felt nothing; no threats, no danger, no stone cavern floor, no continuance of the cavern beyond. No Domains encroached. Nothing survived. Maintaining the link with Ophiel was a joy, though, so he let their power flow a bit more…

But that was enough.

He pulled himself back.

Ophiel disengaged—

Erick winced in pain and Ophiel squawked in phantom feeling as the deeper connection between them returned to something so very shallow by comparison. Their [Physical Domain]s began to interfere, so Erick turned off Ophiels’. Slowly, but quickly, and expanding like a bubble away from himself, Erick turned his surroundings from Amplified Harmony, into Normalized space. And then he turned off his [Physical Domain] and turned on [Greater Lightwalk].

As light returned to his eyes and he could better see through his own senses, he saw the remains of the cavern. He had broken a lot of it. He now hovered in the middle of empty space, below the disturbed-but-reforming mana stream, and in the center of a twenty kilometer scoop of land removed from the world. Everything Erick and Ophiel had touched, they turned to dust and then to mana to join the stream, or perhaps something else had happened, but the stone was simply gone.

And the surviving monsters were quicker on the uptake than Erick. They were already pouring up and out of the broken land—

Erick was too busy to care about those monsters this very second. He turned away from the cavern, to gaze upon that which he had already seen, which had demanded his complete attention. He wasn’t sure where to start understanding what lay before him.

The Core of Veird.

It had to be the Core; there was no other explanation.

It filled half of the world with blue; the most brilliant blue that Erick had ever seen. It was beautiful. It was massive. And yet it was more than that; more than anything his mind could understand with just one glance, or just one stare.

Erick blinked, feeling like minutes had passed gazing at the Core, but he had only been staring for seconds, at the most. He began to break down what he was seeing into actionable intelligence. The Core was, beyond its beauty, a planet-sized entity, with a curvature similar to Earth. Or perhaps it was the size of a moon? Who knew!

There were no clouds upon that blue surface, set hundreds of kilometers away from the interior surface that spread out left, right, front, and back, but there were clouds in the sky all around Erick, between the interior surface of Veird, and the Core.

The Core was like an ocean, and yet it was not. That part got Erick the most, he was sure.

Behind Erick, down below, or above, or whatever, the mana stream from the cavern poured across the sky, down, down, into the Core, like a waterfall, passing into the far distance, becoming smaller than a single thread before it touched down upon the blue surface. The thick, rainbow air twisted into the Core, passing inside without interruption upon that ever-blue surface.

That single mana stream was one of thousands to reach across the gap, between Veird and manaminer, to plunge into the Core, and vanish.

Erick tore his eyes away from the ‘sky’, and looked around, trying to make sense of the rest of this strange land.

It was a world inverted. Mountains, rivers, forests and plains, oceans —actual, real oceans, too— and ponds. Continents. Islands. Everything else in between. Real water poured down falls on mountains, plunging to lakes, inverted. A nearby rainforest displayed —yes, displayed— fruits of every color of the rainbow, and flowers to match. The air smelled of life. Small mammals and dinosaurs and cows were down there, living and existing, except for where Erick had carved a massive hole in the ground. Those that survived Erick’s destruction rushed to get away from whatever further destruction might come. The birds had already taken to the air; Erick imagined they would be chirping and singing if not for his intrusion.

And it was all visible. While the Core had a curvature, this ‘Underside’ of Veird had a concave, inverted curvature, and Erick could actually see the oceans and continents and islands of this place as they stretched out along the interior, rising ‘up’ in every direction. Erick gazed all around, and saw cities, too.

There was no darkness in this land; all was light.

The Core might have been an ocean to match half of what floated above it, but the core shed light like an everburning sun. And it was brilliant.

Erick’s stepped up into the air, further inward —or upward?— to get a better look, moving closer to the Core, and thus down, but—

From higher up, he saw cities on mountainsides and upon plains and on islands and a lot more besides, but mostly, he witnessed the mana streams flowing like waterfalls into the Core. And at the base of every stream, there was a valley, and in that valley, there were clouds. They were cloudgates, and they were everywhere. Every single cloudgate was at the bottom of a valley…

Hundreds of thousands of cloudgates, for thousands of kilometers in every direction, and from each one, rose a mana stream.

The only mana stream missing a cloudgate was right below Erick, where he had smashed the gate wide open. Erick had broken a piece of paradise and let in the monsters. He watched as a vine-thing of black bark crawled into the white light of the blue Core, and instantly started chasing down easy prey; a cow on a broken meadow of wildflowers and grass.

But the prey vanished into nothing, escaping the monster without issue.

It was good to know that some of the animals had some defenses, but...

Erick frowned.

He waited a beat for the defenders of this land to show up. To announce with blaring trumpets and booming warnings. To simply appear, and defend. But none of that happened. Someone had to live here, though... Right?

A second monster flew out of the hole, followed rapidly by a rushing third.

Uh.

The cities did not sound for war. Guardians did not jump out of the clouds above. And monsters began to pour into this idyllic land. The animals down below had no defense against these Domain-wielding monsters except to simply vanish, which they did in abundance. Before they vanished, though, Erick noticed that they were animals, for sure. Not a single core amongst any of them. Erick doubted a single one of those cute animals was strong enough to take on the danger Erick had allowed into this space—

No. This didn’t make sense.

Surely this place had better defenses than this?

What the fuck was going on here?

Erick briefly studied the monsters coming in, watching as ten of them rapidly moved into the space. Those ten were but the herald to the actual flood. The ones racing inside quickly realized that they couldn’t kill anything, so they didn’t; they had other tasks, anyway. The vine-like black bark monster raced right past a particularly juicy cow, while the cow vanished from sight. The monster didn’t care about the cow, or about the mice or other small, quickly-vanishing animals; it raced across the land. It had a goal.

In the distance, in the monster’s direction, lay another cloudgate.

With that, Erick rapidly understood the trajectory of every monster. Every single one was each individually aiming for the other cloudgates. Thirty of them were already in the Forest and all of them were headed in different directions. Some of them flew directly at the Core itself...

“Nope,” Erick said.

And then he got to work.

- - - -

An hour and a half and 176 monster kills later…

Erick stood at the side of the cloudgate he had destroyed. The land around him was burned and blasted and broken from all of the recent fights, but most of the damage to the cloudgate and the surrounding land was still because of Erick’s (and Ophiel’s) [Physical Domain]. Erick had basically shaken the world apart, and it showed. Boulders were strewn inside new, craggy valleys, while a formerly idyllic creek flowed water past the edge of a former lake, only to form a messy, muddy pond inside the broken cavern. Erick had yet another moment of surrealness as he gazed upon a right-angle bend in the stream. Gravity was wonky down here, for sure.

He turned his attention back to the greater problem of the hole. He wasn’t sure what he was going to do about this, to stop the ingress of monsters. Perhaps he could plant a Yggdrasil here and hope for the best?

But as time passed, and as the fighting slowed, Erick witnessed the cavern walls begin to mend on their own.

A flush of relief passed from Erick’s shoulders to his toes; he hadn’t broken anything too badly. In another two hours the cavern might even be fully repaired. But that left the problem of the cloudgate itself. Erick had no idea what to do about that. Perhaps he would have to put Yggdrasil here if nothing came to fix the barrier.

Whatever the case, Erick would probably end up killing another hundred monsters as they continued to rush the opening this entire time, trying to get into the land beyond. Even knowing that Erick was up here, even seeing him in the air, and knowing what he had done to every single other monster that came this way, the monsters still came. Erick wanted to call them insane, but they obviously weren’t; or at least they weren’t frothing at the mouth and fighting without regard for themselves.

