With a soundless, slippery shift, Erick was in the air, under his own power, and far enough away from the cavern wall that the monsters below didn’t care about him anymore. This had been another thing he had learned from watching for a while. In this large space, he could walk above the monsters and they wouldn’t try to kill him. Going along the ground would have been an unnecessary risk.

Erick looked ahead, down the way, at the gently curving tunnel that led into darkness, and light. And he felt a bit giddy. The idea of being taken unaware and murdered without even knowing what had caused the murder was getting to him.

He stared across the land, eyeing hundreds of monsters. He glanced left at the hundreds more. He looked up and saw even more deadly Variant beasts. Some controlled territories of multiple square kilometers. Most controlled less—

A bird of fire and ice tried to divebomb him, but Erick responded with cutting light. Half-vaporized frozen chicken fell all around him, carried by its own inertia. The golden shadow bird below snaked some shadows up into the sky, grabbing at the bits of bird to feed to its own chicks; they had hatched while Erick wasn’t looking.

Erick placed one foot in front of the other, with [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk] working in tandem all around him, and Ophiels flying in defensive formation. He began to lightwalk through the cavern, once again, with his head held high. He was trying to avoid unnecessary fights by being up here, but…

He knew that he could murder every single thing in this entire land, if he wanted.

That thought settled his nerves a bit, because while it wasn’t a Truth, it was rather close—

He clipped an unseen Domain from a monster down below, and he glared at the offender.

The monster, a massive thing of churning blood and claws and with a Domain that covered multiple square kilometers… retracted his Domain a bit.

Erick continued forward, unimpeded.

Over the next few hours, monsters challenged Erick eleven times. Ten fliers and one ground dweller dared to fight. Erick carved up the lot of them, [Luminous Beam] doing the heavy lifting, while [Fulmination Aura]s helped on cleanup when some monsters proved able to survive having almost all their body and their grand rad vaporized.

- - - -

Both faster and slower than he thought possible, Erick found himself standing in the air three kilometers away from the guardians and their cloud wall. It was much more impressive in person. The rainbow mana stream was barely visible as it passed into the cloudwall, for the clouds were bright white, and that light drowned out almost all others, aside from himself.

The guardians stood at the start of the beveled edge of the cavern. The cloudwall hovered a kilometer beyond them. The guardians themselves were 20 meters tall, and they for sure saw Erick. Their eyes were as big as their heads and they surely saw everything that happened all around them, but they did not seem to care about the speck of light hovering at the edge of their effective range. Other monsters were closer to them than Erick.

Erick dared not get any closer, for now. These things were somewhat autonomous, but there might be an entity beyond them, watching for anomalies.

Erick had an Ophiel switch over to [Physical Domain], but he did not try pressing against any of the other Domains out there. He simply let his presence be known as he took control of all sound for kilometers around—

A particularly large lizard of bright green ooze and shadow controlled the land directly below, and it did not like Erick's gentle touch. It attacked him.

So Erick killed the lizard.

In order to stop another series of reorganizations and a cascade of fights, Erick descended to the cavern wall, taking the monster’s place at the edge of monster territory, butting up directly against the guardians’ collective Domain. Now the guardians looked at him. Now they wondered what he was about. None of the other nearby monsters seemed to care that Erick was in their space, but they would probably start caring if he kept his weakly-empowered [Physical Domain] touching them for much longer.

Erick hurried up and tested the blockade with words, speaking through his [Physical Domain], “Hello. I would like to inquire about—”

Several monsters instantly did not like this, and they expressed themselves in the usual manner.

Erick defended himself while the guardians watched. When the battle was over, Erick’s territory had expanded several-fold, but he had no interest in holding this land, and so opportunists started coming at him from all sides.

At least twenty minutes and exactly thirty-five high level Variant monsters later, the cavern was well on its way to a reorganization, again, with fights breaking out all across the inside of the cavern, spreading back, all the way back to where Erick had come from. But the space directly next to Erick had been resolved. This time, his neighbors accounted for Erick’s gentle-pressure [Physical Domain].

He wasn’t sure where, exactly, but he had reached level 95 somewhere in the massive melee, possibly between the hippo/lizard/tree and the worm/bird/ooze.

Erick returned to questioning the guardians through his [Physical Domain], “Hello. I would like to know what this blockade is about. Please respond. I will wait for a little while for a response, but please do not take too long.”

This time, the monsters all around him did not respond to his words. The guardians didn’t respond either. So Erick summoned a chair and sat down to wait.

As seconds ticked on toward minutes, and minutes piled up, Erick noticed a few more things about the guardians. Each was not a perfect copy of each other; there were small differences here and there, from the arrangement of scale-spikes across their humped backs, to their irises being of slightly different striations. They all breathed in time with each other, though, and none of them had grand cores at their center. They were firmly ‘not monsters’, which was fine. Their shared Domain seemed not-fine, though. There was simply no way past it that Erick could see.

Each one of the guardians perfectly blended their Domain with the ones at their sides, and that power reached all the way toward the mana stream in the center of the cavern, where it seemed to tatter and fray as it touched the thick, rainbow air. Erick certainly wouldn’t be braving the mana stream to get through the blockade, so he needed the guardians to let him pass. Or, more accurately, he needed the people controlling the guardians to let him pass.

… But as time ticked on, Erick was starting to doubt that the guardians had controllers.

Or maybe the controllers were assholes.

Erick asked again, “Hello? I seek to pass this blockade.”

No response; the guardians that stared his way were already staring his way, while the rest stared at the other monsters nearby, waiting for them to make a move.

Erick opened up a hole in the center of Ophiel’s [Unmoving Stone Aura] and sent a different Ophiel burrowing down into the ground with [Stone Travel]. A tunnel ten meters across instantly began to extend down from part of Erick’s power, flowing down into the ground, guided by Ophiel toward the land under and beyond the guardians.

Ophiel hit a wall of Domain power that prevented further movement—

The guardian directly above Ophiel twitched, and the ground collapsed around Erick’s [Familiar], crushing it utterly, breaking the sunform Domain around Ophiel and sending a shock of power back to Erick, like he had touched a live wire. Erick flinched a little, for though he had expected something like that, he did not expect that much strength behind the guardians’ collective Domain. If he had put more power into that Ophiel’s sunform, then he likely would have suffered a real backlash; actual injury.

He sent a second Ophiel into the ground, but this time he had Ophiel go deep, deep into the wall of the cavern, going one kilometer down, then a second, before turning forward and—

Erick was ready for the breaking of his sunform Ophiel this time. He had relaxed that Ophiel’s Domain so he got less feedback, but he still felt the breaking of that Ophiel like a harsh tap on the forehead. He frowned, and then he summoned enough Ophiel to get back up to 10.

This was annoying.

Erick was fed up with whatever the fuck this was.

He spoke again into the gloomy air, “I am going to pass this blockade, and if that requires the tearing down of your—” Ah. Wrought? Well, duh. Erick stopped speaking in Ecks, and started talking in Ancient Script, “Hello. I would like to pass your blockade, please.”

One of the guardians looked to him, and this time there was an intelligence behind his eyes as he spoke, “Password?”

… Not much of an intelligence.

Erick couldn’t help but be a bit sarcastic, “I’ll clear this entire tunnel of monsters for you, if that’s what it takes to gain entry.”

“Invalid password. Remove yourself from this area.” The guardian mechanically said, “Do not attempt to cross our blockade or we will respond with violence.”

Erick tried again, “I seek entry into the lands beyond.”

“Invalid password. Remove yourself from this—”

“Yadda yadda yadda.” Erick tried, “Kill all elves!”

“Invalid password. Rem—”

“Triumph of Light!”

“Invalid pass—”

“Suck my dick!”

“Invalid pas—”

“I’ll suck your dick!”

“Invalid pass—”

“Perhaps fuck you in the pussy?”

“Inval—

“I’ll destroy every single one of you!”

“Hostilities detected.”

Erick smiled. A change!

The guardian spoke, “Remove yourself from our vicinity or prepare to meet Rozeta in person.”

“Already met her! Several times.” Erick said, “Pretty cool lady. By the way: I think you stole my magic. How the FUCK do you have [Luminous Beam]?”

The closest guardian began charging; its eye-for-a-head glowing brighter and whiter. This was completely for show, of course. Erick had seen the thing and its cousins instantly fire off [Luminous Beam]s many times already.

Erick wondered if he was being stupid, or if he was just too fed up to care. Could he think about passwords for a bit, and possibly guess the correct one? Likely not.

So Erick stared down the guardians. He held his ground, three kilometers away, glaring at the automaton and four of its neighbors. [Luminous Beam] could hit several kilometers away, but it was best within 100 meters. It’d still do damage at this distance, though, for sure!

If Erick let it.

But [Luminous Beam] was just light and light byproducts.

Erick dropped his [Greater Lightwalk]. He suspended himself in the air with Ophiel’s spellwork, and protections. And then he turned on his own [Physical Domain] instead of using Ophiel’s. [Lodestar] and [Physical Domain] would be enough. These two spells could influence light from two different directions; one Elemental, one physical.

The guardian spoke, “Leave.”

Erick responded, “Fuck you.”

[Luminous Beam]s erupted out of the eyes of the ‘charging’ guardian and four of his neighbors like five directed geysers of white light. They left the Domain of the guardians, and struck the edge of Erick’s power.

And Erick shut them off.

Discord turned half of the light inside out, one half canceling the other. Beta and alpha decay particles turned into twinkling glitters that showered toward Erick, but spun off in every other direction except forward, looking like air bubbles at the base of waterfalls. Erick had never needed to shut off his own [Luminous Beam]s like this before, but he had made the damned spell, and he knew exactly how it worked. Whoever stole this power from him—

Erick held back the guardians’ attacks like he held back his anger. Whoever made this here was probably just some wrought who got Particle Mage because it was the newest, best thing, and then they replaced some normal defenses that were always here. And that was fine. Erick could forgive that.

But an unmanned blockade that killed whoever tried to cross it?

Or worse: A purposefully hostile blockade.

Rage flooded through Erick’s brain like an ocean turning red.

As the enemy Beams ended, Erick spoke with power, “I’m going through this blockade whether you like it or not, so turn off your toys if you don’t want them erased.”

Several more [Luminous Beam]s shot Erick’s way from the seven nearest guardians. He turned them all aside. The monsters near to him began to squawk and roar and slither in agitation as the guardians kept casting at Erick, filling the cavern with bright light. Some of those monsters looked ready to attack the guardians alongside Erick. Some looked ready to eat him after the guardians softened him up. Others ran.

Erick didn’t want to do this, but he did anyway.

[Undertow Star].

Up above, inside Erick’s power and well within range of the guardians, a star began to form. A drop of pure white light sent out inky blackness that was barely visible against the rainbow gloom, but that darkness became visible soon enough. Erick reached forward with his Star, designating the guardians as enemies.

Uh. Failure.

Bah!

Minor twisters of shadow and light impacted the gathered domain of every single guardian half a kilometer away from the target and was rebuffed. [Undertow Star] failed to reach the enemy.

Fine.

Nearby monsters began to screech. Some took to the sky to get away from the conflict. Some ran at their neighbors, and started to fight those neighbors. Some took the exact opposite approach and attacked the guardians on the other side of the cavern, opposite the mana stream from Erick. No one attacked him, though… Aside from the guardians. Apparently the ones that had been looking at him like he was weak were thinking better of that idea.

Nine guardians fired nine beams at Erick, striking his [Physical Domain]. Erick sunk their power into nothing much easier this time, turning light and radiation into scattered sparkles that never got anywhere near him.

Erick thought back to how Ava, the Sewermaster at Candlepoint, spoke of how she had lived in the Underworld, protecting her people from monsters for her entire long, long life, and how the only real problems with living down here were the wrought. They controlled trade routes and patrolled close to the Core so that no one could ever get down here to kill the monsters and gain these high levels. Ava spoke of how the wrought said they prevented people from coming down here for their own good, but Erick was clearly here, and there were no fucking wrought, and the defenses were automated…

So was Ava lying?

Or was Ava being dramatic?

