The cavern joined with another, their flows of mana combining into one to continue down,

down,

down.

In the new tunnel the mana stream was two kilometers wide, but also 7 kilometers away, while the other side of the cavern was too far to see through the gloom and the rainbow light, though Erick knew it to be 16 kilometers away. The math of this place was too perfect to be anything but engineered. If it weren’t for the monsters constantly tearing up the place, Erick suspected that every bend and break in the cavern wall wouldn’t be there; this place would be perfectly flat and smooth—

Well.

‘Flat’.

The curvature of the cavern wall was not flat at all, but if Erick squinted he could pretend it was flat.

At least in this new tunnel there were fewer monsters. This did not make it any easier to go forward, though. The ones Erick had been killing to get here were starting to get tough, and from the way the monsters ahead spread out from one another…

They soaked in the light of the mana stream above, each one controlling a territory that was as large as its Domain, spaces measured in multiple square kilometers. If any of the previous ones were any indication, every single monster ahead had to be Level 93 to 95, from the elementals of stone and gold, to the dogs made of lightning, to the floating krakens swimming in the air atop the cavern wall, to all the rest.

If there was another cavern past this one…

If these monsters here were not the true threats of the deeper Underworld, then Erick was going to be surprised. He still killed them, though, for they were in his way, and his Domain freaked them out, and they were all monsters with grand rads inside of them, anyway. He still moved forward, deeper into this new cavernous tunnel.

He could have taken to the sky, and skipped the monsters on the ground like the other flying monsters were doing, but that seemed like opening himself up for attack. Erick didn’t go that route. He went straight through, sticking to the cavern wall, with one of his Ophiel flowing out [Aura of Unmoving Stone] so that Erick nominally had a wall at one side. A lot of monsters had Stone-based Domains, though, so the efficacy of this technique was debatable.

The first few monsters fell easy enough. But then things changed.

Erick pressed forward with his Domain, breaking the monsters’ powers one at a time, then breaking the monsters. But every time he killed one, another Domain flooded in from the side, crashing against his, threatening to overwhelm him if he allowed it, or if he faltered. And what was worse, was that this cavern had been kinda stable before Erick arrived. Killing one beast set off a chain reaction of power grabs all across the greater cavern, with opportunistic strikes happening between neighbors who finally saw that they could get more space for themselves.

For that’s why the monsters were here; they wanted exposure to the mana stream. It empowered them. This was not a new thought for Erick in the past day, or two. But the depth of this reality before him reminded him of conversations he had had about mana and monsters and Experience.

Shadelings could cycle their mana inside their core to gain Experience, and thus Levels. Months and months ago, in Last Shadow’s Feast, Quilatalap had told Erick that dragons did the same thing, but on a much, much larger scale. Dragons were even able to reach into the 90s by creating multiple cores and cycling through each one.

And it seemed there was another way: Be a monster and stand under the mana streams of Veird to directly absorb the ambient, thick mana. Wizards or Shades could probably do this, too, considering they both had cores…

Well. Shades had cores, for sure.

Erick still wasn’t sure if a Wizard Core was the same, or not.

… He was hungry, tired, and stressed.

And he was also currently fighting three battles at once as he had these extraneous thoughts; a turtle of ice, a bird of decay, and a vine monster of shadows, each assaulted him from left, right, and behind. Erick killed them all, stressing his Domain to break, defend, and redirect as he needed, while Ophiels flew around and struck with needle-like precision, carving into eyes and exploding brains, piercing chests and bursting hearts, and severing tendrils into tiny little pieces before descending with lightning to finish off the job.

Notifications pinged.

Level 94.

Erick decided to stop moving forward for a while. Instead, he settled, and he secured his position. Monsters came to him, from the sides and from the sky, testing him due to his diminutive size no doubt, for he wasn’t about to flow his Domain all the way out there like the rest of them; he would be broken in a flashing second. He had pushed too hard against too many assailants for too many hours. He needed rest. He knew he wasn’t going to get rest, though, so it was better to keep himself small and concentrated.

Probably.

It seemed to work, anyway.

Erick killed ten more assailants before the nearby cavern occupants had adopted a new configuration that included him.

To his left, kilometers away, a monster made of green and flashing steel —might have been a bird— settled down into the ground and spread its ‘wings’; unfurling in the rainbow light to soak up the mana glow like a cat in the sun. To the right, also kilometers away, a thing of black branches extended itself outward and also soaked up the light. Their Domains collided directly onto Erick, but Erick held them both back. Their Domains also collided into each other, and into all of their new neighbors.

No one started a fight. None of these collisions seemed to disturb the settled monsters, each of which was easily forty or fifty meters tall, and double or triple that wide.

Erick took a breath, and forced a bit of relaxation into his spine. Then he opened up Ophiel’s [Aura of Unmoving Stone] directly below, before he cast [Obscuring Redoubt], extending his Domain into his spellwork so that it could actually work like it was supposed to. He had to pry a bit at both of his new neighbors to get his Redoubt to take, using an unaligned Domain to do it, too, but his neighbors didn’t seem to care.

Erick went into this hidey hole and began setting it up. He still had some beans, so those got copied, but he had no water. Luckily, he had to pee.

[Cleanse] turned that water drinkable, and [Duplicate] made more.

Ah.

Survival.

Bear Grylls would be proud.

Jane would certainly be proud, and that buoyed Erick’s spirits quite a bit.

After a short break, a short and very inadequate dinner, and a short [Scry] session to check down the tunnel, Erick discovered a few things. The first discovery was that he could probably take to the sky now, since the distance to the ground and the mana stream was well over five kilometers, and all the other monsters who couldn’t land a spot on the wall were already airborne and moving around up there with minimal fights. Erick’s arrival and elimination of fifty-three monsters had set off a chain of repositionings, though, where opportunists in the air took to the ground and took their places among the crowd, so the air here was a bit clearer of monsters than it had been.

But monsters were always flying through the air, probing for weakness among the wall-dwellers and mostly getting scared away. The air around here likely wouldn’t be clear for very long… So perhaps it was better to ignore the temporary window of easy movement. Avoiding fights might become more of a trap, than an option.

With further [Scry]ing, Erick discovered that higher level monsters were capable of a bit of strategic thinking, with some monsters probing for weakness but running away when they found none.

But those were small facts compared to one major truth.

The tunnel ended after a few hundred more kilometers. After several more hours of walking Erick would finally be able to see something new. He wasn’t sure what it was he was looking at, but the physicality of it all was easy enough to understand.

A white mist hung in the air across the entire path of the tunnel, looking like the thickest clouds anyone would see on the surface, but they obviously weren’t that, at all. The mana stream didn’t seem to care about the cloud wall, for one, for that glowing air continued straight on through the cloud wall, unimpeded.

Another difference was in the cavern wall, starting about a kilometer before the cloud wall. The cavern dipped away in all directions, like someone had beveled the edge with a kilometer-wide slope. It was a perfect bevel, too, for a lot of the land there was able to fully repair itself, for they didn’t have many monster fights, because the monsters before that beveled edge, before that cloudwall, were different.

Mostly, every single monster in the cavern was a unique specimen; each one a Variant of some base beast. But the monsters located on the edge of that bevel were all the same white monster. Each one was humanoid-shaped, but hunched over, standing twenty meters tall at the hunch and covered with white scales that stuck out more like spikes, than as protective coverings. Each beast had a single eye in the center of its thick-necked head, and each one stared forward, at the cavern. They were guardians, for sure.

There had to be maybe exactly a hundred of them, and they all stood in an organized line upon that beveled cavern wall, each half a kilometer away from each other, with the cloud wall behind them and their Domains locked forward. They were obviously working together, but Erick was pretty sure they were monsters, so this was odd. He’d have to confirm their monstrosity with a closer inspection, of course…

Maybe they weren’t monsters?

“Ah.” Erick said, “Right. Let’s try this one.”

[True Viewing Screen].

Erick spied upon the targets again, and nothing changed. The mist remained. The white monsters remained. Not an illusion, then. Or perhaps it was a very, very good illusion? Erick wouldn’t know until he tested them, personally.

But...

Erick told Ophiel, “Okay. So. It seems that someone put those guardians there. But who? And do I care? I might be able to avoid the guardians with burrowing, but that seems like a dangerous game. Who knows what’s past them… I could check though.”

Ophiel chirped. Burrowing was fun.

“Burrowing is fun, yes.” Erick considered. “But, no. We’ll try the front door… But first we’ll watch for now. We’ll see what happens while we rest.” He glanced at his beans, in his bag. “And make some more bean soup.”

- - - -

Erick ate his fourth bowl of bean soup while he watched the world around him, and also the Screen hovering in front. He had noticed a few things in the last hour.

He had also had to kill his black-branch tree neighbor, because the damned thing had wormed into Erick’s [Aura of Unmoving Stone] and burrowed into the Redoubt. A bit of Light dissuasion wasn’t good enough to stop the burrowing, so Erick applied more and more Light to the problem. His new neighbor was a bird of bright gold feathers lined with shadows, and she seemed more preoccupied with hatching her eggs than she was with anything else.

But as for guardians and their cloudwall: Monsters tested that land all the time. Monsters tried to burn and fry and freeze the guardians, tried to do everything they could to eliminate the problem at the end of the tunnel, to open up more space for themselves. But no matter what the monsters did, their spellwork never breached the passive resistances of the guardians’ Domain. A single attacker was not enough, at all. As soon as the guardians reacted, the various monsters all went away, or they were killed.

For every time monstrous spellwork struck a guardian, every single guardian within range turned as one, and fired off blinding beams of light directly at the offending monster. And those beams of light looked eerily similar to [Luminous Beam].

That was only the first oddity. The second oddity was that the guardians didn’t aim to kill. They aimed to injure, and drive off, and they accomplished this rather well.

A third oddity appeared when one monster —a giant floating kraken of air and lightning— started sending ten kilometer long blasts of lightning skittering off of the Domains of many monsters below, to smack into one of the guardians. That lightning actually managed to pierce through the guardian’s Domain. It had been the only attack to do so in the last hour of watching.

The bolt left a small blackened space upon the left shoulder of the intended target, but every single other guardian across the whole beveled edge of the cavern also gained a small blackened spot upon their left shoulder. None of the guardians cared about the damage, for there wasn’t any, but the nearby guardians still sent [Luminous Beam]s back at the attacker. That kraken of lightning and air lost several limbs, but it managed to get away, until one of the monsters near the cavern wall decided they wanted calamari for dinner.

Erick focused on the guardians. He would need a few more examples, but he formed a hypothesis that every single guardian was linked to every other guardian, and that the damage one took, they all took. As he was having that thought, he witnessed several random guardians cast spells upon themselves, erasing the little bit of damage that had been spread to all hundred guardians on the ring. The small black soot spots vanished.

“Linking Domains for strength and sharing damage taken?” Erick guessed.

Ophiel shrugged, chirping a noncommittal chirp.

“Are they summoned [Familiar]s? Using their creator’s Domain?” Erick said, “Or a Domain made specially for them.” He glanced to Ophiel on his shoulder. “I need to make this sort of Domain for you, but you’re already using your maximum two auras at once.”

Ophiel chirped; he was.

“No new Domain for you, just yet.”

Ophiel chirped; shouldn’t try to make any special magic like that right now, anyway.

“You’re right.” Erick breathed deep and then he stood up, saying, “Time to go.”

With nine Ophiel taking to the air around Erick and one remaining on his shoulder, Erick stepped out of the [Obscuring Redoubt], and into the gloomy, rainbow air. His neighbors glanced his way, but they did not attack. The steel and green feathered thing stared at him with a bright, crystalline eye, but did not otherwise move. The golden bird with shadowed feathers glared at him, too, but her wings were spread to cover her small nest of three gold-black eggs.

Erick took to the air, leaving both feathered monsters behind, Ophiels trailing in front and to the sides, each of them tiny and fully covered in [Animadversion]. Easily, and without pause, Erick pulled out from between the oppressive weights of both enemy Domains.

