He even chose the room near the back, because it had a small window overlooking a small backyard, and the room was unadorned with any personal effects, unlike the other two rooms, and unlike almost every other room in the small silver village. Those other rooms had small paintings of people and charms with names on them and clothes in dressers and in closets. But this room seemed like a guest room; it was practically empty of all personal effects.

Whatever the case, the bed was fantastic. This was not unusual, though. It seemed every bed in this entire village was as comfortable as a dense cloud. This particular example of finery had nice sheets, too, and nice pillows, though they were not silk. They were simple cotton, which was much more Erick’s style. The door to the room was as thick as any other door in any other house, but most rooms in most houses didn’t have doors, and there were no locks anywhere. The people of this village gave a nod toward privacy, but not any care at all toward security.

After placing some [Prismatic Ward]s with Ophiel (enough to alert Jane and others up top that he was alive) and [Cleanse]ing himself, Erick sat on the bed. He breathed out. In a flashing moment, he realized that he was glad that he was out of that cavern. Really glad. Fantastically happy to be out of that rainbow gloom.

Erick laid down on the bed and sighed. He brushed away some stress tears, wondering what everyone else was doing, wondering how long it had been since he had seen Jane, wondering about lost time, and about accidentally turning into a monster—

That last one was both a figurative and literal worry. Erick checked himself for rads hourly, and he continued to do so all the while he was in that prismatic gloom. He had often needed to pluck those poisons from his body before they got too big, or too close to his heart. Having a [Personal Ward] active helped to prevent some rad formation, but not all.

It hadn’t been too painful to rip them from his body every hour, but changing half to light and half to physical was tricky and there was blood involved. He didn’t simply just rip them out from his chest like he did that one time, back with the orcols and the shadelings at Treehome; he had learned a bit better since then.

Erick sighed.

As he lay there on that strange bed, covered in protective spells but feeling more exposed than ever, Erick had more thoughts. He needed to find a spot for Yggdrasil, tomorrow. He probably could have done that tonight and slept atop his defensive [Familiar] instead of here, wherever ‘here’ was, but who knew what would happen if he tried to summon Yggdrasil in this land. Would Yggdrasil drain Erick of everything he had, again? Would it be worse this time? It would probably be worse—

No. It definitely would be worse.

Erick would worry about that tomorrow. The summoning would be worse, but he could deal with that. For now, Erick metaphorically tucked his worries into bed; they would keep till tomorrow. Maybe after some sleep he’d be able to handle his worries better. Maybe. Probably.

He closed his eyes—

He shot up in bed and—

Nothing… Nothing was there. He was safe. Even with the invisible intangible people all around, looking at him… Honestly, aside from the clues that people lived here, there was nothing telling him that people actually lived here. Nothing moved when he wasn’t looking, and that was a big clue that he might be safe.

Maybe he was being too paranoid—

Nope. He wasn’t being paranoid at all. The animals were clearly capable of turning immaterial. The people could probably do this, too.

So Erick glanced at the window, and at the nothing out there, and he spoke to the air, “If you have something you want me to copy, please leave it outside. I have to sleep, and I would appreciate some privacy. Good night.”

He laid down.

Eventually, he slept.

- - - -

Ophiel watched.

- - - -

Erick woke up with a shaking start, slamming on his lightform. He endured the passing of another Script Second, then he turned on his [Lodestar]. Nothing attacked in the meantime, and as more and more nothing happened, Erick’s mind settled down. He glanced through his Ophiel and saw the world around him.

Nothing had changed.

Nothing was on fire.

All was well with the world.

And not a single thing had moved from where he had put it. The extra keg of beer in the front room was still there. The copied foods were still out in the village where Erick had found them. Nothing had been placed in front of his closed door.

A bird twittered again outside Erick’s window—

Ah. The bird had woken him. Or, more accurately, Ophiel’s interest in the bird’s melodic chirping had bled into Erick and that had woken him. Erick returned to his physical form and sat back down onto the bed—

His [Personal Ward] was gone and his bladder and the rest of his digestive tract was very full. Bloated. Not sick, though. Just… Not the best. A recast of his defenses made him feel a bit better, but only after going out into the forest and doing his morning routine did he feel like a person again. He would have used a bathroom inside the village, but for some reason, that seemed too much.

With head held high, Erick lightstepped back into town. Nothing had killed him in the middle of the night. So…

This was fine?

Erick decided to start the morning off right. It was time to use the hot tubs at the elder’s mansion and to partake of all the guest food laid out for all the non-apparent guests.

- - - -

Soaking in perpetually hot water while drinking tea and eating a lime scone, Erick let some of his worries float away on the gentle steam that lifted from the massive hot tub.

Erick had actually dreamed of having a hot tub for a while. Ever since he landed on Veird and realized getting a hot tub was not only possible, but that it was easy, too. All he had to do was actually go through the trouble to make one. Why hadn’t he? No idea.

Perhaps there had been no need. And it would have been odd, anyway. Everyone in Spur used the Baths when they wanted to enjoy a dip, and who was Erick to want to have his own, private space? A deviant, for sure.

The baths of Spur had hot tubs aplenty along with communal baths and pools in their warehouse-sized location. Erick had only gone there once, though. He had been too shy about his ‘dad bod’ when compared to everyone else. Now, though? Now he had a quite fantastic body —as Linxel could attest— but Erick still couldn’t go to the baths because it would be embarrassing for a whole host of different reasons. With his Vitality and Blessing of Rozeta his body did a lot of teenage-like things these days and he did not need to experience that particular trauma ever again.

Ah. So many little, large traumas. So little time to get over them all.

Anyway.

The view from the elder mansion’s hot tub was magnificent. This hot tub was obviously made for comfort, with its angled walls and in-built stone seating, and to show off the mountainside beyond the village. This room was half exposed to the open air, with fragrant flowers planted in a stone garden right outside that added a floral ambiance to the experience. Beyond all that, the forested mountain dropped away to a deep, forested valley. The view of the other mountains and of the gentle rise in the land was mostly unobstructed.

Past the nearest lands lay a minor ocean, and a string of islands, along with a particularly large cloudgate. Perhaps the elder had built this house in this way to view the cloudgate in the distance? It was a nice view, even knowing that there were a fuckton of monsters on the other side of that barrier, waiting to break through and invade this paradise.

Erick turned his attention back to the strings of islands out there. Maybe Yggdrasil would like to be on an island? He probably would, if it was freshwater. Saltwater? Maybe not so much. The saltwater of Veird wasn’t as salty as the saltwater of Earth, but it still had a salt content to it that could be uncomfortable for most trees.

Erick would check on all that soon enough, when he was ready to endure whatever trauma that would bring. But for now… The scent of morning filled his senses, and it was good.

He still wondered about the people who lived here. But… Maybe no one lived here?

One odd, telling thing that Erick had noticed, but somewhat foolishly disregarded until now, was that the manasphere of this place was different from the manasphere of the Surface, or the Underworld. The usual eyes and mouths and dangers visible in the ethereal swirls and flows of the mana were not present down here. The manasphere here was clean. It was completely empty of ‘psychic impressions’, if you wanted to call them that.

Erick had never heard anyone call those illusions ‘psychic impressions’, but as he had that strange thought, calling them psychic impressions seemed appropriate, so that’s what he would call them.

With this new intrigue on his mind, Erick sent Ophiels to look at the world while he had another copy of a scone. Was this entire land clear of psychic impressions? Soon, Erick found out that his casual observation proved to be true everywhere he looked. Even the animals that came and went from reality like they were slipping through dimensions did not leave impressions on the manasphere.

… Hmm. Dimensions, eh?

But Dimensional Magic was Banned? Capital ‘B’ Banned, too. One of the three Foundational Bans of the Script. Dimensional; Banned to prevent another Sundering. Infinitesimal; Banned to prevent the direct manipulation of mana. And Propagation; Banned to prevent spellwork from spreading past the initial cast.

Hmm.

Ah. Well. Whatever.

But that led Erick to another thought about mana; about his mana sense.

Erick decided to do something that he probably should have done last night, before he went to bed. He pushed his mana sense outward, then sideways. He glanced to the past, and saw a world unchanging until his own arrival. The bread from the granny remained in the window. The beer from the brewer remained where Erick had found it…

Huh.

Odd.

With a bit of stress, Erick pushed his sight into the distant past, glancing everywhere. He saw himself asleep for what he gauged to be nearly a full day, which was a bit much, but he guessed he needed it. He also saw that this village had been the exact same for at least a month... Unchanging. Clothes remained where they were to this day. The hot tub remained hot for all time.

Erick pushed his sense to two months ago.

Erick sat up in the hot tub.

Teressa could manually [Witness] to two months into the past, no problem, and further than that with all the various techniques she was still mastering. But Erick topped out at a month. At least he had topped out at a month; that was before he came here. This personal limitation was because of all the interference of moving people and shifting magics and all that stuff all interfered with [Witness], and Erick wasn’t that good at that spellcraft just yet. But here, in this village?

There was no interference.

The manasphere was clean.

Erick gazed back three months, and then four, and then five. Eight months; that was as far into the past as he could see. Beyond that it was like looking out across this inverted world and trying to see a distant continent through thousands upon thousands of kilometers of air; the natural density of that air and the random clouds that held in the air prevented all sight.

Nothing had changed in this land in the last 8 months. Probably a lot longer than that, too.

Erick looked at his ‘freshly baked scone’ and the ‘fresh tea’ and the ‘clean, hot water’ in the tub.

Was this shit actually ancient?

… Well, Erick’s copies weren’t. He had another bite. It was a pretty good scone.
