They were getting sneakier about their invasion. It would have been a problem if Ophiels weren’t positioned everywhere, each with a [Physical Domain] wide open, allowing Erick to ‘feel’ out whatever monsters came through, even if the individual monsters were too small, or too far away, or too hidden to see with all his other senses—

As he had that thought, yet another monster tried to skirt him as he stood there in the sky between the cavern and the Core. This one was another plant-monster, but made of illusions. It slipped through the dirt, trying to remain invisible, but Erick lightstepped toward the monster, directly into the monster’s path. A seemingly quiet stretch of land erupted with twisting vines and fire, trying to immolate him as the monster split in two; one to stay and fight and the other to escape into the paradise all around.

Erick killed both and had to vaporize the remains because it just wouldn’t stay dead otherwise.

He was level 96 now. He returned to the sky over the cavern. He waited.

Another hour passed and another hundred monsters came and died, for though the main army had come through there were always more. The steady stream of attackers never truly stopped, even after the monsters had more than enough land to call their own inside the cavern. They all wanted into this place, and the reason for this desire did escape Erick. Perhaps it was easier for them to soak up mana in this paradise? Or perhaps the stories were true, and the monsters all hated the Script with a fiery passion, and they wanted to come in here and destroy the Core? Melemizargo might be to blame for these suicidal monsters, but he did not show, to help the monsters in their goal, so Erick had no way to know.

Whatever the case, Erick simply didn’t feel like letting the monsters inside this land, and so he stopped their ingress, and that was enough for him. Another hour passed with Erick recasting his [Personal Ward] in the meantime, while he waited for the cavern to repair itself. The beveled edge and most of the cavern beyond had repaired itself in the last ten minutes, so it would be just a few more minutes before—

The beveled edge of the cavern settled itself with a flash of white light, passing across the ground like the sheen of a [Personal Ward] turning on. And then the light settled, and vanished, exactly like a [Personal Ward]. And then a calm mist began to roll up from the paradise jungle all around. Erick stepped into the sky to get a better view of what was happening. After a moment of watching he understood what was happening. He was happy to discover that he wouldn’t need to guard this gate forever.

The other nearby cloudgates, dozens of kilometers away, sent streamers of fog across the land, like white wind. Those clouds joined the mist already flowing out from the nearby plants of this paradise, to filter into the cavern, to fill in the beveled edge of the tunnel, and then stabilize, becoming a cloying fogbank.

Monsters still tried to bust through that fog, though Erick only needed to deal with a few before he wasn’t needed anymore. Suddenly, small guardians stepped out of the clouds, onto the bevel, and began ruthlessly murdering every encroaching monster with copious amounts of [Luminous Beam]. A few of the guardians died to claw and fang and spell, but the ones that survived grew with every passing second. Without warning, their Sharing Domain appeared across the entire remaining guardian force, linking them to each other and to the rapidly closing clouds. And that was the end of their losses.

Erick stepped back, back into the sky, further away from the clouds. He watched as the clouds swirled and piled upon each other, almost occluding sight of the tunnel, and of the fights on the other side. But another sneaky monster got past the guardians by flying close to the mana stream. Such a tactic wasn’t good enough. All that chimeric monster managed to do was strike head-first into the rapidly closing clouds. The guardians on the other side switched to targeting the chimera, their [Luminous Beam]s coming in from ten different sides—

And that was all Erick saw of that. The clouds swirled together, closing off the tunnel of monsters from paradise. The mana stream in the center was the only thing to get through the barrier, anymore. It flowed directly up and out of the cloudgate; a shimmering, inverted waterfall of thick, rainbow air.

Erick waited there, in the air beyond the cloudgate, for something else to happen. For some breakthrough monster. For Melemizargo himself to appear. But as minutes passed, the cloudgate stabilized even more. The nearby forest was already mostly regrown across the formerly destroyed land. Birds appeared in the sky, flying free like nothing had happened. Mice and deer and cows came back to paradise, stepping out from behind nothing, simply appearing out of nowhere.

This paradise was strange, in a lot of ways. This land enforced order upon the world, and upon itself. Perhaps it created life, too. Or maybe it just allowed life to hide whenever that life wanted to hide.

Erick saw no people, though, but perhaps the people were simply hiding, too.

A city of pink stone clung to that mountain over there, but Erick had not seen any people at all so far. Erick wasn’t sure about anything at the moment, but he would find out. If nothing else, this land was a lot calmer than everywhere else. Perhaps he could actually rest for a while? That might be nice. He had been going strong for at least two days, but it might have been longer. But then again, perhaps everything here was a lie, and some strange force was just waiting for Erick to lower his guard.

He’d find out if that was the case, too.

Erick stepped higher into the sky to get a better look at everything. The inverted world rose up in the distance like he was at the bottom of an impossibly large bowl. Yet again, Erick marveled at it all. The sheer size of it! The scattered cities and mountain ranges and forests and plains and coastlines and oceans were all so distant that they all but disappeared behind the depth of air, and wispy clouds, long before the horizon of the Core obscured everything beyond its absolute blueness.

Erick turned around a few times, looking for a suitable target. He found one; a city of silver upon a mountain in the distance. It was one of the smaller places within view, but it wasn’t too small. It would serve.

- - - -

The small silver village was rather perfect for ten or so families and their farming and living needs. It was completely devoid of active life while simultaneously showing all the signs that people did, indeed, live here. Other than that incongruity, Erick could easily see himself living here if he had no other obligations.

The streets were solid silver stones, while the walls were silver-flecked stone, and the roofs were of pure silver. Despite the odd building material, the style seemed very ‘desert-like’, with little in the way of adornment and with an eye toward the thickness of walls for temperature control. This place certainly didn’t look like it needed thick walls for defense, for there was absolutely no nod toward that aspect of life, at all. No walls around the place. No barriers anywhere. This place could have been a village back on a mountain on Earth, actually. Perhaps somewhere in Japan, or in the mountains of North Carolina.

Rain seemed to be a concern, though Erick saw no rain clouds anywhere in the inverted sky, and he could see pretty darned far. An affectation, perhaps? Whatever the case, the roofs had architecturally beautiful gutters, with curled corners and sculpted downspouts in the shapes of fish.

The town had more water concerns than non-existent rain, though, for silver stone waterways followed alongside main street and two of the side streets, serving as waterways for a creek. Every house in the town even had a little watering hole beside their house where the creek swirled deep and fish held steady. Small grasses grew in those deeper spots.

The source of the creek was a beautiful little pond above the city, while a little further up the mountain lay the spring. The whole water system was obviously well tended, with little shrines all throughout the village itself, but up here were many more shrines, alongside little flower beds growing the most beautiful, fragrant red flowers.

Erick tried not to smell the flowers. He had been in full sunform this whole time, approaching this place like it was a trap. His sunform had not faltered. He had not returned to his physical body. But he could still smell the flowers. They were red splashes of life against the green and blues and silvers of the land.

From everything Erick could see, with all his sights and his Domain of Light gently touching everything, and with what his Ophiel were reporting, the flowers didn’t seem dangerous, and this land was clear of people.

He didn’t believe any of that for a single second.

Erick spoke, “Nice pond.”

He waited a beat.

Nothing happened.

He turned and went back to the center of the village where he tested the waters by turning back into his physical form. Still, nothing happened.

“Okay then.”

Erick contemplated what he was going to do, now. First, he was starting to feel funny, but this was due to exhaustion.

… He checked himself a few times to make sure that what he was feeling was, for sure, exhaustion. And it was. Almost immediately following that series of thoughts Erick decided that he was hungry, and this place was loaded, and he was going to eat something good, dammit. [Cleanse] had turned nothing to thick air, after all. So now, it was time to feast.

His first stop was by the bakery, which was probably more like the house of a neighborhood granny who made bread out of everyone’s flour. The baker, whoever they were, had many different breads sitting beside the window and Erick copied a nice, big loaf. It was soft. It was delicious. Erick saw another target, and after another [Cleanse] check, he copied some cheeses and meats that had been inside the kitchen of a house across the street. He grabbed a great big beer mug and copied it, then he copied a keg from a brewer who was obviously brewing as a hobby.

It was so very, very good.

Erick ate copies of every single thing in the entire village that looked even remotely delicious, from the cookies out of one jar to the honey cakes from the village elder’s big house at the end of the main street. He even sampled a copy of the most expensive-looking wine in the cellar of the elder’s house.

Occasionally, he left behind an extra copy of what he found delicious. The elder didn’t get a copy of their wine, but they did get a double copy of the keg of beer from the microbrewer. That beer maker got four copies of their well-made beer, because it was the best damned thing Erick had ever tasted…

Or perhaps he was simply overindulging after at least three days of the most hellish, grueling, personal disaster he had ever had to walk through. He had let much of the danger of the last few days wash over him by simply killing everything more, and harder, with bigger explosions of light and as much personal strength as he could muster, but it had been tough. He had almost died a hundred times. No one else he knew would have survived that—

Maybe the Headmaster could make it down here. But. No? That guy had Scion of Willpower, if the stories were to be believed. He would lose steam rather fast if he had to go through all of those monsters like Erick had… But maybe Kirginitharp could? What the fuck did Erick know? Not much, when he really thought about it.

Maybe Killzone could make it? Erick didn’t know too much about that guy.

Jane would have died. No Domain meant death down here.

But maybe none of them could have made it, either. Erick had encountered not a single wrought in that entire tunnel, and he had expected to see someone, but there had been no one. Not a single person! Maybe no one in their right mind ever ventured into that series of tunnels. Maybe Erick had been dropped into a true death zone.

And yet, he survived. He made it here. How? Strength, he supposed. But then again he cheated, too. There were not many spells like [Luminous Beam], after all. Nothing had any truly good defenses against the magics he made, because they had never before existed on Veird. He had invented that new, physical spell, himself! And even when he encountered the guardians using [Luminous Beam] against him, Erick was able to overcome that, too, because he knew how the spell worked.

How long had those guardians been using [Luminous Beam]? Did some wrought make those guardians and give them Erick’s spell? Or did Rozeta make those guardians and give them Erick’s spells, because they were damned good spells that broke everything they were pointed at?

Ahh…

Exhaustion.

He was tired.

He wanted to sleep.

Erick stumbled a bit as he walked down the gently curving street. He wasn’t drunk. He wasn’t even buzzed. He was too high strung at the moment and maybe, possibly, this land wasn’t a trap. Maybe he could let down his guard. This certainly seemed like paradise. There was certainly some fuckery going on with animals vanishing when they were threatened, and coming back out when they were not, and maybe that extended to the people who lived here, but there was nothing Erick could do about that.

If any unseen onlooker wanted him dead, he was absolutely sure that they could do that. The people here had to have defenders, right? Hidden defenders?

Whatever.

Sleep.

He needed sleep.

Erick stopped in the center of the main street, and spoke to the air, “Terribly sorry for my uninvited intrusion. I will not bother you overlong. If you have something you want more of, leave it by the door by the bed I choose to sleep in… Wherever that might be.” He looked around and spotted his target. “That house will do. If the occupants object, tell me now, or forever hold your peace.”

Erick waited a beat.

Nothing happened.

Erick walked over and entered the chosen house, saying, “I appreciate your hospitality. Have a keg of beer as a gift.” He set down the keg he was carrying and went to his chosen room.

The house was comfortably sized, with three bedrooms and a main living room; it was certainly not the elder’s big house at the end of the street, with obvious guest rooms and pre-heated hot tubs and silk sheets on their cloud-like beds. This room was more comfortable, and more easily defended, which is why Erick picked this smaller place.

