Melemizargo grinned a little. It was not a wholly happy look, but there was a great deal of joy in there. And then he seemed to relax into a softer stance, as he said, “He won’t be able to find you with it anymore unless he truly focuses, but with the power at his command it would be easier to find you in other ways; through your family, through your history. Once he becomes a God then his options bloom immeasurably. If he strips your Dark Mark from you, then you will have every cosmological right to take your revenge upon him, as he has done to me with the Sundering. As it is now, your Dark Mark is more of a trap for him, should he attempt to influence you through it. Don’t let him bluff you with taking it away, but also don’t ever act like you would want it taken away; that would allow him to take it without repercussion.” Melemizargo said, “And so, you should simply keep it. I’m sure you will find a use for it eventually. But as for now… Let us move past the talk of strategy and outcomes.” Melemizargo said, “We are currently under a [Time Stop], and I would enjoy hearing about your journeys through time, if you would tell them. Rozeta is actually quite reluctant to speak of the secrets she knows, which is how a Goddess of Knowledge should be.

“So Erick?

“What did you learn?

“What did you see, beyond my death, in this universe that is so large and beautiful?”

Erick felt a pang in his chest.

And then he conjured a table and set upon it some foods from Earth that he had taken and saved over the years. “It’s all junk food, comfort food, but I enjoyed all of this from my home. I already ate everything that I saved from my journeys through the Time. But please, take what you want.” Erick grabbed a slice of buffalo chicken pizza, saying, “I missed pizza the most. It was so bad for me, but I loved it while I could eat it without problems.”

Melemizargo eyed the food… reluctantly. He was not impressed, and yet, he floated a slice over to himself and then took a bite. He thought for a second, and then he took another bite. “Not bad?”

Erick laughed. “It’s pure commoner food, but yeah. It’s not bad.”

Melemizargo chuckled.

Erick began, “So when I stepped through time the first time, it did not start off that way at all. I stepped through a Benevolence portal into a void, and created [Wizard’s Clarity], which sort of cleared up everything around me. I wasn’t inside a void at all, but inside Benevolence Itself. Still looked like a void, though, except for the points of light so far away that turned out to be collections of nebulous Benevolence out there in the Fractal Universe.

“The first place I fell was this world of Abarial, over 172 million Layers away. I learned a lot there about corruption, but also about Valkyries. You know I gave up that [Blessing of Empathy] when Koyabez helped make my silver star pin into the Crystal Star? He kept granting that specific spell back over the years, but I was glad to actually be rid of it. It served very well for a time, but it was a lot of strong-armed soul twisting. Necessary soul twisting, but not something I wish to engage in more than necessary.”

Melemizargo nodded as he sipped a 2-liter bottle of high-caffeine soda through a giant swirly straw.

“Anyway. The Valkyries are actually a rather similar application of that [Blessing of Empathy], what with their mind-meld magics. Over the course of the war, which took about half a year, I saw fractious worlds come together under one mind, and when it all ended, and when I ended the Valkyrie spell, I saw worlds that had been too broken to stop the advance of corruption all come together to work together, to truly restart their civilization. Being a part of the Valkyrie magic was as close to enlightenment as most people were ever going to get… or at least that was the sentiment they spoke of.

“As for the actual war: To combat the corruption over a land of a few tens of planets, and three Layers, I took a direct, burning approach to the corruption itself, but I deployed Valkyries extensively in order to rush through the repair of their civilization as fast as I could…”

- - - -

Erick had tried to get back to work after seeing Melemizargo for a talk about everything in the universe and a few other universes besides, but he found himself faced with Jane instead. She had asked him to talk for a little while, alone, before he got to doing anything big. She hadn’t expected him to easily agree, but now she was dealing with that new reality she had created.

Erick was taking it easier than Jane.

In Jane’s house in the cloud castle over Candlepoint, Erick sat down with his daughter while she made tea in the kitchen. Jane almost never used her house, but Erick had kept it neat and tidy for when she did. These days Evan was the one actually living in the place, which was what Jane and Evan had agreed on, so it wasn’t too much of a surprise when Jane rummaged through the cupboards looking for her preferred tea, and she couldn’t find it.

“Fuck it, I guess we’re drinking whatever weird shit Evan bought,” Jane said, grabbing some ‘Mild Greens’. “What even is ‘Mild Greens’ anyway?”

Erick smiled a little. “It’s a tea from Nelboor, by way of House Void Song. Evan is one of the main contacts for them now that he’s here at the House most of the time. I think you liked it when you tried it once, when we were served it at breakfast with the grass travelers.”

Jane was dumping the tea into little metal containers, but she paused. She bent down and smelled it— “Oh my gods. I remember it now! I loved this stuff… Huh.”

She stayed there for a moment, thinking about a lot, and then she got to putting the tea back together. With a flick of her hand she boiled the water in the pot, but she manually put the tea strainers into the water to let them steep. She brought the pot and a plate of cookies over to the kitchen nook table… But with a small uncomfortableness, she looked at the table.

She was probably thinking about how the table was a tall one, with tall chairs. It easily doubled as a standing table sometimes, which is how Evan used it sometimes. It was not the table that Jane had originally had in the house.

Jane set down the tea pot and cookies anyway, saying, “Evan has some weird tastes, but the table is sturdy enough.”

Erick smiled softly at that—

Jane instantly added, “You’ve had this weird, forlorn look in your eyes ever since you… Well since you came back.”

“Yup. No doubt. How old are you now?”

Jane raised an eyebrow. “… How old do you think I am?”

“34 or 36. I’m not sure. I think our birthdays heavily diverged recently—” Erick gave his daughter a Look. “And you made yourself younger.”

Jane smiled. “35, and yeah. I went for 25. 25 was a good age.”

“What was so good about 25?”

“Oh lots of things. I almost got married—”

Erick was floored. He asked, “Where was I when this almost happened?”

“… Which you did not know at all, did you.”

“Where was I?!”

“Up here— Just below here, at the House, being King.” Jane kept dropping bombs, “Anyway. 25 was a great age. I told you about the Unicorn Hunt, yeah? Marric. Orcol mind mage that partied with me? We met later on and sort of… one thing led to another. He knew who I was and I knew him and we almost got married, but then his family turned out to want him to want kids and he couldn’t have kids with me, and then things just sort of fell apart from there. He’s still a great guy, but we lost him in the Red while you were gone at Margleknot.”

Erick breathed deep. “Sorry I wasn’t here.”

Jane winced. “No no— Dad. That’s not why… Sorry. I guess that kinda came out wrong. No. I did not mean to— That’s not… I just wanted to tell you, not hurt you. It didn’t work out anyway. But… I liked being 25. It felt like things finally started to come together for me, there. Even my breakup with Marric was a good thing, for both of us.”

Erick said, “Sorry I wasn’t here for that.”

“Well. Yeah.” Jane said, “I’ve been thinking about… a lot of things. Mainly about organized magic and how you made yourself able to be hurt only through Health and the other two… And I was thinking about all the sideways attacks that Nothanganathor is coming at us with…”

She went silent.

Erick allowed her a moment pouring both of them some tea; it was ready now. “You still like sugar, right?”

“Milk, too, but I can do that myself.”

Erick smiled. “I know you can, but I want to help you.”

Erick saw the pain in Jane’s eyes as she thought.

Jane made an important decision.

And then Jane looked at her father, and spoke some words she had obviously been practicing in a mirror somewhere, “You know, Dad, you talk about a bunch of stuff that’s so far out of the ability for anyone to really reach. Time travel. Layers of the universe. Resurrection and reincarnation. Fate Magic. But at the same time, all of that is because of Wizardry, which is basically you telling the universe that you have the power, so what you say goes. Wizardry is whatever you want, right? Tell me if I have that wrong.”

Erick wasn’t exactly sure where Jane was going with this, so he just answered the question, “There’s nuance, but yes. Just like with normal magic, if you know what you’re doing then it costs less to do it, but at the same time if you simply have enough resources to not care about cost, then you can do anything.”

Jane relaxed a little. “Okay. So…” She paused again. She said, “This war is getting out of hand. None of us can actually contribute anything at all to it— No. I mean it, dad. Don’t interrupt, please. The vast majority of us are worthless. There is power to be had if we can get it, but we’re talking universal, existential threats, and we have no time for all the rest of us to Ignite to Wizardry. There’s not a single person on this world, aside from you, that can turn into a dragon and multiply through time and then shit out all this mana that then comes right back to you as though it was never spent at all.”

Erick almost interrupted there, too, because he had some plans to give some Marks of Benevolence to people to help them cultivate a sort of power that would stay with them… though he wasn’t sure how it would work in the Script. The Houses of Reason on Earth were full of mages that could cast some small spells all day long, for basically forever, as long as they spaced those spells out every several hours. The mana they cast would eventually come back to them. It would come back faster if they mediated on it and actively pulled that mana back to them. But when they spent too much mana over something big, like a [Fireball] or [Lightning Bolt] then that mana tended to stay gone and then the mage would need to wait for their soul to fill with Benevolence again in order to cast anything else. Such waiting might take them anywhere from a day or several days.

Most mages of Earth tended to stick to very small, [Prestidigitation]-type spells.

But could someone with a Dark Mark and a Benevolence Mark spend mana and have that mana come back to them? How would the Script help or harm a person who had multiple mana-generating Marks in their souls? How would that work at all?

Erick had a lot of questions about that, but he wanted Jane to get her words out before he went on that tangent, because what she was saying was important. The war was getting way, way out of hand. Any day now, either Erick or Northanganathor might pull something truly horrendous out of possibility.

Jane seemed like she might have a solution to that.

Jane breathed. She said, “And so… instead of everyone trying to one-up each other, why not work on smaller powers? Ah. No— No. I said that wrong. I mean… If you could make this war work out however you wanted, through Wizardry, do you really need to keep going big? You could go small and make the small battles mean just as much as the big ones. Maybe a simple [Force Bolt] to the head and Nothanganathor’s a goner, because he has no Health. You know how you made yourself only able to be damaged through Health, Mana, and Psyche? Could we do that for everyone, including the Valkyries and all that?

“That sort of thing.

“That’s my idea to win the war, though I don’t know how valid it is. Winning a war by going backwards in overall strength? Sounds crazy but… Wizards are Wizards, right? You can make anything happen. Can you make a normal person able to punch up against a god?

“And. Like. I’m just a normal person. I’m not a Wizard. I just have the power I gained thanks to the Script and… you. There are millions of us, and even the Valkyries share some of my concerns. Shivraa has been great to talk to this last year… Anyway.” Jane’s practiced speech sort of fell apart. “That’s what I’m wondering. Is it possible to bring the concerns of this war back down to something that we can actually participate in, so we can decide our destiny instead of having Wizards battle it all out for us?”

Erick’s mind had hit a speed bump and knocked the whole train off the track.

“… Huh.”

Jane instantly pulled back, saying, “Yeah. It’s a dumb idea. But I had to ask. Nothanganathor wouldn’t respect something like a Polite War at all and—”

“Now that, I am going to interrupt, because yeah, he won’t respect that, but who cares what he respects. I certainly don’t, and so, all we have to do is have the larger power in order to erode his power away from him…” Erick found himself vanishing down a thought tunnel with ten thousand million thoughts at once. He resurfaced without resurfacing, and in the power of the moment, said to Jane, “Benevolence is all about gaining power to help those below you, but helping them against what? That’s right.” A light seemed to flicker on inside Erick, and somewhere far, far away. “Helping them against oppression and tyrants, of course.”

Erick felt a cascading shift in his Status that reverberated outside of his body, echoing far, far away.

Benevolence Itself flexed, and Erick caught sight of a bunch of Spells in his Status as their descriptions began to change.

Benevolence Jolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

An ethereal bolt of benevolence inexorably strikes a target for <5x WIL effect>. <Effect multiplies when acting on behalf of [][][][][][][][][].>

The bottom line shifted to—

Jane grinned a lopsided, unsure sort of grin. “Well yeah. ‘Helping against tyrants’. Was that a surprise?”

