“Well... No. Not really.” Erick rapidly said, “But the best realizations are the ones that aren’t a surprise at all. The answer has been there this whole time!” Erick raised his voice, “Hey, Rozeta! Did those black boxes in those Benevolence Spells finally clear up?”

Rozeta stepped into the room, “I cleared up those problems so long ago, and now you bring them back, just to reveal what I had hidden as unknowable— Yes! They cleared up, but you did more than that! What did you do, Erick?”

Jane looked up in the air, reading stuff.

Erick didn’t get a box, but he could see that Rozeta was right here, and she could see that Erick wanted to see, so she waved a hand and a litany of blue boxes appeared. Just like in his own Status, they had that line at the bottom, ‘<Effect multiplies when acting on behalf of [][][][][][][][][].>’ but those words were changing.

The unknowable had become known.

Benevolence Jolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

An ethereal bolt of benevolence inexorably strikes a target for 5x WIL effect.

Effect multiplies when acting to help others, or to harm a threat to all.

Creates a barrier of Wizardry upon the user when the threat is great enough.

Benevolence Bomb, instant, long range, 73 mana

Launch a super quick ethereal missile of benevolence that explodes on contact in a large area, causing 10x WIL effect.

Effect multiplies when acting to help others, or to harm a threat to all.

Creates a barrier of Wizardry upon the user when the threat is great enough.

Detect Benevolence, instant, medium range, 16 mana

Detect ongoing benevolence effects.

Effect multiplies when acting to help others, or to harm a threat to all.

Creates a barrier of Wizardry upon the user when the threat is great enough.

More and more boxes filled the air, and Erick smiled as he read them all.

But the improvements weren’t done yet!

Erick asked Rozeta, “Do you have a schematic for the Personal Script you were working on?”

Rozeta breathed deep, and then she held out a spark of blue, saying, “It’s not done at all, but here is a copy.”

Erick smiled wide—

The world transformed in a sweep of iridescent white light.

Tables tucked into Infinity and walls vanished into Elsewhere. Windows vanished into themselves and the floor went away as the cloud castle and all of reality slipped out of the way.

Erick, Jane, and Rozeta floated among Benevolence Itself, and Rozeta’s spark of blue manifested fully into a bright blue marble of Knowledge, unformed.

Erick opened his left hand and brought forth the Mark of Infinity that the Fractal Fairy had given him, oh so long ago. That Mark shattered the world into a rainbow of differences, turning the iridescence of the white into concrete images of other lives and places. There was Jane, as she was in dark blue, but behind Jane was a Jane of a different color; bright green and looking softer, like Abigail. Behind Abigail was yellow Beth, wearing an explorer’s hat and hiking boots. Orange Candice had blood on her clawed hands and a happy look on her face, even with the fangs. A red Jane stood, missing, and yet not; Debby wasn’t back, but she was close, and Solomon would bring her back all of the way soon enough. Erick imagined he saw Deborah in the flavors of Red Jane stretching outward into infinity, and he smiled at that. Purple Evan was next, looking handsome in a suit and in House Benevolence colors.

The rainbow repeated, in different variations of power and style, on into Infinity.

None of them could stand against horrors like Nothanganathor on their own, but they weren’t on their own. They had Erick. Jane was asking for a miracle, and Erick was going to give her one. He was going to give a miracle to everyone.

Erick held out his right hand, and Benevolence Itself twisted down into his palm; a spark of white-rainbow held close. The overall space was not diminished at all. Just like the Fractal Mark, Benevolence multiplied in the face of an existential threat.

The Path of Lightning, the impetus to help others, the rage against injustice, and the desire to make everything better; Erick put it all into that spot of white rainbows in his hand. And then there was more. [Wizard’s Clarity], for self-contained power. Draconic options and unlocks for those of such dispositions. A Wizardly call to Infinity to stabilize what was there through recursive functions.

Erick was a splash of draconic black against the white. He was the turning point of change, the tangle in the Benevolent Sky, and a clash of lightning determining where it wanted to go to make everything better. He was also an uncountable number of himselves. Ten thousand hands held his own hands, as he worked his magic. It was like when Erick helped birth Jane, but different.

Rozeta was the unwavering white solidity of her own draconic self, along with golden Knowledge and the blue Script. She was power written down and controlled. The blue marble was all of that, too, but it was incomplete; it was just a thing. No gold divinity glowed in there. No draconic markers. Just blue.

It was a library of possibility without a guiding light, for Rozeta had been making a thing that would outlive her and her own understanding ten thousand times over, all the way into Infinity.

Erick could See what that blue marble could be.

He Knew what needed to be added. Not just the Dark that it was born within, and the Knowledge grown out of that Darkness, but something more pleasant, that could fit in anywhere it needed to fit in, to blend everything together in the Dark, and bring it out into the Light.

Erick held out his multitudinous hands and the power they contained.

With hands cradling and supporting, Erick’s voice overlapped with itself as he spoke,

“The [Strike], The [Bolt], The [Wall], The [Bomb],

“The [Fly], The [Scry], The [Blink], The [Heal].

“These are the spells we work with aplomb.

“These Scripted strengths! We make them real.

“They tear through tyrants like strong aspirants

“Founding great futures upon even keel.”

Power melded with power.

Light dimmed as Erick held that power together.

The working took an age and a single moment to come together, and then it was done. Erick almost slumped for how much that had taken out of him, but he felt good. He felt great!

And then, like someone had turned off blinding floodlights, Jane’s house returned out of the brightness like it had never gone anywhere. Erick, Jane, and Rozeta once again stood in the house that Jane had gifted to Evan.

Jane blinked out tears from her eyes, from the brightness.

Rozeta breathed in concern.

And Erick opened his hands.

It was a floating marble made of blue glittercrystal. It glinted. It shimmered. It was rainbows, but also mostly blue.

Erick picked it up, and pulled out a copy of it, and suddenly he had two Personal Scripts, or whatever this thing was going to be called. He pulled out a few more copies of the original, plucking them out just how the Fractal Mark had worked. Erick pulled a few more copies out of the original, and then he handed one to Rozeta.

“And one for you, of course.”

Rozeta breathed deep as she accepted the thing they had made. She almost said something.

But Erick was handing a copy to Jane. A glittering spark held in the air in front of Erick’s hand, as he handed his daughter her future. “For you. The power you asked for. A power I am overjoyed to grant.”

For the briefest of moments, Jane almost hesitated. She stared at that glittering mass like it was a trap, and to accept it was to indebt herself to her father. And then she realized that was ridiculous. This is what she had asked for, from her fae father, and she was getting exactly what she wanted and so much more.

With a steady hand, Jane took the bit of blue glittercrystal and it sunk into her body, into her soul. Her soul flexed and she winced in pain. Briefly, tendrils of spikes and scales and even feathers and simple flesh erupted from her skin where the glittercrystal had sunk into her soul, and then she controlled herself once again.

Erick glanced over at Rozeta as the Goddess of Knowledge and the Script experimentally plucked another Mark of Something out of the little glittercrystal he had given her, and then she plucked out a few more. Then she put those things back together, into one. In none of those actions had she diminished the original at all.

But mostly, Erick looked at his daughter. At Jane.

Jane flinched a little bit here and there as she blinked a lot, her insides mutating here and there like an out-of-control tumor, but only for brief moments—

Jane settled.

Erick smiled and he vanished his own copy of the ‘Personal Script’ with a twist of his hand. Maybe someone would call it something better in the future. He asked Jane, “How do you feel?”

Jane took a moment to think, and then answer. “… The exact same?”

“Good!”

And then Jane looked to Rozeta. “I have New Stats.”

Rozeta said to her, “It seems Strength, Vitality, Constitution, and Dexterity, are all a part of your new Body Stat, while Perception and Intelligence are now part of your Mind Stat. Willpower and Focus are a part of your Soul Stat, which governs… everything that they were trying to get out of the Awakening Machine research project. It will still be good for them to work on that project, but this is the best outcome for this working here.” She held up a single blue glittercrystal marble, staring at it, saying, “Your father implemented an array of Benevolence that would tie into whatever powers this little Personal Script touches. Dark Mark. Fractal Mark. Any other universal marks that might be out there, that might make their way into the user.” Rozeta rolled her hand and the glittering blue thing vanished. She said to Erick, “Thank you, Erick. I have work to do and people to give this to. It needs a name, though.”

Erick looked to Jane. “What do you want to call it?”

“… It’s just your own Benevolent Mark, isn’t it?”

Erick said, “In part. That’s one of the bases. But in whole, it’s a whole bunch of stuff.”

“ ‘The Benevolent System’?”

Erick chuckled. “For some reason, I enjoy the abbreviation ‘BS’, but also not.”

“Oh. Ah. Ha? Let’s just go with Personal Script— Oh. It did something… Uh. All my numbers went down? Oh! Never mind. They went back up?” Jane said, “Ah. It’s saying ‘Building Foundation’.”

Rozeta said, “It’s still calibrating.” She said to Erick, “I’ve distributed a sandboxed version to a thousand people already and a few monsters beyond a [Time Stop] and almost nothing changed about them, but now the Script seems to hook into the Personal Script, adding a few features. Jane should stabilize in… there she goes. Probably still take her a few hours before she’s ready for combat. You should have a few versions of a Status, Jane. The words at the bottom might change as I work things on my end. What do they look like right now?”

Jane blinked at the air, reading. “I have the original Status and then the new one… But I have the New Stats now? They don’t seem… to be affecting me?”

Erick was worried that he had just done an experiment on his daughter, that his ‘collective cultivation’ with a thousand other versions of himself wasn’t good enough, but Rozeta’s words calmed him. She was working outside of his sight many times faster than this event right here, and there were no Future Ericks around telling him to stop.

He was already sure this was all going to work, but now he was actually sure.

So he just smiled.

Jane pushed some text through the air. “This is rather… weird.”

The first one was Jane’s old Status, updated a bit since the last time Erick had seen it so long ago.

For starters, she now had all of the New Stats, instead of just the one Erick had given her.

… Which was sort of an oopsie, but Jane seemed to be handling it well? Erick had handled it well, himself, after all, and he had cleaned out all the Malevolence from his Status and Rozeta certainly did the same, so the Personal Script Erick had made was surely not going to give Jane paranoia problems.

Oh gods.

Now Erick was kinda panicking.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 35

Level 99, Class: Prismatic Polymage

Exp: 2.9 e27 / 1 e100

Class: 10/10

Points: 5

HP

8,580/8,580

17,160 per day

MP

10,980/10,980

21,960 per day

Strength

75

+68

[143]

Vitality

75

+68

[143]

Dexterity

17

+68

[85]

Constitution

75

+68

[143]

Perception

21

+68

[89]

Willpower

114

+68

[182]

Focus

115

+68

[183]

Intelligence

17

+68

[85]

Alert! You have a Personal Script!

The Script has judged a few things to be true, and made some decisions on your behalf.

This Status is PRIMARY.

This Status is the Primary Status until the Personal Script is functioning at over 100% of Script Status. Switching to the Personal Script before then will be hazardous to all parts of your existence.

Personal Script is <1% ready.

Jane Flatt, [35] [Current Location: Layer 789; Veird, year 1453]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Darkness Level: Archmage

Fractal Level: Blind

Benevolence Level: Store Manager

Soul: 114; 721,500 per day / 8.3 per second

Body: 60

Mind: 19

Overall Stability: ↑↓ [+7.5, -7] Building Foundation, 87% complete

Mp: 2/114,000, ↑↓ [+2.57, -2] Building Foundation

Hp: 2/60,000, ↑↓ [+2.5, -2] Building Foundation

Pp: 2/19,000, ↑↓ [+2.5, -2] Building Foundation

Resons: 0/100, ↑↓ [+.7 = +.08] Building Foundation

Erick chuckled nervously. “Okay! That’s—” He focused on Jane, moving to stand next to her in half of a heartbeat. He stared into her soul, into her mind, into her body, asking, “How are you feeling, honey?”

Jane flinched backward. “Too close.” She tried to nudge him away, but she only ended up pushing herself away. So she stopped pushing. “Seriously. I feel fine. A bit weak, but fine.”

“She’ll be fine, Erick.” Rozeta said, “You made it properly. She’s just building her foundation according to her mana generation. She’ll be done in a little while, and then she can start filling up her Personal Status with her mana generation.” Rozeta said to Jane, “I haven’t gotten to experiment in all the permutations of what is possible for a person with a Personal Script, but it should do all the things a normal Script can do, and more. You’re going to have to learn to accrete to raise your base numbers, and cultivate to raise your reson generation, and be a… leader to gain more Benevolence?”

Erick said, “Yup.”

