Erick stood with Melemizargo at Ascendant Mountain, atop the central pillar and under a swirl of Darkness. The main source of light in the space was the pillar underneath, which glowed like a white-ice ocean under the sun. Everything else was black.

Melemizargo’s eyes were also rather illuminated, though, almost rivaling the light from the floor. He was 3 meters tall at the moment, but he was still a dragon and that was his sitting-down height, so he was still rather wide.

Erick was similarly sized, but he was in his human form.

A chair rose out of the ground for Erick, and Erick took the offered seat, asking, “What’s up, Melemizargo?”

“I’m going to die soon.”

It was a sudden statement, voiced softly, in a way that Erick had only ever heard Melemizargo speak to his daughter. It was not what Erick wanted to hear.

It was a finality.

An End.

Melemizargo did not simply mean ‘die’ when he said ‘die’, and both of them knew that, and both of them knew that Melemizargo did not want to die, but they knew it was going to happen anyway. Or, at least, that’s what both of them believed. Melemizargo was resigned.

Erick still had hope.

Erick breathed deep, then asked, “I can’t change that?”

“No. Nothanganathor won along the avenue of the Godpact world, and though you have split this reality from that reality, the reality we focused on for so long still carries a certain weight. He becomes the God of Magic along that avenue of power. That is set in the Firmament Itself.”

“Why can’t I change that?!”

Melemizargo got a far off look in his eyes, and then he looked at Erick, and said, “Once, long ago, I had a conversation with my own mother that went along these very same lines, when I found out about what Nothanganathor had done to her. I asked her why we couldn’t alter her death. She told me something that was a rumor to me before that moment, even though I had been her Second for a long time. Something I didn’t truly believe, but which has proven true. I can feel it even now.

“My End.

“Erick.

“Understand this: the Darkness always knew that there would always be a Wizard War contest over the Mantle of the God of Magic, and so the Darkness set up some rules. One of those rules is that whoever wins the Mantle will keep the Mantle, and no amount of Paradoxing or Creation or Destruction will change that.

“There are not many hard rules when it comes to True Magic, done true, but this is one of them. When the time comes for a Changeover of Mantle, the Mantle moves on. And so, Nothanganathor will get the Mantle, 38 days from now. No matter what you do, he will get the Mantle. He might not know this, but he likely feels it. I feel it, too, and I recognize the feeling. Rozeta knows what is coming because she is the Goddess of Knowledge, and it is her sacred duty and burden to Know Things. She and I have had a conversation already, but we had to break it off because it was too troubling for her, and for me.

“And now you also know this sacred information.”

Erick breathed.

He accepted what he was told.

And then he tried to find a way around it.

He asked, “If we can’t prevent the date, could we skip over the date?”

“The Changeover is not a solid thing. It can move this way or that, but it will happen. Even if Nothanganathor is dead, he will be revived by the Dark, because he is already the God of Magic in the future. Causality will break and then reform to make this happen. If necessary, the Dark Itself will take action, which means that every single person in the nearest few light years will likely die, including you, if you stay here.”

Erick said, “He told me that he ‘did things’ to ensure that he is the God of Magic. Is this one of those things? Is this a fiction invented by him to make you believe these things?”

Melemizargo smiled a little, though it was a sad sort of thing. “No. He lied to you about that, about ‘him doing something’. He is claiming credit for the work of others. This is how the transfer always works, though the hows-and-whys of it are different every time.”

“… Shit— Wait. What if we change the Mantle itself into something lesser? Make the Goddess of Knowledge the true power of the Dark?”

Melemizargo smiled worriedly. “Then the Dark would strip Rozeta of her life and power and grant all of that to Nothanganathor. As it is, the Dark will likely do that anyway, and if not the Dark, then Nothanganathor once he is able.”

“He doesn’t make any inroads into the Dark after he wins, Melemizargo,” Erick said, as solid as he could. “The universe of the future had Nothanganthor winning, but he was still a while away from actually getting the Dark to accept a new emplacement of life within itself. He might never have reached that goal. Yes, he had won, but he had won a Mantle from an Overdeity that didn’t seem to care for him at all.”

Melemizargo chuckled darkly. “Aye. The Dark would hate him… But the Dark hates me, too. I stripped people of their power before, Erick, which set the stage for the Sundering. I have not been a good steward. When I was young... Nothanagnathor is just the most present of the offended. Even here, on Veird, I couldn’t get anyone to be who they should have been. I am a failure in the eyes of the Dark.”

“Let’s not be defeatist yet.” Erick thought a little bit… “How about we make Nothanganathor ascend to a god of the Fractal Cosmology?”

“And then he gets to be a double god? Ha?”

“No no. Fractal gods can only do what people think they can do, and if everyone believes that Nothanganathor can only ever be… the Hidden Antagonist, or something, then that is what he will become. And then, when he gets the Mantle of Magic he will become a god that is… that is what his worshipers made of him? Someone more in line with the actual purposes of the Dark?” Erick could see that Melemizargo didn’t like any part of this idea, but Erick continued, “Just wait a moment— There are lots of problems to this idea, with the main one being that Nothanganathor is siphoning away his divinity to Margleknot, through ancient pact, so he can’t actually become divine, otherwise he would have done so long ago. Also, his Sign of Power probably siphons away divinity, too. But the point is… Can we turn him into a phantom of himself that would give up his power and undo what he has done, reviving everyone he killed and undoing the Erasures and all that? If we can do that, then that’s pretty much a win, right?”

Melemizargo looked even less happy. “… You want to forgive him?”

Erick kept the anger out of his voice, but it was a near thing. “Do you want to live and turn back into the God of Magic after a while of being dead, or do you want to just plain lose?” Erick added, “I’m spitballing ideas right now, anyway. We might come up with something better with more than a handful of minutes of thought.”

Melemizargo harrumphed. “Honestly. You, calling for forgiveness. This is less of a surprise to me than it should be. You, calling for forgiveness! I’m surprised it took this long. Your fae ascension truly brought you back to your roots.”

“I fully expect to be too furious to be able to think straight now and again, but being able to walk through time has given me some much-needed distance.”

Silence.

Erick’s thoughts turned to the past.

Melemizargo was probably thinking of the past, too.

Anger and frustration bled away from the moment, like pus from a wound.

Melemizargo was resigned, and it had taken Erick some time to get there with him. He still wasn’t there, but… If Melemizargo had said he was going to die, then Erick kinda believed him.

Erick said, “Rozeta might have already told you, but… When I saw Nothanganathor the last time— 30 years ago, to me, not that glimpse through the reflection— when I saw him he told me how I had proclaimed to be the ‘ultimate forgiving sort’ —like that was something awful to be— and that he deserved the same treatment, and then I told him ‘Forgiveness is for those who desire it, or those who I can force into compliance. You are neither, and you will have NOTHING.’. He exploded, or I exploded him. I don’t know if I actually managed that myself, or he allowed it, but it still feels good to have done that to him.”

Melemizargo said, “It was probably an avatar. I did the same thing many, many times. Never with him as a god, though…” Melemizargo nodded proudly. “That’s quite an accomplishment for you. Congratulations.”

Erick laughed. “Thanks for humoring my mortal achievements.”

“Ha! Mortal, he says.” Melemizargo adopted a sarcastically imperious tone, saying, “Now Erick, just because I have seen it all a billion times already does not make this time any less important, and you are no more mortal than Fairy Moon, or Shadow, or any of the others.” A bit softer, he asked, “Have you not experienced a physical death yet?”

Erick shuddered. “I thought I already did?”

“Well yes. Your worldline shattered and then you brought it back together. Seems you made some sort of power that allows you to recollect more than just yourself after death, though. It allows you to not actually spend any mana, if you wish… Hmm. And also allows for magic sampling? Ahh… That’s your Archmage upbringing; Always investigative. But you know why the Dark wants people to actually spend mana, though?”

Huh. So [Wizard’s Clarity] was the first step to becoming Fae? … or at least the version of Fae that Erick became.

“To spend mana is to expand existence, I am sure.”

“Correct.” Melemizargo asked, “Have you experienced death since your initial death?”

“Nope! And I’m fine with that.”

Melemizargo smirked. “It’s actually quite good to know that you have this kind of power. I’m sure exploding Nothanganathor’s avatar was no small feat, either.”

“I’ll count it as an accomplishment if I can do it again, and directly. Maybe if I can kill his real body I can [Reincarnation] him into someone better… Oh. Uh. Would that get rid of his Curse of Obscurity?”

“If you can put him into a position that you actually have enough power to [Reincarnation] him, then I will be able to undo the Curse from here.” Melemizargo said, “With the Curse undone, that would allow you to actually uphold your ideals to protect those who you subjugate, wouldn’t it?”

They had skipped past the part where Erick would have said that he would have taken Nothanganathor under his wing after a [Reincarnation], if he was actually able to do any of that, which meant protecting him from forces that wanted to End him. Erick hadn’t wanted to bring that up… but he kinda did want to talk about it, which is why he mentioned undoing the Curse of Obscurity.

Erick said, “I don’t want to forgive him, for anything—”

“And yet, you would, if you could.”

“If forgiving the Sundering would put all this behind us and sever him from the power to ever Sunder ever again, as well as ensure all good outcomes for all always? Then yes, I would forgive him, and you will, too.”

“But you don’t want to forgive him.”

It was an accusation, a demand of Melemizargo’s own, a plea, and a need, all wrapped up in a small sentence that was almost a question, but not quite.

“Yeah. I don’t…” Erick said, “I don’t know if I could honestly forgive him for anything, Melemizargo.” Erick thought of Debby, and all the pain of the last 1453 years of Veird’s history, and the uncountable trillions of people that the Sundering killed and then ripped apart until nothing was left, not even their souls. “I don’t want to forgive him. He doesn’t even deserve forgiveness as he is… But if he gives up everything? If there is a way to make this work that results in no more war? Then I… I would do what I needed to do.”

Melemizargo snorted; a laugh. And then he said, “If he asks you to ask me to undo his Curse of Obscurity, then know now that the answer is ‘no’, unless you can truly put him in a position where you or I have all the power over him. If you can draw any sort of solid agreement out of him that would be acceptable then I would… allow it.”

That was big.

Erick nodded.

The both of them allowed the moment to settle.

And then Erick asked, “You’re not down there at all, are you? On Fenrir, I mean. I thought you could look through the Dark Mark to see everyone you want to see who has a Mark?”

Melemizargo furrowed his scaled eyebrows. “No. That’s not how that works… Is that how Nothanganathor sought to speak to you after your dismissal?”

“I thought it was, but now I’m realizing that there’s a discrepancy in that thought.”

Melemizargo shook his head a little. “There is little discrepancy. Unless I am truly focusing on a known power, it is hard to see them, and even then it would be impossible to see an average person outside of Veird, outside of a proper manasphere. I have caught glimpses of times and places like that, since the Sundering, but I had always assumed it was a phantom; a trick to get me to release my Mantle. The only way he was likely able to see you after he kicked you away was that you were inside of a manasphere and you were a Wizard of the Dark; two very necessary things in order to draw the attention of Magic Itself and to allow the Dark to see you. The Dark sees its Wizards everywhere they are, all the time.”

“Ahh… Well yeah. I guess so— Can you see me now?”

Melemizargo said, “Yes, but only because you’re a weight upon the world. If you lighten your steps then you will become invisible.”

“… Huh.” Erick said, “One of the things he said was that it was anathema for the God of Magic to take away a Mark, so he had no real leverage except all the leverage he had, which was obviously a threat…” Erick asked, “But I think I transcended my Mark. Is there… something I can do with it, now?”

