“So like Darkness but different,” Rozeta said, “Keep in mind that your various pools do not protect you nearly as well as your father’s infinite-cap ‘Health wells’ protect him.” Rozeta looked to Erick, saying, “That should be all of the big questions answered.” She said to Jane, “Your Personal Script is rather intuitive, so your father should have all the rest of the answers.” She said to Erick, “This was great work. I would congratulate you more if we weren’t in a war.”

Erick nodded. “Thanks for coming and helping.”

“This might win us the whole war, but even if it doesn’t, this might just be the single greatest magic I have ever seen. It will change everything, Erick. I wish I had more time to discuss it all with you, but I must attend the spreading [Seeds of Atunir]. They are going to make great bases.”

And then Rozeta stepped away.

Erick focused on Jane. “Are you sure you’re okay?”

Jane said to him, “Of course I’m okay. It’s you that made this magic.” She blushed a little, looking away. “… It’s embarrassing to tell you how much I look up to you… but I guess I have to actually say it or you don’t know it... You’re amazing, dad.”

Erick smiled softly, and then he hugged Jane. “You’re amazing.”

“Gods I hope I can be,” Jane said, chuckling a little bit on her father’s shoulder.

Erick spoke with conviction, “You are, and you will be. You can be anything you want to be, and you are a warrior capable of cutting down all enemies.”

Jane chuckled a little bit more, and then she patted her father’s back. “We have more cookies and tea, and I want to hear more about what happened while you were time traveling, and then I’m trying out this new Personal Script against a Wizard-fighting dungeon that we set up for testing.”

Erick almost went right into talking about his time on Earth, but...

Erick pulled back, sat down, and looked at his daughter. “Jane. You have an anti-Wizard Dungeon that you set up for testing? When did this happe— Oh my gods. It’s not an anti-Wizard dungeon, is it. It’s an anti-Malevolence Dungeon, isn’t it. Oh my gods, Jane.”

Jane instantly said, “It’s good training! I only died a few times— If you’d prefer we could do some of the anti-tyrant scenarios in some of the various dungeons around— There’s that dungeon over in Greendale that you did. That meta-iron one, with the gems you based your Personal Script on? The third floor, the assault on the Broken Siphon is a great way to test yourself against an appropriately strong enemy, and once the limiters come off and there’s a facsimile of a Wizard defending the Siphon then it becomes a whole lot more realistic. Of course you can only run that scenario once, and it takes up a lot of bandwidth to do that, but that faux-Wizard can kill pretty much anyone he sees with a flick of his fingers. Rather realistic.”

A rising panic; that’s what Erick was feeling.

“Oh my gods, Jane. How are you preventing the creation of a hostile Wizard with that sort of scenario? A real Wizard? But it has to be close to real, right, if you’re to get any actual learning out of it at all.”

“Oh that’s easy,” Jane said, seemingly not worried at all because she knew she was fine. “If he becomes real he disconnects from the Dungeon and loses all his powers. We— Uh. We had an incident, and then we resolved it.” Jane easily saw that wasn’t good enough of an answer, so she said, “We only allow one go at those scenarios before we full-reset it; no multiple-lives, continually attacking the Wizard. That really makes the guy realize what is happening. We dismantle the Wizard after we use him, too, so he never rises above the level of a smart slime. Stimulus/Response, sort of levels. We did mess up once at a different dungeon years ago, back before your Day of Clouds… But we did need real training, father. These days we only use a few different places that we know we can put on ice when we’re not using them, that way we’re not messing with actual people. Just NPCs.”

Erick wasn’t sure what to think, except… “I suppose this is war, and horrors happen.”

Jane almost said something else but she decided not to.

Erick admitted, “I went back in time on Earth to the 1500s in a different slice of Infinity from our slice to learn how to work Malevolence. I ended up spilling it everywhere, and it wormed into everything. It was already there when I got there, though, and it had been for a long time. Tried a Day of Clouds on Earth and the stuff just came back. Multiple times it came back, even.” Erick stuck his hand into the air, into a hole that appeared only when he reached for it. He pulled out a bunch of DVDs and a few different video game systems and other stuff that Jane had loved and set them down on the kitchen counter. A great big television and DVD player came next. As Erick set those down, he said, “Earth was a whole bunch of stuff that came and went way too fast. Other than that, I went around the universe cleaning up corruption. Blowing up a planet that was too far gone here and there. Etcetera. That’s how I got that Fractal Mark that I used to make the Personal Script. I work part-time for the uber-god of this universe. Not quite a paladin. More paladin-adjacent. A part-timer.”

Jane had a moment.

And then she Looked at Erick, asking, “Are you trying to make me worry about you?”

Erick smiled. “Completely unintentionally, I assure you.”

Jane exclaimed, “Then I guess we’re just both a pair of crazy people, doing crazy shit!”

“As one does; yes,” Erick agreed.

And then they got to talking.

It was wonderful.

Soon, everyone showed up here and there, from Teressa to Poi to Kiri and Quilatalap. Ophiel and Yggdrasil. Evan and the girls. Even though Erick was outside of the Script at that moment, fixing the war, he was still here, with his family, constructing the best of all possible worlds.
