Suddenly, something changed. Viv heard two notes then, two very familiar notes that she never expected to hear here. The portal behind Crest wavered. The Hopecrusher turned his head.

A hail of transparent blades surrounded them. Crest managed to retreat but not easily. Space was no longer entirely under his control. Viv barely looked. On the southern road, by the walls of Barrier, a new group was gathering, the sight completely incongruous in the desert. Black armor that would cook them under the sun. Heavy boots that would sink in the sand. Horse barding that would sap their stamina. But this wasn’t the desert, just a rocky pass, and night was falling in this clement winter, and they were one of the most comforting sights she’d ever seen. The Harrakan horn blew again and the One Hundred charged under Brick’s banner, their flank covered by forty knights of the Blue Rose.

“For the Black Tide!”

“The Rose… and the Thorns!”

The familiar lines wouldn’t be understood by their foes but a solid wall of steel and anger had something of a universal quality that transcended language. The Sandsong stood aside, reforming with selfless determination. As for the Sheem, some groups stood their ground while others ran back. Viv flew above, keeping an eye out for Crest.

There was no shock. The best infantry in Param and a squadron of heavy cavalry proved too much for the disorganized Sheem. They didn’t get the chance to fight. They were simply run down, and crushed. In a fateful twenty seconds, the Harrakan formation mowed everything in front of them south to north. The Shadowland elites didn’t stay and fight. All who could retreat did so. The two armies separated just as the sun finally disappeared behind the horizon.

Viv made sure the Sheem retreated all the way to the pass before floating down. Crest was still out there, getting reinforcements for sure. She had to get things rolling, but first she approached her people. It appeared Rollo had come in person to lead his best men while Ban Junior saluted stoically, but the person who had contested Crest’s control only appeared after he was confident there wouldn’t be more attacks. All around them, the Sandsong either collapsed or rushed towards the wounded to help as they could. Blood soaked the ground. Viv was too relieved to let it sadden her for now.

“Sidjin! Happy to see you. Are you here to reinforce me? I’m impressed you predicted it.”

She gave him a smile, but that smile didn’t last. Sidjin was tense. No, she had never seen him more terrified. The realization shocked her.

“I’m not here to reinforce you; I’m here to rescue you. Viv, the Azure Lady sent us an urgent missive, and that’d before we sped by a Sheem invasion fleet. Viv. Sandsong is not just lost. They’re coming for you.”

“Oleander?”

“Not just him. The Nemeti. Their fleet is almost upon us.”

Viv’s brain froze.

“Wait. The Nemeti? The lizard people?”

“They have a fleet, Viv. The Azure Lady says the fleet is following you specifically. She says they did as soon as you reached the ocean a month ago. They’re coming to kill you and there’s a lot of the fuckers. We need to leave. NOW!”

This specific piece of news bounced off Viv’s brain. The Nemeti? Now? But… she was already fighting somebody else!

“I can’t abandon those people.”

“Then they’d better run fast. This place is done for, Viv, and so will we be unless we escape before the jaws of the trap snap shut.”

Viv hesitated. No, she was here to save Sandsong… she was building an alliance, wasn’t she? This felt wrong.

“Viv, listen to me. It’s not because you whipped two fifth steps and a group of fourth steps that you can stop two massive armies. You are not invincible. We need to leave. Believe me.”

Sidjin’s voice was slow with an undercurrent of utter panic.

“You’re going to die if you stay. I swear on all the gods. You will die.”

“Alright. Alright, Let’s go. Quickly.”

She had a look towards the pass. There were more foreign fighters appearing from portals up there. It wouldn't be long before stronger elites rushed down that slop and this time, there would be too many for her to stop. Sidjin was right. This place was fucked.

“Alright. Form up, I will talk to the King and Queen.”

Sidjin returned while Viv flew towards the royal pain, a bit worse for the wear from their near-death experience but still standing.

“We need to retreat towards the sea,” she said. “Quickly.”

They didn’t object. In fact, they didn't say anything. They looked haunted.

“Hey.”

“Yes, we will. I will give the words,” King Jei said. “We need to hurry.”

“What’s the matter with you two?”

“Can you not feel it?” Naila whispered.

“What?”

“He is coming.”
