Viv just needed a couple of seconds and it looked like she was going to get them. King Jei was fighting one of the swordsmen, his bodyguards somehow holding back an arrogant axe wielder standing unmoving, provoking them to approach while the blood of their friends drenched his feet. Queen Naila unleashed waves of fire on the approaching troops despite archers trying to take her down. Just then, she felt a twitch of black mana behind her, in the dusty darkness of the empty guard room.

‘Look out!” Sin yelled.

[Aspect of the Guardian]

Viv was barely worried when Sin swore, then a blade pinged against her shield. The look of surprise on the assassin — that the stab he’d taken at an entrenched caster in the middle of a spell array had failed to penetrate — was more baffling than the attempt itself. The fourth step Shadowlander had the gall to huff.

“Tsk.”

Dodging fluidly to the side, he gave Viv one last sideway smile before black mana twitched again. So Viv said no, and the twitching stopped. The assassin tumbled, looking absolutely dumbfounded that his shadow teleport had failed. He actually tried a second time instead of moving. Viv could have killed him here and now but she was busy.

Sin didn’t miss the follow up strike. He cut the assassin in half across the torso, and the two arrogant pieces fell on the floor in a spray of blood and viscera. The room immediately started to stink. Viv focused. She needed to thin the herd. Distract.

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

[Storm of Zamhareer]

The sky darkened. The temperature dropped. All the mortals in front of Viv paled and slowed, but the Sandsong only slowed down a little bit. They knew she was on their side. Time was not, though. Many of the royal guard soldiers were either dead or too wounded to keep fighting.

She needed a better view. A gesture, and the wall exploded in front of her. The Hopecrusher’s gaze fell on her. She felt his attention and the intimidation he wielded slammed her soul like a truck. She brushed him aside. And then she countered.

He was strong, but she was one step removed from master level. He terrorized populations. She terrorized dragons. It was not a contest. The man’s horse jumped away, for a brief instant. It was all the opening she needed.

[High Sequence: Astra swarm, Hyperbeam, Excalibur]

One moment, the soldiers looked worriedly up towards the approaching black snowflakes while their breaths clouded in the cold air. The next, a barrage of black energy lashed out from Viv’s guardhouse over the heads of the Sandsong and straight at the elites. The sudden onslaught was the total output of a mage cadre released in a single instant. One of the spear wielders was too close, and the swarm of quiet explosions took him out. A portal carried her Excalibur into the unmoving axe-wielder’s back, killing him on the spot. The rest jumped or ran back towards the Hopecrusher with cries of dismay, their early disdain shattered.

Rallying, he grabbed the white shield and placed it on his left arm with a practiced gesture. A white and red wall appeared in front of him, stopping the spells. To Viv’s surprise, the furthest Astra seemed to be disappearing from her perception before they could detonate.

“A woman? Archers, kill her!”

A hail of arrows peppered Viv’s shields in vain. She had engraved an amplifying circle at her feet and then filled it with metal. They wouldn’t make a dent, and just as well because something was happening. A storm descended from the white clouds. Gray particles flew in a twister that broke as soon as it formed, but the two spells canceled each other out, each one destabilizing the other. Her storm was stronger, but whoever was fighting it was smart enough to only block the particles that would fall on the Sheem troops. Their control was exquisite. As she cast more attack spells, Viv inspected the shield.

[Oleander’s Shield of Valor: made in Enoria, reforged and enchanted by the Shadowlands’ best artisans, this shield has survived the harshest battles. It can block area spells. Extremely resistant.]

Just like she thought. Not an artifact yet. It wouldn’t stop the saturation she was now unleashing on the retreating Sheem soldiers, some of whom were running for their lives, but as the Hopecrusher started to fall back as well, portals appeared in front of them.

Viv’s spells fell on the Sandsong.

“Huh?”

Breaking them at the last second, Viv grit her teeth from the supreme effort of concentration. Had to stop her own damn fucking spells. Hungering death dissipated meters away from screaming Sandsong. The squad was moving on her, led by the Hopecrusher.

“For Sandsong!”

King Jei led a countercharge.

A portal opened to Viv’s left. There was no time to think.

[Aspect of the Destroyer].

[High sequence: Hyperbeam, Astra Swarm. Guillotine]

The Hopecrusher rushed forward, intercepting the spells aimed at his allies with smooth expertise while they huddled behind, portals opening to redirect her spells towards allies but this time, she was ready. Her guillotine crossed the hostile portal right next to her, meeting a particularly sharp air blade. The void strikes were redirected by yet other portals. Viv opened her own, redirecting the redirection but the enemy was faster, better. Portals were not her path. They were obviously his. She spotted him through the aperture. He stood at the pass, far above the battlefield.

She knew who he was even though it was the first time they met. He also wasn’t what she expected. Dressed in sober battle robes, he had an assuming, gentle face and scruffy air that gave him the look of a wanderer. There was no anger on his softly handsome face. She would say he was of Baranese descent but his skin was too pale. It lacked the greenish tinge she was so used to by now. He also possessed an aura so complex and composed he could have been an older Sidjin.

[Celestial Archmage: Fifth step of a path dedicated to air and space magic. Human bane. Monster bane…]

As he undid her portals with casual ease, Viv knew what she had to do: overwhelm. Skill wasn’t on her side here.

[High Sequence: Flay]

A wall of hissing, writhing lines lashed out, snaking between portals and around defenses like so many angry snakes. The man still managed to block most of them but one in fifty made it and it was enough. Hissing strands dug furious grooves in the ground, the stones, cracking the outer layers of his shields as he redoubled his efforts. Viv’s spell grew in intensity as she focused and the tendrils became more directed, and vicious in the way they avoided the opening portals. The outer shell of her foe cracked. He closed all the surrounding portals to focus on closing the largest one. Viv tried to stop his efforts but it was like dueling an expert while wearing mittens. He was simply better at space magic than she was. Rather than persisting, Viv let him go. She was also under attack from the warriors..

Javelins made for her. Suddenly, Sin was here to intercept them. He, Jei, and the remaining Royal Guard formed a half circle at the feet of the guard house. Fire roared, forcing the archers to huddle or die. While this combat of titans tore through the path, normal soldiers still fought each other with relentless fury. It was clear the Sandsong were on the verge of collapse, however.

New portals tried to open around Viv. She unleashed more spells at the Hopecrusher’s squad, forcing them behind Oleander’s shield.

The Hopecrusher tried to dominate her once again, a pathetic attempt.

Viv had kept quiet so far but there was no reason to do so anymore. Her voice rang across the battlefield just as her spells held back two fifth steps and their retinue.

“Pathetic. You’re not even the best head collector I’ve met this season,” she mocked.

The enemy elites retreated, giving Jei some breathing room while soldiers kept fighting around them. Naila came to join them at the bottom of the wall. Up there near the pass, Sheem soldiers kept coming. At least, there were no more of Oleander’s elites, for now. But with a space mage on their side…

The mage took a few steps forward. The more she looked at him, the more she was convinced it was who she thought it was.

“Celerin Crest,” she greeted.

The unassuming man tilted his head, curious. Contrary to his allies, he did not exude arrogance and disdain with every turn of the lip. If anything, he was the most guarded person here. His pale brown eyes searched Viv’s face as the red light of the early sunset bathed the battlefield in red and her face in shadows.

“Have we met?” he asked.

“No, but funnily enough, the circle you drew in Old Harrak saved my life.”

Viv felt the brush on an inspection. Crest paled, face twitching in horror. A shaky finger pointed at her.

“It’s… it’s her.”

“What?” the Hopecrusher demanded.

He clearly didn’t like being out of the loop.

“She’s the other Ascender. Nero must be told.”

“Or,” Hopecrusher retorted, “we kill her here and now.”

Viv allowed herself a smile. It really, really looked like they were underestimating her. Maybe because she was only at the peak of the fourth step.

“You can try.”

“You scrawny thing,” the man spat. “You will join Dar on the pyre of history. It’s already over, fool. We have two continents, you have one small country. We will crush you like we crushed the rest. Fate is on our side.”

“If you really understood fate, you’d know never to trust it.”

“Sophistry will not save you,” Crest replied in a calm voice. “There can be only one Ascended, and it will be Nero. Your ambitions end here.”

“Oh no. It’s just beginning.”

The War of the Ascended has begun.

Fifth step path unlocked. Choices are available. Be warned that picking one will incapacitate you while your body adapts.

Shit. Bad timing. Actually, time wasn’t on her side at all. She needed to start picking them off but the shield and Crest were problems. Thankfully, she had solutions.

The lack of trigger of [Always a chance] also told her they were weaker than her, which was encouraging. Maybe. There were still a lot of them. She pulled on her mana.

“She’s casting again,” Crest warned.

The Hopecrusher barked orders and his fighters spread out towards the messy battle around.

“Sin, Jei, Naila, you go too. I’ll keep those two occupied.”

Crest waved his hands. Two portals opened at the limit of Viv’s range. Screaming arrows emerged from them at strange angles, but her shields held.

“Nice trick shot. My turn.”

[High Sequence: nuees.]

A massive cloud swept forward, a curtain of darkness as tall as three men. Like pyroclastic flow, it engulfed everything and the Sheem who had the misfortune to be close were swallowed after a brief cry. It left behind nothing but blighted rock. Not even metal survived it.

“Teleport this.”

Portals opened all around but Viv still had control over her spell. The deadly cloud moved around, or over the quickly erecting defenses. The Hopecrusher used his polearm to launch sweeping pure mana attacks in a vain attempt to push the clouds away. Viv started to feel confident but Crest teleported the pair out of danger. Some Sheem soldiers were caught in the aftermath but it didn’t matter. The elites were leading the way, cutting down Sandsong soldiers with ease.

Viv hurled spells at one of the spear users but Crest and the Hopecrusher reappeared, protecting the surprised woman before she could be cut to ribbons. They were very mobile and they worked together well.

“Change of strategy.”

Viv took off, surrounded herself with a thick aegis.

[Meteor]

As a ball of darkness, she fell on the trio. She felt Crest teleport them away but she simply couldn't contest his control over space, not enough to block him anyway. But she had a recourse.

[Shadowstep]

Viv didn't use space to move this time, but dark magic instead. She appeared in front of a swordsman as he was about to cut down a wounded Sandsong. Viv tore him apart with void blades just as she appeared.

“No, Belem!” a voice cried from afar.

“That’s three,” Viv mocked, a bit prematurely.

A portal appeared right in front of the beleaguered Jei. The Hopecrusher walked through like a juggernaut. His strike broke Jei’s arm in one blow. A powerful fire spear pushed him away, but it failed to breach his shield. Viv tried to teleport in but space wasn’t hers, and she was too far. Some hyperbeams bought her another second as she closed in. Around her, the Sandsong formation was breaking apart while endless reinforcements took them out. The archers had run out of arrows. Crest couldn’t face her in direct combat so he wasn’t trying. And it was working. He was too slippery.

As soon as she closed in, they moved away again.

“Keep running then.”

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

[High Sequence: Astra Swarm]

Viv obliterated everything in her path. Entire companies of Sheem soldiers disappeared under her bombardment while the rest scattered. The remaining ones went deeper into Sandsong lines where she couldn’t easily target them. It was a messy melee.

At this rate they were going to destroy each other’s army to the last man and woman. Viv grit her teeth. She was juggling too many pies. As expected, Crest and the Hopecrusher reappeared at another end of the battlefield then Crest sealed the space to keep her away.

He, too, didn't care that much about his Sheem allies. He just wanted the army gone then Sandsong would fall around her. As she watched, they teleported again, towards Jei who was being treated by a harried mage. Viv was feeling like she was being trapped. All of her usual tools were being countered. She couldn’t protect and destroy at the same time.

Crest knew it. She could see it in his resigned gaze. That was the thing that got her. He was feeling sorry for her. For them.

