With Florence and Helios sent away, I got my mind for mass golem creation. That was my number one goal right now, so I used an app in my status to create a list of goals. Starting with speed, I brainstormed a few ways of getting faster at making golems. The first idea involved a time analysis where I understood what took time to make a golem. The idea for this kind of thing came from Torix. It sounded like something he'd do, that was for sure.

Either way, after uncovering the major time sinks, I wrote them down. There were three main time-stealing culprits: runic charging, harvesting skin, and elemental furnace production. For the charging bit, I needed more mana and more efficient runes. I detailed a work schedule where I spent several hours revising my runes for better mana efficiency, along with time for carving. The skin harvesting was a bit wonkier to think over.

I never, not in a trillion years, would've imagined that harvesting my skin would be a problem I needed to face head-on. Yet, here I was, thinking it through. I always sort of handled it with a quick, violent, and sheering pull. This ripped out random patches of armor on my arms, which worked well enough up to this point. I needed many, many times more of the stuff now, and my current system wasn't going to hold up.

With that in mind, I ran a few tests on my skin. When hot, cold, or even superheated, my skin remained resilient. It maintained form even under extreme stressors and gravity. When I finished all my basic attempts, I moved onto more drastic measures. I took an enormous hold of mana and used a gravitational well for ripping one of my arms off. A quick metallic thud and cord-ey rip later, and my arm was out of its socket.

It healed back within a minute. Being a dimension had its perks.

This new strategy of entire limb harvesting functioned much better than my previous attempts. Now I thought that the arm wouldn't meltdown like my skin would. It was flesh and bone to me. Turns out, I was dead wrong about that. My body was made of dimensional, er, stuff down to the cells themselves, so the entire arm boiled down no problem.

In fact, it wasn't much different from the skin I used before. The only real difference was a better density overall from my bones. I didn't even need to melt my blood either, the liquid already quite warm. Well, relatively speaking. It was difficult to know how hot or cold I was now, my own understanding of temperature being so warped.

It reminded me of my stay in space for a bit. It was cold there, but apparently, it shouldn't be since there wasn't anything for my body heat to convect to out there. I didn't know how any of that worked exactly, but maybe measuring my body temperature would help me figure out what was going on. I put that at the very bottom of my extensive to-do list, and I moved on to ripping my arms off.

You know, the important stuff.

Pooling double my bodyweight's worth of dimensional fabric in my various storages, I moved onto the elemental furnace issue. So far, I took out a substantial amount of mana from this ancient ciphering device at all points. This revolved around my Congruent Mind Strain ability. My main problem revolved around the amount of mana harvested from the furnace while doing all that.

When I backlogged the furnace process, the amount of mana I gained dropped like a bowling ball off the side of a building. In the end, I got less than half the net potential of the furnace. I mean, that made sense since revving the device at full throttle required tremendous focus. Pulling more focus into that process meant less concentration was left for the manufacturing of the golems themselves.

This left me at an impasse. On the one hand, a large portion of my time could be saved from using the furnace to the fullest extent. On the other hand, my crafting suffered when I put less than one hundred percent of my attention to it. Thinking things through, I came up with a solution.

I took a few tests of the time required for the runic charging and making the golem. The runic powering took around twice as long as the molding process did. With that in mind, I put more and more of my mind's abilities into the furnace charging. After a while, I reached an equilibrium where the molding took just as long as the charging process.

With that, I shaved about 17% of the time off of making the golem.

It wasn't an enormous, earth-shattering gain, but this was a part of the process. Every innovation and efficiency gain I made added up over time.  Just as well, I didn't enjoy being this analytical, but I learned from Torix and Obolis that methodical approaches worked wonders. At least when it came to production like this.

Moving on, I pulled out some screenshots of my grimoire and pulled them all up in my status. Staring at them all, I found a few kinks and flaws in my translation that needed work. The initial, non-ciphered runes weren't structured as efficiently as they could be either. That probably was because I asked for them on such short notice.

Either way, I fixed those issues before moving onto the ciphered sections. Finding useless segments, I eliminated about a fifth of these texts over the next three hours. These weren't content changes per se, but more so concision improvements. After all, most of any language was formalities and non-content words. By eliminating all but the necessary stuff in work like this, I made the passages meaning clearer and shorter at the same time.

That meant less charging and a better golem.

By now, the sun began setting in the distance. Handling all those improvements, I got to the meat and bones of this operation - making the actual golems. My changes sped up my work by quite a bit, having found a nice balance between charging, forming, and building. I also fell into a flow of sorts, getting involved in my work's details.

I gave myself breaks every few hours, and during that downtime, I searched for ways of improving productivity. Many searches popped up on Schema's web, and I used a few of the most commonly referenced tips. The most mentioned one was goal setting, which I used right away. Using many hours and all of my mental processing power, I came up with a very pivotal and challenging to comprehend goal.

Make more golems.

I know, I know, revolutionary stuff.

Jokes aside, it worked to my favor. A week of this crafting passed, and my golem creation's speed improved by leaps and bounds. On the first day, I made four golems. On the second, I created five. I capped out at six on the third day, unable to break that plateau by the week's end. Doubling my production speed was more than adequate enough for me, however.

I ended up making thirty-nine super golems. Including Alpha, Beta, my third golem, I had forty-two total. It was a military force of exceptional might, vastly exceeding our guild's previous net potential. They actually worked like Breakers in overall power, meaning we could tear battalions down with ease. It was like we gained a thousand systemized gialgathens overnight.

Speaking of which, I wasn't the only one hard at work over the last week. Chrona and Krog went into a full-on general mode, whipping the gialgathens back into shape. The break was over, and it was up to them to get the gialgathens systemized. That required clearing many dungeons, and so they did that in spades.

Using teams of three, Chrona and Krog sent out gialgathens towards the North, making sure they stayed very high in the air. We didn't want everybody seeing them all the time, so they rushed over clouds. Being in the upper stratosphere made even the enormous beasts appear small like a falcon or eagle. Perspective was funny like that. Get close or far away from something, and it looked completely different.

They used that for their stealth. Going North meant the chance was even lower that they'd be found by Elysium forces. That risk couldn't be eliminated either way, not without forcing the gialgathens underground. Suppressing them in caves was like never letting a bird leave its cage. In Krog's own words, 'A life without flight was a life not worth living.'

I disagreed, having walked around for the most part up till recently. That being said, I soared around the sky when traveling around Mt. Verner. While surrounded by white clouds, a blue sky, and the horizon beneath me, I had to admit there was something special about flying. Going back to a life without flight would be damn hard, so I understood the gialgathen's fears.

Their concerns were grounded in a reality where they were robbed of something important. Because of that, I didn't fight them much on the issue, and neither did Torix. Gialgathens were akin to level capped Speakers in power as well, and with the need for a large, effective army, some risks were worth taking. This extensive use of flight and organized teamwork let them clear and map dungeons far away from where we lived as well.

This exploration gained us a better grip on the conditions North of Mt. Verner, our excursions leaking into what was once Canada. What surprised me most while reading reports was the population density around there. Though fewer people lived there than before, it was kind of comparable to before Schema's culling.

Personally, I expected a massive drop off in the number of people there. I mean, the winters in Michigan and Iowa were challenging to deal with, but Canada was on a whole other level. My dad actually grew up in Canada, and the guy experienced some cold winters. He told me a story once from one of those times.

Apparently, there was a goggle warning where you couldn't walk outside without, well, goggles. If you did, your eyeballs would freeze in your skull because the wind was so fast and cold. It was a crazy account of how cold it got, and that story really stuck with me. It turns out, Schema's system allowed people to survive those winters.

The resistances gave species a much easier time handling more extreme environments. This meant there was enough people out there that it was worth saving them at some point. The gialgathens also ended up clearing out a lot of the eldritch North of the Great Lakes. We weren't sanitizing the entirety of the area, but thinning out the hordes helped those there.

We passed over a thousand systemized gialgathens during this time, which was a real milestone for the guild. They worked with Torix's mind mages to create units that thrived in the air, sort of like dragon riders but on gialgathens. This gave them mobility and meant the Blighted weren't as effective against them either. Mind mages were lethal against those monstrosities in that way.

We aimed for fighting on Blegara, however, so Chrona and Krog taught them tactics for underwater combat. Chrona and Krog had lived for centuries, and in their backlog of information, they read about ancient tactics from their species. Long ago, they fought the leviathans under the seas, and those same tactics then proved useful now. This gave the gialgathens profound confidence, which bolstered morale overall.

Outside of those efforts, Torix progressed with the Omega Strains during this time. I only supplied a couple dozen to him, but Torix used them to their fullest potential. Using more stringent guidelines, he progressed the shabby group I first saw into an elite, anti-Hybrid force. This specialized unit worked with the golems I created, generating battalions that decimated the Adair's forces.

Torix lined one super golem per unit of three soldiers. With tactics taught by the lich himself, these soldiers implemented strategies against the Hybrids, Blighted, and their behemothic pillars. During my breaks, I read these reports and viewed footage sent my way, and they impressed me. Even if they weren't quite as effective as I was, they were damn good in their own right.

This gave us a solid backbone for retaking Blegara one city at a time. We weren't ready for the unreal swarms Elysium produced, but this was a fine start. Once we got on Blegara, we'd expand the Omega Strain divisions to number the thousands, and I'd keep making golems in the meantime. Once we had several hundred of them, holding a large territory wasn't out of the question.

Once held, the gialgathens could live there, have families, and settle down. They could get back to something commonplace, and this vision of a future motivated them more than merely surviving. We'd expand afterward with golems keeping the countryside clean of eldritch and Hybrids alike. This let people move and trade, keeping an economy formed.

We'd even up the ante on our recruiting once we established this kind of protective influence. I could run through a higher leveled fringe world and harvest blue cores to create secure cities. The perfect place for that was actually the Ahcorus's home planet, where Plazia Ruhl dominated. Reaching him would require clearing high-level dungeons, which carried high-level cores. Now, I owned a few places where I could actually put the blue cores to use.

These factors were recognized by more than just me. Torix mentioned a few of these reinforcers in ad campaigns, and our mountain-based hummed with optimism. Helping people, saving planets, and expanding territories got people motivated. That motivation led to more outstanding production, innovation, and good times all around.

All this hinged on the mission to the Elysian world, however. The others went dark for the last week, but we were confident they'd succeed. We sent Hod and Althea, and they'd done this countless times before by now. Infiltration, completion, and then escaping was something they did daily. These thoughts drummed in my head as our week of work ended.

