[Kill Confirmed!] x78[You've Gained 1 Point!] x65[You've Gained 3 Points!] x13

My points surge even higher as I make it into the zone filled with floating rings.

[Ding!][Avatar Buff Activated!][50% Increase in Fire Summoning for 10 minutes!]

[Ding!][Avatar Buff Activated!][25% Increase in All Attacks for 3 minutes!]

[Ding!][Avatar Buff Activated!][30% Increase in Speed for 5 minutes!]

[Ding!][Ding!][Ding!]

Every single ring I fly through, another temporary buff is placed on my fake avatar.

They stack on top of each other infinitely, as far as I can tell.

The range of motion and energy surging through this layer of ether commands around me certainly increases, but at this point, I'm not relying on it even for cover at all. There is no noticeable difference in my abilities as I fly around this portion of the dome, slicing Serpents and Mantis Lords into pieces and dominating in my domain.

Some of the stronger ones, that have hints of auras from the star sector of elites, they try to fight back... However, many of the weaker 1st Class Lords freeze in place when I enter their presence. The Noble Vibrations that leak out from my avatar while pulling 5% of my borrowed stats is too strong.

Their abilities to grasp the system are restricted, and they never stand a chance.

In doing so, I clear out this entire quarter of the dome in just over ten minutes, stacking my points even further and setting my sights on the next flat, smooth zone.

However, I do feel my second seal warming up after this display.

The commentary of the probing and tampering from Miriel Vermillion at the start of this match, loosening this seal, and the increased use of power to clear the stage faster has already begun to make my ears ring slightly, and feel a warm sensation begin pushing against the inside of my body.

It is not affecting my ability to fight at all, so with a trail of demonic energy and flames behind me, I soar downward, out from the flying rings, and toward the massive purple and black explosions of an army of demonic beasts fighting three berserkers.

–

There are only three feeds that the Announcer of the event is swapping between: the footage of me dominating in the floating ring zone, the Berserker Giants fending off an entire Demonic Army, and the Griffon in the forest region battling against a rock golem and an extremely powerful armored monkey Lord.

The number of entries visible on the feeds are quickly dwindling after my massacre, and the odds of who the audience thinks will make it to the end shift slightly.

My odds have evened out around 10%, the same as the Griffon, whose odds have lowered, while the majority of the crowds still have their money on the Obsidian Clan Berserkers.

"I was here for round 1, you guys don't understand. That human really beat one of the Obsidian Clan's Warriors. He could win it all."

"No way, man! I've been watching this arena event for over 200 years. The only thing that can beat the Obsidian Clan is when Andras or Sisco Vermillion stop participating in the event."

"Or when they have mutant beasts let out! The Mammoths get pretty strong sometimes!"

"True! But what about the Griffon— I don't think I've ever seen one show up in the Arena. Though, I've heard there are still some fresh worlds left in the Star System of Elites."

"I'm telling you! There may have only been a few million of us watching, but that human is different!"

I hear some of the comments from the crowds echo through the live feeds as I fly forward on a crash course toward these Obsidian Berserkers and the demonic forces in question.

My first target isn't the three black mana-based greater forms, it's the scattered demonic beasts all around.

I send waves of dense white ether and mana down at a wave of Cyclopses and High Orcs, shattering them to pieces and hearing roars sound out as others are burned alive from the fire residue left behind from the outer layer of my slash.

[Kill Confirmed!] x21[You've Gained 5 Points!] x21

A few of the stronger Cyclopes that survived my attacks fly upward my way as kill notifications ring in my ear. Behind them, the Ogre variations and Demonic Berserkers lock onto me like an automated target and send attacks my way under a mind control curse.

I can feel Noble Vibrations rippling off every single one of them.

They are of varying strengths, but there is a very odd sensation I get from examining so many at the same time.

It's like I'm sensing the aura of a single Noble Demon. It is just spread out evenly, like miniature clones.

There is no variation in the Vibration signatures. Oddly enough, they all feel exactly the same as that Cyclopes guardian I killed under Ellipsia when I first arrived in the Upper Realm.

[Kill Confirmed!] x36[You've Gained 5 Points!] x36

More notifications for kills ring out as I send waves of ether and demonic flames down at these weak replicas of Noble Bloodlines.

Sure, they can suppress a 1st Class Lord with their Noble Blood, but with my new understanding of my own path progression after training in the sea of corruption, I'm positive this is just borrowed strength... and all from the same Demon.

The only way for them to get stronger would be to siphon more blood from the source of this power.

–

[Kill Confirmed!] x14[You've Gained 5 Points!] x14

I eliminate a full row of 14 Demonic Serpents, and yell out into the sky, "Weaklings! This is nothing compared to the power of a real Noble Demon!"

My scream and laugh afterward is caught by the live recordings as I fly closer to the center of this war taking place.

Each of the Obsidian Clan's Berserkers is clashing against the tusks of a Demonic Mammoth.

The shockwaves from the attacks they're throwing out can be felt over 5,000 kilometers away despite the ether-suppressing commands in the air.

I can feel the strength of the Vibrations rippling off these lifeless, mind-controlled Demonic Mammoths is many times higher than all of the beasts I just sliced through. Though, at the same time, they're transfused with the same exact Noble Demon's blood.

They're just able to handle much more than the other creatures...

Their hollow purple eyes burn bright with ether-infused light, and I feel their light purple tusks slamming against the sword, axe, and massive spiked war hammer that the three Berserkers battling them wield.

As I fly over the corpses and broken soul weapons of many of the other demonic beasts between myself and this epic duel taking place, I do spot a few stragglers that these Berserkers did not kill on their way over.

[Kill Confirmed!] x11[You've Gained 5 Points!] x11

Though, my focus is more steady on the Vibrations coming off of the Black Greater Forms of the Berserkers.

As of right now, my senses are in a much more heightened and natural state than they were in round 1 of the preliminaries.

These three monsters all share a very similar power, the warm black aura giving them strength to collide against the Noble Vibrations, but at the same time, I can feel that each one of them is slightly different.

Unlike the Demonic forces around me with shared borrowed power, these Berserkers are unique, and have grown their power separately.

It briefly makes me wonder if the Noble form I've absorbed from the Demons, and begun to grow myself, is borrowed power too... but then I remember what's trapped behind my third seal...

'Maybe the seed to start it was borrowed, but this path is mine. It's much different than these mindless drones,' I think to myself while pulling a few more borrowed stats to bring my total up to 7%.

I curve downward through the sky, landing in the center of the evenly-strength brawl going on between these six fighters.

There are small purple scars on two of the Berserkers' greater forms, but the crazed look in their sharp green eyes tells me they're just getting started.

One of the mammoth's tusks is already starting to crack, and all three of them have wounds on their limbs starting to slow them down.

I can predict the outcome of this battle quite easily. It would take another 15 or 20 minutes, but the Berserkers would win, creating an exciting main event tie-breaker where the three of them fight for the grand prize slot.

This is what the admins had in mind, choosing the strengths of the demonic beasts, and placement of all the Lords very strategically.

However, I'm here to ruin it all.

I grin, sending out a devastating slash filled with red and purple fire, spinning my body in a circle to create a circular slash that expands and collides with all six of the strongest fighters in this event.

The Noble Vibrations in my fire begin to disrupt and overpower the vibrations in the mammoths, and the Berserker Giants all try to block my wave of flames with their Relic Class Soul Weapons.

One of the mammoth's tusks that was fractured before shatters to pieces, and the brunt of my blast slices it in half.

Another mammoth's whole left side is burned off, losing an eye and a leg in the process, while the third one times a block and a counterattack perfectly, but is still flipped over into an awkward position on its side.

The Berserker with a long sword blocks my attack too, but they're pushed backward, forced to retreat.

The axe wielder tried to slice my wave of fire in half, but the density is too great. It's engulfed in flames too hot, and it's beginning to eat away at the monster's greater form. Shrieks of agony come out of its jagged-toothed mouth.

The final Berserker holding a war hammer watches the first five enemies fail to properly counter, and jumps upward and slams its hammer down on my wave of fire to use its force as momentum to dodge.

It's flung in the direction of the mammoth that fell on its side, and takes advantage of this to slam the spiked end of its hammer down on the underside of its head to finish a fatal strike.

It too lets out a war cry, and turns to me.

"Bring it on!" I yell out while one remaining injured mammoth and two angry Berserker Giants holding a sword and a hammer stare at me with intent to kill in their eyes. The third Berserker still flails about, being burned by my flames but looks like it will manage to survive as its black aura starts to burst through the red fire surrounding it.
