A really fat dwarf sat behind a desk in a similar room across the Hole, and everyone turned to him as he spoke. “A new contestant has been chosen! Now taking bets!” He hollered and laughed. “The tall blonde is unknown and unproven! 10 to 1 odds against!”

Ren looked at him. “Against what?” He hollered back.

“That you make it to the ring!”

“I'll take that bet!” Ren hollered. “A platinum for me reaching it!”

The fat dwarf laughed again. “You'd need to present actual money, not a fantas-By the GODS!” He exclaimed as Ren held up a shiny platinum coin. The entire place fell silent as every pair of eyes turned to the fat dwarf for a moment, and then over to look at Ren's hand. Chatter soon started, mostly about if it was real or not, and Ren smiled.

“Oh, it's real!” Ren said and put the coin away, then took out two handfuls of gold. “Is this better?”

A near riot broke out at the sight of all the gold Ren had in his hands, and the Warriors rattled their poleaxes on the floor. The dwarves in the room settled down and the fat dwarf's face was turning purple.

I can't cover that bet! He thought, and looked around at the Warriors. An evil thought crossed his mind and he smiled. “Unproven contestants can't bet!” He said. “You need to get to the ring first.”

“You can't cover the bet, can you?” Ren said and grinned. “How will that change when I bet on myself winning my first match?”

All the dwarves looked at the fat dwarf, including a lot of the Warriors. The fat dwarf's face turned purple again. Dammit, I can't reply or they'll know it's a lie! He thought furiously for a minute, then made a decision. “Confiscate his coin pouch.” The fat dwarf said to the Warriors. “Don't just stand there! Do it!”

Ren switched his Camaraderie Aura to his cloak's Fear Aura, then used Connection to activate his Screaming Terror ring. Nearly all the dwarves near the edge of the room moved away from Ren, and stopped right at the 25 foot mark of Ren's Aura.

“If anyone tries to steal my money, I will kill them.” Ren said, scanning the crowd, then looked right at the fat dwarf. “Then I might kill you for ordering it.”

Ren saw a slight nod from the fat dwarf and heard the Warrior come up behind him.

“Wait... wait...” Teepo said. “Duck!”

Ren ducked and the end of the poleaxe swept across the space where Ren's head was, and Ren turned around. He punched the Warrior with all of his strength in the side of the chest. The Warrior grunted, grasped his side, and dropped the weapon. The punch had taken half of the Warrior's Health Bar. The poleaxe clattered to the floor, and everyone thought Ren would grab for it; Ren had another idea, however.

“What did I JUST SAY?” He yelled, grabbed the Warrior by the head, and pulled it down to smash the Warrior's face with a knee, taking another quarter of his Health bar. The Warrior grabbed his own face with both hands because of the pain, and stood up straight. Ren grasped the Warrior by the neck with a single hand.

“You dishonor your profession!” Ren said. “So I'm only a little sorry I have to do this.” He used Iron Grip and crushed the Warrior's neck, snapping it. A hush fell over the spectators as Ren easily held the body at arm's length. He unhooked the half-plate mail and let it fall to the floor, then removed every weapon he could find. Ren then grabbed the man's coin pouch, tore it from the inert body, and dropped the coin pouch on the floor as well. He used his free hand to grab the body by the top of it's pants, and picked it up to hoist over his head. Ren lightly tossed the body down into the 100 foot square room, and it landed at the edge of the 25 foot space his Aura had made in the crowd.

Notice!

You have gained Influence: +100

Ren pointed at the fat dwarf and yelled. “Who are YOU to steal MY MONEY?!?”

“GET HIM!” The fat dwarf ordered the Warriors around him, but none of them moved. “I said get him! GET HIM!”

“He defended himself from a sneak attack.” One Warrior said. “It was dishonorable to attack like that, especially with a weapon.”

“Agreed.” Another said. “The intention was to steal, and possibly kill.”

“The newcomer kept his word.” Another one said. “He has Honor.”

“He stripped the body before putting it into the Hole...” One close to the opening said. “...keeping the weapons and armor out of the hands of the prisoners.”

“He might keep them himself, though.” Another said, and all of the Warriors looked at Ren, to see him as he kicked the items back towards the doorway he'd entered. Ren then jumped down the 10 feet to the Hole's floor easily, and his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak fluttered behind him.

“He didn't give himself an unfair advantage over the others. He's kept it fair.” One Warrior said, and Ren looked at him. His Armor was more ornate than normal, and Ren assumed he must be the senior guard. “Quite Honorable.”

Notice!

You have gained Honor: +10

Ren smiled and kept using Connection to activate his Screaming Terror ring and combine with his Fear Aura. All the dwarves cleared the 25 foot area around him, and Ren easily walked to the center of the room to the 20 foot square ring dug into the floor, then looked at the fat dwarf.

“Now what?” Ren asked him. “What are you changing the odds to? It was 10 to 1 before, and you couldn't cover it. Will it be 5 to 1? 1 to 2? 1 to 10? How will you try to get my money now?”

No one spoke as the fat dwarf's face turned purple from rage.

“Bring in the next opponent!” The fat dwarf yelled.

The dwarves around the ring parted and a slumped over dwarf, nearly as tall as Ren, moved towards the ring, then stopped at the 25 foot mark because of Ren's Aura. Ren nodded slightly to him and let the Connection to the ring end. The dwarves crowed around the 20 foot square ring and the big dwarf stepped into it. Everyone looked back at the fat dwarf, and waited for what he was going to say.

“First fight of the newcomer.” The fat dwarf said, then sighed. “Odds are 1 to 5.”

Most of the dwarves laughed as Ren's prediction came true. The big dwarf that Ren was going to fight scowled.

“I'm supposed to be the one to beat.” He grunted.

Ren looked at the fat dwarf in the room above the Hole. “A platinum on the big guy.” He said and pointed to his opponent. The crowd stopped laughing and looked at the fat dwarf.

“You have to win your first fight to bet.” The fat dwarf said. An uproar from the dwarves in the Hole had the Warriors banging their poleaxes to call for quiet.

“Okay.” Ren turned to the big dwarf in the ring. “10 gold coins to concede, right now.”

“Agreed.” The big guy said and Ren handed him the money. “I concede.” He said, and no one spoke as the big dwarf stepped out of the ring.

The fat dwarf rolled out of his chair. “Next opponent!”

A little squirt of a dwarf stepped bravely into the ring. Everyone looked at the fat dwarf, to find out the odds.

“Odds are 1 to 2.”

Everyone looked at Ren. “A platinum for him to win.” Ren said, and pointed to his opponent.

“Not accepted.” The fat dwarf said. “You didn't fight yet.”

The crowd of dwarves let another uproar escape and the Warriors didn't try to calm them down this time.

“ANY OTHER BETS?” The fat dwarf yelled. When no one spoke, he sighed. “Fight.”

“I concede.” Ren said, and the dwarves laughed. His opponent stared at the Warrior next to the fat dwarf as he tossed a gold coin near his feet.

“He won. The House always pays a gold for winning when there's no bets.” The Warrior said over the fat dwarf's protests, then tossed one to Ren as well for his previous win.

“NEXT OPPONENT!” The fat dwarf said, and Ren switched from his Fear Aura to Camaraderie Aura then stepped out of the ring. Another dwarf stepped into the ring to fight the little guy, and the crowd yelled and hollered encouragement. The fat dwarf smiled. “Odds are 2 to 5”

“5 platinum on the big guy, and 10 platinum on the little guy.” Ren yelled. Everyone was quiet as the fat dwarf's face turned purple again.

“NOT ACCEPTED!” The fat dwarf hollered so loudly that he popped the top button on his tunic. “BE QUIET!” The fat dwarf sat back in his chair and took several breaths. “Any other bets?”

“Yes.” Ren said. “Everyone else here bets a single gold coin on the big guy, and 2 gold coins on the little guy.” All the dwarves stared at him, as he continued. “They've all just accepted a temporary loan from me for it.”

“AGREED!” They all said together.

“But... but...” The fat dwarf stammered. “I can't...”

The Warrior looked at Ren and nodded slightly. Ren stepped forward and gave the Warrior 9 platinum to cover the bets.

“Any... other... bets...” The fat dwarf said. “Fight.”

“I concede.” The big guy said, and everyone cheered. The Warrior started to hand out the winnings to everyone, and the fat dwarf sat there in silence. Each and every dwarf came over to Ren and handed him 2 gold coins of the 5 they'd received for winning the bet. They nodded and thanked him for the loan, and Ren dismissed all the Honor gain popups. At the end, he'd gained another 3000 Honor and was now considered an Honorable Prince.

“You... you've ruined me...” The fat dwarf said and slumped down in his seat.

“I was tempted to kill you for trying to rob me.” Ren said. “When you wouldn't accept any of my bets, though...” He grinned. “...I figured letting all these men that you've been scamming, win your money instead.”

The fat dwarf sighed and looked around at the Hole, what he thought as his domain, and stood. He waddled around the big chair and to the big door behind it. A Warrior opened the door and the fat dwarf turned sideways to get through it. Once he was gone, all the dwarves looked around at each other.

“What do we do now?” One of them asked. “All we do here is fight.”

Ren started to laugh and some of them looked at him.

“Why are you laughing?” Another dwarf asked.

“I didn't do this to stop the fighting.” Ren said. “I did it to stop that guy from taking any more money from you.”

“So what do we do?” He asked. “The fat guy usually took care of it all.”

“I'd say you can keep doing that, but I have a better idea.” Ren smiled. “Why not have a tournament?”
