Stella opened the crate of VR headsets and stacked them in the closet, as the crate alone wouldn't fit. “I'll take one of these home tonight and calibrate it properly.” She said. “I'll message you when I get it up and running.”

Ren nodded. “Don't forget to set the protocols for 'Administrator' when you log in.” He reminded her. “Otherwise, it'll just shunt you right into the game.”

“I'll remember.” Stella said, then she looked at Ren. “So, did you notice that woman was staring a hole through you?”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, but she's got the hots for me, so I expected it.”

“She's 'got the hots' for you?” Stella snorted a laugh. “Where did you pick that up?”

“Some old tv show.” He said.

She shook her head. “The things you remember.”

Ren laughed. “I know. I don't know where it all comes from, either.”

She smirked. “I better go and grab your supper. I'll be right back.”

Ren nodded and changed the television channel to find something to watch while he ate.

*

Elise pulled out her data recovery pad and checked the download. Only another few minutes! She thought, as the tech crew set up the series of motion sensors and automatic cameras. “How's it coming along?”

“Nearly finished.” One of the techs said. “This will be the most extensive mapping we've ever done.”

Elise nodded. “We're not just modeling for a game character here, it's for medical research. It has to be extensive.”

The tech guy nodded. “That's why we brought the extra gear.” He said and waved to the second microframe and it's additional storage. “It's not as powerful as the mainframes back at the company, but it's leaps and bounds above anything the public has.”

“I assume all protocols have been set?” Elise asked. “This has to be kept under wraps, or another company might scoop it out from under us.”

“Yes, ma'am.” He said and handed her the administration key on a thumb drive. “Only you and the boss have access to this data.”

“Thank you.” She said, as the tech guy turned around and finished the last installation and packed everything up. Her data pad beeped and she smiled as she looked at it. Thank you, Ren! Elise thought, then turned to the tech crew. “We're finished here.”

*

Stella brought Ren his supper, and as he ate, they talked about what kind of testing they needed to do first.

“Alpha testing is usually the hardest part.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow. “It's not beta testing?”

Stella shook her head. “Preliminary tests are always alpha. We need a baseline of stats before starting the beta phase.”

“Do I have to call you co-director or something?” Ren asked.

“When I order you to, yes.” Stella said and grinned.

Ren laughed and then finished his meal. Stella moved the tray out of the way and smiled.

“Get some sleep.” She said. “With the way you're going, you'll have that Keep fixed up in no time.”

“Ha!” Ren said. “If I skimp on how I want to do it, it'll still take me about a hundred days.”

Stella frowned. “Why so long?”

“The Keep is about half a mile down, Stella. 260 floors worth.”

“Why did they go so deep?” She asked.

“Because they could, I guess.”

Stella chuckled. “Well, good luck with that.” She said and helped him put on the VR headset.

“Bye, Stella.” Ren said.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up in the game and Nathalia was sound asleep beside him. He slid under the covers, and was tempted to snuggle up to her, but he didn't want to wake her up. So, he laid down as close to her as he could and went to sleep. About 2 hours later, he felt a hand on his chest and he opened his eyes.

“Hey, beautiful.”

“Hi.” Nathalia said. “How long have you been back?”

“About 2 hours, I think.”

“Why didn't you wake me?”

Ren smiled. “I wanted to snuggle with you, but you were sound asleep. I didn't want to be so selfish.”

Nathalia slid close to him and snuggled. “Apparently, I'm that selfish.” She said and laughed.

“I'm glad.” Ren said and grinned. “Making you happy is one of the greatest joys that I have.”

Nathalia gave him a kiss and rested her head on his chest. “You're too good to me.”

“That's my job.” Ren said and stroked her shoulder. “Goodnight, My Love.”

“Goodnight, my Sweet Prince.”

They both drifted back to sleep a few minutes later.

*

The Commander of the Garrison was not a happy man. He looked at the crumpled up parchment and scowled. “Rotten piece of...” The Commander stopped what he was about to say and sighed, then took out a piece of parchment and wrote up the order. He folded it up, opened a drawer in his desk, and touched the Sending Stone inside.

“I need a runner.”

Two minutes later, there was a knock on his office door.

“Come.”

The door opened and a thin dwarf entered.

“Take this to the Brig.”

The thin dwarf took the folded parchment and shut the office door when he left.

“I really hate complications.” The Commander said and leaned back in his chair.

*

The runner made it to the Brig only 2 minutes later and knocked. He handed the parchment to the Warrior that answered the door, then took off running. The Warrior shut the door, went through the inside door, and passed it to the guard sitting at his desk. The guard unfolded it, read it, and scowled.

“I didn't think I'd see him again.” The guard said and stood up to go to the door. He opened it and looked outside. “Maldir! Darohm!” He said, and the two dwarfs stood. The guard waved the parchment. “Can you guess where you're going?”

*

Two hours later, there was a loud banging on the House Neram gate. Since it had been repaired, it was quite loud and rang throughout the house. Ren woke instantly, slid out of bed, and equipped his clothes and cloak.

Teepo! Ren thought and Teepo fell into the hood as Ren entered the hallway. He ran to the front door, opened it and went into the courtyard, then picked Teepo up and tossed him into the air.

“It's the 2 warriors that came to get you that first time.”

Dammit, they're early. Ren thought and went to the gate, but didn't open it. “State your business.” Ren said, knowing full well why they were there.

“We're here to arrest Ren Neram.” Maldir said.

Ren grinned. “You'll have to wait for a few minutes.”

“We know it's you, so open the door.” Darohm said.

“I've got to tell my family where I'm going.” Ren said. “Be right back.” He ran back into the house.

*

“Wait!” Maldir said and looked at Darohm. “He's gone, isn't he?”

“Do you mean completely? As in he left, or he just went back inside?”

“Both.”

“Inside is my guess. We'd hear anything else.”

Maldir crossed his arms to wait.

*

Ren walked into the hallway and saw Nathalia and her mother were standing there, waiting for him.

“What is it?” Nathalia asked.

“I'm being arrested.” Ren said.

“For what?”

He looked at Narhilda, and she sighed. “You've been waiting for this, haven't you?”

Ren smiled. “I'd hoped I'd have a bit more time, though.” He turned into the main room, and went to the kitchen. He gathered enough food for a week, just in case. He could try training his Staying Power, but he wanted to keep his Health full, and he knew he wouldn't get what he needed to survive where he was going. Nathalia and Narhilda came into the kitchen behind him.

“What do we do?” Nathalia asked. Ren finished storing the food he needed and turned to her.

“You should feed Princess twice a day, and make sure Ruck comes out of his cabinet once a day. He's a bit of a hermit.”

Nathalia sighed. “I meant about you!”

Ren chuckled. “My Love, I'm going to be fine.” He said and then turned to her mother, Narhilda. “You, on the other hand, need to file a document with the Hall Of Records for me.”

“Of course!” Narhilda said.

Ren took out a piece of parchment, wrote out a few things, and passed it to her. She read it and stared at him.

“Ren, you can't!” Narhilda exclaimed in surprise.

“Yes, I can.”

“But...”

Ren went to her and took her into a hug. “Please, file it before they can stop it.”

Narhilda nodded slightly, and ran into the old bedroom to use the Sending Stone there.

“What are you doing?” Nathalia said.

“Making sure that I get my say.”

“Ren... you... you shouldn't...”

“I've got no choice.” Ren gave her a passionate kiss.

“I'm going to miss seeing you every time I open my eyes.” Nathalia said.

“I won't be gone long. Maybe a week, depending on when my request gets noticed.”

“I miss you already.” She said.

Ren cupped the side of her face. “Don't worry.” He said. “I'm always by your side.”

Nathalia hugged him and Narhilda came out of the bedroom. “Okay, it's been submitted.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and looked at Nathalia. “I'll try to call you when I get there.”

“W-what?” She said, surprised. Ren lifted his hand and wagged the finger with the Sending Ring.

“I'm not going to go for that long without hearing your sweet and tender voice.”

Nathalia smiled. “I forgot all about that.”

Ren grinned. “Now who's getting forgetful?”

There was another loud bang at the gate, and Ren sighed. “I've spent too much time saying goodbye, apparently.” He hugged and kissed Nathalia, and then kissed her mother on the cheek. “I'll see you soon.”

“Goodbye, Ren.” Narhilda said.

Nathalia walked Ren to the front door. “Goodbye, My Love.” She said and kissed him again.

“Goodbye, My Love.” Ren said, concentrated on his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak's Fear Aura, and used Connection to activate his Screaming Terror Ring. He then walked over to the gate and opened it. Maldir and Darohm stood there shaking. “Sorry, guys.” Ren said and they moved away from him. “I was saying goodbye to my wife.”

Ren heard Nathalia take in a deep breath, and he shut the gate as he left. Ren looked around. “What? No cart?”

Maldir looked at him like he was crazy. “There hasn't been a cart available to rent for a week. They're all off doing something, somewhere.”

Ren laughed. If you'd waited until daylight, you'd know where they all are.

The trio walked down the road and back to the main part of the city. Ren kept making a new Connection between his Fear Aura and his Screaming Terror ring. They took the corner to go out towards the Garrison. It took a while, since they were walking, but Ren didn't mind. He'd be spending more time locked up than he wanted to; but it couldn't be helped, so he didn't complain about spending more time outdoors.

“We'll be out soon.” Teepo said.

What's this 'we'?  Ren thought with amusement. You can leave whenever you want!

“I could, but where's the fun in that?” Teepo chittered in laughter. “You know, you could take off running and beat them to the Garrison.”

Assuming they don't use their weapons on me, you mean. Ren thought. I think running from an arrest is considered 'fleeing'.

“They'd never catch you.”

Ren snorted a laugh, and the two Warriors looked at him. He shook his head and they looked away.

It's tempting, I'll admit. Ren thought with amusement.  But it's better for me to just go with it.

“Okay.” Teepo said. “You always have the option, though.”

They approached the gate to the Garrison and they had to stop, so the guards could check Ren for weapons. When he approached, Ren made another Connection to his Screaming Terror ring and the guard froze.

“Go ahead.” Ren said. “Check me for weapons.”

“Just let us through.” Maldir said. “He's going in the hole anyways.”

The guard's eyes widened. “That's a first.” He said and stepped back. “A Prince going in the Hole.”

The other guard waved them through and the trio went into the Garrison, and followed the pattern to the Brig. When they entered the area for it, Ren got a popup.

Stat Change!

Aura (Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak) Level 5 (Beginner 0%)

Fear Level 3 (Beginner 0%)

Connection Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

The door to the Brig opened when they approached, and Ren switched to his Camaraderie Aura. Maldir and Darohm sighed, and followed Ren inside.

“Hey, fellas.” Ren said.

“Hey! You're back!” One Warrior said. “What did you do now?”

“Something bad enough to send me to the Hole, apparently.”

The Warrior whistled. “Good luck, man.” He said. “Goooood luck.”

Ren grinned, and the second door was opened for him. “Thanks.”

“I'm sorry about this.” The guard said and stood up. “I've got my orders.”

Ren shrugged. “Don't worry about it.”

The guard led Ren and the two Warriors to the back of the Brig, and opened the last cell with a key. He stepped inside and used another key in a spot on the wall, then the floor tilted down into a ramp.

Teepo!

Teepo hopped out of the hood and skittered down the ramp. The guard motioned for Ren to follow, but Ren needed to stall.

“How does your wife like the chairs?” Ren asked.

“She can't stop talking about them!” The guard smiled. “All of her friends want to know where she got them.”

Ren chuckled. “She must have said it was a secret.”

The guard put a finger on the tip of his nose. “You got it in one!” He laughed. “She was pretty sad when I told her you got released.”

Ren laughed, too.

“All clear, Ren.” Teepo said. “It's just a big holding pen, full of dwarves.”

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought and then started to walk. The guard led them down the ramp and around the corner, to a large iron cage across the hallway. The guard opened it with yet another key, and Ren walked through it.

The guard turned to Maldir and Darohm. “I've got it from here.”

They nodded and went back up the ramp. The guard shut the cage door and Ren followed him down the rest of the hallway and to another door. Ren couldn't tell if it was the same key as the first one, but since it was just a door, he assumed it was.

“I really am sorry.” The guard said as he opened the door. “Watch your back.”

Ren nodded slightly and entered the room. It was a small room, with one of the walls missing. A Warrior stood there, dressed in the same half-plate armor Ren had seen before. He waved Ren towards the opening and Ren walked over to it, and stopped. There was a 100 foot by 100 foot square room dug out of the ground, and if Ren's guess was right, there was about 300 dwarves in it. A 5 foot wide walkway was around the top edge, with Warriors spaced every 20 feet.

Teepo, you didn't say there was a fighting ring here! Ren thought.

“Surprise!” Teepo chittered in delight.

Teepo! My Trouble Recipe!

“Yeah, I told you it was a holding pen.” Teepo said.

Ren sighed. I'll have to put on a show now.

