Every scenario that runs through the Generals', Commanders', and Knights' minds all results in them losing their battles; no matter what they do, it seems hopeless. This invisible energy is far too strange.

Alveron processes all of their battle information and scans from the hours teleporting from star system to star system. Then, every single piece of footage the Rising Emperor has stored from his last battles to try and figure out a solution.

The Ancient True Cored Mind Flayer, with processing speed faster than any mortal in the Lower Realm, uses 1% of the borrowed stats from 70 billion worlds, yet even they see no logical way out. The only way Jay defeated Samir when he used this power was to develop it himself.

"There is no counter you can use to block or attack this Primordial Aura... but there is a way for you to rank up, and give yourselves more time to plan..." Alveron's voice rings in all of their ears, showing the visuals of Jay fighting Miriel and the moments before his Rank Up to unlock his Sacred Body and Celestial Energy.

"I have no visuals of him inside, but it's even a grade higher now. Activate Celestial Grade Mind Palace... and find a way to win."

These are the Ancient Administrator's last words as every fighter's eyes go white, slowing their perceived time down by millions of times while stepping into the depths of their minds to Rank Up, and each search for their own ways to win this fight.

–

At the same time, in the Cyan Zone, an event out of the ordinary is progressing.

After Abby and Seraphel killed Lucian Morvale and absorbed all of the energy from the Demonic Citizens of this zone, the two Legacies they have accepted have been reacting in an uncontrollable reaction.

The white Wyvern that left his legacy behind in the Green Zone for Seraphel left all of his knowledge and Celestial Energy to the inheritor. However, there was a requirement for its final activation, one that could only be released once the soul contract made with Lucian and the White Wyvern was fully destroyed.

It is what doomed the Wyvern race in the first place. Killing this Demon, defeating it in a battle of soul strength, and absorbing all of its life essence finally releases this final seal.

While Seraphel's Celestial Body is normally bright blue, with water trailing behind him, this entire body shines with a magnificent white light.

There are still deep blue eyes piercing through it, but his Celestial Body grows extremely large, attracting massive amounts of divine threads and raw medium-quality ether that floats in the clouds in the air.

His Royal Vibrations, gravity presence, budding Primordial Aura that flows out from his cores, and presence on reality spreads to the far edges of this Zone. Every drop of energy in this Cyan Zone is being pulled in toward him.

Seraphel flies around in extremely wide circles, around the trunk of an enormous manifestation of a tree.

While he drains large amounts of energy from the air, it's nowhere near as much as the flourishing leaves and the roots that begin to grow from this tree.

Their Soul Energy Cores have a deep bond, so the energy is shared to an extent; however, Abby is no longer in a conscious state to process everything that is happening.

She is floating in her fully ranked-up Immortal Healer's Celestial Body in the center of this massive tree, which is tied to her soul with billions of strands of Primordial Aura, but it is definitely a separate entity.

The Royal Vibrations of an Ancient Dryad ripple through the zone, and the roots of this tree begin spreading down to cover the bottom of the zone.

Its branches bloom so quickly and violently that the billions of kilometers between the Cyan City and the old palace where Lucian used to live are completely consumed by this tree's presence.

Every single structure in the Cyan Zone is obliterated.

The sounds of Seraphel's primal roars echo through the zone, and Abby's eyes burn bright white as she starts seeing more and more visions of the past from her inheritance.

She begins seeing bright white trees, and endless forests of them.

There are many women and men that look very similar to her, with green eyes and hair. All of them have large greater forms, with vines and leaves trailing off their bodies. They're all weaving strange patterns with their hands, siphoning their ether into High-Quality Glyphs.

She recognizes some from her staff and begins to learn many more the longer she watches these Dryads existing in this beautiful forest.

All of the trees are enormous... just one of them is bigger than this entire Cyan Zone, and the energy inside them is unfathomable to someone so many zones below at first. Yet, these memories pour into her consciousness and subconscious, making her fully understand the depth of their power, and it begins to feel not so unbelievable...

Through the eyes of the memory holder, they pass through many invisible walls and thousands of Primordial Trees. However, once the memories feel fuzzy, like they're about to end, Abby sees the most enormous Primordial Tree in the Purple Zone.

The eyes of the memory holder slowly look up at it. Its trunk is quadrillions of kilometers wide. It looks like all of the suns in the entire galaxy could fit inside it. The Primordial Trees that surround this monstrous existence all feel like twigs after looking at this immaculate feat of nature.

Just as the memory holder raises their hands and begins to connect with this Tree, like it is its owner, Abby's eyes return to their natural green state and she breathes in sharply as reality flows back into her mind.

At the same time, a very ominous cracking sound echoes through the entire zone.

It comes from both above and below.

Abby's tree roots have spread across the entirety of the Cyan Zone's floor, and its branches and leaves have become so dense with energy and grown so high up into the air that the pressure is starting to crack through the realm above as well.

Green and dark blue Divine light start to leak into the Cyan Zone.

–

In the Purple Zone, I've just finished absorbing all of the six Outer Guards' Demonic Essence as well as their High-Quality Ether.

Once the final visions of the Demon that created their race's Legacy fade, where I catch a glimpse of him beginning to compress his purple divine threads into silver light, I lose access to the memories of the past.

However, an enormous amount of new glyph information has been infused into my mind.

It's sealed and enhanced even further once all of my corruption flows back into my Royal Demon's Core, and the pulse of pure and fresh High-Quality Ether ripples through my Soul and mirrors onto Maria's.

It makes the small amount of energy we drained from the puddles on the roots and trees a drop in the ocean of our power.

So many Glyphs light up all over our bodies, and they burn much brighter than the light glow they had before.

My Medium-Quality Ether becomes so refined, I feel like it's on the verge of compressing to the smooth High-Quality pools that these demons used. It would make our Glyph summoning seamless, yet there is still some internal barrier, like a bottleneck that needs a larger force to break through.

My first thought goes to finding more Outer Guards.

When I raise my hands and turn to Maria, I feel like we could summon hundreds of thousands of glyphs right now. It would be slow, and nowhere near the volume of billions per attack I witnessed Ulgar summon to fight off those Demons... However, I have a far deeper understanding of glyphs and arrays now and can see that one of our Legacy's glyphs is far stronger than thousands of these Black Ogres.

Even the Demon's Glyphs are different... they all have very similar characteristics to the Legacy printed on mine and Maria's Souls, but there is something very different about them. None of the languages are the same, yet the arrays all function in very similar ways, with very accurate replications of their core functions.

It's like the entire Demonic Language is derived from this Legacy itself, like an extremely accurate counterfeit version.

My eyes widen as I begin piecing more bits of this mystery together, and my vision starts to crackle and burn with golden and silver light. The ringing in my ears is starting again, and I even feel my sword vibrating in my soul.

Yet, instead of fully giving in to this memory-wiping phenomena that I can never fend off, I stand my mental ground. My mind is starting to reach a maturity point where it feels like I might actually have a chance at beating it.

I try to fight back and push through to see what I've just remembered that is trying to leave my mind so desperately.

All of the Glyphs on my body start to vibrate with hot light, and my Primordial Aura bubble increases in size again, multiple times over. I focus all of my vibrations, ether, and mental focus on pushing this golden and silver light back even a single second.

My eyes flicker white, and I see a familiar scene.

It's of a Demon flying on the back of a Golden Dragon over thousands of Primordial Trees.

Before, I knew this Demon felt familiar, but now I recognize it as the same one in the memories of the Demon's Legacy. He is the same one who created the whirlwind of glyphs in an unknown realm.

Yet now, I see him here in the Primordial Garden, flying somewhere in a hurry. I don't know why or where he's going, but I sense it's urgent, and he's filled with a desire to kill and fight someone.

When his view pans up from the endless trees below, I see a magnificent sight.

There is a monumental force of nature I can only describe as the Tree of Life.

It is thousands of times wider than the largest tree in this forest, and when this Demon looks up to the sky, its branches fade away further than his vision.

The Primordial Aura that pours out of this tree is unlike anything I've ever imagined. My senses aren't limited while seeing through a memory of the past, so I can feel its immensity. It makes whatever stares into it feel like nothing but a sapling, even a seed that has not yet bloomed.

Despite this, I can feel the intent in this Demon's Vibrations; it dares to challenge this entity. It even believes that it can win.
