Running is a peculiar thing. And it’s one of the few things I’m qualified to talk about in any world. For me, running is as close to living as anything I do. I’ve studied it, practiced it, and made it mine. I can’t claim anything else like that.
But if running is pure, life is not. My body is not, for that matter.
Funny thing. Apparently, doing a record-breaking, thirty-mile marathon at my top speed has consequences, especially on a leg that just got healed. Suffice it to say that when the Horns of Hammerad caught up with me, they had to let me ride on the cart most of the way back to Celum.
Lying down in the middle of a field during a complete physical shutdown is actually pretty relaxing. I was so tired I didn’t even think about what would happen if a monster found me.*
 
*Not that it’s hard to think about. Apparently, the most common type of monster between the Human cities and Liscor are Goblins or a variety of avian species. I’m told that it would be far better to have the birds start eating me alive than suffer what male Goblins do to women. Next time I see one of those buggers, I’m kicking his head in.
 
Anyways, I’m just lucky that one of their team members, Hunt, had an appropriate tracking Skill or something. The Horns figured out what happened pretty quick when I stopped moving. Again, running a marathon on a light meal isn’t a good idea. I’ve tried ultra-marathons, and the key to those runs isn’t speed or even that much practice. All you do is take it easy and eat the entire way through. My kind of fun.
Where was I? Oh yeah. Running. Running is simple, but nothing else is in life. Even jobs involving running are way too difficult.
Case in point and why I’m still standing outside the Runner’s Guild rather than going in. I really don’t want to have to deal with the people inside—or anyone right now. In fact, the only thing keeping me remotely sane is the fact that my leg is better.
My leg is better. Four words, but it is all the difference in the world to me. From thinking I’d never run again to being able to run wherever I go?
Life is good.
—Unless of course you’re an out-of-work bum with no money who has to borrow from other people to survive. Dad always warned me this would happen if I didn’t shape up.*
 
*Of course, shaping up for him would be going into politics to kiss ass and tell lies 24/7, so he can go jump off a cliff.
 
I am quite literally penniless. Without the Horns of Hammerad, I wouldn’t even have been sleeping in the inn for the last few days, let alone eating. The reason for that is twofold. One—and again, this is my fault—I had to rest up from the stupid marathon I ran right after getting my leg healed. Even with a potion, there was still some rehabilitation necessary. That took two days before Ceria told me I was fine.
The other reason?
People.
Every head in the Runner’s Guild turns as I kick open the door. Just as quickly, most of the Runners look away.* Looks like half of the regular City Runners are here, plus a few people I recognize.
 
*It’s a great look, too. It says that they were clearly expecting someone, anyone besides me, but I’m here now, and they have to put up with me—mainly by pretending I don’t exist. Gods. This is why I hate looking at people’s faces.
 
Fals is talking to Garia next to the receptionist’s desk. Both notice me, but Fals keeps talking and Garia’s too moonstruck to interrupt him. And watching Fals from a corner of the room with her posse is another charming person of interest.
Persua.
Persua, Persua, Persua. Oh, how the mighty have fallen. If I didn’t know what Magnolia had told me, I still would have been able to tell something was wrong.
She’s still there, and Toriska’s sitting next to her—Claudeil might be around—but they look like they just were at a funeral. Persua’s sycophants aren’t here—all the Street Runners are normally missing—and she looked like she’s mad enough to cry.
Or run someone over with a wagon. But guess what? She’s not a City Runner anymore. In fact, I daresay Toriska’s look of wanting to throw up can only get better by the slack-jawed look of horror as I walk in.
Schadenfreude—a German word for enjoying the suffering of someone else—is my favorite thing right now. 
When Persua sees me, I think she might actually faint. Her face doesn’t exactly have much color, but it drains of everything. She sways, actually sways in her seat, then begins to get up. But Toriska grabs her, and she hesitates—because I’m looking at her.
One move. One smart comment. Come over here and I’ll drop-kick you into a wall, Persua.
Am I going to go after her? I haven’t decided. I want to—and Persua looks for the door as she sees the look on my face. I hesitate—
I’ve still got to research what the punishment is for murder in this world. For now, I walk past her, just savoring her look of pure hatred.
The old Guildmaster is gone, but I never really knew his face. He’s not in the Guild, so I’m mostly focused on the front desk.
Fals and Garia are in front of me in line while the female receptionist deals with a kid trying to turn in a delivery. I normally don’t like to talk to Fals, but I am in the best of moods today. Besides, their conversation sounds interesting, so I put up with Fals long enough to listen in.
Garia sounds pretty upset. Both Runners are talking about something. Oh, right, that unmarked request she showed me two weeks ago. Seems like ages, now.
“…Third Runner we’ve lost so far. Pestrom.”
“What? No. He was an experienced City Runner—Level 19! I—I saw him just the other week. I thought you said no one went—”
“I didn’t know he was going. He talked about it, and I thought I talked him out of it. I guess he wanted to go in secret. We wouldn’t have known what happened if that [Shepherd] didn’t find his pack. Damn it. The Guild has to take down that request.”
Fals shakes his head. He looks genuinely angry and frustrated, but I’ve seen people wear perfect masks of emotion. Garia bites her lip.
“But he had an enchanted shortsword. He wasn’t an adventurer, and I know that’s not high-level compared to a Courier, not by half—”
He breaks in harshly, more agitated than I’ve heard him.
“None of that matters in the High Passes, Garia. The monsters there—you’d need fighting skills or insanely high levels—something above Level 30 probably to get out unscathed. I told Pestrom that when he brought it up and he told me…I guess he didn’t take me seriously.”
“You’ve got to do something about it, Fals. The reward’s gone up to eighty gold. Eighty! A bunch of the new Street Runners—they know it’s dangerous. But for that kind of money…”
Fals nods seriously. The Runner ahead of him is done, so he steps up to the counter and addresses the receptionist. Isn’t she the one I know?
“Stenei, don’t let any Runners take that open request. Spread the word to the other Guilds. Anyone who tries to take the High Passes request will die. We need it off the requests board.”
The receptionist—Stenei, that’s the one who often gives me deliveries—looks distressed. She clearly wants to help Fals out, and she doesn’t notice me as she replies.
“We can’t take it down, Fals. You know guild policy. Even with the new Guildmaster—it’s still a request.”
Fals nods. He leans over the counter and smiles charmingly* at the receptionist.**
 
*I assume it’s a charming smile. The problem is, I’ve seen so many charming smiles that this particular type of charm makes me want to break something every time I see it.
**Why are they always female? Oh, right. Feminism isn’t dead in this world; it probably never existed to begin with. Unless you count someone like Lady Magnolia, and she’s probably a rare exception due to her influence and wealth. Lovely.
 
“I know. But you could, ah, suggest to other Runners not to take the request, right? Believe me, it would save lives.”
“We already do that. I’m sorry about Pestrom, I really am.”
The receptionist and Garia both blush when Fals smiles, which only ticks me off more. Fals considers this.
“Then…what if this request just happened to be hidden below other ones on all the boards in the other guilds? It happens. Organization can be bad. It’s not against any rules, is it?”
She hesitates, then nods.
“I could ask about that. Let me just pen a [Message]…I think you’re right, Fals.”
“In that case, Garia and I will tell the other Runners to spread the word and let everyone know what happened to Pestrom. Thanks, Stenei, you’re a lifesaver. Literally.”
Fals smiles at her again. She blushes and starts fiddling with the delivery Seals on her counter.
“There’s no need for flattery, Fals. Anyways, don’t you have a lot of work to do?”
“I always have time to chat with a lovely lady. How’re the kids? Are you—”
Okay, interesting discussion I can deal with, but flirting/chitchat I’m not waiting around for. I don’t quite elbow Fals out of the way* as I step forwards. 
 
*I don’t. Really. But I might have stepped a bit on his foot.
 
“Hey. Got a request for me?”
“Ryoka! You’re on your feet!”
Garia’s exclamation is so loud that anyone not looking at me already—I wince, but she sweeps me up in the biggest hug I can.
“Garia, put me down—Garia!”
To my huge annoyance, Fals joins in. Which makes Garia let me go—but he gives me a squeeze.
“Ryoka. It’s so great to see you! Your legs are healed—that’s incredible! That’s impossible!”
“Did Magnolia Reinhart do it like she said? She’s so generous!”
“Totally unlike the rest of her family, no matter what they say about her.”
Fals agrees. I have to actually put a hand on his shoulder and move him back. I think he’s trying to cop a feel.
“You done?”
He blinks, steps back, and flashes me a huge smile which goes unreturned.
“Sorry—I’m just so glad you’re well. Where did you go? Tenbault?”
“No, Liscor.”
“Liscor?”
“It’s a long story. I had help from some adventurers, not the Healer of Tenbault. They fixed me up.”
“Wh—really? There’s a high-level [Healer] in Liscor?”
“Something like that. Anyways, I just got back. Any interesting running requests around?”
Garia still looks delighted, and I have to admit, she was there for me.
“Ryoka, this is so great. You have to tell me what happened! Let’s get a drink—or visit my home! I mean—you’re well! And guess what happened to Persua and the Guildmaster?”
Fals hesitates and gives me the side-eye as I try not to smirk.
“Oh, yeah. Did you hear about that, Ryoka?”
“I may have. Persua’s a Street Runner now? Oh, that’s terrible. What happened? Did she get her just desserts? Or did someone realize she’s nowhere near a City Runner’s level?”
Out of the corner of my eye, I can see Persua freeze up and then turn redder with every word. Fals gives me a cautious look as Garia looks delighted—nervous, but I can see other City Runners snorting.
That’s right, everyone knows she did it and she’s being punished.
“So you did know what happened.”
Fals looks at me cautiously, and I give him a bland smile. Maybe he knows Magnolia’s to blame, but I didn’t make her do anything.
“I heard it on the way here. What, is it a problem? Us runners have to stick together, so if Persua needs some guidance—I’m sure I can give her tips.”
“Nah, Ryoka. I think it’s all sorted, right?”
Fals looks at Garia and the receptionist for support, but he doesn’t get more than a nod from the receptionist. Garia frowns—and I turn away from him and his shallow politics.
I plant my hands on the desk.
“Hey. I’m back.”
“Miss Ryoka! It’s wonderful to see you on your feet.”
Stenei smiles, and I hesitate. Wow. That’s a good act if it is one. I cough, embarrassed.
“Thanks…uh, Stenei, right?”
“Correct! How can I help you?”
“Um—contracts. Any big ones for City Runners? Or me specifically?”
I’ve heard that popular City Runners get special orders for just them, which is a sign they’ve made it. I’m mostly asking about emergency runs for adventurers, and I’m curious about what Fals and Garia were talking about.
Eighty gold coins? That’s a fortune! Is that related to…
“Actually, Miss Griffin, we have several open contracts for you.”
“Wh—really?”
Fals and Garia turn instantly. I blink in gratification—but it becomes a scowl as Stenei reads them out.
“They’re all for Lady Reinhart, and they list you as the only Runner. If you’d like to take a look.”
“Pass.”
Stenei looks astonished, and Fals’ mouth falls open.
“But Miss Griffin, these are urgent, and the Guild—”
“I don’t want a delivery for Magnolia Reinhart. Anything else for me not from her? No? Okay, I guess it’s regular deliveries, then.”
I shake my head. Stenei is trying to offer me the files she has.
“But Miss Griffin, it’s very, very lucrative and not that difficult—”
But I don’t want to talk to Lady Reinhart. Yes, she helped me, but she made me one of those offers I couldn’t refuse, and I did refuse it. She knows I’m from…somewhere else, and she scares the crap out of me, if I’m honest.
She’s dangerous, and I don’t want to talk to her, so I walk over to the cork board with the requests.
“Nevermind that. I’ll just take this one to Remendia and—”
“Miss Griffin, I am so sorry, but the Guild would like you to take Magnolia’s requests. Before you take another one.”
I stop, one of the pieces of parchment in hand. Stenei is standing there, and she looks uncomfortable as she shakes her head at me. I try to place the request on the counter. She doesn’t look at it.
“What’re you talking about? This one is open. I’m free. Put me down.”
“I can’t do that, Miss Griffin. The Guildmaster has orders—and the other Guilds do too. Here’s a quick delivery to Lady Reinhart. Sugar from the north. You can pick it up right in the city.”
She offers me a slip, and I look at it. Then push it back.
“No. Put me down for…”
Then I see the look in her eyes and realize I’m not arguing with her. All at once, my good mood fades. I look at Garia, who’s confused, and Fals, who’s staring at me as if he’s figuring something out. But I?
I just looked at the Runner’s Guild, and all my goodwill towards Magnolia fades away as I realize I’ve just been hit with the other side of her power and influence.
I have to deliver something to her? I look at the [Receptionist] and realize she’s telling the truth.
I am totally conscious of my empty money pouch. So that’s what her game is? She must have the entire Guild—is the entire network of Guilds under her thumb? And if she does, then how do I earn money?
