One thing matters. One thing I cling to even in my darkest days. And that thing is integrity.
I am that I am. I am who I am. And I will not change for anyone except myself. Countries and cultures have their own laws. Society pushes and prods. Everyone has an agenda, and no motive is honest.
But I will bow to no one, especially not petty tyrants and liars like Fals. So I smile even as I sever ties. It may be that after this I’ll have to go elsewhere. Actually, not ‘may.’ Probably I’ll have to go or else have both legs broken this time.
How far does this group of Runners’ influence stretch? Well, no matter where I go, they’ll probably follow with rumor and lies. And it will be the same wherever I go.
What a crappy, small group of people. But what a wonderful world. If I need to, I’ll run to the very edges of it to find a place to be free.
If only everyone weren’t so petty. Well, those that aren’t are like Fals, and he’s worthless in his own way. But one of them—
“Ryoka—”
Crap. Garia’s the only person in that group worth a grain of salt. In her case, she’s probably worth a small mountain of salt. A hill, at least.
She jogs to catch up. Part of me wants to just keep walking and lose her, but even I’m not enough of a jerk to do that. Besides, she’s helped me so much that I owe her.
Garia hesitates as she slows to keep pace with me. I’m expecting her to defend the other Runners, but what she says next surprises me.
“I’ll keep them off your backs if I can. But they’re angry. Really, really angry.”
Huh. But maybe I should have expected that? Garia’s a stand-up kind of girl. That’s why I like her.
“They’re pissed off because I told them what I thought of their little cult?”
Garia hesitates.
“I didn’t—I don’t agree with everything Fals said, Ryoka, but I think he’s right in some ways. I think you’re right too, though. But you’re special. You—you can do deliveries by yourself, but some of us need to work together. Without the way the Guild does things, we’d get hurt way more often.”
“So we work together and drag everyone down who doesn’t agree with us, is that it?”
“I didn’t say it was perfect.”
“Pack mentality. And Fals thinks he knows everything. Are we dogs or gods?”
I thought that was clever. Or maybe it was stupid. Ouch. Garia’s look makes me feel like a complete jackass.
“We’re neither. We’re just people, Ryoka. And they’re not perfect, I know. But we can’t all be like you. Some of us have to work together to survive.”
…Damn it. This is getting painful.
“I’d like to be able to run like you. But I can’t. I’m too slow—I can only carry really heavy stuff instead of fast requests. If it weren’t for the way the Guild works, I wouldn’t be able to run.”
“…I know. But I won’t answer to them.”
Garia nods and then visibly braces herself. Here comes her pitch.
“Couldn’t you—couldn’t you just talk to Magnolia? Would it be that hard to just ask her…?”
In some ways? No. In some ways…
“In some ways, no. But in some ways, yeah. I’m not doing it either way.”
“I thought you’d say that. I told Fals you would.”
That bastard. He asked Garia to go after me. That manipulative—
“When are you going to go?”
“Now. Fals and the other Runners will probably try to stop me if I don’t. I know Persua will.”
“Okay, okay.”
Suddenly, Garia seizes me in a bear hug. And she’s—strong. Seriously, I think she’s going to break a rib. But then she pushes me back.
“Go. I’ll try and keep them busy for a little bit. And don’t die, okay?”
She turns and runs away. Slowly, by City Runner standards. Her posture really is quite bad. But she’s got heart, and that makes her the best Runner of the lot in my opinion.
Okay. Okay, that was—surprising or gratifying? Both. Also a bit humbling. But that’s right. I’ve gotta go.
Body check. I’m all in one piece, and I’ve got no injuries. Plus, since I haven’t been running any deliveries—I’ll call it at least 92% readiness. Perfect.
Motivation on the other hand—60%. Not good, not bad*. I’d like more, but even though I’m happy about being able to run, the amazement’s worn off.
 
*I generally think of a good run at anything about 80%. On those runs, I get into the zone and outperform my best. Obviously, I can still run really fast even when I’m not motivated, but there’s a clear difference between me when I’m feeling good and feeling bad. I could make 40% motivation Ryoka eat my dust and lap her if I were at 90% motivation.
 
Normally, that’s good enough for any kind of run. I could do a marathon like this, but as everyone’s said, these High Passes are different. I read up a bit on them with the local literature and—
Yeah, I might die. So I need to prepare a bit before I go, and quickly too. Fortunately, I’m in Celum, and even more fortunately, a certain Minotaur and a bunch of adventurers like to frequent the inn where I stay.
I pick up my pace as I head towards the inn. Garia might be able to slow the other Runners down, but I really doubt she’ll buy me more than a minute. I’ll make a pit stop at the inn and head out.
I’ve gotta hurry either way. It’s already midday, and the High Passes are far enough that I should hurry. I’ll be heading about halfway through the pass, so I do need supplies. And the Horns of Hammerad are the only people who’ll lend me stuff right now. Aside from Magnolia. She can go to hell along with the other Runners.
Damn it. I hate having no money.
 
——
 
Delays.
Ryoka tried not to grit her teeth. She hated delays. But explanations took time, especially when the ones she was trying to explain to weren’t that quick on the uptake.
Gerial blinked at Ryoka again. He, Ceria, and the male magician from the Horns of Hammerad had been eating lunch when Ryoka found them.
“Let me get this straight. You’re going on a dangerous delivery, and you need our help. And…you want us to take your belongings?”
Ryoka nodded.
“I’m going to be gone for at least a day, and the other Runners are probably going to trash my room while I’m gone.”
“Why would they do that?”
Ryoka shrugged.
“If Persua’s anything like the other girls I’ve known, that’s one of the first things she’ll do. Good thing I don’t have any shoes so she can’t fill them with thumbtacks.”
Again, Gerial blinked uncomprehendingly at Ryoka. But Ceria nodded.
“We’ll guard your things. Runners wouldn’t dare break into the Adventurer’s Guild, and we have our own storage space. But what’s this about help? We could escort you to the outskirts of the Passes, but Calruz isn’t here, and we’re understrength. And frankly, even at our best, we wouldn’t be able to go far into the Passes.”
“I don’t need an escort. I just need supplies. Healing potions—food—I’d buy it myself, but I don’t have any money. I’ll pay you back—double what I’m borrowing.”
Gerial and Ceria exchanged a glance. He nodded. She reached down below the table and opened a travel bag.
“I’ve got some healing potions right here. And a few dry rations. Enough for four meals.”
“That’s enough.”
“Then take them.”
Ceria pulled out several colored potions from her pack and handed them to Ryoka.
“These are better quality than you’d buy in the marketplace anyways. And you’ll need them.”
Ryoka hesitated.
“Are you sure? I can buy some—”
“I thought you were broke, Ryoka. We still don’t have any contracts, and Calruz isn’t back yet. Take the potions, Ryoka. If everything I’ve heard about the High Passes is true, you’ll need them.”
She was right. Ryoka nodded and silently began stowing the potions in her own pack. They were various hues of red and yellow, which Ryoka fastened to the outside of her pack so she could reach them quickly.
Yellow health potions didn’t feel right to Ryoka, but apparently, color didn’t really matter with most potions. Anyone could toss some food dye in a bottle to make potions whatever color they wanted. She supposed she should just be grateful health potions didn’t look like vomit. They tasted like vomit, but that was an entirely different matter.
Ryoka gently set her pack down on the floor next to Ceria’s.
“Thanks. Really.”
Gerial frowned, anxious.
“I’m still not sure I agree with this. Are you sure you have to do this? If the Runner’s Guild is giving you so much trouble, why not seek work elsewhere?”
Ryoka shook her head.
“I’m taking a delivery request. The reward is for eighty gold coins.”
All three adventurers whistled.
“Besides, if I take this request, I should be able to find work even if they keep blocking me. I just need the money.”
“We could lend you—”
“No.”
Ryoka stood up.
“I’ll get my stuff.”
Gerial stared helplessly as she walked upstairs to her room. The male mage patted him on the shoulder.
“Nice try. But she’s determined, isn’t she?”
“I never knew the Runner’s Guild was like that.”
Ceria shook her head.
“It’s the same in every guild. Ours is no different.”
“But—”
“Believe me, Gerial. If you look close enough, you see the same things repeated over and over. Humans are just like that.”
Both men looked sideways at Ceria but made no further comment. They stared at the stairs, silent in the general hubbub of the inn. They didn’t notice the girl Ryoka would have described inaccurately as sallow-faced sneaking up to the packs on the ground and swiftly rearranging the contents of both.
A quick few minutes later, Ryoka clattered down the stairs, nearly knocking a barmaid over. She had all of her possessions bundled in her arms, which she dropped on the table, nearly into the adventurers’ meals. Only a quick flick of Ceria’s wrist made the bowls and plates spin off onto another table.
“Here.”
Ryoka didn’t have much. Just some clothing, the magic bandages, and quite a few books that interested Ceria. She handed them all to Gerial, ignoring his blushes as he handled her underwear and equivalent to a sports bra. Then she paused and pulled one last item from her pocket.
“Take care of this. It’s very fragile.”
Gerial blinked down at the rectangle of metal and plastic in his hands. He had never seen anything like it—in fact, the smooth casing of the iPhone was completely, unsettlingly alien to him.
Ceria leaned over the table, suddenly fascinated. She and the other mage stared at the iPhone, astonished,
“What is that?”
“A device. I’ll explain it if I get back.”
Gerial held it at arm’s length.
“Will it—will it do anything?”
Ryoka shook her head, almost sadly for her. She touched the blank display regretfully.
“It’s broken. Just treat it carefully—don’t put anything heavy on it and don’t drop it.”
“If it’s broken, can’t you repair it?”
Ryoka smiled as if Gerial had told a very funny joke.
“No blacksmith or craftsman in the world could fix this. Trust me.”
“Then what about magic?”
“What?”
The male mage shrugged. He pushed his plates aside and picked up a faintly shining wand from the table.
“Would you let me try a spell?”
Ryoka hesitated. She was clearly torn, but then she nodded. Very slowly, Gerial handed the iPhone to the mage. He inspected it, running his fingers delicately across the touchscreen.
“What exquisite craftsmanship. I can’t detect any faults, but perhaps the issue lies within? Regardless, if it is not of magical creation—”
“It’s not.”
“Then this should work. [Repair].”
The mage waved his wand in a half-crescent and then tapped the iPhone. The tip of the wand flashed green as it touched the casing—
And then the iPhone’s screen flickered into life.
Ceria gasped, but Gerial’s reaction was even more dramatic. He shot backwards in his chair and crashed to the ground in surprise. Ryoka just stared. She stared and stared at the iPhone.
“Done.”
The mage smiled and handed Ryoka her iPhone. He stared with intense fascination at the brightly lit screen and then at Ryoka’s face. She was just staring at the iPhone in her hand. Staring and staring. But then she touched the screen and swiped it.
The display changed. Ceria and the mage were astonished twice-over, perhaps because they could sense no magic in the iPhone despite what was happening, but Ryoka just sighed. She turned to the mage.
“Sorry, I never got your name. Or maybe I forgot. What is it?”
He blinked and then smiled.
“Sostrom Reidez, at your service, Miss Ryoka Griffin.”
“Sostrom.”
Ryoka took his hand and shook it. She looked him in the eye.
“I owe you a great debt.”
Sostrom flushed lightly. He was in his early thirties or his very late twenties but unfortunately bald save for his eyebrows. He tugged his pointy hat lower on his head.
“It was nothing, really. Just a spell—”
“Not just a spell.”
Ryoka smiled at him. In the dim lighting of the inn, the iPhone’s glow lit up her face.
“Not just a spell. Someday, you’ll have to teach me it. If I can do magic, it would be just to cast that. And now—those assholes aren’t going to know what hit them.”
She turned and walked out the inn. The three Horns of Hammerad exchanged a glance and then rose to follow her. They couldn’t tell what—but something had changed about Ryoka in the moments after Sostrom had repaired her phone.
She seemed different.
She was different.
 
——
 
The iPhone is warm in my hand. It glows, and it makes the rest of the world seem different. The vivid colors of this world are quite, quite different from the artificial colors on the display. Both are brilliant in their own way.
It is fixed. Completely, utterly. The power bar reads 100% at the top of the screen. It’s the most glorious thing I’ve ever seen, bar my healed leg. And it is fixed.
I barely even feel my body as I walk outside. It feels as though I’m floating in a world of my own. Legs—fixed. iPhone—fixed. That’s all I need.
It’s time. Time to do what I’ve always wanted to do.
I step out into the middle of the street. No carts are passing by, and the pedestrians are mostly in for lunch. The others ignore me. Some stare at my iPhone, but I am just another Runner. That’s the way I like it.
Except of course that there’s always someone watching. Ceria, Gerial, and Sostrom have come out of the inn to watch me, but I can see several Street Runners casually lounging across the street. Ready to follow and intercept? Most likely.
And of course, I can’t see anyone else, but there’s a prickle on the back of my neck. I wonder if Lady Magnolia hires assassins or whether her maids have diverse skill sets. Or maybe it’s someone else. Who knows? Who cares?
