“Miss Griffin? It’s not hard to do it. Just one quick delivery and I’m sure we’ll be allowed to give you all the ones you want.”
I stare at Stenei. Slowly, I look down at the request earmarked for me, and I can see Magnolia just waiting at her door. To invite me in. There’s no one pushing me into doing this. Magnolia never forced me to do anything…but pressure? I can feel it all over, and you know what?
I hate being pushed. So I push the paper back and step back. Instead of my smile, I’m scowling as I walk away from the desk.
“Yeah, I’m sure. Forget about it. I’ll try another Guild.”
 
——
 
Celum Runner’s Guild was the one I was just at. It’s not far to other cities—well, it is to run for no pay, but if you’re pissed and still enjoying running, like me, it’s not too far to spite a [Lady].
Of course, she probably has the power to make Ocre and Remendia not listen, so I’ll go to Wales the next day. It turns out ‘no money’ doesn’t cover a few silver coins in my pack. Enough for a crappy room, and if I eat from my stale rations, that’s breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Wales is way far away from Remendia and Ocre. Fifty miles. She can’t…
The [Receptionist] at the desk knows me before I get to him, and he makes the other City Runners step back and offers me the only request he has—take a bunch of letters to Magnolia—
Every Guild I try is the same. I even try to pretend I’m not Ryoka, but it’s hard to change skin-tone and my height. Every single [Receptionist] has the same reply, and I’m about to kill everything.
No requests. No deliveries, and no pay. That’s the message I’ve gotten every day since I got back. I tried Runner’s Guilds in three of the cities around here, and all of them are doing the same thing. 
In fact, they’re even making it so I can’t even go behind the Guild’s back and do unofficial work. Someone—and I bet it’s Magnolia—has decided to make the Runner’s Guild fulfill every request the moment it comes in. Even if it means they have to work every other Runner around the clock to get it done.
By the time I get back to Celum, it’s just to see how long they can keep this up. Half of the Street and City Runners in here are practically dead on their feet, but they’re still doing it. And it looks like they’ve called in the better City Runners like Fals to help out.
In short, I’m being shut out until I give into their demands. Which I won’t do. What they actually want isn’t hard—
But I’m not doing it. I don’t give in to bullies and peer pressure. And the innocent look the receptionist is giving me makes me want to punch her lights out.
Screw this. It’s time to get unpleasant.
 
——
 
When Ryoka Griffin came back to the Runner’s Guild, Stenei was still on duty. This time—Garia felt for her.
She was a nice woman and had really been upset when Persua got away scott-free. But Ryoka was so furious that it was written on her face.
Garia understood why and was just glad Persua wasn’t here today. Apparently, she was still running as a Street Runner—and furious—but she, Claudeil, and Toriska were in trouble, and everyone knew it.
The problem was—Ryoka seemed to be in trouble too. She stomped her way towards the counter, and she looked both hungry and tired. Garia had offered to let her stay at her parent’s farm—they lived just outside of Celum—but Ryoka had told her she didn’t want charity.
Garia watched Ryoka and sensed trouble. She didn’t have any particular skills like [Dangersense], but she didn’t need to. She knew Ryoka, not just as a friend but as a meteorologist knows weather. And if Ryoka were a storm, then she’d be a shipbreaking hurricane with lightning and hail thrown in for good measure.
The tall, barefoot girl leaned over the counter and glared at the receptionist. Garia felt for the older woman. Stenei was nice and helpful to everyone—she was just doing her job, even if Garia herself didn’t agree with it. It wasn’t her fault.
Then again, Garia wouldn’t have wished Ryoka on anyone when she was this angry. Maybe Persua. Ryoka’s bright green eyes flashed with annoyance.
“It’s been four days.”
Ryoka leaned over the counter and glared at the wilting receptionist.
“And you’re telling me that there are no requests? Except of course for Magnolia.”
Stenei opened her mouth, hesitated, and cast an imploring glance around the room. And who should be there except for…
This time, Garia wondered if someone had told him to be here. Because he just happened to have run in ten minutes before Ryoka, and that was despite doing seven deliveries in the last four days. He looked as tired as everyone else, but Fals stepped forwards and smiled at Ryoka in a way that made Garia’s heart beat faster. Ryoka turned her glare on him.
“We don’t want to get in your way, Ryoka—”
“Oh really? Then stop taking all the delivery requests.”
Fals scratched the back of his neck and smiled again awkwardly.
“We’d love to. Really. But Ryoka, it would be best if you took one of Magnolia’s requests first.”
Ryoka knew why, but she wasn’t in the mood to be helpful. She crossed her arms over her chest.
“Why?”
Another smile, slightly strained.
“Lady Magnolia’s refusing to take any other requests until you deliver something in person. That’s hurting Runners in every city around here.”
“So? Just do the deliveries yourself. She’ll take them if I don’t deliver anything.”
“We’d like to, really we would, Ryoka. But Lady Magnolia—no one tells her what to do, Ryoka. Take a look at her requests, won’t you? It wouldn’t even be that hard.”
From what Garia knew of Ryoka, an easy delivery would be even less attractive to her. But as Stenei held out one of the requests, Ryoka grudgingly stared at it. She curled her lip as she read the requests one after another.
“Hot peppers? Cabbages? She could get that in any market.”
“But she wants a Runner. You, specifically.”
“So until she gets one, I won’t get any other jobs, is that it? And I’m supposed to ask her to let other Runners take her requests, right?”
“We wouldn’t say that.”
“Oh?”
Fals seemed to choose his words carefully.
“If you’d—suggest to Lady Magnolia that she open up her delivery requests for every Runner, things would be—smoother.”
“Right. And you all get paid so everyone’s happy?”
Ryoka turned from Fals and stared around the guild. Street Runners and City Runners returned her stare countless times over. They were all silently watching Ryoka, and not with friendly expressions either.
“So until then, you’re all going to keep taking the requests.”
Fals shrugged ruefully as if caught out in a prank.
“We’re just doing our jobs, Ryoka. But you’re right. We’re working together on this, Runners and the Guild.”
“I don’t like being pressured. By anyone.”
Fals put a hand on Ryoka’s shoulder, making the other Runner instantly tense up. He flashed her a reassuring smile that made Garia’s stomach do flip flops.
“Ryoka, I completely agree with you. But please, look at it from the perspective of the rest of us Runners.”
He gestured to the other Runners.
“We’re a team. Okay, sure we don’t all get along, but if every Runner was out for themselves, it’d be a mess. We work together to tackle hard assignments, and we share the wealth so everyone gets ahead.”
He tapped his chest lightly.
“We’re Runners. We might charge high prices, but we get the job done! And if some people don’t like that, it’s because they don’t understand how tough our jobs really are. We risk life and limb to help others.”
The other Runners in the room warmed to Fals’ speech. They murmured agreement as he continued.
“So if we work together—if we help support each other—we’ll survive. Hundreds of Runners die every year, but the Guilds around here lost the least amount of Runners each year. We don’t take dangerous requests, and we team up if one of us is in danger. Sure, we might not earn as much as other Runners, but we know we can count on each other.”
Ryoka stared at Fals as the other Runners in the room cheered. Then, calmly and deliberately, she grabbed his wrist and plucked his hand off her shoulder.
“Nice speech. But you’re full of shit.”
Garia stopped smiling. The mood in the room froze over in a second. Ryoka stared around at the other Runners, unflinching. She looked back at Fals, who was staring at her uncertainty. Then she shook her head.
“You want to talk about Runners and preach about playing nice and sticking together? Fine. But leave me out of your little party.”
She pointed a thumb at her chest.
“I’m a barefoot runner. If I cared about what people thought, I wouldn’t run at all. Runners run. We deliver stuff. It’s a job, not a calling.”
She looked around again, and this time, she caught Garia’s eye for a moment.
“I couldn’t care less whether or not you lot like me. All I’m here to do is deliver stuff and get paid. I don’t want Magnolia’s stupid requests. If you lot want to earn favor with her, deal with it and leave me out of it. You should want me to not work with her. You think I’m trying to be her special, personal Runner?”
Fals spread his hands out helplessly.
“We’d like to believe you, Ryoka, but—”
“You think I’m lying?”
The edge in Ryoka’s voice made Fals hesitate. She took one step forwards, and he took one step back.
“I don’t lie. And I hate liars. When you make a promise, you keep it. When you speak, you look someone in the eye and mean every word. When I say I’ll do something, I mean it. If you want to do deliveries to Magnolia, take the damn requests. I don’t care about your politics.”
She poked Fals in the chest hard enough to make him take another step back.
“But if you get in my way, I’ll kick your face in.”
Fals opened his mouth, but this time, Garia grabbed him and pulled him away. Ryoka turned and glared around the room. None of the other Runners were willing to meet her eyes, but the feeling they gave off—
She stalked over to the request board and glared at it. Countless requests were listed, and not a one was for her.
There was no point to taking any of the requests, she knew. Even if she took one to the counter, it would be ‘miraculously’ already taken by another Runner. Or they’d refuse to recognize her effort or just not hand over the item she had to deliver. Even if she did the delivery, the funds were already deposited in the Guild, and they wouldn’t be released until Magnolia said so.
But—she had a thought. Wasn’t there one delivery that promised payment upon just getting to the person? One that no Runner could take. Should take.
Slowly, she investigated the board, removing requests and tossing them to the floor. The receptionist looked upset, but Ryoka dared her to object. She was looking for something…aha, just like Fals had asked. Right on the bottom. 
Ryoka pushed back several requests and selected one at the bottom. She brought it back to the counter and handed it to the receptionist.
“This one. I’ll take the request for the High Passes.”
“What?”
Stenei blinked at Ryoka. She stammered.
“That one’s—but you can’t—”
“Not a good idea, Ryoka.”
Fals pulled himself gently away from Garia and moved in front of Ryoka again. His face was concerned.
“The High Passes aren’t a place for Runners or even most adventurers. Whoever put that request in doesn’t know what they’re doing. You shouldn’t take it.”
“Why not? There’s nothing else for me to do.”
Ryoka snatched the piece of paper back from Fals. Then she grinned.
“Unless you want to do it? I’ll follow you out to make sure you get it done.”
Ryoka smiled maliciously at Fals. He recoiled visibly, and she nodded.
“That’s what I thought. I’m doing the request.”
“You’ll die!”
Garia broke into the conversation. She flushed as all eyes turned on her, but she continued desperately.
“Ryoka, Fals is right. This is serious. Just take one of Magnolia’s requests! The High Passes—”
“I’ll survive. And I’ll complete the request even if it’s dangerous—not just for money. Apparently, that’s all Runners think about.”
Ryoka pushed Fals back and moved past Garia. She walked towards the door and stopped as another not quite barred her way. Persua.
She didn’t have her posse anymore, just Toriska and Claudeil. Both glared at Ryoka—but moved back as Ryoka’s hand curled into a fist.
“Persua. What’re you doing here? Don’t cause a scene.”
Fals raised his voice warningly, and Persua shot him a murderous look—but even the [Receptionist] was giving her a stare. She was red-faced, furious with humiliation, and, Ryoka thought, pinched for coin much in the same way Ryoka was.
The two were giving off sparks of hatred as they looked at each other, but Persua just tossed her head defiantly, ignoring Fals’ warning. Ryoka growled.
“Are you going to try and stop me too? Hi, Persua. I’d love for you to try.”
She looked at Toriska, and the girl shifted, a hand on her knife, but Ryoka was ready to punch. Persua’s look clearly said that she would like nothing better than to stop Ryoka, very painfully if possible…but she was standing behind Claudeil. She tossed her head as if her hair were a whip she meant to strike Ryoka with and sneered at her.
“I don’t need to do anything. You’re going to die in the High Passes.”
“Oh really?”
Persua’s tone dripped venom as she stared at the request Ryoka held. Contemptuously.
“Why do you think none of the experienced Runners take those kinds of requests? We’re smart enough not to risk our lives. We work together, not like you. You’ll die alone because you’re a fool.”
Ryoka nodded.
“You’re probably right.”
Persua blinked in surprise. Fals and Garia both stared at Ryoka along with the other Runners. Ryoka nodded and looked around the room again.
“If I do it your way, I probably would live long enough to retire. And maybe I’d even earn a lot of money, who knows? And if I kiss your ass long enough, maybe you’d even like me. If I were like the rest of you, I’d never take this request.”
She paused. Then she stared right back at Fals as she delivered her next line.
“Too bad I’m not a coward.”
Ryoka turned and walked out of the guild even as the stunned silence turned into shouts of fury.
 
——
 
I burn bridges as I breathe. It’s a talent. I’ve done it all my life, and I guess some things you just can’t change. Me and my big mouth. I got kicked out of one school for telling the principal what I really thought about him and the other—
They’re pissed. I can hear them yelling as I open the door. But I’m still smiling as I walk out the building.
