Mehdi and Febri came in from either side of him, in an attack that had to have been coordinated by at least one of them. Shrike’s knife and its followers were crossing just over their heads.

Alden’s stomach clenched as the crate swung and knocked Febri out of the air. Mehdi was on the instructor for the briefest of instants, and then he was being slammed to the floor at the man’s feet.

Klein’s eyes hadn’t turned to see either of them. They were fixed on Alden like cold steel.

Alden had exercised his imagination a lot today. He’d spent this afternoon at North of North and this evening here in class, asking himself what he would do if certain attacks had come from a bokabv. What if the enemy had the power to damage the car? What would he do if it aimed itself at Kibby?

Right now…

Torsten Klein looked just a little bit like a demon.

******

a very short while ago

******

Winston felt sick. He had thought that no class could ever be worse than the one where he’d been tricked into decapitating himself by his Machiavellian roommate and a disturbingly ambitious Rabbit. But this one was a new low.

His teammates were…

No. Never mind. He had chosen to protect them, so he would.

Their Vocal Brute couldn’t aim his voice if he was nervous, and he said Winston made him nervous. Olive had too many opinions for someone who got blown away if you weren’t holding onto her, and she was ineffective if you did hold her, because then it was obvious to the enemy which of her fakes were fake. Rebecca could have been really helpful since she could cover a lot of ground quickly, but she was so ticked-off that Astrid had refused to team up with her that she kept glancing over there even though Winston had told her he would watch Max’s team for tricks and she should watch Haoyu’s parents.

And Sanjay just kept saying, “Relax, duuude. Relaaax,” in an odd way that Winston was afraid was supposed to be an American accent. Winston couldn’t tell if the guy was trying to bond, or if he was making fun of him. If he had to take an A-rank Shaper for this run, he wished he’d gotten Njeri instead.

But these people were his team. He was devoted to them like a leader—one who was not a jerk—should be. It had to be one hundred percent obvious to everyone in the room that Winston’s team was the weakest and that he was trying to do something nice here. Only nobody would give them any help.

There were three teams with S-ranks, since you couldn’t count Kon. Those teams didn’t need the elemental weights. And yet, they’d all taken more than one of the big ones. They’d been throwing them around, casually keeping them under their arms like pocketbooks, floating on top of them, and chopping them up.

If Olive had a sandbag, Winston wouldn’t have to hold her. If Rebecca had a sandbag, she could control her jumps in high winds. If Sanjay had a lifematter bag, maybe he could entertain himself by talking to it, so that his leader could think about a strategy that would get this bunch of misfits safely to the end.

Winston had wanted a victory so badly today. Real victory, like Feather’sFavoriteNYC talked about in the encouraging comment he’d kept pulled up on his interface all class.

Don’t let the haters get you down. Let your victory be your answer!

But he’d admitted after the first hour that he would settle for reaching the finish line even if it was behind the other teams. Even if a first place run with smiling teammates patting him on the back would have been more of a moment, at this point, crossing at all was going to be momentous enough.

They finally had weight they could use to move forward in the wind without just hanging onto each other. The weights were literal garbage Winston had collected for them all, but they had them. He was circling the team as fast as he could, trying to keep his eyes on every enemy at once and on Max, who couldn’t be trusted. He would absolutely throw a trap in front of Winston’s team as soon as Winston let his guard down.

So Winston was circling. He was tired. He was feeling bad about their chances and very worried about the way some people had become prejudiced against him after the drama that had been stirred up by the Arfdog incident, Everly and Finlay insinuating stuff, and Alden suddenly producing a commendation that nobody had heard about before now.

The annoyance in some of their voices when I pointed out that as a speedster I could have gotten to the weights before them if I hadn’t taken time to help those in need. They definitely weren’t treating me this way last week.

His first stroke of luck all class happened then, and he shouted for a halt. By saying, “Halt!” which was more professional than using stop and go, obviously.

Finlay had just gone down hard as he approached the finish. He’d fallen on top of Astrid. A red line had appeared.

Are they dead? They look dead!

“I think I know what that spell was!” said Olive. “Winston, get closer so we can talk! I think I know what it is!”

“I have to keep my eyes on the enemy,” said Winston. “Who knows when they’re going to come our way?”

“I’m pretty sure Big Snake throws at us in two—” Sanjay started.

“Send me texts about the spell,” Winston said. “I’ll stand guard.”

So he got a good look at Alden’s broken team as they made their way back to the start and Max’s. It lifted his spirits, and they were lifted even more when Olive finally texted him.

Shock Box? An old-school Adjuster trap. Max the trap Adjuster had missed a trap! It was different from the ones they’d been running into all period. Olive was saying the caster could establish various conditions for it.

Finlay was out in front of his team by a few steps because he always has to be first. Probably it’s a trap that won’t hurt you if your whole team is close enough together.

After the intense post-obstacle course lecture his old team had gotten, thanks mostly to Marsha, he thought the faculty might want to make a point about togetherness and loyalty.

And if that wasn’t the right assumption…

No single Shock Box could cover the whole width of the gym, according to Olive. So there might be eight of them? One for each team.

What if once you trip one, it doesn’t reappear? Does that mean whoever runs through that section that Finlay just activated is safe?

That exciting prospect was interrupted by the arrival of a long text from Alden Thorn. After reading it, Winston wanted to roll his eyes so hard they’d disappear into the back of his own skull forever.

“Now they want our help,” he said. “Now they want everyone to be friends? When they wouldn’t even give us a weight?”

“I mean, I didn’t expect them to give us anything,” said Rebecca. “But it has been kind of—”

“You’re carrying a radiator,” said Winston. “Think of how much better you’d be doing if you’d had something with handles all this time! Our lack of progress is not our fault. We might be way out ahead, we might be finished, if things had gone differently.”

“You are doing an Apex job for someone with a radiator,” said Sanjay. “And I’ve got this ladder and this hose and…”

Winston tuned him out and answered the text. He even offered to put the fight on his channel. It would be good for him to be seen with an elite group, and he thought they should all be grateful to him for the exposure.

Not a single person replied with a thank you.

******

The last second decision to take his own team over the line rather than joining the attack on their instructor had good reasons behind it. Winston could feel them all coming together in his head right before he changed his mind. It was little things like the lack of thanks, Finlay shooting him a look from a distance, the realization that all the S’s joining in would make the sacrifices of the A’s seem useless, and the fact that it was a plan Alden and Max would be taking credit for once it was over. And it was also bigger things like Winston showing loyalty to his own team and making sure they were treated fairly by their leader since the rest of the class wasn’t looking out for them.

Then, during the first moments when he was failing to run toward the fight and worrying about how this was going to come across to people who didn’t know all the details, he had a sudden brainwave about Søren. The guy was just lying around. Again. He was basically a pet for his team, and his team had abandoned him. He had been slightly antagonistic to Winston, but now? Now Winston could take him to the finish ahead of everyone else. Or he could offer to do it; it would be up to Søren to get over himself and accept.

That would also be proof to any fans who weren’t as aware of the nuances of these Anesidoran machinations that Winston wasn’t being selfish here. He was just thinking like a leader.

Winston would help Søren. Søren’s sandbag would help Winston’s people with the wind and maybe even the electricity in case he was wrong about the Shock Box traps. Did sand block electricity? It might.

So Winston took action. The story was coming back together. He could tell Feather’sFavoriteNYC her words were in his eyes when he made up his mind to do something bold and different.

Victory can be my answer when people ask me who I think I am, he thought. I can make my own moment.

Seconds later, Søren was refusing the hand of salvation. So…Winston took the sandbag.

He really didn’t expect the crazy Light Shaper to start chasing him and throwing knives at him. It was so stupid, but maybe on camera, it was making Winston look like he was the bad guy instead of someone who cared about his team.

What if I made a mistake? No! This is fine. It’s all fine.

Victory will be my answer.

People loved a winner. A lot of people loved winners so much they didn’t care who they were or how they won, which was why Finlay was gaining followers like a cult leader.

“Go back!” Winston yelled over his shoulder. “You’re way slower than me, and the wind will start soon!”

Søren screamed with animalistic fury.

He’s lost his mind.

“You’re too weak to be out here on your own! Give up! Give up for your own good!”

Winston had almost reached his teammates. This was going to work.

******

******

“Alden,” Torsten said to the volunteers, who looked just a little more interested than they had a moment ago, “has a noteworthy personal life, as I’m sure you all know.”

“I can tell overstating isn’t one of your bad habits.” Aparna drummed her fingers on top of her student desk. “We don’t see many teenagers rubbing shoulders with wizards.”

“No,” Klein agreed.

“Haoyu loves having him as a roommate,” said Hale.

“I liked helping with Matadero Thanksgiving,” said Jianwei. “That should become a tradition.”

“I have no comment on that.” Torsten looked at the wanted poster. The video clip showed Alden Thorn catching tennis balls. “Tempting though it might be to gossip about him—”

“I am tempted,” Aparna said.

“Tempting though it might be,” Torsten said firmly, “I’ll keep us on track by talking about Alden’s gym performance and special considerations related to it. He’s on an impressive discovery streak with his powers right now. The timing of it might be due to his personal circumstances, but it’s encouraging to see such swift progress from him anyway. The ability shown on the video here is his main skill, being used in a novel way.

“He places objects or people in magical stasis. The stasis is absolute while the skill is active. There appears to be no circumstance in which whatever he’s protecting will change from within or take damage from without, unless the skill or the skill user fails. Keep that in mind because you won’t have cues to know when he’s approaching skill fatigue. It’s not like some shielding spells you might have encountered that weaken before they break.

“We do know that he wears his skill out much faster when he tries to preserve something that extends a significant distance from his body. He’s currently exploring what he can do with rope, so it’s come up. He might be able to shield something on the end of a thread half a gym away, but you’re unlikely to see him do it given the practical limitations and magical cost.

“Alden has a movement trait that won’t make an appearance unless he finds the proper element to stand on. It provides him with a modest increase in the distance he’s able to cover every time he propels himself off the ground. Not spectacular, but practical.

“If we’d had this talk a few weeks ago, the only other thing I would have been able to warn you about was his penchant for throwing his own spell ingredients at people as a distraction.”

“Are they cheap?”

Torsten glanced at Aparna. “He has temper spheres. They turn invisible if he uses a spell on them, but he tosses them around without bothering to cast that spell more often than not.”

She laughed. “So not as cheap as they might be!”

“They break less frequently than I would have expected. Thanks to the discovery streak I mentioned, there’s more to say than there was. Alden is able to lift impressive amounts of weight, as long as he can get the weight secured on top of or within something he’s protecting with his skill. He currently seems to be interested in learning what results he can get by accelerating and launching objects with preserved rope. He’s also able to use his skill on things that are thrown to him, conserving the force of the throw. That’s interesting, but it’s not threatening at this point. He’s limited by his ability to actually detect and catch what’s coming at him.”

