Torsten turned to the video once more. “Alden also seems to be able to sense the location of objects that have been entrusted to him. This particular instance in the footage was his first time doing that, so I’m curious to see the ability develop in the future.

“His skill has some restrictions that are inconvenient, to say the least. To use the power at all, he has to be given something or told to take it by a targeted individual. He can only target one person at a time. If he drops the object he’s preserving, he can’t reactivate the stasis on it until he gets permission again.”

Aparna was frowning.

Melanie had looked up from her notes. “That’s more punishing than inconvenient. I’ve heard of some absurd restrictions on abilities, but that seems like too much considering what the skill is. I assume it must be intended for some esoteric job on the Triplanets?”

“We can only speculate at this point. Alden manages the skill’s limitations and versatility very well from what I’ve seen. He’s studious, and he seems to be interested in making up for his low foundation points by learning wordchains. He’s already started using one that makes him more surefooted and graceful. That level of dedication is something I can appreciate as his instructor. I hope to see his work rewarded over the coming years.

“ Given the many unknowns in his case, I have concerns about that, but for now…I look forward to seeing how he handles himself in class.”

******

******

To Alden, at that moment, Torsten Klein looked a little like a demon. Here was something bigger than he’d expected, something dangerously altered from what it had been just minutes ago, transformed by the chaos around them. Suddenly, imagination was easier.

What if it was coming for Kibby?

The lights in the gym seemed to dim as if to acknowledge the question. He was still aware of where he really was, but the idea of casting aside his shield and accepting injury for the sake of team goals was gone.

Klein plunged toward them, the cage held in front of him like a strange battering ram.

My shield’s going to break.

If the instructor had thrown the cage, then it would be different. Alden could take a really hard hit from a mundane object. But Klein himself bulling through changed the outcome. A dog crate was just a dog crate; Torsten Klein was an Avowed.

He had the authority to move through this spot faster and harder than a normal man. And Alden had the authority to guard this, his burden—a simple mat of yellow webbing he’d made for his team’s windshield.

His skill was going to be exhausted in no time, just like it had been when Marsha had hit him with her magical slash in duels.

What if I was on Thegund? What if I was guarding Kibby?

The gym seemed to darken even more. It was all happening in a heartbeat.

Alden wasn’t dropping his shield.

******

******

“You’re too weak to be out here on your own! Give up! Give up for your own good!” Winston Heelfeather was shouting. He had Søren’s sandbag.

I shape the light toward me, then I shape it away.

Søren didn’t know how many times he’d activated his skills. He was getting farther and farther behind this pustule of a human being who was mocking him for being too slow and too weak.

The gym was gaining shadows. Galecourse had just finished her lap. She was about to ruin everything.

I shape it toward me.

Who cared if light made sense? He was its Shaper. It was supposed to be his. He pulled his arms in close to his chest; his hands curled in front of his heart in a gesture that felt natural because the System had given it to him when it affixed him.

I shape it away.

“You nasty little fucker!” screamed Søren.  “Are you faster than light?!”

He thrust his hands out.

Winston Heelfeather disappeared in a blaze of white.

******

******

The cage slammed into the shield. Metal crumpled against magic

Alden felt the clash of their powers, like he was being swept aside and denied a spot he’d tried to claim.

But at the same time, there was something real here. He lasted longer than he should have, and he knew it. Refusing to move mattered, wanting to protect something mattered. He’d begun to grasp that already.

There’s still more for me to understand.

Then The Bearer of All Burdens was exhausted, and Klein was charging through, straight toward the person Alden hadn’t even realized he was shielding.

Lexi followed us?

Alden hit the floor in a heap of limp yellow webbing. Kon and Finlay were already down.

Writher snapped and danced through the air angrily, moving as fast as it had been earlier when it had almost seemed like it should be able to touch Torsten Klein. Now…now, Klein was slower. And Astrid, who had apparently been pretending to be dead all this time, was flinging herself at the instructor’s last good leg.

Knives were falling all around them.

Good, thought Alden, taking a deep breath as a bright light filled the gym. We did pretty good.

******
