I never thought I would have to use the rebellious teen excuse. I wish I could go to my room but I’m the one providing the light.

The rest of dinner passed silently between the three of us.

Once the kitchen was clean, I lead us towards our rooms. I make sure I’m in front so I don’t need to make eye contact with mother or father. I wish Richard was back home right now.

Opening my bedroom door, I can’t think of a time that I’ve been this at odds with my parents. I’ve never openly disobeyed my parents’ wishes like this before.

Mother and Father shift to my left and go to open their bedroom door. As they start to disappear into their room, I’m reminded of how quickly I died in my previous life. I never had a chance to tell my previous family how much I loved them. You never know what the future can bring and going to bed angry is never a good option.

Before their door closes completely, I push it back open. Mother and Father look startled, but before they walk to their sides of the bed, I run up to them and give them a hug.

We don’t say anything.

Breaking apart after a few minutes, I kiss their cheeks and walk back to my room.

Closing my door softly, I change into my nightgown. Sitting on my bed, I hear the muffled sobbing of mother through the walls.

Despite all my hard work today, I don’t feel tired.

I should check my status page.

LV: 59 Experience: 46,072/ 385,461

Health: 2,000.00/2,000

Stamina: 412.91/1,250

Mana: 357.46/1,000

Vitality: 200.00

Endurance: 75.01

Strength: 100.00

Dexterity: 100.04

Senses: 60.11

Mind: 61.94

Magic: 100.09

Clarity: 75.04

Status Points: 31

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV77), Running (LV66), Axe Skills (LV51), Cleaning (LV50), Blacksmithing (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV45), Chanting (LV42), Mining (LV42), Drawing (LV37), Dagger Skills (LV31),  Acting (LV30), Cooking (LV29), Trading (LV26), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV19), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV76), Charm (LV50), Double Step (LV39), Measurement (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV34), Writing (LV32), Mathematics (LV30), Axe Arts (LV30), Intimidating Shout (LV26), Dagger Arts (LV12), Increase price (LV7), Lower Price (LV4)

Tier 3:

Expel mana (LV53), Mana Manipulation (LV41), Double Strike (LV21), Precise Strike (LV18)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV40), Mana Skin (LV29), Mental Resistance (LV24)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV17)

My higher stats boosted my mining and axe related skills. I can’t sleep and I only have a little bit of mana to train with. I need to be stronger.

I need to level as many of my relevant skills as quickly as possible. I’ll need to practice my physical skills tomorrow. If I can’t sleep tonight I might as well work on the three skills that will help me gain the most experience. Mana Skin is the first thing I should work on. I have about 150 mana that I can spare tonight.

Getting into my meditative position, I activate Mana Skin. If I let the skill activate by itself, it usually costs 51 mana to cover my body. After my body is covered, I can keep Mana Skin active with only a point of mana every 84 seconds.

Unfortunately, skills only level when you push them. Usually I increase the mana expelled to form the barrier around my body. The thicker barrier makes a better insulator against the weather. With my higher stats I plan on trying something new.

While the skill activates, I release 100 mana. It takes a few seconds but now my body is covered in a barrier half an inch thick. Del told me he can’t see anything when I activate the skill, so it should be ok to use during the fight.

Sinking into a deeper meditative state, I focus on the barrier my skill created with my heightened Clarity and Mind stat. The barrier only works with temperature because anything can pass through the barrier. If I can condense the barrier, maybe it could deflect physical things too.

Forcing away stray thoughts, I use Mana Manipulation to exert pressure against the barrier and try to slowly compress it.

It’s working, I can feel the magic becoming denser against my body. If I can compress it another three times I can… defend the village.

Gods, lost my concentration. That stupid compulsion in the back of my mind makes it impossible to completely focus. The constant prod in the back of my mind feels like someone is poking the inside of my skull. In between pokes I can focus but each time the compulsion activates it ruins my concentration.

Luckily my Mana Skin skill wasn’t deactivated by my focusing blunder. Checking my remaining mana, I see I only have 17 mana left for experimentation. The mana surrounding me also lost 25% of its composition.

This time I wait. Meditating, I try to sense the next “poke” that’s coming.

16 mana left.

15 mana left, when is it coming?

14, how long…

The faint desire to help the village momentarily flashes through my mind.

Alright, now! Expelling another 10 mana, I use Mana Manipulation to try and compress the barrier around myself. I don’t have enough time to experiment with different levels of compression so I burn my mana trying to compress it to half of its normal thickness.

Focus! Almost there!

I got it.

Opening my eyes, the magic surrounding me is thinner, but I don’t have time to analyze it deeper. Another “poke” should be coming soon.

Slowly lifting my right hand, I try to grasp my left forearm. I need to be fast but if I move too quickly, I might ruin the progress I made by accident.

With my right hand above my forearm, I try and squeeze my arm.

Pure joy lights up my face as I can feel a barrier separating my hand. Slowly increasing my grip strength, I try and feel what the barrier does under increasing force. The barrier only stops what I can say as about 30 strength worth of force before my hand sinks into the barrier, allowing me to grab my forearm.

Let’s see what happens when I remove my… help the village.

This is pissing me off now.

My Mana Skin doesn’t revert back to the thicker version this time, but trying to poke my arm reveals that the strength of the barrier has dropped to only a third of its previous capabilities.

My mana is… crap. Deactivating my skill, I’m 27 mana under my reserve. I shouldn’t have pushed so hard. The lower my mana drops the slower it regenerates. I would normally not care about a few points under my soft limit but I need to be able to regain all my mana by the time we leave for the forest.

Camden’s skill has opened my eyes to how much I focus when I use most of my skills. When walking, eating, and doing normal everyday activities Camden’s skill is nothing but a thought in the back of my head. However, when I focus, his skill becomes a noticeable problem. I need to try and remove it.

With my five days of soul training, I can look closer at the general area of my soul. Maybe I can pick the fragments of his skill out of my soul if I try hard enough.

Focusing inwards, towards the center of my chest, I try scanning the outer reaches of my soul. If I look at too long, I’ll get a headache, so I need to… protect the village.

“Aggg.” I grit my teeth before I scream in the night.

This will be harder than I thought.

Four hours later and I couldn’t remove a single shred of the headman’s skill. There’re only a few hours until the sun rises. I hate that I have to use my backup plan, but I need to at least sleep a little tonight.

Before another “poke” arrives, I try to look directly at my soul.

Everything fades quickly and I’m in the forest again. I wish I could take a nap, too bad I never feel tired here, and the passage of time is twisted.

Standing up, I make my way towards the sea of stars. The quicker I get to the eyes the quicker I can wake up. If I’m lucky it will be morning and I can talk to Del about the coming battle.

The only good thing about this space is that I can constantly run without getting tired. I think of it as a game, and I need to dodge all the trees as I run towards the goal.

Enjoying this one moment of happiness before the eyes shock me awake, I make my way through the dark forest.

What’s that?

While running, I notice a small light casting shadows behind a root of a tall tree. I’ve been here dozens of times and the only light comes from the moons and stars.

I was running pretty quick, so I backtrack to find the tree and search for the light. Finally, I notice the soft glow of the light in the distance. Steadily making my way over, I stand before a tree. The tree looks like any other and has no distinguishing features. Circling the trunk of the tree, I find the light source.

“What the hell?” Stuck near the bottom of the tree and a large root is a small translucent fireball. Are those flames from my soul!?

The translucent fire isn’t spreading, the flames just seem to stick to the tree. I channel my inner child and do something stupid…

…I try and poke the flames with one of my fingers.

My finger slips through the flames without harming my hand. If the flame isn’t dangerous, I try and scoop the ball of fire into my left hand. The flames seem to defy any sense of gravity and only move once I encase them in both my hands.

Opening my hands, the flames are now stuck to the palm of my right hand. Raising the flames to eye level, I try to inspect the most detailed piece of soul I’ve ever seen. Flipping my hand upside down, the flames now look like gravity has been reversed, making the flames look like they’re dripping from my hand.

What’s weird is the flames contain very little information and the information that is there is fragmented. Maybe there’s more of these flames scattered around.

Playing hide and seek in a place that has no concept of time turned out to be a tedious endeavor. I made sure to avoid the sea of stars and combed every inch of the forest and the surrounding rocky landscape.

I was right in believing there were other flames hidden. Turns out, I found 146 of the little balls of fire. Bringing any of the flames close together would cause them to fuse into a denser ball of translucent flames.

Now that I found them all, I’m back in my clearing. I can’t leave now.

The ball of fire in my hand is whispering in my ear now that I’ve combined all the fragments.

“Save the village.”

“Save the village.”

“Save the village.”

I started to realize what the flames were when I had most of them collected, they’re the fragments of Camden’s skill!

I’m sure his skill was absorbed by my soul.

That would mean...

I’m in my soul right now!

Looking around the clearing again, I can’t help but reexamine every tree around me. Is the ground truly the ground?

I always thought this was a place inside my head that I go to whenever I overtax my brain by looking at my soul directly.

This changes everything. If this is my soul, examining every inch of this place might hold clues about how skills are stored in the soul.

I have so many things to try, but one thing stands above the rest right now. Peering down at the ball of flames in my hand, I need to remove this skill. I need to be able to focus during the battle, but how can I destroy it? Nothing works here.

Now that the flames aren’t scattered anymore, maybe I could extract them when I leave.

Or, they might just disperse again.

I don’t want to have to look for the flame fragments again.

If the skill is mixed with my soul, I’ve already helped by gathering the fragments together. Maybe when I leave, I can take them with me.

This is the longest time I’ve ever spent here. I need to check how much time has passed outside my soul.

Holding the skill, I make my way towards the star sea. This time I don’t rush.

Every rock.

Every leaf.

Why does my soul look like the forest to me? Before I realize it, I’m already entering the desert of rocks that surrounds the forest. What kind of metaphor is this place?

Maybe I need to stop looking at everything like a Rorschach test. My skills obviously aren’t strong enough to comprehend my surroundings, I should focus on removing this invasive skill.

Finally, standing on the cliff, I look at the calm sea. Alright skill, let’s see how well you do against the eyes.

Holding the flame out in front of me, I watch the second moon rise from the sea and join its twin in the sky.

My left hand goes to my chest, my heart is rapidly pounding against my ribs, trying to escape its prison.  With my new understanding of this world, I’m terrified of the rising moons. What are they?

As they reach the pinnacle of the sky, the eyes open, and I brace for the coming sense of unease.

But this time I don’t feel like the eyes are focusing on me. Usually I can’t look away but without the direct pressure of the eyes I can finally look around. looking at my right palm, I watch as the flames are slowly being snuffed out. The eyes are focusing on the invasive skill! Are the eye’s guarding my soul?

If they are, then they will probably boot me out of here next. But why do they wait for me to reach here of all places before they kick me out?

Before the flame winks out of existence, I try and look around again. The surrounding cliff is the same and so is the night sky. The ocean is…

The dark ocean is gone, replaced by sea of lights. One of the closest lights draws me in, and in the light, I see myself having dinner with my parents from last night. Everything’s the same. Are these lights my memories!? What if I go deeper, I could…?!

I can no longer look at the lights, the overbearing force once again descends upon me and I’m forced to look up. Once I make eye contact with the twin orbs in the sky, I’m waking up in my bed. The sun hasn’t risen but the night is quickly receding.

Sinking into a meditative state, I’m happy to see that Camden’s skill is gone from my mind. I need to check my status page.

LV: 59 Experience: 178,372/ 385,461

Health: 2,000.00/2,000

Stamina: 1231.99/1,250

