“Once you mentioned the horde, I figured you would call me in.” Del’s response to Camden doesn’t reach my ears.

How does he know my level? Did Sandra say something to him? But she hasn’t seen me in over four years.

“I still need to thank you. I know how much you loathe talking to people, it was surprising to me when I heard you took on an apprentice. Despite your quirkiness, you’re the strongest person in the village. We need your help against the horde.”

Does he know my status page!?

“That bad, huh. You said there’s a horde, how many goblins did Ronald observe in the woods?”

What else does he know about me!?

“He could only observe their camp a few minutes before he had to leave. Ronald thinks they number around 400.”

Mother and father warned me about people like him discovering my abilities, I need to know what his intentions are! I don’t even know when I stood up but I’m staring down at Camden.

“Woah, don’t panic at the numbers Aaliyah.” What is he talking about? Doesn’t matter.

As I continue to stare at him, his reassuring smile fades and he looks worried up at me. I take a step forward, only to pulled back by master’s arm. Both Camden and Nicolas flinch as I’m pulled back.

“Calm down there.” Masters words don’t pull my gaze away from Camden.

“I apologize if I offended you in some way.” He’s apologizing to me what did he do!? Did he threaten someone in my family!?

Another hand restrains my other shoulder. “How do you know about my level! Only Del and my family should know about it! Did you threaten my family!?” I practically growl the words to the man sitting before me.

“Oh that. I thought you were mad about me requesting your help with the goblins.” The headman takes a breath and adjusts himself. Finding a relaxed position in his chair again, Camden looks up at me with an understanding look in his eyes. “I noticed your high level back when my daughter and your brother left for Drey.”

His answer distracts me, causing me to stop struggling against Del’s grasp. When I suddenly stop resisting Del, the force of his arms yanks me backwards into his chest.

“How?” I mumble.

“He has a noble skill.” Del’s voice echoes behind me.

Seeing the confusion on my face, Camden explains. “Some skills are more likely to be unlocked when a person reaches a high enough social status. They’re called noble skills because knights, nobles, and people that govern over others are the most likely to obtain them. I won’t tell you which of my skills it is, but it allows me to estimate the levels of my villagers that I govern over. I noticed your high level when you were saying goodbye to my daughter.”

He has noble skills that can approximate someone’s level and one that can influence the mind. What a scary combo. “Do all village leaders have skills like that?”

“No. As I said, the skills are MOST likely to be obtained by people in my position. Leaders of merchant groups have been known to unlock similar skills. But just like all skills, they are only unlocked through hard work. I thought I was talented, that is until you surpassed my level before you were even considered an adult.”

Sensing that I’ve calmed down, Del releases his grip and sits back down. Free from Del’s grip I take my own seat as Camden continues to talk.

“Realizing your ridiculous leveling speed, I contacted my daughter a few years ago and you know what she wrote back?” Now that I’m relaxed, it looks like he’s more confident talking to me. “She told me to leave you alone.” He starts laughing. “She said not to poke a hibernating karhu. I of course agreed with her and have watched you surpass Ronald’s and mine level over these last few years.”

Sandra was looking out for me, even when she was off at Drey learning to be a mage. She’s a good friend. “You understand that I don’t want to stand out, right?”

“I figured as much. You have nothing to worry about from me. Villages flourish whenever they produce a high leveled individual like yourself. If you need anything at all, please find myself or Nicolas.” I see Nicolas standing by the door, nodding his head.

“If you’re being so accommodating, can you remove the skill that keeps the idea of defending the village from bouncing around inside my head." The accommodating smile falters on Camden’s face.

“I’m sorry but I don’t have that kind of control with that skill. It affects the whole village and I can’t afford to remove it. I hope you understand?”

Before I can say anything else, Master Del cuts in. “I know this is the first official meeting between the two of you, but Aaliyah’s parents will become worried if she doesn’t return home soon. We should talk about the horde before they show up.”

“You’re right, we’ve drifted off the trail for a moment there. You probably know the reason I called you here tonight, instead of waiting for tomorrow.”

Master’s eyes narrow at Mr. Downs. “I can only assume Ronald confirmed that a horned hobgoblin was amongst the horde.”

Nicolas shivers hearing Del’s words and his father looks just as worried. “That’s right. He could only observe one, but when it comes to goblins there’s usually more that you can’t see.”

“Master, what’s a horned Hobgoblin?” I can guess by their context that it’s a stronger version of a goblin but how much stronger?

“Goblins are peculiar creatures. A goblins life cycle is one of the wonders of the world. Goblins are born and reach their first form of maturity in only five months. By eight months they can breed and they usually die before they can reach two years old. Goblins that reach one and a half years of age can be as strong as a level 15 villager. The goblins you’ve met so far were mostly between six months and a year in age, making them even weaker.”

“So, what makes them so dangerous other than their numbers?”

“Once a goblin reaches two years of age, they enter another growth phase.  In only a few months they go from three and a half feet tall to nearly five feet tall. At this point they’re closer to say a level 30 person, still manageable to an adult hunter, but much more dangerous to your average villager. We call those goblins hobgoblins or hobs for short.”

Master takes a deep breath and rubs the back of his head before he continues. “Once a goblin turns into a hob, they slowly get stronger with time. Goblins are prey for most creatures, but if a hobgoblin survives and reaches five years of age, they enter another growth phase. Each goblin grows differently during their third growth phase, some barely pass five and a half feet, while I’ve heard horror stories of goblins reaching seven feet tall. Disregarding the height difference, goblins that old can be identified by the horns that they grow on their heads.”

“How strong are these horned hobgoblins, master?” I’m practically vibrating with nervousness.

“It varies, but the weaker ones are usually in the high forties. Mid-fifties are a safe bet whenever someone is gauging the strength of horned hobs.”

“Oh, Gods!” This is bad.

“I’m glad you understand the dilemma I face.” Master and I both turn to Camden. “The worst part about goblins is their mob approach to fighting. The three of us and Ronald are the only ones that have the levels to match a horned hob. Del-Razen, I need to use your strength to reassure people that this isn’t a hopeless battle.”

Master slowly nods his head. “I understand, but we need to be careful. I may have a little combat experience but I just make use of my high Strength stat. Aaliyah is not suited for this kind of combat and I doubt you’ve fought anything recently. That leaves me and Ronald to handle the higher tier goblins. I’ll say this now, if there’s more than six horned hobs, we’ll need to retreat.”

“Even you can’t handle more than six horned hobs?!” Nicolas breaks his silence for the first time. I can’t help but agree with him. When I first met master, he was level 87. He has to have leveled at least once or twice these last few years. Is he saying even someone at level 89 can’t handle seven horned hobs?

“Boy, I may seem strong to you, but you have to remember I’m a craftsman. Stone Kin have no reason to learn self-defense unless we decide to join our cities militia. I only learned how to utilize my strength in combat after I left Truset. Other than a pressure skill, I only have hammer arts and other crafting skills that I’ve never needed to practice in combat. When I said if there was more than six, I was talking about Ronald and I working together against them.”

Camden looks like he is squeezing his hands together quite hard, he was probably hoping for more of a reassurance from master. “If we have to, we’ll kill as many goblins as we can and retreat if there’s too many hobs, horned or otherwise. I’ve already been given Ronald’s approval, I just had to make sure you were going to help the village.”

“Humf, I’ve been living here long enough to consider this my home, of course I would help defend it.” If only a little, Camden and Ronald lose some of their tension.

Wait. Why are they looking only at Del? “Am I not expected to fight?”

Turning towards me, Camden doesn’t hide the look of unease on his face. “I promised my daughter that I wouldn’t force you to help the village. You may be the second highest leveled person in the village but you’re also still too young for me to ask you to come along with us. I’ll let you and the few others that are close to your age participate if they want to. I would be overjoyed if you’d join us but that has to be your decision, not mine.”

The last rays of light filter through the window. Standing up, Sandra’s father bows his head. “I want to thank the two of you again. If either of you have questions, you can find me here tomorrow. Nicolas, escort them out please.”

Master Del and I are escorted out of the headman’s house and Del escorts me home. Before we separate in front of my door, we decide to meet up tomorrow in his clearing.

Opening the door to my house, I see father helping mother prepare dinner. Slipping off my shoes, I close the door behind me.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

I clean myself before I slip my feet into my slippers. The magic draws my parent’s attention for a moment, but they’re used to me using the spell in the entryway when I come home late.

Clean, and with my slippers donned, I move towards the kitchen and help make dinner. Everyone is silent, we have too much to talk about and if we start now, we won’t be able to finish dinner until tomorrow morning.

The sun has nearly set, as we eat our first spoonfuls of soup.

“I’ll grab the candles.” Father moves to pull out his chair.

“It’s ok, let me handle it.” I’ve already shown off the spells I can use to my parent’s, but it’s rare for us to eat dinner this late.

“Cicsh het ploetts lages!”

The ball of light illuminates our table. The playful jabs at my secluded training last night are missed in this awkward silence. The three of us share looks of unease, and as usual it’s mother that ends the silence.

“What did the headman want with you, sweety?” Mother and father both stop eating and wait for me to answer mother’s question.

“The headman wanted to talk to us about the horde.” I shovel two spoonsfuls of my soup into my mouth and try to avoid my parent’s gazes.

“Us? You mean Del right? Why would the headman want to talk to you?” Mother interrogates me while looking worried. I turn away from her and look towards father. He has a flash of understanding and looks even more worried than mother.

“He called the two of us over because we’re the two highest leveled people in the village.”

“What!?” Mother looks like she’s about to explode with anger. Father hangs his head, trying to hide his own fury at the situation. “How does he know your level!? Was it Del!?” I laugh at mother’s absurdity.

“Why would Del tell the headman about my level, mother? Apparently, the headman has a skill that lets him approximate people’s levels. He said he’s been keeping an eye on me since I said goodbye to Sandra. And before you run over to his house, he didn’t say I had to participate in the fight.” Quick glances at my parent’s faces tell me they already know where I’m going with this.

“You are not participating!” Mother’s face tells me she’s firm about not letting me go. “The headman can be happy that your father is going. He doesn’t need my daughter as well.”

“I need to go.” I can only stare at my soup. I know mother is about to yell at me. Bracing for the impending argument, I slowly look up.

“You don’t…” Mother’s wrath abruptly stops when father places his hand against her arm.

“Why do you think you have to go with us?” Father is trying to be supportive, but his unwillingness to let me go is apparent.

“The horde has horned hobs. The headman wanted to warn Del that he would need to use his name as a reassurance, when he discusses the horde tomorrow with the village.” Mother appears too startled to speak, while father loses his mask of understanding and betrays his fear of the situation.

“Ronald and Del will handle the horned hobs, but even then, there will be regular hobgoblins to worry about. I’m stronger than most of the villagers. If I don’t go, dad and many others could die.”

Mother still looks like she wants to argue. I know it’s coming from a place of love but I’ve already made up my mind. “Mother!” Using Intimidating Shout, I stop her before she can yell again. “I love the two of you so much, but I’m 15 now, this is my decision to make.”

